6 Ways To Use Crystals In Healing & Self-Care Rituals
mindbodygreen
Dismiss
Navigation
Main Navigation
mbg spirituality mbg_mindfulness
6 Rituals To Unlock The Healing Potential Of Your Crystals
practices revitalize
icon_account Log in
My Account
Saved Articles
Practices
Mastery
Gift Purchases
Contact Support
Log Out
icon_bag
Your cart is empty.
Our online classes and training programs allow you to learn from experts from anywhere in the world.
Explore Classes
icon_search
Subcategory Navigation
mindfulness
health
food
movement
beauty
home
social good
parenting
more Caret_white
planet
relationships
lifestyle
mbg
Spirituality
spirituality
6 Rituals To Unlock The Healing Potential Of Your Crystals
Facebook Pinterest Twitter SMS
Group 8 Created with Sketch. Group 8 Created with Sketch.
Group 7 Created with Sketch. Group 9 Created with Sketch. Group 10 Created with Sketch. Group 11 Created with Sketch. Group 7 Created with Sketch. Email Created with Sketch. Group 4 Created with Sketch. Group 9 Created with Sketch. Group 10 Created with Sketch. Group 11 Created with Sketch.
By Lisa Butterworth
Image by Mariia Sotnikova / Getty
Pinterest
March 26, 2019 — 9:31 AM
Share on: Facebook Pinterest Twitter SMS
Share on: Group 7 Created with Sketch. Group 9 Created with Sketch. Group 10 Created with Sketch. Group 11 Created with Sketch. Group 7 Created with Sketch. Email Created with Sketch. Group 4 Created with Sketch. Group 9 Created with Sketch. Group 10 Created with Sketch. Group 11 Created with Sketch.
Crystals are loved for their soothing effect and healing powers. There are many different crystals, all with unique benefits, and it's best to know what those are before diving in. Lisa Butterworth, the author of the new book The Beginner's Guide to Crystals, helps us understand the physical, emotional, and spiritual benefits of a variety of crystals. In this excerpt from her new book, Lisa shares six innovative ways to use your crystals. Whether you've long owned crystals or are hoping to buy some new ones, this will inspire new ways to connect with their energetic healing powers.
The ways in which you interact with your crystals and experience their benefits is very personal. You might prefer to meditate with rose quartz, keep green aventurine on an altar, and sleep with amethyst under your pillow. You might find that you prefer one method for a particular type of crystal, such as including it on an altar, and then find that you want to change it up by keeping it in your pocket. As with most elements of crystal work, let your intuition guide you.
Create crystal rituals.
Creating rituals around crystal work can make the effects even more powerful and dynamic. Ritualizing also increases mindfulness and is a wonderful self-care practice that promotes overall wellness. Here are six ways to work with your crystals, along with suggestions for ritualizing:
Article continues below
1. Altar
Creating an altar gives your intentions and desires a physical form. It also gives your crystals a sacred space to work in.
First, designate a space for your altar—a shelf or tabletop can work well. Smudge the area, burning dried herbs or wood so that the smoke cleanses the energy of the space. Choose your intention, pick the crystals and other sacred items that align with your altar's purpose, and arrange them intuitively. Create a new altar when your intention has manifested or when you feel called to hold space for something different.
2. Bath
Infusing bathwater with crystal energy by dropping water-safe stones into a bath is a gentle way to immerse yourself in their colors and vibrations.
First, prepare the space where you'll be bathing. Perhaps this means dimming the lights, lighting candles or incense, or dabbing a few drops of a calming essential oil on your temples. Draw your bathwater and add a few crystals aligned with your intentions—amethyst or rose quartz are both great for this ritual. Before getting in, draw a few deep, cleansing breaths, close your eyes, and meditate on your intention. Get in and let the energized bathwater envelop your body.
3. Grid
Making a crystal grid—arranging stones to harness the power of sacred geometry—not only is this a meditative practice, but it can also increase the effectiveness of your crystal work on a particular intention. Grids can be as simple or as intricate as you like.
First, designate a space for your grid and clear the energy by smudging. Set your intention, then choose the crystals that will support it. Decide which sacred geometry grid calls to you (find different patterns online that you can either print out or draw), and place your crystals in the pattern, starting from the outside and working your way in, keeping your intention in mind. Lastly, place the final "master" crystal in the center of your grid. Take a few centering breaths, and visualize your grid's intention.
Article continues below
Related Class
mbg-black_classes $39.99
Crystals 101
With Emma Mildon
4. Meditation
Holding a particular stone (or keeping it nearby) while meditating can enhance your practice, opening your consciousness and strengthening your connection to the earth.
Choose the stone you want to work with (fluorite, celestite, and smoky quartz are good options). Find a quiet place to sit. Take a few deep, cleansing breaths; close your eyes and quiet your mind. Hold the stone you want to work with (or set it nearby), and imagine its energy permeating your body and soothing your mind. Focus on your breath as you hold space in this energy.
5. Physical contact
Placing stones directly on your body, especially over chakras, can help clear energy blocks and guide specific benefits to the areas that need the most healing.
First decide which chakra you want to work on and pick a crystal that supports it. Lie on your back, take a few cleansing breaths, and quiet your mind. Take the crystal and place it on the chakra you want to cleanse, open, or heal—for instance, amazonite on your heart or iolite on your third eye. Visualize its energy radiating into your body. Continue for several minutes or until you feel called to stop. Take a deep, cleansing breath and express gratitude, either internally or out loud, for the work that was done.
6. Sleep
Keeping crystals on your nightstand, or even under your pillow, is an easy way to benefit from their energies while you sleep. Calming stones like dumortierite are best for this practice.
Just before you get into bed, dim your lights, hold your chosen crystal, and take a centering, cleansing breath. Visualize the crystal's energy, and the deep sleep you know it will give you. Place the stone in your pillowcase or under your pillow, and then drift easily to sleep.
Based on excerpts from The Beginner's Guide to Crystals by Lisa Butterworth with the permission of Ten Speed Press a division of Penguin Random House. Copyright © 2019.
And are you ready to learn more about how to unlock the power of food to heal your body, prevent disease & achieve optimal health? Register now for our FREE Functional Nutrition Webinar with Kelly LeVeque.
#crystals
Lisa Butterworth
Related Posts
Personal Growth
icon_mindfulness-growth
8 Ways Introverts Can Have A Good Social Life (That Isn't Mentally Exhausting)
Perpetua Neo, DClinPsy
Spirituality
spirituality
Astro Alert: How To Navigate 3 Tricky Transits Happening This Week
The AstroTwins
Spirituality
spirituality
How To Make The Most Of Your Sunday, According To Ayurveda
Caroline Muggia
Popular Stories
13 Tips To Make A Good Relationship Great
How To Do Downward Dog
10 Signs You Have An Unhealthy Gut + How To Heal It
5 Beginner Meditations To Help You Relax & Sleep Better
18 Prebiotic-Rich Foods For A Gut-Friendly Diet
Sites We Love
https://www.mindbodygreen.com/articles/6-unexpected-ways-to-use-your-crystals-at-home
Popular Stories
13 Tips To Make A Good Relationship Great
How To Do Downward Dog
10 Signs You Have An Unhealthy Gut + How To Heal It
5 Beginner Meditations To Help You Relax & Sleep Better
18 Prebiotic-Rich Foods For A Gut-Friendly Diet
Picks For You
Integrative Health
integrative health
The Modern Infertility Crisis: It's Not Your Fault You're Having Trouble Getting Pregnant
Stephanie Eckelkamp
Social Good
social good
Wasfia Nazreen On Summiting Everest & Living Every Day Like It's Earth Day
Emma Loewe
Integrative Health
integrative health
I Wore Amber Glasses Every Night For A Week; Here’s How It Changed My Sleep
Stephanie Eckelkamp
mbg
Functional Nutrition Webinar
Food is Medicine
Food has the power to create a happier and healthier world. Celebrity Nutritionist Kelly LeVeque will show you how.
Get Free Access Now Loading next article...
Save item To Select a folder + Add New Folder
Folder Name
Your article and new folder have been saved!
Send This Article To Your Friends
From*
To* Separate email addresses by commas
mindbodygreen
About Us
Contact
Write For Us
Jobs
Advertise
Collective
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
YouTube
Terms of Sale
Terms of Use
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Ad Choices
icon_lifestyle-home
icon_mindfulness-meditation
icon_health-mental-health
icon_movement-routines
icon_relationships-friendships
icon_planet-off-the-grid
icon food trends
Rise with us daily
Email Address
Sign up
You are now subscribed
Be on the lookout for a welcome email in your inbox!