Texas Tribune Cuts Off Vaxxed's Del Bigtree - AGE OF AUTISM
Home
Donate
Contact Us
Special Reports
Science
Subscribe by Email
Subscribe to RSS
Our Mission
Home Donate Contact Us Special Reports Science Subscribe by Email Subscribe to RSS Our Mission
Unforgivable: Dosing Pregnant Women, Infants and Kids with Mercury
Atlanta Home of CDC Airs News Segment Questioning Vaccine Court
Texas Tribune Cuts Off Vaxxed's Del Bigtree
By Anne Dachel
The Texas Tribune did not publishing my comment.
Notice the title here is about unvaccinated children, but we only hear from PRO-VACCINE ADVOCATES: parents, a legislator, doctors and someone from the department of health. Reporter Anna Casey pretends to be balanced by including FOUR WORDS from Del Bigtree, producer of "Vaxxed." (And his words make no sense, since he isn't allowed to explain what he actually means here.) I broke my long-standing rule about not posting a comment on junk journalism like this. (So far it hasn't been appeared on the story.)
Nov 15, 2016, Texas Tribune: Across Texas, growing clusters of unvaccinated children
Even though statewide levels of vaccinations remain high, public health officials are increasingly worried about the geographic areas where parents are choosing not to vaccinate their children.
By Anna Casey
Many of the parents opting out of the immunizations, which are widely recommended by doctors, say they fear a link between the vaccines and health problems such as autism. But studies that they cite have been widely debunked by public health officials.
... . If healthy children aren’t receiving vaccines, they are putting children who are too young to receive the vaccine and people with compromised immune systems at a much greater risk of infection....
The American Academy of Pediatrics in September issued a statement encouraging pediatricians to be more vocal about the importance of vaccines for children healthy enough to receive them....
Others are even more adamant in their opposition. “That’s a slippery slope,” said Del Bigtree, one of the producers of “Vaxxed: From Cover-Up To Catastrophe,” a 2016 film drawing a link between autism and vaccines and alleging the federal scientists have covered up the research. It was directed by Andrew Wakefield — the former British gastroenterologist now living in Texas who authored a discredited research paper linking vaccines to autism in 1998. Bigtree, who stopped vaccinating his children, said he believes that any efforts to disclose immunization rates in schools are motivated by fear.
My Comment:
Anna Casey makes a strong case here for vaccination with only a vague reference to the charge of massive research fraud and cover-up at the highest levels of the Centers for Disease Control. We’re not told that a top CDC scientist has revealed that his agency destroyed study results showing a link between the MMR vaccine and autism. This scientist, Dr. William Thompson, is willing to testify before Congress, but members of Congress refuse to hold hearings.
Casey also leaves out critical information. She fails to mention that there is no real informed consent when it comes to vaccines. Parents are never told by their pediatrician that neither the doctor nor the vaccine maker has any liability for injury resulting from any vaccination.
Our federal government (the taxpayers) is obligated to compensate vaccine injured children. This relatively unknown program has paid out over 3 billion dollars for severe injuries and even death resulting from vaccination.
Vaccines are among the poorest tested medical products. While prescription drugs undergo years of testing and trials before they’re licensed, vaccines are tested only over a few weeks or months. Much of the safety testing is done by the manufacturer; the FDA merely accepts the results, and with no liability on the part of the vaccine maker, there is little incentive to produce a truly safe product.
Casey writes: “If healthy children aren’t receiving vaccines…” and “…children healthy enough to receive them….”
The problem is no one knows which child is really healthy or which ones may have a predisposition for a vaccine reaction. Every child is lined up for an ever-increasing number of shots at each well-baby visit. The vaccine schedule has more than tripled since 1983 without a single study on the cumulative effect of so many vaccines so soon on the health of a child. The list of possible reactions to vaccines includes seizures, encephalopathy, GI inflammation, and brain damage.
There are over 200 vaccines in various stages of development currently. How many of these will be added to the childhood schedule? Will parents be allowed to choose?
Anne Dachel, Media editor: Age of Autism
Posted by Age of Autism on November 16, 2016 at 05:59 AM in Anne Dachel | Permalink | Comments (4)
| | |
Comments
Ann, I found your article searching Nicholas LaHood who is being considered for US Attorney General due to his stance regarding vaccines. "Vaccines cause autism." those who vaccinate who fail to give full disclosure may find themselves in jail while the Sheriff of Nottingham, the DA takes all of your money for fraud. NO federal intervention.
My person comment is vaccines cause autism, Alzheimer's, cancer, allergies, asthma you name it and those who promote vaccinations may find themselves damaged by we the people those who promote vaccines are pedophiles, look it up he or she who harms children.
For filthy lucre only makes the crime more odious.
The Law works or we start blood letting among vaccinators, this is no longer a joke.
No vaccine has ever worked, do the research then pat yourself on the back for being played.
Patrick McGean
Director
Cellular Matrix Study
Posted by: Patrick McGean | November 17, 2016 at 08:08 PM
Does Anna Casey know what an infant is that is "Too Young" to be vaccinated? Does Anna Casey Know that all US infants are injected the very day they are born for a disease that has nothing to do with childhood and for a disease a baby cannot get unless the baby is having unprotected sex, sharing IV street drug needles or if he needs a blood transfusion? Ask yourself, Anna WHY? It is because the US passed a law that took away your right to sue vaccine maker's from regular courts and therefore opened the floodgates for a huge number of vaccines to be created for any financial whim. Certainly the Hepatis B shot is merely a whim-so many babies have jaundice from it, have destroyed livers with its vast amount of aluminum and other toxins..
Posted by: Shelley Tzorfas | November 16, 2016 at 09:05 PM
Texas Trib is part of the deplorable Democratic party machine that has a stranglehold on Austin media and is now crying into its collective beer over Trump's win.
Perhaps Anna Casey should be asking herself why childhood cancer is so much more common today than it was 50 years ago. (actually, she's probably unaware of that fact).
Posted by: Rae | November 16, 2016 at 01:09 PM
"If healthy children aren’t receiving vaccines, they are putting children who are too young to receive the vaccine and people with compromised immune systems at a much greater risk of infection...."
Really?
If that is so .. why does Johns Hopkins Patient guide warn the "immunocompromised to .. avoid contact with children who are recently vaccinated" .. and to ... "tell friends and family who are sick or have recently had a live vaccine (such as chicken pox, measles, rubella, intranasal influenza, polio or smallpox) NOT TO VISIT?
Indeed, according to Sally Fallon Morrel, president of the Weston A. Price Foundation ..
“Evidence indicates that recently vaccinated individuals should be quarantined in order to protect the public.” Scientific evidence demonstrates that individuals vaccinated with live virus vaccines such as MMR (measles, mumps and rubella), rotavirus, chicken pox, shingles and influenza can shed the virus for many weeks or months afterwards and infect the vaccinated and unvaccinated alike. Furthermore, vaccine recipients can carry diseases in the back of their throat and infect others while displaying no symptoms of a disease. Both unvaccinated and vaccinated individuals are at risk from exposure to those recently vaccinated.
Sally continues:
"Vaccine failure is widespread; vaccine-induced immunity is not permanent and recent outbreaks of diseases such as whooping cough, mumps and measles have occurred in fully vaccinated populations. Flu vaccine recipients become more susceptible to future infection after repeated vaccination."
Indeed .. it seems every year we hear of a mumps outbreak .. in the NHL and college universities .. where those contracting mumps were FULLY VACCINATED .. as well as .. highly publicized outbreaks of measles where the FULLY VACCINATED outnumbered the UNVACCINATED.
We are long past the time for public health officials to STOP SCAREMONGERING .. and ... ACKNOWLEDGE their vaccines and the policies by which they are approved, recommended and administered .. have the potential to injure the "immunocompromised as well as the unvaccinated".
Posted by: Bob Moffit | November 16, 2016 at 07:07 AM
Verify your Comment
Previewing your Comment
Posted by: |
This is only a preview. Your comment has not yet been posted.
Your comment could not be posted. Error type:
Your comment has been saved. Comments are moderated and will not appear until approved by the author. Post another comment
The letters and numbers you entered did not match the image. Please try again.
As a final step before posting your comment, enter the letters and numbers you see in the image below. This prevents automated programs from posting comments.
Having trouble reading this image? View an alternate.
Post a comment
Comments are moderated, and will not appear until the author has approved them.
Comment below or sign in with Typepad Facebook TwitterGoogle+and more...
You are currently signed in as (nobody). Sign Out
(You can use HTML tags like <b> <i> and <ul> to style your text. URLs automatically linked.)
Your Information
(Name and email address are required. Email address will not be displayed with the comment.)
Name is required to post a comment
Please enter a valid email address
Invalid URL
Please enable JavaScript if you would like to comment on this blog.
Donate
To Send a Check
Payable to Autism Age PO Box 110546 Trumbull, CT 06611
Donations are Tax Deductible, Safe & Secure.
Recent Comments
michael on Jacobson Must Die: Rockland County Jews Barred from Worshipping God Unless They Disobey God
Carol on DTaP Vaccine and Food Allergies: Trial Underway in Australia
Carol on Common Sense in the Commonwealth of Kentucky's Governor's Home: Chicken Pox Once and Done
greyone on A Ringside View of Vaccine Exemption Law Hearings in Colorado
Pete on A Ringside View of Vaccine Exemption Law Hearings in Colorado
Beleaguered Autism Mom on Three New Vaccine Safety Papers from Vinu Arumugham
cia parker on Jacobson Must Die: Rockland County Jews Barred from Worshipping God Unless They Disobey God
Visitor on The Inflammation Highway: aka Autism
Visitor on The Inflammation Highway: aka Autism
Angus Files on Corvelva Foreign Staff - What did we find in the MMRV (Priorix Tetra) vaccine?
Support Our Sponsors
Vaccine-Autism Link
The One-Pager
Contributors
Dan Olmsted, Founder 2007 - 2017
Kim Rossi, Managing Editor
Mark Blaxill, Editor-At-Large
Anne McElroy Dachel, Media Editor
John Stone, UK Editor
Nancy Hokkanen, Contributing Editor
Julie Obradovic, Contributing Editor
Teresa Conrick, Contributing Editor
Katie Wright, Contributing Editor
Cathy Jameson, Contributing Editor
Natalie Palumbo, Contributing Editor
Dan Burns, Contributing Editor
Adriana Gamondes, Contributing Editor
Tim Welsh, Contributing Editor
Do You Read Me?
The Autism File Magazine
Dan's UPI Series "The Age of Autism"
The Age of Polio. Explosion.
Connect
Shop Amazon Support AofA
Books
JB Handley's How To End the Autism Epidemic
Search
Find over 6,000 archived articles since 2007
WWW
ageofautism.com
Become a Fan
Age of Autism •
Powered by Typepad
Top