The Challenges of BRCA1/BRCA2 Testing - From variant to function. Application of the genomic findings | Coursera
List
Explore
For Enterprise
Join for Free
Log In
Loupe Copy
探索
艺术与人文
商务
计算机科学
数据科学
信息技术
健康
数学和逻辑
个人发展
物理科学与工程
社会科学
语言学习
学位和证书
浏览 Coursera 的全部课程
Loupe Copy
Loupe Copy
浏览
搜索
企业版
登录
免费加入
The Challenges of BRCA1/BRCA2 Testing
要观看此视频，请启用 JavaScript 并考虑升级到 支持 HTML5 视频 的 Web 浏览器
Loading...
来自 Novosibirsk State University 的课程
From Disease to Genes and Back
51 个评分
以 免费 的价格试听课程
以 免费 的价格试听课程
此课程
视频脚本
Novosibirsk State University
From Disease to Genes and Back
51 个评分
Human genetics explores the genetically determined similarities and differences between human beings. This scientific discipline encompasses a variety of related fields such as molecular genetics, genomics, population genetics and medical genetics. Study of human genetics can help to find answers to questions regarding the inheritance and development of different human phenotypes. The field of medical genetics is quickly growing and dynamically developing thanks to the new technologies such as the next-generation sequencing. Most human diseases have a genetic component. This genetic component varies by disease. Some rare diseases appear to be completely determined by the genome, whereas more common diseases arise from a complex interplay of many genes, the environment and chance. The understanding of how our genomes contribute to disease susceptibility offers the prospect of large gains: it may guide disease diagnostics and prognostics and help in developing new therapies. The overall goal of this course is to describe how the researchers find genes responsible for different diseases and how this information is used to better understand and fight these diseases. You will learn about current approaches for finding single genetic variants underlying monogenic (Mendelian) diseases and sets of variants responsible for more complex, multifactorial ones. Furthermore, you will learn how the identification of these genetic variants makes it possible to understand how the affected biological pathways lead to disease development. During the final week of the course, we will talk more about clinical applications of the genetic findings. Upon completing the course, you will be able to: - give examples of monogenic and complex disorders - recognise patterns of Mendelian inheritance of monogenic diseases; - understand and describe principles and methods of gene mapping ; - describe the main steps and principles of genome-wide association studies (GWAS); - give examples of modern technologies that are currently used to find variants underlying human diseases; - discuss the approaches to finding causative variants underlying complex disorders; - discuss the possibilities and areas of application of genetic findings.
从本节课中
From variant to function. Application of the genomic findings
During the last two weeks, we have been discussing the approaches to finding variants and genomic regions underlying the development of human disorders or predisposition to them. The question is – what are the next steps that should be taken in order to prove the causality of the identified variants? Moreover, we are eager to understand if these findings can be translated into the clinics. Can these variants provide predictive or prognostic information and do they have any important pharmacological implications? Will the answers be the same for variants underlying Mendelian and complex disorders? Gert Matthijs, Yurii Aulchenko and Michel Georges will tell you more this week.
The Challenges of BRCA1/BRCA2 Testing12:07
与讲师见面
Marianna Bevova
PhD, Director of GIGA Doctoral School
University of Liège (GIGA)
Michel Georges
PhD, Professor, GIGA Research Director
University of Liège
Gert Matthijs
PhD, Professor
Center for Human Genetics, University of Leuven
Lennart Karssen
PhD, Owner and Chief Computational Scientist
PolyOmica
Natalia Aulchenko
M.Sc., Project manager
Theoretical and Applied Functional Genomics Laboratory
Yakov Tsepilov
PhD, Senior Researcher
Theoretical and Applied Functional Genomics Laboratory
Sodbo Sharapov
M.Sc, Junior Researcher
Theoretical and Applied Functional Genomics Laboratory
Alexander Tashkeev
Skolkovo Institute of Science and Technology (Skoltech), Junior Researcher
Laboratory of Computational and Structural Transcriptomics
Yurii Aulchenko
PhD, Professor, Head of Theoretical and Applied Functional Genomics Laboratory
Theoretical and Applied Functional Genomics Laboratory
0:28
I would like to tell you a bit more about the origin
and the diagnostics of familial breast cancer.
Let me first start and introduce breast cancer as a most frequent cancer in women.
About one in 10 women will eventually get breast cancer.
This is a cumulative disease or a cumulative risk in
a sense that this one in 10 is true by the age of,
when the women will get about 80 years old.
But even at 50, 55 years of age,
the incidence of breast cancer becomes important.
Breast cancer is about 10 times more frequent than ovarian cancer,
but the problem with ovarian cancer is that it's more dramatic and that it's,
because it's more aggressive as a cancer.
So there is more deaths from ovarian cancer than there is from breast cancer.
Now, you should remember that most cancers are sporadic.
It means they occur as multifactorial diseases,
and no one can predict who will get cancer, when, and why.
But in some cases,
one sees that these cancers cluster in families.
So it means that in a family,
you have more than one woman who is affected with breast cancer or ovarian cancer.
And this is what we call the familial cases.
This is what we call a familial cancer syndrome.
The basis for this cancer in the families is not
that one inherits a cancer because one can not inherit a cancer,
but what one can inherit is a susceptibility to develop the cancer.
And that susceptibility is autosomal dominant.
So it goes from one generation to the next with a risk of
50 percent for each person in each generation.
About 20 years ago,
people have identified two genes that are very important for breast cancer.
It's the BRCA1 gene and the BRCA2 gene.
These are two genes that are tumor suppressor genes.
And this tumor suppressor paradigm explains why one can inherit breast cancer
as a susceptibility because they will need a second hit to cause the disease.
And the second hit would occur in any breast cell and thus cause cancer.
It's two relatively big genes,
so if one would like to sequence both genes in all patients,
it would be really, really expensive too.
So that's why eventually we'd need guidelines to select the families.
Now, just to give you, take you back to the frequency of this breast cancer.
As I mentioned, the normal population has a risk of one in 10 by the age of 80 or 85.
In cancer families, we see that this risk is elevated to 80 percent.
So it means that someone who is a carrier of a BRCA1 or
BRCA2 mutation has an 80 percent lifetime risk of developing cancer.
And if you look at the figure at about 45 years of age,
already 30 percent of the women will develop breast cancer at that age.
So it means it's really a burden on those families, and it's a high risk.
That's why we call it high risk families.
Now, as I said, it's quite expensive to look at both genes at
the same time in all patients because there is lots of patients.
And if we would sequence all the patients,
we would only have like one or two percent of positive cases
because that's the frequency of BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations.
So that's why in practice,
we tend to select the families because if you can select the very high risk families,
then you can get up to 25 percent of
BRCA1 mutations and up to 15 percent of BRCA2 mutations.
So the practical approach in most countries is that the families
are selected first before molecular testing is being offered.
And one of the criteria,
which is the most important criteria,
is that one needs three affected family members.
We don't distinguish between breast cancer and ovarian cancer.
We don't see a difference. So three family members
with the disease are sufficient to say this is a high risk family.
Of course, one needs an extended family.
If the family is too small,
this criterion cannot apply.
We would also take families with male breast cancer.
Males can also get breast cancer.
It's far less frequent,
but it happens more frequently in familial cancer families.
So we would include those families as well.
We would include patients that develop breast cancer at a very young age.
And keep in mind this tumor suppressor model,
where one hit is sufficient.
So if it occurs,
it may occur at an early age.
And we would also include special types of breast cancer, which are for instance,
the triple negative breast cancer because we know that
the frequency of the mutations is elevated as well.
And recently we've also decided to include all the ovarian cancer because there
is a therapy for BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations in ovarian cancer.
All analyses would always start from an affected family member.
It doesn't make sense to check a non-effected family member because you have the,
a priori chance that she doesn't have the familial mutation in 50 percent of the cases.
So this is the typical pedigree where we have
this unaffected woman who is seeking advice because in her family,
she has breast cancer or ovarian cancer,
and recently, her cousin developed breast cancer.
So she gets uneasy.
She knows that the cancer has reached her generation and she wants advice.
Well, we will tell her first that she has to make
sure that the other family members come in and
have their blood samples taken because we
want to start from a familial breast cancer case.
So we will always start from a affected family member to do the analysis.
The prime example, of course,
everybody knows her, is Angelina Jolie,
who was at risk for breast cancer because of a breast cancer mutation in her mother.
She took the test,
was positive and had preventive measures taken.
In her case, she opted for a mastectomy and then later her ovarian was removed as well.
So what do we see as a result of
this predictive testing because we have selected the families?
About 9-12 percent of the families are positive.
Meaning that we can find a BRCA1 or a BRCA2 mutation.
And in these families, like in Angelina Jolie's families,
predictive testing now becomes possible.
Because we know the familial mutation,
we can check specifically for that mutation and
see whether or not the daughter has inherited the mutation.
And as I said, Angelina Jolie had bad luck
and inherited the familial mutation because a priori,
she would have a 50 percent chance of escaping from that familial trait.
If the mutation is found,
it is important to realize that these people now enter in the high risk category.
Meaning that they have 80 percent chance of developing breast cancer,
20 percent chance of developing ovarian cancer.
If the mutation analysis is negative in that woman,
it means she has not inherited the familial mutation,
and she will have only the normal population risk.
Her risk will not be zero,
her risk will be back to 10 percent.
If there is no mutation found in the family,
which is the case in 90 percent of the families,
there's nothing we can offer at the individual's level.
We can only use empirical data to
predict a relative risk for the women to develop the cancer.
Now, I'm coming back to this slide.
The question is, what is then the other cause of disease?
We only see breast cancer one and breast cancer
two in about maximally 40 percent of the cases.
What is the other cause of breast cancer?
And not much is known there.
On the one hand, we have a few genes that cause very,
or have very small contributions to familial breast cancer.
And one of them is the high risk gene called TP53,
which one may know from the Li-Fraumeni syndrome.
And then we have number of genes which are moderate risk genes like ATM, like CHECK2,
and then a whole series of rare gene defects that we see in familial cases.
But they altogether only account for about 3-5 percent of all the familial breast cancers.
So in the other group of the diseases,
we have no idea what is causing the disease.
And probably these are constellations of low-risk alleles,
which means more common alleles,
common in the population risk that confer a risk for sporadic breast cancer.
And that if the risk is increased,
you'll see these sporadic cancers cluster in families.
So this is a schematic representation of the high-risk,
but low frequency variance with BRCA1, BRCA2.
And then the common variance with a relatively low-risk,
but a high frequency in the normal population.
Now, the question is as usual,
what about the treatment of these familial cancers?
Well, the good news is that there is one drug that
specifically addresses BRCA1 and BRCA2 cases.
And because, if we want to understand
why we need to know about the cell biology of breast cancer one and breast cancer two,
these proteins are involved in DNA repair.
So we can easily link DNA repair to tumor development.
If there is no DNA repair,
a tumor will develop much faster than if the DNA repair is in order.
And more specifically, BRCA1 and BRCA2 are involved in what
one calls the repair of double strand breaks.
So it's called [HOMOLOGOUS] chromosomal corrections or chromosomal repair
because the proteins are necessary to just repair a chromosome that is broken.
And if you can't repair your broken chromosomes,
eventually you will get a tumor.
Now it's important to know that that tumor itself has to
survive because if there's too many errors in the tumor,
the tumor cell will also die,
and then you don't have a tumor.
And for doing that,
the tumor is depending on other pathways,
which are also pathways of DNA repair,
but they're less specific.
And one of them is called the PARP pathway.
And what is PARP doing?
PARP is repairing, but not by homologous recombination,
but by [BASE EXCISION REPAIR].
So it's a bit more sloppy,
but the tumor cell can use it to survive.
Now, the idea is if we can interfere with that second pathway,
with that PARP inhibition pathway,
and turn it down in the tumor cell,
the tumor cell will eventually die.
Whereas, why does it not affect the normal tissue?
Well, the normal tissue has still the BRCA1 repair system and the BRCA2 repair system.
So these systems are intact unless the tumor suppressor gene is lost.
So in the normal tissue,
the PARP inhibition will not interfere with survival,
but in the tumor,
it will kill the tumor,
and thus have, be a drug for familial breast cancer.
以 免费 的价格试听课程
探索我们的目录
免费加入并获得个性化推荐、更新和优惠。
开始
Coursera
Coursera 致力于普及全世界最好的教育，它与全球一流大学和机构合作提供在线课程。
© 2019 Coursera Inc. 保留所有权利。
Coursera
关于
管理团队
工作机会
目录
证书
学位
企业版
政府版
社区
Learners
Partners
Developers
Beta Testers
Translators
连接
博客
Facebook
领英
Twitter
Google+
YouTube
技术博客
更多
条款
隐私
帮助
内容访问
媒体
联系我们
目录
附属公司