diabetes | Nurture Your Own
Nurture Your Own
Eat Healthy, Be Healthy
Menu
Skip to content
Home
About
Contact Us
Write For Us
Privacy Policy
Tag Archives: diabetes
Diet Soft Drinks have Higher Diabetes Risk
Leave a reply
The Institut Nationaal de la Sante dt de la Recherche Medicale (Inserm or National Institute of health and Medical Research in French) said “Contrary to conventional thinking, the risk of diabetes is higher with ‘light’ beverages than with ‘regular’ sweetened drinks”
Inserm researchers, led by Dr Francoise Clavel-Chapelon and Gr Guy Fagherazzi, looked at the prevalence of diabetes among women who drank drinks sweetened with ordinary sugar or artificial sweeteners, and those who drank only unsweetened fruit juice.Compared with juice-drinkers , women who drank either type of sweeted drinks had a higher incidence of diabetes.Drinkers of ‘light’ soft drinks had an even higher risk of diabetes compared with those who drank regular soft drinks: 15% higher for consumption of 500ml per week, and 59% higher for consumption of 1.5 litre per week.
The study found no increase in diabetes risk among women who drank only 100% per cent fruit juice, compared with non-consumers.
The authors noted that women who drank ‘light” soft drinks tended to drink more of it – 2.8 glasses a week on average – than 1.6 glasses among women on regular soft drinks.
Its authors admitted the study had limitations. The study took account of the women’s ages and weights, but did not keep close tracks of their eating habits during the study period. The study took account of the women’s ages and weights but did not keep close track of their eating habits during the study period.
Researchers conceded the evidence was not sufficient “to advise people to stop consumption of one or the other type of drinks”.
This entry was posted in Healthy Eating and tagged diabetes, diet soft drinks on 12 March, 2013 by Vivienne Quek.
Tool To Measure Your Risk Of Getting A Disease!
Leave a reply
This is not directly about healthy living or eating healthy, but this is a very interesting tool that we can all try out. Named “Your Disease Risk“, this is a really cool set of questions that you can answer online, and instantly get an estimate of your risk level for:
– Cancer
– Diabetes
– Heart Disease
– Osteoprosis
– Stroke
Quote from the Harvard School of Public Health:
Your Disease Risk has been transferred to the Washington University in St. Louis and can be accessed at: www.yourdiseaserisk.wustl.edu.
This important health tool was originally developed at the Harvard Center for Cancer Prevention at the Harvard School of Public Health and is also accessible at www.diseaseriskindex.harvard.edu.
So, if you think you are really healthy now, or if you think you might be a tad at risk, go answer some questions and have a feel for what your risks factor are with Your Disease Risk.
This entry was posted in Healthy Lifestyle and tagged Cancer, diabetes, disease risk, heart disease, osteoprosis, Stroke on 24 April, 2008 by Vivienne Quek.
A heart patient’s prescription (& your’s too…)
3 Replies
My dad unfortunately had to go through an emergency heart bypass surgery recently. He had mostly followed an average dietary lifestyle all along. In a general medical check-up 1 of the major arteries was found to be 90% clogged.
(photo courtesy : buffalo.edu)
The operation was successful & he recoverd remarkably well, thanks to my mother’s support. But his appetite levels were low, prompting me to advice him certain sprouts beneficial for his situation. Raw sprouts are rich with enzymes and don’t need any digestion. They provide all the nutrients with minimal calories so even with low food intake he can be assured of his body getting all the essential micro nutrients. I was pleased to find him game for them . Here are my 3 recommendations for everyone’s benefit: Continue reading →
This entry was posted in Healthy Eating, Healthy Lifestyle, Sprouts and tagged artherosclerosis, diabetes, heart disease, omega 3 fatty acids, reserveratrol, sprouting, wheat sprouts on 26 December, 2007 by pratik.
Hot Topics
aloe vera
asian Avian bird flu
baby eczema
bilateral isokinematic training
bird flu pandemic
calcium
cure eczema
depression
diabetes
Diet
Eczema
eczema cure
eczema cures
Eczema treatment
emotions
fats
flat tummy
flu epidemic
flu shots
Food
hair mask
headache
health
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle
heart disease
herpes
Myths about Milk
natural hair mask
nutrition
Obesity
recovery
sleep
Slimming
smoking
sprouting
Sprouts
Stroke
stroke rehab
Swine Flu
swine flu symptoms
swine flu vaccine
Swine influenza
viagra
Weight-loss
Other Information
Proudly powered by WordPress