17 Tips to Lower Cholesterol Naturally
Patient Portal
707-292-8882
TruHealth Medicine Naturopathic Clinc
Home
Services
Popular Naturopathic Services
Weight Loss
Hormone Balancing
Prolotherapy/PRP
Natural Fertility
Holistic Pelvic Care™
Facial Rejuvenation
IV Drip Vitamin Therapy
B12 Injections
Alternative Cancer Support
Holistic, Integrative Health Care
Vitamin Injection Menu
Women's Health
Vaccination Counseling
Homeopathy
Autoimmune Disease
Restoring Thyroid Function
Special Laboratory Testing
About Our Clinic
Compassionate, Holistic Health Care
About Our Clinic
Naturopathic Medicine
Dr. Justin Hoffman
Dr. Kimberly Hoffman
Dr. Kelley Barnes-Valdes
Dr. LaDeana Jeane
Wind Hughes
About
New Patients
Articles
Contact
Call Us
Menu
Home
Articles
How to Lower Your Cholesterol Naturally
Last updated October 10, 2018 June 23, 2018 by Dr. Justin Hoffman, NMD
Share on: Facebook Twitter
Cholesterol is natural. It’s produced by the liver. Your body uses it for the proper function of your cells, nerves, and hormones. Unfortunately, you can have too much of a good thing when your body produces more cholesterol than it needs.
This can cause plaque to build up in your arteries, reduce blood flow, and cause blood clots. Not only can high cholesterol and its symptoms reduce your quality of life, it can lead to a heart attack or stroke – potentially ending your life.
Luckily, high cholesterol isn’t something you have to accept. By learning how to lower your cholesterol naturally, you can reduce your chance of a life-threatening event.
11 Foods the Lower Cholesterol Naturally
Modifying your diet is one of the absolute best ways to lower your cholesterol naturally. Foods the promote blood flow, reduce inflammation, and support weight loss all help your body naturally cleanse excess plaque in your bloodstream.
As you consider what foods to eat to lower cholesterol, remember excess body weight can also hamper your body’s ability to naturally reduce its cholesterol. In order to promote weight loss, you’ll want to enjoy all foods in moderation.
Olive oil
High in monounsaturated fatty acids, olive oil is another excellent food choice to help lower your cholesterol. It’s particularly useful in making your own salad dressings – which is a good way to keep your sugar intake low. (More about sugar below.)
Salmon & Fatty Fish
New research suggests that Omega-3s – found in salmon and other fatty fish – don’t actually reduce the risk of heart disease. That being said, these fatty acids could help promote a healthier life. According to a 2013 study by Loma Linda University, replacing saturated fat with omega 3s could raise your good cholesterol. In large part, we believe this is because you’re eliminating saturated fat – a huge culprit of high cholesterol.
Delicious on their own, avocados make great additions to salads. They can be blended into a sauce, mashed into a dip, and sliced for a luscious taco topping.
Avocado
Avocados are one of the best cholesterol smashing food choices you can make. Loaded with healthy a plant-based fat and tons of nutrients, these green puppies deliver creamy flavor your taste buds and your digestive tract will love.
Sometimes referred to as the ‘Avocado Lady,’ Gaby Dalkin from What’s Gaby Cooking knows a thing or two about this beautiful fruit. Her first book, Absolutely Avocados, is a roundup of traditional and nontraditional menu selections. You’ll also find a variety of avocado-focused recipes on her blog.
Nuts
Even those on the strictest of diets need to snack from time to time. This is especially true when you’re out and about for the day. When you’re on the go and suddenly hungry, it can be all too easy to pick up something that doesn’t help your goals to lower your cholesterol. According to the 2001 study by the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, walnuts are not only healthier than French fries, they can help lower cholesterol by as much as 5.4%.
Onions
In a 2010 study published by the Royal Society of Chemistry, research found a correlation between onions and a reduction in cholesterol. High in sulfur, onions can help cleanse your arteries. Red onions, in particular, were found to be helpful.
Spinach offers a hearty green base for salads that delivers both nutrients and iron to your daily diet.
Spinach
Loaded with nutrients, the leafy greens of spinach can help guard against heart attacks and keep your cholesterol in check. Research suggests that even just a ½ cup of greens each day can help substantially reduce plaque in your arteries and promote weight loss.
Beans
Beans, beans the magical fruit. The more you eat, the better your heart feels! In a 2007 study, researchers at Arizona State University Polytechnic found that beans could contribute to lower cholesterol. High in fiber, the benefits of this protein-rich choice are linked to its ability to reduce the absorption rate of cholesterol.
Chocolate
Three cheers for this one! Dark chocolate and bittersweet chocolate has been found to help increase good cholesterol. It’s also loaded with antioxidants that help keep blood platelets from sticking together and clogging your arteries.
Garlic
Though not great for your breath, the delicious zing of garlic can also help prevent blood clots, reduce blood pressure, and keep your cholesterol in check.
Oats
High fiber foods are a fantastic way to lower your cholesterol. Switching from sugar-packed cereal made with refined flour to a hearty oat breakfast can help promote the excretion of cholesterol.
Red Wine
Cheers to your health! In a 2017 article published in the University Daily News, researchers explore how red wine can help lower cholesterol – when consumed in moderation.
5 High Cholesterol Foods to Avoid
Trans Fat (Hydrogenated Fat)
Trans fat is a processed fat. It comes from vegetables, excreted through a process known as hydrogenation (thus it’s hydrogenated fat label). This unnatural fat can increase your risk of heart disease and raise your cholesterol levels. It’s also found in processed foods, such as cookies, cakes, and crackers. You’ll also find it in chips, margarine and microwave popcorn.
Saturated Fat
Saturated fat is solid – fat that’s solid at room temperature. It often comes from animals, such as cows and pigs. Leaner cuts of meat (such as chicken breast, turkey breast, and the pork loin from a pig) typically have less saturated fat. If you’re trying to reduce your cholesterol, you want to stay away from saturated fat, as this solid fat can clog your arteries.
Sugar
A 2016 study explores the correlation between sugar, heart disease, and high cholesterol. The study specifically looked at processed sugar, the refined white grains that are often loaded in processed foods like cookies, crackers, and chips. You’ll also find sugar in salad dressings, many pre-made meals, and most ‘low-calorie’ or ‘fat-free’ options.
Alcohol
While research shows red wine in moderation can help you lower cholesterol, an overindulgence in alcoholic beverages can actually stimulate the production of cholesterol.
Caffeine
Caffeine is another cholesterol trigger. Too much can cause your body to overproduce cholesterol, leading to a buildup in your arteries.
Exercise Helps Naturally Lower Cholesterol
One of the keys to exercising regularly is finding something you enjoy and that you will stick with - like an outdoor exercise class with friends. It's a lot hard to skip your workout if you're accountable to someone.
Working out isn’t just about looking good in your swimsuit, though that can definitely be a perk. More importantly, exercise is among the top natural ways to lower your cholesterol. Exercise promotes blood flow, helping to remove plaque buildup in your arteries. It also promotes weight loss, another culprit of high cholesterol.
You should always consult your medical professional before beginning any new workout routine. A place that’s often recommended to start is with walking. Here are nine ways to incorporate more steps into your day.
If you find working out is tough because you’re a busy parent short on time, you may appreciate these 11 tips for working out while spending time with your kids.
And, if you’re going on vacation, but want to avoid bringing home some extra pounds, these suggestions are for you.
Experienced Medical Advice Can Help You Learn How to Lower Your Cholesterol the Natural Way
When you’re battling high cholesterol, it’s not the cholesterol that’s the cause. Cholesterol is the symptom. That’s why are Tru Health our naturopathic doctors treat the entire patient. We evaluate your overall well being, so we can help you correct any deficiencies you’re facing and achieve the high quality of life you want.
Schedule a Consultation
Additional Health Tips
7 Foods to Avoid to Lose Belly Fat
Smart selection of foods in your diet can help you to avoid gaining belly fat. Learn more about some healthy choices here.
Paleo-Vegan Recipes We Love
You don’t need invasive surgery or toxic chemicals to feel great. These health paleo-vegan recipes are as delicious as they are good for you.
5 Reasons Vitamin IV Drips Boost Weight Loss
It’s basic biochemistry; when the body has its building blocks, it works better. Vitamin IV Drips give your body its building blocks.
What to do When You're not Able to Stop Eating
Food cravings can get the best of us all from time to time. Unfortunately, the foods we crave are often what our bodies need. Discover 19 tips to help you curb your cravings, make losing weight easier, and improve your overall health.
Share on: Facebook Twitter
Enjoy this Article? Let's Keep them Coming.
Make your health a priority. Get our latest updates sent to your inbox.
Please Enter Your Best Email
Please Enter Your Name
Published by:
Naturopathic health care with compassionate integrative doctors who understand your unique medical needs.
Love These Health Tips?
Make your health a priority. Get our latest updates sent to your inbox.
Please Enter Your Best Email
Please Enter Your Name
Related Articles
Try These Natural Heartburn Remedies During Pregnancy
Last updated May 16, 2018
Vitamin and Mineral Intake Tips
Last updated April 11, 2018
B12 Happy Hour Near You (Your Savvy, Guilt-Free Cocktail)
Last updated May 16, 2018
Discover How to Ward off a Cold Naturally with B12 Injections
Last updated May 16, 2018
Discover 5 Reasons Vitamin IV Drips Boost Weight Loss
Last updated May 16, 2018
Tru Health Medicine
707-292-8882 tel
707-886-8015 fax
On Facebook
On Google+
1160 N Dutton Ave #250Santa Rosa, CA 95401
Get Directions
Menu
Home
About
Naturopathic Medicine Naturopathy
Naturopathic Services Services
New Patients
Articles
Contact
Back to Top
Content © 2010-2019 Tru Health Medicine Design and Development by RWL Design
Note Tru Health Medicine provides this website and content for educational purposes and information only. Using this website does not establish a doctor/patient relationship with Tru Health Medicine and/or any of our staff. Furthermore, the content displayed is not meant to diagnose or treat any medical condition. Instead, always consult your doctor with medical questions. Tru Health Medicine offers no guarantees or warranties regarding any of the content on this website. No specific medical or surgical advice is intended to be gained from this website. Anyone seeking such advice should consult with their medical professional. This website and the listed doctors take no responsibility for any websites that have hyperlinked to this site. Hyperlinking to this website does not imply or indicate any relationships or endorsements of the linked sites.
Back
Call
Patient Portal
Home
Contact Us
Naturopathic Services
New Patients
About the Clinic
Naturopathic Medicine
IV Drip Therapy
Articles