mosquito control | Live Healthy S.C.
Live Healthy S.C.
DHEC's Health and Environment Blog
Menu
Skip to content
Home
About Us
Tag Archives: mosquito control
World Mosquito Day: Protect Yourself And Your Family
Leave a reply
World Mosquito Day (August 20) isn’t a day off for the pesky insects that can transmit diseases. Neither should you take the day off from avoiding bites and ridding your homes and yards of areas where mosquitoes breed.
Mosquitoes can spread diseases such as West Nile. The most common diseases that could potentially be carried by mosquitoes in South Carolina, home to at least 61 different species, include: West Nile, Eastern Equine Encephalitis, La Crosse encephalitis, Saint Louis encephalitis virus, and dog/cat heartworm.
Although August 20 is the mosquito’s day, so to speak, DHEC urges residents to not feed or house the insects. Take precautions to avoid mosquito bites and rid your home and yard of areas where they breed.
Reduce the numbers of adult mosquitoes around your home.
Drain, fill or eliminate sites that have standing water.
Empty or throw away containers — from bottles and jars to tires and kiddie pools — that have standing water.
Keep mosquitoes outside: Use air conditioning or make sure that you repair and use window/door screens.
Avoid Mosquitoes: Most mosquito species bite during dawn, dusk, twilight hours and night. Some species bite during the day, especially in wooded or other shaded areas. Avoid exposure during these times and in these areas.
Wear insect repellent: When used as directed, the proper insect repellent is the BEST way to protect yourself from mosquito bites — even children and pregnant women should protect themselves.
Cover up: When weather permits, wear long-sleeved shirts and pants.
So, apply the repellent, empty or get rid of containers in your yard holding water and have a Happy World Mosquito Day.
Click here to learn more about protecting yourself and your home from mosquitoes.
Visit the DHEC website to learn more about mosquitoes and the diseases they can spread.
This entry was posted in Prevention, Public Health and tagged bites, breed, breeding grounds, breeding sites, insect, mosquito, mosquito control, mosquito-borne diseases, mosquito-borne illnesses, prevention, repellent, virus, water, West Nile, World Mosquito Day on August 20, 2018 by SC DHEC.
National Mosquito Control Awareness Week
Leave a reply
It’s National Mosquito Control Awareness Week (June 24-30), which is a good time to educate residents about mosquitoes and the diseases they carry and to urge everyone to do their part by protecting themselves and their homes from the potential spread of mosquito-borne illnesses.
Local governments and residents themselves provide the first line of defense. Be vigilant about protecting yourself from mosquito bites and ridding your homes and yards of containers where mosquitoes breed.
Get rid of and prevent standing water:
Get rid of places where adult mosquitoes can find cool, dark, and damp areas to rest by mowing the lawn, trimming shrubbery, and cutting down weeds and vines, such as ivy, in the yard and next to the house.
Clear out weeds, leaves, dirt, and other debris from pipes, especially those under a driveway. Make sure that water does not stand inside or near the ends of the pipe.
Clean out rain gutters and downspouts regularly. Clogged gutters are one of the most overlooked breeding sites for mosquitoes around homes.
Empty and turn over containers that hold water such as cans, jars, drums, bottles, flower pots, buckets, children’s toys, wheel barrows, old appliances, plastic sheeting or tarps used to cover objects like grills or swimming pools, etc.
Drain or fill any low places, such as potholes, on your property where water collects and stands for more than five to seven days.
Wear insect repellent or protective clothing.
When used as directed, insect repellent is the best way to protect yourself from mosquito bites. Use a repellent that includes one of the following:
DEET: Products containing DEET include Cutter, OFF!, Skintastic.
Picaridin (also known as KBR 3023, Bayrepel, and icaridin): Products containing picaridin include Cutter Advanced, Skin So Soft Bug Guard Plus, and Autan outside the United States).
Oil of lemon eucalyptus (OLE) or PMD: Repel contains OLE.
IR3535: Products containing IR3535 include Skin So Soft Bug Guard Plus Expedition and SkinSmart.
Learn more
Visit DHEC’s mosquito page at www.scdhec.gov/Mosquitoes.
To learn more about West Nile, visit www.scdhec.gov/westnile.
To learn more about Zika, visit www.scdhec.gov/Zika or cdc.gov/Zika.
Click here to learn about other diseases mosquitoes can spread.
To view a list of local mosquito control programs in South Carolina, visit scdhec.gov/HomeAndEnvironment/Insects/Mosquitoes/LocalMosquitoControl.
Residents play a key role in mosquito control and prevention. Click here to learn more about how you can protect yourself and your home from mosquitoes.
This entry was posted in Environment, Prevention, Public Health and tagged bites, breeding grounds, breeding sites, containers, DEET, insect, IR3535, mosquito control, mosquito-borne diseases, mosquito-borne illnesses, mosquitoes, National Mosquito Control Awareness Week, oil of lemon eucalyptus, Picaridin, prevention, repellent on June 26, 2018 by SC DHEC.
It’s Spring: Time To Protect Yourself And Your Family From Mosquitoes
Leave a reply
Spring is here, following yet another warm winter in South Carolina. As you and your family are heading outside, remember that now is one of the most important times to start thinking about and taking action aimed at protecting your love ones from the pesky insects — even if mosquitoes are the “unofficial state bird!”
Mosquitoes known to carry diseases
South Carolina is home to at least 61 different species of mosquito. Anyone who has lived here for any length of time has encountered the itch-inducing menace on an almost daily basis during summer and fall. Hunters have literally been chased out of the woods, never to return (OK, maybe not literally)! Most of the time, we’re only concerned with the pain or itchiness from a mosquito’s bite – we don’t worry about getting sick. It is true, however, that mosquitoes can transmit disease.
Some mosquitoes in South Carolina have been known to carry West Nile virus, Eastern equine encephalitis virus, and other viruses or parasites. Although there has been heightened concern recently over Zika virus, no confirmed cases have occurred in South Carolina from South Carolina mosquitoes. All known cases of Zika in South Carolina, to date, have been travel or sexual contact related.
Do your part to help control mosquitoes
Joining forces and doing our part to combat the threat of mosquito-borne viruses and parasites is critical. We must be vigilant about controlling the mosquito population in our own yards and communities, while protecting ourselves from bites. Remove, empty, or fill any objects in your yard or home that might hold water in order to eliminate breeding sites.
In surveying your property for mosquito breeding spots, leave literally no stone unturned. Drain, fill, or get rid of areas that hold water.
Clear out weeds, leaves, dirt, and other debris from pipes.
Repair leaky pipes and outdoor faucets.
Regularly clean out rain gutters and downspouts.
Empty and turn over containers that hold water such as cans, jars, drums, bottles, flower pots, buckets, children’s toys, wheel barrows, old appliances, and plastic sheeting or tarps used to cover objects like grills or swimming pools, etc.
Make sure that all permanent water containers such as wells, septic tanks, cisterns, water tanks, and cesspools are tightly covered and insect-proof.
Change the water in bird baths and empty and clean out children’s wading pools at least once a week.
Clean out and change the water in your pet’s water bowl or trough every day.
Larger troughs for livestock should be cleaned out on a weekly basis.
Cover trash containers and garbage cans to keep rainwater from accumulating.
Drain or get rid of old tires by recycling them.
Avoid mosquito bites
If you are outside, wear protective clothing. Long pants and long-sleeved shirts are more protective than you might think. You may also choose to apply a mosquito repellent — either a spray or wipe — per manufacturer instructions to help shield you from bites. Avoid wearing perfume or scented products. Also, keep car windows rolled up and garage doors closed at night. Ensure all of your windows and doors have screens or seal properly.
Visit DHEC’s mosquito information page for additional information about protecting yourself from mosquito bites, eliminating breeding areas, contacting local mosquito control, and more.
This entry was posted in Prevention, Public Health and tagged breeding grounds, breeding sites, DHEC, eastern equine encephalitis, mosquito control, mosquito-borne diseases, mosquito-borne illnesses, mosquitoes, repellent, SCDHEC, South Carolina, South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control, virus, West Nile, Zika on April 27, 2018 by SC DHEC.
Beware: Mosquitoes are still active
Leave a reply
Although the weather is turning cooler, don’t be fooled. The pesky mosquito is still with us and will be until temperatures are consistently cold enough to drive the insect away.
Cold snaps can help reduce the likelihood of excessive mosquito breeding. That’s because mosquitoes are cold-blooded and do not thrive in cooler temperatures. Mosquitoes shut down for the winter.
But until that happens, it’s important to take steps to reduce mosquito populations and reduce your family’s exposure to these insects, which can spread diseases such as West Nile, Zika and others.
Begin by reducing mosquito breeding habitats.
It only takes as few as five days for water in containers as small as a bottle cap to become active breeding sites for mosquitoes.
Routinely empty any containers on your property that are holding water:
Pool covers
Flower pots
Boat covers
Tires
Pet bowls
Toys
Tarps
Remove debris from gutters.
Trim back thick shrubbery and overgrown grass on your property.
Fix leaky outdoor faucets.
Protect you and your family from mosquitoes and possible exposure to mosquito-borne illnesses.
Repair damaged or broken doors and screens.
Wear light-colored clothes with long sleeves and long pants.
Close garage doors at night.
Wear insect repellent. The Environmental Protection Agency has a web-based tool to help you find the proper insect repellent for your time spent outdoors.
If you have mosquito problems in your area, please visit DHEC’s mosquito information page and click on “Local Mosquito Control” for a list of local mosquito control agency contacts.
This entry was posted in Prevention, Public Health and tagged breeding, breeding grounds, breeding sites, DHEC, diseases, habitats, mosquito control, mosquito-borne diseases, mosquito-borne illnesses, mosquitoes, repellent, South Carolina, South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control, West Nile, Zika on November 1, 2017 by SC DHEC.
DHEC in the News: South Carolina Adopt-a-Stream program, Reedy Falls, mosquito control grant
Leave a reply
Here’s a look at health and environmental news from around South Carolina.
DHEC and the Clemson University Center for Watershed Excellence are partnering to form the South Carolina Adopt-a-Stream (SCAAS) program.
The SCAAS program, which will mirror the Georgia Adopt-a-Stream (GAAAS) program, will promote and expand existing South Carolina volunteer stream monitoring efforts by providing volunteer monitors with a website for information, a database to maintain water quality monitoring data, training classes and materials, and other useful resources. Many volunteer organizations in South Carolina have already been using the Georgia program to monitor and record water quality in the streams and rivers around the Palmetto State.
The City of Greenville has begun a restoration project on Reedy Falls.
The stream bank restoration project is expected to take a week. Boulders are being placed along the Reedy River bank to help prevent erosion and create a safer slope between the river and sidewalk.
DHEC’s Bureau of Environmental Health Services awarded Bamberg County a $14,644 mosquito control grant.
The grant provides funds to purchase additional insecticides and improved spraying equipment as well as to help pay for training in effective mosquito control procedures.
This entry was posted in Disease Control, Environment, Public Health and tagged Adopt-a-Stream, Bamberg County, Clemson University, DHEC, Greenville, mosquito control, mosquito control grant, Reedy River, South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control on June 20, 2017 by SC DHEC.
Post navigation
← Older posts
Search for:
Connect WIth Us
Recent Posts
Breathe Better (B2) for Businesses
This Earth Day, Let’s Tackle Food Waste Together
Midlands Rivers Coalition Kicks Off 3rd Year of Water Quality Monitoring
DHEC Presents 2018 Community Star Awards to Santee Cooper, Brandon Burke
When Yellow means “Go”
Tags
cancer
CDC
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
children
deaths
Department of Health and Environmental Control
DHEC
diabetes
disease
drugs
Environment
EPA
Flourish
flu
food
health
heart
heart disease
HIV
hospitalization
hurricane
illness
immunizations
Influenza
mosquito-borne diseases
mosquito-borne illnesses
mosquitoes
nutrition
obesity
opioids
outreach
overdose
Palmetto Health
prevention
Public Health
Safety
SCDHEC
shot
South Carolina
South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control
USDA
US Department of Agriculture
Vaccination
vaccine
vaccines
virus
West Nile
WIC
women
Zika
Helpful Links
SCale Down
Search DHEC Jobs
CDC
SC Hospital Association
DHEC
Archives
April 2019
February 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel