Is My Loved One Addicted to Marijuana?
Marijuana Rehab
Call 1 (888) 460-6556
any time to discuss treatment options
Get Help Now
Seeking Treatment For:*
Your First Name:*
First
Your Last Name:*
Your Email Address:
Your Phone Number:
Use This Format Only: (###) ###-####
Contact Me By:
Email
Phone
Receive Palm Partners email updates
Yes
No
Name
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
Home
About Marijuana
Marijuana Addiction
Marijuana Rehab
Advice
If your loved one cannot seem to do any activities without marijuana they may be addicted.
Is My Loved One Addicted to Marijuana?
The life of a marijuana addict is controlled by the thought processes and cravings that come as a result of the drug use. He or she may not mean to act a certain way or to allow their entire life to revolve around smoking pot—but it happens, and it happens even to those who mean well. Unfortunately, recognizing that your loved one is addicted to marijuana may be a harsh reality that you all but want to accept.
According to Marijuana Anonymous, a 12 step program for those in recovery from marijuana addiction, “If a loved one helps divert a crisis for the addict, they take away the addict’s opportunity to work it out, or fail. This will make it harder for the addict to perceive the problem and begin to seek the solution.” As such, if your loved one is addicted to marijuana, the first step that you need to take is within yourself to make the commitment to refrain from picking up the pieces when the addiction causes problems in the individual’s life. This can be challenging but it’s a necessary first step toward recovery for you as a facilitator and for the addict too.
Signs of Addiction
If your loved one is showing any of the following signs of marijuana addiction, consider confronting him or her. There’s a good chance that marijuana addiction is to blame if:
he has been in trouble for possession of marijuana and continues to use the drug
he has made commitments to others, such as friends or family, and broken the promises
he has said he will not smoke pot but always seems to fall back into the use of drugs
he denies having a problem
he is irritable, irrational, or otherwise moody when marijuana is not available
he spends excessive amounts of time smoking pot
he postpones activities or will not spend time with people if there’s not pot
he is seemingly obsessed with marijuana and acts as if he cannot live without it
he denies that the drug use is problematic
All of these signs of marijuana addiction can be easily downplayed or overlooked if you’re not careful.
The Nature of an Addict
It is widely known that the nature of an addict is to deny that there is a problem. If your loved one is addicted to marijuana, the chance of him or her accepting and admitting to you that there is a problem is very unlikely. Most addicts believe that they are “ok” or that their drug use isn’t “All bad.” Many even believe that because they just smoke pot and aren’t using harder drugs like cocaine or prescription drugs then it’s ok. Others believe that they are using pot as a means of medicating a problem and they think it’s acceptable to do so.
The nature of an addict is to downplay the problem and to make it as if there really isn’t a problem. This denial is just one of the ways that an individual who is addicted will try to get those who love and care about them to accept that what they do is alright. As a loved one, it is up to you to make sure that you don’t accept that someone you love smokes pot and that you don’t let them downplay the situation making it less of a problem than it really is.
Marijuana Rehab
10 Tell Tale Marijuana Addiction Symptoms
5 Alarming Marijuana Health Effects
5 Signs You Need Marijuana Addiction Help
Could My Son Have Marijuana Addiction?
Do I Have a Marijuana Dependence?
Effects of Marijuana on the Brain
Is My Loved One Addicted to Marijuana?
Is Weed Addicting?
Marijuana Addiction Eating Effects
Marijuana Addiction Long Term Effects
Marijuana Addiction Social Effects
Marijuana Psychological Effects
Marijuana Withdrawal
Does Weed Withdrawal Exist?
Marijuana Withdrawal Timeline
Symptoms of Marijuana Withdrawal
What Does Withdrawal from Marijuana Feel Like?
Who Experiences Withdrawal from Marijuana?
Mental Effects of Marijuana Addiction
Signs and Symptoms of Marijuana Addiction
What are the Effects of Marijuana Addiction
Who Needs Help for Marijuana Addiction?
MARIJUANAREHAB.COM. © 2017 All Rights Reserved.
Home
About Marijuana
Marijuana Addiction
Marijuana Rehab
Advice
Privacy Policy
Call 1 (888) 460-6556 anytime to speak with an addiction specialist.