Amazing MRI footage shows what happens inside the womb when...
Home
Lifestage
Getting Pregnant
Pregnancy
Baby Names
Newborn & Baby
Toddler
Preschooler
Big Kids
School Days
Tweens
Teens
Life
Family
Mum's Life
House & Home
Travel
Health
Parties
Beauty
Style
Finance
Eco Living
Today
Family Adventures
Things We Love
TV
Food
Food
Recipes
Videos
Baking
Cookies & Biscuits
Easy Recipes
Desserts
Dinners
Snacks
Lunchbox Ideas
Voices
Real Mum Voices
Product Trials
Experts
MummyPages Plus
Pregnancy
Signs & Symptoms
Is it safe?
Baby Gifts
Child Birth & Labour
Looking Good
Maternity Clothes
Miscarriage & Loss
Nursery Ideas
Nutrition & Exercise
Prenatal Checkups
Sex & Relationships
Pregnancy Tools
The first 1000 days
Topical
Popular Competition time with Citroën Win with Birds Eye Get published Mum Chat Rewards
Pregnancy Child Birth & Labour Articles list
Amazing MRI footage shows what happens inside the womb when giving birth
Giving birth is an incredible process, and now scientists have shown exactly what goes on in the womb as it happens.
This MRI footage, released by the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, shows a baby leaving his mothers body during labour.
The time-lapse video is made up of stills taken with an MRI (Magnetic Resource Imaging) machine during the labour of a 24-year-old woman. MRI doesn't use radiation as an X-ray machine would, and so it is total harmless to baby and mother.
The white patch under the baby's head is the unbroken amniotic sack with fluid still inside - the mother's waters can be seen breaking during the video. The time-lapse effect means the footage appears faster than it actually was.
The footage stops just before the baby's head leave the womb, as MRI machines can be quite loud, and doctors were wary of damaging the newborn's hearing. Scientists say they filmed this birth to give them a better comprehension of the anatomy of a standard labour. An interesting watch!
Promoted Content
Latest
Long commutes can be a danger during pregnancy, says study
New website is launched to help parents who suffer a pregnancy loss
'You're not allowed': Stranger throws expectant-mum's coffee in the bin
Trending
'You get picked on at school and it breaks your little heart': A letter to my little man
These are the most popular baby bump nicknames that expectant mums LOVE
6 facts about spring babies that make them extra special
Trending and Sponsored
More Stories You’ll Love
Mum's Life
Why listening to ourselves as parents is key to our relationships with our children
Mum's Life
#MUMTRUTHS: Latest podcast episode will help you create a happier life
Mum's Life
'I love it': Anne Hathaway on why she gave up alcohol after becoming a mum
Family Health
Five things you've been through when your little one has a stuffy nose
Family Life
10 gorgeous Communion gifts, instead of money
Beauty
This YouTuber recreated all of the 90s beauty trends in the most relatable way
About Advertise Disclaimer Posting Rules Privacy & Cookies Get in touch Suggestions T&C's Unsubscribe
Déanta in Éirinn - Sheology
Hello Mama!
Help us help you by allowing us and our partners to remember your device as having browsed MummyPages and serve you better content and ads
We're on a mission to help our mums and their families thrive by informing, connecting and entertaining.
Join us in our mission by consenting to the use of cookies and IP address recognition by us and our partners to serve you content (including ads) best suited to your interests, both here and around the web.
We promise never to share any other information that may be deemed personal unless you explicitly tell us it's ok.
If you want more info, see our privacy policy.
Count me in! I consent
No thanks.
Manage Preferences