Vaccines and Autism Redux – VAXOPEDIA
Skip to content
an A to Z guide to Vaccines
Search
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
VAXOPEDIA
Menu
Home
A-Z Index
Blog
Categories
Vaxopedia
History of Vaccines
Immunization News
Immunization Schedules
Vaccine Advocates
Vaccine Education
Vaccine Ingredients
Vaccine Misinformation
Vaccine Preventable Diseases
Vaccine Safety
Vaccine Side Effects
Vaccines
About
Contact
Vaccines and Autism Redux
Is it true that only one ingredient (thimerosal) and one vaccine (MMR) has ever been looked at for its relationship to autism?
No, as you can probably guess, it is not.
“This meta-analysis of five case-control and five cohort studies has found no evidence for the link between vaccination and the subsequent risk of developing autism or autistic spectrum disorder. Subgroup analyses looking specifically at MMR vaccinations, cumulative mercury dosage, and thimerosal exposure individually were similarly negative, as were subgroup analyses looking specifically at development of autistic disorder versus other autistic spectrum disorder.”
Taylor et al on Vaccines are not associated with autism: An evidence-based meta-analysis of case-control and cohort studies
Since much of the original focus about vaccines and autism was on the MMR vaccine and thimerosal, that’s where a lot of the research to reassure parents went first.
Other research has been done though too, so it really is safe to say that vaccines are not associated with autism, even though some may continue to see a correlation.
“To try to isolate the effects of thimerosal from other vaccine constituents, we performed a subanalysis comparing risks associated with diphtheria-tetanus-whole cell pertussis vaccine or diphtheria-tetanus-acellular pertussis vaccine and Haemophilus influenzae type b vaccine given separately or combined.”
Verstraeten et al on Safety of Thimerosal-Containing Vaccines: A Two-Phased Study of Computerized Health Maintenance Organization Databases
The great majority of parents know that:
it is not the MMR vaccine
it is not thimerosal or thimerosal containing vaccines
it is not the overall number of vaccines that are given to a child
it is not the timing of when the vaccines are given to children
And it hasn’t been just one or two studies that have shown that there is no association between vaccines and autism. There are dozens. There is also a comprehensive review by the Institute of Medicine and a very large meta-analysis that have come to the same conclusion.
Vaccines are not associated with autism.
Vaccines and Autism Redux
Could it be aluminum though?
Why aluminum? Because anti-vaccine experts cite some poorly done studies that try to say it is.
Bob Sears appeared on Fox & Friends in 2010 for the segment “Vaccines: A Bad Combination?”
Aluminum has become the new formaldehyde, which used to be the new thimerosal. It is apparently where the goalposts have shifted when some folks talk about vaccines and autism now that every knows it is not the MMR vaccine, thimerosal, vaccine overload, or the timing of vaccines.
But if studies have shown that it is neither the number of vaccines nor the timing of vaccines, then how could it be aluminum, an adjuvant in many vaccines?
It isn’t.
Aluminum is not the smoking gun or the missing puzzle piece that anti-vaccine folks will continue to look for.
What other myths about vaccines and autism have been coming up lately?
Have you heard the one about the court ruling confirming a vaccine autism link? It didn’t.
Did you know that the FDA officially announced that vaccines are causing autism? They didn’t, but do you know why some folks are now saying they did? Because of the old package insert for the Tripedia vaccine, which lists autism as a possible adverse event (without evidence of causation). The vaccine was discontinued years ago, but it continues to pop up as ‘new’ evidence for some as an association between vaccines and autism.
Or maybe you have heard these other new theories from the anti-vaccine movement as they desperately try to prove an association between vaccines and autism:
vaccines block folate uptake
MTHFR gene mutations
maternal immune activation
cytokine storms
glutathione depletion
glyphosate
DNA fragments
microbiota alterations
GI barrier defects
blood brain barrier permeability problems
You don’t even have to pick just one theory anymore (the fact that the MMR vaccine doesn’t contain thimerosal or aluminum kind of puts these theories into opposition with each other, doesn’t it?). You can choose for any or all of them to be true if you want. Using synergistic toxicity, you pick a few of your favorite theories and make them 100 times more likely to damage your child! Not really, but that’s how some anti-vaccine folks think.
“Autism is not an immune-mediated disease. Unlike autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis, there is no evidence of immune activation or inflammatory lesions in the CNS of people with autism. In fact, current data suggest that genetic variation in neuronal circuitry that affects synaptic development might in part account for autistic behavior. Thus, speculation that an exaggerated or inappropriate immune response to vaccination precipitates autism is at variance with current scientific data that address the pathogenesis of autism.”
Gerber et al on Vaccines and Autism: A Tale of Shifting Hypotheses
Of course, none of them are true.
Vaccines are still not associated with autism.
What to Know About Vaccines and Autism
Vaccines are still not associated with autism, even though anti-vaccine folks continue to come up with new ideas for how it might be, from glyphosate and DNA fragments in vaccines to MTHFR mutations and maternal immune activation.
More on Vaccines and Autism
Vaccines and autism: A thorough review of the evidence
What REALLY Causes Autism?
CDC – Vaccines Do Not Cause Autism
CDC Studies on Thimerosal in Vaccines
Why won’t the government fund vaccine/autism research?
More of that vaccine/autism research that doesn’t exist
John’s Hopkins FAQs: The meaning of neuroinflammatory findings in autism
Study – Safety of Thimerosal-Containing Vaccines: A Two-Phased Study of Computerized Health Maintenance Organization Databases
Study – A Population-Based Study of Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Vaccination and Autism
Immunization Safety Review: Vaccines and Autism (2004)
Study – Prenatal and infant exposure to thimerosal from vaccines and immunoglobulins and risk of autism.
Study – Increasing Exposure to Antibody-Stimulating Proteins and Polysaccharides in Vaccines Is Not Associated with Risk of Autism
Study – On-time Vaccine Receipt in the First Year Does Not Adversely Affect Neuropsychological Outcomes
Study – Vaccines are not associated with autism: an evidence-based meta-analysis of case-control and cohort studies.
Study – Vaccines and Autism: A Tale of Shifting Hypotheses
Has the Government Conceded Vaccines Cause Autism?
Do Vaccines Cause Autism?
WHO – Aluminum adjuvants
Comment on “Do aluminum vaccine adjuvants contribute to the rising prevalence of autism?”
Torturing more mice in the name of antivaccine pseudoscience, 2017 aluminum edition
Debunking False Vaccine Claim
Share this:
Tweet
Print
More
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Vaccine Misinformation
Vincent Iannelli, MD
December 1, 2017
adjuvants
aluminum
autism
autism epidemic
autism studies
formaldehyde
glyphosate
MTHFR
package inserts
thimerosal
vaccine overload
Post navigation
Do Pediatricians Vaccinate Their Own Kids?
Expert Statements on Vaccines and Autism
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Categories
Categories Select Category Blog History of Vaccines Immunization News Immunization Schedules Vaccine Advocates Vaccine Education Vaccine Ingredients Vaccine Misinformation Vaccine Preventable Diseases Vaccine Safety Vaccine Side Effects Vaccines Vaxopedia
Follow Vaxopedia via Email
Enter your email address to follow Vaxopedia and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Follow Vaxopedia
Vaxopedia RSS Feed
RSS - Posts
Follow me on Twitter
My Tweets
Recommended Sites
Aetiology
Epidemiological
Harpocrates Speaks
I Speak of Dreams
Just the Vax
Left Brain Right Brain
Logic of Science
Moms Who Vax
NDS for Vaccines
NeuroLogica
Nurses Who Vaccinate
Respectful Insolence
Shot of Prevention
Skeptical OB
Skeptical Raptor
The Poxes Blog
The Thinking Persons Guide to Autism
The Vaccine Blog
The Vaccine Mom
Vaxopedia Tags
advocacy autism benefits Bob Sears conspiracy theories deaths from vaccine-preventable diseases exemptions herd immunity History of Vaccines immunization schedule ingredients measles deaths measles outbreaks natural immunity propaganda quotes risks safety side effects toxins unvaccinated vaccine injury vaccine myths Vaccine Preventable Diseases VAERS
Shot of Prevention
Ethan Lindenberger Wants to Help Stop the Lies About Vaccines
Just The Vax
False Balance in the Media
Left Brain Right Brain
Acceptance
Respectful Insolence
Turning out the lights and moving on: Goodbye, old ScienceBlogs blog, hello new blog
A quick update on the migration to a new domain
Epidemiological
Epi 101: Indirect Age Adjustment by Hand and in R
Skeptical Raptor
New York vaccine mandate – judge rejects anti-vaxxer challenge
The Poxes Blog
Won’t Someone Think of the Antivaxxers?
I Speak of Dreams
Who is Mark Green Representing in Tennessee, Exactly? Not His Autistic Constituents, That's For Sure
A WordPress.com Website.
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: