Coughs and Colds in Children | Causes and Treatment | Patient
TOPICS
HEALTH INFO
Child Health
Heart Health
Men's Health
Mental Health
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin Conditions
Travel Vaccinations
Treatment and Medication
Women's Health
View all categories
CATEGORIES
Bones and Joints
Cancer
Diabetes
Digestive Health
Eye Care
Healthy Living
Infections
Signs and Symptoms
View all categories
Try our Symptom Checker Got any other symptoms?
TREATMENT
MEDICINES AND DRUGS
Nervous System
Heart Disease
Infections
Inflammation
Painkillers
Skin Conditions
Muscle Pain
Eye Care
View all Medicines and Drugs
TREATMENT FOR
Migraine
Infection
Heart Disease
Depression
Epilepsy
Type 2 Diabetes
Bacterial Vaginosis
Dementia
View all Treatments
RESOURCES
TOOLS AND TESTS
BMI Calculator
Pregnancy Due Date Calculator
STI Tests
Screening Tests
Blood Tests
Liver Function Tests
Am I Pregnant?
Am I Depressed?
View all Tools
EXPLORE
Latest Features
Health Videos
About Us
Authors
Recipes
Quizzes
Try our Symptom Checker Got any other symptoms?
PROFESSIONAL
PRO ARTICLES
Bronchiolitis
Osmolality
Haemorrhagic Fevers
Relapsing Fever
Abdominal Pain in Children
Subdural Haematoma
Obesity in Adults
Depression
View all Pro Articles
MEDICAL CALCULATORS
PHQ-9
GAD-7
6CIT
GPCOG
AUDIT
CAGE
View all Medical Calculators
Upgrade to Patient Pro Medical Professional?
Community
Login / Register
Login / Register
Patient Access
Search
Health Info
Chest and Lungs
Cough
Save Saved
Print
Share
Email this article
Share on Twitter
Share on Facebook
Share on LinkedIn
Actions
Download PDF
Send Feedback
Manage Notes
Coughs and Colds in Children
Authored by Dr Jan Sambrook, Reviewed by Dr Helen Huins | Last edited 11 Dec 2017 | Certified by The Information Standard
In this series
In this series: Cough Common Cold (Upper Respiratory Tract Infections) Cough Caused by a Virus Whooping Cough Croup Chronic Persistent Cough in Adults Coughing up Blood (Haemoptysis) Cough Medicines Decongestants
In this series Cough Common Cold (Upper Respiratory Tract Infections) Cough Caused by a Virus Whooping Cough Croup Chronic Persistent Cough in Adults Coughing up Blood (Haemoptysis) Cough Medicines Decongestants
Coughs and colds are usually caused by infection with a germ called a virus. They normally clear away on their own, and antibiotic medicines are usually of no use. Paracetamol or ibuprofen may ease some of the symptoms. Make sure the child has enough to drink.
In this article
What causes coughs and colds?
What are the symptoms?
What are the treatments for coughs and colds?
What about cold and cough remedies?
Other treatments
What symptoms should I look out for?
In This Article
Coughs and Colds in Children
In this article
What causes coughs and colds?
What are the symptoms?
What are the treatments for coughs and colds?
What about cold and cough remedies?
Other treatments
What symptoms should I look out for?
What causes coughs and colds?
Most coughs and colds are caused by germs called viruses. Many different viruses can infect the nose and throat. They are passed on by coughing and sneezing the virus into the air. An average preschool and primary school child has 3-8 coughs or colds per year. Some children will have more than this. Sometimes several coughs or colds occur one after the other. A child who lives with smokers has an increased risk of developing coughs and colds, and the colds they get may last longer.
What are the symptoms?
The common symptoms are a cough and a runny nose. The cough is often worse at night. Coughing does not damage the lungs.
In addition, a child may have a raised temperature (fever), a sore throat, headache, and tiredness; they may be off their food. Sometimes children may be sick (vomit) after a bout of coughing.
A build-up of mucus behind the eardrums may cause dulled hearing or mild earache.
Very young children often sleep a lot when they are unwell.
What are the treatments for coughs and colds?
There is no magic cure! Typically, symptoms are worse in the first 2-3 days, and then ease over the next few days as the immune system clears the virus. An irritating cough may linger for up to 2-4 weeks after other symptoms have gone. Antibiotics do not kill viruses, so are of no use for common coughs and colds.
Supportive treatment
Coughs and colds often do not need any treatment.
Make sure your child has enough to drink. Low body fluid (dehydration) may develop if a child has a raised temperature (fever) and does not drink much.
Resting probably helps the body to fight off viruses more quickly.
Treatment to ease symptoms
Paracetamol can ease aches and pains, headaches and fever. Ibuprofen is an alternative. Both are sold in pharmacies in liquid form for children. There are various brands - ask the pharmacist if you are unsure what is suitable.
Saline drops for blocked nose
A popular treatment for a blocked nose in a baby is to put a few drops of salt water (saline) into the nose just before feeds. Some people feel that this helps to clear the nose to make feeding easier. There is little scientific evidence as to how well this works, but it may be worth a try if feeding is difficult. You can buy saline drops from pharmacies.
Vapour rubs
Vapour rubs are another popular treatment. They can be applied to the chest and back. Avoid application directly to the nostril area. Again, there is little scientific evidence as to how well they work.
Steam inhalation
Inhaling steam can also help relieve congestion and coughing. The safest way to do this with children is to sit in the bathroom with a hot shower/hot taps running.
Cough sweets
Sucking menthol or other medicated sweets can help ease irritating coughs and sore throats in older children.
What about cold and cough remedies?
Cough or cold remedies may be advertised and are sold in pharmacies. They contain various ingredients or combinations of ingredients such as paracetamol, decongestants, antihistamines and cough remedies. However, there is no convincing evidence that these cough and cold remedies work. Also, they may have side-effects such as allergic reactions, problems with sleeping or making you see or hear things that are not really there (hallucinations).
In March 2009 an important statement was issued by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA). It said that parents and carers should no longer use over-the-counter (OTC) cough and cold medicines in children aged under 6 years. For 6- to 12-year-olds these medicines continue to be available (as there is less risk of side-effects in older children). However, they are only sold in pharmacies, with clearer advice on the packaging and from the pharmacist. Note: paracetamol and ibuprofen are not classed as cough and cold medicines and can still be given to children.
A warm drink made with honey and lemon juice can be as soothing to an irritated or sore throat as cough medicine that you buy at the chemist. Please note that honey should not be given to babies under 1 year old.
Cough is a difficult symptom to control. Sometimes it seems as if your child is coughing all the time. They may cough so hard that they are sick. This is distressing but it does not necessarily indicate that they need additional treatment from a doctor.
Other treatments
Zinc supplements
Previous research studies suggest that a mineral called zinc appears to reduce the severity of cold symptoms in healthy children. A recent review of the research on zinc supplements and the common cold found that zinc supplements may reduce the length and severity of cold symptoms, when taken within 24 hours of the first symptoms of a cold. Zinc supplements may also help to prevent colds. However, there were possible side-effects such as unpleasant taste and feeling sick (nausea). The review concluded that it is not yet clear whether zinc should be recommended as treatment for colds. More studies need to be done to work out which dose should be taken and for how long. More details can be found under 'Further Reading and References' at the end of this leaflet.
Vitamin C
There has also been research looking at vitamin C for preventing or treating colds. A recent review found that taking vitamin C regularly did not seem to prevent colds in the ordinary population. However, it did seem to reduce the length and severity of symptoms. Also, in trials where people were exposed to short periods of extreme physical stress (for example, marathon runners and skiers) vitamin C halved the risk of developing a cold. More research is needed to answer the question of whether vitamin C can help once the cold symptoms have already started.
Vitamin D
A study published in early 2017 revealed that vitamin D is also useful for preventing colds. Many people in the UK have low levels of vitamin D during the winter, and Public Health England now recommends that everyone should consider taking a vitamin D supplement during the winter.
Herbal remedies
Echinacea (a herbal treatment) and garlic have traditionally been used for treating colds. However, recent reviews of research could not find any evidence that either is helpful. The MHRA also advises that echinacea should not be given to children under 12 years old. This is because of rare allergic reactions, which can be severe.
Black elderberry extract is another natural remedy that has been used traditionally. There is some evidence that it can help to prevent and shorten colds.
What symptoms should I look out for?
Most coughs and colds get better without complications. Sometimes a more serious infection develops from an initial viral infection. For example, an ear infection, chest infection or pneumonia. Symptoms to look out for that may mean your child has more than just a cold include:
Breathing problems - wheezing, fast breathing, noisy breathing or difficulty with breathing.
Being unable to swallow (this may show up as excessive drooling).
Drowsiness.
Unusual irritability or persistent crying, in a baby, or if the baby is not taking feeds.
A rash.
Chest pains.
Persistent high temperatures, particularly if a baby aged less than 3 months has a raised temperature (fever) higher than 38°C.
Very bad (severe) headache, sore throat, earache or swollen glands.
A cough that persists for longer than 3-4 weeks.
Symptoms getting worse rather than better after about five days of a cold.
Symptoms (other than a irritating cough) lasting more than about ten days. This is particularly important if your child has mucus or phlegm (sputum) which is green, yellow or brown, as it may indicate infection with other germs called bacteria.
Any symptom that you cannot explain.
See a doctor if any symptoms develop that you are concerned about. This is particularly important if your child has a long-term illness or medical condition - for example, chest/breathing/heart problems or neurological disease. Doctors are skilled at checking children over to rule out serious illness. They may not be able to prescribe anything more effective for a common cough or cold, but a check-over can be reassuring.
Next page
Whooping Cough
Previous page
Cough Caused by a Virus
Did you find this information useful? yes no
Thanks for your feedback!
Why not subscribe to the newsletter?
Email address *
We'd love to send you our articles and latest news by email, giving you the best opportunity to stay up to date with expert written health and lifestyle content.
By clicking 'Subscribe' you agree to our Terms and conditions and Privacy policy.
Subscribe
Thanks for your feedback. if you would like to report a specific issue with this page, please visit our feedback page.
Thank you, we just sent a survey email to confirm your preferences.
Further reading and references
Recommendations for the assessment and management of cough in children; British Thoracic Society Cough Guideline Group (2008)
Respiratory tract infections (self-limiting): prescribing antibiotics; NICE Clinical Guideline (July 2008)
Over-the-counter cough and cold medicines for children; Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), 2009
Common cold; NICE CKS, August 2016 (UK access only)
Kenealy T, Arroll B; Antibiotics for the common cold and acute purulent rhinitis. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013 Jun 46:CD000247. doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD000247.pub3.
Secondhand smoke: the impact on children: Research report; ASH (action on smoking and health), March 2014
Advice on Vitamin D; Public Health England, July 2016
Nahas R, Balla A; Complementary and alternative medicine for prevention and treatment of the common cold. Can Fam Physician. 2011 Jan57(1):31-6.
Karsch-Volk M, Barrett B, Kiefer D, et al; Echinacea for preventing and treating the common cold. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014 Feb 202:CD000530. doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD000530.pub3.
Hemila H, Chalker E; Vitamin C for preventing and treating the common cold. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013 Jan 311:CD000980. doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD000980.pub4.
Singh M, Das RR; Zinc for the common cold. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013 Jun 18(6):CD001364. doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD001364.pub4.
Lissiman E, Bhasale AL, Cohen M; Garlic for the common cold. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014 Nov 11(11):CD006206. doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD006206.pub4.
Related Information
Cough Caused by a Virus
Common Cold (Upper Respiratory Tract Infections)
Chronic Cough in Children Pro
Treating Infections (PHE) Pro
Common Cold (Coryza) Pro
View all
Why your cough gets worse at night
5 minutes reading time 26-Feb-19
What does your snot say about your health?
4 minutes reading time 04-Feb-19
The respiratory system
Sponsored
Should you go to work when you have a cold?
6 minutes reading time 14-Nov-18
For the past few days, I've been yawning a lot, much more than average (once every few minutes I feel the need). If I'm not yawning I'm breathing in as deep as I can to get similar "satisfaction"....
FlutterbyPie
Join the discussion on the forums
Article Information
Last Reviewed 11 December 2017
Next Review 10 December 2020
Document ID 4227 (v41)
Author Dr Jan Sambrook
Peer reviewer Dr Helen Huins
The information on this page is written and peer reviewed by qualified clinicians.
Disclaimer: This article is for information only and should not be used for the diagnosis or treatment of medical conditions. Patient Platform Limited has used all reasonable care in compiling the information but make no warranty as to its accuracy. Consult a doctor or other health care professional for diagnosis and treatment of medical conditions. For details see our conditions.
Health Information
Medicine directory
Community
Symptom Checker
Medical professionals
About us
Authors
Contact us
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Advertise with us
Our clinical information is certified to meet NHS England's Information Standard.
Read more
Health information you can trust
Patient aims to help the world proactively manage its healthcare, supplying evidence-based information on a wide range of medical and health topics to patients and health professionals.
© Patient Platform Limited. Registered in England and Wales. All rights reserved. Patient does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
Registered number: 10004395 Registered office: Rawdon House, Green Lane, Yeadon, Leeds LS19 7BY. Patient is a UK registered trade mark.
Connect with us
twitter
facebook
youtube
pinterest
instagram
close
Patient.info uses cookies to improve your experience and deliver personalised advertising.
By using this site you agree to our use of cookies. You can opt out at any time or find out more by reading our cookie policy.
Accept
newnav-downnewnav-up