Caring Pharmacy | Caring is our profession
Toggle navigation
CORPORATE
History
Vision & Mission
CSR
News
INVESTOR RELATIONS
WHAT'S ON
In Store Activities
Road Show
Health Talk & Events
PROMOTION
Catalogue
Newspaper Ads
Good Old Days
REGULAR CARD
HEALTH CENTER
Health Information
Ask Your Pharmacist
CARiNG News
CAREER
Who We Hire
What We Offer
STORES
HOME > HEALTH CENTER > HEALTH INFORMATION
Health Information
Ask Your Pharmacist
CARiNG News
OSTEOARTHRITIS: HOW TO CHOOSE A JOINT SUPPLEMENT
By Joshua Ng (Pharmacist, Caring Pharmacy) | Malaysia | Fri Feb 01, 2019 12:26pm
Osteoarthritis is a type of joint disease that results from breakdown of joint cartilage and underlying bone. The most common symptoms are joint pain and stiffness. It is often known as a “wear and tear” condition as the pain gradually intensifies. The most common joints affected is knee, hips, hands and spine.1
Supplements for Osteoarthritis
1. GLUCOSAMINE
Glucosamine makes glycosaminoglycans and glycoproteins, which are essential building blocks of many structures of the joints, including the ligaments, tendons, cartilage and synovial fluid. This is the most common type of joint supplement, but the multiple studies conducted for it shows mixed results. Arthritis research UK suggests that this supplement is safe. Effectiveness score in osteoarthritis for Glucosamine Sulphate is 2 out of 5. Effectiveness score in osteoarthritis for Glucosamine Hydrochloride is 1 out of 5.1
2. CHONDROITIN
Chondroitin can reduce the activity of enzymes and substances that break down collagen in joints. Other studies have demonstrated that it has anti-inflammatory properties. Arthritis research UK suggests that this supplement is safe. Effectiveness score in osteoarthritis for Chondroitin is 2 out of 5.1
3. MSM
Methylsulfonylmethane (MSM) plays an important role in formation of collagen and glucosamine.MSM has anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects. Arthritis research UK suggests that this supplement is safe. Effectiveness score in osteoarthritis for MSM is 2 out of 5.1
4. HYALURONIC ACID
Hyaluronate is a high molecular weight, abundant molecule that naturally occurs within the cartilage and synovial fluid. The main function of hyaluronic acid in knee osteoarthritis is thought to be its lubricating effect. Oral supplements of Hyaluronic acid have shown that it may improve symptoms of osteoarthritis. Safety studies showed that no toxicity was observed with oral Hyaluronic acid.2, 3
5. COLLAGEN TYPE 2
Type 2 collagen is one of the main proteins in cartilage. Several studies suggest collagen hydrolysate can improve the symptoms of osteoarthritis by stimulating the production of joint collagen. Arthritis research UK suggests that this supplement is safe. Effectiveness score in osteoarthritis for Collagen is 2 out of 5.1
6. GREEN-LIP MUSSEL
The role of green-lip mussel in reducing osteoarthritis symptoms has not been fully understood. What is known that green-lip mussel extract contains omega-3 fatty acids, amino acids, minerals and carbohydrates. Some studies suggest omega-3 fatty acids have anti-inflammatory properties and are important for maintaining joint cell structure and function. Arthritis research UK suggests that this supplement is safe. Effectiveness score in osteoarthritis for green-lip mussel is 3 out of 5.1
7. TUMERIC
Tumeric is known to have anti-inflammatory properties. This supplement has been used as a traditional medicine for joint pain and various other ailments. Arthritis research UK suggests that this supplement is safe. Effectiveness score in osteoarthritis for tumeric is 2 out of 5.1
References:
Complementary and alternative medicines for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis and fibromyalgia. Arthritis Research Campaign, UK. (2012). Complementary and alternative medicines.
Oral administration of polymer hyaluronic acid alleviates symptoms of knee osteoarthritis: a double-blind, placebo-controlled study over a 12-month period. T Tashiro, S Seino, N FuKui, et al. (2012). Scientific World Journal.
Oral hyaluronan relieves knee pain: a review. M Oe, T Tashiro, N Fukui, et al. (2016). Nutrition Journal.
OSTEOPOROSIS: HOW TO CHOOSE A BONE SUPPLEMENT
By Joshua Ng (Pharmacist, Caring Pharmacy) | Malaysia | Fri Feb 01, 2019 11:00am
Osteoporosis is a condition of reduced bone mass and density causing the bones to be fragile...Read More >
Liver Health
By Ng Yi Ling (Provisionally Registered Pharmacist, Caring Pharmacy) | Malaysia | Thu Jan 31, 2019 11:30am
Read More >
Digital Health Monitoring for BETTER HEALTH in Diabetes Management
By Webmaster | Tue Feb 12, 2019 1:08pm
It is commonly recommended that all diabetic patients monitor their blood glucose regularly so they can modify...
Read More >
CORPORATE INFORMATION
History
Vision & Mission
CSR
News
Career
PROMOTION
Catalogue
Newspaper Ads
CUSTOMER SERVICES
Contact Us
Store Locator
Regular Card
NEWSLETTER
Copyright © 2016 Caring Pharmacy. All rights reserved. Powered by ClooneIT