TOH - Mouth Cleanse
Join Our Facebook Group
CureYourselfIndia@gmail.com
Temple of Healing
About
History
Our Trustees
Cleanses
List of Cleanses
Ingredients
Testimonials
Past Life Regression
Media
Photo Gallery
Books
Media Clippings
Medical Report
Events
Volunteer
Find Help Near You
Join Us
Contact
Mouth Cleanse
Mouth Cleanse
We believe in "Cure Yourself" where a patient can help themselves with their own efforts by following the Cleansing Therapy.
Mouth Cleanse is recommended for everyone and must be done frequently to keep it healthy!
In this video, you can learn how the Liver Cleanse has completely changed the lives of actress Sambhavna Seth and Kunickaa Sadanand. These Bollywood actress' share the details of their journey and how it has completely transformed their lives - from 80+ allergies a day to pain-free life!
To get the best results from our Cleansing Therapy,
Watch all our videos.
Do a Liver Cleanse as soon as possible
Enjoy good health!
Download the PDF
Table of Contents
Mouth
Mouth is a hollow cavity and an anterior part of the alimentary canal. The alimentary canal is responsible for processing the food we eat.
Anatomy of the Mouth
The part of the mouth in front of the teeth is called the vestibule, while the one behind is the mouth itself. Several sheets of muscle tissue are attached to the inner surface of the jawbone or mandible from the floor Tongue of the mouth. The cheeks are sufficiently flexible to allow the mouth to open and close. The palate, a thin sheet of tissue, which separates the mouth from the nasal cavity above, forms the roof of the mouth. At the back, the mouth cavity joins with the pharynx (the cavity connecting the nose, mouth and larynx), while at the front, it produces a range of sounds through the lips. Except the teeth, the entire inner surface of the mouth is lined by a mucous membrane.
Functions
Bounded by lips, cheeks, floor of the mouth and palate, the mouth performs the following functions:
Digestion The digestion process begins in the mouth. It receives food by ingestion, breaks it into small particles by mastication or chewing and mixes it with saliva. The digestive functions of the mouth include:
Taste
Chewing, grinding and mixing of food
Formation of a bolus
Swallowing and initiation of digestive processes
Breathing
The mouth is a passageway between the pharynx and the outside body. It can aid in breathing when the nose is blocked or inadequate, for instance, during strenuous exercise, flu, cold, etc..
Speech
The mouth plays a vital part in speech. Alterations in the shape of the tongue and the lips modify sounds produced by the vocal chords in a way that they become recognisable as syllables.
Poison making
We have glands in our mouth that produce venom-like proteins called cytokines. Cytokines are proteins designed to kill micro- organisms in our mouth, before food or saliva is swallowed. During the night, the alimentary canal discards all residual waste towards the anus and mouth. This poisonous material is very strong. Long ago, it was a custom amongst kings to make slaves keep 20 gms of rice in their mouth for 20 minutes in the morning. The rice absorbed the toxins in the mouth. Afterwards, they would spit this rice into a bowl and dry it in the sun. This rice was sent to the enemy camps to poison them.
Common Problems of the Mouth
Several health problems are associated with the mouth and the unhealthy bacteria flourishing inside, including an increased risk of stroke, heart disease, arthritis, diabetes, bronchitis, pneumonia and premature births. However, we will discuss problems specific only to the mouth.
Bad breath
The main source of bad breath (or halitosis) is the tongue. When layers of bacteria are embedded on the tongue, it produces foul smelling volatile sulphur compounds. Other possible bad breath causes are dry mouth and food, such as onions and garlic.
Gingivitis
Gingivitis is an early form of gum disease caused by plaque, a sticky bacterial film that forms on our teeth. These bacteria also carry toxins that cause gum irritation.
Oral thrush
Oral thrush is a fungal infection, which appears as raised creamy spots on the lining of the mouth, lips and throat.
Mouth ulcers
They appear on the insides of lips, cheeks or floor of the mouth, and may occur as a result of aggressive tooth brushing, eating very hot food, food allergy, etc..
Causes
Mouth is home to thousands of bacteria, viruses, fungi, parasites and their toxins. Our immune system is constantly fighting these troublemakers. Excessive stress, poor diet, poor oral hygiene and environmental toxins help these unwanted organisms spread throughout the body leading to secondary infections, chronic inflammation and several other health problems.
Symptoms
Some of the common symptoms of mouth problems are:
Bad breath
Discolouration of teeth
Ulcers in cheeks and gums
Bleeding gums
Loose teeth
Tooth decay
Mouth Cleanse
Mouth Cleanse, also known as Oil Pulling Technique (OPT) is a mouth cleansing method designed to deal with serious oral conditions, such as bad breath and tooth decay. It creates an environment favourable to good health. Even if you have already developed an oral disease, you can reduce and even reverse it.
Before or after a Mouth Cleanse, it is recommended to do a Colon Cleanse. A Colon Cleanse helps in eliminating toxins, faecal matter and plaque from your intestine, which in turn rejuvenates your health and vitality.
Oil pulling technique
Oil pulling technique or Mouth Cleanse is called kavala graham in Ayurvedic texts, which can cure a variety of illnesses, ranging from heart disease and digestive troubles to hormonal disorders. The technique is not only curative, but also prevents health problems. The oil pulling technique can also fix loose teeth, which no dentist can do.
In the Charaka Samhita, the Sutra Sthana chapter says, “By doing oil pulling with sesame oil (efleue lesue), teeth are not affected by cavities and become firmly rooted. Tooth pain and sensitivity to sour items will be healed and one will be able to chew the hardest food items.”
Ingredients
For a Mouth Cleanse, take sesame oil or any other oil which suits you, such as mustard, sunflower, groundnut oil, etc.. If you are allergic to a particular brand of oil, change the brand or type of oil.
Common oils include Kachchi ghani, mustard oil, Sesame oil
Procedure
Pour 20 ml of oil in your mouth in the morning, on an empty stomach before drinking any liquid (including water). Swish the oil in your mouth. Remember not to swallow or gargle it. You will notice that the oil begins to get watery as the saliva in your mouth mixes with the oil. Keep swishing. If your jaw muscles get sore while swishing, it means you are putting too much effort into it. Relax the jaw muscles and use your tongue to help move the liquid inside your mouth. As the end of the session approaches, you may notice that the oil- saliva mixture in your mouth has become thinner and the quantity of liquid has increased. After 20 minutes, spit the oil. Do not be alarmed if the liquid is yellowish. It is due to the removal of toxins from the mouth. Rinse your mouth thoroughly with warm or plain water and brush as usual.
What to expect initially?
Mouth Cleanse may not be a very comfortable exercise to begin with. Initially, when you start pulling, mucus may build at the back of your throat. You may even have to expel the oil and clear the mucus before completing 20 minutes. In such a case, take another spoonful of oil and continue for 20 minutes.
You may also experience a little nausea and may even need to vomit, as your mouth expels toxic waste. These symptoms will subside as you become more comfortable with oil pulling. For some people who have various illnesses manifesting simultaneously, the condition might worsen. This is due to the initial removal of the primary infection that causes secondary infections to dominate temporarily. After a few days, these secondary infections will disappear and other infections may take its place. Under these circumstances, the affected person should continue the treatment to facilitate rapid healing. A brief worsening of health is an excellent sign of the body healing itself. For example:
•• The skin might itch during an infection or inflammation from an injury or wound. The same itching may aggravate during the cure of the wound/injury. •• When a bone breaks due to an accident, the pain is more severe at the time of setting and also, during the process of healing.
Benefits
When you rinse your mouth with oil, it acts as a cleansing agent that removes bacteria and other toxic debris from the teeth and gums. When we expel these harmful substances from our mouth, our overall health improves significantly. Teeth become whiter, breath becomes fresher and the tongue and gums have a healthy pink colour.
Even problems, such as tooth decay and bleeding gums are diminished or completely healed. People who have undergone the Mouth Cleanse have also reported relief from acidity, asthma, bronchitis, cracked feet, eczema, headaches, Whiter teeth, intestinal diseases, joint pains, kidney diseases, lung and liver problems, nose blocks, problems connected with nerves, stomach problems, thrombosis and ulcers, and various other health issues. A Mouth Cleanse also helps overcome chronic skin problems. It is found to be very helpful in treating gynaecological issues as well.
Do’s and don’ts
Brush your teeth and gums for one to two minutes.
Brush around the edges of gum in a circular motion.
Use a soft bristle brush and do not brush hard. Remember that nature intended no brushing of teeth. We need it because we eat cooked food.
Try to use homeopathic or herbal toothpastes, as they are better suited for your oral health.
Conclusion
If, as they say, the way to a woman’s heart is through her ears and to a man’s heart is through his stomach, then the way to good health is definitely through the mouth. Make it a goal to become ‘orally self sufficient’ by practicing good mouth and gum cleansing.
Frequently Asked Questions
Who can practice Mouth Cleanse?
Anyone above the age of five years can practice it. Children should use only one teaspoon (5 ml) of oil for pulling. People with artificial dentures should remove them before swishing. Women can practice this therapy during periods as well as pregnancy.
What is the best time to practice Mouth Cleanse?
Mouth Cleanse, done in the morning on an empty stomach delivers best results. However, you can do the Mouth Cleanse any time, as per your convenience.
How long should one do the Mouth Cleanse?
Initially, you can perform the process for 20 minutes at a time, 2-3 times a day for quick results. However, depending on how you feel after the first session, you can determine the duration of the subsequent sessions. You should continue doing the Mouth Cleanse until you regain the original health of your mouth and gums, besides feeling fresh and sleeping well. You can also make it a regular habit and do this cleanse every day.
How much time gap is required to eat or drink after a Mouth Cleanse?
After doing a Mouth Cleanse, wash/rinse your mouth and then you can eat or drink right away. No time gap is required.
Can we decrease the quantity of oil from 20 ml to 10 ml?
It is possible to get the desired results with 10 ml of oil. You may increase it, if needed. I use 20 ml of mustard oil.
Can we do any other work while doing a Mouth Cleanse?
It is advised to do a Mouth Cleanse slowly with your chin up, preferably in a sitting position, to make sure that the oil is pulled through the teeth and touches all portions of the mucous membrane in the oral cavity. However, if you are short of time, you can also do any other work while doing a Mouth Cleanse.
What to do if the following problems arise during a Mouth Cleanse?
Oil does not become watery or thin even after 20 minutes of pulling and it feels as it is being absorbed and reducing in quantity.
Under normal circumstances, the mouth will not absorb the oil. If it does so, the reason is lack of adequate salivation, due to lack of fluids in the body. In such a case, you must drink two or three glasses of water, go for a walk for 30 to 45 minutes and then do oil pulling.
Nose block due to accumulation of mucus.
Clean and blow your nose to avoid a nose block.
Sneezing and coughing sensation.
Irritation may cause sneezing or coughing during the Mouth Cleanse. Do it slowly, in a relaxed state, to avoid irritation. Stop and relax if you feel irritation or a sneezing sensation. It will eventually subside. However, if the symptoms continue, you can spit the oil and restart the therapy once the symptoms subside.
Phlegm in the throat comes into the mouth.
If phlegm comes into the mouth, spit it out and do the cleanse with fresh oil again.
How long will it take to cure a particular disease?
The duration would depend on the age, state of health, disease, diet and other habits of a person. Chronic diseases may take a few weeks to a month to subside, whereas acute diseases can be cured in 2-4 days.
How does a Mouth Cleanse cure/heal diseases?
Mouth Cleanse acts as an analgesic in relieving pain, antibiotic in fighting infection, anabolic in fixing loose teeth, and anti-inflammatory in reducing sensitivity of teeth. It influences the nervous, endocrine and immune systems to achieve balanced health.
Are there any allergic reactions? Can regular medication be continued during a Mouth Cleanse?
Normally, there are no reactions. Cleansing is a smooth, gentle and pleasant process. Sometimes, the condition may worsen, before it gets cured. In case the aggravation is not tolerable, you may stop it for a few days and try again later. If you are on any medication, try to gradually taper them as you find improvement through oil pulling. In case of any chronic disease, if it is not possible for you to reduce or stop your regular medicines, Mouth Cleanse may not be effective in curing your chronic disease, but will certainly reduce the side-effects of the drugs.
Temple Of Healing
Dr Piyush Saxena is a man of many talents - corporate professional, naturopath, wellness counsellor, cleansing therapist, past life regression therapist, activist, avid traveller, thinker, poet, painter, writer, film director, producer, actor, magician and above all, a considerate human being!
Useful links
Home
Dr Piyush Saxena
Temple of Healing
SOOE
Men Know Women
Recent Events
Posted By:Faatima Shaikh
Workshop at Kolkata
Posted By : Faatima Shaikh
Workshop at Thane
Posted By : Faatima Shaikh
Workshop at Ghaziabad
Contact Us
Address: 5/1202 NRI Complex, Nerul West, Navi Mumbai 400 706 India
Email: cureyourselfindia@gmail.com
Facebook
All Rights Reserved. © 2019 Privacy Policy