Cannabis Culture
Quit Smoking Weed 411
Feed
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
YouTube
Pinterest
Menu
Home
About
Contact
Quit Cannabis Books
Menu
Cannabis Addiction
How To Quit
Cannabis Drug Abuse
Search for:
Home
Cannabis Addiction
How To Quit
Cannabis Drug Abuse
Search for:
Cannabis Culture
Chad	Cannabis Addiction
During the 70s, smoking pot or cannabis was very popular. Since cannabis is a natural herb, people believed that it could not pose any ill effects on their health. People who smoke cannabis exhibit different physiological and behavioral effects. Most feel drowsy but generally happy, making this herb a favorite among teens. But of course, anything that is consumed in huge amounts is not good for you. Since there are evidences of cannabis abuse, many countries have considered the herb illegal.
Cannabis addiction, like any other addiction, causes changes in a person’s behavior. Majority of the people who become addicted to cannabis have issues of depression and low self-esteem. By smoking cannabis, they feel more uninhibited and their moods are also improved. Because of the wonderful feelings associated with smoking cannabis, these people end up addicted to it.
Becoming addicted to cannabis can also be as destructive as other addictions. When the effects of the herb wears off, the person experiences this uncontrollable urge to smoke pot again to regain the lost feeling. Soon, you will feel like you are unable to accomplish anything if you are not under the cannabis’ influence. You will begin having mood swings, feeling euphoric one moment and depressed the next. Aside from these, cannabis addicts also display behavior like disappearing for hours, lying about where they have been and stealing money to buy cannabis.
Treating cannabis addiction requires intervention. In most cases, a family member or a close friend would be the one who will arrange for the person to go to rehabilitation centers. It is very seldom that these cannabis addicts would volunteer to undergo treatment. At the rehabilitation center, cannabis addiction is treated thru counseling and medication, if necessary. The withdrawal stage is the most difficult part since it is the time when your body returns to its normal functions.
People who have completed treatment in rehabilitation centers for cannabis addiction are most likely to relapse because their personality shows a weakness to the herbal substance. Unless the behavior is changed, you can expect most of these people to pick up the cannabis addiction once again as soon as they get out of rehab.
If you have a friend who is visibly becoming addicted to cannabis, you could try hypnotherapy before resorting to rehab centers. There have been evidences that hypnotherapy is effective in treating addiction, fears and phobias by targeting the subconscious.
Shares
|ShareTweet
Leave a comment	cannabis, culture, health, ill effects, pot, smoking
Related Posts
Understanding Addictions
Latest Drug Abuse Statistics In Young People
Are Drug Addicts Victims or Criminals?
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
CAPTCHA Code *
Latest
Popular
Comments
Tags
Marijuana Music -Southern Style – Songs About Weed
Six Steps To Stop Smoking Weed
When Weed Becomes A Problem
Understanding Addictions
Stop Smoking Weed
Marijuana Music -Southern Style – Songs About Weed
How to Stop Marijuana Cravings
Cannabis Addiction Is Omnipresent
Cannabis And The Void
Cannabis Culture
abuse addicted addiction addictions alcohol cannabis cravings culture depression drug drugs ecstasy emptiness family featured health ill effects illnesses iq judges killing laws marijuana medication memory money opiates people pot prosecutors quit smoking weed quit weed side effects smoke smoking statistics stop stop smoking marijuana stop smoking weed supplements treatments void weed withdrawal young