What Is A Hemorrhoid | Some Facts About Hemorrhoids
what is a hemorrhoid - Some Facts About Hemorrhoids
Some Facts About Hemorrhoids
If you live long enough you will most likely experience the discomfort of hemorrhoids. There are two common types of hemorrhoid, external and internal. External hemorrhoids are those occurring outside the distal end of the anal canal and are sometimes painful and accompanied by swelling and itching. Internal hemorrhoids are those that occur inside the rectum and since this area does not have pain receptors these types of hemorrhoids are rarely painful and usually people don't even know they have them. This type of hemorrhoid is more prone to bleeding however and can lead to more severe forms of hemorrhoid called prolapsed and strangulated.
ADVERTISEMENT
Calmovil Natural Hemorrhoid Remedy
Natural remedy for internal and external hemorrhoids.
Formulated to Help Support:
Relieve pain and pressure
Shrink hemorrhoids
Promote better blood flow
Help dissolve existing blood clots
Stop itching and bleeding
Strengthen weakened veins
Prevent infections of hemorrhoids
Regulate digestive system
Great Product
4- Caffeine Intake: The evidence from the literature is rather conflicting and the effects of caffeine seem to depend on multiple variables such as daily dose, preexisting Blood pressure and coffee drinking habits. The ingestion of 250mg of caffeine has been shown to cause an increase in systolic blood pressure ranging from 6mm of hg in normal individuals to 10 mm hg in patients with hypertension and an increase in diastolic blood pressure of 5 mm hg in normal individuals to 8.5 mm Hg in patients of hypertension.
Hemorrhoids are extremely common and it is estimated that 50% of all Americans have this problem by the age of 50 although only a small number seek treatment. Only around 500,000 people are treated for hemorrhoids annually with as many as 20% needing surgery.
What are the foods to be avoided in high blood pressure? This is very common question my patients often ask me. On one hand, it is exceedingly complicated and complex and has been the continued focus of research by doctors and physicians. On the other hand, the vast majority of dietary recommendations for hypertension have resemblance and similarities to general healthy diet recommendations.
Hemorrhoids are formed externally and internally and while externally they are painful and but internally it can take a while before you know you have the disorder. Here are a few symptoms that will help you recognize internal hemorrhoids and get a treatment as soon as possible.
Fiber preferably is to be taken via fresh fruits, whole grain foods, and beans. If you notice that your body is letting off too much gas, this may be the result of increasing the fiber in your diet too quickly. Just cut back on the amount of fiber and gradually increase it over time.
3. Fats Food that is rich in fats should be avoided. Foods High in Fat are as follows Fats and oils (like margarine, vegetable oils, butter, lard, salt pork, meat drippings, gravy, and fat back)
Most cookies contain high fat content Many fast foods are also rich in fats Saturated fats are not good for heart and blood vessels. Low density lipoprotein LDL is main factor which causes thickening of blood vessels so causing extra strain on blood vessels in patients of high blood pressure. The balanced high blood pressure diet should include mild amounts of saturated and trans-fats (red meat, fast food), and moderate amounts of other fats (olive oil and canola oil).
In a very high fiber diet for hemorrhoids you may be asked by your doctor to consume as much as 3.5 ounces or 96 grams of fiber a day, to keep your body healthy and balanced. A high fiber diet, that is normally sufficient for a hemorrhoid suffer is about one third that dose - 31 grams or one ounce.
Surgery may sometimes be necessary for internal hemorrhoids and there are many types available now to choose from depending on your case and the size of the hemorrhoids. Both types of hemorrhoids can be fully treated and they are not a life threatening diseases however if left untreated it can promote some fatal diseases out of which one is colorectal cancer.
Prevention is probably the best approach so you don't have to suffer any discomfort and treatment and here are the easy ways to ensure that you stay hemorrhoids free: try and eat a balanced diet or as prescribed by your doctor in case you have a medical condition, which is rich in fiber; drink the minimum amount of water required daily and exercise as often as possible to ensure that you don't promote constipation.
More salt intake will result in more retention of fluid by kidneys and this will lead to more preload on heart, that will result in more blood pressure. You should avoid salt in your diet if you really want to control your blood pressure. If you are already a patient of hypertension, then reduce salt in your diet as it just accentuates the problem. You can lower your blood pressure to a great extent if you reduce salt consumption in your diet. You should not have more than 6 grams (100mmol/day) of salt per day. Pizza, canned foods, frozen diners, broths, canned soups and salad dressings have high sodium so try to avoid these foods. If you are non-vegetarian then make sure you are including white meat like chicken and fish rather than red meat in your diet.
Cream, ice cream, Whole milk, 2% milk. Most pies, pastries, cakes. Most cheeses (like cream cheese, cheddar, American) Many snack foods (like nuts and chips)
Hemorrhoids can be prevented with dietary adjustments such as drinking more fluids and eating more fiber as well as by participating in regular exercise, practicing better posture, and reducing strain during bowel movements. Since tight clothing can also cause irritation and contribute to poor muscle tone in the area some report that wearing no underwear or at least loose and lightweight underwear can help.
So what causes hemorrhoids? One of the main causes is genetics. Many people have a genetically inherited weaker rectal vein wall while other causes can be from straining during bowel movements as well as poor muscle tone. Other factors that contribute are constipation, chronic diarrhea, sitting too long (on the toilet), and pregnancy, holding in bowel movements, and not eating enough fiber. Other issues that can help cause the condition are not drinking enough water and drinking too many diuretic fluids such as coffee or colas. Another dietary habit that can cause the affliction is excessive consumption of dairy products which can result in excessive lactic acid in the stool causing irritation.
Using a food table to work out the fiber in the foods you like, you can also see if there are any foods that stand out as worthwhile. Still can't adjust your diet to get enough fiber, then try fiber supplements. They work out to be about $20 to $40 a month, but compare that to the cost and inconvenience of a hemorrhoid operation that may run thousands of dollars and leave you in pain and discomfort for weeks. Powdered psyllium husks are a good option.
This can help train your bowel to empty on a daily basis, which can help reduce the incidence of constipation General guidelines: Do not force. Do not sit for much more than five minutes. If nothing happens, try again tomorrow. If the urge hits at a different time - GO! - otherwise you may cause yourself more hemorrhoid problems.
A common symptom of internal hemorrhoids is blood, which you will be able to see in your stool in a fresh bright red color or on the toilet paper. Due to the fact that many of us flush before having a chance to see the stool you may not be able to catch that internal hemorrhoids symptom and they may have the possibility to develop and get pushed out side the anus where they will be painful, itching and bleeding.
ADVERTISEMENT
Try Calmovil for 60 Days
People Said About Calmovil Hemorrhoid Relief
"I discovered a pea size growth on my butt that hurt so bad, I couldn't even sit! I was scared first, and thought I had a cancer but after some googling I learned about hemoroids. I ordered Calmovil right away. Three days later I was pain free and within a week the swelling was completly gone! Your product got my life back, thank you so much!" Mike from Florida
3.Exercise Walking is good, bicycling better. Walking or bicycling quickly for 30 minutes, three to four times a week, improves one's overall health, but, more importantly, it helps get the intestines stronger and healthier, allowing for the bowel motions to be moved more easily out, without all that straining on the toilet.
1. Introduce more fiber into your diet. Fiber is extremely good at relieving constipation - the main cause of hemorrhoids - and fiber is well renown for preventing them and alleviating their symptoms. Fiber does this by bulking the stool and making it soft, so that the body can eliminate it without much straining.
High blood pressure if left unchecked results in increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality and leads to target organ damage such as LVH, retinal changes and vascular changes. The main objective in the management of hypertension is prevention of target organ damage and reduction of cardiovascular risk. The management requires a multi-prolonged approach. Although it is widely accepted that drug therapy is essential for optimal Blood pressure control, it should not be forgotten that nonpharmocological measures are also important in the management of hypertension.
There are a few treatments on the market. For temporary relief one may use a sitz bath, suppositories or a topical analgesic.
Now, one question you may ask, is how much extra fiber is that over what I am getting already in my diet? The answer is, if you are eating white bread, you are likely on a diet that has a meagre 11 grams of fiber per today, but the good news is, that means you only need to add in an extra 20 grams! That's about 3 to 4 large apples / oranges.
Some natural treatments include exercising to increase muscle tone and improve posture. Taking herbs and supplements that strengthen the vein walls and eating fiber rich supplements such as plantain and psyllium will also help to remedy the situation.
4. Bowel training Essentially go to the toilet at the same convenient time every day. Sit for about five minutes in the toileting posture ( feet raised on ball of feet, elbows resting on knees). Let your body become accustomed to this timing and hopefully, you will start doing your business on a regular daily basis, at about the same time every day.
2.Drink water You may know the drill already, sixty-four ounces of water daily, about 8 glasses. This helps the fiber in your diet, as it allows the fiber to do it's job - the fiber soaks up the water, thereby bulking the stool. Without water, the fiber may cause even worse constipation. It is best to take the water straight, but not essential.
The first thing to do is you doubt internal hemorrhoids is visit a doctor in order to be sure of the disease; there are many other disorders that can be confused as hemorrhoids if you are not a doctor, such as, fissures, itching and or local irritation.
Following Foods should be avoided if you have High blood pressure: 1. Alcohol The association between alcohol and high blood pressure is well documented both in population and clinical studies. An Alcohol intake of about 80 g/day (Equivalent to four pints of beer) has been shown to raise Blood pressure particularly in patients of hypertension. Blood pressure tends to fall when alcohol is stopped or reduced and remains low in patients who continue to abstain. Patients with hypertension should avoid Alcohol. As alcohol can raise blood pressure directly, is also an important factor in damaging walls of blood vessels, which can elevate the blood pressure further and make it more difficult to treat, while at the same time increasing the risk of complications. Limit consumption of Alcohol to no more than two drinks per day in most men and one drink per day in women and lightweight men.
Fatty meats (like corned beef, regular ground beef, ribs, sausage, hot dogs, bacon, bologna, salami,) Fried foods (like French fries and fried chicken)
Treating And Preventing Internal Hemorrhoids The first thing your doctor will prescribe as treatment for internal hemorrhoids is suppositories that will be inserted through the rectum and will work on the internal hemorrhoids by drying them out and providing immediate relief.
2. Salt A restriction in dietary sodium intake can reduce the incidence of hypertension. Studies have shown that there is a clear relationship between dietary salt intake and Blood pressure and people who consume less salt have a smaller rise in Blood pressure with advancing age. Salt restriction to about 100mmol/day (2.4 gm sodium or 6 gm sodium chloride) has been shown to produce a significant reduction in systolic Blood pressure to about 8-14 mm Hg in several randomized placebo-controlled studies. In some people, eating too much salt can make blood pressure much worse and In other cases the same salt consumption may have no effect.
Hemorrhoids, which are also known as piles, are the disorder that is caused due to excessive strain during bowel movement due to any given existing condition or state such as, pregnancy, old age, constipation and anal intercourse.
To Know more about Food for High Blood Pressure and cardiovascular diseases High blood pressure symptoms treatment, please visit our site. http://www.highbloodpressuremed.com
Conclusion:
Hemorrhoids afflict millions every year. They are painful, uncomfortable, basically unbearable. The simple natural treatment for hemorrhoids above, can go along way to bring an end to your suffering.
Helpful Tip
Sometimes getting hemorrhoids cannot be helped such as in the condition when one is pregnant or with old age, due to which reason you must always be on the lookout for the symptoms that will help you get a treatment and relief as soon as possible.
Learn More about Hemorrhoid Treatments
Herbal and Dietary Treatment of Hemorrhoids
Hemorrhoids are a very distressing condition that involve the swelling of the veins of the anus and rectum. They are very similar to varicose veins whereby the veins lose their elasticity and swell and this results in the uncomfortable symptoms of hemorrhoids that may include itching, burning pain and bleeding. In many cases hemorrhoids will respond quickly to the use of herbal medicines,...
Bleeding Hemorrhoids
A survey conducted by doctor s has found that hemorrhoids have been the most common and critical problem of mankind. You will come across very few cases in serious conditions, but they are extremely painful and embarrassing. In some cases they can lead to rectal cancer and therefore hemorrhoids require proper examination and treatment by a physician. Hemorrhoids are enlarged veins around...
Are you Susceptible to Hemorrhoids?
Who else are susceptible to hemorrhoids? These include those who frequently lift heavy objects, people who stand or sit a lot, and obese individuals. Pregnancy itself does not cause hemorrhoids but it may hasten their development. This is caused by hormones in the woman s body that dilate blood vessels more easily. The same goes for women with many children and those who regularly use...
Top 7 Tips to Treat and Prevent Hemorrhoids
Lots of things such as bills, bosses, parking tickets are a pain in the butt. But having a hemorrhoid is really just a varicose vein that sprouts where the sun don t shine. Are you likely to get them? Well, people who have chronic constipation or who habitually strain to move their bowels are susceptible. So are pregnant women, as the expanding uterus compresses the veins and obstructs the return...
Get Rid of Pain and Irritation With Natural Hemorrhoids Treatment!
Natural hemorrhoids treatment is your destination, if you are suffering from severe pains and irritations that are caused by hemorrhoids. Knowing how to treat hemorrhoids naturally is significant when uncovering the different methods of getting rid of hemorrhoids. By knowing what is in store to help with treatment, you can start on to dispose of the pains and irritation. Change in...
what is a external thrombosed hemorrhoid | what is a hemorrhoid | what is hemroids | what is a hemroid doctor called | what is hemorrhoids | what is a hemroid |
(c) 2019 picturesofhemorrhoids.info
Contact Us | About Us | Privacy Policy | RSS Feed | what is a hemorrhoid