genital herpes Archives - How to Treat Herpes
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
How to Treat Herpes
Home
Contact
Get Rid of Herpes Review
genital herpes
Facts about Herpes Virus Family
July 22, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
When most people hear about the word herpes will conjure an image of genital herpes, which is an incurable disease that is transmitted by sexual intercourse and causes blisters. On the other hand, herpes is a family of viruses that is very widespread and can cause many conditions affecting the skin.
An estimate of one out of six people may have some form of herpes in their body either active or inactive. Herpes virus forms include genital herpes, cold sores, chicken pox, mild hepatitis, mononucleosis, and shingles. All these skin conditions are caused by herpes virus family.
There are two similar conditions known as dermatitis herpetiformis and herpes gestationis that both produce herpes-like blisters on the skin but are not brought about the herpes virus. Many diseases that are brought by herpes may differ from one another but they all have common traits: very contagious, can survive for long period of time, not curable.
There are around 30 million Americans who are infected with HSV1 and despite numerous researches and studies over many years there has been small success in developing a cure or an effective vaccine.
Many viruses of the herpes family do not recur after the initial outbreak like chicken pox for example. On the other hand, all herpes viruses, when not active, stay dormant in the nerve tissues and escaping detection by immune system.
It is still unclear why and how latent herpes virus suddenly triggers into active infection. On the other hand, it is known that some stresses to the immune system trigger an outbreak. These stresses may include menstruation, over exposure to sunlight, poor diet, emotional stress, injury, illness, and so on. A strong immune system lessens outbreak occurrences, though outbreaks may trigger throughout your life. Studies have proven that shingles and chicken pox have recurrence of zero while HSV1 has recurrence of 14% and HSV2 has 60%.
The most common cause of genital infections is HSV2 and HSV1 causes infection on the lips. However, either virus can be transmitted from one location to another. Studies have proven that herpes sores can also trigger other types of infections.
Women with herpes may increase the risk of having cervical cancer and it is crucial that they have cervical smear test every year.
Whether you have been tested for herpes, practicing common sense on how to not to spread it to other people is a good move. For example, avoid kissing other people.
If you are sexually active, then practice safe sex and avoid having sex with any partner who is showing symptoms of an outbreak until such time that the symptoms are gone. While most male genital herpes outbreaks are easily noticed, female genital herpes are hard to notice. In fact, most women with genital herpes do not know that they have it until they transmit the virus to other partner.
If you had herpes before, avoid getting over exhausted or allowing yourself to get stressed. When you are fatigued, the immune system will not function properly and you may be more vulnerable to herpes outbreak recurrences.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: cervical cancer, chicken pox, cold sores, dermatitis herpetiformis, facts about herpes, genital herpes, genital herpes facts, gestationis, herpes facts, herpes family, herpes gestationis, herpes outbreaks, herpes virus, herpetiformis, hsv1, hsv2, mild hepatitis, mononucleosis, shingles, stress
How Can You Tell if Someone Has Genital Herpes?
July 16, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Do you take a good look at the person? Do you ask and look straight in their eyes? Do you inquire about their sex lives? Well, my answer is no, maybe and maybe.
It may be a good idea to ask someone if they’re aware of having genital herpes. The more sexual partners a person has had in their lives, the more likely they’re to be infected by herpes. But these methods are quite insufficient. Did you know that the majority of people who have genital or oral herpes are not aware of it? So how do you explain that? Simple, many oral or genital herpes infected people just don’t have any herpes symptoms, others have some symptoms which are mild enough to confuse them with a rash or a mosquito bite or anything that may cause, redness, swelling, itching, burning and blisters, and some may not even know what herpes symptoms are.
The fact that somebody doesn’t have or recognize herpes symptoms doesn’t mean they don’t have it. About 25% of the US population is infected with genital herpes, with women being more affected than men. Studies have shown that the vast majority (80%-90%) of people who have genital herpes have not been diagnosed with the condition.
According to a recent paper published by Carnegie Mellon University in January 2006, most sexually active teenage girls know almost nothing about sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), except AIDS, until it is too late. Another 2006 study led by Dr. Herbert Kaufman, Boyd Professor of Ophthalmology at Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center in New Orleans, found herpes virus-1 in 98 percent of healthy participants. None of them displayed any symptoms; however they shed the herpes virus in their saliva and tears at least once during the course of the 30-day study. Even though this study didn’t target genital herpes directly, it demonstrates that most people can be totally unaware of carrying the virus and being infected by herpes.
Shed or shedding means that the virus is present on the skin and ready to be transmitted. Herpes is transmitted through skin contact 98% of the time. Studies have shown that shedding may occur in almost 40% of HSV-2 (usually associated with genital herpes) infected people. Asymptomatic viral shedding may last 1 to 5 days, meaning that a person can be contagious without presenting any symptoms at the time. The average duration of each period of viral shedding has been assessed through laboratory studies but is just an estimate.
So how can you tell for a fact if someone has genital herpes? The only way to know is to look at blood, PCR or swab test results. Swab and PCR tests are very accurate when they detect herpes. However, if a test was performed late or delivered to the lab late, it may return a false negative result. Western blot test, a blood test, is the most accurate test available but may return a false negative if the person tested was first infected within the past 3 months. So it is not easy to know if a person has genital herpes or not
One last consideration, herpes Simplex 1 or HSV-1 usually causes oral herpes and cold sores and herpes simplex-2, genital herpes. But herpes virus-1 genital herpes is becoming more and more prevalent nowadays. It is mostly transmitted during oral sex from a person who’s having an oral herpes infection with or without symptoms. So if getting genital herpes is a concern to you, you should consider oral herpes as well as genital herpes when asking a partner.
As you can see, it is very difficult to assess if a partner has genital herpes. There are no proven products to prevent genital herpes transmission at the moment. Some are currently undergoing testing for FDA approval and will hopefully be marketed soon. In the meanwhile, the best option is using a condom.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: cold sores, fda, genital herpes, herpes simplex 1, herpes simplex 2, hsv1, pcr, sex life, sexual partner, swab test
Tips On How to Protect Yourself from Getting Herpes
June 16, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Herpes is a common sexually transmitted disease that any person can acquire. Most infected people are not aware that they have it and it is very crucial to know that even without signs, they can still pass it to others.
What is genital herpes?
An STD having two types, namely HSV1 and HSV2.
How common is genital herpes?
Genital herpes is common in the United States. From 14 to 49 years old, there are 6 who are infected.
How is genital herpes spread?
There are 3 ways herpes can be transmitted: oral, vaginal, and anal intercourse. But in general, all of these are direct skin contact.
Herpes have fluids that carry the virus and it can cause infection. You can also get herpes from someone who does not have apparent sore or do not know he or she is having it as the virus can be release from your skin and transmit to sex partners.
How can I avoid getting herpes?
Abstinence
Having monogamy relationship with someone who has negative STD results
Using condoms
Herpes symptoms can occur in men and women that are covered by latex condom. Also, outbreaks can also occur in areas not covered by condom. So there is still chance of getting condom even when you use condom.
How could herpes affect my baby if I am pregnant?
If you are conceiving a baby, then you should have frequent prenatal care visits. Notify your doctor about your herpes and its symptoms so that you will be diagnosed as there are cases of miscarriage and premature delivery due to herpes. Herpes can be transmitted to the baby and lead to deadly infection known as neonatal herpes. It is very crucial to avoid getting herpes before you get pregnant.
You may be provided with herpes medications until your pregnancy ends to reduce the risk of symptoms and passing the virus to the baby. During your delivery, the doctor will examine you for symptoms. If you have symptoms, then you will have a C-section.
How do I know if I have genital herpes?
Most people with herpes do not know that they have it. You may not notice symptoms or confuse it for other skin condition like ingrown hair or pimple. Due to this, most people are unaware that they have herpes.
Herpes sores appear like blisters in the genital and rectum area. Blisters burst and leave painful sores that may consume one or two weeks to heal. This is called an outbreak and when you experience an outbreak, you will have flu-like symptoms such as fever, body aches, and swollen glands.
Recurring outbreaks are common during the first year of exposure. Recurring outbreaks are less severe compared to the first. Outbreaks lessen over the year although herpes stay in the body forever.
If you notice symptoms, then you should be examined. Symptoms are bleeding between periods in women, burning sensation during urination, unusual sore, and smelly discharge from the organs.
How will my doctor know if I have herpes?
A doctor can diagnose herpes by looking at the symptoms. Doctors can also get a swab from your sores and do some tests. You should be honest with the doctor about your symptoms.
Can herpes be cured?
There is no cure for herpes but there are medicines to prevent outbreaks. One medication can be taken every day and makes it less like you will spread the virus to other people.
What happens if I don’t get treated?
Herpes are painful and can get severe for people with weak immune system. Touching the sores can spread the virus to other people as well as other parts of the body. If you accidentally touched your sores, then immediately wash your hands with disinfectant soap to prevent further infection.
People who have herpes are worried about its impact to their lives – sex life, relationships, and health. It is best to deal with this to your doctor. Even though herpes has no cure, it can still be managed. Since diagnosing herpes can affect your feeling about current and future relationship, it is crucial to know how to talk to your partner about STD.
Can I still have sex if I have herpes?
You should tell your partner honestly if you have herpes. Using condom will not guarantee safety as having symptoms can increase the chance of the virus being spread. You can still spread herpes even if there are no symptoms.
What is the link between HIV and genital herpes?
Herpes causes sores on the mouth, rectum, vagina. and etc. and it bleeds easily. When sores contact the genital organs, they increase the risk of having HIV if your partner has HIV.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: abstinence, blisters, genital herpes, herpes, herpes outbreaks, herpes symptoms, herpes virus, hiv, hsv1, hsv2, sexual intercourse, std
Is it Possible to Contract Genital Herpes to the Mouth?
July 11, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
The transmission of the Herpes simplex virus can happen by any direct skin contact with affected areas. This means that it does not matter if the contact was made by one individuals’ mouth to anothers’ oral region, or from one persons’ genitals coming into contact with another persons’ genitals. The other possibility is from genital to oral touching. The normally believed notion that HSV-1 (oral herpes) and HSV-2 (genital herpes) could only be contracted in their respective zones is incorrect. Cross-infection exists and genital to oral herpes can happen.
The common misunderstanding is that HSV-1 causes herpes above the waist and HSV-2 causes it below the waist. With genital to oral herpes, this implies that an individual with infected genitals can spread the virus to another persons’ oral area. Oral area infections can be caused by either HSV-1 or HSV-2. Nevertheless, HSV-1 is usually the primary culprit. It is not clear why, but HSV-1 typically shows milder symptoms and less frequent outbreaks than HSV-2. This is true of herpes at both oral and genital sites. Thus, in most genital to oral herpes cases, the virus causing the infection is likely to be HSV-2.
When an afflicted persons’ genital region is experiencing an outbreak and viral shedding occurs, the herpes is contagious and can infect another person in any area of direct contact. If a couple were engaging in oral sex, genital to oral herpes can certainly be passed on this way. The mouth is a particularly vulnerable spot for being exposed to viruses, since it is completely lined with delicate mucus membranes and the slightest cut, scratch or abrasion of the soft tissues could surely allow bacteria and viruses in.
How Does Genital to Oral Herpes Appear?
When a strain of herpes from the genitals infects an oral region, it is essentially the same result as if it were infected by HSV-1. The appearance will be indistinguishable between the two types, since the virus is something that lies latent in the body until activated. When any form of herpes shedding occurs, the lip and mouth areas may develop giveaway signs. The person who has contracted genital to oral herpes might possibly develop red and inflamed blisters. These itchy, tingling sores can break open and leak fluid, followed by a period of crusting over once they have dried, before finally healing and ending the active cycle. Along with these localized symptoms and depending on the general state of immunity, the person could also experience the other standard signs of herpes infection including flu-like feelings, sore throat, swelling of the lymph nodes and fever.
Preventing Genital to Oral Herpes
Like under any other circumstance when an individual with herpes has sexual contact, it is important to take cautionary measures to ensure that the virus is not spread to his or her partner. Genital to oral herpes risks can be reduced by taking a few steps that provide protection, though it does not eliminate them altogether. This is because there are areas that do not get covered by the prophylactics, such as the anal region and thighs. To further lessen the risks, care must be taken in covering up all other areas that are exposed, by using underwear or protective clothing. The genital areas that do come in contact with another person should be covered in barrier protection like with a condom, dental dam or even plastic food wrap. If there are any signs of herpes shedding at that time, it is best to abstain from sex altogether. This is the only fail-safe method in preventing the spread of the herpes simplex virus between partners.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: genital herpes, herpes simplex virus, hsv1, hsv2, oral herpes
Natural Remedies for Herpes Simplex Virus
June 16, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Just like any article you would read on the internet, herpes is a viral infection that infects the mouth, lips, nose, eyes, chin, genital, and rectal regions. There are two types of herpes simplex virus, HSV1 and HSV2. HSV1 is the virus that causes fever blisters or cold sores while HSV2 usually causes genital herpes.
There are numerous natural remedies to treat herpes virus and lessen its outbreaks. Here are additional natural remedies to lessen the itching and pain and speed up the healing process.
1. You should manage your stress. Stress is known to trigger outbreaks of herpes. To relieve your stress, you can have a massage therapy, meditation, breathing exercises, and yoga. Anything that can make you relaxed!
2. Herbal remedies for treating herpes virus.
To soothe the itching, aloe vera is very helpful. It can also speed up the healing process.
Lemon balm is another herb that can fight against herpes.
Goldenseal carries an antibiotic property that has the ability to treat herpes
Tea tree oil is another option for treating herpes virus
3. You should stay away from foods that are rich in arginine and increase intake of Lysine instead. Foods that are rich in lysine are brewer yeast, meat, milk, pears, papaya, apples, potatoes, lima beans, eggs, and cheese. Foods that are rich in arginine are gelatin, lobster, pine nuts buckwheat, beef, macadamia nuts, peacans, corn, onions, brown rice, pumpkin seeds, wheat flour, grain cereals, beer, cola, chocolate, and pumpkin.
4. Stay away from foods that contain aspartame. Aspartame is known as an artificial sweetener. Make sure that you check the label before buying foods from the grocery store. These foods are proven to trigger herpes outbreaks.
5. Avoid physical contact or touching the infected skin area the time you start seeing symptoms like burning, itching, and tingling until the herpes have healed completely.
6. If you make physical contact with an infected area, immediately wash your hands with warm water and disinfectant soap. This will kill the herpes virus and prevent it from spreading.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles, Natural Treatment Tagged With: arginine, genital herpes, herbal remedies, herpes simplex virus, herpes virus, hsv1, hsv2, lysine, natural remedies, stress, treat herpes
Genital Herpes or Vaginal Pimples? Not Sure What It Is?
May 26, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Can you treat vaginal pimples at home? Yes. Can you treat genital herpes at home? Well, that is half of a yes. You can treat herpes at home provided that the medication comes from a doctor. Vaginal pimples are acne types. You will tend to them but not squeezing or popping them is the golden rule.
Treating vaginal herpes is similar to how you deal with facial pimples. However, if complications happen like an infection, the treatment may change. Severe acne infection needs antibiotics to eliminate the infection.
If a woman spotted or felt something in her genital but not sure what it is or how to treat it, then it should be verified by a doctor. A doctor can diagnose and give the proper medicine. It is not advisable to act on speculation when medication is involved as the best treatments are never effective on ailments they were not made for. It is like taking an aspirin to treat venereal disease.
Genital herpes is caused by HSV or herpes simplex virus and is transmitted to contact with mucous covered linings of the genital skin as well as the mouth. This virus enters the linings through microscopic tears. It goes to the nerve roots near the spinal cord and stays there forever. Once you are exposed, there is an incubation period that can last up to a week before lesions start to develop. Initially, there may be no symptoms and the virus cannot be transmitted. An outbreak usually begins within 14 days on initial infection. Symptoms may include itching, redness, tingling, followed by a blister. Small blisters are filled with fluid and they are usually found on the vulva or vagina entrance known as vesicles. When the vesicles rapture, ulcers can happen. Other possible symptoms are pain during urination and inflammation on the urethra.
True, no cure for herpes has been made so far but there are treatments that can control genital herpes symptoms effectively. Some of them are Famciclovir, Valacyclovir, and Acyclovir.
Pain Relief Remedies
Take a warm bath and pat the area to dry. Do not force yourself the skin is sore. You can use a hair dryer and set it to a comfortable blast.
To prevent chaffing, wear loose cotton garments.
Use cornstarch to keep skin dry.
To ease discomfort, you can use ice pack or cool compress.
You can take Ibuprofen or Aspirin for pain and fever.
Vaginal Pimples
Pimples are the result of an infected sebaceous gland. Pimple is a regular problem among teenagers, especially at puberty stage.
If you are sure that it is not genital herpes and it is vaginal pimples, then you do not have to see a doctor assuming that you are not depressed. Some people having bad acne problems get depressed that make them shy away from the problem. This is the point where a doctor needs to intervene.
Although you can treat vaginal pimples easily, it can be awkward getting to them. You may use the mirror to find vaginal bumps. However, there is no assurance that it will reflect them if they are hidden behind pubic hair. Therefore you have to use your fingers to search them.
To get rid of a pimple, you use soap and water. You can also use antiseptic cream to prevent infection. The most effective way for betting your health is to consult with a doctor.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: acyclovir, genital herpes, genital herpes symptoms, herpes home remedies, herpes simplex virus, vaginal herpes, vaginal pimples
Herpes Simplex Virus – Seven Myths and Facts
May 22, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Having herpes simplex virus or blisters in America is not a new thing. Around 85 million people have suffered from this disease at some point in their lives. Interestingly, most of them had this disease when there were less than 3 years of age. Herpes spreads fast because whenever a baby is kissed by his or her relatives, the virus automatically transmits on the skin.
You have seen how easy it is to get infected by herpes? This is why it is so popular. When something is popular, it is not surprising that people are debating over it. This debate usually gives birth to some myths, which should be clarified through educating people with facts as eliminating myths is important for protecting ourselves. In this short article, we will talk about 7 myths and facts regarding herpes.
Myth: Herpes simplex virus only attacks certain types of people.
Fact: There are no such certain types of people who are targeted by herpes virus. It is very common and it can happen to anyone.
Myth: It only infects people who do not keep themselves clean or not having personal hygiene.
Fact: Herpes virus has nothing to do with dirt or cleanliness. Herpes can attack anyone who is sexually active.
Myth: Herpes that occur on mouth are not the same as the sores in genital area.
Fact: Both these cold sores are actually the same. The cold sores on the mouth get transmitted to the genital area through oral or genital sex. This is the one of the main causes of genital herpes.
Myth: People will know that they are currently having herpes.
Fact: This is an insane myth as it does not allow people to realize that they are already having it. It is not important that you come to know when you are suffering from herpes. Around 80% of people do not even know that have herpes as there are mild symptoms or no symptoms at all.
Myth: Herpes passes through blood.
Fact: This is not true as herpes is not something that lives in the blood. Whether it is oral or genital herpes, it will pass through direct skin contact.
Myth 6: A cervical smear test or STI check is done for diagnosing herpes only.
Fact: Routine sexual health checks and cervical smear tests are not for diagnosing herpes. Tests for diagnosing herpes are done only when a person has some symptoms of herpes.
Myth: People who had or are having herpes cannot have kids.
Fact: Herpes simplex virus does not affect that fertility of a man or woman. On the other hand, sometimes the disease may pass to the infant but it is rare and can be prevented by informing the doctor that you or your partner carrier herpes before the delivery.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: cold sores, facts, genital herpes, herpes simplex virus, hsv 1, hsv 2, myths
All About Herpes Zoster
May 4, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Herpes Zoster
Herpes zoster is an infection resulting from reactivation of the varicella-zoster virus (VZV) that affects peripheral or cranial nerves and usually occurs years after primary infection with the varicella (chickenpox) virus or receipt of the live, attenuated varicella vaccine
The disease manifests as painful cutaneous eruptions over a single dermatome or two or more contiguous dermatomes; they are invariably unilateral and do not cross the midline. These eruptions are most commonly distributed on the thorax but can appear anywhere on the body. In some cases, cranial nerves supplying the eyes, ears, and face are involved, resulting in complicated presentations with potentially severe sequelae
The herpes zoster vaccine reduces the risk of developing the infection and reduces the severity and duration of the disease, as well as its most common complication, postherpetic neuralgia
Antiviral therapy hastens resolution of the disease and can prevent associated complications; pain medications lessen disability
Herpes zoster, also known as shingles or zoster, is a reactivated VZV infection of the sensory nerve ganglion and the peripheral nerve and its branches. Inflammation of the nerve axons results in a painful, burning sensation on the affected dermatome(s) being supplied by the peripheral nerve. Vesicular eruptions on skin of the involved dermatome are also present.
Causes
The causative agent of herpes zoster, VZV, is a linear, double-stranded deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) genome enclosed in a protein envelope. After a bout of illness with the primary infection (chickenpox), the virus lies dormant in the sensory nerve ganglion until reactivated. The process of reactivation is not entirely understood, but some of the associated risk factors are listed below.
Risk factors
Advanced age (the older the patient, the higher the risk)
In elderly patients or when cellular immunity becomes compromised, the level of T-cell function decreases until it falls below a threshold that is associated with inadequate containment of VZV reactivation and the subsequent development of herpes zoster
Immunocompromise due to disease or use of immunosuppressive medications
Cancer, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, organ or bone marrow transplantation, and chronic intake of immunosuppressive medications predispose patients to have poor cell-mediated immunity and, thus, develop herpes zoster
Immunocompromised patients are 20 times more likely to develop herpes zoster than immunocompetent patients. They are also more likely to have more diffuse involvement, severe skin lesions, increased severity and duration of pain, and atypical manifestations
Emotional and psychological stress
Emotional stress, such as bereavement, may be associated with the development of herpes zoster within 6 months after the stressful life event
Long-term stress may alter the immune system, and specific VZV cellular immunity is lower among adults with major depression
Mechanical trauma
Believed to stimulate the nervous system, thus triggering reactivation of dormant VZV in the dorsal root ganglion
White race
Female gender
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: genital herpes, herpes, herpes simplex virus, herpes zoster, hsv, zoster
Facts about Genital Herpes in Women
April 30, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Genital herpes is an STD (Sexually Transmitted Disease) caused by the herpes simplex virus or HSV.
HSV causes genital herpes by entering the skin or mucous membranes through microscopic breaks in the skin and mucous membranes.
Genital herpes can be transmitted by any kind of sexual intercourse within the genitalia.
When symptoms are present, they may include painful blisters and/or ulcers in the genital area, itching, burning or tingling sensations in the skin and some individuals may develop fever, body aches and swollen lymph nodes; symptoms come and go over the person’s lifetime.
The diagnosis is usually carried out by recognizing the changes in the skin in the genitalia but viral cultures and genetic amplification of herpes simplex virus genome material and other types of tests can be done.
There is no cure for genital herpes.
Anti-viral medications are applied to lessen the frequency and severity of the outbreaks.
Some home remedies may help reduce symptom severity, but provide no cure.
Oral medications are used during pregnancy. You should consult your OB/GYN prior to taking any oral medication when you are pregnant.
The prognosis of genital herpes is fair; there is no cure, and the recurrent outbreaks may vary in frequency and severity.
The prevention of genital herpes is difficult. Wearing condoms during sexual contact may prevent spreading the diseases but not in parts of the skin that is not covered by condom or during oral of genital contact. Clothes that touch genital herpes may spread HSV to other individuals that wear the clothes.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: genital herpes, genital herpes facts, genital herpes women, herpes simplex virus, hsv, skin ulcer
Can Honey Cure Herpes?
April 24, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
For thousands of years, honey has been utilized for its wound and antibacterial properties. It is not surprising why many groups of scientists have decided to study it as potential cure for herpes.
Although there are only few clinical trials of honey as a treatment for herpes there have been some studies that examined the efficacy of both honey and propolis (another bee product) for treating the symptoms of herpes. Luckily, these studies have been successful.
The biggest published human study employed 90 patients carrying herpes to try one of three treatments during their outbreaks: placebo ointment, topical acyclovir, and propolis treatment. They found out that patients who used propolis experienced faster healing of their lesions. They were healed in 10 days of treatment than those patients who used topical acyclovir and placebo ointment.
A small study employed 8 patients with genital herpes and 8 patients with oral herpes. They randomize each patient with either topical acyclovir or honey and then honey on the two subsequent outbreaks. This specific study allowed the scientists to manage the differences between how patients experience outbreaks. It found out that the length of each outbreak, pain duration, and healing time were faster with honey compared to topical acyclovir.
A laboratory study of at least five studies has looked at how the propolis affects herpes virus in vitro and all have suggested that it exerts a moderate inhibitory effect. These studies conclude that even relatively low amounts of propolis extracts can be efficient at disrupting the replication of herpes simplex virus.
In summary, these studies conclude that topical application of honey may have a beneficial effect in the healing process of herpes lesions. Although alternative and complementary medicine trials can be hard to fund and publish, further studies are definitely indicated, and it will be valuable to see if the results are positive in the future studies. It would be fascinating to see how effective honey is compared to topical acyclovir. It can be used as a suppressive treatment for individuals who are still suffering from outbreaks. This is a good candidate for a research project.
Filed Under: Natural Treatment Tagged With: cure for herpes, genital herpes, honey, hsv 2, hsv1, placebo ointment, propolis, propolis extract, topical acyclovir
Next Page »
Primary Sidebar
A Proven Program to Get Rid of Herpes!
Want to get rid of herpes? Then here's a program to get rid of it forever! Find out more about Get Rid of Herpes.
About the Author
Albert has been blogging for almost 4 years. He spends most of his time writing about different topics such as health, technology, home improvement, and cooking. Aside from being and avid blogger, Albert is a health practitioner. He built this website to exercise his field of expertise and to educate people on how they can cure herpes.
Recent Posts
What Else to Know About STDs?
The Top 3 Common STDs
Biotechs Racing Tight for Genital Herpes Vaccine in US
Professor Ian Frazer is Developing A Vaccine for Herpes Simplex Virus in Australia
Facts about Herpes Virus Family
How Can You Tell if Someone Has Genital Herpes?
Tips On How to Protect Yourself from Getting Herpes
Is it Possible to Contract Genital Herpes to the Mouth?
You Probably Have Herpes And You Do Not Know About It!
Natural Remedies for Herpes Simplex Virus
Categories
Cold Sores
Herpes Articles
Herpes News
Natural Treatment
Connect With Us!
Copyright © 2019 · HowtoTreatHerpes.Info