More Drugs Cited As A Risky Mix With Grapefruit : Shots - Health News : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
NPR Shop
Open Navigation Menu
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Technology
Race & Culture
Arts & Life
Expand/collapse submenu for Arts & Life
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
Tiny Desk
All Songs Considered
Music News
Music Features
New Music
Best Music Of 2018
Shows & Podcasts
Expand/collapse submenu for Shows & Podcasts
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
How I Built This with Guy Raz
Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me!
Planet Money
Invisibilia
More Shows & Podcasts
Search
NPR Shop
Tiny Desk
All Songs Considered
Music News
Features
New Music
About NPR
Overview
Support
Careers
Connect
Press
Ethics
More Drugs Cited As A Risky Mix With Grapefruit : Shots - Health News Some consumers of the bitter citrus fruit may need to rethink their morning routine. Chemicals in grapefruit can interfere with the body's ability to to clear certain drugs. The number of affected medicines has jumped in recent years. Pharmacists are calling for greater grapefruit awareness among physicians and patients alike.
Shots
Health News From NPR
Your Health
Treatments & Tests
Health Inc.
Policy-ish
Public Health
Twitter
More Drugs Cited As A Risky Mix With Grapefruit
Treatments
More Drugs Cited As A Risky Mix With Grapefruit
Facebook
Twitter
Flipboard
Email
November 27, 20124:58 PM ET
Helen Thompson
Enlarge this image
Grapefruit can make for a tasty addition to breakfast. But it can also interfere with some medications. iStockphoto.com hide caption
toggle caption
iStockphoto.com
Grapefruit can make for a tasty addition to breakfast. But it can also interfere with some medications.
iStockphoto.com
Grapefruit sprinkled with a little sugar has just the right amount of kick for a morning meal. But when the bitter fruit is mixed with medication, things can get a bit tricky.
Compounds in grapefruit can dramatically change how some popular drugs work in the body. And the number of drugs that can have severe side effects when combined with grapefruit has more than doubled in the last four years, says a study published Monday in the Canadian Medical Association Journal.
Consuming grapefruit while taking certain drugs can produce an overdose effect. "Taking one tablet with a glass of grapefruit juice is like taking five tablets with water," says David Bailey, a pharmacologist at the Lawson Health Research Institute in London, Ontario.
Chemicals called furanocoumarins in grapefruit deactivate an enzyme in the small intestine and liver that breaks down toxins — as well as an estimated 50 percent of all drugs. When the enzyme (called 3A4 for short) isn't working right, the drugs hang around longer and circulate at higher levels in the blood than would otherwise be the case. If the levels are high enough, a person essentially overdoses.
Bailey and his colleagues pored over clinical trial data and found 85 drugs that can interact with grapefruit juice. These include cholesterol-lowering statins, such as Lipitor, immune system suppressors for transplant patients, and some common antibiotics.
Some of those drugs, when combined with grapefruit, cause small problems, such as dizziness. But the mixtures can have more serious side effects, like gastrointestinal bleeding, breathing problems or a deadly irregular heartbeat.
Between 2008 and 2012, the number of drugs that could cause serious side effects when mixed with a glass of grapefruit juice jumped to 43 from 17.
Some Medicines With Side Effects Magnified By Grapefruit Consumption
Drug
Use
Alternatives
Tarceva Cancer None
Erythromycin Antibiotic Clarithromycin
Lipitor, Zocor Cholesterol reducer Pravachol, Crestor
Plavix Blood thinner Aspirin
Brilinta Blood thinner Aspirin
Seroquel Antipsychotic Haldol, Risperdal
Cyclosporine Immunosuppressant None
Source: Bailey et al. CMAJ
Bailey says that there's no way to pin the trend on a particular source. The drugs treat different disorders and act on different areas of the body. "Even within a class of drugs it's very variable," says Bailey. The same goes for patient variability.
Whether a grapefruit-drug combination might be cause for concern comes down to three factors. The drugs that are taken orally have only a small amount of the drug dose make it into the blood and are metabolized by 3A4 are more likely to cause side effects. The severity of those effects also depends on how toxic the drug is to begin with.
Pharmacist Mary Paine, of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, notes that "a major, overlooked aspect of all this is that one juice does not predict all grapefruit juice." Concentrations of furanocoumarins aren't the same for every fruit or glass, so trouble isn't guaranteed.
Grapefruit isn't alone in causing problems. Seville oranges — the primary ingredient in marmalade — pomelos and limes contain the same family of disruptive compounds.
The side effects are easily preventable, however. Patients can forgo their morning grapefruit juice, or doctors can sometimes prescribe a different drug from to achieve the same results without the grapefruit risk.
prescription drugs
Pharmaceuticals
Facebook
Twitter
Flipboard
Email
Shots
Health News From NPR
Shots
Health News From NPR
About
Shots is the online channel for health stories from the NPR Science Desk. We report on news that can make a difference for your health and show how policy shapes our health choices. Look to Shots for the latest on research and medical treatments, as well as the business side of health. Your hosts are Scott Hensley and Carmel Wroth. You can reach the Shots team via our contact form.
Subscribe
RSS
@NPRHealth
@scotthensley
Read & Listen
Home
News
Arts & Life
Music
Podcasts
Programs
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Contact
Help
About NPR
Overview
Finances
People
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
Visit NPR
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
NPR thanks our sponsors
Become an NPR sponsor