Fact Sheet: 10 Things to Know About HIV/AIDS - TheBody.com
Advertisement
0
Email
Print-Friendly
Glossary
Fact Sheet: 10 Things to Know About HIV/AIDS
From American Association for World Health
December 1, 1998
The AIDS pandemic has already resulted in the deaths of approximately 11.7 million people worldwide and will ultimately cause the deaths of the estimated 30.6 million men, women and children around the globe still living with this disease. Roughly 6 million people were newly infected with HIV in 1997 -- nearly 16,000 people each day.
AIDS (acquired immunodeficiency syndrome) results from the late stage of infection with HIV (human immunodeficiency virus). In adults, the onset of AIDS can take up to 10 or more years, and new drug therapies can delay the progression of the disease into AIDS even longer. Thus, a person infected with HIV may look and feel healthy for many years, but he or she can still transmit the virus to someone else, which is why it is very important for individuals to get tested.
HIV is transmitted through the exchange of any HIV-infected body fluids. Transfer may occur during all stages of the disease. The HIV virus is found in the following fluids:
blood
semen (and pre-ejaculate fluid)
vaginal secretions
breast milk
Advertisement
HIV does not survive long outside the body and therefore can only be transmitted when any of the above body fluids from an infected individual enters an uninfected individual.
HIV most frequently is transmitted sexually. The only way you can be completely sure to prevent the sexual transmission of HIV is by abstaining from all sexual contact.
You can significantly reduce your risk of contracting HIV by:
correctly using a latex condom from start to finish, every time you have vaginal or anal intercourse and with each act of oral sex on a man.
being aware that HIV can be transmitted through oral sex. Use a dental dam or a condom cut open while perform-ing each act of oral sex on a woman.
remembering all semen, even pre-ejaculate fluid, can carry the HIV virus.
engaging in safer sex practices that involve no penetration such as kissing, massaging, hugging, touching, body-rubbing and masturbation.
It is important to note that:
all blood, organs, and tissue used during transfusions or surgeries have been tested for HIV. All contaminated products are immediately and carefully disposed of by medical professionals.
all medical and surgical instruments, including those used for tattooing and body piercing, must be completely sterilized or discarded properly after each use in order to prevent HIV transmission.
For information on HIV/AIDS in the work-place or referrals to organizations that handle the proper disposal of medical instruments call the CDC National HIV/AIDS Hotline at 1-800-342-AIDS.
Anonymous HIV testing is the only form of HIV testing that is not name based. If you receive a test from an anonymous testing center, no one but you will know the results of your test. Currently, 40 states plus the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico offer anonymous testing.
You do not get HIV from:
donating blood.
mosquito bites or bites from other bugs.
sneezes or coughs.
touching, hugging or dry kissing a person with HIV.
the urine or sweat of an infected person.
public restrooms, saunas, showers or pools.
sharing towels or clothing.
sharing eating utensils or drinks.
being friends with a person who has HIV/AIDS.
Young adults (under age 25) are quickly becoming the most at-risk age group, now accounting for an estimated 50% of all new HIV infections in the United States. Teenagers and young people here and around the world need to take an active role in changing the course of the HIV/AIDS pandemic by adjusting their behaviors and attitudes toward the disease.
Discriminating against people who are infected with HIV/AIDS or anyone thought to be at risk of infection violates individual human rights and endangers public health. Every person infected with and affected by HIV/AIDS deserves compassion and support, regardless of the circumstances surrounding their infection. Education is crucial in getting this message out.
You can help stop the spread of HIV! Get involved in community efforts. World AIDS Day is a special opportunity every year to focus attention on this urgent challenge that affects us all. It is marked around the world by thousands of different events designed to increase awareness and to express solidarity and compassion. This World AIDS Day -- and every day -- join the worldwide effort to stop the spread of HIV.
Back | Next
Table of Contents
The Power of Words
Overview: Transmission and Prevention
0
Email
Print-Friendly
Glossary
This article was provided by American Association for World Health. It is a part of the publication Be a Force for Change.
More on HIV/AIDS Basics
This Week in HIV Research: From PrEP to Treatment, There's Always More …
Transgender Activists Question Trump Administration's Sincerity in …
Overdoses and Smoking Are Taking the Lives of People With HIV Who Have …
Archive Remembers Heroes and History of Black HIV/AIDS Activism
Large French Study Examines Neuropsychiatric Side Effects With …
How to Find HIV Treatment Services
Long-Acting HIV Treatment Is Coming. Our Health Care System Needs to …
Using Sign Language, New Video Promotes HIV Testing for Youth of All …
This Week in HIV Research: HIV Is Not an Obstacle
Dovato Is a Newly Approved Two-Drug HIV Regimen. Do Fewer Drugs Mean a …
New Study Finds HPV Infection High -- and Vaccination Rates Low -- in …
Louie Ortiz-Fonseca Builds Digital Bridges Between Youth and the …
PrEP Use Is Correlated With an Increase in STIs, JAMA Study Finds
New Campaign Seeks to Shift Opioid Conversation to Mass Incarceration, …
Depression Linked to Cognitive Dysfunction in HIV-Positive Women
Sticker Shock: PrEP Is Not Cost-Effective at Current Price, Health …
Opioid Epidemic Is Fueling HIV Cluster Outbreaks -- Here's How CDC Is …
This Week in HIV Research: Fentanyl Smooths the Path for HIV
Antidepressants Can Be Hard to Withdraw From. Here's How to Do It …
8 Advocates Share Their Top HIV Policy Issues at AIDSWatch 2019
Researchers Crave More Data on HIV Care Continuum Programs for …
Results of CDC-Funded Local Projects for MSM and Transgender People …
More on HIV/AIDS Basics
"You don't have to fight this fight by yourself." Watch Susan's Story >
R. Kelly, Sexual Predators, and HIV in a Society Where Black Girls Don't Matter
TheBody's 10 Most Popular HIV-Related Stories of 2018
HIV Drug Prices Keep Rising. Why Is No One Talking About It?
Newly Diagnosed With HIV, I've Got Challenges and a Lot of Blessings in Store for the New Year
Gay Men: It's Time to Stop Calling the Police on One Another for HIV Non-Disclosure
Struggling With Crystal Meth? There Are Research Studies Out There for You
More >>
Advertisement
Get Our Newsletters
My Health Tracker -- ENDING APRIL 2019
Medication and Health Reminders
Assess Your Risk for HIV
Follow Us: Facebook, Twitter, RSS
© 2019 Remedy Health Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved
TheBody: About TheBody | Contact TheBody | Site Policies | Content Providers | Advertise With Us | Site Map
Remedy Health Media: About Remedy Health Media | Contact Remedy Health Media | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
TheBody is a service of Remedy Health Media, 461 Fifth Avenue, 14th Floor, New York, NY 10017. TheBody and its logos are trademarks of Remedy Health Media, LLC, and its subsidiaries, which owns the copyright of TheBody's homepage, topic pages, page designs and HTML code. General Disclaimer: TheBody is designed for educational purposes only and is not engaged in rendering medical advice or professional services. The information provided through TheBody should not be used for diagnosing or treating a health problem or a disease. It is not a substitute for professional care. If you have or suspect you may have a health problem, consult your health care provider.