Does Eating Carrots Actually Increase Your Vision? | Healthy Eating | SF Gate
SFGate
Healthy Eating
by Demand Media
News
Sports
Business
A&E
Food
Living
Travel
Columns
More
Less
Cars
Jobs
Real Estate
Find&Save
Skip to main content.
Healthy Eating
Diet
Healthy Diet
by Leaf Group
Healthy Eating
Diet
Healthy Diet
Does Eating Carrots Actually Increase Your Vision?
Written by Natalie Smith; Updated November 27, 2018
Does Eating Carrots Actually Increase Your Vision?
Related Articles
1 Can Too Much Beta-Carotene Cause Yellow Skin?
2 What Are Healthy Carotenoids?
3 What Are the Benefits of Having Carrots Every Day?
4 Can Vitamin E Impact Eyesight?
You might have heard that eating carrots is good for your eyesight, as a commonly myth states that eating carrots will help correct a person's faulty vision or help them to see in the dark. While it is true that carrots are good for your vision, they cannot increase your visual acuity.
Carrots and Vision
While carrots cannot improve your vision, they are a good source of beta carotene, which is a form of vitamin A. A deficiency in this vitamin can lead to vision problems and eventual blindness. When a person does not consume enough vitamin A, over time, the photoreceptors in the eye begin to deteriorate, disrupting vision. This process can be reversed by restoring the amounts of vitamin A in the system through eating a healthy diet and by taking a daily multivitamin.
Other Vitamins
In addition to vitamin A, carrots contain many other nutrients that are also beneficial for the eyes. Vitamins A, C and E all help to reduce the incidence of eye diseases such as macular degeneration and cataracts. Macular degeneration is a condition in which the center of the retina, called the macula, begins to break down, causing blurred vision or a blind spot in the center of the visual field. Cataracts, on the other hand, are a clouding of the lens of the eye, causing blurry vision and a foggy appearance to the eye.
Improving Your Eyesight
There is no magic food or supplement that can improve your eyesight. However, you can take steps to help maintain healthy vision, including eating a healthy diet. In addition to getting enough vitamin A through eating carrots and other orange vegetables, other foods can help maintain your eyesight as well. Leafy greens are full of an antioxidant called zeaxanthin, and citrus fruits and berries are full of vitamin C. Both zeaxanthin and vitamin C have been proven to slow macular degeneration and cataracts. Eggs contain zinc, and almonds are full of vitamin E. These nutrients also help to reduce your risk of developing macular degeneration.
Getting Help for Vision Problems
If you suspect that you already have developed a vision problem such as macular degeneration or if your vision is becoming worse, do not attempt to self-treat the issue with diet or supplements. Instead, the best strategy is to visit an optometrist, who has several tests and advanced technologies at her disposal to diagnose a wide variety of eye problems, including vision problems caused by a vitamin A deficiency. After diagnosing the problem, she can then recommend a treatment plan designed to improve your vision or to prevent further problems from developing.
References (6)
Duke Health.org: Myth or Fact - Eating Carrots Improves Eyesight
Eye Care 20/20: Food Eye Effects
MayoClinic.com: Dry Macular Degeneration
MayoClinic.com: Cataracts
Health.com: 5 Foods for Healthy Eyes
Patient.co.uk: Gradual Loss of Vision
About the Author
Natalie Smith is a technical writing professor specializing in medical writing localization and food writing. Her work has been published in technical journals, on several prominent cooking and nutrition websites, as well as books and conference proceedings. Smith has won two international research awards for her scholarship in intercultural medical writing, and holds a PhD in technical communication and rhetoric.
bibliography-icon icon for annotation tool Cite this Article
Choose Citation Style
MLA
APA
Chicago (B)
Smith, Natalie. "Does Eating Carrots Actually Increase Your Vision?" Healthy Eating | SF Gate, http://healthyeating.sfgate.com/eating-carrots-actually-increase-vision-9821.html. 27 November 2018.
Smith, Natalie. (2018, November 27). Does Eating Carrots Actually Increase Your Vision? Healthy Eating | SF Gate. Retrieved from http://healthyeating.sfgate.com/eating-carrots-actually-increase-vision-9821.html
Smith, Natalie. "Does Eating Carrots Actually Increase Your Vision?" last modified November 27, 2018. http://healthyeating.sfgate.com/eating-carrots-actually-increase-vision-9821.html
Copy Citation
Note: Depending on which text editor you're pasting into, you might have to add the italics to the site name.
Related Articles
Is it Better to Drink Carrot Juice or Eat Whole Carrots?
Which Dark Leafy Vegetables Are Rich in Lutein & Zeaxanthin?
The Antioxidant Vitamin Lutein for the Eyes
Does Your Diet Affect Vision?
Foods High in Beta Carotene
Nutrients in Onions & Carrots
More Articles
Is Celery Toxic?
Do Vitamin Deficiencies Cause Fingernail Ridges
Definition of Carotenoids
How Much Beta-Carotene in Carrots?
What Are the Benefits of Beets and Carrots?
Fiber In Turnips
Return to top ➡
About
Contact
Connect
Subscribe
Privacy Notice Your California Privacy Rights Interest Based Ads Terms of Use Our Company The Press: Guide to Wine Country Green State: Cannabis Culture Careers Advertising
Customer Service Newsroom Contacts
Sign up for Email Alerts Facebook Twitter Pinterest Google Instagram
SFChronicle.com App e-edition The Chronicle Archives Subscription Offers Store Subscriber Services
Copyright 2018 Hearst Newspapers, LLC