ginger root vs powdered ginger for nausea relief | The Alexandria Papers
The Alexandria Papers
Skip to content
Articles
About
The Kommandant’s Mistress
The Kommandant’s Mistress, chapters 1-3
Memoir
M is for Munchers: The Serial Killers Next Door, chapters 1-6
More Books
Love in the Time of Dinosaurs
Auggie Vernon and the Eclipse
Field Trip to the Serpent Mound
The Lies Our Parents Tell Us
Should, Should Not
Portrait of the Poet as a Woman
Holiday
The Toast
While the Music Lasts: Poem to My Younger Self
The Butcher Birds
Where Lightning Strikes: Poems on The Holocaust
The Dead Bodies that Line the Streets
On the Other Hand,
Lager-Lieder (Camp Songs)
Survivor: One Who Survives
Letter to Sylvia
The Day the Snakes Came
Naked, with Glasses
Naked, with Glasses (the story)
St. Jerome Emiliani Comes to the Church Picnic
BusMan
Golgotha, Mon Amour
In the Path of the Juggernaut
Rebellion in the Promised Land
Only with the Heart
Only with the Heart, chapters 1-3
Love is a Many Zombied Thing
Love is a Many Zombied Thing, chapters 1-8
Mastering Fiction & Point of View
Migraine & Chronic Pain
Recipes
Art Saturday
Contact
RockWay Press
Privacy Policy
Tag Archives: ginger root vs powdered ginger for nausea relief
by Alexandria | 26 August 2018 · 11:16 am
The Best Natural Nausea Relief
We’ve all been nauseous. Whether from pregnancy’s morning-sickness or medication side-effects, from the annual flu bug or a migraine attack, from anxiety or dehydration, or from eating a bit too much of that delicious holiday dinner, we can find nausea an unwelcome companion. Prescription anti-emetics can do an excellent job of preventing vomiting, but they can also make you dizzy or incontinent. Worse, since these powerful medications are to prevent vomiting, they don’t necessarily eliminate nausea. Over the last several years, I’ve come to rely more on natural remedies to relieve nausea, no matter its cause, and I’ve learned to keep many of these items in my pantry year round. Ginger is the best natural nausea antidote, and it’s generally regarded as safe to eat regularly.* I always have plenty of ginger in the house, whether as fresh root, crystallized, or as a major ingredient in some very yummy products. Fresh ginger root or crystallized ginger, which is made from the root, more effectively relieves nausea than culinary powdered ginger or herbal capsules containing powdered ginger.
Though I always have plenty of fresh ginger root (sliced, then frozen to maintain freshness) for baking and stir-fry dishes, crystallized ginger is now one of my kitchen staples. Years ago, I saw ginger listed in an herbal anti-nausea supplement, so I bought some crystallized ginger at a health food store. The next time I got nauseous, I opened the bag and popped a slice into my mouth. It was delicious. Even better, two slices later, my nausea had completely disappeared. Since that time, I keep an airtight glass container on the counter filled with crystallized ginger. When I have the flu, am getting a migraine, or have nausea for any reason, I eat a few slices of crystallized ginger. It immediately relieves nausea, and if the upset stomach returns later, I simply eat another piece.
Once we moved to Big Rock Candy Mountain, however, I couldn’t find crystallized ginger in the local grocery, and the closest health food stores are over two hours away. At first, I decided to make my own. It’s not difficult: you just slice fresh, firm, dry ginger root, add sugar and water, and boil until the ginger is tender and the water turns into syrup. Then you strain and cool the ginger slices before rolling them in sugar. Time-consuming, but, honestly, easy-peasy. In addition to eating the crystallized ginger, I put a couple slices into my iced tea, water, seltzer, carbonated water, lemonade, smoothies, and even iced coffee. I love the taste, but when I’m nauseous, I’m usually also dehydrated or having a migraine attack, so putting the crystallized ginger into my beverages helps all the nasty symptoms I may be experiencing. At the rate I was eating my homemade crystallized ginger, I soon found it more convenient to purchase it online rather than drive to the big city every week.
Since I have severe allergies and migraine whose attacks can be triggered by many different foods additives or preservatives, I have to be very careful about which ginger products I buy. I can only have ginger root that has not been exposed to sulfites, artificial sweeteners, artificial colors, or preservatives. I also prefer non-GMO and organic ginger. All of these products meet my stringent migraine and allergy requirements. I’ve listed each product’s ingredients based on its packaging in the most recent version I’ve bought rather than on any online listings since item’s actual ingredient list sometimes contain known allergens or migraine triggers. Here are a few of my favorite crystallized ginger products to relieve nausea.**
Caveat
Eating crystallized ginger or adding it to your beverages takes away your appetite along with your nausea. In fact, ginger root is such a strong appetite suppressant that it’s almost always one of the ingredients in herbal diet supplements. Fresh or crystallized ginger is a more powerful anorectic than any herbal diet pills, so if you have difficulty keeping weight on, you may want to monitor your intake of ginger.
Best Crystallized Ginger
Best Ginger For Beverages
No matter what kind of tea I having — black, green, rooibos, or herbal — I drop a couple slices of crystallized ginger into the bottom of the cup before I add the boiling water. If I have cold tea, I drop some slices into my glass before adding the ice. I don’t like too much sugar in my tea, and 2-4 crystallized ginger slices make it sweet enough for me. For my tea, whether hot or cold, I prefer NOW Foods Crystallized Ginger Slices, which contains ginger root, evaporated cane syrup, and cane sugar. NOW ginger is certified organic and verified non-GMO. NOW Foods brand is not dried out to the point of being hard, and it’s not too sugary. These slices give Perrier a very slight ginger ale flavor and are also excellent added to lemonade, limeade, or orange juice.
Best Ginger For Baking and For Smoothies
I’ve heard of people eating gingersnaps for nausea, but store-bought brands, even those with a strong ginger flavor, simply don’t have enough ginger to alleviate the fierce nausea that accompanies a migraine attack. Sometimes I make my own gingersnaps, and for that, I prefer NOW Food Brands Crystallized Ginger Dices, also certified organic and verified non-GMO.
Because they’re made for baking, the dices are shaped like little gumdrops, but not as sweet as candy. The dices are a little chewier than the slices and have slightly less sugar, but the taste is the same, and so is their anti-emetic and anorectic properties. The dices knock out nausea just as quickly as the slices, but because they’re smaller, I have to eat a whole handful to quell nausea. When I have a migraine, I often drink homemade smoothies as meals, and if I want crystallized ginger in my smoothies, I use the NOW dices because they get chopped and blended more easily.
Best Ginger For Eating
My favorite crystallized ginger for eating straight from the bag, whether to prevent nausea during the flu or a migraine attack, or throughout the day to keep my appetite under control, is Gerbs Organic Crystallized Ginger, sourced from Thailand. Made with ginger and cane sugar, Gerbs ginger comes in 2- or 4-pound resealable bags. Because Gerbs is a bit more expensive, I don’t like to put it in smoothies, tea, Perrier, etc., because its texture gets lost. Although both NOW and Gerbs crystallized gingers come in hefty slices, and though both are great for eating, Gerbs Organic Crystallized Ginger is slightly thicker and a bit moister. I keep some slices in a candy dishes on my desk and nightstand, as well as in an airtight jar on the kitchen counter, so that I always have some around if the nausea of a migraine attack begins.
Australian Crystallized Ginger
Top-Rated Crystallized Ginger
Based on articles and reviews of crystallized ginger by bakers, chefs, and cookbook authors, I tried Australian Crystallized Ginger, which is said to be the best in the world, and Thai Crystallized Candied Ginger. Both of these brands contain only cane sugar and ginger, and are free of sulphur (sulfites). These two brands of crystallized ginger are divine — sweet, very plump, and extremely moist. Both come in multiple pound bags. The Thai Crystallized Candied Ginger is especially sweet — very candy-like — though it is more ginger root than sugar and so, technically, is probably not “candy.” Because it’s actual ginger root, it quells nausea better than any “ginger candies” on the market: ginger candies are much like prepackaged gingersnaps — they may taste good, but they don’t have enough ginger to relieve nausea.
Thai Crystallized Candied Ginger
I wish I could buy these two brands all the time, but I found myself devouring these gingers even when I wasn’t nauseous, i.e., like candy. I went through several pounds of the Australian and Thai crystallized gingers so quickly that I didn’t have enough the next time I was nauseous from a migraine. Even my guy liked these brands of crystallized ginger, and he is a confirmed ginger-hater. If you don’t love crystallized ginger (or actually hate ginger in any form), Australian or Thai Crystallized Ginger might be the type you’d want to keep around the house to relieve nausea.
Ginger is the best natural remedy I’ve ever found to quell nausea, whether it’s from migraine, medications, motion-sickness, flu, or holiday overindulgence. It has none of the side-effects of pharmaceutical anti-emetics (prescription or OTC) and can be added to liquids so you ensure that you remain hydrated. Even if you’re not fond of ginger, you’ll find that crystallized ginger, which is often made from baby ginger, has little of the heat of restaurant stir-fry gingers and none of the bitterness. The only thing you may have to worry about with crystallized ginger is that you’ll like it so much, you’ll find yourself eating it like candy, whether or not you’re nauseous.
*Safety*
It’s generally regarded as safe to eat ginger — up to 1000mg per day. if you eat too much in one day, you might get heartburn or diarrhea, so start slowly. Also, ginger may be an anti-coagulant: consult your physican if you are on prescription blood-thinners, and do not consume any ginger products for two weeks before scheduled surgical procedures. (back to article)
**Caution**
If you experience unrelenting nausea, it may be a sign of an ulcer or of something more serious. If nausea is accompanied by vomiting, it may be food poisoning or gastritis. Please check with your health care provider if you have daily nausea that is not relieved by ginger or OTC anti-emetics. (back to article)
This article contains affiliate links: at no additional cost to you,
I may earn a commission if you click through and make a purchase.
I have never received free products or other compensation for reviews.
4 Comments
Filed under chronic pain, Chronic Pain Treatment, hemiplegic migraines, migraine, migraine self-care, Migraine Treatment, Migraine with Aura, Migraine Without Aura, migraines
Tagged as alternative medicine, anxiety, best crystallized ginger, cancer and nausea, crystallized ginger natural nausea relief, dehydration, flu, food poisoning, food poisoning nausea and vomiting, gastritis, gastritis and nausea, ginger root vs powdered ginger for nausea relief, hemiplegic migraine, herbal nausea remedies, herbal remedies, holistic health, medications side-effects. prescription anti-emetics, migraine, migraine with aura, morning-sickness relief, motion-sickness, motion-sickness relief, natural anti-emetics, natural morning-sickness relief, natural motion-sickness relief, natural nausea relief, natural nausea remedies, nausea remedies, OTC anti-emetics, pregnancy morning-sickness, relief flu with nausea, relief nausea too much alcohol, relief nausea too much food, ulcers and nausea
Alexandria Constantinova Szeman, Ph.D.
Author. New York Times Book Review Notable Book, NYTimes Top 100 Books of the Year, Kafka Prize: The Kommandant’s Mistress. Finalist, SFWP Literary Awards: M is for Munchers: The Serial Killers Next Door. Elliston Poetry Prize, Neff Fellowship: Love in the Time of Dinosaurs and Where Lightning Strikes: Poems on The Holocaust. UKA Press Grand Prize: Naked, with Glasses. Childhood sex abuse survivor. Writer @ The Mighty and @ Migraine Mantras.
My Most Popular Article
From Salvation to Hannibal to Outlander: One Man's View of Men in Films and Television
Read in Another Language
Search Blog
Search for:
Kindle Unlimited*
Audible*
Prime*
Prime Student*
Some of My Recent Articles
Using Photographs to Teach about The Holocaust 3 April 2019
A Great Free App for Insomnia Relief and Meditation 31 March 2019
Good Accounts to Follow on Twitter for Good Content 29 March 2019
Sleep with Me Podcast: The Best Free App for Insomnia Relief 24 March 2019
Salvador Dalí, the Realism Period 23 March 2019
More Great Accounts to Follow on Twitter for More Things Writerly 22 March 2019
Hans Holbein the Younger 16 March 2019
More Great Accounts to Follow on Twitter For More Great Content 15 March 2019
My Childhood on Planet of the Apes 10 March 2019
Gustav Klimt 9 March 2019
Great Accounts to Follow on Twitter for All Things Writerly 8 March 2019
Glue-Boy 3 March 2019
Great Accounts to Follow on Twitter for Great Content 1 March 2019
O Coward Conscience 24 February 2019
More Great Folks to Follow on Twitter 22 February 2019
Join Me on Twitter
My Tweets
Join Me on Facebook
Join Me on Facebook
My Most Fave Bloggers & Authors
Rachel in the OC
by CSA survivor and advocate Rachel Thompson, on surviving, preventing, and spreading the word about Childhood Sexual Abuse
Migraine Mantras
articles on migraine, chronic pain, chronic illness, holistic health, alternative medicine, exercise, mindfulness, and meditation, all written by people who live with invisible illness and who advocate for themselves and others
Lydia Schoch
one of the best blogs with an amazing variety of topics, from the Zen of medical tests to her weekly Suggestion Saturdays and Saturday Seven, which feature fascinating blogs and websites
The Bloggess
by bestselling author Jenny Lawson, on depression, marriage, lawn-gerbils, and other random absurdities of life
BrainPickings
one of the most diligently researched blogs I've ever found, written by Maria Popova, it covers writers, artists, books, and all things wonderfully intellectual and artistic
Historical, People & Fiction
Mimi Matthews
a marvelous blog on all things Victorian, from clothes and pets to personalities and other authors who write books and blogs on the same time period
A Writer's Perspective
by April Munday, with well-researched posts on all things Medieval, from the weight of armor and the mobility of the knights wearing it to what peasants really ate and how they got betrothed and married
Icy Sedgwick
a quirky historical blog on all things folklore (like witches, flowers, and vampire rabbits) and sometimes on ancient Egypt
Mindfulness, Meditation, Living
Barking Up The Wrong Tree
by Eric Barker, with researched posts on living your life better with the principles of meditation, Stoicism, and mindfulness, and more
Raptitude
by David Cain, with an emphasis on meditation, mindfulness, and living life more fully
Elaine Mansfield
with a tagline "Grief is a Sacred Journey," this blog poignantly discusses grieving, mindfulness, Buddhism, and beginning life again after tragedy makes you think it's ended
Writing, Publishing, Marketing
Bad Redhead Media
also run by Rachel Thompson, with an emphasis on helping writers and other small business owners master social media
Red Pen of Doom
by speechwriter and author Guy Bergstrom, who posts on everything writing, to help screenwriters, novelists, and journalists, along with great Red-Pen-skewering of books and videos, as well as frequent instructions on how to survive an apocalypse
Anne R Allen
by authors Anne R. Allen and Ruth Harris, with an emphasis on posts to help writers with everything from writing the first draft to revising, from self-publishing and marketing to social media and handling reviews
Writing and Wellness
by Colleen M. Story, and frequently featuring guest posts by authors, this blog covers everything concerning writers and their health, psychological and physical, from easing back pain to increasing creativity
Lev Raphael
by a respected author and blogger, includes posts about writing, blogging, publishing, publishers, book reviews, travel, beards (which need names, apparently), and Edith Wharton
A Writer's Ramblings
by Victoria Griffin, this blog covers everything writing, from first drafts and revisions to editing
Terry Tyler
by an author for other authors and writers, with an emphasis on posts to help writers with everything from writing, revising, and social media
Sheri McInnis
by a traditionally and Indie published author who is also a book coach, with posts on everything for writers, from agents to addiction
My Most Fave Podcast
Sleep With Me Podcast
written by Drew Ackerman, and performed by Drew as "Dearest Scooter," this brilliant and popular podcast knocks out insomnia by lulling you to sleep with meandering introductions and ingeniously "boring" stories. Drew and Scooter also do the Game of Drones and Sleep to Strange podcasts
RockWay Press on Twitter
My Tweets
Migraine Mantras on Twitter
My Tweets
This is an affiliate link: if you click through and join Kindle Unlimited, Audible, Prime, or Prime Student, I may receive a small commission, at no additional cost to you.
Hit Counter provided by Skylight
Copyright and All That Jazz
Copyright 2012-2019 by Alexandria Constantinova Szeman. All rights reserved. No content may be copied, excerpted, or distributed without express written consent of the author and publisher, with full copyright credit to the author. Please, don’t support the piracy of Intellectual Property.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
The Alexandria Papers · Entertainment Reviews & Things Wondrous Strange
Proudly powered by WordPress · Theme: Pilcrow by Automattic.
Hit Counter provided by Skylight