Birth control while breastfeeding: What options are safe?
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Birth control while breastfeeding: What options are safe?
Last reviewed	 Sat 16 September 2017	 Last reviewed	Sat 16 Sep 2017
By Nicole Galan
Reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Table of contents
Lactational amenorrhea method
Non-hormonal birth control
Hormonal birth control
Making the decision
Another pregnancy may be the last thing a woman has on her mind after she has had her baby and is caring for her newborn.
Once sexual activity has resumed, couples should think about their birth control options if they want to prevent another pregnancy from occurring.
After childbirth, most doctors will recommend that a woman visits her doctor within 6 weeks to ensure that all is well. The doctor will also ask about family planning issues and birth control preferences.
Many couples do not wait 6 weeks to re-establish sexual relations, and women are still able to become pregnant even when breast-feeding.
Contrary to popular belief, it is perfectly safe to take birth control pills while breast-feeding. In fact, there are many different options, depending on personal preferences, medical history, and cost.
Fast facts on birth control while breast-feeding:
There are many factors to consider when deciding on a form of birth control.
Several different forms of birth control do not involve the use of hormones.
Hormonal options are also available.
Women should discuss their options with their doctor and partner if appropriate.
Lactational amenorrhea method
Lactational amenorrhea is a birth control method that relies on the naturally supressed fertility levels that a woman experiences while breast-feeding.
The lactational amenorrhea method (LAM) works on the basis that exclusive breast-feeding suppresses a woman's fertility, preventing pregnancy while she is caring for a young infant.
For some women, LAM can be a very effective family planning method as long as certain conditions are met:
the woman's period has not returned since she gave birth
the baby is exclusively breast-feeding on demand and is not eating any other foods or liquids
the baby is less than 6 months old
If the mother and baby meet all of these conditions, then the chance of pregnancy is very low, less than 2 percent according to World Alliance for Breastfeeding.
Once the woman stops exclusively breast-feeding and the baby starts taking supplemental foods, such as formula or baby cereal, the woman's body will begin preparing for pregnancy and ovulation will begin.
If any of the factors listed above change, the woman should consider using additional birth control to prevent pregnancy.
Non-hormonal birth control
These range from readily available and relatively inexpensive options, such as condoms, to devices requiring a prescription and surgical options. Some of these options include:
Barrier contraception
Physical barriers to conception, such as condoms, diaphragms, or the cervical cap, are still an effective method of contraception.
Barrier contraceptives do not contain any hormones so do not affect a woman's milk supply or her ability to breast-feed.
Doctors usually advise women to wait until their first postpartum check before inserting anything into their vagina. This is because there is a higher risk of infection until the cervix has closed and any tears have healed.
Also, many women find that they need to be resized for a new diaphragm or cervical cap, due to the cervical and vaginal changes that occurred during pregnancy, delivery, and recovery.
Copper intrauterine device (IUD)
There are two different types of IUDs: copper and hormonal. Copper IUDs are a highly effective form of birth control that do not have any effect on the milk supply. The IUD is a small coil that is, in this case, wrapped in a small amount of copper.
It prevents implantation, sperm movement, and fertilization. A doctor needs to insert an IUD, which is effective in preventing pregnancy for up to 10 years. If a woman decides that she wants to get pregnant again, the IUD can be easily removed.
Sterilization
This method is a permanent form of birth control and involves cutting the fallopian tubes, which connect the ovaries to the uterus. Tying up or blocking the tubes then completely prevents sperm cells from meeting with an egg.
Like the other forms of non-hormonal contraception, this method will not have any effect on a woman's milk supply. Many women choose to have this procedure done during a planned cesarean delivery.
How to breast-feed: Getting started, positions, and tips
How do you get started with breast-feeding and what does it involve? Click here to find out more and get some tips.
Read now
Hormonal birth control
Birth control pills that only contain progesterone may be recommended, as they are unlikely to affect milk production adversely.
According to the Infant Risk Center, most forms of hormonal contraceptives are probably safe and will not affect a nursing infant. However, the bigger concern is the effect that these forms of contraception will have on a woman's milk supply.
Hormonal birth control usually contains forms of the hormones estrogen and progesterone.
While some women may tolerate hormonal contraceptives without an issue, sometimes the estrogen in these products can cause a woman's milk supply to dry up completely. This is a bigger risk in women who are nursing an older baby, or those who are already dealing with low milk supply issues.
As a result, most doctors will recommend using a progesterone-only option:
Progestin-only pills (POPs)
POPs are similar to a traditional birth control pill but only contain progesterone. These types of pills do not contain any sugar or placebo pills, so each of the pills the woman takes will be active.
This option is less likely to affect a woman's milk supply adversely.
Depo-Provera
Depo-Provera is a progesterone-only injection that will protect against pregnancy for up to 3 months.
Some women can be sensitive to progesterone, however, and there is no way to reverse the medication once injected. As a result, the doctor may suggest a woman takes POPs for a month or two to see how the progesterone affects her and her milk supply before taking a longer-acting dose.
IUDs
In addition to the copper IUD, some IUDs are coated in progesterone. This type of IUD works in the same way as POPs and the Depo-Provera injection.
In some women, however, the hormonal IUD has been found to decrease milk supply. Hormonal IUDs are effective for 3 to 5 years, depending on the brand, and can be easily removed if a woman changes her mind about pregnancy.
Hormonal forms of birth control do not protect against the transmission of sexually transmitted infections. Women who have multiple sexual partners should also consider using a barrier method.
Making the decision
Discussing birth control with a medical professional is important, as they can offer personalized advice for an individual or couple.
It is important for a woman to discuss her options with her doctor and her partner, if applicable.
Sterilization or insertion of an IUD may or may not be covered by medical insurance and can be quite expensive.
These options are also permanent or for long-term use, so may not be appropriate for someone looking to expand their family in the near future.
Other options, such as the condom or female condom, are less expensive and readily available. These do not have the same level of effectiveness as other options, however.
Finally, it is important for a woman to consider her breast-feeding goals and how her milk supply tolerates the use of hormonal options. If she notices that her milk supply is decreasing with POPs, she should seek ways to increase milk supply. This may be a temporary drop in supply.
Breast-feeding for longer and more frequently will increase milk supply. Pumping after feeding will also help to increase the amount of milk.
Related coverage
Breast-feeding reduces breast cancer risk, says new report A new report that updates the evidence on breast cancer says that breast-feeding lowers the risk of developing it both before and after the menopause. Read now
What types of birth control are there? Birth control is used to prevent pregnancy. Find out about the different means available, how they work, and how effective they are. Read now
When can I have sex after being pregnant? What are the recommendations for how long women should wait before resuming sexual intercourse after pregnancy? How does giving birth affect sex? Factors influencing the decision to resume sexual activity include pain, stress, the healing process after delivery, and the impact of hormonal changes. Read now
10 most common birth control pill side effects Birth control pills can be an effective way of preventing an unwanted pregnancy. They can also ease period pains and help with acne, but they may also have some undesirable side effects. This article looks at the variety of birth control pills that is available, as well as what alternatives there are. Read now
What you should know about non-hormonal birth control Non-hormonal birth control aims to prevent pregnancy without changing the balance of hormones in the body. It includes barrier methods, such as condoms, long-term options, for example, the IUD, and sterilization, which is a permanent solution. Find out more about the different methods and see which one may suit you. Read now
email email
print
share share
Birth Control / Contraception
Fertility Pregnancy / Obstetrics Sexual Health / STDs
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Sat 16 September 2017.
Visit our Birth Control / Contraception category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Birth Control / Contraception.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Contraception during breastfeeding. (2016, March 10). Retrieved from https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/articles/contraception-during-breastfeeding
Fisher, E. (n.d.). Understanding your fertility while breastfeeding. Retrieved from https://breastfeedingusa.org/content/article/understanding-your-fertility-while-breastfeeding
Frequently asked questions. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.paragard.com/faqs.aspx
LAM - The lactational amenorrhea method. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.waba.org.my/resources/lam/
Nichols-Johnson, V. (2001, November). The breastfeeding dyad and contraception. Breastfeeding Abstracts, 21(2), 11-12. Retrieved from http://www.lalecheleague.org/ba/nov01.html
Postpartum birth control. (2016, December). Retrieved from https://www.acog.org/Patients/FAQs/Postpartum-Birth-Control
Safe use of birth control while breastfeeding. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.infantrisk.com/content/safe-use-birth-control-while-breastfeeding
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Galan, Nicole. "Birth control while breastfeeding: What options are safe?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 15 Sep. 2017. Web.
20 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/319424.php>
APA
Galan, N. (2017, September 15). "Birth control while breastfeeding: What options are safe?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/319424.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
More evidence that being active extends life
A recent study concluded that 'regardless of age, sex, or starting fitness level,' increased physical activity of any type reduces overall mortality risk.
Through my eyes: My first 48 hours with hearing aids
I'm not even 30 years old, and I need hearing aids. The discovery was a shock, but just 48 hours in and an exciting new world of sound is unfolding.
Most people who die of natural causes do not seek medical help
A new study has found that a large number of people who die from natural causes do not seek medical attention during the month before.
Vitamin D may help fight colorectal cancer
A recent study concludes that when a person takes vitamin D alongside standard chemotherapy, it might reduce the growth rate of colorectal cancer.
Breast cancer: Reducing this amino acid could make drugs more effective
New research in cell cultures and mice reveals a surprising link between the essential amino acid leucine and resistance to tamoxifen in breast cancer.
Popular in: Birth Control / Contraception
Can a person get pregnant while taking the pill?
How to find the right condom size
Is it possible to get pregnant while on birth control?
What are the side effects of an IUD?
How to stop spotting on the pill
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/319424.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);