Harmful Effects Of Wifi Signals On Health
Menu
Android
Guides
Technology
Software
Apple
Microsoft
Google
Home
Internet
Effects Of Wifi Signals On Health
Effects Of Wifi Signals On Health
November 19, 2013
WiFi basically is the device used to say a high speed network connection over short distance. These devices are sometimes termed as wireless local area network. It is also used for communication between consumer devices such as television, DVD, and cameras also.
The signals send to the computer through WiFi are electromagnetic radiation and these signals travel through wall and if you have a routers and wireless devices around you like blue-tooth, Air-Port express, net gear or any other wireless device than you are living under a great EMF exposure and working under a great soup of radiation.
WiFi Hotspot
The access point of WiFi is termed s “hotspot”. You can commonly find these hotspots area in hotel, office, colleges and universities. It is the low power consumption devise use only to sent data transmission. The number of WiFi hotspot increasing day by day in many countries particularly in inner cities so you are unlikely to be far from a WIFI signals.
Advertisement
Health Risk from WiFi Signals
Many of the hazardous reactions would be occur to the health due to these signals now days as these WiFi signals are more common so they cause more damages to the health. Some of the health risks related to these signals are as follows.
Intensity of Radiation
The radiation emits from the routers are low gigahertz frequency. The scientist and the doctors or health experts consider this level of radiation potentially dangerous to the health of a person. The radio signals transmit by these WiFi routers are in the same general frequency range as the frequency that microwave used to cook the food.
Impact On Children Health
These radiations cause a great impact on the health of the children especially under the age of 10. Those children using cell phones are facing health problems more than those who are far from it and sometimes these mutations take decades to show their impact on the health of the children.
Wifi Signals Cause Insomnia
Sometimes when you put your laptops near you in working condition and went to sleep it cause insomniac this is because your brain is sensitive to electromagnetic radiations that causes interference between brain and signals.
Safety Precautions
To reduce the effects of these radiations some precautions should be taken to avoid risky conditions of health like limit the use of WiFi avoid unnecessary use of laptops cellular phones etc. try to follow the instructions given with the routes. You can try to use wired router rather than wireless. By taking these small measures you can save yourself from risky conditions of health.
Tweet Pin It
Related Posts
The fall of Instagram…
Mediafire Launches Cloud Storage Plans
The City Of London Gets Its Official Domain Extension, .LONDON
About The Author
Justin
Founder of TechKhoji, gaming and tech geek. I like solving problems and helping people with their stuff. I've been writing here for more than 5 years. Drop a comment below, if you are facing any difficulties.
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Recommended Articles:
Lower Ping in League of Legends
SPDY_Protocol_Error-Problem-Fix
WhatsApp Web On iPhone
Add multiple Internet Connections
Laptop Buying Guide for Beginners
Top 10 Android Games
USB Shortcut Virus Problem Fix
Windows Updates
How to Reset Windows 10 Password
Create Windows 10 Bootable USB
Stop Win 10 from Auto Uploading
Windows 10 is Controlling Your PC
Remove Candy Crush from Windows 10
Best Video Editing Software
[Fix] App Can't Run On PC - Win 10
Increase Internet Speed Win 10
Windows 10 Uninstall Guide
advertisement
Android Updates
Your Connection Is Not Private - Fix
Slow Charging Fix
Boost your SmartPhone Battery
Recent News
How to take Screenshots inside BIOS Setup
Google Play Store “No Internet Connection, Retry” Fix
How to run High Graphics Games without Video Card – Guide
Chrome Crashing on Right Click Fix
Windows 10: This app can’t run on your PC – Problem Fix
TechKhoji Copyright © 2019.
About Us - Contact - Privacy Policy - Sitemap