herbal weight loss | Vedic Medical Hall
Menu
Skip to content
Home
Contact Us
Herbs Directory
Privacy Policy
Search for:
Tag Archives: herbal weight loss
Home / Posts Tagged "herbal weight loss"
How To Lose Weight With Coffee and Herbs
by Posted in Weight Loss	Tagged herbal weight loss, weight loss with coffee
Herbs and plant based consumable products, such as coffee, can also play a role in weight loss.
Coffee is a central nervous system stimulant which means is boosts brain function. But it also has some other properties that can help you lose weight. Many weight loss supplements contain caffeine, one of the main ingredients in coffee, due to these properties.
1. Appetite Suppressant
Coffee can suppress your appetite. Simply drinking a cup of coffee every time you have a food craving or get those hunger pangs although it isn’t meal time, can help reduce how much you eat. However, it is necessary to mention that the effect is not very long lasting and you may need quite a few cups a day in order for it to be effective.
2. Regular Bowel Movements
Good digestion is essential to losing and maintaining weight. Coffee stimulates bowel movements, keeps you regular and you may find the need to go after drinking your first cup in the morning.
3. Increased Metabolic Rate
The faster your metabolic rate, the quicker your body burns energy, preventing carbohydrates from becoming stored as fat. Caffeine stimulates metabolism thereby increasing metabolic rate. Exercising directly after drinking a cup of coffee will help you achieve better weight loss results.
4. Fat Burner
As a nervous system stimulant, caffeine signals fat cells in the body by producing epinephrine. Epinephrine is a hormone that is naturally produced by the body and is responsible for breaking down and eliminating fat cells in the body. This is another popular ingredient in many different weight loss supplements.
5. Antioxidant
Oxidation is a process that occurs in the body that results in the build-up of free radicals that occur from the toxins that accumulate in the body. Coffee has antioxidant properties that help eliminate these toxins from the body. Antioxidants should form an important part of any diet that is aimed at weight loss as well as increasing overall health and well-being.
There are some factors that must be taken into account when drinking coffee with weight loss in mind. Firstly, eliminate the sugar and the creamer as these can reduce the positive effects and can in fact result in weight gain.
Also invest in some high quality coffee. The best coffees have a higher caffeine content and are therefore more effective. You can also opt for other alternatives that have the same properties such as different types of tea (especially Green Tea) or use a dietary supplement that is high in caffeine.
Search
Articles
Herbs For Controlling Pests
How Herbs Can Be Used In Dental Care
The Science of Ayurveda
New Products – Lippu Oil
How To Lose Weight With Coffee and Herbs
Categories
Dental
New Products
Pest Control
Uncategorized
Weight Loss
VEDIC MEDICAL HALL
More Herbal Articles
What Could Changes In FDA Dietary Supplement Regulations Mean For Herbalists? April 22, 2019
Herbal preparations, which are regulated as dietary supplements by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), are popular consumer products for those interested in a holistic approach to wellness. Herbalists, who may use herbs and natural ingredients to make their own holistic preparations for clients and herbal products businesses, must keep informed about FDA dietary... […]
INTRODUCTION TO AYURVEDA
https://youtu.be/EV7B5-6qQQc
Copyright - Vedic Medical Hall