DIY - Home Remedies from CureJoy! | A Listly List
Toggle navigation
Listly
MAKE A LIST
SIGN IN
About
About Listly
Community & Support
Howto
Chrome Extension
Bookmarklet
WordPress Plugin
Listly Premium
Privacy
Terms
DMCA Copyright
© 2010-2019 Boomy Labs
Updated by Naveen Picardo on May 12, 2016
REPORT
Naveen Picardo
Owner
9 items 6 followers 0 votes 217 views
DIY - Home Remedies from CureJoy!
Listly by Naveen Picardo
Here is a collection of home remedies that I found on CureJoy.com.
Some of these are awesome and easy to make.
Follow List
Embed List
1
Turmeric Smoothie Recipe For Overall Health
Turmeric is a great source of curumin that is a anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, anti-tumour, antibacterial, and antiviral agent. It also helps flush out dietary carcinogens, boost liver detox and treat depression.
Turmeric Smoothie Recipe:
1 cup hemp or coconut milk
1/2 cup frozen pineapple or mango chunks
1 fresh banana
1 tablespoon coconut oil
1/2 teaspoon turmeric (can be increased to 1 tsp)
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ginger
1 teaspoon chia seeds
1 teaspoon maca (optional)
Process these ingredients in a blender until smooth and enjoy the multiple benefits of turmeric.
Read More
http://www.curejoy.com/content/turmeric-smoothie-recipe-overall-health/
2
Make Ginger Ale At Home To Reduce Pain
#Ginger is often used by holistic medicine for treating health issues ranging from sickness to #arthritis pain. Ginger ale is made from fresh or dried ginger, sugar and some lemon juice.
Does ginger reduce pain and inflammation?
Ginger has been proved very efficient in relieving muscle pain and back pain. It is also effective in diminishing the inflammation.Real ginger is abundant in natural compounds called gingerols, which have strong anti-inflammatory properties. Numerous clinical studies have found that ginger can provide significant pain relief to people who suffer with degenerative or rheumatoid arthritis and/or chronic pain in their muscles.
Ginger Ale Recipe for Pain and Inflammation
Ingredients
1 cup (200 g) peeled, finely chopped ginger
2 cups (450 ml) purified water
1 cup (225 g) sugar
1/2 cup (115 ml) club soda (per glass)
A few drops of lime juice
Lime wedges (for garnish)
Instructions
Bring 2 cups of water to a boil in a saucepan.
Add the ginger, which should be peeled and finely chopped.
Reduce heat to medium-low and let the ginger sit in the simmering water for 5 minutes.
Remove from the heat and let sit for 20 minutes.
Strain the liquid through a fine mesh strainer. Discard the ginger pieces.
In a separate saucepan, make the simple syrup.
Dissolve 1 cup granulated sugar into 1 cup of boiling water. Set aside.
Mix 1/2 cup of ginger water with 1/3 cup of the simple syrup and 1/2 cup of club soda.
Add raw organic honey to sweeten the taste and also put some lime juice.
Other Health Benefits of Ginger Ale
Eases digestive discomfort.
Helps relieve nausea.
Lowers bad cholesterol and blood sugar.
Can be used for respiratory conditions and cough.
Reduces fever. Stimulates blood circulation.
Cancer Prevention.
Helps relieve cold and flu symptoms.
http://www.curejoy.com/content/make-ginger-ale-home-reduce-pain/
3
Ayurveda's Turmeric Milk: Turmeric for Skin Benefits
Turmeric milk is widely used for many health benefits. Often, people use turmeric for skin and as face masks.
Turmeric: The Multipurpose Super Herb
The curative properties of turmeric have lent it to be used as a spice in Indian recipes and medicine in Ayurveda for thousands of years. The healthy nutrients of milk team up perfectly with the anti-inflammatory qualities of turmeric. Turmeric milk or Haldi ka doodh (haldi means turmeric, doodh means milk) brings this sweet nectar onto the favorite’s list of healing rasāyanas of many traditional yogis and Ayurvedic Consultants.
More details and recipes available at:
http://www.curejoy.com/content/ayurvedas-turmeric-milk-skin-salve-face-wash/
4
6 Delicious Juices For Flawless Glowing Skin
Try these juices for glowing skin
Apple Juice
Rich in antioxidants and minerals, it can help slow down the signs of aging, reduce dark circles and wrinkles and can make skin supple and soft.
Beetroot Juice
Contains a mix of nutrients that include iron, copper, calcium, magnesium, potassium and folic acid. It helps the liver detox better and increases toxin excretion from the system.
Carrot Juice
Is packed with beta-carotene, a type of Vitamin A that prevents cell degeneration and aging. It improves skin elasticity, keeps skin hydrated, reduces dark spots, scars and acne.
Ginger Juice
Is anti-inflammatory in nature and has rich amounts of magnesium, vitamin B6, potassium and manganese. It give your skin a glow and also boosts immunity at the same time.
Grape Juice
Rich in antioxidants, it will result in glowing and younger looking skin when consumed on a regular basis.
Lemon Juice
Contains high levels of citric acid, vitamin C and vitamin B. It boosts kidney function and helps improve detoxification.
More details at: http://www.curejoy.com/content/juices-glowing-skin/
5
Ayurvedic Medicine For Good Sleep
Ayurvedic Medicine For Deep Sleep
According to Ayurveda, chronic or excessive stress depletes Ojas which is said to be the physiological expression of consciousness, in charge of immunity, reproduction, beauty, and the overall health and well-being of the individual.
Ojas takes 30 days to be manufactured in the body, and is the result of numerous enzymatic actions that start with the digesting of food into the body’s lymph, blood, muscle, fat, bone, nerve and reproductive tissues. Once these tissues are successfully made and deemed healthy by the body, the final product, or essence, of all these tissues—ojas—is produced.
When ojas is depleted, either from stress, lack of sleep, bad food, poor digestion, excessive activity or inactivity, the body breaks down fast. Depleted ojas can manifest as low sex drive, insomnia, dry skin, stiff joints, accelerated aging and make a person disease prone.
Deep Sleep Herbal Milk
In Ayurveda, milk is the main vehicle through which certain herbs and spices can be used to rebuild depleted ojas. Here is a good ayurvedic herbal medicine for a good and deep sleep.
You will need
1 cup of Milk
1 tbsp Chopped dates
2 tsp Chopped almonds
1 tbsp Coconut meat or flakes
½ tsp Saffron (1/2 tsp)
1-2 tsp Ghee
1/8th tsp Cardamom
1 tsp Raw Honey
Directions
Add all the ingredients to milk and bring it to boil slowly. You can add 1/8tsp of Shatavari or Ashwagandha to the milk. Once the milk, herbs, and spices are cooked. Turn off the flame, add raw honey.
Drink one cup of this hot milk each night for 3 months to rebuild ojas levels and support sleep patterns.
You may substitute milk with non-dairy milk such as almond, coconut or any other milk of your choice. Though you won’t get the benefits of the milk peptides, you’ll have a vehicle for the ojas-building foods and herbs, and some calming benefits from the warmth of the milk.
For more of these recipes and all natural home remedies visit Curejoy
6
Raw Honey & Apple Cider Vinegar Morning Boost Drink
Apple Cider Vinegar: Detoxify Your Body, Melt Fat, Cleanse Your Skin and many more..
Apple Cider Vinegar (ACV) is a versatile organic solution made from the fermented juice of crushed apples, which has many natural uses in food, household cleaning and health. It is known for its healing properties to cure almost anything. This age-old recipe that’s seen as a topical applicant and an overall purifier is also used for skin care and other general beauty enhancements. Many researchers also have claimed so far that, ACV can play a vital role in melting belly fat. Apple Cider Vinegar works internally and taps into several physiological mechanisms that support healthy weight loss.
To read several other benefits of Apple Cider Vinegar visit CureJoy
7
Baking Soda And Lemon: A Miraculous Combination
Studies have shown that baking soda and lemon juice could be a miraculous combination as it has the potential to kill the cancer cells. One of the largest manufacturers of drugs, states that after 20 laboratory tests conducted since 1970 they have proved that: Lemon cures cancer as it destroys carcinogenic cells in 12 types of cancers. Lemon prevents the spread of carcinogenic cells and has 10,000 times stronger effect then drugs like Adriamycin, chemotherapy and narcotic products.
Benefits of Baking Soda and Lemon:
Baking Soda and Lemon Juice Can Cure Cancer:
Recent studies have shown that consuming citrus fruits, specifically lemons have prevented and in some cases cured cancer. And by adding baking soda you will normalize the pH of the body which does not allow the cancer to continue to spread. Since Chemotherapy has horrible side effects the worst being that it destroys healthy cells. Baking soda and lemon, on the other hand only kills the cancer cells.
Patients should drink two teaspoons of lemon juice with half a teaspoon of baking soda. Consume the drink before breakfast on an empty stomach for better effect. Please make sure to use organic lemons. Organic lemons are 100 times more effective than a lemon grown with chemical fertilizers and sprayed with chemicals. Lemon has already been proven to have strong anti – carcinogenic properties. In addition to this there are many other useful properties. It also has a strong effect on cysts and tumors.
Strong Antimicrobial Effect:
Lemon has a very strong antimicrobial effect with a very broad spectrum of activity against bacterial and fungal infections. Lemon is effective against internal parasites and worms, it regulates blood pressure and is a powerful antidepressant, reduces stress and nerve crises.
Read more benefits of baking soda on CureJoy at: http://www.curejoy.com/content/lemon-baking-soda-miraculous-combination/
8
Ginger Elixir – Ayurvedic Digestive Drink
The Digestive Wonders of Ginger:
This is an easy to make Ayurvedic Digestive Drink. Ginger acts wonders to fire up our digestive system. Good digestion is the cornerstone of health and well-being according to Ayurveda. When our digestive system is working well, we absorb all the necessary nutrients from the food we eat, enjoy healthy circulation and have a good robust immunity to diseases.
One great way to fire up the agni (digestive system) is to drink this ginger elixir on a regular basis especially during this vata (fall) season. Vata digestion is delicate and when imbalanced is prone to constipation, irregular bowel movements, and in some instances may experience loss of appetite. During this fall season outside weather gets dry, rough, and cool. Our bodies start reacting to this vata season, we start noticing dryness on our skin, cracked lips, brittle hair. This is because, the colon and large intestine tend to get dry – the primary seat of vata inside our bodies.
Per Ayurveda, ajeerna (indigestion) is the root cause of many diseases and pains. Here are few symptoms of vata imbalanced digestion -
Gas
Bloating
Constipation
Irregular Bowel Movements
Hiccups
Ginger Elixir Recipe:
One great way to alleviate these symptoms is to have ginger elixir on a regular basis. This fires up the agni! It is important to have this drink 20-30 mins before lunch and dinner to kindle our digestive fire.
1 cup Water
1-2 inch grated fresh Ginger
1/2 Lime/Lemon juice
1 tsp pure Maple Syrup
1/4 tsp crushed Black Pepper
pinch of Himalayan salt
For the sweetener, you could even use turbinado sugar or honey (if not a strict vegan). The key is to not to make this drink too sweet, you need to taste the pungency of ginger and heat of the black pepper when you drink this. This is what aids in better digestion.
I generally blend all these ingredients in my Vitamix and like to drink it right away! This way, does taste little strong, you could squeeze out the pulp of ginger in a nut bag and then drink it. Either way it works!!
Read this and more at CureJoy: http://www.curejoy.com/content/ginger-elixir-ayurvedic-digestive-drink/
9
How To Use Apple Cider Vinegar For Hair?
Apple Cider Vinegar has huge number of benefits for your health. It is also very effective for skin tags. But did you know that Apple Cider Vinegar qcan work wonders for your hair? Yes, it is one the best hair cleansing agents and can also help prevent hair loss problems. Here’s why you should consider applying Apple Cider Vinegar for hair:
Benefits of Apple Cider Vinegar For Hair Health:
1. Helps in Hair Growth:
Apple Cider Vinegar provides a number of essential nutrients, like potassium required for hair growth. It helps balance the pH of your scalp and prevents hair loss. It has the ability to thicken hair and remove dead skin cells that can clog follicles and hurt your hair’s ability to grow.
2. Acts as Natural Hair Conditioner:
It can be a great alternative to your expensive conditioners helping you nourish your hair and keep it smooth and shiny. To use, mix 1 part of apple cider vinegar with 3 parts water.
3. Helps De-tangle Your Hair:
If you have really thick and curly hair, combing it out can be painful especially when your hair gets tangled. Here’s when apple cider vinegar comes to your rescue! It can help flatten the hair surface, that allows a comb to easily glide through your hair.
4. Powerful Hair Cleanser:
When added to baking soda, apple cider vinegar can make a great hair cleanser!
5. Treats Dry Hair and Itchy Scalp:
How To Use Apple Cider Vinegar On Hair:
Take 1/2 cup of apple cider vinegar and add this to 2 cups of warm water.
Mix it well and pour it over your hair after shampoo.
Apply it on your scalp and leave it for some time and rinse.
Don’t worry about the smell as the vinegar is diluted it won’t smell strongly.
This process helps to prevent the dandruff, dry and itchy scalp and leaves your hair healthy and shiny.
For More Information read the article on CureJoy site : http://www.curejoy.com/content/improve-hair-health-apple-cider-vinegar/
Naveen Picardo
FOLLOW
REPORT
Tagged With
home remedy diy curejoy natural drink healthy ayurveda hacks
Tools
Invite Friends
Open in App