Baking Soda a Cure for Humanity | The Health Coach
The Health Coach
Education ~ Enlightenment ~ Empowerment
Menu
Skip to content
Home
Educational Organization
Health Coaching Philosophy
Health Coaching Services
Baking Soda a Cure for Humanity
by Dr. Mark Sircus
Nevada Assemblywoman Michele Fiore believes cancer is “a fungus” that can be cured by “flushing, let’s say, saltwater, sodium bicarbonate” through the body. She shares part of this belief with Dr. Tullio Simoncini of Rome, who uses sodium bicarbonate to treat cancer.
The Washington Post disagrees insisting that cancer is not a fungus but is the uncontrolled division of abnormal human cells within the body. It is an old theory though that does not quite cover the landscape of cancer. They can insist as much as they want, as do many medical organizations, but the truth is that if cancer is not a fungus it is almost always accompanied by one, especially in the later stages.
There was nothing professional about the Post essay but that is nothing unusual when it comes to the medical press. Sodium bicarbonate is a serious medicine meaning it is infantile to put it down and aside so lightly for the treatment of cancer or anything else like viral infections, which are very sensitive to changes in pH. Baking soda it the ultimate pH control medicine, which is safe, inexpensive and incredibly fast acting.
Fungal Infections
Fungal infections kill at least 1,350,000 patients with, cancer, TB, asthma, or following AIDS; as well as causing untold misery and blindness to tens of millions more worldwide. Yet, like a Trojan horse its symptoms are mostly hidden, and occur as a consequence of other health problems.
Fungal disease is like the Trojan horse that threatens the world as deaths reach approximately 150 people per hour. Doctors need to wake up to the plight of more than 300 million people worldwide who suffer and die every year from fungal disease. Fungal disease is worldwide catastrophe that is growing year on year, but could be halted with one of the best and certainly the safest antifungal medicines on the market and that is sodium bicarbonate.
Learn a system of medicine that is safe, simple and affordable! Discover Dr Sircus Natural Allopathic Medicine »
Bicarbonate and Oxygen
Sodium Bicarbonate (NaHCO3) is a natural substance used to regulate pH as a counterbalance to acid build up and accompanying low oxygen conditions. Sodium bicarbonate is the easiest, fastest and safest way to rush oxygen to the cells and it is a biological fact that cancer cells hate oxygen.
Baking soda affects the pH of cells and tissues, balances cell voltage, and increases CO2, all of which helps with oxygenation. We might not be able to say that bicarbonate cures cancer but certainly baking soda helps patients survive their cancer. It certainly helps patients survive chemotherapy and that is why it is quietly used to buffer the toxic effects during chemo administration.
Sodium Bicarbonate can be used as a first line of defense for a vast range of sickness including, cancer, flu, diabetes, kidney disease and even the common cold. Sodium Bicarbonate can be used in many forms whether transdermally in a bath, orally or nebulized for lung conditions. It can be used against radiation exposure. The US Army has known for decades that it protects the kidneys against uranium toxicity.
The Post wrote, “Treatment is based on the theory that cancer is caused by a form of yeast infection and that sodium bicarbonate can kill the yeast. This claim is not supported by science or clinical evidence and is contrary to widely-accepted basic facts of oncology and microbiology.”
Only a few brave souls say that cancer is a fungus but certainly most patients with late stage cancer have fungus infections, which doctors do not know how to treat, because most medical organizations come out clearly against the use of sodium bicarbonate, which is after all a good anti-fungal.
However saying the treatment theory is based on cancer being a fungus does not describe the true nature of sodium bicarbonate and why it is used so much in emergency rooms and intensive care departments. It demonstrates a lack of understanding of what sodium bicarbonate is, what it does, and how it is can be used. Simple baking soda is an emergency room medicine (that you can buy at your local supermarket) that is also helpful when patients are given radiation treatment. Though it does kill yeast and other infections quite quickly, its main function is to increase CO2 and oxygen levels, which is not conducive to cancer or tumor growth.
The Post published, “Some people with cancer have other health conditions for which sodium bicarbonate is used. But, again, there is no evidence that sodium bicarbonate has caused their tumors to shrink.”
This is not true, medical scientists have studied bicarbonate and it does shrink tumors. (Bicarbonate inhibits spontaneous metastases (Robey 2009) Bicarbonate Increases Tumor pH and Inhibits Spontaneous Metastases according to many medical scientists so one has to wonder when newspapers come out so strongly against it. NaHCO3 therapy significantly reduced the formation of hepatic metastases following intrasplenic injection, suggesting that it did inhibit extravasation and colonization.
Actually much research has been done that shows sodium bicarbonate’s benefits in cancer and in our daily life and I strongly suggest you read my book on sodium bicarbonate…..recently published in hardcopy on Anazom.com and also in ebook on our website.
Virtually every cancer patient will benefit from the use of sodium bicarbonate because it treats the low oxygen acid conditions found universally in cancer patients. Healthy people also benefit, as do the aged and those with bad colds and influenza. Baking soda is a buffer helpful against any and all toxic exposures including chemical, heavy metal and radiation exposure.
Bicarbonate and Inflammation
Anyone experiencing the pain of an acute gout or rheumatoid arthritis attack would sell their soul to get relief from their pain. It seems like no matter where we turn these days, we hear the word inflammation because at the heart of almost all diseases is an inflammatory process. It is no surprise since our lifestyles have become increasingly sedentary, and many rely on junk food to sustain themselves. Add in unfathomable stress levels, allergens and environmental toxins, not to mention increasing radiation coming from the environment and medical tests together, plus many pharmaceutical drugs themselves will increase inflammation because they strip the body of alkaline minerals.
Bicarbonate ions neutralize the acid conditions required for chronic inflammatory reactions. Hence, sodium bicarbonate is of benefit in the treatment of a range of chronic inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. To reduce and eventually stop destructive inflammations the body needs to be alkalized, which means CO2 levels along with oxygen need to be raised. This is done over the long haul with mineral-rich vegetables, especially green leaf-vegetables and green protein powders such as spirulina, chlorella, and wheat grass or barley grass powder. However, until the inflammation is under control it is often helpful or necessary to use alkalizing remedies such as sodium bicarbonate for almost instant relief of many inflammation symptoms. Baking soda elevates salivary pH and reducing inflammation in the mouth. Magnesium is the ultimate anti-inflammatory and so is oxygen. Magnesium bicarbonate drinking water combines the best of magnesium and bicarbonate therapy.
Conclusion
It is not appropriate to claim that sodium bicarbonate cures cancer because it should not be used outside of a supportive protocol that attacks cancer from many sides at once. See my full Natural Allopathic protocol for how to do that.
I did a radio show on sodium bicarbonate recently. Cancer is a complex disease process and using baking soda alone will not “cure” cancer all by itself. However using baking soda along with other natural therapies to improve immune strength can help the body to combat and defeat cancer. Principle additions that reinforce the effect of bicarbonate is breathing retraining, heavy use of infrared mats, and intense application of magnesium, iodine and selenium.
___
http://drsircus.com/general/baking-soda-a-cure-for-humanity/
This entry was posted in Uncategorized on June 22, 2017 by The Health Coach.
Post navigation
← Important things to know about your pharmaceutical medications Solar & Lunar Eclipses: Why it’s important NEVER to watch them! →
Search for:
Recent Posts
Protocol for Cataracts using Triphala Ghee
13 Ways to Treat Hypothyroidism Naturally
MSM Investigative Report Lays Bare the Raw Truth About Dentistry
Essential Oils and Healing Salves for Tropical Birds
Inflamm-Aging: What everyone needs to know as we age
What It’s Like To Be Electro Hypersensitive With Maria August (Video)
Yoga For Psoas (Video)
Electro-Hypersensitivity Explained by a Sufferer (Video)
BEGINNER’S GUIDE TO MEDITATION (Video)
Mindfulness Meditation Practice to Observe the Self, Be the Witness (Video)
How to make your own Silica Water
DENTAL PROTOCOL: For the safe and proper removal of a root-canaled teeth
How moisturizing your skin reduces the risk of dementia
Five Natural Remedies for Ganglion Cysts
6 Home Treatments for Ganglion Cysts
Ganglion Cysts and Essential Oil Treatments
Home Remedies For Ganglion Cysts
Here’s how they are stealthily doing the 5G roll-out—WITHOUT INFORMED CONSENT!
Influencing the Immune System via the Wim Hof Method (Video)
Wim Hof Breathing Tutorial (Video)
(no title)
Natural Remedies for Cerebral Palsy Symptoms
Wim Hof Breathing Method (Videos)
Top 2 Breathing Exercises for Singers (Video)
How to Breathe Better for Singing (Video)
Stop Straining and Pushing When Singing (Video)
How to Sing from Your Diaphragm Properly (Video)
How to Breathe Correctly for Singing (Video)
Proper Breathing for Singers: Inhale for Success
A Helpful Breathing Exercise for Singers (Video)
Breathing and Singing (Video)
Fix Your Singing Using Breath (Video)
How to Properly Breath While Singing (Video)
How to Breathe When Singing (Video)
How the Win Hof Method Helps Depression (Video)
Holistic Remedies After Anesthesia
How to flush out anesthesia toxins
5 Ways To Bounce Back Quickly After Anesthesia
ESSENTIAL DAILY HEALTH TIPS FOR 2019
BILE SALTS: How to take them
Which Foods Are Best for the Gallbladder
Dr. Berg Speaks on the Gallbladder: Diseases and Treatments
CHAKRAS: The 7 Energy Centers, Their Frequency and Healing (Video)
Foods that are good for radiation detox
Salt and Soda Soak: A Radiation Detox Bath
Sjögren’s Syndrome: The 13 Primary Symptoms
The Best Way to Protect One’s Health in 2019 and Beyond
ENDOCRINE DISRUPTORS: So many now they’re affecting puberty development… and much more!
The Importance of Salt & Water (Video)
Heart Health and High Blood Pressure (Video)
Foods That Help Relieve Arthritis
Greek foot vs Roman foot vs Egyptian foot
ROOT CANALS: The Real Story That Your Dentist Will NOT Tell You
Root Canal Dangers
How to Recognize a Pelvis Problem (Video)
Pyroluria Questionnaire from The Antianxiety Food Solution
Our Preliminary Recommendation for Lugol’s Iodine
Health Concerns: WHAT ARE THE MEDICAL DANGERS OF MARIJUANA USE?
7 Hidden Health Dangers Of Smoking Marijuana Revealed In 2016
Dangers of Marijuana: Long-Term Effects on the Brain and Body
5-Day Bowel Detox Program — Directions from Dr. Schulze
How to remineralize your teeth naturally
10 Ways to Heal Your Teeth Naturally
An Excellent Tooth Remineralization Program
What people need to know before they have hernia surgical repair!
A Condensed Course in Push Catch Liver Detox (Video)
Is Florida’s ‘Red Tide’ worsened by dispersant-treated oil from the BP Gulf oil spill?
How To Make A Comfrey Poultice (video)
Here’s a good reason to clean your ears when you feel something wiggling in the canal.
Healing Inguinal Hernia With Exercise Full Workout (Video)
How to lower PSA levels naturally
Vegetables High in Protein
Vitamin D: The Adverse Side Effects
UBUIQUINOL: What are the major side effects
FIBROUS DYSPLASIA
21 Effective Skin Infection Treatments You Can Do At Home
Adverse Side Effects of Finasteride
Shoulderstand Tutorial (Video)
Inguinal hernias and stem cell treatment
10 Best Homeopathic Medicines for Treatment of Depression
Anxiety, Stress, Your Gut and Homeopathy
Homeopathic Remedies for Emotional Stress & Depression
PSORA MIASM: The Defining Aspects
How To Remove Deep Ama
PSORA MIASM: The “Mother of Chronic Disease.”
The Role of Slime Mold in the Progression of Morgellons
LUNATION CYCLE ASTROLOGY: A Powerful Tool on the Healing Journey
Vaccine Lawsuit Exposes Massive Fraud by HHS
Hiatal Hernia Self Adjustment (Video)
Hiatal Hernia Syndrome Reference Book
Excellent Hatha Yoga Posture for Hiatal Hernia
Yoga: The Perfect Workout For Hiatal Hernia
3 Best Exercises For Hiatal Hernia (Video)
HIATAL HERNIA, SELF-ADJUSTMENT TECHNIQUE & TREATMENTS
7 Best Hiatal Hernia Natural Treatment Options
11 Effective Home Remedies for Hiatal Hernia
Home Remedies for Hiatal Hernias
ASPARAGUS: A Cancer-killing Vegetable Especially for the Oral Cavity
Florida’s Red Tide ‘Mystery’ Is No Mystery At All
Potassium Rich Foods
Fourteen Foods Loaded With Potassium
Top Potassium-Rich Foods and How They Benefit You
What Foods To Avoid On The Candida Diet
Pitta pacifying diet (Chart)
Pitta Foods and Beverages: SUMMERTIME
RNASE ENZYME DEFICIENCY DISEASE
Tongue Diagnosis in Chinese Medicine
Ayurvedic Tongue Analysis: An Excellent Diagnostic Tool
Tongue Diagnosis Made Easy
Ayurvedic Tongue Analysis: What does your tongue say about your health?
What our tongue tells us about our health
Swallow Syncope: When the act of eating adversely affects the heart
Yin Yang Food Chart
ATANTRIL Testimony: A Natural Treatment for SIBO
Natural Treatment Plan For Undescended Testicles
Hormonal Therapy for Cryptorchidism aka Undescended Testicle(s)
Natural Treatment for an Undescended Testicle
Biofilm Protocol Explained
16 Simple Home Remedies To Cure Dry Eyes Permanently
Dry Eye Syndrome
How to Get Rid of Dry Eyes Naturally
The Diabetes Diet That Works
Pyroluria: Everything you need to know
The O positive (and O negative) blood type diet?
PYROLURIA: If You Have It, You Need To Know it!
Natural Remedies for Treating Biofilms
Bile Duct Obstruction: What are the main causes?
Protocol to break down the biofilms that protect bad gut bacteria
How To Get Enough Protein Without Eating Meat
Foods That Are Rich Salicylates
Are your bile ducts closing up?
Reversible Cerebral Vasoconstriction Syndrome: Be careful of hot chili peppers
SULFUR: The Missing Link in Cruciferous Veggies That Can Heal Genetic Disease
Best Natural Treatment for Dientamoeba Fragilis (Video)
The Failure of the Flu Vaccine
“Healing is Voltage” — Dr. Jerry Tennant
Arthritis Pain: When Diet Really Matters
If you suffer from any type of arthritis, you must learn about the nightshade connection.
ARTHRITIS: Healing with “Food First”
How to Ease Your Arthritis Pain With Simple Food Swaps
EPIGENETICS: How nurture affects nature in the development of disease
Postpartum Depression: What are the biochemical markers?
Ashwaganda: Ancient Herb Proven to be a Potential Cure for Alzheimer’s
COCONUT OIL: The Superfood for Alzheimer’s
How to reverse memory loss due to Alzheimer’s—naturally!
Natural Treatment for Alzheimer’s Disease
The Most Effective Natural Treatments for SIBO
The Primary Symptoms of SIBO
6 Signs That SIBO Might be the Root Cause of Your IBS
Everyone Needs a Chemtrail Protection Protocol
Dr. Gabriel Cousens on Reversing Diabetes in 21 Days (Video)
Common Symptoms of a Healing Crisis
Apana Mudra: The Purification Mudra
Ten Foods That Help Relieve Constipation Naturally
Even infants and young children are being given annual flu shots
Attorney Demolishes Pro-Vaccine Talking Points, Lays Bare The Shocking Facts About Vaccination Risks And Dangers
Anti Candida Diet
Do you have cold hands and feet?
Medical Causes Of Cold Hands And Feet
Morton’s Toe: The Telltale Connection Between Pyroluria & Vitamin B6 Deficiency
Morton’s foot & Vitamin B6
Morton’s Toe
Morton’s Toe & B6 Deficiency
PYROLURIA: A Integrative Psychiatrist’s View
Primary Symptoms of Pyroluria
PYROLURIA: A Comprehensive List of Symptoms & Associated Conditions
Fatal Breast Cancer Gene Does Not Exist — The Lancet
Can Your Hip Replacement Kill You?
9 Fast-Acting Natural Remedies for Heartburn (Plus 5 Long-Term Solutions)
Chemical fertilizers are radioactive and the real cause of tobacco-related cancer
Ayurvedic Natural Treatments for Parkinson’s Disease
How to Perform the Mahamudra Asana (Instruction video)
HATHA YOGA: A Highly Therapeutic Healing Modality
How to Fix “Low Back” Pain (Video)
Hatha Yoga to Treat Sciatica (Video)
Hatha Yoga to Relieve Low Back Tension (Video)
NIH Scientific Research Paper Confirms Adverse Health Effects From Chemtrail Aeorsols
The Primary Symptoms of Blood Clots in the Leg
Blood Clots In Legs Symptoms
Chronic Fatigue Symptoms: An Added Challenge To Diagnosing Stealth Infections
Post Bacterial and Post Viral Fatigue in Adrenal Fatigue Syndrome
When is tinnitus a symptom for Meniere’s disease?
Lymphatic Drainage Massage for Tinnitus: Comments from those who have used it successfully
Lymph Drainage for the Ears (Video)
A Detoxified & Disinfected Ear Can Help Heal Tinnitus
How a clean ear canal can help alleviate tinnitus
TINNITUS: What does it tell us about our response to life
Natural Remedies for Respiratory Infections
Effective Home Remedies for Upper Respiratory Infection
How to treat respiratory tract infections with everyday foods and spices
12 Flu Natural Remedies
Natural Remedies for Upper Respiratory Infections
The 9 Best Herbs for Lung Cleansing and Respiratory Support
Home Remedies for Upper Respiratory Infections
The Plant Paradox: The Hidden Dangers in ‘Healthy’ Foods That Cause Disease and Weight Gain
10 NATURAL REMEDIES THAT CAN EFFECTIVELY CURE TINNITUS
11 Unconventional Remedies That Cure Ringing Ears Fast
16 Home Remedies and Natural Cure of Tinnitus
16 Effective Home Remedies For Tinnitus
Natural home remedies for tinnitus
There are natural cures for ringing in the ears
8 Excellent Home Remedies for Tinnitus
Top Five Remedies for Tinnitus
Home Remedies for Tinnitus
How to Re-Awaken Your Spirituality to Reconnect with the Natural World
The Occupational Dangers for Holistic Doctors and Alternative Health Professionals
The Best Foods That Eliminate Cancer Stem Cells
Estrogen & Your Prostate
How To Easily Heal and Prevent Cold Sores
13 Cold Sore Remedies
Cold Sore Remedies
Herbal Remedies For Cold Sores
Effective Home Remedies for Cold Sores (Fever Blisters)
Natural Treatments for Cold Sores
12 Home Remedies For Cold Sores Ranked By Effectiveness
10 WAYS TO GET RID OF A COLD SORE FAST
16 Ways to Prevent & Get Rid of Cold Sores
How to Get Rid of Cold Sores Naturally
Treat cold sores overnight with our magical home remedies
Danica Patrick Mixes Yoga and Pushups
The 10 Most Common Signs 30 Days a Heart Attack
11 BEST FOODS TO NATURALLY BOOST COLLAGEN
Mycoplasma, the Most Common Lyme Coinfection
Impossible Burger from Impossible Foods is Unsafe, FDA says
Cell Phone Radiation Violates Limits When Tested Against Body
DOGS FED SARDINES SHOW HIGH STRONTIUM LEVELS
The Best Herbal Teas for Nausea
PLUM EXTRACT: An Excellent Way to Alkalize the Body
Monk Fruit: Nature’s Best Sweetener
3 Ways To Determine Your Chinese Constitutional Type?
Three Ayurveda Body Type Tests
The Heart is Not a Pump
How To Properly Break A Fast
Is BRCA (“Breast Cancer Gene”) A Death Sentence?
What does a BRCA gene mutation really mean regarding breast cancer?
Asanas and Exercises to Activate the Thyroid Gland
Baba Ramdev Yoga Asanas To Cure Thyroid
Top 10 Yoga Poses for Thyroid Treatment and Prevention
5 Quick Yoga Poses For THYROID Problems & Disorders
Potassium Broth Recipe
Borax Best Detox & Cure For Mycoplasma, Arthritis, Morgellons and More
Dr James Barile Recommends Rebounding For Optimal Health
Injury & Trauma Caused By Physicians During Childbirth (Video)
BORON: The Missing Link For Rheumatoid Arthritis, Lupus and Mycoplasma Diseases
MORGELLONS: Signs and Symptoms
Morgellons, Chemtrails & Possible Cure
Prostate Cancer: Loss of territory (wife leaves or man loses his job/business)
The Missing Mineral Necessary for Bone Rejuvenation
The Wonder of Boron for Bone Health
BORON: The Inexpensive Cure For Bone Ailments
BORON: The Missing Link For Bone Formation
OSTEOPOROSIS: A Revolutionary Perspective On Causes And Treatments
Boron and Bone Density
Raynaud’s Disease Remedies and Supplements
Raynaud’s Syndrome: Natural Interventions That Can Make A Big Difference
Raynaud’s Syndrome: How dietary changes can help
Effective Home Remedies For Raynaud’s Disease
Natural Remedies for Raynaud’s Disease
Raynaud’s Disease: A Natural Approach
17 Dairy-free Calcium Sources
Top 10 Foods Highest in Calcium
World’s Healthiest Foods Rich in Calcium
12 natural ways to treat osteoporosis
How to reverse osteopororsis naturally
Never underestimate the power of goldenseal
The Benefits of Apple Cider Vinegar and Baking Soda
The Relationship Between Vasculitis and Lupus
Arthritis and Vasculitis
Solar & Lunar Eclipses: Why it’s important NEVER to watch them!
Baking Soda a Cure for Humanity
Important things to know about your pharmaceutical medications
Food Combination Chart
Osteoporosis: What your doctor will never tell you about high bone mineral density
Ever watch a typical childbirth process in an American hospital
Medical drug effects in a world organized on Scarcity
PEMF Almag-2: An Excellent Chiropractic Product Review
Dr. William Pawluk Speaks About The New Magnetic Medicine
The Many Health Benefits Of Doing Regular Coffee Enemas
A Homeopath Explains The Thyroid And Its Secrets
Thyroid and Homeopathic Iodine
Common Homeopathic Remedies for Thyroid Problems
Treating Thyroid Nodules With Homeopathy
Thyroid Nodules: A Success Story with Natural Treatments
What to do for thyroid nodules
FULVIC ACID: An Excellent Chelator for Detoxifying the Thyroid
Can Natural Treatment Methods Shrink Thyroid Nodules?
12 Natural Cures For Thyroid Nodules
Top 11 Natural Cures For Thyroid Nodules
Natural Treatment for Thyroid Nodules
The Link Between Epstein–Barr Virus and Rheumatoid Arthritis
Study: EBV is Linked to Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)
Epstein-Barr Virus linked to Rheumatoid Arthritis and other Autoimmune diseases
Epstein-Barr Syndrome: The Silent Pandemic Afflicting Humanity
The Discovery of Epstein-Barr Virus according to Wikipedia
Natural Treatments for Epstein-Barr Virus
Natural Protocol For Curing Chronic Epstein-Barr Virus
Natural Treatments for Epstein-Barr Virus
The Common Virus at the Root of Many Medical Ailments
What everyone needs to know about Epstein-Barr Virus Stage IV
#1 Book Recommendation for 2017: MEDICAL MEDIUM by Anthony William
Monolaurin: A Natural Treatment for Epstein-Barr Virus and Herpes
Autoimmune Disease: The Infection Connection
Natural Approach to Healing Autoimmune Disease
Epstein-Barr Virus and Autoimmune Diseases
Top 20 Foods With High B12 Content
Aluminum dangers – What they don’t want you to know
Can Coffee Cause Acid Reflux? Yes! 7 Ways to Avoid It
“Water alone should never be heated in a microwave.” — ABA
Potent Remedy for Warts
SEPSIS: A New Revolutionary Treatment
The potential risks to human health from 5G
9 Incredible Benefits Of Taking Turmeric
WHERE DID WRNASE ENZYME DEFICIENCY DISEASE REALLY COME FROM?
Breaking: NVIC Tracking 134 Vaccine Bills Introduced in 35 States
Breaking: NVIC Tracking 134 Vaccine Bills Introduced in 35 States
How To Identify A Psychopath
The Wireless World Of Health Harms
10 Robust Reasons to Rock that Chair
The Benzene Connection to Cancer and Diabetes
The 14 Fake Olive Oil Companies Are Revealed Now – Avoid These Brands
A MUST READ If You Have Rh-Negative Blood
Ken Wilbur, Incline Village and RNase Enzyme Deficiency Disease
Don’t Ever Vaccinate Your Children Again!
YOGURT: The Top Nine Health Benefits
MEASLES: It’s Not A Virus! — Then What Is The Vaccine Really For?
CHEMTRAIL SYNDROME: A Global Pandemic Of Epic Proportions.
14 Ways of Minimizing Cellphone Radiation Exposure
Robert Kennedy Jr. agrees to ‘chair a commission on vaccination safety and scientific integrity’ for Trump
Huge news for anti-vaccine and parental rights supporters
JUST NATURAL Hair Care: High Quality Shampoos for Hair Loss and Greying
Basics of Ayurveda
FAIL: Diabetes Medication Isn’t Working. So What Does?
Which Dangerous Dishwashing Products Should Always Be Avoided?
Herbal Remedy for Rheumatoid Arthritis
Do you sit for long periods of time?
Severe childhood allergies to peanuts, eggs and dairy directly linked to ‘trace’ ingredients in common vaccines
Help Raise Awareness about the Connection Between Eating Disorders and Substance Abuse
Homeopathy Natural Treatment for Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis and Mycoplasma Infections
Top Five Homeopathic Remedies for Joint Pains in Rheumatoid Arthritis
Top Homeopathic Medicines For Rheumatoid Arthritis
5 best Homeopathic remedies for Rheumatoid Arthritis
Homeopathy for RHEUMATISM
A Wellness Talk With Dr. Bernard Jensen
Osteoporosis Is Scurvy of the Bone, Not Calcium Deficiency
Three Reasons Men Tolerate Spousal Abuse
PTSD and Coping with A Loved One Dealing with It
Dealing with Depression
Coping with ADHD
Homeopathic treatment for Torticollis / Wry Neck
Homeopathic Remedies for Tortocollis
WRY NECK (SPASMODIC TORTICOLLIS) NATURAL REMEDIES
Acute Torticollis — a New Approach to Treatment
Torticollis: Natural and fast remedies
HIATAL HERNIA: Causes, Correction and Self Help
Use natural remedies for a hiatal hernia
How to Fix a Hiatal Hernia Naturally
Home Remedies for Hiatal Hernias
Alkalize Your Coffee With This One Delicious Ingredient To Mitigate Negative Effects
Teeth Remineralization Protocol
Government advises airlines to spray pesticides on passengers
15 Health Benefits of Holy Basil
5 Shingles Natural Treatments
6 Home Remedies for Acid Reflux
Six natural remedies for acid reflux
15 Natural Remedies for the Treatment of Acid Reflux and Ulcers
Treatment for an Acute Shingles Attack
How to Get Rid of Kidney Stones
Top 8 Natural Remedies for Kidney Stones That Really Work
10 Natural Remedies for Kidney Stones
Hatha Yoga Now 50 minute – Accelerated Workout
Back Care Hatha Yoga With Rodney Yee
Hatha Yoga for Energy and Stress Relief
Hatha Yoga For Beginners — Morning with Rodney Yee
AMBIEN: Hallucinations, Sleep Walking and Alarming Dreams
How BioGeometry Can Be Used to Mitigate EMF Pollution
Acupressure Chart for the Hands
14 OF THE BEST FOODS FOR LIVER HEALTH, CLEANSING, AND DETOX
15 Ways to Boost Your Liver for Great Health
19 SUPER FOODS THAT NATURALLY CLEANSE YOUR LIVER
14 Foods That Cleanse the Liver
Oxidative stress and Aging
Press Release: Vaccine Safety Documentary Pulled from East End Film Festival Amid Outside Pressure
Ten Top Items: Address Ulcerative Colitis Naturally
Natural Treatment For Ulcerative Colitis
Ulcerative Colitis Diet: Foods, Supplements & Natural Remedies that Heal
Colitis
My All-Natural Treatment Plan for Ulcerative Colitis
WHAT IS YOUR TONGUE TELLING YOU ABOUT YOUR HEALTH?
BEC or Eggplant Extract: Stunning New Way to Flush Away Skin Cancer
Fasting-Like Diet Has Profound Effect On Autoimmune And Inflammatory Conditions Like MS
11 Collagen-Boosting Foods
10 Collagen Rich Diet Foods for Glowing Skin
10 Plant-based Foods Packed with Iron
Iron in the Vegan Diet
Excellent Food Sources Of Iron
Home Remedies for Urinary Tract Infection (UTI)
14 Natural Home Remedies for Urinary Tract Infections
7 Home Remedies for Urinary Tract Infection (UTI) Symptoms
At Home Bladder Infection Remedies
D-Mannose for UTI Prevention Validated in a Clinical Trial
STRESS & NUTRITION: Crucial Info For Every Health Practitioner
The Health Benefits of Serrapeptase
How Does Modern Technology Interfere With The Earth’s Frequencies?
SUNDOWNER’S SYNDROME
SOMETIMES YOUR BODY JUST NEEDS A REST
5 Natural Cures To OCD
11 Effective Home Remedies For OCD
KETAZOLAM: Side Effects and Serious Concerns
DMSO – The Real Miracle Solution
Vaccines : Untested, Unsafe and Unnecessary
Natural Treatments to Relieve Anxiety and OCD
Natural Treatment Plan for Obsessive Compulsive Disorder
Obsessive Compulsive Disorder OCD
How to Beat OCD Without Drugs (It’s Simple But Not Easy!)
Methylation: Why It Matters For Your Immunity, Inflammation & More
MUST READ: If you are thinking of having LASIK Surgery
Disturbing: Researchers Finally Confirm That Cancer Is A Purely Man-Made Disease
2016 Series Begins On April 12th: “The Truth About Cancer: A Global Quest”
10 Benefits of Eating Organic Food
15 Reasons to Eat Organic Food
Top 10 Reasons To Go Organic
Avoiding Gluten Good For More Than Just Celiacs, Study Confirms
This is What Happens To Your Body When You Eat Pink Himalayan Salt
14 Natural Remedies To Beat Insomnia Plus Tips to Get a Better Night’s Rest
To the Cancer Patient: Natural Cures vs. Traditional
Alternative Cancer Treatment Options vs Conventional Cancer Treatments
Conventional Medicine Vs. Holistic: A World of Difference
“The Truth About Cancer: A Global Quest” — A Revolutionary Wellness Platform
Epigenetics And Cancer: You Are What You Eat
Biophotons: The Human Body Emits, Communicates with, and is Made from Light
Blacklisted Health Book Soars To NY Times Best-Seller Status Via Grassroots Support
HEMORRHOIDS: Natural Treatments According to Edgar Cayce
Why is the Media So Afraid of This Woman’s Work?
8 Natural Remedies That May Help You Sleep
The Worst Foods That Cause Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Signs and Symptoms of Hemochromatosis
Dr. Suzanne Humphries Has A Lot To Say About Aluminum In Vaccines
Stem Cell Therapy Replacing Knee Replacement Surgery
10 Natural Ways To Relieve Rheumatoid Arthritis
Easy To Make Vanilla Cinnamon Almond Milk Recipe
Is Comfrey Safe?
Are You Eating Too Much Soy?
These Foods Make Arthritis and Inflammation Worse
The Link Between Nightshades, Chronic Pain and Inflammation
Top 8 Musts for Treating Rheumatoid Arthritis Naturally
Expert tips on how you can reverse rheumatoid arthritis naturally
Where Oh Where Have All the Almonds Gone? (An update)
Hernia Coach Successfully Uses Dr. Hulda Clark’s Protocols To Heal Inguinal Hernia
How To Holistically Remediate An Inguinal Hernia
Top 21 natural home remedies for sleep apnea in toddlers & adults
Being Alert to Sleep Apnea
Natural Remedies for Sleep Apnea
The 17 Signs Your Body is Too Acidic and 9 Ways to Quickly Alkalize It
Science Confirms Turmeric As Effective As 14 Drugs
An Ayurvedic Approach to Gaining Weight
Top 10 Foods Highest in Calories
12 Ways to Help You Snooze Without Snoring
Beat sleep apnea naturally
6 Natural Sleep Apnea Treatments
Using Massage Therapy to Treat Enlarged or Inflamed Thyroid Glands
Goitre: How to naturally treat an enlarged thyroid
500 Reasons Turmeric May Be The World’s Most Important Herb
Neti Pot Demo & Guide
Effective Treatment Protocols for Hypothyroid and Hyperthyroid Disease
Do you take Ibuprofen? Then read this!
CHEMTRAILS: New Lawsuit Being Filed Against Geoengineering
Blood Clots: A Discussion of the Best Alternatives Remedies
Best Natural Blood Thinners
7 AMAZING HERBAL REMEDIES FOR DEEP VEIN THROMBOSIS
Reduce Your Risk Of Blood Clots Without A Prescription
Natural Remedies to Help Prevent Blood Clots
Blood Clots in Legs Symptoms, Treatment and Natural Remedies
Hemochromatosis: Scourge of the Northern European Bloodline
Hemochro­mato­sis Treated With Traditional Chinese Medicine
Ferritin and Iron
Hemochromatosis Remedies
Iron Overload (Hemochromatosis) Cured by Cabbage
Austin Mold and Airborne Allergies
Probiotic Foods
Natural Remedies That Work: Irritable Bowel Syndrome
34 Home Remedies for Irritable Bowel Syndrome
How To Treat Irritable Bowel Syndrome With Homeopathy
Can the Miracle of Enzymes Help Me?
Chemtrail Poisons Are Ruining Your Health From Above, And You May Not Know
Neurologist Warns Aluminum in Chemtrails Could Cause “Explosive Increase in Neurodegenerative Diseases”
97% Of All Terminal Cancer Patients Previously Had Root Canals
9 Spices That May Save Your Life
An Anti-Antibiotic Adventure
The Nightshade Nightmare
Nightshades Curb Your Enthusiasm
The Solution to the Childhood Vaccination Enigma
Angelina Jolie: Heroic Mastectomy Role Model or Mastotemanophiliac
These Seeds Destroy Cancerous Cells
A Fluoride-Free Pineal Gland Is More Important Than Ever
600 Reasons Turmeric May Be The World’s Most Important Herb
Part IV: Chronic Problems Related to Gall Bladder Dysfunction/Disease
Part III: Chronic Problems Related to Gallbladder Dysfunction/Disease
Part II: Chronic Problems Related to Gallbladder Dysfunction/Disease
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Archives
April 2019
March 2019
February 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
April 2014
March 2014
January 2014
December 2013
October 2013
June 2013
March 2013
February 2013
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
Categories
Uncategorized
Proudly powered by WordPress