Does Green Coffee Really Helps for Weight Loss? - Explained
Skip to content
Home
Blog
Weight Loss
Does Green Coffee Beans Really Helps for Weight Loss?
Posted August 31, 2018 October 10, 2018 greencoffee
Losing weight can be challenging for people who aren’t much active due to their hectic schedule. They struggle with their workout sessions as they hardly get any time to work on their body. This problem is where green coffee comes into play. Green coffee beans are very popular for their ability to help in weight loss naturally without any added exercises or changes in the diet plan.
There are few studies which show that green coffee beans contain a lot of healthy compounds which can be easily absorbed by the body which helps in losing weight. It is also said that green coffee bean is better than any other weight loss supplement. Is it a myth? Or green coffee is a beautiful natural option to shred your unwanted fat? Let’s find out.
Contents
1 What are Green Coffee Beans?
2 Benefits of Green Coffee
3 How does Green Coffee work?
4 Does Green Coffee beans actually help in losing weight?
5 Downsides of Green Coffee Beans
6 Takeaway
What are Green Coffee Beans?
Green coffee beans are unroasted coffee beans. These are the raw coffee beans which are processed but not roasted and as the name suggests, are green in color. These coffee beans are very rich in chlorogenic acid. Chlorogenic acid is one of the many peripherals present in the coffee bean which acts as a natural fat burner and weight loss aid. Green coffee beans also contain caffeine, but the main ingredient which works wonders in the weight loss process is chlorogenic acid. This chlorogenic acid is extracted from the coffee beans to make a supplement known as green coffee bean extract. Green coffee has favorable effects on the human body in many ways; we have listed them below.
Benefits of Green Coffee
The most important advantage of green coffee is that it helps to fight against excess weight. The chlorogenic acid present in the green coffee bean is responsible for the weight loss. It can be consumed as a beverage or as a supplement in the form of a capsule or tablet.
The caffeine present in the green coffee bean increases alertness of the mind and enhances the energy levels, as it causes the body to release hormones.
The nutrients present in the green coffee bean burn glucose and fats to convert them into energy. This prevents the body from many diseases such as diabetes.
Consuming green coffee bean extract also lowers down blood sugar levels and makes you less likely to crave junk food which leads up to making your weight loss journey more comfortable.
The green coffee bean extract can also lower blood pressure and helps to get rid of cholesterol triglyceride concentration in the blood.
Another great benefit of the green coffee bean is its Anti Ageing properties. The green coffee bean extract helps the skin to look healthier and prevents wrinkles at a young age.
How does Green Coffee work?
The liver is an essential organ in the body when we talk about losing weight. Liver deals with the fat production in the body and thus controls and is responsible for the weight in your body. The chlorogenic acid present in the green coffee bean extract directly targets the liver and inhibits the release of blood sugar in your bloodstream.
All the food we eat is reduced to sugars. When we do any kind of physical labor, this sugar is used as energy, and the extra sugar that is not used gets stored as fats in the body. By inhibiting sugar release into the blood-stream, it stops glucose from entering the fat cells. The fat cell without any glucose will starve and eventually die after some time.
The green coffee extract contains other active ingredients among which the most important are catechin and epicatechin. These antioxidants are also the main components of the green tea. Caffeine also plays an essential character in the green coffee bean extract.
Does Green Coffee beans actually help in losing weight?
A study was also conducted in the National Center of Biotechnology in January 2012 to evaluate the efficiency of green coffee bean extract in weight loss. Random overweight people were picked up and were asked to take the green coffee bean supplement.
The result of the study stated ‘ Over the period of 22 weeks of the study, the participants lost about 10% of body weight- an average weight loss of 17 pounds and loss of 16% of their body fat. No side effects were noted.
The study indicates that green coffee bean extract is a legitimate weight loss and fat burning product. What is more interesting is that the participants in the study did not change anything about their diet or added any physical exercise to their routine.
But not everyone claimed success in this path. There are some more studies which showed no such significant results. Some people say that green coffee only helps them with their appetite, they feel less hungry whereas some claim to have experienced a dramatic weight loss. Not only this, as there are always two sides of a coin. There are some of the downsides of the green coffee as well.
Downsides of Green Coffee Beans
Green coffee beans is just the raw form of the brown colored roasted coffee beans. So, it has the same negative sides as the regular coffee since both of them contain caffeine.
Too much of caffeine can make you restless and anxious keeping you awake at night.
People who suffer from any heart diseases such as heart arrhythmia should not take green coffee beans as caffeine can cause further problems and lead to complications.
An overdose of the green coffee bean extract can lead to issues like minor stomach cramps, nausea, and insomnia
A pregnant woman, a nursing mother, a child below the age of 18 and any person with a known medical condition should always consult a doctor before using green coffee for weight loss. Otherwise green coffee is safe. 98% of people who took green coffee haven’t experienced any side effects. So yes, green coffee is a very safe and natural way to slim down yourself.
Takeaway
Losing weight is a complicated process, but for sure, it is not impossible. Green Coffee is one of the ways by which you can lose weight easily without much effort. Studies have shown that green coffee helps in losing weight, but still these studies haven’t been conducted in large number to come to a proper conclusion. Do you believe that just consuming green coffee will help you lose weight? Do let us know in the comments below.
green coffee capsulesgreen coffee effectsGreen Coffee for weight losswight loss
Post navigation
7 Hidden Reasons Why You Can’t Lose Weight⟶
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Sydney by aThemes.