Grapefruit Juice's Effect on Codeine | Healthfully
x
healthfully
Search Glass
Diseases and Injuries
Family Health
Nutrition
Weight Management
Appearance
Can I Drink Grapefruit Juice With Wellbutrin?
Does Grapefruit Interfere With Amlodipine?
Can You Eat a Grapefruit With Hydrochlorothiazide?
Is Grapefruit Juice Bad for Your Kidneys?
Meds Not to Mix With Red Grapefruit
Which Fruits Should Be Avoided When Taking Erythromycin Tablets?
Grapefruit Juice's Effect on Codeine
By Deborah Lundin ; Updated July 18, 2017
Related Articles
Can I Drink Grapefruit Juice With Wellbutrin?
Does Grapefruit Interfere With Amlodipine?
Can You Eat a Grapefruit With Hydrochlorothiazide?
Is Grapefruit Juice Bad for Your Kidneys?
Grapefruits are a type of citrus fruit that comes in white, pink/red and star ruby/rio red varieties. The pink or red varieties are higher in vitamin content, but they all provide vitamins A and C, as well as a small amount of calcium. Most of the grapefruit consumed in the United States comes from growers in Florida. While grapefruits and grapefruit juice are good sources of nutrition and vitamins, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention adds a large warning; for patients taking certain medications, they can alter the effects of the medication, including codeine.
Grapefruit
Grapefruits and grapefruit juice contain a variety of chemicals. The main one of concern when it comes to medications is furanocoumarin. According to the Harvard Medical School, furanocoumarin binds with the enzyme CYP3A4 in your intestinal tract and reduces the absorption of medications. With the enzyme blocked, certain medications are able to more easily enter the bloodstream and can create toxic levels within the body. Medications that can be affected include opiates like codeine, calcium channel clockers, statins, immunosuppressants, benzodiazepines and other neurological medications.
Codeine
Codeine is in the class of drugs called opiates, which includes drugs like morphine, hydrocodone, methadone and oxycodone. This class of medication, including codeine, is also referred to as narcotics. Codeine, according to the National Institutes of Health, is used to treat mild to moderate pain as well as in some medications to treat coughing. It can be prescribed alone or in combination with acetaminophen. Codeine should be taken exactly as prescribed, as talking too much can cause an overdose. Overdose symptoms can include difficulty breathing, loss of consciousness and muscle tones, cold and clammy skin, a slow heartbeat and fainting.
Medical Research
Consuming grapefruit juice while taking codeine is not advised due to the furanocumarins found in the grapefruit. A 2010 study published in “Basic and Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology” looked at the effects of grapefruit juice and another opiate, oxycodone. The study showed that drinking grapefruit juice or eating a grapefruit can increase the concentrations of the drug in the body. A 2004 study published in “Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics” looked at the effects of grapefruit juice on CYP3A4 in patients taking methadone. It found that grapefruit increases the bioavailability of methadone in a patient and could result in a toxic level. These studies show that it is not advisable to drink grapefruit juice if you are taking any opioid drugs, including codeine, due to a risk of toxic levels.
Considerations
Because of the effects grapefruits and grapefruit juice can have on medications like codeine and many others, it is important that you discuss this with your physician. If grapefruits and grapefruit juice are a regular part of your diet, your physician will need to be aware of this and either prescribe different medications or advise you to avoid grapefruit throughout the course of your treatments. Due to the possible risk of drug toxicity, it is important to take caution when it comes to grapefruit juice. In this case, the health benefits it can provide may not be worth the risk.
Video of the Day
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
References
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Fruit of the Month: Grapefruit
The Harvard Medical School Family Health Guide; Grapefruit and Medication: A Cautionary Note; February 2006
MedlinePlus; Codeine; February 1, 2011
“Basic and Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology”; Grapefruit Juice Enhances the Exposure to Oral Oxycodone; TH Nieminen et al.; October 2010
“Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics”; Effects of Grapefruit Juice on the Pharmacokinetics of the Enantiomers of Methadone; M. Benmebarek et al.; July 2004
About the Author
Deborah Lundin is a professional writer with more than 20 years of experience in the medical field and as a small business owner. She studied medical science and sociology at Northern Illinois University. Her passions and interests include fitness, health, healthy eating, children and pets.
More Related Articles
Zoloft & Vitamin B12 Absorption
Calories in Half a Grapefruit
Grapefruit & Augmentin
Related Articles
Which Fruits Should Be Avoided When Taking Erythromycin Tablets?
Read More
Nyquil Liquicap Ingredients
Read More
Get Fit!
Try our healthfully BMI and weight loss calculator!
Grapefruit & Blood Pressure Medication Precautions
Read More
Side Effects of Vitamin D Overconsumption and Its Interaction With Other Drugs
Read More
About Us
Advertise
Contact Us
Copyright Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of the HEALTHFULLY.COM Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. The material appearing on HEALTHFULLY.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. HEALTHFULLY.COM does not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the website.