Are You at Risk for Inherited Cancer? Moores Cancer Center at UC San Diego Health
You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page.
Home
Medical ServicesMake an AppointmentPatients & VisitorsFind a ProviderLocations
You Are Here:
Genetics
Cancer Genetics
Genetic Counseling and Available Tests
Are You At Risk?Currently selected
Our Team
Newsroom	Contact	Appointments Volunteer About Us Careers Giving Policy Notices
Search
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Main Navigation
Contact
|
Giving
|
Volunteer
|
About
|
Jobs
|
Newsroom
858-657-7000 | MyUCSDChart Login
Medical ServicesMake an AppointmentPatients & VisitorsFind a ProviderLocations
Menu
Search
Search
MyUCSDChart User Login
Sign Up | Activate Account
Cancer Services
Home / Medical Services / Cancer Services / Treatment Programs / Genetics / Are You At Risk?
Cancer Genetics
Genetic Counseling and Available Tests
Are You At Risk?Currently selected
Our Team
LeftActions
​
Are You at Risk for Inherited Cancer?
Page Content
Genetic counseling, offered by the Family Cancer Genetics Program at Moores Cancer Center, can help you assess your risk for inherited cancer based on personal and family medical history. It will also help determine whether you are a candidate for genetic testing.
Because inherited cancers are relatively rare, cancer genetics testing is only recommended under certain circumstances. If you or your family have any of the following, you may be a candidate:
Early onset of breast, colorectal, or other cancers usually diagnosed after age 60
Individuals or families with numerous colon polyps
Several relatives with breast and/or ovarian cancer
Families with a combination of the following cancers: Colon, rectal, stomach, endometrial, uterine, kidney, ureter, pancreas, or small intestine
Several relatives with melanoma and/or pancreatic cancer
Male breast cancer
Ashkenazi Jewish individuals with any ovarian cancer in the family or any breast cancer diagnosed before age 50 in the family
Several relatives with endocrine cancers
Two or more related cancers in the same person or in close relatives. For example:
Breast cancer and ovarian cancer
Colorectal and endometrial cancers
Melanoma and pancreatic cancers
If your family has other clusters of cancer, or if there's any cancer that was diagnosed at an unusually young age, contact us to see if you would be a candidate for genetic counseling.
You may also want to consider genetic counseling for yourself and family members if you've been diagnosed with a hereditary type of cancer, especially if the diagnosis was at an early age and/or you had no known risk factors.
Tips for Collecting Your Family History
Try to find out the age at which your relatives were diagnosed with cancer. This is often the most important clue in identifying families with a hereditary cancer syndrome.
Whenever possible, try to obtain the pathology reports, or other medical records from family members who have had a cancer diagnosis.
If anyone in your family has already had genetic testing, ask for a copy of their test result to bring with you. This is very important to ensure that the right test is ordered in the event that you'll have genetic testing yourself.
More Information
Family Cancer Genetics Program
About Genetic Counseling and Testing (including costs, types and specific tests)
Content Area Two
Appointments & Referrals
858-822-3240
For Referring Physicians
Location
La Jolla
Moores Cancer Center
Meet Our Specialists
Family Cancer Genetics Team
Our bimonthly newsletter delivers healthy lifestyle tips, patient stories and research discovery news. Subscribe to Newsletter
Find a Provider Locations Newsroom Contact Us Translate
Select a Language Spanish Chinese Chinese (Traditional) Tagalog Vietnamese Korean Farsi/Persian Armenian Russian Arabic Khmer/Cambodian Hmong Laotian Czech Portuguese German French Japanese Italian Dutch
About About Us Giving Events & Classes Careers Volunteer
Patients & Visitors Billing & Insurance Financial Assistance Medical Records Appointments Walk-in Clinics Quality International Patients Health Library
Health Professionals Refer a Patient Transfer a Patient Nursing Infection Control Officer
Francesca Torriani, MD
Medical Director, Infection Prevention and Clinical Epidemiology
619-471-9045
UC San Diego | School of Medicine
Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.
Legal
Policy Notices
Site Map
Site Feedback
Toggle Desktop/Mobile ViewToggle Desktop/Mobile View