Brookhaven Retreat Shares Benefits and Caution Regarding Grapefruit and Certain Prescription Drugs During National Grapefruit Month in February
Skip to navigation
Skip to content
PRWeb
Home
News Center
Blog
Login Create a free account
Front Page
Arts
Business
Education
Environment
Government
Industry
Lifestyle
Sports
Tech
More
Industry
Lifestyle
Sports
Tech
Automotive
Communiques
Computer
Events
Health
Home and Family
Legal / Law
Media
Miscellaneous
Opinion / Editorial
Podcasting
Science
Society
RSS Email Newsletters Put PRWeb on your site
Brookhaven Retreat Shares Benefits and Caution Regarding Grapefruit and Certain Prescription Drugs During National Grapefruit Month in February
Share Article
Brookhaven Retreat ® LLC, a unique residential treatment facility exclusively for women with mental health and/or substance abuse issues, celebrates National Grapefruit Month in February by sharing information about the health benefits and cautions regarding grapefruit and how it interacts with certain prescription drugs.
National Grapefruit Month
Past News Releases
RSS
Brookhaven Retreat Recognizes...
Brookhaven Retreat Shared 5...
Brookhaven Retreat Welcomed Dr....
Knoxville, TN (PRWEB) February 02, 2016
Brookhaven Retreat ® LLC observes National Grapefruit Month in February by sharing information about the health benefits of grapefruit, such as that grapefruit vapors can help the body retain water such as for dehydration, stress and depression, as well as caution regarding interaction with certain prescription drugs.
According to WebMD, grapefruit has many uses in various forms, such as grapefruit seed extract, which can be applied to the skin to clear mild irritations. It can also be used as an ear or nasal rinse for preventing infections, as well as a gargle for sore throats since it is used to kill bacteria and fungus, parasites and mold.
When eaten or juiced, the following nutrients are contained, including vitamin C, fiber, potassium, and pectin, to name a few. Some components are said to also contain antioxidants to help protect cells from damage, to reduce cholesterol and aid in weight loss.
However, according to Psychology Today’s post, “A Bitter Pill to Swallow: Grapefruit Juice and Medication,” certain fruit and fruit juices may interfere with specific drugs’ pharmacokinetics to create a food-drug interaction. “In other words, sometimes they can affect the bioavailability of a medication and may adversely interfere with blood levels, causing either lower levels of medication that are ineffective or higher levels that may be toxic,” says the post by Dr. Sylvia R. Karasu. “The juice most commonly implicated is grapefruit juice, but pineapple, pomegranate, and even some kinds of orange juice have also been found to interact with medications.”
“Individuals must be mindful of their medications and ask a professional if they should avoid eating or drinking certain fruits or fruit juices while taking certain prescribed drugs,” says Jacqueline Dawes, founder of Brookhaven Retreat. “For those who have no issue, grapefruit is a refreshing, nutritious fruit that can be enjoyed not only in February, but year around.”
About Brookhaven Retreat
Brookhaven Retreat is a women's treatment center nestled on a naturally beautiful 48-acre site secluded in the foothills of the Great Smoky Mountains. It has helped hundreds of women across the United States overcome depression, trauma, anxiety, substance use and a range of other behavioral health challenges. Brookhaven’s Founder, Jacqueline Dawes, has predicated its gender-specific treatment on “healing emotional breakage” for women. In this way, she has established a sanctuary and a place where women can feel safe, secure and cared for by a staff of highly trained professionals.
Share article on social media or email:
View article via:
Pdf Print
Contact Author
Lisa Breeden
Brookhaven Retreat
+1 865-357-3600
Email >
Visit website
News Center
PRWeb
Questions about a news article you've read?
Reach out to the author: contact and available social following information is listed in the top-right of all news releases.
Questions about your PRWeb account or interested in learning more about our news services?
Call PRWeb:1-866-640-6397
PRWeb home
Why PRWeb
How It Works
Who Uses It
Pricing
Learning
Blog
About Cision
Contact Us
Partners
Subscribe to News
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Copyright
Site Map
Create a free prweb account
©Copyright 1997-2015, Vocus PRW Holdings, LLC. Vocus, PRWeb, and Publicity Wire are trademarks or registered trademarks of Vocus, Inc. or Vocus PRW Holdings, LLC.