Reducing the Lipid Levels in Your Blood - American Family Physician
Advertisement
<< Previous article
Next article >>
May 1, 1998 Issue
Please note: This information was current at the time of publication. But medical information is always changing, and some information given here may be out of date. For regularly updated information on a variety of health topics, please visit familydoctor.org, the AAFP patient education website.
Information from Your Family Doctor
Reducing the Lipid Levels in Your Blood
Am Fam Physician. 1998 May 1;57(9):2207-2208.
See related article on dyslipidemia.
What are lipids?
Fats in the blood are called lipids. Lipids join with protein in your blood to form lipoproteins. Lipoproteins make energy for your body, so they're important to the cells in your body.
Three kinds of lipoproteins, (also called cholesterol), re in your blood: (1) high-density (also called HDL, for short) cholesterol, (2) low-density (also called LDL) cholesterol and (3) very low-density (VLDL) cholesterol. HDL is sometimes called the “good cholesterol” because it keeps cholesterol from buiding up in your arteries. (You can remember this is the “good” cholesterol if you think “H is for healthy.”) LDL can be thought of as the “bad” cholesterol because high LDL levels can increase your risk of heart attack or stroke. (You can remember this is the “bad” cholesterol if you think “L is for lousy.”)
What is a normal total cholesterol level?
A normal total cholesterol level is 200 mg per dL or less.
What is a normal LDL level?
A normal LDL level is 130 mg per dL or less. When the LDL level is higher than 130, fat can build up in the walls of your blood vessels. This fat can plug up your arteries and keep the blood from flowing through them. If an artery going to your heart gets blocked, you might have a heart attack. If an artery going to your brain gets blocked, you might have a stroke. A high LDL level causes heart disease, stroke, poor circulation and kidney disease.
What causes high levels of fat in the blood?
Most people have high levels of fat in their blood because they eat too much high-fat food. Some people have high fat levels because they have an inherited disorder. High lipid levels may also be caused by medical conditions such as diabetes, hypothyroidism, alcoholism, kidney disease, liver disease and stress. In some people, certain medicines, such as birth control pills, steroids and blood pressure medicines, can cause high lipid levels.
When should I have my cholesterol level checked?
If you're over 20 years of age, you should have a blood test to measure your cholesterol. If your cholesterol level is high, your doctor will recommend treatment and will recheck your cholesterol every so often.
Are there any signs of high cholesterol levels?
Often there are no signs. Without a blood test, you may not know you have high levels of fat in your blood until you have a heart attack or a stroke. Some people with high lipid levels have yellowish, fatty bumps on their skin.
What is the treatment for high lipid levels?
The first ways to reduce your lipid levels are (1) eat less fat, (2) exercise regularly and (3) lose weight if you weigh too much. If you smoke, stop smoking. If these steps don't lower your LDL level enough, your doctor may have you take medicine to take the fat out of your blood.
What are some ways to cut down on fat in my diet?
Buy lean cuts of meat. Cut away all visible fat before cooking it.
Remove the skin from chicken before cooking it.
Don't eat fried foods or high-fat sauces.
Instead of frying meat, broil it or grill it.
Don't eat egg yolks. You can eat egg whites or egg substitutes.
Use low-fat dairy products, such as skim milk or 1% milk, low-fat frozen yogurt, low-fat ice cream and low-fat cheeses.
Don't use whole milk, full-fat ice cream, sour cream, cheese or milk chocolate.
Put more fiber in your diet. Fruits and vegetables are good sources of fiber. Eat three to five servings of vegetables a day and two to four servings of fruits.
What about exercise?
Aerobic exercises, such as walking, running, bicycling and swimming, are a good way to lower your blood cholesterol. Exercise also lowers your blood pressure, your blood sugar level and your stress level. If you weigh too much, aerobic exercise helps you burn calories. That will help you lose weight. Aerobic exercise should be done on a regular basis: work up to exercising for 30 minutes at a time four or five times a week. You can also exercise for a shorter time, such as 10 to 15 minutes. But if you exercise for only 10 to 15 minutes at a time, you need to exercise more often than four or five times a week.
What about cholesterol-lowering medicine?
Medicines to lower your cholesterol level may be used if you are at high risk for heart disease or if your lipid levels don't drop after you have eaten a low-fat diet for a couple of months.
There are different kinds of medicine that lower cholesterol. You may need to take just one medicine or you may need to take more than one, depending on how high your cholesterol is. Your doctor will take blood tests every so often to check on your cholesterol level and find out if the medicine is working.
Read the full article.
Get immediate access, anytime, anywhere.
Choose a single article, issue, or full-access subscription.
Earn up to 6 CME credits per issue.
Already a member/subscriber?
Log in >>
Purchase Access:
See My Optionsclose
Already a member or subscriber? Log in
Best Value!
Get Full Access
From $140
Subscribe
Includes:
Immediate, unlimited access to all AFP content
More than 130 CME credits per year
Access to the AFP app
Print delivery option
Access This Issue
$39.95
Includes:
Immediate access to this issue
CME credits in this issue
To see the full article, log in or purchase access.
This handout is provided to you by your family doctor and the American Academy of Family Physicians. Other health-related information is available from the AAFP online at http://familydoctor.org.
This information provides a general overview and may not apply to everyone. Talk to your family doctor to find out if this information applies to you and to get more information on this subject.
Copyright © 1998 by the American Academy of Family Physicians.
This content is owned by the AAFP. A person viewing it online may make one printout of the material and may use that printout only for his or her personal, non-commercial reference. This material may not otherwise be downloaded, copied, printed, stored, transmitted or reproduced in any medium, whether now known or later invented, except as authorized in writing by the AAFP. Contact afpserv@aafp.org for copyright questions and/or permission requests.
PRINT
COMMENTS
ADD TO FAVORITES REMOVE FAVORITE
This page will be removed from your Favorites Links. Are you sure?
SHARE
Want to use this article elsewhere? Get Permissions
Advertisement
MOST RECENT ISSUE
Apr 15, 2019
Access the latest issue of American Family Physician
Read the Issue
Email Alerts
Don't miss a single issue. Sign up for the free AFP email table of contents.
Sign Up Now
Navigate this Article
Continue reading from May 1, 1998
Previous: Software Reviews/Book Reviews
Next: Slipped Capital Femoral Epiphysis
View the full table of contents >>
Home / Journals / afp / Vol. 57/No. 9(May 1, 1998) / Reducing the Lipid Levels in Your Blood