Ceylon Heritage Collection - VCO for health Accio
Home
Our Story
Our Products
Blog
Contacts
Blog Single
Taking the recommended dosage of three tablespoons a day of virgin coconut oil is beneficial to boost your immune system, increase metabolism & improve digestion.
Common Colds: Offer a person with cold and sore throat a hot drink of tea mixed with virgin coconut oil (VCO). The antimicrobial properties of VCO will help one to heal fast.
Cuts, Wounds and Bruises: You can apply a little VCO on the affected area for it to heal fast, to help prevent infection and even scarring.
Hair Treatment: Apply & massage VCO on your scalp & hair a few times a week. It will promote healthy hair & scalp as well as cure and prevent dandruff & itchy scalp. As VCO is natural and gentle, it is safe even for young children and babies.
Natural Deodorant: If you want to stay fresh all day and you have no deodorant, you can apply VCO on your underarms. Unlike a regular deodorant, it is safe and won’t harm your skin- it will even make your underarm skin smooth and silky.
Make-Up Remover: Virgin coconut oil removes make up easily and even moisturizes your face in the process.
Massage oil: Warm virgin coconut oil is excellent as a massage oil. Absorbs easily & it removes pollutants and improves blood circulation. Unlike other oils; it doesn’t leave too much stain on sheets and clothes due to easy absorption.
Skin treatment: Apply VCO all over your body as a natural and effective moisturizer. It will make your skin smooth and moisturized. Treat rough dry skin with VCO & it also helps prevent stretch marks as well. Not only will your complexion improve, scars and discoloration on skin will also vanish. Skin irritations such as insect bites, rashes and fungal infections can be cured. It is best to apply VCO right after cleansing or washing the skin for better skin absorption. Unsightly scars, warts, and other blemishes can be treated with VCO. Also prevents wrinkles, sagging skin and age spots
Boosts energy and endurance: Enhances physical and athletic performance. Helps relieve symptoms associated with chronic fatigue syndrome.
Improves digestion: Helps absorption of other nutrients including vitamins, minerals, and amino acids. Improves bowel function. Relieves pain and irritation caused by hemorrhoids.
Heart healthy: Improves cholesterol ratio reducing risk of heart disease. Protects arteries from injury that causes atherosclerosis and thus protects against heart disease.
Oil pulling works by cleaning (detoxifying) the oral cavity in a similar way that soap cleans dirty dishes. It literally sucks the dirt (toxins) out of your mouth and creates a clean oral environment that contributes to proper flow of dental liquid that is needed to prevent cavities & diseases. Cures tooth decay, kills bad breath, heals bleeding gums, whitens teeth, soothes throat dryness and promotes gum health.
Promotes loss of excess weight by increasing metabolic rate. It is utilized by the body to produce energy in preference to being stored as body fat like other dietary fats. Helps prevent obesity and overweight problems.
Tweet
Copyright © 2017. Ceylon Heritage Collection Pvt Ltd. All rights reserved
Developed by Ace Productions