Fish oil - cholesterol - Pure EPA - Mind1st
Buy Now
Pure EPA?
About
Contact
Omega 3 Info
mobile menu
Buy Now
Pure EPA?
About
Contact
Omega 3 Info
Pure EPA Fish Oil, Benefiting People All Over The World Since 2005.
Strong , Clean, Premium
Effective
Surpasses International fish
oil standards
Sustainable , Strong
Wild Fish Oil.
Fish oil – cholesterol
Dr Myers, an expert who holds a doctorate in naturopathic medicine. I am a naturopathic physician with nearly 20 years of experience developing breakthrough nutritional products.I also have extensive television and radio experience and have lectured widely to health professionals, the military and the public on all aspects of natural health.
PuraEPA , Celebrating 11 years of product excellence
Cholesterol has had some pretty bad press over the years resulting in a lot of fear and as to whether we are consuming too much cholesterol in our diet. The truth is that only part of our cholesterol comes from our diet, the liver produces the rest. Cholesterol can only be found in animal products such as meat, eggs etc. However, it is still possible to have high cholesterol levels without eating food that contains cholesterol.
Eating foods that are high in saturated fats or hydrogenated fats causes the liver to produce more cholesterol so even if a product says it is low in cholesterol, you should still check the amount and type of fat it contains. Not all fats are bad, just as not all cholesterol is bad. Polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats can help to reduce the level of bad cholesterol in the body. Also, the Omega 3 fatty acids found in fish oil are reported to reduce triglyceride levels and increase the level of good cholesterol.
There are basically two types of cholesterol, one more beneficial than the other. High-density lipoprotein or HDL cholesterol is the good one as it would appear to travel through your body picking up all the extra low density lipoprotein or LDL cholesterol on its way, and transporting it to your liver to be processed.
Ideally, you would want your HDL cholesterol levels to be very high and your LDL cholesterol levels, the bad one, to be as low as possible. High levels of LDL cholesterol is linked to heart disease as excess levels of this cholesterol attaches itself to your artery walls where over time it can build up to a dangerously high level.
But there is another factor to be brought into the equation. High triglyceride levels are also linked to an increased risk of heart disease. Some research indicates that if your triglyceride levels are excessively high, then LDL cholesterol, or the bad cholesterol, is much more dangerous.
Similarly, if your ratio of triglycerides to HDL cholesterol is too high you also have an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. However, if your triglyceride levels are low, then LDL cholesterol poses less of a threat. This could go some way to explaining why some people with heart disease have normal LDL cholesterol levels and others with high levels of LDL cholesterol are seemingly healthy, it could all be in the level of triglycerides.
Fish oil can play a vital part in reducing the risk posed by high levels of LDL cholesterol. Not only does it contain high quantities of the essential Omega 3 fatty acids, which are known to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, research also shows that taking fish oil on a daily basis can lower triglyceride levels, sometimes by as much as 30%.
Due to the overwhelming success of this special offer it will be extend until futher notice.
Pure EPA Essential Oil Blend
(Box of 60 capsules)
Price: £11.90 £9.99
*Pure EPA is a powerful pharmaceutical grade omega 3 fish oil
*A unique product containing the purest form of ethyl EPA fish oil in the UK
Add To Basket
More Infomation
Qty
Normal price
Discounted price
1 bottle £11.90 £9.99
2 bottle £23.80 £19.98
3 bottle £35.70 £29.97
4 bottle £47.70 £39.96
5 bottle £59.50 £49.95
6 bottle £71.40 £59.94
Free delivery on 6 bottles or more
Retail Price £11.90 SALE Only £9.99
Essential oil Pure EPA is available exclusively from mind 1st. Mind1st Information Line: 01772 877925
More Infomation
Testimonial
OMEGA 3 INFO
My experience with EPA oil by Scot Sommerville
Fish Oil , Depression – Please take A Moment To Read The Article To Find Out If It Could Help You.
What is Pure Epa Fish Oil ?
Pure EPA is part of the Omega 3 family
Fish Oil Production , Fish Oil Supplements
Omega 3
Fish oil bipolar
Fish oil for a child
Omega 3 fish oil weight loss
How Fat Makes me Fit
Arthritis fish oil
ADHD fish oil
Fish oil vitamin E
Fish oil dosage
Health Benefit of fish oil
Fish oil side effects
Fish oil vitamin
Fish oil pill or tablet
Fish oil – cholesterol
Fish Oils
Eicosapentaenoic acid, EPA
Borage oil
Omega 3 Fatty Acid
Omega 3 fish oil EPA and DHA
Pharmaceutical grade fish oil
Pure EPA
EPA fish oil
What are Essential Fatty Acids
Fish Oil Supplement
Fish oils, how we grade them
Natural and the best fish oil capsules money can buy
Omega 3 Fish Oil
Flaxseed Oil versus Fish Oil
Fish oil capsules
The benefits of fish oil
Testimonial
Results may vary, this is an individual testimonial.
I started taking pure EPA three months ago for my general health. I am pleased to report an interesting side effect following taking the EPA. Two months after starting to take it, I no longer have any period pain or PMS. I have suffered badly for 30 years and up until last month had always spent a few days in bed. Last month – nothing! Not a twinge, not an ache, not tired. That is the first time in my whole life I have had a problem free period.
Doctor’s advice
I think diet is the foundation for health. If somebody isn’t physically healthy ,then you can’t expect to be healthy. You actually need to have EPA molecules in order to get good membranes for your cells so they function properly.
« Fish Oils
Fish oil pill or tablet »
FREE newsletter, all the latest knowledge in health and lifestyle →
Postage & Packing
Mainland UK: £2.50 | Rest of EU: £3.00 | Rest of World: £3.50
Order 6 items or more: FREE delivery.
Health
Terms
Billing Terms and conditions
Refund and returns policy
Shipping details
Privacy Policy