26 Weight Loss Tips That Are Actually Evidence-Based
Newsletter
Nutrition
Evidence Based
26 Weight Loss Tips That Are Actually Evidence-Based
Written by Kris Gunnars, BSc on August 22, 2018
Healthline and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link on this page.
The weight loss industry is full of myths.
People are often advised to do all sorts of crazy things, most of which have no evidence behind them.
However, over the years, scientists have found a number of strategies that seem to be effective.
Here are 26 weight loss tips that are actually evidence-based.
1. Drink Water, Especially Before Meals
Share on Pinterest
It is often claimed that drinking water can help with weight loss — and that’s true.
Drinking water can boost metabolism by 24–30% over a period of 1–1.5 hours, helping you burn off a few more calories (, ).
One study showed that drinking a half-liter (17 ounces) of water about half an hour before meals helped dieters eat fewer calories and lose 44% more weight, compared to those who didn’t drink the water ().
2. Eat Eggs For Breakfast
Eating whole eggs can have all sorts of benefits, including helping you lose weight.
Studies show that replacing a grain-based breakfast with eggs can help you eat fewer calories for the next 36 hours as well as lose more weight and body fat (, ).
If you don’t eat eggs, that's fine. Any source of quality protein for breakfast should do the trick.
3. Drink Coffee (Preferably Black)
Coffee has been unfairly demonized. Quality coffee is loaded with antioxidants and can have numerous health benefits.
Studies show that the caffeine in coffee can boost metabolism by 3–11% and increase fat burning by up to 10–29% (, , ).
Just make sure not to add a bunch of sugar or other high-calorie ingredients to your coffee. That will completely negate any benefits.
Shop for coffee online.
4. Drink Green Tea
Like coffee, green tea also has many benefits, one of them being weight loss.
Though green tea contains small amounts of caffeine, it is loaded with powerful antioxidants called catechins, which are believed to work synergistically with caffeine to enhance fat burning (9, ).
Although the evidence is mixed, many studies show that green tea (either as a beverage or a green tea extract supplement) can help you lose weight (, ).
Purchase green tea online.
5. Try Intermittent Fasting
Intermittent fasting is a popular eating pattern in which people cycle between periods of fasting and eating.
Short-term studies suggest intermittent fasting is as effective for weight loss as continuous calorie restriction ().
Additionally, it may reduce the loss of muscle mass typically associated with low-calorie diets. However, higher-quality studies are needed before any stronger claims can be made ().
6. Take a Glucomannan Supplement
A fiber called glucomannan has been linked to weight loss in several studies.
This type of fiber absorbs water and sits in your gut for a while, making you feel more full and helping you eat fewer calories (15).
Studies show that people who supplement with glucomannan lose a bit more weight than those who don't ().
Find glucomannan supplements online.
7. Cut Back on Added Sugar
Added sugar is one of the worst ingredients in the modern diet. Most people consume way too much.
Studies show that sugar (and high-fructose corn syrup) consumption is strongly associated with an increased risk of obesity, as well as conditions including type 2 diabetes and heart disease (, , ).
If you want to lose weight, cut back on added sugar. Just make sure to read labels, because even so-called health foods can be loaded with sugar.
8. Eat Less Refined Carbs
Refined carbohydrates include sugar and grains that have been stripped of their fibrous, nutritious parts. These include white bread and pasta.
Studies show that refined carbs can spike blood sugar rapidly, leading to hunger, cravings and increased food intake a few hours later. Eating refined carbs is strongly linked to obesity (, , 22).
If you're going to eat carbs, make sure to eat them with their natural fiber.
9. Go on a Low-Carb Diet
If you want to get all the benefits of carb restriction, then consider going all the way and committing to a low-carb diet.
Numerous studies show that such a regimen can help you lose 2–3 times as much weight as a standard low-fat diet while also improving your health (23, , ).
10. Use Smaller Plates
Using smaller plates has been shown to help some people automatically eat fewer calories ().
However, the plate-size effect doesn’t appear to affect everyone. Those who are overweight seem to be more affected (, ).
11. Exercise Portion Control or Count Calories
Portion control — simply eating less — or counting calories can be very useful, for obvious reasons ().
Some studies show that keeping a food diary or taking pictures of your meals can help you lose weight (, 31).
Anything that increases your awareness of what you are eating is likely to be beneficial.
12. Keep Healthy Food Around in Case You Get Hungry
Keeping healthy food nearby can help prevent you from eating something unhealthy if you become excessively hungry.
Snacks that are easily portable and simple to prepare include whole fruits, nuts, baby carrots, yogurt and hard-boiled eggs.
13. Take Probiotic Supplements
Taking probiotic supplements containing bacteria of the Lactobacillus subfamily have been shown to reduce fat mass (, ).
However, the same doesn’t apply to all Lactobacillus species. Some studies have linked L. acidophilus with weight gain (34).
Shop for probiotic supplements online.
14. Eat Spicy Foods
Chili peppers contain capsaicin, a spicy compound that can boost metabolism and reduce your appetite slightly (, ).
However, people may develop tolerance to the effects of capsaicin over time, which may limit its long-term effectiveness ().
15. Do Aerobic Exercise
Doing aerobic exercise (cardio) is an excellent way to burn calories and improve your physical and mental health.
It appears to be particularly effective for losing belly fat, the unhealthy fat that tends to build up around your organs and cause metabolic disease (, ).
16. Lift Weights
One of the worst side effects of dieting is that it tends to cause muscle loss and metabolic slowdown, often referred to as starvation mode (, ).
The best way to prevent this is to do some sort of resistance exercise such as lifting weights. Studies show that weight lifting can help keep your metabolism high and prevent you from losing precious muscle mass (, ).
Of course, it's important not just to lose fat — you also want to build muscle. Resistance exercise is critical for a toned body.
17. Eat More Fiber
Fiber is often recommended for weight loss.
Although the evidence is mixed, some studies show that fiber (especially viscous fiber) can increase satiety and help you control your weight over the long term (, ).
18. Eat More Vegetables and Fruits
Vegetables and fruits have several properties that make them effective for weight loss.
They contain few calories but a lot of fiber. Their high water content gives them low energy density, making them very filling.
Studies show that people who eat vegetables and fruits tend to weigh less ().
These foods are also very nutritious, so eating them is important for your health.
19. Chew More Slowly
Your brain may take a while to register that you've had enough to eat. Some studies show that chewing more slowly can help you eat fewer calories and increase the production of hormones linked to weight loss (, ).
Also consider chewing your food more thoroughly. Studies show that increased chewing may reduce calorie intake at a meal ().
20. Get Good Sleep
Sleep is highly underrated but may be just as important as eating healthy and exercising.
Studies show that poor sleep is one of the strongest risk factors for obesity, as it’s linked to an 89% increased risk of obesity in children and 55% in adults ().
21. Beat Your Food Addiction
A recent study found that 19.9% of people in North America and Europe fulfill the criteria for food addiction ().
If you experience overpowering cravings and can't seem to curb your eating no matter how hard you try, you may suffer from addiction.
In this case, seek professional help. Trying to lose weight without first combating food addiction is next to impossible.
22. Eat More Protein
Protein is the single most important nutrient for losing weight.
Eating a high-protein diet has been shown to boost metabolism by 80–100 calories per day while shaving 441 calories per day off your diet (, , ).
One study also showed that eating 25% of your daily calories as protein reduced obsessive thoughts about food by 60% while cutting desire for late-night snacking in half ().
Simply adding protein to your diet is one of the easiest and most effective ways to lose weight.
23. Supplement With Whey Protein
If you struggle to get enough protein in your diet, taking a supplement — such as protein powder — can help.
One study showed that replacing some of your calories with whey protein can cause weight loss of about 8 pounds over time while increasing muscle mass ().
Purchase whey protein online.
24. Don't Do Sugary Drinks, Including Soda and Fruit Juice
Sugar is bad, but sugar in liquid form is even worse. Studies show that calories from liquid sugar may be the single most fattening aspect of the modern diet ().
For example, one study showed that sugar-sweetened beverages are linked to a 60% increased risk of obesity in children for each daily serving ().
Keep in mind that this applies to fruit juice as well, which contains a similar amount of sugar as a soft drink like Coke ().
Eat whole fruit, but limit or avoid fruit juice altogether.
25. Eat Whole, Single-Ingredient Foods (Real Food)
If you want to be a leaner, healthier person, then one of the best things you can do for yourself is to eat whole, single-ingredient foods.
These foods are naturally filling, and it's very difficult to gain weight if the majority of your diet is based on them.
Here are 20 of the most weight loss-friendly foods on earth.
26. Don't Diet — Eat Healthy Instead
One of the biggest problems with diets is that they rarely work in the long term.
If anything, people who diet tend to gain more weight over time, and studies show that dieting is a consistent predictor of future weight gain ().
Instead of going on a diet, aim to become a healthier, happier and fitter person. Focus on nourishing your body instead of depriving it.
Weight loss should then follow naturally.
Written by Kris Gunnars, BSc on August 22, 2018
related stories
A 7-Step Plan to Lose 10 Pounds in Just One Week
How to Lose Weight Fast: 3 Simple Steps, Based on Science
20 Common Reasons Why You're Not Losing Weight
11 Foods to Avoid When Trying to Lose Weight
16 Ways to Motivate Yourself to Lose Weight
READ THIS NEXT
A 7-Step Plan to Lose 10 Pounds in Just One Week
Written by Rudy Mawer, MSc, CISSN
Sometimes you may need to lose a lot of weight quickly. Here is a 7-step plan to lose 10 pounds in just a week, backed by science.
READ MORE
How to Lose Weight Fast: 3 Simple Steps, Based on Science
Written by Kris Gunnars, BSc
A simple 3-step plan to lose weight fast, along with numerous effective weight loss tips. All of this is supported by science (with references).
READ MORE
20 Common Reasons Why You're Not Losing Weight
Written by Kris Gunnars, BSc
This article lists 20 common reasons why you're not losing weight. Many people stop losing before they reach a weight they are happy with.
READ MORE
11 Foods to Avoid When Trying to Lose Weight
Written by Hrefna Palsdottir, MS
Some foods are proven to help you lose weight, while others make you gain. Here are 11 foods to avoid when trying to lose weight.
READ MORE
16 Ways to Motivate Yourself to Lose Weight
Written by Caroline Pullen, MS, RD
Here are 16 effective ways you can motivate yourself to lose weight. People often lack the motivation to get started or continue on a weight loss diet.
READ MORE
How Walking Can Help You Lose Weight and Belly Fat
Written by Helen West, RD (UK)
Walking is a great form of physical activity that's free, low risk and easy to do. Importantly, it can also help you lose weight and belly fat.
READ MORE
Why Eggs Are a Killer Weight Loss Food
Written by Adda Bjarnadottir, MS
Whole eggs are among the best foods for weight loss. They are high in nutrients and help make you feel full, among other benefits.
READ MORE
12 Popular Weight Loss Pills and Supplements Reviewed
Written by Kris Gunnars, BSc
This is a detailed, evidence-based review of the 12 most popular weight loss pills and supplements on the market today.
READ MORE
How Many Carbs Should You Eat Per Day to Lose Weight?
Written by Kris Gunnars, BSc
Reducing carbohydrates in the diet is a great way to lose weight and improve health. This page explains exactly how many carbs you should aim for each…
READ MORE
Is Vitamin D Harmful Without Vitamin K?
Written by Alina Petre, MS, RD (CA)
The omega-3 fatty acids in fish oil have many potential health benefits, including weight loss. This article examines whether omega-3 fish oil can…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 128238 Client Version: 2b2d7909d0829945d526197a820652017194dca8 Build Number: 26582