Woman Claims Drinking Her Own Pee Cured her Fibromyalgia – Med Line Plus
Skip to content
Main Navigation
Home
Health
Fibromyalgia
About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms and Services
HEALTH
FIBROMYALGIA
Woman Claims Drinking Her Own Pee Cured her Fibromyalgia
By admin On September 25, 2018 In Uncategorized Leave a comment
facebook
tweet
google+
Yoga instructor Kayleigh Oakley claims that drinking her own urine has cured her of fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue, and Hashimoto’s disease.
Oakley, 33, drinks half a pint of her own pee every morning before dabbing some on her skin, which she claims has cured her of a lifetime of acne and has given her a flawless complexion. She says she showers after rubbing the pee on her face.
Before we get carried away let’s take a look at some of the quotes in the article because we have our doubts that this is a good therapy.
“If someone became unwell around me, my immune system would be so weak that I would get sick, too.” While we are not licensed physicians, we are reasonably confident this is because many sicknesses are contagious.
“I had been on a long journey, trying to improve my health. I changed my diet and lifestyle, trying to introduce more holistic things and not taking any pharmaceutical medicines.” Lots of people would like to avoid taking medications, many of which have side effects. We understand that. So the solution would taking some herbal supplements or something, right?
“I heard that urine can reset the immune system, promote general good health, and is good for the skin.”
Uh. From where? Where did she hear this?
“It is also an ancient yogic technique, so thought I would give it a go.”
A quick google search of “ancient yoga techniques urine” turns up a lot of articles about yoga exercises to prevent incontinence (good) and one (1) titled “The simple use of one’s own urine” from Rob’s Web, and it looks like it’s from the 1990s. It’s full of great info like how full of vitamins and minerals pee is.a
“I have never been horrified by the thought of drinking it and my friends and family accept what I do.”
Clearly, she’s never been horrified by it, and we suppose that it’s great to be accepted by her family and friends.
Anyway, Fibromyalgia Treating does not recommend drinking your own pee to treat your fibromyalgia. But we thought it was good for a laugh, and we can all use a good laugh.
Some more of our favorite quotes:
“The morning drink contains the most hormones and nutrients.”
“It’s a bit salty and you can taste some minerals, but because I have a vegan diet, it isn’t strong.”
“We are conditioned to think drinking urine is unclean, but it’s just a sterile filtration of the blood.” (Ed. Note: Urine is not sterile)
“We don’t think twice about taking drugs bought over the counter, with side-effects, yet urine has no side-effects and it works really well.”
“There’s a lot of misinformation out there, but you won’t know if drinking urine will help until you try it.”
Okay about that last quote: the first part of it is definitely true. The 2nd part, well, that is technically true too, but again, Fibromyalgia Treating does not recommend drinking your own pee.
Source>http://www.fibromyalgiatreating.com/8133-2/
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
Related
Related Posts
Here are 29 stories of women whose doctors did not take their pain seriously
For the husband whose wife has fibromyalgia and chronic disease
If you love someone with fibromyalgia who suffers from severe pain that varies from day to day and from hour to hour.
Post navigation
What is Dysthymia? How it is Linked with Fibromyalgia
FDA Approves Clinical Trial to Test Treating Fibromyalgia With TB Vaccine
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Search for:
Recent Posts
10 TRUE CAUSES OF FIBROMYALGIA THAT YOUR DOCTOR WILL NEVER TELL YOU ABOUT
Here are 29 stories of women whose doctors did not take their pain seriously
For the husband whose wife has fibromyalgia and chronic disease
If you love someone with fibromyalgia who suffers from severe pain that varies from day to day and from hour to hour.
5 things not to tell someone with fibromyalgia
Top Posts
Fibromyalgia is death disease
10 TRUE CAUSES OF FIBROMYALGIA THAT YOUR DOCTOR WILL NEVER TELL YOU ABOUT
Eight Signs Of Fibromyalgia Usually People Ignore . #2 is Quite Strange
6 Rare and Strange Symptoms of Fibromyalgia
10 Causes Of Fibromyalgia Your Doctor Is Ignoring
A New Treatment For Fibromyalgia Helped 100% Of Sufferers In New Study
Fibromyalgia is a disease of death
For the husband whose wife has fibromyalgia and chronic disease
Normal Muscle Pain OR Fibromyalgia? Here’s How YOU Can Tell The Difference
72 Symptoms of Fibromyalgia (You Won’t Believe) What are Yours?
SuperAds Lite powered by WordPress