Is Wi-Fi Safe for Children?Beware of Health Risks: Environmental Physicians Issue Stern Warning on Biological and Health Effects from Electromagnetic Field Exposures
Is Wi-Fi Safe for Children?
Beware of Health Risks
Doctors and Scientists around the world have warned against unnecessary exposure of children to RF/microwave from wireless technology and recommend safer WIRED internet connection instead, both in school and at home. We are parents who fully support the use of computers and the incorporation of technology in education, and we believe that it must be implemented in a SAFE manner.
Friday, April 27, 2012
Environmental Physicians Issue Stern Warning on Biological and Health Effects from Electromagnetic Field Exposures
April 12, 2012 - The American Academy of Environmental Medicine (AAEM)
Environmental Physicians Issue Stern Warning on Biological and Health Effects from Electromagnetic Field Exposures
The American Academy of Environmental Medicine (AAEM) today issued a position paper on "Electromagnetic and Radiofrequency Field Effect on Human Health http://aaemonline.org/emf_rf_position.html ," including wireless technologies and smart meters.
Today's report on electromagnetic fields takes a strong stand that society must acknowledge the biological effects of electromagnetic fields, educate the population about the risks from wireless technologies, and develop safer technologies. The group, AAEM, is an international association of physicians and professionals that has been dedicated to expanding the knowledge of human health in relationship to the environment since 1965, They have been first to recognize many conditions, including Gulf War Syndrome, chemical sensitivity and the role of mold in the development of systemic illness.
In its new report, "Electromagnetic and Radiofrequency Fields Effect on Human Health http://aaemonline.org/emf_rf_position.html ," AAEM is calling for:
An immediate caution on Smart Meter installation due to potentially harmful RF exposure.
Accommodation for health considerations regarding EMF and RF exposure, including exposure to wireless Smart Meter technology.
Independent studies to further understand the health effects from EMF and RF exposure.
Recognition that electromagnetic hypersensitivity is a growing problem worldwide.
Understanding and control of this electrical environmental bombardment for the protection of society.
Consideration and independent research regarding the quantum effects of EMF and RF on human health.
Use of safer technology, including for Smart Meters, such as hard-wiring, fiber optics or other non-harmful methods of data transmission.
The new position paper from the American Academy of Environmental Medicine comes on the heels of AAEM's letter to the California Public Utilities Commission http://electromagnetichealth.org/electromagnetic-health-blog/halt-smart-meters/ in January 2012.
12 Highlights from The Science
In the AAEM paper, " http://aaemonline.org/emf_rf_position.html Electromagnetic and Radiofrequency Fields Effect on Human Health" http://aaemonline.org/emf_rf_position.html , selected highlights of the science showing biological effects from electromagnetic fields included:
"Multiple studies correlate RF exposure with diseases such as cancer, neurological disease, reproductive disorders, immune dysfunction, and electromagnetic hypersensitivity.
"Many in vitro, in vivo and epidemiological studies demonstrate that significant harmful biological effects occur from non-thermal RF exposure and satisfy Hill’s criteria of causality.3
"Genetic damage, reproductive defects, cancer, neurological degeneration and nervous system dysfunction, immune system dysfunction, cognitive effects, protein and peptide damage, kidney damage, and developmental effects have all been reported in the peer-reviewed scientific literature.
"Genotoxic effects from RF exposure, including studies of non-thermal levels of exposure, consistently and specifically show chromosomal instability, altered gene expression, gene mutations, DNA fragmentation and DNA structural breaks.4-11
"Genotoxic effects are documented to occur in neurons, blood lymphocytes, sperm, red blood cells, epithelial cells, hematopoietic tissue, lung cells and bone marrow. Adverse developmental effects due to non-thermal RF exposure have been shown with decreased litter size in mice from RF exposure well below safety standards.12
"The fact that RF exposure causes neurological damage has been documented repeatedly. Increased blood-brain barrier permeability and oxidative damage, which are associated with brain cancer and neurodegenerative diseases, have been found.4,7,15-17
"Changes associated with degenerative neurological diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) have been reported.4,10
"Other neurological and cognitive disorders such as headaches, dizziness, tremors, decreased memory and attention, autonomic nervous system dysfunction, decreased reaction times, sleep disturbances and visual disruption have been reported to be statistically significant in multiple epidemiological studies with RF exposure occurring non-locally.18-21
"Nephrotoxic effects from RF exposure also have been reported.
"RF emissions have also been shown to cause isomeric changes in amino acids that can result in nephrotoxicity as well as hepatotoxicity.25
"Electromagnetic field (EMF) hypersensitivity has been documented in controlled and double blind studies with exposure to various EMF frequencies.
"Although these studies clearly show causality and disprove the claim that health effects from RF exposure are uncertain, there is another mechanism that proves electromagnetic frequencies, including radiofrequencies, can negatively impact human health. Government agencies and industry set safety standards based on the narrow scope of Newtonian or "classical" physics reasoning that the effects of atoms and molecules are confined in space and time. This model supports the theory that a mechanical force acts on a physical object and thus, long-range exposure to EMF and RF cannot have an impact on health if no significant heating occurs. However, this is an incomplete model. A quantum physics model is necessary to fully understand and appreciate how and why EMF and RF fields are harmful to humans.26,27”
The AAEM position paper concludes:
"These EMF and RF quantum field effects have not been adequately studied and are not fully understood regarding human health. Because of the well documented studies showing adverse effects on health and the not fully understood quantum field effect, AAEM calls for exercising precaution with regard to EMF, RF and general frequency exposure. In an era of when all society relies on the benefits of electronics, we must find ideas and technologies that do not disturb bodily function."
For over 50 years, the American Academy of Environmental Medicine (AAEM) has been studying and treating the effects of the environment on human health. AAEM co-sponsored ElectromagneticHealth.org's program on the biological effects of electromagnetic fields at the Commonwealth Club in San Francisco in 2010 http://electromagnetichealth.org/electromagnetic-health-blog/cc-video/ , along with Citizens for Health, and endorsed the book, "Public Health SOS: The Shadow Side of the Wireless Revolution" http://www.amazon.com/dp/1441458794/?tag=bescom08-20 , sent to Congress in 2009, co-authored by Camilla Rees, MBA and Magda Havas, PhD.
READ MORE HERE:http://electromagnetichealth.org/electromagnetic-health-blog/aaem-report/
Read Full Position Paper from the American Academy of Environmental Medicine here (PDF) - "Electromagnetic and Radiofrequency Fields Effect on Human Health" http://aaemonline.org/emfpositionstatement.pdf
AAEM Press Release (PDF) http://electromagnetichealth.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/04/press-release-aaem-emf-guidelines.pdf
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: 21st Century Learning, BCED, bcparent, BCSTA, BCTF, BYOD, children, education, health, Kids, learning, parenting, safe, safety, school, students, technology, wifi, wireless
Newer Post Older Post Home
Lastest Tweets
Tweets by @SafeinSchoolOrg
Quick Links
1) VIDEO: Pulsed Microwave of iPad
2) VIDEO: WiFi Router Radiation Measurement
3) 2012 Expert Witness Testimonies to U.S. Court concerning Removal of Wi-Fi in Public Schools
4) VIDEO: WiFi in Schools - The FactsWireless computer network in class simulation
5) VIDEOS: iPad iPhone Laptop Radiation Measurements
Pages
Home
中文网页: 电磁微波辐射与孩子健康
Reference for SD Trustees
Scientific Studies 科研报告
Practical Ways to Reduce EMF Radiation 下载传单 Flyers...
Frequently Asked Questions
The Precautionary Principle 预防原则
Microwave Exposure Limits - Countries Comparison
翻譯：请于以下按"Select Language"
然后选择 "Chinese Simplified" (简体中文)
或"Chinese Tradtional"(繁體中文) 翻譯
Select a language:简体中文Chinese Simplied繁體中文Chinese TraditionalEspañolDeutscheFrançaisItalianoPortuguêsArabicJapaneseKoreanRussianSwedishGermanRussianDanishGreekPolishHebrew
CONTACT
CLICK to Email us 按此电邮与我们联络 To connect with other Parents in your School District, email our Friends at Parents For Safe Schools or visit their Facebook Page
Search This Blog
Blog Archive
- Click on trangles next to months below to view all Titles
► 2014 (2)
► November (1)
► January (1)
► 2013 (23)
► December (1)
► November (1)
► June (1)
► May (1)
► April (3)
► March (7)
► February (7)
► January (2)
▼ 2012 (29)
► November (2)
► October (4)
► September (1)
► June (4)
► May (3)
▼ April (7)
Vote YES to BCCPAC Wireless-Free School of Choice ...
Updated! 2012 Expert Witness Testimonies to U.S. C...
Mobile Phones are NOT! Safe, Interview with Dr An...
BC Chief Medical Officer Dr. Perry Kendall's Lette...
Switzerland: Physicians for the Environment (MfE) ...
Guideline of the Austrian Medical Association for ...
Environmental Physicians Issue Stern Warning on Bi...
► March (2)
► February (4)
► January (2)
► 2011 (29)
► November (2)
► August (2)
► June (1)
► May (1)
► April (3)
► March (5)
► February (15)
Archived Articles
中文网页: 电磁微波辐射与孩子健康
Studies on Biological and Cellular Damage by Microwave & Radiofrequency Radiation
Israel's Position Paper on Electromagnetic Radiation in a School Environment
Dr. George Carlo speaks on Wi-Fi Radiation in Schools
LATEST WARNING: Wi-Fi Dangerous to Children and Pregnant Women
The Essential Message
Surprise! China's Safety Standard >100 times stricter than Canada's
International Warnings on Wi-Fi and Microwave Radiation
Removal of Wi-Fi from Schools and Libraries in Canada and Other Countries
Wi-Fi in the Education Environment
Protect your children from cell phone and WiFi radiation before it's too late
A letter to "Concerned Parent" on WLAN (Wi-Fi)
Children’s Exposure to Microwave Radiation - A letter to the Sooke School Board
Children are Particularly Susceptible to the Harm of Wi-Fi
Wi-Fi Concerns Should Lead to Updated Regulations - A Letter by Carol Hughes, MP
How to reduce Wi-Fi (Microwave) Radiation on our Children
Mobile Learning and Health Risks Slideshow by University of Tampere, Finland
The World Health Organization
We are not alone! Victoria School District is re-evaluating the safety of Wi-Fi
The current debate on Wi-Fi being installed in schools without Parents' consent
Electromagnetic Induction by Wi-Fi causes Human Tissue to Polarize at Twice the Frequency
At a Glance - The issue of Wi-Fi in School
SafeInSchool.org
Simple theme. Powered by Blogger.