HIV myths and the reality
NDTV
BUSINESS
हिन्दी
MOVIES
CRICKET
HEALTH
FOOD
TECH
HOP
AUTO
বাংলা
தமிழர்
APPS
TRAINS
ART
WEDDINGS
HOME NEWS FAQ VIDEOS HOME REMEDIES TOP STORIES RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS HOSPITALS Diseases DIABETES
Languages
हिंदी | Hindi
বাংলা | Bengali
தமிழ் | Tamil
Close [X]
Hey, you are not subscribed. Click here to subscribe Now .
Home » Photos » HIV myths and the reality
Photos
HIV myths and the reality
Share
Myth 1: HIV can be spread through tears, sweat, mosquitoes, pools, or casual contact
HIV can only be transmitted through infected blood, semen, vaginal fluids, and breast milk. The most common ways for HIV to be transmitted are through unprotected sexual contact and/or sharing needles with an HIV-positive person. HIV can also be passed from mother to baby during pregnancy, birth, or breastfeeding.
Share
Myth 2: There is no need to use a condom during sexual contact if both partners already have HIV.
There are different strains of HIV. If a condom is not used during sexual contact, HIV-infected partners may exchange different types or strains of HIV. This can lead to re-infection, which will make the treatment of HIV infection more difficult. So, it is important to use protection during sexual contact even if both the persons are infected with HIV.
Share
Myth 3: An HIV-positive person who receives antiretroviral treatment will not spread the virus.
Antiretroviral therapy can reduce the amount of HIV in the body. However, HIV remains in the body and can be transmitted to others.
Share
Myth 4: Faithful and loving partners do not spread HIV.
HIV can be transmitted through non-sexual activities such as blood transfusions and the sharing of injection needles as well regardless of whether your partner has remained faithful o you or not. So, to be safe, use a condom during sex, and get your partner and yourself tested for HIV.
Share
Myth 5: HIV/AIDS cannot be transmitted during oral sex.
Transmission of HIV occurs when there is an exchange of body fluids (such as semen, vaginal fluids, breast milk, blood or pre-ejaculatory fluids), and this is possible during oral sex when there are open wounds. These include cuts, sores or abrasions in the mouth or gums, or infections in the throat or mouth that are inflammed.
Share
HIV may be found in saliva, but it is in too small an amount to infect anyone. Also, eating in the same plate with an HIV infected person won't transmit HIV infection.
HIV can only be transmitted through an exchange of body fluids. It cannot be spread through physical contact unless you have an open wound which comes into contact with the body fluids (semen, vaginal fluids, breast milk, blood or pre-ejaculatory fluids) of an HIV-positive person.'>
HIV can only be transmitted through an exchange of body fluids. It cannot be spread through physical contact unless you have an open wound which comes into contact with the body fluids (semen, vaginal fluids, breast milk, blood or pre-ejaculatory fluids) of an HIV-positive person.' title='Myth 7: If you live with an HIV positive person, you'll get HIV.
HIV can only be transmitted through an exchange of body fluids. It cannot be spread through physical contact unless you have an open wound which comes into contact with the body fluids (semen, vaginal fluids, breast milk, blood or pre-ejaculatory fluids) of an HIV-positive person.' />
Share
Myth 7: If you live with an HIV positive person, you'll get HIV.
HIV can only be transmitted through an exchange of body fluids. It cannot be spread through physical contact unless you have an open wound which comes into contact with the body fluids (semen, vaginal fluids, breast milk, blood or pre-ejaculatory fluids) of an HIV-positive person.
Statistics show that people over 50 make up a rapidly growing segment of the HIV and AIDS population.'>
Statistics show that people over 50 make up a rapidly growing segment of the HIV and AIDS population.' title='Myth 8: People over 50 don't get HIV and AIDS.
Statistics show that people over 50 make up a rapidly growing segment of the HIV and AIDS population.' />
Share
Myth 8: People over 50 don't get HIV and AIDS.
Statistics show that people over 50 make up a rapidly growing segment of the HIV and AIDS population.
Share
Myth 9: HIV positive people should not exercise as it puts extra strain on their bodies.
Basic exercise is important for everyone, no matter what your physical condition. In addition to toning muscles and improving strength, exercise can greatly improve the immune system and help you manage stress, which is especially beneficial for those living with HIV.
Share
Myth 10: Getting HIV/AIDS is a death sentence.
Although HIV/AIDS has no cure, it can be treated. There has been tremendous progress in treatment for HIV over the years. A person living with HIV/AIDS can now continue to live a strong and productive life for many years.
Trending
Quick Weight Loss: 7 Ways Your Body Is Telling You Need More Calories
High Protein Diet For Quick Weight Loss: Here's How You Should Follow It
This World Liver Day, Take Care Of Your Liver Naturally With These Simple Tips
Error - DoctorNDTV
................... Advertisement ...................
................... Advertisement ...................
Sponsored
Why Having Medical Insurance Is Necessary
Home Remedies
Powerful Hacks To Heal Most Common Summer Skin Problems
Eggs And Other Foods That Can Help You Get Rid Of Split Ends
Vitiligo: 10 Expert-Recommended Home Remedies To Your Rescue
10 Natural Ways To Help With Sinus Issues That Work Better Than Nasal Sprays
Amazing Home Remedies By Luke Coutinho To Get Rid Of Sciatica Pain
Hormonal Acne: Top Home Remedies And Characteristics To Watch Out For
................... Advertisement ...................
FAQ
What do IgG and IgM indicate?
Why do I get cuts on my frenulum during intercourse?
Cuts on the foreskin of penis
What is the normal range of pus cells in the urine of children?
Read More»
ASK OUR EXPERTS
Using 0 of 1024 Possible characters
Choose Topic --Select-- Breast Feeding Tobacco Control Bones & Joints Children Child Development Cancer Diabetes Drugs Ear Emotions Eyes Living Healthy Health Insurance Heart HIV/AIDS Infection Injuries/FirstAid Liver Men's Health Nutrition Pregnancy Rehabilitation Medicine Sexual Health Skin Surgery Teeth Travel and Health Tuberculosis Women's Health
Trending Topics
Anxiety
High Blood Pressure (Hypertension)
Obesity
Erectile Dysfunction
Osteoporosis
Hair Loss
Routine Health Care
LATEST STORIES
More »
This Tiny Cell Is Good News For Cancer Survivors
Every 3rd 40-Plus Indian Suffers From Lack Of Libido'
BMI Plays Significant Role In Progression Of Multiple Sclerosis: Study
Mosquito-Borne Diseases Set To Flourish As Climate Gets Warmer
This Protein-Rich Breakfast Is A Must For People With Type 2 Diabetes
................... Advertisement ...................
-------------------------------- Advertisement -----------------------------------
Trending Diseases
Dengue
Diabetes
Brain Tumour
Psoriasis
Depression
Acne
Breast Cancer
Schizophrenia
Diarrhea
Aids
Cancer
Migraine
Fever
Allergy
Chikungunya
Heart Attack
Food poisoning
Anaemia
Constipation
Hernia
Gallbladder stones
Arthritis
Cough
Typhoid
Asthma
Dehydration
Pneumonia
NDTV
Profit
Khabar
Movies
Cricket
Doctor
Food
Tech
Auto
Apps
Trains
Art
Weddings
Feedback | About Us | Investors | Careers | Archives | Disclaimer | Advertise | Channels | Ombudsman | Redressals | Service Terms
Copyright NDTV Convergence Limited . All rights reserved.