9 Signs You're Addicted to Weed - How to Stop Smoking Weed
Select a category RenuFocus™ Nootropic Supplement (4) VEJOVIS™ The Cannabis Quitting Solution (4)
Search
Checkout
My Account
Shopping Cart
My Cart 0 item $0.00
No products in the cart.
Home
Page
Confessions Of An Addict
Weed Smoke and Mirrors
My Secret Addiction
Signs You’re Addicted to Weed
Weed is Addictive
Science of Addiction
Stop Smoking Weed
Relationships in Recovery
Getting Prepared To Quit Weed
Life After Quitting Weed
INGREDIENTS: VEJOVIS™
Customer Reviews
Weed Recovery Resources
Products
Vejovis™ Supplement
RenuFocus™ Nootropic
Contact
9 Signs That You Are Addicted to Weed
&
The Cannabis Addiction Test
The Cannabis Addiction Test – video version
Are you at risk of marijuana addiction?
The Cannabis Addiction Test – written version
To take the test, answer the following questions, based on the cannabis abuse screening test. For each question, give yourself a score from 0 to 4, where:
0 = never
1 = rarely
2 = occasionally
3 = often
4 = very often
The Questions
Answer each question based on your behaviors over the last year 12 months.
Have you ever smoked marijuana before noon?
Have you ever had memory problems when smoking marijuana?
Have you ever smoked by yourself?
Have you had any friends or family members express concern about your marijuana use or ask you to cut-down or stop?
Have you tried to stop using or cut-down without success?
Have you experienced life-problems related to your marijuana use, such as problems at school or work, problems at home or with important relationships, money problems, legal problems and others?
Scoring
If you score:
0 to 2 = You have no addiction risk.
3 to 7 = You have some addiction risk.
7 or higher = You have a high addiction risk.
What Is Weed Addiction?
Addiction is the continued repetition of a behavior despite adverse consequences, or a neurological impairment leading to such behaviors.
So when we discuss the evidence for marijuana addiction, what are we talking about exactly – what is addiction?
Well, according to the American Academy of Addiction Medicine:1
Addiction is a brain disease that affects your reward, motivation and memory circuits.
Dysfunction in these circuits leads to an unhealthy or pathological drive for reward (such as by getting high).
Characteristics of addiction include cravings, an inability to consistently abstain or control your use-related behaviors (assuming you want to), a decreased ability to recognize how your use causes life or relationship problems and dysfunctional emotional responses.
Evidence to Support Marijuana Addiction
From the California Society for Addiction Medicine:
Scientists can see that marijuana stimulates the brain’s reward centers in ways that closely mimic other addictive drugs (through dopamine release in the limbic pathway).
Animal studies show that animals display withdrawal-pattern behaviors upon sudden abstinence after chronic THC administration
Heavy users will develop a tolerance and require greater amounts to get high. This is similar to what is seen with other addictive drugs.
There is research and clinical evidence showing that some heavy users will experience a recognizable set of withdrawal symptoms along a predictable timeline after cessation of use. Some researchers have compared the severity of marijuana withdrawal symptoms to those of nicotine withdrawal from quitting cigarettes.
Scientists have observed that approximately 1 in 10 (9%) of marijuana smokers will become addicted at some point in life. For those who smoke regularly before the age of 18, that number doubles, with 18% meeting the criteria for dependence at some point in the lifespan. https://www.csam-asam.org/marijuanas-addictive-potential-healthcare-professionals
The #1 Weed Quitting Solution
Vejovis™
Never Quit Weed Cold Turkey
9 signs you are addicted to weed
1. Wake & Bake
Absolutely the number one telling sign that you are addicted to weed is that as soon as you wake up the first thing you think of is smoking weed. That may not be the first thing that you do. You may get up and use the restroom first maybe light a cigarette if you have the dual addiction of nicotine and weed. If you do you’ll probably light a cigarette first and have it burning in the ashtray while you take a toke of weed to get you head right and your day started.
2. Weed over Bills
You’ve got bills just like everybody else. You need gas in your car and food in the fridge. But with a weed addict weed is the top priority. “You’ve gotta have your weed or you’ll go nuts’” Right! You may have just enough gas in the car to get to work and just enough food to barely get by but you are going to make damn sure you’ve got weed. Even if you are a little short on your bills that’s OK but if you don’t have your weed you might just lose it?
3. Green Alert
OK a “green alert” is something like an amber alert except it’s not but you think it is. Oh no you’re rolling roaches or you only have enough for a couple more bowls this situation is getting critical now. Money may be low you might have to borrow some money from friends or family, maybe pawn your iPad, maybe your dude/ weed dealer is not answering the phone. Whatever the reason is you are low on weed and if you don’t get some soon you just might lose your mind.
4. Weed for Lunch
Break time! Man this job is driving you crazy if you don’t hurry up and get to your car and smoke some weed you might just kill somebody up in there. I mean you’ve got to get your head right to deal with all the crap you have to deal with up in there right?
5.Weed after work
You can’t wait until you get off the job so you can get home to smoke and chill,. You’ve got to have a hit when you get in the car to deal with all these stupid people driving home in rush hour. Man if you don’t smoke you some weed you might just road rage out here and you don’t want to have to hurt somebody.
6. Weed when you get home
Whew what a day! You’re so glad to be home so you can relax and take a good peaceful toke. Man they almost drove you crazy at work today, thank God you’ smoke weed because if you didn’t you would probably go to work and kill everybody in there.
7. Getting high every single day
If you smoke weed every day and all throughout the day. If you go to an event you find a way to sneak out so you can get a few tokes in. You’re hooked on weed so you need to smoke before, during and after every single major or minor event that happens in your life.
8. Broken Relationships
If your spouse or significant other doesn’t get high with you then that could be a problem. You are spending a lot of time with your weed habit and all the baggage that comes with that. A person that does not smoke all day every single day like you do just can’t understand or condone that kind of behavior. But if he or she is just as big of a pothead as you are and you want to stop or cut back using so much and they don’t then that’s just as big of a problem as well.
9. Smoking Weed for Love
Last but not least you love weed! You love the way weed makes you feel. Your whole life revolves around weed. You love everything about weed from the smell of the buds to the smell of the smoke. You love rolling the blunt, joint or packing a bowl. You love to hear people sing about weed, rap about weed and talk about weed. You love to look at real weed and at pictures of weed. You love the different strains of weed and the way one makes you feel different than the other one, “this one’s a body high where this one is more of a trippy head high. You love the way it makes you cough your head off because you love weed for better and for worse for richer or poorer.
become free of weed and clear of mind
Finally Be Free and Clear - With The Awesome Combo
Vejovis™ - "The #1 Weed Quitting Solution" & RenuFocus™ - "It Works To Realize Your Potential"
Vejovis™ 60 Premium Capsules
Write a review
4.55 out of 5 based on 11 customer ratings
Price:
$29.95 $19.99
Rated 4.55 out of 5 based on 11 customer ratings
(11 customer reviews)
Qty
Add to cart
The Awesome Combo: Vejovis™ & RenuFocus™ 1 bottle ea.
0 out of 5 based on 0 customer ratings
Price:
$65.54 $34.99
Qty
Add to cart
How VEJOVIS™ Works
CALMING and RELAXING: Helps Relieve the Side Effects of Cannabis Withdrawal, Cravings, Nightmares, Irritability, Anxiety, Depression. Calms and Promotes Restful Sleep.
EMOTIONAL SUPPORT and MOOD ENHANCING SUPPLEMENT: Improve your Well-Being and Happiness. Helps Promote a Positive Mood.
ELIMINATE COLD TURKEY and IMPROVE YOUR CHANCES of SUCCESSFULLY QUITTING WEED: Formulated with 100% Natural Ingredients Clinically Proven to Ease Stress and Anxiety.
POTENT INGREDIENTS: Including Ashwagandha, GABA, 5-HTP, St. John’s Wort and other Herbs and Vitamins to Support You Mentally and Physically during Your Stressful Cannabis Recovery.
HIGH QUALITY and ALL NATURAL: Vegetarian and Vegan. 100% Money Back Guarantee. Manufactured in an FDA registered facility. Made in the USA.
Home
Buy on Amazon
Our EBAY Store
Customer Reviews
About Us
FAQ
Money Back Guarantee
Vejovis™
Q. R. Products
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Return Policy
Contact Us
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Google
Instagram
Copyright © 2019 - Quitters Relief LLC - All rights reserved.
Menu
Home
Page
Confessions Of An Addict
Weed Smoke and Mirrors
My Secret Addiction
Signs You’re Addicted to Weed
Weed is Addictive
Science of Addiction
Stop Smoking Weed
Relationships in Recovery
Getting Prepared To Quit Weed
Life After Quitting Weed
INGREDIENTS: VEJOVIS™
Customer Reviews
Weed Recovery Resources
Products
Vejovis™ Supplement
RenuFocus™ Nootropic
Contact
x
Hello, Welcome Back!
Remember Me
Lost Your Password?
Reset Password
Username or E-mail:
Back To Login
x
Register
Please wait ...
First name *
Last name
Username *
Email *
Password *
Confirm Password *
Register