Adalat and Nexium Drug Interactions - Drugs.com
Skip to Content
Search Drugs.com
All Select the section you want to search in All Consumer Professional Pill ID Interactions News FDA Alerts Approvals Pipeline Clinical Trials Care Notes Natural Products
Close
Search
Browse all medications: a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z 0-9
Advanced Search
Register Sign In
Sign In
Register
Menu
Close
Account
Sign In
Register Now
Drugs A-Z
A-Z Drug Index
Treatment Options
Drugs by Class
Compare Drugs
Generic Drugs
OTC Drugs
International Drugs
Natural Products
Drug Side Effects
Dosage Guides
Pregnancy Warnings
Breastfeeding Warnings
Pricing & Coupons
Inactive Ingredients
Info en Español
Veterinary Products
Pill Identifier
Interactions Checker
FDA Alerts
New Drugs
News
Pro Edition
More
Videos
Slideshows
Newsletters
Pricing & Coupon Guide
Facebook Twitter YouTube
Drugs A to Z
Print Share
What not to say to someone with ulcerative colitis
Drug interactions between Adalat and Nexium
Edit this list
Results for the following 2 drugs:
Adalat (nifedipine)
Nexium (esomeprazole)
Consumer
Professional
Interactions between your drugs
There were no interactions found in our database between Adalat and Nexium - however, this does not necessarily mean no interactions exist. Always consult with your doctor or pharmacist.
Adalat
A total of 799 drugs are known to interact with Adalat.
Adalat is in the drug class calcium channel blocking agents.
Adalat is used to treat the following conditions:
Angina Pectoris Prophylaxis
Raynaud's Syndrome
Nexium
A total of 304 drugs are known to interact with Nexium.
Nexium is a member of the drug class proton pump inhibitors.
Nexium is used to treat the following conditions:
Barrett's Esophagus
Duodenal Ulcer Prophylaxis
Erosive Esophagitis
GERD
Helicobacter Pylori Infection
NSAID-Induced Gastric Ulcer
Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions
Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome
Drug and food interactions
Moderate
NIFEdipine food
Applies to: Adalat (nifedipine)
You should avoid or limit the consumption of grapefruit and grapefruit juice if you are receiving treatment with NIFEdipine. Grapefruit juice can significantly increase the blood levels and effects of medications like NIFEdipine. You may be more likely to experience side effects such as headache, low blood pressure, irregular heartbeat, swelling, and fluid retention. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions or concerns. It is important to tell your doctor about all other medications you use, including vitamins and herbs. Do not stop using any medications without first talking to your doctor.
Switch to professional interaction data
Moderate
esomeprazole food
Applies to: Nexium (esomeprazole)
Food may interfere with the absorption of esomeprazole. Esomeprazole should be taken at least one hour before meals and at the same time every day. When esomeprazole is given to patients receiving continuous enteral nutrition (tube feedings), the tube feeding should be interrupted for at least 1 hour before and 1 hour after the dose of esomeprazole. This will make it easier for your body to absorb the medication. It is important to tell your doctor about all other medications you use, including vitamins and herbs. Do not stop using any medications without first talking to your doctor.
Switch to professional interaction data
Therapeutic duplication warnings
No warnings were found for your selected drugs.
Therapeutic duplication warnings are only returned when drugs within the same group exceed the recommended therapeutic duplication maximum.
Print this page
See Also
Adalat Drug Interactions
Nexium Drug Interactions
Nexium General Consumer Information
Drug Interactions Checker
Drug Interaction Classification
These classifications are only a guideline. The relevance of a particular drug interaction to a specific individual is difficult to determine. Always consult your healthcare provider before starting or stopping any medication.
Major
Highly clinically significant. Avoid combinations; the risk of the interaction outweighs the benefit.
Moderate
Moderately clinically significant. Usually avoid combinations; use it only under special circumstances.
Minor
Minimally clinically significant. Minimize risk; assess risk and consider an alternative drug, take steps to circumvent the interaction risk and/or institute a monitoring plan.
Unknown
No interaction information available.
Further information
Always consult your healthcare provider to ensure the information displayed on this page applies to your personal circumstances.
Medical Disclaimer
How to Prevent Deadly Drug Interactions
Some mixtures of medications can lead to serious and even fatal consequences.
Here are 9 ways to stay safe
Recently Approved
Balversa Balversa (erdafitinib) is a once-daily, oral, pan-fibroblast growth factor...
Evenity Evenity (romosozumab) is an anti-sclerostin monoclonal antibody for the...
Dovato Dovato (dolutegravir and lamivudine) is a once-daily, single-tablet, two-drug...
Asceniv Asceniv (immune globulin intravenous, human – slra) is a 10% immune globulin l...
More approvals
Subscribe to our newsletters
FDA alerts
Daily news summary
Weekly news roundup
Monthly newsletter
I accept the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy
Email Address
Drugs.com Mobile Apps
The easiest way to lookup drug information, identify pills, check interactions and set up your own personal medication records. Available for Android and iOS devices.
Explore Apps
Support
Help Center
Frequent Questions
Sitemap
Contact Us
About
About Drugs.com
Advertising Policy
Content Submissions
Drugs.com Blog
Terms & Privacy
Editorial Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Attribution & Citations
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
RSS Feed
Subscribe to receive email notifications whenever new articles are published.
Drugs.com provides accurate and independent information on more than 24,000 prescription drugs, over-the-counter medicines and natural products. This material is provided for educational purposes only and is not intended for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Data sources include IBM Watson Micromedex (updated 1 Apr 2019), Cerner Multum™ (updated 1 Apr 2019), Wolters Kluwer™ (updated 29 Mar 2019) and others.
Third Party Advertising
We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information - verify here
Copyright © 2000-2019 Drugs.com. All rights reserved.
Hide