How to Get Rid of Mosquito Bites Overnight : 10 Home Remedies
Remedies CureNatural Home Remedies for Better Health
Home
Beauty & Looks
Men Health
Women Health
Pregnancy
Diet & Nutrition
Pain Cures
Hair
Remedies Cure
Home
Beauty & Looks
Men Health
Women Health
Pregnancy
Diet & Nutrition
Pain Cures
Hair
Natural Remedies • Skin Care
How to Get Rid of Mosquito Bites Overnight : 10 Home Remedies
2 months ago
Why A Mosquito Bites? Only female mosquito bites because they need blood protein to produce the eggs. Mainly male mosquito lives for a week and female mosquito can live for months. Mosquitos are mainly present in warm and humid weather. They can spoil your beach visit or outdoor hanging out with friends and family. Mosquitoes bite can be contagious and can cause you the disease like malaria, encephalitis, dengue fevers, yellow fever. Their bites can also cause you itching and irritation of the skin. You can get rid of mosquito bites fast overnight with the help of below home remedy.
Why does the mosquito bite itch?
When a female mosquito injects a proboscis which looks like a needle into your skin. They suck a small amount of your blood and leave anti-clotting agent behind. After some time your immune system reacts to it and release histamine which creates a bump and causes itching.
What makes mosquitoes attracted to you?
Most people wonder why mosquito bite them more than others. Mosquitos are attracted to heat and carbon dioxide. Because they use the heat to determine where blood is closest to the skin. While you breathe you release carbon dioxide and mosquitoes are attracted to it. You may attract them by releasing some certain chemicals while breathing.
Mosquito Bite Allergy Symptoms
When a mosquito bite for 6 seconds or longer than only the immunity system have a reaction. A mosquito bite can be chronic and cause you serious allergy. Below are the symptoms of mosquito bites.
Red or pink bump on the skin.
Itching on the skin.
Bruises can occur near the bites.
Hives
Lesions
Anaphylaxis
A mosquito bite can also cause you serious disease not only just allergies.
Malaria
Dengue
Chickengunia
Yellow Fever
Encephalitis
Severe headache
How to Get Rid of Mosquito Bites
Contents
1 Home Remedies for Mosquito Bite Cure Overnight
1.1 How Long Do Mosquito Bites Last?
1.2 Mosquito Bites Prevention Tips
Home Remedies for Mosquito Bite Cure Overnight
As we know only female mosquito needs to feed on human blood to produce eggs. These mosquito bites can be itchy and red or pink bump on the skin. Mosquito bites can cause some serious disease as well.
There are many over the counter cream available in the market but they have the harmful chemical. Bellow natural home remedy is harmless and doesn’t have any side effects. So, follow below home remedy to get rid of mosquito bites fast.
Ice
For an instant relief from mosquito bite itching and inflammation apply a cold pack or bag full of crushed ice. Ice can reduce inflammation and itching by numbing the infected area. Try not to apply ice directly on the skin because it can damage your skin. Take a washcloth and wrap ice in it. Now apply an ice pack for immediate relief from mosquito bites.
Oatmeal
Another wonderful remedy to cure mosquito bite which you normally eat breakfast. This remedy can provide you relief from itching and bump on the skin caused by mosquito bite.
Take equal amount of water and oatmeal and make a thick paste. Now apply this paste on the infected area. This remedy is very effective for mosquito bite on the face. Leave it there for 15 minutes and then wash it with water.
Baking Soda
Baking soda is used to cure many skin problem such as warts, pimples etc. it also helps to get rid of mosquito bite overnight.
To make mosquito bite go away fast you need to make a paste of baking soda with water. Apply this paste on the affected area. Leave it there for 10 minutes then wash it with water.
Lemon
Lemon is a very effective home remedy to cure mosquito bites. It has antiseptic and anti-inflammatory properties which help to get rid of a mosquito bite.
For instant relief from a mosquito bite, take a lemon and cut in two pieces. Apply lemon directly on the infected area.
You can also apply lemon juice to the infected area to prevent further infection.
Make a paste of lemon juice and crushed basil leaves. Apply this paste on the affected area to get rid of a mosquito bite.
Aloe Vera
Another wonderful home remedy for mosquito bite and also helps in removing marks due to mosquito bites. Aloe vera has anti-inflammatory properties and prevent infection because of mosquito bites.
Take fresh aloe vera gel and apply on bug bites or marks. You can also use small piece plant for aloe vera gel and apply on the infected area. Repeat this remedy for 2-3 day to get rid of marks.
Honey
Honey has antibacterial and anti-inflammatory properties which help to cure bug bites at home. This home remedy is basically famous to cure a sore throat or a cough. But it can also cure itching and swelling caused by bug bites.
Take a small amount of honey and apply on the infected area and leave it. Repeat this remedy until you get relief.
Rubbing Alcohol
Rubbing alcohol is a very effective home remedy to cure mosquito bites fast. It has antiseptic properties which help cure itching, inflammation and prevent infection from bug bites.
Take a small piece of cotton and dip in alcohol. Now rub alcohol on infected area with the help of cotton ball. It may sting initially but it will surely provide relief from bug bites.
Toothpaste
Toothpaste is a wonderful remedy for itching caused by bug bites. It also provides relief from inflammation and swelling. For instant mosquito, bite cure uses peppermint toothpaste.
Apply toothpaste on the affected area until you get relief from mosquito bites.
Apple Cider Vinegar
Apple cider vinegar is one of the best remedies which help to cure many health diseases at home including constipation, psoriasis, skin rashes etc. it also helps to cure mosquito bites very fast.
For instant relief of itching, inflammation, and swelling due to bug bites apply ACV on the affected area.
Take corn flour and make a thick paste by mixing apple cider vinegar. Apply this thick paste on the affected area. Repeat this remedy until you get relief.
Witch Hazel
Witch hazel has anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory properties which help to cure mosquito bite. It also helps to prevent infection.
Take witch hazel and calamine lotion and mix them properly. Now apply the mixture on the affected area for fast relief from mosquito bites.
How Long Do Mosquito Bites Last?
Duration of mosquito bite depends on person to person. For some it can last for 24 hours and for others it can last for 3-5 days. As mosquito bites, you get a bump on the skin and itching. Bump on the skin may last for hours or day but itching lasts longer than a bump.
Mosquito Bites Prevention Tips
You can protect yourself from mosquito bite by taking steps.
Try to avoid outdoor activity when the mosquitos are active.
Keep your door, the window closed so that no mosquito can enter your house.
Use mosquito repellent
Wear full sleeves shirt, full-length pant, socks and closed toe shoes.
Keep surrounding of your house clean.
Don’t keep old tires in your back yard.
Change the water of the pool very frequently.
Read:
How to Get Rid of Bed Bugs Naturally
How to Catch Crickets in House
Natural Remedies to Remove Lizards
A mosquito bite is not a serious problem most of the time but sometimes it can lead you to some serious disease. It can be an itchy, red or pink bump on the skin. You can prevent yourself from mosquito bite by following prevention tips.
There many mosquito repellents available in the market but they are full of chemical and can be harmful to you and your family. Use natural home remedies to get rid of a mosquito bite. If you like to give us any feedback please comment below.
Share this:
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
get rid of mosquito bites overnight Fast home remedies for mosquito bites how long do mosquito bites last how to cure mosquito bite how to get rid of mosquito bites mosquito bite remedy mosquito bites on face on baby face
You may also like
Natural Remedies
How to Overcome Depression: 10 Super Effective Ways
Health Tips • Natural Remedies
How to Increase Memory Power : 18 Home Remedies &...
Hair • Natural Remedies
10 Home Remedies to Get Rid of Dry Itchy Scalp...
Natural Remedies • Weight Loss
What is Water Weight? 10 Home Remedies to Get Rid of...
Natural Remedies
10 Effective Urine Retention Home Remedies for Urine...
Natural Remedies • Skin Care
How to Get Rid of a Cyst at Home : 14 Amazing Remedies
Leave a Comment X
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Categories
Beauty & Looks
Dental Cure
Diet & Nutrition
Disease
Exercises & Yoga
Eyes
Hair
Health Tips
Men Health
Natural Remedies
Pain Cures
Pregnancy
Sign & Causes
Skin Care
Weight Loss
Women Health
Copyright © 2019.
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
About Us
Sitemap
Contact Us
error: Content is protected !!