panorama | community media south west, uk
Home
About this blog
Contact
community media south west, uk
Entries RSS | Comments RSS
April 2019
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Apr
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30
Advertisements
WiFi Radiation investigation – Response to Panorama, BBC1, 21st May 2007
Posted on May 22, 2007 by Shawn
Summary of programme: WiFi is bad for you. The radiation may give you cancer and is on par with mobile phone masts, but potentially more harmful due to plans to have WiFi in every school in the UK. Children’s skulls are softer and thus are more prone to serious harm. The government are ignoring research from WHO which suggests harm and are pressing ahead regardless.
– —
The War on drugs. War on junk food. Smoking bans. Binge drinking awareness campaigns. It seems whatever is bad for us that we choose to consume in our own bodies is being outlawed or stigmatised by government. But advances in technology that MAY also be bad for us, but are external to our bodies and that we have no control over, are being embraced, if not enforced by government.
We are discouraged to consciously consume harmful substances, but are being forced to unconsciously be exposed to potentially harmful radiation. There’s some tricky ethics at play there.
I use WiFi when I’m in the city centre, but I know for sure that the only reason I don’t have it in my house is because I was never comfortable about the levels of radiation. I didn’t ever know what the levels would be, but I knew I wasn’t comfortable with whatever they were. Of course I use a mobile, etc so am a hypocrite – but in this day and age all a city person living in the West could be described as someone just trying to juggle their lives as best they can considering the environment and fair trade and healthy eating and equality issues and work/life balance and ethical banking and free-range and all the other small print in modern living. We are all hypocrites, and it would be a hypocrite who says any different. It’s not really about our individual carbon footprints, as that is too selective. It really about our Footprint in totality, but that is too unwieldy and unpalatable to comprehend.
We love new technology because it is convenient and makes things faster. For example: MP3 players are popular because you can store your whole record collection on them and each new version of player allows you to access each track slightly easier/quicker than the previous model. Mobile phones, computers, digibox, HDTV, the list goes on. Once we’ve got them it’s damn difficult to give them up. So if mobile phones prove to be harmful. And WiFi, and bluetooth and Sky dishes and god knows what else is pumped across our airwaves. Who will be the ones to unplug, switch off and consign these “bright idea but harmful” gadgets into the locked drawers? And who will be the ones to continue using, in the same way that many still smoke, knowing it is bad for their health and others, but they like it and in it’s own way keeps them sane. If I didn’t have my mobile phone and email and the Internet I too would go slightly potty I’m sure.
Hypocrites the lot of us but what can we do?
1) Accept things as they are without questioning.
2) Embrace things (technology). All this talk is just scare mongering.
3) Pretend we’ve never heard anything and carry on regardless.
4) Move to the countryside and live like the Good Life.
5) Pray.
6) All of the above.
I don’t know where this article is going just in the same way I don’t know where I’m going.
Actually that’s a lie. No matter how much I love the Internet and other modern trappings, I now need to turn them all off and go to bed. When all said and done we are nothing but flesh and bone and are not invincible. We would do well to remember that.
See> Schools want urgent wi-fi advice
See comments and opposing opinions at Debate on Possible Health Risk from Wireless
If you missed the programme you can watch again here
Advertisements
Filed under: internet, Schools, Wi Fi | Tagged: internet, panorama, Wi Fi |	Leave a comment »
Pages
About this blog
Contact
Recent Posts
This blog has moved to……
The multiple faces of Media Literacy
THE CLASS: Teacher/Student relationships, and systems as oppression in schools
Leaving Footprints in Books
Academic Blogging Workshop
Catagories
abolition activism bbc bristol channel 4 citizen journalism community media community radio connecting bristol corruption digital challenge firstborn creatives haile selassie internet media education media in society media literacy news News & Events ofcom parliament PhD PhD progress community media research racism rastafari representation research progress Schools south west screen state control
Recent Comments
shawn on The multiple faces of Media…
BLOG COMMENTS… on The multiple faces of Media…
brittanyp130 on The multiple faces of Media…
Nicholas on Black Audio Film Collecti…
shawn on Black Audio Film Collecti…
Archives
April 2009
March 2009
December 2008
July 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
January 2008
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
February 2007
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
Tags
15th century Italy alternative media Azerbaijan Bahrain bbc big brother Black Audio Film Collective bristol Burma/Myanmar calling the shots carnival censorship channel 4 China community media community radio corruption emily parr endemol Ethiopia fake fema firstborn creatives galilleo harry potter India institutions internet Iran islam James Curran James Purnell jew John Harris Jordan judaism Libya martin luther media media freelance media literacy Morocco muslim n-word New Labour Oman Pakistan panorama race row racism reformation Renaissance report representation Saudi Arabia Singapore Sir Brian McMaster South Korea south west screen st pauls Sudan Syria Tajikistan Thailand The Guardian Tunisia Turkmenistan UAE university of the west of england usa Uzbekistan Vietnam westminster Wi Fi Yemen
Blog at WordPress.com. WP Designer.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy