teeth extraction Archives - Authority Dental
Home
About Us
Dental Blog
History of Dentistry
Contact Us
Tag - teeth extraction
Wisdom Teeth Bleeding – Home Remedies to Stop It
Authority Dental
Wisdom Teeth
2 min read
Wisdom teeth bleeding is common during the first hour following the extraction procedure. As time passes, its likelihood decreases and bleeding is unusual after twenty four hours. In general, the open wound takes about 7 days to heal and in 1 to 2 months, the dental socket fills in with gum tissue.
It is not advisable to take aspirin and the reason is that it can make bleeding worse. To stop wisdom teeth bleeding, it is recommended to soak a tea bag in a cup of warm water, squeezing the excess moisture. Then, the tea bag should be placed on the bleeding socket for five to ten minutes. Bite on it and do not rinse for a couple of hours.
If the bleeding does not stop
If the bleeding does not stop, you should contact the oral surgeon or dentist who performed the extraction procedure. What they will do is place a coagulating substance in the dental socket as to stop the bleeding.
It should be noted that slight bleeding is common, occurring periodically on the site where the wisdom tooth was removed. This is because the sutures are in such a place that it is not possible to keep immobile. Some seepage of blood may occur due to the movement of tissue there from running, talking, chewing, and other activities.
This should not be a source of concern in normal circumstances. However, you should consult your dentist if you have health issues such as bleeding disorders or diabetes or if you are on blood thinners. Occasional bleeding is considered normal if it stops within a couple of minutes and is not profuse.
Again, one way to stop bleeding is to rinse using warm salted water. If the bleeding continues, i.e. it doesn’t stop within a couple of minutes, you may want to try placing one or two wet tea bags over the bleeding area. Hold it there and bite it down firmly. The tea bag should stay in place for up to 45 minutes so that it helps stop the bleeding. The components in the tea make it possible for the blood in the socket to clot.
Finally, it should be noted that wisdom teeth extraction is easy to perform on young patients, and the risk of complications such as wisdom teeth pain is smaller.
Wisdom Teeth Removal Recovery
Authority Dental
Wisdom Teeth
2 min read
In this article we will explain to you the steps involved in wisdom teeth removal recovery. Following wisdom teeth extraction, it is important to maintain cleanliness and good oral hygiene. You can use salt water rinse and gently rinse, but try not to over-stimulate the extraction socket. Four days post extraction, you can brush your teeth but stay away from the extraction site. At this stage, it is better not to use oral rinse, but salt water rinse are recommended and will not dislodge the clots. Avoid touching the area with your fingers and rubbing it with your tongue.
However, do not rinse your mouth, brush your teeth, use a mouthwash, or spit during the first 24 hours following the extraction procedure. Rinse with warm salt water after meals and every 2 hours while awake. Do this for about a week after the surgery, mixing half a teaspoon of table salt and eight ounces of water. Resume brushing after the first 24 hours. To be on the safe side, you may slosh water instead of swishing it. Tilt your head from side to side and to get the water out, tilt it over the sink.
You do not have to spit in this way. In any case, it is not recommended to brush your teeth during the first 24 hours because it may open up the wound. This is going to hurt quite bad, and it is better to wait until the next day. These precautions are necessary to avoid complications such as bleeding, infections, dry socket, etc. Once the extraction site heals, you can rinse with a non-alcohol mouthwash which kills bacteria in the mouth and helps prevent infections.
It is important to keep the blood clot intact because if it is lost, this may cause swelling, discomfort, and pain, and will delay the healing process. What is more, the nerve endings will be directly exposed, and this may cause immense pain. It is important to keep the wound clean, avoid smoking, and take steps to prevent complications. Your oral surgeon may recommend oral antibiotics, an antiseptic solution to be applied to the wound, or antibacterial gels and mouthwashes which are applied before and following the surgical procedure.
Does Everyone Have Wisdom Teeth?
Authority Dental
Wisdom Teeth
3 min read
Does everyone have wisdom teeth, and is it possible that wisdom teeth never grow?
The majority of adults have 4 wisdom teeth, but some people have more, which are referred to as supernumerary teeth, and other people have fewer, a condition known as oligodontia.
Supernumerary teeth or hyperdontia is a dental condition whereby teeth grow in addition to the four wisdom teeth and the usual number of teeth. There are different types of supernumerary teeth, which are classified by position and by shape.
How do you know if you have wisdom teeth
They include complex odontome(1), compound odontome, conical, tuberculate, and supplemental.
Conical teeth are also known as peg shaped while tuberculate teeth are referred to as barred shaped. Complex odontome represent a mass of tissue, which is disorganized, and compound odontome are multiple, small-size, teeth-like forms.
Classified by position, these teeth are also referred to as distomolar, paramolar, and mesiodens.
Oligodontia or hypodontia is another dental condition whereby patients have missing or fewer teeth because these fail to develop. Hypodontia(2) occurs when patients have up to six teeth missing, and this excludes the third molars. Oligodontia is when a person has more than six teeth missing.
Oligodontia or hypodontia
Back to the question – does everyone have wisdom teeth?
Between 9 and 30 percent of adult population do not have third molars.
Those who are in their 20s, however, should know that their wisdom teeth might not have presently assumed their final position. With this in mind, one or more wisdom teeth may erupt later on.
One possibility is that wisdom teeth do not erupt at all and another is that they fail to grow properly. In this case, they are called impacted wisdom teeth and if complications occur, wisdom teeth extraction may be required, especially if it is accompanied by severe wisdom teeth pain and other complications.
Does everyone have wisdom teeth is not the only interesting question to explore. Why did they develop to begin with?
According to anthropologists, the 3rd set of molars developed because of our ancestors’ diet, which included rough food, including meats, nuts, roots, and leaves. These needed more chewing power, resulting in excessive teeth wear.
Conclusion
The modern diet includes a variety of soft foods, and along with marvels of modern technology, including knives, spoons, and forks, it has made wisdom teeth redundant. Thus, evolutionary biologists call these teeth parts of the body that are now functionless, referred to as vestigial organs. This is largely due to evolution.
Reference
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5034075 ↩
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4336964 ↩
Wisdom Teeth Bruising, Causes, and Recovery
Authority Dental
Wisdom Teeth
2 min read
Wisdom teeth bruising and swelling normally disappears in a couple of days (2-3 to 9). In fact, bruising is not common in patients who do not take medications that thin the blood and those without bleeding disorders. While bruising is not very common, it is still possible. Swelling normally increases during the first 2 days and begins to subside afterwards. Using ice during the first day helps minimize it.
With simple extraction, there is normally little bleeding, swelling, and bruising. A more complex extraction procedure – when there is wisdom teeth pain and complications – may lead to more bleeding, swelling, and wisdom teeth bruising. Your dentist or oral surgeon will give you post-treatment instructions in order to minimize such side effects.
In some people, the lymph nodes swell, and this may indicate an active infection involving their wisdom teeth. Dry socket is not only painful, but it can result in an infection causing lymph nodes to swell. In this case, it is important to visit the dentist’s office, and they may prescribe an antibiotic or anti-inflammatory to deal with the infection.
Note that younger patients who undergo wisdom teeth extraction have less swelling, bruising, and muscle stiffness, and experience less post-surgery discomfort than older patients. The reason is that young people have the ability to repair, re-grow, and heal sinus and nerve injuries. The maxillofacial surgery causes almost no permanent complications among young patients.
Moreover, young people and teens have lower rates of postoperative infection because they have strong immune systems. Then, the roots of wisdom teeth are not deep in the jaw in young patients, and less bone has to be removed. This means that the surgical site is less sore after the removal procedure. In teens, the socket defect and surgical defect is small and closes quickly, making recovery faster and easier. Thus, wisdom teeth bruising, infections, and other complications are less common in young patients.
To minimize post-extraction side effects, it is recommended not to smoke during the first 12 hours. Smoking interferes with bleeding and can cause bleeding to occur. To control the bruising and swelling, it is recommended to apply cold packs, which act to slow circulation. Cold packs should be used during the first 24 hours and placed at the site of swelling. Use in cycles – twenty minutes on and twenty minutes off.
Wisdom Tooth Nerve Damage
Authority Dental
Wisdom Teeth
2 min read
Wisdom tooth nerve damage is mainly associated with surgical removal, especially when the extraction site is near the nerve. Two types of nerves are found on the right and left side (in duplicate) and are of concern. The inferior alveolar nerve is one of them, the other being the lingual nerve.
The lingual nerve is responsible for supplying sense of taste and touch to the gums, found on the inside surface and the left and right side of the tongue. The inferior alveolar nerve supplies sensation of touch to the left and right half of the lower lip and chin and sensation to the left and right half of the dental arch.
Wisdom tooth nerve damage is usually the result of damage with a surgical drill, but it can occur when lifting a tooth. These injuries are typically temporary and are rare, but they can be permanent or prolonged depending on the injury. In rare cases, injury is caused by bleeding into the root canal, and injury is due to the blood build-up causing an increased pressure.
In general, the risk of paresthesia or nerve damage depends on the location of the nerve. The closer the nerve to the wisdom tooth is, the higher the chances of injury. Dentists use X-rays to assess the risk of damaging the alveolar nerve. It runs through the lower jaw and can be seen in a panoramic X-ray. If the nerve is found close by, surgery will be risky meaning that the risk of nerve damage will be high.
Wisdom teeth extraction is not recommended if the tooth is not giving the patient any problems. If the tooth is troubling the patient, i.e. in case of infections and associated wisdom teeth pain, the dentist will weigh out the benefits and risks. The same is true if wisdom tooth removal is required for orthodontic treatment.
To this, the patient should be informed of the consequences of wisdom tooth nerve damage. These include drooling, feeling of numbness in the chin and lip, and being unable to hold food at one corner of the mouth. In some cases, patients may suffer loss of sensation on one side of the chin or lip.
Usually, the numbness recovers partially in a couple of days and full recovery can be expected in about two weeks. In this case, numbness may be due to the nerve being slightly displaced.
Wisdom Teeth Healing Process: Activities That Delay It
Authority Dental
Wisdom Teeth
2 min read
The wisdom teeth healing process involves healing of all wound surfaces. The socket’s floor heals vertically while its sides heal laterally. Healing normally takes place through a process known as organization. Blood vessels and fibrous connective tissue (granulation tissue) grow and penetrate the blood clot. Epithelial tissue also grows on the top of the socket. It should be noted that the blood clot may be unrecognizable because its red coloration fades out with exposure to saliva.
Manipulation of the socket is not recommended during the wisdom teeth healing process. In fact, this may delay it to the extent the patient disturbs the blood clot. Aspirin should be avoided as well because it thins the blood, and there is a risk your mouth may bleed.
Remember that it is normal for the extraction site to be tender during the first couple of days. Bruising and swelling sometimes occur following wisdom teeth extraction. The worst jaw stiffness, pain, and swelling typically occur during the first 2 – 3 days after the extraction procedure.
The best thing to do is to take it easy during the first two days and avoid exercising for at least 24 hours. During the first night after the extraction, it is best to keep your head up (you may use pillows for this). Lying flat may prolong bleeding. Do not do heavy lifting and do not bend during the next 2 or 3 days. Physical activity and exercise may increase bleeding.
Your dentist or oral surgeon will give you advice on how to control bleeding if it occurs. In most cases, you will be using a gauze pad to be placed on the surgical site. Keeping pressure on it is important. The dressing should be changed every 40 minutes, but this depends on the amount of bleeding. Some people worry that they are bleeding excessively (which may be a concern is some cases). Usually, it is a large amount of saliva mixed with a small amount of blood or what dentists call ‘spit’.
Finally, smoking may delay the wisdom teeth healing process. It is recommended to avoid smoking during the first 24 hours following wisdom teeth removal. The sucking motion may loosen the blood clot, thus delaying healing. Furthermore, smoking may bring contaminants and germs to the surgical site and decreases the blood supply.
Wisdom Teeth Surgery, Risks, and Complications
Authority Dental
Wisdom Teeth
3 min read
Wisdom teeth surgery is a dental surgical procedure for the purpose of removing one or more teeth. Surgery is necessary if a wisdom tooth causes problems such as damage to adjacent teeth, infection, wisdom teeth pain, development of a cyst, which is a fluid-filled sac, as well as damage to the surrounding bone. Surgery is also required in case of complications following orthodontic treatment to straighten the teeth.
Surgery may have to be performed if there is swelling and severe wisdom teeth pain. The same is true for recurrent infection of the gums surrounding the tooth as well as serious decay of the tooth. Surgery is also performed to reduce crowding of the teeth when there isn’t enough room for all of them and before straightening them with a brace. The tissues around the tooth may develop tumors and cysts, and this is another reason to have the surgical procedure performed.
Video: Social Medical Network
Wisdom teeth surgery is said to involve certain risks. These include damage to the sinuses and the nerves, infection of the socket from food particles and bacteria, formation of dry socket, and others. Given the risks involved in the procedure, some dentists and oral surgeons question whether wisdom teeth removal is really necessary. According to the American Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons(1), it is recommended that young adults opt for wisdom teeth extraction.
This helps ensure optimal healing and prevents problems in the future. However, not everyone agrees that prophylactic extraction is the best way to go. California-based author and dental consultant Jay Fried notes that about two-thirds of the extraction surgeries, injuries, and associated costs are unnecessary. This is an epidemic which affects thousands of people, resulting in disability and discomfort.
The operation itself starts with a choice of anesthetic and this depends on how complicated the wisdom teeth surgery is expected to be. If the operation is going to be difficult, having a general anesthetic or sedation and local anesthetic is recommended. This is the case if the wisdom tooth lies deep in the gum or has not erupted at all. The dentist will remove the tooth, and the gum may have to be cut slightly (the cut will be made at the back).
To loosen the tooth, the dentist may have to remove a small amount of bone. In some cases, the wisdom tooth has to be cut into pieces – one or more – to have it removed.
http://www.aaoms.org/ ↩
Why Are Wisdom Teeth Removed – What You Need To Know
Authority Dental
Wisdom Teeth
3 min read
In this article we will explain to you “why are wisdom teeth removed” and give you all the information you need on wisdom teeth. The third and last set of molars, commonly known by their nickname “wisdom teeth”, usually erupt long after the tooth fairy has left her last gift under your pillow. Most people get them between the age of 17 and 25 – the period of human life called “The Age of Wisdom”.
Anthropologists explain third molar eruption with the early humans’ rough diet, including nuts, roots, meat, etc. The lack of whatever kitchen gadgets or tools of modern civilization, such as the microwave oven, made our predecessors depend totally on their teeth. This rough diet of the primitive humans resulted in excessive wear; so, wisdom teeth, erupting midway in lifetime, compensated for the worn or missing teeth.
Modern lifestyle and our softer diet, along with the outstanding achievements in orthodontics over the recent decades, led to a number of significant evolutionary changes. These changes transformed the third molars into function-less teeth, and some evolutionary biologists classified them as “vestigial organs”.
The number of wisdom teeth in one’s mouth may vary from one to four. However, some people have never got wisdom teeth at all, while others (very few indeed) get more than four.
Regardless of whether you have four wisdom teeth or less, these may cause you serious problems. As human jaws became smaller throughout the millennia of evolution, the third molars often do not have enough space to develop and align in a proper manner. Thus, wisdom teeth become impacted or blocked by the adjacent teeth.
Also, when the teeth erupt partially, plague and debris can get entrapped in the soft tissue surrounding them, causing gum disease and tooth decay. These problems are usually accompanied by severe wisdom teeth pain, swelling and jaw stiffness. Poor alignment of the third molars may cause other troubles as well, including infection and the formation of cysts.
To avoid all mentioned complications, most dentists strongly recommend that patients have their wisdom teeth removed. They make it a point that the extraction is to be done when the patient is younger, with danger of whatever complications during surgery being not as great. The extraction of wisdom teeth is typically performed by an oral surgeon under local anesthesia.
The post-surgical recovery depends mainly on the extent of the pre-removal complications and on the patient’s age. Also, females who take contraceptive pills are at a higher risk of developing dry socket (a common post-surgical complication) because of the higher levels of estrogen. These women should undergo wisdom teeth extraction during the last week of their menstrual cycle when the estrogen levels are lower.
Regardless of whether you are a male or a female, you have to avoid smoking, drinking through a straw, and excessive mouth rinsing after the surgery
1 2 Next
Categories
Bad Breath5
Braces9
Cavities3
Dental Implants2
Dental Information28
Gum disease9
Root Canal1
Teeth Whitening10
Toothache13
Wisdom Teeth26
Featured Posts
Finding Dental Insurance Coverage
Tips for Healthy Teeth
How to Tell if you Need your Wisdom Teeth Removed?
Home Remedy for Tooth Pain
Tooth Development Stages
DMCA Protected
Medical Disclaimer
Authoritydental.com is only for information purposes only. Always get guidance about a medical condition from a health care professional.
Stay With Me
Copyright © 2018. AuthorityDental.com
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Medical Disclaimer
SiteMap
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy