Simple Ingredients that Help to Reduce Belly Fat
Heal Beau
Home
Beauty
Skin Care
Hair Care
Reviews
Health
Fitness
Home Remedies
Lifestyle
Parenting
DIY Ideas
Events
About
Disclaimer
Contact
Work with Us
Home
Beauty
Skin Care
Hair Care
Reviews
Health
Fitness
Home Remedies
Lifestyle
Parenting
DIY Ideas
Events
Fitness / Health
0
Simple Ingredients that Help to Reduce Belly Fat
by Kavi Bala · Published May 31, 2016 · Updated May 31, 2016
Not only does women face the problem of weight, but men too. The belly fat problem is common for all. There are lots of reasons for this belly fat problem. When trying to reduce body weight, the belly fat is the first thing to consider. Following unhealthy lifestyle is the main reason for belly fat. Lack of exercise along with very less healthy food intake contribute to fat accumulation in belly. In order to combat belly fat accumulation, it is essential to avoid junk foods and do exercises regularly. Generally exercise is not for particular part alone, because when we are doing exercise our whole body will involve in it and so it will help to reduce belly fat. To reduce weight, particularly belly fat, we have to do some exercises regularly. Also we have to maintain right diet control.
Here are some of the diet controls techniques and foods that help to reduce belly fat. You can follow these techniques at home and you will surely reduce your belly fat within a month.
Drink Lots of Water
Try to drink at least 7 to 8 glass of water daily. This will prevent your body from getting dehydrated. This will help to remove unwanted dirt and toxins from your body. Drinking enough water will help to increase body metabolism. So, drinking lots of waters aids weight loss and thus reduces belly fat easily.
Lemon juice
One of the easiest home remedy for reducing belly fat is drinking lemon juice. Lemons have high antioxidants and so it aids in weight loss. It would be beneficial when drunk in empty stomach in morning.
Take warm water and then add lemon juice, some salt, and honey into it. Drink this juice regularly in morning.
Citrus fruits
Citrus fruits like lemon, orange, and grapefruit have rich vitamin C content, which helps to remove unwanted cholesterol from our body. So try to eat lots of citrus fruits in your regular diet.
Honey
One of the main reasons for increasing belly fat is sugar intake. So try to avoid adding lots of sugar in your diet. Instead of taking artificial sweeteners or sugar, try to add honey in your food. This will help prevent accumulation of belly fat and also aids in weight loss.
Salt
Try to avoid putting lots of salt in your food. Because when we add lots of salt in our food it will prevent water content from getting come out of our body. This is why we should avoid taking high salt intake in our diet. Instead of that we can add more spices and some herbs like Cardamom, Cayenne pepper, and more.
Cinnamon
Ditch the artificial flavors into your morning health drinks. To reduce body weight we can add cinnamon powder into our morning drink.
Add small amount of cinnamon powder into coffee or tea and drink it regularly. This will helps to maintain sugar level in our body, and to reduce our body weight naturally.
Curd
Try to add curd into your regular food. Low-fat curd is preferred. It has fewer calories and more vitamins this will helps to reduce body weight and also belly fat.
Berry fruits
Generally berries are the best food for reducing cholesterol in our body because of its rich vitamin C content. For those who are suffering from belly fat issues, you can eat these berry fruits.
Ginger
Adding ginger in our regular food helps to reduce belly fat. It has lots of antioxidant properties, and so maintains the body insulin level. It also helps to reduce blood sugar content. We can drink ginger water regularly to reduce belly fat.
Garlic
Garlic is two times more powerful than lemon juice. So try to eat at least 1 garlic clove daily in the morning. This will help reducing body cholesterol as well as to maintain blood circulations.
Green tea
Everyone knows about the health benefits of green tea and its part in weight loss. It would be preferable to drink at lease 2 glasses of green tea regularly.
Nuts
We stop eating nuts when we try to reduce weight. This is not true actually. Our body need some good cholesterol to prevent heart problems and proper energy supplement. These good cholesterols are available in nuts. So try to eat walnut, almonds, and peanuts as your regular snack in evenings. Also nuts keep you fuller for longer time and is good for health.
Avocado
Avocado also has lots of good cholesterol, and when we eat this fruit regularly, we get enough good nutrients for body. The vitamins present in it helps reduce our hunger cravings and thus helps in reducing belly fat.
Here is a simple detox water recipe that you can follow regularly.
Detox water Recipe
Pure drinking water – 5 glasses
Lemon – 1 (sliced)
Cucumber – 1 (sliced)
Mint leaves – 1/4 cup
Grated ginger – 1 tbsp
Cut all the above fruits and add it to water. Keep this mixture for overnight. Drink this detox water the whole next day. By drinking this detox water regularly, you can reduce belly fat and body weight.
Try all of these techniques for your weight loss regime and get rid of belly fat problem.
Liked it!!!! Take a moment to Share:
Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
Click to print (Opens in new window)
Tweet
Pin
Share2
+11
3 Shares
Like this:
Like Loading...
Tags: belly fatfitnessHealthreduce belly fatweight loss
You may also like...
0
Turmeric – The Nature’s Gift for Beauty and Health
April 2, 2016
by Kavi Bala · Published April 2, 2016 · Last modified April 19, 2016
0
Healthy Smoothies for Lowering Cholesterol
September 30, 2016
by Kavi Bala · Published September 30, 2016
0
Corn and Sprouts Soup for Healthy Diet
July 23, 2016
by Shobana · Published July 23, 2016
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Currently you have JavaScript disabled. In order to post comments, please make sure JavaScript and Cookies are enabled, and reload the page. Click here for instructions on how to enable JavaScript in your browser.
Follow:
Like Us on Facebook
Healbeau Creations on Youtube
Follow us on Pinterest
Popular Archive
Beauty / Skin Care
Beauty Benefits Of Ice Cubes For Skin
11 Apr, 2019
Beauty / Skin Care
Hydrating Face Masks For Summer
3 Apr, 2019
Hair Care
DIY Bentonite Clay Hair Mask for Silky and Shiny Hair
21 Mar, 2019
Top Posts & Pages
Benefits of Jathikai or Nutmeg
Health benefits of Nungu or Ice Apple
How to get the Bhringraj Benefits for Hair
Health Tit Bits
Surprising Benefits of Kavuni Arisi (Black Rice)
Water Washed Ghee for Skin Care
Remedies to Remove Darkness in Chin and Mouth Area
Blogmint
Self Improvement from SelfGrowth.com
Self Improvement from SelfGrowth.com- - SelfGrowth.com is the most complete guide to information about Self Improvement on the Internet.
April 2019
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Mar
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30
RSS - Posts
RSS - Comments
Recent Comments
Lisa on Cosmetics You Should Keep in Your Purse
Vasuki on 7 Signs to know Body Suffers from Dehydration
vani on Walnut Shells Powder Hair Color Paste to Dye Hair
aakash on Home Remedies for Mosquito Bites
siddharth on How GM Diet Plan Works?
About
Disclaimer
Contact
Work with Us
healbeau.in @ 2017
Powered by - Designed with the Hueman theme
%d bloggers like this: