Category: Cough - m09c
m09c
Health
weight loss
Food Recipes
Remove Surplus Lung Mucus with this DIY All-Natural Syrup
4/7/2019
Phlegm, a type of mucus, is produced in the lungs and lower respiratory tract and it is most accentuated when a person is sick. Even when a person is healthy, mucus forms a protective lining in specific body parts and thus, prevents drying out and helps fight off against viruses and bacteria.
However, a healthy body needs only some mucus and too much can be problematic. Usually, it is caused by allergies, common colds, the flu, nose or throat irritation, digestive problems, smoking, and lung disease.
​Taking into account that over-the-counter meds for mucus removal as well as syrups are often filled with chemicals and toxins, it is good to know that there are beneficial natural remedies that can help you fight off surplus mucus in the lungs without harming your health.
One such cure is the homemade syrup we will present today. Completely natural and free of side effects, this cure definitely deserves a place in your medicine cabinet.
DIY Anti-Mucus Syrup
You will need:
A cup of maple syrup
250 ml of water
One lemon, sliced
A tbsp of flaxseed
A tbsp of sage
A tbsp of marshmallow root
​
Preparation: In one saucepan, cook the water and maple syrup on medium heat for 10 minutes. Add the remaining ingredients and lower the heat. Stir and cook for 15 more minutes. Afterwards, remove it from heat. Once it cools down, transfer the syrup into a glass jar. Keep it in the fridge.
Use: Take one tbsp three times per day on a regular basis or until you notice improvement.
Source: bestfolkmedicine.com - MEDICAL NEWS TODAY - ​BEST HERBAL HEALTH
Powerful DIY Homemade Honey & Ginger Syrup: Fights Off the Flu & Colds
3/21/2019
This amazing honey and ginger syrup is an excellent natural remedy to avert and relieve cold and flu symptoms. As we are still in the cold and flu season, it is good to consume if we want to optimise our health and strengthen our immunity.
​If you have caught the flu or a cold, this concoction will help you cope with the unpleasant symptoms easier and be able to get on with your daily life normally. Unlike over-the-counter meds and syrups, this one does not come with side effects as it is completely natural.
Continue reading the article to learn how to prepare the remedy in a couple of easy steps with ingredients you probably already have in your kitchen cabinet!
DIY Ginger & Honey Syrup
You will need:
A medium-sized ginger root
A cup of organic honey
A glass jar
Preparation: First, peel the ginger and cut it into slices. Then, add it to the glass jar together with the honey. Close the jar well and leave it in a dark and cool area for 48 hours. Afterwards, you can begin using it.
Use: For prevention of colds and the flu, take a tbsp before breakfast on a daily basis. To treat colds and the flu, take 3 to 4 tbsp per day. For small children, the dosage should be replaced with teaspoons.
The Health Benefits of the Ingredients
​Ginger is well-known for its anti-inflammatory power and gingerol, its main component, possesses antibiotic properties that help remove bacteria and viruses from the respiratory tract.
It contains vitamin C that is pivotal for a strong immunity as well as niacin, potassium, and phosphorus that will fight off inflammation. Thanks to the antioxidants in it, it will cleanse and protect the airways and lower the negative impact of free radicals and toxins.
Honey is a potent antiviral and antibacterial agent that is abundant in enzymes and amino acids. It can be of aid to remove surplus phlegm, treat congestion, and fight off other cold-related symptoms.
It contains trace elements like magnesium and potassium that will impede the microorganism action in the body. Thanks to its anti-inflammatory abilities, it will decrease the airway irritation and minimise cough and throat ache.
Source: bestfolkmedicine.com - ​THE BLENDER GIRL
14 Plants To Clean Your Lungs And Stop The Coughing, Bronchitis And Asthma
3/19/2019
​Especially during the winter, we are prone to bacterial and viral infections that can damage the lungs and our respiratory system.
These issues often lead to the following symptoms:
Coughing
Chest pain
Throat irritation
Excess mucus
Shortness of breath
Wheezing
Coughing out blood or phlegm
Tightness in the chest
Back or chest tenderness
Body aches
Extreme fatigue
Hoarseness
Fever
The most common lung diseases include asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia, tuberculosis, cystic fibrosis, pleurisy, emphysema, and cancer.
Fortunately, there are powerful natural ways to relieve the symptoms and improve the health of your lungs.
​The following 14 plants effectively treat asthma, bronchitis, relieve coughs, and clear the lungs:
1. Cannabis
The strong anticancer properties of cannabis make it one of the most effective anti-cancer natural remedies. Its inhalation also fights bronchitis and sinusitis and alleviates oral cavity infections in smokers.
2. Eucalyptus
This beneficial plant is commonly used in syrups and medications to treat respiratory issues since it purifies the airways and relieves throat irritations. It strengthens the immune system and lowers the risk of lung infections.
3. Great mullein
The extract of this plant boosts immunity and supports the health of the respiratory system.
4. Chaparral (oak bush)
This plant detoxifies the lungs and is rich in antioxidants that improve overall health.
5. Sage
Sage tea has been used as a natural way to soothe coughs and throat irritations for centuries.
6. Osha (Ligusticum porteri)
It strengthens the lungs, eases breathing, and boosts lung circulation. It is also a popular traditional Indian remedy and is rich in camphor.
7. Thyme
Thyme is excellent in the treatment of obstructions in the lungs, and it treats bacterial and viral infections.
8. Licorice root
It is a popular medicinal herb that improves the health of the lungs. It soothes throat irritations and cleanses the mucous tissue.
It has powerful expectorant properties, so it fights inflammation, treats lung infections, and relieves bronchial spasms. Moreover, it contains glycaryins and flavonoids which prevent the formation of lung cancer.
9. Coltsfoot
This plant has been traditionally used in Indian medicine. It purifies the lungs, treats bronchitis, relieves asthma, and soothes coughs.
10. Lobelia extract
Known as Indian tobacco, lobelia purifies the airways, prevents cancer, relieves coughs, and stimulates the secretion of epinephrine, a hormone that eases breathing.
11. Mint essential oil
Its potent antioxidant qualities treat colds and relieve breathing difficulties.
12. Inula helenium
This traditional Indian medicine has strong antibacterial properties that relieve lung infections and treat chest congestion.
13. Oregano
Oregano essential oil is rich in vitamins and nutrients that fortify the immune system, detoxify the respiratory system, and clear the excess nasal mucus.
14. Lobaria pulmonaria
It is extremely beneficial for the respiratory tract and it treats and prevents various respiratory diseases.
Despite these herbal remedies, the Lung Health Institute suggests the following vitamins that will help you relieve the symptoms of COPD (Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease):
“Several vitamins may help those with COPD better manage their symptoms, calm inflammation and prevent severe damage.
The best source of vitamins is often food, so make sure you’re incorporating some natural sources of the following vitamins before choosing a supplement:
Vitamin D: Many people — especially those with COPD — are deficient in vitamin D. Some evidence shows that it can reduce exacerbation of the illness. Vitamin D is naturally found in egg yolks, yogurt, milk, and cheese.
Vitamin C: You can get a good dose of this inflammation-blasting vitamin from oranges and other citrus; dark, leafy green vegetables like kale; broccoli; berries; and tomatoes.
Vitamin A: A great driver of a healthy immune system, vitamin A is naturally found in salmon and other fatty fish, dairy, mangoes, cantaloupe, carrots, squash, broccoli, and leafy greens.
Vitamin E: This immune system booster can also help protect against cell damage, and can be found in vegetable oils, cereals, meat, poultry, eggs, fruit, and vegetables.”
Source: www.healthandhealthyliving.com - ​www.oldnaturalcures.com
Say Goodbye To Cough Phlegm, Flu, and Clean The Lungs Forever With This Old Recipe!
3/17/2019
Do you always find yourself catching flu a few times in a year? If yes, then your immune system is certainly weak and needs some serious boosting up.
Flu is an acute viral infection of the upper respiratory system. You may not be able to differentiate between flu and cold symptoms, but they are definitely different.
Cold symptoms are mostly localised to only head and chest but flu can spread throughout your body producing symptoms of fever, body ache and exhaustion. Sometimes it can takes weeks for flu symptoms to disappear. Flu is extremely contagious and can spread to others via sneezing, coughing and touching infected surfaces.
The Symptoms of Flu can Include:
Insomnia
Chills
Dry cough
Sore throat
Vomiting
Running nose
Body ache
Fatigue
Swollen glands in neck
You might have the habit of going for conventional antibiotics as soon as you get the first sign of flu. But the question is whether these antibiotics are always safe for your overall health.
There are some very effective home remedies that not only will save your money but also benefit your immune system.
When it comes to exposure to flu, it is always better to strengthen the immune system to make it robust against any repeated encounters. This will help in decreasing the ability of the virus to take a root in the body.
If you are looking for an absolutely natural and safe remedy to relieve flu symptoms and clean your lungs, then keep reading.
Here is one syrup that can get rid of flu and clean your lungs in a day.
Ingredients:
Honey
Lemon
Carrots
Carrots are an excellent source of beta carotene which gives them the beautiful red colour. The beta carotene supports body’s mucus membrane which lines the respiratory tracts. Beta carotene is responsible for making these membranes strong so that bacteria cannot enter the blood stream.
Thus carrots have the ability to treat respiratory problems, boost the immune system and relive flu symptoms.
Honey is considered the most effective antibiotic against bacteria and pathogens.
It has various anti-microbial and anti-bacterial properties. It can help ease sore throat pain and cough.
Honey helps in relaxing sore and scratchy throat naturally. It also boosts the immune system which makes you recover faster from the flu. Honey also helps you sleep better when you are sick.
The vitamin C present in lemon can help in reducing phlegm when you have flu and relive the upper respiratory tract infection. Also, vitamin C stimulates production of white blood cells which is always good when you are sick.
Instructions:
Take a pan and pour some water in it.
Put the pan on heat and let the water boil
Take 5 large carrots and slice them into very small pieces.
Add the sliced carrot in the boiling water and let them boil for 10 minutes
Remove the pan from the heat and let it cool down
Take a spatula and smash the boiled carrot
Add 4 tablespoons of honey to the smashed carrots
At last add one tablespoon of fresh lemon juice.
Refrigerate this syrup
The Syrup will Help in:
Relieving joint pain
Reducing inflammation
Reducing stress and anxiety
Soothing nerves
Treat exhaustion
Treating acid reflux
Alleviating heartburn and gastritis
For amazing results, take 4-5 tablespoons of this powerful syrup every day. This will clean your lungs and get rid of flu naturally.
​While this syrup can get rid of flu and clean your lungs just in a day, it is also advised to make necessary lifestyle changes if you have repeated encounters with flu.
You can recover from flue faster if your diet is healthy and you drink plenty of water every day. Also, you can have moderate exercises when you are
sick to alleviate some symptoms.
A very important thing is to avoid smoking overall, because it can interrupt your body’s recovery.
Also, smoking makes you vulnerable for more serious respiratory infections. With proper rest and this incredible syrup, you can recover from flue effectively!
Source: righthomeremedies.com
Garlic: The Most Effective Cure for Pneumonia, Coughs, Colds, Ear Infections
2/17/2019
There was no effective cure for infections like pneumonia before the discovery of penicillin in 1928 when Alexander Fleming noticed that the “mold” growing in his Petri dish destroyed the Staphylococcus bacteria.
Yet, the excessive use of antibiotics poses serious health risks, and it contributes to the thriving of drug-resistant bacteria. On the other hand, Mother Nature has created extremely useful natural antibiotics, and garlic being among the most powerful ones of them.
This garlic oil ointment, also known as GOOT, is an excellent way to fight bacterial, fungal, or viral infections. Due to the potent antibacterial and antiviral qualities, garlic has been famous since ancient time.
Most of its medicinal properties are a result of its compound allicin, which is released when garlic is finely chopped or crushed. You can get the highest levels of allicin if you press and mince garlic cloves into a smooth paste.
The garlic oil ointment offers all the powerful antibacterial, antimicrobial, antiviral, antifungal and antioxidant effects of allicin, and prevents and treats various health issues.
It is a natural remedy against colds, coughs, pneumonia, ear infections, and much more. Here is how to make it at home:
​
​Ingredients
5 Fresh, Peeled Garlic Cloves
3 Tbsp Coconut oil
2 Tbsp Olive oil
Instructions:
Warm the coconut oil in order to melt it, and add the olive oil. Then, crush or mince the garlic cloves, and add them to the oil mixture. Leave the ointment aside for half an hour, and then strain out the garlic. Pour the garlic oil into a suitable container or a smaller jar.
After an hour, the garlic oil ointment will turn into a thick soft paste. Raw, cold-pressed coconut oil is a rich source of lauric acid which is also a powerful antibacterial and antiviral agent.
If rubbed into the skin, this ointment will transfer raw garlic oil directly into the bloodstream.
It can be used to treat various health issues:
You should apply it to the feet of your children or infants to fight infections.
To fight acne, add a few drops of garlic oil to a mud pack, and apply the smooth paste on your face. Leave it to act for 10 minutes and rinse it off with cold water.
To cure the sores, you can apply it directly in the mouth.
To fight yeast and related infections, insert it into the vagina or rectum.
Then, apply a few drops of it in the ear to soothe an ear infection, or rub it on the chest daily to fight pneumonia, coughs, and colds.
To almost instantly relieve toothache, sprinkle a few drops of garlic oil on a cotton ball, press it in the affected tooth area and hold for 15-20 minutes.
You can also apply a few drops in the nostrils to treat sinus infections.
In the case of an Athlete’s foot or jock itch, apply the oil on the infected area.
Additionally, massage the scalp with the potent garlic oil ointment to prevent hair loss.
Source: www.healthyfoodhouse.com - ​anyavien.com
Pineapple Has Bromelain Enzyme That Kills Pain And Stops Coughing 50x Better Than Cough Syrup!
1/23/2019
Pineapples are incredibly delicious and versatile fruits with a yellowish flesh that has a fragrant aroma and sweet taste. This drought-tolerant plant grows five to eight feet tall, and the fruits have a tough, spiky exterior which is around 12 inches long and can weigh up to eight pounds.
They look like large pinecones, with spikey, waxy rind, that has many hexagonal sections (fruitlet). On top, pineapples have a “crown” of thick pointed leaves with spines along the edges. What is interesting is that all pineapples have the exact same number of hexagonal sections on it, no matter their size and shape.
Pineapples are rich in potassium, magnesium, copper, manganese, folic acid, and dietary fiber, as well as vitamin C, B1 and smaller amounts of B2, B3, B5, and B6.
Yet, the most important characteristic of these fruits is the presence of bromelain, an enzyme that provides most of their health benefits. It maintains a proper pH balance in the body and stimulates hormonal secretions in the pancreas and thus helps digestion. This protein-digesting enzyme reduces inflammation and swelling and relieves pain.
According to Jillian Levy, CHHC:
“Bromelain is a natural extract that has been found to speed healing and acts as an anti-inflammatory medication- similarly to over the counter medications like aspirin and ibuprofen.
Additionally, when applied topically, the benefits of pineapple include its ability to help in healing cuts, burns, insect bites and to help dissipate bruising and other skin problems.
Additionally, recent studies have shown us that bromelain from pineapple helps stop lung metastasis in its tracks, which suggests that bromelain can be used to treat a wide variety of diseases.
It can also help soothe and relax tense, inflamed muscles and connective tissue; this is why it is commonly used as a meat tenderizer. Most commonly bromelain is used to treat conditions including ACL tears, allergies, arthritis, and joint pain, asthma, autoimmune diseases, cancer, inflammatory bowel disease, sinus infections, sprained ankles, and tendonitis. “
Here are some of the health benefits of pineapples:
A cough: The bromelain enzyme has potent anti-inflammatory properties that soothe pain and suppress coughs 50x better than any cough syrup.
Inflammatory conditions: Pineapple juice fights inflammation, and relieves pain due to gout, injuries, carpal tunnel syndrome, osteoarthritis, and rheumatoid arthritis.
Respiratory conditions: Bromelain breaks down and dissolves excessive mucus, relieving the symptoms of sinusitis, pneumonia, asthma, and bronchitis.
Digestion: To support digestion, drink a glass of pineapple juice after a heavy meal.
Immunity: The high vitamin C content fortifies the immune system and prevents infections, colds, and the flu.
Atherosclerosis: The high amount of vitamin C prevents hardening of the arteries by protecting them from damaging oxidants.
Blood clotting: Pineapple juice effectively prevents the formation of blood clots.
Don't miss:
Cough
Detox Lungs
Gallstones
Migraine
Sinus Infection
Diabetes
Arthritis
Back Pain
High blood pressure: Pineapple juice is high in antioxidants and powerful blood clotting prevention properties which naturally lower blood pressure.
A sore throat: Pineapple juice soothes the soreness and redness in the throat.
Vision health: The high content of beta carotene protects against eye damage and diseases.
Bone health: Pineapples are rich in minerals that boost bone health and strengthen the connective tissues.
When purchasing pineapples, choose the heavy ones, with a nice golden color, and make sure the bottom stem does not have moldy spots.
Before you eat the pineapple, you should cut off the crown and turn the fruit upside down on a plate and leave in the fridge, to distribute the sweetness from the bottom throughout the entire fruit.
Cut the pineapple core in small pieces and add them to dishes, since it is full of nutrients. The cut pineapple should be kept in an airtight container in the fridge for up to a week.
Source: healthyfoodhouse , juicing-for-health
2-Ingredient Homemade Syrup For Stopping Cough And Clearing Phlegm From Lungs
1/22/2019
Carrots are incredibly healthy vegetables, rich in vitamin A, that strengthens the immune system and improves vision, vitamin B6, and beta-carotene, which lowers the risk of cancer. Moreover, vitamin A treats respiratory problems and soothes asthma and other lung issues.
Therefore, carrots are incredibly helpful in the fight against coughs, since they are a natural respiratory-aid, and effectively treat common colds.
According to HDCF Health:
“Coughing ranks among the most common health problems. When there is an irritant or blockage in your throat or upper air passages, your body gets a message from the brain to remove the irritant by coughing.
​Coughing can also be triggered due to a viral infection, common cold, flu, and smoking or health problems such as tuberculosis or asthma. When it comes to treating a cough, instead of reaching for the cough syrup, you can try some natural treatments that are available right inside your home.”
The following homemade cough syrup combines the beneficial properties of carrots and honey, which is a powerful antibacterial that relieves coughs and treats respiratory illnesses.
Here is how to prepare it:
Ingredients:
½ kg of organic carrots
3-4 tablespoons of raw honey
Instructions:
Dice the carrots, and place them in a stainless steel pot. Then, fill the pot with water in order to submerge the carrots, bring to boil, and simmer until the carrots are softened.
Remove the pot from heat, take the carrots out of it, and mash them using a fork. Add the honey to the leftover carrot-water, and then add the mashed carrots. Blend until you get a homogeneous mixture. Store the syrup in the fridge for up to 3 days.
Take 3-4 tablespoons of the syrup daily, and you will feel the improvements almost immediately.
Source: www.healthyfoodhouse.com , juicing-for-health.com
Golden Soup Recipe for Treating Common Cold, Cough and Sore Throat
1/5/2019
Comments
The problem of cold in winter season is common. We do not get rid of this problem and most of our time goes out to the doctor’s clinic. The medicine given by the doctor affects our health very badly. The truth is that all these medicines are only playing with our health.
The medicines given for treatment are no less than poisonous for us. These medicines are so expensive so that everyone can’t afford to buy it. The time has come for us to learn to recognize good and bad things and the poison that has been given during the treatment should be prevented.
A step taken by us can save the lives of ourselves and our loved ones. So let’s adopt Ayurveda and make your life happy and soon take the pledge to adopt Ayurveda. It is not good to take medicines frequently and it will be better if we adopt home remedies in our life.
Winter season is very painful for the elderly. In this season, they have to face physical pain, cold, winter cough and sore throat problems. Treatment by other medicines is not proven effective. It does not recognize the root cause of the disease. In the treatment of Ayurveda goes to the bottom of the disease and then is treated.
Today we will tell you and teach you to make a simple Kadha, which will give you many diseases in the winter season.
Benefits of Golden Soup or Kadha:
If you become sick again and again this means that there is a lack of disease resistance in your body. You can strengthen it with the help of this herbal Kadha which is a mixture of several Ayurvedic herbs.
This kadha made from natural things that do not cause any harm to the body.
1. Provoke your Immunity:
Drinking this type of Kadha increases the body’s resistance to the immune system. It gives the body the ability to accumulate. This kadha does not cause any chemical elements in the body. It caters the lack of beverages in your body.
By drinking this Ayurvedic Kadha you can get rid of the common diseases that occur during the winter season. The natural ingredients give your body the power to fight these diseases.
2. Purify your Blood:
By drinking this Kadha your blood purifies and the waste products are extracted from your body. This Kadha proves very effective in enhancing your eyesight.
3. Keep you Warm:
All the ingredients inserted in this Kadha give you warmth during the winter season. It enhances your digestive power to make you energetic and gives your body the power to fight diseases.
This Ayurvedic Kadha strengthens the bones, muscles and the nervous system. It will give great benefits to the brew in the body tightness due to the change in the winter season.
Essential Ingredients for Kadha:
2 cloves
1 black pepper, whole
1 tsp. of ginger, grated (you can use dry ginger)
5 or 6 leaves of holy basil (you can use 1tsp dried leaves)
2 green cardamom pods
1 black cardamom
¼ tsp. of fennel seeds
2 cup of water
1 tsp. of honey
1 small cinnamon stick
1 bay leaf
How to make Golden Soup or Kadha:
First of all, we will take two cups of water in a vessel and keep it warm to the gas. When the water starts boiling, then we will add cloves, black pepper, Bay leaf, basil leaves, green cardamom, black cardamom, fennel seeds, cinnamon stick and a pinch of salt. After pouring all the ingredients, boil the water until the water remains half.
If the mixture is halfway left then cool it slightly. Filter this mixture in a cup and mix it with one teaspoon of honey and then give the juice to the affected person. According to taste the quantity of honey can be reduced or increased.
After drinking this juice, get relief from winter, cold, and closed nose.
You can also give this Kadha to young children, just keep in mind that all ingredients should be put in a certain amount.
We hope you will like Golden Soup Recipe for Treating Common Cold, Cough and Sore Throat. This small effort by us will fill your life with happiness.
Source: https://righthomeremedies.com/
Comments
This Syrup Will Stop a Cough Dead in its Tracks: Ginger Thyme Cough Syrup
1/3/2019
Comments
​Thyme is one of the most powerful herbal cold remedies, as it acts as a strong disinfectant that prevents common colds, and relieves a sore throat and oral infections.
You can use it both externally and internally, as a natural way to treat chest issues, fungal infections, and coughs. Therefore, before you reach for over-the-counter medications, try thyme as one of the most effective natural cough cures.
According to Reader’s Digest:
“Thyme is an officially approved German cough treatment—and a remedy for upper respiratory infections, bronchitis, and whooping cough—for good reason: Those tiny leaves are packed with cough-suppressant compounds. Thyme flavonoids relax tracheal and ileal muscles, which are involved in coughing, and also reduce inflammation and headaches. “
Here is how to prepare a natural ginger-thyme cough syrup:
Ingredients:
2 handfuls fresh thyme
1 knuckle of ginger minced
3/4 cup raw local Honey
1 1/2 cups of Water
Instructions:
In a pot, mix ginger and thyme, add water, and boil. Leave the mixture to simmer for 10 minutes, and gradually add the honey.
Leave the syrup aside for 30-60 minutes, and strain. Then, heat the syrup again, bring it to a boil, remove the syrup from heat, leave it to cool, and bottle it. Store the syrup in the fridge.
Both children and adults should take 3-5 teaspoons of the syrup daily.
Source: www.healthyfoodhouse.com
www.healthy-holistic-living.com
Comments
Enter your email address:
Categories
All
Acne
Anxiety
Arthritis
Asthma
Back Pain
Beauty
Blackheads
Blood Sugar
Bronchitis
Burn Fat
Cancer
Candida
Cavities
Cholesterol
Cleanse Liver
Cleanse Lungs
Clogged Arteries
Cold
Constipation
Cough
Depression
Detox
Detox Lungs
Diabetes
Eczema
Edema
Exercises
Fever
Flu
Food
Gallstones
Gardening
General
Hair
Headache
Health
Hemorrhoids
High Blood Pressure
Home Remedies
Hypothyroidism
Immunity
Inflammation
Insomnia
Joint Pain
Kidney Stones
Life
Liver Detox
Metabolism
Migraine
Moles
Nail Fungus
News
Piles
Psoriasis
Rosacea
Science
Sinus Infection
Skin Tags
Stress
Turmeric
Varicose Veins
Warts
Weight Loss
Yoga
Powered by Create your own unique website with customizable templates.
Get Started
Health
weight loss
Food Recipes
© 2019 m09c