NATURAL HIMALAYAN ELECTRIC SALT LAMP – AnxiousPro
Search
Cart 0
Search
HOME
ANXIETY
ADHD/ASD
ABOUT US
CONTACT
HOME AND ACCESSORIES
Menu
Cart 0
Home › NATURAL HIMALAYAN ELECTRIC SALT LAMP
NATURAL HIMALAYAN ELECTRIC SALT LAMP
£29.99 £29.99
Save £30.01
Default Title - £29.99 GBP
Add to Cart
﻿
SCROLL DOWN AND READ THE REVIEWS BEFORE BUYING
The air we breathe consists of ions (atoms or groups of atoms that carry either a positive or a negative electrical charge). Computers, TV sets, air conditioners, tobacco smoke and many other by-products of modern day living, produce positively ionised air, which is harmful to our health. Negatively ionised air is generated by natural environments such as mountains, the seaside and waterfalls. This is due to the formation of nature's most purest sea salt, the Himalayan Pink Salt. Not only is this salt naturally beautiful in colour, it is also the purest of minerals on the planet. For this reason Himalayan Salt Crystal Lamps have been produced, to give us one of nature's purest health benefits at home.
Health Benefits - The most common health benefits of these stunning salt lamps, are reductions in rheumatism, allergies, respiratory ailments, sleeplessness, migraines, high blood pressure, physical and psychological disorders, and mild depression. In addition to the proven health benefits of negative ionisation, many people also experience a reduction in stress and anxiety due to the gentle, soothing colours.
Many luxurious spas use this salt as a form of negative ionisation therapy. Now you can enjoy all of these benefits at home!
The Lamp Will Provide You With he Following Benefits..
Improve Mood
Creates a nice ambiance helping to create a relaxing atmosphere that helps you unwind.
Better Sleep
Salt lamps are natural negative ion generators, thus they can help reverse sleeping problem caused by over-exposure to positive ions in the air.
Reduce Allergy & Asthma symptoms
Salt lamps remove microscopic particles of dust, pet dander, mold, mildew and the like from the surrounding air, placing a lamp or two in the rooms where you spend the most time can seriously cut back on allergy symptoms.
Eases coughing
Besides removing contaminants from the air, Tranquil Light also help your body to filter air more efficiently so any foreign particles you do happen to breathe won’t make it into your lungs.
Neutralize Electromagnetic Radiation
Nowadays, most of us are living in a metaphorical ocean of electromagnetic (EM) radiation which flows from our electronics ie: television, computer and cell phone
Increase Energy levels
If you constantly feel tired and don’t know why, try keeping a Himalayan salt lamp in the room or rooms where you spend the most time. After about a week, you should notice a difference.
Please note that due to the nature of this product, no two lights will be exactly alike and will vary in size, weight, shape and colour. This is not a problem with the product and is a result of the natural formation of the Crystal Rock Salt.
DIMENSIONS - L10cm x W10cm x H20cm / L4" x W4" x H8" (Estimate - Size & Shape Vary)
Pack Includes: 1 x Rock Salt Lamp and 1 x UK 3 Pin Plug and Cable
Bulb is included.
WORLDWIDE DELIVERY GUARANTEED WITHIN 5-10 DAYS FROM PURCHASE!
Share Share on Facebook Tweet Tweet on Twitter Pin it Pin on Pinterest
Gillian C.
Lovely ambiance and I have been suffering with a very bad cough yet when my beautiful Salt light is on it helps me. It’s so lovely to look at and the minute you switch it on you feel calm
Marilyn F.
I love my lamp, it emits a lovely light and my daughter liked it too so I bought her one
Sid T.
I have wanted a salt lamp for a long time when I saw this it was at a price I couldn't pass by. I love my lamp and have it in all the time. I can highly recommend it.
Julie H.
My daughter and son in law bought me one for Christmas. I keep it on all day and night in my lounge with 2 other dim lamps and candles. This morning I received another one (in the picture) from my partner as early Valentine present. it is already up and on. Can't wait for darkness to get the full benefit. I suffer from fibromyalgia and the lamps sooth me and make me feel calm. Want to get another one for both bedrooms next
Anita C.
Feels calming soft lighting happy with my lamp
Julie Y.
I seem to be sleeping better but then I have only had it switched on for 4 days
Shirley P.
Love it, it looks fantastic Do you have any tall ones, I would love a taller one
Jean B.
Love my lamp very relaxing & calming
Angela
Ordered 2. Both arrived intact. Both are different and evidently made from raw authentic materials. I love them. No issues with the light fittings or bulbs. Could not be happier. :)
June
Beautiful light and good for the air too
Emma
Really pleased with my purchase , lovely lamp gives a nice warm glow, have it in my bedroom hopefully on the dark nights when its on longer I will feel the health benefits to, well worth the money I have bought some as gifts too .
Sarah
I bought 4, 3 were for Christmas presents so have only tried one. I am really pleased with my purchase, it gives off a lovely soft glow and is eye pleasing. My son wants one so lucky one of them is a present for him. They look pink when off and soft orange glow when on. Would highly recommend this product. Prompt delivery too
Stacy B.
Love it! Beautiful item which looks fantastic and emits a warm glow. Much heavier than I thought it would be do shows it's authenticity. Thank you
Jeanette C.
I absolutely love my salt lamp and I want to order another one my friend wants me to order her one and another friend is going to order one also, it’s so calming and mesmerising I just sit for ages looking at it, Thank You
mrs j.
Love my lamp have it in my bedroom looks lovely
collette m.
Love it. It is really quirky and quite heavy.
Carole H.
Absolutely great purchase - so much so have ordered another two - one for my daughter who was really jealous of my one - and one for my sitting room. Well worth the money!
Debbie P.
The first cable was faulty but a new one was sent as requested, quickly and at no extra charge. A great service and the lamp is lovely, would definetley buy from this company again
maree m.
Love it and looks good too!
barry r.
Wonderful karma feeling glow, well worth it
Louise P.
Exactly what I wanted.
Anne S.
Loving the lamp, love the colour, casts a lovely glow in my room.
Christine H.
The lamp is lovely
Melanie C.
This will be the 5th lamp I have added to my collection my son has asthma and we noticed his breathing is so much better. Many thanks brilliant product.
Verna K.
Only had it for four days been away for two of them but looks lovely.
Margaret P.
I have purchased two lamps and I love them .l'm not sure about their effect but l feel happy with them.
trish c.
we have 2 and have seen our cats licking them...
Jean O.
Love the soft light and the way it looks - very relaxing
Margaret G.
Have 2 love them such a cosy glow and hopefully health benefits. My bedroom one is on all night, lovely!!!
Loretta C.
I love the light on these dark nights feel good factor about it.
Julia A.
I love this lamp. I’ve put it in my home office. Not only does it look Good but I feel calm and stress free whilst In there.
Lisa B.
Have wanted one for ages ,so glad I treated myself Beautiful night light glow soothing & calming . Definitely recommend this product .
Sharon E.
Love it. Very relaxing glow.
eileen
love this lamp all my family have one
Sarah
I have several salt lamps at home and at work - including a few "Magic Salt" ones. These have always been very reliable. They give a lovely warm glow and help to reduce the effects of EMF radiation, which I am somewhat sensitive to at higher levels. My neighbor had a smart meter put in his house last week and I came home to find that I was getting headaches in the kitchen/garden, which I don't normally have. An additional 5 salt lamps around the house seems to have solved the problem within the...
Amy
Absolutely love my new lamp and it's great as there are many benefits from it
Get in touch
We would love to hear from you
Email Us at: custservice@anxiouspro.com
Monday-Friday 9am-5:30pm.
Newsletter
E-mail
Sign Up
Quick links
Search
Return Policy
Privacy Statement
Terms of Service
© 2019 AnxiousPro
Powered by Shopify
american express
apple pay
maestro
master
paypal
visa