Woman Overdoses on Water Trying to Win Wii - SlipperyBrick.com
Home
About
Contact
Popular
Gadget Glossary
деньги в займ на карту
Editor:
Darrin Olson | Email | Posts
Contributing Editors:
Conner Flynn | Posts
Shane McGlaun | Posts
Reuben Drake | Posts
Article Archives
Woman Overdoses on Water Trying to Win Wii
Posted in News,Wii by Chris Weber on January 15th, 2007
A California woman who participated in a radio station contest to see who could drink the most water without using the bathroom, died of water intoxication. Jennifer Lea Strange was discovered dead in her home in Sacramento at about 2 pm on January 12th. Strange had participated in the radio station competition earlier in the day. The winner of the competition was to receive a Nintendo Wii.
The contest started at 9 am at 107.9 KDND “The End.” The “Morning Rave” morning show had a contest called “Hold Your Wee for a Wii.” Each contestant had to drink an 8 ounce water bottle every 15 minutes. After the first contestant dropped out each remaining contestant had to drink a larger quantity of water. Many of the contestants later related the negative symptoms they suffered. One described the symptoms much like a hangover.
After Strange left the radio station she called a co-worker and said she was on her way home and that she was in pain and had an intense headache. The co-worker contacted Strange’s mother who later found her daughter dead at her home.
Water intoxication happens when a person consumers too much water and thereby diluting the sodium in the body. Sodium is vital for many bodily functions and the condition can lead to headaches, vomiting, seizures, coma and death. The coroner said that Strange’s death was “consistent with a water-intoxication death.”
Related Posts
Family Sues Radio Station in Wii Water Death
DJ’s Aware of Danger in Wii Water Overdoes Case – 10 People Fired
A mystery Mii leads to Diivorce
Share:
Tweet
Permalink
Logging In...
Profile cancel
Sign in with Twitter Sign in with Facebook
or
Name
Email Not published
Website
Comment
24 Replies
23 Comments
0 Tweets
0 Facebook
1 Pingback
Last reply was August 25, 2013
David
View January 15, 2007
So has the radio station weighed in with it’s sympathies for the victim of this idiotic waste?
g
View January 15, 2007
this is crazy
Tammy
View January 15, 2007
i didnt even relize a person could overdoes on water…thats really sad
Tammy
View January 15, 2007
overdose that is
Jason
View January 15, 2007
How much water would one have to drink, based on body weight, to overdose on water?
Ray
View January 15, 2007
I can see the lawyers knocking
x
View January 15, 2007
And why shouldn’t the lawyers knock? Someone needs to keep idiots responsible for holding contests that are inherently dangerous. That’s how it works: These idiots get sued, and everyone learns that if you’re going to screw around with this kind of contest, you need to get professional medical consultation first.
I knew about water intoxication before, but the vast majority of people have not. So, if you’re going to start a contest, and put several or many people in possible jeopardy, you damned well ought to know what you’re doing.
You can read about water intoxication on wikipedia.org.
Anne
View January 16, 2007
What exactly is a Wii
Andres
View January 16, 2007
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Water_intoxication
Shawshank
View January 16, 2007
Anne, here is some Nintendo Wii Information.
graham
View January 16, 2007
so who won?! thats my question
Aimee
View January 16, 2007
She got second place.
Someone on another board said that the winner should give the prize to her kids. ACK!
nikole
View January 16, 2007
ok so heres my output on this situation
i do feel bad dont get me wrong but at the same time its no bodys fault
just as she dint kno wat could happen to her the radio station didnt either its not there fault
dont be mad at the radio station she couldve done research too
im srry for everyones pain in this death but i jus think its bull that everyone wants to blame the radio station
the person who won dint die
its a tradjedy and it jus happened
im sorry
bob walker
View January 17, 2007
Boy – after the woman that said she was a nurse warned the DJ’s that too much water was a danger – well they should have listened. I hope the DJ’s are held civilly responsible for their stupidity. so sad that the kids are without a mom now.
Phildo
View January 18, 2007
HA! I’m just glad it happened to a Californian! I’m sick of putting up with their crap. AND, I’m glad it was all for a Nintendo Wii! I almost peed myself laughing, but the prospect of winning a Wii forced me to hold it in for HOURS. WATER WATER EVERYWHERE, OH SHIT! I DRANK TOO MUCH! Nothing could make this situation better. The only thing that could ruin it would be some stupid Californian judge who lets the station get sued. To hell with her and all the stupid Californians who participated in that contest. YOU LOSE! GOOD DAY SIR!
noname
View January 18, 2007
Phildo you cold hearted bastard.
These kids are without a mom.
You make me sick!
Eat poo
LMAO!!!!
View January 19, 2007
omg phildo is right on the money…CA sucks…full of damn liberals…they should have a state wide water drinking contest and the loser gets shot
George W. Bush
View January 19, 2007
hellz yeah Phildo!!…CA sucks…full of damn liberals…they should have a statewide water drinking contest…the loser gets shot in the face…deal with it!
Phildo
View January 22, 2007
Insensitive? I guess. I do feel bad that her kids will be without a mom. I AM however, GLAD they are without that woman. This is natural selection, my friends. She did not die in a car accident, of cancer, or in combat. She died of a water overdose. The only thing dumber than that is the fact that it was all for a Nintendo. Though, I will say the situation is, on some level, sad, I also thinks the situation is downright stupid. The idea that the 10 people working for the station should lose their jobs for this blows my minds. Liability has become a time bomb that kills anyone who is near it. This is something I think is very wrong with America. As soon as someone dies, and trust me, it happens a lot, LOTS of people have to be at blame, but never the one who died. She CHOSE to drink too much water and the ending was her fault alone. Shitty for her family? Yes. But don’t make it shitty for everyone else.
Yodiyo
View January 24, 2007
Yeah this was really stupid of the radio and the contestants… does anyone remember a few years ago when this happened to a marathon runner? Drank a bunch of water so she’d be hydrated for the run and dropped dead from hyposalination/hyperhydration/”water intoxication” whatever you want to call it. It is a horrible death though… the reason you die is your brain swells (first headache) it swells so much it crushes itself against your skull.
Still, the point is… this just happened a few years ago, how many times before people realize DON’T DRINK TOO MUCH WATER
Juelz Santana
View June 7, 2007
I was there…..it was crazy….
Tre
View December 21, 2008
sly fox
as nas says
this is another example of the media deceiving you making you think that this one situation applies to everyone
think with common sense.
this lady didnt die because she drunk too much water
she basically dround herself
“Drinking gallons of water without peeing”
hello people. your body will tell you when you’ve drink too much water. it’s Gods gift. not the media.
Waterrrrrrrr!!! - Page 2 - GupShup Forums
View March 7, 2010
[...] bad toxins. some interesting articles: Peace Wisher: Drinking excessive water / water overdose Woman Overdoses on Water Trying to Win Wii – SlipperyBrick.com *~*~*~*sweet berry wrapped in a bitter [...]
Anonymous
View August 25, 2013
That’s so crazy I feel sorry for her family:(
_
Subscribe via RSS
Subscribe via Email:
More...
No top posts.