How To Stop Smoking Weed | Help Quit Smoking Weed
HELP ON HOW TO STOP SMOKING WEED
Home
Video
Resources
Journal
About
How to Quit Smoking Weed
Here are tools, tips and recommended reading to help you quit the addiction to weed.
Since Marijuana is now going mainstream and legal in many parts of the world, if you think you're addicted, here are some resources to help you with quitting weed, helping pass a drug test and getting help with THC overuse.
What is Marijuana Dependence?​
You often hear that “marijuana is not addictive”. And you believed it for some time now right? But now your thinking twice about it?
This is what I was going through and here are some important fact to back this up:
Research by the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) shows that 9% of recreational users develop a dependence on marijuana. If you started as a teenager, then the number jumps up to 17%.
Since weed is the most popular recreational drug, these percentages translate to an estimated 2.7 million people just in the U.S. who struggle with marijuana dependence.
But maybe this is a conspiracy theory right? Maybe this is because the government is trying to stop people from smoking weed?
If that's the case then, have a look at it this way:
Uruaguay, Mexico, Canada and many other states have legalized a form of Marijuana or are on the cusp of it. Just like how cigarettes are legal, people all over are addicted to those.
over 1000 people per day search the internet with words like “how to quit smoking weed” or " help stop smoking weed".
That translated to over 30,000 people per month looking for a solution to marijuana dependence.
So, it’s pretty obvious you’re not alone and that this is a real problem for a lot of people.
But it’s a problem that can be solved and trying this guide that I have used, may help out. But it really boils down to will power and how you can improve everything from emotional intelligence and identify that weakness and thought that comes around and improve your self awareness.
﻿My mission is to help you quit smoking weed
I'm not a doctor or addiction professional, I'm just a regular guy who was once addicted to weed and who had a mother addicted to even harder drugs. I hope my blog will help you out. I'm going to write about how I ﻿tried ﻿this guide out and how it helped me quit my addiction to weed. But I'll also talk about the different approaches to quitting weed and why the self - guided program I have tried actually worked for me after years of smoking weed.
I'm not against Marijuana and I think it should be legalized, but I do not want to break the law and I want to help people that are addicted to smoking weed.
There will also be some links to free resources and ebooks on how to quit the bad habit. And if your forced to take a drug test, here are some resources on that as well.
What are the options to quit weed?
Cold Turkey
​You've probably already tried this and it didn't work, that is why your ended up here. Its obvious that the longer you’ve smoked weed, will power by itself will not work and its because of this: physical and psychological withdrawal symptoms.
THC is stored in your body’s fat cells and is slowly released back into the bloodstream which means you’re still getting small doses of THC days or even weeks after your last smoke. For some of you, this just means you feel like “something is missing” and you crave the full effect. For others, your body rebels with intense cravings and unbearable side effects. Either way, this is the main reason will power does not work.
Rehab
Checking into a rehabilitation clinic requires a serious financial and time commitment. The rest of your life goes on hold in rehab but for good reason if you have a life threatening addiction to alcohol or to hard drugs like cocaine, methamphetamine and heroin.
Rehab is not necessary in order to stop smoking. Marijuana is not on the life threatening level of harder drugs and chronic marijuana users, while they impair their potential, still get through daily life reasonably well. In the case of weed, rehab is an option when all else fails.
Medical Treatment
Seeking help from a physician for marijuana dependence ought to be a viable solution but unfortunately it can be a mixed bag. Marijuana dependence is still a relatively misunderstood concept even in the medical profession.
Some doctors will be understanding and may offer a pharmaceutical solution of some sort even though there is currently no FDA approved drug specifically for marijuana dependence (apparently some are being tested). The most enlightened doctors will also most likely recommend some sort of counseling.
Just be aware that there are still plenty of old school doctors out there who might not take you seriously and think you are nuts, which could lead to unnecessary prescription drugs. My Ex GF had this issue and these guys kept giving her anti depressants. Its a crazy cycle and I saw right through it.
Addiction Counseling
Psychotherapy (talk therapy) from a psychiatrist, psychologist, or licensed clinical social worker is a really good way to deal with dependence or addition issues. A counselor can help you sort out all sorts of life’s problems and oftentimes it’s the underlying issues that cause one to become dependent on a substance.
However, like rehab, counseling requires a significant time and monetary commitment (or really good health insurance). Also, counselors, like doctors, have varying opinions on marijuana dependence. Just be aware of this when choosing a therapist.
Marijuana Anonymous (12-Step Meetings)
Marijuana Anonymous has lots of information on weed dependence and their strategy has proven beneficial for some people. They operate pretty much the same way as Alcoholics Anonymous which means they emphasize doing a 12-step program.
Like most other 12-step programs, there is a bit of a religious aspect to it. They also have online 12-step meetings and an online forum.
The problem with the Twelve Step approach is that it has come under fire in recent years for having only a 5-10% success rate. In other words, it’s kind of outdated and apparently ineffective for the majority of people.
Now, let’s say you’ve tried will power and it hasn’t worked and none of the other options above sound appealing. There is an alternative option:
Disclaimer: ​As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases.
Powered by Create your own unique website with customizable templates.
Get Started
Home
Video
Resources
Journal
About