A mixture of maple syrup and baking soda kills cancer cells | Maplemood
0
No products in the cart.
Maplemood
Home
Blog
About Us
Articles
A mixture of maple syrup and baking soda kills cancer cells
December 19, 2016
To prevent cancer or destroy cancer cells, you can opt for natural solutions. Experts seem to have found a potential cure for cancer based on baking soda and maple syrup. It is true that cancer cells thrive on sugar, but the combination of baking soda and maple syrup can do wonders against cancer. Indeed, maple syrup is a natural sweetener that targets cancer cells and destroys them. When this mixture penetrates cancer cells which consume 15 times more glucose than normal or healthy cells, sodium bicarbonate neutralizes them.
Benefits of maple syrup
Maple syrup is one of the best natural remedies for cancer. It helps prevent the proliferation of cancer cells according to recent studies in Canada and the United States. US scientist Navindra Seeram of the University of Rhode Island conducted a study that discovered the presence of 13 antioxidant compounds in maple syrup. The latter have antibacterial, anticancer and antidiabetic properties.
Benefits of baking soda
Baking soda is an alkaline product able to regenerate the cells of the body by promoting their supply of oxygen. It is worth noting that cancer cells spread in acid environments and in anaerobic environment (absence of oxygen). In other words, the acidity of the human body is the main cause of cancer, hence the importance of balancing the pH (power of hydrogen) of the body.
According to Dr. Tullio Simoncini, a specialist in oncology, infection with a fungus called Candida Albicans can cause cancer. He notes that the modern lifestyle and environmental pollutants lead to the formation of these fungi, and consequently the development of cancerous tumors. The doctor advises to consume baking soda, because its anti-cancer and alkalizing properties help to prevent the formation of the tumors.
Recipe for this natural anti-cancer remedy
Ingredients:
• Baking soda
• Pure maple syrup
Preparation and use:
Mix the baking soda with the maple syrup, (one part baking soda with three parts maple syrup) preferably not in an aluminium pot or pan. Rather use stainless steel or copper cookware.
Then heat the mixture over low heat, without overheating, stiring the mixture quickly for 5-10 minutes.
Consume three teaspoons per day of this natural cure for cancer for one month.
During the course of the treatment, it is necessary to avoid the consumption of table sugar, meat and white flour for the treatment to be successful.
Related articles published in Maple Syrup’s Health Benefits :
Maple syrup honourably labelled as “superfood”
Maple Syrup: Properties and Nutritional Values
Maple syrup: a powerful ally against cancer
Maple Syrup and the extraordinary Quebecol
Source : http://healthywhispr.com/this-powerful-two-ingredient-recipe-destroys-even-cancer-cells/
The World of Maple and Its Leading Figures
Maple syrup triggers hope for patients with Alzheimer’s disease
More Than Just Sweet Delights
Maple Blog Categories
Articles
Health & Lifestyle
Maplemood
Maple Mood offers 100%, all-natural maple products of the highest quality. Making the best use of Quebec’s very own locally-sourced delicacies, our products will add a distinctive flavour to your desserts, meals, snacks, smoothies and more, while also providing notable health benefits.
Maplemood by vortex - copyright 2016. All rights reserved.
About Maple Mood
Maple Mood offers 100%, all-natural maple products of the highest quality. Making the best use of Quebec’s very own locally-sourced delicacies, our products will add a distinctive flavour to your desserts, meals, snacks, smoothies and more, while also providing notable health benefits.