Pink Himalayan salt: Does it have any health benefits?
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Does pink Himalayan salt have any health benefits?
Last updated	 Mon 30 July 2018	 Last updated	Mon 30 Jul 2018
By Jayne Leonard
Reviewed by Natalie Olsen, RD, LD, ACSM EP-C
Table of contents
What is pink Himalayan salt?
Benefits and myths
Risks and considerations
The bottom line
Pink Himalayan salt is a type of rock salt from the Punjab region of Pakistan, near the foothills of the Himalayas.
Some people describe pink Himalayan salt as one of the purest salts available, and say it boasts several health benefits.
But does this salt earn its place among the "healthier" salts? This article explores the possible benefits of this exotic salt.
What is pink Himalayan salt?
People claim that pink Himalayan salt is healthier than regular salt.
Pink Himalayan salt is chemically similar to table salt. It contains up to 98 percent sodium chloride.
The rest of the salt consists of trace minerals, such as potassium, magnesium, and calcium. These give the salt its light pink tint.
These minerals also explain why Himalayan salt tastes different from regular table salt.
How is it used?
People use this type of salt and common table salt in the same way: As part of cooking, to season meals, and to preserve food.
Blocks of pink salt sometimes become serving dishes, cooking surfaces, and cutting boards. Some people also use pink Himalayan salt in place of bath salts. It is also possible to buy lamps and candleholders made of pink salt.
Why does the body need salt?
Sodium is an essential trace mineral found in salt. The body needs this for a variety of functions.
It can support:
contracting and relaxing muscles
maintaining proper fluid balance and preventing dehydration
sending nervous system impulses
preventing low blood pressure
Recent research has suggested that eating salt can reduce the risk of infection and kill harmful bacteria.
One study on animals has also led researchers to infer that salt may have a positive effect on symptoms of depression.
Benefits and myths
There are several claims about the health benefits associated with pink salt consumption. These include:
Rich mineral content
Some sources say that pink Himalayan salt contains up to 84 different trace minerals.
As it contains up to 98 percent sodium chloride, this means that only around 2 percent is made up of these various trace minerals. Given the relatively limited quantities in which people normally consume salt, and the tiny quantity of these minerals in the salt, they are unlikely to provide any measurable or significant health benefits.
Lower sodium
Some people believe that pink Himalayan salt is lower in sodium than regular table salt. However, both types consist of approximately 98 percent sodium chloride.
As pink salt often has larger crystals than table salt, it technically contains less sodium per teaspoon. It also has a saltier flavor than table salt, meaning that a person can use less salt in a serving to achieve the same taste.
However, pink salt is also available in a smaller granule size that more closely resembles regular salt. Consider this when seasoning food and measuring sodium intake.
The American Heart Association (AHA) advises that over 75 percent of sodium intake comes from the salt already present in processed and prepared foods. Table salt does not add the bulk of sodium content to a meal.
A more natural salt
Some claim that Himalayan salt is more natural than table salt. This claim appears to have merit.
Table salt is usually heavily refined and mixed with anti-caking agents to prevent clumping, such as sodium aluminosilicate or magnesium carbonate,
Himalayan salt is less artificial and does not usually contain additives.
An aid to hydration
Some believe that adding a pinch of pink salt to meals or drinks can help the body achieve optimal fluid balance and prevent dehydration.
It is true that sodium is necessary to maintain proper fluid balance. However, this is true of sodium from other sources as well as pink Himalayan salt.
Risks and considerations
Bear the following points in mind if using pink Himalayan salt:
Iodine intake
Iodine supports the thyroid glands. Pink salt contains less iodine that table salt and is less suitable for people with iodine deficiency.
Iodine is a mineral that the body needs for maintaining proper thyroid function and cell metabolism. Great sources of iodine include fish, sea vegetables, dairy, and eggs, among other foods.
Iodized salt is another common source of this trace mineral. Approximately 75 percent of households in the United States use iodized salt.
Although pink Himalayan salt may naturally contain some iodine, it most likely contains less iodine than iodized salt. Therefore, those who have iodine deficiency or are at risk of deficiency may need to source iodine elsewhere if using pink salt instead of table salt.
Sodium intake
Although sodium is necessary for preserving life, it is important to monitor the intake of any type of salt. While sodium is necessary in small quantities, too much can have a negative impact on health.
Those with kidney, heart, or liver issues, or people on a sodium-restricted diet, should monitor their sodium intake and limit their use of all salt, including pink Himalayan salt.
Even people in good health should monitor sodium intake. A 2016 report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) states that over 90 percent of children and 89 percent of adults consume more than the recommended amount of sodium.
Too much sodium
The 2015 to 2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommend that people eat less than 2,300 milligrams (mg) of sodium daily. This equates to approximately 1 teaspoon of regular table salt per day.
Those that have high blood pressure should limit sodium intake to 1500 mg per day. Speak with a dietitian to determine dietary changes that can be made to limit sodium intake.
Salt contains 40 percent sodium. When being conscious of sodium intake, it can be helpful to know how much sodium is in certain amounts of salt.
Certain quantities of salt contain the following amounts of sodium:
1/4 teaspoon salt: 575 mg sodium
1/2 teaspoon salt: 1,150 mg sodium
3/4 teaspoon salt: 1,725 mg sodium
1 teaspoon salt: 2,300 mg sodium
Most people consume much more than this.
When people take in more sodium than they need, their kidneys try to remove the excess through the urine. If the kidneys cannot remove enough sodium, it begins to build up in the fluid between cells, known as the interstitial fluid.
This causes both water volume and blood volume to increase, putting additional strain on the heart and blood vessels.
A number of serious health conditions are linked to high sodium intake, including:
high blood pressure
heart disease
stroke
liver damage
osteoporosis
kidney disease
Consuming too much salt might even contribute to autoimmune diseases, such as multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, and psoriasis, as it overstimulates the immune system.
Research from 2015 suggests a direct link between salt intake and obesity, with a 1-g-per-day increase in salt intake being linked to an increase of over 25 percent in the risk of obesity in both adults and children.
The bottom line
At present, there is no scientific evidence to show that pink Himalayan salt provides more health benefits than regular table salt.
Replacing fine-grain table salt with crystals of pink Himalayan salt may help to reduce sodium intake, but, as with any other salt, be sure to enjoy it in moderation.
There is an excellent selection of pink Himalayan salt available to purchase online, with thousands of customer reviews.
We picked linked items based on the quality of products, and list the pros and cons of each to help you determine which will work best for you. We partner with some of the companies that sell these products, which means Healthline UK and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link(s) above.
Related coverage
What are the signs of iodine deficiency A look at the signs of a deficiency in iodine, an important mineral that helps many bodily functions. Included is detail on diagnosis and the causes. Read now
What causes salt cravings? Some people find salt and salty snacks to be extremely addictive. Salt cravings are usually the result of simple factors, such as boredom or stress. Sometimes, salt cravings can be tied to a medical condition. This MNT Knowledge Center article explains the causes and triggers of salt cravings. Read now
Salt: How much is too much? Studies on how much salt we should consume have been conflicting. We take a closer look at how much salt is too much - or too little - for optimal health. Read now
Can a salt water flush help you lose weight? A salt water flush is commonly used for weight loss and to avoid fluid retention. The effectiveness is highly debated, with many believing there are minimal risks. There are very few scientific studies to back up these claims. Learn more about the potential risks of a salt water flush and recipes to make one, here. Read now
email email
print
share share
Nutrition / Diet
Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine Vascular
Additional information
Article last updated by Adam Felman on Mon 30 July 2018.
Visit our Nutrition / Diet category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Nutrition / Diet.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Dietary guidelines for Americans 2015-2020: Eighth edition. (2015). Retrieved from https://health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/guidelines/
Jantsch, J., Schatz, V., Friedrich, D., Schröder, A., Kopp, C., Siegert, I., … Titze, J. (2015, March 3). Cutaneous Na+ storage strengthens the antimicrobial barrier function of the skin and boosts macrophage-driven host defense. Cell Metabolism, 21(3), 493-501. Retrieved from http://www.cell.com/cell-metabolism/abstract/S1550-4131(15)00055-8
Kleinewietfeld, M., Manzel, A., Titze, J., Kvakan, H., Yosef, N., Linker, R. A., … Hafler, D. A. (2013, April 25). Sodium chloride drives autoimmune disease by the induction of pathogenic TH17 cells [Abstract]. Nature, 496, 518-522. Retrieved from http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v496/n7446/full/nature11868.html
Leung, A. M., Braverman, L. E., & Pearce, E. N. (2012, November). History of U.S. iodine fortification and supplementation. Nutrients, 4(11), 1740-1746. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3509517/
Ma, Y., He, F. J., & MacGregor, G. A. (2015, August 3). High salt intake: Independent risk factor for obesity? [Abstract]. Hypertension, 69(1). Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26238447
New research: Excess sodium intake remains common in the United States. (2016, January 7). Retrieved from http://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2016/p0106-sodium-intake.html
Processed foods: Where is all that salt coming from? (2016, October 14). Retrieved from http://www.heart.org/HEARTORG/Conditions/HighBloodPressure/PreventionTreatmentofHighBloodPressure/Processed-Foods-Where-is-all-that-salt-coming-from_UCM_426950_Article.jsp#.WEAwUfmLSM8
Shaking the salt habit to lower high blood pressure. (2016, October). UI study suggests salt might be 'nature's antidepressant'. (2009, March 10). Retrieved from http://news-releases.uiowa.edu/2009/march/031009salt_antidepressant.html
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Leonard, Jayne. "Does pink Himalayan salt have any health benefits?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 30 Jul. 2018. Web.
21 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/315081.php>
APA
Leonard, J. (2018, July 30). "Does pink Himalayan salt have any health benefits?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/315081.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Increased muscle power may prolong life
A first-of-its-kind study finds that increased muscle power, rather than muscle strength, can significantly prolong life for seniors.
MS: High-strength MRI may predict disease progression
New research suggests that a powerful MRI scanner may help predict the progression of multiple sclerosis by analyzing cortical lesions on the brain.
More evidence that being active extends life
A recent study concluded that 'regardless of age, sex, or starting fitness level,' increased physical activity of any type reduces overall mortality risk.
Through my eyes: My first 48 hours with hearing aids
I'm not even 30 years old, and I need hearing aids. The discovery was a shock, but just 48 hours in and an exciting new world of sound is unfolding.
Most people who die of natural causes do not seek medical help
A new study has found that a large number of people who die from natural causes do not seek medical attention during the month before.
Popular in: Nutrition / Diet
Eighteen ways to reduce bloating
Which foods are good for constipation?
Seven ways to do intermittent fasting
What are the first signs of gluten intolerance?
Which foods lower blood sugar?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/315081.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);