Morphine | The Discovery House |
Skip to content
Call Now for Immediate Help:
818.666.3083
About
About Us
Meet Our Staff
Our Commitment to You
Press & Media
Alumni Program
Testimonials
Addiction Resources
FAQs
TDH Voice
Admissions
Rehab Admissions
Insurance FAQs
Info for Family Members
Pet Therapy Program
Paying for Rehab
What to Expect at Drug Rehab
What to Bring to Treatment
Programs
Treatment Programs
Alcohol Rehab
Drug Detox
Drug Rehab
Co-Occurring Disorders
Family Program
Inpatient Treatment
Intensive Outpatient Treatment
Residential Treatment
Our Facility
Our Treatment Center
Photo Gallery
Virtual Tour
Facility Licenses
Work With Us
Addiction Types
All Addictions
Alcohol
Benzodiazepine
Cocaine
Codeine
Crack
Ecstasy
Fentanyl
Heroin
Marijuana
Methadone
Morphine
Prescription Opioids
Oxycodone
Steroids
Recovery Blog
Contact Us
Morphine
The Discovery House » Morphine
Morphine
Morphine is among the most potent opiates known among all drugs. Many users praise it for its ability to relieve relentlessly severe pain, however, it is extremely addictive. In fact, morphine’s addictive potency is so high that it is the cause of a significant amount of unintentional drug-related fatalities in America.
Effects and Abuse of Morphine
Morphine is a narcotic and abusers laude it for having highly pleasurable effects . Those in constant extreme pain also abuse it, only increasing their chances of acquiring a morphine addiction.
Effects of Morphine include:
Pain relief
Reduced anxiety
Drowsiness
Euphoria
Using morphine sans a verified prescription is deemed abuse and illegal, although it’s legal when it is indeed prescribed. Signs of a morphine overdose can consist of slowed breathing, slurred speech and intense drowsiness, as this opiate puts a severe depression on one’s central nervous system and can ultimately cause death.
Morphine Addiction Treatment
An addiction to morphine is extremely difficult to beat and overcome. However, it can be done by anyone who wants to change their life and enter recovery. At The Discovery House, we promote long term recovery in our addiction treatment programs at our luxury rehab facilities in Los Angeles. Call us today at 818.666.3083 or fill out our form to get you or your loved one struggling with a morphine addiction help and treatment.
Request a Call
First Name*
Last Name
Phone
Email*
Comments
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
Please enter your name and phone number above to have a representative contact you directly.
Addiction Treatment Services
Addictions
Alcohol Addiction: Everything You Need to Know
Alcohol Treatment Center
Alcohol Treatment Programs
Inpatient Alcohol Treatment
Outpatient Alcohol Treatment
Treatment for Alcohol Detox
Benzodiazepine Addiction
Ativan Addiction
Halcion Addiction
Valium Addiction
Ecstasy Addiction
Heroin Addiction
Options for Heroin Treatment
Treatment for Heroin Overdose
Treatment for Heroin Withdrawal
Illicit Drug Addictions
Methamphetamine Addiction
Opiate Addiction
Opiate Treatment Centers
Opiate Treatment Options
Treatment for Opiate Withdrawal
Painkiller Addiction Treatment
Sleeping Pill Addiction Treatment
Stimulant Addiction Treatment
Discover Your True Potential
Our dedicated admissions team is standing by to answer any questions you might have.
You don't have to do this alone. Call today!
818.666.3083
The Discovery House is a fully licensed, Joint Commission accredited, comprehensive drug and alcohol treatment center located in Southern California. We provide detox and residential addiction treatment to individuals from all across the United States.
Find Us on Social Media
Interested in working with us?
Check out our careers section.
Check out The Discovery House on Yelp
Looking for Immediate Help?
818.666.3083
All calls are 100% confidential and your information will never be shared with anyone outside of our organization.
© 2019 The Discovery House | Inpatient Drug Rehab Los Angeles | Privacy Policy | Sitemap | Discovery Transitions Outpatient Drug Rehab | Terms