Do Cell Phones Cause Cancer? What You Need to Know
Dr. Axe
Search for:
About Dr. Axe
Dr. Axe
Search for:
Health
Allergies
Brain Health
Cancer
Children’s Health
Diabetes
Gut Health
Heart Health
Hormones
Mental Health
Skin Health
Symptoms
Treatments
Weight Loss
Nutrition
Fruit
Grains
Herbs & Spices
Mushrooms
Probiotics
Protein
Supplements
Vegetables
Vitamins & Minerals
Diets
Fasting
Gluten-Free
Low-Carb
Ketogenic
Mediterranean Diet
Paleo
Plant-Based
Vegan
Vegetarian
Recipes
Gluten-Free
Ketogenic
Low-Carb
Paleo
Vegan
Vegetarian
Essential Oils
DIY Remedies
Body Care
Cleaning
Hair Care
Oral Health
Skin and Beauty
Fitness
Anatomy
Injury & Rehab
News & Tips
Running
Workouts
Yoga
Shop
Top Sellers
Supplements
Essential Oils
View All
About Dr. Axe
Dr. Axe on Facebook Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest Dr. Axe on RSS
Dr. Axe > Health > Cancer
×
This Dr. Axe content is medically reviewed or fact checked to ensure factually accurate information.
With strict editorial sourcing guidelines, we only link to academic research institutions, reputable media sites and, when research is available, medically peer-reviewed studies. Note that the numbers in parentheses (1, 2, etc.) are clickable links to these studies.
The information in our articles is NOT intended to replace a one-on-one relationship with a qualified health care professional and is not intended as medical advice.
×
This article is based on scientific evidence, written by experts and fact checked by our trained editorial staff. Note that the numbers in parentheses (1, 2, etc.) are clickable links to medically peer-reviewed studies.
Our team includes licensed nutritionists and dietitians, certified health education specialists, as well as certified strength and conditioning specialists, personal trainers and corrective exercise specialists. Our team aims to be not only thorough with its research, but also objective and unbiased.
The information in our articles is NOT intended to replace a one-on-one relationship with a qualified health care professional and is not intended as medical advice.
Do Cell Phones Cause Cancer? What You Need to Know
By Leah Zerbe, MS, NASM-CPT, NASM-CES
June 2, 2016
Dr. Axe on Facebook 351 Dr. Axe on Twitter 10 Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest 798 Share on Email Print Article
Do cell phones cause cancer? As with any type of science looking at this type of issue, it’s going to take decades to come to a definitive conclusion. Meanwhile, though, more and more studies are painting a picture suggesting that cell phone radiation is not completely safe and could very well be carcinogenic.
I don’t know about you, but I’m practicing the precautionary principle, making simple tweaks in my cell phone use today while scientists continue to study the effects this type of non-ionizing radiation has on our bodies.
Remember, people once thought smoking was safe. Today, are we risking good health by using our smartphones in not so smart ways?
The Cell Phone–Cancer Link
The “do cell phones cause cancer” debate is still not settled and will likely take years to play out. Here’s what we do know, though:
Cell phone radiation is radiofrequency energy and a type of electromagnetic radiation classified as non-ionizing radiation, similar to harmful microwaves and radar.
Ionizing radiation is known to cause cancer and includes things like X-rays and radon. (1)
The latest evidence suggesting wireless radiation poses a huge public health risk comes from partially released data from a large, $25 million well-designed U.S. National Toxicology Program study. Researchers found exposure to very high signal cell phone radiation led to a slightly increased risk of malignant gliomas in the brain and schwannomas of the heart in male rats. Schwannomas are tumors that form in the nerve sheath. (2)
Otis W. Brawley, MD, chief medical officer of the American Cancer Society, called this latest study “good science” and added:
The NTP report linking radiofrequency radiation (RFR) to two types of cancer marks a paradigm shift in our understanding of radiation and cancer risk. The findings are unexpected; we wouldn’t reasonably expect non-ionizing radiation to cause these tumors. This is a striking example of why serious study is so important in evaluating cancer risk. It’s interesting to note that early studies on the link between lung cancer and smoking had similar resistance, since theoretical arguments at the time suggested that there could not be a link. (3)
The study found a dose-response effect. That means the higher the dose, the higher the risk. The results backed up previous research suggesting cell phone radiation could increase the risk of gliomas. Acoustic neuromas have also been linked to cell phone use.
In 2011, the World Health Organization listed cell phone radiation as a 2B carcinogen, meaning it’s possibly carcinogenic to humans. Since cell phones have only been in wide use since the 1990s, epidemiological studies looking for long-term risks from cell phone exposure could be missing certain threats that may not be surfacing in humans yet. (4)
Studies looking at cell phone radiation exposure and tumors and other health problems show mixed results, including:
Swedish researchers found a higher risk for tumors on the side of the head where the cell phone was held, particularly with 10 or more years of use.
Most other studies find that brain tumors do not more often originate on the side of the head where people reported using their cell phones.
Most studies do not show a “dose-response relationship,” meaning increased cell phone use doesn’t seem to increase the risk of brain tumors.
Those who begin using cell phones as teenagers have a four to five times higher chance of being diagnosed with brain cancer.
Sperm die three times faster and experience triple the damage to mitochondrial DNA compared to sperm from men who are not exposed to cell phone radiation. (5, 6)
The Environmental Health Trust notes that many studies that do not show an increased risk of tumors are shorter studies of five or seven years. In reality, the organization says, it can take up to 10 years for brain tumors to develop.
Common Sense Ways to Protect Yourself from Cell Phone Radiation
Did you know that nomophobia, the fear of being without your cell phone, is a real thing? With more than 300 million cell phones subscribers in the U.S. — and millions of people afraid to have their phones out of sight — it’s clear we could be on the cusp of a major public health crisis if the latest link between cell phones and cancer pans out.
Whether cell phone radiation causes cancer or not, exposure has been shown to impact your body’s healthy pH balance, making it more acidic. Cell phones are also linked to sperm damage, poorer sleep and impaired glucose metabolism, meaning there are other reasons to practice the precautionary principle and avoid excess radiation. Let’s look at some ways to reduce your exposure to cell phone radiation. (7, 8)
It’s best if we all reduce our exposure to wireless radiation, but for kids, it’s a must. Developing children’s skulls are thinner, and radiation has been shown to penetrate deeper. (9)
Final Thoughts: Do Cell Phones Cause Cancer?
Emerging independent studies suggest cell phone radiation could increase your risk of certain cancers, including malignant gliomas in the brain and schwannomas of the heart. People having only been heavily using cell phones since the ’90s, so there’s still no definitive proof they cause cancer. (Or that they don’t.)
Still, it took decades to prove cigarette smoking caused lung cancer. Since there is evidence cell phones impair sleep and glucose metabolism and increase your risk of cancer, I suggest using the precautionary principle. Take simple steps to keep your phone further away from your body.
This means keeping it out of your bedroom when you sleep, texting while holding your phone further away from your body rather than holding it by your ear to talk, and turning it off or putting it in airplane mode when you’re driving, flying or on an elevator. Be sure to avoid cordless phones, too. They also emit dangerous radiation like cell phones.
Read Next: Thermography — Breast Cancer Detection + Better Risk Assessment
Get FREE Access!
Dr. Josh Axe is on a mission to provide you and your family with the highest quality nutrition tips and healthy recipes in the world...Sign up to get VIP access to his eBooks and valuable weekly health tips for FREE!
Free eBook to boost
metabolism & healing
30 Gluten-Free Recipes
& detox juicing guide
Shopping Guide &
premium newsletter
Your Best Email *
Ad
Popular Posts
All Time
This Week
1 Salt Water Flush Recipe
2 How to Get Rid of Bags Under the Eyes: 13 Easy, Natural Ways
3 Secret Detox Drink Recipe (A Natural Detox Drink Recipe)
4 Top 12 Natural Home Remedies for UTI
5 16 Soothing Strep Throat Home Remedies
1 Secret Detox Drink Recipe (A Natural Detox Drink Recipe)
2 Top 12 Natural Home Remedies for UTI
3 How to Get Rid of Bags Under the Eyes: 13 Easy, Natural Ways
4 16 Soothing Strep Throat Home Remedies
5 Salt Water Flush Recipe
More Health
Dr. Axe on Facebook 22 Dr. Axe on Twitter 22 Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest 22 Share on Email Print Article 66
Bradykinin: A Polypeptide that Regulates Blood Pressure
Do you know that hypertension was one of the earliest recorded medical ...
Read More
Dr. Axe on Facebook 690 Dr. Axe on Twitter 15 Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest 25 Share on Email Print Article 730
Mammograms Do Not Find All Breast Cancers
Breast cancer now affects about 1 in 8 U.S. women at some point ...
Read More
Dr. Axe on Facebook 1176 Dr. Axe on Twitter 35 Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest 546 Share on Email Print Article 1.8K
Biofeedback Therapy: A Proven Treatment for 16+ Medical Conditions
Various forms of biofeedback therapy — performed using certain muscle relaxation, breath and ...
Read More
Dr. Axe on Facebook 926 Dr. Axe on Twitter 9 Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest 22 Share on Email Print Article 957
What Is Fatty Liver Disease? 5 Dietary Steps to Get Rid of It
In the U.S., it’s estimated that fatty liver disease affects 20 to 40 ...
Read More
View All
Most Popular Health
All Time
This Week
1What Is Fatty Liver Disease? 5 Dietary Steps to Get Rid of It
2Hay Fever: 9 Natural Ways to Treat Seasonal Allergy Symptoms
3Detox Your Liver: Try My 6-Step Liver Cleanse
4How to Get Rid of Herpes Symptoms Naturally
5What Is a Lipoma? Symptoms, Causes + 4 Natural Remedies
1Natural Diarrhea Treatment: How to Stop Diarrhea Fast
29 Candida Symptoms & 3 Steps to Treat Them
3Detox Your Liver: Try My 6-Step Liver Cleanse
4How to Get Rid of Herpes Symptoms Naturally
57 Steps to Balance Hormones Naturally
Ad
Let's Be Friends
Dr. Axe on Facebook 2.8M
Likes
Dr. Axe on Youtube 1.6M
Subscribers
Dr. Axe on Pinterest 435.6K
Followers
Follow us:
Dr. Axe on Facebook Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest Dr. Axe on RSS
Get Free Access
Want to lose weight, use new natural remedies or recipes, or get stronger?
I'm interested in... Healing Foods Natural Remedies Healthy Recipes Fitness/ Metabolism All of the Above
Register
Yes, sign me up for marketing emails from Dr. Axe. For more information on how we use your information, check out our Privacy Policy. You can change your mind anytime by unsubscribing.
Inside Dr. Axe
About Us
Contact
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
Stores We Love
Program Login
Article Topics
Bone Broth
Collagen
Essential Oils
Leaky Gut
Keto Diet
Omega 3s
Probiotics
Medical Disclaimer
This content is strictly the opinion of Dr. Josh Axe and is for informational and educational purposes only. It is not intended to provide medical advice or to take the place of medical advice or treatment from a personal physician. All readers/viewers of this content are advised to consult their doctors or qualified health professionals regarding specific health questions. Neither Dr. Axe nor the publisher of this content takes responsibility for possible health consequences of any person or persons reading or following the information in this educational content. All viewers of this content, especially those taking prescription or over-the-counter medications, should consult their physicians before beginning any nutrition, supplement or lifestyle program.
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Affiliate Disclosure
DMCA Policy
Careers
© 2019 Dr. Axe. All Rights Reserved.