The Truth Why People Drinking Their Urine When Stranded And No Water | Beauty Tips
Tuesday, April 23, 2019
Latest:
How To Make Money $1000000 Zero Cost Earning 1 Million Dollars Online At Home
How To Get Rid Of Stretch Marks Fast Naturally
How To Remove Skin Tags
Treatment Home Remedies For Scabies
Harkins Movie Theatres Near Me Harkins Locations
Beauty Tips
Home
Beauty
Lose Weight
Body Treatments
Fragrance
Dressing
Hair Care
Hand Care
Nail Care
Skin Care
Cosmetology
Teeth Whitening
Living
Stars
Storytelling
Discovery
Architecture
Film
Parenting
Psychology
History
Animals
Finance
Bank
Cash
Money
Credit
Loan
Debt
Futures
Insurance
Investment
Lifestyle
Home
People
Education
Reading
Law
Security
House
Viewpoint
Dating
Sports
Travelling
Outdoor Sports
Swim
Military
Funny Pictures
Health
Healthcare
Lose Weight
Parenting
Psychology
Sexuality
Shopping
Jewelry
Toys
Accessories
Bags
Books
Camera
Clothing
Coupons
Electronics
Furniture
Security
The Truth Why People Drinking Their Urine When Stranded And No Water
Jan 17, 2017 Editor pee, urine, water
Urophagia – the act of drinking pee. We have all heard how it is an option when stranded and in desperate need of water. British hiker Paul Beck was stranded for 6 days and reportedly survived by doing this, and Bear Grylls has done it on camera, but do you know the truth about drinking your own urine?
What are the benefits and drawbacks of it? Health concerns? This article will shed some light over the subject that has many survivalists cringing.
Evidence for health claim.
Advocates for drinking urine say that it has many benefits and some have even replaced their morning cup of coffee with it. However, is it actually safe to drink? In short – yes, but under certain conditions.
Urine is mostly comprised of water filtered through the body as it flushes out waste products. In terms of survival, drinking urine is acceptable, since it is preferable than suffering dehydration and its consequences. Ancient medical and cultural practices in Egypt, China, India, and the Aztec empire included drinking urine as a treatment and even a cure for many ailments.
The ancient holistic healing system of India, Ayurveda, allows for urine drinking as an alternative medical practice for asthma, arthritis, allergies, acne, cancer, indigestion, migraines, and even wrinkles.
There is no real medical evidence that supports drinking urine as an effective treatment for any of that, but studies have shown that urine has some components that have medicinal properties. Urea, one of the primary components of urine (other than water), holds antibacterial, antifungal, and antiviral attributes.
Though no scientific evidence supports healing properties from drinking urine, drinking small amounts of your own urine will most likely do no harm at all.
Evidence against health claim.
Urine does contain some harmful substances in those individuals who have taken drugs (both illegal and legal) or in those who have been exposed to chemicals.
Drinking urine should not be a substitute for drinking fresh water – the proportion of water would quickly decrease as the proportion of harmful waste products increased.
In response to those who favor urine for the fact that urine contains vitamins, proteins, hormones, and other beneficial components, it should be noted that the body’s process of elimination results in the kidneys retaining what is useful and disposes of everything else in the urine as waste.
Excessive urine consumption has negative side effects including fatigue, diarrhea, fever, and muscle soreness. The more urine consumed, the more the symptoms increase.
Verdict.
Since urine is primarily comprised of water it is harmless to drink small amounts, granted that you haven’t been exposed to drugs or environmental toxins that your body is trying to get rid of.
Now, when facing dehydration in a survival situation, drinking urine makes a little more sense and becomes much more preferable since the short-term benefits outweigh the risks. This option isn’t a long-lasting one – your kidneys will stop producing urine as dehydration intensifies.
Welcome To Share By
Share on Facebook Share
Share on TwitterTweet
Share on Google Plus Share
Share on Pinterest Share
Share on LinkedIn Share
Send email Mail
Print Print
← World’s Loudest Windstorm Safety Whistle Help You Ward Off Predators
How To Learn Morse Code Alphabet (Chart & Translator) →
You May Also Like
USA Virginia Pulaski Police Department Services
Jan 5, 2017 Editor Comments Off on USA Virginia Pulaski Police Department Services
Controlled Pasture Burning is in Full Swing
Feb 5, 2017 Editor Comments Off on Controlled Pasture Burning is in Full Swing
USA Police Pulaski Police Department PPD Introduction
Jan 5, 2017 Editor Comments Off on USA Police Pulaski Police Department PPD Introduction
Hi! Create Your Own Online Business and Start Banking $44,290.11 Per Month
There is a brand new online opportunity which can earn you over $500,000 a year. A secret that for some reason, hardly anyone knows about or even talks about,
This offer is only available for a limited period of time so make sure you click the link below and get signed up immediately before someone else takes this opportunity,
Click Here To Watch The Private Video!
Regards
Featured
Featured Lose Weight
GM Diet Plan: Lose Quickly Weight 10 to 15 Pounds in a Week Naturally
Feb 4, 2017 Editor Comments Off on GM Diet Plan: Lose Quickly Weight 10 to 15 Pounds in a Week Naturally
The General Motors diet program, which is most popularly known as the GM diet plan, is a 1 week diet
Books Featured
Michael Makai: Domination & Submission: The BDSM Relationship Handbook
Jan 29, 2017 Editor Comments Off on Michael Makai: Domination & Submission: The BDSM Relationship Handbook
Featured Skin Care
My Unusual Tip To Eliminate Your Acne Forever
Jan 24, 2017 Editor Comments Off on My Unusual Tip To Eliminate Your Acne Forever
Featured Literature
Top 100 Sad Depression Quotes
Nov 13, 2016 Editor Comments Off on Top 100 Sad Depression Quotes
News
How To Make Money $1000000 Zero Cost Earning 1 Million Dollars Online At Home
How To Get Rid Of Stretch Marks Fast Naturally
How To Remove Skin Tags
Treatment Home Remedies For Scabies
Harkins Movie Theatres Near Me Harkins Locations
All Regal Movies Locations Regal Theaters Near Me
Which AMC Movie Theaters Near Me Full AMC Locations
How To Get Rid Of Acne Scars Overnight
How To Get Ride Of Blackheads And Whiteheads Fast
Harnessing The Power of Probiotics to Heal Pink Eye
Search
Newsletter
Email address:
Leave this field empty if you're human:
About Us
About Us
Advertising
Contact Us
Home
Privacy Policy
Sitemap Page
Tag
27 inch monitor American artist Australia best monitor cage cancun Colombia Colombian company credit card dog Dominican emergency Facebook Facebook Ads fishing food girlfriend gmail guy hair Honda insect insects Instagram Melbourne menu music obiee pet pittsburgh Puerto Rico questions quotes rat restaurant restaurants saddle San Diego Twitter united healthcare online unitedhealthcareonline women XR650R
Copyright © 2019 Beauty Tips. All rights reserved.
Theme: ColorMag by ThemeGrill. Powered by WordPress.