Cell phones and cancer: MedlinePlus Medical Encyclopedia
Skip navigation
U.S. National Library of Medicine
The navigation menu has been collapsed.
Menu
Health Topics
Drugs & Supplements
Videos & Tools
About MedlinePlus
Show Search
Search MedlinePlus
GO
About MedlinePlus
Site Map
FAQs
Customer Support
Health Topics
Drugs & Supplements
Videos & Tools
Español
You Are Here:
Home →
Medical Encyclopedia →
Cell phones and cancer
URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007151.htm
Cell phones and cancer
To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.
The amount of time people spend on cell phones has increased dramatically. Research continues to investigate whether there is a relationship between long-term cell phone use and slow-growing tumors in the brain or other parts of the body.
Information
At this time it is not clear if there is a link between cell phone use and cancer. Studies that have been conducted have not reached consistent conclusions. More long-term research is needed.
WHAT WE KNOW ABOUT CELL PHONE USE
Cell phones use low levels of radiofrequency (RF) energy. It is not known whether RF from cell phones causes health problems, because the studies done so far have not been in agreement.
The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) have developed guidelines that limit the amount of RF energy cell phones are allowed to give off.
The RF exposure from cell phones is measured in specific absorption rate (SAR). The SAR measures the amount of energy absorbed by the body. The SAR permitted in the United States is 1.6 watts per kilogram (1.6 W/kg).
According to the FCC, this amount is much lower than the level shown to cause any changes in laboratory animals. Every cell phone manufacturer is required to report the RF exposure of each of its phone models to the FCC.
CHILDREN AND CELL PHONES
At this time, the effects of cell phone use on children are not clear. However, scientists do know that children absorb more RF than adults. For this reason, some agencies and government organizations recommend that children avoid prolonged use of cell phones.
REDUCING RISKS
Although health problems related to long-term cell phone use are unknown, you can take steps to limit your potential risk:
Keep calls short when using your cell phone.
Use an earpiece or the speaker mode when making calls.
When not using your cell phone, keep it away from your body, such as in your purse, briefcase, or backpack. Even when a cell phone is not in use, but is still turned on, it continues to give off radiation.
Find out how much SAR energy your cell phone gives off.
Alternative Names
Cancer and cell phones; Do cell phones cause cancer?
References
Benson VS, Pirie K, Schüz J, et al. Mobile phone use and risk of brain neoplasms and other cancers: prospective study. Int J Epidemiol. 2013;42(3):792-802. PMID: 23657200 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23657200.
Federal Communications Commission website. Wireless devices and health concerns. www.fcc.gov/consumers/guides/wireless-devices-and-health-concerns. Updated July 3, 2018. Accessed August 22, 2018.
Hardell L. World Health Organization, radiofrequency radiation and health - a hard nut to crack (review). Int J Oncol. 2017;51(2):450-413. PMID: 28656257 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28656257.
National Cancer Institute website. Cell phones and cancer risk. www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/risk/radiation/cell-phones-fact-sheet. Updated February 16, 2018. Accessed August 22, 2018.
US Food & Drug Administration website. Radiation-emitting products. Reducing exposure: hands-free kits and other accessories. www.fda.gov/Radiation-EmittingProducts/RadiationEmittingProductsandProcedures/HomeBusinessandEntertainment/CellPhones/ucm116293.htm. Updated December 4, 2017. Accessed August 22, 2018.
Review Date 7/26/2018
Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists & Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
Electromagnetic FieldsRead more
NIH MedlinePlus MagazineRead more
Health Topics A-ZRead more
A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, also known as the American Accreditation HealthCare Commission (www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability. A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy, editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of Hi-Ethics and subscribes to the principles of the Health on the Net Foundation (www.hon.ch).
The information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2019, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.
About MedlinePlus
Site Map
FAQs
Customer Support
Get email updates
Subscribe to RSS
Follow us
Disclaimers
Copyright
Privacy
Accessibility
Quality Guidelines
Viewers & Players
MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
For Developers
U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health
Page last updated: 01 April 2019