Wi-Fi Health Study Gets Go Ahead | NetStumbler
Search
Home
Downloads
Wi-Fi Health Study Gets Go Ahead
Posted on October 25, 2007 by Kristin Abraham • 7 Comments
The BBC has announced that the Health Protection Agency is going to begin a systematic research program on how WiFi is used. The goal of this study is to determine how WiFi is being used and the possible radiation exposure that results from such use.
Spokesmen from the HPA believe that the study will confirm the safety of using WiFi, but feel that since England’s Chief Medical Officer suggested children limit their non-essential cell phone use due to potential exposure to radiation that a study into the radition emmissions of WiFi was the next logical step.
Results of the study will be publicly available, but officials reinforce their belief that WiFi is safe.
Via [bbc.co.uk]
Filed Under: Health, Research
← WiMAX Backers Positioning 802.16e As An Alternative To Municipal WiFi
WiMAX Is 3G →
7 Responses to Wi-Fi Health Study Gets Go Ahead
Limu Plus - The Health And Wellness Product by Health Tips says:
October 25, 2007 at 6:31 am
[...] Wi-Fi Health Study Gets Go Ahead [...]
blogblink says:
October 25, 2007 at 1:08 pm
[...] the details here No Comments so far Leave a comment RSS feed for comments on this post. TrackBack URI [...]
health » Blog Archive » Wi-Fi Health Study Gets Go Ahead says:
October 25, 2007 at 7:29 pm
[...] Read the rest of this great post here [...]
Sat Nav says:
October 30, 2007 at 12:56 am
I find it hard to believe that emissions from WiFi are stronger than that of mobile phone masts. If they are not stronger then why bother spending money doing the research. TV masts surely kick out more wattage but they are safe. Aren’t they?
Ian Ball says:
December 10, 2007 at 4:28 am
No matter what the results are from any investigation into the biological effects of radio energy are on the human body, whether it’s cell phone, wifi, TV masts or whatever, the results will be that it’s safe.
After all if there was any proof that radio energy is harmful then all of the emergency services and armed services would stop using their radio equipment.
Or am I being cynical
Garold says:
October 6, 2008 at 7:50 am
I can’t wait until all the health freaks accept what they are and join up with the paranoia freaks in general, then we can have tinfoil hat partiest and etc with those tiny little cupcake things I <3 so much.
Joe Sixpack says:
January 22, 2009 at 3:40 pm
Rediculous to propose or think non-ionizing radiation has a seriously detrimental effect on people. The ‘evidence’ is bad science. Concentration affected by holding a conversation with one person while doing something else? How is this unusual?
I suggest any support – especially by the BBC which has shown itself repeatedly as a paid shill agency not working in the interest of the common good – suggesting ‘non-ionizing radio waves’ have any similarity to ionizing radiation/radioactive waste, such as causing cancer – a big hot-button issue for the brainwashed masses – is irresponsible and criminal non-science.
It is clear huge plumes of radioactive waste were sent all around the world, especially in North America, from over 100 above-ground nuclear explosions in and around the 1950′s. Real radiation: released from burning coal, DU weapons, polonium-laced commercial tobacco smoke, irradiating the heads of children in one case and from nuclear power ‘accidents’ is to blame for the increased background radiation picked up on Geiger counters.
The real criminal lobby responsible for these irresponsible and criminal uses of nuclear energy want more than anything for the public to be decieved into believing a person’s own use of communication technologies such as WLAN and mobile phones causes the diseases created by the same criminals who are racist and have no care for their fellow man, because they do not believe people not from their own tribal or ethnic background are their ‘fellow’ man (i.e. Oppenheimer ‘I have become destroyer of worlds’).
Recent Posts
The Physics Of Where To Put a Wi-Fi Router
Wi-Fi Security – The Rise and Fall of WPS
Is Marius Milner the unnamed google engineer?
How Easy Is it to Write Malware for Android?
So you want to be a Security Consultant?
Offensive Mobile Forensics
Novatel’s MiFi 2352 HSPA Review
Verizon Opens Up, Will Support Any Device, Any App On Its Network
Google May Get Its Open-access Wishes After All; Will Bid In 700MHz Auction
CBS Offers Midtown Manhattan Free Wireless Internet Access
Categories Select Category 3Com 3G 4G 802.11a 802.11g 802.11i 802.11n Administration Agere AirDefense Airespace Airgo Airlines AirMagnet Airpath Airport Airspan Alcatel Alvarion AMD Android Apple Aruba Atheros Atmel ATT Avaya Belkin BellSouth Blackberry Bluetooth Boeing Boingo Books Broadcom Broadom BT Buffalo Bugs CA Centrino CheckPoint Chipset Chipsets Cingular Cisco Clearwire Commentary Community Conexant Connexion Covad CPE D-Link Dell Delta Deployment Depolyment Devices DoCoMo DragonFly EarthLink EVDO Extreme Networks FCC Flarion Flash-OFDM Fon Foundry Networks Fujitsu Gizmo Project GoodLink Google GPS Growth GSM Guide Handheld Handhelds Handsets Health HotSpots HP HSDPA IBM IEEE Intel Intersil Interview IOGear iOS iPAQ IPass iPhone ISP KDDI Legal Lexmark LG Licences Linksys Linux Lucent Marvell McAfee Mesh Metro Microsoft MiFi MIMO Motorola Municipal Netgear NetStumbler Nextel NextWave Nintendo Nokia Nortel Novatel NTT O2 Ofcom Orange Palm PalmOne Panasonic Patents Personal Pipex Products Proxim Qualcomm Research Review Reviews RFID Ricochet Roaming Rogers RSA Samsung SBC Seagate Security Siemens Sify SIPphone Skype Skyriver SMC Software Sony Sony Ericsson Spam Spectrum Sprint Standard Standards Starbucks Switch Symantec Symbol T-Mobile Television Terabeam TheCloud TI Tools Trains Trapeze Tropos Truckstop TSA Uncategorized UWB Vendors Verisign Verizon Viewsonic Vodacom Vodafone VoIP Vonage Warchalking Wardriving Wayport WEP WFA WFM Whitepaper Wi-Fi Wi-Fi Phone WiBro WiFi WiHD WiMAX WPA WUSB xMax Xohm ZigBee
Go To Top
Copyright © Netstumbler.com 2005-2014