Is Ginger Safe for Morning Sickness? - Fertility After 40: How I got pregnant naturally at 43 and had a healthy baby after years of infertility, IVF, IUI and Miscarriage
Welcome!
The Short Answer: What I Did
Sex
Diet
Vitamins & Supplements
Medicine
Exercise
Alternative Therapies
Unexplained Infertility
Toxins
Male Infertility
Finances
About
Resources
Is Ginger Safe for Morningsickness?
Ginger works as a natural anti-inflammatory agent and can be used to help relieve the pain of arthritis, bursitis, motion sickness and nausea.
Ginger helps with morning sickness because the active chemical in ginger, zingerone, overwhelms your brain as it can't simultaneously process the hot flavor of the ginger and the sensation of nausea, so you temporarily stop feeling sick.
The American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists suggests ginger to help relieve nausea and vomiting during pregnancy, such as candied ginger, ginger ale made with real ginger, and ginger tea made from freshly grated ginger. It is important to keep in mind that many ginger ale brands don’t contain ginger, but rather chemical flavoring, so be sure to read the ingredients list and choose those with real ginger.
To quell the nausea of morning sickness you can take ginger capsules or drink ginger tea. For capsules, use 1,000 mg of ginger total per day made up for four doses of 250 mg each. One dose, or 250 mg = about half a teaspoon of ginger powder. Note that many of the ginger products on the market are highly concentrated ginger extracts. With these products, when the label says "250 mg", it means 250 mg of the extract. The equivalent of this “extract” amount in dried ginger root could be anywhere from 2,500 mg to 5,000 mg. So be careful, keep your daily dose in the range safely used in clinical studies. Buy dried ginger powder or capsules that contain only dried, ground ginger not concentrated ginger extract.
Make your own ginger infusion tea by steeping 1 teaspoon freshly grated ginger root in 1 cup hot water for 5 minutes. 1 teaspoon of fresh ginger is equivalent to ¼ teaspoon of ground ginger, which is about half of one 250mg dose and you are allowed 4 x 250mg doses or 1,000 mg per day. Therefore you are safe to drink up several cups of fresh ginger tea each day without going over the limit.
Sources: DrWeil.com, MichelleDudash.com, NIH, Livestrong