Hemorrhoids and constipation Part 2
Best Hemorrhoids Treatments Home>>Hemorrhoids and constipation
<< Previous 1 [2] Next >>
Sign Up to Hemorrhoids Healing Newsletter !
Weekly Important Unique Healing Tips & Information on Hemorrhoids &
Hemorrhoids Treatment
delivered to your email box.
No FLUFF! No SPAM!
Your Name:
Email:
Your Privacy is Guaranteed! We hate SPAM too!
Site Search
Want to Cure Hemorrhoids Fast?
Best Hemorrhoids Treatments Compared. Stop Hemorrhoids Agony Now!
www.HemorrhoidsTreatment.com
The average American daily diet contains only 10-20 grams of fiber.The healthy goal is to be reached 30-35 gms/day.
Increase your fiber intake gradually by changing your dietary habits or by taking fiber supplements. Taking too much fiber in your diet at first, without gradually introducing the fiber in your diet, may lead to painful bloating, gas and diarrhea.
Increase water intake :6-8 glasses of water a day is ideal.
If you include more fiber in your diet but you drink a small quantity of water or liquids(eliminate alcohol) the effect will be opposite-constipation.
Alcohol should be avoided and it should not be taken into account in your daily liquid dose.
The lack of water in your intestines with high fiber intake will make the stool harder.
Fiber absorbs the water in your intestines and soften stools, so you have to drink as much liquids as you can. Other medications should be taken at least one hour before or between two and four hours after taking fiber in form of pills or powder.
2. Bulk-forming laxatives (Metamucil, PerDiem, Konsyl, etc- ) may be helpful in case of persistent constipation .
The use of stimulant laxatives (for example senna) is not recommended.
The frequent use of senna leads to addiction, tolerance to it and to a loss of valuable minerals from the intestines. Senna may cause fluid and electrolyte imbalance.
The both constipation and diarrhea are undisirable. The stools should be soft and pass easily. The hard stools or diarrhea complicate hemorrhoids. Similarly, antidiarrhea agents are used when diarrhea or frequent defecation aggravates hemorrhoids symptoms.
How much water or liquids should you drink?
3. Drink a lot of water or liquids (except alcohol) along with diet rich in fiber. 6-8 glasses of liquids a day is ideal. The Institute of Medicine advises that men consume roughly 3.0 liters (about 13 cups) of total beverages a day and women consume 2.2 liters (about 9 cups) of total beverages a day.
4. If you feel the need to have a bowel movement, don’t wait too long to use the bathroom. Your stool will get drier and harder the longer you wait.
5. Exercise regularly or walk at least 5 km a day preferably after meals.
If you are interested in colon cleansing solution bundled with advanced homeopathic treament of bleeding or stubborn hemorrhoids click here
<< Previous 1 [2] Next >>
Click here to add this page to your favorites
WEEKLY UPDATED WEBSITE
□ NEW:Hemorrhoids Treatment Store Powered by Amazon
□ Home
□ Learn More About BENEFITS Of Signing Up to HEMORRHOIDS HEALING TIPS NEWSLETTER
□ Best Hemorrhoids Treatments Review
□ Proven Hemorrhoids Treatment With Essential Oils
□ Hemorrhoids Treatment During Pregnancy and Breastfeeding
□ Homeopathic hemorrhoids treatment for bleeding hemorrhoids and chronic hemorrhoids
□ Discover The Best Hemorrhoid Cream
□ Cryotherapy for Hemorrhoids Treatment
□ What are hemorrhoids
□ Cause of hemorrhoids
□ Hemorrhoids symptoms
□ Hemorrhoids diagnosis
□ Hemorrhoids treatment
▫ Herbal treatment of hemorrhoids
▫ Reference list of herbs for hemorrhoids
▫ Nonsurgical treatments of hemorrhoids
▫ Hemorrhoid surgery
□ Hemorrhoids treatment with bioflavonoids
□ Hemorrhoids treatment with probiotics
□ Hemorrhoids treatment with essential oils
□ Omega 3 for Healing Hemorrhoids
□ Hemorrhoids and constipation
□ Important toilet habits healing hemorrhoids
□ Healing exercises for hemorrhoids
□ Hemorrhoids in pregnancy
□ Hemorrhoids to heal - how long
□ Hemorrhoids and sex
□ Hemorrhoids and stress
□ How To Treat Hemorrhoids
□ Caffeine and Hemorrhoids
□ Our Natural Hemorrhoid Treatment Blog
□ We need you
□ Link to us
□ Site Map
□ Recommended Sites
Home Privacy Policy Disclaimer About Us Contact Us Site Map
Copyright, 2008-2012 hemorrhoidsinfotreatment.com. All rights Reserved ©