These people drink their own PEE to 'cure disease and boost their energy' - so would you try it?
Jump directly to the content
The Sun, A News UK Company
Close
Your Sun
Sign in
Editions
Scottish Sun
Irish Sun
Sun Bingo
Dream Team
News Corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services.
Follow The Sun
The Sun
The Scottish Sun
The Irish Sun
Dream Team
Sun Bingo
Hols from £9.50
Superdays
Sun Savers
Sun Gifts
News Corp
WSJ.com
New York Post
The Australian
News.com.au
Storyful
Harper Collins
Realtor.com
talkSPORT
Services
Sign Up To The Sun
About Us
Editorial Complaints
Clarifications and Corrections
News Licensing
Advertising
Contact Us
Commissioning Terms
Help Hub
Topic A-Z
Sell Your Story
Cookie Settings
TOP
Sign in
UK Edition
Scottish Sun
Irish Sun
Sun Bingo
Dream Team
Search
Home
Football
Sport
TV & Showbiz
News
Fabulous
Money
Motors
Travel
Tech
Dear Deidre
Puzzles
Vouchers
Topics A-Z
All Football
All Fabulous
Fashion
Hair & Beauty
Celebrity
Health & Fitness
Parenting
Relationships
Real Life
Food
Horoscopes
TAKING THE P*SS
These people drink their own PEE to ‘cure disease and boost their energy’ – so would you try it?
They swear by 'urine therapy' and even rub it on their face to cure skin condition and reverse ageing
By Andrea Downey, Digital Health Reporter
7th September 2018, 11:33 am
Updated: 7th September 2018, 11:37 am
By Andrea Downey, Digital Health Reporter
Invalid Date,
THESE people all have one thing in common – they all drink their own PEE.
It may seem like a grim habit, but they swear by “urine therapy” and believe it’s helped them with anything from weight loss to acne and digestive issues.
Caters News Agency
7
Julia says drinking her own wee has helped her lose weight and cured her digestive problems
Not only do they drink their own body waste, but they rub it into their skin and even wash with it.
The centuries old fringe following has picked up steam recently, with health bloggers promoting its purifying benefits to their legions of followers.
Followers of the gross trend believe urine contains compounds that can be reabsorbed to improve the body’s ability to fight disease and provide other detoxifying effects.
But the claims have left a bitter taste in the mouth of experts, who argue there is no scientific evidence to support drinking urine and that it may in fact be harmful.
Caters News Agency
7
Christo started drinking his own pee to help him lose weight
Meteorologist Christo Dabraccio disagrees.
The 49-year-old said drinking his own wee helped him lose 30lbs and left him feeling like Superman – despite initially being “grossed out” by the idea.
Christo, from Idaho in the US, said: “I heard about it online and to be honest I was immediately grossed out.
“But the more I researched and read testimonials, the more trust I gained.”
Caters News Agency
7
Julia also rubs pee on her face to treat her acne
Caters News Agency
7
Julie claims that after just one day of using wee to treat her acne the inflammation and redness went down
“Your pee is just a highly filtered derivative of your blood, and blood is your life force, so it makes sense.
“As soon as I tried it, I started feeling like Superman.
"I was loaded with energy, my head was clearer, I felt younger and my skin was glowing. It’s like a fountain of youth.”
Christo bottles his urine and drinks about three cups every day, as well as using it to wipe his face and wash his eyes.
He admits many have turned their nose up at the online community, but said it is worth it to raise awareness for people who stand to enhance their health.
Caters News Agency
7
Christo said he lacked energy and was overweight before he started drinking pee
“I understand why people can be sceptical, I felt the same way when I first saw it,” he said.
“But at the end of the day, I’m not trying to sell anything. We can’t sell you your own pee, I’m just promoting freedom.
“I like to open people’s eyes to something that can help them.”
Julia Sillaman, 26, also practices urine therapy.
Caters News Agency
7
Christo drinks about three cups of his own wee a day
As well as drinking her wee she also rubs it into her face.
Julia claims it’s helped her lose 25lbs, improved her digestion and cured her acne.
Painter Julia, from Maryland in the US, said: “I was breaking out badly in acne, but I was hesitant to see a dermatologist.
“That’s when I met Christo. I remember seeing how healthy he looked and how clear his eyes were. He told me to try urine therapy for my skin.
“It didn’t gross me out, I was intrigued. The day after I started massaging it into my skin, the inflammation went down and my skin smoothed out.
Caters News Agency
7
Julie said urine therapy has changed her life
IS THERE ANY NUTRITIONAL VALUE IN WEE?
THE Sun's nutritionist Amanda Ursell said there is no nutritional value in drinking your own wee.
"You are weeing out the excess stuff that your body doesn't need, after all the goodness has been absorbed," she said.
"And your kidneys have very carefully filtered it out, so why would you then go and drink it?"
Amanda said that surviving on little else other than urine would put people at risk of serious nutrient deficiencies.
She added: “Every nutrient, vitamin and mineral has a corresponding deficiency disease if you don't get enough of it."
So if you are using urine to replace foods, you're likely to suffer a whole range of health problems rather than curing any ailments.
“After I started fasting, the pee stopped smelling and started tasting like coconut water.
“I have more energy and feel more in touch with nature. This has changed my life, I feel like a different person.
“I think I will do it for the rest of my life, but maybe not as strictly as I am now.
“I expected my family to be weirded out, but after seeing my results some of them are trying it for themselves.
“I get why people might think it’s weird, because it’s not accepted. Most people’s pee smells bad, so we think it’s’ gross.
“But with more success stories I think it could change.”
MORE IN HEALTH
warning signs
Seemingly normal aches and pains in your legs could be a sign of serious DVT
BABY GLOOM
Fertility watchdog crackdown on clinics 'enticing desperate women with financial incentives to give eggs away'
Sponsored
BREAKFAST CLUB
This is the best thing to eat before your morning workout
'SICK MAN OF EUROPE'
Brits' lag EU for life expectancy gains as UN calls for action on UK's toxic air
BREEDING OUT ALZ
Scientists find 'subtle signal' that Alzheimer's will eventually be eradicated by natural selection
HERE'S THE SKINNY
What is the South Beach diet, what foods are restricted, is it safe and are there any success stories?
QUICK FIX
What is the LighterLife diet, what foods are restricted, is it safe and are there any success stories?
SEE-THROUGH BABY
Baby girl was born so premature her skin was TRANSPARENT and she could fit inside her dad's hand
AGES THAT BRING RAGES
From a quarter-life crisis for twentysomethings to a stressful retirement, we look at the five common ages to find yourself on the brink of a breakdown - and how to pull back
POT FERTILITY BLOW
Smoking too much marijuana makes men less fertile as sperm 'become more mellow and swim in circles'
Some followers of urine therapy believe it dates back to Biblical times, but in recent years it has seen legitimate adoption in countries like India.
But no research has been done into the practice and kidney specialists have warned consuming too much can lead to a build-up of toxic waste in the body that can have the same effect as kidney failure.
Professor Henry Woo, a urological surgeon at the University of Sydney, said: “There is absolutely no scientific evidence to suggest that urine therapy has any therapeutic value.
“Those who drink their own urine do nothing more than make a mockery of themselves.”
We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368. You can WhatsApp us on 07810 791 502. We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours
Most Popular
HEIR ALREADY?
The four reasons why royal fans are convinced Meghan has already given birth
SEX EDUCATION
Pegging is the latest sex trend - and experts say it's more popular than ever
CARRY ON CLEO
The Cleopatra is the latest sex position that is driving women wild
MUM'S TERROR
American Pie star Jason Biggs' wife reveals she DROPPED son, 5, on his head
CUT ABOVE THE REST
The Sticky Scissors sex position will 'help you orgasm every time'
HEY GIRL
‘Meghan & Harry’ cradle newborn daughter outside the 'Lindo Wing' in spoof images
LABOUR PAINS
Viral image showing size of fully dilated cervix reveals reality of childbirth
ROYAL APPOINTMENT
Meghan Markle 'hires maternity nurse' to help with baby before 'manny'
RED ALERT
M&S is selling bikini bottoms that 'make you look like you're on your period'
PENNY PINCHED
Mum shocked when charged £68 for daughter’s Claire’s Accessories ear piercing
Follow The Sun
Services
Sign Up To The Sun
About Us
Editorial Complaints
Clarifications and Corrections
News Licensing
Advertising
Contact Us
Commissioning Terms
Help Hub
Topic A-Z
Sell Your Story
Cookie Settings
©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO)
Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click here.