From Bad Knees to Pain Free Squats — Cardio Haters Training - The Anti-Boot Camp of South Eastern Suburbs
Home
Blog
Their Stories
Join
Cardio Haters Training
From Bad Knees to Pain Free Squats
Meet our client of the month, Michelle.
Since Michelle has been training with us, we have seen her achieve some amazing results.
Having previously struggled with her knees, we have seen Michelle not only be able to perform squats and lunges, but she is now doing them pain free. This is testament to her hard work and patience; she is always willing to take on all advice given to ensure that her technique is spot on.
One of Michelle’s most admirable qualities is her positive attitude. She shows up to training bright and early, and is always ready to give 110%! She can be heard encouraging others and celebrating their success, whilst at the same time being proud of her own achievements.
Michelle has become a valued member of the Cardio Haters Training family, and she is a pleasure to train.
For these reasons, Michelle has been honoured as our Client of the Month.
Congrats, Michelle.
P.S: Whenever you’re ready… here are 3 ways I can help you get stronger, fitter and more confident in and outside of the gym:
1. Grab a free copy of my new book, The Fat Loss Cheat Sheet
It’s a easy to read book revealing the 5 systems you need to turn your body into a fat burning machine. – Click Here
2. Watch this for instant motivation
It’s an interview with one of my clients, Emma, who spills the beans on how she lost 8 kilos in 6 weeks from following a formula. If you want some fitness motivation – Click Here
3. Join our 28 Day Strong Not Skinny Program and be a Case Study
If you want to get in shape, learn how to eat to get results and have a personal trainer walk you through 12 sessions over the next 28 days then – Click Here.
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
Related
About The Author
Cardio Haters Training
CHT is a personal training facility in Ferntree Gully that can help you kick-start your transformation and lose the first 5 kilos so you can get back the body you love. CLICK HERE to learn how we do it.
© Cardio Haters Training 2016
Terms & Conditions - Privacy Policy
14A Thomas Street Ferntree Gully
Main Menu
Home
Success Stories
Contact
Join Strength Squad
Connect With Us
Hey, Grant here - I just wrote a new book 'The Fat Loss Cheat Sheet'. Would you like a free copy? If so click here...
Hello. Add your message here.