Morphine Withdrawal: Symptoms, Timeline, and Treatment
icon-circle-arrow-up icon-circle-arrow-right
Menu
Verywell Mind
How Long Does Withdrawal From Morphine Last?
Share
Flip
Email
Search
Search
Clear
GO
More in Addiction
Coping and Recovery
Methods and Support
Overcoming Addiction
Personal Stories
Alcohol Use
Addictive Behaviors
Drug Use
Nicotine Use
View More
CBD Oil
Treatment-Resistant Depression
Coping Skills
Persecutory Delusions
Assertive Community Treatment
Disorders
Addiction
ADHD
Bipolar Disorder
Depression
Generalized Anxiety Disorder
PTSD
View All
Self-Improvement
Stress Management
Happiness
Meditation
Brain Health
Relationships
Inspiration and Creativity
View All
Psychology
Theories
History and Biographies
Student Resources
Therapy
Emotions
Sleep and Dreaming
View All
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Health Verywell Fit Verywell Family
Addiction Coping and Recovery
How Long Does Withdrawal From Morphine Last?
By Corinne O’Keefe Osborn | Medically reviewed by a board-certified physician
Updated February 26, 2019
Share
Flip
Email
Print
Show Article Table of Contents
Overview Signs and Symptoms Coping and Relief
Warnings Long-Term Treatment Resources
View All
Back To Top
More in Addiction
Coping and Recovery
Methods and Support
Overcoming Addiction
Personal Stories
Alcohol Use
Addictive Behaviors
Drug Use
Nicotine Use
Morphine is a prescription narcotic, naturally derived from opium, used in the treatment of moderate to severe pain. Morphine was long used exclusively by injection, but today it can be found in a number of different forms. It is most commonly found in hospitals, where doctors use it to treat patients who have undergone surgery, suffered serious injury, or experienced other forms of severe pain.
Morphine is also available from the pharmacy, where it can be found as a generic or under brand names like MS-Contin, Oramorph SR, MSIR, Roxanol, Kadian, and RMS.
Overview
Morphine is highly addicting. Anyone using it for a prolonged period of time will develop a tolerance to its pain-relieving effects. Tolerance leads quickly to physical dependence. Once your body becomes dependent on the presence of morphine, it forgets how to operate normally without it. That means that when you take it away, your body is going to get mad.
During morphine withdrawal, you can expect to feel like you’ve caught a bad flu.
Most people begin experiencing symptoms 8 to 24 hours after their last dose.
Early symptoms will probably include sweating, chills, and runny nose. As your withdrawal symptoms worsen, you can expect insomnia, muscle cramps, diarrhea, and nausea.
Of course, withdrawal is different for everyone. Some people experience relatively mild symptoms, while others experience intense discomfort. Your withdrawal experience will depend on a variety of factors, including but not limited to, the way you’ve been using opioids.
Physical dependence on a drug can quickly lead to psychological dependence and addiction, especially if you’ve been misusing your prescription. In 2017, national survey data showed that more than 500,000 people had misused morphine within the last year.
If you are among the population of people who take morphine illicitly, take larger doses then you’re supposed to, or take it more often then you should, then it’s possible that your dependence has developed into a substance use disorder. Substance use disorders can complicate withdrawal, adding powerful emotions like guilt, shame, and hopelessness to an already difficult process.
Signs and Symptoms
Morphine withdrawal can be very uncomfortable. Most people experience a variety of physical symptoms that can range in severity from mild to severe. Severe symptoms may be beyond unpleasant, but they are rarely dangerous.
To get a better idea of the range of possible symptoms, you may want to take a look at the COWS withdrawal scale. This is a tool that doctors and nurses use to diagnose people who come in with opioid withdrawal symptoms. Keep in mind that this is for diagnostic purposes, so it is not predictive of your experience. You may experience all of the symptoms outlined here, or only one or two.
Morphine withdrawal typically follows a bell curve (which looks like a little rounded hilltop)—symptoms get progressively worse, peak, and then decrease.
Symptoms usually begin within 8 to 12 hours of your last dose. Withdrawal can come on more slowly if you are using an extended-release version or a different extended-release opioid. Symptoms grow progressively worse over the course of the next two days until reaching their peak around day two or three. The most severe symptoms should only last about one day. After that, your symptoms will begin to decrease, before resolving completely around day five.
Common morphine withdrawal symptoms include:
muscle aches and pain
flu-like feeling
sweating
runny nose
chills
nausea or vomiting
cramping or diarrhea
insomnia or disturbed sleep
teary eyes
tremors
anxiety or restlessness
gooseflesh
heart pounding
agitation
skin-crawling
The acute (immediate) symptoms of opioid withdrawal rarely last longer than one week, but that doesn’t mean you’re out of the woods completely. There is a longer-lasting withdrawal syndrome, known as protracted withdrawal, that affects some people for as long as six months after their last dose. Protracted withdrawal is much less severe than acute withdrawal, and it tends to be more psychological than physical.
Symptoms of protracted opioid withdrawal include:
depression
low energy levels
a low tolerance for stress (short fuse)
trouble sleeping
the inability to experience pleasure from anything
problems with memory or concentration
irritability or agitation
Coping and Relief
Although quitting morphine is never easy, there are many ways to manage and prevent the symptoms of withdrawal. Trying to quit cold turkey is never a good idea. It is rarely successful and causes unnecessary suffering. Instead, you should work with your current doctor or an addiction specialist to develop a detox plan.
If you have been taking morphine for pain and decide you want to stop, you should talk to your doctor about tapering down your dose.
When you taper your morphine dose, you take progressively smaller doses over the course of several weeks or months. Depending on your situation, your doctor may reduce your dose once per week or every few weeks. By gradually reducing your dose, you give your body time to adjust to the absence of morphine.
If you have been misusing opioids, shown signs of addiction, or experienced other complicating factors, then you should consider using an opioid withdrawal medication like methadone or buprenorphine. Methadone and buprenorphine (the active ingredient in Suboxone) are long-acting opioids that can relieve the symptoms of withdrawal without getting you high.
Both opioid taper and opioid replacement therapy can help you avoid the brunt of opioid withdrawal and help reduce your risk of relapse, but they are not a withdrawal cure. It is not uncommon to have symptoms of withdrawal at different points when your dose is reduced. Withdrawal symptoms can also arise as your body adjusts to a new medication. Fortunately, there are several prescription and over-the-counter (OTC) medications that can treat the symptoms directly. These include:
Loperamide: An OTC drug that treats diarrhea.
Ondansetron: A prescription drug that treats nausea and vomiting.
Benzodiazepines: Prescription drugs that treat symptoms of anxiety and agitation.
Acetaminophen or ibuprofen: OTC drugs like Tylenol and Advil that can treat muscle aches and headaches.
Antihistamines: OTC drugs like Benadryl (not the non-drowsy types) can help you get a good night’s sleep.
There are a few other medications used to treat opioid withdrawal, reduce cravings, and prevent relapse. These include:
Clonidine: A hypertension drug commonly prescribed off-label to treat opioid withdrawal symptoms. It is available as a pill or a transdermal patch.
Naltrexone: A medication that helps prevent relapse in the long-term by blocking the euphoric effects of opioids. It’s available as a pill or monthly injection.
Lucemyra (lofexidine hydrochloride): A brand-new, non-opioid medication that is FDA approved to treat most opioid withdrawal symptoms. It is available by prescription to take during the first two weeks after your last dose of opioids.
Warnings
If you are planning to stop using morphine in the near future, there are a few things you should be aware of. Most healthy adults will be safe detoxing from morphine at home, but some people are better off under the direct supervision of a doctor.
If your health is impaired due to cancer, surgery, or chronic disease, then you may want to consider an inpatient detox program.
The same is true for people with a history of serious mental illness or suicidality. Inpatient detox involves living at a facility full-time for the duration of your treatment (about five days for detox only). It can take place in a hospital or a specialty addiction treatment center. Constant supervision by medical professionals can help prevent complications and ease discomfort.
If you have become pregnant while using morphine or other opioids, then you may also benefit from supervised detox. If you plan on following through with your pregnancy, then you will need to carefully transition to methadone. Morphine is not safe to use during pregnancy, but morphine withdrawal isn’t safe either. A stable dose of methadone throughout your pregnancy is generally considered to be the safest option for mother and baby.
If you are interested in pursuing inpatient treatment, the best place to start is with your insurance company. Most private insurers cover addiction treatment, as do most state and federal insurance programs. Be sure to ask which services are covered and for how long (three days, three months, etc.). You can find the phone number of your insurer on the back of your insurance card. If you don’t have insurance, don’t worry. There are many treatment centers that offer a sliding scale payment plan for those in need.
One last warning, before we move on. Many lay people have been touting the possibilities of the botanical drug kratom as a treatment for opioid withdrawal. Currently, there is no scientific evidence to suggest that kratom helps people beat opioid addiction.
In 2018, after gathering the most up-to-date scientific research available, the FDA issued a warning against kratom use. They found that kratom is essentially an opioid, which means that it can also lead to tolerance and addiction. Further, the potential side effects of kratom are not well understood and kratom-related deaths are on the rise. To be safe, you should avoid kratom until the scientific community learns more about its safety.
Kratom Uses and Side Effects
Long-Term Treatment
For some people, recovery from opioid dependence is a long-term, ongoing process. The best long-term treatment for you will depend on a few key factors, namely the presence of an addiction and its severity. Some of the hallmarks of opioid addiction include:
continuing to use drugs despite the negative consequences of your drug use
spending excessive amounts of time using drugs or recovering from their effects
spending excessive amounts of time thinking about your next dose or how to get it
failing to meet your responsibilities at home, work, or school
experiencing intense cravings that interfere with your life
trying to quit but being unable to
The evidence overwhelmingly shows that once a moderate to severe opioid use disorder has developed, tapering without the support of medications is ineffective. Evidence-based treatment for opioid use disorder includes a combination of medication and behavioral therapy. This means using medications like methadone or Suboxone in combination with talk therapy. Research has found that combining therapy and medication works better than medication alone.
The goal of long-term treatment is to prevent relapse, so the best treatment is the one that you can commit to.
In the year following your last dose, your treatment schedule should be vigilant. You should plan to work with a doctor to receive buprenorphine or attend a methadone clinic once per day. This should be combined with talk therapy and support group meetings.
Your talk therapy can take place with a therapist, addiction counselor, psychologist, or psychiatrist. Some people prefer one-on-one therapy, whereas others enjoy group therapy sessions. Long-term treatment can take place in a residential or outpatient setting.
As you stabilize yourself, physically and psychologically, you will be able to scale back on your treatment. You may find that 12-step meetings work well for you.
Resources
To find a doctor or therapist who specializes in opioid use disorders, you can use this searchable directory from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) or call SAMHSA’s national helpline at 1-800-662-HELP (4357).
To find a doctor near you who is certified to prescribe buprenorphine, check out this searchable directory.
To learn more about Narcotics Anonymous (NA) check out their website. You can find a meeting near you with their searchable directory.
A Word From Verywell
Whatever your reason for taking morphine, or for stopping it, withdrawal is inevitable—unless you seek treatment. Don’t let shame prevent you from reaching out. Morphine is an incredibly addicting drug and your doctor will understand. In fact, your doctor will probably be down-right thrilled that you are feeling well enough to stop your morphine and move on to the next stage of your life.
How Long Does Morphine Stay in Your System?
Was this page helpful?
Thanks for your feedback!
Learn the best ways to manage stress and negativity in your life.
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
What are your concerns?
Other
Inaccurate
Hard to Understand
Submit
Article Sources
Amato L, Minozzi S, Davoli M, & Vecchi S. (2011). Psychosocial and pharmacological treatments versus pharmacological treatments for opioid detoxification. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, 2011, Issue 9. DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD005031.pub4
Chalana, H., Kundal, T., Gupta, V., & Malhari, A. S. (2016). Predictors of Relapse after Inpatient Opioid Detoxification during 1-Year Follow-Up. Journal of addiction. DOI: 10.1155/2016/7620860
Interagency Guideline on Prescribing Opioids for Pain. 2015.
National Institute on Drug Abuse and Addiction. Treating Opioid Use Disorder During Pregnancy. National Institute on Drug Abuse website. 2017.
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. Key substance use and mental health indicators in the United States: Results from the 2017 National Survey on Drug Use and Health. 2018.
Statement from FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb, M.D., on the agency’s scientific evidence on the presence of opioid compounds in kratom, underscoring its potential for abuse. 2018. https://www.fda.gov/newsevents/newsroom/pressannouncements/ucm595622.htm
Continue Reading
Verywell Mind
Daily Tips for a Healthy Mind to Your Inbox
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
Follow Us
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Flipboard
Disorders
Self-Improvement
Psychology
Editorial Policy
About Us
Privacy Policy
Advertise
Cookie Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Contact
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Health Verywell Fit Verywell Family
Ⓒ 2019 About, Inc. (Dotdash) — All rights reserved
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
Verywell is part of the Dotdash publishing family:
The Balance
Lifewire
Trip Savvy
The Spruce
and more