Morphine Addiction Signs & Symptoms: A Real Nightmare
Free & Confidential Drug Hotline. Call NOW: (888)-459-5511
Menu
Addiction Guides
Addiction Facts
What is Addiction?
Recognizing Addiction
Drug Abuse Statistics
Substance Abuse Triggers
Polydrug Use: Get the Facts
Drug Testing
Addiction Stories
Meth Addiction Stories
Heroin Addiction Stories
Gambling Addiction Stories
Marijuana Addiction Stories
Cocaine Addiction Stories
People at Risk
College Students abd Drug Abuse
Dual Diagnosis
Teenagers and Students
Veterans and Addictions
PTSD and Addiction
Self-Assessment
Substances
Alcohol Addiction
Effects of Alcoholism
Alcoholism Treatment
Alcoholism Recovery
Alcoholism Resources
Street Names of Addictive Substances
Understanding Drugs
Types of Drugs
Illicit Drugs
Marijuana
Crystal Meth
Spice
Cocaine
Crack
GHB
Amphetamine
Speed
Prescription Medication
Ambien
Ketamine
Vicodin
Gabapentin
Accutane
Provigil
Morphine
Zoloft
Prozac
Trazodone
Barbiturates
Fioricet
Stimulants
Nicotine
Adderall
Kratom
Ecstasy
Ritalin
Benzodiazepines
Valium
Restoril
Midazolam
Librium
Klonopin
Halcion
Ativan
Xanax
Hallucinogens
LSD
AL-LAD
Peyote
DMT
Ayhuasca
Shrooms
Opioids
Opiates
Heroin
Opium
Opana
Suboxone
Vicoprofen
Methadone
Fentanyl
Dilaudid
Demerol
Codeine
Tramadol
Oxycodone
Hydrocodone
Norco
Percocet
Sedative-Hypnotics
Lunesta
Sonata
Other Substances
Sleeping Pills
OTC Drugs
Diet Pills
Inhalants
Painkillers
Narcotics
Antidepressants
NPC
Anxiety Medication
Cyclobenzaprine
Lexapro
Baclofen
Vyvanse
Phenibut
Kava
Celexa
Treatment Guides
Treatment Stages
Addiction Treatment: the Overview
1 ► Intervention
2 ► Inpatient and Outpatient Therapy
3 ► Lifelong Commitment
Treatment for Substance Abuse: An Overview of Addiction Recovery Programs
Resources
Relapse Prevention Plan
Support Groups: An Overview
When a Loved One Has an Addiction
Drug Addiction Medications
Addiction and Rehab Hotlines
Find AA meetings
Find NA Meetings
Addiction Treatment Facility Locator
Rehab Guides
Facilities
Best Drug Rehabs
Inpatient Rehabs F.A.Q.
Outpatient Rehabs F.A.Q.
Drug Rehabs Near You
Outpatient Rehabs Near You
Types
Court Ordered Rehabs
Free and State Funded Rehabs
Rehabs for Veterans
Dual Diagnosis Rehabs
F.A.Q.
Rehab Question Answered
Can I Beat an Addiction On My Own?
How Long Does Rehab Take?
Medicaid and Medicare
Addiction Recovery Costs
Substances
LSD Rehab
Heroin Rehabs
Cocaine Rehab
Crystal Meth Rehab
GHB Rehab
Ecstasy Rehab
About Us
Our Community
Scholarship
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Addiction Treatment Events
Morphine Addiction Signs & Symptoms: A Real Nightmare
Free 24/7 rehab helpline > (888)-459-5511
Is morphine dangerous?
Yes, morphine is among the most addicting opiates that can lead to severe addiction and withdrawal symptoms. The drug is life-threatening. One of the dangers of morphine addiction is overdosing on the drug. Other health risks are related to the mental well-being of the user. Also, morphine abuse leads to many negative social outcomes, such as crime and unemployment.
What are the signs of morphine addiction?
Morphine addiction can lead to many physiological and psychological side effects. Tolerance, withdrawal, social isolation and legal problems are some of the signs that indicate dependency. Pains, constipation, distorted thinking, and depression can also mean morphine dependence. Also, suspicious marks on the body, poor hygiene, and regular doctor appointments may help you spot morphine addiction. Treatment can save lives.
Morphine Addiction Signs & Symptoms
Morphine is a powerful narcotic that comes from the opium poppy. All opiates are habit-forming and among them all, morphine causes one of the most severe addictions. One should be familiar with the common signs and symptoms of morphine dependency because the drug can be life-threatening.
The first step is to spot the signs of morphine addiction. If someone is:
Tolerant to the drug or obsessed with morphine
Fails to quit and experiences withdrawal symptoms
Continues taking morphine despite health risks and social consequences
Shows visible changes in appearance and hygiene
Gets involved in illegal intake of morphine and crime to get a hold of the drug
Faces family and financial problems
Is in denial or feels guilt due to morphine abuse
Then it’s time to cope with the dangers of morphine addiction and seek help.
Hope Without Commitment
Find the best treatment options.Call our free and confidential helpline
Treatment Is Fully Covered by Insurance In Most Cases
(888)-459-5511
Recognizing Morphine Addiction: What Happens To Our Body & Brain
Morphine addiction leads to many physiological and psychological changes.
Some of the side effects that indicate some problematic use are:
Constipation
Abdominal pains
Vision problems
Headaches
Problems urinating
Decreased libido
Tremors
Itching
Also, as morphine leads to euphoria and relaxation, the proper functioning of the opioid receptors in the brain changes and one is no longer able to experience joy and pleasure without the drug. That leads to depression, apathy, and suicidal thoughts.
Thinking also changes due to morphine addiction and a person can experience:
Confusion
Hectic thoughts
Hallucinations
Unclear speech
Morphine addiction leads to severe withdrawal symptoms that often demotivate the user in their journey towards sobriety:
Body aches
Muscle pain
Vomiting
Nausea
Sweating
Weakness
Flu-like symptoms
Diarrhea
Insomnia
Anxiety
In general, opiate withdrawal is painful and devastating. However, remember that it won’t last forever.
How to tell if your loved one is addicted to morphine and needs help
On top of all the physiological and psychological signs of morphine addiction, many behavioral changes can help you spot morphine dependence in your loved ones. If someone:
Neglects their appearance
Has poor hygiene
Reveals marks of injecting morphine
Piles suspicious bottles
Goes doctor shopping
Surrounds themselves with a new set of friends
Experiences legal and financial problems
Mixes drugs
Seems detached from reality
Then they might be struggling with morphine addiction.
Cravings can make a person hectic, confused and aggressive. Crime and prostitution are also among the common consequences as the addict often becomes desperate to obtain morphine.
The Dangers Of Morphine Addiction
When we sport morphine addiction, we shouldn’t ignore it becomes the drug can lead to fatal outcomes. Even when prescribed by a health professional, morphine is highly addictive.
Unfortunately, many teens also abuse opioid analgesics because they believe that prescription drugs are harmless. As we know, pills, such as Roxanol and Kadian, contain morphine. Data shows that in 2014 more than 4.3 million people in the U.S. used painkillers without any medical implications.
There are many risks when it comes to morphine abuse. One of them is overdosing on morphine. Some of the signs of intoxication are:
Cold skin
Weakness
Stupor
Confusion
Slowed breathing
Fainting
These effects can lead to coma and death. In the case of an overdose, call 911!
Another risk is related to injecting morphine: HIV, vein thrombosis, and infections can also put one’s life at risk.
Other dangers are related to the long-term effects of morphine, which can also be lethal: sleep disorders, problems with the gastrointestinal tract and blood pressure.
Cravings can make the person addicted to morphine paranoid, confused and disorganized.
Apart from that, many social consequences, such as social withdrawal, ruined families, and unemployment, show how dangerous morphine addiction is.
Morphine Addiction & Treatment
Morphine addiction can be hard to overcome, but one shouldn’t give up.
The first step towards sobriety is to understand that even when prescribed by a professional, morphine is addictive. If you or someone you love are struggling with admitting that, interventions might be needed.
You’re not alone. Unfortunately, more than 2 million Americans are addicted to morphine.
Detox is the next step in recovery. Tapering down is better than going cold turkey. In fact, a study conducted by the Georgetown University Medical Center shows that a sudden cessation may lead to a decline in the mental functioning of the addicted users. Substitution medications or drugs to treat anxiety and withdrawal symptoms can be used, vitamins and other supplements are also helpful.
Both inpatient and outpatient rehabs offer treatment for morphine addiction. The medical side of recovery should be accompanied by therapy and counseling, which are crucial to explore the triggers and pains behind substance abuse and all comorbid disorders that might exist.
Last but not least, one should consider support groups and involvement in social activities in the aftercare process.
We can help you find the best treatment center near you. Click here to get help.
In conclusion, although morphine addiction has been captured by many artists – especially among women during the Belle Epoque in France, there’s nothing romantic about the drug. Morphine addiction is painful and devouring.
However, do not forget that you can beat your morphine addiction!
Morphine Addiction Signs & Symptoms: A Real Nightmare
5 (100%) 1 vote
Addiction Resource » Addictive Substances: The Anatomy of Drug Addiction » Morphine Addiction and Treatment » Morphine Addiction Signs & Symptoms: A Real Nightmare
Comments 1
Jo
December 4, 2018 at 11:09 pm Reply
Very informative. Even though I don’t live in the US, this still makes a lot of sense. It’s pretty much the same in the UK, and if anybody is like this then they should do something about it. I’ve taken a lot of morphine over the years and I’m sick to death of it. I take it legally for pain and I’ve been told that because I’m on such a high dose, it’s doing more harm to my body because of the dose I’m on then if I was on a lower one.
So I don’t know what to do. I’m not mentally addicted to it, and I never have been addicted to drugs mentally.. but I’m guessing that my body is physically. So that’s probably why I keep thinking that if I lower the dose that I’ll be in more pain.. but at this rate the way that I’m going, I’m never gonna get better if I don’t try something?!!
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Free 24/7 Treatment Helpline
(888)-459-5511
Speak confidentially with a compassionate counsellor.
Feel hope
without commitment.
Morphine Addiction Resources
Morphine Addiction: Overview
Morphine Street Names
How Long Does Morphine Stay In Your System
Morphine High
Morphine Withdrawal
Morphine Substance Interaction
Morphine Side Effects
Morphine Addiction Signs
Morphine Overdose
Morphine Street Prices
Morphine Dosage
Morphine Addiction Treatment
Drug Rehab Resources
Best Rehabs
Local Rehabs Locator
Free Rehabs
Court-Ordered Rehabs
Inpatient Rehabs
Outpatient Rehabs
Jewish Rehabs
Veterans Rehabs
Holistic Rehabs
LGBT Rehab Centers
Dual Diagnosis Rehab Centers
Alcohol Hotlines
Rehab Hotlines
Luxury Rehabilitation
Private Rehabs
Christian Rehabs
Women-Only Rehabs
Men-Only Rehabs
Rehabs for Couples
Family Rehabs
Teen Rehabs
State-Funded Rehabs
No-Insurance Rehabs
Executive Rehabs
Resort Rehabs
Drug Rehab Information
Speak to a representative concerning substance abuse treatment or request printed material on alcohol or drugs.
(888)-459-5511
The information available at AddictionResource.com is not a substitute for professional medical help.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here
© 2014 - 2019 Addiction Resource
Terms And Conditions
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
About Us
➤