:: Newsletter
If you need a more accessible version of this website, click this button on the right. Switch to Accessible Site
WARNING
You are using an outdated browser. Please upgrade your browser to improve your experience.
Close [x]
3370 Sugarloaf Pkwy Suite B3 Lawrenceville, GA 30044
770-736-7774
Home
About Us
Meet the Optometrist
Meet the Staff
Services
Contact Lenses
Eye & Vision Exams
Eye Exam FAQ
Hard to Fit Contacts
Vision Therapy FAQs
Computer Vision
Sports Vision
Sunglasses
Prescription Sunglasses
New Patient Center
Online Forms
Community Services
Virtual Tour
Frame Selection
Blog
Payment Options
Products
Contact Us
m
Newsletter
Nutrition and Your Eyes
What Is Macular Degeneration?
Macular degeneration is one of the leading causes of vision loss in the United States. It is caused by deterioration of a portion of the retina, the back of the eye that records the images we see and communicates them via the optic nerve to the brain. Macular degeneration affects the central portion of the eye, along with our ability to read, recognize faces or drive a car. Early stages of macular degeneration may not be entirely recognizable, as vision impairment at this stage may be mild. Therefore, regular eye examinations are highly recommended to help diagnose eye conditions, including macular degeneration. Risk for this diseases increases with age; although, there is not yet a fully determined cause of macular degeneration or a known cure. Diet is one of the most important factors in treating macular degeneration, along with exercise and protecting your eye health overall.
If you are experiencing vision loss, or have any questions about macular degeneration or nutrition for your eyesight, please contact us for more information.
Nutrition and Your Eyes
As you’ve probably heard, carrots are good for your eyes. Technically, they can’t give you superhero-quality eyesight like you may have been told when you were young, but they do contain ingredients that are instrumental in protecting your vision and overall health. Carrots are rich in beta-carotene (which the body converts into vitamin A) and antioxidants known to reduce the risk of some cancers, such as leukemia and lung cancer, and cardiovascular disease. The vitamins and nutrients in carrots also help protect the delicate surface of your eyes.
Nonetheless, carrots are not the only foods known to be beneficial for your eyes. In fact, brightly colored fruits and vegetables in general — including pumpkin, red peppers, watermelon and broccoli — have been found to help protect your vision health.
Here are some of our favorites:
Spinach. A super food, spinach is one of the best leafy green options you can eat to protect your eyesight. Spinach is rich in both lutein and zeaxanthin, antioxidants that filter out light from the eye that can cause damage. Moreover, consuming an adequate amount of lutein has been shown to be an important line of defense against macular degeneration, a disease that leads to vision loss. Given its abilities to help protect eye health, improve blood glucose levels, lower blood pressure and lower the risk of certain cancers, spinach is an excellent ingredient for salads.
Fish. Omega-3 fatty acids are another incredible nutrient that your eyes need to thrive. Fatty fish like salmon, tuna and herring are some of your best options when it comes to getting omega-3 fatty acids. However, if you aren’t a fan of fish, try eating flaxseeds, walnuts and peanut butter, which are also packed full of omega-3 fatty acids.
Sweet Potatoes. There’s something about the color orange in natural foods. … Similarly to carrots, sweet potatoes (and yams) contain beta-carotene, which, again, helps protect the surface of the eye as well as mucous membranes and the skin around your eyes. As an added benefit, sweet potatoes also contain high levels of potassium and fiber.
Eggs. When it comes to your eyesight, the egg yolks are the most beneficial part of the whole egg. Eating eggs is an easy way to ingest lutein, which helps fight macular degeneration. Although it’s best to eat many of the foods listed here in their raw form to help your body get the maximum health benefits, eating slightly cooked egg yolks can still provide eye health benefits.
Beans. Beans are good for your eyesight in a variety of ways. Specifically, they contain zinc, which helps transport vitamin A through the body to your retinas, which benefit from the vitamin. Moreover, zinc helps convert vitamin A into rhodopsin, which allows you to see at night. Other foods that contain high levels of zinc include oysters, beef, seafood, poultry and pumpkin seeds.
It’s best to eat a balanced diet instead of focusing on one single nutrient, because, as with zinc and vitamin A, many of these nutrients work together for your vision health. Moreover, your overall health will thank you too.
Print Page
Send To Friend
Email Us
Request Appointment
Zoom: A A A
Contact Us
Exclusive Offer
By one pair of complete glasses, get the second pair Free.
*This special cannot be combined with insurance, other promotions, specials, or discounts*
Sign-up using the form or call us at 770-736-7774 to take advantage of this exclusive offer.
Name: *
Email: *
Phone: *
Office Hours
Day
Morning
Afternoon
Monday 10:00am 6:00pm
Tuesday 10:00am 6:00pm
Wednesday Closed Closed
Thursday 10:00am 6:00pm
Friday Closed Closed
Saturday 12:00pm 6:00pm
Sunday Closed Closed
"Brookwood Eye Care Supports Breast Cancer Research"
Community Content
How the Eyes Work
Effects of the Sun
Protecting Your Eyes
Common Eye Conditions
Allergies
Astigmatism
Bell's Palsy
Binocular Vision
Blepharitis
Cataracts
Chalazion
Color Blindness
Conjunctivitis
Corneal Ulcer
Detached Retina
Eye Occlusions
Glaucoma
Low Vision
Macular Degeneration
Macular Hole
Nystagmus
Optic Neuritis
Ocular Rosacea
Pinguecula and Pterygium (Surfer's Eye)
Presbyopia
Sjogren's Syndrome
Strabismus
Subconjunctival Hemorrhage
Stye
Uveitis
Eye Diseases
Cytomegalovirus (CMV) Retinitis
Fuchs' Corneal Dystrophy
Keratoconus
Macular Dystrophy
Retinitis Pigmentosa
Stargardt Disease
Eye Symptoms
Dry Eyes
Eye Floaters
Eye Pain
Eye Twitching
Photophobia
Ptosis
Red Eyes
Sleep in the Eyes (Eye Discharge)
Swollen Eyelids
Eye Procedures and Treatments
Corneal Crosslinking
Cornea Transplant
Intacs for Keratoconus
Neuro-vision Therapy
Vitrectomy and Vitreoretinal Eye Surgery
Vision Problems
Amblyopia
Ocular Migraine
Pain Management
Eyeglasses
Bifocals & Multifocals
Lens Coatings
How to Read Prescriptions
Reading Glasses
Contact Lenses
Bifocal
Colored
Using Computers
Newsletter Library
Contact
3370 Sugarloaf Pkwy Suite B3
Lawrenceville, GA 30044
Get Directions
Phone: 770-736-7774
Fax: 678-922-1513
Email Us
f
t
g
y
Y
Copyright ©2019 MH Sub I, LLC dba iMatrix. All Rights Reserved. Optometry Marketing By iMatrix Optometry
Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Client Admin | Refresh | Top