cold sores symptoms Archives - A Million Little Pictures
A Million Little Pictures
Seasoned a million little pictures purveyors
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Menu
Posts Tagged: cold sores symptoms
How Is Herpes Prompted And Do you know the Treatment method Choices for Oral & Genital Herpes?
On May 31, 2018	by admin	With	0 Comments	- Category
Ask yourself this: how is herpes triggered? Do you know the answer to that question? If not, you should. In fact, everyone who is sexually active or, those thinking about becoming sexually active, should learn how herpes begins so you can do your best to avoid it. Believe it or not, the root of herpes goes deeper than just vaginal intercourse. Therefore, it is highly important to be educated about the disease for your own safety,reviewsfactor.com as well as the safety of your sexual partner.
As mentioned before, the causes of genital herpes stem from intercourse. However, it doesn’t stop there. This sexually transmitted disease can be contracted in other ways (i.e. various types of intercourse and sexual activity). Love oral sex? Well, if you’re unaware that you’re a carrier, or that your partner is a carrier of the disease, you can contract genital herpes. How? If you or your partner suffers from HSV-1 (i.e. cold sores), then it can be passed onto others. The same goes for anal sex. One area that tends to be affected during an outbreak is the anus, so be cautious of your sexual partner. More importantly, if you know you are a carrier, start being cautious for your partner.
Another answer to the question of how is herpes triggered, is skin-to-genital contact. Using your hands and/or fingers to please your partner in the genital region, for example, masturbation, can put you at risk as well. If you fail to cleanse your hands and proceed to touch your own skin, you can become affected.
It is very important to learn about all the causes of genital herpes. It is also extremely imperative to understand that you can contract the disease even when your partner isn’t suffering from an outbreak. It is always best to use a condom during intercourse, even when the disease is dormant. In other words, if you’re a carrier, then you can still affect your partner at any given time. With this said, being a carrier of genital herpes does not mean that you can’t continue to have an active sex life. In fact, most people continue to have a rewarding sex life.
If you’ve asked yourself the question, how is herpes brought about, then it’s time to do your research so you can be educated on the disease. Believe it or not, you can stay physically and sexually active for years to come. Also, with the numerous treatments available, you can be bounce back rather quickly from an outbreak, allowing you to feel like yourself again. If you have any questions or concerns about the disease, speak with your doctor to find out all the information you need.
Understanding the causes of genital herpes will help you overcome any fears you may have. As long as you are aware, stay educat
ed, and use protection, there is no real reason to be alarmed or scared. The disease can be managed quite easily and effectively.
cold sores symptoms, what causes cold sores, what causes fever blisters
Copyright A Million Little Pictures