Alkalize the Body with Baking Soda
Thursday , 25 April 2019
Ask a Question
Only Ayurved आयुर्वेद जीवन जीने की कला हैं, हम बिना दवा के सिर्फ अपने खान पान और जीवन शैली में थोड़ा बदलाव कर के आरोग्य प्राप्त कर सकते हैं।
Home
Health
allergy
arthritis – joint pain
asthma
cough cold
fever
foot burn
memory
migraine
DENGUE
तिल्ली
नाभि टलना
पेट के कीड़े
hernia
acidity
Major Disease
CANCER KA ILAJ
heart attack ka ilaj
BP
कोलेस्ट्रोल
fistula
gall bladder
Thyroid
cervical
VARICOSE VEINS
jaundice
Prostate
paralysis
मिर्गी
leucoderma – vitiligo – psoraisis
ringworm-eczema
ulcerative colitis
Beauty
Black Spot Under Eye | Dark Circles Home Remedies Tips
Acne Home Remedies | Pimple Home Remedies | Blackheads Home Remedies
nail
HAIR-CARE
Hair
oil
Women
life-style
PCOS / PCOD
period
White Discharge
ladies-health
pregnancy
Child
diarrhea
cold-cough
कद लम्बा करे
Kidney
Liver
motapa
Sugar
आयुर्वेद
हमारी संस्कृति
दिशा विज्ञान
Fruits
नारियल
जामुन
तरबूज
अमरूद
पपीता
शहतूत
अंगूर
केला
आंवला
गुलकंद
किवी
vegetables
मशरूम
करेला
शिमला मिर्च
हरी मिर्च
सहजन
प्याज
गाजर
नींबू
चौलाई
ALFALFA
मसाले
अजवाइन
काली मिर्च
दालचीनी
मुलेठी
लौंग
सौंफ
कलौंजी
पुरुषों के रोग
Shop
Home » Health » Alkalize the Body with Baking Soda
Alkalize the Body with Baking Soda
admin Health Leave a comment 4,401 Views
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Google +
Stumbleupon
LinkedIn
Pinterest
Kara Bauer , Patient Expert Reviewed by: Robert Hurd, MD
Sodium bicarbonate (known as baking soda) is a natural occurring mineral that can provide some pretty miraculous health benefits. Most well known for its use as an agent for leavening bread and other baked goods, baking soda is extremely powerful for reducing or balancing acid in the body, which is at the source of many illnesses including cancer. Baking soda is both healing and preventative when taken orally in addition to its many topical health applications.
In order to understand the effects of baking soda, one must first become aware of the consequences of too much acid in the body. An acidic pH causes the spleen, liver, heart and kidneys to get overworked. In order to buffer this acidity, the body has to rob existing minerals from the bones and tissue such as calcium, magnesium, sodium and potassium. This can lead to chronic conditions such as osteoporosis, loss of muscle mass, kidney stones, and impaired muscle functioning as well as an acidic environment in which heart disease, diabetes, cancer, arthritis and other diseases can thrive.
Diets rich in animal products (meat and dairy) as well as processed foods, sugar and grains are all likely to produce an unbalanced acidic pH. Instead, one should consume more alkalizing foods such as fruits and vegetables to counter this acidity and prevent disease. Baking soda can also help neutralize the acid and help the body to maintain pH balance in the urine and bloodstream. Mice studies conducted by Arizona Cancer Center have shown that baking soda can alkalize the areas around tumors and help prevent metastasis in cancer patients. This information has been so encouraging that the University of Arizona received a $2MM grant from the National Institute of Health this past year to research its effectiveness against breast cancer.
Baking soda has also been shown to ease the effects of radiation exposure and chemotherapy by protecting the kidneys, heart, nervous system and other tissues. It also diminishes the effects of heavy metals and other toxic chemicals, such as uranium, produced by these cancer treatment methods. Another benefit it provides in relation to cancer is that it acts as a strong anti-fungal agent. Lately there has been a lot of information released about the relationship between cancer and fungus indicating that fungus produces mycotoxins (such as aflatoxin) that may cause cancer. Fungus is also at the culprit of a host of other diseases and ailments and thrives in an acidic environment.
Beyond cancer treatment, baking soda is also very useful for relieving heartburn or acid indigestion. It neutralizes stomach acid much more effectively and safely than over-the-counter antacids, which only treat symptoms temporarily. It can also be useful for acid related conditions such as gout and acid reflux disease, as well as kidney disease and diabetes. If given carefully, intravenous sodium bicarbonate can be lifesaving in some patients with the severest forms of diabetic coma. It’s also more commonly known as a treatment protocol for colds and the flu for its ability to sooth mucous membranes and dissolve thick mucus, while also boosting the immune system through proper acid/alkaline balancing.
To take baking soda internally, mix ½ to 1 tsp of baking soda in a glass of water and drink periodically throughout the day (2 to 6 times). You want to get your pH to a range between 7.35 and 7.45, which you can test using urine strips or a blood test.
Sodium bicarbonate can also be used topically as an antiseptic to treat acne/blemishes, cleanse the face as a light exfoliator (when combined with honey and essential oils) and whiten teeth. It is also a great deodorant, hair shampoo, and skin solvent for a mineralized bath. Also remember that it’s important to choose a baking soda that is aluminum free to get the most health benefits.
Sources:
[1] Howard, A. (2009, October 20). Keep the body alkaline for optimum health. Retrieved from http://www.naturalnews.com/027280_alkaline_body_balance.html.
[2] Corsi, E. H (2012, April 25). Baking soda might have potential against cancer. Retrieved from http://digitaljournal.com/article/323645.
[3] Sirus, M (2010, May 6). Reducing radiation damages with bicarbonate. Retrieved from http://drsircus.com/medicine/sodium-bicarbonate-baking-soda/reducing-radiation-damages-with-bicarbonate-3.
[4] Sirus, M. (2012, March 2). Baking soda and cancer (the last laugh). Retrieved from http://drsircus.com/medicine/sodium-bicarbonate-baking-soda/baking-soda-cancer-laugh.
[5] Mercola, J. (2009, December 15). Overlooked 150 year old household cleaner a remedy for swine flu? Retrieved from http://articles.mercola.com/sites/articles/archive/2009/12/15/baking-soda-used-to-treat-swine-flu-85-years-ago.aspx.
Related posts:
क्या आप जानते हैं सिंघाड़े के स्वास्थ्य लाभ : रोज़ाना एक केले का सेवन दूर करेगा अंधेपन की समस्या.. जीवन के 4 पड़ावों में ये रखेंगे सेहत दुरुस्त Heart Disease Overview-Risks-Prevention-Lifestyle-Cure
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Google +
Stumbleupon
LinkedIn
Pinterest
Previous Liver Reactivator – लीवर की संजीवनी – मात्र 380 रु में लीवर को दीजिये जीवनदान
Next How Much Water Do You Really Need Each Day ?
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published.
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Download Only Ayurved App
डाउनलोड कीजिये Only Ayurved का हिंदी APP
Like Us
Lahsun ke fayde
Lahsun ke fayde लहसुन अमृत है मगर 99 प्रतिशत लोग नहीं जानते के कैसे खाना है ये
Virya Gadha
Virya gadha वीर्य पैदा करने वाली, वीर्य गाढ़ा करने वाली
Kalonji In Hindi
Kalonji In Hindi – मौत को छोड़ कर हर बीमारी का इलाज
Hastmaithun
hastmaithun हस्तमैथुन से आई कमज़ोरी को दूर करने के उपाय
Dhatu rog
1 दिन में धातु – वीर्य गिरना बंद
Safed baal
सफ़ेद और झड़ते बालो का इलाज - Safed Baal
Castor Oil In Hindi
Castor Oil In hindi – अरंड के फायदे
Thyroid ka ilaj – थाइरोइड का इलाज
Thyroid ka ilaj - थाइरोइड का इलाज
Flax Seed Benefits in hindi
Flax Seed benefits in hindi – अलसी के फायदे
Safed Daag ka ilaj
Safed Daag ka ilaj – सफ़ेद दाग का इलाज
Heart attack ka ilaj
Developed & Maintained By : Team Onlyayurved
Copyright © 2019 OnlyAyurved.com
अलसी के तेल के अदभुत फायदे
CLOSE