My Tooth Extraction Won’t Stop Bleeding - Stonebridge DentalMcKinney, TX Dentistry -Your McKinney Dentist- Stonebridge Dental
(972) 547-0554 6633 Eldorado Pkwy., Ste. 100, McKinney, TX 75070
PEDIATRIC DENTISTRY
Toggle navigation
Home
About
Meet the Team
Office Tour
First Visit
Financial Options
Testimonials
Blog
General Dentistry
Preventive
Dental Sealants
Bite Guards
Dental Cleaning & Consultation
Crowns and Bridges
Cosmetic
Cosmetic Dentistry
Teeth Whitening
Veneers and Laminates
Inlays and Onlays
Crowns and Bridges
Restorative
Dentures
Partial Dentures
PFM Restorations
Provisional Restorations
Root Canals
Dental Implants
Removable Dentures
Crowns and Bridges
Technology
Information
Dental Videos
Patient Info
Contact
Contact Us
Request an Appointment
My Tooth Extraction Won’t Stop Bleeding
How to care for a tooth extraction
After undergoing a tooth extraction, it is important to follow the proper aftercare procedures for at least 24 hours after having your tooth pulled. If your tooth extraction won’t stop bleeding, contact us immediately so we can determine the best action to take to alleviate the issue. While this page contains helpful and common aftercare guidelines to follow after having a tooth extraction, your situation could be a special circumstance. This is why it is crucial to discuss your aftercare plan with Stonebridge Dental so we can provide you with personalized care.
Stop a tooth extraction from bleeding
Control the Bleeding with a gauze.
Place a piece of clean damp gauze on top of the tooth socket.
Roll it up or fold it into a square. This will be the part that rests on top of your wound so this is important.
Bite firmly on the gauze for 45 – 60 minutes.
Ensure the gauze is always positioned well and large enough that it applies pressure directly onto the site of the tooth extraction.
One of the main components of tea is tannic acid which aids in the forming of blood clots, thus making tea bags an effective technique to stop bleeding.
Follow the same instructions as you would with the gauze noted above.
Ensure that a blood clot forms and stays within the tooth socket
Blood clots that form within the empty socket are an important factor within the healing process. You should be careful not to do anything to disrupt its formation.
There are many steps to take to protect the developing blood clot within the first 24 hours after a tooth extraction.
Avoid vigorous rinsing or spitting
Stay away from hot liquids
Minimize the air pressure differences. Avoid creating pressure within your mouth or sinuses as these may dislodge the actual blood clot from the socket. This means you should avoid smoking or using a straw as these cause suction. Avoid blowing your nose and sneeze with your mouth open. Avoid playing wind instruments for a few days to ease up on the sensitivity.
Minimize activities that make it difficult to control bleeding
Avoid difficult work or strenuous exercise. You should avoid bending or lifting heavy objects altogether. You should try taking it easy for at least 1-2 days after the tooth extraction.
When you are resting or sleeping, try to lie down so that your head is above your heart. This will lower your blood pressure and help control bleeding.
Be prepared for swelling
When your tooth is extracted, your tissues undergo some trauma and will swell and cause sensitivity. The amount of swelling that occurs could be slight or very large.
Avoid smoking
Smokers will experience more complications with a tooth extraction including increased bleeding. Avoid smoking for at least 48 hours after having the tooth pulled out.
Eating
After a tooth extraction, eat only soft or liquid form foods for at least the first 24 hours following the surgery.
Do not vigorously chew anything.
Avoid hard or crunchy foods that can further traumatize the extraction site and cause further bleeding.
Do not consume hot liquids as they will dissolve the blood clot.
If you are experiencing high levels of pain, contact us immediately so we can prescribe you some medications for your tooth extraction.
Search for:
Recent Posts
iTero Scanning Technology
Silver Diamine Fluoride (SDF)
Tooth Extractions for Children
Pulpotomy (“ Nerve Treatment”) & Crowns in Children
Your Child’s First Visit
Recent Comments
Archives
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
February 2018
Categories
Articles
Blog
Cosmetic
Cosmetic Dentistry
Dentistry General
Pediatric Dentistry
Periodontics
Preventive
Preventive Dentistry
Restorative
Restorative Dentistry
Services
Technology
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
6633 Eldorado Pkwy., Ste. 100
McKinney, TX 75070
Call Us Today
972-547-0554
Mon & Wed 8am - 5pm
Tue & Thur 9am - 6pm
Fri 8am - 1pm
Sat - Closed
Sun - Closed
Dental Marketing Websites by Optimized360 - © Copyright 2019. All Rights Reserved - Login
Skip to content
Open toolbar
Accessibility Tools
Increase Text
Decrease Text
Grayscale
High Contrast
Negative Contrast
Light Background
Links Underline
Readable Font
Reset