Bright Skin
Home►Eminence Customized Product Collections►VitaSkin Solutions for Wellness & Beauty►Bright Skin
About Hyperpgmentation
Hyperpigmentation is a universal skin concern. Even if you've never had a blemish in your life or have smoother skin than a baby, the majority of us will deal with some kind of uneven pigmentation in our lives. An increase in melanin production or activity is sure to result in small deposits in the dermis and epidermis at some point. It could be post-inflammatory pigmentation from any injury to the skin such as acne scars, dark spots related to UV exposure or aging skin, melasma caused by hormone fluctuations, or more. Hyperpigmentation is the last bastion on the quest for flawless skin and, finally, there is a natural, safe solution.
Hydroquinone is a chemical compound that has been the standard for results in pigment lightening for many years. But recently the formula has been banned in Eurpoe, Australia and Japan because of its proven carcinogenic effects. Not only does it function by killing pigment cells, studies have shown the formula to cause dermatitis and irritation, degenerate collagen and elastin, and cause DNA mutations. The US still allows products with up to 5% concentration of hydroquinone, but Eminence has done better - with a natural alternative that offers the same results while nourishing the skin. GigawhiteTM is a plant-derived lightening booster, natural hydroquinone alternative.
Ingredient Spotlight
(click above to find out more)
The Bright Skin Collection contains a delicious concoction of ingredients that help to brighten and fade hyperpigmentation while infusing the sking with antioxidants for a flawless face that is glowing from within. These incredible formulas not only illuminate skin but boost collagen for a healthy, youthful complexion.
Bright Skin VitaSkin Solutions for Lightening Skin
Bright Skin Starter Set This pigment lightening routine incorporates bearberry, stone crop and licorice root to nourish and protect your skin while brightening.
Bright Skin Cleanser Uneven skin corrective cleanser for normal to dry skin types - Cleanse, refresh and gently remove surface impurities with this brightening skin cleanser. Brighten the appearance of skin and reduce the signs of aging. Stone crop refreshes and cleanses while Gigawhite and a Natural Hydroquinone Alternative leave the skin soft, bright and even.
Bright Skin Masque Protective and corrective masque - Fight off the appearance of uneven pigmentation. Natural Hydroquinone Alternative and Gigawhite help brighten skin's appearance and reduce the appearance of dark spots and the signs of aging.
Bright Skin Moisturizer SPF 30 Protective and corrective moisturizer - Lighten hyperpigmentation and dark spots while protecting against future damage with broad spectrum SPF. Nourish and protect the skin while brightening with stone crop, bearberry, Gigawhite and a Natural Hydroquinone Alternative.
Bright Skin Licorice Root Booster-Serum Brightening and corrective serum - Add a brightening daily boost to your skin care routine with the natural power of licorice root and stone crop. Lactic acid gently removes dead skin cells while two plant derived actives optimize skin's luminosity to reveal an even complexion without irritation.
Ingredient Spotlight - Bright
Note: All prices in US Dollars
Eminence Product Collections
• Arctic Berry Peel & Peptide Illuminating System
• Age Corrective Collection
• Age-Defying Lifting & Firming Collection
• Eight Green Collection
• Balance Collection
• Youth Shield Collection
• VitaSkin Solutions for Wellness & Beauty
• Organic Beauty Collection
SERVICES AVAILABLE
Massages
Facials
Sauna Treatments
Steam Treatments
Body Treatments
Detoxification
Spa Parties
Office Relaxation
100% Secure Shopping
Copyright © paradisus oasis wellness center and spa, Lafayette, LA
paradisus_oasis@unidial.com