Top Health Benefits Of Himalayan Salt Lamps
Community Courses
Join the Tribe
Free Resources
Green Juice
Protein
Inflammation
Gut Health
Thyroid
Keto Diet
Fitness
Meal Prep/Planning
Shop
Blog
Product Blog
Nutrition
Weight Loss
Fitness
Digestion
Detox
Inflammation
Energy
Sleep
Recipes
Seasonal
Videos
Mindset Mondays
Saturday Strategy
About
Top Health Benefits Of Himalayan Salt Lamps
POSTED ON August 25, 2015 BY Steve Fillmore
Written by: Steve Fillmore
Himalayan salt lamps are increasing in popularity, thanks to their distinct health properties. These lamps are highly decorative, enhancing both your home and your health.
What Are Himalyan Salt Lamps?
Himalayan Salt Lamps are lamps that are made from Himalayan Salt from the mine in the Punjab region of Pakistan. The salt lamps are made from chunks of food grade salt in which a small light bulb is placed into the center of the lamp. The pink color is from iron oxide in the salt.
Why Do They Work?
Put basically, the heat from the light bulb combines with the salt to create negative ions. Negative ions act as natural neutralizers of odors, mold and bacteria. Some other natural producers of negative ions are lightening, the ocean and waterfalls. When you are exposed to negative ions, you may feel more energetic, happy and alive.
The Benefits Of Negative Ions
WebMD explains some of the benefits of negative ions in the air: “‘Generally speaking, negative ions increase the flow of oxygen to the brain; resulting in higher alertness, decreased drowsiness and more mental energy,’ says Pierce J. Howard, PhD, author of The Owner’s Manual for the Brain: Everyday Applications from Mind Brain Research and director of research at the Center for Applied Cognitive Sciences in Charlotte, N.C.”
The may also protect against germs in the air, which help to decrease irritation due to inhaling allergens that make you sneeze, cough or have throat irritation.
Health Benefits Of Himalayan Salt Lamps
It’s thought that the negative ions emitted from Himalayan Salt Lamps protect you from airborne germs. These are just a few issues that salt lamps may help with:
Respiratory issues
Skin problems
Allergic reactions
Migraines and headaches
How Do I Get The Best Results?
Ideally, you’d want to have a salt lamp in the busiest parts of your home; living room, dining room and bedroom.
Be sure to choose a genuine salt lamp (not a fake one) and let us know how your experience goes in the comments below!
About
Latest Posts
Steve Fillmore
Zumba Teacher and 2-time cancer THRIVER at Steve Fillmore
Steve Fillmore is a 2-time cancer THRIVER! His motto in life is: Love, Laugh, Live - Love yourself first; Laugh through all the crazy times; Live for life right now! Through proper diet, exercise and mindfulness, Steve has been able to recreate his body to work with and for him.
For fun, you can find Steve either teaching a Zumba class, or creating websites for clients.
Latest posts by Steve Fillmore (see all)
3 Reasons To Eat Green Peas - May 6, 2016
Top 5 Heavy Metal Detoxing Superstars - April 26, 2016
Beauty Spa Day: Turmeric Avocado Face Mask - April 12, 2016
Share4K
Pin19
Tweet
Share
+1
Shares 4K
SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS
Download Now!
Sunrise to Sunset Power Box
Wake up with Green Juice!
What Our Clients Say*
Glenn was in an accident with a hockey puck that made it so his mouth had to be wired shut! While he was going through recovery he found that Organifi Protein sustained him in a healthy way where he was able to maintain his muscle mass while still be able to loose weight.
-Tragedy Turns to Opportunity, Weightloss and Holistic Health
Glenn was in an accident with a hockey puck that made it so his mouth had to be wired shut! While he was going through recovery he found that Organifi Protein sustained him in a healthy way where he was able to maintain his muscle mass while still be able to loose weight.
-Tragedy Turns to Opportunity, Weightloss and Holistic Health
View More Testimonials
*Results may vary by individual
AS SEEN ON
Join The Tribe
Heal the WorldCommunity SupportHealth & Nutrition
Join Now
Our mission is to create a movement positively impacting communities around the world through education, inspiration, and empowerment.
We are committed to transforming over a billion lives…and we won’t stop there!
RECENT POSTS
Putting All The Pieces Of The Puzzle Together November 13, 2018
6 Things That Happen To The Body After Walking Every Day November 9, 2018
Reasons Not To Use Canola Oil Anymore November 9, 2018
LINKS
Home
About
Recipes
Product Blog
Videos
FAQ
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Contact
Shop
Events
Get Involved
Member Login
Transformations
Stories
Advertise With Us
© Copyright Fit Life All Rights Reserved