Collagen, Joint Support and Working Out - Blog - iHerb.com
header_search header_signed-out header_signed-in header_cart sharefilled circlex circleexclamation iherbleaf
10% Loyalty Credit on Every Order! View Details
checkoutarrow
HU
EN
HUF
Image Coming Soon
Added to Cart
Total:
Discount:
Together:
Quantity:
Cart Total:
Checkout
Customers Also Bought:
Share
You are now signed in!
Share the link below with your Rewards code attached, and your referrals will receive an instant discount, while you earn Rewards credit! Read More
iHerb customers: Split an extra 10% credit with others via your rewards account.
Sign in or Read More.
Continue sharing without signing in
Copy
Shorten URL
Shorten URL
Sign In
My Account
My Account
Orders
Lists
My Reviews
My Page
My Questions
My Answers
Rewards
Messages
Sign Out
Create an Account
Sign In
24/7 Help
Search History
Clear
Trending
Supplements
Herbs & Homeopathy
Bath & Personal Care
Beauty
Sports
Grocery
Baby & Kids
Pets
Home
Brands
Health Topics
Specialty Stores
New
Best Sellers
Specials
Trial Items
Gifts
Why iHerb?
Browser Upgrade Notice
As part of our ongoing efforts to improve security for our customers, your current browser version will no longer be supported for iHerb starting 7/1/2018. Upgrade your existing browser using links below.
FireFox
Chrome
Edge
Internet Explorer
Safari
Remind me later
Do not show again
iherblogo beauty2 heart-circle sports-fitness food-nutrition herbs-supplements
Beauty
Wellness
Fitness
Nutrition
Conditions
Select a Category
Beauty
Wellness
Fitness
Nutrition
Conditions
Fitness
Collagen, Joint Support and Working Out
January 10 2018
By Jake Boly
Collagen has grown in popularity as a supplement for a variety of reasons and comes in multiple forms. It’s suggested that collagen positively benefits our skin, hair, tendons, and other fibrous tissues found throughout the body. Within our bodies, collagen can be found as one of the main structural proteins in our body’s fibrous connective tissue.
In fact, collagen is the most abundant protein in the body and will vary between 25-35% of our body’s total protein content. It can be found in the bones, cartilage, tendons, teeth, eyes, and hair, among other places on the body. There are multiple types of collagen that can be supplemented with, but the most common are type I and type II. The most common type of collagen throughout the body is Type I, which is primarily found in our skin, tendons, and bones. Type-II is found in the cartilage and is often sought out in supplement form for joint health.
Since collagen is so abundant in our bodies, it’s been suggested that supplementing with it can have positive benefits with multiple areas of our health. Though more research needs to be performed on this supplement before making definitive claims, some studies have shown promise.
Benefits of Collagen on Joint Health
One of the main reasons someone supplements with collagen for workouts is for the joint health benefits. As we age, exercise, and routinely put our body through stressful situations, our joints undergo stress, along with age-related wear and tear. Sometimes this wear and tear are inevitable and debilitating, but there are steps we can take to limit the amount our body undergoes, and one of those could be by taking collagen.
Research from 2009 looked at the differences between supplementation with type II collagen versus glucosamine and chondroitin (another popular joint supplement). The study authors were interested in how these two interacted with osteoarthritis in the knee, and if one was more effective than the other. They recruited 52 volunteers who were split into two supplement groups.
Volunteers took their respective supplements over the course of 90 days and came into the lab for assessments every 30 days following their initial assessment. Researchers performed a Western Ontario and McCaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC), which is an assessment used to gauge one’s pain and ability to move throughout multiple movements. Additionally, they performed a Lequesne Index test (questionnaire for osteoarthritis in the hip), and a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), which is a measure of pain intensity.
After 90 days had finished, both supplement groups had reductions in all of the assessments, but the undenatured type-II collagen group had better scores across the board. Below are how all of the tests reduced a subject’s assessment scores upon the completion of 90 days.
WOMAC: Type II Collagen 33% vs. Glucosamine & Chondroitin 14%
VAS: Type II Collagen 40% vs. Glucosamine & Chondroitin 15.4%
Lequesne Index: Type II Collagen 20% vs. Glucosamine & Chondroitin 6%
Both supplements proved to be advantageous for the study subjects, but the type II collagen scored slightly higher for supporting joint health and reducing pain associated with osteoarthritis.
As we age and put our bodies through stressful situations, it becomes increasingly important to undergo steps to assist in protecting and aiding the joints. Supplementing with collagen may be a useful tool for those interested in preventing joint degradation.
References:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2764342/
This article was written by Jake Boly a full-time fitness writer and strength coach with a CSCS. He has a Masters degree in Sports Science, and a Bachelor's in Exercise Science. Over the last seven years, Jake has worked with a variety of clients in improving their strength and wellness both hands on and remotely.
Previous Article
Soothing Headache Balm
Next Article
Discover the Benefits of the Mediterranean Diet
Shop this article
Share this Article
Related Articles
View All
Fitness
Post Workout Smoothies Featuring California Gold Nutrition Superfoods
February 15 2019
Refueling with quality ingredients is a must after exercise. While the benefits of exercise, like weight loss and muscle gain, can be profound, the physical stress caused by rigorous exercise can do more harm than good if proper nutritional recovery is neglected.
Fitness
10 Tips to Help With Weight Loss
February 11 2019
Obesity has been associated with numerous chronic medical conditions, including heart disease, diabetes, hypertension, sleep apnea, osteoarthritis, depression, and even certain cancers.
Fitness
How to Reduce Recovery Time After a Workout
January 31 2019
Recovery from a hard workout can sometimes seem complicated. There are a plethora of tech gadgets and devices available to maximize recovery.
Search
Categories
Browse our blog posts by category:
Select a Category Beauty Wellness Fitness Nutrition Conditions
Share
Disclaimer
This blog is not intended to provide diagnosis, treatment or medical advice. Content provided on this blog is for informational purposes only. Please consult with a physician or other healthcare professional regarding any medical or health related diagnosis or treatment options. Information on this blog should not be considered as a substitute for advice from a healthcare professional. The claims made about specific products throughout this blog are not approved to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent disease.
Shop this article
Give $10 Get $10
Learn more
ABOUT iHERB
About Us
Press Releases
We Give Back
Rewards Program
Affiliate Program
Brand Contacts
iHERB RESOURCES
iHerb Blog
Community
Healthy Links
Customer Service
Contact Us
Shipping Information
Wholesale
Suggest a Product
MOBILE APPS
CONNECT WITH US
Ask a Question
Find answers from our knowledge base.
Get Help Now »
iHerb.com © Copyright 1997-2019 iHerb Inc. All rights reserved. iHerb® is a registered trademark of iHerb, Inc. Trusted Brands. Healthy Rewards. and the iHerb.com Trusted Brands. Healthy Rewards. Logo are trademarks of iHerb, Inc. *Disclaimer: Statements made, or products sold through this website, have not been evaluated by the United States Food and Drug Administration. They are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. Read More »
Privacy Policy Terms of Use