Inherited Colorectal Cancer
Skip to main content
Check Your Symptoms
Find A Doctor
Find Lowest Drug Prices
Health
A-Z Health A-Z
Health A-Z
Common Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart Disease
Lung Disease
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders
View All
Resources
Symptom Checker
Expert Blogs and Interviews
Podcasts
Message Boards
Questions & Answers
Insurance Guide
Find a Doctor
Featured Topics
Slideshow Get Help for Migraine Relief
Slideshow Things That Can Hurt Your Joints
Drugs &
Supplements Drugs & Supplements
Drugs & Supplements
Find & Review
Drugs
Supplements
Tools
Manage Your Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Interactions
Drug Basics & Safety
Commonly Abused Drugs
Taking Meds When Pregnant
Featured Topics
Slideshow Vitamins You Need as You Age
Slideshow Supplements for Better Digestion
Living
Healthy Living Healthy
Living Healthy
Diet, Food & Fitness
Diet & Weight Management
Weight Loss & Obesity
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise
Beauty & Balance
Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care
Living Well
Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Teens
Fit Kids
Featured Topics
Slideshow Which Food Has More Saturated Fat?
Quiz Do You Know the Benefits of Walking?
Family &
Pregnancy Family & Pregnancy
Family & Pregnancy
All About Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
View All
Parenting Guide
Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids
View All
Pet Care Essentials
Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs
View All
Featured Topics
Expert Blog Dangers After Childbirth -- What to Watch For
Quiz Tips for Success ... Things Every Teen Should Know
News &
Experts News & Experts
News & Experts
Health News
2019 Measles Outbreak: What You Should Know
Too Much Vitamin D: A Cautionary Tale
'Superbugs' Hang Out on Hospital Patients
Can Weighted Blankets Really Help You Sleep?
More Kids Having 'Tommy John' Surgery
Experts & Community
Message Boards
Expert Blogs
News Center
Featured Topics
WebMD Investigates Why Can't We Sleep?
Newsletters Sign Up to Receive Our Free Newsletters
Mobile Apps
Subscriptions
Sign In
Subscribe
My Profile
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Colorectal Cancer Home
News
Reference
Slideshows
Videos
Questions & Answers
Message Board
Medications
Find an Oncologist
Colorectal Cancer Guide
Overview & Facts
Diagnosis & Tests
Treatment & Care
Living & Managing
Support & Resources
Related to Colorectal Cancer
Cancer Moonshot
Anemia
Colorectal Cancer Treatment
Clinical Trials
Crohn's Disease
Fatigue
Inflammatory Bowel Disease
Polyps
Screening Options
Cancer Guide A-Z
More Related Topics
Colorectal Cancer
Guide
Meal Planning For Chemo: Help From a Dietitian
Inherited Colorectal Cancer
In this Article
In this Article
In this Article
Hereditary Nonpolyposis Colorectal Cancer (HNPCC), also known as Lynch syndrome
Familial Adenomatous Polyposis (FAP) Syndrome
What Is the FAP Gene?
What Is the Difference Between FAP and HNPCC?
Other Forms of Inherited Polyposis Syndromes
Ashkenazi Jews and Colorectal Cancer
One of the risk factors for colorectal cancer is a family history of the disease. Colorectal cancer is called "hereditary" or "inherited" when several generations of a family have colorectal cancer. Several gene mutations, or abnormalities, that cause colorectal cancer, and allow it to be transmitted to family members, have been found. A gene is a block of DNA that holds the genetic code, or instructions, for producing proteins vital to our bodily functions.
The two most common inherited colorectal cancer syndromes are hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC) and familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP). They can affect men and women, and the children of people who carry these genes have a 50% chance of inheriting the disease-causing gene.
These two inherited cancer syndromes account for less than 5% of all colorectal cancers.
Hereditary Nonpolyposis Colorectal Cancer (HNPCC), also known as Lynch syndrome
Nonpolyposis colorectal cancer, HNPCC, is the most common form of hereditary colon cancer, accounting for about 3% of all colorectal cancer diagnoses each year. People with HNPCC often have at least three family members and two generations with colorectal cancer, and cancer develops before age 50. Although not everyone who inherits the HNPCC gene will develop colorectal cancer, the risk is very high -- about 80%. People with HNPCC also have a higher risk of developing other Lynch syndrome-related cancers, such as kidney, ovarian, uterine, renal, pelvis, small intestine, and stomach cancer.
Health care providers can evaluate the pattern of colorectal cancer in relatives in order to determine if the family has HNPCC. Families considered to be "HNPCC families" must display certain criteria indicating a pattern of colon cancer throughout generations. These are referred to as the Amsterdam Criteria, and include:
At least 3 members with a Lynch syndrome-related cancer
At least 2 successive generations with this type of cancer
Two family members with the disease are first-degree relatives (i.e. parents, brothers, sisters or children) of another family member with a Lynch syndrome cancer
At least 1 member affected at or before age 50
The familial adenomatous polyposis syndrome (FAP) is excluded from the family member's diagnosis
If you feel this applies to you, consult your doctor. Colonoscopies are recommended in family members who are 10 years younger than the youngest family member who was diagnosed with cancer. Screening for other Lynch syndrome-related cancers should also be performed. For people with a diagnosis of Lynch syndrome, screening usually starts between ages 20 and 25.
Continued
Familial Adenomatous Polyposis (FAP) Syndrome
Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) is a rare condition characterized by the presence of more than hundreds or even thousands of benign polyps, or growths in the large intestine and upper respiratory tract. It is thought to be present in about 1% of all people diagnosed with colorectal cancer each year. The polyps occur early in life, with 95% of people with FAP developing polyps by age 35, and are often detected in patients in their teens, with 50% developing polyps by age 15. If the colon is not surgically removed, there is almost a 100% chance that some of the polyps will develop into cancer, usually by age 40. Thyroid cancer is associated with FAP.
While most cases of FAP are inherited, nearly a third of the cases are the result of a spontaneous (newly-occurring) gene mutation, or abnormality. For those who develop a new gene mutation, it is possible to pass the FAP gene onto their children.
What Is the FAP Gene?
Genes are tiny segments of DNA that control how cells function, such as telling them when to divide and grow. One copy of each gene comes from your mother; the other comes from your father.
In 1991, researchers made a significant breakthrough in the diagnosis of FAP. They identified the gene -- called APC -- that is responsible for the condition. This gene mutation can be detected in 82% of patients with FAP. The exact lifetime risk of developing colon cancer in people who have inherited this gene abnormality is about 100%. Families in which this gene mutation occurs may or may not have one or more family members with colorectal cancer or polyps.
What Is the Difference Between FAP and HNPCC?
There are two main differences between FAP and HNPCC, and they include:
Number of genes mutated. In FAP, there is only one gene, the APC gene, which is abnormal. In HNPCC, there are several gene, mutations which may be responsible for the development of the condition.
Presence of polyps, or growths that can become cancer. FAP is characterized by the presence of more than 100 benign polyps. In HNPCC, affected people have fewer polyps, but these polyps can become cancerous more quickly than normal.
Continued
Other Forms of Inherited Polyposis Syndromes
There are other, very rare forms of inherited polyposis syndromes that are associated with an increased risk of colorectal cancer. These include:
Juvenile polyposis (JP). Patients may have anywhere from five to 500 polyps, or growths, mostly in the colon and rectum, which usually begins before the age of 10. The stomach and small intestine are less commonly affected. These patients are also at increased risk of bowel cancer.
Peutz-Jehgers syndrome (PJS). Patients with PJS typically develop dozens to thousands of benign polyps, or growths, in the stomach and intestines, primarily in the small intestine. The growths can become malignant or can cause obstruction of the bowel.
Ashkenazi Jews and Colorectal Cancer
Jewish people who are Ashkenazi, or of Eastern European descent, are at increased risk for colorectal cancer. This is thought to be due to a variant of the APC gene that is found in 6% of this population. Ashkenazi Jews make up the majority of the Jewish population in the U.S.
If you suspect that you are at risk for an inherited form of colorectal cancer, talk to your doctor. There may be a genetic test that can be performed to confirm your suspicions.
WebMD Medical Reference Reviewed by Minesh Khatri, MD on March 14, 2019
Sources
SOURCES:
Cleveland Clinic.
The American Journal of Pathology: "Familial Adenomatous Polyposis-Associated Thyroid Cancer."
© 2019 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.
Pagination
Next Article
How Colorectal Cancer Develops
Colorectal Cancer Guide
Overview & Facts
Diagnosis & Tests
Treatment & Care
Living & Managing
Support & Resources
Top Picks
Chemo: 3 Things You Need to Know
Complementary Treatments for Cancer
Slideshow: An Inside Look at Colorectal Cancer
Quitting Smoking: Help for the First Hard Days
Join the Discussion in the Colorectal Cancer Community
Try These Cancer-Fighting Foods
further reading
Colorectal Cancer Slideshow: Screening Tests, Stages, Symptoms, Treatments, and Risk Factors
Sigmoidoscopy and Colorectal Cancer
Do I Need Genetic Testing for Colorectal Cancer?
Resources on colorectal cancer are available on line.
The Basics of a Colonoscopy
More Tests for Colorectal Cancer
Follow-up Care After Colorectal Cancer
Rectal Cancer Topics
Today on WebMD
Colorectal Cancer
The right diagnosis is the most important factor.
Assess Your Cancer Risk
Our health check will steer you in the right direction.
Advanced Colorectal Cancer
How to talk to your medical team.
Cancer Side Effects
How to best treat them.
Recommended for You
ARTICLE
Best Foods for Fiber
VIDEO
Colon vs. Rectal Cancer
FEATURE
Can Lack of Sleep Affect Your Immune System?
Article
Breast Cancer: Steps to Reduce Your Risk
QUIZ
Antiperspirants Cause Cancer?
Slideshow
Complimentary Treatment for Cancer
Article
Benign Breast Lumps
Article
Facts About Breast Cancer
Tools & Resources
Colorectal Cancer: An Overview
What Your Colon Looks Like
Colon vs. Rectal Cancer
What Is a Virtual Colonoscopy?
Dealing with Chemo Nausea
Assess Your Cancer Risk
Health Solutions
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Precision Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Specialized Gynecologic Oncologists
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Heal Dry, Cracked Skin
More from WebMD
How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?
Live Better With MS Assessment
What Is Endometriosis?
Getting Pregnant Over 35
How Does Chemo Work?
Stuck Inside? Snow Day Activities
Beat Crohn's Flares
Ways to Prevent Migraines
Managing Diabetes at Work
Routine Checkups You Shouldn't Miss
Avoid Allergy Triggers
Treating Advanced Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer
Test Your MS Care Routine
What's New in Psoriasis Research
Where Breast Cancer Spreads
Visit WebMD on Facebook
Visit WebMD on Twitter
Visit WebMD on Pinterest
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.