Can You Get Genital Herpes From A Cold Sore? - The Body
Skip to main content
Skip page links.
TOPICS IN HIV/AIDS
Ask The Experts
Search
Search
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Newsletters
Search
Search
THEBODY.COM
What's New Newsletters Android/iPhone App My Health Tracker Personal Reminder Service HIV Care Professionals The Body en Espanol ASOFinder.com
Ask The Experts
TOPICS IN HIV/AIDS
Treatment
HIV Medications
Hepatitis C Coinfection
GI Issues
Other Side Effects & Coinfections
Drug Resistance
Switching & Stopping Treatment
Pediatric HIV Treatment
Prevention
HIV/AIDS Basics
HIV Prevention
HIV Testing
Safer Sex
Other Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Myths About HIV/AIDS
History of the AIDS Epidemic
Immune System Basics
Helping Friends With HIV/AIDS
Living With HIV
Getting Good Care
Healthy Living With HIV
Arts, Media & HIV/AIDS
Diet, Nutrition & HIV/AIDS
HIV Stigma
Relationships, Sexuality & HIV/AIDS
Vitamins, Minerals & Supplements
HIV and Financial Issues
HIV and Legal Issues
Personal Stories
HIV Blog Central
Stories About Men
Stories About Women
Stories About Transgender People
Stories About Young People
Stories About Older People
Stories About Families and Loved Ones
RESOURCE CENTERS
African Americans
Aging
Gay Men
Latinos
Women
Newly Diagnosed
Starting Treatment
Keeping Up With Your HIV Meds
Can You Get Genital Herpes From A Cold Sore?
Here's a taste of what TheBody.com has to offer on this topic:
Get the Facts
Herpes Simplex (Cold Sores and Genital Herpes)
...infection stays dormant in nerve cells. This is called "latency." However, it can become active again with no warning. Herpes can be active without symptoms or visible signs. Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV1) is the common cause of cold sores (oral herpes) around the mouth. HSV2 normally causes genital herpes. However, through sexual activity, HSV1 can cause infections in the genital area, and HSV2 can infect the mouth area. HSV is a very common...
Read more »
Ask the Experts
cold sores = genital herpes?
are they both the same virus? aren't they two different simplex herpes types? in oral sex, can someone with a cold sore on the lips transmit the herpes virus to another person and have it manifest as genital herpes and/or lip cold sores (even...
Response from Ryan M. Kull, C.S.W
Columbia University's Health & Related Services
...types of herpes simplex virus (HSV) that are categorized as HSV-1 and HSV-2. HSV-1 generally causes what are commonly known as cold sores or fever blisters: those uncomfortable, sometimes painful bumps you get around your mouth that are like... Read more »
My thanks to you Dr. Bob! (HERPES, 2010)
Hello Dr, BobI came on here to ask you a question and doing so I had to re-write my post because I realized how remarkable you truly are Dr. Bob. As I was writing it hit me, you have been helping people on here for years! It is truly remarkable that...
Response from Robert J. Frascino, M.D.
The Robert James Frascino AIDS Foundation
...your specific queries:1. Yes, it's possible.2. Herpes labialis and herpes genitalis are two distinct viruses. Herpes labialis (cold sores) is generally HSV-1 (herpes simplex virus type 1) and herpes genitalis is generally HSV-2. It's important to... Read more »
$200 Donation For This Simple Question (HERPES SIMPLEX, 2009)
Hi Dr Bob, Scott from CA. Umm... how do I start.? Ok here goes.I've a gf for about 6 months now. Before we engage in any kind of unprotected sex, we both had HIV and STDs test about 3 weeks after being together and all came back NEGATIVE. She told...
Response from Robert J. Frascino, M.D.
The Robert James Frascino AIDS Foundation
...unwanted pregnancy. For more carefree sex, why not just consistently use latex or polyurethane condoms???Regarding Herpes labialis (cold sores), your doctor is correct. It's extremely common. See below. I'll reprint some information from the... Read more »
may i ask about herpes instead?
hello dr. bob. how are u?it's me again,medical student in prague (AGAIN???).well last time when i told u that my test results for stds came out negative after 5weeks of exposure.i actually got that through the phone only coz i simply couldnt find...
Response from Robert J. Frascino, M.D.
The Robert James Frascino AIDS Foundation
...about this.2.Chances are good that you've had herpes type 1 for a long time. 3.Nope.4.Nope.5.See below.Dr. BobHerpes Simplex (Cold Sores and Genital Herpes)What Is Herpes?Herpes simplex refers to a group of viruses that infect humans. Like herpes... Read more »
Go to Ask the Experts »
Articles
Understanding Genital Herpes
...There are two types of HSV. HSV type 1 most commonly infects the mouth and lips, causing sores known as fever blisters or cold sores. HSV type 2 is the usual cause of genital herpes, but it also can infect the mouth. Transmission If... Read more »
Herpes Vaccine Trial Needs 7,500 Women
...working with GlaxoSmithKline to find a rare population of women -- those who have never been infected with genital herpes or the cold sore virus, both of which are incredibly common. Researchers hope the new vaccine will win approval based on the... Read more »
How Risky Is It?
...herpes outbreak, syphilis, or the flu. When either person has open sores that get exposed to infected fluids. These could be cold sores, genital herpes, mouth ulcers, syphilis sores, or other cuts or breaks in the skin. When there is... Read more »
Immune Restoration Syndrome
... Herpes Simplex outbreaks. Fact Sheet 509 has more information on shingles. Fact Sheet 508 discusses herpes simplex (cold sores and genital herpes.) Molluscum (a skin infection. See Fact Sheet 513 ). Mycobacterium Avium Complex... Read more »
Related Topics
Transmission Of Genital Herpes
View More HIV/AIDS-Related Topics »
Resource Centers
African Americans
Aging
Gay Men
Keeping Up With Your Meds
Latinos
Newly Diagnosed
Starting Treatment
Women
Guides for People With HIV
View All of Our Guides >>
© 2015 Remedy Health Media, LLC All Rights Reserved
Facebook
Twitter
Newsletters
The Body
About The Body
Contact The Body
Site Policies
Content Providers
Advertise With Us
Site Map
Remedy Health Media
About Remedy Health Media
Contact Remedy Health Media
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
The Body is a service of Remedy Health Media, LLC, 750 3rd Avenue, 6th Floor, New York, NY 10017. The Body and its logos are trademarks of Remedy Health Media, LLC, and its subsidiaries, which owns the copyright of The Body's homepage, topic pages, page designs and HTML code. General Disclaimer: The Body is designed for educational purposes only and is not engaged in rendering medical advice or professional services. The information provided through The Body should not be used for diagnosing or treating a health problem or a disease. It is not a substitute for professional care. If you have or suspect you may have a health problem, consult your health care provider.