Benefits of Ginger and It's Medicinal Uses That You Won't Believe!
StylEnrich
Organic Home Remedies & DIY Beauty Tips!
Menu
Beauty & Makeup
DIY Homemade
Health & Wellness
Home Remedies
Superfoods & Recipes
Home
Superfoods & Recipes
Health Benefits of Ginger That You Won’t Believe!
Superfoods & Recipes
Health Benefits of Ginger That You Won’t Believe!
Vatsala Singhania July 4, 2015
The zingy taste of ginger and its treasure trove of medicinal properties have always made it an essential part of Indian and Asian cuisines. This herb is highly recognized as a wonder herb that is time tested for its numerous benefits. Health benefits of ginger are accepted worldwide across different cultures. This root or rhizome of a ginger plant can be used as powdered, dried, juice, or in the form of oil to avail ginger benefits.
Medicinal uses of ginger are complemented effectively by its aromatic taste and special flavor that it adds to every cooked meal. Ayurveda and Indians strongly believe in health benefits of ginger, especially during harsh winters.
Recommended read Health Benefits of Green Tea That You Must Know
Ginger health benefits are induced by its high content of antioxidants and anti-inflammatory compounds. The nutrient contents of ginger include capsaicin, beta-carotene, curcumin, gingerols, salicylate, and caffeic acid. Here, we are giving you 10 facts proving what ginger is good for or 10 striking reasons to include this miraculous herb in your daily life.
Top 10 Benefits of Ginger
Although ginger is best trusted for curing nausea and digestive problems, you can’t limit this multifaceted herb to these benefits only. So, if you want to know what ginger is good for, we are giving its best-known benefits below:
Ginger Benefits: It’s Great for Digestion
Relieving gastrointestinal distress is one of the best medicinal uses of ginger. Many recent studies have proven this ability of ginger to reduce gastric contractions and improve bile production. It also helps to control inflammation by improving absorption of food in your body. It breaks down proteins in the body for easy digestion.
You will love to read health benefits of garlic.
Ginger Tea Benefits in Respiratory Problems
Ginger tea benefits in common cold and cough are highly acclaimed. Intake of this wonderful tea early in the morning helps to reduce congestion caused by cold. It helps to expand the lungs, thus, relieving phlegm and suppressing mucus. Even the patients of asthma can include ginger tea in their daily routine to keep their respiratory problems at bay.
Ginger Improves Immunity and Stamina
In many ways, ginger helps to alleviate some serious health hazards. It helps to improve immunity by fighting bacterial infections. You can take a small piece of ginger daily to ward off the risk of stroke. Ginger is rich in antioxidants that help to reduce fat deposits from arteries.
Uses for Ginger in Fighting Colorectal Cancer
Studies suggest that gingerols compound in ginger helps to fight colorectal cancer. It slows down the growth of or kills the cells causing this type of cancer. The antioxidants in this herb are excellent to prevent cancer in any part of the body.
Uses for Ginger in Relief from Joint Pain
Ginger has a high dose of analgesic and inflammatory compounds that help to relieve arthritis in older age. Use ginger oil to massage your joints or simply add it to your bath.
Ginger Helps to Reduce Pain
Properties of ginger as a potent painkiller are also the time tested. From headache, stomach ache to menstrual cramps, ginger benefits you in several ways. It reduces the synthesis of prostaglandin that in turn helps to relieve pain including severe migraine. For migraine, use fresh ginger paste to apply on your forehead.
Ginger is Exceptional for Relieving Nausea and Vomiting
For any kind or cause of nausea and vomiting, ginger works like a wonder drug. If you suffer from motion sickness or sea sickness, prefer ginger than relying upon over the counter drugs. Just sip a brewing cup of ginger tea before commencing your journey. Even in case pregnancy, it helps to cure nausea. Ginger juice benefits post-operative or post-chemotherapy nausea as well. But here the word of caution says that consult your doctor before taking ginger as sometimes it is associated with clotting of blood in post-operative conditions.
A must read article – Cumin Health Benefits -THE WONDER SPICE!
Ginger Helps to Normalize Blood Circulation
Medicinal uses of ginger also include its ability to regulate blood flow in your body. This herb has a rich storehouse of nutrients like magnesium, zinc, and chromium. All these nutrients help to control blood circulation, thus, preventing fever, undue sweating, and chills.
Ginger is Excellent to Fight Morning Sickness
This herb has been time tested to reduce symptoms of morning sickness in pregnant women. Ginger has immense carminative properties that keep this morning sickness at bay. But if you are pregnant, it is always advisable to ask your doctor before including ginger in your diet. You can avail fresh ginger juice benefits but only in moderate quantity to relieve this problem.
Ginger Helps to Relieve Excessive Stress
The aromatic taste of ginger, when combined with its strong healing properties, makes it an amazing remedy for daily stress as well. Use ginger in any form. Make ginger tea, squeeze fresh ginger juice or apply ginger oil. There are so many ways in which it can reduce tension from your body and mind.
These are miraculous and medically proven benefits of ginger. Ginger nutrition values also vote in its favor. So, why wait? This super herb is easily available at most of your nearby stores. Just keep it stored in your kitchen and it may come handy to treat many health problems due to the inimitable ginger nutrition values.
Prev Article
Next Article
Related Articles
Although metabolism is partly inherited due to nature of genetics, …
Speed Up Your Metabolism with These Metabolism Boosting Foods!
Do you like storing all purpose natural ingredients that are …
Top Apple Cider Vinegar Benefits For Health!
If you love to wake up in the midnight just …
Delicious High Protein Dessert Recipes You Must Try!
I just love the juicy, delicious flavor of mangoes, and …
Magical Fruit Mangoes Benefits Your Skin, Hair and Health!
Do you wish to know Pomegranate benefits? Power packed with vital …
Top 10 Health Benefits of Pomegranate That You Must Know!
Most of us like the fruity smell of cantaloupe which …
Unknown Benefits of Muskmelon for Your Health!
Our generation has become quite health conscious. We follow strict …
Lead a Healthy and Fruitful Life with Walnuts!
Beauty comes from within. Haven’t we all heard of this …
Face Masks DIY : Top Homemade Face Mask Using Veggie Peels!
A cylindrical fruit with shades of varying green exterior, cucumber …
Health Benefits of Cucumbers that You Must Know!
Do the hours between meals make you hungry? If so, …
Yummy Healthy Snacks Ideas That You Will Love For Sure!
About The Author
Vatsala Singhania
5 Comments
Anonymous
5
August 14, 2016
Anonymous
1
August 14, 2016
Isabella
Thank you Vatsala Singhania for sharing an amazing home remedy. Typically, ginger, onion widely used in south Asia vastly in India, Bangladesh and Pakistan. Now, it is scientifically identified that these has huge herbal benefits when it is case of skin related issue. One thing I want to clear i.e. Did you examine this yourself?
November 16, 2016
Anonymous
I never knew ginger is this useful. Pls what of the dry ginger can we use it for tea??
January 22, 2017
kamissoko
Pls send me this information via email.
March 6, 2017
Anonymous
It’s really amazing thanks lot.
March 9, 2017
Marie
Wow, what a wonderful herb that is. I have been taking in ginger as part of my diet and didn’t know it’s benefits until I read this. Honestly, it does wonders and it has helped me in relieving pains in my body.
Thank you.
March 29, 2017
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Search for Organic Tips
Explore Categories
Home Remedies
Beauty & Makeup
DIY Homemade
Health & Wellness
Superfoods & Recipes
StylEnrich
Organic Home Remedies & DIY Beauty Tips!
Also See
Home
About StylEnrich
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Must Read
Home Remedies
Beauty & Makeup
DIY Homemade
Health & Wellness
Superfoods & Recipes
Disclaimer
StylEnrich.com does not give any medical advice. All the content published in our site is strictly for informational purpose. We strongly recommend that you consult your medical adviser before trying any home remedy or tips given in our website.
Copyright © 2019 StylEnrich
Ad Blocker Detected
Our website is made possible by displaying online advertisements to our visitors. Please consider supporting us by disabling your ad blocker.
Refresh