Ink remover poisoning: MedlinePlus Medical Encyclopedia
Skip navigation
U.S. National Library of Medicine
The navigation menu has been collapsed.
Menu
Health Topics
Drugs & Supplements
Videos & Tools
About MedlinePlus
Show Search
Search MedlinePlus
GO
About MedlinePlus
Site Map
FAQs
Customer Support
Health Topics
Drugs & Supplements
Videos & Tools
Español
You Are Here:
Home →
Medical Encyclopedia →
Ink remover poisoning
URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002790.htm
Ink remover poisoning
To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.
Ink remover is a chemical used to get out ink stains. Ink remover poisoning occurs when someone swallows this substance.
This article is for information only. Do NOT use it to treat or manage an actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
Poisonous Ingredient
Poisonous ingredients include:
Drinking alcohol (ethanol)
Rubbing alcohol (isopropyl alcohol, which can be very poisonous if swallowed in large doses)
Wood alcohol (methanol, which is very poisonous)
Where Found
These ingredients can be found in:
Ink removers
Liquid bleaches
Note: This list may not include all sources of ink removers.
Symptoms
Symptoms from all types of alcohol poisoning may include:
Brain damage
Decreased breathing
Stupor
Unconsciousness
Methanol and isopropyl alcohol poisoning symptoms can occur in various parts of the body.
EYES, EARS, NOSE, AND THROAT
Blindness
Blurred vision
Enlarged (dilated) pupils
GASTROINTESTINAL SYSTEM
Abdominal pain
Nausea and vomiting
Severe bleeding and vomiting blood (hemorrhage)
HEART AND BLOOD
Low blood pressure
Severe change in the level of acid in the blood (pH balance), which leads to the failure of many organs
Weakness
Collapse
KIDNEYS
Kidney failure
LUNGS AND AIRWAYS
Rapid, shallow breathing
Fluid in the lungs
Blood in the lungs
Stopped breathing
MUSCLES AND BONES
Leg cramps
NERVOUS SYSTEM
Coma (decreased level of consciousness and lack of responsiveness)
Dizziness
Fatigue
Headache
Convulsions
SKIN
Blue skin, lips, or fingernails (cyanosis)
Home Care
Get medical help right away. Do not make a person throw up unless told to do so by poison control or a health care professional.
If the chemical is on the skin or in the eyes, flush with lots of water for at least 15 minutes.
Before Calling Emergency
Get the following information:
Person's age, weight, and condition
Name of the product (and ingredients and strengths, if known)
Time it was swallowed
Amount swallowed
Poison Control
Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States. This national hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They will give you further instructions.
This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does not need to be an emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
What to Expect at the Emergency Room
The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be treated as appropriate. The person may receive:
Activated charcoal
Breathing support, including a tube through the mouth into the lungs, and a breathing machine (ventilator)
Endoscopy -- camera down the throat to see burns in the esophagus and the stomach
Fluids through a vein (by IV)
Immediate kidney dialysis
Medicine (antidote) to reverse the effect of the poison
Tube through the mouth into the stomach to wash out the stomach (gastric lavage)
Outlook (Prognosis)
How well the person does depends on the amount of poison swallowed and how quickly treatment is received. The faster the person gets medical help, the better the chance for recovery.
Methanol is the most dangerous and poisonous substance that can be an ingredient in ink remover. It often causes permanent blindness.
References
Tolwani AJ, Saha MK, Wille KM. Metabolic acidosis and alkalosis. In: Vincent JL, Abraham E, Moore FA, Kochanek PM, Fink MP, eds. Textbook of Critical Care. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 104.
Zimmerman JL. Poisonings. In: Parrillo JE, Dellinger RP, eds. Critical Care Medicine: Principles of Diagnosis and Management in the Adult. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 68.
Review Date 10/16/2017
Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
NIH MedlinePlus MagazineRead more
Health Topics A-ZRead more
Easy-to-Read MaterialsRead more
A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, also known as the American Accreditation HealthCare Commission (www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability. A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy, editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of Hi-Ethics and subscribes to the principles of the Health on the Net Foundation (www.hon.ch).
The information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2019, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.
About MedlinePlus
Site Map
FAQs
Customer Support
Get email updates
Subscribe to RSS
Follow us
Disclaimers
Copyright
Privacy
Accessibility
Quality Guidelines
Viewers & Players
MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
For Developers
U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health
Page last updated: 01 April 2019