Is too much water bad for you? – Florida School Report
Florida School Report
Florida School Report
All about Florida schools
Is too much water bad for you?
Is too much water bad for you?
August 23, 2018 admin Comments 0 Comment
Nowadays, we hear people mention the 8×8 rule more and more often. We don’t only hear it on TV or in the hospital, but also in the park, at the supermarket or even at the gas station. Everyone seems to understand that drinking eight 8-ounce glasses daily is a must if you want to stay healthy.
Do our bodies really need that certain quantity of water daily? Or it’s just an innovation whose goal is to make us more careful to what we drink?
Well, scientists have finally come to a steadier decision: It doesn’t matter how much water you consume every day, provided that your body is properly hydrated and you don’t feel the need to drink more.
And after all, there is no reason to question this, we all know that the human body can make us aware of our deficiencies. Do not we feel the need to eat when our stomach is empty? Or don’t we begin shivering when we are cold? It is the same with water, we feel thirsty every time our body needs more liquids.
There is no point filling up our body with water if there’s no demand for it. There’s actually a big reason why we should not.
It is a known fact that too little water can result in dehydration, and dehydration can kill you. But have you ever thought that too much water can also have the exact same effect?
In everybody’s body, there’s a certain balance between the electrolytes (the minerals from the blood along with the fluid that carries the electrical charge) and water. Once this equilibrium is destroyed, that individual’s life may be in a real danger.
Physicians call this health dilemma”hyponatremia”, but it is widely called”water poisoning”. It might sound funny, but it is a really severe condition that, if not treated correctly and rapidly, may result in renal failure and later, death.
How can this happen? Well, once the quantity of water from our body gets considerably higher than normal, the number of electrolytes will get too low for it, therefore an imbalance between these 2 would be unavoidable.
If these are not treated, they can rapidly lead to death.
Is it something we should try to avoid as much as we can?
Well, fortunately for us, it’s pretty hard to play tricks on a set of healthy kidneys, even by mistake.
This means that water intoxications aren’t as common in average people as they are in professional athletes.
The results of a 2005 study published in New England Journal of Medicine claim that almost 1/6 of the 2002 Boston Marathon participants have experienced a certain amount of hyponatremia.
Another study, published in the 2006 British Journal of Sports Magazine, states that physical exercises are frequently associated with hyponatremia due to the excessive water intake.
However, these examples aren’t something we should be concerned about too much, as they are pretty rare instances in average men and women. The main thing is to drink a suitable amount of water after physical exercise or attempt, without exaggerating.
So, now you’re probably wondering”Okay, too much water isn’t good whatsoever?” , but can drinking too much water really kill you?
Yes, it may, in theory. But like I said before, it’s not really the case to stress, because you could not normally drink so much water that would cause water intoxication. Your body would show you clear signs and would force you to stop.
However, be careful how much water you have after a high effort and be sure you don’t drink a much higher amount than you feel your body requires. Provided that you respect this, you’ll not ever need to ask yourself if drinking too much water can kill you. Check out more at medical marijuana doctors in florida
Post navigation
NEXT
Eat More Fiber
PREVIOUS
Need More Energy
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
Understanding back pain
Reality Isn’t What You Think! How Cognitive Distortions Harm Us
Security Camera
Fro-yo
Choosing a Bong
© 2019	| Proudly Powered by WordPress | Theme: Nisarg