B-Light-Lite Weight Loss
Top » Catalog » VITASLIM SPECIAL LINE » xVTxSLMx1xBX My Account | Cart Contents | Checkout
Categories
B-Light Slimming Capsules (1)
B-Light Weight Loss (1)
B-Light Diet Pills (1)
Slim Pomegranate (1)
Tomato Plant Weight Loss (1)
A-Slim Natural Slimming Capsules (1)
Slim Bio Diet Capsules (1)
1 2 Day Diet Weight Loss (1)
Slim Vie Lose Weight (4)
SlimForte Weight Loss (3)
Slim Forte GOLD DP (3)
ABC Slim Belly Patch (1)
Meizi Slim Belly Patch (1)
Lingzhi Toxic Slim Tea (1)
Paris Loreal Slim Patch (1)
Beauty Slimming Tea (1)
LiDa Meizi NiceFigure Slim Tea (1)
Ginseng Slim Tea 1 Box (1)
Slimming Herbal Tea (1)
China Energy Slim Tea (1)
Minoxidil 6 Month Revitalizes Ha (1)
FORTE Anti Hair-Full Regrowth 3 (1)
LIDA full Regrow Treatment 3 Mon (1)
Toppik Hair Building Fiber (1)
Abidexin Diet Pills (1)
LIPOZIN SLIMMING CAPSULES (1)
Perfect Women Breast Enlargment (1)
FEG - EYELASH ENHANCER GROW (1)
Li Lash Eyelash Serum Regrowth (1)
Lipozin + Carb Block Ultra (1)
30 Day Control Slim Bonus Pack (1)
Body Lab Ultra Fast Slim Kit (1)
Lose Weight Coffee (1)
Jillian 14 Day Cleanse and Burn (1)
Body Lab Thermodynamic Total Bur (1)
MAXIMA GARCINIA CAMBOGIA (1)
B-LIGHT GENESIS EDITION (3)
VITASLIM SPECIAL LINE (6)
B LITE PLUS (6)
All Brands Perfume & Cologne-> (123)
Prescription Youth Products (5)
MAX FAT BURN (3)
Manufacturers
Please SelectKm Dali Beauty ..USA
What's New?
MAX FAT BURN 1 BOTTLE
$39.99
$29.95
Quick Find
Use keywords to find the product you are looking for.
Advanced Search
Information
Shipping & Returns
Privacy Notice
Conditions of Use
Contact Us
VITASLIM LIGHT 1 BOX
[xVTxSLMx1xBX] $59.95 $39.95
Click to enlarge
NEW
Vitaslim BUST is a new and revolutionary means for breast size correction through an entirely natural method. It gives women alluring and firm bust (without surgery or change in weight). It improves the shape and condition of breasts after giving birth, breastfeeding and diets, after climax and more. It secures a fresh and attractive appearance - highlights the femininity of every woman. Helps reduce the unpleasant sensations during climax. Its effectiveness is due to a special selection of extracts from“female plants”.
The VitaSlim LINE chewing gums are the sweetest, most fun way to lose and control bodyweight. Their working principle is chew and lose weight.
The taste and look of the chewing gum Vitaslim LINE is not different from the one of familiar gums, but its’ contents are special. There are two active ingredients incorporated in it – guarana and green tea extracts, and they act by decomposing and burning gained body fat. Their work is focused on the problematic zones – thighs, waist and hips. Vitaslim LINE chewing gums are a great supplement to a slimming program with the products Vitaslim LIGHT, Vitaslim LINE (capsules) and Vitaslim FITNESS. Combining them assures lasting and healthy reduction in bodyweight.
Chewing gums are the perfect means for long-term support of normal bodyweight.
Vitaslim LINE chewing gums do not contain sugar. They aid in reduction of teeth demineralization and lowering the acidity of teeth plaque. This way the risk of teeth caries development is reduced.
In a separate use with the goal of losing weight: Take 2 dragees 3 times a day after main meals. The beneficial effect is achieved by chewing 2-3 grams of sugar-free gum for a period of 20 minutes a day at least three times a day after meal.
In a separate use with the goal of sustaining normal bodyweight: 1-3 chewing gums daily.
In a combined use with the other products: 1-3 chewing gums daily.
Contraindications: Excessive consumption can lead to a laxative effect! The product is a source of phenylalanine! Not recommended for kids, pregnant and breast-feeding women.
According to a research conducted by “Pharma Brand”, Vitaslim LIGHT is “The most recommended weight loss product by pharmacists”. It ensures twice easier and faster weight loss with no drastic changes in lifestyle.
The exceptional effectiveness of the product is due to its light formula – it contains only two ingredients - PinnoThin™ and CLA. Combined together, they reduce food intake by suppressing appetite and increase calories burned – the two most important factors for a successful weight loss. The completely natural ingredients are effective and have fast action due to their special liquid form (patented Licaps® technology by Capsugel).
Due to PinnoThin™ Vitaslim LIGHT suppresses appetite and effectively helps you avoid overeating. It creates a feeling of satiety and balances feeding. It makes you feel full with a lot less food. The result – less calories taken – no feeling of hunger.
Apart from suppressing appetite, Vitaslim LIGHT also burns fats. The active ingredient CLA improves metabolism, speeds up burning of subcutaneous fat, and transforms fats into muscles, thus shaping a firm and good looking body. Vitaslim LIGHT burns fats when you rest (even during sleep).
1-2 capsules 3 times daily, 1 hour before meals, with a lot of water. The product should be taken for at least 3 months in order to obtain a steady result.
Contraindications: There are no known contraindications. Pregnant and nursing women should consult a physician before taking Vitaslim LIGHT. This product is not recommended for people allergic to fish products (fish gelatin capsules).
*Vitaslim LIGHT is “Best selling weight loss product” of 2016 in USA, according to IMS Health.
Vitaslim LINE is a unique slimming product with a focused action on problem zones - waist, hips and thighs. It ensures healthy and long-term slimming without fats and cellulite. The effectiveness of the product is a result of its precisely combined and dosed ingredients. Vitaslim LINE has a lot more effective and much faster action due to its special liquid formula (patented Licaps® technology by Capsugel).
Vitaslim LINE speeds up subcutaneous fat burning in the problem zones, and prevents their formation after that. It reduces waist circumference, makes thighs thinner and firm, and shapes up hips. It transforms fats into muscles, thus shaping up firm and good looking body. Vitaslim LINE balances metabolism, preventing yo-yo effect and keeping the slim figure for a long period of time. The product is most effective when combined with physical exercise.
The unique combination of four natural ingredients improves metabolism, suppresses sugar carvings, and keeps blood sugar within normal limits. Vitaslim LINE speeds up the release of energy in the human body and keeps it toned. Taking Vitaslim LINE is an effective way of maintaining healthy weight – an important factor for good general health.
1 capsule 3 times daily (it makes no difference whether it is taken before, during or after meals).
The product should be taken for at least 3 months in order to obtain a steady result. Vitaslim LINE could be taken year-round – for healthy weight maintenance.
Contraindications: There are no known contraindications. Pregnant and nursing women should consult a physician before taking Vitaslim LINE. This product is not recommended for people allergic to fish products (fish gelatin capsules).
Vitaslim BEAUTY offers a completely different solution to problems with hair loss, faded skin, and soft and brittle nails. The action of its revolutionary formula is from the inside out, thus nurturing skin, hair and nails naturally.
The unique nourishing complex contains specially selected ingredients – plant oils, vitamins and antioxidants. It maintains the natural beauty permanently. The action Vitaslim BEAUTY is fast due to its special liquid formula (patented Licaps® technology by Capsugel).
Vitaslim BEAUTY recovers damaged hair by hydrating and nourishing it from within. It fights hair loss by strengthening the bonds between scalp and hair roots. Vitaslim BEAUTY reduces dandruff through active nourishment and hydration of the scalp. It speeds up hair growth, and makes hair strong, elastic and resistible to chemical treatments, hot air from hair dryers, cold, sun, wind, etc.
Vitaslim BEAUTY strengthens soft and brittle nails. It speeds up their growth and improves their appearance, helping them become healthy and good looking.
Vitaslim BEAUTY nourishes and hydrates skin, making it elastic, soft as silk, and lustrous. The product slows down ageing and appearance of wrinkles by its strong antioxidant action. It improves the condition of epidermis, thus helping the skin recover faster and look younger and lively.
1 capsule 2 times daily (morning and evening), 10–15 minutes before meals. The product should be taken for at least 3 months in order to obtain a steady result.
Contraindications: There are no known contraindications. This product is not recommended for people allergic to fish products (fish gelatin capsules).
*The product does not affect hair loss caused by hormonal disorders, autoimmune diseases, etc.
Vitaslim HEALTH is 300 times more powerful than vitamin A and vitamin E, 48 times more powerful than fish oil, and 34 times more powerful than coenzyme Q 10. The extraordinary omega-3 product contains Neptune Krill Oil (NKO™) – organic oil derived from arctic shrimp (krill).
The action of 1 capsule of Vitaslim HEALTH is equal to 12 capsules of fish oil + 3 capsules of coenzyme Q10 + 10 capsules of phospholipids.
Vitaslim HEALTH is a lot more effective and guarantees way better results, taken in an unprecedentedly low dose. This is a result of its natural formula, in which the omega-3 fatty acids are in the same form as in the cells of the human body. Neptune Krill Oil (Vitaslim HEALTH) was declared “The best product of 2016” at the prestigious congress „Nutrition & Santé” (Food and Health) in USA.
The product is clinically proven to be beneficial for dealing with a large number of health problems:
Vitaslim HEALTH lowers cholesterol and triglycerides levels and keeps them within normal limits. It lowers LDL (“bad” cholesterol) and increases HDL (“good” cholesterol) 7 times more effective than fish oil, even taken in low daily dosages. Vitaslim HEALTH normalizes heart frequency and regulates blood pressure. It prevents blood clots and is beneficial for the blood vessels, which is very important in the case of atherosclerosis.
Vitaslim HEALTH reduces joint pain and stiffness. It improves mobility of joints by reducing joint inflammations, and is beneficial for people suffering from osteoarthritis. Vitaslim HEALTH also supports the natural powers of the human body to fight inflammations.
Vitaslim HEALTH supports memory and concentration by improving blood circulation. It reduces the feeling of fatigue and weakness, and improves both mental and physical capabilities.
Vitaslim HEALTH substantially reduces menstrual cramps and PMS (premenstrual syndrome). It limits weight gain before menstrual cycle, reduces abdominal pain and occurrence of depression and irritability.
Vitaslim HEALTH keeps human body cells healthy and slows down ageing. Due to its powerful antioxidant action, it eliminates the negative effects of stress. Vitaslim HEALTH strengthens immunity and the natural defenses of the human body. It prevents skin from burning after long exposure to sunlight.
The qualities of the product are guaranteed by the unique encapsulation technology (Licaps® patented technology by Capsugel). Due to Licaps®Vitaslim HEALTH has no unpleasant taste or smell.
Vitaslim HEALTH should be taken during or shortly after meals.
High cholesterol and triglycerides: 2 capsules 2 times daily for the first 2 weeks; a maintenance dose of 1-2 capsules daily for at least 3 months after that.
Joint pains: 1 capsule daily for at least 3 months.
Concentration difficulties and weakened memory: 1 capsule daily for at least 3 months.
Menstrual pain: 4 capsules daily, 8 days before menstruation and 2 days during menstruation.
Prevention and immunity: 1-2 capsules daily for at least 3 months; for children over 4 years old – 1 capsule daily.
Contraindications: There are no known contraindications. This product is not recommended for people allergic to fish products or suffering from blood disorder.
Vitaslim FITNESS is the purest L-carnitine in the world – it contains L-carnitine Carnipure™ by Lonza, and is the most powerful natural fat burner. Vitaslim FITNESS speeds up fat burning and supplies the human body with energy.
Vitaslim FITNESS helps you achieve remarkable results due to the L-carnitine in liquid form (patented Licaps® technology by Capsugel). Encapsulation protects its unique qualities up until the moment of absorption in the human body.
Vitaslim FITNESS burns fats quickly and effectively. It speeds up exertion of toxins through perspiration, and energizes the human body by delivering oxygen to muscles, thus helping it become firm and good looking.
Physical exertion and exercise unfold the full potential of Vitaslim FITNESS. It makes muscles more durable and speeds up their recovery after physical exercise by preventing muscle fibers from tearing. Vitaslim FITNESS fights muscle fever by preventing the formation of lactic acid in muscles. It transforms fats into muscles, thus shaping up firm and good looking body.
Vitaslim FITNESS supports blood flow and brain functions, it increases the energy in immune system cells, and supports healthy heart functions. The product is particularly beneficial for elderly people and vegetarians, as their bodies lack L-carnitine.
1-2 capsules 2 times daily – before or shortly after meals in the morning and at noon. Additional 1-2 capsules should be taken before physical exercise. The product should be taken for 2-3 weeks, and then a pause of 2-3 weeks should be made. After that the cycle is repeated until desired results are reached.
Contraindications: There are no known contraindications.
Vitaslim IMMUNO is the most powerful natural immune system booster. It supports the natural powers of the human body, thus preventing flu, infections, and colds.
The strong action of the product is due to its special ingredients – propolis, ginseng and eucalyptus, which have been used in western and eastern medicine for centuries. They are called “natural antibiotics” – because of their strong healing properties.
The action Vitaslim IMMUNO is fast due to its special liquid formula (patented Licaps® technology by Capsugel).
Vitaslim IMMUNO stops the growth of the influenza virus and reduces the risk of colds. It kills disease causing bacteria and reduces inflammation. Vitaslim IMMUNO supports the formation of natural immunity towards the most common flu causing bacteria.
Vitaslim IMMUNO improves the general condition of people who have infections, flu or cold. It suppresses the symptoms of sickness and shortens its duration. Vitaslim IMMUNO supports the respiratory system and is beneficial for people suffering from bronchitis, cough, tonsillitis, sore throat, etc. The product is beneficial for the fast recovery of the human body after a disease, and strengthens the healing effect of medicines (it could be taken along with medication).
Vitaslim IMMUNO is recommended for disease prevention. In case you are already sick – you should take it during the sickness and also during the recovery period. The product is suitable for disease prevention during the flu and colds season. It is recommended in cases of: Frequent and repeating diseases; Influenza, cold and viral and inflectional diseases; Respiratory diseases.
1-2 capsules daily – adults only.
Contraindications: The product is not recommended for children, pregnant and nursing women and people allergic to fish products (fish gelatin capsules).
For more information, please visit this products webpage.
This product was added to our catalog on Sunday 12 June, 2016.
Shopping Cart
0 items
Manufacturer Info
- Km Dali Beauty Industry Homepage
- Other products
Notifications
Notify me of updates to VITASLIM LIGHT 1 BOX
Tell A Friend
Tell someone you know about this product.
Reviews
Write a review on this product!
Languages
Currencies
US DollarEuro
Friday 19 April, 2019 2955190 requests since Thursday 23 January, 2014
Copyright © 2019 B-Light-Lite Weight Loss
All Rights Reserved.