▷ Hemorrhoids and Prohibited Foods
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
The Joy of Wellness
Living better and longer, Natural Health
Main navigation
The Joy of Wellness
What? Would you like to find?
Search...
Browse by categories
Weight Loss
Health and Beauty
Diets and Nutrition
Natural Remedies
Alternative Medicine
Emotional Intelligence
Life in Fullness
Hemorrhoids and Prohibited Foods
By Kimberly Snyder
Major in Nutrition with specialization in Health and Disease.
Published: 12/11/2014 - Updated: 05/18/2018
So you want to heal your hemorrhoids and you don’t want them to come back. Well then, the key to solving this uncomfortable condition lies in your daily diet and your lifestyle, which includes exercise or practicing some sort of sport.
Contents
Don’t eat if you have hemorrhoids
Fiber
Fruits and vegetables
Home remedies for Hemorrhoids
Don’t eat if you have hemorrhoids
The first thing to do is to establish a healthy dietary regimen. Remove the following foods so as to not aggravate your hemorrhoids, or to prevent them from appearing.
Excessive meat
Processed grains like flour, pastries, crackers, white rice, white bread, etc.
Products that contain refined sugar.
Spicy and heavily seasoned foods.
Foods with too much salt; you should reduce consumption of olives, salty sardines, mackerel, anchovies, etc.
You should not drink coffee in excess. The best thing to do is to completely avoid alcoholic drinks as well as tobacco.
On the other hand, there are foods that help prevent the appearance of hemorrhoids, and which reduce constipation, which is their primary cause.
Fiber
In this case, fiber is the primary food that you need to consume in all your meals. It is the key to preventing constipation, which later on causes hemorrhoids. You can find it in wheat bran, apples, peaches, broccoli, carrots, and others.
Be that what it may, do not change your diet suddenly overnight. You need to do this gradually so as to avoid making problems worse, or suffering from constant stomach pain or swelling. You should also increase your water consumption to at least 8 glasses a day.
Fiber softens fecal material and therefore makes it easier to pass through the anal canal as it moves through the intestines. This eliminates pressure and constipation, both of which are large factors to the appearance of hemorrhoids. Consuming water also acts as a softener, while also keeping the body hydrated.
Fruits and vegetables
Little by little, you should slowly introduce fruit into your daily diet, until including even four a day, just like vegetables. The most recommendable ones, for their high fiber content, are figs, oranges, plums, pears, apples, peaches, and vegetables like carrots, cauliflower and spinach.
Wheat bran
Specialists recommend consuming wheat bran daily. It should because one of the most highly esteemed foods for patients with constipation and hemorrhoids. You can sprinkle it on your breakfast juices, on your milk, fruit salads, and even on your soups and stews.
Other grains that you should include in your diet are rice, corn, oats, and whole grain bread.
Legumes
The most valuable legumes for their fiber content are lentils, green beans, fava beans, garbanzos, soy, and kidney beans.
Exercise
Physical activity prevents constipation and improves circulation, thereby preventing the accumulation of blood in the legs and preventing the appearance of hemorrhoids. Getting out to run or jog even just four times a week, or daily, for 20 minutes is great. If you can’t run, take long walks that allow you to maintain and improve your metabolism.
You need to avoid sitting all day. If you have a job that requires you to sit in front of a computer, try to get up and walk around every hour, and whenever you sleep, try to sleep on your side so you don’t place pressure on your anal canal.
Lifting heavy objects is another factor that causes hemorrhoids to appear. If you frequently lift heavy things, try to exhale while lifting, or inhale when you’re lowering the heavy object.
Home remedies for Hemorrhoids
As mentioned at the beginning, using creams, ointments, and home remedies should be complementary to a good diet. Here we are going to show you a few recipes that you can make at home, and therefor alleviate and reduce inflammation in the affected area.
Marigold extract
Mix marigold extract in an olive oil base and apply to the hemorrhoids. This extract is a natural anti-inflammatory and helps refresh and call the burning.
Aloe Vera
Apply the pulp from a small piece of ale directly to your hemorrhoids, especially after using the bathroom.
Tomato poultice
Place one cold tomato, sliced into sections, over your hemorrhoids. Apply pressure. The riper the tomato, the better. To do this, you can sit on top or you can lay down beside the tomato and apply it with gauze.
Seated baths
Take baths sitting down in cold water for a few minutes to alleviate the pain. This works because the cold has a certain analgesic effect. These baths should be done preferably in the morning and every day, even if you already have hemorrhoids, for preventive measures.
If you are already experiencing an anal prolapse that is causing you discomfort or recurring bleeding, you should see a specialist for an evaluation.
(1 votes, average: 5.00 out of 5)
Loading...
Reader Interactions
You may also be interested
Treat Hemorrhoids Naturally Rectal problems, like hemorrhoids, are caused in several ways: bad diet, eating too much flour, [...]
Ten Foods for Preventing a Heart Attack In order to have a happy and healthy heart, preveting a heart attack, not only [...]
Dietary Zinc: Benefits, Foods with High content and more Zinc is an indispensable element in our daily diet. More than 85% of it is [...]
You are here: The Joy of Wellness » Diets and Nutrition » Hemorrhoids and Prohibited Foods
All about Health and Beauty
Dietary Supplements: Advantages and Disadvantges There's no doubt about it: the best way to get the nutrients that the body [...]
Droopy and flaccid abdominal skin? Recover your firmness with these natural tips Is your abdominal skin flaccid, wrinkled and droopy? It could be from pregnancy, a sedentary [...]
White and Coated Tongue, Cramps: Symptoms of a tired and Overloaded Liver The liver is one of the most important organs in general body health. It has [...]
Hydrocephalus (water in the brain): causes and natural treatments The word hydrocephalus is derived from the Greek words "hydro", water, and "cephalus", head. Hydrocephalus [...]
Liver cysts: treatment and natural cure A liver cyst is a form of liver damage which is a type of sack [...]
Feeling of Suffocation: Causes and Treatment To feel like you can't breath or that you're choking can feel very terrifying for [...]
Yellow eyes? Causes and Natural treatment Yellow discoloration in the sclera of the eye, which is the membrane that surrounds the [...]
Meningiomas: natural treatment, herbs and healing Meningiomas are benign tumors that develop in the thin membranes covering the brain and the [...]
Exercises to Relax tension and Tone the Forehead to Prevent Wrinkles Why does one need facial gymnastics?Practicing facial gymnastics fights and prevents tensions, for example, between [...]
Bartholinitis: Causes and Natural Treatment Bartholinitis is a disease that affects exclusively women, and is inflammation in the Bartholin's glands [...]
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
 0Write a Comment 
Copyright © 2019 · The Joy of Wellness
About Us Cookies Policy Privacy Policy Contact
/hemorrhoids-and-prohibited-foods/
Using cookies
This website uses cookies so you can have the best user experience. If you continue browsing you are giving your consent to accept our cookies policy.
ACEPTAR
Aviso de cookies