Does Drinking Black Coffee Help You Lose Weight? | Chron.com
Local
US & World
Sports
Business
A&E
Life
Jobs
Cars
Real Estate
Skip to main content.
Nutrition
Does Drinking Black Coffee Help You Lose Weight?
Does Drinking Black Coffee Help You Lose Weight?
by Erin Coleman, R.D., L.D.; Updated July 20, 2017
Black coffee boosts your energy without the extra calories.
Stockbyte/Stockbyte/Getty Images
Related Articles
1 Does Coffee Make You Lose Weight?
2 Asparagus & Weight Loss
3 Risks of Drinking Diet Soda Every Day
4 Tea vs. Coffee for Melting Belly Fat
Drinking black coffee may help enhance weight loss, especially when paired with a reduced-calorie diet. Although drinking black coffee isn’t a guarantee you’ll lose weight, it may boost your chance at weight-loss success -- and increase your energy level. Adding cream and sugar to coffee may counter any weight-loss benefits, however.
Calorie Content
Black coffee contains very few calories but still helps fill you up because it mainly consists of water. A 6-ounce portion of instant black coffee prepared with water contains just 4 calories. Therefore, drinking black coffee in place of higher-calorie beverages, such as soda, juice and other sugary drinks, helps reduce your overall calorie intake for effective weight loss. Avoid adding cream to black coffee, which adds 30 calories per tablespoon, and sugar -- which contains 16 calories in each teaspoon.
Caffeine Perks
Caffeine may also play a role in coffee’s beneficial effects on weight loss, according to a 2006 review in the “American Journal of Clinical Nutrition.” Authors of this review point out that one study indicated higher caffeine intakes are associated with less weight gain. Caffeine in black coffee can increase your energy, which may help you burn more calories throughout the day -- and therefore enhance weight loss.
Other Possible Benefits
Although coffee’s low calorie content and caffeine likely aid in weight loss, the 2006 review published in the “American Journal of Clinical Nutrition” reports that other constituents present in black coffee may also be beneficial for individuals trying to lose weight. Authors of this review point out that chlorogenic acid and quinides, compounds abundant in coffee, might play a role in successful weight loss. Therefore, decaffeinated black coffee may be a viable alternative for those trying to lose weight who want to avoid caffeine.
Bottom Line
Drinking coffee won’t lead to weight loss if you’re eating too many calories. To effectively lose 1 to 2 pounds weekly and keep weight off long-term, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention suggests burning off 500 to 1,000 more calories than you eat daily. To effectively reduce your overall calorie intake, consume plenty of lean protein foods -- such as egg whites, low-fat dairy foods, skinless poultry, lean meats, seafood and soy products -- and fiber-rich foods, such as whole grains, legumes, fruits, vegetables, nuts and seeds. Cut back on refined grains, such as white bread and white rice, sweets, added sugars and sugary drinks.
References (5)
U.S. Department of Agriculture National Nutrient Database for Standard Reference: Coffee, Instant, Regular, Prepared With Water
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Losing Weight
American Journal of Clinical Nutrition: Coffee, Diabetes and Weight Control
U.S. Department of Agriculture National Nutrient Database for Standard Reference: Cream, Fluid, Light (Coffee Cream or Table Cream)
U.S. Department of Agriculture National Nutrient Database for Standard Reference: Sugars, Granulated
About the Author
Erin Coleman is a registered and licensed dietitian. She also holds a Bachelor of Science in dietetics and has extensive experience working as a health writer and health educator. Her articles are published on various health, nutrition and fitness websites.
Photo Credits
Stockbyte/Stockbyte/Getty Images
More Articles
Brown Rice & Weight Loss
Does Eating Grapefruit Make You Lose Weight?
What Foods Increase Your Metabolism to Help Lose Weight?
Does Drinking Non-Fat Milk Help You Lose Weight?
Also Viewed
Eating Wheat Bran Flakes for Weight Loss
Is Coffee Bad for Digestion?
The Calorie Differential to Lose Weight
Side Effects of Eating Too Much Chocolate
Nuts & Blueberries for Weight Loss
What Is Mate Drink Good For?
Is Switching to Coffee From Soda a Good Way to Lose Weight?
Logo Return to Top
About
Privacy Notice
Your California Privacy Rights
Interest Based Ads
Terms of Use
Our Company
Careers
Advertise with Us
Ad Choices
Contact
Customer Service
Newsroom Contacts
Connect
Email Newsletter
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Google
Instagram
Subscribe
iPad app
HoustonChronicle.com
Houston Chronicle Archives
eEdition Demo
Today's eNewspaper
Hearst Newspapers © Copyright 2019 Hearst Newspapers, LLC