Quitting Marijuana | How to Stop Smoking Weed | How to Quit Smoking Weed Addiction
Duration of Marijuana In Your System
How Long Does Marijuana Stay In Your System
How Long Does Marijuana Stay In Your Blood
How Long Does Marijuana Stay In Your Urine
How Long Does Marijuana Stay In Your Saliva
How Long Does Marijuana Stay In Your Hair
Marijuana Drug Test
Is Marijuana Addictive?
Marijuana Effects
What is Marijuana?
Marijuana Effects on the Brain
Effects Of Marijuana on the Body
Marijuana Facts
Does Marijuana Kill Brain Cells
Quitting Marijuana
Quitting Marijuana
Marijuana is one of the most addictive of the recreational drugs that are popular among people for their mood-altering capabilities. However, that does not mean that quitting marijuana is impossible because if there is ‘will power’, then there is always a way out of any situation. Having said so, chronic and heavy users of marijuana need to have a concrete plan in place to help them during the quitting process because the withdrawal symptoms are erratic and often difficult to manage that can easily result in a relapse. Thus, the utmost need for all marijuana addicts is to develop a proper plan to help them deal with their addiction and get over it while causing minimal disruption to their lifestyle and career.
People who are serious about quitting marijuana addiction need to become honest about their desire. This is important because addictions occur when desire for the drug overpowers a person’s judgment and ability to desist from something. Thus, setting the priorities right is going to be of much help in battling the rising tide of desire for the drug during the withdrawal period, which nothing but a strong power of will is capable of defeating. Moreover, it can be wise to join a local support group and clearly stating the intentions to them can also help in garnering maximum support from the support group, which is bound to prove essential in the long run. In fact, this can help in maintaining a circle of friend and acquaintances that have the similar addiction. The important thing to do under such circumstances is to ensure them that quitting is the individual decision of the addict concerned, and not any attempt to turn all of them sober. In return, they must not also press the addict to continue with the addiction.
Withdrawal Symptoms of Quitting Marijuana
Seeking the help of family and friends is of utmost importance because often help and support from the loved ones is essential for all addicts to cope up with the erratic withdrawal symptoms. Those addicts who are trying hard to find out about how to quit marijuana addiction must also become fully aware regarding the challenges they are about to face during the withdrawal period. One of the most common side effects of quitting pot is the sleeplessness and restlessness that addicts feel as their body try to cope up with the deprivation of marijuana for a few days at a stretch. Moreover, addicts may become anxious and fidgety, and can tend to become short-tempered and fidgety as well. In addition, they may experience severe loss of appetite during the withdrawal period, as well as, lack of motivation and prolonged fatigue.
How to Quit Smoking Weed – The Steps to take:
Addicts need to decide whether they intend to go cold turkey (completely stop) on their addiction, or wish to do it in a graduated manner. However, quitting weed in a gradual way can prove to be tough, and the best choice is to stop its usage at one go. Addicts can take help of the following tips to help them in quitting their addiction in the most effective manner:
Removing all the items that are capable of acting as trigger for the addiction such as lighters, cigarettes, matches, and other such stuff associated with smoking weed is essential. Thus, the answer to how to stop smoking weed lies in steering clear of these items that are bound to make the cravings bad for the addicts. Moreover, flushing all the remaining weed down the toilet is an excellent way of signifying a new beginning with all bad memories flushed away. Also, if you have a dealer who supplies marijuana to you, remove his number from your phone.
Addicts must avoid any other item or place that can act as a potential trigger, especially during the withdrawal phase. This can include anything ranging from a particular video game to any t-shirt or poster that the addict associates primarily with memories of smoking pot. Therefore, the key to getting better of the weed addiction is by leading a life that sidesteps all the obvious triggers of the addiction.
Finding a replacement activity can be of great help to the addicts, especially in dealing with the erratic side effects of the withdrawal period. i.e. going for long walks, cooking, reading the newspaper, swimming. Also spending time with good friends that don’t use cannabis and watching a movie which makes you smile can help. Fun new activities can help in diverting the attention towards developing a positive approach towards life, and to get rid of all the negativities surround marijuana addiction. Moreover, opting for a new lifestyle consisting of physical activities can help in improving fitness, and negating some of the harmful effects on the body of the earlier addiction. Thus, the answer to how to quit smoking weed lies in developing a healthier and more disciplined lifestyle.
Meditation and yoga can help the frayed nerves, which happens to occur a lot in marijuana addicts during the withdrawal phase. Marijuana addicts often find it difficult to control their cravings, and in the face of deprivation of the drug tends to turn violent. Meditative exercises can help in controlling such outbursts, and offer peace of mind to the addicts during the period of quitting marijuana. Staying hydrated can also help coping up with the withdrawal effects, while keeping the addict in good shape.
Addicts ought to keep small targets in their minds, and reward themselves by celebrating upon reaching those milestones one by one. Rewarding themselves can be an excellent way of boosting their self-belief, and egging themselves on to remain clean in the future. Thus, it is good for the addicts to feel proud having made the critical and difficult decision of quitting weed.
Marijuana addicts ought to feel the need to quit their addiction before they begin for their effort to bear fruit. Moreover, they should first weigh the benefits of kicking the habit against those of continuing with the addiction. If they are able to find something that is appealing about quitting marijuana, then their effort is bound to turn highly effective. Moreover, they can always opt for professional help or check into a rehab facility if they are not sure about doing it on their own. Finally, staying confident and motivated holds the key towards heading into a future free of addiction.
Share this Page:
Featured:
Marijuana Drug Test
Marijuana is an extremely popular recreational drug all over the world in spite of its use and possession being illegal in most countries and territories. This is because of the ... Read More
How Long Does Marijuana Stay in your Blood?
Quick answer: Calculate The Duration Time For Marijuana (THC) To Last in Your Blood From Last Use: (select the level of use below) Light Occasional User Regular User Chronic ... Read More
What is Marijuana?
What is Marijuana and What is its Source? Cannabis sativa is the plant from which marijuana is derived. This plant has many uses and you can commonly identify it as ... Read More
How Long Does Marijuana Stay In Your Hair
Calculate The Duration Time Of Detectable Chemicals For Marijuana in Hair From Last Use: (select the level of use below) Light Occasional User Regular User Chronic User Durationin Hair There ... Read More
Related Text:
How Long Does Marijuana Stay In Your System?
Marijuana Facts
What is Marijuana?
Marijuana and Depression
Pages
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Categories
Categories Select Category Effects of Weed How long does Weed stay in your blood? How Long Does Weed Stay In Your System? How Long Does Weed Stay In Your Urine? Is Weed Addictive? Quitting Weed THC Drug Test Uncategorized Weed Effects on the Brain
© Copyright 2016-2019 How Long Does Marijuana Stay In Your System
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Read More