Should Your Cell Phone Have A Warning Label? | Cancer Defeated CancerDefeated.com
Home
Newsletters
Books
About Us
Survivor Stories
Videos
Contact
Home /
Articles
/ Should Your Cell Phone Have A Warning Label?
Should Your Cell Phone Have A Warning Label?
By	Lee Euler	/	March 2, 2014
Senator Josh Green of Kona, Ka’u says YES!
He recently introduced Senate Bill 2571 requiring that cell phones sold in Hawaii come with a health warning—similar to the one displayed on cigarettes! Do cell phones really pose that much of a threat? Read on….
Continued below. . .
These Maverick Cancer Experts are
Pleading with Mainstream Doctors to
“GIVE THIS TO YOUR
CANCER PATIENTS NOW!”
So-called incurable cancer is a thing of the past– but most doctors still don’t know. Our team of 15 doctors is speaking up now to make sure these amazing cures aren’t buried by big-money medicine for one more day!
Their maverick approach saved this guy’s life…
In Sunny Isles Beach, Florida, a man in his 80s was near the end of the line with B-cell lymphoma. He was in a hospice and expected to die. But he wasn’t ready to give up.
He called an MD who had “different” ideas about cancer treatment. This doctor prescribed a low-dose regimen of a drug that’s FDA-approved for alcoholism, of all things. The drug has no side effects.
After six weeks of this inexpensive, generic medicine, the man was no longer at death’s door. In fact, he was out of the hospice, back at home— and ballroom dancing again!
He’s not the only lucky one. In France, this very same drug was taken by a woman who had four brain tumors and no hope left from conventional treatments. Seven months later, after taking just 3 milligrams a day, her tumors were gone.
This is a perfectly legal medication any MD can prescribe for you, yet your doctor probably has no idea of its true cancer-fighting power. How can the drug companies keep a proven cancer cure from us? Even when it’s a legal, FDA-approved drug, no less!
Click here to watch a shocking video presentation about this cancer breakthrough, the patients it’s helped, and the handful of doctors who will give it to those in need…
Senator Green, chair of the Health Committee, said he introduced the bill so that consumers would be directed to warnings the manufacturers already provide. “I’m not alarmist,” he said. “It’s what the companies themselves say.”
The suggested warning label would read as follows:
“To reduce exposure to radiation that may be hazardous to your health,
please follow the enclosed safety guidelines.”
This was a modified version of the warning originally introduced, which read:
“This device emits electromagnetic
radiation, exposure to which may cause
brain cancer. Users, especially children
and pregnant women, should keep this
device
away from the head and body.”
The Senate Committee on Health and Technology and the Committee on Arts voted in support of the shorter, watered-down version.
As proposed, the label would cover nearly a third of the back of a cell phone! But Green said he is open to the idea of reducing the label size.
Cell phone studies paint a murky picture
The senator’s bill is an example of continued efforts to address concerns about the link between cell phone radiation and cancer. But he’s no lone wolf…
In an earlier story (Issue #90), I told you about California businessman Alan Marks. In his 2011 CNN interview1, he said he was convinced that his malignant brain tumor was tied to radiation exposure over 20 years of cell phone use.
Marks pressured lawmakers to provide exactly the type of warning label that Senator Green is suggesting for phones sold in Hawaii.
And the medical and scientific communities are continuing their efforts to study the cell phone/cancer risk as a way to possibly influence policy.
Although some studies reporting on cancer incidence related to radio frequency (RF) radiation have presented negative or inconsistent results—continued research has uncovered some troubling findings.
Here are two such examples reported by Natural News in 2013:
Brain cancer—A long-term Swedish study found that people who used cell phones and cordless phones for more than a year ran a 70 percent greater risk of developing brain cancer compared to those who used the devices for a year or less.
For those who used these phones for more than 25 years—the risk of brain cancer increased by a whopping 300 percent!
The research team found that brain cancer risk was highest on the side of the head with the greatest exposure to radio frequency radiation; that is, the side where people typically held their phones!
Breast cancer—Dr. Lisa Bailey, a former president of the American Cancer Society’s California Division and one of California’s top breast surgeons, led a research team that studied four young women.
The participants were aged from 21 to 39 and had multifocal invasive breast cancer. Now here’s the strange part…
All the patients developed tumors in areas of their breasts nearest to where they carried their cell phones!
In some cases the women held cell phones in a bra or pocket for up to 10 hours per day for several years. And NONE of these breast cancer patients had a family history of breast cancer.
Four patients don’t make a significant study. Not even close. But maybe it’s more than coincidence these women developed cancer in areas closest to where they often held their cell phones,
Take steps to protect yourself
from cell phone radiation!
According to the National Cancer Institute, a cell phone’s antenna is its main source of RF radiation.
Newer cell phones have the antenna in the handset, which you typically hold against your head when talking.
It follows that the closer the antenna is to your head… the greater your exposure to RF energy. Conversely, the amount of RF energy you absorb decreases significantly as you increase your distance from the antenna.
Some folks use headsets with their cell phones as a means to distance themselves from the RF radiation. But John Coates, founder of RF Safe—a manufacturer of air tube headsets—said ordinary headsets use wire in the earpiece.
He warns that this wire may also deliver electromagnetic radiation directly to your head!
Coates said his Air-tube Headset lets users talk privately or enjoy listening to music without exposing their brains to microwave radiation. His firm also provides a Flip Case Radiation Shield that provides a barrier between the user and cell phone whenever the front of the phone is facing them. I don’t know whether this device is effective at shielding you… just passing it along.
Another option is to use your phone’s speaker feature to avoid continuously holding the device against your head. And yet another option—my favorite—it simply to spend less time on the phone. I marvel at how many people go around with these things glued to their heads every minute—in the car, in the supermarket, walking down the street. There’s a lot to be said for just being fully present where you are.
Something else you can do to avoid cancer is to eat a delicious tropical oil that’s great for cooking or even using as a spread in place of butter. You may find this easier than cutting back on cell phone use. If you missed this article in our last issue, check it out below.
The Scent of Cancer
or
This Reeks of Long-Term Health Problems
All the efforts to lace our household products with sweet-smelling synthetics are backfiring. As many of us have found out firsthand, perfumes and fragrances top the charts when it come to triggering allergies and irritations.
Maybe you relate to the headaches, watery eyes, and difficulty breathing that come when you get too close to a manufactured scent. Those reactions — while disagreeable enough — are warning signs of a bigger problem — cancer. Keep reading and I’ll show you what I mean. . .
Continued below. . .
Cancer-Killing “Smart Bomb” That Can Easily be Found in Your Kitchen…
Dear Reader,
There is a cancer-killing nutrient in your kitchen, right now, that acts like a “smart bomb” against cancer cells.
It’s called sulforaphane. Researchers are hailing it as a breakthrough that offers real hope for preventing and defeating cancer.
A new research study has shown for the first time how sulforaphane can selectively target and kill cancer cells and leaves healthy cells alone.
But this is just the tip of the iceberg…
I’m Dr. Victor Marchione and I’m revealing this and 16 other amazing “healing foods” in my newest report that you can see here.
You’ll also discover:
– A natural cholesterol fighter that brings bad levels down 30%
– A little-known, but effective method to lowering your blood pressure without harmful prescription drugs
– A fruit that can fight Alzheimer’s Disease
Like I said, this is just the beginning. click here to see my newest special report.
Victor Marchione, M.D.
P.S. If you want to find out about the fruit that burns fat, fights heart disease and can soothe arthritis pain, then click here and see my latest report.
LINK:
http://www.doctorshealthpress.com/video/fd/index3d.php
?sb=CANDFT&sdate=02232014
The perfume industry’s products are riddled with toxic ingredients. Research increasingly links those toxins to cancer. Just some of the harmful reactions they trigger are allergies, sperm damage, reproductive toxicity, and hormone disruption. Hormone disruption in particular is linked to certain cancers.
Trade secrets more valuable
than human health
As of now, there’s no requirement that perfume makers let us know the ingredients in their fragrances. The industry calls this “brand protection.” What’s worse is that the FDA looks the other way. According to them, non-disclosure is fine because consumers are not “adversely affected.” They make this assumption on the grounds that we don’t eat perfumes. Yet these substances can enter the body when we inhale them or rub them on our skin as perfumes, creams, soaps and so forth.
The fragrance industry uses up to 3,000 ingredients in different scent concoctions. Most of those ingredients are synthetic. At least 900 have been identified as toxic, according to the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health.
In 1998, Scientific Instrument Services released one of the first analyses to ever look at toxicity in perfumes. They studied six popular brands. Incredibly, over 800 ingredients were identified in each perfume — ingredients that included an alarming range of volatile organic chemicals. Two of the biggest offending ingredients are phthalate esters and synthetic musks, both toxic man-made chemicals.
It’s as bad as second-hand smoke
This issue isn’t without advocates, of course. In 1999, the California Environmental Health Network filed a Citizen Petition asking the FDA to require warning labels on fragrances. The goal was to point out which perfumes make it to the market without undergoing appropriate safety testing.
Then the 2010 President’s Cancer Panel report suggested that hormone-disrupting chemicals, like those found in perfumes, could be the source of many more cancer cases than previously thought. It’s a fact that messing with our bodily systems puts us at risk for being out of balance and increasing our risk for disease — cancer in particular.
Several years ago, the Campaign for Safe Cosmetics commissioned tests on top-selling fragrance products. Results showed 14 toxic chemicals, on average, were used in but not listed on the ingredient labels of popular fragrances. In a joint warning statement with the Environmental Working Group, they said, “The majority of chemicals found … have never been assessed for safety by any publically accountable agency, or by the cosmetics industry’s self-policing review panels.”
Worst of all, it’s not just the person wearing perfume who gets exposed to cancer-causing toxins. Fragrance chemicals are volatile and get into the air quickly. When we breathe, fragrance from every scented item used by the people around us enters our lungs.
This means one person’s choice to wear a fragranced product can cause health problems for a lot of unsuspecting people. Most at risk are those with asthma, chemical sensitivities, respiratory illnesses, chronic fatigue, and immunological illnesses.
The leading cancer awareness groups
don’t know how to deal with this
The risks of scents aren’t well known, which is a problem. Even big cancer-awareness organizations like Susan G. Komen for the Cure don’t appear to fully recognize the risks.
A few years ago, Komen launched a well-intentioned marketing campaign, promoting a perfume called “Promise Me” to help raise funds for breast cancer research. But the campaign suffered embarrassment after allegations the fragrance being promoted contained cancer-causing toxins.
The executive director of the group Breast Cancer Action had the perfume scientifically tested after safety concerns were voiced. They found ingredients that were a potential cause of breast cancer.
One of the offending ingredients was galaxolide, a synthetic musk known to accumulate in the body. Trace amounts have been found in the fat, blood, and breast milk of women who wear perfumes. It’s a known hormone disruptor, and some studies show that it may in fact contribute to the development of breast cancer.
When Komen was contacted with this information, the foundation reacted in a strangely contradictory way. Its representatives dismissed the claims, stating their own internal teams had thoroughly reviewed all the current research about perfume ingredients and found no elevated risk. Yet, they also agreed to reformulate the perfume to eradicate concerns about the ingredients.
What to do to protect yourself
Unlike a lot of cancer threats, it’s easy to steer clear of this one. If you want to smell clean and fresh, use soap, preferably fragrance-free or using natural scents. Perfumes are at the top of my list of “avoidable exposures.”
One thing to be wary of: It’s not just perfumes that emit hazardous chemicals. Anything with fragrance is suspect. Thousands of household products contain chemicals not listed on the label, including dryer sheets, scented candles, air fresheners, hair sprays, and shampoos. Manufacturers aren’t required to list the ingredients in fragrance blends, so it’s up to you to protect your health.
By the way, natural scents such as lavender or lily of the valley can cause allergic reactions in some people, but at least they aren’t carcinogenic.
Even if you don’t think fragranced products bother you, it’s a good idea to make sure by giving them up for a few months. Then use them and see if you have a reaction. Bear in mind that a wide range of reactions is possible, ranging from swollen sinuses and headaches to skin rashes and eye irritation.
Here are some tips for getting all the chemical-laced fragrances out of your life:
Give up perfumes (obviously). Instead, use pure essential oils. Just make sure they’re extracted through a cold-press method and not with solvents.
Check labels. Fragrances are exempt from labeling regulations, unfortunately, but at least all personal-care products are required to list a general description of ingredients on the label. Avoid anything that has the following: perfume, parfum, linalool, limonene, or fragrance. Blanket terms like “fragrance” and “perfume” conceal a host of petrochemicals and other toxins.
Go natural when you clean. Use white vinegar and baking soda in place of expensive cleaners and you’ll wipe out a lot of the toxic scents in your house. Better yet, you’ll save money. This is an important step, because air fresheners and other cleaners aren’t required to disclose their inactive ingredients (which are usually toxic).
Use beeswax candles instead of fragranced candles. Instead of polluting, they’ll actually improve the quality of your air indoors by boosting negative ions.
Chances are, you’ll feel significantly better after taking a hiatus from the airborne toxins in perfumed products.
On a different subject entirely, our last issue had some good news: there are home tests for colon cancer that are nearly as good as colonoscopies. If you missed this important article, check it out below.
Kindest regards,
Lee Euler,
Publisher
Footnotes Article 1:
1 CNN. May 21, 2011. Cancer survivor battles for warning labels on cell phones. Retrieved from
http://www.kplctv.com/story/14691920/cancer-survivor-battles-for-warning-labels-on-cell-phones
Resources Article 1:
Burrell, L. 2013. 300% Increased brain cancer risk for long-term users of cell phones and cordless phones, new study reveals. Article retrieved from
http://www.naturalnews.com/042323_brain_cancer_risk_cell_phones_
mobile_devices.html#ixzz2tzrqoz3d
Burrell, L. 2013. Cell phone radiation breast cancer link – New study raises grave concerns. Natural News. Article retrieved from
http://www.naturalnews.com/043070_cell_phone_radiation_breast_cancer
_electromagnetic_fields.html
Callis, T. 2014. Bill requires radiation warnings. Hawaii Tribune Herald. Retrieved from
http://hawaiitribune-herald.com/news/state/bill-requires-radiation-warnings
National Cancer Institute Fact Sheet. Cell phones and cancer risk. Retrieved from
http://www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/factsheet/Risk/cellphones/print
PRWEB. 2014, Feb 20. Hawaii Senator calls for cell phone radiation warning labels on cell phones. Retrieved from http://www.prweb.com/releases/cellphone-warning-labels
/cell-phone-radiation/prweb11597625.htm
Related Posts
The 7 Wonders that Cured Bettina’s Cancer
Apr 24, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
Why There’s No Such Thing as Heart Cancer
Apr 21, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
Popular Spring Flower Packs a Punch Against Cancer
Apr 17, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
A List of Herbs that Can Slow or Reverse Pancreatic Cancer
Apr 14, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
Asbestos and Mesothelioma – The Full Story
Apr 10, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
You Need This Nutrient Before the Summer Sun Arrives
Apr 07, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
The Other Big Cause of Lung Cancer
Apr 03, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
The Strange, Little-Known Danger That’s in ALL Water
Apr 02, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
These Micronutrients Beat Cancer All by Themselves in Some Patients
Apr 01, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
About the author
Lee Euler
Hi I'm Lee Euler, I’ve spent over a decade investigating every possible way a person can beat cancer. In fact, our commitment to defeating cancer has made us the world’s #1 publisher of information about Alternative Cancer Treatments -- with over 20 books and 700 newsletters on the subject. If you haven't heard about all your cancer options, or if you want to make sure you don’t miss even one answer to this terrible disease, then join our newsletter. When you do, I'll keep you informed each week about the hundreds of alternative cancer treatments that people are using to cure cancer all over the world.
0comments
Click here to add a comment
Leave a comment:
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Comment
←Previous post Next post→
350 Alternative Cancer Treatments
I've compiled every known cancer treatment and put them ALL into one book: The Complete Guide to Alternative Cancer Treatments. Click below to find out how you can get a FREE copy.
Do You Have a Cancer-Prone Personality?
SEE QUESTION 1 OF 17
Join Our Newsletter!
Popular Articles
Could this Seed Really be ‘Cancer’s Worst Nightmare’?
This debunked cancer treatment may give you Alzheimer’s
If you feel you must do chemotherapy, please add this herb
Cancer Cells EXPLODE on Contact With This Non-Toxic Treatment!
The surprising #1 health problem in America
The Powerful CancerCure Locked Inside Your Cells!
Simple mineral wipes out cancer pain fast
Common spice kills 80% of prostate cancer cells
The ultimate cancer cure – banned in America
Dogs get cancer, too! Here’s what to do…
Fried foods and cancer: the new evidence
Yes, laetrile really works
Watch out for killer pomegranates!…
Can a water purifier cure cancer?
Common Garden Plant Doubles as Cancer Killer
Controversial celebrity cancer cure – does it work?
Food and drink containers that give you cancer
The Mother Goose home-style cancer treatment
Farrah Fawcett’s fatal mistake
Natural miracle prevents up to 99.4% of tumors
Exciting new proof this cancer cure works
Is your doctor a real doctor?
The 7 Wonders that Cured Bettina’s Cancer
Penny mineral melts away breast tumors and cysts
Detox and Lose Weight at the Same Time
Does oral chelation work?
OTC remedy cures skin cancer
Sugar, Cancer, and the Devil
My life in the drug culture
Massage cancer out of your body
Latest Survivor Story
Wonderful Choice for Me! - Kris Merlo Robinson
I went to the Hufeland German Cancer Klinik in March-April 2010 for 6 weeks, July 2010 for 3 weeks, and November 2010 for 3 weeks.
My follow-up treatment in March-April 2011 was great. I had a successful 9th fever therapy treatment. The ultrasound diagnostics taken on me look great, my tumor markers are extremely low and my follow-up blood work back in the States was nearly perfect!
I will return to Hufeland Klinik in July and have a 10th fever treatment. My plan is to then return to the clinic once a year for follow-up and a fever push or two. I continue on their maintenance plan and I work with naturopaths stateside to continue care.
Also, the administrators at Hufeland are working on a new website and have a Facebook page and I am helping them edit a beautiful brochure about their clinic.
Wonderful choice for me! Never missed a beat choreographing gymnastics since diagnosis.
Mrs. Kris Merlo Robinson
Latest posts
The 7 Wonders that Cured Bettina’s Cancer
April 24, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
Why There’s No Such Thing as Heart Cancer
April 21, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
Popular Spring Flower Packs a Punch Against Cancer
April 17, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
A List of Herbs that Can Slow or Reverse Pancreatic Cancer
April 14, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
Asbestos and Mesothelioma – The Full Story
April 10, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
You Need This Nutrient Before the Summer Sun Arrives
April 7, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
The Other Big Cause of Lung Cancer
April 3, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
The Strange, Little-Known Danger That’s in ALL Water
April 2, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
These Micronutrients Beat Cancer All by Themselves in Some Patients
April 1, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
The Cancer-Fighting Food That’s Linked to Longer Life
March 24, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
Copyright text 2017 by Cancer Defeated. - Designed by	Thrive Themes | Powered by WordPress
About Us
Publications
Support
Sitemap
Privacy Policy