Buy Aciclovir Genital Herpes Treatment
JavaScript is not enabled. This site requires Javascript to work. Please enable javascript in your browser or call 0208 123 0508 to place your order.
No result found
{{#pages}}
{{title}}
{{text}}
{{/pages}}
Customer Services
0208 123 0508
Home
Treatments
Acid Reflux
Omeprazole
Losec
Lansoprazole
Nexium
Pantoprazole
Acne
Differin
Duac Gel
Epiduo
Isotretinoin
Tretinoin (Treclin)
Anti-Malaria
Malarone
Generic Malarone
Asthma
Ventolin Evohaler
Cold Sore
Aciclovir
Valaciclovir
Erectile Dysfunction
Viagra
Viagra Connect
Sildenafil (Generic Viagra)
Cialis
Tadalafil (Generic Cialis)
Levitra
Spedra
Kamagra
Flu
Tamiflu
Hair Loss
Propecia
Finasteride
Regaine Foam
Regaine Solution
Hay Fever
Telfast
Fexofenadine
Herpes
Aciclovir
Valaciclovir (Valtrex)
Famciclovir
Migraine
Imigran
Imigran Nasal Spray
Sumatriptan
Rizatriptan
Maxalt
Zomig
Zolmitriptan
Nail Infection
Curanail (Loceryl)
Period Delay
Norethisterone
Premature Ejaculation
Priligy
Sexual Health
Genital Herpes
Stop Smoking
Champix
Weight Loss
Orlistat
Xenical
Alli
How It Works
About Us
Delivery
FAQ
Reviews
Contact
Account
Account
Logged in as:
{{data.details.displayName}}
Patient Record
Referral Code
Logout
Discreet & Confidential
Lowest Price Guarantee
Fast, Express, Next Day Delivery
Over 500,000 Registered Patients
Home
Sexual Health
Aciclovir
Choosing Generic vs Branded Aciclovir
X
Generic medicines contain the same active ingredient and are equally effective and equivalent as the branded products but are available at a lower price. Generic manufacturers have to demonstrate that they are medically identical to the branded product before they can be sold - i.e. they offer the same quality, strength, stability and effectiveness.
Close
Aciclovir
Genital Herpes Treatment
258 product reviews
Fast, Effective treatment for current and future outbreaks of herpes.
Quantity:
1 Outbreak (15 tablets) 2 Outbreaks (30 tablets) 3 Outbreaks (45 tablets) 3 Month Suppression (168 tablets)
£19.99 (includes free private prescription)
Start Consultation
Want it delivered by Wednesday, 24 April?
Order Within: {{h}}h {{m}}m {{s}}s
Order Within: {{h}}h {{m}}m {{s}}s
Our Prices
Quantity
Aciclovir 400mg
1 Outbreak (15 tablets) £19.99
2 Outbreaks (30 tablets) £24.99
3 Outbreaks (45 tablets) £29.99
3 Month Suppression (168 tablets) £49.99
Aciclovir
What is Aciclovir?
Aciclovir is an antiviral medicine. It stops the infecting virus from reproducing. Since the virus reproduces very early in the infection, you will benefit most from treatment if you take Aciclovir Tablets as soon as the first symptoms appear.
Aciclovir Tablets are used to treat genital herpes viral infections in adults. Genital herpes is a viral infection caused by herpes simplex virus type 1 or 2. It is normally spread by sexual contact. It causes blisters and burning or itching around the genitals, which may be painful. Aciclovir is used to treat genital herpes infections in adults. People who have frequent episodes of genital herpes can also take Aciclovir to help to prevent the attacks.
What is supression treatment?
If you suffer from six or more outbreaks a year suppression treatment may be suitable for you. Suppression treatment is taken everyday and helps to prevent recurrent outbreaks by 70-80% and can sometime prevent outbreaks all together. Studies also show that outbreaks are milder and shorter than without suppression treatment.
How to take Aciclovir
To treat an outbreak of genital herpes take one tablet three times a day for 5 days.
For suppression treatment take one tablet twice a day.
What is the difference between Valaciclovir and Aciclovir?
Aciclovir and Valaciclovir are closely related. Valaciclovir is a prodrug of aciclovir which means that after it is taken, it is converted in the body to aciclovir. The advantage of taking valaciclovir over aciclovir is that it doesn’t have to be taken as frequently as so it is more convenient for the patient to comply with the regime. However, aciclovir is more cost-effective especially for suppression treatment. Both medicines are equally effective for treating genital herpes.
Herpes Information
What is Genital Herpes?
Genital herpes is a very common and highly contagious infection usually spread through sex. This infection is usually caused by the herpes simplex virus-2 (HSV-2) or the herpes simplex virus-1 (HSV-1), the virus usually responsible for cold sores.
Most cases of genital herpes are caused by infection by the herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2). Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) is more often the cause of cold sores or fever blisters. But it can also be a cause of genital herpes.
Most people with genital herpes don't know they have it. That's because in most people it produces either no symptoms or very mild ones.
Genital herpes is caused by the herpes simplex virus (HSV).
Genital herpes is very similar to the herpes that appear on the hands and face ('cold sores'), but is found on or around the penis, anus or vagina.
There are two types of herpes virus, HSV-1 and HSV-2. Both types can cause genital herpes. The first episode of infection (primary) with genital herpes is often quite severe. There are blisters and inflammation at the site of infection and the sufferer may feel generally unwell. It is common to have symptoms of burning when passing urine.
After the first episode of infection with HSV the virus enters into a dormant phase in the nerve, which supplies feeling to the area where infection occurred.
The dormant virus reactivates from time to time to cause recurrences.
Some people get symptoms warning them that a recurrence is about to occur, such as itching, tingling or pain in the genital area; blisters or sores may then develop. These tend to be less severe than the symptoms that occurred at the time of the first episode of infection.
From time to time the virus may reactivate without causing any symptoms of infection at all.
Who gets Genital Herpes?
Anyone who has sex can catch genital herpes. The people at most risk are those having unprotected sexual intercourse (i.e. not using condoms), especially those with more than one sexual partner and those who change sexual partners.
How do you get infected with Genital Herpes?
Genital herpes is spread by direct contact with the infectious virus, via unprotected vaginal or anal sex, genital contact or through oral sex with someone who gets cold sores.
Genital herpes and cold sores are both very infectious when an infected person has blisters or sores.
It is possible for an infected person to transmit the virus when they have no symptoms of infection. The risk of this happening is probably reduced by using condoms.
What Are the Symptoms of Genital Herpes?
Even though you can still pass the infection, you may never notice symptoms from an HSV infection. On the other hand, you might notice symptoms within a few days to a couple of weeks after the initial contact. Or, you might not have an initial outbreak of symptoms until months or even years after becoming infected.
When symptoms occur soon after a person is infected, they tend to be severe. They may start as small blisters that eventually break open and produce raw, painful sores that scab and heal over within a few weeks. The blisters and sores may be accompanied by flu-like symptoms with fever and swollen lymph nodes.
Any of the following symptoms of a genital HSV infection can occur in a man or a woman:
Cracked, raw, or red areas around your genitals without pain, itching, or tingling
Itching or tingling around your genitals or your anal region
Small blisters that break open and cause painful sores. These may be on or around your genitals (penis or vagina) or on your buttocks, thighs, or rectal area. More rarely, blisters may occur inside the urethra -- the tube urine passes through on its way out of your body.
Pain from urine passing over the sores -- this is especially a problem in women.
Headaches
Backaches
Flu-like symptoms, including fever, swollen lymph nodes, and fatigue
How Serious is Genital Herpes
The majority of people with genital herpes experience mild and infrequent symptoms. Some people may experience more frequent and severe recurrent episodes.
The risk of transmission from a mother to her baby is greatest for babies born to a woman with first episode genital herpes around the time of delivery. Neonatal herpes is potentially life threatening but occurs very rarely in the UK.
Women with recurrent herpes prior to pregnancy are at very low risk of transmitting the infection to their babies.
Side Effects
Side Effects of Anti-Viral Herpes Treatment
Common side effects include:
headache
nausea
diarrhoea
fatigue
abdominal pain
Alternatives
Alternatives
Self-care measures may be helpful for some people:
Clean the affected area with plain or salt water to help prevent secondary infection and promote healing of lesions.
Apply vaseline or a topical anaesthetic (e.g. lidocaine 5%) to lesions to help with painful micturition, if required.
Increase fluid intake to produce dilute urine (which is less painful to void). Urinate in a bath or with water flowing over the area to reduce stinging.
Avoid wearing tight clothing (which may irritate lesions) and use adequate pain relief (e.g. oral paracetamol).
Avoid sharing towels and flannels with household members (although it is very unlikely that the virus would survive on an object long enough to be passed on, it is sensible to take steps to prevent this).
Try to avoid identified trigger factors (e.g. ultraviolet light, excess alcohol).
Find out more about genital herpes treatment
Information Leaflet
Patient Information Leaflet
Always read the patient information leaflet before commencing treatment. View patient information leaflet.
Authored 22 April 2014 by Dr Clare Morrison Reviewed 31 January 2019 by Liyya Patel, Siobhan Titre Last updated 11 November 2018
Recent Aciclovir Reviews
4.8 / 5
5
220
4
35
3
1
2
0
1
2
Based on 258 independent customer reviews taken by Feefo (see all MedExpress Reviews).
By Alexandra on 13 August 2018
Product:
Good service, would recommend
Service:
Quick and easy process, and fast delivery. Would use again!
(read full review on Feefo)
"Fast professional"
By Richard on 07 August 2018
Product:
Gd item came on time. Sealed
Service:
Very quick and easy to deal with
(read full review on Feefo)
"Amazing and quick service"
By Timothy on 11 July 2018
Product:
Did excattally what they said and very quick deleavery
Service:
Very helpful and easy to use web site
(read full review on Feefo)
"Easy."
By Peter (Tamworth) on 14 June 2018
Product:
I got the medication I needed at an acceptable price in a much quicker time. I received my medication before the GP appointment which I had booked the day before. I then took my prescription from my GP to the pharmacy who had to order the medication in. The service from you enabled me to start the medication 5 days before that which I obtained through my GP
Service:
I was so impressed with the easy transaction. The whole process took just a couple of minutes and was totally hassle free. I shall use them again.
(read full review on Feefo)
By Nikolay on 30 May 2018
Product:
Very fast dispatch and delivery
Service:
Brilliant service
(read full review on Feefo)
Read More Aciclovir Reviews
Discreet Service
Plain packaging
guaranteed
Option to collect from
your local Post Office™
10,500+
local branches
Learn more about how we protect your privacy
How our service works
It’s quick, easy, and safe to order from MedExpress — your fully regulated, London based online pharmacy.
Answer
simple questions
Select your preferred medication
and complete a simple questionnaire to find out if the medication is suitable for you.
A prescriber reviews
your answers
Our qualified UK prescriber reviews
your questionnaire and issues a
private prescription if the medication is suitable for you.
If the medication is not suitable, you can call us to discuss your treatment options.
Your medication
is dispatched
Medication is dispensed and delivered from our Central London Pharmacy
Watch our video to find out more
Delivery Information
We’ve got a range of delivery options that suit you. All medication is sent using non-branded, discreet packaging.
UK Delivery
European Delivery
Delivery service
Price
Details
Signed For 1st Class £2.90
Usually Next Working Day (including Saturdays). May take up to 3 working days.
Orders placed before 4pm on weekdays will be dispatched the same day.
Special Delivery 1pm Guaranteed £5.95
Guaranteed Delivery Before 1pm Next Working Day (including Saturdays to residential addresses).
Orders placed before 4pm on weekdays will be dispatched the same day.
Special Delivery 9am Guaranteed £13.95
Guaranteed Delivery Before 9am Next Working Day (including Saturdays to residential addresses).
Orders placed before 4pm on weekdays will be dispatched the same day.
Post Office Collection £3.95
Collect from your local Post Office.
Usually Next Working Day (including Saturdays). May take up to 3 working days.
Same Day Courier (London Only) £4.95-£19.95 (depends on distance)
Same day delivery (available Monday - Friday on orders placed before 4pm). Signature required on delivery.
Orders over the weekend will be delivered on Monday.
Delivery to remote Scottish Highlands & British Isles may not be guaranteed and may take longer than 1 day (more info) .
This product is not available for international shipping
Find out more about our delivery services
Recommend a friend, and you’ll both get £5!
Share your code
Friends get £5 off
You get £5 credit
Find out more
SAFE AND REGULATED SERVICE
The pharmacy is registered with the General Pharmaceutical Council with number 9010254
22,203
CUSTOMER REVIEWS
Average Rating: 9.6
Ordered on Friday and received items on Monday. My Dr surgery closes on weekends so this would not have been possible through them. Brilliant, was really impressed.
Michael
193 hours ago
(read full review on Feefo)
Great service quick delivery
Dawn
250 hours ago
(read full review on Feefo)
Always use MedExpress as they are quick and discreet and always have what I need in stock.
Jodie
313 hours ago
(read full review on Feefo)
No problems so far. Orders seem to be sorted and dispatched quickly and efficiently. Good prices as well.
Jack
314 hours ago
(read full review on Feefo)
Good
Peter
359 hours ago
(read full review on Feefo)
Great service and great customer care
Sam
527 hours ago
(read full review on Feefo)
We’re convinced you won’t find your treatment cheaper, but if you do we’ll refund the difference.
Find out more
{{h}} hrs {{m}} mins
Order
within
for delivery
on Wednesday
Popular Treatments
Erectile Dysfunction Weight Loss Migraines Period Delay Asthma Sexual Health Stop Smoking
Useful Links
Delivery Info FAQ Reviews Complaints Press About Us Returns Referral Scheme
Contact Us
Phone: 0208 123 0508
Fax: 0207 112 5210
Email: help@medexpress.co.uk
Facebook Message Us
Regulated Service
The pharmacy is registered with the General Pharmaceutical Council with number 9010254
Follow Us
Facebook Twitter Google+
Terms and Conditions Terms Privacy Policy Regulation Contact Us Health Centre
© MedExpress Enterprises Ltd 2019
Company Number: 08805262 | 37 Sun Street, London, EC2M 2PL | VAT Number: GB186080986 | DUNS Number: 21-978-4663