6 knee-damaging mistakes people make when working out and how to avoid them
Healthy Eating Workout Relationship Home Remedies Beauty Privacy Policy DMCA Removal Contact us
Workout
6 knee-damaging mistakes people make when working out and how to avoid them
By Martha Smith
Do you experience knee pain while working out? Bad for you! However, you are not alone, as many people suffer from knee pain during or after intensive training.
BetterMe App helps women achieve their body goals with ease and efficiency by helping to choose proper meal plans and effective workouts.
Start using our app and you will see good results in a short time.
The knee is one of the joints most prone to injury since they’re involved in everything we do. Luckily, it is possible to prevent this annoying knee pain by knowing how to exercise correctly.
It is very important to correct your form for each mistake. What is why in this article, we would like to show you six common mistakes that put the knees at risk. Are you interested? Read this article carefully in order to stop and prevent the pain from happening.
Squat is the best lower-body exercise to sculpt lifted booty, but it also very dangerous. Here are three common mistakes people do when squatting:
Credit: Freepik
#1. Knees that cave in.
When your knees move inward during a squat, you're not only damaging your knees, but you're damaging your whole body. Knee cave isn't likely to cause an immediate injury, but it can cause seriously damage your knees over time. In order to correct this mistake, you need to keep your knees pointing in the same direction as your toes.
READ MORE: 3 simple ways to relax the mind and the body any time
Credit: Freepik
#2. Too narrow stand while squatting.
Wrong stand while squatting is dangerous for your knees. In order to prevent injuries, you need to out your feet shoulder-width apart knees slightly bent. Remember that right stand is the foundation of your safety.
#3. Squatting too deep.
Too deep squat may cause knee damage. You should squat no lower than the point where you lose the arch in your lower back.
READ MORE: 13 stretches to improve mobility and prevent lower-back pain
Credit: Freepik
The lunge is an amazing exercise for strengthening muscles that support your hips, knees and legs Here are three common mistakes people do when lunging:
#1. Your knees are going past your toes.
It is okay for some people, but if you feel pain in your knee during lunging, you might be putting too much weight into your toes.
Credit: Freepik
#2. Your knees are not moving in a straight line
Perfect lunge should have your knees move forward without going off to either side. In order to correct this mistake, you need to strengthen your glutes.
BetterMe App helps you increase your self-esteem and achieve your personal goals by opening the doors to the world of fitness and healthy lifestyle.
Try it now to see the best version of yourself as soon as possible.
#3. You lean forward
When lunging, your forward leg takes most of the weight and does almost all of the work. In order to prevent knee pain while lunging, you need to strengthen your core.
Credit: Freepik
READ MORE: A charcoal and coconut oil DIY face-mask to detox the skin
The BetterMe Team is by your side throughout your fitness journey! Stay motivated and you can achieve your goals. If you are struggling with your motivation have a look at one of our many articles for inspiration.
Help us support and motivate those you love by sharing this article with them and let us know what you think in the comments below.
This article is solely for informational purposes and is not intended to provide medical advice. BetterMe doesn’t take responsibility for any possible consequences from any treatment, exercise, diet, application of medication or any similar action which results from reading or following the information contained in this article. Before undertaking any course of treatment please consult with your physician or other health care provider.
Share on Facebook
Stay tuned with us on facebook
Get more of the useful tips shared daily
BetterMe Health & Beauty newsletter
Let's get you the info you deserve
Install This App to Start Losing Weight!
Small steps every day will bring continuous results. Your body will stay healthy for a long time!
Healthy Eating Workout Relationship Home Remedies Beauty Privacy Policy DMCA Removal Contact us
All rights reserved. © 2017-2019 BetterMe.tips