Savoury Grounds | THE SECRET OF THE TASTE OF COFFEE AND CHOCOLATE IS HIDDEN IN ITS YEASTS - Part 2
Savoury Grounds
THE SECRET OF THE TASTE OF COFFEE AND CHOCOLATE IS HIDDEN IN ITS YEASTS
Menu
Home
About Us
Black Coffee
Quality Classifications
Taste Of Coffee
Meet Us
Our Blog
Benefits Of Slimming Coffee And Other Useful Tips
April 10, 2018
| No Comments
| Black Coffee
Coffee is part of most people’s breakfasts because it helps to wake up with more energy and have a good performance during the day. But also, the benefits of coffee to lose weight must be highlighted, having beneficial diuretic properties; without forgetting that one of the biggest causes of excess weight is the retention of liquids which can be combated with diuretic foods, where one of them is coffee.
When there is an imbalance in the level of fluid in the body, retention and subsequent weight gain are generated. Because the blood vessels that are responsible for transporting water pour too much liquid on the tissues of the body, this makes fluid retention; but coffee, thanks to its caffeine, theobromine and specific caffeic acids, promotes diuresis.
Benefits Of Slimming Coffee And Its Properties
Although multiple are the benefits of coffee to lose weight, care should be taken with the consumption of caffeine especially people with arrhythmias, heartburn, hypertension and liver problems.
Coffee not only has diuretic properties that promote weight loss, but it also helps accelerate metabolism, which is very useful to combat obesity; since they burn more calories in an accelerated way, also avoiding the accumulation of fats. As coffee is a stimulant of the nervous system and also favors the digestion of food, the acceleration of metabolism is very useful, helping to burn fat quickly.
Other benefits of coffee to lose weight are that it is an appetite suppressant which is very favorable for those who have constant food cravings and cannot control their appetite. Emphasizing that those people who do not have a metabolism that usually works, who have endocrine diseases such as thyroid problems or have a slow basal metabolism, coffee helps them speed up metabolism and lose weight.
The thermogenic effect of coffee is also recognized among its slimming properties, a result that many supplements offer to lose weight, but can be obtained more safely through coffee.
By including a regular cup of coffee at breakfast, the thermal effect is activated for approximately 3 hours, increasing energy expenditure by 16% in a period close to two hours.
But despite these impressive properties, it is good to consider that coffee helps to lose weight only if it is regularly consumed and not excessively, and it is not advisable to add sugar, sweeteners, milk or other elements, as these increase the calories it contributes Coffee to the body.
How To Drink Coffee To Lose Weight
It is known that coffee can generate side effects when consumed in excesses such as insomnia, anxiety, irritability, and difficulty handling stressful situations among other things; this makes it necessary to moderate your consumption even if you drink to lose weight, it is advisable to take between one or two cups of coffee.
Also, you should consume coffee without sugar, milk or cream, as it adds more calories to this drink.
The idea is to drink black coffee because it has zero calories, but if you cannot stand it, you can only add sweetener or skim milk, although semi-skim dairy is also an option.
An effective way to take advantage of the benefits of coffee to lose weight is to drink it after meals; this will help to reduce cravings, suppressing appetite and improving to lose weight.
When drinking coffee after a meal, the desires to eat desserts or unhealthy foods are suppressed, so after breakfast and after the moment are the best times to drink it. After dinner, it is not recommended, since coffee can cause insomnia.
One hour before doing exercises, you can drink a cup of coffee, as this drink helps reduce pain, it also improves physical endurance and prevents fatigue in the legs after exercising;.
This will make it easier to lose weight, by doing a good workout. After using it is not advisable to drink coffee because the acids of this drink and the agitation of exercise can cause dizziness and stomach pain.
Coffee Vs Anabolic Supplements for Weight Management
Taking supplement to manage weight loss (and even weight gain) has seriously gained extreme high popularity and growing. In fact the industry is thriving especially from January to May each year.
Current statistic shows that supplements in powder and pills forma re far more popular than even the most organic coffee for weight loss, among both ladies and guys alike. Would want to join the bandwagon of anabolic supplements users for weight loss or coffees alone or both?
We leave the ball in your court to play and kick on.…
Read More »
Posted in Black Coffee Leave a comment
The Secret Of The Taste Of Coffee And Chocolate Is Hidden In Its Yeasts
April 4, 2018
| No Comments
| Taste Of Coffee
We rarely think of chocolate and coffee as fermented products, but, as in the case of wine, bread, cheese or beer, fermentation also plays a decisive role in its production. After the harvest,their grains are piled up
or put in boxes for a few days to ferment. This process eliminates the pulp, decreases the bitter taste and enhances the aroma. It is during fermentation when the precursor compounds
of their characteristic taste are formed. And it is these compounds that, when they react to them during toasting, have just created the definitive flavor of chocolate through the Maillard reactions.
A recent study published in the journal Current Biology concludes that the high biological diversity of the yeasts applied in the treatment of cocoa beans and coffee determines the taste of these beverages. The work also shows that these unicellular fungi hide a somewhat unique history: they would be another proof of the new evolution and the intertwined path of human beings and yeasts.
Another exciting conclusion of the study is that some of the yeasts found are hybrids generated from a mixture of strains from different parts of the world, linked to human migrations. According to the authors, the ancient and continuous transport of enzyme associated with the fermentation of wine may have laid the foundations for subsequent blending events that gave rise to the yeasts that are now linked to the production of coffee and chocolate.
The authors argue that their research could help improve the quality of chocolate and coffee. Many studies on wine production have shown that yeasts associated with fermentation significantly influence their properties, including taste and aroma. Dudley concludes that since the strains of the enzyme associated with the evaporation of coffee and cocoa are much more diverse than those of wine, they could play an even more critical role in the properties of coffee and chocolate produced in different regions of the world.…
Read More »
Posted in Taste Of Coffee Leave a comment
Quality Classifications
April 3, 2018
| No Comments
| Quality Classifications
Frequently consumers are presented with a coffee described as “breakfast mix” or “gourmet mix.” Reference to specific attributes of quality is generic, indicating that the coffee has a mild aroma or taste. Used efficiently to optimize the organoleptic characteristics of the final drink by specialists, in order to obtain and highlight specific attributes or notes of particular flavors, unfortunately it is common to find that many of the products sold with descriptive mix seek to reduce the cost of the final product by mixing less expensive coffees and avoiding declaring the exact origin of the product.
The most significant work and effort to produce a quality coffee does not happen entirely in the preparation of espresso but in the patient and dedicated effort of a coffee producer in the mountains of a tropical country like Colombia. If the origin is not recognized and appreciated, that producer will not continue to have the incentives to strive and produce superior quality coffee. It is the producers who have the right vocation to be experts in the production of quality coffee.
The mix of that effort of the producers, the genetic material they use, the arduous harvesting and post-harvesting processes that they carry out have a definitive effect on the quality and its attributes. In this section, we also explore what is meant by quality and what those attributes are.
The importance of the species and the origin
It is known that Coffea arabica and Coffea robusta (see the history of coffee) are the two primary coffee species of commercial importance in the world. These two species are differentiated by their shape, growth and development conditions, chemical composition, taste, taste, and aroma (see the tree and its environment). The drinks prepared with Arabica coffee are characterized by having more acidity, medium body, and a fruity aroma, while Robusta coffee is stronger and bitter, and contains more caffeine. Among the leading Robusta coffee producers are Brazil, Vietnam, Indonesia, and Uganda. On the other hand, Colombia, Ethiopia, Mexico and Central America are significant producers of Arabica Coffee.
The chemical composition of the coffee bean depends on the species, the variety, and the state of development of the fruit and the environment or conditions of production, among other factors.
In the case of Cafe de Colombia, it is exceptional in this context due to several factors. This is an outstanding coffee having a selected user and adapted varieties exclusively of Arabica (i.e., tetraploid 44 chromosomes), which grows in high mountains of Colombian Andes ranges ideal temperature throughout the year, which generate characteristics and attributes exceptionally valued by the most sophisticated consumers. Therefore, a simple washed Arabica. It is also a soft coffee, with a complicated process of cultivation and benefits behind each grain.…
Read More »
Posted in Quality Classifications Leave a comment
Differences Between Green Coffee And Black Coffee
April 2, 2018
| No Comments
| Black Coffee
Coffee is one of the most consumed beverages, however, many times we ask for a coffee in a bar and we do not know what we are drinking. The green coffee and the black coffee have their origin in the grains of the coffee plant, but both go through a different process before being commercialized.
The black coffee is roasted and therefore brings that aroma and nuances and has that dark color. In contrast, green coffee does not go through a roasting process. It is packaged directly before its full maturation. This difference causes that color, the site and properties are dissimilar. Benefits of green coffee of both types of coffee
What reaction causes caffeine to the body
And, how does the body react after taking caffeine? According to several investigations, caffeine reaches our blood a few minutes after ingesting it. Explicitly, the following chain of events was revealed:
At 10 minutes, we already have half of the caffeine we have taken in our blood.
After 45 minutes, you reach the maximum amount of caffeine in your blood.
After about 2 hours, its influence on our body begins to diminish.
After 5 hours, all its effects have disappeared.
As you see, the primary reaction is quite immediate, and its duration is extended. The time that affects us will depend on the metabolism of each person and their sensitivity. Also, these factors do not remain constant throughout our lives but vary with age.
The scientific explanation is a little more complicated, this one I leave to the most curious. What caffeine does is block a neurotransmitter called adenosine. According to the scientific consensus, one of its primary functions is to increase the sensation of sleep. So after sticking it, the need to sleep decreases. Also, this interruption impacts the increase in dopamine and norepinephrine, which will help to expand brain activity significantly.
Provides a large number of nutrients
To take a balanced diet and take care of our health, it is necessary to provide specific nutrients to our body. But without knowing it, we are ingesting many of these, in a simple cup of coffee. Being one of the most hidden benefits of coffee, we can assure you that this is a highly nutritious drink.
Various vitamins
The most common component is some of the B vitamins. Specifically, vitamin B2 and B5. These have the mission to facilitate the obtaining of energy from food, help the generation of red blood cells, and favor the maintenance and protection of the nervous and cardiovascular system.
It is a substance that dissolves quickly in liquids, and therefore, is quickly processed by our body. Although it stays little time circulating in our shape because it is immediately eliminated via urine. For each infusion of 100g, there is usually an average of 50mg.…
Read More »
Posted in Black Coffee Leave a comment
2 of 2
« Previous
1
2
Instagram
Load More...Follow on Instagram
Contact Details
Address:2307 Lincoln Street
Camden, NJ 08102
Phone:609-529-4857
Email ID:bettersoul@www.savourygrounds.com
Pinterest
Home
About Us
Meet Us
Precious Lite theme by Flythemes
Categories
Black Coffee
Cocoa
Coffee Machine
Quality Classifications
Taste Of Coffee
Tea Taste
Pages
About Us
Meet Us
Recent Posts
Health Benefits of Natural Cocoa Powder
The Most Popular and Beneficial Kind of Tea
Search