Risk of Transmitting HIV to Someone Else When Dating
hivdatingapp.com
Risk of Transmitting HIV to Someone Else When Dating
15 May 2016
HIV is a dangerous virus which can be transmitted by blood or while unprotected sexual contact. Doesn’t matter what your preferences are, if you are homo, hetero or bisexual, HIV and STDs are something you should be concern about.
HIV enters the body through cut wounds, sores or skin breaks. It might happen via several issues like:
Sexual contact with an infected person, especially if sex is unprotected with condom
Sharing needles and taking drugs together with a person who is HIV positive
Mother to child transmission, in the case, when the baby is getting infected in the womb or while labor. Also, it’s possible to transmit HIV by breastfeeding.
Transmission while blood donating, however, this case is very rare in well economical- situated countries.
In most of the countries,sexual contact is the most common route of HIV transmission. The transmission rate goes up when sex is unprotected or HIV-positive patient is not taking proper treatment on time. What's more, it seems like anal intercourse is riskier than vaginal intercourse when it comes to HIV transmission. Gays are more exposed to being HIV positive or any other STDs because of lacking knowledge how herpes might be transmitted.
Heterosexual intercourse is the most common mode of HIV transmission in many resource-poor countries. In Africa, there’s over 80 % of people infected or at least had 1-time contact with an HIV-positive partner.
Although HIV can’t be transmitted that easily, there are a few myths and stereotypes about it. There are some circumstances you don’t need to worry about since they don’t put people on any risk of become infected with the virus. Those cases are:
Bitten by the bug or animal.
Eating meals prepared/ served by the infected person.
Sharing toilet, telephone or clothes (however, it’s not recommended).
Sharing utensils such as fork, spoon, knife or drink from the same glass.
Touching, kissing and hugging infected person.
Attending public places like church, shopping mall, school, cinema, where HIV positive people are.
HIV cannot be transmitted through urine, feces, vomit, tears or sweat.
Studies have shown multiple times that sexual activity is the main reason for HIV transmission. People who are dating need to take create care and precautions in order to avoid getting their body infected. Unprotected vaginal intercourse seems to be the most common reason for being HIV Positive. Transmission is most significant to male- female case than female to male. In otherwords, theguy who has HIV is more likely to infect his female partner via vaginal sex.
Anal intercourse is also associated with a high risk of HIV infection, if condoms are not used and the partner's HIV status is either positive or not known. Any kind of oral sex seems dangerous too especially if there’s vaginal or anal intercourse before or during oral. The best solution is to avoid mixing oral with anal or vaginal intercourse or reduce oral intercourse at all.
The risk of being HIV positive is getting lower those days because of advanced medical treatments and possibilities for HIV patients to have a normal life and good relationships. However, we all shall keep in mind that there’s no cure for HIV but only a medicines which can help people maintain body condition and extend their life.
« Back to Blogs
Home | HIV Dating Tips
Copyright © 2018Free HIV Dating AppHope+ All Right Reversed
Share to: facebook twitter googleplus