Calories of Bajra Carrot Onion Uttapam , Is Bajra Carrot Uttapam healthy?
Make TarlaDalal.com my Homepage
Sign In | My Page | My Cookbooks | Shopping | Recipe A To Z
21119 RECIPES | 12740 IMAGES | 201340 COOKBOOKS
Recipes Glossary Videos Cookbooks
RECIPES
Cuisine
Punjabi
Gujarati
Rajasthani
Maharashtrian
South Indian
Chinese
Italian
Health
Low calorie / Weight Loss
Delicious Diabetic Recipes
Healthy Heart
High Blood Pressure
Iron Rich Recipes
Calcium Rich Recipes
Pregnancy Recipes
Zero Oil
Healthy Breakfast
Healthy Soups
Healthy Salads
Healthy Subzis
Kids
Quick Recipes
Tiffin Treats
Recipes for Weaning ( 7 to 9 months)
Recipes for Babies (10 to 12 months)
Recipes for Toddlers ( 1 to 3 yrs)
Let your kids cook
Quick Recipes
Breakfast
Stir-fries
Soups
Snacks/Starters
Rotis / Parathas
Subzis
Course
Breakfast
Salads
Starters / Snacks
Beverages
Soups
Main Course
Dessert
हिंदी रेसिपी
ગુજરાતી વાનગીઓ
RECIPE SLIDER
VIDEOS
Latest Recipe Videos
Recipe Video Categories
BUY TD BOOK
TIPS
Health Food Tips
Cooking Tips
Home Remedies
Storing Food Tips
Buying Food Tips
Top 10 Recipe Articles
Sign In | Register for free
Nutritional Facts of Bajra, Carrot and Onion Uttapa, Calories in Bajra, Carrot and Onion Uttapa
by Tarla Dalal
This calorie page has been viewed 1267 times
Cuisine
South Indian Uttapam
Course
Snack with little planning
Course
Evening Tea Snacks
How many calories does one Bajra, Carrot and Onion Uttapam have?
One Bajra, Carrot and Onion Uttapam gives 73 calories. Out of which carbohydrates comprise 50 calories, proteins account for 8 calories and remaining calories come from fat which is 15 calories. One Bajra, Carrot and Onion Uttapam provides about 4 percent of the total daily calorie requirement of a standard adult diet of 2,000 calories.
Is Bajra, Carrot and Onion Uttapam healthy?
Yes, Bajra, Carrot and Onion Uttapa is healthy. Made from bajra, carrot, onions, corainder and Indian spices.
Let's understand the Ingredients.
What's good.
Bajra flour : Bajra flour is high in protein and is a complete protein for vegetarians when combined with dal. So as a Vegetarian, include bajra in your diet. Bajra is a great option for those on a gluten free diet. Bajra is rich in Magnesium which improves insulin response by lowering insulin resistance which is good for Diabetics and a healthy heart. See here for the detailed benefits of bajra flour.
Onions : Yes, its a great Anti Oxidant. The phytochemical present in onions along with their Vitamin C help boost your immunity. The chromium in onions help regulate your blood pressure. The sulphur in the onion which brings you tears is actually good for your eyes. Raw onions keep your heart healthy and see here for total benefits of onions.
Carrots : Carrots have the nutrient Beta Carotene which is a form of Vitamin A, helps prevent deterioration of the eye as one gets older and prevents night blindness. Carrot is great for the eyes.They relieve constipation, lower blood pressure, have fibre. Read the 11 super benefiits of carrots and why to include in your daily diet.
Coriander (kothmir, dhania) : The antioxidants vitamin A, vitamin C and the quercetin present in coriander works towards strengthening our immune system. Coriander is a fairly good source of iron and folate – the 2 nutrient which help in the production and maintenance of RBC in our blood. Good for reducing cholesterol and for diabetics. Read 9 benefits of coriander to understand details.
Can diabetics, heart patients and over weight individuals have Bajra, Carrot and Onion Uttapa?
Yes, they can. Bajra is rich in magnesium which is good for diabetics and healthy heart. The fibre helps in weight loss.
Can healthy individuals have Bajra, Carrot and Onion Uttapa?
Yes, this is a super healthy snack of uttapa to eat.
What is a healthy accompaniment to the Uttapa?
Serve the uttapa with healthy green chutney recipe.
Green Chutney
How to burn 73 calories that come from Bajra, Carrot and Onion Uttapa?
Walking (6 kmph) = 22 mins
Running (11 kmph) = 7 mins
Cycling (30 kmph) = 10 mins
Swimming (2 kmph) = 13 mins
Note: These values are approximate and calorie burning differs in each individual.
Value per uttapa % Daily Values
Energy 73 cal 4%
Protein 2 g 4%
Carbohydrates 12.5 g 4%
Fiber 2.1 g 8%
Fat 1.7 g 3%
Cholesterol 0 mg 0%
VITAMINS
Vitamin A 153 mcg 3%
Vitamin B1 (Thiamine) 0.1 mg 10%
Vitamin B2 (Riboflavin) 0 mg 0%
Vitamin B3 (Niacin) 0.4 mg 3%
Vitamin C 3.4 mg 9%
Vitamin E 0 mg 0%
Folic Acid (Vitamin B9) 9.1 mcg 5%
MINERALS
Calcium 17.6 mg 3%
Iron 1.4 mg 7%
Magnesium 24.7 mg 7%
Phosphorus 74.9 mg 12%
Sodium 4 mg 0%
Potassium 75.9 mg 2%
Zinc 0.5 mg 5%
Percent Daily Values are based on a 2000 calorie diet. Your daily values may be higher or lower depending on your calorie needs.
Calories in other Healthy Heart Breakfast
Calories in other Healthy Heart Soups
Calories in other Healthy Heart Rice, Khichdi and Biryani
Calories in other Healthy Heart Salads Raitas
Click here to view Bajra, Carrot and Onion Uttapa recipe
Calories in other related recipes
Calories in Banana Uttapa, Banana Uttapam
Calories in Quick Soya Uttapam
Calories in Mini Jowar and Tomato Uttapa
Calories in Uttapas Stuffed with Green Peas
Calories in Uttapam Pizza
Calories in Mini Sprouts Uttapa ( Weight Loss After Pregnancy )
Calories in Mini Jowar Uttapam ( Iron Rich Recipe)
Calories in Semolina Uttapas with Cabbage, Rava Uttapa with Cabbage
Calories in Mini Green Pea Uttapa, Green Peas Uttapam
Calories in Panch Ratna Uttapa
10 Summer Drinks to beat the heat!
Missed out on our mailers?
Our mailers are now online!
View Mailer Archive
Subscribe Now
Privacy Policy: We never give away your email
REGISTER NOW If you are a new user.
Or Sign In here, if you are an existing member.
Login Name
Password
Forgot Login / Passowrd?Click here
If your Gmail or Facebook email id is registered with Tarladalal.com, the accounts will be merged. If the respective id is not registered, a new Tarladalal.com account will be created.
Hi,
Click OK to sign out from tarladalal.
For security reasons (specially on shared computers), proceed to Google and sign out from your Google account.
Are you sure you want to delete this review ?
Your Rating
Your Rating
TARLA DIGITAL
OTHER FEATURES
Ask Tarla
Recipe A To Z
Post A Recipe
Recipe Contest
Glossary
Contribute your cooking tip
WHAT'S LATEST
Promotional Offers
Tarla Dalal's Recently Launched Cookbooks
Newest Videos
Latest Recipes
Latest Members Cookbooks
Tarla's Cooking Tip of the Day
Mailer Archive
HELP
Membership FAQ
Recipe Contributing Help
Shopping Help
Cookbook Help
ASSOCIATE WITH US
About Tarla Dalal
Tribute to Tarla Dalal
Advertise With Us
Work With Us
Join Associate Program
Corporate Deals
Special Deals
Contact Us
Site Feedback
FINE PRINT
Terms Of Use
About Copyrights
Privacy Policy
Shopping Policy
Credits
© Sanjay & Co. All rights reserved
My Page
My Account
My Order History
My Recipes
My Photos
My Cookbooks
My Shopping Lists
My Reviews
My Reviews Received