The Italian Doctor Amazed the World- Cancer Is Fungi Cured with Baking Soda. Video Included
Menu
Home Remedies
DIY Cosmetics
Home and Garden
Healthy Food
Weight Loss
Home
Health
The Italian Doctor Amazed the World- Cancer Is Fungi Cured with Baking Soda. Video Included
Health
The Italian Doctor Amazed the World- Cancer Is Fungi Cured with Baking Soda. Video Included
The Italian doctor Tulio Simonchini, said cancer is just a fungi and removes with baking soda.
He used this on thousands of people for many cancers and it works 100%.
This is not harmful and you have nothing to lose. The reality is that many cancers appear and this is failure of oncology. We must prove oncology is unable to cure or answer cancer questions. It is our obligation to find the cure in time, said Simonchini.
Cancer is just fungi!
A century ago, there was this theory that cancer is due to bad genes so it is intracellular. But he added cancer is a fungi and this shocked the world.
1. Candida
In plant world, cancer is due to fungi infections and same is with humans. Fungi have tumors and this is proven in in vitro and vivo studies. But experts think this grows after the disease. Simonchini also thinks this was here before, fungi make cancer, weaken immunity and attack us. Every cancer is due to candida fungus, studies confirmed and the structure is result of the defensive measures for the invasion. With time, tissues get weak and tired and make strange cells. He said cancer is like ulcer where deformed cells pile up.
2. Baking soda
Antifungal drugs have almost no effect for cancer and just attack the surface of cells. The infection is more than just bacterium, so fungi last long. He identified what attacks fungi, for cancer it is baking soda and iodine is for skin cancer. Studies confirmed baking soda makes intracellular action for cancer.
Treatment
I used this for my patients many years ago, more than 20 years. These people recovered even when they were given no chances. Best way to remove tumors is baking soda use, as enema for digestion cancer, injection for lung and brain, inhalations for breathing issues. Internal tumors can be also treated with baking soda in the arteries but dosage is vital. Simonchini adds, for phleboclisis you need 500 cm 5%-8.4% solution. During the treatment, you have to know that tumor colonies can be 3-4 times daily and collapse between days 4 and 5, so cure yourself at least 6 days. This is repeated in 4 cycles, and no side effects are seen except thirst or weakness. In skin cancer case, rub 0.7% iodine, 20-30 times daily. The tumor will be gone.
Signs of candida infection:
Fatigue
OCD
Anxiety
Irritability
Foggy brain
Nausea
Skin disorders
Digestion disorders
Mood changes
Sugar/starch cravings
If you seen at least 2 such signs, you might have candida infection which might lead to cancer.
Treatment and prevention to candida
The fungi treatment must be in control. If untreated, candida can turn to candidiasis with signs imitating other issues thus perforating intestines and making leaky gut syndrome. This makes proteins attack the blood cells. To prevent issues, remove foods that feed the candida, starch and sugars. NO bread, candy, fresh fruits, rice, pasta. Eat raw fruit, steamed veggies and grapefruit seeds. Also he recommends aluminum-free baking soda for cancer. This is found in every health store or pharmacy.
How this works?
The baking soda makes alkalinity in the blood to kill fungi. And thus tumor gets diminished.
For belly, colon, oral and rectal cancer, have 1 tsp baking soda in water, glass, before breakfast daily, for a month. Mostly, this is enough for curing. The method lasts 3-4 weeks, not more. Simonchini’s method might also need intravenous injections too. For even better result, get 500 ml 5% baking soda solution in the veins daily. This is done for 24 days, then do a scan. Vaginal fungi also get common these days and Simonchini adds they are the main cause for cervical cancer and vagina tumors. For this, get 2 tbsp baking soda and 2 liters filter water to wash the vagina. This removes fungi and prevents them in the future.
Article and image source: www.collectivehealthy.com
Prev Article
Next Article
Related Articles
Yoga studios are very exploited in the last 10 years …
These 2 Yoga Poses Can Help Improve Your Thyroid Function!
Everyone who has read a little more about microwaves knows …
Microwave Ovens Don’t Just Nuke Your Food They Nuke Your Heart
Tags
acne ACV Aloe Vera anxiety avocado Baking Soda benefits brain Cancer Cinnamon Coconut Oil Detox Diabetes Essential oils Exercise Food Garlic Ginger headaches health health benefits Healthy Food home remedies Home Remedy Honey inflammation Lemon lemon juice lose weight minerals natural remedies Nutrients olive oil recipe recipes sleep Sugar Tea Teeth Treatment Turmeric vitamin c Vitamins Water weight loss
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Disclaimer
Contact
Copyright © 2019 Organic Health Corner