Invisible Threat To Everyone’s Health That Wireless Networking Companies Are Not Telling You – Home Planet Earth
WELCOME FELLOW EARTHIANS
WELCOME FELLOW EARTHIANS
☰
Home
About us
Contact
CHALLENGESInvisible Threat To Everyone’s Health That Wireless Networking Companies Are Not Telling You
Maureen SantosFebruary 7, 2017183713 min
Do you know that your health is threatened every minute of the day, without you knowing it?
In today’s generation where almost all electronic devices are already wireless— telecommunication, the Internet, and others— to make life easier and more convenient, you’d really not expect that threat is just around you and has been killing your health slowly.
Especially the wifi in our telecommunicating devices, little do we know that those devices had been threatening our health massively than we thought.
How can wifi devices threaten our health?
Through the radiation it emits. It’s called wifi- radiation.
Find out more about it below.
Internet had a timid start in the 1960s as ARPANET. But now in the 21st century, the internet connects us all under a virtual roof and is navigating us towards a borderless world. The introduction of wireless internet, or WiFi, has meant that we can have a connection on-the-go instead of only connecting using a dial-up modem.
In no time at all WiFi has taken the world by storm, and not surprisingly so. Surfing the internet from your sofa, from your bed, or even from your poolside chair is all possible thanks to WiFi devices. Modern day smartphones are owned by 68% of Americans and all smartphones come with a wireless function. But what exactly is WiFi?
What is WiFi?
WiFi is a registered trademark owned by the WiFi Alliance, a nonprofit international association formed in 1999 to certify interoperability of wireless Local Area Network products (WLAN). WiFi does not use any wires − it uses radio frequency or microwave technology to transmit data through the air.
WiFi radiation is more correctly termed RF (radio frequency) radiation because it operates within the range 3kHz-300GHz. That’s to say WiFi radiation is a type of electromagnetic field (EMF).
Is WiFi Dangerous?
We have long been told that the form of radio frequency radiation that WiFi devices utilize is non-ionizing. That is to say it doesn’t have sufficient energy to break the bonds that hold molecules together, and that there is no heating effect… so therefore it is harmless. Or at least that’s what we’re told.
But thousands of peer reviewed studies now tell a different story. WiFi radiation may not cause a thermal heating effect, and it might be non-ionizing − but it is far from harmless.
WiFi Radiation Linked to Many Diseases
Independent research dating back some 80 years links WiFi radiation to a long list of adverse biological effects, including:
DNA chain breaks
Increased blood-brain-barrier permeability
Disruption to brain glucose metabolism
Creation of stress proteins
Disruption of cell metabolism
Studies also associate WiFi radiation exposure with such symptoms as fatigue, irritability, headaches, and digestive disorders. Long-term exposure to WiFi radiation has been linked with many serious diseases − including cancer.
WiFi Radiation And Cancer
Numerous studies link WiFi radiation exposure with cancer. Notably, the German telecommunications company T-Mobile carried out a major independent study. It found that “on the cellular level, a multitude of studies found the type of damage from high frequency electromagnetic fields which is important for cancer initiation and cancer promotion.”
In 2011, the World Health Organization classified radio frequency radiation of the type used by WiFi devices as a Group 2B possible carcinogen. A study conducted by the University of Vienna have found WiFi exposures to cause genotoxicity as they break single and double strand DNAs in our body. This indicates that there are effects that may potentially surface with our future generations.
Besides cancer and genotoxicity, exposure to WiFi type radiation induces memory loss, diabetes, depression, insomnia, fatigue and so on.
5 Steps to Minimize WiFi Radiation Exposure
In my home and work environment I long ago made the decision to completely steer clear of WiFi. You might not feel you want to go “the whole nine yards” on this.
Here are some ways you can reduce the burden of radio frequency radiation from WiFi on your body. You can pick and choose from this list according to how much you want to reduce WiFi radiation exposure in your life.
Avoid using WiFi while you’re in a vehicle as the frequencies end up being bounced around, thus increasing your exposure.
Turn off your WiFi when you’re not using the internet and especially when you go to sleep at night. Your body goes into repair-mode during sleep and radio frequency interference at this time slows down your body’s healing process.
Choose to use a hardwired Ethernet connection in your home instead of wireless.
If you do decide to keep your wireless modem/router, situate it as far as possible from your bedroom and as far as possible from rooms where you spend a lot of time.
Be mindful of WiFi radiation exposure from neighbors. After first measuring these exposures with a radio frequency meter, you can install shielding materials to block out WiFi signals.
Note: other wireless devices such as Bluetooth headsets, cordless phones, smart TVs, and smartwatches also emit radio frequency radiation – the dangers of these devices are the same as for WiFi.
Current Safety Standards Do Not Protect Us
Safety standards do exist for radio frequency radiation emissions, but these standards are only based on thermal heating effects. That is to say they only consider these exposures to be harmful if they heat tissue. But these safety standards do not protect us from adverse biological effects which are thought to be the precursor to serious diseases. Scientists have already raised the alarm regarding this issue.
In 2015, scientists from around the world united for the International EMF Scientist Appeal based on the results of over 2,000 research papers. The appeal is the collective voice of 190 scientists from 39 different countries. They are calling for tighter regulations and more security measures when dealing with electromagnetic field exposures generally, and WiFi in particular.
Protecting Children From Wifi Radiation Hazards
The Ontario (Canada) Agency for Health Protection and Promotion carried out a research program lead by Dr. Magda Havas. They identified that younger children exposed to long-term radio frequency have lower oxygen absorption and lower carbon dioxide being produced.
Last year, 15-year-old English schoolgirl Jenny Fry was found hanged in woodland near her home. According to her parents she suffered from electrical sensitivity, making it impossible for her to sit in WiFi classrooms and have WiFi at home. The school refused to remove the WiFi. Speaking at the inquest her mother said, “I believe that WiFi killed my daughter.”
Act now to protect you and your children from WiFi radiation exposure; it’s best to be safe than sorry when it comes to our health and that of our loved ones.
Please help raise awareness of the potential damaging effects of Wifi by sharing this article with your friends and family.
via Weshapelife.org
Post Views: 1,837
Maureen Santos
She lets everyone become aware of what is happening to our beloved planet Earth and its inhabitants. She can take you beyond the space and find out how neighbor planets are doing. Moreover, she would open your eyes to the things what makes the Earth suffer including the living species and allow you to decide what you can do to help save the planet and the future generation.
previous
Discover The Metaphysical Meanings Of Your Body Pains
next
100 Inspiring Quotes That Will Increase Your Confidence
Leave a Reply Cancel Reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment *
Name *
Email *
Website
Post Comment
Recent Posts
BIODIVERSITYQ2 Apple Teams Up with Maldives Whale Shark Research Programme
MINDBLOWINGNEWS[WATCH] Researchers Discover 67,000-Year-Old Human Species in the Philippines
BIODIVERSITYENVIRONMENT[WATCH] Help Save Planet Earth with Every Sip from Seaweed Straws
BIODIVERSITY[WATCH] Over 100 Whales Seek Freedom from Russian 'Whale Jail'
ENVIRONMENTBattling Climate Change the Natural Way
Archives
April 2019 (10)
March 2019 (13)
February 2019 (11)
January 2019 (12)
December 2018 (14)
November 2018 (20)
October 2018 (6)
July 2018 (8)
June 2018 (14)
May 2018 (32)
April 2018 (59)
March 2018 (40)
February 2018 (25)
January 2018 (15)
December 2017 (26)
November 2017 (43)
October 2017 (42)
September 2017 (73)
August 2017 (34)
July 2017 (37)
June 2017 (63)
May 2017 (69)
April 2017 (60)
March 2017 (71)
February 2017 (67)
January 2017 (14)
December 2015 (8)
November 2015 (3)
Related Posts
5 Easy Exercises That Tones Your Body In Just A Month
December 6, 2017
11 min 918
Maureen Santos
Science Reveals 4 Superpowers Of People With Anxiety Disorder
July 6, 2017
9 min 1372
Maureen Santos
Major Reason Behind The Drastic Decrease of Honeybee Colonies
June 30, 2017
40 min 1515
Maureen Santos
Homeplanetearth, 2018 © All Rights Reserved
NEWS
CHALLENGES
EVENTS
INSPIRATIONAL
SOLUTION
SPIRITUAL