Cell phone usage could increase risks of cancer: World Health Organization report - New York Daily News Cell phone usage could increase risks of cancer: World Health Organization report
Skip to content
Topics
xml:space="preserve">
Subscriber Services
Manage Subscription
EZ Pay
Delivery Issue
Subscriber Terms
New York
NYC Crime
Bronx
Brooklyn
Manhattan
Queens
Education
Obituaries
Weather
Sports
Yankees
Mets
Giants
Jets
Knicks
Nets
Rangers
Islanders
Football
Basketball
Baseball
Hockey
Soccer
More Sports
I'd Click That
Odds
Golf
News
Crime
U.S.
Politics
World
Entertainment
Lifestyle
Health
Eats
Viva
Games
Best Reviews
Opinion
Photos
Horoscopes
Daily
E-Newspaper
Autos
Covers
Special Sections
Classifieds
Public Notices
Branded Content
Paid Partner Content
Paid Content By Brandpoint
Search
xml:space="preserve">
New York
Sports
News
Entertainment
Opinion
Advertisement
Advertisement
Health
Lifestyle
Cell phone usage could increase risks of cancer: World Health Organization report
By MATTHEW LYSIAK and Larry McShane
| DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITERS |
May 31, 2011 | 2:02 PM
A group of scientists concluded that cell usage can increase the risk of glioma, a malignant type of brain cancer. (Jack Hollingsworth/Getty)
Cell phone junkies could be putting cancer on their speed dial - but don't go changing that ring tone to "Taps" just yet.
The World Health Organization delivered a wakeup call Tuesday with its warning that cell phone use could cause brain cancer, declaring it was "possibly carcinogenic to humans."
Advertisement
Some evidence indicates the phones are to blame for "an increased risk" for the malignant brain cancer glioma, according to the WHO's International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC).
Experts and phone company officials quickly noted - as did the IARC - that there was no direct correlation found between cancer and cell phones. Medical studies have been inconclusive or contradictory.
"I'm a little surprised they came out with even a warning," said Dr. Ronald Ennis, director of radiation oncology at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital.
The caution fell on deaf ears among New Yorkers, who were more hung up on their cell phones than their brain cells.
"You can tell me this phone will kill me tomorrow, and I still won't give it up," said Sam Salim, 42, clutching his Nokia.
Miriam Kinney, a waitress, was freaked out by word of the WHO's heads up - but not enough to turn off her BlackBerry.
"Oh, that's scary," said Kinney, 32. "I'm on my phone 24 hours a day. I guess I should cut back, but I know I won't."
John Walls, vice president of the trade group CTIA-The Wireless Association, noted the IARC ranked cell phones with "pickled vegetables and coffee" as a cancer-causing agent.
Still, the warning came from an expert panel of 31 scientists representing 14 countries who evaluate cancer risks. They cited exposure to the phones' radiofrequency electromagnetic fields as the threat to the world's 5 billion cell phone users.
Dr. Ezriel Kornel, a brain surgeon at Northern Westchester Hospital Center, said study might lead some to use earpieces or speakerphones - but he wasn't too worried.
"There's no hard data to show a definite link between cell phones and cancer," he said - via cell phone.
lmcshane@nydailynews.com
Advertisement
Recommended