Jaime Izquierdo Intuitive Healer and Body-Mind-Spirit Coach • Author of Organic Meditation Practice: NUTRITION AND A VEGAN DIET
Jaime Izquierdo Intuitive Healer and Body-Mind-Spirit Coach • Author of Organic Meditation Practice
Spiritual Guidance • Reiki • Massage Therapy • Bodytalk • MindScape • Meditation Workshops • Artistic Expression • 'A Journey from Medication to Meditation' 305.788.3093
Thursday, May 4, 2017
NUTRITION AND A VEGAN DIET
Offering Mobile Spiritual-Counseling, Meditation Guidance, and Clinical Massage-Therapy in Miami Beach. Call 305.788.3093
NUTRITION - PERFECT HEALTH AND A VEGETABLE BASED DIET
"When diet is wrong, medicine is of no use. When diet is correct, medicine is of no need" Ancient proverb
The body shows signs of illness as a reaction to toxic matters entering the system. The body itself has an innate ability to cure itself, and with healthy nourishment it maintains perfect health. The body is a living organism that functions in three basic stages to stay alive.
Apart from breathing; eating, digesting and excreting are the three main systems that regulate basic health in the body. It is obvious that the body depends on the quality of food we put into it. Food that contains chemicals or toxins that would affect the well being of the body systems will cause illness in the body.
It is understandable that so many chronic illnesses can be cured by returning our diet to an all organic vegetable based diet. The innate healing system of the body returns the body to its natural state of homeostasis in a short period of time. Within only four weeks the arteries, organs and body systems return to a healthy estate. Everyone should be performing this natural healthy cleansing.
A vegetable juice and organic vegetables diet is proven effective helping the cure of cancer, and the cure for all other chronic Illnesses. These include Diabetes, MS, Crohn's and Irritable Bowel Syndrome, Obesity, Heart illness, Cholesterol, high blood pressure, and more.
It will cure innumerable illnesses within a short period of time, and will go farther, to reverse all illnesses in the body. The common thing on all vegetable based diets is the amount of energy people experienced after the initial few days of detoxification, as well as common weight loss, renewed blood pressure, and totally healthy medical tests that led in all cases to discontinuation of all medications. In all cases all illnesses disappear in a short period of time. Ultimately, the cure to all illness is in the food we consume.
Our medical system is based on chemo therapy and rarely are medical doctors trained on nutrition. By law they are not allowed to practice natural healing.
A Vegan-Vegetarian diet changed my belief systems about protein and the necessity to include meat and dairy to maintain good protein and calcium intake. It allows for as much as you can eat of vegetables, grains, and nuts. These three groups of foods include a wealth of possibilities that provide all the protein the body requires. If you are on a vegetable diet, you can check your nutritional intake in places like www.myfitness.com to ensure you are taking the proper amounts of nutritional values needed.
These three groups provide all the protein needed for healthy living.
We need to learn about the real nutritional value in vegetables, nuts and grains to let go of the fictitious belief that animal products are the only source of protein and calcium.
More than 5% of animal protein in our diet have been found to be directly proportional to the rate of breast cancer, as well as prostate and other chronic illnesses, although doctors working with nutrition to prevent illness insist that any animal protein will eventually lead to diabetes or cancer in the body.
ONLINE EDUCATION ON A VEGETABLE BASED DIET
There are several food documentaries available in Netflix, or Youtube that provide information about the benefits of a vegetable based diet. A popular documentary 'Forks over Knives' is available both free in Youtube, and in Netflix. A second documentary that needs to be watched is 'What the Health', available also free in Youtube, and also in Netflix.
In addition, most of our food supply is infected with pesticides that destroy healthy bacteria in our digestive system; Glyphosate is the most common, used not only as a herbicide but found in most of the whole foods consumed daily by most children; there was a recent report about Monsanto and the use of Glyphosate. Eating organic food and non-GMO products, for a vegetarian diet ensures proper amounts of vitamins.
A Vegan diet reverses all anomalies related to stored fat accumulated from animal derived food. The body wants to be well, and in a short period of time, as short as two weeks, detoxification of damaging cholesterol takes place. The result is recuperation from conditions related to diabetes, dementia, and other illnesses derived from clogged arteries and vessels that had cut oxygenation to the brain and the body.
In several occasions adopting a Vegan diet rids the body of carcinogens and reverses cancer conditions. Even though there is no accepted cure for cancer, a Vegan diet is a perfect choice to attack the illness and bring healing to the body.
Feeding the body a total vegetable diet brings the PH balance of the body to a more alkaline estate where cancer does not prevail; cancer tumors are acidic and promote expansion through the production of an acidic environment; an acidic body complements the growth.
A CURE FROM CROOHN'S DESEASE AND IRRITABLE BOWEL SYNDROME WITH A VEGAN-ORGANIC DIET
I was diagnosed with Irritable Bowel Syndrome IBS, and later with Croohn's Disease. I was put in a drug regiment that limited my life for many years and still experienced symptoms an occasional rectal bleeding that impaired my social activities. I felt disabled for a long period of time; I was also afraid of possible surgeries and I lived in constant state of depression.
I lived with this condition until my mid-fifties when my wife developed strong allergies that had originated in her mid-twenties and had reached toxic proportions. She attended Bodytalk sessions and within six weeks the practitioner helped her detox from a regiment of two allergy pills daily she had maintained for several years. She became interested in organic products and with my daughter started a personal education on our food system and what we were eating at home. When I saw her progress and recovery from allergies, I decided to follow her advice and started a journey of natural health program.
I read and learned as much as I could but my most important researched came from the internet; I watched 'forks over Knives' and several other documentaries that eventually led me to a plant based diet with some animal protein. It was not until a friend of mine who also maintained a 'healthy diet' died of a sudden heart attack.
This episode lead me to researched on a diet that would give me control over the possibility of a heart condition and I run into a Vegan Diet; it seemed to be the only diet that promised complete detoxification from cholesterol and would clean up my body to healthy conditions. I had blood work done at that time; by then I had been on an organic regiment and ate little meat, but now I was entering a fully Vegan, organic, plant-base diet.
I had stopped going to doctors but returned to get blood work three months later, to find out my cholesterol had come down by seventy points to almost a normal range. I also had lost weight and since then has remained at around 170lb, which is a healthy range for someone my hight and age.
I did not return to doctors for several years and only used diet and energy medicine as my support for any health decisions. but I had gone off my Vegan diet for the last three prior years and was mostly vegetarian and organic. It was not until two years ago I found myself in a hospital and in surgery after a motorcycle accidents and I took the opportunity to retest myself. I was in perfect health except lower than needed levels of vitamin D, and my cholesterol was higher and out of range for a fully healthy person. They also found a slight enlargement of the prostate and sent me to be tested but I refused a biopsy.
I had a colonoscopy for the first time in over fifteen years and to my surprise there we no longer signs of illness, no Irritable Bowel Syndrome, or Croohn's; I can only attribute this recovery to my change in diet.
I decided to watch more closely my diet, I decided to exercise, and considered taking vitamin D but did refrained. I was not aware that vitamin D is associated with inflammation of the prostate. I did start researching for a supplement regiment to treat the prostate problem and a better diet for the cholesterol.
I read a lot about inflammation prevention and created my own regiment of vitamins and supplements and started taking vitamin D, tumeric, flax seed, pumpkin seeds, and Boron.
I also did the two-week baking soda and cider vinegar treatment as a preventative for possible prostate cancer, and started tracking the alkalinity of my urine daily, but the most important change I have made came next.
Two weeks ago, after watching 'What the Health' I was reminded of the poor results on my health due to the meat products and dairy I was allowing myself, and I recommitted to a Vegan Diet.
I am very excited about the changes I am making, one more time accepting my diet as a lifestyle change I need to make, food being my medicine and will get a blood test in about three months from now.
CANCER
When you face cancer you are fighting for your life because there is no known cure. It is up to you to do your own research and educate yourself on the possibilities of cure and recovery. People around you will give you opinions but the best and only avenue to approach the possibility of beating the disease is your own common sense and your own education on what is available. The stories of recovery people share might give you an indication of what is best to avoid intensifying the illness, and to possibly help stop the development.
there are no known medical or alternative-natural cures, but there is a lot of research available that will indicate the results you will get. Consult with experts and ask for statistics that will better show you the results you can expect.
The present consensus is that cancer has a congenital factor. If we inherit a weak cancer-fighting system, under poor nutrition, stress, and a weak constitution, the chances of incurring cancer are greater, but doctors working with natural cancer cures maintain that congenital factors contribute a small percentage to the actual development of cancer in the body. In the documentary 'What the Health' they show the reaction of cancer cells within an alkaline environment where they eventually perish.
Today we face a pandemic where one out of three people are facing one type of this illness, and the chemotherapy system we follow has not known cure; although, it claims some success when in conjunction with surgery and radiation.
A CANCER CASE TREATED WITH CHEMOTHERAPY
My wife was diagnosed with stage-four Colon Cancer on September 2013. She opted to get conventional chemo therapy treatment but was declared terminal after three rounds of treatment, the tumors that had shrank slightly after the first treatment had stopped showing any improvement.
We moved to New York City to obtain farther treatment possibilities at Sloan Kettering Cancer Center; after an initial interview her new oncology doctor told her she was elegible for surgery and chemotherapy and assured her of a full recovery. 'You will recover fully' was a statement she would repeat at every visit. With this renewed hope, my wife underwent chemo treatments for the next six months, but her health deteriorated steadely until the middle of June 2014. She battled nausea, constipation, pain, loss of appetite, depression, and heavy doses of antibiotics to treat other conditions she experienced as a result of her fragile immune system.
They had implanted a 'port' on her chest that facilitated medication of intravenous medications and the chemo cocktails she received; around late May a second port was implanted in her abdomen to provide chemo directly to the liver and after two treatments her liver died and extended, blocking fluids from circulating and she developed Edema in her lower body.
In the third week of June the doctor told her there was nothing else they could do for her and that it was best if she changed from Chemotherapy to other alternative cures and she was referred to an Acupuncture doctor in their practice. It was too late and my wife died two weeks later on July 9.
During my wife's chemotherapy treatment she was not allowed to incorporate any natural alternatives except Acupunture and Energy medicine, she was treated with Bodytalk, a therapy based on the quantum theory of 'mind over matter'. This therapy is a balancing treatment that helps the body-mind to addapt to the treatments being used, it does not claim to be a cure for any illness.
She was advice not to use any anti-inflammatory supplements or vegetables and instead she was encouraged to eat meat, chicken and fish in her diet, as well as regular food. There was never a suggestion for her to use organic food, or to be aware of toxins in the food she ate.
NATURAL CANCER CURES
There is also no known natural cure, but there are several alternative treatments that also claim some success. Natural cures that might prevent and help cure cancer are available through several sources, and vary form simple items available at every home today, to intern programs that provide treatment and education about proper nutrition to reverse, and on occasions cure the illness:
BAKING SODA TREATMENT
It is known that cancer cells thrive on an acidic environment, and that an alkaline environment is cancer preventative. A combination of baking soda, apple cider and honey or maple syrup have been used to slow and prevent the growth of cancer tumors; you can learn about successful medical treatments that included baking soda to fight cancer: 'The truth about Cancer and Baking Soda'.
APEX WATER OXIGEN WATER
This is an interesting treatment worth looking into.
VITAMIN C INTRAVENOUS INFUSION
Vitamin C is non toxic and can be used intravenously to slow down cancer growth, and on certain cases has shown to cure certain cancer types. There is a lot of information available on how to use it beneficially; it can interfere with the use of chemotherapy. You can read some facts at the National Cancer Institute's website, A friend of mine who provides this treatment says it does not work as a preventative treatment for cancer but it does not hurt the body; as a preventative has short time effectiveness, but as a cure of several illnesses it is very effective.
AQUERA. ORG
This is a scientific cure for immune deficiency illness that also shows positive results on the containment and occasional cure of breast and prostate cancer. This scientific project claim curative results through genetic modification through 'frequency' treatments in combination with light treatments. You can obtain information at http://www.aquera.org/;
Through DNA modification they claim to create new curative defenses in the body, isolate cancer tumors and rid the body of illness.
A CANCER CASE TREATED WITH ALTERNATIVE THERAPIES OTHER THAN CHEMOTHERAPY
My girlfriend was diagnosed with breast cancer on November 2017.
She underwent one round of chemo and experienced several of the side effects, loss of appetite, disruption of her tastebuds, nausea, and diarrhea. Her health deteriorated from the very start and experienced minot hair loss; it had been expected that she would loose most of it, but the first alternative therapy she used was a cap that is first frozen and then put on during the chemo treatments. she never lost her hair but had to be very gentle brushing, and washing was not allowed.
She decided to seek alternative treatments; first she did the two-week baking soda and cider vinegar treatment; and shortly after, she was introduced to the Aquera Frequency and Ultraviolet light therapy shortly after she started recuperating from her chemo treatment. She started the precess in Miami three months ago and the results over this period of time was positive because her tumor stopped growing; the regiment of treatment is rigorous and she spends about six to eight hours sitting or laying down listening to the frequency recordings she receives periodically, and applying the ultraviolet light with special electronic units that were costly.
In addition she does the Apex water treatment two times a day and as required by the Apex therapy.
She also has changed her diet progressively towards a Vegan diet, which does not include any animal products; so she is staying away from inflammatory and acidic foods, after getting more informed about the consequence of eating meat and dairy. She watched with intensity the documentary 'What the Health' and decided to make a drastic change in her diet.
On February 26, 2018 she underwent a lumpectomy; they found out the tumor had decreased in size one centimeter, and after a biopsy of one lymph node no illness had spread to other parts of the body.
It is safe to say that today she is cancer free; but the doctors had requested she takes radiation and they are encouraging chemotherapy because they cannot ensure she will be free of cancer for any foreseeable period of time, and she is strongly considering these additional treatments, as an insurance. They consider that her chances of recurrence are higher if she does not take the radiation and chemotherapy, she is just giving herself more chances of not having recurrence.
GERSON THERAPY IS A VEGETABLE DIET TO PREVENT AND ON CERTAIN CASES CURE CANCER
The Gerson therapy has been treating patients for several immune system disorders, cancer, diabetes and other illnesses since the 1930s. Their treatment includes daily 'juicing' of green vegetables, and detoxification through the use of coffee enemas, they provide training and education in their center in California:
This a recipe I have used at home:
Step 1. Materials for coffee enema recipe
·Buy a 2-quart enema bag or bucket with a clamp. This is sold at drug stores. The Gerson bucket from Gerson is easier to use.
·Organically grown coffee is best. Organic coffee is available at natural food stores. Organic coffee can also be ordered from web sites. See Resources
Step 2. Preparation of coffee enema to detoxify the liver
·Place 2 to 3 cups of purified water and two to three tablespoons of organic coffee in a saucepan and bring to a boil.
·Let it boil 10 minutes, then turn off the heat and allow it to cool. One or two ice cubes may be added to speed the cooling process. Strain with cloth to separate the coffee grounds from the liquid.
·You may make a larger quantity and use it for several coffee enemas.
o2 cups of organic coffee
oApprox. 3 quarts of filtered water
1. Bring the water and coffee to a boil and simmer for 10 minutes.
2. Cool and drain the coffee liquid using a cloth to catch the coffee grounds. (the grounds are a great fertilizer for plants and grass)
3. Divide the coffee liquid into 3 quart jars.
4. Finish filling the quart jars with filtered water
5. You now have 3 quarts of coffee concentrate (enough for 12 coffee enemas) Store the jars of concentrated coffee in the refrigerator.
6. When you are ready – take a quart jar of concentrated coffee and equally divide the jar into 4 quart jars. Fill the quarts with filtered water.
7. You now have 4 jars ready to heat to lukewarm and use as needed throughout the day.
·Wait until the coffee water is comfortable to the touch. If the coffee is too hot or too cold, retaining the enema will be more difficult.
Step 3. Preparing to take the coffee enema to detoxify the liver
·Be sure the plastic hose is pushed or fastened well onto the enema bag and the thin enema tip is attached to the other end.
·Remove any air from the enema tube the following way. Grasp but do not close the clamp on the hose. Place the tip in the sink. Hold up the enema bucket above the tip until the water begins to flow out. Then close the clamp. This expels any air in the tube.
·Lubricate the enema tip with a small amount of soap or oil. (Too much lubrication will cause the tip to fall out of the rectum, creating a mess!).
Step 4. Taking the coffee enema
·The position preferred by most people is lying on one's right side on a towel, on the bathroom floor.
·With the clamp closed, place the enema bag on the floor next to you, or hang the bag about one foot above your abdomen.
·Insert the tip gently and slowly. Move it around until it goes all the way in.
·Open the clamp and hold the enema bucket about one to two feet above the abdomen. The coffee may take a few seconds to begin flowing. If the coffee does not flow, you may lift the bag/bucket higher. If you develop a cramp, close the hose clamp, turn from side to side and take a few deep breaths. The cramp will usually pass quickly.
·When all the liquid is inside. Close the clamp. You can leave the tube inserted, or remove it slowly.
· Retain enema for 15 minutes. See below if you have difficulties with this. You may remain lying on the floor. Use the time to read a book, meditate, etc. Some people are able to get up and go lie on a towel in bed, instead of on the floor. Walking around the house with the coffee inside is not recommended.
on May 04, 2017
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Newer Post Older Post Home
YELP CLIENT REVIEWS
ACUPUNCTURE: Ana Izquierdo, DOM
BODYTALK AND ACUPUNCTURE
FINE ARTS JOURNAL
AN ART, TRAVEL AND FOOD JOURNAL
AROUND TOWN IN NEW YORK CITY
MORAN KATZ, MASTER CLARINETIST
ART JOURNAL AND REVIEWS
Lucy Williams, Artist
PHOTOGRAPHY AT MODELMAYHEM
THE RUNWAY
PUBLICATIONS
The Art Journal and Review
The Flavor Muse, Eclectic Cuisine
Chefs and Food, Restaurant Reviews, Fashion in Miami and New York
UNIVISION SPANISH INTERVIEW, ORGANIC MEDITATION PRACTICE BY KIKI GARCIA MONTES
PAGES
Home
Bodytalk Sessions - Ana Izquierdo, DOM - Jaime Izquierdo, CBP, LMT
Energy Therapy - Distance Healing
Massage Therapy Services
Meditation
Nutrition
Organic Meditation Practice
Spiritual Counseling - Relationships
STORE - EXCEPTIONAL EUROPEAN FOOD ITEMS
ARDOINO LIGURIAN EXTRA VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
OUR MISSION:
"Helping our clients reclaim their organic identity, and initiate a dialogue with our organic universe"
'A journey from medication to meditation'.
PRACTITIONERS, MIAMI AND NEW YORK
Jaime Izquierdo
LMT, CBP, AdvMSP
Non-Sectarian Minister
"Most Outstanding Graduate Hollywood Institute Massage Program"
305 788 3093
Ana Izquierdo, DOM, BA, CBP, MSI
Licenced Acupuncture and Chinese Medical Doctor
MindScape Instructor
Miami - New York
305 788 8810
MEMBER:
AHMA, American Holistic Medical Association
International Bodytalk Association
South Florida Bodytalk Association
NCBTMB-718062
MA73616
PROFILE
Jaime studied painting under renowned American artists Sidney Goodman, Jody Pinto, Arthur DaCosta and Nelson Shanks among others, and graduated from the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts in Philadelphia. He is an award-winning artist, and photographer. In the 1970's Jaime studied Pre-Medicine at Temple University, Theater at HB Studios in NYC; joined an acting company in Philadelphia and participated in professional productions with actors like Theodore Bickell. He studied Modern Dance with Martha Graham and in 1980 switch to Painting and the Fine Arts. Jaime participated in Art Basel Miami 2015 in several peripheral shows. His work has been part of several exhibits in the US, The Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts Museum and Gallery and New York and Miami Art Galleries. His first One-Man show was in New York in 1985. His work is in many private and corporate collections around the world. As part of his lifestyle today, he teaches Meditation and Holistic Healing workshops in Miami and New York. He is the author of 'Organic Meditation Practice" available in Amazon Kindle Store.
DISCLAMER
These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. The content published by this website is intended for educational purposes only, it should not be construed as dispensing medical advice or making claims regarding the cure of diseases. You should always consult with a medical professional
TOUCH-HEALING HOLISTIC MASSAGE THERAPY(TM) NOW IN NEW YORK CITY
Schedule a Session: 305.788.3093
CALENDAR OF SESSIONS AND WORKSHOPS
NOW AVAILABLE IN MIAMI BEACH, FL
Call 305.788.3093
Consultations and Holistic Counseling via phone or text 3057883093
LOCATIONS:
Miami Beach
By Appointment
1005 Shore Lane, Miami Beach FL
Body-Mind-Spirit Coach/Reiki Touch Therapy/Bodytalk/Meditation/Massage
New York:
Chelsea 26 Street Massage Studio
Life Goes On!
We cannot run away from the pain of losing someone we love; it triggers tears that flow inadvertently and do not stop. We can distract ourselves with activities; friends come to our aid and we get emotional support, but losing a loved one leaves us injured and feeling physically alone. Their physical company is irreplaceable and our balance of reality is lost for a long while. Starting alone all over again is a great challenge, one is vulnerable to err and make decisions that might hurt others. We become selfish and self-centered making the focus of our attention staying alive as a natural response and we can easily forger about loved ones that might need us; we feel sorry for ourselves. Ultimately, the universe comes to our rescue with new friends and unexpected opportunities to help chance the course of our life. These 'Soulmates' are sent to us to help us overcome the difficult times we face and become the building blocks of our new history. Life goes on but we never forget the ones we lost.
Organic Meditation Practice
Jaime Izquierdo, Author 2012
Become part of my business network in Linkedin
JAIME IZQUIERDO, Body-Mind-Spirit Personal Coach
BODYTALK AND MINDSCAPE
PRACTITIONER
Copyright BodyTalk Miami Beach 2015 Finesse Unlimited LLC Company. Picture Window theme. Powered by Blogger.