Women Suffer More UTIs, Men More Likely Hospitalized
Home | About | Events | Contact | Advisory Board | Writer’s Guidelines | Reprints | Organizations | Media Kit | Advertising
Current Issue Article Archive Digital Editions Newsletter Industry News WhitePapers Jobs Product Showcases Search
Medication Clinical Review Alzheimer’s/Dementia Baby Boomer Issues Long Term Care Trends Nutrition Research News Vintage Voices
Women Suffer More UTIs, Men More Likely Hospitalized
While women are far more likely to suffer urinary tract infections (UTIs), men are more prone to be hospitalized for treatment, according to a study by Henry Ford Hospital urologists.
The first-of-its-kind research for the most common bacterial infection in the United States is important in providing predictors of hospital admission at a time when the health care industry is searching for ways to reduce costs.
“We found that those patients who were hospitalized for treatment of urinary tract infections were most often older men, as well as those with serious kidney infections,” says Jesse D. Sammon, DO, a researcher at Henry Ford’s Vattikuti Urology Institute and lead study author. “They were also more likely to be seen at urban teaching hospitals, and/or treated in zip codes with higher median incomes.”
The study is published in the September issue of World Journal of Urology.
Citing previous studies, the Henry Ford researchers noted that costs rise tenfold when UTI patients require hospitalization. Being able to predict who among the annual patient load for UTI are most likely to be admitted to the hospital may help contain the rising costs of their care.
The study focused on 10.8 million patients with a primary diagnosis of UTI—specifically cystitis (bladder infection) and/or pyelonephritis (kidney infection)—who were seen in American hospital emergency departments from 2006 to 2009. This data was drawn from the Nationwide Emergency Department Sample, the largest all-payer emergency department database in the United States.
Of those 10.8 million patients, 1.8 million (16.7%) were admitted to the hospital for further treatment.
Citing data for 1997, the researchers noted that UTIs accounted for fewer than one million emergency department visits resulting in 100,000 hospitalizations.
“Over the current study period, 2006 to 2009, there was an average of 2.7 million emergency department visits each year for UTI, leading to 450,136 admissions,” Sammon says. “This rapid rise has exceeded all previous estimates.”
In 2007 alone, the research showed, there were more than 8.6 million outpatient visits for UTI, 23% of which were in emergency departments, with 84% of them made by women.
“This translated into a direct cost of $1.6 billion per year to the US health care system,” says Sammons. “UTIs are especially common in women. By age 32, half of women report having had at least one.”
“For men and women, the incidence of going to the emergency department with a UTI was highest among the elderly, yet women saw a ‘peak’ in such cases between age 15 and 25, corresponding to the onset of sexual activity.”
But it was men who were most likely to be admitted for inpatient care, especially elderly men and those with acute kidney infections that required treatment with intravenous antibiotics.
While attributing a rise in the US hospitalization rate for UTI in part to the country’s aging population, the researchers say increasing levels of diabetes and other illnesses among the patients, and rising resistance to antibiotics, also were factors.
“Managing these high-risk patients more aggressively in the outpatient setting may prevent unnecessary hospitalizations and reduce associated health care costs,” Sammons says.
Source: Henry Ford Health System
Tweets by @TodaysGeriMed
Great Valley Publishing Co., Inc., 3801 Schuylkill Road, Spring City, PA 19475 © 2019, Publisher of Today's Geriatric Medicine, All rights reserved.
Home About Contact Advisory Board Writer’s Guidelines Reprints Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions