Can I Reduce Cholesterol by Exercise Only - Cholesterol Guardian
Home
About Us
Privacy Policy
Site Map
Contact Us
Cholesterol Guardian
Guard Your Cholesterol Levels
Recipes
Exercise
Q & A
You are here: Home / Exercise / Can I Reduce Cholesterol by Exercise Only
Can I Reduce Cholesterol by Exercise Only
November 3, 2014 by Cholesterol Guardian Leave a Comment
Exercise as an effective means to reduce cholesterol
One of the most effective ways to control cholesterol level in the body is exercise. The link between exercise and cholesterol used to be relatively obscure; now, however, among ordinary people as well as medical specialists, that link has become much clearer. When you are overweight, your body tends to have high level of bad cholesterol or low-density lipoprotein (LDL) in its blood vessels. When you do exercise, you burn your fat and you lose weight. Besides that, your exercise will encourage your body to produce enzymes that aid in transporting bad cholesterol from your blood vessels to your liver, from which the cholesterol is excreted. Thus, the more frequently you do exercise, the more the amount of bad cholesterol is excreted from your body.
Will you be cholesterol-free by only doing exercise?
Exercise can indeed help your body get rid of bad cholesterol. However, this biological process will be useless if you keep consuming foods that are rich in LDL, such as foods containing trans fat and saturated fat. Therefore, although exercise alone can indeed reduce the amount of cholesterol in the body, it cannot make your body completely safe from cholesterol’s threats if you don’t accompany it with improved lifestyle and behavior. In fact, if you try to do rigorous exercise without attempting to improve the way you eat and behave, your exercise may endanger your health and exacerbate your cardiovascular problem. If you want to achieve the best result from your exercise, you should improve your lifestyle. You also need to consult your doctor to make sure that you do your exercise properly and safely.
If exercise alone cannot free me from bad cholesterol, what should I do?
Change your diet.
There are several activities that you have to do if you want to clean your body from bad cholesterol. You can start with changing your diet and eating only heart-friendly foods and drinks. If you want to consume fats, choose healthier fats. Remove saturated and trans fats from your diet and switch to monounsaturated fat and low-fat dairy products. If you want to consume grains, avoid refined grains and switch to whole grains. You should also limit your consumption of cholesterol. If you are healthy, avoid taking more than 300 milligrams of cholesterol in a day. If you suffer heart disease or diabetes, 200 milligrams/day is your limit. Also make sure that you eat vegetables and fruits that are rich in antioxidant because they help reduce bad cholesterol. If possible, stock up natural supplements, such as Choleslo, which effectively keep LDL concentration in your body low. Change your diet and you can effectively slice LDL concentration in your body.
Change your behavior
If you are used to smoking, drinking alcohol and binge eating, you should abandon such bad behavior because as long as you behave that way, you can never free yourself from cholesterol. It is also important that you avoid stresses and stay optimistic. Recent researches conducted at the Harvard School of Public Health in Boston have confirmed clear link between good mood and lower risk of heart attack.
Filed Under: Exercise
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Is It Okay to Drink Wine With High Cholesterol
Do energy drinks raise cholesterol
Is white rice bad for cholesterol?
Does Yogurt Reduce Cholesterol Levels
How Does Caffeine Affect Cholesterol Levels
What Should I Eat before Cholesterol Test
Can high cholesterol make you short of breath?
What Is the Best Sport to Lower Cholesterol Levels
How often does cholesterol fluctuate?
Top gluten free cholesterol lowering foods
Copyright © 2019 · Magazine Pro Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in