Tonight on Larry King Live! – Larry King Live - CNN.com Blogs
CNN TV SCHEDULE ANCHORS & REPORTERS CONTACT US HLN
May 17, 2010
Tonight on Larry King Live!
Posted: 07:00 PM ET
Do Cell Phones Cause Cancer?
A just-released study shows no evidence of increased risk. But critics say the research could be flawed. So, are cell phones safe – or not?
Larry and his guests have the latest on what YOU should know!
We want to hear from you!
Are you worried that your cell phone is harming you?
Filed under: Health
Share this on:
del.icio.us
We recommend
From around the web
Earle Richmond May 17th, 2010 8:05 pm ET
Research has already given causation that cell phones have the potential for cancer!
Michael Armstrong Sr. May 17th, 2010 9:03 pm ET
They said that T.bone stakes cause cancer at one time if we were to jump every time some one cry's we would either starve to death or be left in the dark ages .
Rand from Spokane May 17th, 2010 9:04 pm ET
They are probably a health hazard if not by causing cancer then by causing traffic accidents. You know we all did fine without them for many years, now everybody thinks they need them.
Michael Armstrong Sr. May 17th, 2010 9:04 pm ET
I spelled my favorite food wrong .
Smith in Oregon May 17th, 2010 9:07 pm ET
Of course studys indicate that a microwave transmitter right next to your head can be harmful.
For decades Radar Cops placed their Radar Guns between their legs until they suddenly realized they were baking their 'family jewels' resulting in life long chronic health problems and likely divorces.
Of course corporations do not want their consumers to be concerned about chronic microwave exposure to your brain, typical Republican lawmakers greed.
Joy Towles Ezell May 17th, 2010 9:07 pm ET
To Dr Davis,
I live in a pulp mill town where chlorine & chlorine dioxide and many ofther toxic chemicals have been used for the past 50 years. Fish downstream from the pulp mill are gender-bent, with the female fish taking on male characteristics; the air and water are both contaminated here.
Since we are bombarded with toxics from it seems every direction, including dioxins in our fish, meat, and dairy products, what are some ways we can be proactive and protect ourselves?
Michael Armstrong Sr. May 17th, 2010 9:08 pm ET
If there such a health hazard then ban them from public places just like they did cigeretts .
Rand from Spokane May 17th, 2010 9:10 pm ET
Keep your land line phone as at least a fall back, we may need them some day. We are way too dependent on technology.
Diane Coombs May 17th, 2010 9:12 pm ET
The brain surgeon who removed the Glio tumor from my husbands' frontal lobe over a year ago said he'd never use a cell phone without hands free device. My husband lived 14 months after diagnosis of stave IV Glioblastoma; he used cell phone literally 4 + hours almost every day for 5 years. Get the picture!
Smith in Oregon May 17th, 2010 9:12 pm ET
EMF fields and Microwave background energy's in America and around the world has risen exponentially and could possibly explain some Cancers and Leukemia's in children. The Federal Govt. routinely spends a huge amount of free taxpayer dollars shielding large buildings and offices from all outside Electro magnetic fields. And for Joe and Jane living on Main Street, USA, I guess we are just expected to 'suck it up'.
Erin May 17th, 2010 9:12 pm ET
What are the symptoms of a brain tumor? Since such massive people are using cell phones, we might as well know what to watch for in the event of massive brain tumor epidemic were to hit!
Matt May 17th, 2010 9:13 pm ET
The researcher said that a "heavy user" was ddefined by use equaling approx. 1600hours of use over the study period. However the study period was 10 years, so that equals 160 hours per year!!!! That's 30 minutes a day!!!!! That's not heavy use!!! Thats one call per day.
Michael Armstrong Sr. May 17th, 2010 9:13 pm ET
Can people get cancer from second hand cell phone use .
Brian May 17th, 2010 9:16 pm ET
Your first guest stated a heavy user is someone who had cumulative talking time of 1640 hrs during a ten yr period. That is less than 30 minutes per day, which means every teenager in the USA is a heavy user. Teenagers and children who have thinner skulls WERE NOT even part of this study.
Smith in Oregon May 17th, 2010 9:16 pm ET
There is a great deal of smoke and debate about the real, honest safety from:
Cell Transmitter Towers Microwave Energy on people
250kv – 500kv Very High Voltage transmission towers ionizing energy
Land based Radar Microwave Energy on people
Satellite based Radar Microwave Energy on people
These all pour huge amounts of EMF energy upon YOU, thru YOU and around YOU everyday. Is that healthy?
sean g May 17th, 2010 9:17 pm ET
when i first started using cell phones back in 1999,i felt my brain ,twitch.that scared the crap out of me and i quit using cell phones.cause i believe the microwave created by using a cell phone
is another way to reduce the total population of the world.jesse ventura,should have included a conspiracey plot.my ex navy seal buddy has told me about the haarp program in alaska which is running at full power as we speak.,before the tv show ever aired.
its posible to control the weather and the government is at the helm.because it manipulates the natural magnetic waves in the atmosphere.and to denie this is just proving its truth.to cover up the
treasonistic experiments on humans across the world.
Renee May 17th, 2010 9:18 pm ET
Hi Larry.....I have been trying to get attention with hypothesizing about this issue of cell phone frequency and pregnant women for the last three years......I suspect this is the causel for AUTISM...........the increase of tech frequency and autism are parrelleling at the same duration......please question the professionals on your show. Thank You
Michael Armstrong Sr. May 17th, 2010 9:18 pm ET
This could relate to satelites power lines and all electric appliances lets all just follow in the Flintstones foot steps .
Alan Grossberg May 17th, 2010 9:18 pm ET
Larry:
Great show...great topic.
Still, I think it's a waste of time: like the beef industry and Mad Cow disease, the cell phone industry is so big and powerful, I doubt we'd ever get the truth if it's bad for their respective industries.
Alan Grossberg
Washington, D.C.
Diane Coombs May 17th, 2010 9:19 pm ET
Erin, my husband came home from work with a massive headache; he never had headaches, ever. He did not get out of bed until the ambulance came to get him 2 days later. He was diagnosed w/stage IV Glioblastoma ~ It's known as the Osama Bil Laden of tumors. There's no cure and it never goes away. My husbands' only symptom was a severe headache coupled w/nausea. When I say the brain surgeon told me he'd never use a cell phone he meant it. My husand was at UVA medical center where he subsequently died 14 months later.
Sean May 17th, 2010 9:19 pm ET
Regarding cell phones and cancer. Did any of these studies include the location of the antennae with reference to the location of cancer. Ie my cell phone has the antennae located by the mouth piece not the ear piece.
Michael Armstrong Sr. May 17th, 2010 9:22 pm ET
We need to create protective clothing to stay healthy .
Gerry Mihas May 17th, 2010 9:23 pm ET
Larry – I truly believe that cell phone usage and cancer will be as deadly as cigarettes and lung cancer. How many years did it take the "experts" to admit to the lung cancer & smoking connection. I think it is irresponsible for the medical pundits to dismiss this link. The cell phones are great – I have one, but I do not "live" with the phone at my ear. We need better info on this issue and a push to get cell phone users to understand the consequences. Question, how many hours a day did Ted Kennedy spend with the phone at his ear..... you can bet close to 24/7
Gerry
Scott May 17th, 2010 9:23 pm ET
What impact do blue tooth devices have in mitigating or reducing risks of cancer in connection with the cell phone?
Michael Armstrong Sr. May 17th, 2010 9:24 pm ET
If you get cancer then sue the crap out of the cell phone people .
Ronnie May 17th, 2010 9:27 pm ET
Has any study been done about the risk of benign brain tumors and cell phone use? I have been using cell phones heavily for more than 20 years and was diagnosed with a 5cm x 8cm meningioma 3 years ago. Thank goodness, I am fine after surgery but try to use a hands-free device as much as possible.
Cindy May 17th, 2010 9:28 pm ET
@Rand from Spokane,
I agree with you. What we can control is whether or not we use cell phones while we are driving.
S Bhargavan May 17th, 2010 9:29 pm ET
Hi Larry,
I have a question regarding the usage of cell phoes with a ear piece. Does it matter if the ear piece is wireless? Or, is the ear piece only afe when it is a wired one?
Thank you!
S. Bhargavan
B.C., Canada.
Will May 17th, 2010 9:29 pm ET
Question for Dr Davis and the other guests:
If babies' brains absorb more radiation emission, are baby monitors in a crib safe? Are they similar in danger as cell phones?
Michael Armstrong Sr. May 17th, 2010 9:29 pm ET
I dont use a cell phone so if I get cancer then i will have to blame it on the steak .
Ronald Balassanian, MD May 17th, 2010 9:30 pm ET
No one really knows what effects the radiation from cellphone can or will have, particularly on developing brains- THAT is Dr. Davis' point.
I applaud the "Truth and Reconciliation" program she proposed in her brilliant book "The Secret History of the War on Cancer".
We need a way to get the truth out. We need the internal research information the industries hide from us to make informed decisions.
Jamey May 17th, 2010 9:31 pm ET
What is the impact of the phone on your hands while texting? And what is the impact of using something like an iPad on your lap, it accesses the cell network and it is near your genitalia? Is this harmful?
Evy May 17th, 2010 9:31 pm ET
What is a safe distance to keep your cellphone?
Matt May 17th, 2010 9:31 pm ET
I wore my cell phone on my hip for several years. 5 years ago, I developed kidney cancer right next to EXACTLY where my cell phone sat. Coincidence?
I was exposed to benzene, a known cause of non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma, when I was 10-15 years old. I developed non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma at age 40. Studying me when I was 20 would have shown nothing. Cancer doesn't happen right after exposure, so studying it at that time is worthless.
Michael Armstrong Sr. May 17th, 2010 9:33 pm ET
Its time for law suits every one go crazy .
glen mcmath May 17th, 2010 9:35 pm ET
What is the best way to carry your cell phone.
Orit May 17th, 2010 9:35 pm ET
So...let me get this straight: they spend how much money to fund this study...to conclude that if you have a "personal" concern about cell phone use, you may adjust your behavior accordingly? God bless the experts.
bill May 17th, 2010 9:35 pm ET
of course, there is a link... Dr.'s don't want to lose their jobs for saying there is evidence... but our food system is just as toxic, our country should focus on getting all of the chemicals out of our seeds/foods first because that is correctable...people won't stop using cellphones, but the american people should be aware of the toxic and inhumane ways our food is being grown in this country...Interestingly, most countries don't allow their cows to be injected with growth hormones and are not allowed to pump animals with massive amounts of antibiotics because they are being raised in filthy factory farms, the U.S. allows these sick methods. Europe doesn't allow this disgusting way of growing food, and they are also one of the first to label cell phone use as dangerous. I trust the governments who have all around good health practices, and the United States does NOT measure up... from healthcare, cell phone use to the food industry, it's disgusting.
James O May 17th, 2010 9:36 pm ET
Could there be a link between testicular cancer and men keeping cell phones in their pocket... breast cancer and women keeping cell phones in their purse/bag (usually hooked over the shoulder, under the arm next to the breast)?
Earle Richmond May 17th, 2010 9:36 pm ET
I would like to see reaserach results on the blue-tooth since it also emits RF power and hanging on the ear. Sometimes technology can create unforseen problems.
Joyce Marshall May 17th, 2010 9:36 pm ET
Re: Mick Jagger
Could you ask Mick is he truly seduced MacKenzie Phillips when she was 19 as she stated in her recent autobiography??? Thanks.
Smith in Oregon May 17th, 2010 9:36 pm ET
How much EMF energy is really safe?
The US Military routinely pumps out enormous amounts of Radar microwaves across America and their Satellites pour down enormous amounts of Radar microwaves down upon American's. Is that Safe?
Why are the governments around the world largely shielding themselves and their highest officials with EMF shielded rooms?
Sounds like nuclear bunkers and EMF shielded rooms are fine for the corrupt leaders and their henchmen but forbidden and taboo for Joe and Jane Doe's living on Main Street, USA.
Gerry May 17th, 2010 9:37 pm ET
Diana Coombs – I'am sorry for you loss. My husband (42yrs) died of lung cancer. As a teenager, he bought into the cigarette commercials.
Everyone needs to listen to that brain surgeon.
Ron Beasley May 17th, 2010 9:38 pm ET
What about laptop computers with a wireless connection that is on all the time?
George May 17th, 2010 9:38 pm ET
They are now installing electrical meters on houses that send out information every 15 minutes through cell phone like connections. I wonder how dangerous these are. The companies won't provide any information on exposure.
Cajazz76:24:8 May 17th, 2010 9:39 pm ET
Tell it to the fish and birds in the gulf and coastal regions of the southern U.S. that are bathing in benzine. Because it is a (known) carcinogen, its use as an additive in gasoline is now limited, but it is an important industrial solvent and precursor in the production of drugs, plastics, synthetic rubber, and dyes. Benzene is a natural constituent of crude oil. Again, tell it to the fish and birds...
jack May 17th, 2010 9:39 pm ET
Maybe many of these great inventions are really not all that great. We pay a big price in terms of stress and disease with all the fast changes in technology. And,while modern agriculture methods enable us to feed many people; what is the quality of the food we end up consuming? Much of it is contaminated with various additives, pesticides, hormones, bpr and many other poisons. Even fish are polluted with mercury pcbs, oil pollutants, industrial , agricultural, medical, sewage , and other poisons. The water we drink is treated with foul tasting chlorine, floride etc. The air we breathe is polluted with a large amount of poisons as well. It is clearly out of control. since lobbyists for corporate "persons" have so much influence, we are not likely to see things get much better any time soon , if their is no reforms put in place that realy protect the environment and ourselves.
Steve May 17th, 2010 9:39 pm ET
I know of more than a few friends getting that phantom "vibration" in their leg in the absence of their cell phone. I've gotten it as well and keep the phone out of my pants pocket because of that.
Also, what dangers exist because of cell towers in our neighborhoods?
Michael Armstrong Sr. May 17th, 2010 9:39 pm ET
R.J. Rennolds went bust because of stuff like this .
Stuart Klugler May 17th, 2010 9:39 pm ET
The long term effects of radiation are dangerous. We do not know all of them. Kind of like asbestos and tobacco, at first we did not know their true harms.
Personally, I was given radiation at Johns Hopkins Hospital for an acoustic neuroma (benign tumor in the ear canal.) in 2002. I now have cysts on the brain. Everything was taken away. Things become very critical when you are that 1 in 1000 even though that looks good statistically. Too much of radiation is given to animals to age them. I have aged, as well as going from running a 6 minute mile to barely walking. We need to explain to the common folks the long term (potential) dangers as opposed to saying that everything looks good. I made the mistake in 2002 of being naive. After having a shunt put in, I realize that there are flaws to everything. People need to be aware of the flaws.
carolyn May 17th, 2010 9:39 pm ET
Our children all have cell phones,but I cannot convince them that they cause cancer. I have a cell phone but keept in the truck for emergencies only.
Smith in Oregon May 17th, 2010 9:40 pm ET
@ Earle Richmond, blue tooth devices transmit at most 100 feet, cell phones are designed to transmit 5 miles or more. The amount of EMF microwave energy is the key.
We are swimming in EMF energy from Wi-Fi thru Airport Radar, NOAA Weather Radar, Military Defense Radar, and Satellite Ground penetrating Radar ALL being beamed upon YOU constantly.
cell phone cancer May 17th, 2010 9:40 pm ET
even Johnny Cochran was told his excessive use of cell phone against his head caused his brain cancer. Not to mention Senator Kennedy. The ONLY chip available that prevens more than 90$ exposure to cell 'rays' is the Memon chip. look for it!
Douglas Fairbanks May 17th, 2010 9:41 pm ET
No worries here, I'm 55 and don't own a cell phone. I don't buy into all the hype of having to be in contact with the whole world all at once. you want to find me leave a message maybe I'll get back to you. Do cordless phones have the same risk? My wife stays on that..
Doug...
Tiffany May 17th, 2010 9:41 pm ET
I've seen a nickel sized sticker for $30 that you stick on your cell phone that is supposed to decrease the radio waves. Could it possibly work?
Rand from Spokane May 17th, 2010 9:41 pm ET
Another issue with the cell phone is the way it has made it so easy for us to take home all the problems associated with our careers home with us. Texting, E-mails, calls... life to short not to take time to relax. Throw them in the glove box and keep them there.
Michael Armstrong Sr. May 17th, 2010 9:43 pm ET
So how much money did this lady win on her law suite .
al from VA May 17th, 2010 9:43 pm ET
Censorship is the best policy. Good job CNN.
Paul DeLuca May 17th, 2010 9:43 pm ET
Our office is across the hall from a Virizon cell transmitter location with cell arenas on roof.
Is this a health concern?
Kris Foy May 17th, 2010 9:43 pm ET
Regarding cell phone use..... Do the doctors know of any study that has been done for long term hearing aid use or cordless headsets for use with TV.
June May 17th, 2010 9:44 pm ET
Thanks for continuing this topic. I have a best girlfriend that had a cantalope size tumor removed from her uterus. My friend Betty has had a cell phone since the infancy of cell phone sales. My first question to her when I received the news was where is your phone kept when not at your ear. Her response was " always on my hips attached to my pants.....June Craven Denver Colorado
Smith in Oregon May 17th, 2010 9:44 pm ET
@ Ron Beasley, good question about Wi-Fi transmitters on many laptop and desktop computers.
If those Wi-Fi transmitters pass thru walls which they certainly do then they pass thru your body as well. AND the distance they generally are designed to transmit to is about the same as a cell phone.
It appears the Wi-Fi transmitters would be about the same in regards to a health concern AS A CELL PHONE and in local networks using Wi-Fi on your laptop or desktop that device is ON nearly all the time.
Chevies Newman,MD May 17th, 2010 9:44 pm ET
We hear about increased risk and increased relative risk but, considering the low levels of base line risk, I was glad to see the the Practicing Oncologist giving overall risk. Placing it into perspective you are 10 times more likely to die from an Mva as a result of speaking on the phone than dying from a phone associated malignancy. Throwing around numbers like 40 or 50 % in the absence of overall risk fails to give an adequate picture.
Michael Armstrong Sr. May 17th, 2010 9:46 pm ET
Sounds like R.J. Rennolds and the cell phone people have the same advisers .
Alex May 17th, 2010 9:46 pm ET
Even at the bottom of the screen, it says, "No Evidence" and "More Research Needed", and now these people who claim to be scientists are on the air cautioning everyone and telling us we need regulation.
How can these people call themselves Scientists? There's no data supported conclusion! What a disgrace to themselves and their professions. As scientists, they should know better than to claim a course of action without a data supported conclusion.
Personally, I don't care what happens with this. I dont support cell phone companies or doctors or people who have brain tumors. But before any scientist goes before the public and releases their data, they should have Evidence that validates their hypothesis.
Tom May 17th, 2010 9:46 pm ET
Dr. Davis has agood point about reducing cell phone use only "if you have personal concerns." I'm sure he would agree the same goes for reducing cigarette use.
Smith in Oregon May 17th, 2010 9:47 pm ET
@ Paul DeLuca, that would like expose you to the same amount as a cell phone next to your head. HOWEVER, there are EMF level detectors widely available which I would strongly suggest you or your 'firm' purchase and measure the background EMF to see what the levels are, the hot-spots and what you can do.
Shielding against outside EMF is not that difficult and future homes should take that into account so at least during the time you spend in your home you are not being exposed to high levels of EMF radiation.
Elizabeth Love Maddrey May 17th, 2010 9:47 pm ET
My father was diagnosed with a brain tumor a month before kennedy, same kind of tumor, same surgeon, same trajectory. My father died a month after Kennedy. He NEVER USED a cell phone.
clyde blake May 17th, 2010 9:47 pm ET
I have been a ham radio operator for over 30 years and lot of my radios run high power.my hand held radios run ulta high frequacy ( 460 mhz band). they run 5 watts. cell phones,the output of a cell of todays phones run very low power. less than 100 millwatts. cell phones back 10 years ago were higher power,but as of today, the technoly of the cell phone electronics, the service is so much better than it was back then. my radio equipment would run up to 5 kolowatts of transmitter power. the power lines that ran throght my property that I lived at for 34 years ran 44,000 kv lines and all the years of ham radio hamming, never had a problem what so ever!.
jack May 17th, 2010 9:48 pm ET
Please sell fruits and vegetables that are discolored instead of spraying them, waxing them etc. Allow animals to feed naturally, and forbid giving them hormones, antibiotics, and other nasty chemicals. The animals will be hardier for it. Give subsidies for farmers who go truly organic instead of the big farm subsidies we pay out to wealthy farmers who pollute our food, land and waters.I hope many people become aware that it is making them sick , and together we can influence politicians to act on our behalf. It is getting so bad, what alternative is there?
Michael Armstrong Sr. May 17th, 2010 9:48 pm ET
It would be a good idea to mark the cell phones with cancer warnings just like tobacco .
Ann Carr May 17th, 2010 9:48 pm ET
Can you wrap some none transmitable material like lead or other metal around your cell phone to be able to carry it in your pocket?
Gerry May 17th, 2010 9:49 pm ET
Larry, I am worried that cell phones cause tumors and certainly health issues. I had a malignant brain tumor in 2000. Prior to 2000 I was using the cell phone for at least 4 hours each day, 5 days a week. This was a requirement of my job. I was fortunate enough to have the tumor removed. When I use the cell phone now, my eyes will start to ache and I will start to get quick sharp pains in my head, as well as headaches. If I don’t use the cell phone, I don’t have the problem. If a brain is made up of many electrical signals, putting a cell phone up to your head surely interferes with the signals. If you can test those signals traveling through the air, what do you think it is doing to the complex brain signals?
Shay May 17th, 2010 9:49 pm ET
After being a skeptic, I now believe there is a relationship between cell phones and cancer. I used to clip my cell phone in the upper corner of my bra for easy carrying-usually had no pockets, I now have had 3 abnormal mammograms and the spot found is in the area where I carried the cell phone. I now fear the worst! Needless to say, I have a different model phone, do not carry it on my person, and use it only when abolutely necessary.
Vikki May 17th, 2010 9:49 pm ET
Cell phones absolutely cause cancer. Why even speak to the industry that profits from NOT acknowledging this fact. There will never be a real control group as the technology continues to permeate our world.
Another FACT- because it is SO difficult to make an absolute link between illness and environmental factors- the industry will always be able to hide behind the curtain of "uncertainty" and no direct link.
Here in Hillsborough County- the school board threw caution to the wind and opted for quick money for schools in stead of protecting children from the radiation spewed from cellular towers.
The school my son attended signed a 30 year contract to rent space
for a cellular tower- and now the children are no safer than lab rats sitting in a cage!
Bernie68 May 17th, 2010 9:50 pm ET
to Renee (previous post) I have been trying to get attention with hypothesizing about this issue of cell phone frequency and pregnant women for the last three years......I suspect this is the causel for AUTISM...........the increase of tech frequency and autism are parrelleling at the same duration......please question the professionals on your show. Thank You
(Me) I think this also, cell phone use while pregnant - my suspicions are that it and autism are related.... also read the post from Smith in Oregon.
Smith in Oregon May 17th, 2010 9:51 pm ET
One of the problems and concerns with the corresponding confusion is a cell phone that is ON but the user isn't speaking or texting at that moment. Cell phones still transmit various data regardless if the user is calling or texting someone. SO hanging a cell phone that is ON to your body would expose that area to a great deal more EMF RF exposure than you realize because of various data interchanges between the Cell Tower, the Provider and YOUR cell phone that is ON.
Diane Coombs May 17th, 2010 9:51 pm ET
Hello Gerry,
Thank you for your kind words. It was the most horrible 14 months of our lives. It destroyed our family; the personality change in this once strong vivacious man was so tragic. The disease of brain cancer is just a horror. We spent our life savings to save him; but the tumor came back as it always does. Please do not use a cell phone without head piece & not for a long period of time. I know my husband died because of his use. Beware please!
jared May 17th, 2010 9:52 pm ET
Hi Everyone most cell phones have a 3.5 or older ones 2.5 mm jacks which have corded one or two ear piece like head phones with a mic attached to the cord. If you are concerned about bluetooth....you can use a corded solution. Also fyi newer phones with the adp2 bluetooth profile there are bluetooth headsets with the tranceiver is at the end of the cord that will be away from your head. The phone can be up to 35 feet away, so you do not need to be near it. The head set has music and phone controls...to answer etc.
shirley from San Antonio, TX May 17th, 2010 9:52 pm ET
Would like to know if there has been similar studies on laptop use causing health issues, i.e. relating to abdominal cancers.
Lisa E May 17th, 2010 9:52 pm ET
I feel that it would be a very good idea if the cell phone companies would make it a package deal. In other words, when you purchase your phone, the earplugs or bluetooth come with the phone. This is so scary because there are so many children that talk on them for many hours a day. I say there should be a law, if in your car and on the phone, it has to be with an ear piece or a speaker phone. And we need more land lines in our homes. Not only cell phones.
Gano May 17th, 2010 9:53 pm ET
While there are concerns about cancer and cell phones. Someone made the comment that government needs to make a law(s) like seat belts in cars. I do not think government needs to make more laws. People can make their own decisions to reduce or stop using cell phones. No more laws !!
Jean May 17th, 2010 9:53 pm ET
Larry:
I heard about this health hazard about cellphone use a long time ago. They serve a useful purpose specifically for career people and those who own businesses. There are those, specifically young people who could abuse the usage and speak for endless hours on cellphones. There are some of them, whenever you see them they have a cellphone in their ears, speaking, and at every moment they get they will be talking on the cellphone; no time to even greet a person or carry on a conversation with them.
The businesses which manufacture and sell cellphones including the cell phone services providers who make a mint from customers will dispute about this health finding or speculation of causing cancer of the brain. If people cease purchasing and using them they stand to lose an exorbitant sum of money.
I am wondering if cellphones were manufactured for the purpose of consistent usage and hours per day?
I was considering the cordless phone and how safe it is to use consistently when someone from Canada telephoned and enquired about it. I would think that the cordless is as a health hazard as the cellphone.
I am sorry to hear about the lady's husband who has brain cancer due to cellphone use. Her husband is ailing from using it over an extended period. I do believe her.
Rand from Spokane May 17th, 2010 9:54 pm ET
When I retire no cell phone, no computer. Just good people, time at Priest lake Idaho, and lots of fresh air.
Michael Armstrong Sr. May 17th, 2010 9:55 pm ET
This country kills me with all of this health and race crap .
Smith in Oregon May 17th, 2010 9:56 pm ET
@ jared, The Cell Phone is constantly transmitting various data streams even when you are not speaking or texting someone. The corded solution is not without risk to that area of the body where your cell phone is attached and being exposed constantly to microwave energy.
Connie Schrecker May 17th, 2010 9:56 pm ET
I watched the program tonight about cell phone usage maybe causing brain tumors.
My 67 year old husband died 5 years ago from brain tumor cancer and NEVER used a cell phone. He fought the disease for 2 years. Three brain surgeries and 27 treatments of Chemo and radiation.
His younger brother died 2 years ago from the same brain tumor cancer.
I believe it is either environmental or genetics that caused it. Not cell phones.
My sons and I did a research study with MD Anderson in Houstin ,Texas and I have not heard back from them with the results of the study. They were working with thousands of families about this horrible disease.
Connie Schrecker
Loretta May 17th, 2010 9:58 pm ET
I was watching you show tonight and had a comment about the glimona that you guest was talking about. My daughter was also diagnoised in 2007 at the age of 27 years old. She went to the drs for probably 2 years because there was not one dr that could tell what was going on. Right after her 2nd son was born she really started having blackouts, back and neck problems. And I honestly do not believe that it would be from a cell phone. The dr thought she had the kind that nornally would be in a child. Hers was a speratic glioma. Anyway , my point is i would not think that a cell phone could have done all that. Hers was on her brain stem.
Smith in Oregon May 17th, 2010 9:58 pm ET
@ Rand from Spokane, sounds good. Looking for any neighbors? I'm thinking warmer perhaps also like Bora-Bora or the Polynesian Islands.
Michael Armstrong Sr. May 17th, 2010 9:59 pm ET
Just use a couple of tin cans with a string attached .
clyde blake May 17th, 2010 9:59 pm ET
the best way to carry your cell phone is not carry it. everyone at my job site has a cell phone and what are they doing????? for an 8 hour shift,most people that have a cell phone the ounly time that they are productive is when they are not on the phone. ok so 8 hours,well 6 hours being productive,1/2 hour lunch,2 15 min coffee breaks and 1 hour yaking on the phone or texting!. wouldn't the nations econamy pick up if everyone just stayed off the phone?
Deborah Kavruck May 17th, 2010 10:01 pm ET
What about cell phone towers? A local high school has put up two cell phone towers servicing 6 cell phone companies. I live about 1/4 mile away and am very concerned as towers emit radio waves constantly which permeate our homes and bodies.
Sean May 17th, 2010 10:01 pm ET
How can people who cannot afford a land line are walking around with 2 or 3 cell phones?
Gerry May 17th, 2010 10:01 pm ET
Error with my previous message. My tumor was benign....thank God! On another note... What would happen if a report came out saying cell phones caused tumors, cancerous or not? I’ll tell you. Lawsuits would start coming out of the woodwork and many people would stop using them, causing our economy to crash…as if it wasn’t bad enough.
David Bier May 17th, 2010 10:05 pm ET
Hello
I have an anaplastic astrocytoma. I was diagnosed in December 2002. Since then I have had brain surgery, chemo and radiation. I have never been a big cell phone user – perhaps 2 hours per months and I still got a brain tumor. In my brain tumor support group, the topic of cell phones causing brain tumors has been brought up to panels of doctors we get to interact with and all have said there is no conclusive evidence pointing to cell phones causing brain tumors.
May is National Brain Tumor Awareness Month !!
maggal May 17th, 2010 10:08 pm ET
EMERGENCY APPENDECTOMY: Results of the Interphone Study were supposed to be published four years ago, but dissension among researchers regarding interpretation stopped it. In order to ever get it published, an emergency appendectomy had to be done-some of the most concerning results, showing a doubling of risk, were put into "Appendix 2" and eliminated from the report (you have to download it online). You can find a discussion of this along with interviews of the researchers at There's been a lot of pressure from the industry not to disturb their cash cow (or wake up the lawyers). They don't want inconvenient results–after all, they paid a good chunk of change for this study. Folks, you don't know how much your perceptions have been manipulated by this industry.
clyde blake May 17th, 2010 10:09 pm ET
I carry at work a handy talky,pager,leatherman,visegripps,gloves and ham radio 2 meter radio and note pad. if i had to carry a cell phone, I would be able to move! people want to call me ,page me or call my office and leave a message. a cellphone would disrupt my chain of thinking!.
maggal May 17th, 2010 10:15 pm ET
May 17th, 2010 10:08 pm ET
Your comment is awaiting moderation.
EMERGENCY APPENDECTOMY: Results of the Interphone Study were supposed to be published four years ago, but dissension among researchers regarding interpretation stopped it. In order to ever get it published, an emergency appendectomy had to be done-some of the most concerning results, showing a doubling of risk, were put into "Appendix 2" and eliminated from the report (you have to download it online). You can find a discussion of this along with interviews of the researchers at the MicrowaveNews website. There's been a lot of pressure from the industry not to disturb their cash cow (or wake up the lawyers). They don't want inconvenient results–after all, they paid a good chunk of change for this study. Folks, you don't know how much your perceptions have been manipulated by this industry.
Jane May 17th, 2010 10:17 pm ET
I am really worried. I recently had an experience that hurt & frightened me. While using my 3G phone, I felt a strong throbbing energy that caused me such pain and ringing in my ears that I hung up in mid-conversation and paced around my home for several minutes waiting for the pain and ringing to lessen. I continued to have some discomfort over the next few days. In the past month, I (who has headaches so rarely that I often don't even have unexpired aspirin in the house) have had several headaches – always focused on the area on that side of my head, above my ear. I just purchased a Bluetooth – but I'm afraid I might have already done permanent damage to myself with my phone.
maggal May 17th, 2010 10:17 pm ET
Look up Microwave News to find that discussion of Appendix 2.
Diane Coombs May 17th, 2010 10:18 pm ET
Larry, wish you'd have on the same brain surgeon you had on your show previously regarding this subject. He's now written a book about brain cancer; he's the lead brain surgeon at Cedars. According to his book, brain cancer is linked genetically, where you live w/regard to power lines, the additives in food/hormones injected etc. He also talks about children's cell phone use and the risk they share because their skulls are still forming. He believes because their skulls are not completely formed and thinner than adults that the radiation exposure could cause a spike in brain cancer in our younger generation. The jury is still out on that one but it's absolutely freightening. He's seen a significant rise in Gliomas.
marcy May 17th, 2010 10:19 pm ET
i'm always on my cell I do talk alot on my phone lol!!, I've always had or been using my blu tooth but lately I have'nt been using it and I do realize that when I'm on my phone too long it gives me a headache so i guess its not good, When I used my blue tooth I dont get that headach so that makes me think.
Claire May 17th, 2010 10:26 pm ET
What about the risks of cell phone towers and people living near them??
gerald Jolly May 17th, 2010 10:32 pm ET
Absolutely positive.
Cell phone definately cause cancer.
A very dear friend of mine has been diagnosed with RECTAL CANCER.
According to the doctors that are treating him, they say that because Paul (THAT'S MY FRIEND) carries his cell phone in his back pocket, it is the probable cause for his RECTAL CANCER.
WHO KNEW?????????????
Diane Coombs May 17th, 2010 10:34 pm ET
Jane, You may want to have a CT scan done on your brain. I know these scans should be done very rarely, but at least you'd know if there is a tumor there and put your mind at ease. Glioblastoma is deadly and attacks without warning. I'd rather know than not right. What worries me is your headaches you said you've been getting. I will hope for the best for you & good luck! Diane C.
Jane May 17th, 2010 11:20 pm ET
Thanks, Diane. I have an Appt for my annual physical in 2 weeks and am going to ask for a referral. Thanks for your kind words.
Gerry G. May 17th, 2010 10:41 pm ET
Think about many other problems cell phones could be linked to, like depression, bipolar, etc. Do they know enough about it? I don’t think so. Lets face it, they won’t say anything about it, nor do anything about it unless we all do something about it…together.
Angela Flynn May 17th, 2010 10:42 pm ET
Here are some key points:
Read your instruction manual. It will tell you not to hold the phone/pda to your body. Why do you think they say this?
Distance does greatly lower the RFR exposure, however, yes people are harmed by second hand RFR from cell phones, WiFi and Cell Towers.
The best head set to use is one that incorporates an air tube. This works on the same principal as a doctor's stethoscope. The small section of plastic tubing breaks the antenna effect of a wired head set.
A Bluetooth is much lower exposure, however people tend to leave them on all day, and probably all night. This leads to cumulative RFR exposure. Russia bases their exposure standard on the cumulative effect as they have found that at a certain point all future RFR exposure is pathological. People often will keep their cell phone on them while using a Bluetooth. Again, back to the instruction manual...
Cell phones have an SAR rating, however studies show biological effects at levels lower than the SAR rating. The SAR rating is based on how long it takes to fill a jell filled model to heat up. There is no way of measuring how much we heat up or even what is happening in our brains without cutting into them. Not too many people volunteer for this type of study.
Dodie May 17th, 2010 10:48 pm ET
@ A. Smith
You are right on target. The Radio Frequency (RF) waves and microwaves are everywhere. They are invisible and damage our cells. 90% of the population has no idea of their dangers or even awareness of their omnipresence. They are found in anything from a simple light bulb to a mega-transformer. All DC motors generate FR wave forms.
Anyone who uses a 'spectrum analyzer' which is a device used to examine the spectral composition of electrical or optical waveforms such as RF wave can tell you how much we are inundated on a daily basis.
@ CNN, due to your technology in broadcasting, I challenge you to rent or purchase one of these instruments and see how much RF power is actually emitting from within your building. Hopefully, you will not 'short circuit' or 'resonate' from this information.
Diane Coombs May 17th, 2010 10:48 pm ET
Great advice Angela! Thanks, Diane
Dodie May 17th, 2010 10:53 pm ET
@ gerald Jolly
I am so sorry to hear of your friend.
They knew. Anyone working in electronics knows. Technicians often get what is called a "RF" bite. You cannot see it, but it is everywhere.
Blake Peters May 17th, 2010 10:59 pm ET
I have been using cellphone for years
and now can not hold a cell phone next
to my ear.My ear has a pain plus my jaw
gets a tingling feeling.
Cell Phones are dangerous to your health
before i for get my eyes bother me also
I could not beleive what i found on the internet
its' all about $
Roland May 17th, 2010 11:02 pm ET
It's up to one's self to make decisions in regards to your health. Don't ever ever ever ever expect a company or a government heavenly lobbied by companies to do what's right for you or your health. As a matter of fact, the health industry makes money off your illness. Take this as a small insight into what really happens to you when using a cell phone, and make some positive changes. If you wait until the companies or government studies make a full admission, you will probably already contract cancer or be dead.
Dodie May 17th, 2010 11:03 pm ET
@ Jack
Right on... right on... Love our technology but never know what is install for us later.
Jack, have you ever experienced a RF bite? Darn thing, you can't see it but you certainly can feel it. Just like static shock!
john May 17th, 2010 11:07 pm ET
Edmunds-Tucker Act 1882
All States will not fully investigate the crime or enforce the law
1)	If you marry a person who is not divorced and they do not let you know and you vote it is illegal to vote in the United States territories.
2)	How many people in state and federal Political Office that were voted in to office and the law was not Enforce
3)	Plural Marriage with the passage of the Anti-Polygamy Acts, 27 which Criminalized polygamy in the United States territories.
4)	Congress passed a statute requiring a man to take an oath affirming that he was not a polygamist before he was allowed to vote.
5)	Any person is polygamist within meaning of Edmunds-Tucker Act if he has plurality of wives at time he presents himself for voter registration, even though he may not have cohabited with more than one of them since the passage of Act.
6)	Had been upheld as constitutional in 1996
7)	Every person having a husband or wife living, who shall marry any Other person, whether married or single, in a Territory of the United States, or other place over which the United States have exclusive jurisdiction, Shall . . . be adjudged guilty of bigamy, and . . . shall be punished By a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars, and by imprisonment for a Term not exceeding five years Id. 28. 98 U.S. 145. 29. See Edmunds Act, ch. 47, §§ 5, 8–9, 22 Stat. 30, 31–32 (1882) (repealed 1983). 30. Edmunds-Tucker Act, ch. 397, § 24, 24 Stat. 635, 639–40 (1887) (repealed 1978). 31. See, e.g., Davis v. Beason, 133 U.S. 333 (1890) (holding that statutes that conditioned Voting rights on refusal to practice polygamy were lawful), overruled by Romer v. Evans, 517 U.S. 620 (1996); Murphy v. Ramsey, 114 U.S. 15 (1885) (finding)
8)	That any person is polygamist within meaning of Edmunds-Tucker Act if he has plurality of wives at time he presents himself for voter registration, even though he may not have cohabited with more than one of them since the passage of Act).
9)	The Morrill Anti-Bigamy Act was amended in 1882 by the Edmunds Act, and then again in 1887 by the Edmunds–Tucker Act.
10)	The Morrill Anti-Bigamy Act (37th United States Congress, Sess. 2., ch. 126, 12 Stat. 501) was a federal enactment of the United States Congress that was signed into law on July 8, 1862 by President Abraham Lincoln. Sponsored by Justin Smith Morrill of Vermont, the act banned bigamy and limited church and non-profit ownership in any territory of the United States to $50,000
11)	How many people in state and federal Political Office that were voted in to office and the law was not Enforce
Roland May 17th, 2010 11:07 pm ET
Larry
Since you are one of the only reporters with the guts to address the extraterrestrial phenomenon; when are you going to talk about Henry W. McElroy, Jr. retiring State Representative to New Hampshire and his admission of ET's?
Take the lead on this story, since no one else is. Don't let the internet be to only real media of truth.
As always, great reporting Larry.
jack May 17th, 2010 11:10 pm ET
Seems like we are getting loads of bad news on about every front. Is this another coverup, like the BP cleanup story? Would be nice to see some good news for a change. As long as greed rules the day instead of the betterment of all life, we will continue to have these dismal news stories.
Vince Bialkowski May 17th, 2010 11:13 pm ET
Do you see how they compartmentalize your view to only see the cancer that it causes. wireless or radio frequency causes the healthy cells nanotubes to retract from the cell wall. now the cell is in a state of emergency, it treats everything as a threat / toxic invader. the real problem is when the cell mutates like this.
this is one of the main reasons for autoimmune disorders. the other being D3/sun deprived.
we only get sick for one reason, from the commen cold to the flu,cancer or any other disaease and thats when the immune system is comprimized. the data on your show today is very old. to bad you never spoke about the class action in the US against the communication industries for the ill health effects from wireless. first pay out was over 6 years ago for 150 million.
a cell phone is nothing more than a hand held MICRO WAVE device.
MICRO WAVED food molecules end up being mirrored, they say you might as well eat pure cholesteral.
they have power guild lines but no thershold limits is where the big problem lies.
tune into the big picture 🙂
Vince Bialkowski May 17th, 2010 11:14 pm ET
Wow... I am sorry they filter the information I have for you . 😦
Idzan Ismail, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia May 17th, 2010 11:28 pm ET
It's an evil neccesity which I can't live without. I can't live without texting.
I will take the cancer (God forbid) but i am lost without the cell-phone.
But i just wonder how did we survive before without it??.
We didn't have to resort to calling anyone when we lost our way to a friend's house then.
But one think I will never do is talkor answer the cell when i am eating.
I feel it's unhygienic to touch food and use the cell at the same time.
The cell carries lots of germs since we bring it everywhere.
Dodie May 17th, 2010 11:36 pm ET
@ Idzan Ismail, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Good news... Texting is not right up to your ear! You are in luck!
Concerned Mother May 17th, 2010 11:59 pm ET
I've heard the comment 'scientist should have the evidence first before speaking out on the health risks from cell phones. Well let me tell those sceptics, there are hundreds if not thousands of published studies showing microwave radiation (equivalent to a cell phone) causes many harmful biological effects such as: RNA mutation; double helix DNA breaks, blood brain barrier leakage, dysfunction of mitochondria; depletion of vital antioxidants, neurotransmitters, and hormones such as: melatonin, serotonin, nor epinephrine, dopamine, and acetylcholine; and it goes on.
Maybe these people need to do their own homework before they speak. Scientists do have the research! It is just being buried in the spin science that uses words like ‘inconclusive’ and ‘weight of evidence’.
Yes, most studies that are funded by industry, surprise, mostly show there is ‘no increased risk’ from cell phones, however; independent research clearly shows a direct relationship between exposure to microwave radiation and serious adverse biological effects.
The effects on lab rats, insects, and plants is well documented; now scientists are collecting data from the public to see how these biological effects actually manifests in peoples’ health, and it is not good.
As long as industry is allowed to have such unbridled ties with government, and health agencies continue to receive funding from the very industry they are conducting studies on, we will never be given the truth about cell phones and wireless technology period.
One study of interest many are unaware of is the ‘Ecolog Study’, commissioned by T-mobile. There is good reason industry kept this study under wraps- shocking result.
The clearest message so far is there is no clear message. Do your research; don’t expect government to protect you or your family
susan ronis May 18th, 2010 12:02 am ET
yes, I know that my right temporal astrocytoma came as a result of overuse of the cell phone for 12 years, 8 hours a day. Now i only use it on speaker
Taylor Majerus May 18th, 2010 12:10 am ET
The research was flawed.
1) The research mainly included people who had used cell phones for ten years or less. Cancerusually takes 15-30 years to develop. Anyone see a flaw??
2) The research was funded by the cell phone industry. I bet they really want us to find out cell phones are dangerous and stop using them.
C Goetz May 18th, 2010 12:12 am ET
Heavy use was defined at 1640 hours over the course of the test...
So what is that per day?
The test was over 10 years...that equals about 45min per day!!!
I think many people would be shocked to know that!
Dr. Rhoda Zione Alale May 18th, 2010 12:15 am ET
Do cell phones cause cancer? Yes. . .
Yes, cell phone radiation causes de-mineralization of body and impedes vital functions of immunity which leaves the body defenseless in stopping the development of cancer in the body.
The eMUSCLE and the ELF test can demonstrate HOW MUCH ASSAULT tha cell phone makes on the body.
Dr. Rhoda Zione Alale May 18th, 2010 12:23 am ET
All Bluetooth Manufacturers in America were sued for causing acoutic neuroma ( hearing loss ). Researchers at NIH and the American College of Neurologist confirm the same. Join the law suit. Get the information from PEOPLE'S Magazine, April 13, 2009 page 82
Ray Fraire May 18th, 2010 12:24 am ET
My God, Larry i've Been using cell phones since 1992 . Recently my left ear all the way down to my lower neck has been in a flaring burning pain. This discomfort has been on going for the last year. Eighteen on going useing my cell phone as my primemary communication tool to do my mortage banking business. What To Do???
Bob May 18th, 2010 12:25 am ET
Hi Larry,
Is there any difference in cancer risk between using a cell phone compared to using a regular cordless phone?
Thank You
Bob
Johan May 18th, 2010 12:25 am ET
Dear Mr. King,
If you're interested in the cell phone/cancer link, Dr. George Carlo is someone you may want to read up on or interview. He was hired by the industry, but his conclusions were suppressed. He is now an activist in the field trying to get the word out. There are some very interesting lectures and interviews I found on youtube.
Swati May 18th, 2010 12:26 am ET
Can anyone comment on the link between cell phones and testicular cancers? Should children take more precautions in that as well?
Should more studies be done in these other areas?
Lastly, can any of the televised panel, comment on pagers/beepers that doctors often have to keep around. Do those pose a similar risk (hypothetically)?
Thanks.
Dodie May 18th, 2010 12:33 am ET
@ Concerned Mother
Well stated and I completely agree. Do your own research which will require some digging since the studies are often funded by the industry they are studying. I always find that a contradiction in terms but the sign of the times!
Yes, Making your own decision based on gathered knowledge from a reputable source.
Thank You!
Dodie May 18th, 2010 12:37 am ET
Should be more than one source for information
keith May 18th, 2010 12:40 am ET
Are there any studies that show that cell phones affect birds or other small creatures?
DLF May 18th, 2010 12:42 am ET
Cell phones of the early 80's and 90's used to be powered in a range of watts, these days they are measured in thousandths of watts. They haven't even said anything about the specific absorption rate and how it is measured in these labs. The tests are conducted at a distance of 8 inches and you don't see people holding a phone 8 inches away from their ears. This is done because it is said that the emf's (electromagnetic frequencies) must be absorbed through the entire brain. It you are really curious about this topic do yourself a favor and go buy an emf reader and it will tell you the level that each device in your home is transmitting.
Hector Murphy May 18th, 2010 12:43 am ET
I have heard that if I use a cell phone to call someone and they do not answer, then the risk of radiation is negligable, even if I leave a voicemail. Can you verify this information?
DLF May 18th, 2010 12:44 am ET
Yes Dr. George Carlo and Lennart Hardell are a pair that should be on for interview
anthony warner May 18th, 2010 12:46 am ET
i've been saying for a long time that cell phones irritate my ear-i feel my ear drum becoming hot and it throbs after i use a cell phone. i read a bit about the cancer correlation and i feel that any ambiguity comes from economic conflicts, fundamentally-what research is done, by who, for what reasons-meaning, if science is not saying that high levels of energy from phones causes cancer in sensitive tissues, it is because it is bad science coming from bought-off scientists-which reminds me of the tobacco argument that the last generation had and the environmental-impact-of-COx-and-NOx argument that this generation is having.
i am certain enough about the dangers of microwave (cell phone) radiation that i have gotten rid of my cell phone; i now use a land line and am so content!
i know a bit more about the scientific, biological/physical, reasoning than most, being a medical student, but it seems anyone with a clear head can make the same observations and conclusions, regardless of the forces of skewed data and special interests.
Ruth Lenger May 18th, 2010 12:50 am ET
We have had three members of our immediate family who died of glioblastoma (malignant brain tumor), ages 43, 58, and 60. They were all related by marriage, not blood. In addition, they did not live near eachother.
Most important, none of them used cell phones to excess...one who hardly ever used a cell phone and who did not use one very much. I believe the cell phone is NOT the culprit and we must be looking at other causes. Let's not be distracted. R.L.
Corina May 18th, 2010 12:56 am ET
Larry;
Very interesting program. My concern is, the I-pods also cause brain tumor?
Can you do a program on brain cancer risk and I-pods since they are used extensively across the world.
Thanks Larry.
DLF May 18th, 2010 12:58 am ET
It is not RF that is the culprit Larry it is EMF. Emf's can cause Acoustic Neuroma, tumors attached to the inner ear.
jack May 18th, 2010 1:04 am ET
@Dodie...I can't recall an RF bite specifically, but I've had loads of negative experiences, pains and high anxieties in my time. I guess that comes with the territory. :-}
Luis B. Rosario May 18th, 2010 1:09 am ET
@Dodie
I believe that too much cell phone exposure gave me freckles.
It still to early to tell what happened to some people is associated
with cell pnone use. Sometimes is pure association and
speculation but a word to the wise" beware of the hatchet"
Mos household phones have been replaced by cell phones.
I even caught my 1 year greatgrandson trying to call Gov
Brewer of Arizona to ask her if she could wrtie up a bill on
a moratorium on cell phone use for illegal immigrants. lol.
It is great to read all the blogs again. For a while I was
like Steve Wonder I could not see my own guitar.
.
jack May 18th, 2010 1:09 am ET
@anthony warner...Good luck with medical school. We need more doctors that are willing to look at different issues, which many people take for granted, in a fresh way.
Greg May 18th, 2010 1:13 am ET
Larry either misheard or misinterpreted what the scientist said (whose name I can't remember; it was the guy from France). He did not say that heavy cell phone users have a 40% chance of developing the illness in question. He said that the number of of people who develop the illness is 40% higher in the heavy use group than in the control group. In other words, take the ratio of people who developed the illness in the control group, multiply it by 1.40, and you have the ratio of people who developed the illness in the heavy use group. The two statements are not the same.
Also, regarding the lady whose husband (was it her husband - I wasn't paying full attention) developed an illness: there is no way the doctors could have inferred a causal relationship between the cell phone usage and the illness from the husband's medical records, etc. To establish a causal relationship, one would have to follow the scientific method of investigation. But even the ten-year scientific study discussed earlier in the show failed to establish a causal connection. Yet this lady thinks she knows otherwise.
Cajazz76:24:8 May 18th, 2010 1:18 am ET
Honk!!! If you love Jesus...text while driving if you want to meet him..
Pam May 18th, 2010 1:28 am ET
I have a brain tumor that was diagnosed in 1987. Although I feel it's important to research what is the cause of all cancers, I strongly believe we need to direct as much attention to early detection of brain tumors. I would encourage all to google the Brain Tumor Foundation in NY,NY, which my neurosurgeon founded, for more information.
John May 18th, 2010 3:23 am ET
Get a physicist on the panel. The very idea that a radio wave could cause cancer is laughable. In order for radiation to start causing damage to DNA it needs to have energy on order of x-ray or gamma-ray radiation. If there is a feature in cellular phones that is causing cancer it would also be found in any number of electronic devices that are used in every day life.
Julie May 18th, 2010 4:22 am ET
So, many websites for decade now, comfirm tumors grow from cell phone use. Not exactly new news.
My son few years back, had this tumor right side involve his carotid artery and thyroid, we are talking one dang big tumor. 16 hours of surgery in Austrian hospital which I have the graciously worship their medical technology and say thank you, all done for free. along with ten years of affordable college, I cannot thank that country enough.
Yes, I believe was all due his constant use of cell phone. He has not given it up. I am not on a band wagon for technology, I still use dial up. In business for 40 years, I actually have to instruct people how to use a dial up phone. Most everything from China is killing us. What else is new?
Notice no tumors on the Amish folks. All healthy, no Chinese junk.
Idzan Ismail, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia May 18th, 2010 4:50 am ET
@Dodie
Thanks.
BTW a teen-ager in my country was killed while he stopped by his bike to answer his cell during a thunderstorm.
I was texting by my pc during a thunderstorm and the lightning strike the pc. It conked.
Had to send it for repairs. luckily the cell can still function.
Also using a land-line during thunderstorms could cause deafness.
Timmy from sweden May 18th, 2010 5:40 am ET
Larry i just have one question has there really been any one claiming that they have got ill from the use of cell phones,with reasonable fact and proofs
gerald Jolly May 18th, 2010 8:18 am ET
@ Dodie.
All that I can tell you for sure, is that, I do not carry my cellphone in my back pocket.
WHY RISK IT???
Hope you are well and happy.
And keep your cell phone in your purse.
What the heck, let your purse get cancer, is all I have to say.
Love Ya.
z4andra@yahoo.com May 18th, 2010 8:47 am ET
Please run this show again. This is a warning to protect our children, for us it is too late as most parents have been on their phone at least that length of time over more years. thanks.
Jennifer Palerino May 18th, 2010 9:18 am ET
HI Larry,
This show last night was amazing. I was getting severe headaches from using the cell phone, my phone is always hot and I was complaing to a friend one day and my friend recommended the most amazing thing called the Waveshield. I didn't trust what they were saying but I said hey I will try anything at this point. I put this little thing on my phone and it blocked the radiation from my ear. My headaches are GONE!!! I am a very skeptical person and I can not belive there is something out there that worked. I heard it is the only approved product or something? I got it at Waveshield.com and since then I have gotten it for my husband and sister and my entier family. I told them it worked, no one trusts it but they all put it on their phones. There are articles about it on cprnews.com that my friend had me look at before i bought it and on the waveshield website. You guys keep having doctors and experts you should look into this product it changed my life!! Thanks Jennifer Palerino
Denis May 18th, 2010 9:30 am ET
Wow, 1% brain cancer vs what is it for breast cancer (+40%) and it gets this much focus??? Does the study group not understand that the use of cell phones has moved away from the "phone to the ear" era to 'hands free' and 'texting'? The kids today don't use their phone like we did 5 or more years ago.
Jean May 18th, 2010 10:10 am ET
There are numerous diseases in the world and people do not always contract the identical disease, as an example cancer of the body, in various parts of the body. There is always a cause for illness which can lead to death.
For instance smoking and second hand smoke are other ones. Inhaling chemical fumes, such as exhaust fumes from vehicles. Consistent stress can also cause be a source of illness. No exception chemical sprayed on our vegetables, usage of the microwave, to name a few and the list goes on.
Consider too the computer screen which in the past remited rays which were not good for our eyes. Women who were pregnant were affected by it.
Do we ever have many disease-causing elements which results in numerous illnesses and deaths and sadly so.
One person contracts an illness which may not be attributed to, as an example, cell phones consistent usage and another will contract the illness. It is a mystery, a non-explanable one. Not even scientists and doctors have the answer. Only God has the answer.
Do you know what? We must be broad-minded about illness-causing technologies and chemicals.
Having stated the above, the thought is crossing my mind, hopefully, through godly inspiration, "The day will come when all these mysteries will unfold and will be revealed to us."
In the meantime, we are given life. We must live well, eat well, sleep well and do not abuse our bodies, our time, whatever technology we have been granted with, as cellphones. The saying: "Too much of one thing is good for nothing." Make good use of what we have for they are for good reasons. However, if at all possible, reduce the usage of such elements to a minimum. In other words, do not overdo anything.
Our health is important and we should take care of ourselves if we hope to live a long and fruitful life. It is something which no one can do for us.
Granted, it is stated that we have a life-span and when that time is up, it is up. I do believe that many people could live longer, healthier and to a ripe old age, if only they (we) take good care of ourselves.
The experts have spoken. Others have spoken from experience. It is also stated: "Experience is a good teacher. Learn from others." Those who are honest ones and who are interested in our well-being have provided information and warnings. May we take heed. This is my opinion.
Eduardo May 18th, 2010 12:21 pm ET
the greater problem of the cellular is to write and to listen while of it leads a car or bus
Conrad LeBeau May 18th, 2010 1:09 pm ET
For once I was glad to see some unvarnished truth told about a link between long term cell phone use and brain cancer, one of the many health hazards of wireless technology. The most unnoticed other effect is sleep interruption coming not from the cell phone users but rather from the cell phone towers that emits hundreds of times more microwave radiation than the individual cell phone. While the number of persons who develop brain cancer, acoustic neuroma's or salivary gland tumors may number in the thousands, the number of people who wake up at 3 am in the morning and struggle to get back to sleep numbers in the millions. I found that by microwave-proofing my bedroom (installing aluminum insulation on the walls and the ceiling), it would keep out the signals from the cell phone towers, WI-Fi and other sources. As a result, I doubled my sleep from 3 to 6 hours a night before first waking up. My quality of sleep also vastly improved. Conrad LeBeau
Earl Richmond May 18th, 2010 2:05 pm ET
Always beware of new technology being pushed by powerful corporations and check it out for possible hazards.
Dodie May 18th, 2010 2:39 pm ET
@ Jack
I often find when faced with perceived negative experiences ….a little tweaking in my cognitive discernment on life creates a bed of emotional growth. Those with the gentlest of souls and kindest of hearts must often make these adjustments. A hug from a friend also provides needed warmth. :~)
Dodie May 18th, 2010 2:49 pm ET
Idzan Ismail, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
I am so sorry to hear about the teen. Yes, texting is very dangerous while driving. We have very strict laws here for that reason, which I am thankful for. Oh my, I have heard those storms can cause real problems. You need to be careful Idzan Ismail. I always enjoy reading what you post on LKL. Take care of yourself.
Dr. John G. Florendo May 18th, 2010 2:58 pm ET
On another point, the Bluetooth and Wi-Fi access are more emf generating and form an antenna type of development that actually attracts other EMR and EMF in the surrounding area. Example someone wearing the Bluetooth headset, will pull the EMR from someone utilizing their microwave oven as well as someone using their cell phone within a specific range. Again, the answer is to protect the body and Scalar Energy protective devices can do this. Cell charge is directly affected by EMF and this is the major culprit to the deterioration of the immune system and one of the precursors to sickness. Scalar energy increases the cellular charge, which in turn enhances immunity. EMF and EMR travel at the speed of light, Scalar Energy travels faster than the speed of light. Quantum mechanics and the Science prove the effectiveness of this energy. Would love to discuss the benefits.
Dodie May 18th, 2010 4:02 pm ET
@gerald Jolly
I am delighted you have protected yourself and do not carry the cell phone in your pocket or any area of your body. It seems for men a little more complicated as many use their pockets or belts in which to carry their cell phone. Doing well, Gerald, just experiencing that bed of emotional growth. Thank you for your kindness and concern. Dodie
Dodie May 18th, 2010 4:17 pm ET
@ Luis
Buenas tardes amigo, Hola!
Freckles are cute! Awe, blame it on the poor cell phone. That seems logical. It appears your great grandson has your spirit, wit and humor. How delightful. We certainly could use more of this in the world today. Stay well and welcome back! Dodie
Dodie May 18th, 2010 4:56 pm ET
Stuart Klugler
Thank you for having the courage of sharing your continued struggle and tragic experience. I am so sorry. Have you looked into alternative medicine for an answer? I have found 'traditional' (ancient) Chinese medicine helps in ways western medicine does not understand. May you find a solution and reverse this condition.
Alexandra Baron May 18th, 2010 6:02 pm ET
Larry, great information last night concerning cell phone dangers. All the research I have read confirms the fact that there is a definite link between cell phones and brain cancer. Why not avoid as much radiation as possible? If there is even the slightest chance that there is danger of cancer why wouldn"t everyone do something to eliminate that threat? the undeniable fact: there is a link between cell phone use and brain cancer.
Alexandra Baron
Ellie Marks May 18th, 2010 7:38 pm ET
Matt- one more thing- you are right. This Interphone study is so biased BUT 1640 hours is nothing. My husband used one for 20 years for 1.2 hours a day (10,000 hours) and will die from it. Many of us are coming up on 10 years of use (at least) and we should be extremely concerned.
POINT IS – EVEN INTERPHONE STUDY SAID THAT WITH 4 YRS OF USE, OR 1640 HOURS THERE IS A 40% INCREASED RISK OF A GLIOMA (BRAIN CANCER). GET IT?????????????????? That is not a lot of use- exactly. Thank you Matt!
Idzan Ismail, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia May 18th, 2010 9:31 pm ET
@Dodie
Thanks. Nice talking to you guys.
We do have laws forbidding talking and texting while driving but people flout it.
what is more scary is the possible low sperm count especially for young lads.
Ah well, we just take the risks if we want to continue living.
We have heard many. many stories of don't eat this, don't eat that or else you get cancer.
Our only hope is the telcos will come out with safer cell-phones.
Dodie May 18th, 2010 10:15 pm ET
@Idzan Ismail, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Always looking forward to reading your intelligent posts and depth of perception. Take care of yourself. Dodie
Zack May 19th, 2010 1:09 am ET
We need to employ the Precautionary Principle now. All long term studies have proven a definite link between tumors and cell phone usage. The CTIA legalese is shameful at the expense of so many families and lives. Cell phones are alright if you just use your speakerphone and don't put it up to your head. Please support Mayor Gavin Newsom and Senator Mark Leno in CA. We need warning labels on all cell phones and packaging. The warnings are already in the fine print of the manuals.
claudia May 20th, 2010 3:20 am ET
According to Times Magazine there is an upsurge of autism recorded in Silicon Valley than elsewhere. Huge exposure there for its working residents.
Comments have been closed for this article
« Back to main
Previous article:
What's Coming Up on LKL!
Next article:
The tragic face of ‘drill, baby, drill’
Keep up to date with Larry
Follow him on Twitter
Become a fan on Facebook
Contact us
Questions or comments? Email
Follow @kingsthings on Twitter
Become a fan on Facebook
Share your stories: iReport
What's on LKL tonight? Sign up for daily emails
Read Transcripts of past shows
Watch and Vote at WhosRight
LKL Web Exclusives!
Fight Hunger!
LKL Exclusive: Leeza Gibbons Offers Strength and Support to Alzheimers Caregivers
Operation Thriller: It All Started with a Conversation
Operation Thriller: Real Life 'Rambo'
Operation Thriller: We Met the Real Heroes
Go Behind The Scenes
Producer
LARRY KING LIVE'S Emmy-winning Senior Executive Producer Wendy Walker knows what it takes to make a great story.
With anecdotes, provocative emails, scandals, show transcripts and insights into Walker's long working relationship with Larry King, her new book PRODUCER issues readers an invitation to listen in on the most intriguing conversations on the planet.
Order from:
Amazon
Barnes & Noble
Borders
What's Hot
American Idol
Michael Jackson
Politics is King
Celeb Watch
Crime Beat
King of Hearts
Saving a heart a day is the goal! Learn more about the Foundation and it's efforts to help the uninsured
Visit the Larry King Cardiac Foundation.
Recent Posts
Stay tuned for more Larry King!
Larry Bids Farewell
Revisit 25 Years in 3 minutes
In case you missed it: Barbra Streisand!
Winner of 'Be the King' Contest!
In case you missed it: The Judds!
Susan Boyle Performs "O Holy Night"
Hani Masri & Haim Saban on Peace in Middle East
Conan O'Brien on Jay Leno!
ICYMI: Peace in the Mideast?
Categories
Larry King Live (1,753)
Michael Jackson (476)
Entertainment (310)
Politics (208)
TV Promo Box (208)
Archive
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
Powered by WordPress.com VIP
Post to
Cancel
Comments are off.
More sharing
More sharing