Grass-Fed Beef
Start Here
About
Success Stories
Subscribe
Contact
Healing Gourmet
Healthy Diet
Keto Diet
Organic Diet
Paleo Diet
Diabetes Diet
Anti-Cancer Diet
Heart Healthy Diet
Candida Diet
Detox Diet
Healthy Diet Directory
Healthy Cooking
Paleo Keto Baking
Best Brands
Healthy Recipes
Keto Recipes
Paleo Recipes
Instant Pot Recipes
Low Carb Bread Recipes
Breakfast
Desserts
Healthy Foods
Healthy Foods Directory
Superfoods
Healthy Eating
Meal Plans
Healthy Meal Plans
Meal Planning
Healthy Meals
Healthy Menus
Healing Gourmet > Organic Diet > Grass-Fed Beef
Grass-Fed Beef
by Kelley Herring on December 6, 2012
If you have picked up a newspaper or turned on the news recently, you might have read or heard the story that “red meat causes cancer.” Just about every major health organization and the entire mainstream news media have broadcast headlines about a study of 500,000 people, published in the Archives of Internal Medicine. The study concluded that eating “red meat” raises total mortality risk – including the risk of death from cancer and cardiovascular disease. But before you toss out your steak knives and donate your grill, you should know that most population studies are rife with flaws. And this one is no different. Consider three important facts about this widely published study condemning red meat:
The researchers in this study failed to consider how the “red meat” was produced.
The study lumps processed meats in the same category as “red meat”. But processed meats are known to contain potent carcinogenic compounds that have been linked to almost every form of cancer (not to mention heart disease and diabetes!)
This study also fails to account for how the meat was prepared. Was it well-done, barbecued, fried or broiled? Or was it rare, slow-cooked, boiled or stewed?
All of these factors affect nutrient levels, fat ratios, sodium content and toxins in the meat… which in turn affects your health and disease risk. Today, we’re going to separate farm fact from fiction, disprove the bull that “all beef is created equal” and show you how you enjoy the healthiest red meat.
Feedlot Beef: It’s What’s for Dinner
Whether you’re eating an expensive filet mignon or a cheap burger, it probably came from a feedlot.
Time Magazine reports that grass-fed beef constitutes only 1% of the beef supply in North America.
That means that whether you are eating a cheap fast food burger or an expensive filet mignon, the beef on your plate was – with 99% certainty – raised in squalid, jam-packed conditions and fattened on pesticide-ridden, genetically-modified corn in a factory feedlot.
Dr. Loren Cordain, PhD, author of The Paleo Diet and a professor in the Department of Health and Exercise Science at Colorado State University has done extensive research on the world of differences between grass-fed and grain-fed beef. Consider what happens to the meat when cows do not have the chance to eat grass, the diet they were designed for by Mother Nature :
Higher in calories
Higher in saturated fat
Higher in inflammation-promoting omega-6 fats and lower in heart-healthy omega-3s
Lower in a cancer-fighting, fat-blasting fat called conjugated linolenic acid (CLA)
Lower in cancer-fighting vitamins including A and E
Packed with growth hormones, pesticide residues and antibiotics
But the good news is that the grass is definitely greener on the pasture-fed side of the fence.
Grass-Fed Beef: Dining Where the Grass is Greener
According to research published in the Journal of Animal Science grass-fed beef is naturally leaner, lower in calories and packed with age-defying, cancer-fighting nutrients including:
An optimal ratio of omega-6 to omega-3 fatty acids
200% – 400% more omega-3 than grain fed beef
400% more conjugated linolenic acid (CLA)
400% more vitamin A and E
NO growth hormones, pesticide residues or regular antibiotic use
The types and ratios of fat and other nutrients in grass-fed beef is remarkably similar to wild ruminants (including elk, deer, buffalo, and antelope). These animals, along with fish, eggs, nuts and other foods we could gather, represented the primary fat and protein source for many thousands of years of human history.
Our genes have changed very little since the days of our Paleolithic ancestors. In fact, more than 99% of our genetic makeup is exactly the same. And yet, our diet has completely changed.
Dr. Cordain and many other health and nutrition experts believe that the shift to unnatural farming practices and processed foods is the primary cause of chronic disease. And here at Healing Gourmet, we agree.
You have heard the adage that, “you are what you eat.” This may be true. But when it comes to meat, you are what they ate. So, before you consume animal products, you should always consider the environment in which the animal was raised and the diet it consumed. If you always opt for pasture-raised, grass-fed beef, you’re sure to start out with a healthier piece of meat.
But there’s a lot more that can go wrong in the processing and preparation of meats…
Processed Meat: Beef with a Big Dose of Cancer-Causing Chemicals
A hundred years ago, “curing” was the tried-and-true technique for preserving meats. This method relied on nothing but salt and time.
Today’s conventional meat processors rely on sodium nitrite.
Sodium nitrites are the primary preservatives used in processed meats like hot dogs, cold cuts and bacon. And they can be deadly. In fact, just four grams of sodium nitrite is a lethal dose to a 130 pound person.
Conventionally processed meats contain nitrites – chemicals found to promote cancer, brain tumors, heart disease and diabetes.
In the body, sodium nitrites are converted to highly carcinogenic N-nitroso compounds (nitrosamines). These potent cancer-causing chemicals speed up the formation and growth of cancer cells.
In fact, a study published in Mutation Research calls them “the most broadly acting and the most potent group of carcinogens”. But unfortunately, the health hazards of nitrites don’t end with cancer.
Nitrites also promote atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries), high blood pressure and insulin resistance, increasing the risk for heart disease and diabetes.
Take a look at the research on meats processed with nitrites:
Related to Most Forms of Cancer: A Canadian cancer research group evaluated nearly 20,000 people and found that consumption of processed meat was related to the risk of the stomach, colon, rectum, pancreas, lung, prostate, kidney and bladder cancer and leukemia
Heart Disease & Diabetes: People who ate a 1.8 oz daily serving of processed meat (about 1-2 slices of deli meats or 1 hot dog) had a 42% higher risk of heart disease and a 19% higher risk for diabetes according to a Harvard study, published in Circulation. Eating unprocessed red meat was not associated with these risks.
Colorectal Cancer: People who ate the most processed meat were 50% more likely to develop colon cancer (JAMA).
Stomach Cancer: An investigation of 15 studies on processed meat found that the risk of stomach cancer increased from 15% – 38% for every additional ounce consumed.
Childhood Leukemia: A 2009 study conducted at Harvard found that eating cured or smoked meats or fish more than once a week increased the risk for childhood leukemia by 200%.
Pancreatic Cancer: In a study published by the National Cancer Institute, people who ate the most processed meats had a 68% higher risk of pancreatic cancer compared to those who ate the least.
Brain Tumors in Children: Children born to women who ate a lot of cured meats during pregnancy had a 200-300% increased risk of developing a brain tumor than those born to mothers who did not consume cured meats, according to a study published in Public Health Nutrition.
Years of research have clearly shown that sodium nitrites are potent carcinogens and raise the risk of heart disease and diabetes. You should avoid these chemical preservatives at all costs.
Fortunately, that does not mean you have to ban the bacon, slash the sausage or ditch the deli meats. You just need to become a wise consumer and look for the natural brands that do not use these harmful preservatives.
And that’s where Healing Gourmet can help you. We have reviewed thousands of brand name foods (including hundreds of specialty brands you may have never heard of) to identify those that are healthy and not harmful. We publish these foods and suppliers in our Healthy Packaged Foods Database, including companies like Applegate Farms and U.S. Wellness Meats, who produce nitrite free meat products.
There’s one final factor to look at when it comes to beef and your health: How you cook it!
Four Simple Rules for Cooking Sumptuous, Healthy Grass-Fed Beef
If you like your steak char-grilled or well done, I have some unappetizing news: You’re being exposed to dangerous cancer-causing compounds.
These compounds are called heterocyclic amines (HCAs) and they are formed when muscle meats are exposed to high temperatures.
HCAs can increase the risk for several types of cancer – including stomach cancer, colon cancer, breast cancer and pancreatic cancer. These just happen to be the cancers that were so prevalent in the study which claimed that “red meat” is responsible for causing cancer.
Here are four rules for cooking sumptuous, healthy meat:
Cooking Rule #1: Avoid “Well-Done” Meat! A National Cancer Institute study found that people who ate their beef medium-well or well-done had more than three times the risk of stomach cancer than those who choose rare or medium rare.
Cooking Rule #2: Cook Your Meats Slow & Low! Because HCAs form at high temperatures, using lower temperature cooking methods is important. In fact, cooking at or below 212 F (think poaching, slow cooking, stewing or boiling) produces negligible amounts of HCAs. New generation convection ovens (like Flavorwave or NuWave) are a great choice for making juicy and delicious steaks without grilling and charring the meat..
Cooking Rule #3: Keep Your Meat Moist! As moisture in the meat decreases, HCA formation goes up. Dried out, overcooked, leathery meat doesn’t just taste bad, it can be dangerous to your health. Keep moisture in by cooking your meat with liquids (think sauces, broths and wine) at lower temperatures. Use your slow cooker or Dutch oven to make melt-in-your-mouth meat dishes that are HCA-free.
Cooking Rule #4: Marinate with Antioxidant Herbs and Spices! Another way to reduce HCAs (and add great flavor) to your grass-fed meat is to marinate. A study published in Journal of Food Science found that a marinade containing rosemary reduced the formation of HCAs by 92%. While rosemary is particularly potent against HCAs, most herbs and spices provide protection thanks to their antioxidant content.
All Beef is NOT Created Equal
After reading a study that “beef causes cancer”, some people will swear off red meat altogether. But that would be a decision based on the incorrect belief that “all beef is created equal”. Clearly, this is not true:
Less than 1% of the beef we eat in the U.S. is raised the way nature intended – on pasture.
Conventional feedlot beef is produced on pesticide-ridden grain, and administered antibiotics and hormones that packs your steak with toxins and chemicals.
Grain-fed beef contains ZERO conjugated linolenic acid (CLA) – the healthy fat known for its cancer-fighting and fat-blasting activity.
Grain-fed beef is high in omega-6 fats – fats that promote inflammation, damage cholesterol, promote heart disease and cancer and encourage weight gain.
Processed meats contain nitrites – cancer-causing chemicals that also promote heart disease and diabetes.
Cooking meat at high temperatures – including America’s favorite methods of grilling and barbecuing – causes carcinogenic compounds to form.
There can be risks associated with any food we eat. But in every case, those risks can be reduced or eliminated by considering the source, the environment and the preparation of your food. So go ahead and enjoy a moist and juicy steak. Just be sure it’s grass-fed, marinated and cooked slow and low for the best flavor and health benefits.
YOU MAY ALSO LIKE
References
1. Shlomit Gorelik, Tair Lapidot, Inbal Shaham, Rina Granit, Moshe Ligumsky, Ron Kohen, and Joseph Kanner. Lipid Peroxidation and Coupled Vitamin Oxidation in Simulated and Human Gastric Fluid Inhibited by Dietary Polyphenols: Health Implications. Journal of Agricultural and Food Chemistry 2005 53 (9), 3397-3402. 2. Johan de Vogel, Denise S.M.L. Jonker-Termont , Esther M.M. van Lieshout, Martijn B. Katan, and Roelof van der Meer. Green vegetables, red meat and colon cancer: chlorophyll prevents the cytotoxic and hyperproliferative effects of haem in rat colon. Carcinogenesis 26: 387-393. 3. Sinha R, Cross AJ; Graubard BI, et al. Meat intake and mortality: a prospective study of over half a million people. Archives of Internal Medicine. 2009; 169: 562-571. 4. Rule, D. C., K. S. Brought on, S. M. Shellito, and G. Maiorano. "Comparison of Muscle Fatty Acid Profiles and Cholesterol Concentrations of Bison, Beef Cattle, Elk, and Chicken." J Anim Sci 80, no. 5 (2002): 1202-11. 5. Ip, C, J.A. Scimeca, et al. (1994) "Conjugated linoleic acid. A powerful anti-carcinogen from animal fat sources." p. 1053. Cancer 74(3 suppl):1050-4. 6. Aro, A., S. Mannisto, I. Salminen, M. L. Ovaskainen, V. Kataja, and M. Uusitupa. "Inverse Association between Dietary and Serum Conjugated Linoleic Acid and Risk of Breast Cancer in Postmenopausal Women." Nutr Cancer 38, no. 2 (2000): 151-7. 7. Cytotoxixity and genotoxicity of lipid oxidation products. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, Vol 57, 779S-785S. Parra D, Bandarra NM, Kiely M, Thorsdottir I, Martínez JA. 8. Felton JS, Knize MG, Salmon CP, Malfatti MA, Kulp KS. Human exposure to heterocyclic amine food mutagens/carcinogens: relevance to breast cancer. Environ Mol Mutagen 2002;39(2-3):112-8 9. Smith, J. S., Tsen, S. Y. Effects of rosemary extracts on the reduction of heterocyclic amines in cooked beef patties. Abstract #1300-14, Pittsburgh Conference on Analytical Chemistry and Applied Spectroscopy, February 27-March 4, 2005, Orlando, FL. 10. Adamson RH, Thorgeirsson UP. Carcinogens in foods: Heterocyclic amines and cancer and heart disease. Advances in Experimental Medicine and Biology 1995; 369:211-220. 11. Adamson RH, Thorgeirsson UP, Snyderwine EG, et al. Carcinogenicity of 2-amino-3 methylimidazo[4,5-f] quinoline in nonhuman primates: Induction of tumors in three macaques. Japanese Journal of Cancer Research 1990; 81(1):10-14. 12. Bjeldanes LF, Morris MM, Felton JS, et al. Mutagens from the cooking of food. II. Survey by Ames/Salmonella test of mutagen formation in the major protein-rich foods of the American diet. Food and Chemical Toxicology 1982; 20(4):357-363. 13. Bjeldanes LF, Morris MM, Timourian H, Hatch FT. Effects of meat composition and cooking conditions on mutagen formation in fried ground beef. Journal of Agricultural and Food Chemistry 1983; 31(1):18-21. 14. Bogen KT. Cancer potencies of heterocyclic amines found in cooked foods. Food and Chemical Toxicology 1994; 32(6):505-515. 15. Dolara P, Commoner B, Vithayathil A, et al. The effect of temperature on the formation of mutagens in heated beef stock and cooked ground beef. Mutation Research 1979; 60(3):231-237. 16.Esumi H, Ohgaki H, Kohzen E, Takayama S, Sugimura T. Induction of lymphoma in CDF1 mice by the food mutagen, 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b] pyridine. Japanese Journal of Cancer Research 1989; 80(12):1176-1178. 17. Felton JS, Fultz E, Dolbeare FA, Knize MG. Effect of microwave pretreatment on heterocyclic aromatic amine mutagens/carcinogens in fried beef patties. Food Chemical Toxicology 1994; 32 (10):897-903. 18. Felton JS, Knize MG, Shen NH, et al. Identification of the mutagens in cooked beef. Environmental Health Perspectives 1986; 67:17-24. 19. Felton JS, Knize MG, Wood C, et al. Isolation and characterization of new mutagens from fried ground beef. Carcinogenesis 1984; 5(1):95-102. 20. Hayatsu, H. Mutagens in food: detection and prevention. Florida, CRC Press, 1991. 21. Knize MG, Sinha R, Rothman N, et al. Heterocyclic amine content in fast-food meat products. Food and Chemical Toxicology 1995; 33(7):545-551. 22. Puangsombat K, Smith JS. Inhibition of heterocyclic amine formation in beef patties by ethanolic extracts of rosemary. J Food Sci. 2010 Mar;75(2):T40-7. 23. The Grass-Fed Revolution. Time/CNN. http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,1200759,00.html 24. Lijinsky W.N-Nitroso compounds in the diet.Mutat Res. 1999 Jul 15;443(1-2):129-38. 25. Liu CY, Hsu YH, Wu MT, Pan PC, Ho CK, Su L, Xu X, Li Y, Christiani DC; Kaohsiung Leukemia Research Group.Cured meat, vegetables, and bean-curd foods in relation to childhood acute leukemia risk: a population based case-control study.BMC Cancer. 2009 Jan 13;9:15. 26. Hu J, La Vecchia C, Morrison H, Negri E, Mery L; Canadian Cancer Registries Epidemiology Research Group.Salt, processed meat and the risk of cancer. Eur J Cancer Prev. 2011 Mar;20(2):132-9. 27. Red and Processed Meat Consumption and Risk of Incident Coronary Heart Disease, Stroke, and Diabetes Mellitus: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis,” Renata Micha, Sarah K. Wallace, Dariush Mozaffarian, Circulation, online May 17, 2010.
About The Author
Kelley Herring, founder of Healing Gourmet, is a natural nutrition enthusiast with a background in biochemistry. Her passion is educating on how foods promote health and protect against disease and creating simple and delicious recipes for vibrant health and enjoyment.
Kelley Herring – who has written 251 posts on Healing Gourmet.
About Kelley Herring
Kelley Herring, founder of Healing Gourmet, is a natural nutrition enthusiast with a background in biochemistry. Her passion is educating on how foods promote health and protect against disease and creating simple and delicious recipes for vibrant health and enjoyment.
Comments
Nancy Morser says:
March 1, 2015 at 1:04 am
Does the use of celery powder in bacon and other meats have the same effect as sodium nitrate and nitrite?
Reply
Beatrice says:
October 4, 2015 at 4:21 am
Does slow cooking a lamb shoulder bone-in roast overnight for stock cause HCA formation in the stock? Since lamb takes 30% less time to cook than beef, the cooked meat is dry but very flavorful. I now have breast cancer so I throw out the meat but keep the jelled broth and have a cup every day. I used to make wonderful chili with the meat.
Reply
Speak Your Mind Cancel reply
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Current ye@r *
Leave this field empty
Popular Articles
How Gluten Promotes Leaky Gut (Even if You are NOT Gluten Sensitive)
Ketogenic Diet and Cancer
The Health Benefits of a Ketogenic Diet
The Health Benefits of Using a Pressure Cooker
How to Make Paleo Crab Cakes (with a Secret Ingredient!)
Brain Allergies: Can Gluten Make You Depressed?
Featured Recipes
Fall-Apart Pressure Cooker Pot Roast
Keto Paleo Dinner Rolls
The BEST Paleo Brownies (Egg-Free, Grain-Free, Nut-Free, Low-Sugar and KETO – Updated)
Fall-Off-The-Bone Pressure Cooker Chicken (in 30 Minutes!)
Low Carb Paleo Bagels
Low Carb & Paleo Barbecue Sauce
Connect
Subscribe to Our Newsletter
General Information
Contact Us
User Site Agreement
Affiliate Disclosure
Privacy Policy
Get Started
Instant Pot Keto Dinners (Free Book)
Instant Pot Paleo Recipes (Free Book)
Keto Breads (New Release!)
Keto Desserts (New Release!)
The information presented on this website is not intended as specific medical advice and is not a
substitute for professional medical treatment or diagnosis.
Mailing Address: 7341 East 200 South, Huntsville, UT 84310
Copyright © 2019 Health-e Enterprises, LLC. "Healing Gourmet" is a registered trademark of Health-e
Enterprises, LLC. All rights reserved. No reproduction, transmission or display is permitted without the
written permissions of Health-e Enterprises, LLC.
0
Name: Email: We respect your email privacyEmail Marketing by AWeber
Signing you up!
Join the Healing Gourmet Newsletter Today - It's FREE!
We Save Our Best Content for Our Loyal Subscribers, Including:
Exclusive articles and recipes
FREE Personalized Meal Plans
Coupon Codes for healthy foods
DIY Household, Health & Beauty Formulas
PLUS: 3 Free E-books (Instant Download!)
Tell us Where to Send Your FREE REPORTS:
100% Privacy - No Spam - Unsubscribe with One Click
Signing you up!
Join the Healing Gourmet Newsletter Today - It's FREE!
We Save Our Best Content for Our Loyal Subscribers, Including:
Exclusive articles and recipes
FREE Personalized Meal Plans
Coupon Codes for healthy foods
DIY Household, Health & Beauty Formulas
PLUS: 3 Free E-books (Instant Download!)
Click the Button Below to Get Started Right Away!
Click Here to Sign Up!
100% Privacy - No Spam - Unsubscribe with One Click
Signing you up!
Join the Healing Gourmet Newsletter Today - It's FREE!
We Save Our Best Content for Our Loyal Subscribers, Including:
Exclusive articles and recipes
FREE Personalized Meal Plans
Coupon Codes for healthy foods
DIY Household, Health & Beauty Formulas
PLUS: 3 Free E-books (Instant Download!)
Click the Button Below to Get Started Right Away!
100% Privacy - No Spam - Unsubscribe with One Click