√ 16 Health Benefits of Himalayan Salt Lamp | Himalayan Salt Lamp Guide
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Himalayan Salt Lamp Guide
FAQ about Salt Lamps
Himalayan Salt Lamp Guide > Salt Lamp > 16 Health Benefits of Himalayan Salt Lamp
16 Health Benefits of Himalayan Salt Lamp
05/02/2017 04/15/2019 Ratna Salt Lamp Salt Lamp
Does the Himalayan Salt Lamp truly offer medical benefits? The answer is YES, there are many benefits of Himalayan Salt Lamp. We do various outdoor activities every single day and we know that polluted air is hazardous. In fact, indoor pollution is even more dangerous. A house that we believe to be the safest place can provide 3 times higher pollution level compared to the pollution outdoors.
What are the causes?
The indoor air is from the outdoor area.
Electronic devices release poisonous substance (positive ions) to the air as the result of heated electronic devices components.
Interior material and furniture also contains poison and release it to the air indoors.
Most houses do not have good air circulation which causes accumulation of poisonous air indoor.
Learn more about What is a Himalayan Salt Lamp?
Electronic devices are releasing lots of positive ions, it causes a bad impact on health include:
Can encourage chemical imbalances in human bodies.
The body which is exposed to excessive positive ions can trigger the production of serotonin in the brain, which can lead to anxiety.
It can cause Blood Dyscrasias (an abnormal condition or disease of the blood).
Himalayan Salt Lamp has the ability to clean the air using the negative ions (air ionizer). Himalayan Salt Lamp usage can improve Negative Ion three times.
Dr. Albert P. Krueger, a microbiologist, and pathologist from California University invented that small Negative Ion can eliminate bacteria in the air rapidly.
Learn more about 11 Medical Benefits of Negative Ions
Therefore, Negative Ion that is produced by Himalayan Salt Lamp functions as a Natural Air Sanitizer that Eliminate Bacteria, Remove Dust, Eliminate Allergens, Smokes, Odors, and Fungi Spores. Besides sanitizing the air, Himalayan Salt Lamp benefits include utilized as a therapy media for human and animal (pets like cats and dogs) medication.
There are many amazing benefits that we can obtain from a rock salt lamp/Salt lamp candle holder. Here is the list :
1. Cure Respiratory Illness
Based on lungs Institute, salt is an anti-bacterial, anti-inflammation, reduces excessive mucus, cleaning pathogen in the air such as debunga, relieves allergy, asthma, sinusitis, and bronchitis.
2. Balance pH in human bodies
Mineral content on Himalayan Salt Lamp helps to balance pH in your bodies. Balance pH helps to maintain quality immunity and improve metabolic function.
3. Clean the Air
One of the best benefits of Himalayan Salt Lamp is the capability to clean the air with its negative ion. How does it work?
4. Improves a Better Sleep
Himalayan Salt Lamp is famous for its benefit for obtaining a better sleeping quality, especially for the insomnia patients. And it is also helpful to cure snores.
5. Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) therapy
Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) is a light depression that can occur at the same time annually. The symptoms are weakening energy and moody at some seasons. With the negative ions, the colors (red and pink) of Himalayan Salt Lamp can give a peaceful feeling, relaxation, and improve the positive mood of SAD patients.
6. Balance the production of positive ions that are produced by some electronic devices (computers, TV, radio, cell phones, ac, iPad etc) that can destroy air quality and health.
7. Based on the research conducted by Bio Physics from Germany, the fume release of this lamp restores good air quality and improves ions three times higher (ionic salt lamp).
8. Reduces flu, cold, and fever risks.
9. Helps to reduce and getting over from various illnesses such as sinusitis, migraine, vertigo, headache, fever, and other respiratory diseases.
10. Improves concentration and reduces anxiety.
11. Helps patients to get over of stress and depression, and also provides relaxation.
12. Reduces pollution and odors such as cigarette smoke, and also excellent in repelling mosquitoes.
13. Salt Lamps reduce Psoriasis and Eczema symptoms.
14. Helps relieve pain and reduce fatigue associated with Fibromyalgia.
15. Salt Lamp can ease your Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD).
16. Helps to manage sensitivity for Empaths and HSPs.
WhatsAppFacebookTwitterPinterest
Related Posts
Is Himalayan Salt Lamp Hoax and Scam?
Living a modern life makes it easy for us to communicate. We do not have…
How to use Himalayan Salt Lamp in Bedroom
A lot of people ask how to use Himalayan Salt Lamp? How is the best…
Himalayan Salt Lamp Colors, Sizes, Shapes
There are several color options of Himalayan Salt Lamp available in the market; coral pink,…
How to Clean Salt Lamp (Himalayan salt lamp care)
Himalayan Salt Lamp can be a wonderful accessory for the interior design. This lamp produces…
Himalayan Salt Lamp Room Size Guide
What size salt lamp do I need? How to choose the right size salt crystal…
benefits of himalayan salt lamp Himalayan Salt Crystal Lamp himalayan salt lamp himalayan salt lamp and negative ions himalayan salt lamp benefits Himalayan Salt Rock Lamp
7 thoughts to “16 Health Benefits of Himalayan Salt Lamp”
Pingback: Himalayan Salt Lamp Colors, Sizes, Shapes | Himalayan Salt Lamp Guide
Pingback: 11 Medical Benefits of Negative Ions | Himalayan Salt Lamp Guide
Pingback: FAQ about Himalayan Salt Lamp | Himalayan Salt Lamp Guide
Pingback: Himalayan Salt Lamp Room Size Guide | Himalayan Salt Lamp Guide
Pingback: Is Himalayan Salt Lamp Hoax and Scam? - Himalayan Salt Lamp Guide
Pingback: Do Salt Lamps Really Work? What does a salt lamp do? - Himalayan Salt Lamp Guide
Pingback: A Guide to Place Himalayan Salt Lamps with Optimal Benefits - Himalayan Salt Lamp Guide
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Post navigation
11 Medical Benefits of Negative Ions
Himalayan Salt Lamp Colors, Sizes, Shapes
Random Posts
Agate Lamp: Facts, Metaphysical & Decorative Functions
Blue Kyanite Lamp: Properties, Meanings & Uses
Lapis Lazuli Lamp: Meaning, Healing Properties & Uses
Citrine Lamp Meaning, Facts and Healing Properties
Onyx Lamps Etymology, Healing Properties, and Facts
Persian Salt Lamp: The Majestic Lamp from Iran
About Us
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Contact Us
Theme by Colorlib Powered by WordPress
This site uses cookies to improve your experience. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies : More.
Accept