organic | Union Francophone Des Aveugles
Union Francophone Des Aveugles
Helping you with your health related issues
Toggle navigation
Home
About
Anti-Spam Policy
Contact
Privacy Policy
Tag: organic
Balance Is The Key
Stover Tommy November 11, 2015 November 11, 2015
With people living longer these days, making sure you’re healthy during that extended lifespan is more important than ever before. And you don’t have to be a rocket scientist or a nutritionist to know that some things are good to do, and somethings are to be avoided at all costs.
Eating right is the foundation of good health.
Nowhere else in life does the old adage, “Everything in moderation” applies more than with what we eat. Sure, experts will tell you that salty or fatty foods are bad for you, but those are only bad if eaten every meal of the day. Fruits and veggies are good for you, but the body also needs natural protein as part of a balanced diet. Grains are good as well, but there are good grains (oats and rice) and bad grains (wheat – not the worst thing on the planet, but should be limited in your diet). The basic watchword here is balance. A little bit of everything you like, with an occasional splurge on a “cheat” food – something that is not too good for you, but satisfies your need to be bad – is the best way to go.
Water is the key to a healthy life style, and while drinking water alone is a good start, don’t assume that all water is the same. Different sources of water (municipal, well water, rivers or lakes) all have different levels of quality, and all have some measure of impurities that can be potentially harmful if taken in large quantities. Make sure you have a good filtration system in your home or office to get rid of those impurities and chemicals. There are trade-offs to every system out there. Faster systems provide better flow, but don’t catch everything needed to be filtered out. Slower systems filter out most every harmful element but provide that water in a slow trickle. But remember, while water is important, you don’t (and shouldn’t) drink gallons of it every day. Too much water can flush out valuable minerals that your body needs to stay healthy. Also, if you don’t filter water throughout your whole house, consider at least filtering the water you shower or bathe with, as your skin can absorb harmful chemicals from water almost as easily as drinking them.
Organic should not be a trend, it should be your way of life.
Too much of our food has been genetically modified, and while there are benefits to some of the modifications, like extending shelf life and providing better pest control, the benefits of buying something that doesn’t spoil as fast are outweighed by the increases in other harmful chemicals used in the growing process. Organic costs more, and you’ll have to shop more often because you’re buying less quantity due to the product being less resistant to spoilage, but organic tastes better and is better for you. Remember that what we put into our bodies is going to determine how healthy we are today and in the future, and could be the foundation for an active and healthy lifestyle as we grow older.
VK
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Tags
benefits braces bridge cancer denture diet experience healthy mat mouth care obesity organic patients recover smiling supplements surgery therapist whitening of teeth
Categories
Blogging
Dental
health
Recent Posts
Blue light: are LEDs dangerous for the eyes?
Cannabis Smokers you should read this !
Natural Medicine and Its Multiple Benefits
Merits of Thai Massage Over Other Massages
New Weight Loss Supplement
Do you think displaying calories of food in menu card will encourage you to make healthy choices?
Yes
No
Vote
Please select atleast one option
Do you think displaying calories of food in menu card will encourage you to make healthy choices?
Yes
100%
No
0%
Proudly powered by WordPress