Am I addicted to weed? – Find Rehab Centers
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram
Pinterest
Real Life Recovery Stories
Add Listing
Your Account
Private & Confidential
(877) 322-2450
Who Answers?
Find a Rehab
Private Facilities
State Funded
Medicaid
Medicare
Military
Addiction
Alcohol Addiction
Heroin Addiction
Prescription Addiction
Crystal Meth Addiction
Cocaine Addiction
Crack Cocaine Addiction
Treatment
Find Detox Centers
Inpatient Rehab Centers
Mental Health & Hospitals
Outpatient Rehab Centers
How to Choose a Rehab
Inpatient vs. Outpatient
Intervention
Intervention Workbook
Family Guide for Addicted Loved Ones
Guide for Parents of Addicted Children and Teens
Addiction Guide for Spouses and Partners
Guide for Children of Addicted Parents
What Not To Do
Recovery Stories
Community
Ask The Community
Popular Questions
Latest Questions
About
Contact Us
Blog
X
Oops looks like
you're not logged in!
Or
Login via Guest
Login via Username
< Go Back
Login as a Guest
Post as Guest
Log in Register
Login as a User
Register
Am I addicted to weed?
Questions
>
Category: Addiction
>
Am I addicted to weed?
Charles
Asked: 2018-05-03 08:52:46
I started smoking weed to help me sleep. I've been doing it for the past 3 months and I noticed that I have started smoking it more often because it helps me to relieve stress whenever I get home from work. I'm worried that I am now addicted.
Save
Cancel
7
16
Jadine Norris
Answered: 2018-05-16 19:49:21
I dont think you can be addicted to weed. I mean ive seen how to quit weed pages. But weed isnt addicting, its a medicine, its a weed, it grows from the ground. Can you be addicted to coffee or tea. Well I guess you can be addicted. Now that I think about it mom would drink coffee all day everyday, she had to have it, even over food. She was addicted to coffee.
https://www.findrehabcenters.org/community/addiction/am-i-addicted-to-weed
16
Yuvraj Cochran
Answered: 2018-05-17 23:12:57
I researched this subject a lot right after I researched suggested punishments when you catch your kids doing drugs. I caught my 14 year old smoking pot in the garage and I needed to know how to quit weed and if it was addictive? The best answer I could find was on this site it says you can get grumpy and lose sleep if you try to quit and just be all around restless. So some people remain high so they dont have to feel those things. I dont really see this as an addiction so I cant say that I believe you or my son, or anyone for that matter can be addicted to weed.
https://www.findrehabcenters.org/community/addiction/am-i-addicted-to-weed
13
Fathima Bright
Answered: 2018-05-05 12:25:02
Yes you can become addicted to weed just like you can any substance or act. I think its more of a psychological addiction though. You dont go into physical withdrawals or anything cause you dont have weed. But you can have the munchies from smoking pot. I dont really get the munchies from edibles.
https://www.findrehabcenters.org/community/addiction/am-i-addicted-to-weed
11
Iris Choi
Answered: 2018-05-22 19:58:48
I wouldnt say that I have a weed addiction but I could tell you that I smoke a lot of weed. The national Institute on Drug abuse says weed can lead to the development of problem use, known as a marijuana use disorder, which takes the form of addiction in severe cases. Data suggest that 30 percent of those who use marujuana may have some degree of marijuana use disorder. So im gonna have to say no, you are most likely not addicted to weed.
https://www.findrehabcenters.org/community/addiction/am-i-addicted-to-weed
7
Blake
Answered: 2018-05-04 02:07:03
I'm in recovery from weed addiction and initially I didn’t think smoking pot every day was a problem. Then my tolerance increased and I eventually didn't want to function without it. I actually was addicted to weed and needed help.
https://www.findrehabcenters.org/community/addiction/am-i-addicted-to-weed
6
Keon Randall
Answered: 2018-05-03 12:20:01
You could be addicted to weed, especially of you are smoking to escape from the 'real world' so to speak.
https://www.findrehabcenters.org/community/addiction/am-i-addicted-to-weed
2
Carly Mcghee
Answered: 2018-05-31 16:30:33
I found this clip on that explains how many young adults can have a weed dependency and the many symptoms one can have from stoping weed use. I think it would be a helpful clip for you to watch and compare some of the signs and symptoms of addiction and you can probably an-swer that question for yourself.
https://www.findrehabcenters.org/community/addiction/am-i-addicted-to-weed
We want to listen to your answers
Categories
Addiction
Substance Abuse
Intervention
Rehab
Detox
Treatment
Recovery
Alcoholism
Mental Health
Insurance
Popular Questions
Why can\'t I control my use?
Asked by: Melina (Guest User)
What is co-occurring disorders?
Asked by: Marianna
How do I stop smoking crack?
Asked by: Dalton
How much does it cost to send someone to rehab?
Asked by: Amari Hatfield
Why is vicodin addictive?
Asked by: Kelvin
Disclaimer
All content available on or through findrehabcenters.org is for general information purposes only. Site information is not to be replaced with or considered professional medical advice.
This site contains “User-Generated Content”, meaning any and all information and content that a user submits to the Site. You are exclusively responsible and bear all risks associated with any user-generated content you submit or read.
If you think you may have a medical emergency, call your doctor, go to the emergency department, or call 911 immediately.
Sitemaps
Sitemap
Treatment by State
Treatment Categories
Blog Categories
Disclosures
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Navigation
About
Contact Us
Addiction
Substance Abuse Resources
Join Us
instagram
twitter
facebook
youtube
pinterest
Copyright © FindRehabCenters.org 2018
Real Life Recovery Stories
Add Listing
Your Account
Have an addiction specialist help you.
(877) 322-2450
Find the treatment you deserve!