What Are Small Brown Spots On Face? How To Cure Sunspots On Skin?
Home
About Me
Contact Me
Privacy Policy
Health n Fitness Care Healthcare And Fitness Information You Trust
Search for:
Health care
Health tips
Fitness tips
Fitness Regime
Women health
Skin care
Pregnancy
Hair care
Home Health care What Are Small Brown Spots On Face? How To Cure Sunspots On Skin?
What Are Small Brown Spots On Face? How To Cure Sunspots On Skin?
Posted on May 14, 2013 by Ravi Kochhar — 2 Comments ↓
What Are Small Brown Spots On Face And Neck?
Small brown spots which appear on face and neck are essentially sunspots caused due to sun damage. They start as freckles during young age and gradually become larger as you age. First and foremost it is advisable to consult a dermatologist to rule out the possibility of a skin cancer.
Small Brown Spots
Now let’s see how to protect the skin from further damage. First of all to control these brown spots or age spots from further spreading you should use a good UVA protection sunscreen on your face and neck daily and wear a hat to cover your face and neck from direct sun. Use a sunscreen lotion with SPF 30 at least and containing 5% – 10% zinc or titanium.
How To Treat Brown Spots Or Sunspots On Skin:
Consult a dermatologist for the proper treatment of small brown spots or sunspots, he may prescribe you an anti aging cream which contains skin bleaching agent particularly hydroquinone. The more the quantity of this bleaching agent in the cream the more effective the cream would be in reducing the brown spots on face. However these creams may cause damage to the quality of the skin. Usually these prescription bleaching creams contain 2% to 4% hydroquinone. Questions have been raised on the safety of hydroquinone in Europe and European Union has also banned the drug. Bleaching creams containing hydroquinone should be used strictly under medical supervision and a prolonged use of more than three months should be avoided. It should be noted that the use of bleaching creams does not protect you from the re-growth of brown spots or from the development of new sunspots. Continued exposure to the sun should be avoided because this stimulates the growth of small brown spots or sunspots on skin.
Must Read – How To Prevent Skin Cancer
Removing Brown Spots By Chemical Peels:
Chemical peels are yet another procedure of getting rid of brown spots from face. Under this process the dermatologist applies a thin layer of chemical solution containing glycolic acid on the affected area and when this layer is peeled off the brown spots or the age spots also come off. This procedure is quite effective though it might take a few numbers of sittings to completely remove the brown spots.
Laser Treatment For Brown Spots Removal:
Laser treatment is a bit expensive but it is considered as one of the best treatments to remove the sun spots. In this treatment a surface layer of the skin is taken off from the affected area to remove the brown spots from the skin.
Use Of Cryosurgery To Remove Sunspots:
Cryosurgery is yet another method of getting rid of brown spots from the skin. Cryosurgery is the process of destroying the unwanted skin cells through freezing in order to remove the brown spots or sunspots on skin.
Natural Herbal Remedies To Remove Brown Spots On Face:
People who hesitate to take the chemical treatment to remove the brown spots because of the fear of getting side effects of such treatments and also because of the big costs involved in these treatments can look forward to natural herbal remedies to treat their brown spots. These treatments might take a longer time to remove the brown spots but they are safe and effective too.
Aloe Vera Gel:
Aloe Vera is an effective treatment for brown spots on face. Apply Aloe Vera gel or juice directly on the face and the affected area regularly for a month and you will notice the brown spots disappearing from your skin.
Apple Cider Vinegar Is Good For Sunspots:
Applying a mixture of apple cider vinegar and onion juice on the affected area for a month is another effective home treatment for the removal of brown spots from the face. You may also drink apple cider vinegar in water. Take three table spoons of apple cider vinegar in a cup of cold or warm water, you may add a spoon of honey to enhance taste if you like, and drink it twice daily for a month. You will be surprised to see the sunspots on skin vanishing quickly.
Lemon Juice May Work Wonders On Brown Spots:
Take fresh lemon juice and dab it on the affected area with a cotton dab. This is another home remedy to reduce brown spots on face.
Applying Castor Oil On Brown Spots:
Castor oil also acts as a wonderful treatment to cure brown spots on face. Just apply castor oil directly on the affected area and you will find the brown spots reducing in a month’s time.
Also Read: What Is Vitiligo, Its Symptoms And Treatment
It is good to treat the brown spots with these remedies but at the same time it is advisable to consult a dermatologist before starting on with any of the treatments because a dermatologist can check and make sure whether the sunspots on skin are cancerous or benign so as to initiate the right treatment.
Hope you have benefited from these remedies to remove brown spots on face and neck. Do share your experiences and thoughts with us in the comments below.
For more updates on other ‘health and fitness’ issues you may subscribe to our updates via EMAIL.
This article is written by Ravi Kochhar. I write on issues related to various health conditions and fitness here on my blog. My endeavour is to bring out the most authentic and trusted information on the subject for the readers. You may catch up with me at google +, facebook and twitter.
About
Latest Posts
Find Me On -
Ravi Kochhar
I write on issues related to various health conditions and fitness here on my blog. My endeavour is to bring out the most authentic and trusted information on the subject for the readers. You may catch up with me at Twitter, Facebook and Google+
Find Me On -
Latest posts by Ravi Kochhar (see all)
How Kushal, A Foodie Lost 30 kgs – A True Story
How To Control Diabetes Without Medication
6 Ways To Strengthen Immune System Fast
About Ravi Kochhar
I write on issues related to various health conditions and fitness here on my blog. My endeavour is to bring out the most authentic and trusted information on the subject for the readers. You may catch up with me at Twitter, Facebook and Google+
‹ What Is A Surrogate Baby? Is Surrogacy Legal?
Five Things A Contact Lens Wearer Should Know ›
Posted in Health care, Skin care	Tagged with: age spots, Brown Spots on Face, melasma
2 comments on “What Are Small Brown Spots On Face? How To Cure Sunspots On Skin?”
R J S KOCHHAR says:
June 3, 2013 at 1:52 PM
Yes Andy,it is always advisable to seek best professional help to diagnose correctly the basic cause of the problem before starting the treatment so as to make sure that you are following the right treatment.
Reply
Jacob says:
December 13, 2013 at 1:01 PM
One must try some home remedies before gonig to the docotr. The brown spots can be treated using lemon juice(it has bleaching properties) directly, butter milk( contains lactic acid and should be used along with 2 teaspoons of tomato juice) , aloe vera or castor oil.
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail
Name *
E-mail *
Website
you MUST enable javascript to be able to comment
Current [email protected] *
Leave this field empty
Custom Search
Get Free Healthcare Updates
Enter your email address:
Recent Posts
How Kushal, A Foodie Lost 30 kgs – A True Story
How To Control Diabetes Without Medication
6 Ways To Strengthen Immune System Fast
Ten Reasons Behind Child Behaviour Problems
Warning Signs Of Diabetes And Tips To Deal With Them
Guidelines For Breast Cancer Treatment
What Is a Heart Attack? Know The Symptoms Of Heart Attack
What Is Gestational Diabetes? How Do You Get Gestational Diabetes?
Effects Of Moving Exercises On Your Daily Life
Effects Of Diabetes On The Body
Join Us On Google+
Health n Fitness Careon
Recent Comments
Praveen Verma on Physiotherapy Can Treat More Than You Think
Suraj Kumar on Cosmetic Surgery And Its Health Benefits
Steven O'Dell on 5 Healthiest Drinks To Boost Your Health And Energy Levels
Sohail Akhtar on Cosmetic Surgery And Its Health Benefits
Sohail Akhtar on Cosmetic Surgery And Its Health Benefits
priteeka on Tips To Cure Cracked Heels
bola thomas on Prunes During Pregnancy: Prunes Are Rich In Nutrients And Good For Pregnancy
Clay Ogg on Treating Gum Disease With Antibiotics
We Are On Facebook
Find Me On Google+
Home
About Me
Contact Me
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
© 2019 Health n Fitness Care
Scroll To Top	↑
Health n Fitness Care powered by WordPress