Natures Gifts: Healing with Precious Stones & Crystals – Magikmala
0Shopping Cart
Facebook
Instagram
Mail
HOME
ABOUT
BOUTIQUE
Mala Charm Bracelets
Mala Bracelet & Diffuser Bracelets
Malas
WORKSHOPS
DIY MALA KITS
BLOG
WORDS OF WISDOM
VIDEOS
CONTACT
Menu
Natures Gifts: Healing with Precious Stones & Crystals
Writer: S. Sheppared
If you would have told me years ago that stones could heal the body, mind and soul, I would have probably laughed at you. However, after years of extensive use and research on the different healing properties of stones and crystals, I am here to tell you today, THEY WORK!
The question is, “How is it possible that Stones and Crystals can help us Heal?” The idea of a stone or crystal healing a human being may seem ridiculous to anyone who has yet to experience it. So without the experience, I can certainly understand that it would be hard to believe that stones and crystals can actually possess holistic healing properties. Non-believers would likely say that all this ‘healing business’ is simply up to our imagination. Which in itself, is a good thing too!…If its works, why not go for it?! 😉
Healing with stones and crystals is an ancient practice which dates back at least 6,000 years to the time of the ancient Sumerians of Mesopotamia and the Ancient Egyptians. They were among the first peoples to have adorned themselves with crystals to ward off illness and negative energy. Today, in modern society, the philosophy of crystal healing is based largely on the traditions of the Chinese idea of life-energy (chi) and the Hindu or Buddhist concept of chakras, which are vortices of life-energy, said to connect the physical and spiritual elements of the body.
When using stones for healing, you may place various stones or crystals on your body aligned with these chakra points. The stones used and their positioning on the body will provide direct healing to specific ailments in the body. This practice is associated with the chakra philosophy of disease and energy imbalances largely used in Eastern Medicine. Different crystals and stones have different purposes within their properties. For example, Amethyst, is beneficial for the intestines; green aventurine helps the heart; yellow topaz provides mental clarity. On a cellular level, our bodies and quartz crystal for instance, are both made up of mineral silicon-dioxide. Because of this, we are naturally receptive to the vibrations of crystals as they transmit, reflect, store light and receive energy. When crystals are placed directly on your body, they have a powerful vibratory effect that surges from the crystal to you. According to the law of physics, thoughts direct energy and energy follows thought. Each crystal or stone serve as a tool to help the thoughts of our consciousness connect with our body.
Beyond placing them on your body to specific chakra points, you can also wear crystals and stones, carry them in your pocket or place them under your pillow, to ward off sickness, rid of negative energy or absorb positive energy.
For more information on stones and crystals for healing, or to book an appointment for a healing session with stones, crystals and light energy, please contact Shanon@magikmala.com.
© Copyright - Magikmala - Website by: 7Genesis
Facebook
Instagram
Mail
Inspired by a Month Without Plastic
Scroll to top