Is Vaping Bad For Your Lungs? — Take A Breath And Find Out
Best Vape Brands
All Vape Brands
Mig Vapor
VaporFi
Apollo eCigs
Best Vapes 2019
Best eCigs
Best Vape Juice
Best CBD eJuice
Best Vape Mods
Best Box Mods
Best Tube Mods
Best Mech Mods
Best eCig Starter Kits
Best eLiquid Vape Pens
Best Vaporizers
Best Wax Pens
Best Dab Pens
Best Dry Herb Vaporizers
Best Portable Vaporizers
Best Vape Pens for Weed
Best Desktop Vaporizers
Reviews
Vape Reviews
Vape Juice Reviews
Vaporizer Reviews
Vaping News
Industry
LifeStyle
Politics
Science
Tech
Helpful Aricles
E-Cig Info
Quit Smoking
Vape Deals
All Vape Deals
Mig Vapor Coupons
Vaporfi Coupons
Select Page
Home » Ecig Info
Is Vaping Bad For Your Lungs? — Take A Breath And Find Out
Posted by Eli Bartlett | Mar 27, 2018 | Ecig Info
While European health entities may not see it as harmful as tobacco, users still want to know is vaping bad for your lungs? Though it doesn’t deposit the same harmful toxins into the deepest parts of your breathing organs as tobacco does, there remain some potential issues that are becoming of more concern in the wake of recent studies.
Any foreign substance introduced into the human body will have unknown results including food products, medicine or even tainted air. However, knowing the risks of vaping to human lungs can make it easier to prevent unforeseen hazards. Having discussed the possible side effects of vaping on the lungs, we’ll directly address the prospective dangers that directly relate to the lungs.
While nicotine is being studied as a possible treatment for other ailments, in some subjects it can cause inflammation. Nicotine is absorbed through the lungs. It is possible for nicotine to reduce lung tissue to fend off foreign substances.
The paralyzing effect nicotine has on the lungs is a serious factor in the depositing of carcinogens. That said, if users aren’t inhaling additional contaminants, the temporary disabling of this barrier may pose little danger.
Why Is Vaping Bad For Your Lungs Potentially?
A number of critics of vaping suggest that vaping can cause problems such as COPD, or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. However, the evidence for this is based on conjecture. The data was analyzed from using devices at impossible or improbably high temperatures. In fact, some research suggests that switching to vaping may reduce the risk of developing asthma.
In essence, any evidence gathered pointing to vaping as the direct cause of lung problems, is incidental. Determining whether is vaping bad for your lungs or not, will require further research. However, more research is sure to come as the vaping industry grows, and regulation with it.
Post ID: 25364
Share:
PreviousDoes Vaping Cause Cancer? — The Truth May Shock You
NextIs Vaping Addictive? — The Truth May Set You Free
About The Author
Eli Bartlett
Eli Bartlett is a dedicated vaping enthusiast born and raised in Los Angeles. He is a professional writer by trade who regularly publishes articles on environmentalism, sustainability and vaping. He is passionate about bicycle advocacy and visiting national parks.
Best CBD Vape Juice
Best Vape Juice
Mig Vapor Coupon Codes
Vaporfi Coupon Codes
PROPOSITION 65 – WARNING
Electronic cigarette and vaping products have been found to contain a number of chemicals by the State of California. These products can expose users to chemicals including nicotine, known by the State of California to cause developmental toxicity including birth defects or other reproductive harm. These products have additionally been identified to contain chemicals including formaldehyde and acetaldehyde, by the State of California to cause cancer.
Copyright © 2011-2019 Expert Vaping LLC - Los Angeles, California - All Rights Reserved
About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Search for:
Main Navigation
Helpful Pages
Company Info
Social
Vape Reviews
Best eCigs
Homepage
Facebook
Vape Brands
Best Vape Mods
About Us
Twitter
Vaping News
Best Vape Brands
News Room
Instagram
Vaporizer Reviews
Best Vape Starter Kits
Contact Us
Google+
Vape Deals
Best Dry Herb Vaporizers
Info About E-Cigs
Youtube
SUBMIT
Thanks For Entering!