Ginger Benefits & Side Effects | Livestrong.com
Welcome
Sign up | Log in
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
News
Stronger Women
BMI Calculator
Food
Weight Management
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Follow Us!
Livestrong
Food and Drink
Diet and Nutrition
Vitamins and Supplements
Ginger Benefits & Side Effects
Amanda Knaebel
About the Author:
Amanda Knaebel
Amanda Knaebel is a self-professed gadget geek and loves all things tech, both new and old. Amanda has been working as a freelance writer for over 10 years on topics including technology, health, fitness, nutrition, gardening and many more. She has also worked with Fortune 50 tech and financial companies, both in technical support and content production.
View Full Profile
Ginger has been used as a medicinal herb for over 2,000 years, particularly in Asia, India and Arabic countries, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center. Ginger is available in capsules and tinctures, but you can also use fresh or powdered ginger in cooking or use the fresh root to make a tea. Don't exceed more than 4 grams of ginger per day, or 1 gram per day if you're pregnant. Like all supplement manufacturers, companies that make and sell ginger supplements aren't required to prove that the supplement is safe or effective, so always talk to your doctor before altering your diet significantly or adding any supplements to your regimen.
Adding ginger to your cooking lets you enjoy the spice's benefits without taking a supplement. (Image: grafvision/iStock/Getty Images)
Curbing Nausea
Ginger can help combat nausea. (Image: AnaBGD/iStock/Getty Images)
Ginger is most often used as a natural remedy to help combat nausea and vomiting from motion sickness, pregnancy and chemotherapy. Ginger may help reduce symptoms of motion sickness, though other medications may be more effective. For example, a 1985 study found ginger was more effective at treating motion sickness than a placebo, but a subsequent 1991 study published in "Pharmacology" showed no discernible benefit to ginger for motion sickness. Ginger may also help reduce morning sickness symptoms in pregnant women.
Cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy often experience nausea and vomiting as a side effect of treatment. In some cases, ginger may help reduce nausea in chemotherapy patients. In some cases though, ginger may make symptoms worse. For example, a 2009 study published in "Supportive Care in Cancer" found that patients who received ginger with aprepitant, an anti-nausea drug, had worse nausea than participants who took a placebo and aprepitant.
Reducing Inflammation
Ginger extracts can help reduce inflammation. (Image: matka_Wariatka/iStock/Getty Images)
Ginger extracts may help reduce inflammation, leading to less pain for osteoarthritis patients. A 2001 study published in "Arthritis and Rheumatism" found that patients with knee pain resulting from osteoarthritis experienced less pain after taking a ginger extract twice daily for six weeks. It can take several weeks for ginger to work to reduce inflammation, advises the University of Maryland Medical Center.
Ginger and Migraine Pain
Ginger may be able to reduce migraine pain. (Image: Monkey Business Images Ltd/Monkey Business/Getty Images)
Ginger combined with feverfew in a tablet placed under the tongue may help reduce migraine pain in patients who experience a mild headache as a precursor to a migraine. A 2011 study published in "Headache" found that more patients who took a sublingual with feverfew and ginger at the onset of a mild headache reported reduced or eliminated pain after two hours than patients who took a placebo. It is unknown whether ginger on its own is effective for treating migraine pain.
Side Effects and Drug Interactions
Ginger can lower your blood pressure, so watch out for any interactions with medications. (Image: Alexander Kalina/iStock/Getty Images)
Ginger is generally safe for most people, but there are possible side effects and complications. The most common side effects are heartburn, stomach upset and diarrhea. These side effects can be reduced in some people by taking ginger with a meal, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center. Talk to your doctor before using ginger if you're on blood thinners, diabetes medications or medications for high blood pressure. Ginger can increase bleeding, and blood thinners make this risk more of a concern. The herb can also lower blood sugar and blood pressure, so if you're on other medications that have these effects, using ginger could lower your blood sugar levels or blood pressure to potentially dangerous levels.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
University of Maryland Medical Center: Ginger
American Cancer Society: Ginger
NYU Langone Medical Center: Ginger
Supportive Care in Cancer: Phase II Trial of Encapsulated Ginger As a Treatment for Chemotherapy-Induced Nausea and Vomiting
Arthritis and Rheumatism: Effects of a Ginger Extract on Knee Pain in Patients With Osteoarthritis
Headache: A Double-Blind Placebo-Controlled Pilot Study of Sublingual Feverfew and Ginger (LipiGesic M) In the Treatment of Migraine
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
What Is Uncrystallized Ginger Good For?
2
Benefits of Drinking Ginger Tea
3
Is Ginger Safe for Babies?
4
The Cardiovascular Benefits and Harms of Ginger
5
Ginger and IBS
6
Is Ginger Good for Gout?
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.