Fruit Juices Can Affect Your Medications | Mountain Valley Living
TRENDING:
West End Theatre, +1.530.283.1401 Quincy CA Theater Dra...
Zaengles Carpet One Floor And Home, +1.530.257.7788 Fur...
Calendar of Events – NorCal
Road Trip to Butte Meadows, Make Yourself at Home
Aging In Place
Meet the Artist–Pam Trebes
Home
Outdoor Adventure
Road Trips
Travel & Adventure
Travel Guide
What to do?
Hunting & Fishing
Riding & Racing
Activities
Critters
Gold
Golf – NorCal
Where to stay?
Ramada Chico Special
NorCal Campgrounds & RV Parks
Lodges
Dining
Home & Garden
Recipes
Health & Wellness
Senior Corner
Building & Design
Crafts
Energy Saving
Holidays
Kidz Corner
Ranch & Farm
Contact
Calendar Of Events
Weddings & Special Events
Meet the Artist
Select Page
Fruit Juices Can Affect Your Medications
Posted by admin | Aug 12, 2015 | Health & Wellness | 0 |
Here’s something to contemplate over your morning fruit juice. A few years back, doctors discovered the “grapefruit effect”—the fact that drinking grapefruit juice affects the way certain blood pressure medications work. Doctors have since found that more than 40 different medications can have their effects magnified by grapefruit juice.
Now, the story has gotten a bit more complicated. Orange juice and apple juice could also interfere with some medications. And depending on the drug you’re taking, the effects of your treatment could be either be blocked or boosted. This could stop the drug from helping you, or put you at risk of an overdose.
In a new study, researchers looked at healthy volunteers who took a drug called fexofenadine. It’s an antihistamine, used to treat allergies.
Some people took the allergy pills with water, and others drank grapefruit, apple or orange juice. The juices stopped people absorbing the drug properly, meaning they got about half the dose they should have done. Grapefruit juice seemed to have the strongest effect.
Drugs that can react with orange, apple or grapefruit juice include some antibiotics, chemotherapy drugs and beta-blockers. According to the researchers, if you’re taking medications and want to drink these juices, you need to leave a gap of four hours either side of taking your pills. So if you take your pills first thing in the morning, you might want to save your breakfast glass of orange juice for lunchtime.
Here are some other things to watch for if you’re taking prescription medications.
1) Cranberry juice can increase the effects of a blood thinner called warfarin (brand name Coumadin). This could cause dangerous bleeding.
2) A group of drugs for weak bones, called bisphosphonates, need to be taken with plenty of water while standing or sitting upright. You can’t eat anything for half an hour after taking the pills.
3) Some drugs have pretty complicated instructions. People taking MAOIs, a type of antidepressant, need to avoid several foods, including cheese, processed meats and soy products.
If you’re ever unsure about how to take medications safely, consult your doctor or pharmacist .
Compliments of Consumer Reports Health.org and Philip Wilson, patient editor, BMJ Group
Share this:
Share
Print
Facebook
Email
Pinterest
Related
Share:
Rate:
PreviousBridging the Generation Gap
NextMoody’s Bistro & Lounge Truckee CA +1530.587.8688
About The Author
admin
Related Posts
Aging In Place–When Health Fails
Nov 5, 2009
Dirty Dozen / Clean 15 Fruits & Vegetables
Mar 22, 2017
Igniting a Spark of Joy
Nov 15, 2014
Spice Up Your Health
Mar 20, 2014
You must log in to post a comment.
Current Issue
Travel Guide
Our Sponsors
Facebook
Facebook
Follow Us on Twitter
Tweets by MVL_NorCal
Northern California News
AVENGERS: ENDGAME Review: Marvel Nails the Landing - Birth.Movies.Death. Apr 23, 2019
AVENGERS: ENDGAME Review: Marvel Nails the Landing Birth.Movies.Death.Avengers: Endgame (Spoiler-Free) Reviews Are In After Hollywood Premiere GameSpotThe (Spoiler-Free) First Reactions to Avengers: Endgame Are Here! Gizmodo'Avengers: Endgame' Box Office Preps for Record $850M-$900M Global Bow Hollywood ReporterAvengers: Endgame review: a Marvel miracle and a fitting final chapter for the original Avengers Vox.comView full coverage on Google News
Treasury Pushes Decision on Whether to Release Trump’s Tax Returns to May 6 - The New York Times Apr 23, 2019
Treasury Pushes Decision on Whether to Release Trump’s Tax Returns to May 6 The New York TimesTreasury misses deadline to turn over Trump tax returns, says decision coming May 6 CNNDeadline for Trump's tax returns to Capitol Hill: White House says returns won't be released USA TODAYAdministration blows another deadline to give Trump's tax returns to Dems POLITICOPresident Trump […]
US stocks hit new record highs - CNN Apr 23, 2019
US stocks hit new record highs CNNUS stocks climbed past their all-time highs on Tuesday, as stocks continued to rally from their December lows.View full coverage on Google News
New York teenager sues Apple for $1 billion - Yahoo Finance Apr 23, 2019
New York teenager sues Apple for $1 billion Yahoo FinanceApple claims it isn’t scanning customers’ faces, after teen sues for $1 billion The VergeTeen sues Apple for $1 billion over false arrest EngadgetApple Sued for $1 Billion USD After Facial Recognition Leads to False Arrest HYPEBEASTTeen's $1B suit claims Apple's facial recognition software led to false arrest New York Post […]
Britney Spears' boyfriend Sam Asghari says 'she's doing amazing' - Page Six Apr 23, 2019
Britney Spears' boyfriend Sam Asghari says 'she's doing amazing' Page Six#FreeBritney: Britney Spears’ Fans Stage Protest Alleging She's Being Held Against Her Will Yahoo EntertainmentBritney Spears Spotted With Boyfriend Sam Asghari Outside Health Facility Entertainment TonightJamie Lynn Spears blasts critics amidst Britney Spears' mental health treatment Fox NewsHeidi Hamilton discusses Britney Spears mental health, Kanye West and more FOX 11 […]
Search
Search for:
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress
This website is designed by Plumas PC
Subscribe to our magazine
Join our mailing list to receive the latest news and updates from Northern California!
SUBSCRIBE!
You have Successfully Subscribed!
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.