Can Urine Therapy Cure Ringworm?
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
Additional menu
Make Life Natural
Home Remedies For Health & Beauty
Home Remedies
How To
Superfoods
Vitamins
Herbs
Fitness
Skin Care
Weight Loss
DIY
Can Urine Therapy Cure Ringworm?
Last updated: March 5, 2019 by Jacob Olesen
Urine therapy, also known as Shivambhu or ‘self water therapy’ is known to cure many diseases. Your own urine has strengthening and curative properties; so, many herbalists and Ayurvedic doctors prescribe urine therapy for all kinds of health problems. Ringworm is no different. Many patients suffering from recurrent urine infections are believed to have been cured by using Urine therapy. As gross as this may sound, there might be a scientific basis to this therapy. Let us find out how to use urine therapy for ringworm.
What is ringworm?
Ringworm is not caused by a worm. It is a skin infection caused by microscopic fungal spores called dermatophytes. Ringworm can affect anyone irrespective of age, gender or socio-economic status. Being a contagious disease, ringworm can spread from person to person upon direct contact or sharing of personal items. It is due to this reason that school aged children are more susceptible to this infection. Here are typical signs and symptoms of ringworm:
Redness of skin with circular rash-the rash appears circular with a central clearing. It looks like a worm under the skin.
Outer edges of the rash are scaly, itchy and flaky.
The rash quickly spreads from one part of the skin to another.
It can be itchy, painful and uncomfortable. Ringworm on the face is also unsightly.
Many patients suffer from recurrent ringworm infections. For such patients, urine therapy offers promise.
Conventional treatment for ringworm
Conventional treatment for ringworm includes use of topical creams and/or oral medicines containing antifungal agents. Many times though, these medicines only show symptomatic relief; they just cure the symptoms but do nothing for treating the disease from its roots. This is where urine therapy for ringworm differs.
What is Urine Therapy?
Urine therapy is using one’s self urine (self water) to cure all kinds of diseases. Some experts believe that drinking one’s morning urine can provide the body with many antioxidants and nutrients, some of which can even cure deadly diseases like cancer. Urine, it is said, contains the healing power to overcome all the shortcomings of the body that lead to disease in the first place. People who have been using urine therapy state that it is nothing short of a miracle ‘nectar’ which equips the body with immune strengthening properties to overcome every ailment known to man.
Urine therapy benefits
Drinking early morning urine can cure following conditions:
Sunburn
Skin problems like cuts, scrapes, wounds, burns
Warts
Shingles
Varicose veins
Pimples and acne
Ringworm-Athlete’s Foot, Jock Itch
Snake bites
Baldness, alopecia
Eczema
Internal issues- Cancer, hormonal imbalance, blood pressure problems, coughs, colds, allergies, conjunctivitis, migraines, meningitis, tuberculosis, Parkinson’s disease, VD etc.
Here are some ways of using this therapy
Internal- This is the most well known form of urine therapy and also considered as the most effective.
For massage- This is especially recommended for curing skin problems.
As urine wet packs or compress- This is also a remedy for ringworm and other skin troubles.
Alongside this therapy, it is important to keep an eye on the diet. If possible, one must fast or detoxify when performing urine therapy.
How to use urine therapy for ringworm of scalp (tinea capititis)
Tinea capititis is characterized by patchy hair loss, dandruff like flaking, itchiness, redness and scaling. To use urine therapy, collect urine (patient’s early morning urine) mix it with grated potato juice and sulfur powder. Apply the mixture to the scalp. This will slow down hair fall and restore the scalp to its original condition.
How to use urine therapy for ringworm on the body (Jock Itch, Athlete’s Foot etc)
Massage the urine mixed with sulfur powder on the tinea rashes. You can also use it as is and apply the urine to ringworm. Doing so can purify the blood and restore the skin’s health. Repeat this remedy several times a day. For Athlete’s foot, soak the affected part of the feet in urine. You can also take urine for ringworm internally.
Some tips for internal urine therapy for ringworm
The thought of drinking one’s own urine may offend the sensibilities of many. So, it is best to start small. You can add a few drops to some juice or dilute it with water or ice. You can even mix it with some homeopathic pellets by adding a few drops of urine to them. Do not look upon urine as dirty excreta of the body; rather view it as a therapeutic elixir as mentioned in the Holy Bible 5:15- Drink water out of thine own cistern.
The common recommended dosage for urine therapy for all ailments is 2 to 3 fluid oz. It is best to take it in the morning on an empty stomach. People who drink urine regularly say it has no taste, while some feel it is a bit salty. The taste of urine depends on your diet. If you eat salty, spicy or hot foods, you will find your urine has a strong taste. This therapy can actually make you think seriously about your diet and may be instrumental in helping you change your eating habits. Cutting sugary foods and refined, preservative laden ready-to-eat meals can also help you in the long run and prevent many diseases. Urine will also taste better when your diet is rich in fruits and vegetables.
Comment below whether you plan to use urine therapy for permanent ringworm cure.
Related Posts
8 Products For Fast Ringworm Cure
Best Medicine to Cure Ringworm
12 Home Remedies To Cure Bloated Stomach
A bloated stomach is a sign of indigestion or dyspepsia. Often, pregnant women or women…
Got ringworm? Here are 10 products that can help you get rid of and prevent it.
Primary Sidebar
Search this website
11 Natural Remedies for Fighting Valley Fever
10 Natural Home Remedies For Wounds That Won’t Heal
What To Do For Pregnancy Nausea? 14 Effective Severe Morning Sickness Remedies
Hi, my name is Jacob Olesen and I have a passion for natural living. Join me in my quest for a healthier and happier life… Read more.
Enjoying my website? Let me know.
You can also send me a quick email.
See your doctor for medical advice.
Privacy Policy · Disclaimer · Copyright © 2019
We use cookies to improve your experience. Accept Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy