What Is HIV;Transmission,Symptoms And Diagnosis - Notes Read
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
Home
Articles
About Us
Contact us
Linguistics
ENGLISH Literature
Bussiness communication
Anatomy and Physiology
Medical Notes
Anatomy
Notes Read
Clear Answers About What Is,What Are
March 17, 2019
What Is HIV;Transmission,Symptoms And Diagnosis
HIV is the acronym for Human Immunodeficiency Virus.It is the virus that causes AIDS. HIV is a retrovirus, and also considered Sexually Transmitted Infection. These viruses share some common properties, such as:
prolonged incubation period before the onset of disease symptoms;
infection of blood and nervous system cells;
suppression of the immune system.
HIV is transmitted from person to person through blood, vaginal secretion, sperm and breast milk. Thus, transmission is associated with sexual intercourse without the use of condoms, shared use of syringes and needles, and mother to child during pregnancy.
How Does The HIV Transmission Occur?
HIV transmission occurs through blood, semen, seminal fluid (secretion that is released early in the erection), vaginal fluids, and through breast milk.
Therefore, the virus that causes AIDS can only be transmitted in the following ways:
Unprotected sex ( anal sex, vaginal sex and oral sex );
Vertical transmission (ie from mother to child during gestation, delivery or breastfeeding);
Blood transfusion ;
Sharing of syringes (very common practice among injecting drug users, such as heroin);
Occupational accidents with perforating material (as in the case of nurses who accidentally come into contact with biological material from a seropositive patient).
HIV CAN NOT be transmitted through:
Kisses;
Saliva;
Urine;
Feces;
Tears;
Sweat;
Touch.
Sex, provided the condom is used correctly.
Masturbation to two.
Kiss on face or mouth.
Sweat and tear.
Bug bite.
Handshake or hug.
Soap / towel / sheets.
Cutlery / glasses.
Bus seat.
Pool.
Bathroom.
Blood donation.
Through the air.
Symptoms of HIV and AIDS
HIV infection has 4 stages:
First phase: soon after infection, the virus remains undetectable within the body for about 3 to 6 weeks (which is the time of the so-called immune window). After this period, symptoms appear very similar to those of the flu, such as fever and malaise;
Second stage: the asymptomatic stage of infection, in which the virus is active within the body and acting silently while destroying the defense cells. At this stage, however, the immune system still does not show signs of weakening. It can last for years;
Third stage: the body begins to give the first signs of low immunity. Initial symptoms of AIDS may appear, such as intermittent fever, diarrhea, night sweats, fatigue and even more severe conditions such as weight loss, herpes and gingivitis ;
Fourth stage: the most advanced stage of infection is AIDS, in which the immune system is already severely compromised. Here, urgent treatment is needed to reverse the picture. Serious health complications such as pneumonia , tuberculosis and cancer can appear .
Diagnosis of HIV
The virus is detected in the body through specific blood tests . They can be done both in private laboratories and in Unified Health System (SUS) posts that are spread throughout the municipalities. In this, even, also available the rapid test for HIV, whose result comes out in only 2 hours.
Last Updated On:Sunday, March 17, 2019
Related Posts via Taxonomies
What Is BCG Vaccine;Reaction,Side Effects,And Contraindications
What Is Benzocaine;When,How To Use It?
What Is Carisoprodol;When We Should Take Carisoprodol Dosage
What Is Buclizine;When We Should Use It
What Is Biomag;Does Biomag Really Lose Weight?
What Is Tandrilax;How Does Tandrilax Work?
What Is Budesonide;When You Should Use Budesonide
Betamethasone: What It Is and What It Is For
What Is Arovit Medicine (Vitamin A);How To Use It?
What Is Allestra Medicine;How To Use It?
Filed Under: Medical Notes
A lemon battery produces electricity through a chemical reaction that occurs when metals are introduced into the lemon juice. The lemon juice is quite acidic, which helps break the atomic structure of metals, such as copper and zinc, releasing electrons that generate electrical current. The lemon battery is a science experiment that is used to demonstrate the basic…
[Read More...]
The brushless motor is a type of motor that does not use brushes. It always has a voltage regulator or a variator associated with it. These brushless motors allow us to achieve great performance and great power in exchange for a high consumption . Due to this, we have to use batteries Lypo (Polymer of lithium). Advantages: Greater efficiency (less heat loss) Higher…
[Read More...]
There are several types of network cables and various ways to connect such a cable. A rollover cable is a kind of network cable commonly used around the world today. It is an especially useful cable for an ISP or for organizations where advanced routers are in use. It is also sometimes used with serial ports between …
[Read More...]
Reader Interactions
Primary Sidebar
Search this website
Categories
All Poems
Anatomy
Anatomy and Physiology
Anthropology Notes
Articles
Bussiness communication
College Essays
ENGLISH Literature
Great People
Introduction to Economics
Law Notes
Linguistics
Medical Notes
Political Science
Psychology Notes
Questions And Answers
Scholarship
Teaching
Viral News
DON’T MISS THESE!
What Is Lemon Battery;Step By Step Guide To Make Lemon Battrey
What Is Brushless Motor;10 Advantageous You Must Know
What Is Rollover Cable; What Does It Do In Networking
What Is HDMI:How To Use HDMI
What Are SMES Companies;What does SMES Mean?
What Is PhD;What Does PHD Degree Do?
What Is HRM(Human Resource Management);10 Objectives You Must Know
What is PDF:Why It Is Used For?
What is DCTF And How Does It Work?
What Is NASA:5 Interesting Facts You Must Know
What Is BCG Vaccine;Reaction,Side Effects,And Contraindications
What is HDI;(Human Development Index )How Is HDI Calculated?
What Is KFC;10 Amazing Facts You Must Know
What Is DSTV:How Does It Work Properly For You
Recent Posts
What Is Lemon Battery;Step By Step Guide To Make Lemon Battrey
What Is Brushless Motor;10 Advantageous You Must Know
What Is Rollover Cable; What Does It Do In Networking
What Is HDMI:How To Use HDMI
What Are SMES Companies;What does SMES Mean?
Copyright© 2019 · by Shay Bocks