Hemorrhoid Tag | Can you Really Treat Hemorrhoids With Home Remedies
hemorrhoid tag - Can you Really Treat Hemorrhoids With Home Remedies
Can you Really Treat Hemorrhoids With Home Remedies
Hemorrhoids are not at all rare and most people have a 50% chance of developing this condition sometime in there life. While there are steps that one can take to minimize the chance of getting hemorrhoids, you may already be a hemorrhoid sufferer. If so then you may well be looking for a way to treat this painful and sometimes embarrassing condition and there are indeed many available treatments on the market. This article will discuss the natural, home remedy treatments available and examine how they stack up against other treatments.
ADVERTISEMENT
Calmovil Natural Hemorrhoid Remedy
Heals painful, itchy hemorrhoids quickly and naturally.
Formulated to Help Support:
Help dissolve existing blood clots
Promote better blood flow
Strengthen weakened veins
Stop itching and bleeding
Shrink hemorrhoids
Relieve pain and pressure
Prevent infections of hemorrhoids
Regulate digestive system
Great Product
Do you have hemorrhoids? Not sure? If you have or think that you may have hemorrhoids, your first step should be to evaluate your symptoms. By learning what symptoms you are exhibiting, you can evaluate what sort of care and treatment you need. There are several different symptoms of hemorrhoids.
Fiber preferably is to be taken via fresh fruits, whole grain foods, and beans. If you notice that your body is letting off too much gas, this may be the result of increasing the fiber in your diet too quickly. Just cut back on the amount of fiber and gradually increase it over time.
2.Drink water You may know the drill already, sixty-four ounces of water daily, about 8 glasses. This helps the fiber in your diet, as it allows the fiber to do it's job - the fiber soaks up the water, thereby bulking the stool. Without water, the fiber may cause even worse constipation. It is best to take the water straight, but not essential.
Mucus or pus - Having some mucus or pus discharge is not associated with hemorrhoids. Change in bowel habit - When you are under emotional stress, tension, trauma, or diet change, a change will occur in your bowel habit where alternating or chronic diarrhea and constipation may happen.
In order to treat hemorrhoids it is important that you understand what they are. Hemorrhoids are inflamed veins in the anus and rectum so to treat them, it is a simple matter of finding a way to reduce the swelling caused by inflammation and eventually remove the source of the inflammation all together. While there are products such as over the counter creams and suppositories to do this, you may rather try some home remedies instead.
1. Introduce more fiber into your diet. Fiber is extremely good at relieving constipation - the main cause of hemorrhoids - and fiber is well renown for preventing them and alleviating their symptoms. Fiber does this by bulking the stool and making it soft, so that the body can eliminate it without much straining.
If you don't have a family doctor to consult with, you can go to other general practitioners like the gastroenterologists, proctologists, and the colon and rectal surgeons who have expertise regarding hemorrhoids.
Now, one question you may ask, is how much extra fiber is that over what I am getting already in my diet? The answer is, if you are eating white bread, you are likely on a diet that has a meagre 11 grams of fiber per today, but the good news is, that means you only need to add in an extra 20 grams! That's about 3 to 4 large apples / oranges.
Many people are embarrassed to visit their doctor to have a consultation for their hemorrhoids. It is important to remember that hemorrhoids is a common ailment in the United States for people who are in their fifties and above.
When consulting a doctor, it is important to describe the symptoms in a detailed manner to have a correct diagnosis for your hemorrhoids. These are some of the issues that you must carefully describe to the doctor: pain, bleeding, mucus or pus, change in bowel habit, change in the shape and characteristics of your stool, swelling, itching, and bulges and protrusions.
Change in the shape and characteristics of your stool - When your stool is colored brown or yellow and good in form, then you have a healthy stool. But when there is a change in the shape or color of your stool, it can be a symptom of other medical conditions but not hemorrhoids.
An internal hemorrhoid, in addition to bleeding, will sometimes move from the interior of the rectum, where it has become swollen, to the exterior of the body - the anus. In addition to irritation and bleeding, you may find the area of your anus sore and swollen. You may also experience irritation and pain. All of these symptoms are indicative of a prolapsed hemorrhoid.
The most common symptom of hemorrhoids is bleeding. Sometimes bleeding only occurs when the hemorrhoids initially appear. Most of the time, if you have hemorrhoids, you will notice blood on your stool. You may also notice blood on your underwear. If you have experienced these symptoms and think you might have hemorrhoids, the next step is to see your doctor. Your doctor will examine your anus for swollen blood vessels and bleeding. Bleeding, however is the least of the discomfort that can occur with hemorrhoids
One way for more immediate relief is to take warm sitz baths several times a day which will help reduce swelling. The bath can contain warm water or you can also add herbal ingredients for further effectiveness. It is important to keep your hemorrhoids clean and dry but you may wish to avoid using soap as it may cause further irritation. You should also avoid dry toilet paper and use moist toweletes to avoid irritation. Ice or cold packs can also help to reduce the painful swelling.
One of the easiest ways to treat the symptoms of hemorrhoids is to understand that hemorrhoids happen because of increased pressure and straining in the rectal veins. By making simple changes in both diet and lifestyle, you can make a big impact on the pressure applied to these veins. One of the biggest causes of straining during a bowel movement is a hard stool and to keep your stool soft, a change in diet can often help. A diet rich in fruits, vegetables, and fiber will make you more regular and keep your stool soft. You may also wish to consider an over the counter stool softener medication. Increased pressure in the rectal veins can also be caused by excessive sitting, especially on the toilet, and by standing for too long. Changing your lifestyle to get more exercise and spend less time sitting can definitely make a difference in reducing the symptoms of hemorrhoids. While diet and lifestyle changes can help, they will take some time and you may be looking for more immediate relief.
ADVERTISEMENT
Save 40% Off The Retail Price
People Said About Calmovil Hemorrhoid Cure
"a week ago i was in agonizing pain. i was exausted and desparate for help. i though i would need a surgery, but i just couldn't imagine any sharp object anywhere near my butt. so i got calmovil. after 4 days my hemorrhoid got smaller and THE PAIN WAS GONE!" Denise, New Jersey
Other hemorrhoid symptoms may occur when you move your bowels. It is easy for hemorrhoids to become irritated each time you move your bowels. Straining, for example, that occurs regularly will cause the hemorrhoids to bleed more and cause more pain. Rubbing or cleaning the area of the anus can also cause hemorrhoids to become irritated.
Consulting a doctor when you are experiencing the symptoms of hemorrhoids is always the best thing to do because there are other medical conditions and diseases that have almost similar symptoms like that of hemorrhoids. Your doctor can confirm that the symptoms you have are due to hemorrhoids and not other diseases or medical conditions.
Not all of these symptoms will lead to a diagnosis of hemorrhoids. Consulting a doctor is not an embarrassing moment. Instead, it is the best way to find out if what you are having are hemorrhoids or not.
3.Exercise Walking is good, bicycling better. Walking or bicycling quickly for 30 minutes, three to four times a week, improves one's overall health, but, more importantly, it helps get the intestines stronger and healthier, allowing for the bowel motions to be moved more easily out, without all that straining on the toilet.
As you can see, there are steps you can take from the comfort of you own home to reduce and perhaps remove the discomfort of hemorrhoids and certain lifestyle changes may eventually remove the condition all together. If you find that this type of treatment doesnt work for you, there are other methods available such as over the counter creams, surgery, and some herbal remedies which I will discuss in some other articles.
Swelling - A person with hemorrhoids will always have the swelling symptom, but this may also mean other medical conditions like infection. Itching - Hemorrhoids, food and medicine allergies, skin diseases, stress, etc. can cause chronic itching.
Using a food table to work out the fiber in the foods you like, you can also see if there are any foods that stand out as worthwhile. Still can't adjust your diet to get enough fiber, then try fiber supplements. They work out to be about $20 to $40 a month, but compare that to the cost and inconvenience of a hemorrhoid operation that may run thousands of dollars and leave you in pain and discomfort for weeks. Powdered psyllium husks are a good option.
Bulges and protrusions - Prolapsed internal hemorrhoids will cause bulges in the anal canal while external hemorrhoids will have hard bulges located outside of the opening of the anal area.
Pain - The anal area have many nerve endings that is why it is sensitive to pain. Painful flare-ups are caused by external hemorrhoids. When an internal hemorrhoids are prolapsed, they are also painful. But, not all hemorrhoids will give you the painful feeling.
Conclusion:
Hemorrhoids afflict millions every year. They are painful, uncomfortable, basically unbearable. The simple natural treatment for hemorrhoids above, can go along way to bring an end to your suffering.
This can help train your bowel to empty on a daily basis, which can help reduce the incidence of constipation General guidelines: Do not force. Do not sit for much more than five minutes. If nothing happens, try again tomorrow. If the urge hits at a different time - GO! - otherwise you may cause yourself more hemorrhoid problems.
When a hemorrhoid is external, in addition to causing bleeding you may feel noticeable lumps in the area of your anus. This can mean that a series of blood clots have formed from bleeding under the skin. This can cause more swelling and pain on top of the pain the hemorrhoid may already be causing you.
When hemorrhoids become irritated it can cause more pain in the area of the anus and may cause itching. The itching may occur due to the body's production of mucus in that area. This irritates the hemorrhoids and causes them to become more inflamed. Unchecked, this cycle of irritation and inflammation can cause more serious problems and pain that won't easily go away.
In a very high fiber diet for hemorrhoids you may be asked by your doctor to consume as much as 3.5 ounces or 96 grams of fiber a day, to keep your body healthy and balanced. A high fiber diet, that is normally sufficient for a hemorrhoid suffer is about one third that dose - 31 grams or one ounce.
Bleeding - The color of the blood is an indicator of the location of the bleeding - bright red is from the anal canal and dark red is from the colon. Bleeding does not always indicates hemorrhoids. It can also be associated with more serious medical conditions like colorectal cancer and ulcer.
4. Bowel training Essentially go to the toilet at the same convenient time every day. Sit for about five minutes in the toileting posture ( feet raised on ball of feet, elbows resting on knees). Let your body become accustomed to this timing and hopefully, you will start doing your business on a regular daily basis, at about the same time every day.
Hemorrhoids are easily identifiable by the symptoms above. While other symptoms may occur as well, these are the most common. Other symptoms you experience may be due to a digestive disease or could be a reaction to continuous irritation to the area of the rectum. Knowing the symptoms of hemorrhoids can help you know whether you have them. Knowing if you have hemorrhoids is the first step in treating them succesfully.
Learn More about Hemorrhoid Treatments
Helping To Relieve The Pain Of Hemorrhoids In Toddlers
Hemorrhoids are basically a type of varicose vein and any individual can get them. Even hemorrhoids in toddlers can happen and this can be a particularly painful experience for a young child. Symptoms for hemorrhoids in toddlers can include itching, burning, pain and bleeding. If a toddler has rectal bleeding you should always get it checked by a doctor even if you think it is a hemorrhoid since...
Hemorrhoids Information and Prevention
Hemorrhoids are swollen veins in the anal canal. Hemorrhoids are enlarged, painful veins in your rectum. They may result from straining during a bowel movement or the increased pressure on these veins during pregnancy, among other causes. In the USA, the prevalence is about 4.4%. It is estimated that approximately one half of all Americans have had this condition by the age of 50, and that 50% to...
Home Remedies for Earache
Earache is very common medical problem for both children and adults. Earache can also be caused by pain and inflammation of the outer portion of the ear (the pinna). Ear pain in children is often caused by a build-up of fluid and pressure behind the eardrum, in the area called the middle ear. Ear pain in a child or infant is not always from infection, however. Other causes include water from...
Do Hemorrhoid Creams Work?
If you have hemorrhoids, you may be tempted to try products that claim they can make this annoying and painful condition vanish like magic. However, most of them are a waste of money. None of these products can actually shrink hemorrhoids or make them disappear. At best, these products can temporarily relieve pain and itching which is what a good sitz bath can do. The bad part is that some...
Herbal Cures for Hemorrhoids: Do They Really Work
Many hemorrhoid sufferers are looking for something that not only treats the symptoms but will also cure their hemorrhoid condition. There are numerous over the counter creams and suppositories available that claim to treat symptoms and heal the damage and while some of these products have a well proven reputation, the effectiveness of others has is not so well proven and some scientific...
hemorrhoid treatment at home | hemorrhoid thrombosis | hemorrhoid tag | hemorrhoid treatment center | hemorrhoid treatment center kansas | hemorrhoid treatment |
(c) 2019 picturesofhemorrhoids.info
Contact Us | About Us | Privacy Policy | RSS Feed | hemorrhoid tag