Oncology — Genomic Diagnostics
0
Home
About Us
Our People
Laboratory Locations
Our Tests
Oncology
Cancer Management
Breast/Ovarian Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Haematology
Pharmacogenetics
Cardiovascular
Paediatrics
Respiratory
Neurology and Development
Epilepsy
Fertility, Conception and Reproduction
Non-invasive prenatal testing (NIPT)
Carrier Screening
Basic Carrier Screening
Counsyl Foresight Carrier Screen
Paternity, Relationship, and Immigration
Peace of Mind Paternity DNA test
Legal Paternity DNA test
Antenatal DNA test
Deceased Estate DNA test
DNA Profiling
Grandparent DNA test
Immigration DNA test
Sibling DNA test
Twins DNA test
Y-chromosome DNA test – Relationship
Other Genetic Tests
By Disease
By Gene
Our Medical Product List
Order a Test
For Patients
For Physicians
Partnerships
FAQ
Contact
Menu ≡
Oncology
Oncology is the branch of medicine concerned with the origin, development, diagnosis, and treatment of cancer.
Cancer has traditionally been classified by microscopic examination of tissue subtypes (such as lung, bowel, and skin) and the cell types involved. Increasingly, tumours are now also categorized according to molecular criteria, or changes in DNA.
For example, some cancers will respond differently to treatments with certain classes of drugs, depending on the presence or absence of certain mutations (or molecular variants). Testing and treating tumours in this way is also known as precision or personalised medicine.
Some families may have an increased risk of developing certain types of cancer through the inheritance of variants (mutations) in certain genes. Testing for these variants can determine whether you might be at increased risk of developing cancer, and suggest an appropriate prevention or surveillance strategy.
Genomic Diagnostics is NATA accredited for the full range of genetic testing technologies for both inherited cancer susceptibility testing (germline testing), and for tumour genetic profiling (somatic testing).
NEW!! TESTING FOR BRCA 1 AND 2 IN BREAST/OVARIAN CANCER
Oncology – more information
Non inherited cancer diagnosis and management
What is the right treatment for my cancer?
Inherited Cancer diagnosis and risk prediction
Breast/Ovarian Cancer
Our full medical test list
Disclaimer | Privacy | Copyright NoticeORDER A TESTPhone: 1800 822 999 Copyright © 2019 Genomic Diagnostics.