Eye Recipes - Handpicked by Dr. Jenna Zigler and Dr. Travis Zigler
BUY 1, GET 1 FREE! - Heyedrate Lid & Lash Cleanser 👁
Press
Vivid Vision
Past Mission Trips
Wholesale Inquiries
1-888-EYE-LUV9
USD CAD EUR GBP
My Account
Welcome to Eye Love!
Login Create Account
0
SHOP
BEST SELLERS
EYELID CLEANSERS
BOOK
EYE DROPS
MAKEUP REMOVER
SPA THERAPY
SUPPLEMENTS
OMEGA-3
AREDS-2
LUTEIN & ZEAXANTHIN
ABOUT US
WHY BUY FROM EYE LOVE?
DONATE
REVIEWS
BLOG
DRY EYES
WHOLESALE
0
Shopping Cart
Your cart is currently empty.
Continue Shopping
My Account
Welcome to Eye Love!
Login Create Account
Home
Eye Recipes
easy recipe
Eye Recipes — easy recipe
RSS
Dr. Jenna Zigler's Amazing Carrot Cake Smoothie Recipe 0
Dr. Jenna Zigler's Amazing Carrot Cake Smoothie Recipe
Carrot Cake Smoothie Recipe: Serves 2
2 bananas
16oz unsweetened almond milk
16oz carrot juice
1 scoop greens powder
2 scoops vegan vanilla protein powder
1 Tbs ground flaxseed
2 handfuls organic spinach
10 almonds
1.5 Tbs cinnamon
1 pinch all spice
1 Tbs blackstrap molasses
1-2 Tbs unrefined coconut oil
Fill with filtered water for consistency
BLEND UNTIL SMOOTH
Products you see in the video:
Ninja Professional Blender
Big Berkey Water Filtration
Bolthouse Farms Organic Carrot Juice
Nested Naturals Greens Powder
Vega Vanilla Protein Powder
Ground Flaxseed
Organic Unrefined Coconut Oil
Read More
Jun 27, 2017
Dr. Jenna Zigler
Tags: All Spice almond milk almonds banana blackstrap molasses Carrot Cake Smoothie carrots Cinnamon coconut oil Dr. Jenna Zigler Dr. Travis Zigler Dry Eye easy recipe eating healthy eye conditions eye health Eye Love Blog Eye Love Smoothie Eye Love YouTube eye recipe Flaxseed greens powder Macular Degeneration Nested naturals greens powder Ninja professional blender Optometrist organic carrot juice organic spinach Vegan Vanilla Protein Powder
Grilling? Don’t Forget the Veggies! 0
Grilling? Don’t Forget the Veggies!
We were raised learning that in order to have a healthy body we need to make healthy food choices. Good nutrition fuels your body and can even influence how your mind functions. Did you know that proper nutrition is critical to eye health? It’s true! Orange-colored fruits and vegetables can help protect your vision as well as promote eye health. Carrots are a great example of this. Beta-carotene is a type of vitamin A that gives these foods their orange hue, which also helps the retina function smoothly. Vitamin A deficiency can cause severe dry eyes, which can lead to eye infections and vision loss. Vitamin A can also help you fight pink eye symptoms and other infections by keeping your immune system intact. Other important nutrients for your eyes and vision are the yellow, orange and red pigments in fruits and vegetables that are called carotenoids. Bell peppers are a great example for this. They are a fantastic source for healthy eyes. Carotenoids and Vitamin C are the key nutrients in bell peppers. Vitamin C may reduce your risk of cataracts and macular degeneration later in life.
I love to eat healthy and try to mix in some “good eye foods” as often as I can. Now that the weather is starting to warm up, we tend to grill out a lot. Grilling vegetables is simple and healthy! The first recipe I will be sharing with you is “Glazed Grilled Carrots”. The second recipe is “The Easiest Grilled Peppers Recipe”. I wish I could take credit for these recipes, however, I actually found them on two different websites. The carrot recipe is by Jeff Gordinier and the grilled peppers recipe is by Frances Janisch.
Ok, let’s get started.
Glazed Grilled Carrots
Total cooking time for this dish is about 25 minutes.
INGREDIENTS
2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar
1 tablespoon soy sauce
1 tablespoon dark brown sugar
½ teaspoon finely chopped fresh rosemary
½ clove garlic, cut into paper-thin slices
1 teaspoon freshly grated ginger
2 tablespoons vegetable oil, plus more for the carrots
10 medium carrots, peeled, trimmed and cut in half lengthwise
Salt
1 green onion, thinly sliced
PREPARATION
In a large bowl, whisk together vinegar, soy sauce, sugar, rosemary, garlic and ginger until combined. Whisk in 2 tablespoons oil so dressing emulsifies; set aside.
Heat grill to low. Coat carrots with oil and season with salt. Grill carrots, covered, turning as needed to prevent burning, until nicely charred and fork tender, 20 to 25 minutes.
When carrots come off the grill, toss them immediately in the prepared dressing. Once they're coated, use tongs to transfer the carrots to a serving platter and garnish with green onion. Drizzle a few spoonfuls of the remaining dressing over the top.
The Easiest Grilled Peppers Recipe
Prep time for this dish is about 15 minutes. Total time to cook is around 22 minutes.
INGREDIENTS
4 red, orange, and/or yellow peppers
2 tbsp. olive oil
½ tsp. salt
¼ tsp. coarsely ground black pepper
¼ c. fresh parsley leaves
PREPARATION
Prepare outdoor grill for covered direct grilling on medium.
Cut each pepper lengthwise into quarters; discard stems and seeds. In medium bowl, toss peppers with oil, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and 1/4 teaspoon coarsely ground black pepper.
Place peppers, skin side up, on hot grill rack. Cover grill and cook peppers 4 to 5 minutes or until beginning to soften. Turn peppers over; cover and cook 3 to 4 minutes longer or until slightly charred. As peppers are done, return to same bowl. Add parsley and toss to coat.
It’s as simple as that! Be sure not to overcook the vegetables so you don’t cook out all of the tasty and important nutrients. I promise you will LOVE these side dishes as much as your body and eyes do! Give it a try and let us know how you like them. To check out other eye healthy recipes, click here to follow us on Pinterest.
One Love,
Dr. Travis Zigler
Read More
Apr 21, 2017
Dr. Travis Zigler
Tags: 20/20 Vision bell peppers beta-carotene carrots Dr. Jenna Zigler Dr. Travis Zigler dry eye dry eye community easy recipe easy recipes eye conditions eye health eye love Eye Love Blog eye love food for dry eye eye love recipe Eye Love recipes Eye Love supplements food glazed grilled carrots good nutrition grilled peppers recipe grilling healthy eye healthy eyes healthy food healthy skin healthy weight heart health immune system leafy vegetables nutrition omega 3 omega 3 fatty acids proper nutrition summer grilling summer time veggies
Recent Posts
Dr. Jenna Zigler's Amazing Carrot Cake Smoothie Recipe
Jun 27, 2017
Grilling? Don’t Forget the Veggies!
Apr 21, 2017
Categories
20/20 Vision
All Spice
almond milk
almonds
banana
bell peppers
beta-carotene
blackstrap molasses
Carrot Cake Smoothie
carrots
Cinnamon
coconut oil
Dr. Jenna Zigler
Dr. Travis Zigler
dry eye
dry eye community
easy recipe
easy recipes
eating healthy
eye conditions
eye health
eye love
Eye Love Blog
eye love food for dry eye
eye love recipe
Eye Love recipes
Eye Love Smoothie
Eye Love supplements
Eye Love YouTube
eye recipe
Flaxseed
food
glazed grilled carrots
good nutrition
greens powder
grilled peppers recipe
grilling
healthy eye
healthy eyes
healthy food
healthy skin
healthy weight
heart health
immune system
leafy vegetables
Macular Degeneration
Nested naturals greens powder
Ninja professional blender
nutrition
omega 3
omega 3 fatty acids
Optometrist
organic carrot juice
organic spinach
proper nutrition
summer grilling
summer time
Vegan Vanilla Protein Powder
veggies
Invalid Password
Enter
FAST SHIPPING
100% ORGANIC
100% SATISFACTION
24/7 SUPPORT
Quick Links
Why Choose Eye Love?
Best Sellers
Our Story
Vivid Vision
Warranty
Contact us
Programs
Rewards Program
Referral Program
Affiliate Program
Policies
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Shipping & Returns
Keep in Touch
Sign up for our newsletter and be the first to know about coupons and special promotions.
© 2019 Eye Love. All Rights Reserved
American Express
Apple Pay
Diners Club
Discover
JCB
Mastercard
PayPal
Sezzle
Venmo
Visa
Sale
Unavailable
Sold Out