fruit | PositiveChoices.com
Skip navigation
Log in/Create account
Search this site:
Home
Blog
Tips
HealthBitesHD
About
Authors
Contact
fruit
PositiveTip for May 4, 2018
Frequent Consumption of Fruit Improves Female Fertility
Posted by Fred Hardinge on May 4th 2018 at 6:59am
Frequent fast food consumption increases risk of infertility!
Women who ate fruit less than 3 times per day, when compared to those who consumed 3 or more servings, had a significantly increased risk of infertility. This retrospective study from Australia also found women who consumed no fast food had a 41% reduced risk of infertility. Interestingly, consumption of green leafy vegetables seemingly had no impact on fertility.
PositiveTip: Women of childbearing age who desire to concieve, should lay off the fast foods and eat at least 3 servings of fresh fruit daily.
Read more
Tagged as: diet, fast food, fertility, fruit
PositiveTip for April 30, 2018
Fresh Fruit Daily Lowers Cardiovascular Risk
Posted by Fred Hardinge on April 30th 2018 at 8:22am
Reach for the fruit bowl instead of that bag of your favorite chips.
Researchers in China followed almost a half-million people for seven years finding when they consumed more fresh fruit they had lower risk of heart attack and stroke. Cardiovascular deaths were 40% lower in those who consumed fresh fruit daily compared to those who never or rarely did. Because the Chinese typically eat little fresh fruit, this study highlights the value of adding just 1-2 servings per day.
PositiveTip: Replace calorie-rich snacks and food items with fresh fruit to help lower your risk of cardiovascular disease.
Read more
Tagged as: CVD, cardiovascular disease, fruit, heart attack, stroke
PositiveTip for June 26, 2017
Do We Need to Fear Fruit Sugar?
Posted by Fred Hardinge on June 26th 2017 at 5:29am
There is little fear about the sugars in whole fruit!
Information from the Australian Health Survey reveals those with higher intakes of whole fruit were 12% less likely to be obese than those with lower intakes. Those with higher intakes of sugar-sweetened soft drinks and chocolate were 9% more likely to be obese. There is no need to fear fruit sugar, although chemically similar, the combination of other nutrients and the overall diet probably account for the difference.
PositiveTip: Eat more fruits as they are an excellent source of many wholesome and necessary nutrients.
Read more
Tagged as: fruit, soda, sugar, weight management
PositiveTip for July 28, 2014
Compounding Health Choices
Posted by Brian R. Bell on July 28th 2014 at 6:52am
Diet, exercise, smoking and alcohol all affect your health, but especially when combined.
Swiss researchers looked at the health risks of poor diet, irregular exercise, smoking and high alcohol consumption among 16,700 Swiss men and women. Smokers were most likely to die prematurely, but people with all four risk factors were 2.5 times more likely to die. However, people free of all risk factors could increase their life expectancy by up to 10 years.
PositiveTip: Invest in your future by fostering healthy habits now.
PressRelease Journal Article
Read more
Tagged as: alcohol consumption, cigarette smoking, exercise, fruit, fruits and vegetables, longevity
PositiveTip for January 29, 2014
Choose Whole Fruits Over Fruit Juices
Posted by Brian R. Bell on January 29th 2014 at 1:22am
Whole fruits are better at cutting risk of type-2 diabetes.
Researchers analyzed the eating habits of 187,000 Americans. They found eating whole fruits significantly reduced the risk of type-2 diabetes, while exclusive fruit juice consumption may slightly increase your risk. The fiber, antioxidants and phytochemicals in fruit may all contribute to reduced risk. Commercial juicing often strips out these components, leaving sweet liquids that can elevate blood sugar and insulin levels. Blueberries, grapes, raisins, apples and pears were some of the best fruits.
PositiveTip: Swap out fruit juice for 3 daily servings of whole fruit.
Read more
Tagged as: Type II diabetes, fruit, fruit juice, type 2 diabetes
PositiveTip for September 3, 2013
Whole Fruit Appears to Protect Against Diabetes
Posted by Fred Hardinge on September 3rd 2013 at 12:47am
Fruit juices, instead of whole fruit, increased the risk of type 2 diabetes.
In a longitudinal observation study researchers found eating more fruit, especially apples, blueberries and grapes, lowers the risk of type 2 diabetes. Each 3 additional servings of whole fruit reduced the diabetes risk by a significant 2%. However, the same amount of fruit juice actually raised the risk by 8%. Research is ongoing to determine the causes behind these findings.
PositiveTip: Eat more whole fruit, including apples, blueberries and grapes--especially if they are substitutes for unhealthy foods!
Read more
Tagged as: NIDDM, fruit, juice, risk, type 2 diabetes, whole
PositiveTip for August 15, 2013
Fruits and Vegetables Affordable
Posted by Fred Hardinge on August 15th 2013 at 12:22am
Very few Americans eat the recommended servings of fruits and vegetables.
The Center for Science in the Public Interest reports that fruits and vegetables are often more economical than packaged snacks and side dishes. By analyzing 20 popular snack and 19 side dish items, half of which were fruits and vegetables, they found the average cost per serving of fruit or vegetables was $0.34 and the unhealthy snacks cost $0.67.
PositiveTip: Refuse to believe the popular myth that healthy fruits or vegetables are too expensive! Fruits and veggies are lower in calories and much more nutrient dense also.
Read more
Tagged as: economy, fruit, nutriton, vegetables
PositiveTip for January 16, 2013
Fast Food Risks in Kids
Posted by Fred Hardinge on January 16th 2013 at 6:17am
Eating fruit at least 1-2 times per week protects against severe asthma.
Eating fast foods three or more times per week is associated with a 70% higher risk of severe eczema and a 39% higher risk of asthma in teens, according to a recent multi-center, multi-country study. Even consumption of fast foods 1-2 times per week significantly increases the risk of wheezing and asthma in children. Interestingly, eating fruit 1-2 times per week significantly reduced the occurrence of wheezing, severe asthma, rhinoconjunctivitis, and eczema.
PositiveTip: Avoid fast foods and eat more fruit for a healthier family.
Read more
Tagged as: asthma, eczema, fast foods, fruit, rhinoconjunctivitis
PositiveTip for October 19, 2012
Use Your Fork to Lower the Risk of Cancer
Posted by Fred Hardinge on October 19th 2012 at 12:41am
Choose to eat plenty of cancer fighting foods.
Have you ever wondered how you should eat to fight cancer? While no single food or component of food can guarantee you will not get cancer, evidence is strong that a diet composed of a variety of fruits, vegetables, legumes and whole grains may lower your risk for a good number of cancers. The American Institute of Cancer Research has a wonderful online resource with the most up-to-date evidence available.
PositiveTip: Educate yourself today on how you can eat to lower your risk of cancer.
Read more
Tagged as: cancer prevention, diet, food, fruit, legumes, vegetables, whole grains
PositiveTip for September 25, 2012
Recipe for Weight Loss
Posted by Fred Hardinge on September 25th 2012 at 12:37am
Pass the veggies and fruit, skip the desserts and red meat.
More than 400 postmenopausal women were randomly assigend to two groups: either a "lifestyle change" group, which included group meetings with professionals, or a health education control group. After 48 months of follow-up, 57% of the women in the lifestyle change group and 29% of the controls had maintained at least 5 pounds of weight loss. Multivariate analysis of both groups revealed that increasing fruit and vegetable counsumption and decreasing desserts, sugary beverages, and meat and cheese were associated with sucessful weight loss.
PositiveTip: Eat more veggies and fruit, and go light on desert and soda to lose weight.
Read more
Tagged as: desserts, fruit, postmenopausal, sodas, vegetables, weight loss
1
2
3
Next
Last
Email
positivechoices
Facebook
PositiveChoices.com: All entries
Signup to receive the PositiveTips each day, delivered right to your inbox!
Email: *
Follow our account on Twitter to receive a daily PositiveTip as well as other up-to-date health information.
Are you on Facebook? Why don't you become a fan and share our daily tips with your friends?
Subscribe to our RSS to be updated when we publish new content!
Follow @positivechoices
Offspring of mothers who drank alcohol while breastfeeding had lower cognition.
Read More
Home
Blog
Tips
HealthBitesHD
About
Authors
Contact
Copyright 2015, PositiveChoices.com
Notable Sites
Top Topics
adolescents
weight
teens
driving
red meat
Binge Drinking
antibiotics
physical activity
exercise
diabetes
The material in this website is provided for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as medical advice. It should not be used to diagnose or treat any illness, metabolic disorder, disease or health problem. Always consult your physician or health care provider before beginning any nutrition or exercise program. Use of the programs, advice, and information contained in this website is at the sole choice and risk of the reader.