White And Pink culinary Salt | SALTROCKPK
SALTROCKPK
Manufacturer & Exporter Of Salt Lamps, Candle Holder, Detoxer, Tiles, Salt Cookware, Spa Salt Product, Bath Salt & Chunks — Edible, Industrial, Deicing & Many Other Salt Grades
Search
Main menu
Skip to primary content
Home
About Us
Contact us
F.A.Q.
Products
SALT DETOX
BBQ and Grilling Salt Blocks
SALT COOKWARE AND CROCKERY
Salt Bricks Tiles
Salt Tiles, Bricks, Blocks Construction
Animal Lick
Bird & Animal Feed Mix Salt
SALT LAMPS >>
Natural Salt Lamp
white salt lamps
Wild Life Salt Lamps
Abundance Bowl lamp
Usb Mini Lamp
salt perfume Oil Burners and Diffusers
Feng Shui Salt Lamps
Iron Stand Lamp
Wooden Stand Lamp
geometric lamp 500 shapes >>
Church & Cross Shaped
Classic Style lamps
Dragon Egg
Floral Shaped
Full Moon And Round Shaped lamps
Love Heart Lamp
Pillar Shaped lamps
Pyramid Shape
Sports Ball lamps
Square Shaped Lamps
Tear & Dew Drop
SALT CANDLES >>
Crafted Salt Candle
Natural Salt Candle Holder
Salt Candle With Wood & Iron Holder
SPA, BATH AND MASSAGE SALT>>
Coarse Bath Salt granules
Bath Salt Chunks
Salt Massage Stone
Salt Soap
Salt Deodorant
Salt Glow Scrub
Salt Therapy Cushions
Valentine’s Day Specials
SALT INHALER REFILLABLE
EDIBLE SALT >>
White And Pink culinary Salt
Black Salt
INDUSTRIAL & ROAD SALT
Shipping
White And Pink culinary Salt
Manufacturer and exporter of coarse salt, salt for food, food salt, cooking salt, mineral salt, pink salt, himalayan pink salt, himalayan salt pink, pink himalayan salt, pink salt himalayan, gourmet salt, salt gourmet, culinary salt, edible salt, granular salt, himalayan salt cooking, food grade salt, gourmet salts, pink rock salt, edible salts, edible rock salt, rock salt edible, organic himalayan salt
Himalayan Pink Salt
Looking to replace the chemically processed and artificially refined table salt in your kitchen with a healthier, more pure alternative Himalayan Pink Salt offers the highest mineral content of any natural salt and is prized for its myriad health, detoxification and nutritional benefits. This 250 million year old salt was borne of the Jurassic era and has been shielded from pollution and impurities for centuries. Its delightful grains in varying red, pink and white shades make for an intriguing conversation piece for your table as well as an additive-free flavor enhancer for your favorite dishes. All of our Himalayan salt products are “Gourmet Food Grade” and the very highest quality Himalayan salt available.
Pink Himalayan salt is loaded with over 84 trace elements for the body.
The 84 trace elements are Actinium, Aluminium, Antimony, Arsenic, Astatine, Barium, Beryllium, Bismuth, Boron, Bromine, Calcium, Cadmium, Carbon, Cerium, Cesium, Chloride, Chromium, Cobalt, Copper, Dysprosium, Erbium, Europium, Fluoride, Francium, Gadolinium, Gallium, Germanium, Gold, Hafnium, Holmium, Hydrogen, Ianthanum, Indium, Iodine, Iridium, Iron, Lanthanum, Lead, Lithium, Lutetium, Magnesium, Manganese, Mercury, Molybdenum, Neptunium, Nickel, Niobium, Nitrogen, Osmium, Palladium, Phosphorus, Platium, Plutonium, Polonium, Praseodymium, Protactinium, Radium, Rhenium, Rhodium, Rubidium, Ruthenium, Samarium, Scandium, Selenium, Silicon, Silver, Sodium, Strontium, Sulphur, Tantalum, Tellurium, Terbium, Thallium, Thorium, Thulium, Tin, Titanium, Tungsten, Uranium, Vanadium, Ytterbium, Yttrium, Zinc & Zirconium.
What About Table Salt?
Table salt or sodium chloride is extremely toxic. Some table salt contains aluminum hydroxide (a toxic metal and a known cause of Alzheimer’s). Regular table salt is usually iodized. Naturally occurring iodine is essential, but added iodine is considered a toxic metal.
What About Sea Salt?
The problem with sea salt is that many of the oceans waters are polluted with heavy metals like lead, cadmium, arsenic, mercury and more. Oil disasters and leaking tankers pollute our oceans even more. Today sea salt is not as good as it was in the past.
Our Himalayan Pink Salt is perfect to use when grilling or roasting meat, fish or chicken and this coarse grain size can be used at the table in a salt mill or grinder. Spread out a bed of this beautifully colored salt for your culinary presentations of meat, fish, fruit or cheese…even ice cream! There are so many ways to enjoy the delicious, pure taste and nutritional benefit of mineral-rich salt from the ancient Himalayan Mountains.
Benefits of Himalayan salt:
Experts have been astonished and amazed when they found out about the natural benefits of Himalayan salt. If such salt replaces the common table and commercial salts used in the market today, more people would certainly attain better health.
In a nutshell, the benefits of Himalayan salt could be summed up in the following 17 features.
1. Effectively regulates water level throughout the human body, which is vital to proper and ideal functioning of bodily systems
2. Promotes stable pH balance in the cellular level
3. Encourages ideal blood sugar health
4. Helps slow down or reduce common and unwanted signs of aging
5. Promotes hydroelectric energy creation within cells
6. Increases absorption capacity of food elements specifically within the body’s intestinal tract
7. Aids vascular health
8. Supports healthy respiratory function
9. Reduces muscle cramps
10. Helps relieve sinus problems
11. Improves bone strength
12. Naturally promotes healthy sleep patterns
13. Brings about healthier libido levels
14. Helps regulate blood pressure
15. Prevents formation of unwanted cellulite
16. Helps avoid arthritis, rheumatism, and gout
17. Helps prevent gall bladder and kidney stones
With such benefits of Himalayan salt on hand, no one has to stay away from salt any more. This makes Himalayan salt good news to numerous food enthusiasts and consumers today.
With more and more restaurants offering Himalayan Pink Salt
Characteristics: All-natural red & white speckled crystals, perfect for salt mills/grinders, high mineral content, dry, gourmet food grade
Grain Sizes Available: Powder (0-0.2mm), Extra Fine (0-0.5mm), Fine (0-1mm), Small Grain (1-2mm), Medium Grain (2-3mm), Coarse (3-4mm), Extra Coarse (4-6mm)
Colors: Red, Reddish Orange, pink, white
Packing: 10, 25, 50 kg pp bag
Stand up pouches :half kilograms, one kg and two kg with 4 colour printing and transparent pouches.
1, 2, 5, 10 kg cotton bag,
1, 2, 5 kg plastic jars
5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30 kg 5 ply cartons
Also available in custom Print Packaging
Disclaimer: We do not make any diagnosis or give medical recommendations. These products are not intended to cure heal or prevent diseases. Consulting with doctor is always recommended.
PINK SALT
RED SALT
WHITE SALT
PACKING OPTIONS
Name(required)
Email(required)
Website
Comment(required)
Submit
Advertisements
Rate this:
Share this:
Twitter
Pinterest
Email
Facebook
Telegram
Print
WhatsApp
Tumblr
Skype
Like this:
Like Loading...
1 thought on “White And Pink culinary Salt”
วิ on October 14, 2018 at 8:25 am said:
จะซื้อเกลือ จำนวนมาก ติดต่อกลับ 0896852355
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Powered by WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: