Purple carrot cake - Baking with purple carrots - Food Crumbles
Food Crumbles Improving & understanding food with science
Blog
Start here
Food Science
Courses
About
Search
Food Crumbles Improving & understanding food with science
Search
Understanding Recipes
Purple carrot cake – Baking with purple carrots
July 4, 2017
4 min read
Carrots are orange, aren’t they? No, not necessarily! Purple and yellow carrots are a relatively new variation of carrots in our supermarket (at least in my perception, until I found out it’s actually the purple ones that were there before the orange ones). Most supermarkets still only sell the orange ones, but whenever I see the different colours, I tend to buy them. Why? Because I like trying new things, think it’s good if we don’t eat only one variety of crops and it makes your food look special!
That’s why I decided to use them for making a carrot cake, it gives the carrot cake a well deserved facelift and allows me to ramble a bit about science & carrots & colour. What else can a human being want?
Purple carrots – the origin story
It seems that purple carrots itself are nothing new to humanity. Instead, it’s the orange one that’s the most recent ones. Centuries ago carrots were already grown in the Middle East, however, they tended to be purple and yellow, not orange. Only a few centuries ago farmers started growing orange carrots instead of the fancier coloured ones. Apparently because they were easier to grow and more resistant towards the European climate.
On food colour science
The orange carrot has been developed by farmer through basic breeding principles and over the years this breeding has continued using nowadays knowledge. We now also know better how those colours of carrots are formed.
Colours in food (mostly fruits & vegetables) are widespread and fascinating to study. There are a lot of different colours all caused by different groups of molecules. It’s real chemistry. You will also see reoccuring patterns, so if you’ve read our post on tomatoes (yellow & red ones) or the one on oranges (why are they orange) you might hear some familiar terms.
Carrot colour science
So what molecules (or molecules groups) cause all these nice colours?
For orange carrots you might have heard. It is often said that eating carrots is good for your eyes and that is indeed true. The reason for the good eyes is actually the colour of the carrot. The colour orange is caused by β-carotene, a pre-cursor of vitamin A and vitamin A is beneficial for your eyes. β-carotene belongs to the large group of molecules called carotenoids.
Yellow carrots
Xantophylls are the molecules that give the yellow carrots their colour. A very common xanthophyll in carrots is lutein. Yellow carrots barely have the orange pigment orange carrots have. That said, since xantophylls also belong to the group of carotenoids, they do also contain high levels of this group as a whole. Also, just in case you’re wondering whether you should avoid the yellow ones since they contain less β-carotene and thus miht be less good for your eyes. Don’t worry, lutein is also beneficial for your eyes.
Purple carrots
The purple colour of purple carrots is thanks to the anthocyanins. That said, purple carrots can actually contain more than twice the amount of β-carotene than orange carrots. The colour is simply overpowered by the strong purple hue from the anthocyanins.
Did you know by the way that you can actually eat too many carrots? It will result in too mcuh carotene in your body and you will turn orange. The cure is easy, just eat no more carrots and the orange hue will disappear again.
Non-orange carrots – Sensory Evaluation
To me, orange and purple and yellow carrots taste quite similar. I don’t tend to eat whole raw carrots though. I tend to use them in a variety of dishes. In that case they contribute to the overall flavour, but do not determine it completely.
The great thing about especially the purple carrots really is there colour. The colour is super strong, I would say you can compare it to that of beets. Using purple carrots in dishes will surely throw off your normal colour. It might look a little weird, but it does make dishes more exciting, I’ve had guests asking what those purple carrots are. Once I explained they’re ‘just’ carrots, they had a smile on their faces.
Same with this carrot cake. It looked a little weird for different, but it tasted great, just like a good carrot cake would.
Purple carrot carrot cake recipe
Print
Purple carrot cake – Baking with purple carrots
Author: Science Chef
Prep Time: 25 mins
Cook Time: 45 mins
Total Time: 1 hour 10 mins
Yield: 1 cake 1x
Print
Pin
Scale
1x
2x
3x
Ingredients
1 purple carrot
2 apples
50g raisin
160g butter
50g light brown cane sugar
150g white sugar
2 eggs
2 tbsp lemon extract
1 tbsp vanilla extract
200g flour
1 1/4 tsp baking powder
1 tsp cinnamon
1/2 tsp nutmeg
1/2 tsp clove
1/2 tsp ginger
50g walnuts
Instructions
Grate the carrot, peel the apple and grate the apple as well.
Mix the butter with the sugars.
Mix in the eggs to the butter and sugar.
Add the extracts.
Mix the flour, baking powder and spices (to make sure the spices are well mixed through).
Add the dry ingredients to the butter, sugar and egg mixture and fold through. Mix in the carrot, apple and walnut.
Place in a cake pan and bake in a pre-heated oven at 160C for approx. 45 minutes. Use a cake tester or tooth pick to check whether the cake is done. If the apples or carrots are quite large it might take a little longer due to the higher moisture content.
Sources
The carrot purple and other curious stories of the foods we eat (p65-69)
Handbook of vegetable preservation and processing (p456-460)
Share:
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
More
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
Click to print (Opens in new window)
Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)
cake colour vegetables
Brioche bread – Science of enriched breads
Sourdough donuts – Yet another type of donut
Add comment
Cancel reply
Rate this recipe ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
You may also like
Understanding Food Ingredients
Why an orange is orange
Just imagine how the world would look like if there weren’t any colors. Everything would be in black and white, light and dark. Life would be less interesting, nature less beautiful and, oranges wouldn’t be...
July 5, 2016
4 min read
Yeast-leavened cakes – Another way to create air
We’ve been making bread for thousands of years, using flour, water and in a lot of cases yeast. Yeast is what makes our breads light and fluffy, by producing carbon dioxide gas bubbles to make the dough rise...
April 29, 2018
10 min read
Understanding Recipes
Pulled Pork Science
Have you ever wonder why you can pull pulled pork into a lot of tiny strands? Why it’s so different from a quickly grilled pork chop? Why it isn’t tough, but soft and tender (despite having been cooked for...
December 8, 2018
7 min read
Want to improve your food?
Sign up for our weekly newsletter with our latest blog posts and further reading tips on food & science.
Browse everything:
Search
Recent posts
Comparing 5 ways to prepare broccoli – Broccoli science
Torta Setteveli
Baking cake without eggs – Finding the best alternative
How maple syrup is made – visiting Maple Row Sugarhouse
The science of distilling liquors
How spirits are made – Visiting the Koval distillery
Hi!
Here we love to dig just a little deeper into food and science. We explain how food is made, how it’s preserved & packaged and what the role of the ingredients in your food are. We also analyze recipes, so you understand why a recipe is the way it is! Last but not least, we give you tools to develop a basic understanding of food science! Have fun browsing around and don’t forget to ask a question if you can’t find the answer here!
About
Contact
Privacy policy
Ask a question!
We use cookies on foodcrumbles.com. Please visit our Privacy Policy
Become a food science pro!
Looking for something?
additives barbecue books bread browning cake carbohydrates cheese chocolate colour cookies dairy donut science drinks Dutch food eggs farming fats fermentation flavour foams food enzymes fruit frying gel ice cream label leavening meat nuts oven oxidation pancakes pastry pie potatoes preservation proteins raising agent scaling up spices & herbs sugar vegetables water activity yeast
Copyright © 2019.
Blog
Start here
Food Science
Courses
About
How can we help you?
Food Science Basics
Food Chemistry Basics
Food Microbiology Basics
Food Physics Basics
How Food Works
Food Preservation Science
Understanding Food Ingredients
Understanding Recipes
How Food is Made
Understanding Food Production
Food Packaging Science
Just curious
An introduction to sous vide cooking
6 min read
Why cream cheese works great in ice cream
5 min read
How to scale up a food production process?
8 min read
How maple syrup is made – visiting Maple Row Sugarhouse
15 min read
Making vanilla extract – Extraction chemistry
6 min read
Shelf life determination – Scaling up food production
9 min read
The story (and science) of processed cheese
7 min read
Science of a basic yeast donut
6 min read
Stop your fried egg from sticking on a cast-iron skillet
11 min read
How oven snacks are made (that taste like deep fried ones)
9 min read
Food Truck Macaron Science
5 min read
LoafNest: How a new way to bake bread was developed
6 min read
How pressure cooking works – Using an InstantPot
8 min read
How mozzarella is made
7 min read
Science of crispy foods – Crispy chicken skin
8 min read
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.