HIV | Second Opinion
Skip to Navigation
About
Host/Panelists
Episode List
The Distributor
Contact Us
Our Sponsor:
Learn More About:
Search Health Topics
Addiction
Aging
Autoimmune Conditions
Bladder and Bowel Health
Cancer
Caregiving
Children's Health
Diabetes
Heart Disease & Prevention
Infectious Disease
Lung Disease
Men's Health
Mental Health
Pain
Sexual Health
Neurological Disorders
Vaccines, Drugs & Medications
Women's Health
Resource Links
@SecondOpinionTV
Second Opinion t.co/oHUIlO4jnI
Second Opinion Screenings are medical tests that check for diseases before there are any signs & symptoms. Learn more: t.co/lvLXGSKXlT
Second Opinion Check out this medical device gives patients with #type1diabetes more freedom t.co/540LvEQxSs
HIV
Share This:
Full Episode
Patient Stories
Medical Innovations
Panelists
Greg Louganis
Louis J. Papa, MD, FACP
Nicholas Van Sickels, MD
Related Content
HIV In Middle Age
Other Resources
Resources:
Avert
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
HIV.gov
Resource Description:
AVERT is a UK-based organisation that has been working at the forefront of HIV education for the past 30 years.
CDC works 24/7 to protect America from health, safety and security threats, both foreign and in the U.S.
Increase knowledge about HIV and access to HIV services for people most at risk for or living with HIV.
Episode number:
1507
Topics:
Autoimmune ConditionsMen's HealthSexual HealthWomen's Health
Transcript:
HIV (transcript)
In 1981 the U.S. identified its first patient in what would become the AIDS epidemic. Today, people with access to testing, early intervention, and effective treatments can expect to live long, healthy lives.
Source: Avert.org
What is HIV?
HIV is a virus that attacks cells in the immune system, which is our body’s natural defence against illness. The virus destroys a type of white blood cell in the immune system called a T-helper cell, and makes copies of itself inside these cells. T-helper cells are also referred to as CD4 cells.
As HIV destroys more CD4 cells and makes more copies of itself, it gradually weakens a person’s immune system. This means that someone who has HIV, and isn’t taking antiretroviral treatment, will find it harder and harder to fight off infections and diseases.
If HIV is left untreated, it may take up to 10 or 15 years for the immune system to be so severely damaged that it can no longer defend itself at all. However, the rate at which HIV progresses varies depending on age, general health and background.
Basic facts about HIV
HIV stands for human immunodeficiency virus.
People with HIV can enjoy a long and healthy life by taking antiretroviral treatment which is effective and available to all.
Once a person has HIV, the earlier they are diagnosed, the sooner they can start treatment which means they will enjoy better health in the long term.
Regular testing for HIV is important to know your status.
HIV is found in semen, blood, vaginal and anal fluids, and breastmilk.
HIV can’t be transmitted through sweat, saliva or urine.
Using external (or male) condoms or internal (or female) condoms during sex is the best way to prevent HIV and other sexually transmitted infections.
If you inject drugs, always use a clean needle and syringe, and never share equipment.
If you’re pregnant and living with HIV, the virus in your blood could pass into your baby’s body, during birth or afterwards through breastfeeding. Taking HIV treatment and becoming undetectable eliminates this risk.
What is AIDS?
AIDS is a set of symptoms (or syndrome as opposed to a virus) caused by HIV. A person is said to have AIDS when their immune system is too weak to fight off infection, and they develop certain defining symptoms and illnesses. This is the last stage of HIV, when the infection is very advanced, and if left untreated will lead to death.
Basic facts about AIDS
AIDS stands for acquired immune deficiency syndrome; it’s also called advanced HIV infection or late-stage HIV.
AIDS is a set of symptoms and illnesses that develop as a result of advanced HIV infection which has destroyed the immune system.
Fewer people develop AIDS now because treatment for HIV means that more people are staying well.
Medline Plus
Medline Description:
Conduct an off-site search from MedlinePlus. These up-to-date search results are based on search terms specific to Second Opinion.
Medline Link:
HIV
AIDS
Screening
Have a comment?
If you'd like to send a comment to the producers of the show, please use our contact form, or feel free to post a comment on the wall of our Facebook Page.
Funded By:
Produced By:
Distributed by:
The material on this Web site is provided for general information only and is not intended to contain or convey medical advice or instruction. Always consult with your physician or other appropriate health care professionals before making any changes in diet, physical activity and/or drug therapy. If you think you may have a medical emergency, call your doctor or 911 immediately. Do not use this Web site for medical emergencies. WXXI did not create and does not recommend or endorse any specific opinions or other information that may be mentioned or referenced on this Web site. While WXXI strives to provide users with the highest-quality related resources on all of its sites, we cannot and do not ensure the quality or accuracy of the non-pbs.org content to which we link.
RELIANCE ON ANY INFORMATION ON THIS WEB SITE IS SOLELY AT YOUR OWN RISK.
Home
User login
Pressroom
Contact us
Become a Sponsor
Media
Copyright 2016 WXXI - All Rights Reserved