WND Concerns over vaccine-autism link persist despite official denials - WND
- WND - http://mobile.wnd.com -
Concerns over vaccine-autism link persist despite official denials
Posted By -NO AUTHOR- On 12/30/2018 @ 6:49 pm In APP Frontpage,Education,Faith,Front Page,Health,Politics,U.S. | No Comments
A video in which two parents tearfully tell the story of their tragedy – triplets all becoming autistic within hours of getting a vaccination at the age of nine months – is getting a second life.
And it’s at least partly due to the continuing controversy over the alleged link between vaccinations of infants and autism – an issue put in the news just days ago by a newly elected congressman.
It was Tennessee U.S. Rep.-elect Mark Green who explained at a town-hall event that he thinks vaccines may cause autism.
That would be contrary to what the federal Centers for Disease Control have claimed.
Green, a medical doctor, questioned data from the CDC and other institutions that purport to disprove the vaccine link.
“Let me say this about autism,” Green said. “I have committed to people in my community, up in Montgomery County, to stand on the CDC’s desk and get the real data on vaccines. Because there is some concern that the rise in autism is the result of the preservatives that are in our vaccines.
“As a physician, I can make that argument and I can look at it academically and make the argument against the CDC, if they really want to engage me on it,” Green said.
Jane Orient, M.D., former president of the Association of American Physicians and Surgeons, says the real problems are a lack of adequate research and the medical industry’s apparent effort to conceal any link between vaccines and autism.
“We just really don’t know [the causes] and we’re not doing the research” that is needed, she told WND.
While the government, many physician groups, and of course the vaccine makers all categorically reject any link between vaccines and autism, those cases still are appearing and provide compelling evidence of just such a link.
“Claims that vaccines are linked to autism, or are unsafe when administered according to the recommended schedule, have been disproven by a robust body of medical literature,” two American Academy of Pediatrics doctors claimed last year. “Delaying vaccines only leaves a child at risk of disease.”
All of which is why the story of the McDowell family of Michigan is on video on Brighteon.com, getting tens of thousands of views in just the last few days.
Natural News reports, “The video shows below, healthy triplets all became autistic within hours of vaccination, once again demonstrating that vaccines cause autism. The parents, the McDowell family in Detroit, Michigan, have spoken out publicly against the horrific medical violence being committed against children every day across America through toxic vaccines.”
The parents, David and Brenda McDowell, explain in the video:
On June 25th, 2007, we brought them in for the [vaccine] shot… we went in at 10 am. All three. My daughter still has the mark on her leg from the shot… we did the boys as well. By noon, Claire shut completely off. It was as if she was blind, and deaf, and complete failure to thrive, from super super happy, smiley girl to… she had full blown eye contact, and she shut right down. All she did was stare at the ceiling.
At 2:00 we watched Richie shut off. All his mama, dadda, and the furniture walking and everything just shut of. All the giggles, all the smiles, again failure to thrive. They lost all their reflexes… they stopped blinking, yawning, coughing, sneezing, they lost their startle reflex… that was 2:00.
The worst was when we saw the final one shut down. We lost Robbie, he looked like he was hit by a bus. He had a stunned look on his face… he acted deaf, he lost his happiness. They were no longer engaged in anything or anyone. They lost their smiles. They never held hands again, never looked at each other again.”
Brighteon, in fact, has a “VAXXED” channel for such reports.
“Share the link. Spread the word. Vaccines cause autism. The vaccine industry hires internet trolls to attack anyone who dares to tell the truth, even while vaccine pushers are medical monsters who are committing heinous crimes against children on a daily basis,” the Natural News report said.
The McDowells explained on their video, which also appeared earlier on YouTube, that they later were informed the vaccine their children got was contaminated and was recalled after it killed a two-year-old.
But they said they were told there was no legal recourse for them.
They said they only found out about a special government compensation program after their time frame for eligibility had expired.
WND reported earlier this year that the CDC admits the problems is growing, with about 1.7 percent of 8-year-olds affected in 11 states.
Nationally, the report said, the prevalence has increased 150 percent since 2000, according to the study, which called autism “an urgent public-health concern.”
There have been many suggestions for blame, from a vitamin deficiency to Tylenol to a neurotransmitter and antidepressants.
But the VAXXED video channel has report after report of those who have seen autism develop shortly or immediately after a vaccination.
Orient confirmed that there are “thousands of case reports” that suggest strongly autism follows some vaccinations, or all vaccinations in some people.
“These case reports are not followed up,” she said. “Studies that should have been done immediately have not been done. There’s an attempt to cover up studies that are reportedly concerned with” the links.
Part of the problem is that vaccinations are so widespread that any effective control group, i.e., those not getting vaccines, nearly has been eliminated.
Orient did note there are clusters, such as one in Maricopa County, where “well-educated parents” have decided against the medical industry’s shot agenda.
That could be a good start, she said.
“There are school records for these children. Are they healthier or less healthy? What are the incidents of neurological impairments, development disorders, more asthmas, less asthmas …?”
School used to not need EpiPens, she pointed out, even when peanut butter sandwiches were ubiquitous. EpiPens are emergency treatment for children overcome by allergic reactions.
The problem is there for anyone to see, she said, “just thousands of cases of children who were developing normally.” Suddenly, they lose language skills, social skills, even the ability to react to sudden noises, as the McDowells explained.
What appears certain, Orient said, is that anything that messes up something, the death of certain cells, the migration of cells, certain ingredients, can have catastrophic impacts on the unborn or toddlers.
“We just really don’t know — and we’re not doing the research,” she warned.
Article printed from WND: http://mobile.wnd.com
URL to article: http://mobile.wnd.com/2018/12/concerns-over-vaccine-autism-link-persist-despite-official-denials/
Click here	to print.
© Copyright 1997-2013. All Rights Reserved. WND.com.