Cancer Tips | Many Cures
Many Cures
Just another Wordpress weblog
Cancer Tips
October 14th, 2011 by admin
There are many treatments that claim to cure cancer. Maybe they do; maybe they don’t. You have to be the one to decide.
Listed are some of those unusual protocols that just may help in your quest for better health and perhaps a cure.
Cancer Diet: Going strictly vegetarian or eating very little meat has met with some claimed cure. Alcohol, sugar, coffee, processed foods and junk foods are eliminated as they have a tendency to produce more acid in the body. You will want to aim for a more alkaline state with a reading of seven. That is the physical aspect needing care. Along with that comes the need to address any emotional issues as that will also be a part of the healing process.
Budwig Diet: Eating the right fats with sulfuric proteins is a means of getting more oxygen into cancer cells thus dealing them the death blow. This is done with cold pressed flaxseed oil along with cottage cheese and lots of sun. No doubt for the Vitamin D effect. An herbal remedy also included is drinking Essiac tea which is highly recommended by holistic healers.
Cesium Chloride: This therapy should be done using a professional as your potassium level will need to be constantly monitored. Alkalinity is created within the body, which allows the cancer cells to be weakened, promoting additional oxygen throughout the cells.
Apricot Kernels: These kernels are a source of Laetril, which has since been banned. Apricot kernels can be ordered through the use of the Internet and are relatively inexpensive.
Bicarbonate of Soda: Using baking soda along with “sugar water” IV may trick the cancer cells into accepting the soda. The body becomes alkaline very rapidly. Some have tried to take baking soda with molasses as a means of a cancer cure.
Gerson Therapy: This method involves slow speed juicing and coffee enemas to cleanse the liver. Hoxsey Bio-Medical Clinic uses this treatment along with healing herbs.
Ozone Therapy: This is usually done at a clinic, especially when lung cancer is involved. Food grade hydrogen peroxide is legal but should be used with caution. This therapy is a way of applying oxygen to the cancer cells to destroy them.
No matter what treatment therapy you choose, your decision should be made after thorough research, which should include heart-to-heart talks with medical professionals, since their recommendations can be invaluable and even life saving.
Posted in Articles | Comments Off
Categories
Acne Tips
Arthritis Tips
Cancer Tips
Gout Tips
Many Cures is proudly powered by WordPress
Entries (RSS) and Comments (RSS).