Prawns and High Cholesterol: Sea Food and Fish Oil Good for Heart
Skip to content
Tandurust
Health FAQ
Health Answers
Health FAQ 2
Health FAQ 3
Health FAQ 4
Health FAQ 5
Health FAQ 6
Health FAQ 7
Health FAQ 8
Pregnancy & Childbirth
Pregnancy & Childbirth 2
Alternative Therapies
Alternative Therapies 2
Childrens Health
Childrens Health 2
Natural Home Remedies
Skin Care
Skin Care 2
twitter
facebook
Published February 6, 2011 by Nick
Prawns and High Cholesterol: Sea Food and Fish Oil Good for Heart
Question: Prawns are considered not so bad. Is it true? What about other sea foods for cholesterol? And don’t some fish contain oil that is good for the heart?
Sea Food for Heart
Prawns and crayfish are some of the shellfish that are higher in cholesterol as compared to most other types of fish and seafood. But when compared to most types of meats and poultry they are lower in total fat and saturated fat. Three ounces of prawn contain only 0.25mg of saturated fat and 166mg of cholesterol. So eating prawns is better off than eating other foods.
But fried prawns contain lots of fat so eat steamed ones.
A research study found that men who ate cheese, meat or eggs instead of scallops, mussels, clams, lobster, crab, oysters had an increase in HDL cholesterol and reduction in LDL cholesterol. Prawns and squids however didn’t improve nor harm cholesterol levels.
Fish Oil for Cholesterol
Yes some fatty fishes like tuna, mackerel, salmon and some shellfish contain omega-3 fatty acids (a form of fat found in fatty fish) that helps to prevent heart disease. Soybean products, whole grains, seaweed and beans also contain smaller amounts of omega-3 fatty acids.
And a fleshy, low-growing weed purslane (sometimes used in salads) contains high amount of omega-3 fatty acid. Although these fats are polyunsaturated, their chemical structure is different from other polyunsaturated fats.
Related posts:
Health Benefits Of Eating Fish: Fish Oil Advantages For Women
What Foods Are Good For Heart? Foods That May Cause Heart Disease
High Cholesterol And Heart Disease: Ways To Reduce Cholesterol
Inherited High Cholesterol: What is Familial Combined Hyperlipidaemia
Be First to Comment
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published.
Your Comment
Your Email
Your Website URL
If you see this field, do not fill it!
Name *
Name *
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Primary Sidebar
Recent Posts
What Can Cause Head Pain When Bending Over?
Hiccup When Chin is Touched: What Can Cause This?
Accommodative Insufficiency (An Eye Disorder) Causes and Treatment
7 Side Effects of Mobile Tower Near House
Side Effects Of Whey Protein: On Skin, On Hair and On Liver
Related Posts
Health Benefits Of Eating Fish: Fish Oil Advantages For Women
What Foods Are Good For Heart? Foods That May Cause Heart Disease
High Cholesterol And Heart Disease: Ways To Reduce Cholesterol
Inherited High Cholesterol: What is Familial Combined Hyperlipidaemia
Tandurust
Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | About