Natural Musings: Natural Cold Remedies
skip to main | skip to sidebar
Natural Musings
"I wandered lonely as a cloud
That floats on high o'er vales and hills,
When all at once I saw a crowd,
A host, of golden daffodils;
Beside the lake, beneath the trees,
Fluttering and dancing in the breeze...
I gazed—and gazed—but little thought
What wealth the show to me had brought:
For oft, when on my couch I lie
In vacant or in pensive mood,
They flash upon that inward eye
Which is the bliss of solitude;
And then my heart with pleasure fills,
And dances with the daffodils."-Wordsworth
Wednesday, March 10, 2010
Natural Cold Remedies
So I have gotten sick lately, which is why the banana research has come to a screeching halt. Yesterday I received a care package of hometown grapefruit from my awesome mother and was so stoked! Today I slurped half of one down, feeling much better already. This led me to wonder if in fact grapefruit has healing properties, aside from its high dosage of Vitamin C. Online I found that it is a good detoxifier and that it is suggested you not only eat the flesh but also some of the white pulp of the grapefruit to promote immunity. That being said, grapefruit can also interfere with certain medications such as terfenadine and astemizole- which are both antihistamines. It also interferes with some cholesterol lowering drugs and a list of other drugs. So I suggest thinking about what you are taking before you consume a lot of grapefruit juice. The site I found this info on is listed below.(1)
Aside from that, I suggest (as my mother has always taught me) to gargle salt water. I think it actually does clear your throat. And as always drink LOTS of fluids. If you don't feel much like eating focus mostly on drinking fruit juice and water, with some soup mixed in.
I suggest warm baths to clear your head or microwaving a wet towel to put on your head. Heating pads work wonders if you are sore also.
I've heard spicy foods work to clear to sinuses. Steer clear of milky substances, as they promote phlem. Tea works wonders as well- warm liquids help out. But since tea works as a diuretic make sure to keep drinking water. Keep away from too much coffee as it is a diuretic as well.
Sleep!...sleep! I can't emphasize it enough.
Alright then, I am off to sleep and/or hydrate!
(1)http://www.holisticonline.com/Herbal-Med/_Herbs/grapefruit-interactions-home.htm
(2) http://www.holisticonline.com/Remedies/Flu/cold_nutrition-and-diet-for-cold.htm
Posted by No One Suspects the Butterfly at 10:46 AM
Labels: colds, grapefruit, herbal remedies, illness
No comments:
Post a Comment
Feel free to speak your mind, keeping in mind I have feelings. Thanks!
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Search This Blog
About Me
No One Suspects the Butterfly
Blogging for the sake of blogging.
View my complete profile
Followers
Blog Archive
► 2014 (1)
► October (1)
► 2011 (2)
► October (2)
▼ 2010 (9)
► August (1)
► June (1)
► April (2)
▼ March (3)
Contra Loma Park
Natural Cold Remedies
Bananas and the Total Perspective Vortex
► February (2)
Whose Photos Are These?
Please give me credit if you use my photos- they took some effort and lots of adventuring to get! Thanks! Whitney
Calochortus kennedyi
Flannelbush
The devilishly-deceiving pretty yellow flower of doom!
View From Ma-le'l Dunes North
Ribes sanguineum
Witch's Butter- a Jelly Fungus
Lady Slipper Orchid
Arcata Marsh
False-Lily-of-the-Valley
Maianthemum