Morphine Addiction Signs, Symptoms and Treatment - Harris House
Home
About Us
Insurance
Partners
Admissions
Dual Diagnosis Center
Alumni Success Stories
Treatments
Intensive Inpatient Program
Partial Hospitalization Program
Intensive Outpatient Program
Transitional Housing Level 1 Program
Transitional Housing Level 2 Program
Family Program
Contact Us
Resources
12-Step Meetings
News & Events
Helpful Links
Blog
Videos
Donate
Expansion
(314) 631-4299
Morphine
Comprehensive Morphine Addiction Treatment Center
End your battle with morphine addiction with our patient-focused detox program
Morphine is an opiate prescription painkiller and often the standard by which other opiates are measured. It is one of the most potent opioid drugs on the market. It can be manufactured in liquid, tablet, capsule, and injectable forms.
Morphine is a Schedule II controlled substance according to the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA). That means that it can be used medically under strict regulations, but it has a high potential for abuse and addiction.
It is highly addictive, which leads to particularly uncomfortable and dangerous withdrawal symptoms. It’s important to seek help if you are suffering from morphine withdrawal as they can start as soon as 6-12 hours after the last dose. A tolerance to morphine can be built fairly quickly, so withdrawal can happen even if you haven’t been using the drug for very long.
Morphine withdrawal symptoms include:
Sweating
Chills
Muscle aches
Irritability
Trouble sleeping
High blood pressure
Vomiting
Diarrhea
Stomach cramps
Rapid heart rate
The first step in our morphine addiction treatment program is a medical detox with a licensed doctor to keep patients as safe and comfortable as possible. After the medical detox is complete, we move on to the next steps in the rehab process.
How do I know if I or a loved one is addicted to morphine?
A person who uses the morphine according to a doctor’s instruction is still susceptible to addiction, sometimes in a little as a few weeks. Morphine’s effects include euphoria and pain relief. This can lead to people with chronic pain developing an addiction to the drug.
The body can develop a tolerance to morphine and if the use continues, it requires more and more of the drug to achieve the pain relief and euphoria.
One of the main symptoms of morphine abuse is constipation. Morphine and other opiates slow the body’s normal movement of the digestive tract. It’s important to know the other signs and symptoms of morphine addiction:
Faking injuries or harming themselves in an attempt to see a doctor for a prescription
Needle marks
Withdrawal from friends and family
Disinterest in hobbies and interests that were previously valued
Weakened immune system
Hallucinations
Problems urinating
Sleep apnea
If you have any or several of these physical or behavioral symptoms, please contact Harris House today at 314-328-7938 to talk with one of our counselors about an evaluation and admission.
What can I expect from treatment at Harris House?
As a dual diagnosis treatment facility, we’ll take care of you as soon as you walk through our doors. Our staff will do everything they can to keep you as comfortable and safe as possible.
Harris House’s approach to treatment is based on assessing the client as a whole person in a non-judgmental way. Our treatment combines medication management, mental health therapy to stabilize depression and anxiety, along with 12 step support groups as a holistic approach to treatment. It’s designed to work together to provide a stable foundation for the patient.
Admitting and being involved in substance abuse therapy is an already difficult process. We want to ensure all our clients are seen as holistic individuals worthy of time and care and help them receive the best treatment possible so they can enter recovery and leave their morphine addiction behind them.
What’s it like at Harris House?
Clients are allowed to smoke and use their phones at our facility. Our location in South City is a highly secure, gated facility with 24-hour security, so you’ll never have to worry about safety. Feel free to explore our treatments page to learn more about the specific programs we offer.
We accept most major insurance companies. Please give us a call at 314-631-4299. A counselor is standing by 24 hours a day. You can also contact us here.
Contact Us
Name
Email
Phone
Comments
LINKS
Home
Insurance
Intensive Inpatient Program
Partial Hospitalization Program
Intensive Outpatient Program
Transitional Housing Level 1 Program
Transitional Housing Level 2 Program
News & Events
Family Program
Dual Diagnosis Center
Ask A Counselor
Blog
Alumni Success Stories
Addictions We Treat
Resources
Careers
Contact Us
Donate
Staff
Privacy page
Sitemap
© 2018 HARRIS HOUSE FOUNDATION
Follow Us
8315 South Broadway
St. Louis, MO 63111
12935 North 40 Dr., Ste. 110
St. Louis, MO 63141
Call Us(314) 631-4299
Some photographs on this site are stock models and do not represent actual clients portrayed in sensitive ways i.e. mental or physical health issues, substance abuse, criminal behavior.