Fish Oil Supplements: All You Need to Know – Phoebe, MD: Medicine & Poetry
Twitter
YouTube
Phoebe’s Facebook
Instagram
LinkedIn
Menu
About Phoebe
Her Story
CONTACT
HEALTH & WELLNESS
Taking Control of Chronic Conditions
Diet & Nutrition
Exercise & Fitness
Heart Health
Diabetes
Stress & Relaxation
POETRY
All Poetry
Spoken Word Videos
Medicine
Medical Poetry
International Work
Africa
South America
Central America
Book
Phoebe, MD: Medicine & Poetry
Health | Inspiration | Life
Search for...

HEALTH & WELLNESS
Vitamin D
Heart Healthy Diet
Multivitamins
Heartburn
High Cholesterol
Weight Loss
Hypertension
Managing Stress
De-Stressing
Chronic Stress & You
ART OF MEDICINE
More Photos
Health & Wellness
Fish Oil Supplements: All You Need to Know
By Phoebe Chi on March 16, 2017 • ( 29 Comments )
By Phoebe Chi, MD
Fish oil. It is one of the most commonly used supplements these days, estimated to be taken by 19 million adults in the U.S. alone. In the media, claims of its health benefits are broad and ubiquitous, ranging from heart disease and cancer prevention to treatment of ADHD. However, while there is little doubt that a diet rich in omega-3 foods is beneficial, do fish oil supplements—which also provide omega-3 fats—confer the same benefits for your health? And what if you are currently on one or thinking about starting—what are the ‘right’ reasons for doing so and the potential risks to consider? And finally, what should you look for in a product?
In answering these questions today, I hope to equip you with the confidence to make the best decisions in regards to your health. If you haven’t yet and would like an introduction to omega-3 fats and their natural food sources, take a look at the first part of this article.
• • •
• Fish Oil at a Glance – Key Points •
Omega-3 fatty acids are important for the maintenance of health.
Fatty fish is the best way of obtaining crucial EPA and DHA, but a fish oil supplement may help if one is having trouble getting enough through food.
Past and ongoing research demonstrate that diets rich in omega-3 fats confer numerous health benefits, but whether the same degree of benefit can be derived from fish oil supplements is still unclear in some areas.
While omega-3 fats from food have been shown to protect against heart attacks and strokes, fish oil supplements have not been proven to confer the same benefit.
Studies on fish oil supplements suggest that they can be beneficial to those with high triglycerides, high blood pressure, rheumatoid arthritis, mild cognitive impairment, and women who are pregnant or breastfeeding.
The effect of fish oil supplements on cancer risk and eye disease is still unclear, and research is ongoing.
For those already on ‘blood-thinning medications,’ taking fish oil in combination may potentially increase the risk of bleeding.
Ultimately, whether you should take a daily fish oil supplement should be a decision made in conjunction with your physician, as he or she can help you weigh the potential benefits and risks given your personal health status.
• • •
Health Benefits – The Evidence
Cardiovascular Health
Heart Attacks and Strokes
Scientific bottom line: This is where some of the confusion lies, but as of now, there is no clear evidence that fish oil supplements help prevent heart attacks or strokes. Diets rich in omega-3 fats do, however.
From the 1960’s to 2005, many studies had been conducted to evaluate the effects of omega-3 supplements (ie. fish oil), on heart disease risk. In these studies, researchers compared the number of heart attacks and strokes in people who took omega-3 supplements with those who didn’t. The conclusions of these studies were inconsistent with each other, with some indicating that the supplements were protective in that they lowered the risk of heart attacks and strokes, while others showed no benefit at all.
At the same time, studies looking at people who consumed foods rich in omega-3 fats found that they consistently had lower rates of heart attacks and strokes (both in healthy people and those who already had heart disease).
In 2012, in order to take a closer look, two groups of scientists went back and gathered these previous studies and cross-analyzed the data (in what is called a meta-analysis). Neither group found convincing evidence of a protective effect of fish oil supplements.
In 2014, researchers re-examined the results of the newest high-quality studies, all of which were completed in 2005 or later. Of the nine studies evaluated, only one showed clear evidence of a beneficial effect.
Possible explanation for the conflicting results: Some experts suspect that the reason later studies found no demonstrable benefit for fish oil is that by that time, due to better public awareness, the general population had already increased the amount of omega-3’s in their diets. As a result, what these studies could be suggesting is that there is no benefit from adding additional omega-3 supplementation onto a diet already consisting of omega-3 fats. That is to say, eating fatty fish a few times a week likely already provides enough omega-3 fats to protect the heart—but on top of that, adding on supplements may not be better for most people.
Triglycerides
Studies have shown that high doses of fish oil supplements (up to 4 grams/day) can significantly reduce triglyceride levels (high levels of which can lead to pancreatitis and heart disease) and is currently used as a prescribed treatment for this purpose. (Note: Such doses of fish oil should never be taken without the supervision of a physician.)
Cholesterol
Both omega-3’s from food and fish oil supplementation can improve good HDL cholesterol. However, it has little effect on bad LDL cholesterol (and high supplement doses may actually increase LDL). Therefore, given its ‘neutral’ effect on cholesterol, fish oil supplements should not be taken solely for this purpose. If you are looking to naturally lower your cholesterol, this article will help.
Blood Pressure
Both dietary omega-3’s and fish oil supplementation have been shown to slightly improve blood pressure in people with high blood pressure.
Cardiac Arrhythmias
A few studies suggest that in people who are at risk of having abnormal heart rhythms, both omega-3 from food and fish oil supplementation may reduce the risk of an fatal event.
Rheumatoid Arthritis
There is evidence that the omega-3’s in fish as well as fish oil supplements may be modestly helpful in relieving symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis. In these studies, subjects reported briefer morning stiffness, less joint swelling and pain, and less need for anti-inflammatory drugs to control their symptoms.
Cancer Prevention
Breast cancer: There is growing evidence that omega-3’s from diet as well as fish oil supplements may help slightly reduce the risk of breast cancer, but more studies are needed for this to be confirmed.
Colon cancer: A few studies show that the omega-3’s from fish intake and fish oil supplements are associated with a slightly lower risk of colon cancer in men…but not in women. Research, however, is still ongoing.
Prostate cancer: Studies are widely conflicting, with a few suggesting that increased omega-3 intake may actually increase the risk of prostate cancer, while others do not. As of now, this is inconclusive, and research is currently ongoing.
Pregnancy & Child Development
It is a well-establish fact that getting enough omega-3 fats during pregnancy and lactation is crucial for the developmental health of the fetus, and both omega-3’s from diet and fish oil supplements may improve the infant’s visual development and motor skills. There is also limited evidence suggesting that fish oil supplementation during pregnancy and breastfeeding may reduce the risk of childhood asthma and allergies.
Cognitive Health
While diets rich in omega-3 fats have been observed to reduce the risk of cognitive decline in older adults, the evidence for fish oil supplements is not as robust. Overall, findings indicate that fish oil supplementation does not affect cognitive function in healthy older adults or in people with Alzheimer’s disease. However, in people with mild cognitive impairment, fish oil supplementation may slightly improve cognitive functioning.
Mental Health
A limited number of studies suggest that omega-3 fats from food sources and fish oil supplements—especially those rich in EPA—may help improve some of the symptoms of anxiety and depression, but the evidence is currently weak. The data on the effect of fish oil on children with ADHD is similarly limited, although some suggest that it may help reduce symptoms of hyperactivity and inattention.
Eye Health
A few studies suggest that people who maintain diets rich in fatty fish are less likely to develop the advanced stages of age-related macular degeneration, while studies on fish oil supplements have not. However, it is still too early to tell, and research is ongoing.
Skin Health
Both diets rich in omega-3 fats and fish oil supplementation may be helpful in maintaining skin health and in improving psoriasis and certain types of dermatitis, but more studies are needed.
•
Fish Oil Safety
Bleeding risk:
Fish oil (as well as fatty fish in extremely large amounts) can have an antiplatelet effect (like aspirin), prolonging the time it takes for your blood to clot. Therefore, if you are already taking aspirin, warfarin (Coumadin), clopidogrel (Plavix), or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) such as ibuprofen or naproxen on a regular basis, taking fish oil supplements in combination technically may increase your risk of bleeding. The same goes for herbal supplements—some that are known to have ‘blood-thinning’ properties are ginkgo biloba, garlic, and saw palmetto.
With that said, the actual risk of a bleeding event depends largely on the dose of medications/supplements and fish oil you take. Although most research suggest that fairly large doses of fish oil (2-3 grams or more daily) are required before this effect becomes significant, if you take any of these medications or supplements, it is crucial that you let your doctor know, as he or she can help you weigh the potential health risks and benefits to decide what you should take and to adjust the dosages if necessary.
Other issues to consider:
Side effects: Side effects of fish oil are uncommon and typically consist of minor gastrointestinal symptoms, such as belching, indigestion, or diarrhea.
Fish allergy: It is still uncertain whether people with fish or shellfish allergies can safely consume fish oil supplements.
Prostate cancer risk: As noted above, there is widely conflicting evidence about whether omega-3 fatty acids found in fish and fish oil affect the risk of prostate cancer, and more data is needed before this can be considered conclusive.
•
Selecting a Supplement
If you find that you cannot incorporate enough fish into your diet to meet the daily goal (500 mg/day for adults), a fish oil supplement may be helpful. Things to consider when shopping for one:
Concentration/serving size: Many supplements contain up to 1,000 mg of fish oil per serving but only 300 mg of EPA/DHA. Choose a supplement that contains at least 500 mg of combined EPA/DHA per 1,000 mg of fish oil.
Purity & authenticity: Not all fish oil supplements contain what they say they do. To ensure a quality product, choose a supplement that is “third-party tested” or has the GOED standard of purity.
Sustainability: Try to buy fish oil that is certified by the MSC, the Environmental Defense Fund, or a similar organization. Small fish with short lifespans tend to be more sustainable.
Other types of omega-3 supplements:
Algal oils: The oil from algae is a rich source of EPA/DHA and is a good option for vegetarians and vegans.
ALA supplements: These are made from plant sources (eg. flaxseed, chia, and hemp seeds) and contain omega-3’s in the form of ALA but contain no EPA/DHA. However, as about 10% of ALA will get converted by your body into EPA/DHA, a tablespoon of flaxseed oil that provides 7 grams of ALA will yield approximately 0.7 grams of EPA/DHA.
Fish liver oils: Fish liver oils such as cod liver oil, are not the same as fish oil. Fish liver oils contain vitamins A and D as well as omega-3 fatty acids. Avoid getting these as both of these vitamins can accumulate to toxic doses in your body if taken in abundance. If you are wondering how much is too much, this article will help.
Once purchased, store your supplements away from light, in a cool, dry place or a refrigerator. To ensure best absorption, take the supplement with your largest meal. As fish oil will eventually oxidize and go rancid, open a capsule once in a while to check the odor.
If you take several different daily supplements, the chart below can help you plan your regimen:
The Bottom Line
There is no question that a balanced diet consisting of seafood rich in omega-3 fats is beneficial. The question remains, though, whether omega-3 supplements are beneficial to the same degree. Therefore, the decision to use fish oil should always be made with your physician who can take into account your overall health, medical conditions, current medications, and potential risks. This is especially important if you are someone who is pregnant or breastfeeding, are on blood-thinning medications, or are allergic to seafood.
With that said, here’s to better health for better days!
♦
*Like always, the information presented in this article is only for educational purposes and is not to be used in place of medical advice. Always have a discussion with your physician before starting any supplements, including fish oil.
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Categories: Health & Wellness, Heart Health
Tagged as: fish oil, Health, healthy living, Heart Health, lifestyle, natural medicine, nutrition, omega 3, vitamins, wellness
Post navigation
Omega-3 Fats: Are You Getting Enough?
She.
29 replies	»
Jyotirmoy Sarkar says:
March 16, 2017 at 9:26 pm
Never knew about so many benefits, you have shared lots of infos and it will surely gonna help lots of readers, thanks a lot for sharing such an informative post.
LikeLiked by 1 person
Reply
Phoebe Chi (Puppydoc) says:
March 17, 2017 at 5:02 am
My pleasure. Thank you for reading! 😊
LikeLike
Reply
Madelyn Griffith-Haynie, MCC, SCAC says:
March 16, 2017 at 10:27 pm
Another WONDERFUL post, Phoebe, especially since many of the ADDers I support have been wondering whether recent information about omega-3s and fish oil is helpful or hype. Many of their doctors are clueless about supplements or nutrition, so it’s good to have another post I can trust to send them to read, print and take to their appointments. Thank you so much.
xx,
mgh
(Madelyn Griffith-Haynie – ADDandSoMuchMORE dot com)
ADD Coach Training Field founder; ADD Coaching co-founder
“It takes a village to educate a world!”
LikeLiked by 1 person
Reply
Phoebe Chi (Puppydoc) says:
March 17, 2017 at 5:02 am
It’s my pleasure. I hope this will be of help to them. Thanks for reading, Madelyn! 🙂
LikeLiked by 1 person
Reply
Madelyn Griffith-Haynie, MCC, SCAC says:
March 17, 2017 at 4:11 pm
I try not to miss your posts, Phoebe. They are always wonderful – but I especially love the ones that save research time. 🙂
xx,
mgh
LikeLiked by 1 person
Reply
Phoebe Chi (Puppydoc) says:
March 18, 2017 at 5:32 am
I really appreciate that. Have a great weekend! 🙂
LikeLiked by 1 person
Reply
Madelyn Griffith-Haynie, MCC, SCAC says:
March 18, 2017 at 2:47 pm
You too.
xx, mgh
LikeLiked by 1 person
Pingback: Fish Oil Supplements: All You Need to Know | All About Vitamins, Minerals And Supplements
Pingback: Fish Oil Supplments – SEO
Comment navigation
‹ Older Comments
Share with me... Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (Address never made public)
Name
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
🔸 THE MYSTERY BUTTON 🔸
🔹 ASK A DOC 🔹
You are loved 🌺
Join 16,106 other followers
I want to follow you!
BROWSE BY CATEGORY
BROWSE BY CATEGORY Select Category Africa Awards Central America Chronic pain Death & Loss Diabetes Diet & Nutrition Exercise & Fitness Fatigue Funny Stuff Health & Wellness Heart Health International Work Life & Love Life Updates Medical Poetry Medicine Meet & Greet Photography Poetry Silly Samantha Sundays South America Spoken Word Videos Stress & Relaxation Taking Control of Chronic Conditions
BROWSE BY MONTH
BROWSE BY MONTH Select Month December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 November 2017 August 2017 May 2017 April 2017 March 2017 February 2017 January 2017 December 2016 November 2016 October 2016 September 2016 August 2016 June 2016 May 2016 April 2016 March 2016 February 2016 January 2016 December 2015 September 2015 May 2015 April 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 September 2014 August 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013
TODAY’S MOST POPULAR
Eating for Heart Health
Water.
To Rhonda.
A Season's Parting.
Your Guide to Cold Medicine
Anti-Inflammatory Diets: Fact or Fad?
ALL-TIME FAVORITES
This Girl
A Bitter Thanksgiving.
A Letter to Grandma.
The Waning (A.L.S.)
Healer.
Her Story
A Blessed Christmas Tragedy.
Departure.
Dawning.
Crossroads.
RECENT MUSINGS
Your Guide to Cold Medicine
1-2-3’s of Diabetic Carb Counting
A Bitter Thanksgiving.
Being Thankful.
Water.
Staying Healthy During the Holidays
Being Empowered ….. for a Healthy Heart
Reverie.
Taking Control of Depression
Perspectives on Dr. Chi’s book, Being Empowered
Silly Samantha Sunday.
Taking Control of High Blood Pressure
Storm.
Awkward Selfie Sunday.
Sleep Apnea: Are You At Risk?
POETRY & MEDICINE
Near-Death Experience
The Human Body
Heart Failure
Intensive Care Unit
🌺 ABOUT PHOEBE 🌺
A lover of animals and a caregiver by trade who, through these scribbles, ponders over her days spent behind the white coat and her life alongside a lovable feline named Samantha and a gentle giant named George. 😊
HEALTH & WELLNESS
Vitamin D
Chronic Stress & You
Headaches
Brain Health
High Cholesterol
Multivitamins
Low Salt Diet
Heartburn
Fast Relaxation
POETRY & MEDICINE
A Caregiver's Heart
Death and Dying
An Imperfect Doctor
Lou Gehrig's Disease
The Cardiac Arrest
A Physician's Plea
Heart Failure
Intensive Care Unit
Introspection
• CATEGORIES •
• CATEGORIES • Select Category Africa Awards Central America Chronic pain Death & Loss Diabetes Diet & Nutrition Exercise & Fitness Fatigue Funny Stuff Health & Wellness Heart Health International Work Life & Love Life Updates Medical Poetry Medicine Meet & Greet Photography Poetry Silly Samantha Sundays South America Spoken Word Videos Stress & Relaxation Taking Control of Chronic Conditions
You are beautiful 🌼
Join 16,106 other followers
I want to follow you!
• BEHIND THE WHITE COAT •
A poetic scribble for you... #poetry
George has his eye on you... 😁 #pets
A poetic scribble for the morning... #poetry
Sometimes, one likes to eat yummy things...☺️ #justagirl
Because you are a woman, exquisite. 💜
Best buddies. ☺️
Puppydoc's first Rangers game. ☺️
Like mother, like daughter...? ☺️ Happy Mommy's Day! 💜
Samantha and Puppydoc. ☺️
A good morning from Samantha and Puppydoc. ☺
Meet Charlie...Samantha's buddy. He enjoys yummy food, fun toys, and long naps on the windowsill. ☺
Meet Dr. John Leal. A nice guy...but somewhat lacking in depth... ☺
• TWEETING FOR HEALTH •
My Tweets
• SEARCH ME •
Search for...

• BROWSE BY MONTH •
• BROWSE BY MONTH • Select Month December 2018 (1) November 2018 (5) October 2018 (1) September 2018 (12) August 2018 (6) July 2018 (15) June 2018 (7) November 2017 (1) August 2017 (1) May 2017 (3) April 2017 (15) March 2017 (14) February 2017 (15) January 2017 (22) December 2016 (12) November 2016 (18) October 2016 (1) September 2016 (1) August 2016 (1) June 2016 (1) May 2016 (1) April 2016 (3) March 2016 (6) February 2016 (19) January 2016 (28) December 2015 (3) September 2015 (1) May 2015 (2) April 2015 (1) February 2015 (5) January 2015 (12) December 2014 (8) November 2014 (7) September 2014 (1) August 2014 (1) June 2014 (2) May 2014 (2) April 2014 (1) March 2014 (2) February 2014 (4) January 2014 (7) December 2013 (2)
Top categories: Poetry
YouTube
Phoebe’s Facebook
Instagram
LinkedIn
Create a website or blog at WordPress.com
Post to
Cancel
%d bloggers like this: