Ginger Treatment for Vomiting | Healthfully
x
healthfully
Search Glass
Diseases and Injuries
Family Health
Nutrition
Weight Management
Appearance
Ginger Candy & Nausea
How to Drink Water During the Dry Heaves
Low Potassium & Nausea
Side Effects of Arginine Alpha Ketoglutarate
Vitamins and Ginger Pills to Help Nausea When You Are Pregnant
What Does Ginger Root Do for the Body?
Ginger Treatment for Vomiting
By Jessica Bruso
Related Articles
Ginger Candy & Nausea
How to Drink Water During the Dry Heaves
Low Potassium & Nausea
Side Effects of Arginine Alpha Ketoglutarate
Ginger root has been used as an herbal remedy for more than 2,000 years to treat conditions such as upset stomach, nausea and diarrhea, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center. Whether it will help reduce or cure vomiting, however, may depend on what is causing you to vomit. Check with your doctor before taking ginger, as it can interfere with certain medications, including blood thinners and those for diabetes and high blood pressure.
Ginger Effectiveness
Ginger may be helpful in the case of nausea and vomiting due to pregnancy, according to a meta-analysis published in "Obstetrics & Gynecology" in April 2005. It also appears that taking at least 1 gram of ginger may help limit nausea and vomiting after surgery, notes another meta-analysis published in the "American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology" in January 2006. Ginger might not be useful if your vomiting is due to chemotherapy, however, says a study published in "Supportive Care in Cancer" in May 2009.
Video of the Day
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
References
Obstetrics & Gynecology: Effectiveness and Safety of Ginger in the Treatment of Pregnancy-Induced Nausea and Vomiting
American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology: The Efficacy of Ginger for the Prevention of Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting: A Meta-Analysis
Supportive Care in Cancer: Phase II Trial of Encapsulated Ginger as a Treatment for Chemotherapy-Induced Nausea and Vomiting
University of Maryland Medical Center: Ginger
About the Author
Based in Massachusetts, Jessica Bruso has been writing since 2008. She holds a master of science degree in food policy and applied nutrition and a bachelor of arts degree in international relations, both from Tufts University.
More Related Articles
What Are Acidophilus Probiotics Used to Treat?
Ginger for Chest Congestion
Gastroparesis & Ginger
Related Articles
What Does Ginger Root Do for the Body?
Read More
What Depletes Potassium?
Read More
Get Fit!
Try our healthfully BMI and weight loss calculator!
Ginger for Digestion
Read More
How Soon Will Nausea Begin if I Am Pregnant?
Read More
About Us
Advertise
Contact Us
Copyright Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of the HEALTHFULLY.COM Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. The material appearing on HEALTHFULLY.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. HEALTHFULLY.COM does not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the website.