Cold sores Symptoms and Treatments
Best Online MD
Health A-Z
Contact us
Disclaimer
Facebook
Twitter
Google Plus
Pinterest
Tumblr
Stumbleupon
Best Online MD Provides credible health information, comprehensive cancer information and medical news headlines posted throughout the day.
Health A-Z
Diseases & Conditions
Cancer
Health Informatics‎
HIV & AIDS
Skin Conditions
Symptoms
Drugs & Supplements
Family & Pregnancy
Children’s Health
Newborn & Baby
Parenting
Pregnancy
Sex & Relationships
Living Healthy
First Aid
Fitness & Exercise
Home Remedies
Men’s Health‎
Oral Health
Weight Loss & Diet Plans
Women’s Health
News
Cold sores Symptoms and Treatments
What's in this article?
1 What is Cold Sores?
2 What’s the difference in the types?
3 How can it recur?
4 How did I get my cold sores?
5 How is it passed on?
6 Can anyone get cold sores?
7 How many people get cold sores?
8 What is a cold sore like?
9 Can cold sores make you ill?
10 Can cold sores ever be serious?
11 What triggers a recurrence?
12 Can I prevent cold sores?
13 What can I do if a cold sore is starting to appear?
14 Treating cold sores
What is Cold Sores?
Cold sores, which are small and somewhat painful blisters that usually show up on or around a person’s lips, are caused by herpes simplex virus-1 (HSV-1). But they don’t just show up on the lips. They can sometimes be inside the mouth, on the face, or even inside or on the nose. These places are the most common, but sores can appear anywhere on the body, including the genital area.
Genital herpes isn’t typically caused by HSV-1; it’s caused by another type of the herpes simplex virus called herpes simplex virus-2 (HSV-2) and is spread by sexual contact. But even though HSV-1 typically causes sores around the mouth and HSV-2 causes genital sores, these viruses can cause sores in either place.
Cold sores, sometimes called fever blisters, are clusters of small blisters on the lip and outer edge of the mouth. They are caused by the herpes simplex virus also known as fever blisters are pretty common and lots of people get them.
What’s the difference in the types?
On the face, herpes simplex type 1 is more likely to recur than type 2.
How can it recur?
Once you have caught this virus, it hides in nearby nerve sheaths and can sometimes reactivate. There are other viruses that also hide and come back later: for example chickenpox/shingles, glandular fever and cytomegalovirus (CMV) but they do not cause cold sores.
How did I get my cold sores?
You catch it the first time by being kissed by someone who has cold sore virus on his or her face. This may have been when you were too young to remember or just the other day. It is only caught by direct skin contact, not through sharing cups, cutlery, towels, etc.
How is it passed on?
You pass it on by kissing someone when you have a cold sore or when you feel that one may be coming. If the other person does catch it from you, sores appear on the bit of body you kissed. Oral sex is a common way of passing on cold sores from one person’s mouth to another person’s genitals (genital herpes).
Can anyone get cold sores?
Yes, but you can’t give cold sores to someone who already gets them. This means that you cannot give this virus back to the person you caught it off, even on a different part of his/her body.
How many people get cold sores?
Cold sores are very common. About six in ten people carry the virus. However, most of them don’t know because they have never noticed any symptoms. Only a quarter of the people who catch this virus will notice any symptoms at all.
What is a cold sore like?
♦ First a small red patch appears
♦ A blister or cluster of blisters develops. You may just get a shallow ulcer inside your mouth.
♦ The blister bursts, leaving a small raw area.
♦ The raw area begins to heal and scab.
♦ Moving your mouth can cause the scab to crack. This will delay healing, so keep the skin soft and moist
♦ Picking at the scab will also delay healing
Can cold sores make you ill?
Occasionally, when a person first catches it, he/she gets ulcers inside the mouth and throat as well as, or instead of, the usual sores on the lip. There could be a fever and other flu-like symptoms. A painkiller can help: aspirin, ibuprofen or paracetamol – always follow the instructions on the packet.
Can cold sores ever be serious?
Rarely. A few unlucky people get them too often. Antiviral tablets or medicine can be prescribed by a doctor or see our self-help ideas below.
People who have areas of broken skin (like eczema), or people who have other serious illnesses, must be careful during their first infection as it can spread over all the area of broken skin. Rarely, people develop erythema multiforme following each cold sore; they may be given antiviral tablets.
Even more rarely, a cold sore may reappear in your eye. If one eye is tingling and sore or red your GP may do a fluoroscein stain, this is to see if the cause is herpes simplex virus. If it is, you may be referred to a specialist eye hospital.
What triggers a recurrence?
Triggers vary from person to person: try and learn what provokes your cold sores and then you can try and prevent them.
Common reasons for recurrences are tiredness, illness, stress, being run down, menstruation, too much alcohol or the ultraviolet rays from sunlight or sunbeds.
Can I prevent cold sores?
♦ Look after yourself. Avoid any triggers you have identified.
♦ Get enough sleep.
♦ Improve your diet.
♦ Try taking a multi-vitamin & mineral pill.
♦ If sunlight is one of your triggers, use a good quality sun block.
What can I do if a cold sore is starting to appear?
♦ Apply well-wrapped ice for 90 minutes to cold the area, not cause frostbite.
♦ Use a herbal cream made with lemon balm mint extract (melissa officinalis) such as Lomaherpan (formerly called LomaBrit). The active ingredient prevents the virus getting into the skin cells. It is available from the HVA for £6 for 5g tube (with £1 for p&p) on our shop page.
Treating cold sores
Cold sores usually clear up by themselves without treatment within 7 to 10 days.
However, antiviral creams are available over the counter from pharmacies without a prescription. If used correctly, these can help ease your symptoms and speed up the healing time.
To be effective, these treatments should be applied as soon as the first signs of a cold sore appear (when you feel a tingling, itching or burning sensation around your mouth). Using an antiviral cream after this initial period is unlikely to have much of an effect.
Cold sore patches are also available that contain hydrocolloid gel, an effective treatment for skin wounds. The patch is placed over the cold sore while it heals.
Antiviral tablets may be prescribed for severe cases.
6 min read
5 years ago
by Jason Clark
Cellulitis: Antibiotics, Treatments and Management
Corns and calluses Symptoms and Treatments
You may also like
Skin Conditions
Varicella-Zoster Virus: Signs, Symptoms &...
2 years ago
by Jason Clark
4 min read
Skin Conditions
Poison ivy: Causes, Prevention & Treatments
2 years ago
by Jason Clark
5 min read
Skin Conditions
How Epstein-Barr Virus Spreads?
2 years ago
by Jason Clark
3 min read
Skin Conditions
Ringworm: Facts, Causes, Symptoms & Treatments
2 years ago
by Jason Clark
4 min read
Featured Posts
Salivary Gland Cancer: Facts, Causes &...
Corns and calluses Symptoms and Treatments
HIV rash on Common Early Symptoms
Types Chronic Skin Conditions
Nodular Acne: Symptoms, Causes and Treatments
IF YOU ENJOYED THIS POST, SIGN UP FOR NEWSLETTER
Name
Email *
Readers’ Choice
Asthma Attacks: Causes, Symptoms and Quick relief...
Tartar: Signs, Symptoms, Prevention & Removal
Antibiotics: Risks and Complications
Mononucleosis: Causes, Symptoms and Treatments
Human Growth Hormone: The Benefit to our Body
Most Popular
Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML): Signs, Symptoms...
Ovarian cancer: Symptoms, Causes, Risk factors...
Cancer: How it starts, Causes, Types &...
Talked About
Home Remedies
Home Remedy for Varicose Veins
Home Remedy in Removing Dental Plaque
Home Remedy for Removing Stretch Marks
©2014 - 2017 Best Online MD. All rights reserved.
Advertising Information
Contact us
Disclaimer
Terms of Use
www.bestonlinemd.com