Why Himalayan Salt Lamps are beneficial to your home & office – SUN REPUBLIC
Skip to content
Submit
Close search
Home
Shop All Collections
Gift Cards
All Products
Blog
FREE SHIPPING on all purchases over $150 Australia wide! 'EXCLUDES FURNITURE'
Submit
Search
Log in Cart Cart
expand/collapse
Home
Shop All Collections
Gift Cards
All Products
Blog
Why Himalayan Salt Lamps are beneficial to your home & office
by SHARLENE PEARSE August 24, 2018
Himalayan Salt Lamps are the perfect lamp for any home, not only do they look stunning, they have amazing health benefits. So whether you choose your Salt Lamp for the Bedroom, the Nursery, the Lounge room or Office you will not only be buying an aesthetically pleasing piece, you are benefiting your health and mood.
How does a Salt Lamp Work?
When the bulb inside the Lamp heats the Himalayan Salt, the salt releases negative ions, which counteract positive 'pollutant' ions, moisture and pollens in the air.
Himalayan Salt lamps are an air purifier and can assist and aid in respiratory problems such as Asthma, Sinus, and Allergies, snoring and a better nights sleep.
What are negative Ions?
Negative ions are found in Nature. Natural Landscapes such as the Ocean, Waterfalls, Undulating Hills and the Mountains. Negative ions are negatively charged molecules that are present in the air surrounding these types of natural landscapes.
Negative ions are odourless, tasteless and are invisible molecules that we inhale in abundance in these environments - that is why when we are at the beach, near a waterfall or in the mountains we feel better.
Once they reach our bloodstream. negative ions are believed to produce biochemical reactions that increase levels of the mood chemical serotonin, helping to alleviate depression, relieve stress an boost our daytime energy.
Himalayan Salt Lamps for Babies
Placing a Himalayan Salt Lamp in your baby's nursery is one way to ensure you are charging that room with lots of negative ions. these will help baby settle better, remain calmer and also induce a 'positive vibe' for bubs when in that space.
What can Salt Lamps do?
Freshening and Purifying the Air
This is probably the most prevalent reason why people buy Himalayan Salt Lamps for their homes.
Its a known fact that, through a process called hygroscopy, the lamps will actually purify and cleanse the room air, removing particles such as dust, pollen, smoke etc.
2. Relief from Allergies and Asthma
This is another outstanding benefit in which Himalayan Salt Lamps stand out.
This is because the contents and particles within the lamps themselves are key for removing microscopic particles, such as dust, pollen, pet dander, mildew, mold etc from the air.
Energy Level
It's a known fact that from having the appropriate size Himalayan Salt lamp in your home, within a week or two you should begin to feel your energy levels rise because of the positive ions in which the lamps release out into the air around you and your home.
Counterbalancing the Electromagnetic Contamination
With the air in our home and office being filled with so many different energy waves and radiations from household appliances, such as Microwaves, Televisions, Fridges, Computers etc, the Himalayan Salt lamps work to neutralize this type of radiations and keep your home balanced.
A Better Night's Sleep
It's a given fact that overexposure from all the energy waves, radiation and static electricity in the air not only affects our mood, energy levels and health, by diminishing the quality of oxygen to the brain, it results in asymmetrical sleeping forms. By having a Himalayan Salt lamp in your bedroom you will actually reduce the issues, as it will cleanse and sanitize the air around you, which will lead to a more relaxed and sound sleep.
Depression, Mood and Attentiveness
It has been found that the soft natural light from a Himalayan Salt lamp naturally help to increase a better mood and greater concentration. Because of the natural salts and chemicals infused inside the lamps that shoot out a natural stabilizer for serotonin increases, as well as higher levels of oxygen and greater blood flow throughout the body. Similar to the natural rays of sunlight bouncing off a waterfall.
Nothing like a little ray of sunshine to brighten your day and mood.
Great Light Source for your home and environment.
The Lamps usually use a very low wattage bulb and will save a great deal on energy, electricity and overall reduce your bills, whilst giving your home a beautiful ambiance, assist with health and sleeping and keep your home relaxing and balanced.
Who's benefited from having Himalayan Salt Lamps in youur home and office?
Share Share on Facebook Tweet Tweet on Twitter Pin it Pin on Pinterest
Back to Blog
About Us
Contact Us
FAQ'S
Hire / Rental
Hand Crafted
Shipping Information & Collections
Returns & Refunds
Pre-Orders
Candle Care
Search
Join our mailing list
Subscribe
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
RSS
© 2019, SUN REPUBLIC Powered by Shopify