CDC - Methyl Alcohol (Methanol) - NIOSH Workplace Safety and Health Topic
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People
All A-Z Topics
All CDC
All CDC NIOSH
Submit
Search
All CDC
All CDC NIOSH
Submit
All A-Z Topics
All CDC
All CDC NIOSH
Submit
All A-Z Topics
The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)
Section Navigation
home4 TP Docs Home
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Syndicate
Methyl Alcohol (Methanol)
Minus
Related Pages
On This Page
Overview
NIOSH Chemical Resources
Related NIOSH Resources
Selected Publications
Related Resources
International Resources
Overview
CAS No. 67-56-1
Methyl alcohol (CH3OH) is a colorless liquid with a strong odor. It is a poisonous substance that can be absorbed through the eyes, skin, lungs, and digestive system. Overexposure can cause death. Workers may be harmed by exposure to methyl alcohol. The level of harm depends upon the dose, duration, and work being done.
Methyl alcohol is used in many industries. It is used in solvents, deicers, and the manufacturing of plastics, polyesters, and other chemicals. Some examples of workers at risk of being exposed to methyl alcohol include the following:
Factory workers in plants that manufacture plastics
Transportation workers exposed to the deicing of vehicles
Workers who work in alternative fuel industries
Workers exposed to certain solvents or cleaning agents
NIOSH recommends that employers use Hierarchy of Controls to prevent injuries. If you work in an industry that uses methyl alcohol, please read chemical labels and the accompanying Safety Data Sheet for hazard information. Visit NIOSH’s page on Managing Chemical Safety in the Workplace to learn more about controlling chemical workplace exposures.
The following resources provide information about occupational exposure to methyl alcohol. Useful search terms for methyl alcohol include “methanol,” “carbinol,” “columbian spirits,” “pyroligneous spirits,” “wood alcohol,” “wood naphtha,” and “wood spirits.”
NIOSH Chemical Resources
NIOSH Pocket Guide
The NIOSH Pocket Guide to Chemical Hazards (NPG) helps workers, employers, and occupational health professionals recognize and control workplace chemical hazards.
More
Manual of Analytical MethodsCdc-pdf
The NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods (NMAM) is a collection of methods for sampling and analysis of contaminants in workplace air, and in the blood and urine of workers who are occupationally exposed.
More
Health Hazard Evaluations
The Health Hazard Evaluation Program (HHE) conducts onsite investigations of possible worker exposure to chemicals. Search the HHE database for more information on methyl alcohol (methanol).
More
Related NIOSH Resources
NIOSHTIC-2 search results on methyl alcohol—NIOSHTIC-2 is a searchable database of worker safety and health publications, documents, grant reports, and journal articles supported in whole or in part by NIOSH.
NIOSH Worker Health Study Summaries—NIOSH conducts research to prevent illnesses and injuries in the workplace. The NIOSH Worker Notification Program notifies workers and other stakeholders about the findings of these research studies.
Emergency Response Safety and Health Database (ERSH-DB) Systemic Agent: Methanol—ERSH-DB search results for methanol.
Selected Publications
Criteria for a Recommended Standard: Occupational Exposure to Methyl Alcohol—DHHS (NIOSH) Publication No. 76-148. Presents a standard to prevent the adverse effects of exposure to methyl alcohol over a working lifetime.
Occupational Safety and Health Guideline for Methyl Alcohol
Related Resources
EPA Acute Exposure Guideline Levels (AEGLs): MethanolExternal
EPA Hazard Summary: MethanolCdc-pdfExternal
EPA OPPT Chemical Fact Sheet: MethanolExternal
EPA Chemistry Dashboard: MethanolExternal
EPA Integrated Risk Information System (IRIS): MethanolExternal
OSHA Hazard CommunicationExternal
OSHA PEL Project: Methyl Alcohol
OSHA Sampling Information: Methyl AlcoholExternal
NLM Medline Plus: Methanol PoisoningExternal
NLM TOXNET: MethanolExternal
NTP-CERHR Monograph (Reproductive Hazards): MethanolExternal
New Jersey Hazardous Substance Fact Sheets: Methyl AlcoholExternal
International Resources
European Chemicals Agency (ECHA): MethanolExternal
Gestis Substance DatabaseExternal
International Chemical Safety Card: MethanolExternal
IPCS INCHEM 335: MethanolExternal
IPCS INCHEM Healthy and Safety Guide 105: MethanolExternal
IPCS INCHEM Environmental Health Criteria 196: MethanolExternal
OECD Global Portal to Information on Chemical SubstancesExternal
Page last reviewed: November 2, 2018, 02:30 PM
Content source: National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health
home Workplace Safety and Health Topics
Methyl Alcohol (Methanol)
Related Topics
All Chemical Topics
Follow NIOSH
Social_round_facebook facebook Facebook
Social_round_flickr flickr Flickr
Social_round_pinterest pinterest Pinterest
Social_round_twitter twitter Twitter
Social_round_youtube youtube YouTube
NIOSH Homepage
NIOSH A-Z
Workplace Safety & Health Topics
Publications and Products
Programs
Contact NIOSH
CONTACT CDC-INFO
Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY: 888-232-6348
Email CDC-INFO
CDC INFORMATION
About CDC
Jobs
Funding
Policies
File Viewers & Players
Privacy
FOIA
No Fear Act
OIG
Nondiscrimination
Accessibility
CONNECT WITH CDC
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
Instagram
Syndicate
CDC TV
RSS
Email
U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
USA.gov
CDC Website Exit Disclaimer
Facebook
Twitter
Email
PDF file_external
Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy
Close
Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
Cancel
Continue