Vietnamese Doctors saves patients life with 15 cans of beer | Latest Breaking News in Nigeria today politics live
Thursday, April 25, 2019
Latest:
How to catch a cheating wife/husband/girlfriend/boyfriend through hacking
Revealed: 5 most exciting alternative things done on valentine’s day
5 crazy things you can do if your Ex wants you back
(Pictures) Man transforms into big dog then this happened in Port Harcourt
VIDEO: 2019 Big Brother Naija audition happening live now. | See all audition venues | Watch the BBN live audition video
Latest Breaking News in Nigeria today politics live
Latest Breaking News in Nigeria today politics live
Contact
Advertise
Submit a story
Business
AMAZING: Vietnamese Doctors saves patients life with 15 cans of beer
January 17, 2019 January 17, 2019 Olamide Kehinde 0 Comments alcohol, alcohol poisoning, doctor, doctors save live in an unorthodox way, doctors save live with beer, how to treat alcohol poisoning, how to treat severe hangover, is alcohol poisoning dangerous, side effects of alcohol poisoning, unorthodox approach to treating alcohol poisoning, what is alcohol poisoning
Doctors in Vietnam save patient’s life by administering 15 cans of beer
Doctors in Vietnam recently used an unorthodox approach to treat a patient suffering from alcohol poisoning by giving him 15 cans of beer in an attempt to save his life. The patient, Nguyen Van Nhat, 48-years old, was hospitalized on December 25, 2018, with symptoms of severe methanol poisoning after he had consumed a huge amount of alcohol.
According to the head of the hospital’s intensive care unit, Dr. Le Van Lam, Nguyen Van Nhat was unconscious and in a life-threatening condition when he was brought to the hospital. So, doctors took his blood samples and found that the level of methanol in his blood was 1,119 times higher than the legal limit. In other to slow down the methanol processing in his liver, 3 cans of beer were administered to him by the doctors immediately.
The doctors administered 15 cans of beer at the rate of 1 can per hour to Nguyen Van Nhat before he could finally regain his consciousness to the point that the doctors were confident and satisfied enough to discharge him from the hospital. According to Dr. Lam, using beer to save alcohol-poisoned patients is not unheard of in the medical world.
Dr. Lam explains the theory behind this unorthodox approach to treating the alcohol-poisoned patient, he said:
“In essence, there are two variants of alcohol – ethanol, and methanol. The human liver prioritizes breaking down ethanol over methanol. When methanol is broken down, it releases formaldehyde, a highly toxic chemical compound that can be deadly when consumed at high levels. On the other hand, ethanol does not lead to serious poisoning when it is broken down by the liver. So since beer contains ethanol, administering beer into a methanol-poisoned patient actually helps stop the liver from breaking down methanol, which gives doctors enough time to perform dialysis and remove alcohol from the patient’s system”.
Dr. Lam further explains: In addition, excess methanol that is not broken down by the liver can be naturally removed or passed out from the body through urination.l
Like. Share. Comment.
Share
Tweet
Google Plus
Share
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
Related
← Adams Oshiomhole praised Buhari’s performance at the Town Hall Meeting and got lambasted by Nigerians
PHOTOS: First photos released from Simi and Adekunle Gold’s low-key wedding →
You May Also Like
Whatsapp crashes worldwide 2019: Whatsapp crashes Temporarily as affected users rushed down to Twitter
January 23, 2019 dhikrullah ajayi 0
BREAKING: Barcelona sign Kevin Prince Boateng but Barca fans are furious|See fans reaction
January 22, 2019 Olamide Kehinde 0
$413 Million Received by Donald Trump Was Not Taxed, is Donald Trump a Tax Fraud? See What Investigation Reported
October 3, 2018 Ayomide Adedeji 0
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Get Breaking News Alerts
Be the first to be notified whenever there is a breaking news!
Name
Email *
Categories
Business (74)
Crime and Accidents (21)
Education (40)
Entertainment (68)
Fashion (5)
Health (20)
Politics (31)
Promoted (1)
Romance and dating (20)
Social media marketing (13)
Sports (47)
Technology (14)
About Us
Dave Partner is a media platform dedicated to bringing you the latest and most sensational news on diverse topics.
Useful Links
Submit a story
Donate to Us
Contact Us
Careers
News Sources
The Sun
Pulse
Nairaland
Naij
Thenet.ng
Daily Independent
Linda Ikeji’s blog
Copyright © 2019 Latest Breaking News in Nigeria today politics live. All rights reserved.
Theme: ColorMag by ThemeGrill. Powered by WordPress.