Tips to Protect You From Mosqitoes | Hole-In-One Pest Solutions
(770) 445-2215|hello@holeinonepest.com
About
Service Area
Testimonials
Partners
Associations
Pest Library
Services
Residential Services
Commercial Services
Monthly Mosquito Control
Liquid Termite Treatment
Realtor Services
New Construction Services
Termite Baiting System
Go Green
FAQs
Blog
Contact
Pay
Tips to Protect You From Mosqitoes
Home/Tips/Tips to Protect You From Mosqitoes
Tips to Protect You From Mosqitoes
Disclaimer: The following are general guidelines to follow and do not constitute medical advice.
Spring brings with it flowers, pollen, birds and bees! But it also brings pests that are returning from their winter break. For many of us, mosquitoes are a real problem that keeps us from enjoying the outdoors. But more importantly, mosquitoes can carry diseases such as West Nile Virus and Eastern Equine Encephalitis Virus. They can also cause heartworm in dogs. These diseases are very serious but fortunately, rarely directly related to mosquitoes.
Mosquito Bites
In general, the problem with mosquito bites is due to an allergic reaction to the mosquito’s saliva and the problems associated with swelling and scratching of the mosquito bite. When a mosquito bites you they inject saliva which helps keep the blood from clotting. The saliva causes an inflammatory reaction which causes the itching and swelling associated with the bite. Most people just get a big irritating lump on the skin which if they scratch becomes more swollen and lasts longer. But some people actually have an allergic reaction to the mosquito saliva and can become very ill.
For the itching and swelling, anti-histamines are recommended. Diphenhydramine (commonly known as Benadryl – TM) can be used orally or applied in creams or lotions combined with calamine. Anti-inflammatory steroid creams may help too – creams like 1% hydrocortisone.
Interesting Fact: Only female mosquitoes bite and suck blood to obtain protein for their eggs; male mosquitoes suck nectar.
Impetigo
Even if you don’t get sick from the mosquito, many people scratch their bites until they bleed. When the skin is open it is susceptible to secondary infection. Children and adults can get a skin infection called impetigo which is a superficial skin infection caused by bacteria called staph and strep. Impetigo causes open sores and crusting (honey colored) and swelling in the areas. Impetigo is usually worse in the summer when children are out playing in the dirt, getting bitten by mosquitoes, and then getting those sores infected. Excellent hygiene (SOAP and WATER) can prevent most impetigo and cure mild cases. Over the counter antibiotic ointments (like Bacitracin) can help too as well as prescription ointments like mupurocin. There may be enlarged glands in the area, fever, and a spreading rash. Usually more severe impetigo needs an oral antibiotic so contact your doctor if you think you have impetigo and need medicine for it.
Heartworm
Man’s best friend can be affected with heartworms which are also transmitted by mosquitoes. So protect your entire family against these pests.
Prevention
The best prevention is to eliminate mosquitoes from your environment. Since this is virtually impossible to do completely, several strategies should be employed:
Be sure to get rid of any standing water around your home to avoid breeding areas for the mosquitoes. Old tires are notorious for having water inside of them so be sure to get rid of any tires in or around the yard.
Call “Hole-in-One Pest Solutions”. Their Mosquito Reduction Program is a 7 month program which sprays the shrubs, bushes and plants where mosquitoes and ticks like to hide. This will greatly reduce the mosquito and tick population in your yard and will act as a barrier and repellent for any stray mosquitoes that fly into the area.
By wearing long pants, long sleeve shirts, hats and socks you can protect yourself from mosquitoes and their bites.
Also, use of insect repellents is a good idea. There are many products on the market; but the most popular is DEET. DEET contains repellents and comes in many different forms and concentrations.
Screened in porches, mosquito netting and other barriers are helpful too.
By Anthony Jones|2016-03-24T16:42:13-04:00March 11th, 2013|Categories: Tips|Tags: mosquitoes|0 Comments
Share This Story, Choose Your Platform!
About the Author: Anthony Jones
Anthony Jones is a 21 year industry veteran, with experience in management, sales and being a pest control technician. After a successful career in three of the largest termite and pest control companies in the southeast, he realized his dream of starting his own business. Now his years of knowledge and expertise are used to provide the high-quality pest control services Hole-In-One is known for.
Related Posts
Permalink
Gallery
Tips for Pest Infestation Prevention This Spring
Permalink
Gallery
Indications of Early Season Termite Infestation
Leave A Comment Cancel reply
Stay Connected
Blog Categories
Facts (2)
Termites (5)
Tips (3)
Tools (16)
Uncategorized (4)
Popular
Recent
Indications of Early Season Termite Infestation
February 28th, 2012
Termites Still Active in Winter Months
February 6th, 2012
Key Traits of Rodent Infestation in the Home
October 7th, 2010
How to Deal with Stinging Insects and Allergic Reactions
July 29th, 2010
Tips to Protect You From Mosqitoes
March 11th, 2013
Spring Swarmers: How to Prepare for Termite Season
March 24th, 2016
Recognizing the signs of “Termite Swarms”
March 15th, 2016
Mosquito Prevention Tips
March 7th, 2016
Mosquitos and the Zika Virus
March 4th, 2016
Tips for Pest Infestation Prevention This Spring
May 14th, 2014
Tags
ants bed bugs bees brown recluse spiders carpenter ants centipedes hornets Kudzu bugs mice mosquitoes pests rats roaches rodents silverfish spiders stinging insects stink bugs termites yellow jackets
65 Antioch Rd. Suite D
Dallas, GA 30132
Phone: (770) 445-2215
Fax: (770) 825-9040
Email: hello@holeinonepest.com
Site Navigation
Home
About
Services
FAQs
Blog
Contact
Pay
Recent Posts
Spring Swarmers: How to Prepare for Termite Season
Recognizing the signs of “Termite Swarms”
Mosquito Prevention Tips
Mosquitos and the Zika Virus
Tips for Pest Infestation Prevention This Spring
Keys to Recognizing and Preparing for Termites
Copyright 2014 Hole in One Pest | Created by Pillar Creative