Good And Bad Effects Of Chewing Gum
Menu
Home
About US
Health and Wellness
Privacy Policy
Contact US
Our Author
Sarang Awaze
Saikiran Reddy
Hiten Patil
Sumedha Tode
Dr. Trupti Sathe
Psyspeaks
Health and Wellness
Good And Bad Effects Of Chewing Gum
April 10, 2018
| No Comments
| Health and Wellness |
Posted by : Sarang Awaze
Chewing gum is a silky, elastic substance that is made to be chewed but not engulfed. Chewing gum consists of-
Aspartame – Aspartame is an artificial sweetener normally used in sugar-free foods.
Butylated Hydroxytoluene (BHT)- High amount of Butylated Hydroxytoluene (BHT) stops fats from turning into rancid which can cause cancer.
Titanium dioxide- Titanium dioxide may be a regular artificial additive used to whiten product and provides them a smooth texture.
There are few positive effects of chewing gum and bad effects of chewing gum. This article consists of a brief description of both.
Positive effects of chewing gum are-
Protect your teeth and reduce bad breath-
Sugar-free chewing gum may help defend your teeth from tooth cavities and bad breath. This can be as a result of sugar which increases saliva flow and kills the bacteria in your mouth and prevent tooth decay. Having chewing gum after a meal will help in washing away harmful sugars and food remains in the teeth.
Reduce stress and boost memory
The research found that chewing gum while doing work will enhance varied aspects of brain operation, memory, alertness, decision making, and understanding.
Help you lose weight
Chewing gum might be a use for those who are attempting to lose weight. Due to its sweetness and low in calories, and thus providing you with a sweet taste without processing your diet.
It has also been found that chewing gum may cut back your craving that may stop you from overeating.
Could assist you to focus for extended periods-
Research has also found that chewing gum may cut back stress level and boost alertness which makes you focus on your studies or work for the longer duration.
Other health advantages of chewing gum are-
Helps from recovering from surgery- Research has found that chewing gum after an operation may boost up your recovery time.
Prevents ear infections in kids- Due to the presence of xylitol in chewing gum.
Helps you quit smoking
Negative effects of chewing gum
Chewing an excessive amount of gum may cause some unwanted effects.
Stomach and digestive issues
While chewing gum, you swallow excess air, which might result in abdominal pain and bloating.
Also, after you chew gum you send a signal to your body that food is going to enter the body. The enzymes that are activated after you chew gum are also released, however without the food they are meant to digest.
This will cause an overproduction of abdomen acid and might reduce your ability to produce enough digestive secretions when you really do eat food.
Sugar-sweetened gum affects your teeth and metabolism
Chewing gum sweetened with sugar is actually dangerous for your teeth.
Sugar is digestible by the unhealthy bacteria already present in your mouth, this sugar will add up the bacteria and raise the amount of plaque on your teeth and tooth decay over time.
Sugar-free gums and FODMAPs effects
The sugar alcohols used to for sweetening the sugar-free gum, alcohol is used which have a laxative impact once taken in large amounts. This might cause you digestive problems and diarrhea.
Chewing gum is connected to headaches-
Frequently chewing gum can affect the people having migraines and headaches constantly. It will worsen the pain. The researchers concluded that migraine sufferers would possibly need to limit chewing gum.
Eating an excessive amount of sugar is also related to a variety of health issues such as diabetes, insulin resistance, and obesity.
Chewing gum may affect your Jaw-
Constant chewing might cause a jaw problem referred to as TMD (temporo-mandibular disorder), that result in pain after you chew.
Author: Sarang Awaze
Sarang is SEO Expert and Content Writer and He write about all platform like health and wellness related blog and other technical writing as well
| Tags: chewing gum, effects of chewing gum, Health, health advice, Health Care, health department, healthy food, mens health, mental health, nutrition, Top Health And Wellness Blog Site, weight loss, wellness, womens health, Yoga
Post navigation
← Lower Back Pain Symptoms And Treatment
Benefits Of Drinking Water In Copper Vessel →
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Get Latest Post Update
Email *
Recent Posts
Dental Care Before, During, After Pregnancy
Frequently Asked Questions About Keto Diet
What Foods Cleanse Your Liver?
Complete Keto Guide For Beginners
10 Natural Ways To Build Healthy Bones
Recent Comments
Saikiran Reddy on What Meditation Did For Me And What It Can Do For You ?
Saikiran Reddy on What Meditation Did For Me And What It Can Do For You ?
Saikiran Reddy on What Meditation Did For Me And What It Can Do For You ?
nekrofili porn on What Meditation Did For Me And What It Can Do For You ?
detergent fundraising on What Meditation Did For Me And What It Can Do For You ?
Categories
Health and Wellness
facebook twitter google plus instagram pinterest bloglovin rss
About Us
Welcome to PsySpeaks, the sphere of influence that explores the aesthetic chapters of our lives. PsySpeaks.com is a place where you get more insights on some of the most common aspects in your life. Come, rediscover yourself by understanding the true purpose of life – living it to the fullest. Be it travel, entertainment, or health and wellness, it is time to let our own psychology speak to us. Human psychology is more complex than the universe, which makes it a repository of seamless knowledge. We believe that sharing knowledge on how to live a satisfactory life can extended the global network of human mindsets, creating harmony on awareness about feeling content and overwhelmed at the same time. Let our psychology speak on our behalf!
Latest Posts
July 19, 2017
Health and Wellness
We Are The Universe In Constant Evolution
As the great modern astrophysicist Neil…
October 1, 2018
Health and Wellness
Dental Care Before, During, After Pregnancy
While a woman is Pregnant, her…
September 29, 2018
Health and Wellness
Frequently Asked Questions About Keto Diet
1. Can I ever eat carbs…
Popular Posts
March 16, 2018
Health and Wellness
What Meditation Did For Me And What It Can Do For You ?
One day I went to a…
Author: Saikiran Reddy
March 15, 2018
Health and Wellness
The Truth About Vitamin D …!!
You want vitamin D for different…
Author: Saikiran Reddy
December 6, 2017
Health and Wellness
Know The Proven Health Benefits Of Ginger!
Ginger is among the most advantageous…
Author: Saikiran Reddy
Copyright @PsyTech Digi Pvt Ltd 2017. All rights reserved.
Design by PsyTech Digi Pvt Ltd
Privacy Policy