electromagnetic waves « The Skeptical Teacher
The Skeptical Teacher
Musings of a science teacher & skeptic in an age of woo.
Home
About This Blog
Contact
Good Links
Skepticism in the Classroom
April 2019
S
M
T
W
T
F
S
« Jan
1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 18 19 20
21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30
Recent Posts
Book Review: “Sharing Reality – How to Bring Secularism and Science to an Evolving Religious World”
The Pentagon Acknowledges UFO Program
The Mythology of Mother Teresa
Ask the U.S. Candidates to Debate Science!
These are the dumbest Clinton conspiracy theories. Ever.
Pages
About This Blog
Contact
Good Links
Skepticism in the Classroom
Archives
January 2018
December 2017
September 2016
August 2016
June 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
December 2015
November 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
Blogroll
Astronomy Picture of the Day
Bad Alien
Bad Astronomy
Bad Science Blog
Blog of Phyz
Bolingbrook Babbler
Circular Reasoning: The Skeptics’ Circle
Committee for Skeptical Inquiry
Critical Thinking Education Group
Foxhole Atheist
ICBS Everywhere
James Randi Educational Foundation (JREF)
Mens Critica (Critical Mind)
National Center for Science Education
NeuroLogica Blog
Panda’s Thumb
Pharyngula
PodBlack Cat
Randi’s Encyclopedia of Claims, Frauds & Hoaxes
RealClimate
Scam Busters
Science Debate
Science-Based Medicine
Skeptic Money
Skeptic’s Guide to the Universe
SkepticBlog
Skepticism in the Classroom
SkepticWiki
The Clergy Letter Project – Evolution Weekend
The Skeptic’s Dictionary
The Skeptics Society
The TalkOrigins Archive
Understanding Science
Urban Legends Reference Pages
What the Hell was That?
What’s the Harm?
Why Is Science Important?
WordPress.com
WordPress.org
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com
Blog Stats
1,250,363 hits
Categories
aliens & UFOs (22)
astrology (16)
conspiracy theories (35)
creationism (138)
cryptozoology (13)
cults (9)
doomsday (23)
economics (21)
education (128)
environmental hysteria (20)
free inquiry (17)
ghosts & paranormal (42)
global warming denial (30)
Holocaust denial (3)
humor (72)
internet (30)
magic tricks (8)
mathematics (10)
media woo (40)
medical woo (90)
philosophy (15)
physics denial/woo (65)
politics (120)
psychics (28)
psychology (28)
religion (99)
science funding (25)
scientific method (39)
skeptical community (236)
space (35)
Uncategorized (31)
Skeptical Teacher Tweets!
Book Review: “Sharing Reality – How to Bring Secularism and Science to an Evolving Religious World” tinyurl.com/ycyzzqk8 1 year ago
The Pentagon Acknowledges UFO Program - tinyurl.com/ybcf5zmk 1 year ago
Halloween: The Perfect Opportunity to Promote Skepticism! - tinyurl.com/jyvdegt 2 years ago
The Mythology of Mother Teresa - tinyurl.com/hft4gsu 2 years ago
Ask the U.S. Candidates to Debate Science! - tinyurl.com/gtpj23d #ScienceQs 2 years ago
Top Clicks
abcnews.go.com/GMA/jesus-…
skepticalteacher.files.wo…
news.yahoo.com/s/ap/us_od…
randi.org/site/index.php/…
skepticalteacher.files.wo…
skepticalteacher.files.wo…
skepticmoney.com/wp-conte…
skepticmoney.com/the-ulti…
Top Posts
The Embarrassing Truth About the Bible: It's STILL Being Edited
Thunderwood College: Being Honest About Fake Diplomas
A Skeptical Investigation of the Montana Vortex & House of Mystery
Discovery Channel's "The Supernaturalist" is Super Stupid
Walking Barefoot on Broken Glass - Not Paranormal, Just Physics
The Dead Sea Scrolls and Biblical "Inerrancy"
Do You Have ESP? A Lesson in Skepticism from the JREF
XKCD Nails It on Homeopathy
Big Butter Jesus is Toast!
Happy Winter Solstice! -- Time to Balance Those Eggs
Recent Comments
nakayama on More Physics Woo: The Einstein…
nakayama on More Physics Woo: The Einstein…
rroger on What is the Physical Evidence…
Cn on Psychic Gary Spivey Mega-Fail…
Book Review: “Sharin… on The Mind of Creationists and O…
SkepticBlog Feed
Announcing INSIGHT at Skeptic.com September 17, 2014
The Skeptics Society has retired Skepticblog (while preserving all posts online at their original urls for future reference), but we’re proud to announce our bigger, better new blog: INSIGHT at Skeptic.com! Dedicated to the spirit of curiosity and grounded in scientific skepticism’s useful, investigative tradition of public service, INSIGHT continues and exp […]
Skeptic Webmaster
A Fond Farewell to Skepticblog September 10, 2014
Daniel Loxton shares the news that the Skeptics Society is archiving Skepticblog and preparing for the launch of an exciting new blog project.
Daniel Loxton
False Equivalence September 6, 2014
Some people say, "Oh, there's anti-science on both sides of the political aisle." But that neglects one important fact: in only ONE political party are the leadership and the party platform dominated by science denial.
Donald Prothero
A creationist mole and a sorry mess September 4, 2014
A creationist working in the CSUN Biology Department was fired for preaching creationism on the job. But there's more to the case than meets the eye….
Donald Prothero
The great Pacific garbage patch September 1, 2014
Would you believe there is a patch of trapped garbage floating in the North Pacific bigger than the state of Texas? It's called the "Great Pacific Garbage Patch".
Donald Prothero
Posts Tagged ‘electromagnetic waves’
“Doctor” Oz Fails at Medicine AND Physics as He Pushes Cell Phone Fear-Mongering
Posted by mattusmaximus on December 18, 2013
This recent silliness by “Doctor” Oz came to my attention: apparently, during a recent show he took seriously the notion that women shouldn’t carry cell phones in their bras because it could give them breast cancer. My skeptical colleague Dr. David Gorski at Science-Based Medicine summarizes Oz’s idiocy and fear-mongering here…
… The story aired on December 6 and was entitled Why You Should Keep Your Cell Phone Out of Your Bra. The entire segment, lasting ten minutes or so, is one blatant piece of fear mongering. Even by the usual low standards of a typical Dr. Oz segment, this one was bad. How bad? I’ll give you a taste. Let me start just by asking what you might expect in a segment claiming a link between an environmental exposure of some sort and a specific cancer? You’d expect some actual scientific evidence, wouldn’t you? Some epidemiology, perhaps, showing that women who hold their cell phones in their bras have a higher risk of breast cancer, perhaps with some relative risks that were at least statistically significant. You might expect some scientific evidence suggesting why the proposed mechanism is plausible. You might even expect that there would be convincing (or at least suggestive) evidence that women who put their cell phones in their bras, when they develop breast cancer, develop it more frequently on the side where they stick their cell phone. These would be reasonable things to expect that, even though they wouldn’t be convincing proof, would at least raise concerns.
There was none of that at all. Zero. Nada. Zip. In fact, I was shocked at how evidence-free this whole segment was. Usually Oz at least tries to slather a patina of scientific evidence on his pseudoscience. OK, maybe not usually, but he does at least sometimes try when he’s not doing a story on alternative medicine, “complementary and alternative medicine,” or “integrative medicine,” anyway. Not here. It’s as if Dr. Oz’s producers weren’t even trying for this one. …
If you want a good analysis that thrashes the hell out of Oz’s claims from a medical perspective, definitely read through all of Dr. Gorski’s blog post. Seeing as how I’m not a medical doctor, I won’t rehash his analysis here; but I am a physics professor, so what I can do is go through the basic physics of why it is implausible that cell phones are even physically capable of causing cancer. In fact, I’ve written numerous posts on this topic already…
Electromagnetic Fields & Cancer Myths
This first post is probably the most thorough on the fundamental physics of how electromagnetic radiation/waves (also known as light) are generated and propagate; also included is a basic primer on the different kinds of EM waves, the EM spectrum, what role frequency and energy of light play in these issues, and the all important difference between ionizing and non-ionizing radiation. Here’s the upshot: cell phones emit non-ionizing (i.e. non-cancer causing) radiation.
Maine Legislator Pushes Cell Phone-Cancer Woo
This article about a hysterical politician in Maine points out the implications of allowing basic scientific literacy to be trumped by the kind of psuedoscience and fear-mongering propagated by “Doctor” Oz and his ilk.
Cell Phones STILL Don’t Cause Cancer
Just a more up-to-date article outlining some more research from the Institute of Cancer Epidemiology in Denmark after it looked at more than 350,000 people with mobile phones over an 18-year period. Conclusion: even while looking for supposed long-term negative effects, none were found.
Share this:
Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
Print
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Posted in environmental hysteria, media woo, physics denial/woo, Uncategorized | Tagged: bra, breast cancer, cancer, cell phones, David Gorski, DNA, doctor, Doctor Oz, Dr. David Gorski, Dr. Oz, electromagnetic fields, electromagnetic radiation, electromagnetic spectrum, electromagnetic waves, EMF, environment, health, ionizing radiation, light, medical, medicine, physics, power lines, public health, radiation, radiation sickness, safety, safety hysteria, science-based medicine, show, skeptic, skepticism, television, TV, wi-fi | 1 Comment »
Hilarious Lesson in Critical Thinking: “Why Can’t You Use Phones on Planes?”
Posted by mattusmaximus on August 18, 2013
I just wanted to share a hilarious video from the folks at CollegeHumor.com titled “Why Can’t You Use Phones on Planes?” or, as I like to call it, “Airplanes are magic!” It is, in my opinion, I neat and quick little lesson on critical thinking and how we often accept the most silly explanations without much thought. It’s also really damn funny (note there is a little strong language). Enjoy 🙂
Why Can’t You Use Phones on Planes?
Share this:
Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
Print
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Posted in humor, physics denial/woo | Tagged: airplanes, Airplanes are magic, cell phones, CollegeHumor, critical thinking, electromagnetic waves, flying, funny, humor, internet, lift, magic, phones, physics, planes, radio, video, waves | 3 Comments »
Cell Phones STILL Don’t Cause Cancer
Posted by mattusmaximus on November 1, 2011
Okay, I’ve said it before, and no doubt I will have to say it again, but here goes… there is no causal connection between cell phone use and cancer! Not only is it physically implausible, but there is no solid research showing such a connection; in fact, the research shows quite the opposite, as evidenced by this recent article from the BBC News…
Mobile phone brain cancer link rejected
By Nick Triggle Health correspondent, BBC News
Mobile phone safety has been much debated over the past two decades
Further research has been published suggesting there is no link between mobile phones and brain cancer.
The risk mobiles present has been much debated over the past 20 years as use of the phones has soared.
The latest study led by the Institute of Cancer Epidemiology in Denmark looked at more than 350,000 people with mobile phones over an 18-year period.
Researchers concluded users were at no greater risk than anyone else of developing brain cancer.
The findings, published on the British Medical Journal website, come after a series of studies have come to similar conclusions. …
Share this:
Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
Print
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Posted in environmental hysteria, physics denial/woo | Tagged: BBC, BBC News, brain, British Medical Journal, cancer, cell phones, DNA, electromagnetic fields, electromagnetic radiation, electromagnetic spectrum, electromagnetic waves, EMF, environment, health, ionizing radiation, light, medicine, paralyzing precautionary principle, physics, power lines, public health, radiation, radiation sickness, safety, safety hysteria, skeptic, skepticism, wi-fi | 1 Comment »
Stephen Colbert Pokes Skeptical Fun at WHO Cell Phone Claims
Posted by mattusmaximus on June 21, 2011
Earlier this month, the World Health Organization rather irresponsibly scared the hell out of a lot of people when they reported a link between cell phone use and cancer. Of course, as I’ve mentioned in the past, we know of no plausible physical mechanism by which cell phones (or low frequency EMFs in general) can cause cancer; for a really detailed article on this issue, I highly recommend Orac’s post at Respectful Insolence.
But, while Orac’s article is excellent from a technical and medical standpoint, I think the best response to this scaremongering from the WHO comes from satirist Stephen Colbert 🙂
Share this:
Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
Print
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Posted in environmental hysteria, humor, physics denial/woo | Tagged: cancer, cell phones, Colbert Report, DNA, electromagnetic fields, electromagnetic radiation, electromagnetic spectrum, electromagnetic waves, EMF, environment, funny, health, humor, ionizing radiation, light, medicine, National Research Council, paralyzing precautionary principle, physics, power lines, public health, radiation, radiation sickness, safety, safety hysteria, skeptic, skepticism, Stephen Colbert, WHO, wi-fi, World Health Organization | Leave a Comment »
Cell Phone & Cancer Study Follow Up
Posted by mattusmaximus on May 27, 2010
Last October I posted about a really crappy piece of “journalism” in the New York Post regarding a supposed link between cellphone use and cancer. The punchline was that the headline-grubbing morons at the NYPost ran their story before the actual study had been published!
Well, now the actual study by the real scientists & researchers involved has been published, and – lo and behold – it paints a very different picture from the fear-mongering goobers at the NYPost. In part, their conclusion states:
“Overall, no increase in risk of glioma or meningioma was observed with use of mobile phones.”
For reference, the entire study is available here in PDF format. Now of course I’m not surprised in the least by these results, seeing as how, based upon the laws of physics as we know them, there is no plausible mechanism by which such low-energy emissions from cellphones could cause cancer!
One would hope that various media outlets would take a lesson from this fiasco, but I suppose some people are more interested in selling paper than responsible news reporting.
Share this:
Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
Print
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Posted in environmental hysteria, media woo, physics denial/woo | Tagged: cancer, cell phones, DNA, electromagnetic fields, electromagnetic radiation, electromagnetic spectrum, electromagnetic waves, EMF, environment, health, ionizing radiation, journalism, light, media, medicine, National Research Council, New York Post, news, NY Post, paralyzing precautionary principle, physics, power lines, public health, radiation, radiation sickness, safety, safety hysteria, skeptic, skepticism, wi-fi | 1 Comment »
Maine Legislator Pushes Cell Phone-Cancer Woo
Posted by mattusmaximus on December 21, 2009
In another *facepalm* moment, the state legislature in Maine will soon be considering a bill that would require cell phones to carry warning labels that they, you guessed it, might cause brain cancer. Ugh – I have posted about this topic before (in my post “Electromagnetic Fields & Cancer Myths”), and I cannot state strongly enough that there is no evidence that cell phone use causes cancer! Not only is there no conclusive evidence that cell phone radiation causes cancer, but according to the known laws of physics there is no physical mechanism by which this is even possible. But that won’t stop some non-scientifically minded nut with political clout from pushing this nonsense into a useless law…
Maine to consider cell phone cancer warning
A Maine legislator wants to make the state the first to require cell phones to carry warnings that they can cause brain cancer, although there is no consensus among scientists that they do and industry leaders dispute the claim.
The now-ubiquitous devices carry such warnings in some countries, though no U.S. states require them, according to the National Conference of State Legislators. A similar effort is afoot in San Francisco, where Mayor Gavin Newsom wants his city to be the nation’s first to require the warnings.
Maine Rep. Andrea Boland, D-Sanford, said numerous studies point to the cancer risk, and she has persuaded legislative leaders to allow her proposal to come up for discussion during the 2010 session that begins in January, a session usually reserved for emergency and governors’ bills.
And here’s my favorite part of the article…
While there’s little agreement about the health hazards, Boland said Maine’s roughly 950,000 cell phone users among its 1.3 million residents “do not know what the risks are.”
Ahem, Rep. Boland, this is an argument that is essentially begging the question… the assumption is that there is a risk, despite there being any conclusive evidence of a cause-and-effect relationship (not to be confused with correlation) between cancer & cell phone use AND a lack of any kind of physical mechanism to even facilitate that process. Folks, this is what happens when you mix political power with the Paralyzing Precautionary Principle. Now this may be crappy science, but I’m sure it’ll raise Rep. Boland’s political profile – too bad she couldn’t just stick to the actual science as opposed to pushing pseudoscientific & fear-mongering woo woo.
Folks, if you live in Maine, please take a moment to contact your state representatives and ask them to – for the sake of good science & sound legislative policies – just throw Boland’s bill in the trash heap where it belongs. I’m sure there are far better, more important, and real issues the Maine legislature could be dealing with on behalf of that state’s citizens.
Rep. Boland, this one’s for you…
Share this:
Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
Print
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Posted in environmental hysteria, physics denial/woo, politics | Tagged: Andrea Boland, Boland, cancer, cell phones, DNA, electromagnetic fields, electromagnetic radiation, electromagnetic spectrum, electromagnetic waves, EMF, environment, health, ionizing radiation, legislature, light, Maine, medicine, paralyzing precautionary principle, physics, politics, power lines, public health, radiation, radiation sickness, safety, safety hysteria, skeptic, skepticism, wi-fi | 4 Comments »
New York Post: Sloppy Journalism in Report of Cellphone-Cancer “Link”
Posted by mattusmaximus on October 26, 2009
In another media *facepalm* moment, the New York Post is reporting of a supposed “link” between cellphone use and cancer…
Study: Cell Phone Cancer Link
A groundbreaking, $30 million study into cell phones has found a link between long term use and brain tumors.
The World Health Organization is about to reveal that its decade-long investigation has found the devices can lead to cancer — and the internationally-respected body will soon issue a public health message with its findings, London’s Daily Telegraph reported today.
The conclusion goes against years of assurances by cell phone companies and scientists that cell phone use is safe.
But last month, Sen. Arlen Specter (D – Pa) organized Senate hearings to examine health implications of talking on-the-go.
elizabeth lippman/N.Y. Post
CAN YOU KILL ME NOW? — A groundbreaking, 10-year study will show that long-term cell phone use can lead to brain tumors.
The WHO’s Interphone investigation’s results showed, “a significantly increased risk” of some brain tumors “related to use of mobile phones for a period of ten years or more,” the Telegraph reported today.
The study’s head, Dr. Elisabeth Cardis, said, “In the absence of definitive results and in the light of a number of studies which, though limited, suggest a possible effect of radiofrequency radiation, precautions are important.”
The project carried out studies in 13 countries, talking to tumor sufferers as well as healthy cell phone users, It interviewed 12,800 people.
The results will be officially published before the end of the year, according to the Telegraph.
This is a perfect example of how some in the media misuse science to make headlines, while at the same time spreading misinformation. Notice that the article is citing research which hasn’t even been published yet! So, if the research isn’t yet published for scrutiny, how in blazes do the morons at NY Post know what the research says? I always thought that a good journalist was supposed to check their facts before reporting a story, not the other way around. Apparently, the folks at the NY Post live in an alternate universe.
In addition, some other tidbits that pop up in this article:
Read the rest of this entry »
Share this:
Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
Print
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Posted in environmental hysteria, media woo, physics denial/woo | Tagged: cancer, cell phones, DNA, electromagnetic fields, electromagnetic radiation, electromagnetic spectrum, electromagnetic waves, EMF, environment, health, ionizing radiation, journalism, light, media, medicine, National Research Council, New York Post, news, NY Post, paralyzing precautionary principle, physics, power lines, public health, radiation, radiation sickness, safety, safety hysteria, skeptic, skepticism, wi-fi | 7 Comments »
Website Rates Best & Worst Cellphones… by Radiation Output
Posted by mattusmaximus on September 28, 2009
While cruising around the Internet I stumbled upon this website over at Engadget.com where they ask people to rate their cellphones – by the amount of (spooky word here) RADIATION output!
The irony here is the fact that a website which seems to advertise itself as tech-savvy would appear to embrace such a stupidly pseudoscientific concept as cellphone radiation being dangerous. As has been outlined repeatedly in the scientific literature – as well as in my Electromagnetic Fields & Cancer Myths blog entry – there is NO danger from cellphone radiation… none!
As for the Engadget article, note the scale they show and the subsequent commentary…
You’re surely aware that your cellphone bleeds radiation into your face the whole time you’re on the phone with your mom, best friend or lover, right? Yes, it’s a fact we try not to think about most of the time, but now there’s a tool out there on the internets for the more reality-facing folks among us. The Environmental Working Group’s launched a website dedicated to rating cellphones on their radiation output alone. Ranking highly (meaning they put out the lowest levels of radiation) are the Motorola RAZR V8, and AT&T’s Samsung Impression. In fact, it seems that Samsung is cranking out the healthiest phones these days! Phones with poor showings includes T-Mobile’s myTouch 3G and the Blackberry Curve 8830. So hit the read link and tell us, how does your phone rate?
The scale leaves out one important fact… that all of these phones likely operate at the same frequencies of radiation. The only thing this scale is studying is the intensity, which is entirely different! For example, the frequency of a photon of electromagnetic energy is what determines how energetic (and therefore how dangerous in the context of causing cancer) the radiation is. Low-frequency radiation like that from cellphones simply cannot cause cancer, as far as we know, because it is non–ionizing radiation. The fact that these goofs at Engadget.com can’t even get this basic bit of physics right will ensure that they won’t be getting any of my business.
I don’t know about you, but I know how I’d rate this website for scientific validity. I give it a rating of FAIL.
Share this:
Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
Print
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Posted in physics denial/woo | Tagged: cancer, cell phones, cellphones, DNA, electromagnetic fields, electromagnetic radiation, electromagnetic spectrum, electromagnetic waves, EMF, Engadget, environment, health, ionizing radiation, light, medicine, paralyzing precautionary principle, physics, power lines, public health, radiation, radiation sickness, safety, safety hysteria, skeptic, skepticism, wi-fi | 2 Comments »
Electromagnetic Fields & Cancer Myths
Posted by mattusmaximus on April 2, 2009
Every year when I teach my students about electromagnetism, I take some time to discuss with them the physics of electromagnetic waves (a.k.a. “light”). EM-waves go by another name common to scientists, electromagnetic radiation, and it’s that second word – radiation – which scares the hell out of so many people and makes them vulnerable to all manner of woo.
Case in point, there is a lot of bunk out there concerning EM-radiation and cancer. Specifically, there is a group of folks who try to push the idea that cell phones, power lines, and wi-fi are emitting radiation (called EMFs, or electromagnetic fields) which will give people exposed to them all manner of cancers. I’m here to tell you that this is just plain b.s. – people who make these pseudoscientific arguments do not understand the physics of EMFs, at all.
First off, the physical mechanism which creates an electromagnetic wave (or “EM-radiation” or “light” or “EMFs” – they’re all the same thing) is basically wiggling an electric charge back and forth. This process generates a self-reinforcing set of electric & magnetic fields which form the wave, and the frequency of these waves (which matches the frequency at which the charge is wiggled) is what determines exactly what kind of EM-radiation is created. Depending upon the frequency of the wave, it will fall along what is called the electromagnetic spectrum…
Read the rest of this entry »
Share this:
Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
Print
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Posted in environmental hysteria, physics denial/woo | Tagged: cancer, cell phones, DNA, electromagnetic fields, electromagnetic radiation, electromagnetic spectrum, electromagnetic waves, EMF, environment, health, ionizing radiation, light, medicine, National Research Council, paralyzing precautionary principle, physics, power lines, public health, radiation, radiation sickness, safety, safety hysteria, skeptic, skepticism, wi-fi | 20 Comments »
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
Post to
Cancel
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: