How effective is the Breastfeeding Method of... | MummyPages.MummyPages.ie
Home
Lifestage
Getting Pregnant
Pregnancy
Baby Names
Newborn & Baby
Toddler
Preschooler
Big Kids
School Days
Tweens
Teens
Life
Family
Mum's Life
House & Home
Travel
Health
Parties
Beauty
Style
Finance
Eco Living
Today
Family Adventures
Things We Love
TV
Food
Food
Recipes
Videos
Baking
Cookies & Biscuits
Easy Recipes
Desserts
Dinners
Snacks
Lunchbox Ideas
Voices
Real Mum Voices
Product Trials
Experts
MummyPages Plus
Family
Children's Fashion
Family Car
Family Entertainment and Tech
Games for Kids
Holidays & Celebrations
Just for Dads
Money
Relationships
Sex & Contraception
Siblings
Sleep for Mum & Dad
Family Life tools
Reading Centre
Pain, Cold and Flu Centre
Topical
Popular Competition time with Citroën Win with Birds Eye Get published Mum Chat Rewards
Family Life Sex & Contraception Questions List
You asked
How effective is the Breastfeeding Method of birth control?
Using breastfeeding as a means of contraception is known as the lactational amenorrhea method (LAM). When you breastfeed, your body releases a hormone that suppresses oestrogen production, thereby interfering with your menstruation cycle. The effectiveness of this ovulation suppression is very much related to how much you nurse your baby. As soon as you start supplementing your baby's diet with solid food, or feeding formula, your body senses the change in milk demand and compensates for this. That means less milk gets produced, and less suppressing hormones released. It is therefore a good idea to use other methods of contraception in addition to LAM after the first couple of months.
LAM is fairly effective for the first six months, with less than two percent of breastfeeding mothers becoming pregnant during the first six months following delivery. Barrier methods and the progestin-only pill are completely compatible with breastfeeding.
To make LAM as reliable as you can, the following conditions must be met: There is no more than a four hour gap between feeding; your period has not started again; your baby was delivered less than six months ago. Remember that your body can release an egg without there being signs of menstruation returning, thereby making you potentially fertile.
Do not use LAM if you express your milk, or use formula feeding as well as breastfeeding. LAM depends on long, regular feeding sessions, so substituting even one feed with a bottle can be risky.
More questions
Sex after pregnancy: what are the risks of having sex before my six week post-natal check up?
There are some very good reasons that you would want to avoid sexual intercourse.
Will my vagina stay stretched out after delivery?
Your vagina will naturally shrink after delivery, as your body heals, but whether it returns to its original size, depends on a number of factors.
Will my menstrual cycle be regular while I'm breastfeeding?
Your menstrual cycle usually starts towards the end of your breastfeeding phase, but how regular it is once it is back varies from woman to woman.
Will it hurt the first time I have sex after having my baby?
It is not uncommon for women to experience pain and discomfort during sex, for the first couple of months after having a baby.
How effective is the Breastfeeding Method of birth control?
The delaying effect that breastfeeding has on the return of normal menstruation has an effect on fertility and can be considered as a method of contraception – although it is not a very reliable one.
How can the intrauterine system prevent me from falling pregnant?
The Intrauterine System, or IUS, is an effective method of birth control that is safe to use while breastfeeding.
Breastfeeding and sex drive. Is there a connection?
It is true that some women experience a drop in their sex drive while breastfeeding, however, this isn’t always the case.
When should I expect to get my first period after my baby is born?
The return to your normal cycle is not a hard and fast rule and it can take anything from a month to a year before your first post baby period happens.
When do most couples start having sex again after their baby is born?
It is entirely up to you and your husband as to when you want to start having sex after the birth of your baby. The best thing to do is to have patience and wait until your body is ready for sex after your baby is born.
My husband wants me to have sex but I'm not ready.
As very often happens, if you are just too tired to have sex after a long day, then tell your husband. If he is understanding and clever, he will help you as much as he can. After all, you will both benefit from this.
View More
Latest
THIS parenting practice is harming your toddler more than you think
First look photos: Joanne Froggatt and Ioan Gruffudd begin filming Liar series two
'Embrace the challenge': Sam Claflin calls for more paternity leave for dads
Trending
The sweetest princess names for your darling daughter
Teenager allegedly 'sexually assaulted' in bathroom at Shawn Mendes concert
First look photos: Joanne Froggatt and Ioan Gruffudd begin filming Liar series two
Trending and Sponsored
More Stories You’ll Love
Family Life
THIS parenting practice is harming your toddler more than you think
House & Home
You won't BELIEVE the amount of laundry Irish households do every week
Family Life
First look photos: Joanne Froggatt and Ioan Gruffudd begin filming Liar series two
Mum's Life
Stacey Solomon pens emotional message about becoming a mum-of-three
Mum's Life
Prince William's exchange with five-year-old Christchurch victim is heartmelting
Mum's Life
Glenda Gilson gets candid about lack of sleep affecting her romantic life
About Advertise Disclaimer Posting Rules Privacy & Cookies Get in touch Suggestions T&C's Unsubscribe
Déanta in Éirinn - Sheology
Hello Mama!
Help us help you by allowing us and our partners to remember your device as having browsed MummyPages and serve you better content and ads
We're on a mission to help our mums and their families thrive by informing, connecting and entertaining.
Join us in our mission by consenting to the use of cookies and IP address recognition by us and our partners to serve you content (including ads) best suited to your interests, both here and around the web.
We promise never to share any other information that may be deemed personal unless you explicitly tell us it's ok.
If you want more info, see our privacy policy.
Count me in! I consent
No thanks.
Manage Preferences