Fertility Myths Uncovered! | Ovulation Calculator
MENU
OVULATION CALCULATOR
OVULATION TESTS
DIFFICULTY CONCEIVING
PRE-PREGNANCY
OUR BLOG
Back
Fertility Myths Uncovered!
From fertility to pregnancy and beyond, the subject of baby’s and how to make them has always been the subject of many an old wives’ tale. While many women love nothing more than to share a story, there are some real doozies floating out there in the ‘fertility’ universe, so we thought we’d save you the trouble and debunk a few of the most common mistruths.
Myth #1: Orgasms are necessary in order to conceive
Who doesn’t want this to be true? Orgasming is a definite plus and baby making should be fun for everyone involved, however in the science of conception, the orgasm isn’t 100% necessary. When the women orgasms the uterus contracts which encourage the sperm to travel toward the fallopian tubes faster, but even without the orgasm, your trying-to-conceive efforts may still be rewarded.......but this one we’ll keep on the QT!
Myth #2: If you swallow semen you will be more fertile.
Creative yes, can’t help but admire the man who started this old wives’ tale, but seriously, is there any truth to it? Ok so semen definitely has some out of the ordinary benefits (sperm facial anyone?) but unfortunately increasing your fertility is not one of them – or at least no studies have proven it so far! And without a study, you’re all out of luck!
Myth #3: Breastfeeding acts as a form of birth control.
This little old tale has been around for generations and while there is truth that breastfeeding can keep women period-free for longer (and, therefore, less fertile), it doesn’t necessarily apply to all women, so relying on breastfeeding as your only source of birth control may produce an 8lb surprise 9 months down the track. Breastfeeding experts have documented how to tell if your fertility is compromised by making yourself aware of the following 3 things, and all 3 things must be present:
A complete lack of period since delivery –light bleeding or spotting after delivery doesn’t count.
You are breastfeeding your baby on demand (exclusively) during the day and night and not feeding him any other foods or liquids on a regular basis.
Baby is less than six months old
However even when following these guidelines which are the cornerstones of a method known as the Lactation Amenorrhea Method (LAM), all women still have a 1.2% chance of conception. So even though there is truth in this tale, we would recommend that if you want to ensure time between babies, your chosen method of birth control is probably a safer option.
Myth #4: Lifting your legs in the air for 20 minutes after sex will help you get pregnant.
This conjures up quite an image and while it sounds quite rational in theory that tilting your pelvis will help those little swimmers find a direct route to the egg, all it will probably do is make your legs go numb from the blood rushing away from the feet! Did you know that sperm are chemically programmed to travel directly to your fertilised egg regardless of what position you may find yourself in? Who knew men were capable of gravity defying sperm! Every time your partner ejaculates he projects about 2 to 3 cubic centimetres of ejaculation with around 20 to 80 million sperm in each cc, so even if a little sperm leaks out, those gravity defying superheroes are readily available in the millions. So while a little pillow under the hips can’t do any harm, there is certainly no need for numb extremities or handstands in order to get the sperm to where they need to be.
Myth #5: Being on the Pill for any extended length of time will delay pregnancy
We’re delighted to inform you that this one is also not rooted in truth. Depending on the type of birth control you were using before you stopped and started trying-to-conceive, the rate that your cycle regulates may vary slightly but not by much. If you have been using a birth control pill, research has shown that your cycle should return to normal pretty much right away, so you can expect to ovulate within just a few weeks, as long as there are no other factors that may have an impact on your fertility. Recent studies have shown that up to 80% of woman who stop taking a birth control pill fall pregnant within one year of stopping it.
Trying for a babys? Check out the www.fertilitystore.ie
LATEST POSTS
Am I Infertile?
Getting Pregnant Myths & Facts
How Does My Menstrual Cycle Work?
Preconception Check Up? Have You Had Yours?
What if I have irregular periods?
Why Getting Pregnant Should Be Fun!
Your Getting Pregnant Checklist
Timing: Getting Pregnant Faster!
Weird & Wonderful Ways Ovulation Can Affect Your Body
Can A Woman Become Pregnant During Her Period?
What is Ovulatory Dysfunction?
How to Normalise Irregular Cycles & Boost your Fertility!
Say No to Normal Lubricants & Check your Cervical Mucus!
Know your Fertile Days!
Can the Regular Use of NSAIDs Inhibit Ovulation & Reduce Fertility?
Male Infertility Fact or Fiction?
Fertility Myths Uncovered!
How to use your Digital Basal Thermometer
5 Signs You Are Fertile Now!
What not to say to someone with fertility issues!
Acupuncture & Fertility
5 Environmental Toxins That May Harm Your Fertility
Is it Time for Baby No.2?