After Wisdom Tooth Removal Santa Ana CA
Skip to main content
Home
Patient Information
Introduction
First Visit
Scheduling
Financial Policy
Insurance
Privacy Policy
Online Videos
Patient Registration
Procedures
Dental Implants
Wisdom Teeth
Dental Surgery
Jaw Surgery
Bone Grafting
Pre-prosthetic Surgery
Oral Pathology
Apicoectomy – Endodontic Surgery
3-Dimensional Imaging
Meet Us
Meet Dr. Austin Hoover
Meet Dr. Richard Mandel
Meet the Staff
Office Tour
Surgical Instructions
Before Anesthesia
Dental Implant Surgery
Wisdom Tooth Removal
Exposure of an Impacted Tooth
Extractions
Multiple Extractions
Referring Doctors
Referral Form
Study Club
Links of Interest
Contact Us
Contact Information / Office Map
After Wisdom Tooth Removal
The removal of impacted teeth is a serious surgical procedure. Post-operative care is very important. Unnecessary pain and the complications of infection and swelling can be minimized. Follow the instructions carefully.
Immediately Following Surgery
The gauze pad placed over the surgical area should be kept in place for a half hour. Apply pressure to the area by biting down on the gauze. After this time, the gauze pad should be removed and discarded.
Avoid vigorous mouth rinsing or touching the wound area following surgery. This may initiate bleeding by causing the blood clot that has formed to become dislodged. You do not want to dislodge the blood clot.
Take the prescribed pain medications as soon as you begin to feel discomfort. This will usually coincide with the local anesthetic becoming diminished.
Restrict your activities the day of surgery. Do not exercise for a minimum of 24 hours following the surgery procedure and resume normal activity when you feel comfortable.
Place ice packs to the sides of your face where surgery was performed. Refer to the section on swelling for explanation.
Bleeding
A certain amount of bleeding is to be expected following surgery. Slight bleeding, oozing, or redness in the saliva is not uncommon. Excessive bleeding may be controlled by first rinsing or wiping any old clots from your mouth, then placing a gauze pad over the area and bite firmly for thirty minutes. Repeat if necessary. If bleeding continues, bite on a moistened tea bag for thirty minutes. The tannic acid in the tea bag helps to form a clot by contracting bleeding vessels. To minimize further bleeding, do not become excited, sit upright, and avoid exercise. If bleeding does not subside, call our office at (714) 835-8873 for further instructions.
Swelling
The swelling that is normally expected is usually proportional to the surgery involved. Swelling around the mouth, cheeks, eyes and sides of the face is not uncommon. This is the body’s normal reaction to surgery and eventual repair. The swelling will not become apparent until the day following surgery and will not reach its maximum until 2-3 days post-operatively. However, the swelling may be minimized by the immediate use of ice packs. Two baggies filled with ice, or ice packs should be applied to the sides of the face where surgery was performed. The ice packs should be left on continuously while you are awake for the first 36 hours. After 36 hours, ice has no beneficial effect. If swelling or jaw stiffness has persisted for several days, there is no cause for alarm. This is a normal reaction to surgery. Thirty-six hours following surgery, the application of moist heat to the sides of the face is beneficial in reducing the size of the swelling.
Pain
For moderate pain, one or two tablets of Tylenol or Extra Strength Tylenol may be taken every three to four hours or Ibuprofen, (Motrin or Advil) two-four 200 mg tablets may be taken every 3-4 hours.
For severe pain, take the tablets as prescribed by Dr. Mandel or Dr. Hoover. The prescribed pain medicine will make you groggy and will slow down your reflexes. Do not drive an automobile or work around machinery. Avoid alcoholic beverages. Pain or discomfort following surgery should subside more and more every day. If pain persists, it may require attention and you should call our office at (714) 835-8873.
Diet
After general anesthetic or I.V. sedation, liquids should be initially taken. Drink from a glass. Do not use straws. Do not eat or drink anything too hot or too cold. Do not do any sucking motion. The sucking motion can cause more bleeding by dislodging the blood clot. You may eat anything soft by chewing away form the surgical sites. High calorie, high protein intake is very important. Refer to the section on suggested diet instructions at the end of the brochure. Nourishment should be taken regularly. You should prevent dehydration by taking fluids regularly. Your food intake will be limited for the first few days. You should compensate for this by increasing your fluid intake. At least 5-6 glasses of liquid should be taken daily. Try not to miss a single meal. You will feel better, have more strength, less discomfort and heal faster if you continue to eat. Caution: If you suddenly sit up or stand from a lying position you may become dizzy. If you are lying down following surgery, make sure you sit for one minute before standing.
Keep the mouth clean
No rinsing of any kind should be performed until the day following surgery. You can brush your teeth the night of surgery but rinse gently. The day after surgery you should begin rinsing at least 5-6 times a day especially after eating with a cup of warm water mixed with a teaspoon of salt.
Discoloration
In some cases, discoloration of the skin follows swelling. The development of black, blue, green, or yellow discoloration is due to blood spreading beneath the tissues. This is a normal post-operative occurrence, which may occur 2-3 days post-operatively. Apply moist heat to the area to help speed up the removal of the discoloration.
Antibiotics
If you have been placed on antibiotics, take the tablets or liquid as directed. Antibiotics will be given to help prevent infection. Discontinue antibiotic use in the event of a rash or other unfavorable reaction. Call our office at (714) 835-8873 if you have any questions.
Nausea and Vomiting
In the event of nausea and/or vomiting following surgery, do not take anything by mouth for at least an hour including the prescribed medicine. You should then sip on coke, tea or ginger ale. You should sip slowly over a fifteen-minute period. When the nausea subsides you can begin taking solid foods and the prescribed medicine.
Other Complications
If numbness of the lip, chin, or tongue occurs there is no cause for alarm. As stated before surgery, this is usually temporary in nature. You should be aware that if your lip or tongue is numb, you could bite it and not feel the sensation. So be careful. Call our Doctors (714) 835-8873 if you have any questions.
Slight elevation of temperature immediately following surgery is not uncommon. If the temperature persists, notify our office (714) 835-8873. Tylenol or ibuprofen should be taken to reduce the fever.
You should be careful going from the lying down position to standing. You were not able to eat or drink prior to surgery. It was also difficult to take fluids. Taking pain medications can make you dizzy. You could get light headed when you stand up suddenly. Before standing up, you should sit for one minute then get up.
Occasionally, patients may feel hard projections in the mouth with their tongue. They are not roots, they are the bony walls which supported the tooth. These projections usually smooth out spontaneously. If not, they can be removed by Dr. Mandel or Dr. Hoover.
If the corners of your mouth are stretched, they may dry and crack. Keep your lips moist by using an ointment such as vaseline.
Sore throats and pain when swallowing are not uncommon. The muscles get swollen. The normal act of swallowing can then become painful. This will subside in 2-3 days.
Stiffness (Trimus) of the jaw muscles may cause difficulty in opening your mouth for a few days following surgery. This is a normal post-operative event which will resolve in time.
Finally
Occasionally, sutures are placed in the area of surgery to minimize post-operative bleeding and to help healing. Sometimes they become dislodged. This is no cause for alarm, just remove the suture from your mouth and discard it. The sutures will be removed approximately one week after surgery. The removal of sutures requires no anesthesia or needles. It takes only a minute or so, and there is no discomfort associated with this procedure. So there is nothing to worry about.
The pain and swelling should subside more and more each day following surgery. If your post-operative pain or swelling worsens or unusual symptoms occur call our office at (714) 835-8873 for instructions.
There will be a cavity where the tooth was removed. The cavity will gradually over the next month fill in with the new tissue. In the mean time, the cavity area should be kept clean especially after meals with salt water rinses or a toothbrush.
Your case is individual, no two mouths are alike. Do not accept well intended advice from friends. Discuss your problem with the persons best able to effectively help you: our Doctors or your family dentist.
Brushing your teeth is okay – just be gentle at the surgical sites.
A dry socket is when the blood clot gets dislodged prematurely from the tooth socket. Symptoms of pain at the surgical site and even pain to the ear may occur 2-3 days following surgery. Call the office if this occurs.
If you are involved in regular exercise, be aware that your normal nourishment intake is reduced. Exercise may weaken you. If you get light headed, stop exercising. It is recommended that you do not exercise for a minimum of 24 hours after your surgery procedure.
Surgical Instructions
Before Anesthesia
Dental Implant Surgery
Wisdom Tooth Removal
Exposure of an Impacted Tooth
Extractions
Multiple Extractions
Our Office
801 North Tustin Avenue, Suite 705
Santa Ana, CA
t Santa Ana Office Phone Number 714-835-8873
f 714-835-0402
Get Directions
Home
Patient Information
Procedures
Meet Us
Surgical Instructions
Referring Doctors
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Sitemap
Serving The Following California Cities:
Tustin CA • Newport Beach CA • Irvine CA • Anaheim Hills CA • Orange CA
We are located at:
801 North Tustin Avenue, Suite 705
Santa Ana, CA 92705
Tel: Santa Ana Office Phone Number 714-835-8873
Fax: 714-835-0402
Oral Surgery Website Design by PBHS © 2019
Scroll to Top
×
Orange County Oral Surgery and Implant Center
Having trouble viewing map? Click here.
Enter Your Starting Address: