Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs) in Men – Canterbury Late Night Pharmacy
Latest:
💰💰 Don’t Get Ripped Off at the Chemist 💊💊
My Girlfriend’s Eczema Won’t Go! How To Fix It Inside-Out
Gang of Cysts (Ganglion Cysts)
Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs) in Men
Hand Foot Mouth disease
Canterbury Late Night Pharmacy
Open till 1am 7 Days
BLOG
BOOK A DELIVERY
Contact Us
Left Sidebar
No Sidebar Content Centered
No Sidebar Full Width
OPEN TILL 1AM 7 DAYS
PRIVACY POLICY
Right Sidebar
Sample Page
Suburbs We Deliver To
CONTACT US
Sexual Health
Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs) in Men
May 3, 2018 canterburylatenightpharmacy	0 Comments bacteria, infections, kidney, prostate, urethra, urinary tract infections, UTIs
UTIs are a common occurence in women but what about men?
Young men are 30x less likely to suffer this problem but as men age past 50, the occurance rates catch up to that of women.
In fact a UTI in men is viewed at more seriously than if it were in women purely based on the physical differences between the two sexes. Men have a longer urethra (passage for urine), men also have greater distance between rectum and urethra (bacteria have less chance for cross-contamination). Thus a UTI in men is rare and when noticed, is treated with a higher level of suspicion for reasons I’ll get into shortly.
What are the symptoms of a UTI?
burning pain when urinating
frequency: running often to the toilet
urgency: sudden urges to pee
blood in urine (slightly pink)
UTIs are an umbrella term that covers infections stemming at different locations including: the urethra, bladder, kidneys, prostate. As such, the symptoms can vary and this helps doctors on their diagnosis.
Symptoms of a more serious infection:
dribbling urine (could be sign of blockages at prostate)
pain in pelvis
chills
side/flank/back pain
fever
nausea and vomitting
Bacteria have a knack for spreading. They will spread given the food and the path. Unfortunately for men and women, the path is through the urethra, into the bladder, across to the prostate and epididymis, and even up to the kidneys via the ureters. Have I lost you?!
Don’t fret. It’s rare that these things happen but here’s my rule of thumb: if you’ve got flank pain and fever, its probably spread to your kidneys. If you’ve got pain in the pelvis and dribbling at the urinal, it’s probably in the prostate. See your GP either way.
Word of warning: men get familiar with the “digital examination”. I’ve been there before lool. It’s when doc puts on his latex gloves with a snap, lubes up, then inserts his/her finger into your butt hole to feel for the prostate. Men as we age our prostate can enlarge putting undue pressure on the outflow of urine. Sometimes the prostate can become cancerous and this is one one for docs to keep a finger on the pulse. Ahem.
Treatments:
Antibiotics. Whilst this sounds straightforward enough, there are a spectrum of bacteria (sometimes even viruses) and so a urine and blood test are required to know what the culprit is before a doctor can prescribe anything.
Treatment is usually for 7 days.
Things your doctor ask you:
Do you have:
a history of diabetes?
nocturia (peeing at night)
prostate issues
urine sample
blood sample maybe
Know your own risks
Are you immobile? patients stuck in bed often find their bladders filling up and overtime the stagnant urine can foster bacteria.
Dehydrated? Drink one too many cups of coffee? Coffee has a diuretic effect causing build up of urine in the bladder too
Uncircumcised men can potentially harbour bacteria under their foreskins
Engage in unprotected anal sex? Use a condom
Aged 50+ and Male? Your prostate enlarges with time and can put undue pressure on your urethra causing backlog of urine
Finally Go when you feel the urge to go. Holding back on urinating puts you at risk too
Alright men, remember if you have ANY symptoms, get it checked!
xoxo
Vien
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
Email
WhatsApp
Print
More
LinkedIn
Reddit
Tumblr
Pinterest
Pocket
Telegram
Skype
Like this:
Like Loading...
← Hand Foot Mouth disease
Gang of Cysts (Ganglion Cysts) →
canterburylatenightpharmacy
the @smilingpharmacist learning about gardening and health tips to improve Australian lives =)
Leave a Reply	Cancel reply
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
https://youtu.be/hNMCL7zrm8g
Easter Opening Hours
573 Canterbury Road,
Campsie, NSW, 2194
(Opposite Canterbury Hospital)
(02)8068 7131
canterburylatenight@gmail.com
***
Easter Long Weekend
Fri 19th 7pm-1am
Sat 20th 7pm-1am
Sun 21st 7pm-1am
Mon 22nd 7pm-1am
***
Normally
Mon-Fri: 3pm-1am
Weekends: 5pm-1am
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
Copyright © 2019 Canterbury Late Night Pharmacy. All rights reserved.
Powered by Powered by WordPress.com.
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: