Can You Get Addicted to Weed? | WoahStork Learn
Science
Disorders
Cancer
Epilepsy
Anxiety
Depression
Obsessive Compulsive Disorder
Alzheimer’s Disease
Chron’s Disease
Migraines
Arthritis
ADD / ADHD
Clinical Endocannabinoid Deficiency
Strains
The Best Strains For…
Cannabinoids
Full Guide
THC
CBD
THCa
THCv
CBC
CBG
CBN
Terpenes
pinene
myrcene
limonene
Beta Carophyllene
linalool
Lifestyle
Legal
History
Say “Woah”
The Latest
[ February 21, 2019 ] 6 Tips You Should Follow to Pass a Drug Test	Lifestyle
[ January 30, 2019 ] Analgesic Effects From CBD Topicals + How To Make Your Own	Cannabis Topicals
[ January 28, 2019 ] 6 CBD Oil Hacks for Weight Loss That Burn Body Fat	Lifestyle
[ January 28, 2019 ] Why Vaping Cannabis Is A Dream Come True (And Saves You Money)	Lifestyle
[ January 15, 2019 ] What Temperature Should You Dab At?	Lifestyle
Search for:
HomeLifestyleCan You Get Addicted to Weed?
Can You Get Addicted to Weed?
June 25, 2017 Adam Townsend Lifestyle, Science, Featured
Can you get addicted to weed? The short answer is yes, but it’s complicated.
Cannabis use disorder is an established diagnosis in the psychiatry field’s diagnostic Bible, the DSM-V. It falls in the family of substance-related addictive disorders.
This fact alone doesn’t say much about the dangers of marijuana addiction, considering the same section of the DSM-V contains entries on substances from heroin and alcohol to caffeine and tobacco.
The broad consensus in the medical community is that, while it’s possible to become dependent on marijuana, the dangers of the drug are slight in comparison to the havoc that alcohol and opioids wreak in the lives of addicts.
“We don’t see cannabis overdoses,” said Nathaniel P. Morris, an emergency physician writing in Scientific American. “We don’t order scans for cannabis-related brain abscesses. We don’t treat cannabis-induced heart attacks. In medicine, marijuana use is often seen on par with tobacco or caffeine consumption—something we counsel patients about stopping or limiting, but nothing urgent to treat or immediately life-threatening.”
Many times, users will claim that marijuana is not so much addicting as it is habit forming; coming home and sparking a joint after a long day can become routine and the regularity can make outsiders feel as though a user has an addiction.
Still, marijuana dependency has been on the rise along with reduced restrictions and legalization in a number of states. According to the National Institute on Drug Abuse, 4 million Americans met the criteria for cannabis use disorder as outlined in the DSM-V, and 138,000 voluntarily sought help with their dependency in 2015.
How do I know if I’m addicted to weed?
The DSM-V states that a clinician can diagnose a person with cannabis use disorder if any two of the following events has happened to them in the past 12 months:
You ingested or smoked more weed that you meant to or for longer than you meant to
You want to stop or cut down on pot, but you can’t
You spend a ton of time trying to get weed, use weed or recover from being high
You get pot cravings
You let people down at work, school or home because you’re too high to meet obligations
You keep smoking pot even though it’s messing up your personal relationships
You give up social activities and hobbies in favor of getting high
You have a psychological problem you know is exacerbated by weed smoking, but you keep doing it anyway.
You develop a high tolerance and need more marijuana to get the same high
When you don’t smoke, you experience withdrawal symptoms.
The diagnostic manual is careful to note, however, that some of these symptoms can occur naturally in people using marijuana for medical purposes directed by a physician, and thus shouldn’t be used to diagnose someone in such a situation as being addicted to weed.
What are the symptoms of marijuana withdrawal?
According to the DSM-V, cannabis withdrawal symptoms start within one to three days after you quit marijuana and last roughly two weeks. Sleep problems that can last as long as a month.
Symptoms of cannabis withdrawal include:
Irritability,
Anxiety,
Insomnia and disturbing dreams,
Decreased appetite or weight loss,
Restlessness,
Depressed mood,
Abdominal pain,
Fever,
Chills,
Headache, or
Tremors.
Where can I get help to stop smoking weed?
If you feel that you are indeed addicted to weed and want to rid yourself of a dependency on marijuana, contacting the non-profit Marijuana Anonymous may be a good place to start. MA is a 12-step program in the tradition of Alcoholics Anonymous and Narcotics Anonymous.
Some controversy has surrounded the effectiveness of 12-step programs in recent years, but many former drug and alcohol users are firm supporters of the method. The organization can also put you in touch with fellow users trying to give up weed and clinicians who can help you.
There are no medications approved to help ease the withdrawal from marijuana, but a doctor may prescribe a sleep aid, according to the National Institute on Drug Abuse
The Institute outlines three psychotherapy treatments that can help you kick your weed habit:
Cognitive behavioral therapy: This method helps you retrain your thinking and behavior with strategies to avoid using marijuana.
Contingency management: This requires careful monitoring by a clinician to try to remove positive associations with the drug.
Motivational enhancement therapy: This approach focuses on getting the marijuana user motivated to use his or her own “internal resources” to focus on changing behavior.
Given that cannabis can be quite habit forming, many users that feel they are addicted to weed should consider toking on some high-CBD strains. CBD itself will not get you high. However, the act of smoking might be enough to qualm some of the cravings. Furthermore, CBD has been shown to help repair some of the damage that can come about from chronic cannabis use as well as a slew of other medical benefits including depression and epilepsy. Thus, it’s a great go-to for when you are taking a break.
About Adam Townsend	42 Articles
Adam Maxwell Townsend has been a journalist for 15 years. His reporting has covered science, technology and medicine. Currently, he edits and writes medical and pharmaceutical articles for consumer websites, including WoahStork.
Previous
81 Blunts : The Snoop Dogg Challenge
Next
Does Marijuana Cause Cyclic Vomiting Syndrome?
Be the first to comment
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published.
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Follow Us…
Instagram
Twitter
Facebook
YouTube
Live Life To The Highest
Learn More…
The Best Strains For...
The Most Energetic Strains of Cannabis
March 8, 2016
Can cannabis give you energy? Most people conceptualize cannabis as a substance that elicits a sense of relaxation in its users. Thoughts of “stoners” usually conjure up images of couch-locked nights filled with cartoons and pizza. However, while classically grouped as a [Read More…]
The Best Strains For...
The Best Strains of Cannabis for Partying
March 28, 2016
Is cannabis good for partying? Most people probably associate cannabis with a night in. Grab some munchies, cozy up on the couch, and browse Netflix. Users prescribed medical marijuana definitely notice the recreational effect but don’t often consider using cannabis for partying, [Read More…]
The Best Strains For...
The Top 10 Strains of Cannabis for Beginners
February 25, 2016
[Top 10 Strains of Cannabis for Beginners] With the medical and recreational marijuana industry coming to fruition, the strain options available to cannabis users are truly exploding! While this fills connoisseurs with a near endless stream of excitement, the array of choices [Read More…]
Join Us…
Enter your email. No spam. No "government lists". Just cannabis and knowledge.
Get Your MMJ Rec Online