Can HIV Be Transmitted Through Vaginal Fluid - The Body
Skip to main content
Skip page links.
TOPICS IN HIV/AIDS
Ask The Experts
Search
Search
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Newsletters
Search
Search
THEBODY.COM
What's New Newsletters Android/iPhone App My Health Tracker Personal Reminder Service HIV Care Professionals The Body en Espanol ASOFinder.com
Ask The Experts
TOPICS IN HIV/AIDS
Treatment
HIV Medications
Hepatitis C Coinfection
GI Issues
Other Side Effects & Coinfections
Drug Resistance
Switching & Stopping Treatment
Pediatric HIV Treatment
Prevention
HIV/AIDS Basics
HIV Prevention
HIV Testing
Safer Sex
Other Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Myths About HIV/AIDS
History of the AIDS Epidemic
Immune System Basics
Helping Friends With HIV/AIDS
Living With HIV
Getting Good Care
Healthy Living With HIV
Arts, Media & HIV/AIDS
Diet, Nutrition & HIV/AIDS
HIV Stigma
Relationships, Sexuality & HIV/AIDS
Vitamins, Minerals & Supplements
HIV and Financial Issues
HIV and Legal Issues
Personal Stories
HIV Blog Central
Stories About Men
Stories About Women
Stories About Transgender People
Stories About Young People
Stories About Older People
Stories About Families and Loved Ones
RESOURCE CENTERS
African Americans
Aging
Gay Men
Latinos
Women
Newly Diagnosed
Starting Treatment
Keeping Up With Your HIV Meds
Can HIV Be Transmitted Through Vaginal Fluid
Here's a taste of what TheBody.com has to offer on this topic:
Ask the Experts
Lesbians, Vaginal Secretions and HIV Risk
Greetings Dr. Bob,I have yet to come across a post made by a lesbian to this board, so here's my contribution. On December 27, 2002, I had contact with a woman (ok, a stripper!) of unknown HIV status. While I did use my finger to explore her...
Response from Robert J. Frascino, M.D.
The Robert James Frascino AIDS Foundation
...some interest; although, the answer is really rather straightforward. Your risk of HIV transmission from the finger play, and a vaginal fluid coated nipple nosh, is essentially nonexistent. Even a "closet hypochondriac" can't contract HIV this... Read more »
Is there any risk?
This question may sound a bit strange, but can HIV be transmitted from vaginal fluid even though... Read more »
Response from Ryan M. Kull, C.S.W »
Vaginal secretions and HIV
Recently I visited an Asian Massage Parlor and inserted my fingers in a masseues vagina. I went... Read more »
Response from Robert J. Frascino, M.D. »
Go to Ask the Experts »
Articles
Myths About HIV
...tears, sweat, mosquitoes, pools, or casual contact." The reality: HIV can only be transmitted through infected blood, semen, vaginal fluids, and breast milk. The most common ways for HIV to be transmitted are through unprotected sexual... Read more »
Presence of Lactobacillus May Reduce HIV Concentration in Vaginal Fluid
...occurs naturally in the vaginal flora of many women (and is similar to a bacteria found in yogurt), appears to reduce vaginal HIV viral load. Jane Hitti: We were interested to see how healthy vaginal bacteria, as well as abnormal vaginal... Read more »
HIV Transmission
... Which body fluids transmit HIV? These body fluids have been shown to contain high concentrations of HIV: blood semen vaginal fluid breast milk other body fluids containing blood The following are additional body fluids that may... Read more »
HIV Transmission
...spread through the following body fluids: Blood (including menstrual blood) Semen and other male sexual fluids ("pre-cum") Vaginal fluids Breast milk HIV is not spread through these body fluids: Sweat Tears Saliva (spit) The... Read more »
Resource Centers
African Americans
Aging
Gay Men
Keeping Up With Your Meds
Latinos
Newly Diagnosed
Starting Treatment
Women
Guides for People With HIV
View All of Our Guides >>
© 2015 Remedy Health Media, LLC All Rights Reserved
Facebook
Twitter
Newsletters
The Body
About The Body
Contact The Body
Site Policies
Content Providers
Advertise With Us
Site Map
Remedy Health Media
About Remedy Health Media
Contact Remedy Health Media
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
The Body is a service of Remedy Health Media, LLC, 750 3rd Avenue, 6th Floor, New York, NY 10017. The Body and its logos are trademarks of Remedy Health Media, LLC, and its subsidiaries, which owns the copyright of The Body's homepage, topic pages, page designs and HTML code. General Disclaimer: The Body is designed for educational purposes only and is not engaged in rendering medical advice or professional services. The information provided through The Body should not be used for diagnosing or treating a health problem or a disease. It is not a substitute for professional care. If you have or suspect you may have a health problem, consult your health care provider.