Cancer risk and family history - Macmillan Cancer Support
Close
Find information, articles and activities relevant to you.
I've just been diagnosed
I'm having treatment
I've finished treatment
Older people
Teens and young adults
Children's cancer
Someone I know has cancer
I'm looking after someone with cancer
Cancer and other conditions
Cancer and pregnancy
Home
How can we help you today?
Online Community
Online Community
Login My Macmillan
Create Account
Create Account
Information and support
Get involved
In your area
About us
Search
Search
Go
Donate
Cancer type: General information
Cancer type search
Submit
Back
<
>
General information
Anal cancer
Bile duct cancer (cholangiocarcinoma)
Bladder cancer
Blood cancers
Bone cancer
Bone cancer, secondary
Bowel cancer
Brain tumours
Brain tumours, secondary
Breast cancer
Breast cancer, secondary
Cancer of unknown primary (CUP)
Cervical cancer
Children's cancer
Colon and rectal (colorectal)
Eye cancer (ocular melanoma)
Fallopian tube cancer
Gall bladder cancer
Head and neck cancers
Kaposi's sarcoma
Kidney cancer (renal cancer)
Larynx cancer
Leukaemia
Liver cancer, primary
Liver cancer, secondary
Lung cancer
Lung cancer, secondary
Lymph node cancer, secondary
Lymphoma
Melanoma
Mesothelioma
Multiple endocrine neoplasia 1 (MEN1)
Multiple endocrine neoplasia 2 (MEN2)
Myeloma
Neuroendocrine tumours (NETs)
Oesophageal (gullet) cancer
Ovarian cancer
Pancreatic cancer
Parathyroid gland tumours
Penis cancer
Peritoneal cancer, primary
Prostate cancer
Pseudomyxoma peritonei (PMP)
Skin cancer (non-melanoma)
Soft tissue sarcomas
Spinal cord tumours
Stomach cancer
Testicular cancer
Thymus cancer (thymoma & thymic carcinoma)
Thyroid cancer
Trachea (windpipe) cancer
Uterus
Vagina cancer
Vulva cancer
Womb (endometrial) cancer
Not found what you're looking for?
If you're struggling to find what you need, call our Support line on 0808 808 0000 (Monday to Friday, 9am-8pm)
More ways to contact us
Understanding
Understanding overview
What is cancer?
Cancer and cell types
Signs and symptoms of cancer
Getting diagnosed
How is cancer treated?
Why do cancers come back?
Diagnosing
Diagnosing overview
How cancers are diagnosed
Causes and risk factors
Organising
Organising overview
Your finances
Benefits and other financial support
Practical issues before and after treatment
Work and cancer
Travel and holidays
Planning for the future with advanced cancer
Make money one less worry
Treating
Treating overview
Decisions about treatment
Surgery
Chemotherapy
Radiotherapy
Hormonal therapies
Targeted therapies
Stem cell and bone marrow transplants
Supportive and other treatments
Clinical trials
Life after cancer treatment
Coping
Coping overview
Getting support
Your emotions
Maintaining a healthy lifestyle
Side effects and symptoms
Changes to appearance and body image
Relationships and sex
Talking about cancer
Advanced cancer
At the end of life
Complementary therapies
Resources
Resources overview
Publications
Other languages and formats
Cancer information videos
Research and evidence
Stories
Tools and toolkits
Information for teachers and schools
Training
Other sources of support
More
Home ›
Information and support ›
Diagnosing ›
Causes and risk factors ›
Family history and genetics ›
Cancer risk and family history
Cancer risk and family history
Need to talk? 0808 808 00 00 7 days a week, 8am-8pm Call us free*
Everyone has some risk of getting cancer. Often, there won’t be a clear cause, but there may be risk factors. These are often related to lifestyle, such as smoking or being overweight. Getting older is the biggest risk factor for most people.
People are sometimes worried that their family history of cancer means they are at higher risk. But only a small number of cancers are associated with a family history.
If you are concerned about your risk of cancer, or your family history, talk to your GP.
Your GP or a genetics specialist may assess your risk of getting certain cancers. You will be asked questions about your family history of cancer.
Based on your answers, they may assess your risk of getting a certain cancer as:
average risk (population risk)
moderate risk (raised risk)
high risk.
Reviewed: 31 Aug 2015 Next review: 2018
How we write our information and the sources we use
Show more
What is the risk of getting cancer?
When cancer may be linked to an inherited gene
Assessing your risk of cancer
When cancer may run in a family
What is the risk of getting cancer?
More than 1 in 3 people in the UK will get cancer during their lives. Everyone has a certain risk of developing cancer. A combination of genes, lifestyle and environment can affect this risk.
Most of the time we don’t know exactly what causes a particular cancer. But we do know some of the risk factors for that cancer. Risk factors are things that can make you more likely to develop cancer. They include being older, smoking and being overweight.
Having a particular risk factor doesn’t mean you will definitely get cancer. Some risk factors only slightly increase the risk of developing cancer.
Usually, cancer is due to a combination of several risk factors. But some risk factors are more likely to cause cancer than others. Smoking is a good example of this. Smoking will greatly increase your risk of getting lung cancer. About 9 out of 10 people who develop lung cancer are smokers. But not everyone who smokes will develop lung cancer.
For most people, increasing age is the biggest risk factor for developing cancer. In general, people over 65 are more likely to develop cancer than younger people (those under 50).
Cancer is very common and most of us have relatives who have had cancer. People often worry that a history of cancer in their family greatly increases their risk of developing it. But fewer than 1 in 10 cancers are associated with a strong family history of cancer.
Back to contents
You might also like to:
Join Macmillan's Online Community
When cancer may be linked to an inherited gene
Most cancers aren’t caused by inherited cancer genes. If only one or two older relatives have had cancer, your family is not likely to have a cancer gene.
If you think cancer might run in your family, talk to your GP. They will ask you about any close blood relatives who have had cancer. People you are related to by marriage are not blood relatives. Close relatives are parents, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, aunts, uncles and grandparents.
Back to contents
Assessing your risk of cancer
This means estimating your risk of getting certain cancers that may run in your family.
This happens at the genetics clinic when you meet the genetics specialist. Your GP may also do this when deciding whether to refer you to a genetics clinic.
You will be asked:
how many of your relatives have had cancer
what age they were when they got cancer
how many relatives have not had cancer
whether there have been any rare cancers in your family
whether there have been certain combinations of cancers in your family – for example breast and ovarian cancer or bowel and womb cancer
your age.
Based on this information they may assess your risk of getting a certain cancer as one of the following:
Average risk (population risk) – Your risk is the same as, or close to, that of people without a family history of the cancer. You’re more likely not to get the cancer than to get it.
Moderate risk (raised risk) – Your risk is higher than average. But it’s not likely there is an inherited cancer gene in the family. You are more likely not to get the cancer than to get it.
High risk – You have a high risk of developing the cancer in your lifetime. But it doesn’t mean you’ll definitely get it. There may be an inherited cancer gene in your family.
Knowing your cancer risk can help you decide what to do to reduce it. This might include treatments to prevent cancer and screening to find it early.
Back to contents
When cancer may run in a family
It’s possible your family may have an inherited cancer gene if:
two or more close blood relatives on the same side of the family had the same type of cancer
members of your family have had cancer at a young age (under 50)
certain cancers have occurred on the same side of the family
a close relative has had more than one primary cancer, which means that they have had cancer twice, but the second cancer was a new cancer and not the first cancer spreading to another part of the body
you have a family history of cancer and have Polish, or Ashkenazi Jewish (Eastern European Jewish) ancestry – certain inherited cancer genes are more common than in the general population.
Back to contents
Back to Family history and genetics
Cancer and genes
Gene changes (mutations) in a cell may mean the cell stops working normally. This can eventually cause cancer to develop.
If you are worried about cancer in your family
Your GP can assess your risk of cancer using information about cancer in your family.
You might also be interested in
Booklets and advice about genetics
Related
Information can help if you're worried about cancer in your family. Find out about risk, genetic testing and what you can do.
be.Macmillan
Talk about genetics
Related
Family history and genetics can be complicated. If you'd like to talk it through together we're here to help. Talk to us.
Talking to us
Donate
Get involved
We want to make sure we're there when you're diagnosed, through treatment, and beyond. Because life with cancer is still life, and we'll help you live it.
Donate
In your area
Local area
What's happening near you? Find out about support groups, where to get information and how to get involved with Macmillan where you are.
In your area
Latest from the Online Community
Blog post
Mental health and coping with your emotions
Read about ways in which our Community users managed their emotions following their diagnosis. They talk about yoga, meditation and counselling.
Featured group
Emotional issues
Cancer can be emotionally draining, but sharing your feelings can help you and others in your situation. Talk about it here.
Latest posts in Emotional issues
Connerf1234 replied to Wife in hospital with blood cancer
Hi Anthony just came along your post, how are things going ? M husband was also diagnosed high risk MDS October 2018.
In Emotional issues
Aimee_es joined the group Emotional issues.
Safe payments by:
Donate
About this site
Cookies
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Accessibility
Sitemap
Make a donation
Leave feedback
Macmillan sites
be.Macmillan
Community
Macmillan Shop
Learn Zone
Careers
Right there with you
We’re here to provide physical, financial and emotional support. So whatever cancer throws your way, we’re right there with you. Contact us.
Follow us
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Watch us on Youtube
Follow us on Pinterest
© Macmillan Cancer Support 2019
© Macmillan Cancer Support, registered charity in England and Wales (261017), Scotland (SC039907) and the Isle of Man (604). Also operating in Northern Ireland. A company limited by guarantee, registered in England and Wales company number 2400969. Isle of Man company number 4694F. Registered office: 89 Albert Embankment, London SE1 7UQ. VAT no: 668265007
Share
Click for previous items
Macmillan Cancer Support Facebook share
Macmillan Cancer Support Twitter share
Pinterest
Print this page
Export this page as a PDF
Bookmark this page
Click for next items
Top
Top
Thanks
We rely on a number of sources to gather evidence for our information. If you’d like further information on the sources we use, please feel free to contact us on: bookletfeedback@macmillan.org.uk
All our information is reviewed by cancer or other relevant professionals to ensure that it’s accurate and reflects the best evidence available. We thank all those people who have provided expert review for the information on this page.
Our information is also reviewed by people affected by cancer to ensure it is as relevant and accessible as possible. Thank you to all those people who reviewed what you're reading and have helped our information to develop.
You could help us too when you join our Cancer Voices Network – find out more at: http://www.macmillan.org.uk/cancervoices
Reviewed: 31 Aug 2015 Next review: 2018
How we write our information and the sources we use
Need to talk? Call us free* 0808 808 00 00 7 days a week, 8am-8pm
© Macmillan Cancer Support 2019
© Macmillan Cancer Support, registered charity in England and Wales (261017), Scotland (SC039907) and the Isle of Man (604). Also operating in Northern Ireland. A company limited by guarantee, registered in England and Wales company number 2400969. Isle of Man company number 4694F. Registered office: 89 Albert Embankment, London SE1 7UQ. VAT no: 668265007
We make every effort to ensure that the information we provide is accurate and up-to-date but it should not be relied upon as a substitute for specialist professional advice tailored to your situation. So far as is permitted by law, Macmillan does not accept liability in relation to the use of any information contained in this publication or third party information or websites included or referred to in it.
<% if (results.length !== 0) { if (parentNodes > 0) { %>
Top matches
<% if (childNodes > 0 || grandChildNodes > 0) { %>
More cancer types:
<% if (item.depthLevel > 1 && !item.isSynonymMatch) { %>
<% if (synonymNodes > 0) { %>
See also
()
We're sorry, we don't have any matches for that.
Browse all cancer types
Search the whole site for
Not found what you're looking for?
If you're struggling to find what you need, call our Support line on 0808 808 0000 (Monday to Friday, 9am-8pm)
More ways to contact us
<% if (item.brands.length > 0) { %> ( ® , )
<% if (item.brands.length > 0) { %> ( ® , )
® (brand name for )
<% if (item.brands.length > 0) { %> ( ® , ) (also known as )
No matches
(also known as )
No matches
Can't find what you were looking for?
Browse A-Z list