Device May Help Drinkers Avoid Alcohol Tainted With Deadly Chemicals
Google Tag Manager
Wed, Apr 24, 2019
Sign In Subscribe
Search form
Search
U.S.
World
Business
Tech & Science
Culture
Sports
Health
Opinion
Ndelible
Tech & Science
Device May Help Drinkers Avoid Alcohol Tainted With Deadly Chemicals
By Janissa Delzo On 9/21/17 at 6:05 PM EDT
A variety of liquor is seen at the Pueblo Bonito Rose resort hotel on Medano Beach, on May 12, 2012, in Cabo San Lucas, Baja California, Mexico. A device can detect methanol before the bottle of liquor is opened. Paul J. Richards/AFP/Getty Images
Share
Tech & Science Alcohol
The mysterious death of a 20-year-old American tourist in Mexico brought light to the devastating effects of consuming tainted alcohol. The case was one of many that led the U.S. State Department to caution travelers about the harms of fake booze. The tricky part of telling if your vacation cocktail is contaminated is that it typically tastes no different than untainted versions. For those concerned, there's a device that may be able to detect fake spirits before the bottle is even opened.
The handheld device (as seen in the video below), uses a laser to shine through materials such as colored glass and opaque plastic. Within one minute, information is readily available about the contents of the bottle. Interestingly enough, the instrument was not initially designed to be used for the food and drink market. In fact, you may have even seen a SORS (spatially offset Raman spectroscopy) device before.
“Although you have not seen them in American airports yet, there are many SORS devices deployed through European airports which currently check for explosives” within plastic and glass bottles, lead researcher Roy Goodacre, a professor at the University of Manchester, tells Newsweek via e-mail.
Fake alcohol—including counterfeit, contraband, illicit and surrogate products—pose many public health challenges and add up to substantial revenue losses for governments, Robert Tobiassen, a former chief counsel for the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, who was not involved in the research, tells Newsweek via e-mail.
"Combating these products requires a multi-tool strategy. Science-based tools like SORS are an important part of this strategy along with other tools such as effective law enforcement to prevent these products from being manufactured or sold," Tobiassen says.
Goodacre and his colleagues used the gadget to analyze 141 brands of Scotch whisky, rum, gin and vodka in closed glass bottles. The device was successful in detecting flavorings, methanol and other compounds that are often added to counterfeit products. Methanol—an alcohol used as an antifreeze and to fuel racing cars—is extremely poisonous and if ingested can cause dizziness, abdominal pain, and in serious cases blindness, seizures and ultimately death.
“This new approach can detect methanol at levels of only 0.025 percent, which is well below the maximum human tolerance threshold of 2 percent methanol in a 40 percent spirit drink,” Goodacre says.
Methanol poisoning is a worldwide problem and “the reporting of it seems to be on the increase,” he noted. Although the liquid can be absorbed through skin or eye contact, methanol poisonings usually occur as a result of drinking contaminated beverages, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
The research team, whose findings are published in the journal Nature, envision the device being used by regulatory bodies, but in the future it may be on the market for personal use.
“You can imagine that with further development and miniaturization, then consumers themselves could have a device that they can also check whether they have been served bootleg alcohol in a bar or club,” Goodacre says.
Request Reprint, Submit Correction or view Editorial Guidelines
Latest Slideshows
Beautiful Bonnets Sashay Down Fifth Avenue in the New York City Easter Parade
'The Shining,' 'Beetlejuice,' 'Lost Boys' Come to Life in New Interactive Horror Exhibit
Top Ten Countries For Ethical Travelers
Emma Watson: Her Amazing Style Evolution
Sign up for our Newsletter
Sign up
Update your preferences »
Related Stories
Mexico Seizes 10,000 Gallons of Illegal Alcohol
Most Americans Would Quit Drinking to Impeach Trump
Mean Drunk? Personality Study Says Maybe Not
Latest in Alcohol
Young People Who Binge Drink Could Raise Risk of Stroke
Scientific Fact or Myth? 25 Hangover Cures, Explained
Drinking as a Teen 'Could Affect the Metabolism, Brain'
Binge-drinking 'Disturbs Gene That Regulates Sleep'
Drinking a Little Alcohol Protects the Heart: Study
More in Tech & Science
How to Enable Google Chrome's New Dark Mode
‘Minecraft’ Village and Pillage Update 1.14 Patch Notes
Burials Reveal Settlements in Bolivia 10,000 Years Ago
Endangered Green Sea Turtle Populations Are Recovering
Recommended Slideshows
11
10 Ways To Make Your Next Vacation Stress-Free
16
15 Ways to Make Home Cooking Easier Than Ever
Latest News
School Administrator Punished For Marking Child's Head
Public Defender Requests to Drop Parkland Shooting Case
Fans Protest As Andi Mack Is Canceled By Disney Channel
Jeopardy Champ James Holzhauer Wins Another $73,000
Clinton: Mueller Report is an Impeachment 'Road Map'
CA Driver Charged With 8 Counts Of Attempted Murder
Where Is ‘My 600-Lb. Life’ Subject Cillas Givens Now?
Today’s Powerball Numbers, Live Results For 04/24/19
Editor's Pick
U.S.
Parkland Parent Blasts Senators Who Want Teachers Armed
“What [senators] voted for yesterday is to introduce guns into the everyday reality of school. It’s going to increase the risk of gunfire and casualty in schools, not decrease it,” Fred Guttenberg told Newsweek.
U.S.
What Age Should Students Start Paying Their Own Loans?
The survey found those in higher income households had a different opinion than those in lower-income households.
U.S.
Trump ‘Thinks He’s a Dictator,’ CNN Guest Says
David Cay Johnston told CNN’s Chris Cuomo that the Trump administration did not believe that Congress had an oversight function.
U.S.
Buttigieg Says He Doesn’t Think Bernie Sanders Can Win
Pete Buttigieg has drawn significant national attention over the past few days because of comments he has made about one of his chief 2020 rivals.
© 2019 Newsweek
About Us
Corrections
Contact Us
Editorial Guidelines
Advertise
Copyright
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Terms of Sale
Archive
Announcements
Consent preferences
Editions:
U.S. Edition
Middle East
日本
한국
Pakistan
Polska
România