Type 2 Diabetes: Reduce this popular beverage to relieve the disease – NewsBeezer
NewsBeezer Be Upto Date With Latest News
Home
US
Business
Entertainment
Health
Science
Sports
Technology
World
About
Terms
DMCA
About
Contact
قالب وردپرس درنا توس
Breaking News
The US housing market is nearing the two-year low; lets in weakly
Yankees no longer use Kate Smith shots while investigating Raci
Mueller Report: Subpoena for un-revised version
The recall of Losartan is being expanded for the fourth time, targeting dozens more products
BlackBerry Messenger shuts down in May
Lyra McKee Murdered: 29-year-old journalist shot dead in Northern Ireland today
Facebook's automatic captions for a recent startup video are hilariously bad
The world's largest investor says a $ 3.8 trillion market faces growing climate-change risk
Kate Smith: Yankees no longer use the singer recordings of "God Bless America" ​​while investigating racism
Müller report ignites new Dem fight for impeachment
Home / Health / Type 2 Diabetes: Reduce this popular beverage to relieve the disease
Type 2 Diabetes: Reduce this popular beverage to relieve the disease
December 23, 2018	Health 3 Views
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Google +
LinkedIn
Pinterest
Type 2 diabetes is the most common type of diabetes in the UK and is a condition in which too much sugar is present in the blood.
People with this condition can take medicines to fight diabetes, but it is also important to ensure a healthy lifestyle and a balanced diet.
It is important to control diabetes because if left untreated it can lead to health complications involving the heart, nerves, feet, eyes and kidneys.
Contrary to what many people think, having diabetes does not mean you can not consume sugar at all, but it's important to limit it.
According to diabetes.co.uk, being a popular drink that may have people with this condition I would like to avoid fruit juice.
Although fruit is an integral part of a balanced diet and fruit juice can contribute to your daily enjoyment, it is also rich in sugar.
"Fruit juice contains a large amount of sugar, which raises blood sugar very quickly," said diabetes.co. uk.
"Therefore, it is usually best for people with diabetes not to drink fruit juice."
Adults in the UK are advised to consume no more than 30 g of sugar a day, and half a pint of fruit juice contains more than that.
Once fruit is mixed into juice, much of the fiber in the fruit is lost, removing an important component of a balanced diet.
In addition, fruit juice contains more calories than the entire fruit. This can also increase the risk of diabetes-related complications.
A 250 ml glass of unsweetened orange juice usually contains about 1
00 calories versus 60 calories in a true orange.
Health experts therefore recommend eating the whole fruit juice.
According to diabetes.co.uk, recent research indicates that regular consumption of fruit juice may primarily increase the risk of type 2 diabetes.
This is because fructose – the sugar that occurs in fruits juice – can lead to liver problems if too much is consumed.
If the liver is overwhelmed with fructose, it can lead to type 2 diabetes and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.
On the glycemic index orange juice falls on a scale of 100 between 66 and 76, making it a high GI beverage.
The glycemic index is used to reflect the effects of certain foods on blood sugar levels.
"GI foods and drinks are best avoided by people with diabetes under most circumstances," said diabetes.co.uk.
Fruit juice is a good source of nutrients and vitamins, but doctors recommend these from all over To obtain fruits or vegetables.
Source link
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Google +
LinkedIn
Pinterest
Related Articles
The recall of Losartan is being expanded for the fourth time, targeting dozens more products
April 19, 2019
Seattle activist alleges false information campaign around homelessness
April 19, 2019
Williamsburg: How a measles outbreak splits families in this Orthodox Jewish community
April 19, 2019
Popular Posts
Forza Horizon 4 Best Cars Guide: The fastest cars for every season and PvP
October 3, 2018	7,384
Tens of thousands are scheduled to participate in our lives in March
March 24, 2018	2,962
What are the Wakandan soldiers singing in new recordings?
April 7, 2018	1,928
Wake Up Call: Elon Musk's Secret Media Project | news
March 14, 2018	1,770
What You Should Know About Jayme Coss, The Parents' Death
October 17, 2018	1,267
Powered by newsbeezer.com | Designed by NewsBeezer
© Copyright 2019, All Rights Reserved