WD-40 LEARN SOMETHING EVERY DAY, I JUST DID! | A Conservative View
About
A Conservative View
Praying that Donald Trump can save Americas freedoms!
19 Nov 2013
Leave a Comment
WD-40 LEARN SOMETHING EVERY DAY, I JUST DID!
My good friend, Bob McGraw shared this article and it fulfilled my pledge to learn something every day. I have used this product for many years without knowing its full potential and I am posting this to share it with you. I have no connection to the makers of this product but I plan to increase its use for things I never dreamed it can help with. This is not an endorsement or suggestion that anyone try the uses listed but I intend to myself. I have no idea who wrote the opening paragraphs. C Brewer
WD-40 Story
Before you read this, do know what is the main ingredient of WD-40?
WD-40 ~ Example
I had a neighbor who bought a new pickup. I got up very early one Sunday morning and saw that someone had spray painted red all around the sides of this beige truck (for some unknown reason).
I went over, woke him up, and told him the bad news.
He was very upset and was trying to figure out what to do, probably nothing until Monday morning, since nothing was open.
Another neighbor came out and told him to get his WD-40 and clean it off. It removed the unwanted paint beautifully and did not harm his paint job that was on the truck. I was impressed!
WD-40 who knew?
“Water Displacement #40”. The product began from a search for a rust preventative solvent and degreaser to protect missile parts. WD-40 was created in 1953, by three technicians at the San Diego Rocket Chemical Company. Its name comes from the project that was to find a ‘Water Displacement’ Compound. They were finally successful for a formulation, with their fortieth attempt, thus WD-40. The ‘Convair Company’ bought it in bulk to protect their atlas missile parts. Ken East (one of the original founders) says there is nothing in WD-40 that would hurt you.
WD-40 Uses:
1. Protects silver from tarnishing.
2. Removes road tar and grime from cars.
3. Cleans and lubricates guitar strings.
4. Gives floor that ‘just-waxed’ sheen without making them slippery.
5. Keeps the flies off of Cows, Horses, and other Farm Critters, as well. (Ya gotta love this one!!!)
6. Restores and cleans chalkboards.
7. Removes lipstick stains.
8. Loosens stubborn zippers.
9. Untangles jewelry chains.
10. Removes stains from stainless steel sinks.
11. Removes dirt and grime from the barbecue grill.
12. Keeps ceramic / terracotta garden pots from oxidizing.
13. Removes tomato stains from clothing.
14. Keeps glass shower doors free of water spots.
15. Camouflages scratches in ceramic and marble floors.
16. Keeps scissors working smoothly.
17. Lubricates noisy door hinges on both home and vehicles doors.
18. It removes that nasty tar and scuff marks from the kitchen flooring.
It doesn’t seem to harm the finish and you won’t have to scrub nearly as hard to get them off.
Just remember to open some windows if you have a lot of marks.
19. Remove those nasty Bug guts that will eat away the finish on your car if not removed quickly!
20. Gives a children’s playground gym slide a shine for a super-fast slide.
21. Lubricates gearshift and mower deck lever for ease of handling on riding mowers…
22. Rids kids rocking chair and swings of squeaky noises.
23. Lubricates tracks in sticking home windows and makes them easier to open.
24. Spraying an umbrella stem makes it easier to open and close.
25. Restores and cleans padded leather dashboards in vehicles, as well as vinyl bumpers.
26. Restores and cleans roof racks on vehicles.
27. Lubricates and stops squeaks in electric fans.
28. Lubricates wheel sprockets on tricycles, wagons, and bicycles for easy handling.
29. Lubricates fan belts on washers and dryers and keeps them running smoothly.
30. Keeps rust from forming on saws and saw blades, and other tools.
31. Removes grease splatters from stovetops.
32. Keeps bathroom mirror from fogging.
33. Lubricates prosthetic limbs.
34. Keeps pigeons off the balcony (they hate the smell).
35. Removes all traces of duct tape.
36. Folks even spray it on their arms, hands, and knees to relieve arthritis pain.
37. Florida’s favorite use is: ‘cleans and removes love bugs from grills and bumpers.’
38. The favorite use in the state of New York, it protects the Statue of Liberty from the elements.
39. WD-40 attracts fish. Spray a little on live bait or lures and you will be catching the big one in no time. Also, it’s a lot cheaper than the chemical attractants that are made for just that purpose. Keep in mind though, using some chemical laced baits or lures for fishing are not allowed in some states.
40. Use it for fire ant bites. It takes the sting away immediately and stops the itch.
41. It is great for removing crayon from walls. Spray it on the marks and wipe with a clean rag.
42. Also, if you’ve discovered that your teenage daughter has washed and dried a tube of lipstick with a load of laundry, saturate the lipstick spots with WD-40 and rewash. Presto! The lipstick is gone!
43. If you spray it inside a wet distributor cap, it will displace the moisture, allowing the engine to start.
As for that Basic, Main Ingredient…….Well…. its FISH OIL….Now it’s time for you to share this too!!
Share this:
Email
Facebook
Print
Twitter
LinkedIn
Reddit
Like this:
Like Loading...
Posted by cb75948 in Uncategorized and tagged Uncategorized
Single Post Navigation
← Older Entry
Newer Entry →
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (Address never made public)
Name
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
Search
Search for:
Recent Posts
CHILDREN OF THE GREATEST GENERATION.﻿
﻿IF YOU NEVER MET AN ANGEL, MEET MINE – Part Two
IF YOU NEVER MET AN ANGEL, MEET MINE. ﻿
QUALITY- A PROFESSION ELIMINATING ITSELF?
THE CHRISTMAS PAGEANT
WHO REALLY CARES???
“THE MOST EVIL HUMAN ON EARTH”
CONUNDRUMS…
ACTORS AND INTELLIGENCE!
FREEDOM IS NOT ALWAYS FREE!
Categories
"Courting Disaster"
America
conspiracy
Family
misc
NSA
patriotic
Porter Goss
Ron Jenkins
the "Bojinka plot"
The Kelly File
xenophobic
Blogroll
"The Daily Post"
brietbart.com
cal thomas.com
http://kyleolson.org
http://www.dailynewsandmore
http://www.texasisd.com/
larryelder.com
michelle malkin.com
My Previous Blog
tadpole's outdoor blog
townhall.com
walter williams.com
Blog Stats
82,654 hits
Email Subscription
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 620 other followers
Sign me up!
Blog at WordPress.com.
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: