How did AIDS come about? Where was it originally from? – How to be Health
Skip to content
How to be Health
Food, disease, health, fitness, lifestyle, We're focused on staying healthy.
Menu
Home
disease
bone
eyes
teeth
visceral
food
drink
life
Healthy Recipes
hair
fitness
lose weight
health
baby
skin
medical
Traditional Chinese medicine
Mental health
About and connection
disease, health
How did AIDS come about? Where was it originally from?
Posted by howtobehealth.net on May 13, 2018
How did AIDS come about?
There are gp120 and gp41 glycoproteins embedded in the lipoproteins of HIV (HIV) in vitro, and the CD4 glycoproteins on the surface of gp120 and lymphocytes have affinity, which can be combined with specificity. Gp41 mediated viral envelope fusion with host cell membrane. As a result, HIV can selectively invade CD4+ lymphocytes after reaching the blood through the skin mucosa or other pathways, such as blood.
After HIV invades CD4 + lymphocytes, in under the action of reverse transcriptase virus, synthesis of DNA, and integrated into the host cell’s chromosomes, integration can be viral DNA replication in a cell, form a complete virus the body to release the cells, cell death, infect new cells, can also be a latent infection status, into the daughter cells with cell division.
In the early stage of infection, the HIV replication occurs in large Numbers, resulting in viremia, and the expression of capsid antigen p24 can be found in the clinical manifestations of acute HIV infection. CD4+ lymphocyte damage, death, and CD4+T cells were significantly reduced due to a large number of replication in the cells of HIV. However, under the immune function of the body, CD8+CTL activation, killing HIV infected cells, and producing anti-hiv antibodies, the virus is quickly cleared, and the number of CD4+ lymphocytes is recovered.
However, HIV has not been completely killed, entering a persistent latent infection state, HIV is at a low level of replication, and clinical manifestations are asympto-free HIV infection. With the copy, spread HIV, CD4 + lymphocytes death constantly, so the cycle, resulting in the depletion of CD4 + lymphocytes, immune function, complicated by a variety of pathogens of infection and tumor, clinical manifestation of AIDS, and eventually death.
The origin of AIDS
AIDS originated in Africa and was brought to the United States by immigrants. The human virus may have come from wild chimpanzees in Africa. But until now, scientists have failed to understand how HIV was transmitted from chimps to humans. Most scientists believe that it is likely that humans infected with the virus have taken a bite, or have been infected with the virus when they were killed. So HIV mutates in humans, and evolves to infect others with HIV. Most importantly, the virus is significantly more lethal to humans, and chimpanzees are generally harmless.
Share this article:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
More
Click to print (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window)
Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Skype (Opens in new window)
Related
AIDSHIVInfectious diseases
Post navigation
Previous Post AIDS/HIV: virus research and infection.
Next Post AIDS early symptom, AIDS has what performance?
3 Comments Add yours
Pingback: AIDS early symptom, AIDS has what performance? – KKKhealth
Pingback: How is HIV transmitted and how to prevent it? – KKKhealth
Pingback: Can AIDS cure? How to treat AIDS? – KKKhealth
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Search for:
Recent Posts
How to Reduce Bad cholesterol Quickly and Effectively? April 23, 2019
4 Simple methods can help you get rid of your drowsiness quickly April 22, 2019
Earthquake Survives: 5 Things You Must Prepare April 21, 2019
Hot water VS cold water: which is healthier? April 20, 2019
5 Family Natural Therapy to Promote Hair Growth April 19, 2019
7 natural ways to control hypertension (through common foods) April 18, 2019
8 Delicious Vegetables Rich in Vitamin C (Common in Families) April 16, 2019
Recent Comments
4 Simple methods can help you get rid of your drowsiness quickly – How to be Health on Hot water VS cold water: which is healthier?
4 Family Natural Therapy to Promote Hair Growth – How to be Health on Guide to the use of vegetable oils for the best protection of hair in 2019
7 natural ways to control hypertension (through common foods) – How to be Health on 6 Diet helps you keep your muscles healthy
7 natural ways to control hypertension (through common foods) – How to be Health on 12 advantages of cashew nuts, this is an incredible healthy food
howtobehealth.net on 44-year study: participating in these activities reduces the risk of dementia by half
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
Popular articles
Where is the hymen? How to tell if it is a virgin?
What is loquat? What's the benefit? Can pregnant women eat? Attention?
Can pregnant women eat taro?
Mulberry：Nutrition value, benefits, food precautions, pregnant women and baby can eat?
Can baby eat purple potato?
Can baby eat white radish?
Can pregnant women eat salted eggs?
Can you eat watermelon during menstruation？
Can babies eat durian?
Can women drink green tea during menstruation?
Tags
baby (64) banana (17) beauty (17) blood (17) brain (21) cancer (81) Diet (266) Diet Health (258) disease (24) Drugs (21) eggs (20) exercise (30) eyes (21) Fat (30) fit (35) food (17) Food match (17) fruit (153) habit (60) hair (19) health (28) health news (62) heart (19) life (93) lifehabit (107) liver (26) longevity (22) lose weight (19) Love (28) Make love (22) marriage (20) men (45) Nutritional value (26) nutritive value (44) pregnant women (49) science (32) Sex (38) Sex life (25) sleep (69) smoking (31) United States (40) vegetable (77) Vegetables (77) Vitamin (24) women (73)
Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Dyad 2 by WordPress.com.