Tooth Extraction, Tooth Extraction Aftercare, Tooth Extraction Complications, Precautions after Tooth Extraction
Home
Dental Knowledge
Abscessed Tooth
Allergies
Bad Breath
Brushing Techniques
Burning Mouth
Children Dentistry
Cold Sores
Composite Restorations
Cosmetic Dentistry
Cracked Tooth
Dental Anxiety
Dental Care during Pregnancy
Dental Caries
Dental Emergencies
Dental Health
Dental Hypersenstivity
Dental Insurance Plans
Dental Pain
Dental Professionals
Dental Treatment Costs
Dental Xrays
Dentist Office
Dentistry And Heart Diseases
Dentition
Diabetes and Dental Treatment
Dry Mouth (Xerostomia)
Dry Socket
Electric Tooth Brushes
Fluorides
Full Mouth Extractions
Gum Diseases
Home Remedies For Dental Pain
Know Your Mouth
Mouth Breathing
Mouthwashes
Nursing Bottle Caries
Oral Burns
Oral Habits
Oral Hygiene
Oral Lesions
Pacifier
Professional Teeth Bleaching
Smokeless Tobacco
Snoring
Sports Dentistry
Stained Teeth
Teeth Grinding- Bruxism
Thumb Sucking
TMJ DISORDERS
Tongue Cleaning
Tongue Piercing
Tooth Basics
Tooth Wear
Toothpastes
Wisdom Teeth
Women & Dental Care
Dental Procedures
Air Abrasion
Apexification
Apicectomy
Braces
Conscious Sedation
Cosmetic Gum Surgery
Crowns & Bridges
Dental Anaesthesia
Dental Crowns
Dental Flossing
Dental Implants
Dental Scaling
Dental Surgeries
Dental X-Rays
Dentures
Fillings
Flourides
Frenectomy
Gum Surgeries
Home Tooth Whitening
Inlay And Onlay
Invisalign
Laser Dentistry
Palate Expansion Appliance
Post And Core
Professional Teeth Whitening
Pulpotomy
Retainers after Braces
Root Canal Therapy
Sealants
Smile Makeover
Space Maintainers
Tooth Extraction
Tooth Replantation
Tooth Veneers
Tooth Whitening
Dental FAQs
Abscessed Tooth
Bad Breath
Braces
Children Dentistry
Cosmetic Dentistry
Crowns & Bridges
Dental Caries
Dental Crowns
Dental Emergencies
Dental Health
Dental Implants
Dental Insurance Plans
Dental Pain
Dental Professionals
Dental Scaling
Dental Surgeries
Dental Treatment Costs
Dental Xrays
Dentition
Dentures
Dry Socket
Fillings
Frenectomy
Gum Diseases
Oral Hygiene
Oral Lesions
Palate Expansion Appliance
Retainers after Braces
Root Canal Therapy
Smokeless Tobacco
Stained Teeth
TMJ DISORDERS
Tooth Extraction
Tooth Wear
Tooth Whitening
Wisdom Teeth
Women & Dental Care
Ask A Dentist
Login
Do's And Don'ts After Tooth Extraction: 2018 Updated Home / Tooth Extraction / Blog
867
4722
Tooth extraction refers to painless removal of tooth or tooth roots with minimum trauma to the surrounding tissues so that the extraction socket wound heals uneventfully without any post-operative complications.
But, Whenever any surgery or Tooth extraction procedure takes place the first thing we want is to let it heal properly ,quickly and smoothly. As a common practice, most of the dental surgeons have standard post surgery instructions printed which are handed over to the patient.
One must follow these instructions given by the dentist. Apart from those instructions there are few things which need to be taken care post dental extraction. If aftercare instructions are not followed after tooth removal, then it can cause dry socket which can further lead to delayed healing of the tooth extraction socket. So patient is advised to follow certain do's and don'ts after tooth extraction procedure.
Following all the post-operative instructions reduce the incidence of infection and chances of dry socket after tooth removal. Check out these do’s and don’ts after a tooth extraction :
Take Rest
It gets better if you take some rest after Tooth Extraction. You may feel great but don’t exercise at least for a day after you have undergo tooth extraction procedure. When taking rest,keep your head lifted on a pillow.
Cover it for healing
Let the clot be formed on the tooth extraction site , which covers it and allow it to heal. Bite on the gauze piece after tooth removal, which the dentist has put on the extraction socket, minimum for an hour. Don’t chew on that gauze piece but put a steady pressure.
This will help in stopping the bleeding and formation of clot which acts like a cork on the bottle. Change gauze after every half an hour depending on the amount of bleeding. If clot is dislodged,the nerve endings are exposed,nerves and capillaries spasm and constrict,limiting essential blood supply which causes delay in healing. If the bleeding doesn't stop one should try putting a wet tea bag in the site, as tannic acid present in black tea helps stop bleeding.
Ice Packs
Apply ice pack on the side where surgery was performed. All this is done to reduce swelling. Though on simple extractions, swelling isn’t accompanied but in cases requiring severe cheek retractions, swelling can occur after operation.
Though the swelling will not occur immediately but will reach maximum at 2nd or 3rd day. So, to minimize this swelling immediately apply ice packs. Various methods of applying ice packs are: Sealed plastic bags filled with ice or A bag of frozen peas or Corn wrapped in a washcloth Application of ice pack is most effective during the day of extraction as after 24 hours there is no significant beneficial effect. Ice packs should be applied 15 minutes on and 15 minutes off for 1-2 hours.
Blowing and sneezing
Make sure not to blow or sneeze after extraction as it creates a negative pressure thereby dislodging the clot and making the conditions favorable for dry socket. Don’t spit minimum for 24 hours after tooth extraction procedure because it can dislodge the clot. If the clot is dislodged you can have very painful condition known as dry socket.
In case of dry socket, physiologic clot is lose both in quantity and quality. Afterwards one should spit 3-4 times in a day so that no food is lodged near the area where the tooth is removed. Dentist may advice CHLOROHEXIDINE mouth rinses as they kill bacteria.
Anesthetic feeling
It shouldn’t be a matter of worry if you feel numb even after surgery, as the period of numbness depends upon the area and dosage where anesthesia was given. So, it may vary for 6 hours to as long as a day. Make sure not to chew or bite something from that area.
Nausea
Feeling of nausea is also common after extraction. There are situations when anything you eat goes out. To get rid of nausea, take a teaspoon of Jell-O mix and 4 ounces of water, every minute until the feeling is gone.
Two tablespoons every hour for 4 hours of coca cola syrup can also be taken. These methods will give you necessary sugar and fluids. After this soup can be taken. After tooth extraction, take soft and liquid foods like soups, mashed potatoes, yogurts, milkshakes, smoothies etc.
Don’t smoke for 48 hours after dental removal or wisdom tooth extraction as the chemicals in the smoke can affect the clot and hence the chances of developing dry socket 3-4 days after tooth extraction increases.
Don’t take solids immediately after Tooth Extraction procedure till the numbness is there. When you start feeling your jaws you can start taking solids.
Warm saline rinses
The main aim of rinsing is to clean the area of extraction as it is not possible to brush the socket. We mix salt to make the solution isotonic and similar to natural tissue fluid and thus it is less irritating than water. Rinsing is usually advised 12 hours after extraction. So, warm saline rinses help in cleaning and maintaining the hygiene of that area.
Medications
Take your medicines as prescribed by your dentist. Don’t skip the medicines. If antibiotics are given they should be taken regularly. Painkillers and anti-inflammatory drugs are to be taken after surgical tooth extractions.
It help in reducing the pain and swelling. If the pain continues even after two days of tooth removal and bleeding starts then you should call your dentist.
Avoid Aspirin
Don’t ever take aspirin (Can take ibuprofen). Aspiring being a blood thinner will delay in clot formation thereby will prevent healing. Take the medications as prescribed by the physician and consult your dentist before taking any medicine.
Other Tooth Extraction Information
Avoid Sucking of any type - SMOKING, SIPPING, EATING HARD VEGETABLES are to be avoided after tooth extraction.
If you are daring enough to avoid these instructions, you may be a strong contender for some complications.
Don’t poke into the gap created: Though for initial few days, it will feel a bit awkward to have a gap but don’t poke that area with any toothpick or tongue as it may delay healing, may provoke bleeding and can also lead to dry socket.
WHAT COMPLICATIONS CAN BE THERE AFTER TOOTH EXTRACTION? Bleeding
Infection
Dry socket
Jaw fracture
Sinus perforation
Broken Bone Fragments (Sequestrii)
Part of the Tooth Left (Retained Roots)
Osteonecrosis
Bleeding After Dental Extraction
If one follows the instructions of the dentist after Tooth extraction to take rest and to keep the gauze piece for 1 to 2 hours after extraction then the problem of bleeding is not there.
The patients who are taking anticoagulants like Heparin or Coumadin or the patients who have bleeding disorders like hemophilia should give the history to the dentist. The patients who are taking aspirin or nonsteroidal analgesics have increased bleeding time.
Jaw Fracture during Surgical Tooth Extraction Procedure
It can happen but very rarely and that too in lower jaw. The dentist who is doing the surgical tooth extractions knows that how much pressure has to be put to pull out the tooth. But sometimes dentist before doing the extraction see the x-ray and tell the patient that the bone structure around the tooth has become fragile and chances of fracture are there. In such cases patient and the dentist are prepared beforehand to manage the situation.
Infection after Tooth Extraction
Infection is the most common complication after tooth extraction. Our mouth Is full of bacteria. One cannot sterilize it. Dentist decides whether to give antibiotics after the teeth extraction or not. Normally for the simple tooth removal antibiotics are not required but if patient has pain and swelling or pus then it is better to go for preventive antibiotics.
Bleeding continuing after 48 hours after tooth extraction, acute pain and swelling are very common signs of tooth extraction infection and the patient must visit the dentist in such circumstances to avoid further complications after dental extraction treatment.
Dry Socket
What is dry socket? It is the most dreaded and painful condition which can happen after tooth extraction. For a day or two after dental extraction the patient is fine, and then he has acute pain and becomes very restless. Patient complains of bad taste in the mouth. It is more common after the dental extraction of lower teeth than the upper teeth. It can happen even after the simplest tooth extraction.
Sinus Perforation during Tooth Extraction
The back teeth are in close proximation with the sinus. Sometimes if you see the x-ray it looks as if the roots of the back teeth are virtually in the sinus. It never happens.
But, there is always a thin bone separating the sinus from the roots of the teeth. But sometimes during tooth removal, the piece of the bone comes along with the sinus. This normally happens when the tooth is close to the bone because of infection. In that case perforation occurs. If perforation occurs you cannot suck because in that case the air will rush from the nose to the sinus and through perforation to the mouth. If the perforation is small the patient complains of bleeding from nose.
If the perforation occurs then the patient should follow certain instruction like:
Do not suck anything till the tooth extraction socket heals.
Do not do anything which will dislodge the clot. If the clot is not disturbed then no complication arises.
Do not smoke at least for a week after tooth extraction procedure because the chemicals in the smoke either dissolve the clot or dislodge it.
Do not blow up the balloons or anything else, it will disturb the clot.. Avoid aerated drinks instead you can take fruit juices.
Don’t sneeze, it sneezing will surely dislodge the clot.
If the perforation is big and it does not heal by itself then another surgical procedure is carried out in which tissue graft is put to close the perforation.
Osteonecrosis
It is a rare dental condition which mostly occurs after dental extraction, implant surgery or other invasive dental procedure.
There is no sign of healing even after 8 weeks of dental treatment in case of osteonecrosis of jaw. The gums are worn away and the underlying bone is visible in this condition. It is mostly seen in cancer patients.
Leave Comment
Submit Message
Comments
Latasha Madison 28 - July - 2015, at 00:38 AM
I had my front tooth pulled out and now I feel pain coming from a small white bump that had a black dot in it.what is it and what can I do bout the pain
Reply
Celeste 24 - May - 2015, at 02:11 AM
Hello, about a week ago, i had 2 very bad decayed molars in the back removed, i got no stitch's, there was no trouble removing them, it went smoothly, i thought since its been a week id be fine to blow balloons, so i did, after blowing a balloon is now hurting a little bit with some throbbing not to bad... and i thought to myself i probably shouldnt have been blowing balloons.... is this bad?
Reply
vanessa smith 21 - May - 2015, at 08:17 AM
had two teeth extracted a week a go, now looks like there is a clot of the gauze covering hole. is that normal?
Reply
Fred simpson 12 - April - 2015, at 06:52 AM
How do I apply dental dressing for dry cells after tooth extraction I am in pain
Reply
Fred simpson 12 - April - 2015, at 06:46 AM
Self applying dental dressing for dry cells after tooth extraction
Reply
Wait while loading
Related Blog(s)
Complications During Tooth Extraction On Sep, 14, 2011 | 9
What is Dry Socket On Sep, 08, 2011 | 10
Swelling after Tooth Extraction On Sep, 07, 2011
Bleeding after Tooth Extraction On Sep, 07, 2011 | 66
Healing Of the Extraction Socket On Aug, 30, 2011 | 16
Sutures or Stitches after Tooth Extraction On Aug, 30, 2011 | 7
Pain During and After Tooth Extraction On Aug, 28, 2011 | 7
What is Alveoloplasty in Dentistry On Nov, 19, 2010 | 14
Ways Of Tooth Extractions On Aug, 18, 2008 | 1
When The Tooth Needs To Be Extracted On Aug, 18, 2008 | 2
Related Discussion(s)
gums are sore from wisdom tooth extraction On Mar, 18, 2010 | 1
WHITE COVERING DEVELOPING OVER EXTRACTED AREA On Mar, 14, 2010 | 1
awful taste in my mouth On Mar, 11, 2010 | 1
dental numbness for 3 months after extraction On Mar, 09, 2010 | 1
teeth pulled or teeth cut out On Feb, 22, 2010 | 1
bubble of fluid On Feb, 15, 2010 | 1
loose tooth On Feb, 15, 2010 | 1
Copyright © Identalhub All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | Ask A Dentist | Search
×
dsfdsf fdsfds f
×
Close
Free Dental Consultation