Oil Pulling With Coconut Oil - Oil Pulling, Wellness and Health Answers
Home
About
EBOOKS
Contact
Oil Pulling, Wellness and Health Answers
Wellness and Health News, Original oil pulling site since 2004
Oil Pulling
What Is Oil Pulling?
Oil Pulling Therapy Origins
How To Oil Pull?
Oil Pulling Benefits
Oil Pulling With Coconut Oil
Does Oil Pulling Work?
Oil Pulling Results
Oil Pulling Reviews
Wellness
Home Remedies
Healthy Recipes
Beauty
Reviews
You are here: Home / Oil Pulling / Oil Pulling With Coconut Oil
Oil Pulling With Coconut Oil
April 11, 2016 By admin 10 Comments
oil pulling with coconut oil – teeth whitening natural remedy
oil pulling with coconut oil – A proven and cost effective way to get stronger and whiter teeth and your overall oral health
oil pulling with coconut oil is the BUZZ word in media today. Ever since the lost glory of coconut oil started gaining momentum both in cooking and overall usage. People were very interested to know and experiment with coconut oil for oil pulling . We have received many emails on the effectiveness of oilpulling. One common benefit majority of them agreed is Stronger whiter teeth and improvement in over all oral health. Many of our readers worldwide agreed this. Emails like one below are very common response we got from many of the readers who got benefit from oil pulling
“I have practiced oil pulling with coconut oil for about a month or two and, in that period, I had three or four different people compliment me on how white my teeth were. They asked me what whitening toothpaste I was using and one even accused me of using Crest Whitestrips (which I was not using). I stopped after my bottle of oil ran out but I started again just recently, and I think it will just be a matter of time before the compliments start rolling in again. For a couple of bucks for a month’s supply of oil, there’s no beating oil pulling. I’m grateful to the OP for spreading the word. ”
————————–
Eyes are the window to the soul; mouth is a window to your body’s health. The state of oral health can offer lots of clues about your overall health. Oral health and overall health are more connected than you might realize.
Your oral health is responsible to many other health conditions beyond your mouth. Sometimes the first sign of a disease shows up in your mouth. In other cases, infections in your mouth, such as gum disease, can cause problems in other areas of your body. Learn more about this intimate connection between oral health and overall health.
The link between oral health and overall health
Scientists at the 87th General Session of the International Association for Dental Research reported new studies connecting oral diseases with systemic diseases. A recurring theme is a relationship between periodontal (gum) disease and infant prematurity, diabetes, or stroke. Over the years, oil pulling users all over the world are giving enough evidence that by oil pulling they were getting the benefit.
Your mouth is generally teeming with bacteria. Usually, you can keep these bacteria under control with proper oral health care, such as daily brushing and flossing. Saliva also is a critical defense against bacteria and viruses. It contains enzymes that destroy bacteria in different ways. But harmful bacteria can sometimes grow out of control and lead to periodontitis, a severe gum infection.
When your gums are healthy, bacteria in your mouth usually don’t enter your bloodstream. However, gum disease may provide bacteria a port of entry into your bloodstream. Sometimes invasive dental treatments also can allow bacteria to enter your bloodstream. And medications or treatments that reduce saliva flow or disrupt the normal balance of bacteria in your mouth also may lead to oral changes, making it easier for bacteria to enter your bloodstream. Some researchers believe that these bacteria and inflammation from your mouth are linked to other health problems in the rest of your body.
Oral health and other health conditions
Here’s a look at some of the diseases and conditions that may be linked to oral health:
Cardiovascular disease. Research shows that several types of heart disease may be linked to oral health. These include heart disease, clogged arteries, and stroke. Although in some research periodontal disease seems to be associated with heart disease, more studies are needed to establish the connection.
Pregnancy and birth. Gum disease is linked to premature birth, and that is why it’s vital to maintain excellent oral health before you get pregnant and during your pregnancy.
Diabetes. Diabetes increases your risk of gum disease, cavities, tooth loss, dry mouth and a variety of oral infections. Conversely, poor oral health can make your diabetes harder to control. Infections may cause your blood sugar to rise and require more insulin to keep it under control.
HIV/AIDS. Oral problems are very common if you have HIV/AIDS. Common symptoms include ulcers, dry mouth, and related painful mucosal lesions. Mouth problems are caused by either fungal, viral or bacterial infections and, in some cases, one of the first signs of AIDS may be severe gum disease. You may also develop persistent white spots or unusual lesions on your tongue or in your mouth.
Osteoporosis. The first stages of bone loss may show up in your teeth. Systemic loss of bone density in osteoporosis, including bone in the jaw, may create a condition where the bone supporting your teeth is increasingly susceptible to infectious destruction. Your dentist may be able to spot this on a routine clinical examination or with dental X-rays. If bone loss worsens, your dentist can suggest that you discuss the issue with your other health care providers.
Other conditions. Many other conditions may make their presence known in your mouth before you know anything’s wrong. These may include Sjogren’s syndrome, certain cancers, eating disorders, syphilis, gonorrhea and substance abuse.
What you can do about oral health
If you didn’t already have enough reasons to take good care of your mouth, teeth and gums, the relationship between your oral health and your overall health provides even more. Resolve to practice good oral hygiene every day. You’re making an investment in your overall health, not just for now, but for the future, too.
Oil Pulling and Oral Health How it actually works
How oil pull can make such miracle healing? You may ask, what is the scientific reason behind this? Here by oilpulling process, the oil works as a natural cleaner for oral health. It is your body which is a healer here. Our body is programmed with the ability to heal from any infectious or degenerative disease. Oil pulling removes disease-causing microorganisms and toxins in the mouth that cause ill health. There is nothing secret about it; it is simple biology. Most of the microorganisms that are part of oral ecology in the mouth consist of a single cell with the fatty membrane which is the outer wall of a cell.
When you are doing oil pulling fatty membranes of the microorganisms are attracted to the oil you are pulling or swishing. As you swish the oil around your teeth and gums, Bacteria hiding under crevices in the gums and pores and tubules within the teeth are sucked out of their hiding places and would be part of the thick foam which is formed after oil pulling. This is why you need to pull oil in your mouth sufficient enough time to pull all the microbes from the mouth and bond them with the solution. Your saliva and oil together can attract and pull all the food particles and cleans and free your mouth from bad substances and maintains overall health and body’s capacity to self-heal.
We have to admit that there were not enough scientific studies to back this oil pulling theory. But at oilpulling.com we are encouraged by all the positive reviews and comments by thousands of people and would like to prove this scientifically. That is why at oilpulling.com we have established a research center. If you want to participate or have already proved this by your research pl. contact us.
ORAL ECOLOGY
“It’s amazing what you can see if you look carefully,” says Mager, a fellow in oral medicine at the Forsyth Institute, an independent research institution in Boston. The view reveals hundreds of different kinds of bacteria, viruses, yeast, fungi, and other micro-organisms. Forsyth scientists, most of whom are on the faculty of the Harvard School of Dental Medicine, have found 615 different species of bacteria – and they’re still counting.
It’s a perfect place for micro pests to dwell. Glistening white plateaus, dark crevices, and muddy surfaces boast steamy temperatures of 95 degrees Fahrenheit. The microbes bathe in a saliva-induced humidity of 100 percent and eat a rich diet of sugar and other carbohydrates. It’s so lush and varied; Mager refers to it as a mini-jungle.
“In one mouth, the number of bacteria can easily exceed the number of people who live on Earth (more than 6 billion),” notes Sigmund Socransky, associate clinical professor of periodontology at Harvard. “These bugs don’t settle your mouth in a random way; rather, they form communities in a pattern that is dictated both by other bugs and by the environment. Bacteria affect their surroundings, and the environment affects them. Although they touch each other, the floor of the mouth is populated by different communities than the bottom of the tongue, and the top of the tongue hosts a biota unlike that on the roof of your mouth.”
Years of detecting and identifying mouth tenants have revealed that those living in healthy mouths can be remarkably different from those living in diseased mouths. Some bacteria increase in number, while others decrease. By comparing communities of microbes in healthy people with those in the mouths of those with oral cancer, Mager has found a pattern that she expects will lead to the early diagnosis of oral cancers. Bacteria and other microorganisms don’t select our mouths, our mouths select them. The conditions in our mouths create an environment that favors certain types of organisms and allows them to grow and flourish. A healthy mouth (and healthy body) is filled with relatively benign bacteria for the most part. An unhealthy mouth attracts harmful bacteria. If you want to have a healthier mouth and body, you must change the environment in your mouth.
Researchers have tried various ways to alter the micro-populations in people’s mouths. These populations can be altered temporarily by cleaning your teeth, using antiseptic mouthwashes, and even taking antibiotics. However, the ordinary inhabitants and their relative proportions to each other quickly reestablish themselves. Killing oral bacteria helps to reduce their numbers, but it does not change the types of organisms that thrive in the mouth.
So-called friendly organisms can inhibit or even kill the more troublesome ones. So increasing the number of good microbes would help lower the number of bad and keep them under control. This concept has proven useful for balancing the environment in the gut. Lactic acid bacteria in cultured foods like yogurt and sauerkraut, and probiotic dietary supplements help to build the populations of good bacteria and suppress the troublemakers, thus contribute to relieve various digestive complaints.
Likewise, the ecology of the mouth isn’t going to change simply because you introduce a particular type of organism. The environment in your mouth is established, for the most part, by your diet and lifestyle. To make permanent changes in the environment of your mouth, you need to make dietary and lifestyle changes.
Oil pulling works wonders for removing all types of germs and reducing the number of potentially harmful ones. But still research needs to be done on proving the effectiveness on altering the percentage of good bacteria. Our recommendation is to maintain healthy habits along with oil pulling therapy. Read healthy habits understand the importance of maintaining good habits for good health.
If you are interested in participating in our research program, pl. Contact us.
oil pulling and oral/dental health FAQ: ( Compiled from various sources by John, oilpulling.com reader since 2005)
What is tooth remineralization and explain how to achieve that?
Remineralization happens all the time – it’s just a question of removing the blockages to that natural function and supporting it. Small cavities can often be reversed, but there is no one-size-fits-all procedure. There is no one process fits all concept. improve diet and nutrition Read Healthy Habits and increasing nutrients that support teeth; supplying remedies that help the body utilize those nutrients and improving hygiene. Make your self-stress free. Practice YOGA or Meditation. And there may be inherited factors called miasms that are contributing to decay, and those can be treated homeopathically. All the nutritional aspects are the foundation for rebuilding the teeth.
There may be limits regarding how much tooth structure can be restored, and sometimes intervention by a dentist may become necessary.
Q: I have small cavities. Can I use oil pulling to reverse them?
Many seem to have benefited from oil pulling for small cavities. Can you reverse them with out going to dentist. We are not sure. A couple of emails we have received on this doesn’t actually confirm if oil pulling can reverse cavities. Still research needs to be done in this area.
The help depends on your overall healing capacity; diet and nutritional status; any factors that might inhibit the remineralization of the tooth such as using toothpaste; how far the decay has gone, etc. But generally, oil pulling can only help, along with other regimen to support the healing process.
Preventing or reversing cavities requires working on nutritional status to normalize the flow of fluids through the teeth. Some people need to supplement with vitamin C and D. Naturally sourced vit C supplements are best – such as from acerola, camu camu and amla fruits. Vitamin D is best from cod liver oil.
Also it would be important to improve the diet to include more fat soluble vitamins, which help the body to utilize the minerals properly. That means wild fish, raw dairy products, and grass fed meats and broths. If you can’t get raw butter or cream, then “X-factor butter oil” would be an excellent supplement. Of course the diet needs to be individualized, but this can be a start. Most dentists want to drill/fill all cavities, but you might find a biological (holistic) dentist who would work more conservatively. There are minimally invasive methods of treating cavities without drilling, although most dentists aren’t trained that way and you’d need to find a biological dentist who does this. There are local listings online if you search for biological dentistry. Meantime, OP can help especially if cavities are small.
Q: Explain how oil-pulling-with coconut-oil helps gum disease and any other natural approaches for gum disease.
Yes, it always needs to be a multi-faceted approach. Besides oil pulling you might do well with CoQ10 supplementation. It can be difficult to absorb, so it’s important to use a highly bioavailable form which is hydrosoluble. I recommend the Ubiquinol form, not the usual Ubiquinone. You can also
use vitamin C and even rinse with a solution of vitamin C powder.
Flossing can be helpful, but remember that it can also make matters worse as you can push the material into the gum as you floss. Floss very gently.
On oral irrigator such as the Waterpik can help. Also, I can provide instructions for the “blotting technique” which is an effective and easy way to use a brush to remove plaque.
Warm salt water rinses are very soothing and help heal inflammations. You should also know that it’s actually very normal for gums to be inflamed from time to time. Gums and teeth are often a reflection of what’s going in the rest of the body, so inflammatory processes in the mouth are not necessarily a problem, but part of a healing process.
Often dentists will recommend gum surgery, because they assume that most of their patients are not interested in doing diligent home care. But if you work with the home care and nutrition, and with homeopathy when necessary, and emotional issues when necessary, the gum inflammation will often resolve. It may be possible to save the expense and trauma of invasive dental work—not always, but often.
There are many other things that can be done for teeth and gum health, depending on your individual situation. The deeper cause of plaque is actually a type of emotional armoring, so if you work through emotional issues you may find that you don’t get as much plaque.
Q: I have an abscessed tooth, and can’t get to the dentist right away. Could oil pulling be enough to heal it?
When you need to tend a problem tooth on your own, oil pulling is one of the best methods we know. Also each tooth relates to an organ system and a particular soul/spiritual issue and it can help to work with that information -oil pulling often calms down tooth pain. Sometimes a tooth really needs to be pulled eventually, but there are good ways to increase the chance of being able to save it.
Q: Is recommended to use tea tree oil along with oil pulling?
Tea tree oil like many plant oils have anti-microbial properties, and that’s not a bad thing. It’s a matter of how you’re using it. For acute inflammatory conditions it can sometimes help to kill offmicrobes to help the body better handle the challenge. But for chronic conditions, usually the microbe isn’t the culprit anyway, and too much disinfecting actually creates further imbalances in the longer run. You don’t want to disrupt the natural balance of flora in the mouth by using strong anti-microbial products on a regular basis. Then also it depends on the amount of tea tree oil being used, the regularity, etc.
Q: Is recommended to oil-pulling-with coconut-oil?
Some books are suggesting to use all the oils in the world. Pl. note Dr. Karach’s original paper only preaches sunflower oil. As per Ayurveda sesame oil could be used as well. Our recommendations is to start oil pulling with these oils. We really cannot comment on coconut oil usage. If you use coconut oil and find the same results pl. let us know. we have asked many of our readers before and we are still waiting for some good answers to change our recommendation.
We are going to conduct a research study on coconut oil in Mar 2012. If you are interested to participate, pl. email us at info@oilpulling.com.
We have concluded that coconut oil is very effective for oil pulling. Our readers responded very positively with the survey . Hence we are recommending to do oil pulling with coconut oil.
Q: Could oil pulling with coconut oil help reduce the depth of the pockets and firm up my teeth?
The oil pulling and other natural methods can certainly help that situation – it can’t really be predicted to what extent a particular condition can be reversed, because that depends on many factors, but there will always be some benefit. I would recommend that you see a “biological dentist” for another opinion. You can Google that and hopefully find one in your area. Dental x-rays aren’t always reliable – it’s not as simple as looking at a photograph and seeing what’s there. Meantime, if you’d like to do an email consult with me, we could work up a program of dental regimen and nutrition to support your gums, teeth and bones. Also the Customized Eating Guidelines that I offer here can be programmed for those particular issues, and you get a chart showing you the foods that are particularly supportive and those that should be avoided.
Q: My teeth have become yellower . Can Oil Pulling help whiten my teeth?
There really isn’t any non-toxic way to brighten the teeth, except to improve the health of the teeth. If it’s a superficial staining like from drinking coffee or eating dark berries, you can use a tooth powder with baking soda, like Uncle Harry’s tooth whitener. But usually the “stains” aren’t really superficial stains but are systemic. Heavy metal toxicity, poor nutritional status, and the use of certain antibiotics can contribute. By oil pulling we have receieved many comments which suggests that the teeth gets whiter.
Q: Would oil pulling help the healing after getting a dental implant?
Yes, oil pulling can help with healing. Also warm salt water rinses. There are other remedies for dental work as well, depending on your individual situation.
Q: I’ve heard that root canals can often cause problems, and sometimes the root canal treated tooth needs to be extracted. Can Oil Pulling help?
Yes, there can be problems with root canals. But if you already have them, you can help your body to handle them. Sometimes RCT teeth do need to be removed eventually. But it’s not a given that all RCT teeth should be removed. It depends on many factors. You also have to consider the traumatic effect of pulling teeth, and you don’t want to lose a tooth unless it’s absolutely necessary.
Whether the RCT teeth need to be removed is something that you and your dentist need to decide on an individual basis. A biological dentist if you can find one in your area might be able to give you more conservative advice and help you save the teeth. They also might look at the way the teeth are impacting your health, something that most dentists don’t do because they’re only looking at teeth, as if teeth are separate from the body! Meantime, oil pulling and improving your diet and nutritional status can only help.
Q: Is oil pulling safe if you have porcelain crowns or bonding?
Yes! Crowns have gaps, so it’s especially good to oil pulling. You really can’t hurt any dental restorations with Oil Pulling – it’s very gentle and can only help. And having vegetable oil in the mouth is perfectly natural. If a filling or crown comes loose, it had to have been loose already. I, of course, can’t give actual medical/dental advice, but you can also gauge by your dentist visits how oil pulling is working for you. In order for you to feel completely comfortable about oil pulling, you could ask your dentist about it.
Q: I have receding gums – could oil pulling do any damage to the gum tissue?
Oil pulling is very unlikely to do damage, but if you’re concerned you could do it for less time and less often, start out very slowly and gradually increase. You will get benefit from oil pulling even just for a few minutes. Use the salt water afterward, which is antimicrobial and very soothing to inflamed tissue. There are other ways to improve the gums – improving your nutritional status, taking CoQ10, and using the Blotting Technique, to name a few high priorities besides oil pulling.
Share on FacebookShare on TwitterShare on Google+Share on Pinterest
Filed Under: Oil Pulling
Comments
Farz says
May 5, 2016 at 1:58 pm
I have been diagnosed with gerd for 10 years .I have taken meds for 2 years and now I’m on and off with meds .Since 6 months my teeth are bothering a lot .I’m having sensitivity and painful gums .pl let me know what I should do to save my teeth beside oil pulling .
Reply
admin says
May 28, 2016 at 3:32 pm
We have some emails from the users previously with sensitivity and painful gums. They have started slowly pulling oil in small intervals and noticed significant improvement in overall oral health. With oilpulling you are rebuilding the good oral health by removing the toxins. Pl. share your experiences .
Reply
Joseph Barrett says
May 16, 2016 at 8:44 pm
Thanks for a most health enhancing revelation and promotion for improved health. Keep on keeping on exploring, researching and sharing your invaluable findings
Reply
admin says
May 28, 2016 at 3:33 pm
Thank You Joseph. Pl. do share your experiences if you have started oil pulling.
Reply
susan browning says
June 26, 2016 at 10:32 pm
I have been oil pulling coconut oil for two weeks. Started out great but now I have flu like symptoms. and they are not going away. What is going on?
Reply
Jade Mazarin says
September 4, 2016 at 3:43 pm
Hi Susan, I’m not a moderator of this side but I was reading and wanted to comment on your post. I have the same problems when I am pulling daily (I just started a few weeks ago) or introducing any new treatment actually. When bacteria are dying you often feel worse before you are going through the process of detoxifying from them. Processing old toxins to do away with them means you’ll have awakened symptoms. If you’re very toxic, you can have more and/or longer symptoms. Usually cutting back (only if it is necessary) on the amount or frequency of pulling can be done temporarily, just don’t stop it altogether and increase it again as soon as you can. You will feel better afterwards as you get mor clean. Your body is just in healing mode and possibly bringing up old bacteria, viruses, etc to heal from right now. It’s sometimes a hard process, but it’s a very good thing.
Reply
Arnetta says
July 1, 2016 at 5:23 am
Since I’ve been oil pulling with coconut oil, I’ve noticed that my teeth are stronger and whiter. I also noticed that they are no longer so sensitive to hot and cold beverages., and it’s only been 2 weeks!
Reply
Jeana T Rock says
June 24, 2018 at 7:34 am
I suffered with mouth sores for over 25 years that were diagnosed as geographic tongue and canker sores. I tried every solution I could find, but nothing worked. The sores would get so bad I couldn’t talk. I finally diagnosed my problem myself though google images. Thrush. I Immediately started on a anti-yeast routine and oil pulling with coconut oil. Sores disappeared! I look at this as a miracle and don’t trust doctors for a diagnosis.
Reply
Beverly Gatewood says
August 15, 2018 at 12:34 pm
I live a very natural life. No medicines. i had an xray that indicated there are a lot of broken teeth, and roots left there is bone loss. Dentist wants to pull most of my broken teeth along with the teeth with pockets, out except the front. i am praying for another root. I was uneducated about taking care of my teeth, but i am wondering if i could possibly avoid all the extractions. i know i would still be left with broken teeth, but more concerned with my overall health. I am committed to doing any alternative treatment to avoid this trauma.
Reply
Trackbacks
Seasme Oil Ayurveda - Ayurveda Wiki says:
August 11, 2016 at 10:42 pm
[…] Oil Pulling With Coconut Oil – Oil Pulling, … – oil pulling with coconut oil – A proven and cost effective way to get stronger and whiter teeth and your overall oral health. oil pulling with coconut oil is the BUZZ word in media today. Ever … […]
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Recent Posts
Magnesium for healthy life
Odorless Armpits, All Day Long Naturally
Oil Pulling E-Book
FOLLOW US ONLINE
Facebook
Google+
Instagram
Linkedin
Twitter
YouTube
Home
Privacy
Please read disclaimer before using the information on this website
© Copyright 2004-2016 oilpulling.com, All Rights Reserved
Important Note: All information contained in this website oilpulling.com should not be used as a substitute for the advice of an appropriately qualified and licensed physician or other health care provider. The information provided here is for educational and informational purposes only. In no way should it be considered as offering medical advice. Please check with a physician if you suspect you are ill. NO LIABILITY WILL BE ASSUMED FOR THE USE OF THESE ARTICLES. The information contained is not intended for medical advice. You should always discuss any medical treatment with your Health Care Provider