genetic testing Archives - Storm Riders Network
Skip to content
Search
Search for:
Storm Riders Network
Into This World We're Thrown
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
LinkedIn
Menu
MENUMENU
ABOUT
Mission
My Story
SCIENCE & RESEARCH
Precision Medicine
Promising Drugs
Clinical Trials
RESOURCES
News & Publications
Organizations
Open Search
Tag: genetic testing
Hereditary Breast Cancer & Genetic Testing Webinar
Some breast cancers are thought to be hereditary, caused by abnormal genes passed from parent to child. Most cases of hereditary breast cancer are associated with inherited mutations in two genes: BRCA1 (BReast CAncer gene one) and BRCA2 (BReast CAncer gene two). Together BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations account for about 25 to 30 percent of hereditary breast cancers, and approximately three to six percent of all breast cancers.
While all patients with metastatic breast cancer (MBC) face a complex and difficult journey, those whose disease can be attributed to inherited gene mutations could face unique challenges. These can include, but are not limited to, lack of access to support services, or genetic counseling. Importantly, it also can include the weight of knowing that others in their family may be at risk.
Join us for a webinar with Dr. Lily Shahied Arruda, Medical Director, U.S. Medical Affairs at Pfizer Oncology, when we will learn more about breast cancer patients’ experiences and knowledge of hereditary breast cancer and genetic testing.
April 24, 2019
Genomics: How DNA Can Inform Cancer Diagnosis & Treatment
The National Cancer Institute (NCI) will hold a Facebook Live event that will feature NCI subject matter experts Kenneth Aldape, M.D., of the Center for Cancer Research, Megan Frone, M.S., C.G.C., of the Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, and Lyndsay Harris, M.D., of the Cancer Diagnosis Program. They will discuss the role of genetics in cancer diagnosis and treatment. Participants are encouraged to ask questions to our experts during the event in the comments section.
View the event live on the NCI Facebook page.
February 14, 2019
Genomics and Genetics: What is the Difference?
Topics Covered
Definition of Genetics & Genomics
The Importance of Genetic & Genomic Testing
The Value of Early Testing to Inform Your Treatment Choices
Their Role in Selecting Your Cancer Treatment
Understanding Types of Gene Mutations
The Difference Between Inherited & Acquired or Sporadic Gene Mutations
The Role of the Pathologist
How Genomic Testing Drives Your Cancer Treatment
Current Research in Genomics
Genomic Profiling May Identify Actionable Alterations
Examples of How Genomics Identify Your State-of-the-Art Treatment
Key Questions to Ask Your Health Care Team about Genetic and Genomic Testing
Questions for Our Panel of Experts
June 25, 2018
Considering BRCA Genes: Knowledge Improves Outcomes
We are honored to gather critical members of the team who are changing the BRCA landscape in the Bay Area and beyond. We invite you to join University of California San Franciso’s global health experts Heather Greenwood, MD; Alan Ashworth, PhD, FRS; Pamela Munster, MD; and Mindy Goldman, MD; breast cancer survivor and patient advocate Laura Holmes Haddad, author of This is Cancer: Everything You Need to Know, From the Waiting Room to the Bedroom; as well as our MC for the evening, Larisa Kure, breast cancer survivor and associate dean of administration and finance of the School of Denstistry, for refreshments and conversation. Whether you know your BRCA status or need to learn more, this gathering will help you understand genetic risks and how they affect health outcomes.
October 24, 2017
Breast Cancer News
Liquid biopsy can help predict outcomes in metastatic TNBC
Blackwell sheds light on recent advances in HER2+ breast cancer
Patient dosing begins in phase 2 trial of MCLA-128 in MBC
Novel antibody-drug conjugate active in refractory TNBC
Acupuncture may reduce joint pain for breast cancer patients
7 Key Cancer Trends for 2018
See More News
Subscribe to blog
Receive email notifications to get the latest from Storm Riders Network
Email Address
Subscribe
Blog Archives
August 2018 (1)
January 2018 (1)
September 2017 (2)
Upcoming Events
Hereditary Breast Cancer & Genetic Testing Webinar
April 24 @ 12:30 pm - 1:30 pm EDT
NBCC’s 2019 Advocate Leadership Summit
April 27 - April 30
Neuropathy webinar
April 29 @ 1:00 pm - 2:00 pm EDT
Komen® Wisconsin’s 3rd Annual Metastatic Breast Cancer Symposium
May 1 @ 8:00 am - 4:30 pm CDT
View All Events
Up ↑