Reflux and natural remedies: Ginger and Baking Soda - Peptest - a reflux diagnostic device
+44(0)1482 461877 info@rdbiomed.com
Facebook
Twitter
Google
Facebook
Twitter
Google
0 Items
WHAT IS REFLUX?
WHAT IS PEPTEST?
ORDER PEPTEST
REFLUX NEWS
ABOUT US
MEDICAL STUDIES
Select Page
Reflux and natural remedies: Ginger and Baking Soda
by rdbiomed | Sep 28, 2016 | health | 0 comments
With risks associated with reflux medication, known as proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), regularly hitting the headlines, many people turn to natural alternatives to alleviate their discomfort.
Natural remedies are an attractive alternative based on the perception of their low risk of adverse effects.
Our blog series on natural remedies takes a look at the alternatives some people use for relief from their symptoms of reflux, which include heartburn and indigestion, and look at whether there is any evidence to support the claims.
In Part One we looked at Liquorice and Apple Cider Vinegar, Part Two covered Slippery Elm and Kefir and Part Three investigated Aloe Vera and Manuka Honey.
In the fourth part of our series, let’s take a look at Ginger and Baking Soda.
Reflux and Ginger
Ginger is the common name for the whole or cut underground stems (rhizome) of the Zingiber officinale plant. Typically, ginger is obtained by drying and powdering the rhizome.
It is commonly used by people to help treat various types of digestive issues, such as morning sickness, nausea, heartburn, dyspepsia (indigestion) and irritable bowel syndrome.
Some people drink ginger tea, eat ginger-flavoured foods or mix a ¼ teaspoon of ginger root powder into water.
Why is it used?
The exact way ginger acts on the stomach and digestive system is not fully known, but it is thought to work by blocking certain receptors for the hormone 5HT3, known as serotonin, which are involved in the contraction of the smooth muscles inside the stomach and gut. When serotonin attaches to these receptors it causes nausea and vomiting.
It has also been suggested that ginger has anti-inflammatory properties, which may help relieve symptoms of reflux and relieve gastrointestinal irritation. It is also suggested that ginger improves upper gastrointestinal symptoms.
Is it safe?
According to the Committee on Herbal Medicinal Products (HMPC) at the European Medicines Agency, ginger can be used in adults to treat the symptoms of mild complaints affecting the stomach or gut (including bloating and flatulence).
Ginger is also recognised by the US Food and Drug Administration as a food additive that is “generally recognized as safe”.
In high doses, ginger may cause mild heartburn, irritation of the mouth, stomach upset, belching, and nausea.
Does it work?
Several studies have found ginger to be effective in the prevention of nausea and vomiting.
One study in 2008, also found that ginger effectively accelerated gastric emptying and stimulated antral contractions (speeding up emptying of the stomach and improving contractions in the antrum lower end of the stomach to prevent abdominal bloating, pain and nausea).
There is little scientific evidence to show how ginger helps reflux disease.
One study has claimed that the Traditional Chinese Medicine method of using the ginger-containing formula Wendan decoction is superior at reducing the symptoms of dry throat, heartburn and throat discomfort in patients to treatment by Omeprazole.
Reflux and Baking Soda
Bicarbonate of soda, or baking soda, is an alkaline salt composed of sodium ions and bicarbonate ions. Some people swear dissolving a teaspoon of baking soda in cup of water to alleviate their reflux symptoms.
Why is it used?
It is often dissolved in water as a natural antacid remedy – relieving symptoms by neutralising the acidic contents of the stomach. It is thought that baking soda mimics the same effects as natural sodium bicarbonate production in the body, helping to prevent stomach acid from backing up in the oesophagus and reducing the risk of long-term oesophageal damage.
Is it safe?
Side effects of consuming baking soda can include gas, nausea, increased thirst, headache and abdominal cramps. It should not be used it if you’re following a low-sodium diet.
Does it work?
Sodium bicarbonate has been described as a quick-acting antacid that provides temporary relief for symptoms, including heartburn, indigestion and upset stomach. Alka-Seltzer, the well-known effervescent antacid and pain reliever, contains bicarbonate of soda.
According to the NHS, sodium bicarbonate should no longer be prescribed alone for the relief of dyspepsia but it is present as an ingredient in many indigestion remedies.
Conclusion
Without thorough scientific investigation, it isn’t really possible to say if natural remedies really work.
It is important to see your doctor for a full discussion about supplements and medication, especially if you develop new or worsening symptoms. Natural remedies may interact with prescription and over-the-counter medicines.
Submit a Comment Cancel reply
Your e-mail address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Search for:
Recent Posts
Laryngopharyngeal reflux and sleep problems
Taking reflux symptoms questionnaires
Is it heartburn or indigestion?
Reflux disease linked to epilepsy deaths: study
Introducing our new-look reflux home-testing kit
Recent Comments
Carol Torssell on What is Laparoscopic Nissen Fundoplication reflux surgery?
Jeanine Fisher on How to use Peptest & why we recommend a three sample kit
Patricia Silverstein on How to use Peptest & why we recommend a three sample kit
Luis Barreda on Alginate antacids for treating reflux: a comparison study
Trudy on New therapies for airway reflux will target pepsin
Categories
Company News
COPD
GERD
health
LPR
pepsin
reflux
reflux treatments
Uncategorized
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Facebook
Twitter
Google
© RD Biomed 2018 // Peptest // Privacy Policy // Cookie Policy // T&C
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By continuing to browse the site, you agree to our use of cookies.OkRead more