Cancer: Busting the Myths – Part 2 (Natural Cancer Cures) | The Freedom Articles
Get FREE Blog Updates
RSS Feed
Subscribe to The Freedom Articles
* indicates required
Email Address *
Home
Sovereignty
Health
Conspiracy
False Flags
Consciousness
Geopolitics
Solutions
Cancer: Busting the Myths – Part 2 (Natural Cancer Cures)
There are copious promising & outright proven natural cancer cures, treatments and remedies – many cheap and easily self-administered.
Natural Cancer Cures
exist, and are even widely known, but the first things to get past are your own doubts and fears. It can be hard to step out of the box of orthodox, conventional, mainstream, allopathic Western Medicine, especially when faced with a serious illness like cancer. However, the prospect of facing surgery, radiation or chemo, each with its own set of toxic and even lethal side effects, is not appealing. Below is a summary of a variety of natural cancer cures; many are proven natural cancer treatments with a solid record of efficacy, while others are natural cancer remedies which are promising enough to consider.
Numerous Natural Cancer Cures with Solid Evidence of Efficacy
Humanity has a very good idea of how to handle cancer for a long time – it’s just the top natural cancer cures have been suppressed because there was no money in them (couldn’t be patented by Big Pharma) and because they threatened the Big Pharma monopoly, which is carefully guarded by the likes of the CDC and FDA.
Newspaper report announcing Rife’s cancer treatment in 1938.
Natural Cancer Cures #1: Frequency Machines
The brilliant discoveries of Royal Raymond Rife were suppressed by the FDA and AMA, but luckily Rife Frequency Therapy has survived. It uses radio frequencies to kill germs. There is always a frequency at which a germ will vibrate until its structure is destroyed, just as the opera singer can shatter a wine glass with her voice. Most bacteria, viruses and other pathogens have very weak outer cell walls; when the right frequency is aimed at them, they dissolve. There are also a range of zappers, blood purifiers and devices based on this principle, either made by or named after Bob Beck and Hulda Clark.
Natural Cancer Cures #2: Laetrile / Amygdalin / Vitamin B17
In my earlier article Natural Cancer Cure Laetrile (Amygdalin, Vitamin B17) Works Better than Chemotherapy, I outlined how laetrile has the prized ability to target cancerous cells while leaving healthy ones intact. In this way, it is far superior to chemotherapy which is an indiscriminate killer. I am still amazed by the fact that the solutions to cancer are to be found in Nature right in front of our noses, if we just care to broaden our perspective. Here’s exactly how laetrile works:
“Laetrile is made of 4 parts, two of which are glucose, the third of which is benzaldehyde and the fourth of which is cyanide. The mere mention of the word “cyanide” tends to send people into mild shock since it is a well know poison. However, the cyanide and benzaldehyde in laetrile are not free molecules, and come naturally bound within other molecular formations. In fact there are many foods including vitamin B12 that contain cyanide, but they are safe since the cyanide remains locked up as part of another molecule.
Now here’s the brilliant part: cancer cells contain an enzyme that healthy cells do not, beta-glucosidase, called the “unlocking enzyme”. This enzyme causes the release of both the benzaldehyde and the cyanide, thus destroying the cancer cell, but cannot occur in a healthy cell, since it doesn’t contain this unlocking enzyme. Additionally, there is an enzyme in healthy cells, rhodanese, which catches free cyanide molecules and renders them harmless by combining them with sulfur. By binding the cyanide to sulfuric rhodanese, it is converted to a cyanate, which is a neutral substance. Cancer cells don’t contain enough sulfur to do this!”
Another important aspect to laetrile are the 2 glucose parts. Recall that cancer cells do not gain energy aerobically (through oxygen) but rather anaerobically (by fermenting sugar); in fact, cancer cells consume around 15 times more sugar than normal healthy cells. This means they steal the energy from the food you eat, but you can use this fact against them. Cancer cells are way more attracted to sugar molecules, so when you pair a cancer-killing molecule with the sugar molecule, the cancer cell will consume both and end up dying. It’s a kind of Trojan Horse killing method and is the exact same principle by which the other natural cancer cures work, such as ones with baking soda.
Natural cancer cures: baking soda or sodium bicarbonate.
Natural Cancer Cures #3: Baking Soda
Baking soda (sodium bicarbonate or NaHCO3) has been used in a variety of ways to heal cancer. As mentioned in part 1, the Italian medic Dr. Tullio Simoncini believes cancer is a fungus and has had great success in treating patients with IV (intravenous) baking soda. Others have paired baking soda with a sweetener such as maple syrup, in a Trojan horse like way. Since cancer cells consume 15 times more sugar than normal cells, they are attracted to and gobble up the maple syrup, which is bound to the baking soda. Then the baking soda (a very alkaline substance) forces a rapid shift in the pH of the cancer cells, killing them. The cancer cells can’t withstand such alkalinity.
Natural Cancer Cures #4: DCA
DCA (short for Sodium Dichloroacetate) became widely known after cardiologist Dr. Evangelos D. Michelakis, working at the Department of Medicine at the University of Alberta, Canada, found in 2007 that it led to regression in lung, breast, and brain cancers – sometimes causing the tumor mass to shrink by 70% in just 3 weeks! As discussed in part 1, one of the hallmarks of cancer is that the cancer cells have overridden the command to commit suicide (apoptosis). DCA corrects this by turning on the mitochondria of cancerous cells, which directs them to commit apoptosis.
DCA is an ordinary molecule with extraordinary abilities. It is non-toxic, odorless and colorless. DCA is a small, simple compound that cannot be patented – and so, since it is not a drug and does not require a prescription, it threatens the profits of Big Pharma, who don’t want you to know about it. It only affects cancerous cells and leaves healthy cells intact.
Natural Cancer Cures #5: The Gerson Therapy
Dr. Max Gerson was a brilliant German doctor who took in weak cancer patients after Western Medicine was done with them and said “You’ve tried all our treatments. There’s nothing more we can do for you.” Gerson then managed to heal an amazing percentage of them. In his day, skin TB was the scariest thing, not cancer. Gerson cured 446 out of 450 skin TB patients, which is a greater-than-99% cure rate!
The Gerson Therapy is predicated on the fact that the 2 main causes of cancer are deficiency and toxicity. The Gerson Therapy is basically 3 things:
1. Salt and Water Management (restrict sodium, increase potassium)
2. Toxin Removal (performs coffee enemas, restrict animal protein)
3. Energy (ATP) Production (add iodine, perform hyperalimentation [best nutrition in largest possible quantity])
The Gerson cancer protocol basically consists of 13 vegetable juices (8 oz each) per day, 1 vegetable soup, herbal teas and coffee enemas. There are no animal products, no alcohol, no caffeine, no salt, no white sugar (a little honey is OK), no grains (except a little rye), no legumes, no berries, no pineapple and no mushrooms allowed. The tumors do not grow on the sugar in the vegetable juice, because the enzymes keep them in check.
Gerson’s work has continued on under the watchful eye of his daughter Charlotte, who has fine-tuned the protocol. They discovered that cancer tumors grow on sodium, animal protein and fat (the one exception is flax oil which is the only oil that does not grow tumors but helps supply patients with essential fatty acids). Charlotte claims that salt/sodium is a type of poison (since it’s an enzyme inhibitor), and unnecessary for human nutrition needs, and therefore not part of the Gerson cancer protocol. In 1957 Danish scientist Professor Jens Christian Skou of Aarhus University discovered there is a sodium-potassium pump in the cell (for which he later received the Nobel Prize in 1997). Sodium resides outside of the cell (saltwater), whereas potassium is inside of cell (freshwater). Cancer patients need to eat lots of foods with high potassium/sodium ratios (e.g. banana, guava, fig, nectarine, peach) to rebalance the sodium overload. Just as there is a big lack of potassium and overuse of sodium in modern diets, there is likewise a lack of magnesium and overuse of calcium. The Gerson approach is very scientific in deliberately increasing the potassium and magnesium levels of its patients to starve the cancer of fuel. The results have been very impressive.
Natural Cancer Cures #6: The Budwig Diet
Another German doctor (Dr. Johanna Budwig) came up with a clever cancer cure based on combining 2 relatively common foods. In 1951, she found that the blood of seriously ill cancer patients was deficient in some essential substances (e.g. phosphatides and lipoproteins) which a healthy person’s blood always contained. She discovered a way to easily replace these substances using just 2 common foods, flax oil and cottage cheese. When mixed together, amazing results can be achieved, such as the disappearance of anemia and weakness, and the healing of diabetes and cancer.
The Budwig Diet works because it recognizes that the human body is electric, and that we acquire cancer when we let our inner voltage get too low:
“In Germany in 1952, [Dr. Budwig] was the [German] central government’s senior expert for fats and pharmaceutical drugs … considered one of the world’s leading authorities on fats and oils. Her research has shown the tremendous effects that commercially processed fats and oils have in destroying cell membranes and lowering the voltage in the cells of our bodies, which then result in chronic and terminal disease … The cells of our body fire electrically. They have a nucleus in the center of the cell which is positively charged, and the cell membrane, which is the outer lining of the cell, is negatively charged … when unsaturated fats have been chemically treated, their unsaturated qualities are destroyed and the field of electrons removed. This commercial processing of fats destroys the field of electrons that the cell membranes (60-75 trillion cells) in our bodies must have to fire properly (i.e. function properly). The fats’ ability to associate with protein and thereby to achieve water solubility in the fluids of the living body—all this is destroyed.”
It’s all about polarity. When the polarity is missing (due to the lack of electron-rich highly unsaturated fat), your body can’t make new cells properly. This can be reversed by providing flax oil and cottage cheese which together revive the stagnated growth process. This naturally causes any tumors present to dissolve.
Natural Cancer Cures #7: The Hoxsey Cure
Harry Hoxsey reportedly had a flamboyant personality, and he was certainly not the first (nor the last) natural cancer healer to go up against the Big Pharma-Western Medicine establishment, including the AMA and its guard-dog the FDA. After the AMA/FDA forced him out the US, he set up a clinic in Tijuana, Mexico. Hoxsey cured many people of cancer with a concotion based on roots and bark that had worked for his family (of veteranians) to cure their horses of cancer. Ty Bollinger writes that the Hoxsey formula contained:
“A solution of cascara (Rhamnus purshiana) and potassium iodide served as a base for the following herbs, added according to individual cancer cases:
Burdock root (Arctium lappa)
Barberry or berberis root (Berberis vulgaris)
Buckthorn bark (Rhamnus frangula)
Stillingia root (Stillingia sylvatica)
Prickly ash bark (Zanthoxylum americanum)
Poke root (Phytolacca americana)
Hoxsey’s understanding of cancer was that it is a systemic disease created from metabolic imbalances that needed to be restored. His tonics were meant to help create homeostasis (internal stability), kill cancer cells, and remove the toxins created from killing cancer cells. This perspective is in line with almost all natural cancer treatments and practitioners.”
Interestingly, both Hoxsey and Dr. Gerson emphasized the importance of iodine in their natural cancer protocols.
Natural Cancer Cures #8: Essiac Tea
Former Canadian cancer nurse Rene Caisse successfully treated the terminally ill for over 50 years with her remarkable plant-based formula. It removes toxic accumulation in the lymphs, bone marrow, bladder and alimentary canal, clears the respiratory channel, purifies the blood, protects the body against radiation, relieves pain, increases appetite and boosts energy levels – as well as curing cancer. Her formula came to be known as “Essiac” tea (which is her last name Caisse spelt backwards). The basic components of Essiac are sheep sorrel and burdock root which are known to kill cancer cells.
Essiac Tea is a long-proven method of curing cancer. It dates back to the 1920s and earlier. There are several brands on the market, however what is most important are the quality and freshness of the herbs (and how well they are processed so as to keep their nutrients intact), not the exact secret recipe or secret formula with certain proportions.
The ICRF rates the Essiac Tea treatment as only being effective on newly diagnosed cancer patients who do not have fast-growing cancer.
Natural cancer cures: graviola (soursop).
Natural Cancer Cures #9: Graviola (Soursop) and Paw Paw
There are also certain fruits which have been known to kill cancer, including graviola (also known as soursop) and paw paw:
“We [the ICRF] recommend graviola on the basis of several scientific articles, several testimonials, and several comments by practitioners (mostly from Brazil), however, Paw Paw is actually stronger than graviola at treating cancer. Paw Paw is the more potent of the two because of its more sophisticated and larger molecular structures. Graviola is sometimes called “Brazilian Paw Paw,” which can cause some confusion … Graviola only has single ring compounds, while the Paw Paw’s acetogenins have several double ring compounds (e.g. bullatacin) which makes Paw Paw much more powerful.”
These fruits work by decreasing or eliminating the production of ATP (the main energy fuel of a cell). This in turn lowers the voltage of the cell. For normal cells, there is plenty of ATP, thus lowering the level of ATP has no real effect. However, with cancer cells, due to the fact they create energy by fermentation, ATP is far more critical. When the ATP level of the cancer cell falls to a critical level, the cell falls apart.
These Central and South American fruits kill cancer in a different way to other protocols, and thus should never be combined with them.
Just as with the Essiac Tea treatment above, the ICRF rates the graviola/paw paw treatment as only being effective on newly diagnosed cancer patients who do not have fast-growing cancer.
Natural Cancer Cures #10: IP6
IP6 is short for inositol hexaphosphate. It’s a natural carbohydrate molecule present in most plant and animal cells. Your body makes IP6 from inositol, and you can also intake it from grains, legumes and meat. It regulates numerous intracellular functions, such as signal transduction, cell growth and differentiation, platelet function and cholesterol metabolism. Its anticarcinogenic properties are based on its ability to stimulate the immune system, act as a powerful antioxidant and its capacity to stop angiogenesis (one of the 6 hallmarks of cancer in part 1).
In part 3 we continue to list more of the natural cancer cures that are abundant in our world.
*****
Want insight, commentary and analysis on Conspiracy, Geopolitics, Natural Health, Sovereignty, Consciousness and more? Sign up for free blog updates!
Makia Freeman is the editor of alternative media / independent news site The Freedom Articles and senior researcher at ToolsForFreedom.com, writing on many aspects of truth and freedom, from exposing aspects of the worldwide conspiracy to suggesting solutions for how humanity can create a new system of peace and abundance.
Sources:
*http://freedom-articles.toolsforfreedom.com/natural-cancer-cure-laetrile/
*http://freedom-articles.toolsforfreedom.com/cancer-busting-myths-cancer-microbe-p1/
*http://www.cell.com/cancer-cell/abstract/S1535-6108%2806%2900372-2
*https://phys.org/news/2013-10-mechanism-sodium-potassium-revealed.html
*https://www.cancertutor.com/budwig/
*https://www.cancertutor.com/graviola/
Share This Post
Tweet
FacebookTwitterEmailDeliciousDiggGoogleStumbleuponRedditTechnoratiYahooBloggerMyspaceRSS
Posted by Makia Freeman on February 21, 2018. Filed under Breaking News,Cancer (Suppressed Cures),Feature Article,Super Foods and Supplements. You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0. You can leave a response or trackback to this entry
15 Responses to Cancer: Busting the Myths – Part 2 (Natural Cancer Cures)
bluewater Reply
February 21, 2018 at 2:10 am
Great Article..
More cures..Ann Wigmore wheat grass,you can buy her book ( David Rockefeller created Sloan Kettering Hospital in NYC..The prestigious hospital for curing Cancer,along with other ELITES.
When his brother had Cancer,he did not go there to be cured,he went instead to the Caribbean and was cured…THAT SPEAKS VOLUMES!!!
YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT WHY COPPER IS ESSENTIAL TO OUR HEALTH, MIND, BODY AND SPIRIT. SUPER IMPORTANT INFORMATION AND… IS AN ANSWER TO RIDDING THE BODY OF CANDIDA!…Cancer
https://youtu.be/4BMGj-Dlsww
https://youtu.be/wna4c421haY
To get rid of Toxins..it is important to take everyday..
Zinc Picolinate…most absorbed by the body
Selenium
Lugols Iodine
Collodial Copper is hundred times more stronger than Silver and Gold ( made without NANO PARTICLES)
Magnesium
Sodium Bicarbonate
WATER..good water
Raw Garlic..smashed and let to oxidize for 10 mins
Nicholas Jackson Reply
February 26, 2018 at 5:43 am
Excellent advise which I concur with.
Cutting out sugar and carbohydrates is also very important.
bluewater Reply
February 21, 2018 at 2:22 am
Copper ..reason you have grey hair and are bald. It is because they are deficient in COPPER.Once you take Copper the hair will turn back to original color. Copper will reduce the Plaque inside your VEINS. Sulfur is raw garlic(smash it and let it oxidize for 10 mins) The BODY will produce Ammonia to balance the Acidity in DISEASE..CANCER etc. You can buy COPPER that is not made with Nano particles(NANO TOXICITY) which is way more stronger than Silver and Gold.
from http://augmentinforce.50webs.com/
Yes! There Was/Is A Fountain of Youth! The Evidence.
https://youtu.be/bwoGZEpOJ38
Lauren Reply
February 28, 2018 at 2:54 pm
The website is impressive, nothing about copper here…
“You can buy COPPER that is not made with Nano particles(NANO TOXICITY) which is way more stronger than Silver and Gold.
from http://augmentinforce.50webs.com/”
Where is the info?
Thank you.
bluewater Reply
March 1, 2018 at 1:07 am
Lauren as you see you can spend weeks on the site with so much information. You can call Tony and he will explain to you. He makes it and you can order from him to be shipped from USA or Canada , because shipping is expensive to cross line.USA is $10.00 and Canada is much more to ship to USA,but cheaper if you live in Canada. I have and he has also called just about every company that makes silver and gold and copper and they all will tell you they use NANO PARTICLES. You can also email him and he will tell you price and shipping if you give him your address at
Call-519-977-5351 Canada- Email independz@yahoo.com
The last time I ordered Copper was $25.00 which will last a long time.
I have been ordering from him for years.
You can watch his videos(hundreds) on youtube and he also teaches you to make it yourself.
bluewater Reply
March 1, 2018 at 8:24 pm
Power of Copper
https://youtu.be/ojyqdZUQcws
bluewater Reply
March 2, 2018 at 12:55 pm
Tony
We also need to wake up and recognize we are being exterminated, and start working to help educate and inform others.
The good news is, Tony informs us, the nanotechnology can be deactivated and detoxed through simple natural means. If we care about our health today and our children’s health, we all need to detox, on a continuous basis.
https://www.podomatic.com/podcasts/independz/episodes/2018-03-01T17_31_22-08_00
https://www.podomatic.com/podcasts/independz/episodes/2018-02-28T22_05_01-08_00
Bobette Reply
February 21, 2018 at 1:03 pm
Moe information for you!
Jenny Goddard Reply
February 21, 2018 at 6:39 pm
Fantastic article again, cannot wait for no: 3
Sharing on Face book…
Have a friend, just diagnosed, so sending her all the articles.
bluewater Reply
February 21, 2018 at 7:03 pm
2-20-2018
-SSP is in UTAH (Arizona to Utah underground)
-Florida ..Nikolas Cruz…son of an FBI man…Crisis Actor…there is a video of him rehearsing his script.
-Medical
Western Medicine
Chemo…spreads Cancer. FLU SHOTS ..is how they are spreading all diseases.
-Royal Rife in 1934 Cured Cancer..so we have had the cure since 1934.
-Frequency healing..transmutation from one form to another in 3hrs…. this will be how it will be done soon in the future. Getting rid of the 90% Chemicals in Western Medicine.
This will be MEDICINE RESET.
You have 300 thousand types of CELLS in the body. -Frequency healing will do 3 things.
1-preventing Aging
2-changing your DNA
3-removing disease
– We will be going back to Wireless Energy. The Dark Cabal has shut it down for a long time. -Schumann Frequency will help with Longevity….thousands of years old like we should be.
YOUR DNA IS GOING TO BE ADVANCED.
Freespirit Reply
February 21, 2018 at 11:10 pm
Thank you for this information. As a Certified Nutritional Consultant by trade I have added this article to my folder of CURES for many diseases.
bluewater Reply
February 23, 2018 at 1:59 am
AI is here..wake up
Nano Toxicity..GMO..Transhumanism..replacing YOUR SOUL with machine!!!
https://www.podomatic.com/podcasts/independz/episodes/2018-02-20T23_00_43-08_00
bluewater Reply
February 24, 2018 at 6:42 pm
84th Holistic Doctor found dead!!!…BIG PHARMA???
Natural Doc. Found Dead! Police Say IT’S MURDER!
Many Holistic Doctors..diagnosed with Cancer and a week later DEAD!!
https://youtu.be/ZPgdlDIxVAI
Anju Reply
February 26, 2018 at 12:51 pm
THANK YOU, for sharing this wonderful article.
aheadontheRight Reply
March 25, 2018 at 9:06 pm
Concerning Essiac Tea:
Allen’s Club in Minneapolis uses Rene Caisse’s original four component formula in reproducing her tea from organically grown plants. A group of Canadian doctors bought the copyright to the name ‘Essiac’, so now from what I understand, it can’t be legally advertised as such by others. Those doctors produce the tea at an immensely inflated price in my opinion.
But anyone can make and sell the exact same tea, you just can’t legally call it ‘Essiac’. Rene Caisse’s formula is engraved on a marker in a monument to her in the Canadian town where she lived and worked, so it is public knowledge.
Allen’s Club, which may require (?) a phone call, not simply an email to contact, sells it at a reasonable price… north of $50 by now, I believe… for something like a six month supply (dry).
And:
Thetruthaboutcancer.com gives Caisse’s recipe online.
Ingredients in Essiac Tea Recipe:
1 ½ pounds (one and one-half pounds) cut burdock root (Arctium lappa is a natural blood detoxifier)
1 pound powdered sheep sorrel (Rumex acetosella is a powerful antioxidant)
¼ pound (one-quarter pound) powdered slippery elm (Ulmus fulva is a powerful antioxidant)
1 ounce powdered Turkish (Indian) rhubarb root (Rheum pamatum is a phytochemical that is naturally astringent, anti-microbial, antifungal, and anti-inflammatory
Directions to Make Essiac Tea:
Mix all four herbs thoroughly, store in a tightly sealed glass container away from light
For a quart of tea, you need 1 ounce of herbal blend
For a gallon of tea, you need 4 ounces of herbal blend
Bring desired amount of water to a rolling boil in a steel or cast iron pot for 15 minutes
Cover with a lid, steep at least 12 hours
The following day, reheat the water but do not boil
Allow to settle, then strain out herbs (there will be sediment in the bottom
Pour into tightly sealed glass or ceramic containers and cool
Refrigerate and use as recommended (sweetened with honey or natural sugar to taste) [I’d use honey or maple syrup ,not sugar]
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Current ye@r *
Leave this field empty
Ultimate Posts
Assange Arrest: Ecuador and UK, Bullied by US, Throw WikiLeaks Founder to the Dogs
April 12, 2019 12:34 am | By Makia Freeman
In a disgraceful and disturbing blow to freedom of the... Read more →
‘Indispensable Nation’ ‘Colludes’ with Land of ‘Chosen People’ to Blame Wrong Country for ‘State Sponsored Terror’
April 10, 2019 8:44 am | By Makia Freeman
We live in an absurd political climate these days, a... Read more →
Psilocybin and Magic Mushrooms: Next Health & Legalization Trend After Cannabis?
March 28, 2019 2:33 am | By Makia Freeman
Psilocybin, the substance found in 200+ species of magic mushrooms,... Read more →
4th Generation Warfare (4GW) used by USG to Attack Venezuela
March 14, 2019 11:42 pm | By Makia Freeman
4th Generation Warfare (fourth-generation warfare or 4GW) is a term... Read more →
5 Ways the Green New Deal Exactly Mirrors Agenda 2030
March 7, 2019 9:06 am | By Makia Freeman
The Green New Deal, submitted by new US Congresswoman Alexandria... Read more →
Recent Posts
Assange Arrest: Ecuador and UK, Bullied by US, Throw WikiLeaks Founder to the Dogs
April 12, 2019
‘Indispensable Nation’ ‘Colludes’ with Land of ‘Chosen People’ to Blame Wrong Country for ‘State Sponsored Terror’
April 10, 2019
Psilocybin and Magic Mushrooms: Next Health & Legalization Trend After Cannabis?
March 28, 2019
4th Generation Warfare (4GW) used by USG to Attack Venezuela
March 14, 2019
5 Ways the Green New Deal Exactly Mirrors Agenda 2030
March 7, 2019
Recent Comments
Boneman on 20 and Back: 2 More Whistleblowers Divulge Involvement in Secret Space Program
Guy on ‘Indispensable Nation’ ‘Colludes’ with Land of ‘Chosen People’ to Blame Wrong Country for ‘State Sponsored Terror’
Makia Freeman on Assange Arrest: Ecuador and UK, Bullied by US, Throw WikiLeaks Founder to the Dogs
aznative on 44 Reasons to NOT Elect Hillary Clinton
aznative on 44 Reasons to NOT Elect Hillary Clinton
Big Government
Breaking News
Conspiracy
Corporatocracy
Deceptive Propaganda
Economy
ETs, UFOs and the Alien Agenda
False Flags
Feature Article
Geopolitics
Health
Nature of Reality
NWO (New World Order)
Solutions
Sovereignty
RSS
© 2018, ↑ The Freedom Articles
Log in-	Posts - Add New - Powered by WordPress - Designed by Gabfire Themes