aspartame Archives | healYOUnaturally
Home
By Condition
Healing Recipes
Podcasts
Healthy Gift Guides
Buy my eBook
About
Contact
Testimonials
FAQ
Why naturally
Exclusive Coupons & Organic Deals
healYOUnaturally
Prevent| Heal | Reverse Disease Naturally
Home Archives for aspartame
Top 5 Chemical Additives in Your Food You Should Avoid Right Now
Last updated on April 9, 2018 By Astrid 2 Comments
Following a diet of wholesome foods is ideal to achieve optimum health, and stay healthy.
We all know that foods that contain more than five or six ingredients should be consumed sporadically, because anything that has a shelf life… will most likely have the same effect in your body.
The longer manufacturers use these additives, the more we learn about the impact they will have in our bodies. While natural occurring preservatives used in foods are fine, there are certain additives that are harmful and cause everything from hives, asthma, nausea, migraine headaches, chronic diseases, change in children’s behavior to severe allergic reactions.
Here is a break down of what these chemicals are:
Farm Fishing
1. Canthaxanthin in Farm Fishing
Almost 90-percent of salmon sold in supermarkets today come from farms. The diet of farmed salmon doesn’t include crustaceans, which contains a natural astaxanthin that causes pink flesh in wild salmon. As a result, producers add a similar substance– canthaxanthin to farm-salmon diets for that fresh-from-the-water appearance. Without these colorants, farmed salmon would be an unappealing grayish-white color.
Try instead: A great alternative to these chemical additives in farmed salmon is to buy Wild caught salmon from supermarkets or companies that care about wild life, such as sustainably harvested Alaskan salmon and Northwest Pacific seafood and of course your well being. A company that I love and support is Tropical Traditions which exceedds the USDA standards -(and where I get my salmon/seafood at reasonable prices).
2. Aspartame
This sugar substitute is sold commercially as Equal and NutraSweet and was hailed as a savior for dieters unhappy with saccharin’s unpleasant after-taste. Unfortunately, one out of 20,000 babies is born without the ability to metabolize phenylalanine, one of the two amino acids in Aspartame. As a result, it’s not recommended for pregnant women or infants.
Try instead these healthy sugar alternatives:
alcohol free-stevia (Truvia isn’t really recommended. Read this article by Dr. mercola and the reasons why.
local raw honey (in moderation because it is still fructose)
coconut sugar (not a low glycemic sweetener)
Swerve
Important note: Keep in mind that if you have high blood pressure, diabetes, insulin resistance (pre-diabetes), cholesterol imbalances, or if you battle with weight (like a lot of us do), you are better off without any type of sweeteners including artificial ones, because any sweetener can decrease your insulin sensitivity.
3. Artificial Flavoring
This blanket term refers to hundreds of laboratory chemicals designed to mimic natural flavors. For example, some imitation vanilla flavorings are made from petroleum or paper-mill waste. In fact, a single artificial flavoring can be created from hundreds of individual chemicals. New studies suggest artificial-flavoring additives can cause changes in behavior. So, Why Flavor food? According to the EWG A great deal of scientific engineering and design time goes into crafting flavors for processed foods.
This specialized work is done by just 500 professional flavorists who are responsible for the majority of flavors in nearly all food processed in the U.S. How a food tastes is largely determined by the volatile chemicals in the food. Chemicals that give food a specific smell are extremely important because smell makes up 80 to 90 percent of the sense of taste. In processed food, this mixture of chemicals is called “flavor.” Read the full article on flavors here.
Try instead: To eat wholesome foods, and enhance your foods with spices and even super spices, home made broths. As far as baking, use organic coconut oil, organic extracts (vanilla, banana, mango, pineapple etc..), and real flavors from fruits and vegetables.
4. Artificial Colors
Researchers in the early 1900s developed many artificial colors from coal-tar dyes and petrochemicals. Over the years, the FDA banned many of these chemicals as proven carcinogens (cancer-exacerbating agents). Today, the FDA only allows 10 colors in foods, four of which are restricted to specific uses. (This restriction suggests some risks remain. Check out the color additives section of the FDA (www.fda.gov/ForIndustry/ColorAdditives/default.htmnofollow) Web site for more information)
Try Instead: Beets, orange, elderberry or even blueberry juice to color cupcakes icing, cake decorations, and even your favorite pops. The frosting to these muffin’s was made with a healthier alternative to sugar — swerve (making them low carb). Egg white from pastured eggs, then added carrot juice to make it orange for a fall theme. I have made these fun and nutritious “elderberry gummies’ by wellnessmama for our family in the winter. I also make Ice pops in the summer like my healthy coconut ice pops which are gluten, dairy and no added sugars, or you can also make fruit juice ice pops, dried fruit, or fruit juice pops.
5. Methylcyclopropene
This gas is pumped into crates of apples to stop them from producing ethylene, the natural hormone that ripens fruit. Commonly known as SmartFresh, this chemical preserves apples for up to a year and bananas up to a month. Sulphur dioxide serves the same purpose when sprayed on grapes.
Try instead: Organic apples preferably from your local farms but if that isn’t possibly definitely go to the organic section in your super market and buy three apples vs six conventional apples that will potentially go bad in your fruit drawer. Also, if you can’t find organic, try low sprayed local apples.
Question: Were you aware of any of these quemicals in your food and have you taken any steps to remove them from your diet?
Other Great sources of information:
Sugar Substitutes—What’s Safe and What’s Not
Image Source Fish Farming
Filed Under: Miscellaneous Tagged With: aspartame, aspartame side effects, farmed fish, food coloring, food flavoring, methylcyclopropene, natural flavors, sugar substitutes, toxic chemicals
Aspartame: The Most Dangerous Substance
Last updated on December 18, 2015 By Astrid
Visit the Mercola Video Library
Aspartame is the technical name for the brand names NutraSweet, Equal, Spoonful, and Equal-Measure. It was discovered by accident in 1965 when James Schlatter, a chemist of G.D. Searle Company, was testing an anti-ulcer drug.
Aspartame was approved for dry goods in 1981 and for carbonated beverages in 1983. It was originally approved for dry goods on July 26, 1974, but objections filed by neuroscience researcher Dr. John W. Olney and consumer attorney James Turner in August 1974, as well as investigations of G.D. Searle’s research practices caused the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to put approval of aspartame on hold (December 5, 1974). In 1985, Monsanto purchased G.D. Searle and made Searle Pharmaceuticals and The NutraSweet Company separate subsidiaries.
Aspartame accounts for over 75 percent of the adverse reactions to food additives reported to the FDA. Many of these reactions are very serious, including seizures and death. A few of the 90 different documented symptoms listed in the report as part of aspartame dangers are:
Headaches/
migraines Dizziness Seizures Nausea Numbness
Muscle spasms Weight gain Rashes Depression Fatigue
Irritability Tachycardia Insomnia Vision problems Hearing loss
Heart palpitations Breathing difficulties Anxiety attacks Slurred speech Loss of taste
Tinnitus Vertigo Memory loss Joint pain
According to researchers and physicians studying the adverse effects of aspartame, the following chronic illnesses can be triggered or worsened by ingesting of aspartame:
Brain tumors Multiple sclerosis Epilepsy Chronic fatigue syndrome Parkinson’s disease
Alzheimer’s Mental retardation Lymphoma Birth defects Fibromyalgia
Diabetes
Aspartame is made up of three chemicals: aspartic acid, phenylalanine, and methanol. The book Prescription for Nutritional Healing, by James and Phyllis Balch lists aspartame under the category of “chemical poison.” As you shall see, that is exactly what it is.
What Is Aspartame Made Of?
Aspartic Acid (40 percent of Aspartame)
Dr. Russell L. Blaylock, a professor of neurosurgery at the Medical University of Mississippi, recently published a book thoroughly detailing the damage that is caused by the ingestion of excessive aspartic acid from aspartame. Blaylock makes use of almost 500 scientific references to show how excess free excitatory amino acids such as aspartic acid and glutamic acid (about 99 percent of monosodium glutamate or MSG is glutamic acid) in our food supply are causing serious chronic neurological disorders and a myriad of other acute symptoms.
How Aspartate (and Glutamate) Cause Damage
Aspartate and glutamate act as neurotransmitters in the brain by facilitating the transmission of information from neuron to neuron. Too much aspartate or glutamate in the brain kills certain neurons by allowing the influx of too much calcium into the cells. This influx triggers excessive amounts of free radicals, which kill the cells. The neural cell damage that can be caused by excessive aspartate and glutamate is why they are referred to as “excitotoxins.” They “excite” or stimulate the neural cells to death.
Aspartic acid is an amino acid. Taken in its free form (unbound to proteins), it significantly raises the blood plasma level of aspartate and glutamate. The excess aspartate and glutamate in the blood plasma shortly after ingesting aspartame or products with free glutamic acid (glutamate precursor) leads to a high level of those neurotransmitters in certain areas of the brain.
The blood brain barrier (BBB), which normally protects the brain from excess glutamate and aspartate as well as toxins, 1) is not fully developed during childhood, 2) does not fully protect all areas of the brain, 3) is damaged by numerous chronic and acute conditions, and 4) allows seepage of excess glutamate and aspartate into the brain even when intact.
The excess glutamate and aspartate slowly begin to destroy neurons. The large majority (75 percent or more) of neural cells in a particular area of the brain are killed before any clinical symptoms of a chronic illness are noticed. A few of the many chronic illnesses that have been shown to be contributed to by long-term exposure to excitatory amino acid damage include:
Multiple sclerosis (MS) Parkinson’s disease
ALS Hypoglycemia
Memory loss AIDS
Hormonal problems Dementia
Epilepsy Brain lesions
Alzheimer’s disease Neuroendocrine disorders
The risk to infants, children, pregnant women, the elderly and persons with certain chronic health problems from excitotoxins are great. Even the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology (FASEB), which usually understates problems and mimics the FDA party-line, recently stated in a review that glutamic acid should be avoided by women of childbearing age.
Aspartic acid from aspartame has the same deleterious effects on the body as glutamic acid isolated from it’s naturally protein-bound state, causing it to become a neurotoxin instead of a non-essential amino acid.
Aspartame in diet sodas, or aspartame in other liquid form are absorbed more quickly and have been shown to spike plasma levels of aspartic acid.
The exact mechanism of acute reactions to excess free glutamate and aspartate is currently being debated. As reported to the FDA, those reactions include:
Headaches/migraines Fatigue (blocks sufficient glucose entry into brain) Anxiety attacks
Nausea Sleep problems Depression
Abdominal pains Vision problems Asthma/chest tightness
One common complaint of persons suffering from the effect of aspartame is memory loss. Ironically, in 1987, G.D. Searle, the manufacturer of aspartame, undertook a search for a drug to combat memory loss caused by excitatory amino acid damage. Blaylock is one of many scientists and physicians who are concerned about excitatory amino acid damage caused by ingestion of aspartame and MSG.
A few of the many experts who have spoken out against the damage being caused by aspartate and glutamate include Adrienne Samuels, Ph.D., an experimental psychologist specializing in research design. Another is Olney, a professor in the department of psychiatry, School of Medicine, Washington University, a neuroscientist and researcher, and one of the world’s foremost authorities on excitotoxins. (He informed Searle in 1971 that aspartic acid caused holes in the brains of mice.)
Phenylalanine (50 percent of aspartame)
Phenylalanine is an amino acid normally found in the brain. Persons with the genetic disorder phenylketonuria (PKU) cannot metabolize phenylalanine. This leads to dangerously high levels of phenylalanine in the brain (sometimes lethal). It has been shown that ingesting aspartame, especially along with carbohydrates, can lead to excess levels of phenylalanine in the brain even in persons who do not have PKU.
This is not just a theory, as many people who have eaten large amounts of aspartame over a long period of time and do not have PKU have been shown to have excessive levels of phenylalanine in the blood. Excessive levels of phenylalanine in the brain can cause the levels of serotonin in the brain to decrease, leading to emotional disorders such as depression. It was shown in human testing that phenylalanine levels of the blood were increased significantly in human subjects who chronically used aspartame.
Even a single use of aspartame raised the blood phenylalanine levels. In his testimony before the U.S. Congress, Dr. Louis J. Elsas showed that high blood phenylalanine can be concentrated in parts of the brain and is especially dangerous for infants and fetuses. He also showed that phenylalanine is metabolized much more efficiently by rodents than by humans.
One account of a case of extremely high phenylalanine levels caused by aspartame was recently published by theWednesday Journal in an article titled “An Aspartame Nightmare.” John Cook began drinking six to eight diet drinks every day. His symptoms started out as memory loss and frequent headaches. He began to crave more aspartame-sweetened drinks. His condition deteriorated so much that he experienced wide mood swings and violent rages. Even though he did not suffer from PKU, a blood test revealed a phenylalanine level of 80 mg/dl. He also showed abnormal brain function and brain damage. After he kicked his aspartame habit, his symptoms improved dramatically.
As Blaylock points out in his book, early studies measuring phenylalanine buildup in the brain were flawed. Investigators who measured specific brain regions and not the average throughout the brain notice significant rises in phenylalanine levels. Specifically the hypothalamus, medulla oblongata, and corpus striatum areas of the brain had the largest increases in phenylalanine. Blaylock goes on to point out that excessive buildup of phenylalanine in the brain can cause schizophrenia or make one more susceptible to seizures.
Therefore, long-term, excessive use of aspartame may provide a boost to sales of serotonin reuptake inhibitors such as Prozac and drugs to control schizophrenia and seizures.
Methanol a.k.a wood alcohol/poison (10 percent of aspartame)
Methanol/wood alcohol is a deadly poison. Some people may remember methanol as the poison that has caused some “skid row” alcoholics to end up blind or dead. Methanol is gradually released in the small intestine when the methyl group of aspartame encounters the enzyme chymotrypsin.
The absorption of methanol into the body is sped up considerably when free methanol is ingested. Free methanol is created from aspartame when it is heated to above 86 Fahrenheit (30 Centigrade). This would occur when aspartame-containing product is improperly stored or when it is heated (e.g. as part of a “food” product such as Jello).
Methanol breaks down into formaldehyde in the body. Formaldehyde is a deadly neurotoxin. An EPA assessment of methanol states that methanol “is considered a cumulative poison due to the low rate of excretion once it is absorbed. In the body, methanol is oxidized to formaldehyde.” They recommend a limit of consumption of 7.8 mg/day. A one-liter (approx. 1 quart) aspartame-sweetened beverage contains about 56 mg of methanol. Heavy users of aspartame-containing products consume as much as 250 mg of methanol daily or 32 times the EPA limit.
Symptoms from methanol poisoning include headaches, ear buzzing, dizziness, nausea, gastrointestinal disturbances, weakness, vertigo, chills, memory lapses, numbness and shooting pains in the extremities, behavioral disturbances, and neuritis. The most well known problems from methanol poisoning are vision problems including misty vision, progressive contraction of visual fields, blurring of vision, obscuration of vision, retinal damage, and blindness. Formaldehyde is a known carcinogen, causes retinal damage, interferes with DNA replication and causes birth defects.
Due to the lack of a couple of key enzymes, humans are many times more sensitive to the toxic effects of methanol than animals. Therefore, tests of aspartame or methanol on animals do not accurately reflect the danger for humans. As pointed out by Dr. Woodrow C. Monte, director of the food science and nutrition laboratory at Arizona State University: “There are no human or mammalian studies to evaluate the possible mutagenic, teratogenic or carcinogenic effects of chronic administration of methyl alcohol.”
He was so concerned about the unresolved safety issues that he filed suit with the FDA requesting a hearing to address these issues. He asked the FDA to:
“…[S]low down on this soft drink issue long enough to answer some of the important questions. It’s not fair that you are leaving the full burden of proof on the few of us who are concerned and have such limited resources. You must remember that you are the American public’s last defense. Once you allow usage (of aspartame) there is literally nothing I or my colleagues can do to reverse the course. Aspartame will then join saccharin, the sulfiting agents, and God knows how many other questionable compounds enjoined to insult the human constitution with governmental approval.”
Shortly thereafter, the Commissioner of the FDA, Arthur Hull Hayes, Jr., approved the use of aspartame in carbonated beverage. He then left for a position with G.D. Searle’s public relations firm.
It has been pointed out that some fruit juices and alcoholic beverages contain small amounts of methanol. It is important to remember, however, that methanol never appears alone. In every case, ethanol is present, usually in much higher amounts. Ethanol is an antidote for methanol toxicity in humans. The troops of Desert Storm were “treated” to large amounts of aspartame-sweetened beverages, which had been heated to over 86 degrees F in the Saudi Arabian sun. Many of them returned home with numerous disorders similar to what has been seen in persons who have been chemically poisoned by formaldehyde. The free methanol in the beverages may have been a contributing factor in these illnesses. Other breakdown products of aspartame such as DKP (discussed below) may also have been a factor.
In a 1993 act that can only be described as “unconscionable,” the FDA approved aspartame as an ingredient in numerous food items that would always be heated to above 86 degree F (30 degree C).
Diketopiperazine (DKP)
DKP is a byproduct of aspartame metabolism. DKP has been implicated in the occurrence of brain tumors. Olney noticed that DKP, when nitrosated in the gut, produced a compound that was similar to N-nitrosourea, a powerful brain tumor causing chemical. Some authors have said that DKP is produced after aspartame ingestion. I am not sure if that is correct. It is definitely true that DKP is formed in liquid aspartame-containing products during prolonged storage.
G.D. Searle conducted animal experiments on the safety of DKP. The FDA found numerous experimental errors occurred, including “clerical errors, mixed-up animals, animals not getting drugs they were supposed to get, pathological specimens lost because of improper handling,” and many other errors. These sloppy laboratory procedures may explain why both the test and control animals had 16 times more brain tumors than would be expected in experiments of this length.
In an ironic twist, shortly after these experimental errors were discovered, the FDA used guidelines recommended by G.D. Searle to develop the industry-wide FDA standards for good laboratory practices.
DKP has also been implicated as a cause of uterine polyps and changes in blood cholesterol by FDA Toxicologist Dr. Jacqueline Verrett in her testimony before the U.S. Senate.
Source: Aspartame: The Most Dangerous Substance on the Market
Filed Under: Breaking News Tagged With: aspartame
About Astrid
Welcome!
I am the founder and health blogger behind the scenes! I love to share information about preventing, healing and reversing dis-ease as naturally as possible.
I help people like YOU sort out the myths from the facts-- while discovering ways to gain your health back. This can be accomplished by making small but effective lifestyle changes with wholesome foods, specific condition targeted supplements ™, healing recipes, well researched health articles and healing foods. More...
Featured Article
How Certain Foods Contribute To Memory Loss
The importance of brain health cannot be stressed enough since memory loss is one of the most common conditions affecting millions of individuals all over the world. At least 24 million people are believed to be living with some form of memory loss … Learn more...
Save 15%Off Exclusive Coupon!
Chemical Free Hair Color (paraben, sulfate, free)
My Healthy Amazon Picks Page. Click below
Check out my page and find the wholesome foods, superfoods, and products I use and recommend.
You May Also Be Interested In:
Allergies Beauty Beef Breaking News Cancer Cardiovascular Causes We Support Chicken Desserts Detoxing Recipes ebooks Fitness Gardening Giveaways Healing Foods Healing Juices Health Healing Tips Healthy Foods Tips Healthy Gift Guides Healthy Living healthy snacks holidays Hormones Important Minerals Juicing To Heal Low Carb Miscellaneous Natural Remedies Nuts-Legumes Organic Gardening Podcasts Quotes Recipes Reviews Safe & Healthy Salads Smoothies Social media Superfoods Uncategorized Videos
Most Popular Pages
Most Popular Pages Select CategoryAllergiesBeautyBeefBreaking NewsCancerCardiovascularCauses We SupportChickenDessertsDetoxing RecipesebooksFitnessGardeningGiveawaysHealing FoodsHealing JuicesHealth Healing TipsHealthy Foods TipsHealthy Gift GuidesHealthy Livinghealthy snacksholidaysHormonesImportant MineralsJuicing To HealLow CarbMiscellaneousNatural RemediesNuts-LegumesOrganic GardeningPodcastsQuotesRecipesReviewsSafe & HealthySaladsSmoothiesSocial mediaSuperfoodsUncategorizedVideos
You May Also Like:
10: Biomechanics, Pain Science, Mobility + (Bulletproofing Your Body of Injuries)
3 Ridiculously Easy Natural Remedies For Exceptional GI Health
This Home Remedy Gets Rid of Colds or The Flu Fast
Vitamin C- Immunity Boost Juice for Cold and Flu
Stop The Flu or A Cold Fast with This Immunity Boost Drink
Home
By Condition
Healing Recipes
Podcasts
Healthy Gift Guides
Buy my eBook
About
Contact
Testimonials
FAQ
Why naturally
Exclusive Coupons & Organic Deals
My Favorite Coconut Oil
Pages by Category
Pages by Category Select CategoryAllergiesBeautyBeefBreaking NewsCancerCardiovascularCauses We SupportChickenDessertsDetoxing RecipesebooksFitnessGardeningGiveawaysHealing FoodsHealing JuicesHealth Healing TipsHealthy Foods TipsHealthy Gift GuidesHealthy Livinghealthy snacksholidaysHormonesImportant MineralsJuicing To HealLow CarbMiscellaneousNatural RemediesNuts-LegumesOrganic GardeningPodcastsQuotesRecipesReviewsSafe & HealthySaladsSmoothiesSocial mediaSuperfoodsUncategorizedVideos
Copyright healyounaturally.com © 2019 | [Focus Theme] | [Genesis Framework] [Studio Press][Proudly hosted by WXP ] | [ Site map] |[ Privacy Policy] | [ Disclaimer] | [ Donate :) ] Log in