Baking Soda and Coconut Oil for Basal Cell Carcinoma - Earth Clinic®
Menu
Skip to right header navigation
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to secondary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
World's Largest Collection of Natural Cures
Home
Old Version
Shop
About
Who We Are
What People Say
Our Books
Help Us
Search
Close
Search Earth Clinic
Archive Site (Old Version)
Shop
Contact Us
Ailments
Remedies
Pets
Latest Posts
Help Us
Ted’s Remedies
About
Videos
Terms of Service
Returns
Shop
Remedies
All Remedies
Ted’s Remedies
Supplements
Herbs
Beauty Remedies
Children’s Remedies
Articles
World
Green
Ailments
Pets
Latest Posts
Contact Us
You are here: Home / Ailments / Baking Soda and Coconut Oil for Basal Cell Carcinoma
Baking Soda and Coconut Oil for Basal Cell Carcinoma
December 26, 2018 // by Earth Clinic Reviews// 16 Comments
Average rating is: 5.2
Add New Post
Reader Interactions
Add a Post Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published.
Comment
Name
Email
Location
Rate it: 5 4 3 2 1 0
* Earth Clinic, LLC Terms of Service agreement
* Earth Clinic, LLC Online Privacy Statement
* I am age 13 or older
By clicking "Post Comment" you agree to the terms of the Earth Clinic LLC service agreement and the privacy policy statement, and that you are 13 or older.
Don't subscribeAllReplies to my comments Notify me of follow-up comments to my post via e-mail. Note: you can also receive notifications to this thread without commenting.
Reviews From Our Readers
Lodi L. from Australia
February 6, 2019 at 11:21 pm
Hi all, Just read some recent research finding that contradicts the belief that maintaining an alkaline environment would weaken cancer cell growth. Could someone knowledgeable please comment on this research. See website https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2018/07/180731104216.htm that was followed by article in Medical News today 2/8/18 with heading “cancer cells are weaker when more acidic”.
I’m at present treating basal cell carcinoma with ACV, BS and VCO and if this info is correct I’m doing the wrong thing.
Hope someone can throw some further light on this. Blessings to all of you.
Reply to Lodi
Baking Soda and Coconut Oil
Pujan from Nsw Australia
July 22, 2018 at 12:01 am
I had a scab on my scalp that was 12mm in diameter and very slowly getting bigger. My doctor referred me to a surgeon who did a punch biopsy. The results showed that it was BCC and the surgeon said that I would need surgical removal fairly soon. The wait for an appointment to see a surgeon for an evaluation was two months so that made it easy to decide to use an alternative treatment. Although I had Black Salve available, it felt too extreme to use on the thin flesh of my scalp so I chose instead to apply baking soda and coconut oil once a day, thanks to all the Earth Clinic reports.
After a week, it got a bit irritated with some small amounts of blood expressed. At that point, I cut away the hair in the area and started applying a Band-Aid to keep it from my pillow when I slept. In the shower every day I washed my hair normally and then applied pHisohex anti-bacterial face wash as an antiseptic and then rinsed that as well.
After eight weeks the bleeding stopped and signs of the BCC were disappearing. I kept applying the mix for four more weeks just in case. Now the hair is growing back well although it's a little lighter and the only way I can tell where it was it is a slight dent in my scalp. I stopped six weeks ago. In a follow-up visit to my doctor I had to show him twice where the BCC used to be.
FYI, I consulted three more surgeons who all said it needed to be cut out and one even said I'd need a skin graft (where no hair would grow) to cover the wound. At that point the (free) surgery wouldn't actually be available for another three months as I am a public patient with a low time-priority issue. None of them would discuss my self-treatment for legal reasons.
In retrospect, I'd try the Black Salve as a quicker treatment and possibly more certain cure. Thank you EARTHCLINIC!
Reply to Pujan
Baking Soda and Coconut Oil
Patann from Nevada
May 13, 2018 at 11:35 am
I had a bcc on my scalp. Had surgery but it came back with a leison that grew larger. I researched and found a lady who had cured her mother's bcc in the same spot as mine with baking soda and coconut oil. She gave a pictorial ongoing account so I tried it and put it on every day and cleaned it at night. It was tender but gradually came off a little at a time. After several weeks the last part came off today. My scalp is red but I am going to put aloe vera on it. Now I'm hoping my hair will grow back there. Not sure if there is any of it remaining under my scalp but guess I'll find out.
Reply to Patann
Apple Cider Vinegar, Baking Soda and Coconut Oil
John from Hawaii
May 21, 2017 at 6:14 pm
Cured 3 BCC with ACV and baking soda with coconut oil.
The first time I removed my bcc, I used ACV soaked in a cotton ball and taped it to my BCC every night. After a few days it turned red and after about a month I was BCC free.
The second time I removed my bcc, it was close to my eyes, so I used baking soda with coconut oil 1 tbsp each mixed and made a paste and applied it to the area. After about 2 weeks I was bcc free. I had to deal with scabbing and redness but after that I'm bcc free.
Reply to John
Baking Soda and Coconut Oil
Vessna from Australia
July 9, 2016 at 11:39 pm
Side effect reported
I started treatment of BCC on my chest yesterday with baking soda and coconut oil. Before the treatment I had only two small visible lesions. Now my chest is full of "new" visible "spots". Is it this normal reaction to the treatment? Thanks, Vessna
Reply to Vessna
Mmsg from Somewhere, Europe
July 10, 2016 at 11:20 am
Vessna, the mixture might be pulling hidden ones to the surface. Which is a good thing in my book.
Reply to Mmsg
Nanowriter from Hotspot, Tx
July 10, 2016 at 11:20 am
Vessna, that is perfectly normal. The lesion will probably get inflamed and may pus up or bleed slightly. Then over time it will heal normally. Just keep applying the paste.
Reply to Nanowriter
Baking Soda and Coconut Oil
Carol from North Carolina, US
November 21, 2014 at 10:08 am
I was just diagnosed with basal cell on the tip of my nose. I used a paste of coconut oil and baking soda (1 tsp of each) as often as I could. I also first swabbed the area with apple cider vinegar. I am happy to say after about 6 weeks, I am free of any cancer on my nose. It works and looks completely normal.
Reply to Carol
Taylor from Wisconsin
January 6, 2015 at 12:31 am
Hi! I was just recently diagnosed with basal cell carcinoma as well and I saw your post and I have been using the baking soda and coconut oil. What happened when you used it? Mine has a scab on it that's hollow and it has a ring around that looks like it's trying to heal. It's flaky after putting the paste on. Is this normal?
Reply to Taylor
Mmsg from Somewhere, Europe
January 6, 2015 at 9:09 am
Taylor, that's exactly what mine looked like during my treatment of it with 101 different tryouts of things.
If the area isn't getting bigger, keep at it and pls report back.
Reply to Mmsg
Colleen from Australia
March 13, 2015 at 10:33 am
I have just been diagnosed with a BCC on my nose, after being told last year it was just a scratch by a GP and had it zapped with the dry ice thing 🙁 After the skin cancer doctor doing 3 biopsies and freaking me out, he says it's around $5000 up front, which I don't have, even if I wanted the surgery straight away. I'm glad I've seen this page and that people seem to have success with the ACV, baking soda and coconut oil. They are all things I already have, so I will start today and see what happens… It's good to see so many people here who have been through it before. I've not really been around anyone with this problem before, and the doctor scared the heck out of me 🙂
Reply to Colleen
Just Chillin from Vannes, France
April 5, 2015 at 7:55 pm
I have been using both apple cider vinegar and a paste of bicarb and coconut oil. I am not sure if I knocked the scab, but it has bled and gone dark now, so is it safe to continue with both of these treatments? Thank you so much
Reply to Just
Monique from Canada
May 1, 2015 at 8:16 am
How long do I keep the bs and co paste on the basal cell?
Reply to Monique
Claire from London
April 11, 2017 at 11:30 am
Would anyone have any advice about how to treat a BCC on my bottom eyelid? I'm interested in trying baking soda but not sure how much it would sting/be dangerous to the eye itself? Many thanks for any helpful advice?
Reply to Claire
Baking Soda and Coconut Oil
Cherryjoy from Quezon City, Philippines
August 23, 2014 at 1:15 pm
Hi my mother is suffering for late stage skin cancer, I'm not sure what type of skin cancer it is. Can I just ask if it Baking soda + coconut oil can still heal late stages of skin cancer? Please email me if possible. thanks :)))) badly needed.
Reply to Cherryjoy
Wdstklady from New York
April 30, 2015 at 4:23 pm
CherryJoy, Of course it will help any stage of BCC. Use organic raw apple cider vinegar and after generously wiping with a Cotton ball & allowing to dry apply baking soda & coconut oil. You should see results after 3 to 4 weeks. Stay away from chemical sunscreens and wear a large brimmed hat.
Reply to Wdstklady
Primary Sidebar
Add New Post
Facebook
Google+
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
Back To Article
Returns
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Medical Disclaimer
About Us
Site Footer
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
YouTube
The information on this website has not been evaluated by the FDA and is not intended to diagnose, treat, prevent, or cure any disease.
By accessing or using this website, you agree to abide by the Medical Disclaimer, Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Affiliate Disclosure.
Content may not be reproduced in any form.
COPYRIGHT ©2019 EARTH CLINIC. ALL RIGHT RESERVED.
This site uses cookies to ensure we can provide the best experience for you on our website. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. For details, please read our Privacy Policy.OkPrivacy policy