How to Treat Herpes - Page 2 of 4 -
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
How to Treat Herpes
Home
Contact
Get Rid of Herpes Review
Herpes Simplex Virus is a Fact not a Fiction
June 12, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Herpes simplex virus belongs to a group of herpes viruses known as Herpesviridae, which include human herpes virus 8 that causes Kaposi’s sarcoma, herpes zoster that causes chicken pox and shingles, and cytomegalovirus.
Herpes has two types. The first one is HSV1, which is usually associated on the face, lip, mouth infections and is the cause of fever blisters and cold sores. The second one is HSV2, usually associated with sex organ infections. This is the cause of genital herpes. Both of these types can cause extremely painful infections to humans. HSV1 and HSV2 stay dormant within the nerves that give sensation to the skin. The virus buds off from the nerve and infection the skin cells, generating painful pale blisters that are highly infectious.
Recurrences of HSV1 infection can develop on any area of the body but are most frequent on the facial area, especially around the lips. Mouth infection is common though the appearance maybe a source of concern, it is not risky to your overall health.
Herpes simplex virus is the most common virus in humans, triggering infections on the skin and mucous membranes but is also an uncommon cause of more severe infections in other body parts. Virus infections from herpes can cause extensive diseases to people with low immune system like cancer or HIV patients.
Just like all members of the virus family, herpes simplex virus stays in the human body forever. This virus only affects humans and there seems to be no cure yet. It is estimated that around half a million of new cases happen each year and in the US alone, one out of five of the overall adolescent and adult population are carrying herpes.
New born babies can have herpes simplex virus from their mother during birth. If a baby is infected with herpes virus, the following signs and symptoms may happen during the first month: low platelet count (platelets are blood elements that make it clot), bruising, skin sores, yellowish skin, convulsions, fever, breathing problems, irritability. In severe cases, infants infected with herpes may develop eye problems, small size of brain, seizures, mental retardation or even die.
Herpes simplex virus rarely spreads to the baby through the mother’s placenta but to lessen the risk of infecting babies, a caesarean delivery is recommended who have an active herpes infection at the time of delivery. One interesting fact regarding herpes is at least one third of children are infection with herpes by the end of their childhood.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: herpes facts, herpes infection, herpes simplex, herpes simplex virus, herpes virus, hsv1, hsv2
Home Remedies for Fever Blister
June 7, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Fever blisters or also known as cold sores are suffered by millions of Americans yearly. Even though this is an unimpressive occurrence, you may feel shy about your fever blisters and try to avoid them. Sad to say that the virus that cause fever blisters cannot be cured. This means that you have to be prepared with effective fever blister home remedies and information about when to consult a doctor.
Before starting this article, what are fever blisters? They are actually caused by HSV1 or herpes simplex virus type 1 and they can develop on the lips and around the mouth. Fever blisters are transmitted to other individual when the clear liquid oozes from cold sores come in contact with him or her. It can be spread by sharing cooking utensils, drinking glasses, and even as benign as parent giving the baby a kiss on the cheek.
Those who experience fever blisters can develop sores few times a year. Cold sores are very painful and unsightly. Therefore, you need good tips regarding how you can prevent them and how to make them disappear.
Cold Sores Home Remedies
You should avoid stressful situations and over eating of nuts and spicy foods. You should also avoid drinking too much alcohol. This does not imply that you cannot ever enjoy a glass of wine or eating your favorite Indian dish. It means that you should do them in moderation. While these items do not cause outbreaks, they have been proven as triggers that can result to outbreaks.
Put alcohol on the blisters. When you apply Isopropyl alcohol directly on the blisters, it helps to destroy the virus when it tries to spread. By putting alcohol, you are limiting how big the sores can get and speeding the process of crusting them and heal.
Take Lysine supplement. Lysine is an amino acid that is identical to Arginine, a building block that HSV uses to spread itself. When the virus invades a healthy cell, it forces it to turn into a small HSV factory, producing millions of copies of it. By taking 2000 – 6000 mg of Lysine daily, you efficiently flood your body with unusable building block. The body receives a signal to stop generating Arginine until it runs out of Lysine. The HSV cannot replicate itself using Lysine.
These are just some ways on how you can effectively manage fever blisters and speed up the healing process. By applying these tips, you can turn a one to two week ordeal into few days.
Filed Under: Cold Sores Tagged With: arginine, cold sore, cold sore home remedies, fever blister, herpes simplex virus, home remedies, hsv, hsv1, lysine
How to Treat Herpes inside the Mouth
June 3, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Cold sores are itchy and small painful blisters that develop on the mouth and around the lips. This is due to herpes simplex virus and this is a lifetime disease. Once the virus infects a person, it stays on his body for the rest of his life. The virus stays within the nerve endings waiting to be reactivated and cause symptoms again. This is a viral infection that antibiotics and other medicines cannot do anything.
Depending on the infection, cold sores are serious if ignored at the early stage. The worse may happen when the virus invades inside the mouth. Usually, blisters grow in hard and soft palate, throat, gums, buccal lining, and tongue. If this happens, then worse symptoms may associate the infection. The inside of the mouth is usually not affected unless there are widespread lesions outside the mouth. When the virus infect oral cavity, system infection can happen that can result to malaise, fever, and headache. Eating problem and dehydration can also associate the disease.
Treatment
With the information mentioned earlier, it is rational that treatment should be done. Here are some ways on how to manage and treat cold sores.
Medication – recent achievement in the field of medicine is antivirus drugs. Note that antiviral drugs should be reserved as aggressive form of treatment. Additionally, signs and symptoms can be relieved by taking certain medications to deal with them. For example, analgesics can be taken in case of intolerable pain.
Ointment – applying topical ointment or cream can aid in decreasing the effects of the blisters and lesions.
Gargle and Rinse – sores inside the mouth is very painful and discomforting. By gargling and rinsing, the mouth can be relieved from the discomfort. Gargling cold water can also reduce the pain inside the mouth. You should stay away from hot foods or drinks because they might irritate the sores further. You should also not eat salty and spicy food, which can lead to more discomfort.
Lysine – this is an amino acid and is a part of building blocks of protein that is essential for maintaining and repairing the integrity of connective tissues. Lysine comes in supplement or ointment form. The supplement can sustain the normal level of lysine while the ointment can be applied on the blisters.
These are just some treatments and methods on how you can treat cold sores inside the mouth. By applying these tips, you can relieve the signs and symptoms of cold sores and prevent its future recurrence.
Filed Under: Cold Sores, Herpes Articles, Natural Treatment Tagged With: blisters, canker sore, cold sores, gargle and rinse, herpes simplex virus, lysine, ointment, topical cream
Genital Herpes or Vaginal Pimples? Not Sure What It Is?
May 26, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Can you treat vaginal pimples at home? Yes. Can you treat genital herpes at home? Well, that is half of a yes. You can treat herpes at home provided that the medication comes from a doctor. Vaginal pimples are acne types. You will tend to them but not squeezing or popping them is the golden rule.
Treating vaginal herpes is similar to how you deal with facial pimples. However, if complications happen like an infection, the treatment may change. Severe acne infection needs antibiotics to eliminate the infection.
If a woman spotted or felt something in her genital but not sure what it is or how to treat it, then it should be verified by a doctor. A doctor can diagnose and give the proper medicine. It is not advisable to act on speculation when medication is involved as the best treatments are never effective on ailments they were not made for. It is like taking an aspirin to treat venereal disease.
Genital herpes is caused by HSV or herpes simplex virus and is transmitted to contact with mucous covered linings of the genital skin as well as the mouth. This virus enters the linings through microscopic tears. It goes to the nerve roots near the spinal cord and stays there forever. Once you are exposed, there is an incubation period that can last up to a week before lesions start to develop. Initially, there may be no symptoms and the virus cannot be transmitted. An outbreak usually begins within 14 days on initial infection. Symptoms may include itching, redness, tingling, followed by a blister. Small blisters are filled with fluid and they are usually found on the vulva or vagina entrance known as vesicles. When the vesicles rapture, ulcers can happen. Other possible symptoms are pain during urination and inflammation on the urethra.
True, no cure for herpes has been made so far but there are treatments that can control genital herpes symptoms effectively. Some of them are Famciclovir, Valacyclovir, and Acyclovir.
Pain Relief Remedies
Take a warm bath and pat the area to dry. Do not force yourself the skin is sore. You can use a hair dryer and set it to a comfortable blast.
To prevent chaffing, wear loose cotton garments.
Use cornstarch to keep skin dry.
To ease discomfort, you can use ice pack or cool compress.
You can take Ibuprofen or Aspirin for pain and fever.
Vaginal Pimples
Pimples are the result of an infected sebaceous gland. Pimple is a regular problem among teenagers, especially at puberty stage.
If you are sure that it is not genital herpes and it is vaginal pimples, then you do not have to see a doctor assuming that you are not depressed. Some people having bad acne problems get depressed that make them shy away from the problem. This is the point where a doctor needs to intervene.
Although you can treat vaginal pimples easily, it can be awkward getting to them. You may use the mirror to find vaginal bumps. However, there is no assurance that it will reflect them if they are hidden behind pubic hair. Therefore you have to use your fingers to search them.
To get rid of a pimple, you use soap and water. You can also use antiseptic cream to prevent infection. The most effective way for betting your health is to consult with a doctor.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: acyclovir, genital herpes, genital herpes symptoms, herpes home remedies, herpes simplex virus, vaginal herpes, vaginal pimples
Herpes Simplex Virus – Seven Myths and Facts
May 22, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Having herpes simplex virus or blisters in America is not a new thing. Around 85 million people have suffered from this disease at some point in their lives. Interestingly, most of them had this disease when there were less than 3 years of age. Herpes spreads fast because whenever a baby is kissed by his or her relatives, the virus automatically transmits on the skin.
You have seen how easy it is to get infected by herpes? This is why it is so popular. When something is popular, it is not surprising that people are debating over it. This debate usually gives birth to some myths, which should be clarified through educating people with facts as eliminating myths is important for protecting ourselves. In this short article, we will talk about 7 myths and facts regarding herpes.
Myth: Herpes simplex virus only attacks certain types of people.
Fact: There are no such certain types of people who are targeted by herpes virus. It is very common and it can happen to anyone.
Myth: It only infects people who do not keep themselves clean or not having personal hygiene.
Fact: Herpes virus has nothing to do with dirt or cleanliness. Herpes can attack anyone who is sexually active.
Myth: Herpes that occur on mouth are not the same as the sores in genital area.
Fact: Both these cold sores are actually the same. The cold sores on the mouth get transmitted to the genital area through oral or genital sex. This is the one of the main causes of genital herpes.
Myth: People will know that they are currently having herpes.
Fact: This is an insane myth as it does not allow people to realize that they are already having it. It is not important that you come to know when you are suffering from herpes. Around 80% of people do not even know that have herpes as there are mild symptoms or no symptoms at all.
Myth: Herpes passes through blood.
Fact: This is not true as herpes is not something that lives in the blood. Whether it is oral or genital herpes, it will pass through direct skin contact.
Myth 6: A cervical smear test or STI check is done for diagnosing herpes only.
Fact: Routine sexual health checks and cervical smear tests are not for diagnosing herpes. Tests for diagnosing herpes are done only when a person has some symptoms of herpes.
Myth: People who had or are having herpes cannot have kids.
Fact: Herpes simplex virus does not affect that fertility of a man or woman. On the other hand, sometimes the disease may pass to the infant but it is rare and can be prevented by informing the doctor that you or your partner carrier herpes before the delivery.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: cold sores, facts, genital herpes, herpes simplex virus, hsv 1, hsv 2, myths
All About Herpes Zoster
May 4, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Herpes Zoster
Herpes zoster is an infection resulting from reactivation of the varicella-zoster virus (VZV) that affects peripheral or cranial nerves and usually occurs years after primary infection with the varicella (chickenpox) virus or receipt of the live, attenuated varicella vaccine
The disease manifests as painful cutaneous eruptions over a single dermatome or two or more contiguous dermatomes; they are invariably unilateral and do not cross the midline. These eruptions are most commonly distributed on the thorax but can appear anywhere on the body. In some cases, cranial nerves supplying the eyes, ears, and face are involved, resulting in complicated presentations with potentially severe sequelae
The herpes zoster vaccine reduces the risk of developing the infection and reduces the severity and duration of the disease, as well as its most common complication, postherpetic neuralgia
Antiviral therapy hastens resolution of the disease and can prevent associated complications; pain medications lessen disability
Herpes zoster, also known as shingles or zoster, is a reactivated VZV infection of the sensory nerve ganglion and the peripheral nerve and its branches. Inflammation of the nerve axons results in a painful, burning sensation on the affected dermatome(s) being supplied by the peripheral nerve. Vesicular eruptions on skin of the involved dermatome are also present.
Causes
The causative agent of herpes zoster, VZV, is a linear, double-stranded deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) genome enclosed in a protein envelope. After a bout of illness with the primary infection (chickenpox), the virus lies dormant in the sensory nerve ganglion until reactivated. The process of reactivation is not entirely understood, but some of the associated risk factors are listed below.
Risk factors
Advanced age (the older the patient, the higher the risk)
In elderly patients or when cellular immunity becomes compromised, the level of T-cell function decreases until it falls below a threshold that is associated with inadequate containment of VZV reactivation and the subsequent development of herpes zoster
Immunocompromise due to disease or use of immunosuppressive medications
Cancer, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, organ or bone marrow transplantation, and chronic intake of immunosuppressive medications predispose patients to have poor cell-mediated immunity and, thus, develop herpes zoster
Immunocompromised patients are 20 times more likely to develop herpes zoster than immunocompetent patients. They are also more likely to have more diffuse involvement, severe skin lesions, increased severity and duration of pain, and atypical manifestations
Emotional and psychological stress
Emotional stress, such as bereavement, may be associated with the development of herpes zoster within 6 months after the stressful life event
Long-term stress may alter the immune system, and specific VZV cellular immunity is lower among adults with major depression
Mechanical trauma
Believed to stimulate the nervous system, thus triggering reactivation of dormant VZV in the dorsal root ganglion
White race
Female gender
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: genital herpes, herpes, herpes simplex virus, herpes zoster, hsv, zoster
Facts about Genital Herpes in Women
April 30, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Genital herpes is an STD (Sexually Transmitted Disease) caused by the herpes simplex virus or HSV.
HSV causes genital herpes by entering the skin or mucous membranes through microscopic breaks in the skin and mucous membranes.
Genital herpes can be transmitted by any kind of sexual intercourse within the genitalia.
When symptoms are present, they may include painful blisters and/or ulcers in the genital area, itching, burning or tingling sensations in the skin and some individuals may develop fever, body aches and swollen lymph nodes; symptoms come and go over the person’s lifetime.
The diagnosis is usually carried out by recognizing the changes in the skin in the genitalia but viral cultures and genetic amplification of herpes simplex virus genome material and other types of tests can be done.
There is no cure for genital herpes.
Anti-viral medications are applied to lessen the frequency and severity of the outbreaks.
Some home remedies may help reduce symptom severity, but provide no cure.
Oral medications are used during pregnancy. You should consult your OB/GYN prior to taking any oral medication when you are pregnant.
The prognosis of genital herpes is fair; there is no cure, and the recurrent outbreaks may vary in frequency and severity.
The prevention of genital herpes is difficult. Wearing condoms during sexual contact may prevent spreading the diseases but not in parts of the skin that is not covered by condom or during oral of genital contact. Clothes that touch genital herpes may spread HSV to other individuals that wear the clothes.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: genital herpes, genital herpes facts, genital herpes women, herpes simplex virus, hsv, skin ulcer
The Difference Between Herpes and Shingles
April 29, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
This is an image of shingles. The appearance is almost the same with herpes.
Herpes and shingles are very different diseases with different symptoms and ways of transmission. On the other hand, both diseases are caused by the herpes viruses. In this article, you will know the difference between these two diseases.
Several members of this virus can trigger disease but this article will focus on herpes simplex virus type 1 and type 2 and varicella-zoster virus. Herpes type 1 and type 2 cause herpes whereas the varicella-zoster virus causes chickenpox in kids and then shingles later in life.
Herpes and shingles are very common. Based on a survey, 90% of people in the United States have been exposed to HSV 1 and the CDC estimates that 32% of American will experience shingles at some point of their lives.
One of the most clinical properties of herpes simplex virus is its ability to develop a latent infection. Meaning to say, this virus can stay dormant inside the human body and will become reactivated in certain conditions, and show symptoms after the primary infection. This reactivation can be triggered by local injury, emotional stress, menstrual periods, sun light exposure, trauma, etc. On the other hand, the most prominent factor, especially to shingles outbreaks among adults is general age-related decline in the immune system known as immunosenescence.
Although modern treatment may treat the symptoms and shorten the duration of herpes and shingles attacks, many doctors disregard the potential therapeutic role of a heartburn drug known as cimetidine in dealing with herpes infections. Despite of the several published studies that have shown cimetidine significantly efficiently eases the symptoms of shingles and shorten the duration of outbreaks, the conventional medical establishment has failed to recommend this cheap treatment to adults suffering from this excruciating condition. Unfortunately, this is maybe because cimetidine has been off patent for numerous years and is no longer financed by pharmaceutical companies although it contains relief to patients suffering from shingles.
Filed Under: Natural Treatment Tagged With: cdc, cimetidine, herpes, herpes outbreak, herpes simplex virus, hsv 1, hsv 2, shingles, virus
Can Honey Cure Herpes?
April 24, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
For thousands of years, honey has been utilized for its wound and antibacterial properties. It is not surprising why many groups of scientists have decided to study it as potential cure for herpes.
Although there are only few clinical trials of honey as a treatment for herpes there have been some studies that examined the efficacy of both honey and propolis (another bee product) for treating the symptoms of herpes. Luckily, these studies have been successful.
The biggest published human study employed 90 patients carrying herpes to try one of three treatments during their outbreaks: placebo ointment, topical acyclovir, and propolis treatment. They found out that patients who used propolis experienced faster healing of their lesions. They were healed in 10 days of treatment than those patients who used topical acyclovir and placebo ointment.
A small study employed 8 patients with genital herpes and 8 patients with oral herpes. They randomize each patient with either topical acyclovir or honey and then honey on the two subsequent outbreaks. This specific study allowed the scientists to manage the differences between how patients experience outbreaks. It found out that the length of each outbreak, pain duration, and healing time were faster with honey compared to topical acyclovir.
A laboratory study of at least five studies has looked at how the propolis affects herpes virus in vitro and all have suggested that it exerts a moderate inhibitory effect. These studies conclude that even relatively low amounts of propolis extracts can be efficient at disrupting the replication of herpes simplex virus.
In summary, these studies conclude that topical application of honey may have a beneficial effect in the healing process of herpes lesions. Although alternative and complementary medicine trials can be hard to fund and publish, further studies are definitely indicated, and it will be valuable to see if the results are positive in the future studies. It would be fascinating to see how effective honey is compared to topical acyclovir. It can be used as a suppressive treatment for individuals who are still suffering from outbreaks. This is a good candidate for a research project.
Filed Under: Natural Treatment Tagged With: cure for herpes, genital herpes, honey, hsv 2, hsv1, placebo ointment, propolis, propolis extract, topical acyclovir
Can I Still Get Genital Herpes If I Wear A Condom?
May 7, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
If you are a sexually active individual who carries HSV-2 or genital herpes, then there are some things that you should learn about its transmission. This article will provide some information to protect your sex partner and prevent the virus from spreading to other people.
HSV is transmitted through skin contact. Herpes is not a blood borne virus, it remains inactive in the nervous system, and when activated it will develop to the skin area. This is known as herpes episode. Herpes outbreaks appear in the form of sores or blisters. They can develop in the vagina, scrotum, hips, thighs, butt, and lower back. Herpes sores can be big enough to see, but sometimes they are also small and hard to see.
Now that you know what genital herpes episode is, you need to know that the answer to the question is YES. You can still acquire genital herpes even if you put on your condom. You can still get herpes even if the infected person has no visible indications.
If you are in a relationship with a person who has genital herpes, then both of you should talk about it seriously. You need to go to the doctor to seek medical assistance. While condoms can reduce the risk of acquiring herpes, it is not a surefire way to prevent it. In order to protect yourself, your sex partner should commit to taking her daily treatment. There are studies that revealed using condoms combined with suppressive medication will lessen your risk up to 2 to 5 percent.
The best way to do is to consult a doctor. Your partner should not be embarrassed about her condition and she should deal with it on her own to prevent further infections. The doctor will diagnose her condition and provide several treatments to eliminate herpes.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: condom, contraceptives, genital herpes, hsv, medicines, sexual partner, valtrex
« Previous Page
Next Page »
Primary Sidebar
A Proven Program to Get Rid of Herpes!
Want to get rid of herpes? Then here's a program to get rid of it forever! Find out more about Get Rid of Herpes.
About the Author
Albert has been blogging for almost 4 years. He spends most of his time writing about different topics such as health, technology, home improvement, and cooking. Aside from being and avid blogger, Albert is a health practitioner. He built this website to exercise his field of expertise and to educate people on how they can cure herpes.
Recent Posts
What Else to Know About STDs?
The Top 3 Common STDs
Biotechs Racing Tight for Genital Herpes Vaccine in US
Professor Ian Frazer is Developing A Vaccine for Herpes Simplex Virus in Australia
Facts about Herpes Virus Family
How Can You Tell if Someone Has Genital Herpes?
Tips On How to Protect Yourself from Getting Herpes
Is it Possible to Contract Genital Herpes to the Mouth?
You Probably Have Herpes And You Do Not Know About It!
Natural Remedies for Herpes Simplex Virus
Categories
Cold Sores
Herpes Articles
Herpes News
Natural Treatment
Connect With Us!
Copyright © 2019 · HowtoTreatHerpes.Info