Ginger | NCCIH
Skip to main content
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
National Institutes of Health
NIH…Turning Discovery Into Health
Search the NCCIH Website
Información en Español
Site Menu
Home
Health Info
Topics A–Z
Herbs at a Glance
Statistics on Use
Información en Español
Be An Informed Consumer
What Is Complementary, Alternative or Integrative Health?
Safety Information
Know the Science
For Health Care Professionals
Clinical Practice Guidelines
Literature Reviews
All Health Information
Research
Research Results
Selected Results by Date
Sponsored by NCCIH
Division of Extramural Research
Conducted at NCCIH
Labs at NCCIH—Division of Intramural Research
NCCIH Research Blog
Clinical Trials
Resources for Researchers
All Research Information
Grants & Funding
What Will NCCIH Fund?
Overview
Funding Opportunities
Clinical Trial Funding
Grant Policies & Guidance
Application Resources
Program Directors
Clinical Research Toolbox
Types of Grants and Contracts
General Award Mechanisms
Small Business Research Grant Program (SBIR)
Funding for:
Natural Product Research Mind and Body Research Pain Research
All Grant Information
Training
About Research Training and Career Development
Awards & Opportunities
Institutional Training Sites
Training Grant Application, Review, and Award Process
More Training Resources
CME/CEU and Online Lectures
Online Continuing Education Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Integrated Medicine Research Lecture Series
All Training Information
News & Events
Press Releases
Alerts & Advisories
Events
Multimedia
(Video, Images, and Audio)
NCCIH Clinical Digest
A monthly newsletter with evidence-based information on complementary and integrative practices and a health condition
All News & Events
About NCCIH
NCCIH At a Glance
Mission and Vision
Organizational Structure
Director's Page
Strategic Plans & Reports
Budget & Legislation
Advisory Council
Job Opportunities
All About NCCIH
Health Topics A-Z
#
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
Ginger
Share:
On This Page
Background
How Much Do We Know?
What Have We Learned?
What Do We Know About Safety?
Keep in Mind
For More Information
Key References
© Steven Foster
This fact sheet provides basic information about ginger—common names, usefulness and safety, and resources for more information.
Common Name: ginger
Latin Name:
Zingiber officinale
Background
Ginger is a tropical plant that has green-purple flowers and a fragrant underground stem (called a rhizome). It is widely used as a flavoring or fragrance in foods, beverages, soaps, and cosmetics.
Ancient Sanskrit, Chinese, Greek, Roman, and Arabic texts discussed the use of ginger for health-related purposes. In Asian medicine, dried ginger has been used for thousands of years to treat stomach ache, diarrhea, and nausea.
Today, ginger is used as a dietary supplement for postsurgery nausea; nausea caused by motion, chemotherapy, or pregnancy; rheumatoid arthritis; and osteoarthritis.
Common forms of ginger include the fresh or dried root, tablets, capsules, liquid extracts, and teas.
How Much Do We Know?
There’s some information from studies in people on the use of ginger for nausea and vomiting.
Much less is known about other uses of ginger for other health conditions.
What Have We Learned?
Some evidence indicates that ginger may help relieve pregnancy-related nausea and vomiting.
Ginger may help to control nausea related to cancer chemotherapy when used in addition to conventional anti-nausea medication.
It’s unclear whether ginger is helpful for postsurgery nausea, motion sickness, rheumatoid arthritis, or osteoarthritis.
What Do We Know About Safety?
Ginger, when used as a spice, is believed to be generally safe.
In some people, ginger can have mild side effects such as abdominal discomfort, heartburn, diarrhea, and gas.
Some experts recommend that people with gallstone disease use caution with ginger because it may increase the flow of bile.
Research has not definitely shown whether ginger interacts with medications, but concerns have been raised that it might interact with anticoagulants (blood thinners).
Although several studies have found no evidence of harm from taking ginger during pregnancy, it’s uncertain whether ginger is always safe for pregnant women. If you’re considering using ginger while you’re pregnant, consult your health care provider.
Keep in Mind
Tell all your health care providers about any complementary or integrative health approaches you use. Give them a full picture of what you do to manage your health. This will help ensure coordinated and safe care.
For More Information
Using Dietary Supplements Wisely
Know the Science: How Medications and Supplements Can Interact
Know the Science: 9 Questions To Help You Make Sense of Health Research
NCCIH Clearinghouse
The NCCIH Clearinghouse provides information on NCCIH and complementary and integrative health approaches, including publications and searches of Federal databases of scientific and medical literature. The Clearinghouse does not provide medical advice, treatment recommendations, or referrals to practitioners.
Toll-free in the U.S.:
1-888-644-6226
TTY (for deaf and hard-of-hearing callers):
1-866-464-3615
Website:
nccih.nih.gov
Email:
info@nccih.nih.gov
PubMed®
A service of the National Library of Medicine, PubMed® contains publication information and (in most cases) brief summaries of articles from scientific and medical journals. For guidance from NCCIH on using PubMed, see How To Find Information About Complementary Health Approaches on PubMed.
Website:
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed
Office of Dietary Supplements (ODS), National Institutes of Health (NIH)
ODS seeks to strengthen knowledge and understanding of dietary supplements by evaluating scientific information, supporting research, sharing research results, and educating the public. Its resources include publications (such as Dietary Supplements: What You Need to Know), fact sheets on a variety of specific supplement ingredients and products (such as vitamin D and multivitamin/mineral supplements), and the PubMed Dietary Supplement Subset.
Website:
http://ods.od.nih.gov
Email:
ods@nih.gov
Key References
Ding M, Leach M, Bradley H. The effectiveness and safety of ginger for pregnancy-induced nausea and vomiting: a systematic review. Women and Birth. 2013;26(1):e26-e30.
Ginger. Natural Medicines Web site. Accessed at naturalmedicines.therapeuticresearch.com on April 15, 2015. [Database subscription].
Ginger root. In: Blumenthal M, Goldberg A, Brinckmann J, eds. Herbal Medicine: Expanded Commission E Monographs. Newton, MA: Integrative Medicine Communications; 2000:153-159.
Heitmann K, Nordeng H, Holst L. Safety of ginger use in pregnancy: results from a large population-based cohort study. European Journal of Clinical Pharmacology. 2013;69(2):269-277.
Low Dog T. Ginger. In: Coates PM, Betz JM, Blackman MR, et al., eds. Encyclopedia of Dietary Supplements. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Informa Healthcare; 2010:325-331.
Matthews A, Haas DM, O’Mathúna DP, et al. Interventions for nausea and vomiting in early pregnancy. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2014;(3):CD007575. Accessed at http://www.thecochranelibrary.com on April 16, 2015.
Pillai AK, Sharma KK, Gupta YK, et al. Anti-emetic effect of ginger powder versus placebo as an add-on therapy in children and young adults receiving high emetogenic chemotherapy. Pediatric Blood & Cancer. 2011;56(2):234-238.
Ryan JL, Heckler CE, Roscoe JA, et al. Ginger (Zingiber officinale) reduces acute chemotherapy-induced nausea: a URCC CCOP study of 576 patients. Supportive Care in Cancer. 2012;20(7):1479-1489.
This publication is not copyrighted and is in the public domain. Duplication is encouraged.
NCCIH has provided this material for your information. It is not intended to substitute for the medical expertise and advice of your health care provider(s). We encourage you to discuss any decisions about treatment or care with your health care provider. The mention of any product, service, or therapy is not an endorsement by NCCIH.
NCCIH Publication No.:
D320
Updated:
September 2016
Print this page
Health Topics A–Z
Related Topics
Find Active Medical Research Studies on Ginger (ClinicalTrials.gov)
Using Dietary Supplements Wisely
Herbs at a Glance
This publication is not copyrighted and is in the public domain. Duplication is encouraged.
NCCIH has provided this material for your information. It is not intended to substitute for the medical expertise and advise of your primary health care provider. We encourage you to discuss any decisions about treatment or care with your health care provider. The mention of any product, service, or therapy is not an endorsement by NCCIH.
U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, National Institutes of Health, National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health
nccih.nih.gov
This page last modified November 30, 2016
Follow NCCIH:
Read our disclaimer about external linksTwitter
Read our disclaimer about external linksFacebook
Read our disclaimer about external linksYouTube
Read our disclaimer about external linksPinterest
Read our disclaimer about external linksInstagram
Read our disclaimer about external linksLinkedIn
E-mail Updates
NCCIH Home
Privacy and Policies
Accessibility
en Español
FOIA
Site Map
Contact Us
U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, National Institutes of Health, USA.gov
National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health (NCCIH), 9000 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, Maryland 20892