Addicted To Smoking Weed - TeenHelp
Log in (Register | Forgotten password)
Home Get Advice Register About Support Forums Today's Posts
Blogs
Recent Entries
Blog List
TeenHelp Mind and Body Addictive Behaviours Addicted To Smoking Weed
Get Advice Connect with TeenHelp Resources
Hotlines Safety Zone Alternatives
You are not registered or have not logged in
Hello guest! (Not a guest? Log in above!)
As a guest on TeenHelp you are only able to use some of our site's features. By registering an account you will be able to enjoy unlimited access to our site, and will be able to:
Connect with thousands of teenagers worldwide by actively taking part in our Support Forums and Chat Room.
Find others with similar interests in our Social Groups.
Express yourself through our Blogs, Picture Albums and User Profiles.
And much much more!
Signing up is free, anonymous and will only take a few moments, so click here to register now!
Addictive Behaviours Discuss and receive support for addictions not related to substance use, such as gambling, Internet, sex or work addictions, in this forum.
Thread Tools Search this Thread
(#1 (permalink))
qveenG Offline
Member
Welcome me, I'm new!
*
Name: Gabbie
Gender: Female
Location: Fort Lauderdale
Posts: 2
Join Date: December 28th 2013
Addicted To Smoking Weed - December 28th 2013, 03:36 AM
So this all started in 6th grade for me. I was going through problems at home and a friend of mine ask me to smoke , it will make my problems go away. Ever since that day i have been smoking weed every chance i get. When things piss me off or make me feel like dying i just get high. Getting high is like my life. The longest i stayed sober was a couple of weeks. And im not proud to say that but when i get in this bad place thats all i want to do. My dad knows i smoke he encourages me to stop but i just end up smoking again. I really want to stop. I've tried and tried and i always end up smoking. Please Help Me !
(#2 (permalink))
DanTheMan :P Offline
Member
Average Joe
***
Name: Dan
Age: 21
Gender: Male
Location: Essex -.-, UK
Posts: 103
Blog Entries: 38
Join Date: October 14th 2013
Re: Addicted To Smoking Weed - December 28th 2013, 06:51 PM
Hey Gabbie!
Well, whilst weed isn't physically addictive in the same way, for example, cigarettes, is, it is still mentally/emotionally addictive and sometimes harder to kick, as there is no substitute.
You can become reliant on it, so feel "empty" without it. However, with most addictions of this type, if you can go cold turkey for 21 days (3 weeks), then continuing to abstain is a lot easier.
If you can't just quit like that, then try either smoking less frequently, reducing the amount of times, say, per week, you smoke it, or reduce the amount you smoke each time.
Good luck
-Dan
(#3 (permalink))
Pirouette Offline
Just a girl strolling by
I've been here a while
********
Name: Rishy
Gender: Female
Posts: 1,503
Blog Entries: 54
Join Date: June 23rd 2012
Re: Addicted To Smoking Weed - January 1st 2014, 08:48 PM
Hey there,
Quitting an addiction takes a lot of time, patience, and initiative. As Dan said, smoking is an addictive behavior that is used to physically or mentally cope with problems. I'm glad to hear you are willing to stop and here's my first step of advice to you- try to find an alternative method that you can use to cope.
By alternative, I am not saying to do something else that's bad but I mean something fun and simple; for example, when I'm not in a good mood, I tend to preoccupy myself with chores to do around the house such as washing dishes, doing laundry, cleaning, etc. I encourage you to find something like that too!
However, I know this isn't related to self-harm, but just as self-harm is also physically and mentally addicting, so is this and here is a list of alternatives you could look at: http://www.teenhelp.org/forums/f12-s...ves-self-harm/
I'm sure you will find something of your interest that can help you. I hope this helps and wish you the very best on your recovery!
~Rishy
[left]
"Imperfection is beauty;
madness is genius;
and its better to be absolutely ridiculous
than absolutely boring."
-Marilyn Monroe
(#4 (permalink))
Crazycatlady Offline
Member
Welcome me, I'm new!
*
Name: Gretch
Age: 26
Gender: Thing
Location: US
Posts: 48
Blog Entries: 2
Join Date: February 24th 2012
Re: Addicted To Smoking Weed - January 12th 2014, 04:49 AM
Are there particular things that you are dealing with by getting high? It's important to address the things that are bothering you in a more healthy and productive way. While smoking weed might make the thing that is bothering you not bother you so much, it does not solve the problem.
Have you considered other ways to deal with your emotions instead of using weed as a coping mechanism? There are many other ways to cope with the emotions that are compelling you to get high. I found that journaling always helps me. It helps to vent what is going on and later read what you wrote down in order to find a new way of looking at your problem. Other ways that could help is doodling and finger crocheting--as they are creative outlets that can occupy your mind.
Do you also have anybody who you trust to talk about whatever it is you're going through (parent, aunt/uncle/cousin, counselor, teacher, someone at a club/organization/church/exc). Finding someone who you trust to talk to can really benefit.
Good luck. I hope you can kick your habit.
This is my happy face.
Bookmarks
Digg
del.icio.us
StumbleUpon
Google
Tags
addicted, smoking, weed
« Previous Thread | Next Thread »
Thread Tools Search this Thread
Show Printable Version
Email this Page
Search this Thread:
Advanced Search
Posting Rules
You may not post new threads
You may not post replies
You may not post attachments
You may not edit your posts
BB code is On
Smilies are On
[IMG] code is On
HTML code is Off
Trackbacks are Off
Pingbacks are Off
Refbacks are Off
Forum Rules
All material copyright ©1998-2018, TeenHelp.
Terms | Legal | Privacy | Conduct | Complaints
Powered by vBulletin®.
Copyright ©2000-2019, Jelsoft Enterprises Ltd.
Search engine optimization by vBSEO.
Theme developed in association with vBStyles.
-- Blue ---- Purple ---- Mobile
Home | Contact Us | Sitemap | Top