Cell Phones | elyn jacobs
elynjacobs
elyn jacobs
About Elyn
My Story, My Passion
Contact Us
Shop
Integrative Oncologists and Naturopathic Doctors
Epstein-Barr Management
Alternative and Complementary Therapies
MTHFR
A Few Words From my Clients
Links and Resources
Radio Show Archives
Disclaimer
Corporate Services
Archives
RSS Feed
Archive for the ‘Cell Phones’ Category
Aires Tech EMF, antioxidants and EMFs, Astragalus, Blueberries, Buckwheat, Chaga, Dangers of Radiation Therapy, DIM, EMF Dangers, EMF Protection, EMF Radiation, EMFs and Fertility, Flaxseed, Green Tea Radioprotective, Lycopene, Melanin, Mint radioprotective, Radiation and Cancer, radiation and cancer stem cells, radioprotectors, tomatoes
Simple Solutions for EMF Radiation Protection
In Breast Cancer, Cancer, cancer stem cells and recurrence, Cell Phones, EMFs and Health Risks, Uncategorized on January 24, 2019 at 8:10 am
Electromagnetic fields (EMFs) are invisible areas of energy, known by most of us as radiation, that have been found to cause great harm to the human body. I am not just talking about nuclear fallout, but importantly, cell phone use, WIFI technology, cordless phones, clock radios, hair dryers, X-rays, radiotherapy, air travel-associated radiation, and other exposures that pose day-to-day radiation toxicity. Sadly, we are all exposed to ionizing radiation and could be potentially at increased risk for adverse health effects.
Ionizing radiation causes damage by producing free radicals like reactive oxygen species (ROS). ROS can randomly react with lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids of cells causing oxidative stress and damage which can lead to molecular and cellular damage. Oxidative stress is considered one of the major factors connected with increased cancer risk and is implicated in cardiovascular events, osteoporosis, male infertility, and more.
Exposure to high doses of ionizing radiation can result in increased rates of genetic mutations. DNA damage caused by oxidative stress may lead to mutations that inactivate tumor suppressor genes and activate oncogenes.[i]
In addition to free radical production, another source of indirect post-irradiation toxicity is inflammatory processes. Radiation-induced damage initiates long-term pro-inflammatory reactions in the surrounding tissue. Exposure to large amounts of ionizing radiation could result in a severe inflammation reaction causing irreparable damage to various tissue and organs, particularly in the heart, lungs and kidneys.
In an attempt to minimize these effects, a small number of compounds in plants have been identified for use as agents that offer some protection against radiation-induced toxicities, and many more are being investigated. These effects are possibly due to free radical scavenging, antioxidant, metal chelating, immunostimulant, anti-inflammatory, antimutagenic, and enhancement of the DNA repair processes. Also likely is that certain substances are able to absorb strong energies such as EMFs and convert them into less reactive forms.
The Role of Radioprotectants:
The need for protection against the toxic effects of ionizing radiation comes from many different directions: occupational exposure, nuclear accidents, environmental sources, the use of cell phones and other devices, and protection of normal tissue during the therapeutic irradiation of cancer. No matter the source, radioprotectants are important in protecting cells from deleterious radiation-induced side effects.
Radio-protectors are agents that protect the body’s cells and tissues from the undesirable effects of radiation by scavenging radiation-induced free radicals. In the past, synthetic radio-protectors were found to help mitigate or minimize the life-threatening effects of radiation, but they were not put clinical use due to undesirable side effects and inherent toxicity, such as hypotension, vomiting, nausea, sneezing, hot flashes, etc.[ii] Therefore, the exploration of radio-protectors with less toxicity became essential.
The first line of defense from the damaging effects of ROS is antioxidants, which convert strong oxidants to less reactive forms. Antioxidants can minimize the damaging effects of ROS by converting strong oxidants to less reactive forms. For example, the powerful antioxidant lycopene can protect and repair cellular damage from free-radicals, including those induced from ionizing radiation.[iii] This suggests that supplementation of lycopene might be useful in diminishing of negative effect of cancer radiotherapy or in mitigating the effects of possible radiation accidents and exposures on human health. Red fruits and vegetables, including tomatoes (especially when cooked), watermelons, red peppers, pink grapefruits, apricots, pink guavas, dragon fruit, and papaya contain lycopene.
Studies confirm that lycopene and other compounds in fruits, vegetables and associated dietary supplements reduce risk of cancer and inhibit the growth of tumors. Research also shows that nutraceuticals have protective effects against other diseases such as cardiovascular disease, osteoporosis, male infertility. These results could be in part due to their protection against damage induced by ionizing radiation, offering yet another reason to consume them copiously.
N-acetyl L-cysteine (NAC) helps to replenish intracellular glutathione, a vital cellular antioxidant. Alpha Lipoic Acid (ALA) also helps boost glutathione levels (see below for more substances that boost glutathione).
Another substance, melanin, has shown to offer radioprotective properties and is being studied. It is already well known for protecting human skin from UV radiation. While found in foods such as seaweed, eggs, cheese, fish (rich sources of tyrosine, an amino acid that aids in the production of melanin), it is most abundantly found in mushrooms, particularly Chaga mushrooms. Compounds in melanin absorb electromagnetic radiation and help deactivate radioactive isotopes, converting them into benign forms.[iv]
To keep this post short and sweet, I have referenced some studies rather than get into depth on them all, but have included some highlights below. This list is not inclusive, but rather illustrative of how eating a significant amount of fruits and vegetables, and at times supplements, throughout the day can be radio-protective (Click on the highlights for a few brand recommendations for supplements–widely available in most stores).
Lycopene [v]
Chaga[vi]
Flaxseed[vii]
Blueberries[viii]
Mint[ix]
Black current[x]
Green and black tea[xi]
Citrus extract[xii]
Apple pectin[xiii]
DIM[xiv]
Buckwheat[xv]
Astragalus[xvi]
Fun Facts:
Lycopene reduces the negative effect of cancer radiotherapy and other sources of radiation exposure, especially in advance of exposure.
Compounds in Chaga mushroom absorb electromagnetic radiation and help deactivate radioactive isotopes, converting them into benign forms.[xvii]
Flaxseed, already known for its strong antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, works as both a mitigator and protector against radiation exposure, including regarding pneumopathy. It not only protects lung tissues before exposure to radiation, but can also significantly reduce damage after exposure occurs.[xviii]
The protection afforded by flaxseed may be attributed to the omega-3 essential fatty acids and phytoestrogenic lignans, which appear to play an important role in free radical scavenging.[xix]
Asparagus are high in glutathione and also selenium and zinc, which also help you make glutathione are protective against EMFs.
Olive oil and cruciferous vegetables (in particular the sulfur/sulforophane in these veggies) boosts glutathione.
Blueberries contain delphinidin, which has strong antioxidant properties that scavenge radiation-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS), making them protective against a wide scope of radiation exposures.
Radioprotectors such as delphinidin used during cancer radiotherapy could offer some protection to normal tissues around a cancerous tumor, which are unintentionally exposed to radiation during traditional and proton radiotherapy[xx]
Blueberry anthocyanins inhibit cell apoptosis and reduce the radiation injury by decreasing gene and protein expression of p53 and other proteins that regulate cancer cell division, growth, and death.[xxi]
Apple pectin aids in removing radionuclides, with one study showing a 62% reduction in radionuclides in treated children from the Chernobyl area and another with a 28-39% reduction after just 16 days, improving cardiovascular health in the children.[xxii]
Flavonoids in fruits and vegetables offer a variety of beneficial properties including protection from ionizing radiation, DNA protection, immune system protection, hemopoietic system protection, scavenging of free radicals, antioxidant properties, antitumor properties, antiviral properties, antibacterial properties, and anti-inflammatory properties.[xxiii]
Intravenous administration of melanin-coated nanospheres has demonstrated protection of bone marrow against radiotoxicity during radioimmunotherapy of cancer. [xxiv]
Buckwheat flavonoid offer radio-protective mechanisms on the hematopoietic (bone marrow, spleen, tonsils, and lymph nodes) and immune systems[xxv]
Plant compounds offer substantial protection and do not appear to interfere with therapeutic radiotherapy.
DIM may protect against ionizing radiation taken before or up to 24 hours after radiation and does not protect breast cancer tumors against radiotherapy.[xxvi]
Importantly, many compounds, such as the antioxidants lycopene and delphinidin need to be taken before exposure, which means it is best to consume these on a regular basis. Enjoy in abundance tomatoes (especially cooked), blueberries, dragon fruit, mint (fresh or tea), apples, flax seed, green tea, and others. Buckwheat is quite versatile and is naturally gluten-free –try this delicious flatbread recipe.
Regarding Radiation Therapy for Cancer Treatment
Radiation therapy is a highly utilized therapy in the treatment of malignancies with up to 60% of cancer patients receiving radiation therapy as a part of their treatment regimen. However, the radiation-induced damage to the normal tissues often restricts the therapeutic doses of radiation that can be delivered to tumors and thereby limits the effectiveness of the treatment[xxvii] Notably, researchers have found that there are numerous substances that are radio-protective and yet do not interfere with therapeutic radiotherapy.[xxviii] Unfortunately, not all radiation oncologists recommend such substances, so it is imperative that you seek help from a qualified professional.
Radiation therapy does, however, cause a wide range of adverse effects that can be severe and cause permanent damage to the patient.[xxix] Radiotherapy also does not target cancer stem cells and can actually make them more aggressive.
Radio-protective Devices
If you don’t see yourself consuming radio-protective foods and supplements on a regular basis or feel that you are particularly exposed (aren’t we all?) you may want to take advantage of the plethora of devices that offer EMF protection. There are also many lovely and inexpensive shungite pendants and bracelets available online that help balance energy, as well as other items that can be attached to your cell phone, hair dryer, clock, laptop, etc., and to your own jewelry. Please note that since my previous post, Aries Tech has discontinued their older generation Aires Black Crystal and Aires Defender and replaced them with more effective and powerful protection, all made in the EU.
Aires Shield Pro – Powerful enough for all devices from phones to large smart TVs. [Aries Shield Pro]
Aires Defender Pro – To be used on the person for full body protection. [Defender]
Aires Guardian – To be used in all areas of a typical home or office as an area protector. [Guardian]
In your good health,
Elyn
~~If you don’t know your options, you don’t have any~~
Elyn Jacobs is a holistic cancer strategist and speaker specializing in the prevention and treatment of cancer. She is a Contributing Editor for The Truth About Cancer and is on the Medical Advisory Board for BeatCancer.Org and the Advisory Board to the Radical Remission Project. Elyn has written for numerous journals and publications. She was the former Executive Director of the Emerald Heart Cancer Foundation and the creator and host of the Survive and Live Well Radio Show. To contact Elyn, visit www.elynjacobs.com. Elyn offers consults via Skype, phone, or in person.
This information is for educational purposes only and is not a recommendation to forgo medical advice and treatment. This post is not intended to treat, cure, prevent, or diagnose any disease or condition. This post does not represent medical advice nor should it be considered to be medical advice or a replacement for medical advice. I encourage you to discuss this information with your integrative oncologist, naturopathic doctor, or conventional oncologist. The information provided is from my research and not to be taken as scientific evidence.
Affiliate Links Disclosure:
Some product links on some posts are affiliate links. This website is monetized in part through the use of affiliate links. This means that if you were to click on a link that is an affiliate link, and purchase an item after clicking on that link, I may receive a small percentage of the sales price. I only recommend products that I love and use often. Thank you for your support!
Follow Elyn on Facebook
Follow Elyn on LinkedIn
[i] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5655585/#CR40
[ii] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4419622/#R13
[iii] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4297477/
[iv] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28256187; https://www.news-medical.net/news/20110824/Melanin-also-protects-from-ionizing-radiation.aspx
[v] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25526570
[vi] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28256187; https://www.news-medical.net/news/20110824/Melanin-also-protects-from-ionizing-radiation.aspx; https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5039571/
[vii] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17486687
[viii] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5792255/
[viii] file:///C:/Users/elyn/Downloads/136380-365119-1-SM.pdf
[ix] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21119249
[x] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5579918/
[xi] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3586922/
[xii] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4419622/#R13
[xiii] http://naturalsociety.com/malanin-fungi-compound-radioprotective-68349/#ixzz5dA4ds2Md
[xiv] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24127581
[xv] file:///C:/Users/elyn/Downloads/136380-365119-1-SM.pdf; https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25361477
[xvi] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24820157
[xvii] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28256187; https://www.news-medical.net/news/20110824/Melanin-also-protects-from-ionizing-radiation.aspx
[xviii] https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/08/110809111821.htm
[xix] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17486687; https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23106213; https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2745149/
[xx] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5792255/
[xxi] file:///C:/Users/elyn/Downloads/136380-365119-1-SM.pdf
[xxii] http://naturalsociety.com/malanin-fungi-compound-radioprotective-68349/#ixzz5dA4ds2Md
[xxiii] http://dx.doi.org/10.4314/tjpr.v15i5.28
[xxiv] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20421152
[xxv] file:///C:/Users/elyn/Downloads/136380-365119-1-SM.pdf
[xxvi] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24127581
[xxvii] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21119249
[xxviii] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5039571/
[xxix] https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/08/110809111821.htm
[xxx] https://elynjacobs.com/2015/01/09/cancer-stem-cells-could-they-be-the-key-to-metastasis/
▶ Comment
binaural beats healing, brainwave entrainment healing, Cancer, cell phone safety, guided meditation, Health, Mind body connection, radiation-free headsets, sleep, sound therapy, Yoga Nidra
Yoga Nidra: The Key to a Better Night’s Sleep and Optimal Health
In Cell Phones, EMFs and Health Risks, Mind Body Therapies for Cancer, sleep, Uncategorized, Yoga Nidra on October 31, 2018 at 9:27 am
70% OFF Vibe JEWELRY SALE
Vibes Up Earth Grounding, EMF Protection and Sleep Aids
SAFE-SMART DISCOUNT ENDS NEXT WEEK: Use this code for 10% off on all orders at Safe-Smart: MHPQMWSMS4KS.
Yoga Nidra is not like other types of yoga where you actively participate in various poses and exercises. It is also different than restorative yoga—the depth of Yoga Nidra is far beyond just relaxation. It is more like a form of meditation that does not require much effort. I can appreciate that not everyone can sit still on the floor for 20 minutes, let alone hours—I certainly can’t. For those who do not enjoy meditating, this just might be perfect for you. In this highly regenerative meditative state you can restore and rejuvenate your body, heal and recover from illness, re-wire your brain for greater mental and emotional balance and resiliency, and improve sleep.
The process of Yoga Nidra is practiced in a comfortable lying down position. You are guided through a series of breathing exercises and simple instructions. Some of these include visual imagery or a scan of the body, which occupies the mind and prevents it from becoming involved in the usual mind-chatter that absorbs our ordinary consciousness. Within a short time, you become submerged in the alpha state (the period just prior to sleep; also known as our “right brain” activity, or our subjective senses of imagination, creativity, memory and intuition.)
Yoga Nidra puts you in a state of deep sleep while you remain conscious and typically awake. Some refer to it as ‘Yogic Sleep’. It brings an amazing clarity of mind, calmness and stillness. Tension and anxiety melt away with a profound experience of muscular, mental, and emotional relaxation. It is one of the deepest forms of meditation leading to supreme quietness and insight. During a Yoga Nidra session, you leave your waking state, go through the dreaming state and into deep sleep state, yet may remain fully awake. Some say that restorative power of just one hour of Yoga Nidra is equal to 4 hours of healthy sleep.
Yoga Nidra and Optimal Health
Yoga Nidra offers a passive way to neutralize the damage and lower the risk of disease conditions. Unconscious thinking patterns and resulting biochemical states contribute to ill health, stress, insomnia, depression, anxiety, and trauma. All of these conditions contribute to chronic diseases, including cancer. Some of my favorite meditations are by Lizzy Hill. Her voice guides you to ultimate relaxation, releasing stress and tension in the body. She asks you to begin with an affirmation (an intention). She says intentions are like seeds planted in soil. You can say things like ‘I am healthy and happy’ or ‘I am confident and strong’.
Think happy and healthy thoughts. Believe you can be healthy, that you are healthy. Your mind will hear this as will the universe. For more on affirmations, please read The Power of Affirmations in Cancer Healing.
Yoga Nidra and Blissful Sleep
One of my favorite meditations to improve sleep and mood is Deep Sleep Meditation with Affirmations: Unstoppable Courage, Confidence & Inner Power | Delta Beats by Kenneth Soares. He starts with guided meditation then moves into empowering affirmations and ends with binaural beats* for deep sleep. This meditation is perfect for those who struggle to fall asleep or have trouble staying asleep. It is perfect even if you don’t. When Soares guides you to take the third breath, I would like to ask you to add a special visualization. He tells you to imagine cleansing your body from head to toe–I love this. I would like to suggest you also envision all of the unhealthy cells in your body washing away at the same time, exiting through the soles of your feet. Very powerful.
If you are like me, you will fall asleep before the affirmations start. They are intentionally low in volume, but you can still hear them when wearing headphones and you don´t need to consciously pay attention to them. Your subconscious mind will absorb and reinforce the words while awake or in deep sleep (use headphones if you want to benefit from the binaural beats and the affirmations).
Most meditations are completely free—you can listen to them anytime on YouTube. I recommend you lie on the floor close enough to your computer to hear them, but far enough away from damaging EMFs. Place a small pillow under your head and one under your knees, and perhaps cover yourself with a blanket. You may wish to record the session ahead of time to play bedside (never have a computer or cellphone bedside). You can use a common tape recorder for this. If you listen to this via your computer or phone and wish to wear headphones, be sure they are radiation-free (air-tube). I use Smart Safe headsets. Cell phone radiation exposure increases when using wired hands-free headsets. EchoTubeZ® radiation free air tube headset blocks 98% of your cell phones radiation emission to your head.
Use this code for 10% off on all orders: MHPQMWSMS4KS.
You can also reduce EMF exposure by using tech that harmonizes EMFs so they are less damaging to the body.
Summary of Benefits of Yoga Nidra:
helps relieve anxiety, stress, and pain
may promote healthy sleep
may improve memory and concentration
suitable for any level of experience
helps stimulate creativity
enhances healing
helps establish a connection with your inner self
helps strengthen the immune system
helps you find the sense of happiness, harmony, and inner peace
helps balance emotions
uplifting and energizing
May I remind you to never overlook the power of the sea–it helps offset the damages from EMFs and restores the mind, body, and soul. May the light from above shine down on you, the sand embrace your toes, and the sea rejuvenate you (okay, so added that here as I didn’t have a photo of Yoga Nidra and it is such a restorative photo 🙂 )
You may also enjoy my article on the power of sound: Healing Cancer: One Note at a Time. Be sure to wear headphones for this as well.
*Regarding binaural beats: Creating the vibrations of sound through music changes brainwave patterns in ways that triggers healing. As each ear receives its own unique musical note, the sound waves move toward each other and synchronize to produce a new musical note that the brain perceives. The practice in which sound wave stimuli are purposefully used to alter brainwaves in this matter is called brain wave entrainment (BWE). Preliminary evidence suggests that BWE is effective in several cognitive domains and can relieve acute and long-term stress, reduce pain, headaches, migraines, and PMS and improve behavior, but may go well beyond.
In your good health,
Elyn
Elyn Jacobs is a holistic cancer strategist and speaker specializing in the prevention and treatment of cancer. She is a Contributing Editor for The Truth About Cancer and is on the Medical Advisory Board for BeatCancer.Org and the Advisory Board to the Radical Remission Project. Elyn has written for numerous journals and publications. She was the former Executive Director of the Emerald Heart Cancer Foundation. To contact Elyn, visit www.elynjacobs.com. Elyn offers consults via Skype, phone, or in person.
This information is for educational purposes only and is not a recommendation to forgo medical advice and treatment. Yoga Nidra and this post in general are not intended to treat, cure, prevent, or diagnose any disease or condition. This post does not represent medical advice nor should it be considered to be medical advice or a replacement for medical advice. I encourage you to discuss this information with your integrative oncologist, naturopathic doctor, or conventional oncologist. The information provided is from my research and not to be taken as scientific evidence.
Affiliate Links Disclosure:
Some product links on some posts are affiliate links. This website is monetized in part through the use of affiliate links. This means that if you were to click on a link that is an affiliate link, and purchase an item after clicking on that link, I may receive a small percentage of the sales price. I only recommend products that I love and use often. Thank you for your support!
Follow Elyn on Facebook
Follow Elyn on LinkedIn
▶ Comment
Affirmations, Cancer, cell phone safety, guided meditation, Mind body connection, Positive Attitude, Yoga Nidra
The Power of Affirmations in Cancer Healing
In Affirmations, Alternative Cancer Therapies, benefits of Yoga Nidra, Books for Cancer Patients, Breast Cancer, Cancer, Cell Phones, EMFs and Health Risks, Emotional Healing, Healing Cancer Naturally, Uncategorized, Yoga Nidra on October 30, 2018 at 9:08 am
An affirmation is really anything you say or think. Every thought you think and every word you speak is an affirmation. All of our self-talk, our internal dialogue, is a stream of affirmations. Our subconscious hears everything we think, say, and hear. It will work hard to make thoughts become reality. Affirmations serve as a part of the psychological immune system, and can have a significant impact on your quality and quantity of life.
The mind is powerful and controls the body. The healer Ze’ev Kolman titled his book The Mind is the Healer The Mind is the Killer. He says that if you heal the mind the body will follow. When I spoke with him about it and did a few sessions with him (and other healers), it all made perfect sense. People are only just beginning to learn that our thoughts are powerful and contribute not just to our mental well-being but also our physical health.
You may not realize it because perhaps your medical doctors have instilled fear and doubt, but it really is a choice. Now, right now, this moment and all moments — you can choose to change your thinking and ignore theirs. Your life, your health, won’t turn around overnight, but if you’re consistent and make the choice on a daily basis to think thoughts that you are healthy and happy, it can make a difference in every area of your life and your healing. Importantly, negative thoughts will have the opposite effect. If we don’t believe or have confidence that we can be healthy and happy, we won’t be. In other words, if we have doubtful thoughts it will be harder for the mind to make us healthy.
These days so many people are angry, really angry and express this anger and negative thoughts on social media, believing somehow the world or situation will change by harsh words. Anger is a strong emotion, often misdirected and rarely useful and causes a cascade of negative thoughts and statements that contribute to stress and ill health. According to Louise Hay, “Every complaint is an affirmation of something you think you don’t want in your life. [But] every time you get angry, you’re affirming that you want more anger in your life. Every time you feel like a victim, you’re affirming that you want to continue to feel like a victim.” She says that when people say their affirmations once a day but complain the rest of the time, the complaining affirmations win. They are typically more of them and the are said with great feeling.
However, saying affirmations is only part of the process. The secret to having your affirmations work quickly and consistently is to prepare an atmosphere for them to grow in. Affirmations are like seeds planted in soil. You will hear that from Lizzy Hill in her Yoga Nidra guided meditations (I relax, I release, I let go). She says that the intention (affirmation) you make in the beginning of the session plants a seed for transformation in your body. You can say something like ‘I am happy and healthy’ or ‘I am calm and relaxed’ or some other short, positive statement in the present tense. Feel your intention throughout your body and know it to be true. For more on the effects that Yoga Nidra has on the mind and body, read Yoga Nidra: The Key to a Better Night’s Sleep and Optimal Health.
The benefits of daily affirmations have been scientifically supported and can help a lot of people. Optimistic people tend to be healthier, more productive, and generally happier than those who view themselves less positively. People who practice daily affirmations don’t sweat the small stuff because they have a better grasp on what is important in their life. They are able to think about the big picture and not get overwhelmed with minor nuisances.
The more you choose to think positive thoughts, the quicker the affirmations work. Consciously choose words that will either help eliminate something from your life or help create something new in your life. Think happy, healthy thoughts — it’s that simple. You can do it! The way you choose to think right now is your choice. Believe you can be healthy, that you are healthy.
One of my wonderful healers, April Fontana, recommends adding a ‘why’ before each affirmation. For example, ‘why is it so easy for me to be 100% healthy?’ or why is it so easy for me to understand that I control my body with my mind?’ and ‘why is so easy for me to love myself and be happy?’ You can come up with others. She says when you don’t put a negative word in there and start it with the word “why”, there is no resistance in your subconscious. She believes you can have complete control over your life if you do this. Say each one three times out loud. Do this as often as you need to.
You may also wish to write your affirmations down. Saying good things about yourself aloud is good, but writing them down increases their potency. Writing an affirmation down allows your mind one more way to absorb the positive message.
“Be mindful of your self-talk. It’s a conversation with the Universe” – David James Lees
It might seem silly or trivial at first, but the outcomes are real. People are just happier and more productive when they practice daily affirmations. Many years ago in my Wall Street-days my boss sent everyone to a Dale Carnegie training session. We learned just how powerful affirmations could be. I still remember the yellow sticky notes on my bathroom mirror (you may wish to do that too). Sales increased and we all had a more positive attitude.
Here are some sample affirmations to help you get started:
I am calm and peaceful
I am grateful and at peace
I am healthy and happy
I am thankful for my family and friends
I am confident and able to handle any obstacle thrown in front of me
I am a being of light, love, and bliss I radiate love in every cell if my body
Your body is listening to everything, everything you are thinking and saying. Do you really believe you have self-worth, believe you are healing? Can you talk to your own body and know it is listening? Every day you can talk to your body and tell it you can feel it healing. It is your choice, it is up to you! remind yourself with conscious intent. You can heal, just believe in yourself.
For more about the healers I have and still used and learned from, please read my healing story.
In your good health,
Elyn
~~If you don’t know your options, you don’t have any~~
Elyn Jacobs is a holistic cancer strategist and speaker specializing in the prevention and treatment of cancer. She is a Contributing Editor for The Truth About Cancer and is on the Medical Advisory Board for BeatCancer.Org and the Advisory Board to the Radical Remission Project. Elyn has written for numerous journals and publications. She was the former Executive Director of the Emerald Heart Cancer Foundation. To contact Elyn, visit www.elynjacobs.com. Elyn offers consults via Skype, phone, or in person.
This information is for educational purposes only and is not a recommendation to forgo medical advice and treatment. It is not intended to treat, cure, prevent, or diagnose any disease or condition. This post does not represent medical advice nor should it be considered to be medical advice or a replacement for medical advice. I encourage you to discuss this information with your integrative oncologist, naturopathic doctor, or conventional oncologist. Consult your doctor before beginning any supplement program. The information provided is from my research and not to be taken as scientific evidence.
Affiliate Links Disclosure:
Some product links on some posts are affiliate links. This website is monetized in part through the use of affiliate links. This means that if you were to click on a link that is an affiliate link, and purchase an item after clicking on that link, I may receive a small percentage of the sales price. I only recommend products that I love and use often. Thank you for your support!
Follow Elyn on Facebook
Follow Elyn on LinkedIn
▶ View 2 Comments
EBV and Autoimmune Disorders, EMFs and Epstein Barr Virus, Epstein Barr and Breast Cancer; Epstein Barr and Cancer; things that trigger EBV, Licorice root and EBV, Natural Solutions for EBV infection, Olive leaf and EBV
Epstein-Barr Virus and it’s Connection to Cancer, Autoimmune, and other Chronic Diseases
In Alternative Cancer Therapies, Anticancer foods, foods for colon cancer, foods for breast cancer, autoimmune, Breast Cancer, Cancer, Cell Phones, EMFs and Health Risks, Epstein-Barr Virus, Uncategorized on June 18, 2018 at 4:47 am
Recently published in the Journal of Cancer Biology and Treatment was my article Etiology of Chronic Disease: A Discussion on Epstein-Barr Virus. Over the past two years I have made Epstein-Barr (EBV) my pet-project, so to speak, as it is becoming all too clear of the role of viruses such EBV in the development and progression of cancer, autoimmune, and many other disorders.
Epstein-Barr Virus is a common herpetic virus and is one of the most common and prolific viral infections in humans. It can first present as chicken pox, mono, cold sores, or with no noticeable symptoms and can stay in the body forever. Over 95% of adults carry this virus, and most children are infected as well. Chronic disease is the clinical manifestation of primary infection with Epstein-Barr virus. Infection from EBV is often asymptomatic. Once the virus inserts itself into immune B cells, it reprograms them, effectively evading programmed cell death and escaping recognition and destruction by cytotoxic T cells. EBV can manifest in a range of pathologies including various cancers, Infectious Mononucleosis (IM), autoimmune disorders, chronic fatigue syndrome, thyroid disease, Meiners disease, type 1 diabetes, Lyme disease, and numerous other conditions.
Deactivation of the virus is critical. New antiviral therapies and an effective EBV vaccine might protect against the wide range of pathologies generated from infection and reactivation, but could come with significant side effects. Dendritic cell therapy and ozone therapy may also be effective and have been used in many clinics. More research needs to be done in these areas, especially to make them available to the general population. However, natural strategies aimed at deactivating the virus and preventing re-activation must be emphasized and public awareness increased, particularly among those diagnosed with a chronic disease. Holistic solutions currently available are high dose vitamin C and D therapies as well as antiviral agents such as olive leaf extract, quercetin, licorice root, coconut, astragalus, bee propolis, lysine, zinc, and many other substances. Herbs are powerful medicine and should not be taken without care and guidance. Importantly, EBV and other viruses are often triggered by emotional stress, so reducing day to day stress as well as resolving past traumas may be helpful.
EBV is not the only virus associated with cancer and other diseases. However, following an antiviral strategy is likely to be effective for many other viral conditions.
Note: EMF exposure from cell phones, laptops, hair dryers, baby monitors, and other devices is believed to trigger reactivation of EBV, perhaps because EMFs disrupt the way our cells function and clog detoxification pathways in the body. Please read my articles for suggestions on reducing risk.
The referenced journal article was published in the Journal of Cancer Biology and Treatment. Citation: Jacobs E (2018) Etiology of Chronic Disease: A Discussion on Epstein-Barr Virus. J Cancer Biol Treat 5: 014.
In your good health,
Elyn
~~If you don’t know your options, you don’t have any~~
Elyn Jacobs is a holistic cancer strategist and speaker specializing in the prevention and treatment of cancer. She is a Contributing Editor for The Truth About Cancer and is on the Medical Advisory Board for BeatCancer.Org and the Advisory Board to the Radical Remission Project. Elyn has written for numerous journals and publications. She was the former Executive Director of the Emerald Heart Cancer Foundation. To contact Elyn, visit www.elynjacobs.com. Elyn offers consults via Skype, phone, or in person.
This information is for educational purposes only and is not a recommendation to forgo anti-hormone therapy. It is not intended to treat, cure, prevent, or diagnose any disease or condition. This post does not represent medical advice nor should it be considered to be medical advice or a replacement for medical advice. I encourage you to discuss this information with your integrative oncologist, naturopathic doctor, or conventional oncologist and make your own decisions. The information provided is from my research and not to be taken as scientific evidence.
Affiliate Links Disclosure:
Some product links on some posts are affiliate links. This website is monetized in part through the use of affiliate links. This means that if you were to click on a link that is an affiliate link, and purchase an item after clicking on that link, I may receive a small percentage of the sales price. I only recommend products that I love and use often. Thank you for your support!
Follow Elyn on Facebook
Follow Elyn on LinkedIn
▶ Comment
Aires Shield, Cell Phone Radiation, EMF protective devices, EMFs and autoimmune, EMFs and Cancer, EMFs and Epstein Barr Virus, EMFs and Lyme, Energy Dots, protection from EMF exposure
What You Need to Know About EMFs and Cancer, Autoimmune, and Lyme Disease
In autoimmune, Cancer, Cell Phones, EMFs and Health Risks, Epstein-Barr Virus, Lyme Disease, Radiation, Uncategorized on June 4, 2018 at 5:02 am
Over the last few decades, there has been a significant rise in autoimmune diagnoses as well as an increase in many other disease conditions, such as cancer and Lyme disease. Many experts have linked EMF (electromagnetic field radiation) exposure to this rise in chronic illness and believe EMFs exacerbate and even cause a range of problems. Research has consistently shown that EMFs disrupt the way your cells function and can clog detoxification pathways in the body. Numerous studies have linked EMFs to cancers such as glioma, leukemia, breast cancer, and others.
It is well known that radiation causes immunosuppression and inflammation, and this includes EMF sources. Radiation also causes myelosuppression, which means less blood cells are produced. White blood cells are needed for immunity, and a low count can make it harder to protect against illness. In those suffering from chronic diseases such as cancer, autoimmune, and Lyme, there is typically an impaired immune system. Through chronic exposure, the buildup of EMFs combined with an already weakened immune system can make it even more difficult for the body to fight infection. Research also shows that vitamin D receptor (VDR) pathways are susceptible to interference by EMFs. Functionality of the VDR is fundamental for immunomodulation, a process essential in autoimmune disorders, cancer, and more.
New research shows that EMFs may stimulate the onset and progression of autoimmune disorders.[i] Studies have also shown that pathogenic microbes multiply more quickly and act more virulently in the presence of EMFs and that healthy, beneficial bacteria that the body needs to fight disease multiply more slowly. According to renowned Lyme specialist Dr Dietrich Kinghardt, MD, research also implicates EMF exposure to the virulence of mold and mold toxins, and electromagnetic pollution drives the growth of microbes within the body.[ii] If you have cancer, Lyme disease, autoimmune issues, or any other chronic illness this is important to understand as it means that your recovery can become compromised if you are living in a high-EMF environment.
Further, research shows that like other environmental toxins, EMFs could reactivate the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), which is a major trigger for cancer, autoimmune, and most other chronic diseases. (Please see my new page on EBV.)
Unfortunately, we are all engulfed in a constant state of dangerous EMFs generated by Wi-Fi, electricity, cell phones, and more. These EMFs come from environments all around us, every day. Many people don’t take EMFs seriously, perhaps because they are invisible and their effects upon the body are not always obvious. Yet it is believed that EMFs are one of the foremost causes of disease today (especially cancer), and one of the factors that can hinder recovery from cancer and other chronic illnesses.
Most experts suggest that the link between EMF and chronic disease is significant, so you may wish to limit your exposure to EMFs as much as possible and take protective measures for when you cannot.
Some of the best ways to protect yourself from the negative impacts of EMFs are:
Reduce the time you are exposed to EMFs.
Create distance between you and your electrical devices—keep routers, especially, in another room.
Use speaker phones or radiation-free headset devices for listening privately.
Turn cell phones, tablets, and laptops on airplane mode whenever you can.
Turn off Wi-Fi and use ethernet cables to wire your devices to the internet.
Eat a diet rich in organic fruits, vegetables and other foods rich in antioxidants.
Eat iodine-rich foods such as watercress, kale, kelp, broccoli, cabbage, and Brussels sprouts. An iodine supplement can also be helpful.
Do not to put a cell phone directly to your head, in your bra, on your hip, or in your pocket. If you do store your cell phone against your body, try to limit how much time you do so or use protective devices, see below.
As time goes on, there will likely be more and more conclusive studies emerge about the effects of devices such as headphones, laptops, cellphones, and WiFi upon human health. Meanwhile, the studies we have are conclusive –you don’t have to wait for the damage to be done to make changes.
Recommended Protective Devices:
Aires Shield series devices were designed to be used with small devices such as cell phones, cordless phones, tablets, and baby monitors. Aires Defender product range includes devices that provide universal protection for the human body. These devices are designed as personal protectors, which are worn by the individual. Utilizing the full range of devices will help you reduce the harmful effects of electromagnetic radiation that are impacting your health today. Right now AiresTech has a 30% off sale going on. Once this sale is over, enter the code elyn10 to get get 10% off (photos above courtesy of AiresTech).
Energy Dots —The duo pack bioDOT-smartDOT includes a self-adhesive bioDOT and a self-adhesive smartDOT. Wear the bioDOT to strengthen and support your energy (I have mine on the back of my watch). Stick the smartDOT to your mobile device, hairdryer, cordless phones, etc. to re-tune the toxic emissions. Use the two to protect yourself from radiation and increase your energy levels. Use this link and the code energy10 for 10% off all products. (Right now you get 20% off for Father’s Day. Use code LOVEDAD.)
Vibes Up Earth Grounding, EMF Protection and Sleep Aids (they have an excellent selection of remedies for sleep and EMFs).
EMF Detector (There are more expensive versions, for my needs, this works great)
For more information on EMFs, please read Why EMF Exposure is a Big Deal and Groundbreaking Study Shows Shielding EMF Improves Autoimmune Disease.
Elyn
~~If you don’t know your options, you don’t have any~~
Elyn Jacobs is a breast cancer survivor and holistic cancer strategist who helps people make better, healthier, non-toxic choices. She emphasizes the critical nature of addressing the root cause of cancer and not just its presenting symptoms (such as the tumor). Elyn specializes in understanding the role of estrogen in breast cancer and debunks the myths associated. She is a Contributing Editor for The Truth About Cancer and was creator and host of the Survive and Live Well Radio Show on the Cancer Support Network. Elyn is on the Medical Advisory Board for BeatCancer.Org and is on the Advisory Board to the Radical Remission Project. Elyn was the former Executive Director of the Emerald Heart Cancer Foundation. Contact Elyn via her website. Elyn offers consults via Skype, phone or in person.
Affiliate Links Disclosure:
Some product links on some posts are affiliate links. This website is monetized in part through the use of affiliate links. This means that if you were to click on a link that is an affiliate link, and purchase an item after clicking on that link, I may receive a small percentage of the sales price. I only recommend products that I love and use often. Thank you for your support!
Follow Elyn on Facebook
Follow Elyn on LinkedIn
[i] https://journal.preventionandresearch.com/materiale_cic/766_3_2/6599_electroma/article.htm
[ii] https://www.prohealth.com/library/the-link-between-electromagnetic-pollution-and-lyme-disease-and-how-to-remediate-your-environment-for-a-faster-recovery-40822
[iii] http://www.powerwatch.org.uk/science/studies.asp
▶ View 2 Comments
cell phone safety, Cell Phone use and Cancer, cell phones and fertility, EMFs and Cancer, EMFs and Fertility, Foods that lower risk from radiation, iodine and cell phone radiation, iodine and EMFs, Laptops and Fertility
Why EMF Exposure is a BIG DEAL
In Breast Cancer, Cancer, Cell Phones, EMFs and Health Risks, Fertility and Sperm Counts, Radiation, Uncategorized on March 18, 2018 at 10:25 am
Like it or not, exposure to health-challenging radiation is part of our lives these days. There is now little doubt that prolonged exposure to high levels of EMFs can affect our health. What researchers are trying to determine is just how severe the cumulative effects of EMFs are on our health.
Numerous studies show that mobile phone radiation causes brain tumors and should be classified as a probable human carcinogen.[i] There has also been an alarming trend over the past fifty years showing rapidly declining fertility rates. Many researchers attribute this in part to lower sperm counts from EMF exposure. EMFs have been linked to everything from eye and ear pain, impaired vision and hearing, and neurological symptoms such as headaches, dizziness, nausea, memory and concentration difficulties, insomnia, depression, and anxiety.
Sources of EMF Exposure:
Most everyone these days knows that routine medical tests such as mammograms, CT, PET scans, and cellphones subject the body to significant doses of radiation. Even a mere trip to the dentist can result in a hefty dose. But did you know that flying at high altitudes, sitting in front of a computer screen, placing a laptop on your lap, using a clock radio near your bed, using a cordless phone, blow-drying your hair—all of these seemingly innocuous activities are fraught with danger.
EMFs aren’t going anywhere. We need to begin to think seriously about how to find safe ways to use all of our electronics. Importantly, new 5G cellular technology in cell phones will have put the population at increased risk for many serious health problems with its ultra-high microwave frequencies. They use higher frequency bands than previously thought possible, increasing the health risks.
A Few Key Points and Studies:
Exposure to radiofrequency energy from mobile phones held next to the ear is associated with an increased incidence of brain cancers such as malignant gliomas
A strong correlation has also been found in women who tend to carry their cell phones in their bras with a high incidence of breast cancer in the area closest to the phone—many have reported the area of concern to ‘copy’ the form of the phone
The World Health Organization (WHO) has stated that, “electromagnetic fields produced by mobile phones are possible carcinogenic to humans. A very recent study suggested that wireless transmitting devices (WTDs)–mobile phones, cordless phones, mobile phone-based stations, and Wi-Fi routers–be classified as a “probable human carcinogen”[ii]
EMFs from laptops directly impact DNA in reproductive organs and tissues, especially since there is no bone to protect this fragile area that houses the ovum or testicles[iii]
A 2014 study revealed that use of cell phones decreases human sperm mobility and increases sperm DNA fragmentation[iv]
A 2007 U.S. study found that the use of cell phones reduces the sperm count, motility, viability, and normal morphology of sperm in men[v]
A 2009 study confirmed that cell phone radiation leads to oxidative stress in human semen and that keeping a cell phone in pockets around the area of the genitalia can negatively impact male fertility[vi]
A 2102 study determined that laptops should be renamed as when these mobile devices are used on one’s lap, adverse health effects to adults and significant harm to a child in the womb can occur. [vii]
A 2014 study found that use of a laptop connected to internet through WiFi decreases human sperm motility and increases sperm DNA fragmentation.[viii]
A recent 25 million-dollar government study by the National Toxicology Program has concluded that wireless radiation causes cancer
What You Can Do to Lower Risk
First and foremost, it is extremely important to lower our exposure to these risks by keeping a distance from harmful devices. Also key is limiting the strength and length of time we are exposed to EMFs. It is recommended to eat a diet high in antioxidant-rich foods in order to minimize the adverse effects of EMFs. Dietary iodine helps to reduce the effects of radiation.
For those interested in fathering children, it would be best to avoid storing your cell phone in your pants pocket or putting that laptop on your lap (if you read the fine print, manufacturers warn about the dangers, likely as they see lawsuits on the horizon).
Some of the best ways to protect yourself from the negative impacts of EMFs are:
Reduce the time you are exposed to EMFs
Create distance between you and your electrical devices—keep routers, especially, in another room
Try not to put a cell phone directly to your head, in your bra, on your hip, or in your pocket. If you do store your cell phone against your body, try to limit how much time you do so and use protective devices
Use speaker phones or radiation-free headset devices for listening privately
Turn cell phones, tablets, and laptops on airplane mode whenever you can
Turn off Wi-Fi and use ethernet cables to wire your devices to the internet
Eat a diet rich in organic fruits, vegetables and other foods rich in antioxidants
Eat iodine-rich foods such as watercress, kale, kelp, broccoli, cabbage, and Brussels sprouts. An iodine supplement can also be helpful.
As time goes on, there will likely be more and more conclusive studies emerge about the effects of devices such as headphones, laptops, cellphones, and WiFi upon human health. To me, there are enough studies –you don’t have to wait for the damage to be done.
Recommended Devices (that I love):
Energy Dots —The duo pack bioDOT-smartDOT includes a self-adhesive bioDOT and a self-adhesive smartDOT. Wear the bioDOT to strengthen and support your energy. Stick the smartDOT to your mobile device (or hairdryer, as pictured above) to re-tune the toxic emissions. Use the two to protect yourself from radiation and increase your energy levels. Use this link and the code energy10 for 10% off all products.
AirTube Headsets
Use code MHPQMWSMS4KS for 10% off on all orders (offer expires 11/30/2018).
Vibes Up Earth Grounding, EMF Protection and Sleep Aids (they have an excellent selection of remedies for sleep and EMFs).
EMF Detector (There are more expensive versions, for my needs, this works great)
This post has been updated to include an additional option for EMF protection.
Aires Shield series devices were designed to be used with small devices such as cell phones, cordless phones, tablets, and baby monitors. Aires Defender product range includes devices that provide universal protection for the human body. These devices are designed as personal protectors, which are worn by the individual. Utilizing the full range of devices will help you reduce the harmful effects of electromagnetic radiation that are impacting your health today. Right now AiresTech has a 30% off sale going on. Once this sale is over, enter the code elyn10 to get get 10% off.
For More Information:
Are Your Headphones An EMF Health Risk?
How to Protect Yourself From EMF Radiation
Can Cell Phones Cause Cancer, Infertility; Are Our Children at Risk?
Podcasts:
Dr Devra Lee Davis, PhD MPH shares with us the truth about cell phone radiation, what the industry has done to hide it, and how to protect your family: http://hipcast.com/podcast/HNqVpywQ
Lloyd Burrell talks about EMF’s and Your Health: http://hipcast.com/podcast/Hr4YrrWs
[i] International Journal of Oncology, 46(5): 1865-1871. Morgan LL, Miller AB, Sasco A, Davis DL (2015); https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/risk/radiation/electromagnetic-fields-fact-sheet
[ii] International Journal of Oncology, 46(5): 1865-1871. Morgan LL, Miller AB, Sasco A, Davis DL (2015)
[iii] http://www.fertstert.org/article/S0015-0282(11)02678-1/abstract
[iv] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4074720/
[v] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17482179
[vi] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19578660
[vii] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22315933
[viii] http://www.fertstert.org/article/S0015-0282(11)02678-1/abstract
Information on hairdryers and other personal care items:
Hairdryers, electric shavers, electric toothbrushes and similar personal grooming products can create very high (20-200 milligauss) magnetic fields at their normal operating distance. By comparison, EMF strengths as low as 2 milligauss are thought to increase the risk of leukemia and cancer in susceptible people[i]
[i] http://emwatch.com/emf-radiation-from-domestic-appliances/; https://academic.oup.com/aje/article/161/2/136/256503; https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK232733/
Elyn
~~If you don’t know your options, you don’t have any~~
Elyn Jacobs is a breast cancer survivor and holistic cancer strategist who helps people make better, healthier, non-toxic choices. She emphasizes the critical nature of addressing the root cause of cancer and not just its presenting symptoms (such as the tumor). Elyn specializes in understanding the role of estrogen in breast cancer and debunks the myths associated. She is a Contributing Editor for The Truth About Cancer and was creator and host of the Survive and Live Well Radio Show on the Cancer Support Network. Elyn is on the Medical Advisory Board for BeatCancer.Org and is on the Advisory Board to the Radical Remission Project. Elyn was the former Executive Director of the Emerald Heart Cancer Foundation. Contact Elyn via her website. Elyn offers consults via Skype, phone or in person.
Affiliate Links Disclosure:
Some product links on some posts are affiliate links. This website is monetized in part through the use of affiliate links. This means that if you were to click on a link that is an affiliate link, and purchase an item after clicking on that link, I may receive a small percentage of the sales price. I only recommend products that I love and use often. Thank you for your support!
Follow Elyn on Facebook
Follow Elyn on LinkedIn
▶ View 5 Comments
adaptogens for adrenal fatigue, Adrenal Fatigue, adrenal fatigue and breast cancer, Adrenal fatigue and cancer, cortisol and breast cancer, progesterone and breast cancer, Stress and Cancer
Adrenal Fatigue and Breast Cancer
In Alternative Cancer Therapies, Alternatives Cancer Treatment, Breast Cancer, Cancer, Cell Phones, EMF's, Tamoxifen on June 7, 2017 at 9:52 am
The adrenal glands are widely known for the production of the stress hormones, cortisol and adrenaline. But what many people do not realize is that the adrenals also produce cancer-protective progesterone.
Unfortunately, when the body is under stress, progesterone production is reduced as the body orders cortisol in order to reduce that stress. This (and other related consequences) puts a person at significantly higher risk of breast cancer as well as the progression of the dis-ease.
Fight or Flight
When your body is under stress, the adrenal glands release the hormones adrenalin and cortisol. These hormones provide the “fight or flight” response that protects you when you are in danger. While this could be helpful if you are being chased by a ferocious animal, in this modern world that doesn’t happen often. However, we do face many modern-day stressors, often 24/7. Over time, being in the fight or flight mode from morning until night can wreak havoc on your health. While that boost of cortisol might save you from a tiger, the constant flow of cortisol day in and day out will wear out your adrenal glands.
Adrenals and Hormones
Hormonal imbalances associated with progesterone deficiency are directly tied into the health of the adrenal glands. The more stress in your life, the more you tax your adrenals.
When your body is under stress and orders more cortisol, the body uses its resources (pregnenolone and progesterone) to make cortisol instead of progesterone. And actually, the adrenal glands literally steal progesterone to make cortisol, which leads to lower levels of progesterone. This then leads to estrogen dominance, which increases our risk for breast cancer. This is especially a problem for most-menopausal women, whose hormone production relies on the adrenals instead of the ovaries.
Most significantly, it is shown that high amounts of estrogen (especially chemical estrogens) can increase one’s risk of breast cancer. However, while estrogen has been associated with breast (and endometrial) cancer, progesterone has strong cancer-preventive effects.
However, the body’s way of counterbalancing estrogen is progesterone. When this balancing mechanism is dysfunctional due to a lack of progesterone, a myriad of health-related problems can arise, including breast cancer.
You may have read that progesterone also fuels breast cancer, and you would be correct in believing that. However, this only applies to synthetic progestins, not your own progesterone (and for most this includes protective bioidentical progesterone). To learn more, please read my article The Truth About Progesterone and Breast Cancer.
Notably, progesterone is not only protective of the breast, uterus, and ovaries, but it has a calming effect (reduces stress) and contributes to the formation of new bone tissue.
To learn more about estrogen and progesterone and their role in breast cancer, please request my Estrogen and Detoxification Handouts.
How to Tell If You Have Adrenal Fatigue
If you have been under constant stress for a prolonged period of time, you may be at the point where adrenals are fatigued and your hormones are significantly out of balance.
Adrenal Fatigue is simply your body’s way of preventing you from expending energy it does not have. It is your body alerting you to slow down and give it the nurturing support it needs.
Adrenal fatigue symptoms are the body’s cry for you to take corrective action at the root level. Not recognizing these symptoms can have grave consequences, including breast cancer and the progression of the dis-ease.
Are YOU Suffering from Adrenal Exhaustion?
Answer yes or no to the following…the more ‘yes’ answers you have, the more exhausted your adrenals (there are other symptoms as well, but these are some of the most common ones):
Do you suffer from morning fatigue or low energy?
Do you have difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep?
Do you crave salty, fatty, or sweet foods?
Do you have blood sugars issues (hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia)?
Do you have an afternoon slump between the hours of 2 and 5pm?
Do you often have muscle aches or pains for no apparent reason?
Do you have an increased sense of irritability?
Have you noticed an increase in belly fat and an inability to get rid of it?
Do you have a decreased sex drive?
Do you have low blood pressure?
Do you have low body temperature or feel cold all of the time?
Do you have an increase in mood swings and or depression? Lack of enthusiasm?
Do you experience dizziness when getting up quickly from a lying or sitting position?
Do you suffer from increased allergies even if you have never had allergies before? Do you have food allergies?
Do you have increased PMS or menopausal symptoms?
Do you use a cell phone or computer in the evening?
EMFs and Adrenal Fatigue
Cell phone EMFs stimulate the body’s stress system, decreasing your ability to wind down and fall asleep. Then once you finally do fall asleep, the EMFs interfere with the deep sleep your body needs to recover and repair. This is especially a problem if you sleep with your phone nearby and you don’t resist the urge to check messages when you wake up during the night. Plus, poor sleep causes the adrenals to pump more cortisol…which keeps you awake longer and causes you to wake up after you fall asleep…one big vicious cycle.
This also applies to the use of computers in the evening, or gasp, during the night—you know the type, they wake up and feel the need to go online before going back to sleep—don’t let that be you.
What You Can Do NOW
First off, it is important to consume a clean diet loaded with organic fruits and vegetables. Drink and cook with pure water. Avoid processed foods, conventional meats and dairy products as well as fake foods, such as soy cheeses and ‘meat substitutes’. Despite what the vegan cookbooks would lead you to believe, these ‘foods’ are highly processed dangerous foods. if you choose to eat vegan, use nuts, seeds, beans, and other whole foods as your protein source. And don’t forget that skipping meals or eating junk food can throw your blood sugar off.
Relax the mind. Engage in moderate but not intense or excessive exercise as that taxes the adrenals and the immune system.
Do:
stabilize blood sugar
heal your gut and optimize liver function
get more reset and quality sleep
keep a gratitude journal
engage in moderate exercise and mild strength training
realization, meditation and relax the mind
consume a healthy diet with supplement support
change your perception-we experience more stress when we allow thoughts to create negative feelings
Avoid:
rigid thinking; unresolved emotions
sleep deprivation
energy draining activities; toxic relationships
excessive exercise
nutrient deficiencies, including protein and healthy fats
sugar, alcohol, and caffeine
infections, parasites, Candida, heavy metals
multitasking, over-working
intolerant, inflammatory, addictive foods (gluten, soy, dairy, corn, trans fats, GMOs
However, even the cleanest, most amazing diet and lifestyle can use some help. The following are some supplemental boosts for adrenal health.
Aswaganda—an adaptogen (this means that it reacts to your body’s stress signals and exerts a normalizing effect) that helps normalize your body’s reaction to stress and anxiety. It also helps alleviate brain frog and memory problems associated with chronic stress. Excitingly, it also helps repair damaged brain cells and synapses, which means the repaired cells will then be able to receive messages better, so the body runs more smoothly. Aswaganda also supports the liver, immune system, and adrenals, regulates blood sugar, and lowers cortisol and CRP (C-Reactive Protein)
B6—also known as pantothenic acid, helps provide the extra energy your adrenal glands need to respond to stress, and helps repair previous damage to these glands
Magnolia extract– mostly known for its anti-stress and cortisol-balancing effects. Contains honkiol, a compound from magnolia bark with multiple anti-cancer functions, including tumor cell death. Magnolia Extract
Cordyceps—an adaptogen that fights fatigue and boosts energy. When you are under stress, it helps balance the levels of cortisol so you can cope more easily
Rhodiola— balances the body’s stress-response system. Rhodiola is not advised for those with Bipolar or mania.
Siberian ginseng—an adaptogen that helps balance stress hormones and rejuvenates adrenal function. Helps decrease anxiety, improve sleep, and reduce irritability
Licorice root — helps regulate cortisol, which is needed for the stress-response. Cortisol is not all bad. In fact, the same cortisol your adrenals produce when you are under stress is also responsible for regulating your immune system. When your adrenals are fatigued and don’t produce enough cortisol, you can end up with an enhanced response we know as the allergic response. That’s right, stressed adrenals can result in more allergy issues. Licorice root also helps prevent the liver from breaking down cortisol so it can be used more efficiently.
Schisandra — aids in enhancing mental performance, handling stress better, and generally being more resistant to stress; helps to decrease fatigue. (Do not take with Tamoxifen)
Passion Flower — useful as a soothing sleep-aid and in supporting relaxation in times of stress.
Our Hard-Working Adrenals
As you can see from the chart below, the adrenals not only produce our reproductive hormones– estrogen, progesterone, and testosterone– but also the anti-aging hormone DHEA. When your body is under stress and needs more cortisol, the body has to direct more of its resources (pregnenolone and progesterone) to make that cortisol, leaving less to fill these other needs. (The adrenals also produce aldosterone which regulates blood pressure, sodium, and potassium.)
Importantly, the adrenals need cholesterol to make these hormones. So, please do not be so quick to reduce ‘high’ cholesterol levels, but do work towards reducing stress so your body can keep these hormones in balance.
The constant production of cortisol and adrenaline at the expense of other important hormones keeps us in that catabolic state which affects our overall health. Under chronic stress we age faster and our bodies wear down and deteriorate faster. When we manage our stress, and aren’t over-producing cortisol and adrenaline, we allow our body to make DHEA, testosterone and the other growth hormones that keep us healthy and allow the body to repair and rebuild.
To order my handouts on Colon or Prostate Cancer or on Multiple Myeloma, please follow the instructions on my Contact Page.
Elyn
~~If you don’t know your options, you don’t have any~~
Elyn Jacobs is a breast cancer survivor and holistic cancer strategist who helps people make better, healthier, non-toxic choices. She emphasizes the critical nature of addressing the root cause of cancer and not just its presenting symptoms (such as the tumor). Elyn specializes in understanding the role of estrogen in breast cancer and debunks the myths associated. She is a Contributing Editor for The Truth About Cancer and was creator and host of the Survive and Live Well Radio Show on the Cancer Support Network. Elyn is on the Medical Advisory Board for BeatCancer.Org and is on the Advisory Board to the Radical Remission Project. Elyn was the Executive Director of the Emerald Heart Cancer Foundation. Contact Elyn via her website, www.elynjacobs.com. Elyn offers consults via Skype, phone or in person.
Follow Elyn on Facebook
Follow Elyn on LinkedIn
▶ View 2 Comments
Cell Phone Radiation, Cell Phones and Cancer, ECHOTubeZ, EMF Radiation, EMFs and Cancer, Laptops and Cancer
How to Protect Yourself from EMF Radiation
In Cancer, Cell Phones, EMF's, Radiation on October 6, 2015 at 12:39 pm
Is Your Cell Phone Putting You at Risk of Brain Cancer?
I have the pleasure of being the go-to person in my family and amongst friends for health-related questions, especially when it comes to cancer. In the case of the connection between EMF’s (electromagnetic fields) and cancer, it did not take long to convince my family that electronic devices are indeed dangerous.
Exposure to radiofrequency energy from mobile phones held next to the ear is associated with an increased incidence of brain cancers such as malignant gliomas
A strong correlation has also been found in women who tend to carry their cell phones in their bras with a high incidence of breast cancer in the area closest to the phone—many have reported the area of concern to ‘copy’ the form of the phone
The World Health Organization (WHO) has stated that, “electromagnetic fields produced by mobile phones are possible carcinogenic to humans. A very recent study suggested that wireless transmitting devices (WTDs)–mobile phones, cordless phones, mobile phone-based stations, and Wi-Fi routers–be classified as a “probable human carcinogen”
My exposure to the dangers of EMF’s began when a vendor at the 2010 Annie Appleseed conference was hawking devices to put on phones to deflect radiation as well as necklaces that purportedly would protect us from radiation. Being a skeptic, I had my doubts. However, when very well-informed speakers were soon seen donning the wares, I began to think there was something to this.
A month later when I attended the Integrative Healthcare Symposium and heard the president of the Environmental Health Trust (a non-profit organization focusing on drawing attention to man-made health threats), Dr. Devra Davis, present on the dangers of cell phone radiation, there was no longer any doubt in my mind. And, to see some 2000 prominent doctors and nurses quietly distancing themselves from their devices (cell phones and laptops) was pretty amazing; her book Disconnect:The Truth About Cell Phone Radiation, sold out. While I am a long way from banning electronic devices (heck, I use them too), since then I have provided my family the means for safer use.
Recently the city of Berkeley in California recently passed an ordinance requiring cell phone retailers to warn customers that mobile devices may emit cancer-causing radiation. As you can imagine, the wireless industry’s trade association was not too pleased, yet they do have warnings in the VERY FINE print in their owner’s manuals that clearly state cell phones should be kept at a distance from the body and that laptops should not be placed on the lap.
What Can You Do to Reduce the Risk of Cell Phone Radiation?
First and foremost, distance is your friend. Using the speaker-phone option on your cellphone is good, but does not offer much privacy. Using an air-tube headset may be the better way to go. My family and I have been using them for years (note: regular wired head-sets does not protect-they actually conduct radiation!). There was some grumbling from the younger set, mostly as the older versions didn’t fit well in pockets and even with the newer ones, the ear plugs fall out easily (a big nuisance). Then I read about one made by Smart-Safe, a company dedicated to bring public attention to the issue of EMF safety. This company came about after the owner lost his uncle to brain cancer doctors said was in size and shape of a cellphone, which explains their passion. I asked them to send me a headset to try out, and they actually sent me two, one with Bluetooth. I have to say, I love them (and so does the younger set!). I like that the ear plugs stay in even during exercise, the sound is clear and I really appreciate that the cord does not tangle like my old headphones—a big plus.
So Here’s What You Need to Know About EchoTubeZ:
The speakers are in the capsule and they transmit the sound through the hollow tubes, no metal wiring therefor they do not conduct the radiation from the cellphone
The Bluetooth headset has a RadBlocker card on the back, which makes sure that the signal from the Bluetooth device does not reach the body and bounces safely away from the chest— it buffers between the Bluetooth device and chest functioning like a mirror thus bouncing the electromagnetic field away from the chest. With the Bluetooth you do not have to carry the cellphone in your pocket or hold it in your hand, and you can answer calls from a distance
The silicon tubes are German medical grade silicone, tested for biocompatibility, which means that it is compatible with the body and will not react with body fluids and tissue; tubing has no metal wiring
The tubes provide a little more bass to the sound, which is kind of cool
If you pinch the tubes while listening to music it mutes the sound so you do not have to remove the plugs from your ear to block the sound, something they call Pintch2Mute™
The ear plugs stay firmly in the ears
Smart-Safe also has other cool products such as the RadBlocker™ pouch, which allows one to safely carry their phone on their belt—80% of the body’s bone marrow is found in the hip, so please use caution when carrying your phone there. They also have radiation-blocking cases for phones, belly shields (to protect your baby), laptop shields (which means you can safely use laptop, tablets, computers, and other electronic devices in your lap) and other nifty products.
EMF Dangers Lurk Elsewhere as Well
EMF exposure from cordless phones, ‘smart meters’, WI-FI, wireless laptops, wireless routers, baby monitors and similar electronic devices–power lines, electrical wiring and other appliances all add to the toxic mix. There’s virtually no escaping EMF exposure, but you can reduce your risk:
Hardwire your laptop whenever possible
Use a land-line, corded phone
Take your laptop off your lap or use a radiation shield or blanket (see above for Smart-Safe Anti-Radiation Laptop Tray and Anti-Radiation Maternity Belly Band)
Crystals, such as black tourmaline and citrine, in the form of free-formed pieces as well as necklaces, bracelets and other jewelry, can help protect you from unavoidable exposure. I love the bracelets from Heelerz Gemstones
Place a cactus next to your computer as they can absorb some of the radiation
Practice ‘Earthing’–direct barefoot contact with the surface of the Earth which decreases inflammation and protects the body from EMF radiation. Another option is to use an Earthing Universal Mat with Cover Kit
While there is no rock-solid proof that EMF’s are a serious threat to human existence, there is clearly enough evidence to warrant the use of caution. Many experts liken the uneasy parallel to the tobacco issue and voice suspicions about those in power downplaying concern for consumers for the sake of financial gain. I think this is only the tip of the iceberg—we should expect to hear much more and see more municipalities taking action on the health risks of modern technology. In the meantime, please practice safe-cell.
References and Resources:
Lloyd Burrell: EMF’s and Your Health
Environmental Health Trust
Mobile phone radiation causes brain tumors and should be classified as a probable human carcinogen. International Journal of Oncology, 46(5): 1865-1871. Morgan LL, Miller AB, Sasco A, Davis DL (2015)
Epidemiology of Gliomas. Cancer Treatment Reviews, 163: 1-14. Ostrom QT, Gittleman H, Stetson L, et al. (2015)
Can Cell Phones Cause Cancer and Infertility? Are Your Children at Risk?
Elyn
~~If you don’t know your options, you don’t have any~~
Elyn Jacobs is a breast cancer survivor, professional cancer strategist, speaker, and the Executive Director for the Emerald Heart Cancer Foundation. Elyn empowers women to choose the path for treatment that best fits their own individual needs. She is passionate about helping others move forward into a life of health and well-being. Elyn has been featured on CNN Money, Talk About Health, and Breast Cancer Answers, is a contributor to The Truth About Cancer, and has written for the Pink Paper, Breast Cancer Wellness, Integrative Oncology Essentials, Surviving Beautifully, Body Local and more; she authored the Options for Life column for the Natural Healing-Natural Wellness Magazine. Elyn hosts the Survive and Live Well Radio Show on the Cancer Support Network. She is on the Medical Advisory Board for BeatCancer.Org and is on the Advisory Board to the Radical Remission Project. Elyn lives in New York with her husband and two young boys. https://elynjacobs.com/about/
Tune in to the Survive and Live Well Show
Replay the Survive and Live Well Radio Show Archives
Read Elyn’s Blog
Follow Elyn on Facebook
Follow Survive and Live Well on Twitter
Follow Elyn on Linkedin
▶ Comment
Recent Posts
Natural Healing with Mike Carey
Oatmeal Buckwheat Flax Seed Pancakes with Black Raspberry Syrup
Salt Therapy A.K.A. Halo for Health
Tribute to Rose Green Ferguson
Simple Solutions for EMF Radiation Protection
Gluten-Free Anticancer, Anti-inflammatory Seeded Flatbread
Yoga Nidra: The Key to a Better Night’s Sleep and Optimal Health
The Power of Affirmations in Cancer Healing
Bone Broth: Elixir to Health
Why EMF Exposure is a BIG DEAL
Blog Archives
Blog Archives Select Month March 2019 (1) February 2019 (2) January 2019 (3) October 2018 (4) September 2018 (1) August 2018 (1) July 2018 (1) June 2018 (3) May 2018 (1) April 2018 (1) March 2018 (1) February 2018 (1) January 2018 (4) December 2017 (1) November 2017 (5) October 2017 (3) September 2017 (1) July 2017 (1) June 2017 (3) April 2017 (1) March 2017 (2) February 2017 (3) January 2017 (3) December 2016 (3) November 2016 (1) October 2016 (1) September 2016 (2) August 2016 (1) July 2016 (1) June 2016 (2) May 2016 (1) April 2016 (1) March 2016 (1) February 2016 (2) November 2015 (1) October 2015 (3) July 2015 (1) June 2015 (1) May 2015 (1) April 2015 (4) March 2015 (2) January 2015 (5) November 2014 (1) October 2014 (1) September 2014 (4) July 2014 (2) June 2014 (2) April 2014 (2) March 2014 (2) February 2014 (3) January 2014 (4) November 2013 (3) October 2013 (3) September 2013 (1) August 2013 (1) July 2013 (3) June 2013 (1) April 2013 (3) March 2013 (4) February 2013 (2) January 2013 (2) December 2012 (2) November 2012 (1) October 2012 (5) September 2012 (3) August 2012 (1) July 2012 (3) June 2012 (4) May 2012 (1) April 2012 (2) March 2012 (3) February 2012 (2) January 2012 (3) December 2011 (1) November 2011 (4) September 2011 (3) August 2011 (1)
Top Posts & Pages
Natural Alternatives to Hormone Therapy for Breast Cancer
Natural Alternatives to Tamoxifen
Natural Alternatives to Aromatase Inhibitors
Natural Alternatives to Aromatase Inhibitors
Broccoli and Watercress Sprouts Fight Cancer
How Unresolved Trauma Causes Cancer
My Story, My Passion
Integrative Oncologists and Naturopathic Doctors
Is it Safe to Drink Alcohol if You Have Cancer?
Demystifying Flaxseed and Estrogen
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 721 other followers
Follow
Elyn Jacobs Consulting
Elyn Jacobs Consulting
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel