Chewing Gum: Fact and Fiction
Tap for Menu
Home
About
Meet Dr. Milan Yazdani
Meet the Team
Why Choose Us
Blog
New Patients
Office Visits
Financial Information
Testimonials
Healthy Smiles
Preventive Care
Teeth for Life
Common Procedures
Pediatric Dentistry
Gum Disease
TMJ-TMD
Snoring Prevention
Endodontic Surgery
Emergency Dental Care
Beautiful Smiles
Cosmetic Dentistry
Cosmetic Dentistry FAQs
Teeth Whitening
Implants
Cosmetic Enhancements
Prosthodontics
Cracked Teeth
Full-Mouth Reconstruction
Technology
Advanced Dental Technology
Digital X-rays
Intraoral Camera
Contact
Aurora Office Location
Appointment Request
Post-Appointment Survey
Refer a Friend
Aurora: (905) 713-2500
Contact
Aurora Office Location
Appointment Request
Post Appointment Survey
Refer a Friend
Home
Chewing Gum: Fact and Fiction
Share Article:
Search Blog:
Search
St. Patrick's Day: Celtic pride, green shamrocks, and lucky charms! What are Sealants?
Remember all the things your parents would tell you when you were growing up to scare you away from doing something? Like how lying might make your nose grow, misbehaving meant you wouldn’t get money from the tooth fairy, and swallowed chewing gum would build up in your stomach and stay there for years?
Maybe that last one stayed with you well beyond your teens, and occurred to you every time you accidentally (or purposely) swallowed a piece of gum. We don’t blame you. It’s a scary thought.
But is it true?
We hate to take the fun out of parental discipline, but swallowing a piece of chewing gum is pretty much like swallowing any other piece of food. It will move right through your digestive system with no danger of getting stuck for months, let alone seven years.
This doesn’t mean you should start swallowing all your gum from now on, but if it happens accidentally now and then, there’s no need to panic.
Another common gum myth is that sugar-free gum can help you lose weight. Although it is preferable to choose sugar-free gum over the extra-sweet variety, no studies have show that sugar-free gum will help you lose weight.
If you pop a piece of gum in your mouth after dinner to avoid dessert, it could help you avoid eating a few extra calories every day. But the consumption of sugar-free gum without any other effort will not help you shed pounds.
If you really enjoy chewing gum, we strongly encourage you to select sugarless gum, because it lowers your risk for cavities. Many brands of sugarless gum contain xylitol, a natural sweetener that can, in fact, help fight bacteria that cause cavities and rinse away plaque.
So if you can’t kick the gum habit altogether, sugar-free is definitely the way to go!
If you have any questions about chewing gum, feel free to contact Dr. Milan Yazdani at our Aurora office.
Tags:
Posted on March 20th, 2019
Posted in Uncategorized
What PatientsAre Saying
“Dr. Milan Yazdani has been our family dentist since 1998. During our first visit, I recall being impressed with his knowledge, skill and genuine regard and conscientiousness to create a trusting and caring environment for patients; which has consistently been our reality over the past 19 years. Dr. Yazdani has partnered with us to provide the best dental are available, and we consider ourselves fortunate that he chose to locate his practice in Aurora. I find that the special interest and consideration that Dr. Yazdani has for his patients exceeded expectations and is welcomely appreciated.”
~ Nadia C.
“Myself and my now adult children have been Dr. Yazdani’s patients for 17 years! He and his staff are customer focused. They are professional, welcoming, courteous and experts in their field. Appointments are always on time and the facility is very clean. We actually look forward to our dental visits! Our expectations are met each and every time. Thanks Dr. Yazdani and crew!”
~ Eva C.
“My family and I have been patients of Dr. Yazdani for 15 years now. The clinic itself has state of the art technology and the friendly staff are always there to greet you with a smile. Dr. Yazdani cares for his patients; he is very pleasant and always explains what he is doing. Our appointments are always on schedule and if there’s ever an emergency, they try to accommodate you in every way possible.”
~ Susan R.
“Dr. Milan Yazdani has been my dentist for over 23 years, and my wife and I will continue to see Dr. Yazdani for as long as he practices, as he is an excellent dentist and has provided outstanding services. My wife and I have known his staff for many years and they are professional, courteous, helpful and enjoyable to deal with. Dr. Yazdani has taken a personal interest in our dental health and has provided a lot of good advice in maintaining our oral hygiene. We always look forward to seeing Dr. Yazdani for our scheduled appointments.”
~ Rob and Mary
“Our family has been coming to Dr. Milan Yazdani for dental care since he first opened his practice in Aurora. We have been to many dentists over the years, and have found Dr. Yazdani to excel them all in his professionalism and knowledge, his consultative, caring and sensitive approach, and we find his entire team to be friendly, flexible, professional, knowledgeable and efficient.”
~ Pat M. and Peter S.
“The Yazdani Dental office has serviced my family for over 20 years. My children, now young adults, have received the best care from a staff that has, for the most part, remained intact all this time. Their manner is friendly, courteous and professional. I highly recommend them!”
~ Gord D.
“On my first appointment with Dr. Yazdani, I immediately noticed how welcoming everyone was. The secretary, Lina, was very personable and kind. Dr. Yazdani was very thorough and professional, and I felt very valued as a patient. His staff is amazing and they are always very friendly. Six years later, my whole family frequents the office and I highly recommend him to anyone that is looking for a great dentist.”
~ Natasha V.
“I have now been cared for by Dr. Yazdani and his capable staff for a number of years. Previously dental visits were a cause for reluctance and discomfort - not so with Dr. Yazdani and staff. Visits are pleasant and efficient with minimal and infrequent discomfort. Couldn’t recommend Yazdani Dental any higher!”
~ John G.
“Dr. Yazdani is an excellent dentist who main priority is making sure his patients are comfortable and getting the best dentistry he can offer. The staff is very accommodating and friendly; the office is always very clean. Dr. Yazdani has been my dentist for 13 years and I would highly recommend hi to all my friends and family.”
~ Rebecca G.
“I’ve been a patient of Dr. Milan Yazdani for a number of years. He’s always been very conscientious whether he's doing a tooth extraction, or filing a cavity. He never makes you feel nervous. His dental hygienists have been helpful with home dental care instructions. The receptionist greets you cheerfully and makes you feel relaxed. If you are looking for an exceptional dentist, I would highly recommend Dr. Yazdani.”
~ Gareth J.
“We have patients of Dr. Yazdani for 20 years, and have been extremely happy with him and his whole team!”
~ Christina, Bill, Mary Anne, and Beth
Yazdani Dental 14751 Yonge St, Unit 1
Aurora, ON L4G 1N1 (905) 713-2500
Website Powered by Sesame 24-7™ | Site Map
Back to Top