Why Hydroquinone Is Bad For Your Skin | SunMyke
WELCOME
MY ACCOUNT
SM TUTORIALS
ABOUT SUNMYKE
GOT QUESTION ?
Select Page
Why Hydroquinone Is Bad For Your Skin
by richie | May 13, 2015 | Others | 0 comments
Twitter
LinkedIn
demo
0
Hydroquinone is a naturally occurring chemical which is used as a skin lightening ingredient in whitening creams and it is used to treat hyperpigmentation and dark spots. It reduces the production of melanin in the body which serves as a natural protection against the ultraviolet rays of the sun.
Using creams containing hydroquinone can cause damages to the skin, especially dark skin tone in the following ways:
The long term use of hydroquinone gives the skin a bluish black coloration and it also damages the pigment cell.
Hydroquinone makes the skin more sensitive to sun because it becomes toxic when exposed to sunlight.
It causes sunburn and puts you at the risk of some types of skin cancer.
In the process of whitening the skin, hydroquinone degenerates collagen and elastic fibre in the skin.
A skin condition called ochronosis can affect the skin. This condition is caused by exposure to chemicals and it makes the skin darker and thicker.
It thins out the epidermis which is the outer layer of the skin and makes it difficult for the skin to heal on time when there is a wound or after a surgical operation.
Over time, hydroquinone weakens the skin and gets absorbed into the bloodstream easily and it can reach organs like the liver and kidney and cause damage to them.
It causes skin irritation, redness to the skin and contact dermatitis.
It makes you sweaty and causes body heat.
Hydroquinone has been banned in several countries in Europe and Asia. While a lot of people consider it harmful, some dermatologists believe that when it is used in moderate amount to clear skin blemishes and spots, it is safe to use as opposed to using it as creams for bleaching dark skin tones.
Share this post:
WhatsApp
Facebook
Twitter
Print
LinkedIn
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Search for:
Facebook
Twitter
Google
RSS
Site by: SunMyke.com | © 2018
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: