Do You Hate Your Skin Tag? (Easy Home Removal!) | | Fancy New Me
Skip to content
Fancy New Me
Health Home Family
September 14, 2018 February 2, 2019 Laurie
Do You Hate Your Skin Tag? (Easy Home Removal!)
Health
Home Skin Tag Removal Isn’t Difficult
Skin tags can be annoying and unsightly. Fortunately, at-home skin tag removal is a relatively easy process (like treating a wart).
There are several good over-the-counter skin tag removal products available, which means you can handle this little problem yourself and avoid a doctor visit.
Skin Tag Removers
There are a few ways of removing skin tags at home and with so many skin tag removal products on the market, it can be hard to make the right decision.
Many companies make bold claims about what their products can do for your skin, but they aren’t always truthful or accurate.
Here are the factors to consider when you want to know how to remove a skin tag yourself:
Fast Results
If you’re not a particularly patient person, choose a product that is easy to apply and use, and removes a skin tag fast.
There are now single-application treatments available that get results almost instantly. You won’t have to wait for months for your skin tags to go away entirely.
A good example is Pristine Herbal Touch Mole and Wart Vanish, which requires only 1 20-minute application.
Pristine Herbal Touch Mole and Wart Vanish is a very effective skin tag remover, requiring only 1 20-minute application.
Pristine Herbal Touch W&MV has good reviews.
Easy to Use
The best skin tag products should be safe and straightforward to use at home without seeming to require medical training.
For example, if you’re using skin tag removal products near the eyes, you don’t want to apply a runny or overly thick liquid.
Micro TagBand Deluxe doesn’t use any liquid, so it’s an especially good choice for skin tags near your eyes, nose, mouth, or genital area.
Micro TagBand Deluxe is a good choice for skin tags near your eyes, nose, mouth, or genital area.
Video: Micro TagBand works by stopping the skin tags blood supply and results can be seen within days.
Natural and Virtually Painless
Depending on how sensitive you are to pain, it may be worth choosing a treatment that is painless (or only causes mild irritation).
Obviously, extra care needs to be taken when treating particularly sensitive areas, like the groin region.
Apothecary Extracts Tea Tree Oil has excellent reviews as an all-natural skin tag removal product (that actually works).
Users just apply it directly to skin tags with a cotton swab for several days, and for most, it simply dissolves the skin tag.
I wouldn’t have believed that tea tree oil could be so effective on skin tags without researching Amazon reviews and other anecdotal reports. It’s an interesting discovery!
One Amazon reviewer raved:
“I absolutely love this product… I developed many skin tags on my body as a result of two pregnancies. The dermatologist told me they were considered cosmetic and therefore wouldn’t be covered by insurance. Before putting hundreds of dollars into removing them cosmetically, I decided to give tea tree oil a try. By applying this oil to my skin tags a few times a day for about two weeks, I can honestly say they are all almost completely gone. This product is a miracle worker that saved me hundreds of dollars on dermatologist fees”!!!!
Another reviewer stated:
“I bought this product because I saw it was recommended for removal of skin tags. I have quite a few of skin tags on my neck and I was sick of them! I have been using this product 2 times a day for the past 2 days and I cannot believe the difference! I can already see a ton of my skin tags disappearing. It says on the bottle that you can try diluting the oil, but I put it on a cotton ball and just dab it on the skin tags, I will definitely be buying this again and recommending to others”!
Apothecary Extracts 100% Pure Australian Tea Tree Oil
Skin Tag Remover Pens
Skin tag removal pens (also called mole removal pens or devices) are a relatively new product on the market. These devices are cauterizing pens which are marketed to consumers.
YouTube reviews of these pens are very mixed, and often peppered with complaints of difficult-to-understand instructions which were translated from Chinese.
Example: LeshionLife Skin Tag Remover, USB Rechargeable
I would caution you to check with your doctor or dermatologist before using this product to remove a skin tag, as I am not yet convinced of their reliability.
Affordability
Obviously, at-home skin tag removers are cost-effective when compared to seeing a doctor or dermatologist.
Typical Cost for Skin Tag Removal
Visiting a doctor or dermatologist is a more expensive option than using an over-the-counter treatment at home.
However, if your skin tag becomes infected or looks unusual, you should have it looked at by a medical professional.
See the doctor if your skin tag is infected or looks unusual.
Normally, the physician will either cut the skin tag off with a scalpel or sterile scissors, freeze it off with liquid nitrogen or cauterize it with an electric current.
Professional skin tag removal usually costs around $150 for the removal of one or several skin tags.
Skin tag removal is considered a cosmetic procedure, so insurance companies usually only cover the cost of the initial evaluation, but not removal.
Avoid or Minimize Scarring
Typically, skin tags won’t leave a scar if they are treated with a purpose-made skin tag removal product, and given time to dissolve and fall off .
Avoid infection and scarring: Don’t do this!!
If a scab is removed prematurely, however, you do risk some scarring (so don’t pick at the scab!)
Relax and take your time with the treatment, and make sure that you follow the package instructions for use and aftercare.
Scar Removal Cream
After your skin tag has fallen off, I recommend preventative use of a scar removal cream (especially if your tag was in a visible area).
Research in scar reduction has shown that silicone is the most effective ingredient in reducing the appearance of scars.
A 2015 study published in Advances in Wound Care found that:
“The clinical support of topical silicone gel products, relative to all alternative scar therapies, is considered the internationally recommended first-line form of scar management, and favored by consensus among healthcare professionals.”
Silicone can reduce collagen overgrowth, which leads to scarring, and works to flatten and fade scars by hydrating the tissue (look for dimethicone in the ingredients).
There are many good silicone-based scar treatment creams on the market.
My husband treated a couple of skin tags on his neck recently (which gave me the idea for this article), and when it looked like he’d be left with some scars, I bought him a tube of MD Performance Ultimate Scar Formula.
He applied it before work in the morning and again at night, and after about 4 weeks, those marks had essentially disappeared.
… So that would be my personal recommendation, and it also has some great reviews.
MD Performance Ultimate Scar Formula uses professional grade silicone gel.
By the way, the tube is small, but that one tube was enough for a month of treatment, plus it’s non-greasy and absorbs really fast.
About Skin Tags
What are Skin Tags?
Skin tags are common, acquired benign (non-cancerous) skin growths that resemble a small, soft balloon suspended on a slender stalk.
The medical name for skin tag is acrochordon. Some people call them “skin tabs.”
The skin tag medical name is acrochordon.
Who Gets Skin Tags?
They are very common; more than half if not all of the general population has been reported to have skin tags at some time in their lives.
Although tags usually develop over time, and may occur in anyone, they tend to arise most often in adulthood.
They are much more common in middle age, and they tend to increase in prevalence up to age 60.
Causes of Skin Tags
Males and females are equally prone to developing skin tags. Other than being associated with obesity, the cause of skin tags is unknown.
Although some skin tags may fall off spontaneously, most won’t.
Sizes of Skin Tags
Skin tags may start out as small as a flattened pinhead-sized bump, and typically remain small (2 mm-5 mm in diameter). That’s approximately one-third to one-half the size of a pencil eraser.
Some skin tags may become as large as a big grape (1 cm in diameter) or even a fig (5 cm in diameter).
Skin tags vary in size.
Locations of Skin Tags
Base of the neck
Underarms
Eyelids
Groin folds
Buttock folds
Under the breasts
Armpits are a common location for skin tags.
Symptoms of Skin Tags
Except for the cosmetic appearance, skin tags generally cause no physical pain or discomfort.
Generally, a skin tag would only cause symptoms if it’s repeatedly irritated (for example, by the collar or in the groin).
Reasons for Skin Tag Removal
Cosmetic reasons are the most common reason for skin tag removal, but it may be necessary to remove a skin tag if:
it has become irritated and red from bleeding (hemorrhage) or black from twisting, and
death of the skin tissue (necrosis).
Also, sometimes, a skin tag may become snagged by clothing, jewelry, pets, or seat belts, causing pain or potentially infection.
Skin Tag vs Wart
While warts are caused by a virus called human papillomavirus (HPV) and are known to be very contagious, skin tags are not thought to be caused by HPV (or contagious).
Final Thoughts
Skin tags are common, and they shouldn’t worry you. If you don’t find yours beautiful, it’s a simple and relatively inexpensive procedure to remove it yourself at home.
Look for a product made for skin tag removal (often also labelled for mole and wart removal), and follow the manufacturers instructions.
Once your wart falls off, use a scar removal cream for about 4 weeks as a preventative measure, and you’ll soon find there’s barely a sign of your once-hated skin tag.
Did I miss anything? Share your skin tag removal tips!
What to Read Next
DIY Callus Removal: What Works Best?
The Ayurveda Triphala Powder Secret (How Did We Not Know About This?)
You NEED These (Scientifically Proven) Immune Boosters!
Stop Your Child’s Cold From Spreading (To The ENTIRE Family!)
Tagged acrochordon, armpit skin tag remover, best skin tag remover, best skin tag treatment, body tag remover, budget skin tag removal, can you remove skin tags wart remover, DIY skin tag remover, do-it-yourself skin tag removal, easy skin tag removal, easy skin tag remover, fast skin tag remover, groin skin tag remover, moles warts and skin tags removal, natural skin tag remover, neck skin tag remover, painless skin tag remover, skin tabs, skin tag causes, skin tag cauterizing pen, skin tag definitiion, skin tag doctor removal, skin tag eyelids remover, skin tag locations, skin tag product reviews, skin tag removal, skin tag removal cost, skin tag removal scarring, skin tag remover, skin tag remover cream, skin tag remover device review, skin tag remover gel, skin tag remover pen review, skin tag remover reviews, skin tag scar removal cream, skin tag self removal, skin tag sizes, skin tag symptoms, skin tag treatment reviews, skin tag vs wart
Post navigation
Suffering From Anxiety? A Weighted Blanket Can Help!
How a Low-Fat Diet Can Make You THIN!
Related Posts
Panic Attacks While Driving (Can They Be Stopped?)
Do You Wake Up In A Panic? (Mornings Are The Worst!)
Is There Any Relief From Binge Eating Disorder?
Leave a Reply
This comment form is under antispam protection
This comment form is under antispam protection
Subscribe
Notify of
new follow-up comments new replies to my comments
I’m a professional health and lifestyle researcher, and a determined shopper.
I believe that knowledge is power, and good taste is worth cultivating.
Follow me on Twitter.
Pages
About
Contact
Disclaimer
Privacy
Search for:
Recent Posts
Panic Attacks While Driving (Can They Be Stopped?)
Do You Wake Up In A Panic? (Mornings Are The Worst!)
Is There Any Relief From Binge Eating Disorder?
Vegetarians Gain Better Brain Function With Creatine
Are You Too Fat To Get Pregnant?
All Right Reserved 2016
Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Gist by Candid Themes.
wpDiscuz