Trying to Conceive While Breastfeeding | ConceiveEasy.com
How it Works
Try it Free
Magazine
Reviews
Help
Cart
How it Works
Try it Free
Magazine
Reviews
Help
Trying to conceive?
Get pregnant fast!
Try it Free
Trying to Conceive While Breastfeeding
by Alyssia Granger
The Ultimate Guides
How To Get Pregnant Tips
Fertility Pills
Twins & Multiples
Fertility & Trying To Conceive
Fertility Vitamins & Herbs
TTC a Specific Gender
TTC After 35
Fertility Drugs & Treatments
Infertility & Fertility Problems
TTC After Birth Control
Ovulation
Male Fertility
Most women know that breastfeeding acts as a natural method of birth control. This is because breastfeeding almost always stops a woman from menstruating and lactating. For most women, the period in which they are breastfeeding is usually met with a bit of relief, since it is one time that women don’t really need to worry about birth control.
For the most part, as long as you are breastfeeding your baby exclusively and on demand, it is hard to get pregnant. However, some women decide that they do want to try to conceive again while they are still breastfeeding. Is there anything that women can do to make it easier to conceive while breastfeeding? Read on to find out some tips. Claim Your 20 Free Pregnancy Tests – Click Here
Take a break
This is much easier said than done. However, most experts agree that if you can find a way to go six consecutive hours without breastfeeding, you will have a greater chance of having your period return to normal sooner. Doing this during the day is sometimes completely out of the question, but many women find a way to get their babies to sleep through the night, and this is how they can get that six hour “break period”.
Supplement with formula
This is not always an option for every woman, but some women are okay with sometimes supplementing breast milk with formula. If women can do that, it will give them more of a break in between breastfeeding sessions, and make it more likely for their periods and ovulation to return to normal.
Add solids
Depending on the age of your baby, you may be able to slowly begin to introduce solid foods. If you are able to do this, you will have a better chance of your ovulation returning to normal faster, since you won’t be breastfeeding so often. Your baby will also feel fuller longer, which will help you to go longer in between breast feeding sessions.
Pump some of the time
Women who are able to pump their milk, and save it for later, are more likely to have their periods and ovulation return to normal sooner. This is because it is easier to get that six hour period with no feedings if you already have milk on hand to feed your baby. Some women are not able to pump, but if you are able to, you should consider it.
Try herbal supplements
Some women swear by herbal supplements to help their periods return to normal. There is no medical indication or evidence that these herbal supplements do make ovulation return to normal, but there is no harm in trying. Some of the most popular herbal supplements to help ovulation include things like Evening Primrose Oil, Chasteberry, Maca Root, and Grape Seed Extract.
Get your vitamins
It is also important that you are getting enough vitamins to make sure that your ovulation will return to normal as soon as possible. Some of the most important vitamins to include in your diet are vitamin C, vitamin E, zinc, and vitamin B6. Your doctor will be able to help you choose the right multivitamin for you to take while breastfeeding.
Alyssia Granger | ConceiveEasy
Alyssia is mom to 2 giggley twin girls, Sophia and Emma, and son Hunter. She's a Southern girl, passionate about photography, travel and her husband Josh.
Must Read Articles
Scary Truth Behind BPA, Infertility, and Miscarriage
Can Acupuncture Boost Your Fertility?
7 Ways to Know If You Are Fertile
What Medicines Can I Take While Pregnant?
When Should You Freeze Your Eggs?
Is a Midwife Safer For Your Childbirth Outcome?
6 Reasons Why You Should Have a Homebirth
I Want To Adopt: Where Do I Begin?
Help
How it works
Usage
Ingredients
Returns/Exchanges
Contact us
Education
Getting pregnant tips
How to use an OPK
Tips to conceive a boy
Tips to conceive a girl
Company
About Us
Our promise
Magazine
Reviews
Need assistance?
We’re available by phone (1-800-6-TTCKIT) and by chat
Monday - Friday, 9am to 5pm EST
Call FAQ Chat Email
facebook
pinterest
instagram
youtube
©
2019 ConceiveEasy, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of use & Privacy Policy