How to Lower Cholesterol Level
Skip to content
Main Menu
Home
Links
Menu Toggle
Top Product Comparison
Posts By Category
FAQ
Contact Us
Top Product Comparison
Top Product Comparison
How To Lower Cholesterol Levels
Table of Contents
1 Known the Many Dangers Associated with High Cholesterol level
1.1 Acceptable Level
2 How You Can Lower Your Cholesterol Level
3 Diet to Lower Cholesterol
3.1 Physical Activity to Lower Cholesterol
4 What Are The Proper Cholesterol Levels For Men?
5 What Are The Proper Cholesterol Levels For Women?
6 High Levels Of Cholesterol In Children
6.1 Curing high cholesterol in kids and youngsters
7 Stress Raises Cholesterol Levels
8 Lower Cholesterol Levels Without Using Drugs
9 3 Simple Steps To Lower Your Cholesterol Level
10 Ways To Lower Cholesterol Levels
10.1 Ways To Lower Cholesterol Using Drugs
11 You Do Not Require Prescription Drugs To Reduce Your Cholesterol Levels
Known the Many Dangers Associated with High Cholesterol level
Foods that are rich in fatty acids and unhealthy ingredients are the cause of the high cholesterol level in the human body. For most people, the level of cholesterol will determine whether the person will be susceptible to cardiovascular diseases or not. The most common diseases and ailments that are caused by the high cholesterol level include stroke and heart attacks. The presence of too much cholesterol will cause the blood clots in the arteries that lead to heart attack.
Acceptable Level
The best way to prevent such occurrence of heart diseases is to maintain the level of cholesterol inside. It has been proven that the best way to start the maintenance would be to limit the food products that are rich in cholesterol and fats. It is also advised by most physicians that proper consultation should be done to review the high cholesterol level and how to treat it properly.
Alternatively, it is suggested by many experts that the natural process and treatment will help reduce the cholesterol level. Consequently, it is a notable process that has as little side effects as possible.
The most expert person to ask for advice in reducing the high cholesterol level is a dietician. This is the individual that will recommend the right doses of food products that will help maintain the good cholesterol level and decrease the bad cholesterol. To ensure that the body stay fit, you need to start by eating the right kind of foods. Healthy foods include the dairy products that have saturated fats and are one of the causes why people suffer from high cholesterol level.
There are plenty of medications found in the market. These prescriptions are quite good in reducing the high cholesterol level. However, the best treatment to reduce the high cholesterol level is to use natural methods. This would include the herbal medications that are made with fresh herbs and naturally made products. Research has been done extensively on some of these products as a way to prove that it works in decreasing the high cholesterol level. One natural product that is quite effective in bringing down the cholesterol is garlic.
There are risks and dangers when there is a high cholesterol level in the human body. There is proof that has shown that cholesterol does not move freely in the bloodstream as it does not mix well with water. Thus, the high cholesterol level will eventually clog up the arteries that will lead to diseases in the heart and veins.
When you become aware of the dangers of the high cholesterol level, you begin to understand that you need to make a move right now. With the right kind of knowledge and the dedication to remove the high cholesterol level, you can begin the process as soon as possible. Try some homemade remedies and natural treatments to avoid any complications.
How You Can Lower Your Cholesterol Level
Cholesterol is an important chemical substance found in the blood that is needed for different functions. Too much cholesterol, however, results in problems. High cholesterol is a significant factor in the development of stroke, heart disease and even death, which is why you shouldn’t take it lightly and you need to learn how to lower cholesterol. But first, how do you know if you have high cholesterol or not?
To find out, your doctor will order a complete blood cholesterol test, commonly called the fasting lipid profile. It is a blood test typically scheduled in the morning since a person needs to fast for at least 8 to 10 hours to get accurate results.
There are four results of this test, which includes your total cholesterol, LDL (bad cholesterol), HDL (good cholesterol) and blood triglycerides. The ideal results are as follows: a total cholesterol level less than 200 mg/dl, an LDL less than 100 mg/dl, an HDL above 40 mg/dl and triglycerides less than 150 mg/dl. If your results are beyond the ideal, then you are at risk for developing heart disease and other health conditions.
There are many ways on how you can lower your cholesterol level. Diet, physical activity, weight, age, race, genes, vices… all these play a role in the level of cholesterol in your blood. Though some of these cannot be changed like your age, race and genes, most of them are modifiable risk factors that you can do something about.
Diet to Lower Cholesterol
Your diet is one of the most important things you need to change in order to lower your cholesterol. Know the difference between “good” fats and “bad” fats so you know what you can eat and what you should avoid. Good fats include monounsaturated fats (MUFAs) and polyunsaturated fats, which help lower your total cholesterol and LDL, while helping to increase your HDL.
Foods that are high in MUFAs include nuts, olive oil and avocado. Omega 3 fatty acids are examples of polyunsaturated fats, which are found in many kinds of fishes like salmon, mackerel, sardines, etc. Remember to grill or bake the fish so you don’t add any unhealthy fats.
Bad fats include saturated fats and trans fats, and these two raise your LDL and total cholesterol. Saturated fats are typically found in animal products like meat, eggs and dairy, but can also be found in coconut oil and palm oil. Intake of these should be lowered to control your cholesterol.
Trans fats are even worse than saturated fat, and these can be found in many commercially packaged foods as well as many commercially fried foods like French Fries. To lower your cholesterol, it is better to avoid these foods and look for alternatives that are free from trans fat.
Physical Activity to Lower Cholesterol
Even if you’re not overweight, exercise is truly helpful in reducing your cholesterol level. 30 to 60 minutes of moderate physical activity every day will even increase the level of your good cholesterol, which is even better. Think of an activity that you know you enjoy—maybe you enjoy taking a brisk walk at lunch with a buddy, or you may like swimming laps after a day at work in the office.
No matter the physical activity, the important thing is that you keep doing it so you can lower your cholesterol and keep healthy. Even just making the change from riding the elevator to taking the stairs can make a difference in your overall health.
What Are The Proper Cholesterol Levels For Men?
According to the Centres for Disease control 50 percent of men who die due to heart disease had no prior warning signs. That’s very scary. But what you have to realize is that high cholesterol has no warning signs or symptoms. But let me bring it back a bit and say that all cholesterol is not bad. You actually need cholesterol to produce certain hormones in your body.
What you might not know is that every cell in your body contains cholesterol. That’s how important it is. However, high levels of cholesterol can be a very dangerous thing.
There are two types of cholesterol. Low density lipoprotein and high density lipoprotein. The low density lipoprotein, also known as LDL, is the bad cholesterol and the one you want to get rid of. The high density lipoprotein on the other hand is the good cholesterol and the kind you want to increase. To find out your cholesterol levels all you have to do is take a simple test.
No matter what age, you are the ideal cholesterol levels for men are basically the same as women. Your goal should be 200 mg/dL or less. However, if you have certain conditions such as coronary heart disease, diabetes or you are considered obese, you cholesterol levels might be different.
When determining high cholesterol levels for men there are a few factors you have to consider. They include age, family history, weight, blood pressure and overall lifestyle habits. As you get older and start to be less and less physically active the influence of these factors will increase even more.
If you are a man who has a family history of high cholesterol, drinks an excessive amount of alcohol, smokes and eats a very unhealthy diet, you are at risk for high cholesterol.
Every person is different and will therefore have a different optimal level of cholesterol. A 30 year old male who has borderline high cholesterol can easily reverse it by changing the way he eats and exercising. A man who is over 50 might not be able to reverse their high cholesterol as easy.
Men who are over the age of 40 should make it a point to check their cholesterol on a regular basis. This way you can get control of your cholesterol levels before they get too high.
If you lead a very sedentary lifestyle and are overweight you will be more likely to have to deal with high cholesterol levels and the severe consequences that can come along with it.
Start by changing you daily habits right now. If you eat a lot of red meat replaces it with chicken, turkey or other lean meats. If you don’t exercise, start working out at least 30 minutes a day for 3 or 4 days a week. If you have had a heart attack before be sure to check with your doctor before you start working out.
You want to make sure your heart is strong enough for that type of activity. Men are more likely to get a heart attack once they get older. That’s why it is so important that you do whatever you can to keep your cholesterol levels down.
What Are The Proper Cholesterol Levels For Women?
If you are a woman over the age of 20 you should have your cholesterol levels checked on a regular basis. Why you ask? Well because any woman who has LDL cholesterol is at greater risk for suffering heart attacks and getting heart disease.
Most women don’t realize that they can suffer from high cholesterol even if they eat healthy and exercise on a regular basis. And because there are no real symptoms to high cholesterol most women don’t even know they have it.
Before I get into the right cholesterol levels for women let’s first get a better understand of what cholesterol is. Cholesterol is a soft, wax like substance that your body needs to help produce hormones, vitamin D and other important substances that help with food digestion. For the most part your body will produce the required amount of cholesterol but you can also find it in the food you eat.
Cholesterol and blood don’t mix. One is fatty and the other is watery. That’s why lipoproteins are needed to help the cholesterol travel through the blood stream.
There are two types of lipoproteins in your body. Low density lipoprotein (LDL) and high density lipoprotein (HDL).
Too much low density lipoprotein can lead to cholesterol building up in your arteries. That in turn can lead to heart disease. High density lipoprotein is responsible for carrying cholesterol from other parts of the body to the liver. Once in the liver cholesterol is removed from the body.
When you have a high level of HDL cholesterol you dramatically decrease your chances of getting heart disease. The key is to try to keep a healthy level of both.
Now let’s dive in and talk about cholesterol levels for women. As stated before it is important that you get your cholesterol checked on a regular basis. The test is very simple and quick. The ideal cholesterol level for a woman who doesn’t have coronary heart disease should be between 200 mg/dL and 240 mg/dL. Anything over that is considered high cholesterol.
If on the other hand you do have coronary heart disease your numbers will be a little different because you are at greater risk of having a heart attack. Your HDL should be 60 mg/dL or higher and your LDL should be 100 mg/dL or below.
Women with coronary heart disease should have their cholesterol checked at least once a year. Genetics play a major role in your cholesterol levels. And if you have high cholesterol because of genetics it can be very difficult to deal with.
Women will generally have a fluctuation in their cholesterol levels. This is because of estrogens and its effect on cholesterol. It increases the level of good cholesterol and decreases the level of bad cholesterol. But once you hit menopause the estrogens levels in your body will start to decline. When this occur the HDL, or good cholesterol, will decline as well.
High Levels Of Cholesterol In Children
These days, not only the adults, but children also need to be anxious about high cholesterol levels. According to experts, a satisfactory amount of total cholesterol for youngsters between the age of 2 and 19 is below 170 mg; whereas studies show that one third of young ones have high cholesterol levels about 200 mg.
Probable causes for such high levels of cholesterol in young children may be:
Genetics – children may easily inherit the problem of high cholesterol from their parents.
Diet – Children are more exposed to high fat food products like fast food, therefore they are at a high risk of cholesterol problem.
Obesity – The children who are over-weight are more prone to high cholesterol levels.
Lack of work outs – children spend too much time in watching TV and playing video games instead of playing outdoors. Due to lesser workout, they are at a high risk of getting this problem.
Curing high cholesterol in kids and youngsters
There are many drugs and natural supplements available for young people to deal with this problem, but the best way is to eradicate it with exercise and diet.
Reduce the intake of cholesterol and saturated fats – Children above the age of 2 years should not consume more than 25 percent of calories through fats.
Increase bodily activity – 30 minutes exercise should be regularly performed. It can be in the form of walking, swimming, team sports etc.
High levels of bad cholesterol found in young ones can result in heart diseases at an early age. Parents should know what the cholesterol levels of their child are.
Its treatment should begin with slight modifications in the lifestyle such as exercising and diet. It is the best way if one starts following these health habits now.
Stress Raises Cholesterol Levels
Too much emphasis on what to eat and what not to eat, but lifestyle and ability to cope with daily challenges can play as important of a role in our health. The constant role of tension and stress plays in our health can be profound. Not only does stress increase blood pressure, but stress also raises cholesterol levels.
Numerous studies over the last few decades has pointed out very clearly that a rise in cortisol and nor epinephrine, stress hormones, leads to poorer health parameters such as higher blood pressure, lowered immune function, higher triglycerides and higher cholesterol. They are in disagreement as to the cause, but speculations include increased release of fatty acids and glucose into the bloodstream because of energy demand due to stress, causing increased secretion of LDL cholesterol by the liver.
Stress isn’t going to go away soon; we have it in our daily lives. What we need are coping mechanisms, ways to diffuse the stress or even simply be able to give up control of certain situations.
Exercise, especially a good brisk walk, takes the edge off any stressful situation. It also serves as double duty of raising HDL or good cholesterol.
A creative activity could include singing, painting, or cooking something new out of a cook book for fun.
Get enough good quality sleep. The usual take a hot bath, drink warm milk (or take a calcium with some chamomile tea), and relax before bed all help.
Keep your environment clean, and clutter free.
Meet with friends and family you enjoy, exchange hugs and laughs.
Make a short list in the morning of your goals or chores for the day. It allows you to focus on one thing at a time rather than being overwhelmed.
These are to-dos of sorts that all help cope with stressful living, but mostly the best to do is to simply not take it all that seriously. Once you get sick, like I did, you realize that most of the small stuff doesn’t matter at all in the grand scheme of things. There are situations that are stressful, but these should be the exception and not the rule.
Levels of LDL, or “bad” cholesterol were three times as likely to be at potentially harmful levels in this group compared with those who registered the smallest cholesterol rise after the initial tests.
Lower Cholesterol Levels Without Using Drugs
A fundamental change in our sedentary life styles is necessary as heart attacks pose a serious threat to the longevity of people across the globe. Be firm in your resolve to stay away from habits such as smoking and drinking. Hope you are all wise people and will understand the ill-effects of the bad habits apart from elevating the Low density Lipoprotein levels.
The only good news that consoles us is that it is possible to prevent the incidence of heart attacks to a greater extent by resisting the temptation for diets rich in calories, sugar and saturated fats. You should remember that the exact cause for several types of cancer still remains a mystery despite the advancement of technology.
So let the patients in the low disk category seek the help of drugs. Let others be on the safer side. Always opt for natural ways and try these ways to the maximum possible extent. If you always go for low cholesterol, low calorie, low sugar diet the fear of heart attacks will never haunt your minds.
Olive oil is a boon to mankind by God almighty as no oil can match its degree of safety. Other oils may be tasty but may slowly degrade our health in the long run. The ultimate choice is yours. Decide in a wise manner.
Always destruction is an easy task but construction is a complex one. Same concept will be applicable in the case of increasing levels of low density lipoprotein cholesterol and High density Lipoprotein cholesterols too.
B-Complex, (Niacin in particular) capsules or tablets aid in the process of restriction of Low density Lipoprotein cholesterol levels. There are also several natural supplements that will be able to help you lower your cholesterol levels. These tablets facilitate the dispersion of surplus fats in water reducing the possibility of the malefic cholesterol getting deposited on the walls of arteries.
If you are not interested in carrying heavy weights you need not go to gym. Don’t attempt to exercises which do not suit your physique and gasp for breadth. Yoga is easier, costs less and delivers more benefits than lifting heavy weights in Gym.
However, don’t fail to consult a physician regarding managing cholesterol levels as persons suffering from asthma, sneezing must avoid certain type of exercises. Give foremost importance to yoga which improves blood circulation and burn down calories compared to other yoga which benefit various parts of the body.
3 Simple Steps To Lower Your Cholesterol Level
You can lower cholesterol without drugs by following some basic steps that will not only change your cholesterol readings, but also improve your health today and in the future. So often we use a prescription drug and hope it will magically cure whatever ails us. The truth is prescription drugs for lowering cholesterol do work. The problem is both the short term and long-term side effects.
Even more dangerous than the side effects of prescription drugs to lower cholesterol is not getting cholesterol under control. Over time, high cholesterol can lead to numerous conditions of the heart and arteries, not the least of which are atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries), stroke or heart attack.
Here are 3 steps you can take today to lower your cholesterol without prescription drugs.
1. Eat right.
May sound simple, but diet has such a significant impact on lowering cholesterol that it should be the number one factor you look at in determining if your high cholesterol is hereditary or a matter of dietary choices. A low fat and low cholesterol diet is the first step toward lowering cholesterol.
2. Exercise.
Improving cardiovascular health is a step toward reversing the effects of high cholesterol. Exercise itself doesn’t directly lower cholesterol, but will strengthen the heart and entire circulatory system.
3. Relax.
Chronic stress can affect cholesterol levels. If you are constantly stressed and eating a low cholesterol diet, you may not see any improvement in cholesterol readings until you learn to relieve stress.
It is always important to ask your doctor if your decision to follow a specific diet or exercise plan is right for you. In addition, do not stop taking medications before consulting with your doctor. You can lower your cholesterol with diet and exercise, and under the care of your doctor, see about removing drugs from the process.
It does not take long to see significant improvements in your cholesterol. Lower cholesterol can be yours in just a matter of weeks.
Ways To Lower Cholesterol Levels
There are different ways to lower cholesterol. Before studying the methods to decrease cholesterol levels we will first try to understand what cholesterol is and what is its significant role in our body.
Cholesterol is a kind of wax-like material that is used by our body for the protection of our nerve fibres, and is also used to create cell tissues in our body. It is also beneficial in the production of certain types of hormones in our body. The requirement of cholesterol by our human is fully produced by our liver. Our body also takes cholesterol directly from the meals that we eat.
The sources of cholesterol from meals features egg, take advantage of, meat and all types of take advantage of products. The main thing that you should know about cholesterol is that you should keep the stage of cholesterol under management. It should be neither higher nor low than necessary. Maximum cholesterol is very dangerous for our health. Here is ways to lower cholesterol.
A high cholesterol stage raises the risk of heart stroke and cardiac arrest in our body. You should remember that cholesterol is of two types, excellent and bad. Good cholesterol is essential for our body and bad cholesterol impacts our body adversely. Therefore it is crucial to keep bad cholesterol under management.
There are different ways to lower cholesterol levels in our body. There are also many drugs that are available in the market to decrease the stage of cholesterol. You should take these drugs only upon appointment with your physician. But you should always keep in mind that cholesterol management drugs are beneficial only when you should also modify your lifestyle. The first ways to lower cholesterol should always modify in your lifestyle – such as dieting plan modify and using a physical fitness schedule.
But in case you don’t get any benefit from changing your lifestyle, then you are necessary to have some ways to lower cholesterol. These drugs should be taken along with fitness. Only then these drugs may help in decreasing the stage of cholesterol.
Ways To Lower Cholesterol Using Drugs
Before starting this type of drugs, you should take advice from your physician and stringently do as instructed. Only then you can succeed in keeping the stage of cholesterol under management. And once you have achieved an excellent healthy lifestyle, you can then consider other normal ways to decrease cholesterol levels.
Like most people who have high-cholesterol, you may want to find a normal ways to lower cholesterol levels. For sure when you went to see your physician, you were certainly told to modify your eating plan and to have a physical fitness. These are two staple items that you can do to help you decrease your cholesterol.
While these two methods are practical and possible ways to lower cholesterol, still sometimes there are moments that you overlook doing it for some legitimate reasons like attending parties or when you are down with flu. These two predictable situations will lure you to eat the wrong meals, and of course when you are ill, you are only restricted to your bed.
So this leaves you with another means to create certain that while you are in a party or when you are ill, still your human is protected from having high cholesterol. If you have heard of normal cholesterol decreasing supplements, then perhaps you know ways to lower cholesterol.
You Do Not Require Prescription Drugs To Reduce Your Cholesterol Levels
When it comes to high cholesterol you will find that this is something that affects millions of folks. High cholesterol is one thing that can be the result of many different things and if you get these things in control you can reduce your cholesterol. The one thing you will find is that as soon as a doctor detects that you have high cholesterol they want to start giving you drugs. While these drugs can lower your cholesterol additionally, you’ll realize that these drugs can cause negative effects.
Of course, doing nothing can even be a whole lot worse than taking the drugs as this can turn out causing even more health issues down the road. In fact the problems that can be caused from high cholesterol can actually cause death. Drugs are not the only way for you to reduce your cholesterol as you will discover in this article.
When you end up eating foods high in cholesterol you will see that you have higher cholesterol, which means that your diet is a huge factor. One thing you will learn is that anything you eat can be leading to your high cholesterol. One of the worst kinds of foods you can eat is usually foods from the fast food places.
You will find that most of the food items you get from these places will commonly have more cholesterol than you find in food that you cook yourself. Watching exactly what you eat at home is still important as a lot of the food items you can buy in stores can still be loaded with cholesterol. This means that no matter what you eat you will have to make sure that it is a low cholesterol food.
Another thing you can do is to begin exercising regularly. The one thing you should know is that exercising won’t help out a lot if you continue to eat foods high in cholesterol, so to get the best effects you will need diet as well as exercise. When you start getting exercise you will also be strengthening your cardiovascular system as well as your circulatory system. So as you can see exercising will be able to help your cholesterol level.
For almost any of you who are smokers and you have high cholesterol, now would be a good time to quit. You must understand at this time that smoking is bad for you, but you may well not realize that smoking can worsen the negative impacts of your high cholesterol with blocked arteries.
What you should understand is that plaque will build up within your arteries when you have high cholesterol, and if you happen to be a tobacco user you will find that the build up of plaque is a whole lot worse. If your arteries are blocked you will learn that your heart will be functioning harder, which in turn may cause strain on your heart. Now let me make clear the difficulties with this, your clogged arteries can end up bringing about a heart attack which I am certain that you understand can cause death.
Seeking the advice of a doctor is still a good idea but if you do not want to take the drug treatments make sure you explain that to him or her. All you’ve got to do is to inform the doctor that you are looking for his or her advice on making a diet as well as exercise routine that you can follow.
You will see that not all doctors will end up being insistent on drug treatments and they will usually be happy to help you with this process. And by adhering to the tips here you will notice that you will be able to reduce your cholesterol without the use of drug treatments.
Sumit De
Sumit De is involved in healthcare market research since 2009. He is passionate about helping people with the right information. He has written many articles on hair care along with other health care topics.
Post navigation
← Previous Post
Next Post →
Quick Links
Privacy Policy
Disclosure
Sitemap
Categories
Categories Select CategoryAdvices (11)Causes (1)Control (1)Diets (4)FAQ (13)Foods (1)Herbs (1)Natural (1)Recipes (1)Symptoms (1)Treatment (1)
Follow Us
Search The Site
Search for:
Disclaimer:
None of the statements made on www.cholesterolmedicationsguide.com have been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The advices and products mentioned on www.cholesterolmedicationsguide.com are not intended to diagnose, treat or prevent any diseases. You should consult with your doctor before using any product mentioned on www.cholesterolmedicationsguide.com.
We may receive commission or other income on certain products. However, this does not impact our reviews and comparisons mentioned on www.cholesterolmedicationsguide.com. We try our best to keep things fair and balanced, in order to help you make the best choice for you.
Any and all trademarks, logos, brand names and service marks displayed on www.cholesterolmedicationsguide.com are the registered or unregistered trademarks of their respective owners.
Copyright © 2019 Cholesterol Medications Guide
Share via
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Mix
Email
Print
Copy Link
CopyCopied
Powered by Social Snap
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
More Networks