Grapefruit Diet | Going Clean
Going Clean Food of Freedom
Home
Popular Diets
Juicing
Good Foods
Weight Loss and Health
Organic Farm
Grapefruit Diet
Share!
Grapefruit Diet – In Short
An age-old crash diet, the Grapefruit Diet has been on the horizon for several decades now, but ironically not many people have heard of it. The 12-day diet promises dieters that they would lose close to 10 pounds after the diet period, without any starving or eating bland food. If you’re interested in extending the diet or continuing it for another 12 days, a break of two days between the diet periods is recommended. The diet has its many variants. On an average, the calorie intake courtesy the diet doesn’t go beyond 1000 calories per day.
The Grapefruit
An extremely healthy fruit, grapefruit is enriched with potassium, vitamin C, and several other nutrients. The pink fruit is also a wonderful beta carotene source, which is used by the human body to make vitamin A. On an average, one grapefruit adds only 40 calories to our body, making it a much sensible fruit to eat when on a diet.
Diet Ideology and Elements
The diet stems from the scientific notion that the grapefruit’s enzyme, when merged with protein, could burn fat rapidly, causing weight loss. The diet is quite rigid and entails half grapefruit or unsweetened grapefruit juice (one glass) taken prior to every meal.
Snacking on complex carbohydrates like baked items, rice and pasta aren’t allowed during the diet phase. Vegetables rich in carbs such as yams, beans, peas and corn are forbidden too. Extremely cold or hot foods are also out – nothing should be made in aluminum pans. The diet also imposes restrictions on drinks. Water and black coffee are the only two drinks allowed. And a glass of milk (skimmed) prior to bed.
As per the diet’s guidelines, the food items can be cooked with any amount of salad dressings, spices or butter. Ideally, the starch meals and protein meals should be taken four hours apart from each other, at least. However, not all dieters agree or stick to this rule.
The meal examples:
• Breakfast: a couple of boiled eggs, two bacon slices, and grapefruit juice (8 ounces) or ½ grapefruit.
• Lunch: dressed salad, unlimited amount of any meat, and grapefruit juice (8 ounces) or ½ grapefruit.
• Dinner: any meat, green and red vegetables or salad, tea or coffee, and grapefruit juice (8 ounces) or ½ grapefruit.
• Bedtime: skim milk (8 ounces)
Grapefruit Diet Results
To be honest, there isn’t any scientific proof backing the efficacy of Grapefruit diet. Despite a couple of medical studies being carried out, no findings are definite enough to prove any weight loss is courtesy the fruit and not the restrictions in calories. In other words, the fruit doesn’t seem to have any magical weight-loss powers.
The resulting weight loss is primarily due to the likely loss of water and the major calorie restrictions observed during the diet. Several variants of this diet limit the dieters to about 800 calories, which isn’t sufficient enough for the body to carry out its functions normally.
Pros
The Grapefruit diet’s biggest advantage lies in its results. Several individuals have felt encouraged by the rapid loss in weight, particularly when there is a special occasion about to take place in a few weeks. Also, this grapefruit diet could serve as a precursor or a good warm-up weight loss program before you take up another lengthier, more intense diet.
Cons
Dizziness, loss of concentration, and fatigue are possible side effects of the diet due to the little calorie consumption. This may also result in slower metabolism, which is a decrease in the body’s calorie-burning rate. Consequentially, right after the dieter starts consuming food like before, all or some of the lost weight could be regained. The diet isn’t nutritionally sound either. It doesn’t offer sufficient nutrients or calories for regular use.
Grapefruit juice also happens to interfere with certain medications. For instance, taking grapefruit juice when on statins ups the rate of drug absorption into the bloodstream. More concentrations of such drugs in the blood could increase complication risks. The complications could be kidney and liver issues. In case of other drugs, like antihistamines, the juice may decrease the drug amount that eventually gets absorbed. In other words, this may decrease drug effectiveness. Therefore, if you’re on such drugs, it’s advisable to consult with a physician before taking grapefruit or its juice.
The diet is not the most exciting diet plan in the world. It’s limited and not highly possible for many individuals to commit to for the long run. With several foods excluded, the diet’s repetitive, mundane nature is unlikely to have several enthusiastic, long-term patrons. Also, grapefruit is not the most popular fruit. Not many people like eating the fruit, and consuming the fruit for almost two weeks straight may seem impossible for such people. Most people are also not going to be happy about eating bacon every morning, since the meat is rich in cholesterol and saturated fat.
Conclusion
The diet can certainly help an individual shed the excess pounds for a small time period, but it’s unrealistic for long-term gains. Simply put, the diet is a quick fix sans any real long-term sustainability potential. It may look or sound good from the outside, but the damage is likely to outweigh the benefits in the long run. Probably, the only proven way to lose weight and prevent the fat from gaining ground is proper nutrition and regular exercising.
Share!
2016-06-02
admin
Related Articles
The Hollywood Diet: Time For a Drink
3 Week Diet
Sacred Heart Diet: 7 Day Plan
Check Also
Best Juicer – Online Buying Guide
Choosing a juicer is not as simple as it seems at first glance. More than ...
Privacy Policy Disclaimer Contact
Going Clean © Copyright 2019, All Rights Reserved
error: