8 Best Supplement For Heart Health In India - Compsmag - 2019
Submit Tips
Contact
Privacy
Apple
Android
Games
Hacking
Tips
Laptops
Phones
Ultrabooks
MENU
A-I
Apple
Android
Accessories
Books
Blogging
Hacking
Health & Fitness
How To
Home Appliances
J-R
Kitchen Appliances
Laptops
Linux
Lists
Personal Care
Phones
Programming
REVIEWS
S-Z
Smartphones
Smart TVs
Software
Speakers
Specification
Tablets
Tech News
Tips
Upleaks And Rumors
Watch
News
Reviews
Learn
Trending Lists
Health
How To
Home » Health & Fitness » 8 Best Supplement For Heart Health In India
Health & Fitness
8 Best Supplement For Heart Health In India
Mohit January 29, 2019
Best Supplement For Heart Health In India – Are you looking for the best Supplement For Heart Health In India for 2019? Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the world. That’s why it’s so important to stress the need to improve support for heart health. When it comes to overall health, ignoring the health of your heart would be like forgetting to put an engine in your car.
Indeed, the heart pumps oxygen-rich in blood to all parts of the body. Without a healthy heart, your body simply could not sustain life. That’s why it’s essential to take care of your heart in ways such as diet and exercise to improve the quality and quantity of your life.
Along with these lifestyle changes, supplements can be essential to fill the gaps in your healthy lifestyle to prevent heart disease. In fact, research shows that some nutrient deficiencies can compromise the health of your heart. This study showed that one in five people with heart failure lacked nutrients such as vitamin A, calcium, magnesium, iodine and selenium, as well as vitamin D So, today we are here with a list of Best Supplement For Heart Health In India for you.
So, check out our list of Best Supplement For Heart Health In India below and let us know what do you think about our list in the comment section below. 🙂
Check out list of Best Supplement For Heart Health In India below and share this list with your friends, family or loved ones.
1. CoQ10
CoQ10 is naturally produced by the body, but sometimes a person may not have enough to maintain optimal health. “CoQ10 has shown an increase in cardiac contractility [cardiac muscle performance],” says Dr. Campbell. This can improve muscle function throughout your body. Preliminary research suggests that CoQ10 causes small decreases in blood pressure (systolic and possibly diastolic), according to the Mayo Clinic. Low blood levels of CoQ10 have been found in hypertensive individuals, although it is unclear whether the “deficiency” in CoQ10 is a cause of hypertension.
2. Plant Sterols
In many studies, plant sterols (phytosterols) have been shown to reduce cholesterol and prevent cardiovascular disease. Their structure is similar to that of cholesterol, which results in a decrease in intestinal absorption and an improvement in the elimination of dietary cholesterol. A comprehensive review of 41 trials comparing plant sterols to placebo concluded that consuming 2 grams of sterols per day reduced “bad” LDL cholesterol by 10% with diet-independent effects. Plant sterols have therefore been recommended by the National Cholesterol Education Program and the American Heart Association to reduce cholesterol.
3. Selenium
It is an essential nutrient in the body for the metabolism and reproduction of thyroid hormones, as well as for protection against oxidative damage. Most adults should consume 55 micrograms of selenium each day for optimal health. You can eat selenium in foods, but nutrient-rich foods such as Brazil nuts, yellowfin tuna, sardines and canned shrimp are not common in the fridge or pantry. That’s why selenium supplementation is probably ideal for most people. Research has shown that selenium supplementation is useful for improving both heart health and associated metabolic health.
4. EPA and DHA (Fish Oil)
EPA and DHA are omega-3 fatty acids rich in fatty fish, which have beneficial effects on health, especially for heart disease and diabetes. Several hundred studies have highlighted the cardioprotective effects of fish oil and many reviews summarize this work. Unlike most of the other supplements described here that have been shown to reduce the risk factors for heart disease, supplementation with fish oil has actually reduced the risk of death from coronary heart disease. Fish oil uses several mechanisms to improve heart health, such as improving heart rate and preventing clot formation and plaque formation in the arteries. Fish oil can also lower blood pressure and increase plasma levels of “good” HDL cholesterol.
5. Lecithin
Lecithin is an excellent and inexpensive source of beneficial phospholipids and a rich source of choline. Supplementation with lecithin or choline resulted in a slight decrease in cholesterol. Choline can also reduce the risk of heart disease, but is another mechanism for lowering homocysteine levels. Choline is also the precursor of a very important neurotransmitter called acetylcholine. Studies indicate that choline can help improve memory and cognitive functions.
6. Red Yeast Rice
Red yeast rice has also shown promise as a dietary supplement that may reduce several risk factors for cardiovascular disease. Risk factors include reduced total cholesterol, LDL “bad” cholesterol, fasting triglycerides, and triglyceride response to meals. One study showed that red rice yeast (1200 mg/day) reduced the triglyceride response to a high-fat meal of 45% to 50%, an independent risk factor for coronary heart disease.
7. Garlic
Several studies have suggested that garlic and garlic extracts could lower blood cholesterol and triglycerides as well as slightly elevate the “good” HDL cholesterol. A recent study also showed that supplementation with garlic extract (1.2 grams 3 times daily for 2 weeks) significantly reduced the oxidation of “bad” LDL cholesterol, known to contribute to vascular dysfunction.
8. Hawthorn Extract
The flowers and berries of hawthorn contain several bioactive compounds and have been used in traditional medicine to treat various cardiovascular conditions. The most documented effect of hawthorn is to cause vasodilation and increased blood flow. A recent randomized study showed that 1200 mg hawthorn extract per day for 16 weeks significantly reduced the blood pressure of diabetic patients compared to placebo.
Hope you like our list of “Best Supplement For Heart Health In India”. Leave comments in the comment section and let us know your views about this list. Our article on Best Supplement For Heart Health In India will be regularly updated as any new Supplement For Heart Health is released and reviewed, so bookmark this list as your favorite.
Related Articles
Top 10 Best BP Monitor In India Rs. 579 Rs. 625
Top 10 Best Glucometer In India Rs. 499 Rs. 1,499
Top 10 Best Protein Shaker Bottles In India Rs. 198 Rs. 254
Top 10 Best Thermogenic Supplement In India Rs. 421 Rs. 599
Top 10 Best Nootropic Supplement In India Rs. 699 Rs. 1,500
Top 10 Best Probiotic Supplement In India Rs. 399 Rs. 899
Latest Posts
How to Submit and Optimize my Website for Google News for 2019
How To
Can’t Download and Install iOS 12 on iPhone and iPad? Tips to Fix the Issue
How To
How to Bypass iCloud Activation Lock in iOS 12, 11 or Earlier on iPhone/iPad
How To
How To Trade-in Your Old iPhone to Get the Best Value
How To
How to Use Dual SIM on iPhone Xs and Xs Max
How To
Review: Best Lists Of 2018 🏆
Top 10 Best Golf GPS Watches In 2019 $27.99 $34.95
Best C# books for beginners and Experienced Programmers of 2019
Internal Sound Cards 2019 → 25 Best Internal Sound Cards for PC , LAPTOPS , DESKTOP in 2019
Latest Update'
How to Stay Prepared for the Moving Company professionals
Top 5 Best Budget Gaming Headsets
LG G8 ThinQ Review
$1,099.00
Show next
© 2018 Compsmag. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy Mail Us
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.