Am I getting enough Vitamin C? - That Certain Touch
Search
That Certain Touch
Enjoy a balanced diet by cooking with That Certain Touch
Menu
Skip to content
Home
Services
Services
Blog
Blog
Recipes
Nutrition
Gardening
Sustainability
About Me
Contact
Shop
Shop
Cart
Checkout
Am I getting enough Vitamin C?
by Stephanie
Posted on January 17, 2017 February 6, 2019
It’s cold season! Which means that many people are loading up on vitamin C to help their colds. But does vitamin C actually heal colds? Is it good for us? Are we eating enough? I’m going to answer some of those questions!
Why is Vitamin C important?
Vitamin C is considered an essential nutrient; meaning because our body does not naturally make it, we need to consume it on our diet. This vitamin is an antioxidant, playing a role in fighting against aging and diseases caused by free radicals.
Vitamin C is also known for having healing properties. It’s a necessary component of collagen synthesis. A sufficient intake promotes wound healing and maintenance of bone, cartilage, skin, and teeth.
Does Vitamin C heal the cold?
Although it’s a common practice to load up on citrus to prevent the common cold, there is no actual evidence proving that vitamin c treats it. However, vitamin C is an important nutrient to maintain overall health and healing.
What are sources of Vitamin C?
Some fruit sources of vitamin C include:
Citruses, such as oranges and grapefruits
Cantaloupe
Kiwi
Mango
Pineapple
Papaya
Strawberry, raspberries, blueberries, cranberries
Watermelon
Vitamin C can also be found in vegetables such as:
Broccoli
Spinach and other leafy greens
Green & red peppers
Tomatoes
Winter squash
How does cooking affect vitamin C levels?
Cooking foods vitamin c rich foods have shown to decrease the amount of vitamin c in the food. Consuming vitamin C rich fruits and vegetables maximizes their vitamin potential. But that doesn’t mean you have to completely avoid cooking vitamin C rich foods as they still contain plenty. If being cooked, steam or microwave lightly to retain some of the vitamin.
How much vitamin C do I need?
It’s recommended for the average male to consume 90 mg/day and women 75 mg/day- and it’s super easy to meet this recommendation! Just one cup of pineapple has about 76 mg of vit c! Pregnant women, breastfeeding women, and smokers are recommended to consume an increased amount to meet increased needs.
Do I need a vitamin C supplement?
If you are a generally healthy individual (free of chronic illness), and you eat a balanced diet the answer is likely no. As I noted before it’s pretty easy to get adequate vitamin C if you’re eating fruits and vegetables in your diet. However, because collagen supplements have been extremely popular lately, it is important to note that adequate vitamin C is necessary for collagen synthesis.
YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION ABOUT VITAMIN C AT:
HTTP://WWW.DSM.COM/PRODUCTS/QUALI-C/EN_US/VITAMIN-C/RECOMMENDED-DIETARY-ALLOWANCE–RDA-.HTML
HTTP://WWW.EATRIGHT.ORG/RESOURCE/FOOD/VITAMINS-AND-SUPPLEMENTS/TYPES-OF-VITAMINS-AND-NUTRIENTS/VITAMIN-C
HTTPS://MEDLINEPLUS.GOV/ENCY/ARTICLE/002404.HTM
Share this:
Facebook
More
Twitter
Print
Tumblr
Pinterest
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Posted in NutritionTagged citrus, healthy, healthy tips, Nutrition, vitamin c
Author: Stephanie
As a Registered Dietitian-Nutritionist, I'm on a mission to help you enjoy eating a balanced diet by cooking with #thatcertaintouch .	View all posts by Stephanie
Post navigation
Prev Blood Orange Infused Water
Next Roasted Asparagus
Leave a Reply	Cancel reply
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Search for:
Search
Follow Us
Instagram
Twitter
Pinterest
Recent Posts
Sauteed Kale with Lemon and Garlic
April 17, 2019
Simple Snap Pea Side Dish
April 14, 2019
Unique Vegetable Seeds to Grow in Your Garden
April 3, 2019
Potato Leek and Kale Soup
March 31, 2019
Types of Compost Bins
March 22, 2019
What Can you Compost? Compostable Materials list
March 22, 2019
Why Compost? The Benefits of Composting
March 22, 2019
Categories
Cooking (1)
Gardening (7)
Nutrition (11)
Recipes (75)
Sustainability (8)
Post Carousel
Sauteed Kale with Lemon and Garlic
Simple Snap Pea Side Dish
Unique Vegetable Seeds to Grow in Your Garden
Potato Leek and Kale Soup
Types of Compost Bins
What Can you Compost? Compostable Materials list
Why Compost? The Benefits of Composting
Why Use Cast Iron Skillets?
Corned Beef and Cabbage
A Simple Guide to Apartment Composting
Backyard Composting: How to Start a Compost Pile
Easiest Herbs to Grow from Seed
How to Cook Octopus (It’s Easier Than You Think!)
How to Cook Dried Black Beans
Are There Health Benefits of Celery Juice?
Brussels Sprouts Side Dish
How to Make Your Own Bone Broth
How to Reduce Your Food Waste in 2019
6 Body Positive Podcasts by Dietitians You Need To Listen To
Salsa Verde Recipe
Instagram
Subscribe to Blog via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 117 other subscribers
Email Address
Subscribe
Powered by WordPress.com.
Search for:
Search
×
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: