Himalayan Salt Lamps – Lisa Barger
Lisa Barger
It's YOUR health. Don't leave it up to someone else.
Thursday, April 18th, 2019
Search for...

Menu
Home
About
We Respect Your Privacy
Contact
Children’s Privacy
Why I Don’t Publish Guest Posts
Some Of My Better Known Work
Amber Teething Necklaces
How To Make Soap
Is Oil Pulling A Scam
Himalayan Salt Lamps
Is Graviola Really 1000 Times Stronger Than Chemo?
Is Pork Really A Dirty Meat?
Himalayan Salt Lamps
(January 20, 2009; a LisaBarger.com Q&A) “Do those Himalayan salt lamps really work for cleaning air? Do you think they’re scams?”
I am not convinced that Himalayan salt lamps do anything to make a significant difference in your health. Yes, they’re beautiful but any actual health effect would be, in my opinion, so small that you’d be much better off just using them as a room accessory and purchasing a de-humidifier and an actual HEPA filter.
Himalayan salt lamps are beautiful but when it comes to health claims, they are scams.
What Himalayan Salt Lamps Are Supposed To Do
We looked at a few web sites and catalogs selling Himalayan salt lamps and found a variety of claims. Some sites, like IonicSalts.com are very upfront with their “no science” admissions. Others, like Natural-Salt-Lamps.com, go a little further and (in a slightly roundabout way) claim that their lamps produce negative ions that “bring oxygen to your brain”, “boost your immune system” and cure seasonal affective disorder.
How Salt Lamps Work Their “Miracles”
According to claims made on various websites, salt lamps “work” by releasing negative ions into the air. Unfortunately, as numerous experts have explained, there’s no way these lamps can work as promised.
Is There Any Science Behind This?
While the potential health benefits of bathing in salt waters have been touted for centuries, there is actually some science to back up those practices. In 2000, for example, psoriasis patients were encouraged to bathe in water in which was dissolved salts from the Dead Sea. The patients symptoms improved, no side effects were reported and the patients expressed a “high acceptance” of the therapy.
However, there’s a big difference between soaking in salted water and simply sitting next to a lamp made of a hunk of salt witha light bulb crammed in it. Despite seeing claims on several salt lamp web sites of “studies” proving their usefulness, we were not able to find even a single published study on Himalayan salt lamps.
So Are Himalayan Salt Lamps Scams?
It’s not often that I actually pronounce a product an out-and-out scam but I’m doing exactly that here. As beautiful as they are—and I DO have one, by the way—there is just no way Himalayan salt lamps can “clean” your air.
References:
Schiffner, R., et al. (2000). Evaluation of a multicentre study of synchronous application of narrowband ultraviolet B phototherapy (TL-01) and bathing in Dead Sea salt solution for psoriasis vulgaris. British Journal of Dermatology. IonicSalts.com (2004-2012). Accessed January 20, 2009.
Natural-Salt-Lamps.com. (No Date Given). Accessed January 20, 2009.
###
Supported By Your Purchases:
Welcome To LisaBarger.com:
NO forced email signups
NO paid or sponsored reviews
NO multi-level marketing schemes
NO auto-playing videos
NO paywall
Follow Lisa Barger on WordPress.com
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Follow
An Amazon-Verified Influencer:
As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases from My Store and links like these:
Create an Amazon Wedding Registry
Create an Amazon Baby Registry
Accountability:
Lisa Barger Publishing
125 McWhorter Lane
Ward, AR 72176
(501) 313-3860
Top categories: News Food Safety
Powered by WordPress.com. |
Post to
Cancel
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy