Breaking News: “I had 4th STAGE prostate cancer, Here’s how I defeat it!” - The Mind Awakened
Please enable javascript to view this site.
Select a Page
Home
Health
Mind
Life
Media
World
US
Disclaimer | Contact Us
DMCA Removal
Searching...
Breaking News: “I had 4th STAGE prostate cancer, Here’s how I defeat it!”
The doctors told him he would not live long, and he was completely recovered after few weeks!
Can something as simple and cheap as baking soda completely heal cancer? It can, a thousand of people can confirm it. One of them is Vernon Johnston, who with using baking soda succeeded in defeating a prostate cancer stage 4, which even spread to the bone marrow. The doctors said that there is no salvation for him.
Vernon said that people are dying like flies all over the world because of cancer expansion due to the increased toxin levels in all segments of society, from contaminated water, food, vaccines, to the poisoned air.
Of course, that are all bad-quality products in the world and the level of stress to which people are exposed, causing a vicious circle of corporate capitalist system and diseases in the world and that is why people are dying. But this can be changed.
When Vernon was diagnosed with cancer, I told him that he should try to increase the pH in the body, because cancer cannot be developed in an alkaline environment” said Larry, his brother, and Vernon, due to his advice, purchased a cesium chloride, to increase the pH-level in his system. In addition, he did not undergo any other treatments but he thought to defeat the disease with cesium chloride. He approached his problems without panic or fear although his doctors said he would not live much longer, that it is impossible. Cesium chloride which he had ordered was lost during the transport, and since he didn’t have much time, Vernon looked for another option with which he could raise the pH-level in his body. He then discovered a drug that is made from baking soda and maple syrup.
As he did not have maple syrup in the kitchen he used the molasses. He was determined to kill the cancer before it killed him.
Vernon wrote about his whole treatment in a diary, about the protocol that is used, and which included a diet that promotes alkalinity, minerals, vitamin supplements and a lot of sunlight with baking soda and molasses, which replaced the maple syrup.
Sodium bicarbonate (baking soda) is the cheapest, safest and perhaps the most effective remedy that exists for cancer. With baking soda you have nothing to lose, only help in the fight against cancer.
Maple syrup is acting as a Trojan horse that allows baking soda to enter into the cancer cells to attack them with alkalinity and oxidized them to destruction.
Molasses also helped, even gave him a better mineral basis as nutritional support. Otherwise, most alternative cancer treatment involves completely abstention from sugar, which feeds cancer cells.
Recipe
Two teaspoons of baking soda (for oral consumption), put in a cup add a bit of molasses or maple syrup, and then pour a little water. Repeat this in another pot but on the stove to get little warm, and then mix all. This drink should be consumed several times a day. It is important as Vernon says, if you are ill with cancer to cleanse your body from acidity, and for getting alkaline environment soda is simply the best solution with the renunciation of “sugar” of course and the food that raises the acidity of the body. After a few weeks, Vernon went on a medical examination where it was confirmed that he was completely cured of prostate cancer and bone marrow. From this day he tells his story.
In the video, see how to prepare the remedy.
Source
Don’t forget to share as you might help someone in need!
Share on Facebook
What Do You Think ? Add a Comment...
Posted by Unknown at 8:17 AM
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to Facebook
Newer Post Older Post
Popular Posts
A young man asks a homeless man to borrow his bucket, what happens next will burst you into tears
A German student was walking in the street and noticed a homeless man trying to get some money from the pedestrians. Unfortunately his te...
This Simple Test Will Blow 98% Of People’s Minds. You Other 2%… Well, You’re Weird
This is a simple test but what happens at the end will probably blow your mind. It happens to be one of those cool things that no one can r...
From Ghana: Ebola is not real and the only people who have gotten sick are those who got shots from the red cross
Other than the original facebook post, this web site is the first one to carry this and it needs to be spread, the future may be riding on ...
Ginger Tea: Dissolves Kidney Stones, Cleanses Liver And Kills Cancer Cells – Recipe!
Ginger’s main ability is to reduce inflammation, improve digestion and boost immunity, ginger is rightfully thought of as the most powerful ...
After they cut open her stomach the doctors removed the body of her son. Now she’s holding him alive in her arms.
Jocelyn Robinson is 9 months pregnant. The soon-to-be-born little treasure has made her and her boyfriend Ignacio more than happy. They thin...
Say goodbye to sciatic nerve pain in just 10 minutes with this natural method!
The sciatic nerve is the longest nerve in the human body. It`s inflammation produces a very uncomfortable pain that extends from the ribs t...
This Personality Test Is Scarily Accurate – Pick an Eye And See What it Says About You
It has often been said that the eyes are the windows to the soul. They can tell you a lot about someone. Conversely, the eyes you are drawn ...
BELIEVE IT OR NOT, Your POOP Can Tell If You Are Healthy or Not!
Although a lot of people find it uncomfortable to talk about their poop, it’s very important to know certain aspects of it because it can...
Copyright © 2015 The Mind Awakened All Right Reserved
Theme by IVYthemes | MKR Site
Posts RSS | Comments RSS