Technology Archives | Imperative Education
(604) 767.2139 info@imperativeeducation.org
Facebook
Twitter
Facebook
Twitter
0 Items
Home
Our Services
Student Workshops
Teacher Training
Business Support
Parent Workshops
Individual Counselling
The Latest
Blog
Shop
About Us
Our Philosophy
Testimonials
Contact Us
Select Page
Mindful Navigation of our Fear Culture
by Imperative Education | Apr 1, 2017 | Child Saftey, Education, Health, Internet, Mindfulness, Parenting, Technology, Teen, Uncategorized
Just because someone tells me to fear something doesn’t mean that I have to. The internet is spying on you. Your microwave is watching! Silliness aside, we are a culture of media projecting fear and I wonder how that’s playing out with our students and kids. I wonder...
GIRLsmarts4tech Seriously Rocks!
by Imperative Education | Mar 20, 2016 | Internet, Self Esteem, Technology
GIRLsmarts4tech is an outreach program aimed at inspiring girls to explore technology. Founded through the University of British Columbia’s Computer Science Department, the program is now jointly presented by UBC and an industry partner, SAP. GIRLsmarts4tech reaches...
Is Wi-Fi Harming Us?
by Imperative Education | Mar 20, 2016 | Health, Internet, Technology, Teen
Articles are circulating about the dangers of the ever ubiquitous Wifi. Let’s be honest, the thought that our beloved Wifi is actually harmful to our health would, well, harm our health! But take heed because the results are inconclusive. It seems to me that our...
GET IN TOUCH
(604) 767.2139
info@imperativeeducation.org
Hello! It’s Jodi, founder of Imperative Education. You know, ever since I can remember I’ve been interested in how people communicate… how relationships are formed. At McGill University, I studied Communications so that I could take this focus from intuition to fact, and from serious interest to passion. I decided to become a teacher, like so many, to make a difference and that initial goal hasn’t paled at all throughout the years ... more
Facebook
Recent Posts
Being your own BEST FRIEND
Anti-Bullying in Action
Accountability or Self-Punishment?
How Our Own Senses Ground Us
The Secret to Longevity
SEARCH !MPERATIVE
Search for:
Categories
Bullying
character development
Child Saftey
cognitive behavioural therapy
Community
Counselling
detention centers
Education
Health
Internet
longevity
Meditation
mental health
Mindfulness
Parenting
Relationships
school
Self Esteem
selflove
Sex
Socialization
Technology
Teen
The Latest
thoughts
Uncategorized
Work Place Bullying
workshops
!mperative Education offers heart-centered anti-bullying education, interactive and inspiring Social and Emotional Learning (SEL) and mindfulness workshops and presentations to empower young people, educators and parents. Individual youth counseling.
Tags
break breathe bullying career children communication community conversation education Empowerment ephiphany fake news forgiveness girls gratitude happiness internet kindness meditation mental health mindfulness minute nature online parenting positive positivity relationships safety self-image self-regulation self love social emotional learning socialization social media Soroptomist student workshops teaching technology teenage anxiety teenager thankful transformation Trump truth
recent posts
Being your own BEST FRIEND
Anti-Bullying in Action
Accountability or Self-Punishment?
How Our Own Senses Ground Us
The Secret to Longevity
Subscribe To Our Newsletter
SUBSCRIBE!
Thank you for subscribing!
Facebook
Twitter
Copyright !mperative Education 2017. All rights reserved.