University Family Dental Las Cruces - Dental Library
Home
About Us
Meet Your Dental Team
Meet Our Dentists
Meet Our Staff
Our Services
Cosmetic Dentistry
Invisalign
Implant Dentistry
Restorative Dentistry
Periodontal Health
Botox and Fillers
For Patients
FAQs
Before and After Gallery
Video Gallery
Contact Us
New Patient Forms
Call Us Today: 575.521.0127
Request an Appointment
Home »
Dental Library
Welcome to our health education library. The information shared below is provided to you as an educational and informational source only and is not intended to replace a medical examination or consultation, or medical advice given to you by a physician or medical professional.
After a Tooth Extraction: Caring for Your MouthDespu©s de la extracci³n de un diente: El cuidado de la boca
After a Tooth Extraction: Caring for Your Mouth
When you've had a tooth extracted (removed), you need to take care of your mouth. Doing certain things, even on the first day, may help you feel better and heal faster.
Control Bleeding
To help control bleeding, bite firmly on the gauze placed by your dentist. The pressure helps to form a blood clot in the tooth socket. If you have a lot of bleeding, bite on a regular tea bag. The tannic acid in the tea aids in forming a blood clot. Bite on the gauze or the tea bag until the bleeding stops. Slight oozing of blood on the first day is normal.
Minimize Pain
To lessen any pain, take prescribed medication as directed. Don't drive while taking any pain medication as you may feel drowsy. Ask your dentist if you may take over-the-counter medication, if needed.
Reduce Swelling
To reduce swelling, put an ice pack on your cheek near the extraction site. You can make an ice pack by putting ice in a plastic bag and wrapping it in a thin towel. Apply the ice pack to your cheek for 10 minutes. Then, remove it for 5 minutes. Repeat as needed. You may see some bruising on your face. This is normal and will go away on its own.
Get Enough Rest
Limit activities for the first 24 hours after an extraction. Rest during the day and go to bed early. When lying down, elevate your head slightly.
Do's
Below are some things to do to help your mouth heal.
Do eat a diet of soft, healthy foods and snacks. It may be easier for you to eat soft foods soon after your extraction. Also, drink plenty of liquids.
Do brush your teeth gently. Avoid brushing around the extraction. And don't use any toothpaste. Rinsing toothpaste from your mouth may dislodge the blood clot.
Do keep the extraction site clean. After 12 hours you may be able to gently rinse your mouth. Rinse 4 times a day with 1 teaspoon of salt in a glass of water. Check with your dentist first.
Don'ts
Below are some things to avoid while you're healing.
Don't drink with a straw. Sucking on a straw may dislodge the blood clot.
Don't drink hot liquids. Hot liquids may increase swelling. Limit your alcohol use. Excessive use of alcohol may slow healing.
Don't smoke. Smoking may break down the blood clot, causing a painful tooth socket.
Call Your Dentist If:
Pain becomes more severe the day after your extraction.
Bleeding becomes hard to control.
Swelling around the extraction site worsens.
Itching or rashes occur after you take medication.
CAUTION: Rinse your mouth very gently. Otherwise the blood clot may be dislodged.
Date Last Reviewed: 2003-08-14T00:00:00-06:00
Date Last Modified:
Comprehensive, experienced dentistry care aimed at achieving exceptional outcomes awaits you at University Family Dental. Schedule your visit at 575.521.0127. For your convenience, you can fill out our online Request an Appointment.
Back to Library Index
Meet Your Dental Team
Comfortable, relaxed and pampering dental care awaits you at University Family Dental. Since 2006, we have served the Las Cruces, NM area and its nearby communities. Our highly skilled and experienced dental professionals are known for their affable personality and great chairside manners. Look to them for a unique, personalized dental care that promises splendid results.
Kimberly Martin
Patricia Martin
Wendy Lara
Our Staff
Our Services
comfortable, pampering dental care
View Smile Gallery
View Video Gallery
Botox and Fillers
Our patients say it best...
I was greeted by a friendly face immediately and was seen 2 minutes after I walked through the door. The staff is extremely professional, and always makes sure you're comfortable, including offering hand treatments with every cleaning. I would never go anywhere else for my dental services and surprisingly enough, I look forward to my visits at University Family Dental.
-Antonio L.
I'd like to think Dr Martin and her wonderful staff they were delightful and very warm and the atmosphere was beautiful considering it's Christmas I really appreciate that it was so so spirited thank you guys for being such a great stuff I look forward to seeing you again Happy holidays to all.
-Rachel S.
My experience with them was very pleasant. They were very professional and friendly and honest. They explain everything very well and I would definitely recommend them to all my friends and family.
-Patsy R.
I have had dental and gum problems for years. At last I found a dentist who stopped the pain, gave me a "bite", a smile and great whitening solution for my teeth. Wonderful dentist and staff! Thankful I found Dr. Kim and her crew! Plus, they have a wax treatment for your hands!!!! It's like a dental spa!
-Karen D.
Great staff, awesome service and always with a big smile....
-Johnny G.
Very friendly fun and professional all wrapped up in one
-Susie C.
Read More Testimonials
Contact Us
705 University Avenue, Suite B, Las Cruces, NM 88001
Specials and Events
Dental Library
Dr. Kimberly Martin, DMD has been recognized as one of the top Las Cruces Dentistry practices. Verified by Opencare.com
Drs. Kimberly Martin, Patricia Martin and Wendy L. Churchill at University Family Dental offer true comprehensive dentistry care that includes Invisalign® and Invisalign Teen®, dental implants, cosmetic dental care, restorative dental care, periodontal care, oral cancer screening and CariFree® cavity screening and treatment. University Family Dental serves the Las Cruces area, including Anthony, El Paso, White Sands, Alamogordo and Deming.
Home I About Us I Meet Your Dental Team I Our Services I For Patients I Sitemap I Privacy Policy I Contact Us
Copyright © 2019 Practice Builders and University Family Dental. All rights reserved.