MAFIA STUDIES ON MMR AND VACCINE AUTISM
MAFIA1 STUDIES ON MMR AND VACCINE AUTISM
(Fraudulent, designed to deceive, Medical industry studies on vaccine-autism and vaccine safety)
MMR vaccines Junk Science Peer review Psychopaths (Mafia) Medical Mafia
[These Independent studies prove the opposite. (also see Articles proving Vitamin C cures infections). You can see from the Quotes that there is ample scientific evidence vaccines cause autism (Vaccine autism), yet the government and industry keep coming up with studies showing "there is no evidence". This is a conspiracy to suppress the truth. If this MMR goes down it will be the second in a row (see MMR Pluserix & Immravax) That could mean the end of MMR, followed by the vaccine programme, and seeing as Allopathy sits upon vaccination (see), you may glean why they have nailed their colours to the wall on this one, not that a psychopathic industry needs any encouragement in that regard---if you think children come first then you have failed to study the nature of the beast (The Medical Cartel), and medical history (also see 1, 2). A trillion dollar industry rests on this, 98% of which is a hoax.
Here are shredded all the greatly touted studies that show vaccines don't cause autism, the only ones you will ever see in the media. This quote sums up these vaccine 'experts': "Pichichero ......his research has held considerable weight in the WHO decision to continue using thimerosal in vaccines administered in nations outside the United States." ]
"The greatest evil is not done in those sordid dens of evil that Dickens loved to paint but is conceived and ordered (moved, seconded, carried, and minuted) in clear, carpeted, warmed, well-lighted offices, by quiet men with white collars and cut fingernails and smooth-shaven cheeks who do not need to raise their voices."---C. S. Lewis
Statistics don't lie, but liars use statistics. ----James B. and Hannah Yoseph
See Hiding vaccine-autism: Autism by Any Other Name Change in diagnosis Genetics ploy Regressive autism doesn't exist Behavioural, not medical
See: Medical study ploys Vaccine autism proven The Cancer Conspiracy The Vitamin C Conspiracy
See: Experts Eric Fombonne Prof Brent Taylor Pichichero Verstraeten DeStefano Thorsen, Poul
Independent studies that prove it.
Eli Lilly Thimerosal safety study (1931)
[[2016 Dec] Mercury, Vaccines and the CDC's Worst Nightmare By Rita Shreffler
pdf] Vaccines and Autism, What do Epidemiological Studies Really Tell Us? ~ Coalition for SAFE MINDS ''None of these studies pretend to be safety studies. Each of them simply looked for the presence of a small number of designated diseases in specific populations exposed to thimerosal. All of them are fatally flawed due to improper methodologies or deliberate fraud. Nevertheless, these are the studies that the CDC lists on its website—and that its spokespeople regularly cite—to defend mercury in vaccines. It's worth noting that the CDC itself has so little faith in these studies that it derailed a scheduled 2012 review of their underlying science by the Institute of Medicine (IOM) and killed a 2006 review of thimerosal safety by the National Toxicology Program. Under CDC pressure, the Institute of Medicine made the astonishing declaration, in 2004, that, based on those seven flawed studies, the science was settled and no new studies on the causative relationship between thimerosal and autism should be undertaken or funded. That declaration effectively cut off support for any scientist who wants to investigate the link.'' [2016 Dec] Mercury, Vaccines and the CDC's Worst Nightmare By Rita Shreffler
[vid] RFKjr says sue me [DeStefano]
[April 14, 2016] Who should parents trust, Robert DeNiro or Dr. Ari Brown? (Because one of them has to be lying) BY JB HANDLEY
[2014 June] CDC's Vaccine Safety Research is Exposed as Flawed and Falsified in Peer-Reviewed Scientific Journal
[2014] How to Lie to a Generation of Families - Malfeasance in the CDCs Vaccine Safety Program - Dr. Brian Hooker
[2009 Feb] Alberto Eugenio Tozzi, MD et al. Neuropsychological Performance 10 Years After Immunization in Infancy With Thimerosal-Containing Vaccines. PEDIATRICS Vol. 123 No. 2 February 2009, pp. 475-482
The Cochrane Collaboration
Institute of Medicine (IOM)
[2008] Mady Hornig et al. Lack of association between measles virus vaccine and autism with enteropathy: a case-control study
Key studies used by Big Pharma
[2014 May] Taylor, L., Swerdfeger, A., Eslick, G. (2014). Vaccines are not associated with autism: An evidence-based meta-analysis of case-control and cohort studies.
[Pediatrics. February 2004] Age at First Measles-Mumps-Rubella Vaccination in Children With Autism and School-Matched Control Subjects: A Population-Based Study in Metropolitan Atlanta. Frank DeStefano, Tanya Karapurkar Bhasin, William W. Thompson, Marshalyn Yeargin-Allsopp, Coleen Boyle
The "14" Studies
1. Danish studies 2002 & 2003
2. Verstraeten VSD study
3. Institute of Medicine review
4. Eric Fombonne Pediatrics. "Pervasive Developmental Disorders in Montreal, Quebec: Prevalence and Links With Immunizations"--- Dr. Fombonne
Honda et al
Taylor study
Finnish study
Kaye study
[April 14, 2016] Who should parents trust, Robert DeNiro or Dr. Ari Brown? (Because one of them has to be lying) BY JB HANDLEY
DeStefano Kennedy Jr., Robert F.
Harris Coulter Peer review
Articles
DeStefano Rides Again: GSK Rotavirus Vaccine Study Loses 80% Of Cases And 18 Deaths
[2014] Methodological Issues and Evidence of Malfeasance in Research Purporting to Show Thimerosal in Vaccines Is Safe. Brian Hooker, Janet Kern, David Geier, Boyd Haley, Lisa Sykes, Paul King, and Mark Geier
The purpose of this review is to examine these six publications [21–26] which were “overseen” by the CDC and which claim that prenatal and early childhood vaccine-derived Thimerosal exposures are not related to the risk of a subsequent diagnosis of autism or autism spectrum disorder (ASD). This review analyzes possible reasons why their published outcomes are so different from the results of investigations by multiple independent research groups over the past 75+ years. The review begins with an examination of the Madsen et al. [21] study.
[2011 Nov] Exposed: CDC deliberately manipulated, covered up scientific data showing link between vaccines containing mercury and autism
[2011 April] Indicted Researcher Poul Thorsen: Autism Speaks' Original Trailblazer In May 2000, one week before the infamous Simpsonwood meeting, Poul Thorsen suggested blazing a new trail to the CDC - disguising the role of vaccines in the autism epidemic by using data from Denmark. He made this suggestion to CDC staffer, NAAR/Autism Speaks scientific adviser and (Bernie) Marcus Institute board member Dr. Marshalyn Yeargin-Allsopp.. The CDC funded the project; NAAR supplemented.
Poul Thorsen crafted the plan to use Denmark vaccination data despite the fact that CDC, Thorsen and the NAAR board all knew that Denmark's vaccine schedule then, and now, is not remotely similar to the US vaccine schedule. The results of the Denmark studies helped the CDC out of a tough spot and over the past decade, Thorsen's studies were utilized by the CDC repeatedly to falsely reassure the American public about the safety of vaccines. CDC certainly owed Thorsen.
In 2002, NAAR, who later merged with Autism Speaks, provided $105,300 to supplement the CDC project. NAAR walk money helped Thorsen blaze his trail of using data from Denmark to disguise the potential role of vaccines in the autism epidemic.
"Vaccines and Autism - The Wrong Argument - rev. 1 (24 February 2011; 9 pages)" King, PhD, Paul G. The keys to maintaining any unsafe commercial activity are misdirection, disinformation, big lies, and pervasive propaganda. To be effective, the commercial interests use persons whom the public trusts. These spokespersons then promote the activity. They lie about its risks. They portray an activity that is less than safe as not only safe but also desirable. In the place of proof of safety, these propagandists invariably tout the "lack of evidence of harm". In addition, the promoters of an unsafe activity do all they can to bury studies that question the activity’s safety under an avalanche of "recognized" studies that are peddled as showing "no evidence of harm". Those who benefit from the commercial activity also do all they can to discredit those persons who dare to publish studies that question the safety of the activity. Further, they use their wealth to buy other "experts" to refute any link between the activity and the harm that it inflicts on the "general public".
[2010 Sept] SafeMinds Comments on Pediatrics Study on Thimerosal and Vaccines Prenatal and Infant Exposure to Thimerosal From Vaccines and Immunoglobulins and Risk of Autism. Price, CS. et. al. Pediatrics 2010;126:656-664.
[2010 March] The Fallacy of Thimerosal Removal & Autism Increase: A Failure of Science, A Bigger Failure to Children Worldwide By Jake Crosby What is truly sad is that this big hungry lie continues to be repeated in order to justify the population-wide poisoning of countless infants and fetuses.
[2010 March] First Fraud: Dr. Poul Thorsen and the original “Danish Study” By J.B. Handley It’s hard to put into words how dishonest and outrageous a study this is, and I knew after reading it that we were in for a long fight: if scientists will lie this explicitly and call it a study and if Pediatrics will publish something this dishonest, they are playing to win at all costs. .....Danish children receive 75% less Thimerosal than American children, they receive immunizations when they are older, and the U.S. autism rate is TEN TIMES the rate of Denmark (Denmark is 1 in 1,600, U.S. is 1 in 166). .....Of the seven co-authors of the study, three had received direct funding from the CDC on vaccine-safety related projects. Two of the authors were employees of Statens Serum Institute, a Danish vaccine manufacturer.
..The public health establishment seems to have a simple strategy: get anything published, and then spin the hell out of it and confuse the public, and they perhaps never did it better than with this original “Danish study” which is still cited as proof by many that “vaccines don’t cause autism.”
[2009 Nov] Federal Health Agencies Continue to Deceive Americans: Congressional Report on a Vaccine Mercury-Autism Link Ignored for Six Years by Richard Gale and Gary Null, Ph.D “study after study of spurious and flawed research that would likely never pass a graduate school examination, scientist after scientist affiliated or with financial ties to the vaccine industry now dominating our academies and health agencies, have determined that there really is no safety risk with thimerosal.”
[2009 Feb] Feeding the Hungry Lie, Italian Style By J.B. Handley
[2009 Jan] Tayloe, Offit, Minshew, Katz, Snyderman, et. al.: Feeding a Hungry Lie By J.B. Handley
[2009 Jan] The Vaccine Hard Sell at Pediatrics By Michael Wagnitz, B.S.
www.safeminds.org/pressroom/pres_releases/Review_Miles_Takashashi_6-20-07.pdf
[Sept 2008] The Unconvincing Thimerosal Epidemiological Studies: How and Why They Were Produced, Published and Protected by F. Edward Yazbak, MD, FAAP
[June 20 2008] CDC: Vaccine Study Design "Uninformative and Potentially Misleading" by David Kirby
[June 2008] CDC Has Lost Control of the Autism Argument by David Kirby
[Jan 2008] Pichichero. Pediatrics. Babies excrete vaccine-mercury quicker than originally thought
[5th February 2008].Baird G. et al. Measles vaccination and antibody response in autism spectrum disorders. Archives of Disease in Childhood. Published
[Jan 2008] Dr. Robert Schechter. Jan 2008. Continuing Increases in Autism Reported to California's Developmental Services System. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 2008;65(1):19-24.
[May 2007] The mercury, autism debacle: How stupid do they think we are? by Michael Wagnitz
[July 2004] MMR and Acquired Autism (Autistic Enterocolitis) - A Briefing Note by David Thrower
[may 2006 Dr. M. A. Afzal] No Evidence of Measles Virus in MMR-Vaccinated Autistic Children
[Sept 2004] Dr. Wakefield Responds To British Study Clearing MMR Vaccines
[Media UK, Feb 2001, MMR & autism] MMR and autism: another report lands on the flaw
Epidemiologic Evidence Is Insufficient To Prove There Is No Link Between The MMR Vaccine And Autism By Clifford G. Miller
False information in DeStefano/Rhodes response to M. Geier 24 March 2004
How Mercury Was Absolved: Creativity, Collusion and Censorship by Jeffrey Allen Trelka, M.Ed.
Epidemiological studies cannot be relied upon
[Feb 2004] Study (Verstraeteten et al.) Misses Link Between Thimerosal and Neurodevelopmental Disorders 23--Mark & David Geier
Pichichero, M. et. al. 2002. "Mercury concentrations and metabolism in infants receiving vaccines containing thiomersal: a descriptive study." The Lancet 360: 1737 - 1741.
Review by Helen Tucker
[Feb 2003] Professor Christoper Gillberg
[re Madsen study] MMR AND AUTISM: The link really has been established (WDDTY Sept 2004)
[Feb 2003] MMR and Acquired Autism (Autistic Enterocolitis) - A Briefing Note by David Thrower
[Nov 2002] Autism and Inflammatory Bowel Disease in Finland: A Recent Increase.---- F. Edward Yazbak, MD, FAAP.
[Nov 2002] New England Journal of Medicine Study on Autism-MMR Vaccine in Denmark NOT Definitive
[June 2002] The Davis et al Paper ( Arch Ped Adolesc Med 2001; 155: 354-359) by Walter O. Spitzer, M.D.
[Media july 2001] Conflict of interest fear over study of autism
[July 2001] Evidence of a Science Bending Rogue Group Within CDC? Centers for Disease Control and Obfuscation -----Teresa Binstock
[Media July 22, 2001] New autism doubt on mercury in vaccines
Letter from Professor Walter 0. Spitzer (MMR autism, May 2001)
Inconclusive "Evidence" Against There Being An MMR/Autism Link--David Thrower
IOM Report on Childhood Vaccinations and AutoimmuneDysfunction (feb 2002)
IOM Immunization Safety Review: Measles-Mumps-Rubella Vaccine and Autism (April 23, 2001)
http://www.iom.edu/IOM/IOMHome.nsf/Pages/MMR+Autism+Summary
MMR Shots Under Fire at Autism Hearing (April 2001)
Asking the Wrong Question By Lenny Schafer
The MMR/Autism Controversy: Should We Believe the IOM? Commentary by Bernard Rimland Ph.D.
Loring Dales, MD; Sandra Jo Hammer, RN, PHN; Natalie J. Smith, MD, MPH
Time Trends in Autism and in MMR Immunization Coverage in California
Study Claims No Link Between Vaccine And Autism: Agitprop Research
Time Trends in Autism and in MMR Immunization Coverage in California
Government comments re MMR & autism--a collection
Quotes
“Any competent epidemiologist can employ particular tricks of the trade when certain results are desired.” Review: Doubt is Their Product: How Industry's Assault on Science Threatens Your Health by David Michaels
"A number of clinical laboratory studies demonstrate that vaccines may cause chronic damage to the G.I. tract, immune system, brain, and other organs. Several such studies have been reported in past issues of the ARRI. Wakefield, Sabra, Singh, O'Leary and Kawashima are among the authors whose work documents lingering vaccine effect on children on the autistic spectrum, compared to normal controls. The IOM report pays little heed to this evidence, instead focusing attention on several deeply flawed epidemiological studies."---Dr Rimland MD
Those determined to deny an association between vaccine induced inflammatory conditions in the body usually like to use retrospective, case controlled "studies" that look at old medical records. Using pencils and calculators to dismiss causal associations between vaccines and chronic diseases is easier than having to look at real live patients or study what happens to their blood, urine, eyes, brain, colons, etc. after vaccination. The pathetic attempts by the pencil pushers to write off onset of brain and immune system dysfunction after vaccination in previously healthy people as just a "coincidence" will not wash. The people, whose lives have been ruined by doctors too proud to admit the harm being done, will not let them get away with it.[NVIC June 14, 2006] Pencil Pushers Deny Vaccine/Optic Neuritis Link
Pichichero has acknowledged financial links with Eli Lilly & Company, the developers of thiomersal and the main target (to date) of US autism litigation. In an article back in April 2000 in the American Academy of Family Physicians newsletter, Dr. Pichichero made the following disclosures of interest: he had received research grants from Abbott Laboratories, Bristol-Myers Sqibb Company, Eli Lilly (note), Merck, Pasteur Merieux Connaught, Pfizer Laboratories, Roche Laboratories, Roussel-Uclaf, Schering Corporation, SmithKline Beecham, Upjohn, and Wyeth-Lederle. [July 2004] MMR and Acquired Autism (Autistic Enterocolitis) - A Briefing Note by David Thrower
"Professor David Elliman, whose study said fears of a link between the MMR vaccine and autism were unfounded, admitted that he and Dr Helen Bedford had been given money by drugs giants SmithKline Beecham and Pasteur Merieux Merck Sharp & Dohme. Their report, MMR Vaccine - Worries Are Not Justified, is published in the current issue of the medical journal Archives of Disease in Childhood, and was used by the government to reiterate its view that the vaccine is safe."--Media Makers of MMR II---Aventis Pasteur MSD
"Despite the fact that the CDC's Davis et al methodology was fatally flawed in regard to autism and thimerosal, the CDC's rogue team and their U of Washington allies seem quite willing to continue diverting attention away from the substantial likelihood that physician-injected ethylmercury has been an etiologic factor in many cases of autism and related disorders."---Teresa Binstock
We have tolerated the junk science that has covered up the true cause of this epidemic at a considerable cost to science, the public, and our very way of life in this country. Is it stretch to realize that by putting our collective heads in the sand about the autism epidemic we have made it possible for the destruction of our very civilization? LES INCOMPETANTS: OPEN LETTER TO THE AAP By K. Paul Stoller, M.D.
Attempts by independent researchers to obtain the underlying data sets from the original authors in the epidemiological studies touted by the CDC and other vaccine apologists (except the 2004 Ip et al. study) as supporting the claims of “no link” have been repeatedly rebuffed. Interestingly, a November 2007 paper by Desoto and Hitlan, entitled Blood Levels of Mercury Are Related to a Diagnosis of Autism: A Reanalysis of an Important Data Set, independently reviewed the basis data from the previously published Ip et al. epidemiology study reporting no evidence of a link between the blood levels of mercury and autism. The reanalysis, with which the authors of the original epidemiological article agreed, found that the original article’s inaccurate conclusions were based on a significant calculation error and a less-than-appropriate choice of t-tail statistical test.
Thus, no independent analysis has been able to confirm the validity, or lack thereof, of the findings reported in the studies upon which the 2004 IOM committee relied. In the case of the key U.S. study by Verstraeten et al., CDC officials have claimed that the original data sets have been “lost.” Key realities about autism, vaccines, vaccine-injury compensation, Thimerosal, and autism-related research----Gary S. Goldman, Ph.D & P.G. King PhD
In response to the overwhelming science, CDC and the pharmaceutical industry ginned up four European studies designed to disguise the link between autism and Thimerosal. Their purpose was to provide plausible deniability for the consequences of their awful decision to allow brain-killing mercury to be injected into our youngest children. Those deliberately deceptive and fatally flawed studies were authored by vaccine industry consultants and paid for by Thimerosal producers and published largely in compromised journals that neglected to disclose the myriad conflicts of their authors in violation of standard peer-review ethics. Attack on Mothers by Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
"At this point, it is believed that about 10% of cases of autism can be accounted for genetically."--B.J. Freeman, Ph.D.
Thorsen, Poul