Top 10 Properties of Methanol [Video]
Home
Study Guide
Flashcards
Enter 6-digit video code here:
Home
> Top 10 Properties of Methanol
Top 10 Properties of Methanol
Properties of Methanol
Watch this video on YouTube
544164
Transcript
Properties of Methanol
We’re going to take a look at 10 properties of methanol starting with physical state. At room temperature, methanol is going to be a colorless liquid. As far as odor goes, it is going to have a slight fruity odor. Methanol’s boiling point is 64.5 degrees Celsius.
When it comes to miscibility (miscibility is basically its ability to dissolve), it is completely miscible in water. Its density is less than water. It’s when it comes to acidity, it is neutral. Because methanol is a neutral solution, it’s going to show negative results for all acidity tests.
Methanol is poisonous, so much so that ingestion could cause blindness. Methanol is very poisonous. When it comes to combustion, methanol is very flammable. It’s very flammable and burns with a pale blue flame. It forms carbon dioxide and water upon complete oxidation, or combustion.
Now, a couple of other points about methanol: Methanol reacts with sodium ion to give off hydrogen in the form of gas, and methanol reacts with ethanoic acid to give methyl ethonate, which is an ester. Those are 10 properties of methanol.
Provided by: Mometrix Test Preparation
Last updated: 10/04/2018
Search Mometrix Academy
Share
PRODUCTS & SERVICES
Study Guides
Flashcards
Bonvita Nursing Journal
Affiliate Program
Companies/Institutions & Bulk Orders
Mometrix Blog
COMPANY
Reviews
FAQ
About Us
Community Involvement
CONTACT US
Customer Service
Purchase Orders
Link to Us
Contact Information
MOMETRIX
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Disclaimers
Mission, Vision and Values
Mometrix Scholarships
All content on this website is Copyright © 2019 Mometrix Test Preparation | 3827 Phelan #179, Beaumont, TX 77707 Mometrix Test Preparation provides unofficial test preparation products for a variety of examinations. All trademarks are property of their respective trademark owners.