Crestor Side Effects ( Rosuvastatin ) | Spacedoc.com
Toggle navigation
Home
General Health
Breast Cancer Myths
Asleep at the Wheel - TGA
Cancer Survival and Treatment
Endogenous Hormones
Folic Acid Levels Subnormal
Hormone Replacement Therapy
Laparoscopic Prostatectomy
Prostatitis
Radiation Exposure and Health
Aging
Aging and L-Carnitine
Aging and CoQ10
Aging and Mitochondrial Mutations
Aging and Vitamin C
Aging and Magnesium
Aging and Selenium
Alpha-Lipoic Acid and Aging
Vitamins B2, B3 and Aging
Aging and Lecithin
A Recipe for Alzheimer's
Guidelines are not Commandments
Post Menopausal Iron Supplementation
Diet
Altitude Sickness Research
Heart Disease and Low Carb Diets
Kilmer McCully Heart Diet
Why Butter is Healthier than Margarine
Joel Kauffman Low-Fat Diet Myth 1
Joel Kauffman Low-Fat Diet Myth 2
Uffe Ravnskov Saturated Fat 1
Uffe Ravnskov Saturated Fat 2
Uffe Ravnskov Saturated Fat 3
Traditional Diabetic Diet is Wrong?
The Food Pyramid, Revisited
Transcending Diabetes
Best Weight Loss Diet
Diet and Mortality
Primacy Low Carbohydrate Diet 2
Primacy Low Carbohydrate Diet 1
Obesity, Cholesterol & Death Rates
Obesity, Cholesterol & Death Rates 2
Obesity, Cholesterol & Death Rates 3
Why Fried Foods Can Be Harmful
Alzheimer's and Parkinson's - Diet
Possible Prevention Alzheimer's 1
Possible Prevention Alzheimer's 2
Drug Studies Don't Lie - 1
Drug Studies Don't Lie - 2
Drug Studies Don't Lie - 3
Supplements
Tocotrienols
Cannabidiol to Statins - Heart Protection
PSA Remains the Best Test
Earthing - 1
Earthing - 2
Earthing - 3
Earthing - 4
Earthing - 5
Stress
How Stress Causes Heart Disease
Stress More Important than Cholesterol
Stress Induced Coronary Heart Disease
Earthing - Q and A 1
Earthing - Q and A 2
Orthostatic Hypotension
Electrons Fundamental to Good Health
Orthostatic Hypotension 2
Earthing - Dr. Duane Graveline
Hypothyroidism
Hypothyroidism - Holistic Diagnosing
Hypothyroidism - Treatment
Earthing and the Nervous System
Philip Blair bio
Prostate Cancer Breakthroughs
Prostate Cancer Breakthroughs QandA
Earthing Remedy Diabetes?
Earthing Remedy Diabetes? 2
Flu, SARS, Ebola and Cytokine Storms
Heart Health
Aspirin and Heart Attacks
Atherosclerosis and Heart Attacks
A Cardiologist Looks at CoQ10
Alcohol and Heart Disease
Biomarkers of Heart Attack Risk
Blood Pressure and Heart Disease
Chelation and Heart Disease
Cholesterol
Cholesterol Levels - Cardiovascular
Cholesterol - Early Dementia
Cholesterol - Fetal Alcohol Defects
Cholesterol - Friend or Foe?
Cholesterol: The Good and the Bad
Cholesterol - Older Adults
Cholesterol Levels - Science?
Cholesterol Lowering
Cholesterol Lowering Supplements
Cholesterol - Making the Synapse
The Great Cholesterol Scam
Cholesterol and Lipoprotein(a)
Low Cholesterol - Cognitive Effects
Low Cholesterol and Behavior
The Misguided War on Cholesterol
What About HDL?
Cholesterol Enhances Memory
The Cholesterol Delusion
Heart Failure - Cholesterol Levels
LDL Cholesterol - Neuromuscular
Cholesterol Not Factor Heart Disease
Cholesterol and Tuberculosis
Dr. Sinatra - Cholesterol
Kilmer McCully - Cholesterol - Pt. 2
Cholesterol and Statins
Dr. Malcolm Kendrick - Cholesterol
Why Lower Cholesterol Anyway?
Kilmer McCully - Cholesterol - Pt. 1
Cholesterol Articles
Cholesterol Relevant to Heart Disease?
What Should Your Cholesterol Be?
Familial Hypercholesterolemia
Familial Hypercholesterolemia - Statins for Children?
Why the 'Cholesterol Causes Coronary Heart Disease' Dogma has Persisted
Cholesterol Levels and Depression
The Truth About Cholesterol
Eggs and Cholesterol
Cholesterol and Heart Disease
The Cholesterol Delusion - Pt. 2
Dr. Sinatra - Busting Cholesterol Myth
Dr Sinatra - Q&A Cholesterol Myth
Benefits of Cholesterol
Eggs are Good for You
Evidence Against Cholesterol Causing Atherosclerosis
Defining Coronary Heart Disease Risk � What About Cholesterol?
Dental Health and CV Disease
Fetal Atherosclerosis
The Homocysteine Debate
Homocysteine and Heart Disease
Progress in Omega 3 Availability
Lp(a) and Heart Disease
Omega-3s and Heart Disease
C-reactive protein
Peter Langsjoen
CoQ10 and CHF Mortality
CRP and Statins
Dr. Sinatra, M.D. - Bio and Books
Dr. Sinatra - CoQ10, and Carnitine
Dr. Sinatra - Do You Need a Statin
D-ribose
Kilmer S. McCully M.D. Bio
Kilmer McCully - Homocysteine - 1
Kilmer McCully - Homocysteine - 2
Kilmer McCully - Vulnerable Plaques - Pt.1 of 2
Kilmer McCully - Vulnerable Plaques - Pt.2 of 2
BP, Personality, and Heart Attack
Treating High Blood Pressure - Any Good?
Treating High Blood Pressure - Any Good? 2
Blood Pressure: How Low is Too Low?
CRP Now a Heart Risk Marker
Inflammation Key to Heart Disease / Obesity Link
Stephen Sinatra Heart Health
Malcolm Kendrick - Heart Health
Cardiovascular Risk Factors
Graveline - Heart Health and Cholesterol
CoQ10 and Statins
Saturated Fat and Cholesterol - Heart Disease
Depression, Anxiety and Heart Disease
What Causes Atherosclerosis?
Saturated Fat and Heart Disease
Uffe Ravnskov - The Real Cause of Heart Disease?
Uffe Ravnskov - The Real Cause of Heart Disease? 2
Uffe Ravnskov - The Real Cause of Heart Disease? 3
Uffe Ravnskov - The Real Cause of Heart Disease? 4
Chronic Total Occlusion
Fetal Origin of CHD
The Truth About Trans Fats
Dr. Fred Kummerow Bio
Atrial Fibrillation - Use of Coumadin
What You Eat Can Prevent Heart Disease
50 Facts on Statins, Cholesterol and Heart Health
Fat and Cholesterol Don't Cause Heart Attacks 1 of 3
Fat and Cholesterol Don't Cause Heart Attacks 2 of 3
Fat and Cholesterol Don't Cause Heart Attacks 3 of 3
Tools
Lipid Converters
Site Search
Blood Glucose Converter
Statin Drugs
Statin Side Effects
Behavior and Mood
Depression and Statins
Depression, Statins and Cardiologists
Aggression and Statins
Behavioral Change and Statins
Statins, PLS, ALS and PN
My Statin Story - Personal Experiences 1
My Statin Story - Personal Experiences 2
My Statin Story Personal Experiences Main Menu
My Statin Story - Personal Experiences 3
My Statin Story - Personal Experiences 4
My Statin Story - Personal Experiences 5
My Statin Story - Personal Experiences 6
My Statin Story - Personal Experiences 7
Myopathy - Muscles
Benefits CoQ10 in Myopathy
Genetic Predisposition to Myopathy
Genetic Basis of Statin Myopathy
Muscle Pain and Statins
Myopathy - Lipitor / Zetia Combo.
Rhabdomyolysis and Statins
Rhabdomyolysis
Statins and Muscle Damage
Muscle Damage Without Pain
Statins Diminish Muscle Repair
Statins Chronic Muscle Weakness
Permanent Statin Myopathy
Statin Associated Myopathy and Exercise
Neuropathy - Nerves
Chronic Neuromyopathy Triggered by Statin Use - part 1 of 2
Neuropathy and Statins
Neuromyopathies
Peripheral Neuropathy Crisis
Chronic Neuromyopathy Triggered by Statin Use - part 2 of 2
Peripheral Neuropathy - Statins
Mitochondrial
Statins, Mitochondria, and Aging
Statins and Mitochondrial Mutations
Mitochondrial Damage - Oxidation
Statins - Mitochondrial Mutations
Mitochondrial Damage
01. Introduction
02. Statin Drugs Side Effects Review 1
03. Statin Drugs Side Effects Review 2
04. Statin Drugs Side Effects Review 3
05. Magic of Cholesterol
06. Special Importance of CoQ10
07. Why L-Carnitine
08. CoQ10 Inhibition to Mitochondrial Mutations
09. Anti-oxidation and Mitochondrial Damage 1
10. Anti-oxidation and Mitochondrial Damage 2
11. Mitochondrial Damage Conclusion
Mitochondrial Mutations and Statins
Memory - Cognitive
Memory, Cognition, Confusion
Selenium, Statins and Cognition
Short Term Memory Loss
Amnesia and Statins
Statin-Associated Memory Loss
662 Cases Memory Loss
Transient Global Amnesia
Statins and Post-Operative Delirium
Social Impact TGA
Other Side Effects
Cancer Risk and Statins
Heart Rhythm and Statins
ALS and Statins
Chronic Rhabdomyolysis
Lack of Energy and Statins
Libido and Statins
Neurodegenerative Diseases
Pancreatitis and Statins
Polymyalgia Rheumatica
Pulmonary Hypersensitivity
Sexual Side Effects of Statins
Skin Rashes and Statins
Brain Cell Damage and Statins
Chronic Fatigue and Statins
Gout and Statin Drugs
Hair Loss and Statin Drugs
Immune System and Statins
Insomnia and Statins
Vitamin D Deficiency and Statins
Tendonitis and Statins
Fibromyalgia and Statins
Eyes and Statins
Cancer and Statins
Thyroid and Statins
Statins and Multiple Sclerosis
Sleep Apnea and Statins
Statins and Erectile Dysfunction (ED)
Statins and Asthma
Statins and Mitochondrial Side Effects
Side Effect Articles
The Dark Side of Statins
Doctors and Statins
My Life After Statins
Lipid Lowering - Statin Side Effects
Management of Statin Side Effects
The Netherlands Radar Survey
Pneumonitis and Statin Therapy
Post Polio Syndrome and Statins
My Statin Story
Statin Adverse Effects
Statins and the Mevalonate Pathway
Statin Mechanism of Damage
Statins and Doctors
Permanent Side Effects - Statins
The Warning Signs of Statins
Statin Drug Linked to a Death
Verapamil and Statins
Causes of Statin Side Effects
Statin Drug Side Effects - Main Menu
EU New Statin Warnings
Seniors, Statins, and Side Effects
Statins Impair ATP Production
Graveline - Statin Side Effects
Many Faces Statin Damage
Pain Relief Vital for Statin Damaged
Statins and Ulcerative Colitis
Statins, Diabetes, Heart Failure
Dolichols Vital to Cell Function
Rhabdomyolysis - From the London Blitz to Statins
FAERS Statin Review
Ten Common Myths about Statins and Cholesterol - 1 of 3
Ten Common Myths about Statins and Cholesterol - 2 of 3
Ten Common Myths about Statins and Cholesterol - 3 of 3
Statin Drugs
Advicor
Baycol
Crestor Side Effects
Crestor and Rhabdomyolysis
Lipitor - Cognitive Side Effects
Lipitor Amnesia - Medwatch
Lipitor Side Effects
Lipitor - Transient Global Amnesia
Mevacor Side Effects
Pravachol Side Effects
Vytorin Concerns
Vytorin Side Effects
Zocor Side Effects
Zocor and Mouse Stem Cells
Simcor
Why ENHANCE Failed
Crestor, Omega 3 and Heart Failure
Crestor - JUPITER study
Zocor - UK Side Effect Reports
Statin Drugs List
Pitavastatin
Generic Statins
Graveline - Statins and Cholesterol
Statin Articles
Alcohol and Statins
Alzheimer's and Statins
A Case for Low Dose Statins?
Dolichols, Glycoproteins, Statins
The Five Faces of Statins
Genetic Susceptibility Statins
Glyconutrients and Statin Damage
High Dose Statins
Interview with Duane Graveline MD
Medwatch and Statin Reports
Pharmageddon
Statins - Fitting the Pieces Together
Selenium Inhibition and Statins
Statin Alternatives
Statin Dialogues
A Critical Review
Statins - Beta Endorphins
Statins and CoQ10 Deficiency
Statins and the Elderly
Statins and the Flyer
Glyconutrients and Statins
Inflammation and Heart Disease
Statins Interview
Low Dose Statins
Stopping Statins
Women and Statins
Anti-Inflammatory Effect of Statins
Medwatch Lipitor Reports
Statins - Not Ready for Marketing
Spacedoc and the Statin Beanstalk
Statins and Personalized Medicine
Gulf War Illness and Statins
Statins Healthcare Professionals
Pregnancy and Statins
Statin Use and the Elderly
Statins Bone Fractures
Statin Damage Crisis
Statins, Cholesterol and Stroke
Inflammation, not Cholesterol
Parkinson's Disease and CoQ10
Statins Suppress PSA
Statins Prevent Thromboembolism
Statins and DNA Damage
Selenium - Impact of Statins
Statins and Rheumatoid Arthritis
Statins Work by Anti-Inflammation Now?
Are Statins Changing the Dynamics of Death?
The Statin Gravy Train
Dolichols, Personality Change and Statins
Mechanism of Statin Benefit
PQQ and Statin Damage
Statin Scam
Cholesterol, Statins and CoQ10
Why Statins Do More Harm Than Good
Benefits of Statins 1
Benefits of Statins 2
Medwatch Lipitor 2012
Statin Damage Gene
Aging, Statins, Mitochondrial Mutations
Unusual Epidemics and Statin Use
Inflammation, Statins and CVD
Statins - A Drug of Many Faces
Statin Associated Diabetes Increasing Heart Disease Risk
Why Some Statins and Grapefruit Do Not Mix
Cholesterol Lowering
CETP Cholesterol Drug Fails
PCSK9 Inhibitors: Injectable Cholesterol Reducers
Natural Products
Red Yeast Rice and Statins
Crestor Side Effects ( Rosuvastatin )
By Duane Graveline, M.D., M.P.H.
Rosuvastatin (brand name Crestor) has more spent on it in the U.S. than any other statin despite little evidence of benefit and many reports of harmful side effects.
In March 2015, Dr. Sidney Wolfe, in an article in the BMJ (www.bmj.com/content/350/bmj.h1388) explained why he thinks the drug should have been withdrawn and why it should not be used.
Wolfe goes on to document the primary problem with Crestor use—its strength. In the JUPITER study, compared to placebo, the rosuvastatin group had a significantly higher incidence (26%) of new onset diabetes. This same effect of rosuvastatin—significantly increasing cases of new onset diabetes—has been observed in other studies. (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3741277/)
Among statins, Crestor has the highest rate of new onset diabetes, the highest rate of rhabdomyolysis and the highest rate of severe kidney damage. Pravachol, the weakest of the statins, has the lowest levels of these adverse reactions. The stronger the statin, the greater the side effects.
The release of Crestor was associated almost immediately with the need for a revised package insert because of a rash of adverse drug reports of muscle and renal toxicity. What else could you expect from Astra-Zeneca's rosuvastatin, promoted as the most powerful of the powerful statin drugs already on the market?
Suddenly, increased numbers of rhabdomyolysis reports began to surface in Crestor users associated with secondary kidney damage and a more ominous threat of specific primary renal toxicity as well and the necessity to issue emergency warnings advising doctors to exercise special caution in the use of this drug with hypothyroidism, renal insufficiency, Asian sub-population groups and cyclosporine and gemfibrozil takers.
Not a terribly auspicious welcome for Crestor, this new statin drug known for strength in a market already dominated by other powerful statins. In any society of thinking people, the question of necessity comes to mind immediately and Astra-Zeneca's explanations are, too me, far from satisfactory.
A possible positive feature about Crestor was rooted in my personal experience with cognitive dysfunction from statin drug use. Because Crestor was deemed more hydrophilic (water loving) rather than the lipophilic (fat loving) compared to most of its statin competitors, I expected Crestor's use to be much less frequently associated with cognitive dysfunction.
However, like its sister hydrophilic drug, Pravachol, any benefit from hydrophilicity is incomplete and therefore unreliable and the precious little gain from Crestor is easily offset by its greater tendency for severe side effects of a non-cognitive nature due to its very strength.
Crestor is just another strong statin, using the same mechanisms as the others and having all the inherent potential for side effects. My books tell of the inevitable harm to the mevalonate tree by statins but that was the only way drug company biochemists could inhibit cholesterol so they did it anyhow, regardless of the potential for collateral damage.
Does this action reflect sound judgment? They knew that inhibiting cholesterol at this point would also inhibit CoQ10, dolichols, normal phosphorylation and selenoprotein. Every doctor once knew this for they were taught it in medical school but few have bothered to review what mevalonate inhibition really means. In my books I refer to this as "girding" of the mevalonate tree.
We have now learned much more about the side effects of Crestor. We have learned that cognitive, muscle and nerve problems, due to the inevitable impairment of glial cell cholesterol synthesis and mevalonate blockade are only part of the problem. The Crestor side effect potential, that it shares with all other statins, is far more basic than this. Now we have learned that mitochondria are an inevitable target of statins.
Because of inhibition of CoQ10 availability with its powerful anti-oxidant effect, mitochondria are left fully exposed to the mutagenic effect of free radicals. The resulting mutations of mitochondria are what is causing the legions of permanent, disabling side effects.
Permanent neuropathy, permanent myopathy, chronic neuromuscular degeneration, and Parkinsonism and ALS-like cases now are thought by some to be the result of permanent statin-induced, mitochondrial damage. Furthermore, the inherent ability of the body to identify and correct the daily load of mutations is impaired because of the previously unrecognized effect of dolichol inhibition from the earlier mevalonate blockade.
If this is beginning to sound like a domino effect, you are right. We still are seeing the dominos topple one by one as time goes by - the result of marketing a class of drugs before it was fully investigated.
Dolichols are vital to the synthesis of glycoproteins, which in addition to thousands of other duties must serve in this identification and correction of DNA damage role. Glycohydrolases, a member of the glycoprotein family of molecules is vital to this function. Five years ago we hardly knew what dolichols were and now we find them involved in so many unexpected places. So I must bring to your attention that Crestor involvement in all this is greater because of its strength. Its potential for damage goes far beyond the original suspicions.
Here are just some of the reports I have received from readers of my books and from this website regarding their personal experiences of Crestor Side Effects.
1.) I have taken statin drugs for years. Not many they have not tried me on, the latest being Crestor 10 mg, Tricor 165 mg and Zetia 10 mg all at the same time. Almost immediately upon taking these drugs, I started experiencing pain in my Achilles tendon and at times can hardly walk now. I have seen an Orthopedic Surgeon who tells me my Achilles tendon is deteriorating. I cannot help but feel this has come from 15 years of taking Statin drugs. I am not an athlete. I had been walking on a treadmill 2 miles about 3 times a week. But no other stress to my feet that should have caused this.
2.) In April 2004 my husband began taking Crestor. In October, he suffered an episode of angina, called 911 and spent 2 days in the hospital. A week later, he was hospitalized again with similar symptoms and in the hospital 3 days. A heart cath revealed a little blockage in one artery (I think 20-30%), but no explanation for the symptoms. We believe it was the Crestor.
The cardiologist switched him to Pravachol, which gave him achy joints. He stopped taking the Pravachol, and now is not taking anything for his cholesterol. I am worried, because he has a history of very high cholesterol (over 300), he smokes, and he drinks too much and gets very little exercise. We have found it difficult to stick to a low-fat diet, although we are eating better overall. His doctor has suggested niacin and has given us samples of Zetia and Niaspan, but he hasn't tried these yet.
3.) I feel terrible and do not look a very pretty sight either. But doctors are not associating my pains with my current use of Crestor. I have undergone various tests, which failed to show a cause for my pains, except that I have an enlarged uterus and ovarian cysts that according to doctors wouldn't normally cause the pains that I describe.
I am particularly worried now about your mention of memory loss, as this is another problem that I noticed to be developing and some of my family and friends have also noticed. However, I tend to associate with the fact that I am unable to have a full good night sleep due to my pains. It would be really interesting to hear if other people are (or have in the past) experiencing similar pains.
4.) My cholesterol has been elevated for years and I was always afraid to go on the statin drugs with various side affects. I was on Zetia for awhile and during my last physical my triglycerides were high and my cholesterol was 255. My doctor decided I needed to go a statin. He said that he had good results with Crestor. I am a nurse and I questioned him about its recent publicity about it safety. He said he did not hear anything bad about it.
I took it for a little over a week and I first started to feel heaviness in both legs. The next day I had pain in both arms. I work as a vascular access nurse and my both of my hands felt tight and stiff like I suddenly had arthritis. I had trouble holding my IV needle. At night I had significant pain in both legs and arms. I had to take pain medicine. I also felt very fatigued-like I could not go on. I saw my doctor at the hospital where I work and said I feel terrible. I had already stopped the Crestor. He ordered a cpk blood test and I haven't heard the results yet. It has been 2 days since I have stopped the Crestor and my pain has subsided and my energy level is normal and I feel much better.
5.) I recently began taking Crestor on advice from my doctor because my cholesterol is on the high side of normal and there is a small build-up in the neck arteries. Since starting this drug I have experienced pain in the right side which is very severe at times. I went to the ER and they ran tests - checking out shingles, appendicitis and kidney stones - and everything is "normal". I am still having the pain but see no positive reason to have it checked out again. I am also experiencing a "don't care" attitude. I am crying over nothing and have no ambition to do anything. This is not like me at all. I have not done a lot of investigation but what I have seen has led me to stop taking the drug until I can see the doctor.
6.) Dr. prescribed Crestor about 8 weeks ago due to cholesterol of 270+-. I have always been stiff jointed and inflexible, but it does seem that I am hurting more now than ever, particularly my feet. I am male, 42, 170 pounds, reasonably fit, don't smoke, and except for the cholesterol am in good shape. I have also noticed decreased energy levels. Not sure I can definitively tie the aches and tiredness to more than turning 42, raising small kids, and running a business, but your web site does make me wonder if I would do well get off of it. I have not experienced any memory problems I am aware of, but being a pilot that is also a concern. Thanks for the information on your site.
7.) I've tried several of the statin drugs and at the present time take Crestor. I told my doctor they cause me problem. When I was on Lipitor I was miserable, Muscle aches, and couldn't sleep well, bowel problem and memory problems and a real short fuse (temper).
She persuaded me to try Crestor. I only thought I was miserable with Lipitor, Crestor is worse. I'm having problem sleeping again, muscle aches but most of all my temper and the aggressiveness you talk about. I've got some blockage in my arteries, worse one is around 50%, and I'm 61 with no heart problems in my family. My overall cholesterol is 293 without drugs and my good cholesterol is 71. I think I would rather take my chances with a heart attack than take statin drugs.
8.) Sudden weight gain, no energy, and such sore muscles I must really concentrate to get out of bed in the morning to go to work. On weekends, I sleep around the clock if I do not set my alarm clock which I have never had to do before. In general, I'm losing an interest in life...just going through the motions. Have only been on this drug for 4 weeks since my GP decided my cholesterol was too high...over 300. Since both parents died of heart attacks, I suppose he is being careful but my eating habits have always been careful except now, at my age, fresh fruits & vegetables are very hard on my digestive tract.
9.) I am a little concerned about Lipitor (which I took a while back), and Crestor that I am on now. The doctor I am going to took me off Lipitor and put me on Crestor because of muscle weakness in my legs which started shortly after I started Lipitor. She said there were no long term effects with Lipitor, but I still have the problem. She tried to blame it on age, but I'm only 54 and never had the problem before.
10.) I am a 66 year old woman with a history of heart disease. In spite of a past history of liver problems and also on Ketoconazole, my new Cardiologist put me on Crestor in Sept. 03. He also gave me Zetia. I then experienced severe muscle system failure related to the intestine, followed by weakness in the legs, arms, and other places.
I took Crestor for one year in which I suffered violent pain in the abdomen, nausea, and general weakness overall. I could not stand up. I fell several times and injured myself. I could not drive, nor stand long enough to cook. When I finally received a diagnosis, I learned that I had raging hepatitis. I instantly discontinued the two medications, and began to recover from the hepatitis.
I have since discovered that this drug also causes Rhabdomylosis. I have researched this condition and I believe that I did have it. When I brought it up to my primary Dr. She said that I did not have it. I agree with her, but I still believe I did have it for a year. By the time I found out about the Rhabdo, I had been off the medication for three months. My urine looked like old tea. I took a questionnaire and answered positive to every symptom.
Duane Graveline MD MPH
Former USAF Flight Surgeon
Former NASA Astronaut
Retired Family Doctor
Updated March 2015
Related Articles on spacedoc.com
Crestor - JUPITER study
Crestor, Omega 3 and Heart Failure
Crestor and Rhabdomyolysis
Books From Amazon
The Dark Side of Statins
The Statin Damage Crisis
Cholesterol is Not the Culprit
Statin Drugs Side Effects
Lipitor, Thief of Memory
Over 12,000 reader posts:
spacedoc Forum
© This article is copyrighted and may not be reproduced in any form without written permission from spacedoc.com
Statements on this site are those of the credited author of the article or message and the expressed opinions are not necessarily those of the site owners, operators, developers, or hosts.
Articles and messages on this site are for information and education purposes only and should not be used to diagnose or treat any illness, disease, or other medical condition.
Recommendations, statements and other opinions expressed on this site have not been evaluated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Products, including vitamins, minerals and other dietary supplements, and any statements made about those products on this page and throughout this site have not been evaluated by the United States Food and Drug Administration and are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent disease.
Always consult with a qualified medical professional before making medication, diet, dietary supplement, exercise, or lifestyle changes or decisions.
Trademarks and service marks (including, without limitation, the individual names of products and companies) are the property of their respective owners.
Read the full Terms and Conditions, Privacy Policy and Disclaimers before using this site.
Contact
To contact site administrator regarding technical or other aspects of this site, e-mail to site@spacedoc.com
Note that no personal medical questions of any kind can or will be answered.
© 2008 - 2019 All material on this site http://www.spacedoc.com/ is copyrighted and may not be used or reproduced in any form without written permission
spacedoc.com
____
Useful Links
Events
Spacedoc Forum
Over 12000 reader posts
Spacedoc Forum
© 2008 - 2019 Spacedoc Media LLC Privacy Policy | Terms of Service | Sitemap