The 9 Best Supplements For Knee Pain - Nutritional Medicine
Close
About Dr Sarah Brewer
CuraLife Advisory Board
Contact Page
Image Credits
Affiliate Disclosure
Privacy Policy For DrSarahBrewer.com
Cookie policy
Terms & Conditions
Guest Articles
5 Natural Remedies To Relieve An Anxious Mind
5 Ways To Mentally And Physically Improve Your Wellbeing
6 Low-Carb Diet Mistakes To Watch Out For
How to Safely Detox Your Body
Is Krill Oil As Good As Fish Oil?
Natural Ways Of Preventing Common Diseases
The Health Benefits Of Altruism
The Health Benefits Of Regular Exercise
Top Reasons To Eat Healthy And Exercise
Top Ways Nutrition Aids Weight Training
Top Ways To Improve Your Wellbeing
Travel Checklist: Everything Seniors Must Do Before They Jet Off
Living Healthier For Less – Are Super Foods Really That Super?
How A Change In Diet Can Reduce Musculoskeletal Pain
Can You Get Enough Protein If You Follow A Vegan Diet?
5 Ways You Can Change Your Life for the Better
11 Tips For Channelling Your Inner Nigella Lawson On A Date
Finding A Gym With Extra Health Boosting Benefits
Top Tips For Caring For Your Aging Parent
Supplements For An Extra Boost In The Day
What Should I Know About Cannabis?
Your Go-To Guide: Training For Your First Trail Run
Ask Me A Question
Nutritional Medicine
Food, Herbs, Vitamins, Minerals & Supplements By Dr Sarah Brewer
Food, Herbs, Vitamins, Minerals & Supplements By Dr Sarah Brewer
Menu
Home
Ask Me A Question
Nutrition 101
Drug Supplement Interactions
Do You Get All The Nutrients You Need From Your Food?
Antioxidants In Food
Diet And Gluten
Glycemic Index and Glycemic Load
High Fibre Foods
Phytonutrients In Food
The Truth About Saturated Fats
Butter, Margarine or Oil?
Which Oils Are Best For Cooking?
Omega 3, Omega 6, Omega-7, Omega 9 & More
Polyphenols And Bioflavonoids In Food
Protein
Why 5-A-Day And Not 7-A-Day Or More?
Should you go ‘Organic’?
Does Red Meat Cause Cancer?
Low Fat Versus Low Carb Diets
Is Pasta Fattening Or Not?
What Are Oligosaccharides?
Sugar And The Best Alternatives
What is bioavailability?
Vitamins And Minerals
Minerals in Food
Vitamins in Food
Why You May Need More Vitamin D
Supplement Basics
Upper Safe Levels For Vitamins & Minerals
Vitamin & Mineral RDAs, NRVs and DVs
Dietitians, Nutritionists & Nutritional Therapists
Ask Me A Question About Nutrition
Diets For Health Problems
Diets For Health
DASH Diet & Blood Pressure
Diet And Acne
Diet And Arthritis
Diet And AMD
Diet And Candida
Diet And Constipation
Diet And Gallstones
Diet And Gluten
Diet And Gout
Diet And Heartburn Or Indigestion
Diet And Heart Disease
Diet And Irritable Bowel Syndrome
Diet And Low Sex Drive
Diet And Menopause
Diet And Metabolic Syndrome
Diet And Multiple Sclerosis
Diet And Osteoporosis
Diet And PCOS
Diet And Prostate Health
Diet And Restless Legs
Detox Diet Plan
Diet & Longevity
Diet And Thinning Hair
Vegetarian Diets And Cancer
Ask Me A Question About Diets
Best Supplements For Health
Best CBD Oil Supplements
Best Herbal Supplements For Type 2 Diabetes
Best Supplements For Women Over 50
Best Herbal Viagra Alternatives
Best Herbs For Anxiety
Best Herbs For Pain Relief
Best Herbs For Insomnia
Best Supplements For High Blood Pressure
Best Cholesterol Lowering Supplements
Best Supplements For Fibromyalgia
Best Supplements For Knee Pain
Best Supplements For PMS
Best Supplements For Memory
What Is A Nootropic?
Best Supplements For Thinning Hair
Rhodiola Improves Low Libido
Ask Me A Question About Supplements
Health Foods
Acai Berries
Almonds
Artichoke
An Apple A Day …
Apple Cider Vinegar
Asparagus
Avocado
Balsamic Vinegar
Bilberries
Black Garlic
Baobab Powder
Brazil Nuts
Cacao Benefits
Capers and Caper Berries
Chamomile Tea
Chia Seeds
Chickpeas
Cocoa
Coconut Water
Coffee
Flax Seeds
Goji Berries
Garlic
Kitchen Herbs
Maca Powder
Manuka Honey
Olive Oil
Prunes
Pumpkin Seeds
Shiitake Mushrooms
Spinach
Spirulina
Sweet Potatoes
Tea
Spices
Black Pepper
Cayenne Pepper
Cinnamon
Fenugreek
Turmeric & Curcumin
Herbal Medicines
Ask Me A Question About Herbal Medicines
Kitchen Herbs
Medical Herbs
Herbal Medicines
CuraLin And Other Herbal Medicines For Type 2 Diabetes
Adaptogenic Herbs
Agnus Castus
Aloe Vera
Ashwagandha
Best Herbal Viagra Alternatives
Black Cohosh
Boswellia
Cannabidiol CBD Oil
Devil’s Claw
Echinacea Health Benefits
Garcinia Cambogia
Garlic
Ginkgo Biloba
Guarana
Horny Goat Weed
Milk Thistle
Muira Puama
Panax Ginseng
Passion Flower
Pelargonium
Raspberry Leaf Tea
Red Vine Leaf
Rhodiola Rosea
Saw Palmetto
Siberian Ginseng
Spirulina
St John’s Wort
Turmeric
Valerian Root
Supplements
Ask Me A Question About Supplements
Supplement Basics
5 hydroxytryptophan or 5 HTP
Alpha-Lipoic Acid
L-Arginine
Astaxanthin
Baobab Powder
Boswellia
Bromelain
B Vitamins Complex
Cannabidiol CBD Oil
Carotenoids
Cod Liver Oil
Coenzyme Q10
DHEA And Pregnenolone
Evening Primrose Oil
Globe Artichoke
Glucosamine
Green Lipped Mussel
Krill Oil
Krill Oil Versus Fish Oil
Lavender Oil
Maca Powder
Nootropic Supplements
Oligosaccharides
Omega-3
Omega 3, Omega 6, Omega-7, Omega 9
Phosphatidylcholine
Plant Sterols
Probiotics
Protein Supplements
Pycnogenol
Quercetin
Resveratrol
Royal Jelly
Sea Buckthorn Oil
Soy Isoflavones
Some People DO Need Vitamin Supplements
Vitamin A-Z
Vitamins in Food
Vitamin A
Vitamin B1
Vitamin B2
Vitamin B3
Vitamin B5
Vitamin B6
Vitamin B12
Biotin
Folate & Folic Acid
Vitamin C
Vitamin D
Vitamin E
Vitamin K
Some People DO Need Vitamin Supplements
Why You May Need More Vitamin D
RDAs, NRVs and DVs For Vitamins
Upper Safe Levels For Vitamins
Ask Me A Question About Vitamins
Mineral A-Z
Minerals in Food
Are You Getting Enough Magnesium?
Calcium
Chromium
Iron
Magnesium
Selenium
Zinc
RDAs, NRVs and DVs For Minerals
Upper Safe Levels For Minerals
Ask Me A Question About Minerals
Weight loss
3 Of The Best
Energy Supplements
Ways To Take Vitamin D
Ways To Top Up Magnesium
My Recommended Products Amazon.com
My Recommended Products Amazon UK
Free Book
Home » Supplements & Health » Best Supplements For Knee Pain
Best Supplements For Knee Pain
This entry was posted on February 3, 2017 by Dr Sarah Brewer
More supplements can improve knee pain than just about any other condition. Here, I’ve focused on the best supplements for knee pain that I’ve found most effective as a doctor, medical nutritionist and ex-sufferer of knee pain.
Contents
The best supplements for knee pain
How supplements reduce knee pain
Glucosamine and chondroitin for knee pain
How effective are glucosamine and chondroitin supplements for knee pain?
Collagen Supplements for knee pain
How effective are collagen supplements for knee pain?
Hydrolysed and unhydrolysed collagen supplements
Vitamin C supplements for knee pain
How vitamin C reduces knee pain
How effective are vitamin C supplements for knee pain?
Turmeric supplements for knee pain
How turmeric reduces knee pain
How effective are turmeric supplements for knee pain?
Krill Oil supplements for knee pain
How krill oil reduces knee pain
How effective are krill oil supplements for knee pain?
Rosehip Extracts for knee pain
How rosehip supplements reduce knee pain
How effective are rosehip supplements for knee pain?
Ginger supplements for knee pain
How ginger supplements reduce knee pain
How effective are ginger supplements for knee pain?
Boswellia supplements for knee pain
How Boswellia supplements reduce knee pain
How effective are Boswellia supplements for knee pain?
Cherry supplements for knee pain
How cherry supplements reduce knee pain
How effective are cherry supplements for knee pain?
Which supplements are best for your knee pain?
The best supplements for knee pain
Whether your knee pain is due to a sports injury or knee arthritis, the following supplements can reduce knee pain, knee stiffness and improve how your knees function – in other words how well you can carry out every day activities like going up-and-down stairs, walking, getting in and out of the bath and even putting on your socks.
My knee joint
Glucosamine plus chondroitin
Collagen
Vitamin C
Turmeric
Krill oil
Rosehip
Ginger
Boswellia
Cherry
I know these supplements can reduce knee pain from personal experience, from reviewing the published research, and from seeing an X-ray of my right knee taken after a ski fall. Apart from some laxity from damaged ligaments (now cured!) my joint space looks great with no obvious signs of osteoarthritis, which I attribute to long-term use of glucosamine and chondroitin, krill oil, and vitamin C.
For treating the knee pain due to damaged ligaments, I added in turmeric, collagen and ginger with excellent results.
Different supplements work for different people, however, depending on the genes you have inherited. Some respond to glucosamine alone, but in my clinical experience most people benefit from taking both glucosamine plus chondroitin.
Combination supplements that blend ingredients for a synergistic effect can tackle knee pain through different mechanisms.
If you are not getting the degree of pain relief you hoped for after 6 weeks, you can either swap to a different treatment or add in another supplement.
It’s not always easy to spot small gradual improvements in knee pain, so you might like to complete a WOMAC Osteoarthritis Index joint symptom questionnaire before and after taking a supplement for a few weeks to assess if there is any meaningful benefit.
How supplements reduce knee pain
Nutritional supplements can improve painful knees in a number of ways, by:
Providing building blocks for the repair of cartilage, ligaments and tendons
Stimulating the repair of damaged tissues and the production of cushioning synovial fluid
Regulating the enzymes involved in breaking down or building new cartilage
Reducing inflammation
Reducing pain through analgesic effects.
Some supplements, especially plant extracts, contain a wide variety of compounds that each work in different ways to provide more benefits than any single prescribed painkiller ever could.
In fact, supplements are set to play an increasing role in treating painful knees as the long-term use of paracetamol is no longer recommended. Paracetamol is not as safe as previously thought and is linked with an increased risk of heart attack and stroke. This follows similar findings that long-term use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) such as ibuprofen can also increase the risk of heart attack and stroke.
Glucosamine and chondroitin for knee pain
Glucosamine and chondroitin are produced naturally in the body as building blocks needed to make cartilage, tendons, ligaments and synovial fluid. Their production declines with age, and it is often in short supply, especially when active joint repair is needed.
Glucosamine and chondroitin regulate the levels of at least 31 different proteins in cartilage cells which are involved in cartilage health, antioxidant stress responses, and the synthesis of new proteins such as collagen. Glucosamine and chondroitin act as biological signals to switch on the repair of damaged joint tissues, and suppress the inflammation and breakdown of cartilage that is a feature of osteoarthritis.
As you get older, your cartilage cells secrete less and less glucosamine and chondroitin. As a result, cartilage becomes more brittle and prone to the degenerative changes seen in ageing joints.
How effective are glucosamine and chondroitin supplements for knee pain?
Prevention: Taking glucosamine supplements (at doses of 1.5g to 3g daily) can preserve joint health by reducing cartilage breakdown, and maintaining the production of collagen in athletes involved in various sports, including soccer and bicycle racing.
Sports injuries: Research involving 106 athletes with an acute knee injury found that taking glucosamine (1500 mg daily), significantly improve knee bending (flexion and extension) compared with placebo. These improvements in mobility took 28 days to develop, as it takes time for damaged tissues to use these building blocks, and for them to enhance repair processes, so don’t expect immediate results.
Osteoarthritis: Data from 54 studies, involving 16,427 people with knee pain due to osteoarthritis, found that glucosamine and chondroitin were more effective than placebo in pain relief and improving joint function. Both glucosamine and chondroitin reduced joint space narrowing, as seen on X-rays, to indicate that the progression of osteoarthritis was significantly slowed.
Collagen Supplements for knee pain
While glucosamine and chondroitin give cartilage its flexibility and resilience, it gets its strength from a strong, fibrous protein known as type II collagen. Collagen is a protein composed of long chains of amino acids. Every third amino acid is glycine, with proline, hydroxyproline and hydroxylysine appearing in between. These last two amino acids are not found in any other human proteins.
Long chains of collagen come together in threes. Hydroxyproline, which needs vitamin C for its synthesis, has a unique shape which allows collagen fibres to twist around each other and form long triple strands for extra strength
How effective are collagen supplements for knee pain?
Collagen supplements stimulate the synthesis of collagen, to help maintain the structure of the joint and reduce joint discomfort. Collagen supplements also increase blood levels of the amino acids needed to make collagen, and when collagen hydrolysate is ‘labelled’ to show up on x-ray, it is seen to preferentially accumulate in cartilage and to build it up (anabolic effect).
Osteoarthritis knee pain: Taking 40mg per day of undenatured collagen type 2, or 10g hydrolysed collagen per day can significantly improve joint pain, stiffness and function within 3 to 6 months.
Those with the greatest joint degeneration and with the lowest intake of dietary meat protein benefited the most.
Sports injury knee pain: In athletes and weekend warriors who experience knee pain on exercise, taking either 40mg undenatured collagen type 2 supplements per day, or a liquid collagen hydrolysate supplement (10g per day) for 4 to 6 months, provides significant improvements compared with placebo.
Those taking the collagen supplements experienced significantly increased joint mobility, less joint pain at rest, when walking, standing, running, lifting or carrying weights. They were also able to exercise for longer with a speedier recovery afterwards. Some of those taking collagen supplements experienced a complete resolution of pain on exercise. The researchers concluded that collagen hydrolysate can support joint health and possibly reduce the risk of joint deterioration in athletes, who are at high-risk of developing joint problems.
Rheumatoid arthritis knee pain: Type II collagen is the main protein in joint cartilage and may be one of the targets for antibody attack in people with rheumatoid arthritis. Taking small doses of undenatured collagen supplements (eg chicken type II collagen, 0.1mg per day for one month then 1mg per day) may help the immune system become more ‘tolerant’ of the body’s own collagen to suppress joint inflammation. In one study involving 60 people with severe, active rheumatoid arthritis, this collagen immunotherapy significantly reduced the number of swollen and tender joints within 3 months, compared with no change in those taking placebo. Four of those taking collagen even had a complete remission of their symptoms even though they were initially classed as severe. NB If you have rheumatoid arthritis, don’t take collagen supplements except under medical advice and supervision – very low doses are needed for this form of immunotherapy, and it is possible that taking higher doses may make your symptoms worse.
Hydrolysed and unhydrolysed collagen supplements
The form of collagen found in joints (type 2 collagen) is found in the diet, particularly in meat. The collagen used in supplements is either derived from marine sources (eg from shark or other fish cartilage), or from animals cartilage (typically chicken, but also from beef or pork sources). Marine collagen peptides have a higher concentration of the amino acids needed for the production and repair of human cartilage (glycine, proline and hydroxyproline).
Supplements can contain collagen in its original state (known as unhydrolysed or undenatured collagen), or in a hydrolysed or solubilised form.
Unhydrolysed collagen contains large collagen molecules (polypeptides) which must first be digested before they can be absorbed and used in the body.
Hydrolysed collagen is in a ‘body-ready’ form as it is pre-digested by protease enzymes to release small fragments (peptides) that are more easily absorbed and used.
When you take a hydrolysed collagen supplement, it is rapidly absorbed into the circulation from which it is extracted by cells that need these building blocks (eg fibroblasts in the skin, chondrocytes in cartilage) and cartilage where it acts as a signal to trigger the synthesis of new collagen fibres.
As well as supporting joint health, collagen supplements have benefits on skin suppleness, elasticity and hydration to reduce the formation of skin wrinkles. Collagen also offers benefits for people with thinning bones (osteoporosis) as it is a bone scaffold protein on which calcium salts are laid down.
Click here to read my full review of LQ Liquid Health Joint Care
Vitamin C supplements for knee pain
Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin found mainly in fruit and vegetables. As vitamin C is water-soluble, it cannot be stored in the body so a regular intake is essential.
How vitamin C reduces knee pain
People who obtain at least the recommended dietary intake of vitamin C, or higher, for example, are half as likely to develop osteoarthritis as those with lower intakes.
Vitamin C is essential for collagen synthesis (to convert the amino acid, proline, to hydroxyproline so strands can coil around each other) and for the metabolism of joint cartilage. Vitamin C is also a powerful antioxidant, especially in joint fluid.
Poor intakes of vitamin C can lead to reduced collagen formation and slow joint healing. In contrast, good intakes of vitamin C can reduce cartilage loss and disease progression in osteoarthritis, while its antioxidant action reduces joint inflammation.
Vitamin C stimulates bone-building cells (osteoblasts) to improve bone mineral density and support the overlying joint cartilage. Vitamin C may even help to prevent damage, cartilage loss and the development of osteoarthritis.
How effective are vitamin C supplements for knee pain?
In the Framingham Osteoarthritis Cohort Study, who underwent regular knee x-rays, people with the highest vitamin C intakes (including supplements) were three times less likely to see their knee osteoarthritis progress than those with the lowest vitamin C intake. This protection was mostly related to a reduced risk of cartilage loss. Those with high vitamin C intake also had a 70% reduced risk of developing knee pain.
In the similar Clearwater Osteoarthritis Study, those who took vitamin C supplements were 11% less likely to develop knee osteoarthritis than those who did not take vitamin C supplements.
Vitamin C may also enhance the effects of glucosamine and chondroitin. A small trial involving 34 males from the U.S. Navy who had degenerative joint disease of the knee or lower back found good results from combing glucosamine HCl (1,500 mg/day), chondroitin sulfate (1,200 mg/day) and vitamin C in the form of manganese ascorbate (228 mg/day). After 16 weeks, knee pain in those with osteoarthritis was reduced by 26.6% using a pain scale recorded during clinic visits, while their physical examination score improved by 43.3%. The researchers concluded that this combination was effective in relieving symptoms of knee osteoarthritis.
Turmeric supplements for knee pain
Turmeric is a familiar, yellow spice widely used to enhance the flavour and colour of curries. It is also a traditional Ayurvedic medicine used to treat inflammation and reduce pain.
The active ingredient in turmeric is a golden-yellow pigment, curcumin, which has powerful anti-inflammatory actions.
Turmeric supplements can be concentrated and standardised to contain as much as 95% curcumin, the active ingredient, per dose.
Several studies suggest that turmeric is as effective as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) for alleviating knee pain – but without the side effects.
The absorption of turmeric and curcumin from the digestive system is notoriously poor. Even so, turmeric still produces significant anti-inflammatory effects elsewhere in the body, such as reducing knee pain, even though no measurable levels are present.
The most likely explanation is that turmeric is able to interact with immune cells within the gut lining to ‘reprogram’ how they respond to inflammation. Water soluble turmeric supplements with boosted absorption are now available for a more powerful dual action.
How turmeric reduces knee pain
Turmeric blocks the production of a variety of inflammatory substances, including the enzyme COX-2, interleukins, and TNF-alpha – a powerful cell signalling protein involved in triggering acute inflammation.
Curcumin is recognised as one of the few orally available substances that can block TNF-alpha, which is the target for many new and expensive antibody treatments given by intravenous infusion or subcutaneous injection to treat severe inflammatory diseases including some forms of arthritis.
How effective are turmeric supplements for knee pain?
A study involving 367 people with moderate to severe knee osteoarthritis found that taking turmeric curcumin extracts (1,500 mg per day, in divided doses) for 4 weeks was as effective in reducing knee pain, knee stiffness and improving knee joint function as ibuprofen (1,200 mg per day) but with fewer gastrointestinal side effects.
Turmeric can be combined with glucosamine and chondroitin to produce a faster onset of action and improved results.
I recommend selecting a turmeric supplement that provides solubilised turmeric, as this is 185 times better absorbed than normal turmeric powder, for a more rapid onset of action.
Krill Oil supplements for knee pain
Krill are a tiny, shrimp-like crustaceans found in all the oceans of the world. They feed on microalgae from which they obtain omega-3 fatty acids and two antioxidant pigments, astaxanthin and canthaxanthin. These pigments are produced by algae to protect them from ultraviolet light and, when these algae and shrimps are eaten by wild flamingos, give them their attractive pink plumage. Without them flamingos would be grey. These carotenoid pigments, which also cause shrimps, prawns and lobsters to turn red when cooked, are the reason why krill oil has such a vibrant, crimson colour.
How krill oil reduces knee pain
While ‘plain’ omega-3 fish oils and cod liver oil are popular for preventing and treating knee pain, krill oil has the advantage of supplying long-chain, omega-3 fatty acids plus antioxidant pigments for an enhanced anti-inflammatory effect.
The long-chain omega-3s, EPA and DHA, are processed in the body to reduce formation of inflammatory substances known as leukotrienes. These omega-3s reduce inflammation, stiffness, swelling and, in people with different types of arthritis can reduce the number of painful joints, and the long-term need for pain killers.
Both the omega 3s and the antioxidants found in krill oil have an anti-inflammatory action which help to reduce joint pain, stiffness and swelling in people with rheumatoid or osteoarthritis. In a trial involving 90 people with inflammatory conditions such as rheumatoid or osteoarthritis, levels of inflammation were reduced by 19% within 7 days, in those taking 300mg krill oil a day, and by 30% within 2 weeks. In those taking placebo, levels of inflammation increased.
As well as helping your knee pain, krill oil is beneficial for the heart and circulation, too.
How effective are krill oil supplements for knee pain?
Krill oil supplements can produce a significant improvement in knee pain and knee stiffness within a week. Krill oil supplements have also been shown to reduce the amount of pain-killing ‘rescue’ medication such as paracetamol and ibuprofen needed.
A study involving 50 people with knee joint pain compared the effects of taking either 2g krill oil per day, or an identical placebo, for one month. Those taking krill oil showed more improvements in knee pain and stiffness than those taking placebo and, when other factors such as age, weight and lifestyle were taking into account, krill oil also significantly reduced the effects of knee pain on sleeping, standing and the range of movement in both knees compared to placebo.
As krill are an important food source for marine animals such as baleen whales, Antarctic Fur Seals and Adelie penguins, it’s important to select a supplement derived from sustainable sources that do not impact on these feeding grounds. Sustainably derived krill oil will have an on-pack endorsement from an organisation such as the Marine Stewardship Council is an international, non-profit organisation that works to safeguard seafood supplies for the future.
Rosehip Extracts for knee pain
The fruits of the wild dog rose are an excellent source of vitamin C, and scientists have now found that rosehips contain additional anti-inflammatory substances that can greatly reduce joint aches and pains.
How rosehip supplements reduce knee pain
Rosehips contain a pain-killing complex of galactolipids which have an aspirin-like ability to inhibit two enzymes (COX-1 and COX-2) involved in the generation of pain and inflammation. They do this through a different mechanism to aspirin so rosehips do not cause the same intestinal side effects.
Galactolipids isolated from rosehips also inhibit the activity of inflammatory white blood cells, and lower levels of inflammatory markers in the blood. Reducing the movement of inflammatory cells into joints can reduce both pain and stiffness.
How effective are rosehip supplements for knee pain?
The results from three studies, involving 287 people with osteoarthritis found that taking rosehip extracts for an average of 3 months significantly reduced joint pain. Those taking rose hip extracts were twice as likely to respond to treatment than those taking placebo.
Significant improvements in morning pain and stiffness, sleep quality, mood, energy and well-being were also seen, as well as a reduced need for rescue medications such as tramadol, codeine and paracetamol.
Over eighty per cent of people taking rosehip extracts report noticeable benefits in pain and stiffness within three weeks, and the level of pain relief in clinical trials is equivalent to that achieved with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, paracetamol and aspirin (but with fewer side effects).
Ginger supplements for knee pain
Ginger is one of the oldest medicinal spices, whose rhizomes contain unique substances known as gingerols and shogaols, as well as therapeutic terpene essential oils. Although well-known for their anti-nausea action, ginger root extracts are also able to reduce knee pain.
How ginger supplements reduce knee pain
Ginger has a warming, analgesic, anti-inflammatory action, increasing blood flow to the peripheries to boost the delivery of oxygen and nutrients.
The anti-inflammatory action of ginger results from an ability to block the COX-2 enzyme involved in triggering inflammation in a similar way to aspirin (but without the side effects).
Ginger also reduces the production of an inflammatory substance, TNF-alpha, in joint lining cells – a substance that is also targetted by many powerful drugs prescribed to treat inflammatory arthritis. Ginger is growing in popularity to relieve muscle aches and joint pains.
How effective are ginger supplements for knee pain?
Analysis of data from five trials, involving 593 people, showed that taking ginger significantly reduced pain by 30% compared with placebo, and reduced disability by 22%.
Ginger is also effective in treating knee pain in people who have not responded well to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS).
Boswellia supplements for knee pain
Boswellia is a resin obtained from a large tree, Boswellia serrata, that is native to India, North Africa and the Middle East. The resin is obtained by peeling away strips of bark and then harvesting the gum that oozes out and hardens to protect the tree. Boswellia resin is highly fragrant and is also known as frankincense and olibanum.
How Boswellia supplements reduce knee pain
Boswellia contains several anti-inflammatory substances, including boswellic acids, which are as effective in reducing pain as some non-steroidal, anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Boswellia is particularly effective for reducing knee pain, and is often combined with other joint supplements such as turmeric and glucosamine to boost their effects.
When Boswellia extracts were added to cartilage cultures grown from people underoing knee replacement surgery, Boswellia was found to stabilise the cartilage, reduce loss of structural substances, and had a protective, anti-inflammatory effect that was predicted to reduce cartilage degeneration.
How effective are Boswellia supplements for knee pain?
Boswellia improvess pain, stiffnees, flexion, swelling, and increases walking distance in people with osteoarthritis of the knee. Research shows that Boswellia is at least as effective as the prescribed NSAID, valdecoxib for treating osteoarthritis. Improvements in knee pain are usually seen within 7 days, and continue to improve over several months. Benefits can also last for one month after stopping Boswellia. Boswellia and turmeric together have a synergistic effect that is more successful in treating knee pain than the prescribed pain killer, celecoxib.
Cherry supplements for knee pain
Sour cherries are best known for their ability to promote sleep, but they can also reduce muscle and joint pain after exercise.
How cherry supplements reduce knee pain
are a rich source of antioxidants, including vitamin C, carotenoids, and rich purple-red anthocyanin polyphenols. Together, these have an anti-inflammatory, pain-killing action that mimics that of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs – but without the same side effects.
Drinking sour cherry juice can reduce muscle and joint pain and inflammation in people with osteoarthritis, and in athletes with injuries.
How effective are cherry supplements for knee pain?
A group of 58 people with osteoarthritis of the knee were asked to drink either tart cherry juice or placebo juice for 6 weeks. Then, after a week of no treatment, they swapped over to take the other juice for another 6 weeks so acted as their own controls.
Their knee pain, knee stiffness and knee joint function were assessed before and after each treatment, and scores decreased significantly after the cherry juice treatment but not after the placebo treatment.
Which supplements are best for your knee pain?
I have taken glucosamine plus chondroitin for general knee health for at least ten years.
Recently I added turmeric to my joint regime and was able to jog comfortably for the first time in several years.
Following a recent fall while skiing, which twisted my right knee, I added in a collagen supplement and my stretched ligaments have now almost healed two weeks later.
Now that everthing is back to normal, I have switched to This Supplement which includes turmeric, glucosamine, Boswellia and vitamin C, and take my omega3 fish oil separately in the form of This Super Strength Krill Oil.
Which supplements do you find most helpful for your knee pain?
Click here to read my review of glucosamine gels and other topical pain relieving creams.
Click here to read my review of the best non-prescription painkillers.
Image credits: solitchka/wikimedia; meditations/pixabay; scientificanimations/wikimedia; steven_jackson/flickr; melica73/bigstock;
About Dr Sarah Brewer
QUORA EXPERT - TOP WRITER 2018 Dr Sarah Brewer MSc (Nutr Med), MA (Cantab), MB, BChir, RNutr, MBANT, CNHC qualified from Cambridge University with degrees in Natural Sciences, Medicine and Surgery. After working in general practice, she gained a master's degree in nutritional medicine from the University of Surrey. Sarah is a registered Medical Doctor, a registered Nutritionist and a registered Nutritional Therapist. She is an award winning author of over 60 popular self-help books and a columnist for Prima magazine.
View all posts by Dr Sarah Brewer →
Leave a comment Cancel reply
Your e-mail address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
30 thoughts on “Best Supplements For Knee Pain”
Reply ↓
Karen November 13, 2018 at 2:49 am
What supplements do you recommend for a 65 year old, very active woman with bone on bone knees. I have already repaired the miniscus in both knees. I would like to avoid knee replacement surgery. Currently I take tumeric, shark cartlidge, omega 3 oil, multiple vitamen and walk lots. I have pain from time to time. I am just tryin CBD cream and I think it may help. My knee is keeping me from pursuing some of my activities. What are your thoughts.
Reply ↓
Dr Sarah Brewer Post author March 9, 2019 at 3:32 pm
hi Karen, Apologies for delay in response. It sounds like you are already taking some good options. Other ones include glucosamine and chondroitin plus CBD by mouth. Turmeric in powder form is not that well absorbed so you may find the solubilised form (Novasol) is more beneficial. Best wishes, Sarah B
Reply ↓
Cheryl June 7, 2018 at 1:11 am
hi Sarah thank you so much for the information. can you suggest the daily mg needed for each of the supplements you mention to help with knee pain?
Cheryl
Reply ↓
Rizwan May 2, 2018 at 9:52 am
hy
i have garde 1 medial meniscus tear , which suppliments i can use to cure it
Reply ↓
DrSarahBrewer May 2, 2018 at 11:43 am
Hi Rizwan, There are no guarantees as it depends on the blood supply to that part of the meniscus – the innter two-thirds lacks a blood supply for example – and how well nutrients can diffuse to cells in the torn area. In general, glucosamine, chondroitin, collagen and hyaluronic acid are good choices – these are available in combinations such as LQ Liquid Health Joint Care. Best wishes, Sarah B
Reply ↓
Jeanine April 27, 2018 at 6:56 pm
the supplement you recommend/take does not ship to the Us. Do you know of something similar that is available in the US?
Reply ↓
DrSarahBrewer April 28, 2018 at 10:44 am
Hi Jeanine, Which supplement are you referring to? You can find supplements that I recommend for a variety of condition on my Amazon.com US page here. Best wishes, Sarah B
Reply ↓
hgilao April 6, 2018 at 7:53 pm
Hello Dr. Brewer,
I have been having knee problem since my teenage time, now that I am late 40, my knee’s cartage is almost done I can hear robing very difficult using the stars. Recently I have changed my nutrition and my diet is gluten free and lectin. I am currently taking some supplements like collagen, vitamin C, NAC, MSM, Vitamin D, and my probiotics How my knee cartage be safed with the little left? I am not been diagnosed with any disease, whats the causes of my problem, I don’t have no idea. Any help and suggestion I would appreciate very much! Thank you.
Reply ↓
DrSarahBrewer April 7, 2018 at 9:43 am
Hi Hgilao, Sorry to hear about your problems. Cracking and thinning of knee cartilage is usually due to osteoarthritis which leads to narrowing of the joint space so bones can rub together causing pain and stiffness. Do see your doctor who can confirm the diagnosis. Sometimes supplements that stimulate cartialge renewal and which increase the thickening and cushioning of the joint’s oil (synovial fluid) can help. Glucosamine, chondroitin and hyaluronic acid can help with this. Collagen and vitamin C help to stimulate collagen repair, too. A liquid supplement can provide higher doses of these than a handful of pills. The supplement that sorted my knee problems was LQ Joint Care. Rub-in pain relieving creams and gels can be highly effective to reduce discomfort, too. I hope that helps, Sarah B
hgilao April 9, 2018 at 7:19 pm
Thank you for the response. where do I need to place an order for the LQ Joint Care? Thank you.
DrSarahBrewer April 9, 2018 at 7:58 pm
Hi Hgilao, The supplements are available on Amazon and Boots.com (where they are currently 3 for 2). There are links in my post if you wish to use them. These are affiliate links which mean I get a small commission to help fund my website (you do not pay any more) but there is no obligation to do so. Best wishes, Sarah B
Reply ↓
T L Evans March 24, 2018 at 2:45 pm
I am sorry, but I must be missing the references for your information. Please direct me to the information for the studies you reference for this article. Thank you.
Reply ↓
DrSarahBrewer March 24, 2018 at 3:04 pm
The references are linked within the text and appear when you mouse over them. They are subtle so as not to be distracting, but are there. For example: Osteoarthritis knee pain: Taking 40mg per day of undenatured collagen …. If you can’t find what you need, let me know which reference you require. Thanks, Sarah B
Reply ↓
Deepak February 19, 2018 at 11:48 am
Hi doctor Good afternoon,
I want to ask you that i have taken some fat burner for 2 months and were on very low calorie diet. after some three four months, a cracking noise is coming from my left knee, i dont feel any pain but every time i sit and stand or do squats. this cracking noise continues.
please tell me about this and what medicines should i take for this.
Reply ↓
DrSarahBrewer February 19, 2018 at 4:00 pm
Hi Deepak, cracking joints are believed to result when nitrogen gas rapidly comes out of solution within the joint to ‘fill’ the vacuum produced as the bones pull apart. Your low calorie diet may have affected the elasticity of your ligaments to cause looseness of the joints. You may benefit from a supplement that provides collagen, hyaluronic acid, glucosamine and chontroitin. Diet should always come first, so do seek nutritional advice as you may be lacking in vitamins, minerals and essential fatty acids, too. It’s not a good idea to follow a very low calorie diet without nutritional support (which you may well be getting of course). Hope that helps, Sarah B
Reply ↓
Sweety January 16, 2018 at 9:10 am
Hi dear doctor,
I am Sweety from Mumbai-India. My mother is 69 years old. and she is suffering from knee pain from last four years. homeopathic, alopathic, nothing works. please suggest what should i give her, and some massage oil if any. Thank you a lot.waiting for your reply
Reply ↓
DrSarahBrewer January 18, 2018 at 2:54 pm
Hi Sweety, I’m afraid I’m not familiar with the supplements available in India. In general, omega-3 fish oil, glucosamine, chondroitin and turmeric are effective. In fact, turmeric is as effective for reducing osteoathritic knee pain as ibuprofen. Rub-in pain relieving creams and gels are also worth trying. Do encourage her to see her doctor if she is experiencing regular pain. Best wishes, Sarah B
Reply ↓
Becky November 30, 2017 at 10:28 am
Good morning – I’ve found it very interesting reading your article, a lot to take in. I have just had an ilizarof frame removed from my left leg, after a 4 month recovery period from shattering the tibia head, and damaging the knee joint after a horseriding accident. I am still bandaged up and learning to walk/bend it again, although I have been weight bearing with the frame for some time. I am told the alignment of the tibia is looking good, but they were unable to ‘fix’ everything, and as such I will always have a damaged knee joint and can expect to suffer the consequences of this. As a 27yr old horse riding instructor, full mobility is obviously rather vital to allowing my to continue to trade as I have done for the last 10yrs – plus its what I love to do, so to have to alter my life plans due to a lack of mobility would be devastating.
I am keen to set myself up to be as strong as I physically can, as quickly as I can from here on. What would you suggest in terms of supplements, dietary additions, and/or joint specific exercise to maximise mobility and strength to the joint? I know that I could easily run through your whole list above and purchase everything, but it may not all be relevant to my needs.
Many thanks for any advice or guidance you can provide.
Becky
Reply ↓
DrSarahBrewer December 2, 2017 at 10:44 am
Hi Becky, Sorry to hear about what happened. For healing of bone, I would normally suggest a supplement that provides collagen, vitamin C, calcium, vitamin D3, magnesium and vitamin K2. Magnetic therapy has been found to improve fracture healing, especially where union is delayed, so you could ask your orthopaedic specalist about that. THe best person to advise on the best forms of exercise is a physiotherapist, and your doctor should be willing to refer you for an indivualised rehab plan. Hope that helps, and that you get back to normal ASAP. Best wishes, Sarah B
Reply ↓
Gavin September 6, 2017 at 11:52 am
Hello Dr Brewer,
I was diagnosed with Coeliac disease back in 2013 and have managed the autoimmune disorder quite successfully with diet. However, I have become far more active in recent years mainly running at first but now have started going to the gym for about a year now and have noticed as I have increased the distances I run and weights I lift that I have started to incur significant injuries to my tendons (Achilles, elbow, shoulder etc). I have the usual muscle fatigue without injuring them so I was wondering if the removal of Gluten from my diet or the poor nutrition absorption as a result of the Coeliac disease has created this problem and if so are there any supplements I can take to help?
Reply ↓
DrSarahBrewer September 6, 2017 at 1:05 pm
Hi Gavin, tendon problems are common in people with coeliac disease – one study of 60 people attending a gastroenterology clinic found that 40% had at least one affected tendon when assessed using ultracound, compared with 10% of a control group. Interestingly, the most commonly affected tendons were those around the knee bone, while in those without coeliac disease the Achilles was most affected. It seems the autoimmune reactions are involved, rather than the removal of gluten from the diet. It’s worth seeking physio advice. Supplements providing protein, collagen, glucosamine and hyaluronic acid may help.I am a great fan of magnetic therapy, too. Having coeliac can reduce absorption of vitamins and minerals so a multivitamin is a good idea, too (check all supplements are gluten free). Hope that helps. Best wishes, Sarah B
Gavin September 11, 2017 at 8:46 am
Thank you very much for your quick and informative response
Reply ↓
Craig newby August 1, 2017 at 6:30 pm
Hi Sarah,
I have just had an arthroscope in my knees as I have osteoarthritis caused by playing rugby for 20 years. I am 38 years old and really want to take something that will have a good impact on the bones in my knee. I fear the damage is too much now. Please can you suggest a program of supplements that can help?
Thanks
Craig
Reply ↓
DrSarahBrewer August 3, 2017 at 6:53 pm
Hi Craig, In my experience, each supplement helps 2 out of 3 people, due to the individual genes they have inherited. There is evidence that glucosamine and chondroitin help to preserve joint space when taken at therapeutic doses long-term. It’s important to take supplements made to pharmaceutical standards to gain any benefit eg Healthspan in the UK for whom I act as a medical consultant. The other supplements mentioned in this post can help, too. If you want high doses of collagen plus other actives, then a liquid supplement such as LQ Liquid Health Joint Care is a good source, or Collagen Plus powder which you can use by the scoop. You should notice a reduction in pain or stiffness within 6 weeks with whatever suppement you take. If you don’t notice any improvement, then swap to a different one. If you get some benefit but not as much as you would like, then add in another. If you are taking medications, then check for interactions. I hope that helps. Best wishes, Sarah B
Reply ↓
Preet July 29, 2017 at 6:04 am
Hi Sarah, I have type2 diabetes, can I take Glucosamine for my knee and joint pains. I am 40 years old
Reply ↓
DrSarahBrewer July 29, 2017 at 6:58 am
Hi, If you have diabetes, always monitor blood glucose levels when making any dietary changes or starting a new supplement. Reassuringly, a comprehensive review from 2011 found that glucosamine itself has no effect on fasting blood glucose levels in individuals with diabetes, or those with impaired glucose tolerance. Another study found it does not affect cholesterol levels in people with diabetes, either. Do follow the advice of your own doctor if they disagree! Best wishes, Sarah B
Reply ↓
azmi July 10, 2017 at 6:21 am
hi doc,,best collagen for knee treatment?…,i’m had minisccus at my right knee about 5years ago ,,soccer injury..any suggestion
Reply ↓
DrSarahBrewer July 10, 2017 at 8:01 pm
You will find the answer in this post on my other site which sorted my knee problems! Best wishes, Sarah B
Reply ↓
Beth May 3, 2017 at 10:07 pm
Can a 13 year old who had OCD surgery left knee a year ago take chondrotin glucosamine & vit c & collagen? Only takes citracal now & a multi.
If so, in what amounts, I would want least but most effective.
Reply ↓
DrSarahBrewer May 4, 2017 at 8:23 am
Hi Beth, Glucosamine and chondroitin are usually prescribed from age 18 and over, as it has not been trialled in children with orthopaedic problems. Glucosamine has, however, been used in relatively high dose for paediatric inflammatory bowel disease. It’s best to ask the medics treating him or her, as some teenagers of 13 years are as well-developed as some 18 year olds. Glucosamine and chondroitin are usually supplied in tablets containing 500mg gluc and 400mg chondroitin, which are taken at a dose of 3 per day. Depending on the size of the teen, their doctors may suggest taking 1 or 2 per day instead. Vitamin C and collagen could also be taken at a lower dose than the adult recommendation, depending on the teenager’s weight. Hope that helps. Best wishes, Sarah B
Post navigation
← Artichoke For Fatty Liver Disease
Omega-3 Benefits →
.
.
My New Guides:
Search Nutritional Medicine
Search for:
.
.
Shop At Boots
.
.
.
Join Me On FaceBook
Join Me On FaceBook
.
.
About Dr Sarah Brewer
Registered Medical Doctor
Registered Nutritionist
Registered Nutritional Therapist
Award-winning author of over 60 books
Medical Advisor To:
Prima Magazine
Patient Connect
Healthspan
AHPMA
Curalife
Contacts
Contact Page
Site Map
Sitemap
· © 2019 Nutritional Medicine ·
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you are happy to accept cookies, please click on OK. If you wish to refuse cookies, please click NO. For more information, read our Privacy Policy. Thank you.OKNoRead more