March 2011 - REAL Skin Care Information from Andrew Scoular and Skin Care TV
REAL Skin Care Information from Andrew Scoular and Skin Care TV
Intelligent skin care for people seeking sensible, scientific and animal-cruelty-free advice.
Menu
Skip to content
Home
Monthly Archives: March 2011
Ban clothianidin for the sake of our bees, and the future of our food production
Leave a reply
Want food? Want honey bees? Prefer to have massive chemical manufacturers make a profit? Your choice. If you’d prefer food and bees then please sign the petition to have the EPA ban clothianidin (as has been done in other countries). Depends what kind of a planet you and your kids want to live on…. so please sign the petition and ask your family and friends to do likewise.
This entry was posted in Animal Cruelty Free Skin Care on March 30, 2011 by Galen.
Age Spots, Brown Spots, Hyperpigmentation, all part of skin aging
Leave a reply
When we are
young we see brown spots on the skin as a sign of another persons age. When we
turn into that older ‘other’ person, we want to rid ourselves of these
tell-tale signs of aging. There are definitely ways of reducing or eliminating
these age marks on our skin. Firstly we need to understand the cause of these
brown age spots. This insidious damage is caused by the sun’s ultraviolet
radiation (UVR) hitting our skin and the cascading problems that it causes. How
do we know these spots are caused by sun damage? Unless you have some medical
condition, you can easily see that they are sun damage related spots by looking
at your butt/behind/derriere. It is free of brown spots (unless you were an
avid nude sunbather). Any other area of your skin that was seldom exposed to
sun, will also be free of brown spots. The most spots will be found on the most
exposed skin – the face, neck, chest, arms and hands.
There is another
scientific discussion about brown spots created by the body through the
ineffectual breaking down all the components of a dead cell…creating a kind of
‘sludge’, so to speak, and this disoloured sludge creates brown marks that
cannot be removed the same way sun related pigmentation can be removed. More on
that topic in a later discussion paper.
What is Hyperpigmentation and who is prone to exhibit it?:
Hyperpigmentation
is characterized by large amounts of pigment changes. It is caused by inflammation. The inflammation has three primary sources: 1. Sun, 2. Acne, 3.
Skin damage/wounds. Another cause in women is hormones which usually create temporary skin darkening as in the
‘pregnancy mask’ or also known as Melasma or Chloasma. This can also be brought
about by hormones in birth control pills.
All skin types and colours can be affected by excess melanin
production. The lighter complexions show it
more readily, but even dark skin tones can show hyperpigmentation. Darker skin
tones are particularly affected by inflammation caused by acne and wounds. The
colour of melanin varies by skin type as well – it can be brown with red,
yellow or black tones. Melanin has a
mighty important role to play as a protection mechanism for the body. It
works to:
Scatter
UVA, UVB, Visible light – which means it protects us from the cell-killing
effects of natural radiation.
It
scavenges free radicals – which are constantly created in the skin by UVA
rays.
It
protects the DNA in epidermal cells – and any damage to a cell’s DNA means
the body will usually kill off that cell.
It
protects cell membranes from oxygen free radicals.
1
melanocyte can produce enough melanin to protect 33 epidermal cells. This
1:33 ratio makes it easy to see that it doesn’t take a lot of
malfunctioning melanocytes to create a brown splotch on your skin….
This is how it is produced.
In most cases, inflammation stimuli in the skin will result in a signal from
the brain that will express the enzyme tyrosinase which catalyses the
production of tyrosine into melanin granules. These melanin granules then
spread throughout the affected area of the epidermis. Typically the melanin
forms as a cap over the cell so protecting the DNA in the nucleus from being
damaged from further inflammatory actions. That is why a sun tan should be seen
as the skin protecting itself from further damage rather than as trying to make
itself look sexy…. So the main function of melanin is protection. The only
problem is that it kicks into action only after damage has occurred.
Hyperpigmentation caused by sun damage (based on life style choices in our
teens and twenties) will usually show on lighter skinned people after age 40.
Darker skin tones usually show it after age 50. Genetics also plays a role in
this phenomenon in that some people seem to be immune from some aspects of
aging while others show it earlier than usual. The inevitable is that anyone
who engaged in a lot of sun bathing or sun based activities WILL display
hyperpigmentation as they age. It is just a matter of time. Wouldn’t it be nice
to go back in time and do things differently?
This then leads to the question as to how to get rid of
these blotches on the skin, and how to then prevent them from re-occurring?
Firstly, you have to exfoliate a lot.
Melanin is produced in the lowest layer of the epidermis, so to erase the dark
spots that it has created means you have to keep exfoliating the area until all
evidence of the melanin has been removed, layer by layer, and only new, fresh,
normal-coloured skin cells are visible. Exfoliating takes time so you have to
give yourself a couple of months to see the results because the skin has to
produce new skin cells to replace those you are exfoliating. The more severe
the exfoliating treatment (like laser treatments and chemical peels) the
quicker the layers of skin are exfoliated and the faster the response time to
you showing off non-hyperpigmented skin. The dangers of these treatments are
that they can leave some skin types even more scarred, plus, a person is
immobilized for a while because the skin needs to heal and be protected. This
is what is known as down time. If you cannot afford the down time then a slower
process of using Alpha Hydroxy Acids and Retinoids/Vitamin A will be the best
course of action. See the video on exfoliation.
What are Alpha Hydroxy Acids and Retinoids?
Alpha Hydroxy Acids (AHA’s)
are a class of chemical compounds that may be either naturally occurring or
synthetic. They break down the bonds between dead skin cells so that they
enable faster exfoliation (desquamation) of the epidermal skin cells. As a
result of this, AHA’s have also been seen to naturally stimulate collagen and
epidermal cell growth (this is a good thing). AHA’s work best at pH levels that are lower than that of the skin.
The skin is normally between pH 4.5 and pH 5.8, so a good AHA will be between
pH 2.2 – pH 2.5 (citric) and pH 3.0 – pH 3.5 (glycolic). For home use, Citric
acids will normally be in a 15% concentration whereas Glycolic acids will be in
a 10% concentration. All AHA’s will
cause mild to moderate irritation of the skin – and you feel it in the form
of a sting (or some people feel it as an itch). This sting will go away when
the AHA is neutralized with water. People with very sensitive skins may turn bright red for a while. If the
irritation (sting and/or redness) does not dissipate, then use cool water on
the skin and stop using the AHA.
Combining AHA treatments with peptides and lipids has
a great effect on your skin by strengthening it, creating even skin tone,
protecting the skin barrier function, and lessening the appearance of wrinkles
and fine lines. Several common AHAs
include:
·
Glycolic acid is the most
widely used of out of the group and is usually manufactured from sugar cane. It
is fairly well known and considered the most effective of the AHAs. Examples
are Age Limit
and Glyco-A-Gel.
·
Lactic acid, derived
primarily from milk is considered to be milder and less irritating than
glycolic acid, and is therefore considered to be better for those with
sensitive skin. Its origins can be traced back to Cleopatra, who purportedly
used sour milk on her skin. Clear Skin Ultra Gel
is a combination of Lactic and Glycolic acids.
· Citric acid from citrus
fruits, malic acid
from apples and pears and tartaric acid
from grapes are not as common but they still work well. Citric Acid also
doubles as a valuable antioxidant to protect against free radical damage to the
cell.
Vitamin A as used in the cosmetics industry is in the form
of retinoids. Vitamin A has to transform into
retinoic acid in the skin cell in order to be biologically utilized. It plays various roles in the skin: 1.
It exfoliates the outer dead cells, 2. It lessens the appearance of brown
spots, 3. It increases collagen production, 4. It stimulates new cell growth
and normalizes sluggish cell growth, 5. It is a strong antioxidant.
Vitamin A is fat
soluble which means it can be stored in the body. This is good because it will
be available when the body needs it, but it is bad and can be toxic to the body
if too much is stored. This will not be the case with using topical Vitamin A
products, it only refers to high dosages of Vitamin A in the form of a dietary
supplement. People on Vitamin A acne treatments (e.g. Accutane/Isotretinoin)
need to be aware of that. Pregnant or breast-feeding women need to consult a
doctor, and generally I prefer they don’t use topical Vitamin A products
either.
There are various forms of Vitamin A used in skin care.
Retinoic acid is used in prescription drugs (like Accutane – though it has been
withdrawn from the market) for acne treatment and is readily available to the
cell and works the fastest. There are many side effects to Accutane and this is
the reason it is no longer available. Retinoic acid in a topical drug, like
Retin-A (tretinoin) is also the most readily available to the skin of all the
topicals.
In the cosmetics industry Retinol or Retinaldehyde is used.
It goes through a 2 step process before becoming retinoic acid in the cell so
it therefore works slower than pure retinoic acid. It is usually found in
cosmetics in concentrations of 1% or less. I can advise you as to which
concentration to use for your skin type. See Treatments and Serums.
It also has the most potential to become an irritant to your skin. Other forms of Vitamin A used in cosmetics
are much milder than Retinol. They are Retinyl Palmitate, Retinyl Acetate,
and Beta Carotene. These will work a lot slower than Retinol as they have a 3
or 4 step process to go through before they become retinoic acid in the cell.
Any form of Vitamin A applied topically can create skin
irritation, so it is advisable to start slowly
(maybe once every 3 days for 2 weeks, then increase to every 2 days, and maybe
after 4 – 6 weeks, you can apply once a day). It is best to apply it at night
only. I may get you to start on a .25% retinol cream to get your skin
aclimatised to Vitamin A, and then work you up to a 1% concentration. Retinols are not recommended for anyone
with Rosacea or other vascular disorders (spider veins, redness etc). In such
cases an AHA is better, and a lactic or citric acid is better than a glycolic.
Retinoids may also dry out your skin, so ensure that you use moisturizers (like Skin Renu) with lipids
(squalane) in order to strengthen and build the skin barrier.
The least active form of exfoliation is a topical product
incorporating enzymes. These enzymes catalyse the
break down of dry, dead skin cells. This is the least irritating form of
exfoliation and for people who have very sensitive skin it is the only course
of action other than doctor applied laser treatments. Enzymes are a very good
form of everyday exfoliation, and they always form part of my facial process.
However they also work a lot slower than AHA’s and reinoids, so you have to be
patient and give yourself a lot of time to achieve a more even skin tone. See
Ultra Gentle Surface Peel.
How do you stop hyperpigmentation from reoccurring?
First and foremost: Protect
yourself from the sun. Never suntan. Always wear a sunscreen. See the video Sunscreen: The Critical Facts as well as Sunscreen Myths.
Secondly: Use products
that will reduce and remove melanin from the skin. The ingredients used in the
4 step process can be as follows (note that the specific ingredient must be
present and not just the generic plant source):
Suppress
tyrosinase formation by one of the following; Kojic Acid (from rice or
mushrooms) or Arbutin (from bearberry).
Inhibit
tyrosinase activity by one of the following; Uva Ursi (bearberry extract), glycyrrhiza
glabradin (licorice extract), Kojic acid (rice or mushroom extract),
Ascorbic acid/Vitamin C (in the form of Magnesium ascorbyl phosphate or
Sodium ascorbyl phosphate).
Reduce
melanin (bleach skin) by one of the following; high concentration
bearberry extract, or 2% hydroquinone (4% hydroquinone is a prescription
drug).
Remove
melanin by one of the following; Alpha Hydroxy Acids (AHA’s – see above),
Retinoids (Retinol etc), Enzymes. See Exfoliators.
Thirdly: Protect yourself from the
sun. Never suntan. Always wear a sunscreen. A mineral sunscreen like Mineral Sunscreen SPF 40
and Mineral Sunscreen SPF 35 for face and body.
What are the dangers of this step?
You are
preventing the normal process of the skin in protecting itself against
radiation damage from the sun (UVA and UV . The skin produces melanin in order
to protect the DNA in every cell. If you take away it’s ability to do that then
the onus is on you to take on the role
of protector. If you do not assume the role of skin protector, you could be
opening yourself up to the potential for skin cancer. Here’s what you must do:
Wear
a UVA/UVB sunscreen on
exposed skin EVERY DAY.
Do
not sunbathe or use tanning beds.
Choose
to sit in the shade rather than in the sun.
A
note on Hydroquinone – USE IT WITH CARE:
It
can irritate the skin – so start using it slowly similar to the way I
recommend the slow introduction of retinoids.
It
is not recommended for use in large sections of skin.
It
is not recommended for use longer than 3 months.
No
over-the-counter cosmetic is allowed to contain more than 2% hydroquinone.
4%
hydroquinone can only be obtained by prescription from a dermatologist.
In
Europe and the UK, plus parts of Asia, Hydroquinone is banned from being
available over-the-counter. There are also strict regulations as to how
doctors can prescribe it.
Extended
use of high dosage hydroquinone has lead to conditions where the skin
creates very dark patches, DNA can be destroyed, tumours have developed,
and liver damage occurs.
Laser and chemical peels.
These treatments
burn your skin to varying degrees. They will cause it to turn red, dry out and
flake off (sometimes in the form of large sheets of skin, sometimes as masses
of dry snowflakes). Either way, there is downtime associated with the
procedure. Depending on the severity of the procedure you may not be
comfortable going to work or socializing.
Laser treatments
and some deep chemical peels may only be performed by medical practitioners.
Licensed estheticians may perform lighter peels like Jessners, TCA peels,
Retinol peels and Glycolic peels. The esthetician must be trained to do these
as incorrect procedure can result in damage to the skin (as can also happen in
a doctors office). Incorrect procedure can actually result in even more
hyperpigmentation. Skin of colour has greater potential for scarring than
pale/white skin. Each client has to be assessed based on their skin colour and
strength. Each client is required to sign a form that states they understand
what they are doing and the inherent risks.
I have been
trained in peels by an Arizona based company PCA. See the Blue Turtle Spa menu of services.
The upside of
peels and laser treatments is that they produce very good and very fast results
(once the healing process is complete). They rapidly exfoliate so brown spots
disappear a lot faster. Initially brown spots may get darker – it is a concentration
of melanin in dry/dying cells. It is therefore important to use melanin
inhibitors. Laser and chemical peels also stimulate collagen production, so
having an effect of reducing wrinkles. You normally undertake a series of them.
The absolutely critical part of these treatments is to protect yourself every
day with a mineral sunscreen
and to stay out of direct sunlight otherwise your investment of money and time
in the process of ridding your skin of hyperpigmentation, will be wasted.
One interesting
point to note is that the laser can be set at various intensities to perform
different tasks – and the intensity for stimulating collagen production does
not necessarily work well on reducing hyperpigmentation. There are ablative,
non ablative and fraxel lasers being used today and you need to be sure that
the doctor you are engaging is using the right laser for the job that you want
performed.
The information provided here is not meant to diagnose or cure any medical conditions.
Come and see us for a skin consultation and Rejuvenating facial
treatment. See treatment details at www.blueturtlespa.com.
This entry was posted in Aging Skin, Facial Exfoliators, Medical Treatments, Peels, Skin Care, Skin Conditions, Sun Damaged Skin, Sunscreens, Treatments and Serums on March 29, 2011 by Galen.
Shark finning – inhumane and unethical – it’s like cutting off cows legs to make hamburgers – while the cow is still alive!
Leave a reply
I am an advocate of cruelty free skin care and the ethical treatment of all animals on this planet. In no uncertain terms I am absolutely opposed to shark finning (where the fins are cut off live sharks and they are thrown back in the water to drown). Sharks are slow breeding animals – catch too many of them and they become endangered, and then extinct. You don’t like sharks? That does not matter – they are an essential part of the ocean eco-system. Kill off one animal and you unbalance the eco-system. Kill off too many animals and you unbalance the planet…would you and your children want to live in such an unbalanced planet?????????
In California, we want to get a law passed to ban the trade in shark fins and shark finning. AB 376 has a lot of support, but Senator Leland Yee stands in the way of getting it approved. Please help Assembly member Paul Fong and Assembly member Jared Huffman, the Sea Stewards, the Humane Society US , The
California Academy of Sciences, the Monterey Bay Aquarium and a host of
others get this bill passed. Write, email, phone….please. Contact information is at the end of this post.
For a list of restaurants to boycott because of their support of the shark fin trade, see http://seastewards.org/shark-finning/
This is a copy of the email I sent to Senator Leland Yee:
California State Senator Leland Yee http://dist08.casen.govoffice.com/
When we first saw the video of how sharks were de-finned while still alive, and then thrown back into the water to drown, we burst into tears. It has caused us to often have nightmares about this inhumane and horrific action. We, as a ‘civilized’ society decried the absolute depraved inhumanity of the Nazi’s some 70 years ago, and likewise all horrific genocides more recently from Cambodia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Rwanda etc etc.
How can we stand back and watch this depraved inhuman activity now? Is it just because they are sharks and most people fear sharks? I wonder how Americans would react if they likened this to our ‘national’ food – the beef hamburger. Imagine if cows were not killed before having their hind quarters removed from their body? Imagine if that were the only part of the body needed to make hamburger patties and so the rest of the ‘living’ body was dumped in a field to die a slow death? How is inhumane shark finning any different from this?
In California we have passed legislation to stop the absolutely inhumane force feeding of geese in order to harvest their huge fatty livers for foie gras. We request that you get on side with all of us seeking a world where inhumanity is outlawed, and we can all HOPE to live in a world where we truly care for every animal on this planet of ours.
Please be the CHANGE that we all believe in and support Assembly Member Paul Fong and Jared Huffman on California Assembly Bill 376 to ban the shark fin trade and shark finning.
Sincerely
Andrew Scoular
http://seastewards.org/what-you-can-do-to-support-the-california-shark-fin-bill-ab-376/
Assemblymember Paul Fong assemblymember.fong@assembly.ca.gov
AssemblymemberJared Huffman assemblymember.huffman@assembly.ca.gov
This entry was posted in Animal Cruelty Free Skin Care on March 28, 2011 by Galen.
Cleansers. It matters that you do not use Sodium Lauryl Sulfate, Glycolic Acid cleansers, Acne cleansers, Benzoyl Peroxide cleansers
Leave a reply
You can also view the videos ‘Cleansers: do they differ? do they matter?’ as well as ‘Cleansers I like’
Cleansing is not simply a process of washing your face. It is a method of clearing natural body waste, environmental pollution and urban air-debris from your skin and pores, and is also part of your skin care arsenal in fortifying the skin in its job of protecting the rest of the body from bacteria, fungus and numerous other pathogens.
The skin is made to be pretty impervious and the oil that our sebaceous glands secrete helps to also prevent easy access by unwanted foreign bodies. If you impair the skins functioning by using incorrect cleansers or any other cosmetic products not suited to your skin, you will increase the opportunities for problems to arise. The enormous increase in numbers of people with sensitive skins, especially as they age is evidence of this. It relates a lot to the way they treat the skin barrier through the use of improper and harsh cleansers, improper use of scrubs and acid exfoliants, as well as external, less controllable, factors like sun, pollution, heat, etc….. More on that in a paper on Sensitive Skin Solutions.
The marketing of cleansers is often totally misleading. Some cleansers are very harsh (using Sodium Lauryl Sulfates, Glycolics and Benzoyl Peroxides as ingredients), and the marketing rhetoric usually tries to make us believe that our skin will appreciate those potentially damaging ingredients. Some marketers also try and make one believe that ‘pure’ and ‘gentle’ soap is the best cleanser for ones skin. The fact of the matter is that you must always maintain the pH of your skin in it’s normal functioning level of between 4.5pH and 5.8pH. Considering that water is 7 (neutral) on the pH scale, anything more alkaline than water (like a hard bar of soap pH10) is not helping your skin to function in its normal environment.
Soap is NOT good – so get that soap off your skin! Why? Because it is an incredibly alkaline substance that not only dries out your skin, but will also leave a film of calcium and magnesium deposited upon it. This is exactly what you see on your shower door, the ceramic tiles and the taps etc – so what makes us think it is not doing that to our skin? In the bath and shower it does not just wash away with water (that is why there are special shower cleaning products to take away soap scum etc), so it will not simply wash off our skin. This film on our skin will prevent normal functioning of the skin as well as the penetration of performance ingredients like peptides and hyaluronic serums. The build up of this metal residue acts as an extremely alkaline barrier on the skin and over time will result in a weakened and impaired skin barrier that can result in increased problems and various unfavourable skin conditions. It is definitely not good for you. Look up ‘Saponification’ on www.wikipedia.org and you will find that it is commonly used to refer to the reaction of a metallic alkali (base) with a fat or oilsoap. Lye is a form of sodium hydroxide that is a caustic base used to create the hard soaps. It is an extremely alkaline substance. to form
Washing your clothes in pure soap causes a degeneration of the fabric due to the metal residue left behind in our hard water systems. That is why Proctor and Gamble created the first synthetic detergent – Sodium Lauryl Sulfate. The molecular structure was then found to have multiple uses – not just for washing clothes….
Sodium Lauryl Sulfates (SLS) and all its derivatives are effective at lifting dirt & oil off surfaces – from clothing to skin to floors to car engines. They are detergents that act as surface active agents (surfactants). There are different strengths and qualities of SLS. The pharmaceutical quality (often used in cosmetic cleansers) is different from the technical or industrial quality used in clothes detergents. They are strong degreasers, excellent foamers, work well in hard water systems, and suspend dirt so that it can be easily washed away. Whether the marketing companies call them anti acne-oil reducing cleansers, or gentle foaming bubbles for sensitive skin, the facts of the matter are that these kinds of detergents create a mild to strong dehydration effect on the skin, and will usually lead to a situation of increased sensitivity and consequent levels of skin irritation. Cleansing products with ingredients that include the terms SULFATE; SULFONATE; SULFOSUCCINATE; or SARCO-; contain one of these SLS derived cleansing detergents. They are used in cleansers, soap substitutes, shampoos and soap-free bars. Do not wash your skin with any of these, and never leave them on your skin – if you do not wash them off they will start dissolving the valuable lipids in your skin and cause flakiness and consequently, increased sensitivity due to barrier functions being impaired. The one sure-fired test as to whether the cleanser is wrong for you is if it leaves your skin ‘squeaky’ clean or feeling ‘tight’. These are totally UNNATURAL states for every skin type.
A gentler form of detergent cleanser is sulfate free and the ingredients list on your cleanser will include AMPHO- (often coconut derived and named cocoampho…..and it will have other molecules added to it so creating a long and unpronounceable name) or –TAINE (also often derived from coconuts, for example cocobetaine). These ingredients are mild foaming (or they may not foam at all), mild cleansing and mild conditioning, and generally exhibit a lower level of skin irritation than the SLS derived cleansers. These are the ingredients typically found in baby shampoos.
My preferred type of cleanser is a hydrophilic oil based cleanser. It is extremely effective at deep cleaning the pores as well as the least harmful to the condition of your skin barrier. Hydrophilic means ‘water loving’ so it is able to be emulsified and washed away with water, and it does not leave an oil film on your skin. At the same time it does not disrupt the natural oil barrier of your skin. Oil is a great way of cleaning the skin because oil attracts dirt and debris in the cleaning process and so clogged pores are more effectively cleared. Hydrophilic oil based cleansers will usually include SAFFLOWER SEED OIL; SUNFLOWER SEED OIL; SESAME OIL; or OLIVE OIL in the ingredients list.
Glycolic and/or Salicylic Cleansers. This is marketing spin at its best – where cosmetic companies endeavor to make consumers believe that these cleansers work the best on problem/oily skin or aging skin. Both of these ingredients have to be in an acid base to work and they have to be at a lower pH than the skin. In a cleanser, as soon as you add water, the Glycolic or Salicylic acids is neutralized and the potential effect is negated. The only cleansing system that can co-exist with these ingredients in an acid base is Sodium Lauryl Sulfate. So now you have multiple ingredients that are impacting, and potentially weakening, the skins barrier! I do not agree with this type of cleanser for everyday use. If appropriate I will recommend Glycolic and other Alpha Hydroxy Acids like Lactic, Malic and Citric acids, to be used after your cleansing routine, on a dry skin, in order to be effective. Likewise with Salicylic Acid (aka Beta Hydroxy Acid).
Benzoyl Peroxide cleansers. Firstly I am not a fan of benzoyl peroxide because peroxide-anything is a potential free radical in the skin, and for those of us who want to slow the visible signs of aging, free radicals are the last thing we want to encourage… Secondly, benzoyl peroxide used in a cleanser has the same useless effect when water is added and the ingredient is washed off the skin. The scientific studies show that benzoyl peroxide is effective in killing bacteria (P.Acne) which are responsible for worsening an acneic condition. However, through newer cosmetic technology, there are many other cosmetic methods and ingredients that can do the same thing as benzoyl peroxide, without the severe effect on the skin, so I do not recommend that any of my clients go down the benzoyl peroxide path.
Can cleansers wash out hair dye? eye brow and eye lash tints? Yes, if the cleanser contains benzoyl peroxide or glycolic acid, in a Sodium Lauryl Sulfate (SLS) base. These are hash ingredients that will be more acidic than the hair and thus start leaching out the added dye color where the cleanser commonly comes in contact with the hair in question.
Products you can use to safely cleanse your skin:
Hydrophilic Oil based Cleanser:
Dr Schwab Sensitive Skin Cleanser can be used for all skin types, but ideal for sensitive and rosacea skins, 6.8oz $33. Free shipping. Instructions for use (also on video ‘The correct way to use a gentle cleanser’):
Do not wet your face or hands
Use your fingertips to move the cleanser (the quantity is about the size of a quarter) in circular movements on your skin.
After about 30 seconds of this action the product will feel ‘sticky or tacky’ on your skin. At this point wet your fingers with cool water and continue circular motions with your fingertips.
After a further 30 seconds the product will once again feel ‘sticky or tacky’ on the skin and you will once again wet the fingers with cool water and continue the circular motions on your skin.
After a further 30 seconds, repeat. You should get a tactile feeling of the skin of your fingers on the skin of your face – this means that there is no product separating the skin of your fingers and face.
At this point splash the face with cool water.
Pat dry.
Your skin will feel soft, moist and clean. NO SQUEAKY CLEAN FEELING. NO TIGHTNESS. Your natural moisturizer will be intact. It will feel completely unlike the way detergent cleansers (99% of cleansers on the market) will leave your skin. Detergent cleansers leave your skin in a totally unnatural state after stripping off your natural moisturizer. This cleanser is the best way to deep clean the skin – detergent cleansers will never deep clean dirt and debris out of the pores as effectively as a hydrophilic oil based cleanser.
This cleanser will not foam.
Do NOT use warm or hot water with this cleanser.
Gentle Yucca based Cleanser:
Ultra Gentle Cleansing Lotion with yucca for all skin types. Ideal for sensitive and rosacea skins, 4.5oz $18. Free shipping.
1. Cleansing instructions are the same as for the Dr Schwab cleanser above.
Come and see us for a skin consultation and facial treatment. See treatment details at www.blueturtlespa.com.
This entry was posted in Cleansers, Skin Care on March 24, 2011 by Galen.
The future of hair colourants could include preventing our hair turning grey
Leave a reply
Technological progress may be fast-paced in many fields, but one mundane area has been almost left in the doldrums for the last 150 years: The basic technology for permanently coloring hair. That’s the conclusion of an analysis of almost 500 articles and patents on the chemistry of permanent hair dyeing, which foresees much more innovation in the years ahead, including longer lasting, more-natural-looking dyes and gene therapy to reverse the gray. The article appears in ACS’s journal Chemical Reviews.
Gene therapy will be a multi-billion dollar industry – and seeing as Genetically Modified Organism (GMO) and Genetically Engineered (GE) based crops proliferate in main stream food production, completely supported by the majority in congress (whose main concern is to ensure the profitability of corporate giants like Monsanto as well as the cheapness of food through unhealthy fast food giants like McDonalds), our future will be filled with genetically modified all sorts of things….maybe including you or your children….
As they say in the article…the aging generations do not want to accept the fact that aging happens on this planet – whether we like it or not. Protecting your skin and body from rapid aging through healthy, organic food consumption and mineral based sunscreen protection makes absolute sense…everything else is driven by money…and fear.
This entry was posted in Uncategorized on March 16, 2011 by Galen.
Post navigation
← Older posts
Search
Search for:
Real skin care links
Skin Care TV Channel
Sensitive Skin Clinic Shop
Blue Turtle Spa Shop
Blue Turtle Spa Website
Categories
Acne (56)
Aging Skin (117)
Animal Cruelty Free Skin Care (49)
Antioxidants (26)
Cleansers (22)
Eye Treatments (5)
Facial Exfoliators (22)
Facials (4)
Medical Treatments (41)
Moisturizers (26)
Nutrition (3)
Peels (10)
Rosacea (32)
Sensitive Skin (70)
Skin Care (225)
Skin Conditions (65)
Specials (14)
Sun Damaged Skin (69)
Sunscreens (65)
Treatments and Serums (87)
Uncategorized (7)
Recent Posts
Sensitive skin with acne – solutions are available November 15, 2016
Acne prone sensitive skin – help with skin care solutions November 8, 2016
Sensitive skin, allergies, what kind of skin care is needed? November 7, 2016
Moisturize always or never, for sensitive skin? November 6, 2016
International orders for USA Blue Turtle Spa skin care products October 11, 2016
A minority of people prefer skin care facts to marketing hype October 10, 2016
Q4 2015 Newsletter and update December 5, 2015
A guide to choosing an esthetician December 2, 2015
Quarterly newsletter with limited duration $ savings and special offers September 23, 2015
Dangerous ingredients in toothpaste and personal care products that detractors love to sell August 23, 2015
Reverse or reduce damage and hyperpigmentation from laser treatments August 22, 2015
Did your Summer skin look this bad? August 21, 2015
The best sequence of skin care applications July 15, 2015
What heart disease and aging skin have in common July 14, 2015
Choosing the right sunscreen June 23, 2015
Q2 newsletter with promotional offers May 1, 2015
Who is seducing you right now? April 14, 2015
Using Vitamin C and Decircle + Firm to rejuvenate the skin on your hands April 12, 2015
Food Babe, Science Babe, Angry Babes dueling blogs, who’s right or wrong? April 11, 2015
Making something good out of a bad Yelp review April 1, 2015
Archives
November 2016 (4)
October 2016 (2)
December 2015 (2)
September 2015 (1)
August 2015 (3)
July 2015 (2)
June 2015 (1)
May 2015 (1)
April 2015 (4)
March 2015 (4)
February 2015 (9)
January 2015 (2)
December 2014 (7)
September 2014 (2)
August 2014 (5)
July 2014 (2)
June 2014 (4)
May 2014 (6)
April 2014 (1)
March 2014 (3)
February 2014 (2)
January 2014 (2)
December 2013 (7)
November 2013 (4)
October 2013 (5)
September 2013 (5)
August 2013 (3)
July 2013 (4)
June 2013 (9)
May 2013 (6)
April 2013 (5)
March 2013 (7)
February 2013 (9)
January 2013 (4)
November 2012 (4)
October 2012 (4)
September 2012 (7)
August 2012 (2)
July 2012 (1)
June 2012 (4)
May 2012 (2)
April 2012 (1)
March 2012 (4)
February 2012 (1)
January 2012 (8)
December 2011 (3)
November 2011 (6)
October 2011 (7)
September 2011 (6)
August 2011 (7)
July 2011 (10)
June 2011 (5)
May 2011 (14)
April 2011 (15)
March 2011 (14)
February 2011 (21)
January 2011 (20)
December 2010 (10)
November 2010 (13)
October 2010 (7)
September 2010 (22)
Categories
Acne Aging Skin Animal Cruelty Free Skin Care Antioxidants Cleansers Eye Treatments Facial Exfoliators Facials Medical Treatments Moisturizers Nutrition Peels Rosacea Sensitive Skin Skin Care Skin Conditions Specials Sun Damaged Skin Sunscreens Treatments and Serums Uncategorized
Proudly powered by WordPress