Back to Basics Squats
Skip to content
Skip to footer
IV Fitness
live life in shape
Home
Meet Idalis
Train with Idalis
All In 18
Corporate Wellness
Personal Training
Blog
Press
Shop
Contact
Login
Back to Basics Squats
in Back to Basics Series,Fitness Tips
Leave a Comment
May 2, 2017
Idalis Velazquez / May 2, 2017
Whether your goal is to improve your performance or your body composition, squats are essential to reach your fitness goals.
The Squat is a functional and foundational exercise that strengthens and develops your quadricep, gluteus, hamstrings and the muscles of your core, lower legs and even your feet. They are a fantastic exercise that helps you achieve, leaner and stronger legs, a perkier behind and a flatter belly.
Everyone who wants a healthier and stronger body should add Squats into their program. From professional athletes to novice exercisers , the squat is a key element of any strength and fat loss-oriented program. It doesn’t matter what your fitness goals is, squats improve your strength, build lean muscle, improve your performance and increase fat loss – squats are on your side.
I love squats and they are by far one of the very best exercises anyone can do! There are several squatting variations you can into your routine. From Back squats, Front squats, Goblet squats, Pistol Squats, Box Squats and Plyo Squats. But before you add these variations you need to master the most basic and simple Squat Variation – a Bodyweight Squat.
As important as it is to add this movement into our routine, it’s most important to learn how to perform a proper squat. It can be quite challenging to master this fundamental movement.
It’s also important to add that everyone looks different when they squat. We all have different builds, leverage, movement and injury history.
During this week’s video I discuss how to start squatting, the proper squat form and effective ways to fix the squat. Watch the squat tutorial here ! https://youtu.be/WSfFOLfUV_A
There are several reasons why you can’t squat properly, from tight hips, lack of mobility in your ankles, weak glutes and knees and even lack of core strength. Regardless of your fitness levels or mobility restrictions you can still add Squats into your regimen by applying the techniques taught in the video tutorial. I highly recommend mastering the Box Squat, the Bodyweight Squat and the Goblet Squat before adding Back and Front Squats into your workouts.
Here is the proper squat form:
Feet a bit wider than shoulder width
Brace your core
Push your hips back and sit down
Drive your knees out
Knee should align with toes
Ideally Your Hips Break Parallel With Your Knees
Back Should Be Flat – no rounding. Always go as low as you can without rounding your back!
Maintain core and gluteus tension
Drive through your heels to push back to starting position
Contract your glutes at the top
You may have heard that performing full squats (squatting past parallel) is bad for your knees. But in reality full squats are completely safe and not bad for you. But squatting with bad form is bad for you!
When I was an athlete I had various coaches with different approaches towards the squats–one would not let me go beyond parallel but would make me perform extremely heavy squats, and another coach would only want to do squats with lighter to medium loads. They both made me stronger, but I have to say I suffered less knee and back pain when I was performing deep squats!
One mistake I would not want for you to do is to compromise your form for depth. Only squat as low as you can while keeping a natural arch in the back.
Let’s go over common mistakes to avoid during the Squat:
Raising heels off the ground – often a sign of lack of ankle mobility. Instead elevate your heels by using small weight plates.
Rounding the Back
Knees caving in – lack of gluteus activation. Wrap a mini band around the knees to help you activate your glutes and push your knees outwards.
Leaning forward – add Goblet Squats
Not engaging your core muscles – your core muscles are essential in stabilizing your spine during your squats.
Loading the movement pattern before mastering the basics – Master the box squat and bodyweight squat before adding weights.
Other mistakes:
Performing squat jumps. Pliometrics are a progression to a proper squat. I do not recommend adding squat jumps (unless you do box squat jumps after mastering the weighted box squats) until you can perform 15 proper Goblet Squats.
Before adding explosive movements, it’s very important to master the basics and have stronger and healthier joints.
I will be sharing more helpful tips during this Back-to-Basics series that will help you improve your squats. From mobility exercises and stretches to help you improve your squats and squat variations, to help you get one step closer to your fitness goals and getting sustainable results.
Remember to watch the full video tutorial here! https://youtu.be/WSfFOLfUV_A .
All my best,
Idalis
Subscribe To Our Fitness & Lifestyle Tips
Name E-Mail Address
Reader Interactions
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Yes, please add me to your mailing list.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Footer
Recent Posts
Let’s Always Greet Each Other With a Smile!
Improve your Kettlebell Swing
Super Smoothies
8 Consejos Para Un Verano Fit
Summer Shape up Tips
Latest Tweets
Tweets by @ivfitness
Also Look For Us Here
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
YouTube
Copyright © 2019 · IV Fitness · Terms & Conditions
site by RELOAD Studio