HIV/AIDS - Myth versus Reality
MedicineNet
SYMPTOM CHECKER
Disease & Conditions
Conditions A-Z
Procedures A-Z
Allergies
Alzheimer's
Arthritis
Asthma
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Cholesterol
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Eyesight
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Lung Conditions
Menopause
Men's Health
Mental Health
Migraine
Neurology
Oral Health
Pregnancy
Senior Health
Sexual Health
Skin Problems
Sleep
Thyroid
Travel Health
Women's Health
Gastroenterology
Hemorrhoids
Diabetes
Diabetes (Type 1 and Type 2)
Teen Health
Bullying
Dermatology
Jock Itch
Drugs & Supplements
Medications
Supplements and Vitamins
ADHD
Vyvanse vs. Strattera
Sleep Disorder
Benzodiazepines
Depression
Zoloft
Health & Living
Diet & Weight Management
Exercise & Fitness
Nutrition, Food & Recipes
Prevention & Wellness
Digestive Problems
Low Fiber Diet
Fitness, Exercise, Sports
Aerobic Exercise
Digestive Problems
Probiotics
Media
All
Slideshows
Adult Skin Conditions
Common Eye Problems and Infections
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
All
Quizzes
Diet and Nutrition Quiz
Heart Disease Quiz
Kidney Disease Quiz
All
Images
Genital Warts
Scabies
Alopecia Areata
MedTerms Dictionary
Slideshows
Quizzes
Images
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Advertising Policy
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
home/hiv center/ hiv a-z list/ hiv/aids - myth versus reality article
HIV/AIDS - Myth versus Reality
Myth: HIV or AIDS can be cured
Reality: To date, there is no cure for HIV or AIDS and there are no vaccines to prevent HIV infection.
Myth: HIV/AIDS is a gay disease.
Reality: Anyone can be susceptible to HIV/AIDS, regardless of their sexual orientation. Everyone is at risk of getting HIV from blood-to-blood contact, sharing needles or unsafe sex. Worldwide, HIV is spread most often through heterosexual contact.
Myth: You can get HIV from breathing the air around an HIV-infected person or from hugging or holding hands with an HIV-infected person.
Reality: HIV cannot be transmitted through...
toilet seats or door-knob handles.
touching, hugging, holding hands, or cheek kissing with an HIV-infected person.
sharing eating utensils with an HIV-infected person.
mosquito bites.
HIV is transmitted through contact with an HIV-positive person's infected body fluids, such as semen, pre-ejaculate fluid, vaginal fluids, blood, or breast milk. HIV can also be transmitted through needles contaminated with HIV-infected blood, including needles used for injecting drugs, tattooing or body piercing.
Myth: I can get HIV by sharing exercise equipment or playing sports with an HIV-positive person.
Reality: Contact with sweat or tears has never been shown to result in transmission of HIV.
Myth: You can get HIV by kissing an HIV-infected person.
Reality: Casual contact through closed-mouth or "social" kissing is not a risk for transmission of HIV. Because of the theoretical potential for contact with blood during "French" or open-mouthed kissing, the CDC recommends against engaging in this activity with an infected person. However, no cases of AIDS have been attributed to any kind of kissing.
Myth: You cannot get HIV if you are using birth control methods like diaphragms, cervical caps, sponges, spermicides, DepoProvera, Norplant, or the Pill.
Reality: These birth control methods do not prevent the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases (STD) such as HIV. They only aim to prevent pregnancy. The surest way to prevent both pregnancy and an STD is through abstinence. One way people who are sexually active may prevent pregnancy and STD infection is to use a condom in combination with another form of birth control, such as a diaphragm, cervical cap, sponge, spermicide, DepoProvera, Norplant, or the Pill. Birth control products containing the spermicide nonoxynol-9 (found in most contraceptive creams, gels, suppositories, foams, films and sponges) help to prevent pregnancy but may increase the risk of HIV.
Myth: I can't have more than one sexually transmitted disease (STD) at a time.
Reality: A person can be infected with more than one STD. A person with an untreated STD may also be 6-10 times more likely to pass on or acquire HIV during sex. Risk for infection increases 10 to 300-fold in the presence of a genital ulcer, such as occurs in syphilis or genital herpes.
Myth: There is no such thing as safer sex.
Reality: Safer sex is sexual activity without penetration, or sex with a latex condom or a latex barrier (in the case of oral sex). Although safer sex can substantially reduce the sexual transmission of an STD like HIV, sexual abstinence is the surest way to prevent the sexual transmission of an STD, including HIV.
Myth: Since I only have oral sex, I'm not at risk for HIV/AIDS.
Reality: You can get HIV by having oral sex with a man or a woman. That is why it is important to use a latex barrier during oral, vaginal, or anal sex.
Myth: I would know if a loved one or I had HIV.
Reality: A person with HIV may not show any symptoms for up to 10 years. Since HIV affects each person differently, many people with HIV can look and feel healthy for years. The only sure way to know is to get tested.
Myth: Getting tested for HIV is pointless.
Reality: Knowing if you are HIV-positive will allow you to seek early treatment that can help you stay healthy longer and enable you not to pass on the virus to someone else. Regardless of your HIV status, you can learn how to prevent further infection from HIV and other STDs through counseling offered at many HIV testing centers.
Myth: When you're on HIV therapy you can't transmit the virus to anyone else.
Reality: Antiretroviral drugs don't keep you from passing the virus to others. Therapy can keep the viral load down to undetectable levels, but HIV is still present in the body and can still be transmitted to others.
For more, please visit the MedicineNet.com Human Immunodeficiency Virus Center.
Source: American Association of World Health
(http://www.aawhworldhealth.org/)
Health Solutions From Our Sponsors
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Last Editorial Review: 8/8/2002
Featured Slideshows
Type 2 DiabetesCan you reverse type 2 diabetes?
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)What's the difference between RA and arthritis?
Deep Vein ThrombosisHow to know if you have a blood clot in your leg
Recognize These Skin Conditions?
What Bit Me?
What is Crohn's Disease?
Strep Throat vs. Sore Throat
Warning Signs of Type 2 Diabetes
19 Eye Conditions You Need to Know
Why Do I Pee So Often?
What Can Turmeric Do for You?
Low-T: A Normal Part of Aging?
Is It an STD?
Who's at Risk for Hepatitis C?
Breast Cancer: What Happens Next
Schizophrenia and Mental Health
Early Signs of Thyroid Problems
17 Worst Belly Fat Foods
How to Get Rid of Hemorrhoids
Living With AFib
See a Baby Develop in the Womb
What is Deep Vein Thrombosis?
Put an End to Nail Fungus
Ringworm Means I’ve Got Worms?
How Do You Get Scabies?
13 Baking Soda Uses for Your Body
Coping With IBS
Telltale Signs of Child ADHD
The Stigma of Psoriasis
Cancer Symptoms Not to Ignore
What Feet Say About Your Health
Most Expensive Medical Conditions
Early Signs of Heart Disease
Clues You Could Have MS
How to Lower Your Cholesterol
Which Fruits Have the Most Sugar?
14 Healthy Foods on a Budget
ADHD in Adults
What Poop Type and Color Mean
MedicineNet
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
Health Categories
Medical Slideshows
Diseases & Conditions
Symptoms & Signs
Procedures & Tests
Medications
Healthy Living
Vitamins & Supplements
Image Collection
Quizzes
MedTerms Dictionary
Pet Health
Popular Health Centers
Allergies
Arthritis
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Men's Health
Mental Health
Neurology
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin
Thyroid
Women's Health
More...
MedicineNet
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Site Map
WebMD Corporate
WebMD
WebMDRx
Medscape
Medscape Reference
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth