Urine Therapy | Digital Naturopath
Digital Naturopath Navigation
Home
Treatments
Conditions and Diseases
Naturopath Directory
Blog
About Us
Search
Home
Treatments
Conditions and Diseases
Naturopath Directory
Blog
About Us
Search
Urine Therapy
Urine therapy – the drinking and external application of one’s own urine as a healing agent – is an ancient Eastern tradition, claimed by devotees to be the oldest of natural remedies. A former prime minister of India, Morarji Desai, drank a glassful of his own urine every day – and lived to reach his century!
Today, an increasing number of doctors, health practitioners and journalists are endorsing urine therapy as an effective do-it-yourself home treatment. Drinking one’s own urine, also called uropathy, appears to stimulate the immune system and has been able to cure seemingly incurable disease states. Urine contains compounds that are very specific to the individual from which it comes. It is antibacterial, antifungal, antiviral, antineoplastic, anticonvulsive, and antispasmodic. It is totally non-toxic.
The use of prescription drugs during urine therapy is discouraged. There is the remote possibility of overdosing on a particular medication by recycling the portion of it discharged in the urine. With your doctor’s approval, if you decide to discontinue any medication, it may be important to reduce the amount gradually rather than stopping suddenly. You may be able to practice urine therapy with small quantities of medicine instead of a complete discontinuation. You do not need to discontinue the use of hormones such as thyroid or the sex hormones. If you have a urinary tract infection, it is best to wait until it is resolved before using urine therapy.
For health maintenance, urine can be drunken once or twice a day. If you can only manage to drink it once a day, morning is best. If you are suffering from some disease, then drink it several times a day including the first urine of the day.
Urine is said to be best the first thing in the morning because it contains hormones secreted during the night. Collect your mid-stream urine. Start with perhaps a 1/4 cup of urine in the beginning. If you find it difficult to drink warm, plug your nose and hold it closed for a while after drinking. The urine can also be chilled, but holding your nose is usually all it takes to get the job done. Rinse the mouth with water afterwards and remember, the longer your nose is plugged the better. It may even be worthwhile using a nose plug so both hands are free while waiting for any residual taste and odor to disappear. When you get used to drinking it, you may increase the quantity of urine up to one cup.
Other methods of use have been proposed which include using urine directly in smaller amounts like 1 – 10 drop or making a low potency homeopathic preparation with only a drop or so. Some encourage diluting the urine if necessary but others discourage that practice. Also, please remember to drink plenty of water during this time.
The Golden Fountain by Coen van der Kroon, is available and probably the most complete book to date on urine therapy.
Martha Christy is a medical research writer and natural health consultant who details her own experiences and research in Your Own Perfect Medicine..
Although controversial, one thing that everyone agrees upon about urine therapy is that it’s absolutely free!
Urine Therapy can help with the following
Allergy
Allergy / Intolerance to Foods (Hidden)
Allergies Indoor
Allergic Rhinitis / Hay Fever
Autoimmune
Autoimmune Tendency
Ulcerative Colitis
Crohn's Disease
Multiple Sclerosis / Risk
Lupus, SLE (Systemic Lupus Erythromatosis) / Risk
Digestion
Digestive Enzyme Need
Hormones
Low Adrenal Function / Adrenal Insufficiency
Infections
Colds and Influenza
The frequency of colds and flu may be reduced by the use of urine therapy.
Herpes I
STD Herpes II
Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
Organ Health
Diabetes Type II
Skin-Hair-Nails
Eczema
Psoriasis
Uro-Genital
Vaginitis/Vaginal Infection
The frequency of yeast infections may decrease with the use of urine therapy.
Key
May do some good
Likely to help
Glossary
Immune System
A complex that protects the body from disease organisms and other foreign bodies. The system includes the humoral immune response and the cell-mediated response. The immune system also protects the body from invasion by making local barriers and inflammation.
Antiviral
Any of a number of herbs, drugs or agents capable of destroying viruses or inhibiting their growth or multiplication until the body is capable of destroying the virus itself. Most antiviral agents are members of the antimetabolite family.
Antispasmodic
Preventing spasms.
Hormones
Chemical substances secreted by a variety of body organs that are carried by the bloodstream and usually influence cells some distance from the source of production. Hormones signal certain enzymes to perform their functions and, in this way, regulate such body functions as blood sugar levels, insulin levels, the menstrual cycle, and growth. These can be prescription, over-the-counter, synthetic or natural agents. Examples include adrenal hormones such as corticosteroids and aldosterone; glucagon, growth hormone, insulin, testosterone, estrogens, progestins, progesterone, DHEA, melatonin, and thyroid hormones such as thyroxine and calcitonin.
Thyroid
Thyroid Gland: An organ with many veins. It is at the front of the neck. It is essential to normal body growth in infancy and childhood. It releases thyroid hormones - iodine-containing compounds that increase the rate of metabolism, affect body temperature, regulate protein, fat, and carbohydrate catabolism in all cells. They keep up growth hormone release, skeletal maturation, and heart rate, force, and output. They promote central nervous system growth, stimulate the making of many enzymes, and are necessary for muscle tone and vigor.
Homeopathy
A system of medicine based on the belief that the cure of disease can be effected by minute doses of substances that, if given to a healthy person in large doses, would produce the same symptoms as are present in the disease being treated. Homeopathy employs natural substances in small doses to stimulate the body's reactive process to remove toxic waste and bring the body back into balance.
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
By using this form you agree with the storage and handling of your data by this website. *
Home
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
© Digital Naturopath 2018
Type and Press “enter” to Search