Home Remedies for Nausea
Follow Us:
Give tips on holistic health.
Home Remedies for Nausea
Nausea is not a disease, but it is actually the way your body communicates with you to tell you about a problem interferring with the normal functioning of the body. Home remedies help a great deal to counter this condition.
Bhakti Satalkar
Before you resort to any of the home remedies, it is important to find out the reason behind the nauseous feeling. There are many factors that induce nausea. Let's learn about the causes first.
Probable Causes
The factors that can trigger nausea are listed here:
Indigestion
Stomach flu
Food poisoning
Pregnancy
Motion sickness and seasickness
Medications for certain ailments
There are some people who are not able to tolerate certain food groups, for example some people are lactose intolerant. This food intolerance can also give rise to nausea.
Some Home Remedies
Nausea can be easily treated with natural remedies some of which can be followed at home.
The simplest of all remedies for nausea is to put ice on the forehead. This will help you calm down and reduce the nauseous feeling.
Eating a small piece of fresh or pickled ginger often subsides nausea. If you do not want to eat a piece of ginger, you can try drinking ginger tea.
Carbonated beverages can be consumed for nausea induced by morning sickness or stomach flu.
In a glass of water, add half a teaspoon of eating soda and drink it immediately.
Mint tea or simply sniffing mint can help you get rid of the nauseous feeling.
Eating peppermint is an excellent nausea home remedy. You can also try using peppermint oil.
Lemon is also one of the best home remedies for nausea. Smelling a cut lemon also works well in case of motion sickness or seasickness. Lemon mixed with warm water also soothes the stomach. The other alternative to this is half a lemon squeezed in water and a pinch of salt added to it.
Apple cider vinegar can be used as a nausea remedy by pregnant women. It can be combined with honey and water and had at bedtime.
Having half a teaspoon of ground cumin seeds helps in alleviating nausea.
Eating a banana before meals aids in alleviating pregnancy-induced nausea, since it is a rich source of fiber.
Natural juices like grapes, etc., can be consumed to deal with this condition.
Consuming a diet rich in fiber also helps in curing nausea.
Boil rosemary leaves in water, add honey to it, and drink this mixture after three minutes of removing it from the stove.
Grind cucumbers, add sugar and water to it, and drink this concoction.
Crackers can be consumed by pregnant women in the morning, since it is an effective home remedy for nausea.
Pregnant women can also consume glucose biscuits as the first thing in the morning to combat morning sickness.
When you cook rice, do not throw away the water. Instead drink the water when it is still warm. The warm rice water soothes the stomach and helps alleviate the nausea.
Wheat germ consumed with warm milk also aids in curing nausea.
Another nausea remedy is Chamomile tea. It also aids in curing nausea.
If you are nauseated due to a hangover from the previous night, you can try miso soup. It will cleanse the body of the harmful substance. You can also add some ginger to the miso soup for added relief.
A bowl of raspberries eaten early in the morning also aids in curing nausea.
Acupressure is also known to aid in curing nausea. So, you can also try some acupressure techniques as well. Avoid junk, oily, and spicy food at all costs, since all of them are possible triggers of nausea. The above-mentioned remedies do help in alleviating nausea by inducing vomiting at least once that can give you relief from the condition. However, do not force yourself too much to vomit as that may also cause discomfort. Visit your doctor if the feeling does not pass.
Disclaimer: This HolisticZine article is for informative purposes only and should not be used as a replacement for expert medical advice.
Share This
Pressure Points For Nausea
Chyawanprash as a Memory Booster
Health Benefits of Chyawanprash
Know How Chyawanprash is Your Immune System's Best Companion
Chyawanprash: The Secret to Healthy Weight Loss
Chyawanprash- The Best Remedy for Cough and Cold
Chyawanprash FAQs Answered
Chyawanprash: An Essential "Supplement" for Yogis
Rose Water Benefits
Neem Oil Benefits
Health Benefits of Turmeric
Himalayan Salt Benefits
Home Remedies for Removing Skin Moles
Chinese Massage Therapy
Red Tea Benefits
Clove Oil Uses
Camphor Uses
Peppermint Tea Benefits
Energy Bracelets - Do They Work?
Itchy Throat Remedy
Epsom Salt Substitutes
Natural Colon Cleansing Recipes
Back Massage Pressure Points
Headache Relief Pressure Points
Upset Stomach Remedies
Natural Cough Suppressant
Home Remedies for Lower Back Pain
Cherry Juice Benefits
Stomach Gas Remedies
Facts on Honey and Cinnamon
Sea Salt Benefits
Eyelid Twitching Remedies
©2019. All rights reserved.
About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service