Natural Ways to Lower Cholesterol - Ways To Natural Ways to Lower Cholesterol - Ways To
Ways To
Natural Ways to Lower Cholesterol
Cholesterol is a fat-like waxy substance that is required in normal quantities for the body to function properly. However, when there is an excess of cholesterol, it can stick to the arteries and cause considerable damage to the body. It could even lead to heart diseases. Cholesterol levels tend to go up as a person ages but it could also be caused due to other reasons such as familial history, being overweight, obesity or the excessive consumption of fatty foods. An increase in the levels of cholesterol does not have any overt symptoms. It can be detected through a blood test. In order to avoid serious health problems, it is extremely vital to control the cholesterol levels in our body. The following pointers will suggest some effective and natural ways to combat high cholesterol levels.
Ways to Lower Cholesterol
The following are some of the ways, using which you can lower the cholesterol levels in a person’s body.
Regular Exercise
A well-planned exercise routine has been proven to really help to lower high levels of cholesterol. Regular exercise will enable the person to shed excess weight which is one of the causes of an increased level in cholesterol. To exercise regularly is an extremely healthy and constructive resolve and it is bound to yield positive results. It will not only help to lower high cholesterol levels but it will also enable one to combat other risks such as diabetes and heart diseases.
Lose Weight
When a person has excess weight, the body’s metabolism gets affected adversely and it needs to fight more cholesterol and fats in the body. Lose weight in a steady and natural way in order to lower your cholesterol and improve your health. Coupled with a regular exercise routine, having a healthy, balanced diet will pave the way to effective reduction of weight. This will aid in lessening the chances of having high blood pressure and diabetes.
Avoid Trans Fats
Trans fats are present in foods such as cookies, fried foods, pastries and other such fatty foods. To lower your cholesterol in a natural way, avoid eating these kinds of foods in order to lessen your fat and calories intake.
Monosaturated Fats
Include monosaturated fats in your diet as this helps to lower LDL (low-density lipoprotein) or bad cholesterol and also helps to keep the triglyceride numbers under check. Nuts, olive oil and avocado are a few of the foods that come under monosaturated fats. However, always keep the calorific content in mind and do not go overboard with regard to your calorie consumption.
Fight Stress
With stress and anxiety always present in your life, chemicals are constantly released in your body which can cause your blood pressure to rise and lessen the flow of blood towards the heart. Make a conscious effort to fight stress and employ natural ways such as yoga, breathing exercises, meditation and so on to keep calm and help you relax.
Have a Pet
Having a pet and taking care of it is also a natural way to reduce stress. Interestingly, research has shown that having a pet really helps to lower one’s cholesterol and blood pressure, overcome depression and lessen the chances of dying due to heart attack and other illnesses.
Foods to Avoid
Keep away from eggs, red meat and whole Milk. These are foods that have high cholesterol content and must be avoided as much as possible. Try replacing them with foods that are healthy and low in cholesterol content.
Including Soluble Fiber in Diet
Including foods that are rich in soluble fiber is said to help in lowering bad cholesterol. These foods can suck up the cholesterol and binds fat. So, it is advisable to increase the consumption of bran products, prunes, beans, oatmeal, berries and so on.
Garlic, Apples and Blueberries
These are foods that are really tasty and can be mixed easily with your favorite homemade recipes. Including them in meals regularly will create a significant effect on lowering the cholesterol levels in a person’s body.
Omega-3 Fatty Acids
Foods that are rich in Omega-3 fatty acids are herring and salmon fish, almonds and walnuts, flaxseed oil and dried cloves. Most of these foods are also rich in vitamins and antioxidants. Stock your storage with these foods because they do help to lower your cholesterol in a natural way.
Plant Stanols
Plant stanols can be found naturally in plants and they have been discovered to be a good source to block the absorption of consumed cholesterol. As a consequence of including them, a person can control cholesterol consumption and can have a positive impact on the LDL levels.
The above mentioned ways are some natural options that can be implemented easily to fight cholesterol levels in the body. They will certainly aid in combating this health issue.
Tweet
Pin It
Follow @Ways_to
Recent Ways To
Ways to Impress Girls
Creative Ways to Say Thank You
Easy Ways to Lose Weight
Ways to Stop a Foreclosure
Easy Ways to Get Great Abs
Ways to Collect Fingerprints
Ways to Get on Myspace at School
Ways to Avoid Plagiarism
Ways to Workout at Home
Ways to Lower Cholesterol
Ways to Lace Etnies
Ways to Prepare for a Job Interview
Ways to Break Up with Your Boyfriend
Ways to Show a Girlfriend You Love Her
Ways to Prevent Cancer
Copyright © 2019 Ways To
Home|
Site Map|
Privacy Policy|
Contact Us|