DOCTOR DISPUTES EFFECT OF VITAMIN C ON COLDS - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version
The New York Times
Archives|DOCTOR DISPUTES EFFECT OF VITAMIN C ON COLDS
Search
Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings
Close search
Site Search Navigation
Search NYTimes.com
Clear this text input
Go
https://nyti.ms/29BotHq
Loading...
See next articles
See previous articles
Site Navigation
Site Mobile Navigation
Advertisement
Archives | 1986
DOCTOR DISPUTES EFFECT OF VITAMIN C ON COLDS
UPI SEPT. 11, 1986
Continue reading the main story Share This Page
Continue reading the main story
About the Archive
This is a digitized version of an article from The Times’s print archive, before the start of online publication in 1996. To preserve these articles as they originally appeared, The Times does not alter, edit or update them.
Occasionally the digitization process introduces transcription errors or other problems. Please send reports of such problems to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.
September 11, 1986, Page 00014 The New York Times Archives
Vitamin C appears to have ''no worthwhile'' value for preventing the common cold and may have only a small therapeutic effect in treating the sniffles, sneezing and other symptoms, an Australian researcher said today.
The researcher, Dr. A. Stewart Truswell of the University of Sydney, reported in a letter to The New England Journal of Medicine that he reviewed 27 studies on the value of vitamin C in preventing and treating the common cold. ''It is now fairly clear that for preventing common colds, vitamin C has no worthwhile effect,'' he said.
But Linus Pauling, a two-time Nobel prize winner who strongly advocates vitamin C to prevent and treat colds, disputed Dr. Truswell's conclusions. Mr. Pauling said numerous reliable studies support his contention.
''If you take a reasonable amount of vitamin C regularly, the incidence of the common cold goes down. If you get a cold and start immediately, as soon as you start sneezing and snifling, the cold just doesn't get going,'' Mr. Pauling said in a telephone interview from the Linus Pauling Institute of Science and Medicine at Palo Alto, Calif. ''Physicians are just unwilling to admit that vitamins have a value,'' he added.
Dr. Truswell said vitamin C, or ascorbic acid, was no better than a dummy drug at preventing colds in 15 studies involving a total of 9,169 subjects in various settings in six countries. Seven studies involving a total of 3,209 subjects reported some beneficial effect. But one study was ''small and not well designed'' and in another the preventive effect was observed only in boys, Dr. Truswell said.
Researchers who conducted three other studies ''thought the preventive effect unimpressive'' and two who repeated their studies ''obtained negative results,'' he said. The only study to produce a significant decrease in the number of colds was too short, Dr. Truswell said. And all five studies conducted to test vitamin C's therapeutic value had ''negative results,'' he said.
A version of this article appears in print on September 11, 1986, on Page C00014 of the National edition with the headline: DOCTOR DISPUTES EFFECT OF VITAMIN C ON COLDS. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe
Continue reading the main story
What's Next
Loading...
Go to Home Page »
Site Index The New York Times
Site Index Navigation
News
World
U.S.
Politics
N.Y.
Business
Tech
Science
Health
Sports
Education
Obituaries
Today's Paper
Corrections
Opinion
Today's Opinion
Op-Ed Columnists
Editorials
Op-Ed Contributors
Letters
Sunday Review
Video: Opinion
Arts
Today's Arts
Art & Design
Books
Dance
Movies
Music
N.Y.C. Events Guide
Television
Theater
Video: Arts
Living
Automobiles
Crossword
Food
Education
Fashion & Style
Health
Jobs
Magazine
N.Y.C. Events Guide
Real Estate
T Magazine
Travel
Weddings & Celebrations
Listings & More
Reader Center
Classifieds
Tools & Services
N.Y.C. Events Guide
Multimedia
Photography
Video
NYT Store
Times Journeys
Subscribe
Manage My Account
NYTCo
Subscribe
Subscribe
Home Delivery
Digital Subscriptions
Crossword
Email Newsletters
Gift Subscriptions
Group Subscriptions
Education Rate
Mobile Applications
Replica Edition
Site Information Navigation
© 2019 The New York Times Company
Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Site Information Navigation
Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions