Tea Bags Can Alleviate Ailments, Help Around The House
< Prev Next >
DMCA
Share
Tea Bags Can Alleviate Ailments, Help Around The House
Dentist Shows Unique New Way To Use Tea Bags - This Technique Helps Alleviate Pain All Over
by Kristin Danley 1/17/2017
Whether you enjoy tea every morning, or just on the occasionally chilly night, you might want to think twice before tossing your old bag. These seemingly useless pieces of trash might actually be the treasure you have been waiting for.
Having wisdom teeth surgically removed or teeth pulled can be painful, but one dentist recommends an all-natural home remedy to help stymie the bleeding that accompanies this type of dental work. In fact, this particular all-natural item can be used for a myriad of things for your health and around the home.
The solution to curb the bleeding after dental surgery or extractions actually happens to make a delicious beverage that's also great for fighting colds. It's tea. Black tea is comprised of tannins, which are hemostatic, meaning they help blood clot. Black tea's tannins also are an astringent, which helps body tissues and blood vessels narrow and slow bleeding. Because tannins are somewhat antiseptic, they're great for helping battle bacteria that can form in the mouth after dental surgery or extraction.
Dr. Nazanin Shahmolky suggests that dental patients steep a black tea bag in boiling water for a few minutes, then remove and let it cool. Once it's cooled down a bit, apply it to the surgical site or extraction area and leave it for five minutes.
Screenshot via YouTube
Tea bags also have other great uses for ailments. They can come in handy around the house, too. Even your dog can benefit from a bag of tea.
Spare the Sunburn -- Tea leaves harbor helpful healing properties. If you are suffering from a sunburn, press a black tea bag to your skin. It also helps with minor burns by reducing inflammation.
Protect Your Pooch -- You've probably heard the warnings that the chemicals in snow melt and ice melt applied to sidewalks and outdoor steps can harm your dog's feet. Dogs naturally begin chewing on their paws if they've been irritated by these chemicals. So instead, hold a moist tea bag to their feet twice a day for one minute. The tea leaves' healing abilities will help the skin on the pads regrow.
Do Away With Dandruff -- Believe it or not, tea can fight a dry scalp. Steep tea for one hour, then take it to the shower with you. Wash your hair as usual, then rinse your hair with the tea. Add in a scalp massage and your hair will be dandruff-free and extra shiny!
Ward Off Warts -- Green tea bags can help reduce the size of warts. The antioxidants found in green tea are what helps. Just place the tea bag on the wart, swapping it out with a new one every 15 minutes.
Open Up Eyes -- Because of its astringent characteristics that help skin contract, tea bags are great for reducing eye puffiness. Just place one warm, wet teabag on your closed eyes for 20 minutes and it will help the swelling go down and your eyes appear normal again.
Fight Fridge Odor - While baking soda helps deodorize a refrigerator, so can tea. It's also a great way to reuse tea bags. Collect a few used tea bags, place them in an open container and set it inside the fridge. It will help reduce and remove odors.
ToshiyukiIMAI
Stinky Shoes No More -- Tea bags also help eliminate odiferous shoes. Freshen them up by sticking a tea bag in each shoe. It helps soak up any lingering moisture and prevent smells.
Reduce Rust -- Well-used pots and pans can rust faster from excessive use, but black tea bags can help prevent this from happening. The tannins in black tea actually block metals from oxidizing. Rub a used, damp tea bag on your cookware after it's been washed and it'll look good as new.
Tenderize Meat -- Those tannins you keep hearing about also tenderize meat and give it great flavor. Brew a batch of your favorite tea, soak your meat in it overnight in the refrigerator, then pop it in the oven or on the grill. Yum!
Keep Carpets Cleaner -- If your carpeting or rugs have a lingering odor, simply sprinkle dried tea bag leaves across the surface. Allow it to sit for 15 to 20 minutes, then vacuum. The tea bag's content should have absorbed the smell. Be sure not to use wet leaves, because those can stain your carpet or rug.
Flower Power -- Tannins lower the pH levels in soil, so place tea bags in your potted plants or around the garden to help prevent fungal development. Wedge it at the root of the plants. You'll be surprised at how well it works!
Wipe Away Water Marks -- If your bathroom mirror is streaked, use a tea bag to help clean it. Just soak a cloth in brewed tea bags, then start wiping it down. The tea bags will help clear up your mirror.
Cleaner Cookware -- If your glass baking dishes and other dinnerware are greasy, soak them in a sink full of warm water and a few used tea bags. Let them sit overnight and in the morning, the grease and gunk will be gone, making it easier to wash them clean.
If you're having dental work done soon or know of someone who is, give the tea bag treatment a try. If you are a regular tea drinker, test drive one of these home remedies or household tricks and see for yourself just how great they work.
Sources: Delish, CureJoy, Adelaide Dental Facebook Image: The Savings Experiment/Youtube
Please
Share on Facebook
Thank You!
Share on Facebook
Check Out More From Our Site Below
If You Ever Get Locked Out Of Your Car, This 30 Second Trick Is So Easy
diy by Cailyn Finkel
She Didn't Think Her Dishwasher Was Dirty, Then Saw How It Looked After She Cleaned It
by Cailyn Finkel
Your Favorite T-Shirt Get A Hole? This Easy No-Sew Trick Makes It Brand New Again
by Cailyn Finkel
The Secret Method To Cleaning Inside Of Windshield So There Are No Streaks
by Cailyn Finkel
1k
shares
Family Thinks Mom's Weird For Collecting Old Laundry Baskets Discovers Her Real Motive
by Marilyn Caylor
3k
shares
She Sticks Rods Through A Plastic Storage Bin, Shows Clever New Ways To Stay Organized
by Marilyn Caylor
3k
shares
Man Sprays Cotton Ball With WD-40 And Uses On Car To Save Hundreds In Costly Repair
by InfiniteDIY Staff
2k
shares
Simple 3 Ingredient Solution Magically Cleans Even The Dirtiest Of Tubs
by Cailyn Finkel
© 2019 | Privacy Policy | DMCA | Terms of Service