Cancer Predisposition NGS Panel | EasyDNA Ireland
Request a Callback·
Worldwide Offices·
+353 (1) 685 6929
≡
Home
DNA Tests
Paternity Tests
Home Paternity Testing
Legal DNA Testing
Non-Invasive Prenatal Paternity Test
Immigration DNA Test
Discreet Test
Relationship Tests
Sibling Test
Aunt & Uncle Test
Grandparentage Test
Twins Test
MtDNA test
Y Chromosome Test
Maternity Test
Genetic Reconstruction Test
Prenatal Tests
Prenatal Paternity Test
Baby Gender Test
Prenatal Screening for Chromosomal Abnormalities
Prenatal Combo Package
DNA Ancestry Test
GPS Origins™
Ancestral Origins™
Maternal Lineage Test
Paternal Lineage Test
Clinical Tests
Genetic Predisposition Test
Cancer Predisposition Panel
Celiac Disease Genetic Testing
Lactose intolerance DNA test
Health & Wellbeing Tests
SkinCareDNA Test
Healthy Weight DNA Test
Nutrifit Health and Fitness DNA test
‘Karmagenes’ Personality DNA Test
Drug Tests
Hair Drug Testing
Animal Tests
Dog DNA Tests
DNA My Dog Breed Test
Dog Allergy Test
Dog Genetic Age Test
Dog Parentage Test
Dog Inherited Disease Testing
Premium Dog Testing Package
Wisdom Panel Dog Breed Test
Motherless Dog Parentage Test
Horse DNA Tests
Horse Parentage Testing
Horse DNA profile
Feline PKD Test
Avian DNA Sexing
Other Tests
Infidelity Testing
Semen Detection Testing
DNA Profiles
DNA Banking Service
Disaster Victim Identification
Genetic Counselling Services
About Us
Accreditation
Media & Press
Company News
Job Opportunities
Testimonials
Award in Customer Service – WhatClinic
Charity Work
Resources
Kits in Different Locations
Frequent Questions
Payment Options
Collecting Samples
Create Your Own Kit
Understanding Results
Multimedia
Knowledge Base
Contact Us
Worldwide Offices
Order now
Home
DNA Tests
About Us
Resources
Contact Us
Request Callback
Order Now
Clinical Tests
Cancer Predisposition Panel
€299	Order now
Not all cancers are hereditary but several of the most common cancers develop as a result of genetic mutations inherited from parents. Individuals born with these DNA abnormalities have a higher risk of developing certain types of cancer than others. Knowing your predisposition can help take preventive steps. Take our Cancer Predisposition Panel test to help you discover your personal risk of inherited cancer.
About our test
The Cancer Predisposition Panel test uses Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS) technology to look for mutations in a total of 98 genes associated with 25 hereditary cancers. The analysis will look for those inherited mutations on specific genes which are known to increase a person’s risk of developing a certain type of cancer. It is important to note that inherited mutations can increase your risk of cancer by up to 40 times.
Overall, it is estimated that somewhere between 5-10% of all cancers are hereditary in nature. Early detection is key to successful treatment! The cost of the complete cancer panel test is of €299 and results are ready in 3-4 weeks from the moment the samples are received at the laboratory.
Get tested for 25 different cancers
Blood Bone Breast Central Nervous System Cervix
Endocrine Pancreas Endometrium, Uterine
Esophagus Exocrine Pancreas Head and Neck
Kidneys Large Bowel and Rectum Liver Lung and Pleura Endocrine Glands
Myometrium, Uterine Ovaries Peripheral Nervous System Prostate Gland Skin
Small Intestines Soft Tissue Stomach Thyroid Gland Urinary Tract and Bladder
Who should consider genetic testing for cancer predisposition?
It is highly recommended that you speak to a doctor or genetic counsellor to establish whether you need this test. There are 3 main criteria which should be met in order for genetic predisposition testing for cancer to be recommended:
Individuals with a family history of cancer or a medical history that suggests the possibility of a familial type of cancer.
Having genetic test results that can be meaningful and reliable. This entails having results that can clearly define whether a specific gene, associated with a certain type of cancer, is actually present.
Receiving results that can help inform and guide a person’s medical care.
Sample collection for cancer testing
All we need to establish whether you carry certain genes associated with cancer is a saliva sample which can be collected at home without any medical assistance whatsoever. We will provide our clients with a kit which will contain:
Collection funnel and tube
Preservative Ampoule (2ml.)
Identifier label
Biohazard specimen bag
Consent forms and sample collection instructions
Pre-addressed envelope
As soon as the required volume of liquid saliva is collected and the collection tube is stored accordingly, you can send the sample back to us for testing.
Do not eat, drink, chew gum, smoke, floss or brush teeth 30 minutes prior to saliva collection.
Note: Cancer Predisposition Panel Test requires physician authorization. You can make an appointment with your physician to discuss genetic testing and obtain authorization.
Important
Note: Results for this test must be sent directly to a health care professional such as a genetic counsellor or oncologist. These individuals are highly trained and qualified to help you make sense of the results and interpret them. They can provide you with guidelines and valuable information regarding further tests, support you and describe any known factors that may increase or decrease your chances of developing the cancer/s highlighted in your results.
View the full list of genes tested in the Cancer Predisposition Panel test! Please read our Health and Clinical Terms & Conditions carefully and make sure you understand them before ordering this test.
Why not consult a genetic counsellor about your results?
Our genetic counsellor is ideal if you have any concerns about your DNA test results. They can understand and interpret all aspects of your DNA test results, helping you maximize your own well-being and that of your relative. Genetic counselling is ideal in cases where you opt for a clinical test or health test but you can also consult our counsellor for any other test including parentage testing, prenatal testing and relationship testing. Genetic counselling is available at an additional fee.
FAQs
If I don’t have a predisposition to certain cancer, does that mean I will not get it?
This is actually a common misconception. Not having a hereditary gene which predisposes you to a certain type of cancer does not mean you cannot develop that cancer. Many cancers are due to what we call sporadic gene mutations and are not caused by an inherited gene. Lifestyle factors can play an important role in sporadic cancer (for example exposure to the sun, smoking etc).
Do all blood members in a family inherit a hereditary cancer-predisposing mutation?
No, just because one or more members in a family carry gene mutations, it does not mean that all members of the family will carry that gene.
Should I test children?
This all depends on the type of cancer we are looking for – in cases of cancers that have a high incidence rate in children, cancer testing could be recommended. Most genetic counsellors, however, would generally advise against cancer testing in people under the age of 18. Individuals should be able to make their own choice as to whether they want to carry out such a test. Again, you need to speak to a genetic counsellor or oncologist to determine whether you or anyone in your family should take this test.
Do you offer other genetic tests?
Yes, we offer a Genetic Predisposition health test which looks at your likelihood of developing 35 different diseases over the course of your life. The diseases tested fall into various categories including diseases of old age, autoimmune diseases and cardiovascular diseases.
Clinical Tests
Overview
Lactose Intolerance DNA test
Celiac Disease Genetic Testing
Cancer Predisposition Panel
Genetic Predisposition Test
Need assistance? Request Call Back
Order DNA Test
Chat Live to our
DNA Consultant
Resources
Collecting Your Sample
Understanding Your Results
Genetic Predisposition Test
Celiac Disease Genetic Testing
Lactose Intolerance DNA Test
EasyDNA
DNA Tests
About Us
Resources
Contact Us
Site Map
Policies
Terms and Conditions
Refund Policy
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Business
Business Opportunities
Become an Affiliate
Address
EasyDNA
Kandoy House, 2
Fairview Strand Dublin 3
Ireland
Contacts
Tel: +353 (1) 685 6929
Email: info@easydna.ie
Copyright © 2019 EasyDNA · All Rights Reserved
x
We use cookies to offer you a better browsing experience, analyze site traffic, personalize content, and serve targeted advertisements. Read about how we use cookies and how you can control them by clicking "Cookie Settings." If you continue to use this site, you consent to our use of cookies.
I Agree Cookie Settings