Urinary Tract Infection | Acupuncture School Online | Learning Acupuncture and Moxibustion Courses Online
Home
Acupuncture Points Index
Acupuncture points Index (pinyin name)
Directory of Herbs
About
Partners
News & Events
Acupuncture Courses
Acupuncture Video Course
Auricular Acupuncture Courses Index
Acupuncture Points
Acupuncture Treatment
Acupressure
Acupressure Courses Index
Herbs
Theory
Clinical Reports
Acupuncture Papers
Resources
Videos
App Softwares
E-books
Store
Acupuncture Equipment
Home > Acupuncture Treatment > Urinary Tract Infection
Urinary Tract Infection
admin | September 23, 2012	| 0 Comments | 83 views
What Is Urinary Tract Infection? How Is Urinary Tract Infection Treated? How Does Urinary Tract Infection Develop? Who Gets Urinary Tract Infection? What Causes Urinary Tract Infection? What Things Can Make Urinary Tract Infection Worse?
Urinary Tract Infection
Urinary tract infections are a serious health problem affecting millions of people each year.Infections of the urinary tract are common—only respiratory infections occur more often. In 1997, urinary tract infections (UTIs) accounted for about 8.3 million doctor visits.* Women are especially prone to UTIs for reasons that are poorly understood. One woman in five develops a UTI during her lifetime. UTIs in men are not so common, but they can be very serious when they do occur.*Ambulatory Care Visits to Physician Offices, Hospital Outpatient Departments, and Emergency Departments: United States, 1997. Vital and Health Statistics. Series 13, No. 143. Atlanta, GA: National Center for Health Statistics, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services; November 1999.
The urinary system consists of the kidneys, ureters, bladder, and urethra. The key elements in the system are the kidneys, a pair of purplish-brown organs located below the ribs toward the middle of the back. The kidneys remove excess liquid and wastes from the blood in the form of urine, keep a stable balance of salts and other substances in the blood, and produce a hormone that aids the formation of red blood cells. Narrow tubes called ureters carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder, a triangle-shaped chamber in the lower abdomen. Urine is stored in the bladder and emptied through the urethra.The average adult passes about a quart and a half of urine each day. The amount of urine varies, depending on the fluids and foods a person consumes. The volume formed at night is about half that formed in the daytime.What are the causes of UTI?
Normal urine is sterile. It contains fluids, salts, and waste products, but it is free of bacteria, viruses, and fungi. An infection occurs when microorganisms, usually bacteria from the digestive tract, cling to the opening of the urethra and begin to multiply. Most infections arise from one type of bacteria, Escherichia coli (E. coli), which normally lives in the colon.In most cases, bacteria first begin growing in the urethra. An infection limited to the urethra is called urethritis. From there bacteria often move on to the bladder, causing a bladder infection (cystitis). If the infection is not treated promptly, bacteria may then go up the ureters to infect the kidneys (pyelonephritis).Microorganisms called Chlamydia and Mycoplasma may also cause UTIs in both men and women, but these infections tend to remain limited to the urethra and reproductive system. Unlike E. coli, Chlamydia and Mycoplasma may be sexually transmitted, and infections require treatment of both partners.The urinary system is structured in a way that helps ward off infection. The ureters and bladder normally prevent urine from backing up toward the kidneys, and the flow of urine from the bladder helps wash bacteria out of the body. In men, the prostate gland produces secretions that slow bacterial growth. In both sexes, immune defenses also prevent infection. But despite these safeguards, infections still occur.Who is at risk?
Some people are more prone to getting a UTI than others. Any abnormality of the urinary tract that obstructs the flow of urine (a kidney stone, for example) sets the stage for an infection. An enlarged prostate gland also can slow the flow of urine, thus raising the risk of infection.A common source of infection is catheters, or tubes, placed in the bladder. A person who cannot void or who is unconscious or critically ill often needs a catheter that stays in place for a long time. Some people, especially the elderly or those with nervous system disorders who lose bladder control, may need a catheter for life. Bacteria on the catheter can infect the bladder, so hospital staff take special care to keep the catheter sterile and remove it as soon as possible.People with diabetes have a higher risk of a UTI because of changes in the immune system. Any disorder that suppresses the immune system raises the risk of a urinary infection.UTIs may occur in infants who are born with abnormalities of the urinary tract, which sometimes need to be corrected with surgery. UTIs are rarely seen in boys and young men. In women, though, the rate of UTIs gradually increases with age. Scientists are not sure why women have more urinary infections than men. One factor may be that a woman's urethra is short, allowing bacteria quick access to the bladder. Also, a woman's urethral opening is near sources of bacteria from the anus and vagina. For many women, sexual intercourse seems to trigger an infection, although the reasons for this linkage are unclear.According to several studies, women who use a diaphragm are more likely to develop a UTI than women who use other forms of birth control. Recently, researchers found that women whose partners use a condom with spermicidal foam also tend to have growth of E. coli bacteria in the vagina.Recurrent Infections
Many women suffer from frequent UTIs. Nearly 20 percent of women who have a UTI will have another, and 30 percent of those will have yet another. Of the last group, 80 percent will have recurrences.Usually, the latest infection stems from a strain or type of bacteria that is different from the infection before it, indicating a separate infection. (Even when several UTIs in a row are due to E. coli, slight differences in the bacteria indicate distinct infections.)Research funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) suggests that one factor behind recurrent UTIs may be the ability of bacteria to attach to cells lining the urinary tract. A recent NIH-funded study found that bacteria formed a protective film on the inner lining of the bladder in mice. If a similar process can be demonstrated in humans, the discovery may lead to new treatments to prevent recurrent UTIs. Another line of research has indicated that women who are "non-secretors" of certain blood group antigens may be more prone to recurrent UTIs because the cells lining the vagina and urethra may allow bacteria to attach more easily. Further research will show whether this association is sound and proves useful in identifying women at high risk for UTIs.Infections in Pregnancy
Pregnant women seem no more prone to UTIs than other women. However, when a UTI does occur, it is more likely to travel to the kidneys. According to some reports, about 2 to 4 percent of pregnant women develop a urinary infection. Scientists think that hormonal changes and shifts in the position of the urinary tract during pregnancy make it easier for bacteria to travel up the ureters to the kidneys. For this reason, many doctors recommend periodic testing of urine.What are the symptoms of UTI?
Not everyone with a UTI has symptoms, but most people get at least some. These may include a frequent urge to urinate and a painful, burning feeling in the area of the bladder or urethra during urination. It is not unusual to feel bad all over—tired, shaky, washed out—and to feel pain even when not urinating. Often women feel an uncomfortable pressure above the pubic bone, and some men experience a fullness in the rectum. It is common for a person with a urinary infection to complain that, despite the urge to urinate, only a small amount of urine is passed. The urine itself may look milky or cloudy, even reddish if blood is present. A fever may mean that the infection has reached the kidneys. Other symptoms of a kidney infection include pain in the back or side below the ribs, nausea, or vomiting.In children, symptoms of a urinary infection may be overlooked or attributed to another disorder. A UTI should be considered when a child or infant seems irritable, is not eating normally, has an unexplained fever that does not go away, has incontinence or loose bowels, or is not thriving. The child should be seen by a doctor if there are any questions about these symptoms, especially a change in the child's urinary pattern.How is UTI diagnosed?
To find out whether you have a UTI, your doctor will test a sample of urine for pus and bacteria. You will be asked to give a "clean catch" urine sample by washing the genital area and collecting a "midstream" sample of urine in a sterile container. (This method of collecting urine helps prevent bacteria around the genital area from getting into the sample and confusing the test results.) Usually, the sample is sent to a laboratory, although some doctors' offices are equipped to do the testing.In the urinalysis test, the urine is examined for white and red blood cells and bacteria. Then the bacteria are grown in a culture and tested against different antibiotics to see which drug best destroys the bacteria. This last step is called a sensitivity test.Some microbes, like Chlamydia and Mycoplasma, can be detected only with special bacterial cultures. A doctor suspects one of these infections when a person has symptoms of a UTI and pus in the urine, but a standard culture fails to grow any bacteria.When an infection does not clear up with treatment and is traced to the same strain of bacteria, the doctor will order a test that makes images of the urinary tract. One of these tests is an intravenous pyelogram (IVP), which gives x-ray images of the bladder, kidneys, and ureters. An opaque dye visible on x-ray film is injected into a vein, and a series of x rays is taken. The film shows an outline of the urinary tract, revealing even small changes in the structure of the tract.If you have recurrent infections, your doctor also may recommend an ultrasound exam, which gives pictures from the echo patterns of soundwaves bounced back from internal organs. Another useful test is cystoscopy. A cystoscope is an instrument made of a hollow tube with several lenses and a light source, which allows the doctor to see inside the bladder from the urethra.How is UTI treated?
UTIs are treated with antibacterial drugs. The choice of drug and length of treatment depend on the patient's history and the urine tests that identify the offending bacteria. The sensitivity test is especially useful in helping the doctor select the most effective drug. The drugs most often used to treat routine, uncomplicated UTIs are trimethoprim (Trimpex), trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (Bactrim, Septra, Cotrim), amoxicillin (Amoxil, Trimox, Wymox), nitrofurantoin (Macrodantin, Furadantin), and ampicillin. A class of drugs called quinolones includes four drugs approved in recent years for treating UTI. These drugs include ofloxacin (Floxin), norfloxacin (Noroxin), ciprofloxacin (Cipro), and trovafloxin (Trovan).Often, a UTI can be cured with 1 or 2 days of treatment if the infection is not complicated by an obstruction or nervous system disorder. Still, many doctors ask their patients to take antibiotics for a week or two to ensure that the infection has been cured. Single-dose treatment is not recommended for some groups of patients, for example, those who have delayed treatment or have signs of a kidney infection, patients with diabetes or structural abnormalities, or men who have prostate infections. Longer treatment is also needed by patients with infections caused by Mycoplasma or Chlamydia, which are usually treated with tetracycline, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMZ), or doxycycline. A followup urinalysis helps to confirm that the urinary tract is infection-free. It is important to take the full course of treatment because symptoms may disappear before the infection is fully cleared.Severely ill patients with kidney infections may be hospitalized until they can take fluids and needed drugs on their own. Kidney infections generally require several weeks of antibiotic treatment. Researchers at the University of Washington found that 2-week therapy with TMP/SMZ was as effective as 6 weeks of treatment with the same drug in women with kidney infections that did not involve an obstruction or nervous system disorder. In such cases, kidney infections rarely lead to kidney damage or kidney failure unless they go untreated.Various drugs are available to relieve the pain of a UTI. A heating pad may also help. Most doctors suggest that drinking plenty of water helps cleanse the urinary tract of bacteria. During treatment, it is best to avoid coffee, alcohol, and spicy foods. And one of the best things a smoker can do for his or her bladder is to quit smoking. Smoking is the major known cause of bladder cancer.Doctors suggest some additional steps that a woman can take on her own to avoid an infection:
Drink plenty of water every day.
Urinate when you feel the need; don't resist the urge to urinate.
Wipe from front to back to prevent bacteria around the anus from entering the vagina or urethra.
Take showers instead of tub baths.
Cleanse the genital area before sexual intercourse.
Avoid using feminine hygiene sprays and scented douches, which may irritate the urethra.
Some doctors suggest drinking cranberry juice.
Infections in Pregnancy
A pregnant woman who develops a UTI should be treated promptly to avoid premature delivery of her baby and other risks such as high blood pressure. Some antibiotics are not safe to take during pregnancy. In selecting the best treatments, doctors consider various factors such as the drug's effectiveness, the stage of pregnancy, the mother's health, and potential effects on the fetus.Complicated Infections
Curing infections that stem from a urinary obstruction or nervous system disorder depends on finding and correcting the underlying problem, sometimes with surgery. If the root cause goes untreated, this group of patients is at risk of kidney damage. Also, such infections tend to arise from a wider range of bacteria, and sometimes from more than one type of bacteria at a time.Infections in Men
UTIs in men usually stem from an obstruction—for example, a urinary stone or enlarged prostate—or from a medical procedure involving a catheter. The first step is to identify the infecting organism and the drugs to which it is sensitive. Usually, doctors recommend lengthier therapy in men than in women, in part to prevent infections of the prostate gland.Prostate infections (chronic bacterial prostatitis) are harder to cure because antibiotics are unable to penetrate infected prostate tissue effectively. For this reason, men with prostatitis often need long-term treatment with a carefully selected antibiotic. UTIs in older men are frequently associated with acute bacterial prostatitis, which can be fatal if not treated immediately.Is there a vaccine to prevent recurrent UTIs?
In the future, scientists may develop a vaccine that can prevent UTIs from coming back. Researchers in different studies have found that children and women who tend to get UTIs repeatedly are likely to lack proteins called immunoglobulins, which fight infection. Children and women who do not get UTIs are more likely to have normal levels of immunoglobulins in their genital and urinary tracts.Early tests indicate that a vaccine helps patients build up their own natural infection-fighting powers. The dead bacteria in the vaccine do not spread like an infection; instead, they prompt the body to produce antibodies that can later fight against live organisms. Researchers are testing injected and oral vaccines to see which works best. Another method being considered for women is to apply the vaccine directly as a suppository in the vagina.
References:
National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information Clearinghouse3 Information WayBethesda, MD 20892–3580Nutritional and Herbal Therapy for Urinary Tract Infections
Drink plenty of water and caffeine-free herbal teas. Avoid sweetened drinks.
Drink unsweetened cranberry juice. Cranberries acidify the urine which inhibits bacteria from adhering to the urinary tract.
Vitamin C (250 to 500 mg twice a day) also acidifies urine and it boosts immunity.
Zinc (30 to 50 mg a day) increases immunity.
Acidophilus is important to take if you are taking antibiotics. Not only does antibiotics kill bad bacteria but it also kills the good and vital bacterial flora in your digestive tract. Taking acidophilus helps replenish your body's flora. Plain yogurt is a good source.
The Tao of Nutrition recommends drinking plenty of cornsilk tea (which is readily available at your local health food store).
References:
Tao of Nutrition, by Maoshing Ni, Ph.D., C.A., and Cathy McNease, B.S., M.H.
Buffer
Tags: Causes of Urinary Tract Infection, Urinary Tract Infection Treated, What Is Urinary Tract Infection
Category: Acupuncture Treatment
Go Top
About the Author (Author Profile)
Holle everybody welcome to the acupunctureschoolonline.com. My name is Mo, I hope discuss about acupuncture with everybody! Hope you can find what you want in my website.If you have questions , please click here --Our A&Q system.http://ask.acupunctureschoolonline.com
Buffer
Related posts:
Treating Urinary Tract Infection - Acupuncture, The Better Alternative in Treating UTI
Acupuncture For Urinary Infections
urinary calculus of Auricular Acupuncture Treatment
Points of the cymba concha
Water – Kidney And Urinary Bladder in Cosmetic Acupuncture
Subscribe
If you enjoyed this article, subscribe to receive more just like it.
Privacy guaranteed. We never share your info.
Leave a Reply
Click here to cancel reply.
You must be logged in to post a comment.
« Vitiligo
Urinary Incontinence »
Subscribe
Enter your email address below to receive updates each time we publish new content.
Privacy guaranteed. We never share your info.
Views
Acupuncture Points Index - 186,520 views
(BL-28) Bladder Shu PANGGUANGSHU - Acupuncture Points - 108,425 views
Search - 77,775 views
Acupuncture Video Course Free (Full) - 68,618 views
Acupuncture & IVF PDF (E-books) Download - 32,372 views
Acupuncture points Index (pinyin name) - 29,777 views
Chinese Acupuncture Video Course Lesson 1 - Acupuncture Culture - 27,431 views
Ex-B-2 Hua Tuo’s Paravertebral Points HUATUOJIAJI - Acupuncture Points - 26,733 views
Du-4 Gate of Life MINGMEN - Acupuncture Points - 26,061 views
(BL 31–BL 34) Eight Liao BALIAO - Acupuncture Points - 21,305 views
Recent Posts
Acupuncture Puts Nervous Dental Patients at Ease
Acupuncture Good for Fibromyalgia?
Acupuncture Calms Mom's Stress, Anxiety
Acupuncture Improves Function in Heart Failure Patients
How Acupuncture May Alter Perception of Pain
E-books
Acupuncture & IVF PDF (E-books) Download
Book Details
Title:Acupuncture & IVF
Paperback: 224 pages
Publisher: Blue Poppy Press (August 2003)
Buffer
admin | April 7, 2010	| 3 Comments | 32,372 views
Acupuncture efficacy, safety and practice PDF Download
Title:Acupuncture efficacy, safety and practice
Hardcover: 100 pages
Publisher: Taylor & Francis; 1 edition (October 30, 2001)
Language: English
Buffer
admin | April 7, 2010	| 1 Comment | 15,626 views
Blogroll
Terra Cotta Warriors Tours
xian tours
サッカーユニフォーム
日本代表 ユニフォーム
© Acupuncture School Online | Learning Acupuncture and Moxibustion Courses Online 2019. All rights reserved.