Fight Fat with Coffee
Subscribe
in a reader
Dietary Supplements
Antioxidants
Bio Supplements
Minerals
Vitamins
Supplements Controversy
Health Conditions
Allergy Problems
Cancer Types
Pain Problems
Respiratory Problems
Viral Infections
Stomach Problems
Immune System Health
Diseases
Eye Care
Teeth Health
Women's Health
Bacterial Infections
Intestinal Health
Plastic Surgery
Urology
Neurology
Medications
American Health Care
Men's Health
Healthy Nutrition
Healthy Diets
Nutritious Food
Probiotics
Metabolism
Body Metabolism
Metabolic Health
Healthy Exercises
Metabolic Diet
Cardiovascular Health
Heart Disease Risk Factors
Human Circulatory System
Cardiovascular Disease Prevention
Cholesterol Treatment
Skin Care
Body Skin Care
Facial Skin Care
Natural Skin Care
Skin Disease
Natural Remedies
Herbal Treatment
Natural Products
BiostocksPro
Expert Advice
Financial Securities
Alternative Energy Investments
Financial Planning
Funds Investment
Penny Stocks Investment
Stock Market Investment
Home » Metabolism » Metabolic Health » Obesity Prevention
Fight Fat with Coffee
We are always looking for ways to lose weight. There are the fad diets, like the Master Cleanse or the acai berry diet, and there are the countless reduced fat, no fat, and lose weight fast foods and supplements on store shelves across the country. There are a variety of apps you can download on your mobile devices to help lose weight, and then there are products you can buy to help count your levels of physical activity.
The market is cram-packed with ways to lose weight. But, instead of literally buying into combinations of these, consider losing weight by simply drinking coffee!
According to an article by Health.com, caffeine in coffee can help boost your metabolism by up to 15 percent, and it can help you burn stored fat.
Coffee may also act as an appetite suppressant, according to FitDay.
“Drinking coffee during the afternoon or after dinner can help to reduce cravings for snacks or sweets, by filling the stomach and suppressing the appetite, without the addition of calories,” the article states.
Drinking coffee before a workout can also help you perform better. Studies have found physical performance can be increased by an average of 11-12 percent when caffeine is in the mix, states an article by KristjanGunnarsson in Lifehacker.
These benefits seem promising. However, be cautious. Coffee is a diuretic, which means it can cause you to lose fluids, so you’ll want to be sure you don’t drink more than two cups a day and continue to drink plenty of water. Also, watch out for creams, sugars and specialty coffee drinks. These can counteract the positives. Instead, drink coffee black, or use skim milk and artificial sweeteners.
Sources:
http://www.health.com/health/gallery/0,,20631015_8,00.html
http://lifehacker.com/5986506/the-science-behind-coffee-and-why-its-actually-good-for-your-health
http://www.fitday.com/fitness-articles/fitness/weight-loss/weight-loss-myth-coffee-can-help-you-lose-weight.html
The information supplied in this article is not to be considered as medical advice and is for educational purposes only.
Related Articles:
How To Fight Inactivity, Obesity and Fatigue and Win
Sleep Less, Eat More, Weigh More
U.S. Researchers May Have Made A Discovery For An Obesity Treatment
Can You Really Sleep Your Way to Weight Loss?
Fast Food and Obesity Epidemic
Obesity Prevention 4 Oct 2013
Click here to cancel reply.
CATEGORIES
Body Metabolism
Metabolic Health
Compulsive Overeating
Diabetes Prevention
Hormonal Health
Metabolic Disorders
Obesity Prevention
Osteoporosis Prevention
Overweight Children
Healthy Exercises
Metabolic Diet
RECENT POSTS
Sleep Less, Eat More, Weigh More
Weekend Weight Gain is Okay
Performance Enhancing Drugs: Not Worth the Risk
The Dangers of Surgical Weight Loss
Want to Lose Weight? Join a Support Group
RECENT COMMENTS
Rob on Café Hey (Tampa)
Djon on Café Hey (Tampa)
Alex on Café Hey (Tampa)
Jake on Café Hey (Tampa)
Robyuan on Café Hey (Tampa)
© Copyright 2019, Nutralegacy.com
Home Articles History Disclaimer	Mission Statement Terms of Use Site Map Forum Contact Us