Morphine Addiction Treatment in Washington and Oregon | 360-727-1033
360.857.6655
Your call is 100% confidential
Navigation
Treatment Programs
Medically Assisted Detox
Drug Detox
Alcohol Detox
Residential Treatment
Partial Hospitalization Program
Outpatient Program
Co-Occurring Disorders
Addiction Aftercare
Tour Our Facility
Admissions
Approach
Insurance
Resources
Alcohol
Drugs
Intervention
Local Support
LGBTQ Support Resources
Local Continuing Education Events
Recovery Blog
Contact Us
About
Our Team
Careers
Search
Treatment Programs
Medically Assisted Detox
Drug Detox
Alcohol Detox
Residential Treatment
Partial Hospitalization Program
Outpatient Program
Co-Occurring Disorders
Addiction Aftercare
Tour Our Facility
Admissions
Approach
Insurance
Resources
Alcohol
Drugs
Intervention
Local Support
LGBTQ Support Resources
Local Continuing Education Events
Recovery Blog
Contact Us
About
Our Team
Careers
Search
Don't wait another day. Help is a phone call away. 360.857.0007
Understanding Morphine Addiction
Coming from the opium poppy plant, morphine is an extremely powerful narcotic opioid medication. It’s a painkiller that is one of the most potent opioids in existence. Morphine is available in tablet, liquid, capsule, suppository or injectable forms. Morphine is classified as a Schedule II controlled substance. Drugs that are considered to be Schedule I are substances that have no medicinal uses. Drugs that are used medically, but have the most potential for abuse and addiction are considered Schedule II.
Brand Names of Morphine
Pharmaceutical companies manufacture morphine under the following brand names:
MS Contin
Oramorph SR
MSiR
Roxanol
RMS
Kadian
Illicit Morphine
Morphine is also sold illegally as a street drug. It is known by such slang names as mork, dreamer, blue, first line, Auntie Em, Emma, God’s drug, morpho, unkie, mister blue, monkey, TNT, Goodfella, murder 8 and white stuff. Morphine may also be used as a substitute for the popular illegal opioid substance, heroin.
How Morphine Effects the Body
Morphine blocks pain receptors and calms some of the functions of the nervous system as it lowers blood pressure, slows heart rate and slows respiration. It also brings about a sense of calm and pleasure. Morphine can be habit-forming and lead to physical dependence even when used as directed.
Like all opioids, morphine is so addictive because it floods the brain with dopamine. Normally, dopamine is released when something makes a person happy. Then the individual is encouraged to repeat the behavior that led to the pleasant feelings, and this forms a reward pathway in the brain. Morphine disrupts this process and the person who regularly abuses morphine may not be able to feel pleasure without the substance.
be on the lookout for. The symptoms and signs of codeine addiction can be divided into four categories.
Signs and Symptoms of Morphine Addiction
When someone uses morphine regularly, they may experience:
Constipation
Drowsiness
Dizziness
Itching
Losing consciousness or nodding off
Dependence
If any of the following symptoms appear, the person may have taken too much morphine:
Shallow or slowed breathing
Extreme dizziness
Confusion
Loss of normal muscle tension
Cold and clammy skin
Circulatory collapse
Constricted pupils
Low blood pressure
Cardiac arrest
Coma
Having an Morphine Addiction Intervention
Morphine abuse and addiction can lead to irreversible consequences. Overdose can occur, which can lead to death. If you love someone who has a morphine addiction, it’s imperative that you help that person get help. If they aren’t listening to you, you might need to stage an intervention.
An intervention can be helpful because it gives a person a chance to see how all of their loved ones are concerned about their behavior. The best way to do an intervention is to have an intervention specialist present. He or she can advise you on the best approach and make sure that you are communicating in a loving, yet firm way.
Morphine Withdrawal Symptoms
Any opioid that is stopped will have withdrawal symptoms. However, morphine withdrawal symptoms can be particularly uncomfortable. You should never attempt to detox from morphine on your own. Without medical supervision, as soon as the morphine withdrawal symptoms become bad enough, you may be tempted to relapse and use the substance once more.
Some morphine withdrawal symptoms include:
Sweating
Watery eyes
Runny nose
Muscle aches
Dilated pupils
Trouble sleeping
Irritability
High blood pressure
Vomiting
Diarrhea
Abdominal cramps
Rapid heart rate
Backache
Restlessness
Chills
Morphine Addiction Treatment
If morphine addiction is controlling your life or the life of someone you love, it’s essential that you seek the treatment that you deserve. You don’t have to suffer any longer. You can take back the control and life your life as a free person; you don’t have to be chained down by this substance any longer.
Morphine treatment may mean that you need to have medical detox, residential treatment, partial hospitalization or outpatient treatment. The Recovery Village Ridgefield is an excellent option for any of those programs. Located in the Pacific Northwest – close to Vancouver, Washington and Portland, Oregon – the addiction specialists and medical professionals at our facility are dedicated to providing you with the opportunity you need to focus on your own healing so that you can discover the way to long-term recovery. You don’t need to wait any longer. Give us a call today.
Every recovery begins with a call.
Contact The Recovery Village today.
360.857.6655
Alcohol Addiction Resources
Alcohol Resources Overview
Alcohol Addiction
Alcohol Blackouts
Alcohol Abuse
Binge Drinking
Treatment & Rehab
Drug Addiction Resources
Drug Resources Overview
Drug Addiction
Drug Abuse
Treatment & Rehab
Oxycontin
Vicodin
Methamphetimine
Prescription Drugs
Heroin
Opioids
Cocaine
Marijuana
Xanax
Adderall
Amphetamines
Bath Salts
Crack
Ecstasy / MDMA
Spice / K2
Codeine
Fentanyl
Hydrocodone
Dilaudid
Lortab
Kratom
Morphine
Oxycodone
Ativan
Klonopin
Librium
Percocet
Methadone
Ambien
Tramadol
Subutex
Suboxone
Narcan
Ultram
Fioricet
Intervention
Intervention Resources
Friends & Family
Friends & Family Resources
Teen Addiction
Teen Addiction Resources
LGBTQ
LGBTQ Resources
Domestic Violence
Domestic Violence & Addiction Resources
Veterans
Veterans Addiction
Local Resources
Local Addiction Resources
Portland, OR
Eugene, OR
Salem, OR
Gresham, OR
Hillsboro, OR
Beaverton, OR
Seattle, WA
Bellevue, WA
Kent, WA
Renton, WA
Don’t wait. Call today.
Get the best treatment options.
855.900.1612360.857.6655
Tour our facility
Take a look
Search
The Recovery Village Ridgefield
888 Hillhurst Rd.
Ridgefield, WA 98642
(360) 857-0007
NAICS 623220
The Recovery Village Ridgefield
5114 NE 94th Ave
Vancouver, WA 98662
(360) 883-0129
© Ridgefield Recovery Lake All Rights Reserved.
CallContact us today, we can help
407.960.2651 Get Help Now
Stay connected
Sitemap
Notice of Privacy
Online Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
We are here to help 24/7 360.857.0007
Your browser does not support iframes.
Type and Press “enter” to Search