Post-Operative Instructions: Teeth Extractions & Bone Grafting
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
North Sound Oral & Facial Surgery
(360) 293-2808
Get Directions
Oral Surgery Home
Services
Dental Implants
Cost of Dental Implants
Dental Implant Procedure
Tooth Replacement Options
What Are the Benefits of Dental Implants?
Dental Implants – Mount Vernon, WA
Dental Implants – Oak Harbor, WA
Wisdom Teeth Removal
Wisdom Teeth Extraction Procedure
Wisdom Teeth Removal Cost
When Is the Best Time to Extract Wisdom Teeth?
Why Should My Wisdom Teeth Be Removed?
Wisdom Teeth Removal – Mount Vernon, WA
Wisdom Teeth Removal – Oak Harbor, WA
Bone Grafting
Full-Arch Restoration
General Tooth Extraction
Impacted Tooth Exposure
Oral Pathology
Leukocyte-Platelet Rich Fibrin
Orthognathic Surgery
Pre-Prosthetic Surgery
Facial Trauma
BOTOX®
JUVÉDERM®
About Us
About Our Oral Surgery Practice
Pardeep S. Brar, DMD
Meet Our Team
Patient Information
First Visit
Anesthesia Options
3D Scanning
Financial & Insurance Information
Privacy Policy
Forms
Request an Appointment
Referral Form
Patient Registration
Contact Us
Patient Stories
Full-Arch Restoration
Heinz
Dental Implants
Anthony
Daniel
Pam
Bone Grafting
Holly
Terrie
Extractions
Stuart
Wisdom Teeth
Abigail
Lauren
Logan
Michael
Oral Pathology
Noel
Referring Provider Reviews
Dr. Collins
Dr. Damon
Dr. Gray
Dr. Hobart
Instructions
Pre-Operative Instructions
Post-Operative Instructions: Dental Implants
Post-Operative Instructions: Wisdom Teeth
Post-Operative Instructions: Teeth Extractions & Bone Grafting
Post-Operative Instructions: Exposure of an Impacted Tooth
Post-Operative Instructions: Sinus Precautions
Post-Operative Instructions: After Denture Insertion
Post-Operative Instructions: After Jaw Fracture Surgery
(360) 293-2808
Post-Operative Instructions: Teeth Extractions & Bone Grafting
You are here: Home / Instructions / Post-Operative Instructions: Teeth Extractions & Bone Grafting
If you notice some grittiness in your mouth, do not be alarmed. Some of the bone graft particles will work their way out of the extraction site. We cover the graft with a dissolvable sponge. Do not be alarmed if this falls out during the healing period.
Bleeding
After tooth extraction, it’s important for a blood clot to form to stop the bleeding and begin the healing process. That is why we ask you to bite on a gauze pad for 30–45 minutes after the appointment.
If the bleeding or oozing persists, place another gauze pad and bite firmly for another 30 minutes. You may have to do this several times. You may also moisten a regular black tea bag, apply it to the extraction site, and hold firm pressure. The tannic acid in the tea bag will help stop the bleeding.
After the blood clot forms, it is important not to disturb or dislodge the clot as it aids healing. Do not rinse vigorously, suck on straws, smoke, drink alcohol, or brush teeth next to the extraction site for 72 hours. These activities will dislodge or dissolve the clot and retard the healing process.
Pain and Swelling
After the tooth is extracted, you may feel some pain and experience some swelling. An ice pack or an unopened bag of frozen peas or corn applied to the area will keep swelling to a minimum. Take pain medications as prescribed. The swelling usually subsides after 48 hours.
Use the pain medication as directed. Call the office if the medication doesn’t seem to be working. If antibiotics are prescribed, continue to take them for the indicated length of time, even if signs and symptoms of infection are gone.
Oral Hygiene
Mouth cleanliness is essential to good healing. Clean your mouth thoroughly after each meal beginning the day after surgery. Brush your teeth as best as you can. Rinse with warm salt water (a ½ teaspoon of salt in an 8-ounce cup of warm water) 3–4 times a day. Continue this procedure for the first week after surgery.
Activity
Limit vigorous exercise for the next 24 hours as this will increase blood pressure and may cause more bleeding from the extraction site.
Diet
Drink plenty of fluids. Avoid hot liquids or food on the day of surgery. Soft food and liquids should be consumed on the day of surgery. Return to a normal diet as soon as possible unless otherwise directed, but try to avoid chewing on the surgical site.
After a few days, you will feel fine and can resume your normal activities.
Please review these tips for the safe use and proper disposal of prescription medications.
If you have heavy bleeding, severe pain, continued swelling for 3–4 days, or a reaction to the medication, call our office immediately at (360) 293-2808. Our after-hours emergency number is (360) 647-4027.
Request Appointment
As a patient of our office, we want it to be as easy as possible for you to visit our team for care. You can request an appointment by filling out our online form.
Anacortes
North Sound Oral & Facial Surgery
2620 Commercial Ave
Anacortes, WA 98221
Main: (360) 293-2808
Hours: Mon–Fri: 8:00 AM–5:00 PM
Social
Google Maps
Facebook
Links
◉ Dental Implants
◉ Wisdom Teeth Removal
◉ Request Appointment
◉ Referral Form
North Sound Oral & Facial Surgery © 2019