Are Cell Phones Causing Cancer? - Living Well Clinical Nutrition Center
Living Well Clinical Nutrition Center
Call us today
281-554-8600
Get a free 15-minute consultation
Menu
Skip to content
Home
Just Get Well
Visit Our Clinic
About Us
Meet Our Partners
New Patients
Phone Consults
Patient Forms
Detox Central
Contact Us
Symptom Surveys
Are Cell Phones Causing Cancer?
In 1993, a man filed a lawsuit against the cell phone industry, claiming that his wife died from a brain tumor caused by her repeated use of the cell phone. The tumor was located on the same side of the head where she held her cell phone and was shaped like the cell phone antenna. The case got widespread media attention and was featured in CNN’s Larry King show.
Although the claim was dismissed by the court due to lack of sufficient evidence, it was a public relations nightmare for the wireless industry. It also marked the beginning of the global search for a definitive answer to the question: are cell phones safe or not? Does it cause cancer and other degenerative diseases? Brain cancer is up 25% since cell phones became popular. Every year, there are 183,000 more cases in the US alone. Some health experts say there’s a link with cell phone use, but is there proof?
In an effort to diffuse the negative publicity from the high-profile lawsuit, the cell phone industry itself funded a $25 million dollar research program to prove that cell phones are safe. After 6 years of intensive research, however, the results were not what they were looking for. Dr. George Carlo, the chief research scientist of the program, found evidence that cell phones pose some health risks, possibly even increasing the risk for cancer.
The first evidence of cancer link that shook the cell phone industry came in 1997. Dr. Michael Repacholi and his colleagues from the Royal Adelaide Hospital in South Australia reported that long-term exposure to the type of radiation that comes from digital cell phones caused an increase in the occurrence of lymphoma in mice. The study received widespread international media attention because it was the first time that cancer has been linked to the cell phone in a well-conducted study.
THE RED FLAGS: SOLVING THE CANCER PUZZLE
In order to show a link between cell phone radiation and cancer, let’s look at several studies Dr. Carlo investigated that made him blow the whistle, so to speak. These red-flag findings provide the pieces that fit together to form the cancer picture:
• DNA Damage in Human Blood Studies
• Breakdown in the Blood-Brain Barrier
• Studies of Tumors in People Who Use Cell Phones
• Studies of Cell Phone Radiation Dosage and Response
DNA DAMAGE IN HUMAN BLOOD
All tumors and all cancers are the result of genetic damage. Most often that damage includes the formation of micronuclei–fragments of chromosomes that form membranes around themselves and appear under a microscope as additional nuclei in blood cells (which normally have just a single nucleus). The relationship between micronuclei and cancer is so strong that doctors around the world test for their presence to identify patients likely to develop cancer. The presence of micronuclei indicates that the cells can no longer properly repair broken DNA. This deficiency is considered to be an indication of an increased risk of developing cancer.
– In December 1998, Drs. Ray Tice and Graham Hook of Integrated Laboratory Systems in North Carolina have shown that blood cells exposed to cell phone radiation suffer genetic damage in the form of micronuclei. In their studies, DNA and chromosome damage in human white blood cells occurred when exposed to signals from all types of phones–analog, digital, and PCS. Damage was shown even from signals occurring at a SAR level below the government’s “safety” guideline.
– Using different methods, the above finding was confirmed by Dr. Joseph Roti Roti of Washington University in St. Louis in 2000. His research showed that human blood cells exposed to radiation at wireless phone frequencies did indeed develop genetic damage, in the form of micronuclei. This finding received a lot of notice because Dr. Roti Roti is a prominent scientist who does his work under funding by Motorola Inc.
This has a very serious implication. If cell phone radiation encourages the formation of micronuclei in blood cells, and micronuclei are said to be “biological markers” for cancer, then based on these studies alone cell phone use could be said to increase the risk of cancer.
BREAKDOWN IN THE BLOOD BRAIN BARRIER
The blood brain barrier is a special filter in the blood vessels of the brain that keeps dangerous chemicals from reaching sensitive brain tissue and causing DNA breaks and other damage.
– In 1994 and again, in 2002, Dr. Leif Salford from Lund University in Stockholm, Sweden found in his studies that rats exposed to cell phone radiation showed a breakdown in the blood brain barrier, as well as areas of shrunken, damaged neurons.
The micronuclei studies of Tice, Hook and Roti Roti and the blood-brain findings of Salford provide a two-step explanation for how cancer could be caused by cell phone radiation.
Step One: A leakage or breakdown in the blood brain barrier would provide a pathway for cancer-causing chemicals in the bloodstream (from tobacco, pesticides, air pollution, etc.) to leak into the brain and damage sensitive brain tissue that would otherwise be protected. These chemicals could break the DNA in the brain or cause other harm to reach those cells.
Step Two: While a number of studies showed that cell phone radiation by itself does not appear to break DNA, the micronuclei findings suggest that they do impair the DNA repair mechanisms in brain cells. Micronuclei result from a breakdown of the cell’s ability to repair itself. If the brain cells become unable to repair themselves, then carcinogenesis–the creation of tumors–induced by chemical toxins could begin.
DNA carries the genetic material of an organism and its different cells. Any damage that goes unrepaired affects the future generation of cells. The change has procreated and this mutation is seen as a possible cause of cancer.
TUMORS IN PEOPLE WHO USE CELL PHONES
Epidemiological studies, performed by different investigators using different methods, show some evidence of an increased risk of tumors among people who use cellular phones.
– In 1998, Dr. Ken Rothman of Eidemiology Resources, Inc. in Newton, Mass., did a study showing that users of handheld cell phones have more than twice the risk of dying from brain cancer than do car phone users–whose antennas are mounted on the body of the car, far removed from the users’ heads.
– In 1998, Joshua Muscat, a research scientist from the American Health Foundation, showed in his study a doubling of the risk of developing neuro-epithelial tumors on the outside of the brain among cell phone users, particularly on the side of the skull where cell phone antennas are held during calls.
– Muscat also showed in another study that people who have used cell phones for six years or more have a 50-percent increase in risk of developing acoustic neuroma, a benign tumor of the nerve that controls hearing and extends from the ear to the brain. Acoustic neuromas can cause hearing loss and can be life-threatening if untreated.
This was confirmed in a separate study in Stockholm, Sweden by Anders Ahlbom in 2004 and sponsored by the World Health Organization (WHO), which finds that people who have used cell phones, this time for at least 10 years, may have an increased risk of developing acoustic neuroma.
– In a study also requested by WHO, researchers headed by Dr. Lennart Hardell of the Orebro Medical Center in Sweden examined 1,617 patients aged between 20 and 80 who had been diagnosed with a brain tumour between 1997 and 2000. They were then compared to healthy people. Those who used cell phones for less than 10 years faced a 20% higher risk of developing brain cancer. But for those who used them for more than a decade the risk was 80% higher. The study also found that tumours were 2.5 times more likely to be on the same side of the head as the phone was held. The cancer of the auditory nerve, accoustic neuroma, showed a larger increase–3.5 times greater risk.
CELL PHONE RADIATION DOSAGE AND RESPONSE
All studies mentioned showed that an increase in cell phone radiation exposure also increases the likelihood of the adverse effect occurring.
In Repacholi’s study of mice, the risk of lymphoma increased significantly the longer the mice were exposed to the radio waves.
In the research work done by Tice, Hook, and Roti Roti, the risks of genetic damage as measured by micronuclei formation increased as the amount of radiation increased.
In the three epidemiological studies–two by Muscat and one by Hardell–the risk of tumors was greater in the areas of the brain near where the cell phone was held.
In Salford’s study, the higher the radiation exposure level the rats were exposed to, the more damage was apparent in the blood vessels in the brain and the neurons.
THE BIG CANCER PICTURE
The test tube studies by Tice and Hook; the mouse study by Repacholoi and Selford; and the epidemiological studies by Rothman, Muscat, and Hardell all agree in that they suggest an increased risk of cancer among cell phone users. They fit together to form the beginnings of a picture that everyone can see. They perhaps don’t form the complete picture yet, but there are enough already in place to warrant genuine public health concern about cell phone safety.
According to Dr. Carlo, “The big picture is disturbingly clear. There is a definite risk that the radiation plume that emanates from a cell phone antenna can cause cancer and other health problems. It is a risk that affects hundreds of millions of people around the world. It is a risk that must be seen and understood by all who use cell phones so they can take all the appropriate and available steps to protect themselves–and especially to protect young children whose skulls are still growing and who are the most vulnerable to the risks of radiation.” (Cell Phones: Invisible Hazards of the Wireless Age)
MORE PIECES COMING
– In 2000, a team of Sydney researchers published a scientific hypothesis about how mobile phone radiation causes cancer. The report claims that the radiation generated by cell phones causes ongoing stress to the body cells, causing them to give off ‘heat shock proteins (HSP).’ The human cells sometimes release these proteins in response to injury or infection. Such a chronic activation of the heat shock response affects the normal regulation of cells, which could result in cancer.
– In 2002, cell biologist Fiorenzo Marinelli and his team at the National Research Council in Bologna, Italy, exposed leukemia cells to continuous radio waves similar to that of cell phones. The exposed cells had a higher rate of death than the controls initially, but after further exposure, a curious thing happened: instead of more cells dying, the exposed cells were replicating furiously compared to the controls. Genes that trigger cells to multiply were turned on in a high proportion of the cells. The cancer, although briefly beaten back, had become more aggressive. Marinelli suspects that the radiation may initially damage DNA, and that this interferes with the biochemical signals in a way that ultimately triggers the cells to multiply more rapidly.
– Dariusz Leszczynski at the Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority in Helsinki found that one-hour exposure to mobile phone radiation caused cultured human cells to shrink. Leszczynski believes this happens when a cell is damaged. In a human being, such changes could destroy the blood-brain barrier. Radiation-induced changes in the cells could also interfere with normal cell death when the cell is damaged. If cells that are ‘marked’ to die do not, tumours can form.
SO WHY ARE CELL PHONES STILL AROUND?
Now with all the mounting evidence, the cell phone industry still maintains the position that cell phnes are safe and have even begun marketing towards children. Governments have been rather slow in stepping in to warn people of any danger from using cell phones. Fortunately, health officials and experts in a number of European countries are taking the first steps and have issued public warnings to parents urging caution about kids and cell phones.
If the previous environmental issues involving tobacco, asbestos, and lead are any indication, it takes years and even decades to accumulate the amount of evidence that would yield a definite conclusion that would satisfy everybody. In the case of cigarette smoking, it took two decades of study and 100 years of consumer use to gather enough data to meet research standards to demonstrate the need for the U.S. Surgeon General’s warning label on cigarette packs. Some experts say that in the case of cell phones, it should not take that long as data are coming in at a faster pace. But at the present the authorities can only urge people to exercise caution.
Replication of research is another issue. A study that comes out with a new finding generally does not gain immediate acceptance in the scientific community or the wireless industry unless another research lab is able to replicate the work and the findings. The industry has cleverly perpetuated an illusion of responsible follow up by always calling for more research.
When Dr. Salford published his study in 2003 showing that rat brain neurons were dying from exposure to cellphone radiation, he warned there might be similar effects in humans that over time could lead to degenerative diseases of the brain. His study was written off by the industry as a “novel” finding that needed to be replicated.
But achieving the scientific standard of replication can be complicated. Salford says if studies aren’t absolutely replicated, providing an apples-to-apples comparison, there’s wiggle room to dispute follow-up findings. Research studies also require funding, and the wireless industry, after Dr. Carlo’s revelations, has understandably been reluctant to put money into more research, unless it is to support their position. As for governments, again many European governments are taking the responsible course by funding some studies, but the U.S. and Canada are curiously lagging behind.
In 1999, CNN’s Larry King once again interviewed a man who brought a multimillion dollar lawsuit against cell phone manufacturers. This time the man, a Maryland neurologist, was himself diagnosed with brain cancer–again located on the side of the head where he held his cell phone. The suit was yet again dismissed, and the man died not long afterwards.
According to WHO report, 0.1 billion people have died from tobacco use in the 20th century, and 10 times as many will die in the 21st century. No one is suggesting that cell phones could cause as many casualties, but do we really want to wait and find out?
AIMING FOR RESPONSIBLE TECHNOLOGY
Unlike tobacco, the cell phone has become an indispensable part of our lives, just like the television and computer. It has enabled us to make a gigantic leap in the way we communicate. It has even been credited widely with saving people’s lives in emergency situations. The cell phone is a marvel of technology and is here to stay.
The question is not how to stop people from using this ubiquitous device but rather how to make it safer. The first step always is to admit there is a problem, hence the industry and the government have to acknowledge the health risks inherent with the present technology. This way we can all find the proper solutions that we may more enjoy the benefits of its use without sacrificing our health and wellbeing.
© 2005 Taraka Serrano
Dr. Chapa’s Comments:
Can you see the heat of the sun? Can you touch the rays from the Sun? Can you be burned by the rays of the sun? The answer to the first two questions is no and the answer to the last is yes. The message is simple, just b/c you can’t see it, doesn’t mean it doesn’t exist. You can feel the thermal energy produced by the sun and you have probablly been burned by the sun a time or too. Electromagnetic pollution (EMP) or eletromagnetic fields (EMF) are real issues that the 21st century is dealing with more than any other generation. Statistics indicate that over 95% of the Houston (and surrounding city’s, counties) are Wi-Fi. This means that we are being exposed to this stuff day in and day out rather we get on the cell phone or not. The study above makes statement about brain activity, tumor growths being altered by cell phone radiation. What about the people who put lap tops on their pelvis while watching a 62″ TV monitor, signaling the internet connection via wireless internet all from the comfort of a couch or rocking chair. Can this contribute to infertility? Prostate issues? Ovarian disorders? Etc? What about when you walk through the self check out stand and the red scanner is flashing on your body? Or when you cruise 60 miles per hour through an ez-tag? These are all areas we are being exposed to these environmental stressors. The answer is not to tuck and hide, live in some remote village that is free of these things. But to protect yourself. How can you do this?
A simple mult-polar magnet, no bigger than a credit card, energizes our energy filed to protect us. Put this card in your shirt pocket, wear it on your person in a bra, wallet, pillow case, or under your sheets. You will find that headaches may be relieved, fatigue may melt away, uneccessary weight gain reverse, and joint pain resolve. All from wearing a simple 20$ multi-polar magnet. We find EMF’s are affecting more than 90% of our patients.
Are you new to the clinic?
Start Here
New Patient Forms
Click the button below to download the forms you will need to have for your first office visit.
Download Forms
Visit Us
815 East Main St.
Suite A
League City, TX 77573
About Us
Dr. Aaron Chapa is a Doctor of Chiropractic who practices predominantly Clinical Nutrition. After graduating from Texas Chiropractic...
Read more
Visit Our Clinic
Monday
9:00am – 6:00pm
Tuesday
9:00am – 6:00pm
Wednesday
9:00am – 6:00pm
Thursday
9:00am – 6:00pm
Friday
9:00am – 5:00pm
Saturday – Sunday
Closed
Call Us for a Consultation
We’re not limited to just in-town office visits. We have patients who visit us from all over the country such as Colorado, Florida, Arizona, California, Oregon, Louisiana, and North Carolina.
Give us a call to schedule a phone consultation.
281-554-8600
© Living Well Clinical Nutrition Center | Nutritional Health Tips | Sitemap | Login
League City Web Design by Big Splash Web Design & Marketing
Let's Get Started
Congratulations on starting your Designed Life Program. You are one step closer to living in true optimal health!
First, download our new patient form here, fill it out and fax it back at 281-554-8669.
Once your forms are evaluated by the doctor, you will get a phone call from our office to schedule your first initial exam.