Did malaria come from chimps?
English
中文 (Chinese)
Deutsch (German)
Español (Spanish)
Français (French)
Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian)
Italiano (Italian)
日本語 (Japanese)
Português (Portuguese)
Rainforests
Oceans
Animals & Environment
Solutions
For Kids
DONATE
Impact
More
Did malaria come from chimps?
by Mongabay.com on 3 August 2009
Malaria may have jumped from chimpanzees to humans much like AIDS and the Ebola virus did, report researchers writing in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
Analyzing blood samples from nearly 100 chimps in Cameroon and Ivory Coast, Francisco Ayala of the University of California Irvine and colleagues found that an early variant of Plasmodium falciparum, the paraside that causes malayria, may have leapt the species barrier around 10,000 years ago.
“Until now, malaria’s origin had been unclear,” explained a statement from the Global Viral Forecasting Initiative, which was involved in the research. “Although chimpanzees were known to harbor a parasite, called Plasmodium reichenowi, that is closely related to the dominant human malaria parasite, Plasmodium falciparum, most scientists assumed incorrectly that these parasites had co-existed separately in human and chimpanzee ancestors for the last 5 million years.”
“This discovery shows that ancient diseases, such as malaria, can originate in the same way that modern pandemics do, namely by jumping from animals to humans” said Nathan Wolfe of the Global Viral Forecasting Initiative. “We now know that malaria, while at least thousands of years old, did not originate in humans but rather was introduced into our species, presumably by the bite of a mosquito that had previously fed on a chimpanzee.”
“It is now clear that a new disease that successfully jumps from an animal to a human can last not just for decades, but millennia or more,” Wolfe contined. “This makes the task of stopping future disease spillovers from animals to humans vital, not only for saving lives today, but for the health of people for many generations to come.”
The authors hope the findings will help researchers develop new treatments for malaria, which infects 500 million people per year, resulting in more than a million deaths.
Malaria is but one of many diseases that originated in wild animals. A study published last year in the journal Nature found that 60 percent of “disease emergencies” were the result of disease transmission in animals and traveling to humans. AIDS, SARS, Ebola, and swine flu are other examples.
Article published by Rhett Butler
Chimpanzees, Diseases, Environment, Green, Health, Primates
Mongabay is a non-profit that depends on support from readers like you. Donate here.
Recent Posts
Bolsonaro draws battle lines in fight over Amazon indigenous lands
Not in my backyard: Indonesian official fights corrupt palm concession
In Indonesia, a paper giant shuffles a litany of land conflicts
Indonesia trains its citizens to deal with sea-mammal strandings
Bird flu in Namibia’s penguins wanes, after killing nearly 500
Social channels
Advertisement
View targeted feeds
By topic
By location
Agriculture Animals Birds Climate Change Conservation Deforestation Energy Featured Forests Happy-upbeat Environmental Herps Indigenous Peoples Interviews Mammals New Species Oceans Palm Oil Rainforests Technology Wildlife Many more topics
Africa Amazon Asia Australia Borneo Brazil Cameroon Central America China Colombia Congo India Indonesia Latin America Madagascar Malaysia New Guinea Peru Sumatra United States Browse more locations
Email Updates
Podcast
Our biweekly podcast delivering news & inspiration from nature’s frontline.
Quick updates
Daily topic-based news alerts
Republish
You may republish Mongabay content in your publication at no cost.
Special series
Endangered environmentalists
Arson attack in Indonesia leaves activist shaken
For embattled environmental defenders, a reprieve of sorts in 2018
7 convicted of killing Honduran indigenous activist Berta Cáceres
More articles
Indonesias forest guardians
In Bali, a village hews to unwritten rules to manage its forest
With the legal rights to their forest secure, an indigenous community plans for the future
Architects bring bamboo revival to Indonesian village
More articles
Conservation effectiveness
Community buy-in stamps out elephant poaching in Zambian park
On a wing and a prayer? Evidence for ways to conserve bats (commentary)
New maps show where humans are pushing species closer to extinction
More articles
Southeast asian infrastructure
IUCN calls for moratorium on projects impacting rarest great ape species
Sumatran governor jailed over bribes to award infrastructure projects
Malaysian state chief: Highway construction must not destroy forest
More articles
Amazon infrastructure
Leading Amazon dam rights activist, spouse and friend murdered in Brazil
Madeira River dams may spell doom for Amazon’s marathon catfish: Studies
Brazil to open indigenous reserves to mining without indigenous consent
More articles
Asian rhinos
To rescue Sumatran rhinos, Indonesia starts by counting them first
No rhino census this year as Nepal runs short of funds for survey
Planning without action will see the Javan rhino go extinct (commentary)
More articles
Indonesian fisheries
Indonesia trains its citizens to deal with sea-mammal strandings
Rise in crocodile sightings linked to habitat degradation in Indonesia
Indonesia creates three marine protected areas within Coral Triangle
More articles
Conservation in madagascar
Singapore acquits trader in world’s biggest rosewood bust, worth $50m
Colorful display of newly described stick insects confounds scientists
Madagascar: Rio Tinto mine breaches sensitive wetland
More articles
About Mongabay
Mongabay is a U.S.-based non-profit conservation and environmental science news platform. Our EIN or tax ID is 45-3714703.
Information
Mongabay.org
Tropical Forest Network
Wild Madagascar
Selva Tropicales
Mongabay Indonesia
Mongabay India
Tropical Conservation Science
Social
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
YouTube
Information
About Mongabay
Copyright & Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Advertising
Contact Us
© 2019 Copyright Conservation news