Little Miss Perfectionist: Skinceuticals Pigment regulator Vs Hydroquinone products for lightening dark spots
Thursday, January 19, 2012
Skinceuticals Pigment regulator Vs Hydroquinone products for lightening dark spots
Ok, so this is not all natural, but def. the safest product I've used so far for lightening dark spots on the face (freckles, sun damage, hormone related spots etc.). I purchased mine when I went to my dermatologist for approx. 100$ for 30ml, so its not cheap, but it's worth it since it has lasted me a while, I'm happy with the results and the ingredients are safer compared to other products containing hydroquinone, I will definitely be purchasing this again. When I first started getting annoyed of brown spots and decided to get rid of them, I tried a laser treatment in 2009 to remove them and it worked very nicely, but I didn't take 100% care of my skin afterwards (wearing sunblock religiously) and they came back, they always do, it's usually a question of time and how well you protect your skin.
I first started using a product by Neostrata called HQ Lightening Cream with Spf 20 which contain medicinal ingredients such as Hydroquinone 4.0%, Padimate O 8.0%, Oxybenzone 4.0% and Octocrylene 4.0%, I used this product for a span of 3-4 months, it's available over the counter at about 30$ for 15ml. Now, what I didn't know about these ingredients is that first and foremost, Hydroquinone is a very controversial ingredient that happens to be banned in certain parts of Europe because apparently they tested it on mice and found that some of them developed cancerous tumours, I was pissed that I even used this product for the small amount of time that I did, and that I was recommended this ingredient from a previous dermatologist, which was even more upsetting since she never informed me of the controversy of the ingredient or even worse, she may have been oblivious to it, so like everything else, you have to research products on your own since sometimes doctors won't even warn you...Disappointing. Another reason why you'll want to avoid Hydroquinone is because its an ingredient that you should not use for longer than 3 months consecutively since it can actually end up making your brown spots worse!!!! Which it did with me! So when I was visiting my dermatologist that specialises in my beauty marks (I have them checked every 3 years since I have many of them, and I keep them monitored when one changes). I asked about some freckling that developed under my eyes. I told him I was using a product containing Hydroquinone and he told me to stop using it since the ingredient had been receiving very mixed reviews in terms of it's safety, so I was very glad to have been informed of this, and decided to ditch it.
My dermatologist then told me about a product formulated in Canada that contained safer ingredients if I insisted on using a topical cream to diminish them. I started using Skinceuticals in October and have been using it ever since, the plus side is there is no limit to how long you can use this since the ingredients are much safer, the main medicinal ingredients are Emblica 2% which is a herbal extract, and Kojic Acid which is a by-product in the fermentation process of malting rice, this is the main ingredient used to lighten the browning of skin. Kojic acid also has antibacterial and anti fungal properties. The only thing with this product, is that you need to be patient, it doesn't lighten the skin as quickly as Hydroquinone, but it is a better ingredient that is effective, safer and mild on the skin. Unfortunately you may not want to use this during pregnancy (that's when many women develop brown spots on the face due to hormone surges) since the effects are not documented, and it is a FACT that you should NOT use the Hydroquinone ingredient during pregnancy. For additional info on the product, you can check it out here. My dermatologist also told me that simultaneously using this with a topical vitamin C product to fight free radicals would be very beneficial, so I use this with one of my favorite remedies for vitamin c which I make myself (you can find the info for that post here). I'm very happy with the results, it's slow, but it works, and most importantly, doesn't contain medicinal ingredients as questionable as Hydroquinone.
CON: Contains Propylparaben.
Posted by Karina at 11:22 AM
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
3 comments:
Anonymous June 24, 2012 at 12:27 PM
Really helpful and well researched post - thank you
ReplyDelete
Replies
Karina August 23, 2012 at 2:52 PM
Thank you! :)
Delete
Replies
Reply
Reply
John Hamrick December 11, 2017 at 10:13 AM
Nice blog post.
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
Add comment
Load more...
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
About Me
Karina
I'm a lover of all things naturally beautiful! Proud mother to 2 little girls, a major DIY'er, a gemstone jewellery obsessor and a graphic designer. On my spare time (which is very rare these days), I find myself trying to learn and perfect several other new things!
View my complete profile
categories
ABOUT BABY CARE DIY NATURAL BEAUTY STUFF RECIPES TRICKS & REVIEWS
Search This Blog
Blog Archive
► 2014 (11)
► November (1)
► October (1)
► September (1)
► June (1)
► April (2)
► March (3)
► January (2)
► 2013 (14)
► September (2)
► July (6)
► April (1)
► March (5)
▼ 2012 (30)
► September (1)
► August (6)
► June (1)
► February (1)
▼ January (21)
My ultimate eyelash curler and lasting curling tri...
To puncture or not to puncture, that is the questi...
The Glavanic Spa portable hand device
Enjoy drinking water by flavoring it naturally!
Wash your jewelry with Dish soap!
3 Row Styling (teasing) Comb
Max 2 Eyelash growth serum review
Replacing a standard eyebrow brush for a baby toot...
Baking soda for exfoliating your skin and deep cle...
Skinceuticals Pigment regulator Vs Hydroquinone pr...
Strangely, the best Primer I've used so far! Monis...
Eating one banana a day will keep your skin beauti...
Semi permanent Eyelash Extensions
My favorite Nail polish of all time
Highlighting the cheek bones with Mac or Physician...
My makeup brush essentials
Replace your night cream with Coconut Oil!
Topical Vitamin C! You'll be impressed with the re...
The great benefits of Apple Cider Vinegar!
First step I made... Eliminating Talc from my dail...
First thing's first, allow me to introduce myself....
Follow by Email
Karina L. Background & Logo Design. Powered by Blogger.