diabetes | The Wellness Scientist
Instagram
Twitter
Facebook
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Menu
Skip to content
Home
Portfolio
Blog
Read All
Motivation
Recipes
Wellness
Contact
Tag Archives: diabetes
The Science of Prevention
January 20, 2012 by Karen Truhe
The Science of Prevention
Do’s and Don’ts that Could Save Your Life!
The key to living a healthy, balanced life is practicing prevention. Benjamin Franklin said, “an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.”
If you are not already well versed in your family medical history, I can not stress the importance of having those conversations. If someone in your immediate family has a chronic illness like heart disease, high cholesterol, diabetes, or a history of cancer, this is something both you & your doctor should be aware of.
There are basically two types of inherited disease: single gene inheritance & multifactorial (or complex) inheritance. Examples of single gene inheritance are diseases like cystic fibrosis and sickle cell anemia. In those instances, there are no changes that you can make to your environment or you lifestyle to impact whether or not you will develop these diseases. Multifactorial inherited diseases are a different story. Examples of these are things like diabetes, high blood pressure, and even cancer. If you inherited a risk factor for one of these types of diseases, taking preventive steps in your life could be difference between developing the disease or not.
Having regular physicals with your health care provider & scheduling recommended preventive screenings for high blood pressure, high cholesterol, breast cancer, colorectal cancer, ovarian cancer, and even depression could save your life. Many of these diseases, when detected early, can be treated with medication or in some cases even with simple lifestyle changes like diet and exercise.
Other preventive measures that are important for a healthy lifestyle and in some cases could save your life include:
Not smoking
Getting to & maintaining a healthy weight
Being physically active
Consuming a healthy diet
Not drinking excessively
I’m curious … are there diseases that you know of that run in your family that you could prevent or help your children or loved ones prevent with these tips? Comment below & tell me about it.
If you can’t remember the last time you had that physical or “annual” mammogram, schedule it NOW! Then come back to this page and tell me, “I did it!”
Body, Environment, Family History, Prevention, Public Health, wellness, Wellness Science	| cancer, chronic disease, detection, diabetes, diet, exercise, family history, family medical history, health screening, healthy life, healthy weight, heart disease, high cholesterol, how to be healthy, inherited disease, lifestyle change, multifactorial inheritance, ounce of prevention, prevention, preventive health screening, risk factor, save your life, science of prevention, single gene inheritance, the science of prevention
Post navigation
Search
Instagram
4 days ago by wellnessscience Just visiting my cow friends again. Happy Earth Day! ☀️ #earthday #hiking #stanforddish #paloalto #sfbayarea
1 week ago by wellnessscience Just a few happy California cows enjoying the sunshine ☀️ #california #sunnycalifornia #californialiving #happycows #sfbayarea #paloalto #stanforddish
2 weeks ago by wellnessscience Love when our wisteria are in bloom. Finally starting to feel like spring. #spring #wisteria #california #sfbayarea
2 weeks ago by wellnessscience Improve your sleep with this list of science-backed sleep supplements for a more restful ! Learn more at the #linkinbio #lavender #ltheanine #melatonin #supplements #health #wellness #instahealth #science #sleep #selfcare @livenaturallymagazine
POPULAR POSTS
As Seen In
Powered by WordPress | Theme: Albedo by Graph Paper Press.