Ginger Benefits for Men - How to Use Ginger to Improve Your Health!
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Adam Kemp Fitness
Basketball Player | Fitness Tips
Search this website
About Me
Workout Programs & Exercises
Core Exercises
Easy Workouts at Home
Lower Body Exercises
Mass Building
Plyometric Exercises
Upper Body Exercises
Yoga and Meditation
Workout Motivation
Health, Nutrition & Supplements
Food and Recipes
Health Tips for Men
Holistic Health Tips and Advice
Medical Marijuana and CBD Oil
Mental Health Help and Advice
Nutrition Education & More!
Sleep Articles
Women’s Health and Fitness
Workout Supplements
Weight Loss Tips
Miscellaneous Articles + Personal Stories
Fitness Gear
Fitness Writing Tips
High Quality Content
Politics and World News
Product Reviews
Travel and Lifestyle Stories
Contact Me!
Advertise with Adam Kemp Fitness
Ginger Benefits for Men – How to Use Ginger to Improve Your Health!
January 26, 2017 by Adam Kemp Leave a Comment
Table of Contents
What Are Some of the Health Benefits of Ginger for Men?
Helps Fight Cancer
Enhances the Immune System
Ginger Strengthens the Heart
Ginger Aids with Asthma Prevention and Cure
Prevents Ulcers
Ginger Helps with Nausea
Ginger Can Minimize Body Odor
Concluding Thoughts – Reasons to Use More Ginger in Your Life!
Ginger is a rhizome of a perennial herb that can be grown across the world.
Although it can be grown basically anywhere, the fact that ginger takes a long time to grow makes it easier to grow in the warmer climatic regions. You can even grow your own ginger in pots right inside your home if you live in the cooler parts of the world, where summer is not long enough.
The health benefits of ginger pertain to all of us, and it is one of the most ancient and well documented medicinal herbs in the world!
Thankfully, ginger is easily purchased in supplement form! You can find affordable and easy to obtain ginger extract online, and can implement this wonderful product in to your life in no time at all!
What Are Some of the Health Benefits of Ginger for Men?
Ginger has an incredibly large number of health benefits, and for centuries it has been used to heal and relieve many common ailments and serious diseases alike. Below is a list of some of the benefits you can find in ginger:
Helps Fight Cancer
Gingerol is an oil that is found in ginger; and it not only is an antioxidant, but also a powerful anti-cancer agent. According to researchers, not only do they prevent cancer but they also safely destroying cancerous cells without any known side effects.
Studies have routinely shown that cancers that can be cured or positively impacted by ginger are prostate cancer, colon, skin, ovarian, and breast cancer.
Ginger or any other antioxidant such as this is best used as a preventative medicine, being routinely used daily to ward off any attacks against your body.
Enhances the Immune System
Ginger is well-known to be very useful in strengthening the immune system. The health benefits of ginger stretch to common ailments and autoimmune diseases such as fever, cold, and allergies can be prevented by intaking ginger consistently. Especially for cold and fever, ginger tea is especially effective.
Ginger tea is a soothing warm drink which works wonders in the winter time!
Ginger Strengthens the Heart
Not only does ginger help reduce the level of cholesterol that is absorbed into the body, it also helps to lower the levels of triglycerides that are already formed. This helps to thwart cholesterol plaque that contributes to atherosclerosis (a serious condition that contributes to stroke and heart disease).
Ginger Aids with Asthma Prevention and Cure
Asthma is an inflammatory ailment that blocks the airways to the point where breathing becomes hard. Personally, I have always suffered from severe asthma. One of the greatest health benefits of ginger I have found is its ability to control inflammation in the lungs and bronchial chords.
Ginger possess a lot of anti-inflammatory properties, and can help to lower inflammation so that one can breathe better each day. As the inflammation reduces, mucus production will also be reduced. I have found ginger tea especially useful for drinking at night, as it helps me breathe easier and steadier while sleeping; and, waking up with more “fresh” lungs!
Prevents Ulcers
Harmful stomach acids that can contribute to ulcers formation can be very well neutralized with ginger.
Ginger Helps with Nausea
Ginger is very effective in helping with many different types of nausea as numerous studies has shown.
These studies state that ginger helps with morning sickness due to pregnancy, fever, motion sickness, and sickness due to surgery or chemotherapy.
As a personal anecdote about ginger and nausea, I was given ginger extract instead of any other medication by a pharmacist in Belgium for the use with a mild case of flu like symptoms and an upset stomach; while playing professional basketball in the country.
I was extremely surprised by this since in America they pharmacist assuredly would have reached for Tums or something similar. The ginger extract worked fast and better than I could have ever expected! I was so surprised by this and will absolutely use this treatment again in the future!
Ginger Can Minimize Body Odor
Funny enough, ginger may increase body odor temporarily because the body goes through a detoxifying stage first. However, it can help to eradicate body odor in the long run!
This is due to the fact that ginger contains antioxidants which help to discharge toxins in the body, and then help the body to eradicate the produced toxins through the sweat glands.
Concluding Thoughts – Reasons to Use More Ginger in Your Life!
Ginger is classified as one of the safest remedies in the world, and the list of health benefits of ginger is vast at every turn.
A maximum of six grams of ginger root is recommended just to be on the safe side. Ginger can be easily packed in many various forms, and this is a benefit that many physicians cherish.
You can get fresh ginger root from a nearby market, or ginger powder or capsule from health stores. If you happen to be a lover of fresh remedies, don’t forget to add ginger root in your selection of useful natural treatments.
21st century science is finally catching up with collecting information about the many health benefits of ginger, while traditional Chinese medicine has employed it for centuries. Ginger has a lot of health benefits that we possibly still don’t know of, and further studies would prove to be very helpful.
Though we already know a lot about ginger, there’s nonetheless a great deal we still have to figure out, as we just have to be open-minded and discover the many beautiful health benefits of ginger!
Summary
Article Name
Ginger Benefits for Men - How to Use Ginger to Improve Your Health!
Description
Adding ginger into your healthy living routine can make a significant difference! Click here to learn the 7 benefits of ginger for men!
Author
Adam Kemp
Publisher Name
Adam Kemp Fitness
Publisher Logo
Filed Under: High Quality Content, Holistic Health Tips and Advice, Nutrition Education & More!, Workout Supplements
About Adam Kemp
My name is Adam Kemp, professional basketball player and fitness tip provider! Check out my website to find a variety of fitness tips and health advice that I have learned throughout my basketball career!
"I'd Rather Be a Myth than a Legend"
Follow me on Twitter or Instagram.
Leave a Reply
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Subscribe
Notify of
new follow-up commentsnew replies to my comments
Before Footer
Follow Me on Instagram @AdamKemp50!
About Me
Advertise with Adam Kemp Fitness
Easy Workouts at Home
General Health and Fitness Tips
Lower Body Exercises
Medical Marijuana and CBD Oil
Mental Health Help and Advice
Nutrition Education & More!
Plyometric Exercises
Upper Body Exercises
Weight Loss Tips
Workout Motivation
Workout Programs & Exercises
Workout Supplements
Copyright © 2019 · Wellness Pro on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in
wpDiscuz