What is ginger? - Mayo Clinic
Skip to main navigation
Skip to main content
This content does not have an English version.
This content does not have an Arabic version.
Search
Request an Appointment
Find a Doctor
Find a Job
Give Now
Log in to Patient Account
English
Español
Português
العربية
中文
Twitter
Facebook
Pinterest
YouTube
English
Español
Português
العربية
中文
Menu
Search
All Mayo Clinic Topics
Patient Care & Health Info
Overview
Healthy Lifestyle
Symptoms A-Z
Diseases & Conditions A-Z
Tests & Procedures A-Z
Drugs & Supplements A-Z
Appointments
Patient & Visitor Guide
Billing & Insurance
Patient Online Services
Quality CareFind out why Mayo Clinic is the right place for your health care. Make an appointment.
Departments & Centers
Overview
Doctors & Medical Staff
Medical Departments & Centers
International Services
Research Centers & Programs
About Mayo Clinic
Contact Us
Meet the StaffFind a directory of doctors and departments at all Mayo Clinic campuses. Visit now.
Research
Overview
Explore Research Labs
Find Clinical Trials
Research Faculty
Postdoctoral Fellowships
Discovery's Edge Magazine
Search Publications
Training Grant Programs
Research and Clinical TrialsSee how Mayo Clinic research and clinical trials advance the science of medicine and improve patient care. Explore now.
Education
Overview
Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and Science
Mayo Clinic Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences
Mayo Clinic Alix School of Medicine
Mayo Clinic School of Continuous Professional Development
Mayo Clinic School of Graduate Medical Education
Mayo Clinic School of Health Sciences
Alumni Center
Visit Our SchoolsEducators at Mayo Clinic train tomorrow’s leaders to deliver compassionate, high-value, safe patient care. Choose a degree.
For Medical Professionals
Overview
Provider Relations
Referring Physician Portal
AskMayoExpert
Video Center
Publications
Continuing Medical Education
Mayo Clinic Laboratories
Professional ServicesExplore Mayo Clinic's many resources and see jobs available for medical professionals. Get updates.
Products & Services
Overview
Health Books
Healthy Living Program
International Advisory Services
Sports Medicine
Licensable Content
Mayo Clinic Health Letter
Mayo Clinic Laboratories
Mayo Clinic Voice Apps
Medical Products and Stores
Giving to Mayo Clinic
Overview
Give Now
Philanthropy in Action
Frequently Asked Questions
Contact Us to Give
Philanthropy at Mayo ClinicYour support accelerates powerful innovations in patient care, research and education. Give today.
Healthy Lifestyle
Nutrition and healthy eating
Print
Sections
Basics
Nutrition basics
Healthy diets
Healthy cooking
Healthy menus and shopping strategies
Nutritional supplements
In-Depth
Expert Answers
Expert Blog
Multimedia
Resources
News From Mayo Clinic
What's New
Products and services
Free E-newsletter
Subscribe to Housecall
Our general interest e-newsletter keeps you up to date on a wide variety of health topics.
Sign up now
What is ginger?
Ginger is a plant root and dietary supplement that may have some benefits for digestive issues.
Ginger (Zingiber officinale)
Ginger is a leafy plant that is native to warmer parts of Asia and is cultivated in many countries, including India, China, Nepal, Nigeria, Thailand and Indonesia. The plant's root is used widely for both medicinal and culinary purposes. Although it's used most frequently to treat digestive issues, such as nausea, vomiting, gas and indigestion, ginger has also been shown to provide muscle and joint support.*
What are the dietary sources of ginger?
Ginger, either the fresh root or powdered, is a common ingredient in Asian cooking, including stir-fries and marinades. Teas can be made from the powder or fresh root. Ginger is often added to desserts, along with other spices such as cinnamon and nutmeg, while candied ginger can be added to ginger cookies. Although ginger ale carries the name “ginger,” the soda typically contains only ginger flavoring and not a significant amount of the actual herb. Ginger can also be taken as a dietary supplement.
Should I consider taking a ginger dietary supplement?
Ginger is best known for helping to curb nausea. In the form of teas or capsules, ginger can help relieve occasional nausea, vomiting, gas and indigestion.* A lesser known benefit of ginger, according to several studies, is that it can help ease muscle soreness after exercise, as well as occasional achy joints.*
How can ginger affect my health?
As a dietary supplement, ginger can support your health in several ways:
Relieves occasional joint aches*
Protects muscles from soreness after exercise*
Relieves nausea and vomiting associated with pregnancy or morning sickness*
Relieves pain from menstrual cramps*
Relieves nausea from carsickness, seasickness and other motion-related nausea*
Provides relief from nausea after surgery*
Protects the gastrointestinal tract from irritation caused by medications such as aspirin and other NSAIDs*
Curbs nausea associated with chemotherapy medications*
Relieves occasional gas or indigestion*
How much ginger should I take?
The amount of ginger to take depends on the form being consumed. For powdered ginger capsules, a typical dose is 500 to 1,000 milligrams (mg) once or twice daily. A more concentrated ginger capsule is available, which is usually standardized to contain active ingredients called gingerols and shogoals. For this type of ginger, a typical dose is 40 mg of a 25-percent extract, which provides about 10 mg of gingerols/shogoals, and can be taken once or twice daily.
To make a tea from powdered ginger, add one-eighth to one-quarter teaspoon to one cup of hot water. To make a tea from fresh ginger root, place one or two half-inch slices of fresh ginger in a pot with two cups of water, bring the water to a boil, then turn off the heat, cover and let steep for 15 minutes.
How long should ginger be taken for it to be effective?
To relieve nausea, ginger can be taken as needed, although taking it before the circumstance that causes the nausea can be helpful also. For joint and muscle support, you might need to take ginger for a longer period of time to see results. For instance, in one study, female athletes who took three grams of ginger for six weeks experienced decreased muscle soreness compared to the group who took a placebo.* Taking ginger before exercising has been found to provide benefit in some studies.*
Are there side effects from taking a ginger dietary supplement?
Ginger is generally recognized as safe by the Food and Drug Administration. However, ginger can decrease the stickiness of platelets, which might contribute to a blood-thinning effect, particularly when used in medicinal amounts. Although known for its benefits for the digestive system, ginger can cause heartburn in some people.
Is ginger safe to take with medications?
Because ginger can have a blood-thinning effect, if you are taking a blood-thinning medication, you should avoid ginger or use it with caution. Talk to your health care professional about using ginger if you take one of these medications or if you are planning to have surgery.
Note: If you are considering taking a ginger dietary supplement, check with your health care professional first, especially if you are pregnant or have a health condition.
*These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
Share
Tweet
Nov. 29, 2016 See more In-depth
Products and Services
The Mayo Clinic Diet Online
Book: The Mayo Clinic Diet
See also
Are you getting enough calcium?
Calcium: Building better bones
Calcium
Calcium supplements for men
Timing calcium supplements
Can vitamins help prevent a heart attack?
Dietary supplements: Skip megadoses
Vitamin C and mood
Eye vitamins: Can they prevent or treat glaucoma?
Fiber supplements
Ground flaxseed
Heartburn medicines and B-12 deficiency
Herbal supplements: Avoid gimmicks
Herbal supplements
Kratom and pregnancy: Not a safe mix
Multivitamins for kids
Nutrition: Does it come in a pill?
Nutrition know-how: Why whole food counts
Percent Daily Value
Prebiotics, probiotics and your health
Prenatal vitamins
Nutritional supplements
Are dietary supplements right for you?
Bromelain
Calories and nutrients to fuel sports performance
Curcumin
Dietary supplements: What to know before you buy
Is your dietary supplement safe?
Melatonin
Smart practices for healthy living
Tips for staying supplement savvy
What are omega-3 fatty acids from fish oil?
What are probiotics?
What are multivitamin/mineral dietary supplements?
What is Boswellia?
What is whey protein?
Vitamin C megadoses
Vitamin C: An essential nutrient
Vitamin D and MS: Any connection?
Vitamin D: Can it prevent Alzheimer's & dementia?
Vitamin D deficiency
Vitamin D: Essential with calcium
Vitamin D for babies
Vitamin D toxicity
Vitamins for MS: Do supplements make a difference?
Vitamins 101
What does a 'seal of approval' mean?
Wheatgrass
Show MoreShow Less
Advertisement
Mayo Clinic does not endorse companies or products. Advertising revenue supports our not-for-profit mission.
Advertising & Sponsorship
Policy
Opportunities
Ad Choices
Mayo Clinic Marketplace
Check out these best-sellers and special offers on books and newsletters from Mayo Clinic.
The Mayo Clinic Diet Combo
4 simple steps to a joy-filled life
Live stronger, longer and healthier
Stop osteoporosis in its tracks
FREE TRIAL — Mayo Clinic Health Letter
Other Topics in Patient Care & Health Info
Healthy Lifestyle
Symptoms A-Z
Diseases & Conditions A-Z
Tests & Procedures A-Z
Drugs & Supplements A-Z
Appointments
Patient & Visitor Guide
Billing & Insurance
Patient Online Services
.
ART-20267062
Healthy Lifestyle
Nutrition and healthy eating
In-Depth
Thorne - What is ginger
Mayo Clinic Footer
Request Appointment
Give Now
Contact Us
About Mayo Clinic
Employees
Site Map
About This Site
Legal Conditions and Terms
Any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy linked below.
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Notice of Privacy Practices
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Manage Cookies
Reprint Permissions
A single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only. "Mayo," "Mayo Clinic," "MayoClinic.org," "Mayo Clinic Healthy Living," and the triple-shield Mayo Clinic logo are trademarks of Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research.
HON
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here.
© 1998-2019 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research (MFMER). All rights reserved.