Beware of Fake Himalayan Salt Lamps – Zero Benefit in Fake
Himalayan Salt Shaker
Himalayan Sea Salt Health
Home
Cooking on a Salt Block
Himalayan Salt Lamps
Himalayan salt health and beauty
Affiliate Disclaimer
Beware of Fake Himalayan Salt Lamps – Zero Benefit in Fake
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Due to the growing popularity, Fake Himalayan Salt lamps are popping up everywhere. Less than honest manufactures and businesses are capitalizing on this hot new trend.
Himalayan salt lamps are not only beautiful decor pieces, they have many health benefits and the buyer demand is growing rapidly. This often opens the door to scammers and is also part of the reason why some claim Himalayan Salt lamps are a scam or don’t work.
How to Tell if Your Salt Lamp is a Fake?
There are several ways to tell if your salt lamp is fake.
Real Himalayan Salt Lamps Sweat!
If you lamp isn’t sweating you probably have a fake. It’s part of how they work. The proper term for this is Hygroscopy. The cleansing of air by absorbing moisture and airborne particles and evaporating pure water.
Many think their salt lamp is leaking and become concerned, but it’s just a sign that your salt lamp is the real deal.
While this is one of the less desirable features of a real salt lamp, there are things you can do to help this.
Please remember to protect your furniture.
Read More About Your Sweating Salt Lamp Here.
Fake Himalayan Salt Lamps Can be White or Bright
If you salt lamp is really bright or white, it’s probably not genuine.
Salt lamps should omit a soft glow. It it lights up an entire room, that is not a good sign
The light is pinkish or orange in color.
If you salt lamp is not pink or orange in color, but white, it’s doubtful it’s real Himalayan salt.
While there is a such thing as white Himalayan salt, it’s very rare and very expensive. If your lamp is white and was cheap, you have a dud.
Real Himalayan Salt Lamps are Fragile
They will not take a beating. They chip, and if dropped will usually break.
If you accidentally bang it on something and it doesn’t chip or crumble a bit, it’s not real.
If when you pick it up, you don’t get salt dust on your hands, it may be fake.
Many times they will not survive shipping, which brings me to my next point.
Poor Packaging or Poor Return Policy
Legitimate distributors and manufactures are aware of how fragile Himalayan Salt Lamps are. They will be packed with care.
These distributors and manufacturers will also have a reasonable return policy due to this simple fact.
If you get a salt lamp and it’s not packaged with protection, buyer beware.
This is especially true in those big box stores where you find them. You will find a thin box and zero packing materials. Not a good sign.
So make sure and check out the return policy and if you get a salt lamp poorly packaged and it survives the trip to your home, there may be a problem Houston.
Check Where the Salt Came From
Himalayan sea salt is found in the mines at the Western edge of the Himalayan mountains in Khewra Pakistan. It is not located anywhere else on earth.
This should be plainly stated on their website if you are shopping online.
I buy all of my salt lamps at the Himalayan Salt Shop. They are real and I trust them.
You Won’t Feel the Benefits of a Fake Salt Lamp
Providing you have chosen the correct size salt lamp for your room, you should feel some benefits.
My house is old and has a musty smell especially in a rainy season. The salt lamp cuts down on this musty smell tremendously.
With the right size and right amount of salt lamps in your home, you should notice an improvement in your overall air quality and reap the health benefits.
Summary of Signs of Fake Salt Lamps
It’s white and cheap
It’s omits bright light
It is highly durable
It was poorly packaged
It never sweats
Poor return policy where you bought it
No experience of health benefits
All Himalayan Salt lamps are not created equal. Buyer beware. I buy all my salt lamps at the Himalayan Salt Shope
Contents
1 How to Tell if Your Salt Lamp is a Fake?
1.1 Real Himalayan Salt Lamps Sweat!
1.2 Read More About Your Sweating Salt Lamp Here.
1.3 Fake Himalayan Salt Lamps Can be White or Bright
1.4 Real Himalayan Salt Lamps are Fragile
1.5 Poor Packaging or Poor Return Policy
1.6 Check Where the Salt Came From
1.7 You Won’t Feel the Benefits of a Fake Salt Lamp
1.8 Summary of Signs of Fake Salt Lamps
Posted in Uncategorized
Why You Need a Himalayan Salt Lamp in Your Baby’s Room »
« How to Clean a Himalayan Salt Block
One Response to “Beware of Fake Himalayan Salt Lamps – Zero Benefit in Fake”
What Size Himalayan Salt Lamp Do I Need says:
May 1, 2018 at 3:34 pm
[…] And of course there is also Amazon and big box stores, but be careful. There are a lot of fake salt lamps out there. […]
Reply
Leave a Reply
Click here to cancel reply.
Name (required)
Mail (will not be published) (required)
Website
Affiliate Disclosure
We are a professional affiliate marketing site that receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend. We use the same products we are recommending to you so you can be sure you are getting our honest feedback. We are independently owned and the opinions expressed here are our own.
Recent Posts
Why You Need a Himalayan Salt Lamp in Your Baby’s Room
Beware of Fake Himalayan Salt Lamps – Zero Benefit in Fake
How to Clean a Himalayan Salt Block
Himalayan Sea Salt and Honey – Magic Bed Time Tonic!
Himalayan Salt Lamps for Kids-Most Unusual Gift for Kids
Recent Comments
What Size Himalayan Salt Lamp Do I Need on Beware of Fake Himalayan Salt Lamps – Zero Benefit in Fake
Beware of Fake Himalayan Salt Lamps – Zero Benefit in Fake on Why is My Himalayan Salt Lamp Leaking
What Size Himalayan Salt Lamp Do I Need on Do Himalayan Salt Lamps Work to Improve Your Indoor Air Quality
Beware of Fake Himalayan Salt Lamps – Zero Benefit in Fake on What Size Himalayan Salt Lamp Do I Need
Make Gravlax Salmon with Himalayan Salt Blocks on Present Cold Food on a Salt Block!
Archives
November 2018
April 2018
September 2016
November 2015
August 2015
July 2015
May 2015
April 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
September 2014
August 2014
June 2014
April 2014
Categories
Cooking on a salt block
himalayan salt gift ideas
Himalayan sea salt health and beauty
Himalayan sea salt shot glasses
Himlayan Salt Lamps
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org