Cell phones and cancer « KaiserScience
Home
About
ESL resources
History and ELA connections
How to be a good student
Learning styles
Seaport Academy
Ancient Gods: BC vs DC
Special Education
With style and grace
Women in Astronomy
Women in Chemistry
Women in math and science
Women in Physics
Astronomy
Astrology
Astrology analyzed
Astrology is not science
Constellations
Earth Moon system
Galaxies
Leap seconds
Neutrino astronomy
Planets
Asteroids
Comets
Dwarf planets
Earth
Exoplanets
Mars
Meteor impacts
Orbits
Planet names
Planets: Gas giants and Ice giants
Jupiter and it’s moons
Planets: Terrestrial
Super Earths
Proof that Earth revolves
Solar system: Early views
Solar system: medieval to modern views
Solar system: Religious reactions to Heliocentrism
Solar System: Modern view
Stars
Dying stars create elements
Stars Different types
Black Holes
The Big Bang theory
Big Bang Theory and conservation of energy
Big Bang theory and the second law of thermodynamics
The scientific revolution
The Universe
Biology
Animals
Colonial animals
Consciousness in Human and non-Human Animals
Cells
Active transport across cell membranes
Asexual reproduction
Characteristics of Life
Diffusion
Ion channels and carrier proteins
Large molecules in/out of cells
Meiosis
Mitosis
Osmosis
Symbiogenesis
Chemistry of Life
Cellular respiration (Honors)
Cellular respiration intro
Enzymes
Organic molecules
Oxygen atoms
Photosynthesis (Honors)
Photosynthesis Intro
Synthesizing organic molecules
Classification
Archaea
Bacteria
Classification butterflies
Classifying groups of humans
Fungi
Protista
Viruses
Disease
Cancer
Cell phones and cancer
Medicine
Protein folding diseases
Ecology
Biomes
Population community ecosystem biosphere
Population interactions and diversity
Population limits and species interactions
Ecosystems: Human Impact
Adjusted data sets are a normal part of science
Global warming and greenhouse gases
Global warming has not stopped
Global warming Industry knew of climate change
Global warming: Pause in the rate of temp rise
Human activity and loss of biodiversity
Human industrialization affects the Earth
Human population and the environment
Human-caused atmospheric changes
Ozone layer and CFCs
Evolution
2nd law of thermodynamics
Abiogenesis & spontaneous generation
Abiogenesis – modern discoveries
Artificial selection
Bacteria evolving resistance
Charles Darwin’s Voyage of Discovery
clades & phylogenies
clades rotate = equivalent phylogenies
Convergent evolution
Darwin’s notebook
Did neurons evolve twice?
Evolution of our kidneys
Evolution of whales
Evolution: The history of an idea
Finches and evolution
Fossils
Gradualism vs. Punctuated Equilibrium
Homologous structures
Horizontal gene transfer
Human Evolution
Natural selection
Nerves and evolution: laryngeal nerves
Ontogeny and Phylogeny
Religious teachings about Creation
Scars of evolution
Food Health and Nutrition
Ethical sources of food
Organic food and farming
The Natural Carcinogen “Cover-Up”
Vitamins Minerals
Genetics
DNA basic structure
DNA is like an alphabet: analogies
DNA replication
DNA transcription
DNA translation and the Genetic Code
Genetic diseases
Genetic engineering
Gregor Mendel and the discovery of genetics
Human phenotypes that show Mendelian inheritance
Mutations
Punnet squares Monohybrid, Dihybrid, and Trihybrid Crosses
Punnett Squares Intro
Hamster FAQ
Immune system
Vaccines
Lab skills
Chemical indicators
Chromatography
Electrophoresis
Lab acids bases pH scale
Microscope skills
Temperature scales
Using math in biology
Physiology and Anatomy
Blood
Blood type
Brain and nervous system
How does the brain think?
Reflexes
The Human brain – Myths
Breathing Lungs Respiration
Circulatory system
Digestive system
Endocrine system
Excretion
Homeostasis and Feedback
Human reproduction
Embryogenesis
Muscles
Nerves
Nutrients
Sex and gender (human)
Other genders
Skeleton
Vision: How do our eyes work?
Plant life
Chemistry
Acids Bases
Conjugate acids and bases
pH scale
Atoms
Covalent bonds
Electron configuration: Atomic Orbitals and Quantum Numbers
Electron configuration: part 2
Historical models of the atom
Ionic bonds
Ions
Isotopes
Isotopes Neutron Madness!
Molecules Compounds Bonds
Balancing chemical equations
Chemical reactions
Baking Soda and Vinegar
Briggs–Rauscher oscillating reaction
Briggs Rauscher fill-ins
Chemical reaction labs
Coca Cola and Milk Precipitate
Combustion
Density
Dot diagrams
Electrochemistry
2 potato clock
Lasagna Cell
ReDox reactions
Luminol
Gas
Heat and energy
Enthalpy & Hess’ law
History of Chemistry
Labs (Chemistry)
Matter
Phase change
Physical and Chemical changes
Plasma
States of Matter
Moles
Molar math
Nuclear chemistry
Barns Are Painted Red Because
Organic compounds
Naming organic molecules
Organic compounds Vitamins
Pesticides
Periodic table
Alkali metals
Alternative periodic tables
Developing the Periodic Table
Energy levels
Halogens
Metal reactivity series
Metals
Metals and non-metals
Noble gases
Periodic trends
Solutions
Stoichiometry
Limiting reagent
Temperature, Heat, and the Phases of Matter
Earth Science
Atmosphere
Earth’s layered structure
Action at plate boundaries
Africa
Australia
Continental drift and plate tectonics
Continents: How many exist?
Mantle convection
Ophiolites
Silfra rift in Iceland
Earthquakes
Earthquake infographic
New Madrid Seismic Zone
Geography and maps
Latitude and climate
Latitude and longitude
Mercator maps: Use and criticism
Geology terms
Historical geology
Dating rocks and fossils
Geologic eras
Grand Canyon
Radioactive dating
Hydrosphere
Minerals and Rocks
Crystals
How diamonds are made
Rock cycle
Types of rocks
Mountains
New England Geology
Oceanography
Volcanoes
Pawtuckaway State Park
Ring dikes
Yellowstone National Park & Caldera
Weather
Atmosphere characteristics, air pressure
Coriolis effect
Earth-Sun motion and seasons
Factors that affect climate
Fronts
Heating the atmosphere
Hurricanes
Ice ages
Moisture Clouds and Precipitation
Chemtrails: analyzing claims
Contrails
Nor’easters
Regional wind systems, El Nino and La Nina
Tornadoes
Physics
Circular motion
Satellites and weightlessness
Electromag AP
DC circuits AP
Electric charges and fields
Electric currents AP
Electric potential AP
Electromagnetic Induction
Electromagnetic waves AP
Magnetism AP
Electromagnetism
Circuit breakers
Currents and DC circuits
Electric current
Electric fields and potential
Electromagnetic spectrum
Electrostatics
Equipotential Lines
Light is an EM field
Magnetism
Magnetism and electricity
Magnetism labs
Perception of color
Physics of sunsets
Sources of magnetism
Engineering
Fluids
Pressure
Forces: Laws of Motion
Extreme Engineering
Forces and Torques in Muscles and Joints
Forces in nature
Free body diagrams
Friction forces
Friction lab
Inertial balance lab
Mechanical Equilibrium
Net Force
Newton’s 2nd and 3rd laws of motion
Normal force Objects really never touch
Third Law
Gravity
Lab Why Is There a Tidal Bulge Opposite the Moon?
Orbits and conic sections
Prove that the Earth is a sphere
Tides
Heat
Changes of state
Internal combustion engines
Second law of thermodynamics
Thermodynamics
Perpetual Motion Machines
Homework (physics)
Introductory skills
Finding Pi Circle lab
Graphing
Interpreting graphs
Lab report
Measuring mass
Metric mania
Metric system
Significant figures
Size and scale of giant monsters
Kinematics
Acceleration
CPO Labs Kinematics
Gravity accelerates downward
Interpreting D-T and V-T graphs
Kinematic equations
Penny drop
Reaction time
Time
Velocity and Acceleration
Light
Light Art and Optics
Light Geometric Optics
Light Optical instruments
Light’s wave nature
Mathematics
Probability and statistics
Symmetry
Modern Physics
Astrophysics and Cosmology
Early quantum theory
Elementary particles
General relativity
Half Life
Molecules and solids
Nuclear energy: uses & effects
Nuclear physics and radioactivity
Quantum mechanics
Special theory of relativity
Momentum
Momentum AP
Philosophy
Physics in films
Analysis of scenes
MythBusters
Rotational motion
Angular momentum
Artificial gravity in a space station
Coriolis effect
Feel rotation of the Earth
Formation of Solar System
Foucault Pendulum
Scientific method
Accuracy and precision
Apophenia
Controlled experiments
Controversies
Correlation and causation
Data dredging and p-hacking
From myths to physics
Relativism Truth and Reality
Scientific model
Simple machines
Rube Goldberg Machines
Vectors
Projectile motion
Vector Calculus: Understanding the Dot Product
Video game physics
Waves
How records work
Interference and superposition
Music
Simple harmonic motion
Sound
Sources of sound
Why pianos are never in tune
Work Power and Energy
Conservation of energy
Energy
Power
Reading and TV connections
9/11
Coding
Algorithms
Artificial intelligence
Binary
Blockly
History of coding & computers
Hour of Code lessons
LEGO Mindstorms NXT
Scratch
Dante’s Inferno
Did NASA send men to the moon?
Documentaries
History
Politics
Megalodon Discovery TV hoax
Mermaids TV documentary hoax
Mythology
Science denialism
Alliance Between Science Denial Movements
Science Denial Is Bipartisan
Teaching science with science fiction
The Core
The Science of Doctor Who
KaiserScience
Search
Search
KaiserScience
Home » Biology » Disease » Cell phones and cancer
Cell phones and cancer
Advertisements
Cells phones emit a small amount of microwave radiation.
Do they cause cancer, or any other health problems?
Before answering the question, let’s make sure that we phrase the question clearly: Are all cell phones the same? No. Do they all use the same wireless technologies? No.
So at the outset we must first consider the possibility that most cell phones may have safe so far, but perhaps new technologies – such as the new 5G standard, or wireless charging – may not be as safe.
When held against the head for long periods of time, a person’s head absorbs some percent of this energy. Microwaves are non-ionizing, meaning that they don’t break DNA bonds, and as such are not carcinogenic (cancer causing.)
However, decades ago, a few preliminary studies suggested that use of cell phones might cause cancer. Since then, no further studies have clearly shown this. Although the use of cell phones went up by a factor of 100%, then 1000%, and then 10,000% percent, the number of head or brain cancers has not changed.
If there was a connection between cell phone microwave radiation and cancer, then this massive increase in cell phone use would have caused a noticeable rise in cancers. Yet this did not occur.
On the other hand, most of this data concerns cell phones that were using old-fashioned, wired chargers, and 2G, 3G or 4G data transmission standards. With the development of various wireless technologies, and the new 5G standards, could these possibly have more risk?
Articles
Can You Hear Me Now? The Truth about Cell Phones and Cancer
Physics shows that cell phones cannot cause cancer. By Michael Shermer on October 1, 2010
… Cell phones cannot cause cancer, because they do not emit enough energy to break the molecular bonds inside cells. Some forms of electromagnetic radiation, such as x-rays, gamma rays and ultraviolet (UV) radiation, are energetic enough to break the bonds in key molecules such as DNA and thereby generate mutations that lead to cancer. Electromagnetic radiation in the form of infrared light, microwaves, television and radio signals, and AC power is too weak to break those bonds, so we don’t worry about radios, televisions, microwave ovens and power outlets causing cancer.
Where do cell phones fall on this spectrum? According to phys­i­­cist Bernard Leikind in a technical article in Skeptic magazine (Vol. 15, No. 4), known carcinogens such as x-rays, gamma rays and UV rays have energies greater than 480 kilojoules per mole (kJ/mole), which is enough to break chemical bonds. Green-light photons hold 240 kJ/mole of energy, which is enough to bend (but not break) the rhodopsin molecules in our retinas that trigger our photosensitive rod cells to fire. A cell phone generates radiation of less than 0.001 kJ/mole. That is 480,000 times weaker than UV rays and 240,000 times weaker than green light!
Even making the cell phone ra­di­a­tion more intense just means that there are more photons of that energy, not stronger photons. Cell phone photons cannot add up to become UV photons or have their effect any more than microwave or radio-wave photons can. In fact, if the bonds holding the key mole­cules of life together could be broken at the energy levels of cell phones, there would be no life at all because the various natural sources of energy from the environment would prevent such bonds from ever forming in the first place.
http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/can-you-hear-me-now/
“Oh no! My cell phone’s going to kill me!”
by Orac on May 19, 2010
… there has not been a large increase in brain cancer or other cancers claimed to be due to cell phone radiation in the 15 to 20 years since the use of cell phones took off back in the 1990’s, nor has any study shown a convincing correlation between cell phone use and brain cancer.
Of course, one would not expect a priori, based on what is known about basic science, that cell phone radiation would cause cancer. After all, the development of cancer in general ultimately requires mutations in critical genes regulating cell growth and development. For an outside treatment to cause such mutations, as far as we know, requires the ability to cause DNA damage through the breaking of chemical bonds. Ionizing radiation can do this, as can certain cehmicals and chemotherapeutic agents. Indeed, that’s how these agents work against cancer because cancer cells tend to be more sensitive to DNA damaging agents than normal cells due to defective DNA repair mechanisms.
Thus, it is highly implausible based on basic science that cell phone radiation could cause cancer. It’s not homeopathy level-implausible, but it’s pretty implausible. Nor is it impossible, as has been claimed, because there may be biological mechanisms behind cancer that we do not yet understand, and it’s almost always physicists with little knowledge of epigenetics and other mechanisms of cancer development who make such dogmatic claims. Still, such physicists are not too far off; if cell phones could cause cancer, it would have to be through a previously unknown physiological or genetic mechanism. Absent compelling evidence of a link between cell phones and cancer, then, it is not unreasonable to rely on the basic science and consider the possibility of such a link to be remote.
Still, anything having to do with “radiation” causes fear, because most people don’t understand the different wavelengths and varieties of radiation. There’s also a cottage industry that’s sprung up to take advantage of people’s lack of knowledge about basic physics and chemistry by selling useless “cell phone radiation shields.” Much like research into various highly implausible forms of “alternative medicine,” though, research into a possible link between cell phone use and brain cancer continues unaffected by considerations of prior plausibility. So does the hysteria, sometimes even infecting prominent, high-ranking cancer researchers who really, really should know better.
http://scienceblogs.com/insolence/2010/05/19/oh-no-my-cell-phones-going-to-kill-me-th/
Mobile phones and cancer – the full picture
The Guardian (UK newspaper,) David Robert Brimes, 7/21/18
Last week the Observer published an article by Mark Hertsgaard and Mark Dowie on a disturbing topic – the idea that telecoms giants might collude to suppress evidence that wireless technology causes cancer.
“The inconvenient truth about cancer and mobile phones: We dismiss claims about mobiles being bad for our health – but is that because studies showing a link to cancer have been cast into doubt by the industry?”, Mark Hertsgaard and Mark Dowie, The Guardian, 7/14/18
The feature was well written, ostensibly well researched, and deeply concerning. Its powerful narrative tapped into rich themes; our deep-seated fears about cancer, corporate greed, and technology’s potentially noxious influence on our health. It spread rapidly across social media – facilitated by the very object on which it cast doubt.
Yet as enthralling as Hertsgaard and Dowie’s narrative might be, it is strewn with rudimentary errors and dubious inferences. As a physicist working in cancer research, I found the authors’ penchant for amplifying claims far beyond that which the evidence allows troubling. And as a scientist deeply invested in public understanding of science, I’ve seen first-hand the damage that scaremongering can do to societal health. While it is tempting to rage into the void, perhaps this episode can serve as a case study in how public understanding of science can be mangled, and what warning signs we might look out for.
Mobile phones and cancer – the full picture, David Robert Grimes
Dr David Robert Grimes (@drg1985) is a physicist, cancer researcher, and science writer based at Queen’s University Belfast and the University of Oxford, and is also a recipient of the Sense About Science/Nature Maddox prize
Why 5G Makes Me Reconsider the Health Effects of Cell Phones
Usan Crawford, Wired Magazine, 4/1/2019
I see a parallel in another big news story: the hype and enthusiasm about 5G wireless as the “thing that will make the existing [communications] model obsolete.” 5G is touted as the solution to all our problems—which sounds pretty unrealistic, as I’ve written in the past. (We’ll still need fiber wires everywhere, including deep in rural areas, to make 5G serve everyone, and there’s a real risk that we’ll end up with local 5G monopolies absent wise government intervention.)
And there’s a new (to me) angle to 5G that I’ve resisted in the past: What if transmissions to and from 5G cells, which will need to be everywhere, and much closer to us than traditional cell towers, pulsing out very-high-frequency radio waves at high power levels, pose real risks to human health?
I’ve been impatient for years with people complaining about the health effects of wireless communications. The phrase “tinfoil hat” leaps to mind, I readily concede. But I am learning that hundreds of scientists and tens of thousands of others believe that the intensity of 5G represents a phase change and that 5G’s effects on mankind should be studied closely before this technology is widely adopted.
So far, the European Commission, focused on ensuring its market players lead the way in advanced wireless services, has rejected pausing to consider the human health effects of 5G. The Federal Communications Commission has acted similarly.
But what if the FCC is measuring public health effects against a decades-old standard that (a) measures the wrong thing and (b) was based on the work of an insular, private group, half of whose initial funding came from the power and telecom industries and that elects its own members? I am bothered enough to suggest that we need better, more neutral standards based on widely accepted science.
Here’s the quick summary: The FCC standard for measuring the health effects of electromagnetic radiation is based on whether the exposure, on average, will heat human tissue over short periods (6 minutes for occupational work and 30 minutes for public exposure). That standard was adopted in 1996. (The FCC launched a process in 2013 to re-examine this standard, but its review doesn’t seem to be progressing.)
But some very persistent scientists say that’s the wrong standard, for at least two reasons: Human cells can be disrupted by mechanisms that don’t necessarily involve heating, and the standard measures average exposure rather than potentially harmful peaks. They’re particularly worried about effects on the skin and eyes of bursts of 5G transmissions that may lead to short, harmful temperature spikes in exposed people. But that’s not the only concern.
Other scientists worry about mental health effects, sterility, cancer, and a host of other problems they say can be triggered by long-term exposure to base stations and handheld devices. Canadian scientist Magda Havas, who studies and writes about electromagnetic radiation and teaches at the University of Trent, asserts that the governmental bodies and agencies that say that “non-ionizing” (effectively, non-heating) radiation is safe and can’t cause cancer below existing heat guidelines are wrong; she points to what she calls “sufficient scientific evidence of cellular damage” caused by these transmissions.
…the FCC’s 1996 rules don’t account for long-term exposure or cellular/biological effects that don’t involve heating. And the FCC’s standard is based in turn on standards adopted 30 years ago by a private group based in Germany called the International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP). ICNIRP has been described as loyal to both the telecom and energy industries, elects its own members, and is accountable to no one.
As an outsider, it feels to me that the scientific concernabout 5G health effects is relatively underfunded and that there’s a lot of denial and confusion about the health risks. To his credit, Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Connecticut) asked about scientific evidence on the health effects of 5G during a hearing a couple of months ago, titled Winning the Race to 5G and the Next Era of Technology Innovation in the United States. “I believe that Americans deserve to know what the health effects are,” Blumenthal said. “Not to prejudge what scientific studies may show. They deserve also a commitment to do the research on outstanding questions.“ Told there were no industry-funded studies on the health effects of 5G, Blumenthal said, “So, we are flying blind here on health and safety.” At least he’s asking.
Petition: 26,000 Scientists Oppose 5G Roll Out
by Arthur Firstenberg, January 29, 2019
… If the telecommunications industry’s plans for 5G come to fruition, no person, no animal, no bird, no insect and no plant on Earth will be able to avoid exposure, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, to levels of RF radiation that are tens to hundreds of times greater than what exists today, without any possibility of escape anywhere on the planet. These 5G plans threaten to provoke serious, irreversible effects on humans and permanent damage to all of the Earth’s ecosystems. Immediate measures must be taken to protect humanity and the environment, in accordance with ethical imperatives and international agreements.
Learning Standards
Math Curriculum Framework
Probability and statistics/risk assessment: Construct and interpret scatter plots for bivariate measurement data to investigate patterns of association between two quantities. Describe patterns such as clustering, outliers, positive or negative association, linear association, and nonlinear.
Algebra II: Statistics and Probability
Making Inferences and Justifying Conclusions
• Understand and evaluate random processes underlying statistical experiments.
• Make inferences and justify conclusions from sample surveys, experiments and observational studies.
Standards for mathematical practice:
1. Make sense of problems and persevere in solving them.
2. Reason abstractly and quantitatively.
3. Construct viable arguments and critique the reasoning of others.
4. Model with mathematics.
5. Use appropriate tools strategically.
6. Attend to precision.
7. Look for and make use of structure.
8. Look for an express regularity in repeated reasoning.
2016 Massachusetts Science and Technology/Engineering Curriculum Framework
High School: Overview of Science and Engineering Practices
By the end of high school, students should have an understanding of and ability to apply each science and engineering practice to understand the world around them. Students should have had many opportunities to immerse themselves in the practices and to explore why they are central to the applications of science and engineering. Some examples of these science and engineering practices include… Apply concepts of statistics and probability (including determining function fits to data, slope, intercept, and correlation coefficient for linear fits) to scientific and engineering questions and problems.
Advertisements
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
Like this:
Like Loading...
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: