Chances of Getting Pregnant while Breastfeeding | SheCares
SheCares Keep your body in hormonal balance
Hormones
Natural Hormones
Estrogen
Progesterone
Testosterone
HRT
BioIdentical
Hormonal Imbalance Treatments
Female Hormones
Symptoms
Anxiety
Breast Pain
Cramps
Depression
Difficulty Concentrating
Dizziness
Dyspareunia
Endometriosis
Fatigue
Hair Loss
Headaches
Hot Flashes
Infertility
Irregular Periods
Itchy Skin
Loss of Libido
Memory Lapses
Miscarriage
Mood Swings
Muscle Weakness
Night Sweats
Osteoporosis
Sleep Disorders
Tingling Extremities
Vaginal Dryness
Weight Gain
PMS
PCOS
Perimenopause Symptoms
Postmenopause Symptoms
Not seeing what you're looking for?
Hormonal Imbalance Symptoms
Menstruation
Female Reproductive System
Menstrual Cycle
Normal Period Symptoms
Menstrual Disorders
Menstrual Relief
Healthy Periods
Menstrual Hygiene
Period Trackers
Menstruation
Pregnancy
Pre-Pregnancy
Conception
Pregnancy
Childbirth
Postpartum
Ovulation
Ovulation Cycle
Signs & Symptoms
Ovulation Tests
Ovulation Predictors
Ovulation Problems
Ovulation Induction
Fertility
Ovarian Reserve
Fertility Tests
Fertility and Age
Fertility Preservation
Male Fertility
Infertility
Pregnancy Guide
Menopause
What Happens During Menopause?
Stages of Menopause
Causes of Menopause
Signs and Symptoms of Menopause
Menopause Problems
Menopause Tests
Treatment of Menopause
Women's Wellness
Home
Pregnancy
How Conception Works
Getting Pregnant while Breastfeeding
By SheCares Editorial Team
- Updated: March 26, 2019
It is common for women who just had a baby to be convinced that they are not fertile as long as they are breastfeeding.
Although it is true that women are unlikely to get pregnant while breastfeeding, there are a number of requirements that have to be met in order to maintain the inhibitory effects of nursing on a woman's fertility. Understanding the relationship behind breastfeeding and fertility is essential to a safe postpartumand healthy spacing between pregnancies.
Continue reading about regaining fertility while breastfeeding, including your odds of conceiving and whether nursing while pregnant is safe for you and the baby.
Pin
Sections
How Conception Works Overview
Chances of Getting Pregnant
Getting Pregnant by Age
Getting Pregnant Around Period and Ovulation
Getting Pregnant on Birth Control
Getting Pregnant after Stopping Birth Control
Getting Pregnant after Tubal Ligation
Getting Pregnant while Breastfeeding
How Long Does It Take to Get Pregnant
How Soon After Giving Birth Can You Get Pregnant
How to Have Twins
Conceiving a Boy or a Girl
Fertility while Breastfeeding
Pin
How Does Breastfeeding Prevent Pregnancy
Human milk is produced in the breasts, specifically in small areas called alveoli, which are connected to the nipples through a series of ducts.
The baby's mouth suckling on the nipples stimulates the brain to release two hormones, prolactin and oxytocin. While these hormones carry on essential functions in nursing, prolactin also plays a crucial role in a woman's fertility.
High prolactin levels inhibit gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), which is key to suppressing the release of other key reproductive hormones, like follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH). With these hormones suppressed, ovulation cannot take place, though only temporarily.
Regaining Fertility While Breastfeeding
Transitioning to full fertility while breastfeeding generally occurs in stages, which - depending on individual breastfeeding patterns and a woman's hormonal state - might take from about six weeks to over a year.
The process of fertility restoration after having a baby is very individual. Some women who are nursing might ovulate before their first post-partum menses, while others might start having periods but without ovulation. Although breastfeeding is known to temporarily suppress menstruation, there is no way to know for sure for when a woman's ovulation will return.
Certain milestone moments, such as introducing the newborn to solid food or longer sleep intervals at nighttime, might be interpreted by the body as a reduced milk demand, triggering ovulation sooner.
Chances of Pregnancy while Breastfeeding
Pin
A woman's odds of getting pregnant while breastfeeding hugely depend on its patterns, most importantly the frequency and total amount of time the baby is at the breast in 24 hours. Generally, the more a woman nurses, the less likely she is to ovulate.
There are two types of breastfeeding patterns that are commonly used to naturally space pregnancies, exclusive and ecological breastfeeding.
Exclusive Breastfeeding
Also called Lactational Amenorrhea Method (LAM), the chances of pregnancy while exclusively breastfeeding are 1-2%, which means that one to two women out of a 100 will get pregnant. On average, it takes six months for menstruation and full fertility to return while on this type of breastfeeding.
The LAM conditions include the following:
Baby is under the age of six months
Baby is only fed breast milk straight from the breast (no water, etc.)
A woman's period has not returned after two months since birth
Ecological Breastfeeding
Ecological breastfeeding consists of The Seven Standards, a set of conditions that have to be followed in order to maintain a fertility-free life.
The chances of pregnancy while breastfeeding ecologically are near zero during the first three months. After three and before six months, the chances increase to about 2% (2 in 100 women will get pregnant) and 6% onwards until the first period. On average, it takes 14 to 16 months for menstruation to return while on this type of breastfeeding.
The Seven Standards include the following:
Exclusively breastfeeding the baby for the first six months
Using no pacifiers or bottles
Comforting the baby at the breast
Nursing on cue during the day and night
Sleeping with the baby for night feedings
Sleeping with the baby during daytime naps for feeding
Keeping the baby close to avoid separation
Pregnant and Breastfeeding
Pin
As a woman breastfeeds, the oxytocin that is released causes uterine contractions, which helps the organ to return to its pre-pregnancy condition. Consequently, women often wonder if continual breastfeeding while pregnant will negatively affect the fetus or lower milk supply.
Fortunately, in a healthy gestation, these mild contractions do not lead to pregnancy complications, such as preterm birth, and most women can safely continue nursing their babies during pregnancy as long as they can physically and psychologically support its demands. Nursing while pregnant might bring about fatigue, nausea, and breast tenderness, among other discomforts.
Nevertheless, women with high-risk pregnancies, multiple gestations (twins, triplets, etc.), or other conditions might be advised to wean their babies, effectively shutting down milk production.
Advertisement
Key Takeaways
Breastfeeding is often considered a foolproof method of contraception, while – in reality – it tends to provide only temporary protection from unplanned pregnancies. Its inhibitory effects on ovulation are due to high levels of the hormone prolactin that are released as the baby stimulates the breasts while suckling on them. The process of regaining fertility while breastfeeding varies from woman to woman and might range from six weeks to over a year after birth, depending on the patterns of breastfeeding. The two most common types of nursing as a means of natural contraception include exclusive breastfeeding and ecological breastfeeding, each with a set of conditions that have to be met to keep the chances of conceiving while breastfeeding low.
Bibliography
American Pregnancy Association. (2018). Breastfeeding While Pregnant. Retrieved February 19, 2019 from http://americanpregnancy.org/breastfeeding/breastfeeding-while-pregnant/
Berkeley University. (2011). Your Guide to Breastfeeding. Retrieved February 19, 2019 from https://uhs.berkeley.edu/sites/default/files/wellness-womenshealth_breastfeedingguide_0.pdf
Breastfeeding USA. (n.d.). Understanding Your Fertility while Breastfeeding. Retrieved February 19, 2019 from https://breastfeedingusa.org/content/article/understanding-your-fertility-while-breastfeeding
Natural Family Planning International. (2011). Ecological Breastfeeding and Exclusive Breastfeeding. Retrieved February 19, 2019 from http://nfpandmore.org/wordpress/?p=1571
Stanford Medicine. (n.d.). Getting Started with Breastfeeding. Retrieved February 19, 2019 from https://med.stanford.edu/newborns/professional-education/breastfeeding.html
How Long Does It Take to Get Pregnant
Chances of Getting Pregnant
Share
Tweet
Pin
Advertisement
The Three Steps to Be Healthier and Feel Great
1
Understand Your Body
A better understanding of how your body works will help you cope with hormonal fluctuations.
Understand Hormones
2
Identify Any Disorder
Detecting symptoms of hormonal imbalance can prevent you from developing serious conditions.
Hormonal Symptoms
3
Get Healthier
Implement simple lifestyle changes and natural approaches to prevent, manage, and relieve symptoms.
Wellness
SheCares.com
SheCares.com is dedicated to providing reliable, up-to-date information and advice on the most common topics in women's health, including PMS, menopause, natural hormones, hormonal conditions, and fertility.
Additional Information
About
Privacy
Terms of use
Sitemap
Find us on
©Copyright 2019. SheCares.com. All Rights Reserved.
The content of these informational pages is for educational purposes and health care support only and does not intend to be used for diagnosis or treatment of a health problem or as substitute for consulting a licensed medical professional.