Diabetes - articles and news about Diabetes page 3
Home Search Menu Our products Ask an Expert
Arthritis
Cancer
Dementia
Diabetes
Fitness
Health
Heart Health
Weight-loss
Our products
Ask an Expert
Member Login
Share your experience
Diabetes
Diabetes mellitus and stress go hand in hand - here's how to manage both
There's a definitive relationship between diabetes mellitus and stress. If you have the blood sugar disease, when stress becomes too much it can affect your physical, emotional and mental well-being, as well as your health. It doesn't matter what you're stressing over - finances, work, family or coping with a recent diabetes mellitus diagnosis. When your mind is elsewhere, you might drink more ... ››› more
[19 February 2018]
Does fruit juice really spike your blood sugar levels?
Whether you're trying to take control of your blood sugar levels to manage type 2 diabetes or simply boost overall health, we bet you're curious as to whether or not drinking fruit juice raises your levels. The short answer is no - drinking fruit juice won't spike your blood sugar levels. Well, not as long as it's 100% fruit juice, that is. This is according to a study published in the Journal ... ››› more
[14 February 2018]
Are your eating habits setting you up for type 2 diabetes?
Eating foods like cereal and bacon may seem harmless, but can actually increase your risk of type 2 diabetes. The blood sugar disease is caused by insulin resistance, which occurs when your body can't produce insulin properly. Insulin is the hormone that controls your blood sugar levels. There are a number of factors that can cause insulin-producing cells to fail, including obesity, inactivi... ››› more
[07 February 2018]
These smoothie ingredients won't spike your blood sugar levels
While smoothies are a quick and easy healthy snack or meal, if you concoct the wrong blend, your drink can spike your blood sugar levels, leaving you feeling queasy rather than energised. So which ingredients are recommended for keeping your blood sugar levels even-keeled and feelings of hunger and nausea at bay? Here are three that nutritionists recommend. Three smoothie staples for healthy... ››› more
[29 January 2018]
Four sleep tips to keep your blood sugar levels in check
Research shows that sleep plays a critical role in maintaining healthy blood sugar levels and beating type 2 diabetes. According to a study published in the Annals of Epidemiology, if f you get less than six hours of shut-eye on most nights, you're three times more likely to have elevated blood sugar levels! Experts say the best strategy to improve your sleep and keep your blood sugar levels st... ››› more
[25 January 2018]
Ward off type 2 diabetes by eating THIS for breakfast every day
If you're an egg lover, we have some good news! Recent research published in the America Journal of Clinical Nutrition has revealed that consuming an egg a day may lower your risk for type 2 diabetes. This follows the USDA's announcement that it's thrown out its longstanding recommendation that you shouldn't eat more than 300 mg cholesterol per day. Things keep looking (sunny side) up! Read on ... ››› more
[22 January 2018]
The amazing effects of ginger on blood sugar levels in diabetics
For centuries, people around the world have been using ginger to add a kick to their favourite foods and as a remedy for colds, motion sickness and arthritis pain. Now, it looks like ginger has benefits for your blood sugar levels, too. A recent study conducted by researchers at Shahid Sadoughi University of Medical Sciences in Yazd, Iran, showed that ginger can lower blood sugar n people with ... ››› more
[19 January 2018]
Your daytime naps could indicate risk of type 2 diabetes...
If you often takes naps during the day to recharge your energy levels, you might want to pull your head out from under the covers! A new meta-analysis presented at the American College of Cardiology's (ACC) Annual Scientific Session suggests that people who take regular naps have an increased risk of type 2 diabetes and heart problems. For the full findings, read on… Study links daytime f... ››› more
[15 January 2018]
Cardiovascular disease, mental disorders and other conditions tied to an unhealthy microbiome
Who would've ever guessed that poor gut health can result in more serious health conditions, such as cardiovascular disease and mental disorders? Scientists are only just beginning to understand the microbiome; all of your microbes' genes. What they recently discovered is that you don't have to be experiencing gastrointestinal symptoms to have poor micrbiome health. Read on for eight chronic... ››› more
[04 January 2018]
An unhealthy diet abundant in fat promotes diabetes mellitus!
Scientists from the Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry in Munich, Germany may have found a new way to treat diabetes mellitus - a group of diseases that result in too much sugar in the blood. In a new study, they found that a stress protein found in muscle has an effect that promotes the blood sugar disorder. They believe that this finding could pave the way to a completely new treatment approa... ››› more
[30 December 2017]
Page: « 1 2 3 4 5 6 »
Editor's Picks
Latest News
Most Read
Discover all the ways coconut oil can help YOUR health here…
Burn extra calories by eating more fat! Read about it here…
5 Things You MUST Know About Cancer Right Away!
How to Fool Your Body into Thinking You're Younger
The Heart Disease Scam. That Generates Over $100 Billion a Year...And May Cost You Your Life
Fatigue, hair loss, joint pain, mouth ulcers? It could be lupus...
New study reveals exercise at night helps you sleep better
The citrus secret that stops cancer in its tracks...
Turn on this youth elixir in your blood!
Two ways you can starve cancer out of your body!
This natural nutrient is good for your heart and your love life!
Amazing new study shows how curcumin stops tumours from growing...
6 Dangerous medication mistakes you need to know about...
Soothe your joint pain away with the help of these 5 teas...
Little tips to tame your prostate - beyond supplements...
Do you stress-eat? This herb can stop your cravings!
Is a deficiency in this mineral causing your joint pain?
2 Kitchen recipes for painful muscles and joints...
It's good for your joints, eyes, brain, heart and more!
This refreshing drink is proven to help you lose weight!
5 Natural treatments for nerve pain from diabetes...
They're tiny but they pack massive health benefits for your heart...
Why eggs don't cause cholesterol unless you do this...
Soothe your joint pain away with the help of these 5 teas...
The breast cancer fighting mineral you can't afford to ignore!
Watch And Learn
Related Products
How to Fool Your Body into Thinking You're Younger
>>Find out more
5 Things You MUST Know About Cancer Right Away >>more
It's time to say goodbye to your belly fat for good. Find Out More>>
Resources
Ask our Experts...
Shop for health products
Check out today's Q&A
© 2019 FSPHealthAndFitness.co.za. All rights reserved.
ContactPrivacy PolicyFAQOur ProductsDisclaimerAbout usUseful linksWhitelist Your Health BytesOur Shop
Disclaimer:
Copyright 2018, Fleet Street Publications (Pty) Ltd. The information contained herein is obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but its accuracy cannot be guaranteed. No action or inaction should be taken based solely on the contents of this publication. We do research all our recommendations and articles thoroughly, but we disclaim all liability for any inaccuracies or omissions found in this publication. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by means of electronic or mechanical, including recording , photocopying, or via a computerised or electric storage or retrieval system without permission granted in writing from the publishers.
powered by
Fokus Digital Services