Urine therapeutics - information on urine therapy
Introduction to Urine therapy
Urine therapy is a type of alternative therapy that involves the drinking or rubbing onto the skin of one's own urine. Urine therapy has been practiced for thousands of years and has merely fallen a bit into obscurity in the last century. However, urine therapy may seem to be unorthodox and perhaps revolutionary, it does not introduce anything new or original. It has been known throughout the centuries both in the West and in the East.
Composition of urine
The first question that probably comes to mind is whether urine is not a toxic substance and how a toxic waste product could ever be of any benefit for your health. Well, urine is not a toxic waste product and this has been scientifically proven. 95% of urine is water, 2.5% consists of urea and the remaining 2.5% is a mixture of minerals, salt, hormones and enzymes. Toxic substances are being removed from the body through the liver and intestines, through the skin and through the outbreath. The main function of the kidneys is to keep the composition of the blood in optimal balance. When there is too much water, the kidneys will remove it. But that doesn't make water into a toxic waste product.
Basis of Urine therapy
Only the substance urea can be poisonous when present in very large amounts in the blood. However, this is irrelevant in the practice of drinking urine, as urine is not immediately put back in the bloodstream. In the small amounts urea gets back into the body, it is purifying, clears up excess mucus and has a number of specific, very useful effects. Moreover, it has a wonderful healing and tonifying effect when applied to the skin. You can find urea in many skin products as one of the main components This brings us at a last important feature of urine. Urine itself is, as said, not a toxic waste product. It does contain, however, minute particles connected with possible disease processes in the body. These minute particles are mainly antibodies, which upon re-ingesting can help the body to react on specific pathological situations.
Urine therapy helps in many diseases
It has been reported that urea found in urine has anti-cancerous properties. The urea seems to disrupt the ability of cancer cells to group together and kills them by upsetting some of their normal metabolic activities. Urine therapy has been used to treat cancers of the skin, cervix, lungs, eyes, breast, and liver. Liquid urea can be injected into the skin around skin tumors or directly into the tumors themselves. Powdered urea can be applied to tumors, and it can be taken orally in liquid or pill form. This is a much less-disgusting method than urinating into a glass and drinking it.
Examples of urine based therapies
Trembling hands and knees can be helped by washing and rubbing one's own warm urine into the skin directly after one has urinated.
All kinds of throat inflammation can be helped by gargling with urine to which a bit of saffron has been added.
A mixture of potato- and sulphur-powder, mixed with heated, old urine helps against hair loss. One should rub this mixture into the scalp; this slows down loss of hair (calf's gall can be added if necessary).
One can best heal injuries to the eyes with honey dissolved in the lightly boiled urine from a young man. One should wash the eyes as often as possible with this fluid.
In the beginning stages of dropsy, one should drink one's own morning urine on an empty stomach for a prolonged period of time.
This also helps against jaundice.
Urine healer
Auto urine therapy
Urinalysis
Precautions
Articles
Transmutation theory
Treatments
Applications
FAQ
Experiences
Resources
contact us | home
All rights reserved by UrineTherapeutics.com