Signs of Morphine Addiction You Can't Ignore
Recovery Centers
A Non-Profit Drug & Alcohol Rehab Referral & Placement Service
Let Us Help You. Call Now. 1-800-895-1695
Find Recovery by State
Recovery Centers
Methadone Clinics
Substance Abuse
Heroin Addiction
Drug Addiction
Meth Addiction
Crack Addiction
Alcohol Addiction
Opiate Addiction
Cocaine Addiction
Marijuana Addiction
Prescription Drugs
Oxycontin Addiction
Oxycodone Addiction
Hydrocodone Addiction
Morphine Addiction
Codeine Addiction
Adderall Addiction
Methadone Addiction
Xanax Addiction
Vicodin Addiction
Tramadol Addiction
Percocet Addiction
Behavioral Addictions
Sexual Addiction
Food Addiction
Gambling Addiction
Video Game Addiction
Computer Addiction
Shopping Addiction
Internet Addiction
Impulse Control Disorders
Signs of Morphine Addiction You Can’t Ignore
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Print
More
LinkedIn
Pocket
Tumblr
Reddit
The Watershed Addiction Treatment Programs
Palm Beaches, Florida
The Watershed of the Palm Beaches is licensed by the State of Florida and “Gold Seal” accredited by The Joint Commission for alcohol and drug treatment. This symbolizes value and illumines the dedication to meeting industry performance standards. We are a world-class health care facility that offers professional addiction treatment. Just two miles from beautiful Palm Beach County beaches, our rehabilitation center is the perfect setting to emerge refreshed and renewed.
Read More ›
According to a study from the NCBI, “Addiction to opiates such as morphine is a major public health concern.” Morphine is an extremely powerful narcotic and can become addictive very quickly. Those who are addicted to the drug will exhibit signs that are difficult to ignore.
Behavioral Signs of Morphine Addiction
Someone who is addicted to morphine will be taking the drug nearly all the time. Whenever they are on it, they will exhibit these signs of morphine intoxication, as stated by the NIDA:
If you’re constantly preoccupied with thoughts of morphine you may be addicted.
Dizziness
Euphoria
Drowsiness
Sedation
These symptoms will be common among morphine addicts who will likely be under the influence of the drug much of the time. While morphine’s effects on the brain causes users to act a certain way, addiction has its own set of behavioral signs, including:
Apathy toward work, school, and other responsibilities
A desire to spend time only with others who abuse morphine and other drugs
Confusion
The inability to be happy or feel normal when not on morphine
Hostility toward those who bring up the person’s drug abuse
Drug-seeking behavior that causes the person to seek out more morphine, even to their detriment
Morphine addicts will also find ways of getting more of the drug, often resorting to illegal actions. Some people create fake prescriptions or visit different doctors in order to get their fix. Morphine addicts will also take oxycodone, hydrocodone, or other opioids if morphine is not available, perhaps even searching the medicine cabinets of friends and family members and taking the drugs there.
When someone becomes addicted to morphine, they will not be able to stop taking the drug on their own. This is why they behave the way they do and why the signs of morphine addiction become clearer the longer it goes on.
Physical Signs of Morphine Addiction
Someone who is addicted to morphine will likely experience chronic constipation as that is one of the most common side effects of opioid drugs. The person might visit a doctor or take over-the-counter medications for this issue, but it will be a constant problem for them and may lead to more troubling issues.
Nausea and vomiting are also strong signs of severe morphine abuse. These issues often occur in those who are abusing morphine, and people addicted to the drug are no exception.
Many people also inject morphine which, over time, can cause track marks on their arms as well as other issues. The person will likely try to hide these marks with long-sleeved shirts and other ways of keeping their arms hidden.
If someone overdoses on morphine because they are abusing it, there is a strong likelihood that they are addicted to the drug as well. Tolerance causes a person to take more and more of the drug in order to feel the same effects, and when a person abuses a narcotic, this building tolerance often goes along with addiction.
There are many obvious signs of morphine addiction that you cannot ignore. When a person begins exhibiting many of these signs, it is obvious that they need help. The most sure sign that someone is addicted to morphine, though, is that they are unable to stop on their own, even if they want to.
Related Articles
Morphine Addiction Treatment Options - Morphine addiction recovery often requires some type of formal treatment in an inpatient or an outpatient rehab setting. Medications such as methadone, buprenorphine and naloxone may be prescribed along with a program of individual and group therapy.
Morphine Street Names - When a powerful and dangerous drug like morphine is abused, people abusing it don't often refer to it by name. Instead, they use a variety of made up names that conceal what the drug actually is, or that they are talking about drugs at all.
Examples of insurance companies that drug rehabs may accept:
Home
Recovery Centers
Methadone Clinics
Sitemap
© Copyright 2019 • All rights reserved RecoveryCenters.org
Speak with a placement counselor now 1-800-895-1695
powered by Olark live chat software