Astonishing Evidence: Coconut Oil And Baking Soda Can Kill Cancer
Inspirations
Health
Awareness
News
Technology
Science
skip to main | skip to sidebar
Astonishing Evidence: Coconut Oil And Baking Soda Can Kill Cancer
Posted by Awareness on Why Don't You Try This?
Tuesday, March 29, 2016
Share on Facebook
A woman who was suffering from basal cell carcinoma skin cancer on the crown of her head was cured by her daughter's insistence on trying baking soda pastes applied directly to the skin cancer. At first, Kyneret Azizo's mother resisted, but Azizo, a respected writer and advocate of natural remedies, had read of people curing their skin cancer with simple water and baking soda, bicarbonate of soda, not baking powder.
But after three surgical procedures resulted in the cancer returning worse each time, the mother yielded to Azizo's urging. She mixed the baking soda with pure cold pressed organic coconut oil into a thick paste instead of water. She knew that coconut oil has skin cellular regenerative powers and figured the oil would be an effective adjunct for the baking soda. It's applied to the cancerous spot without rubbing it in and left there.
The only pharmaceutical Azizo used was Polysporin Triple 3 Antibiotics applied at night. Just about any other antibiotic ointment can be used as a precaution against bacterial infection occurring within the wound opened by the tumors demise. I'm wondering if colloidal silver soaked cotton would work also.
This ointment or whatever antibiotic application one chooses to use is stopped when the open wound closes. But Azizo continued the baking soda and coconut oil application with the addition of cotton soaked vinegar taped to the skin, which induced penetration of the baking soda to the basal cell carcinoma roots that are beyond the skin's surface. There seems to be another even better solvent for this purpose: DMSO.
After applying the baking soda – coconut oil diligently for 38 days, Azizo's mother was completely free from skin cancer and her wound totally healed. Although this type of skin cancer is not deadly like melanoma can be, nonetheless it does continue spreading on the skin until it's totally cured.
We're talking basic household baking soda here, nothing fancy or unusual. The rumors of aluminum in baking soda are misguided. It's baking powder that often contains aluminum unless the label says aluminum free. Baking soda is highly alkaline producing, and cancer tumors thrive on acidic environments while folding under alkaline settings.
Now For An Even More Dramatic Life And Death Story
Recently divorced and low on cash, Vernon Johnston used the VA (Veteran's Administration) system to determine he had prostate cancer that was Stage III, but soon metastasized into his hip area bone matter and became stage IV. He was only weeks away from being examined to determine what therapy he needed to undergo when one of his son's recommended Vernon investigate substances that rapidly alkalized on a cellular level.
Vernon discovered cesium and ordered it, but it was slow arriving. So he grabbed baking soda and used blackstrap molasses, instead of maple syrup, as the Trojan Horse sugar bait for cancer cells to open wide and take in the highly alkaline influence of baking soda that would lead to the cancer cells' deaths.
He used what he had, and by the time of his next bone scan less than two weeks later, the scan determined no evidence of spreading cancer. His PSA had dropped from 22 to 5 to .1 over the course of his DIY (do it yourself) treatment and pharmaceutical prescriptions. You can read Vernon's story in his own words here.
In addition to his DIY protocol, he exposed himself to lots of sunlight, did breathing exercises to increase oxygen delivery into the cancerous areas, and treated himself to a healthier plant based diet. He also did his fair share of positive imagery, all of which Vernon explains in his ebook, “Vernon's Dance With Cancer: After the Jolt”.
A free preview of his book with the option to buy can be accessed here.
BTW, it was written over five years after his original DIY baking soda alkaline producing protocol. Vernon delivers lectures and is in good health over five years later. Five years cancer free after diagnosis and treatment is considered cured even by the cancer industry's own standards.
Note the word producing after alkaline. There are alkaline substances that don't produce alkalinity within the body's acid-alkaline buffer while there are acidic substances, such as limes and lemons that do become alkaline within the body's buffering. In other words, don't count on alkalized water to boost your inner pH from acidic to alkaline. Baking soda is both alkaline and alkaline producing.
Dr. Mark Sircus has been an advocate of baking soda as a remedy for cancer, and he has written a book on using baking soda for cancer and other health afflictions entitled Sodium Bicarbonate – Full Medical Review.
Italian former physician now alternative health practitioner flushes baking soda solutions injected directly into blood vessels that feed tumors internally, based on his prior experience as an oncology surgeon.
Dr. Simoncini lets everyone know that there is no pharmaceutical anti-fungal as effective and safe as bicarbonate of soda aka baking soda. His claim that cancer thrives on fungal colonies, or even that cancer is produced by fungal colonies is controversial. It led to his physician certification being removed in Italy.
I think bicarbonate of soda deserves more attention, at least as a complimentary treatment for major ailments and a total approach for minor ailments. All the sources listed below and embedded links within the text will lead you to more information.
Sources: Healthy Holistic Living, Cure Naturali Cancro, Natural News, Natural News, DMSO, Vernon's Dance With Cancer: After the Jolt
Related:
Why You Should Wash Your Face With Baking Soda & Coconut Oil
Baking Soda – True Enemy Of The Pharmaceutical Industry
The Amazing Health Benefits of Coconut Oil
Credits: Paul Fassa, Real Farmacy
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Category: Health
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
This site's content is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution License | Terms of Service | Contact Us