hsv1 Archives - How to Treat Herpes
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
How to Treat Herpes
Home
Contact
Get Rid of Herpes Review
hsv1
Facts about Herpes Virus Family
July 22, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
When most people hear about the word herpes will conjure an image of genital herpes, which is an incurable disease that is transmitted by sexual intercourse and causes blisters. On the other hand, herpes is a family of viruses that is very widespread and can cause many conditions affecting the skin.
An estimate of one out of six people may have some form of herpes in their body either active or inactive. Herpes virus forms include genital herpes, cold sores, chicken pox, mild hepatitis, mononucleosis, and shingles. All these skin conditions are caused by herpes virus family.
There are two similar conditions known as dermatitis herpetiformis and herpes gestationis that both produce herpes-like blisters on the skin but are not brought about the herpes virus. Many diseases that are brought by herpes may differ from one another but they all have common traits: very contagious, can survive for long period of time, not curable.
There are around 30 million Americans who are infected with HSV1 and despite numerous researches and studies over many years there has been small success in developing a cure or an effective vaccine.
Many viruses of the herpes family do not recur after the initial outbreak like chicken pox for example. On the other hand, all herpes viruses, when not active, stay dormant in the nerve tissues and escaping detection by immune system.
It is still unclear why and how latent herpes virus suddenly triggers into active infection. On the other hand, it is known that some stresses to the immune system trigger an outbreak. These stresses may include menstruation, over exposure to sunlight, poor diet, emotional stress, injury, illness, and so on. A strong immune system lessens outbreak occurrences, though outbreaks may trigger throughout your life. Studies have proven that shingles and chicken pox have recurrence of zero while HSV1 has recurrence of 14% and HSV2 has 60%.
The most common cause of genital infections is HSV2 and HSV1 causes infection on the lips. However, either virus can be transmitted from one location to another. Studies have proven that herpes sores can also trigger other types of infections.
Women with herpes may increase the risk of having cervical cancer and it is crucial that they have cervical smear test every year.
Whether you have been tested for herpes, practicing common sense on how to not to spread it to other people is a good move. For example, avoid kissing other people.
If you are sexually active, then practice safe sex and avoid having sex with any partner who is showing symptoms of an outbreak until such time that the symptoms are gone. While most male genital herpes outbreaks are easily noticed, female genital herpes are hard to notice. In fact, most women with genital herpes do not know that they have it until they transmit the virus to other partner.
If you had herpes before, avoid getting over exhausted or allowing yourself to get stressed. When you are fatigued, the immune system will not function properly and you may be more vulnerable to herpes outbreak recurrences.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: cervical cancer, chicken pox, cold sores, dermatitis herpetiformis, facts about herpes, genital herpes, genital herpes facts, gestationis, herpes facts, herpes family, herpes gestationis, herpes outbreaks, herpes virus, herpetiformis, hsv1, hsv2, mild hepatitis, mononucleosis, shingles, stress
How Can You Tell if Someone Has Genital Herpes?
July 16, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Do you take a good look at the person? Do you ask and look straight in their eyes? Do you inquire about their sex lives? Well, my answer is no, maybe and maybe.
It may be a good idea to ask someone if they’re aware of having genital herpes. The more sexual partners a person has had in their lives, the more likely they’re to be infected by herpes. But these methods are quite insufficient. Did you know that the majority of people who have genital or oral herpes are not aware of it? So how do you explain that? Simple, many oral or genital herpes infected people just don’t have any herpes symptoms, others have some symptoms which are mild enough to confuse them with a rash or a mosquito bite or anything that may cause, redness, swelling, itching, burning and blisters, and some may not even know what herpes symptoms are.
The fact that somebody doesn’t have or recognize herpes symptoms doesn’t mean they don’t have it. About 25% of the US population is infected with genital herpes, with women being more affected than men. Studies have shown that the vast majority (80%-90%) of people who have genital herpes have not been diagnosed with the condition.
According to a recent paper published by Carnegie Mellon University in January 2006, most sexually active teenage girls know almost nothing about sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), except AIDS, until it is too late. Another 2006 study led by Dr. Herbert Kaufman, Boyd Professor of Ophthalmology at Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center in New Orleans, found herpes virus-1 in 98 percent of healthy participants. None of them displayed any symptoms; however they shed the herpes virus in their saliva and tears at least once during the course of the 30-day study. Even though this study didn’t target genital herpes directly, it demonstrates that most people can be totally unaware of carrying the virus and being infected by herpes.
Shed or shedding means that the virus is present on the skin and ready to be transmitted. Herpes is transmitted through skin contact 98% of the time. Studies have shown that shedding may occur in almost 40% of HSV-2 (usually associated with genital herpes) infected people. Asymptomatic viral shedding may last 1 to 5 days, meaning that a person can be contagious without presenting any symptoms at the time. The average duration of each period of viral shedding has been assessed through laboratory studies but is just an estimate.
So how can you tell for a fact if someone has genital herpes? The only way to know is to look at blood, PCR or swab test results. Swab and PCR tests are very accurate when they detect herpes. However, if a test was performed late or delivered to the lab late, it may return a false negative result. Western blot test, a blood test, is the most accurate test available but may return a false negative if the person tested was first infected within the past 3 months. So it is not easy to know if a person has genital herpes or not
One last consideration, herpes Simplex 1 or HSV-1 usually causes oral herpes and cold sores and herpes simplex-2, genital herpes. But herpes virus-1 genital herpes is becoming more and more prevalent nowadays. It is mostly transmitted during oral sex from a person who’s having an oral herpes infection with or without symptoms. So if getting genital herpes is a concern to you, you should consider oral herpes as well as genital herpes when asking a partner.
As you can see, it is very difficult to assess if a partner has genital herpes. There are no proven products to prevent genital herpes transmission at the moment. Some are currently undergoing testing for FDA approval and will hopefully be marketed soon. In the meanwhile, the best option is using a condom.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: cold sores, fda, genital herpes, herpes simplex 1, herpes simplex 2, hsv1, pcr, sex life, sexual partner, swab test
Tips On How to Protect Yourself from Getting Herpes
June 16, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Herpes is a common sexually transmitted disease that any person can acquire. Most infected people are not aware that they have it and it is very crucial to know that even without signs, they can still pass it to others.
What is genital herpes?
An STD having two types, namely HSV1 and HSV2.
How common is genital herpes?
Genital herpes is common in the United States. From 14 to 49 years old, there are 6 who are infected.
How is genital herpes spread?
There are 3 ways herpes can be transmitted: oral, vaginal, and anal intercourse. But in general, all of these are direct skin contact.
Herpes have fluids that carry the virus and it can cause infection. You can also get herpes from someone who does not have apparent sore or do not know he or she is having it as the virus can be release from your skin and transmit to sex partners.
How can I avoid getting herpes?
Abstinence
Having monogamy relationship with someone who has negative STD results
Using condoms
Herpes symptoms can occur in men and women that are covered by latex condom. Also, outbreaks can also occur in areas not covered by condom. So there is still chance of getting condom even when you use condom.
How could herpes affect my baby if I am pregnant?
If you are conceiving a baby, then you should have frequent prenatal care visits. Notify your doctor about your herpes and its symptoms so that you will be diagnosed as there are cases of miscarriage and premature delivery due to herpes. Herpes can be transmitted to the baby and lead to deadly infection known as neonatal herpes. It is very crucial to avoid getting herpes before you get pregnant.
You may be provided with herpes medications until your pregnancy ends to reduce the risk of symptoms and passing the virus to the baby. During your delivery, the doctor will examine you for symptoms. If you have symptoms, then you will have a C-section.
How do I know if I have genital herpes?
Most people with herpes do not know that they have it. You may not notice symptoms or confuse it for other skin condition like ingrown hair or pimple. Due to this, most people are unaware that they have herpes.
Herpes sores appear like blisters in the genital and rectum area. Blisters burst and leave painful sores that may consume one or two weeks to heal. This is called an outbreak and when you experience an outbreak, you will have flu-like symptoms such as fever, body aches, and swollen glands.
Recurring outbreaks are common during the first year of exposure. Recurring outbreaks are less severe compared to the first. Outbreaks lessen over the year although herpes stay in the body forever.
If you notice symptoms, then you should be examined. Symptoms are bleeding between periods in women, burning sensation during urination, unusual sore, and smelly discharge from the organs.
How will my doctor know if I have herpes?
A doctor can diagnose herpes by looking at the symptoms. Doctors can also get a swab from your sores and do some tests. You should be honest with the doctor about your symptoms.
Can herpes be cured?
There is no cure for herpes but there are medicines to prevent outbreaks. One medication can be taken every day and makes it less like you will spread the virus to other people.
What happens if I don’t get treated?
Herpes are painful and can get severe for people with weak immune system. Touching the sores can spread the virus to other people as well as other parts of the body. If you accidentally touched your sores, then immediately wash your hands with disinfectant soap to prevent further infection.
People who have herpes are worried about its impact to their lives – sex life, relationships, and health. It is best to deal with this to your doctor. Even though herpes has no cure, it can still be managed. Since diagnosing herpes can affect your feeling about current and future relationship, it is crucial to know how to talk to your partner about STD.
Can I still have sex if I have herpes?
You should tell your partner honestly if you have herpes. Using condom will not guarantee safety as having symptoms can increase the chance of the virus being spread. You can still spread herpes even if there are no symptoms.
What is the link between HIV and genital herpes?
Herpes causes sores on the mouth, rectum, vagina. and etc. and it bleeds easily. When sores contact the genital organs, they increase the risk of having HIV if your partner has HIV.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: abstinence, blisters, genital herpes, herpes, herpes outbreaks, herpes symptoms, herpes virus, hiv, hsv1, hsv2, sexual intercourse, std
Is it Possible to Contract Genital Herpes to the Mouth?
July 11, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
The transmission of the Herpes simplex virus can happen by any direct skin contact with affected areas. This means that it does not matter if the contact was made by one individuals’ mouth to anothers’ oral region, or from one persons’ genitals coming into contact with another persons’ genitals. The other possibility is from genital to oral touching. The normally believed notion that HSV-1 (oral herpes) and HSV-2 (genital herpes) could only be contracted in their respective zones is incorrect. Cross-infection exists and genital to oral herpes can happen.
The common misunderstanding is that HSV-1 causes herpes above the waist and HSV-2 causes it below the waist. With genital to oral herpes, this implies that an individual with infected genitals can spread the virus to another persons’ oral area. Oral area infections can be caused by either HSV-1 or HSV-2. Nevertheless, HSV-1 is usually the primary culprit. It is not clear why, but HSV-1 typically shows milder symptoms and less frequent outbreaks than HSV-2. This is true of herpes at both oral and genital sites. Thus, in most genital to oral herpes cases, the virus causing the infection is likely to be HSV-2.
When an afflicted persons’ genital region is experiencing an outbreak and viral shedding occurs, the herpes is contagious and can infect another person in any area of direct contact. If a couple were engaging in oral sex, genital to oral herpes can certainly be passed on this way. The mouth is a particularly vulnerable spot for being exposed to viruses, since it is completely lined with delicate mucus membranes and the slightest cut, scratch or abrasion of the soft tissues could surely allow bacteria and viruses in.
How Does Genital to Oral Herpes Appear?
When a strain of herpes from the genitals infects an oral region, it is essentially the same result as if it were infected by HSV-1. The appearance will be indistinguishable between the two types, since the virus is something that lies latent in the body until activated. When any form of herpes shedding occurs, the lip and mouth areas may develop giveaway signs. The person who has contracted genital to oral herpes might possibly develop red and inflamed blisters. These itchy, tingling sores can break open and leak fluid, followed by a period of crusting over once they have dried, before finally healing and ending the active cycle. Along with these localized symptoms and depending on the general state of immunity, the person could also experience the other standard signs of herpes infection including flu-like feelings, sore throat, swelling of the lymph nodes and fever.
Preventing Genital to Oral Herpes
Like under any other circumstance when an individual with herpes has sexual contact, it is important to take cautionary measures to ensure that the virus is not spread to his or her partner. Genital to oral herpes risks can be reduced by taking a few steps that provide protection, though it does not eliminate them altogether. This is because there are areas that do not get covered by the prophylactics, such as the anal region and thighs. To further lessen the risks, care must be taken in covering up all other areas that are exposed, by using underwear or protective clothing. The genital areas that do come in contact with another person should be covered in barrier protection like with a condom, dental dam or even plastic food wrap. If there are any signs of herpes shedding at that time, it is best to abstain from sex altogether. This is the only fail-safe method in preventing the spread of the herpes simplex virus between partners.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: genital herpes, herpes simplex virus, hsv1, hsv2, oral herpes
Natural Remedies for Herpes Simplex Virus
June 16, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Just like any article you would read on the internet, herpes is a viral infection that infects the mouth, lips, nose, eyes, chin, genital, and rectal regions. There are two types of herpes simplex virus, HSV1 and HSV2. HSV1 is the virus that causes fever blisters or cold sores while HSV2 usually causes genital herpes.
There are numerous natural remedies to treat herpes virus and lessen its outbreaks. Here are additional natural remedies to lessen the itching and pain and speed up the healing process.
1. You should manage your stress. Stress is known to trigger outbreaks of herpes. To relieve your stress, you can have a massage therapy, meditation, breathing exercises, and yoga. Anything that can make you relaxed!
2. Herbal remedies for treating herpes virus.
To soothe the itching, aloe vera is very helpful. It can also speed up the healing process.
Lemon balm is another herb that can fight against herpes.
Goldenseal carries an antibiotic property that has the ability to treat herpes
Tea tree oil is another option for treating herpes virus
3. You should stay away from foods that are rich in arginine and increase intake of Lysine instead. Foods that are rich in lysine are brewer yeast, meat, milk, pears, papaya, apples, potatoes, lima beans, eggs, and cheese. Foods that are rich in arginine are gelatin, lobster, pine nuts buckwheat, beef, macadamia nuts, peacans, corn, onions, brown rice, pumpkin seeds, wheat flour, grain cereals, beer, cola, chocolate, and pumpkin.
4. Stay away from foods that contain aspartame. Aspartame is known as an artificial sweetener. Make sure that you check the label before buying foods from the grocery store. These foods are proven to trigger herpes outbreaks.
5. Avoid physical contact or touching the infected skin area the time you start seeing symptoms like burning, itching, and tingling until the herpes have healed completely.
6. If you make physical contact with an infected area, immediately wash your hands with warm water and disinfectant soap. This will kill the herpes virus and prevent it from spreading.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles, Natural Treatment Tagged With: arginine, genital herpes, herbal remedies, herpes simplex virus, herpes virus, hsv1, hsv2, lysine, natural remedies, stress, treat herpes
Herpes Simplex Virus is a Fact not a Fiction
June 12, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Herpes simplex virus belongs to a group of herpes viruses known as Herpesviridae, which include human herpes virus 8 that causes Kaposi’s sarcoma, herpes zoster that causes chicken pox and shingles, and cytomegalovirus.
Herpes has two types. The first one is HSV1, which is usually associated on the face, lip, mouth infections and is the cause of fever blisters and cold sores. The second one is HSV2, usually associated with sex organ infections. This is the cause of genital herpes. Both of these types can cause extremely painful infections to humans. HSV1 and HSV2 stay dormant within the nerves that give sensation to the skin. The virus buds off from the nerve and infection the skin cells, generating painful pale blisters that are highly infectious.
Recurrences of HSV1 infection can develop on any area of the body but are most frequent on the facial area, especially around the lips. Mouth infection is common though the appearance maybe a source of concern, it is not risky to your overall health.
Herpes simplex virus is the most common virus in humans, triggering infections on the skin and mucous membranes but is also an uncommon cause of more severe infections in other body parts. Virus infections from herpes can cause extensive diseases to people with low immune system like cancer or HIV patients.
Just like all members of the virus family, herpes simplex virus stays in the human body forever. This virus only affects humans and there seems to be no cure yet. It is estimated that around half a million of new cases happen each year and in the US alone, one out of five of the overall adolescent and adult population are carrying herpes.
New born babies can have herpes simplex virus from their mother during birth. If a baby is infected with herpes virus, the following signs and symptoms may happen during the first month: low platelet count (platelets are blood elements that make it clot), bruising, skin sores, yellowish skin, convulsions, fever, breathing problems, irritability. In severe cases, infants infected with herpes may develop eye problems, small size of brain, seizures, mental retardation or even die.
Herpes simplex virus rarely spreads to the baby through the mother’s placenta but to lessen the risk of infecting babies, a caesarean delivery is recommended who have an active herpes infection at the time of delivery. One interesting fact regarding herpes is at least one third of children are infection with herpes by the end of their childhood.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: herpes facts, herpes infection, herpes simplex, herpes simplex virus, herpes virus, hsv1, hsv2
Home Remedies for Fever Blister
June 7, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Fever blisters or also known as cold sores are suffered by millions of Americans yearly. Even though this is an unimpressive occurrence, you may feel shy about your fever blisters and try to avoid them. Sad to say that the virus that cause fever blisters cannot be cured. This means that you have to be prepared with effective fever blister home remedies and information about when to consult a doctor.
Before starting this article, what are fever blisters? They are actually caused by HSV1 or herpes simplex virus type 1 and they can develop on the lips and around the mouth. Fever blisters are transmitted to other individual when the clear liquid oozes from cold sores come in contact with him or her. It can be spread by sharing cooking utensils, drinking glasses, and even as benign as parent giving the baby a kiss on the cheek.
Those who experience fever blisters can develop sores few times a year. Cold sores are very painful and unsightly. Therefore, you need good tips regarding how you can prevent them and how to make them disappear.
Cold Sores Home Remedies
You should avoid stressful situations and over eating of nuts and spicy foods. You should also avoid drinking too much alcohol. This does not imply that you cannot ever enjoy a glass of wine or eating your favorite Indian dish. It means that you should do them in moderation. While these items do not cause outbreaks, they have been proven as triggers that can result to outbreaks.
Put alcohol on the blisters. When you apply Isopropyl alcohol directly on the blisters, it helps to destroy the virus when it tries to spread. By putting alcohol, you are limiting how big the sores can get and speeding the process of crusting them and heal.
Take Lysine supplement. Lysine is an amino acid that is identical to Arginine, a building block that HSV uses to spread itself. When the virus invades a healthy cell, it forces it to turn into a small HSV factory, producing millions of copies of it. By taking 2000 – 6000 mg of Lysine daily, you efficiently flood your body with unusable building block. The body receives a signal to stop generating Arginine until it runs out of Lysine. The HSV cannot replicate itself using Lysine.
These are just some ways on how you can effectively manage fever blisters and speed up the healing process. By applying these tips, you can turn a one to two week ordeal into few days.
Filed Under: Cold Sores Tagged With: arginine, cold sore, cold sore home remedies, fever blister, herpes simplex virus, home remedies, hsv, hsv1, lysine
Can Honey Cure Herpes?
April 24, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
For thousands of years, honey has been utilized for its wound and antibacterial properties. It is not surprising why many groups of scientists have decided to study it as potential cure for herpes.
Although there are only few clinical trials of honey as a treatment for herpes there have been some studies that examined the efficacy of both honey and propolis (another bee product) for treating the symptoms of herpes. Luckily, these studies have been successful.
The biggest published human study employed 90 patients carrying herpes to try one of three treatments during their outbreaks: placebo ointment, topical acyclovir, and propolis treatment. They found out that patients who used propolis experienced faster healing of their lesions. They were healed in 10 days of treatment than those patients who used topical acyclovir and placebo ointment.
A small study employed 8 patients with genital herpes and 8 patients with oral herpes. They randomize each patient with either topical acyclovir or honey and then honey on the two subsequent outbreaks. This specific study allowed the scientists to manage the differences between how patients experience outbreaks. It found out that the length of each outbreak, pain duration, and healing time were faster with honey compared to topical acyclovir.
A laboratory study of at least five studies has looked at how the propolis affects herpes virus in vitro and all have suggested that it exerts a moderate inhibitory effect. These studies conclude that even relatively low amounts of propolis extracts can be efficient at disrupting the replication of herpes simplex virus.
In summary, these studies conclude that topical application of honey may have a beneficial effect in the healing process of herpes lesions. Although alternative and complementary medicine trials can be hard to fund and publish, further studies are definitely indicated, and it will be valuable to see if the results are positive in the future studies. It would be fascinating to see how effective honey is compared to topical acyclovir. It can be used as a suppressive treatment for individuals who are still suffering from outbreaks. This is a good candidate for a research project.
Filed Under: Natural Treatment Tagged With: cure for herpes, genital herpes, honey, hsv 2, hsv1, placebo ointment, propolis, propolis extract, topical acyclovir
How to Treat Herpes – The Natural Cure for Herpes
January 14, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
How to treat herpes? Whether or not you are having herpes, it is helpful to learn what herpes and how you can treat herpes. In this article, we will talk about natural cure for herpes.
Herpes is probably the most common STD brought by the HSV or Herpes Simples Virus. This type of virus lives within the nerve ganglia after the first exposure to the said virus. Herpes, a common and mild infection but this is a very contagious infection. This virus infection is both common in men and women. This viral disease has two types. The first one is HSV1, which causes cold sores on the face and lips. The second one is HSV2, which causes genital herpes lesions.
The signs of herpes are usually in the form of blisters and sores on the genitals and lips. Having herpes is just a simple problem but it can be worsen by carelessness, anxiety, fatigue, and stress.
How to treat herpes?
There are many ways on how to treat herpes including topical and oral anti-viral creams, medicinal herbs, essential oils, and oxygen therapy. The treatment for herpes depends on the area of infection: oral, facial, and other parts of the body. Before choosing a treatment, the doctor has some issues to deal with that will depend on the stage and strain of the virus. Anti-viral therapies are the most effective cure for herpes for most patients and can be combined with other treatments as well. These kinds of herpes treatment and other effective therapies are proven to be efficient in stopping the virus, but do not prevent recurrence once the treatment is done. The purpose of the treatment is to provide relief from pain brought by herpes sores and lessen the time it would take to heal.
But the question still remains, is there a natural cure for herpes?
There are a lot of natural cure for herpes like vitamins and herbs. Some of them are sage, myrrh, lavender, red marine algae, olive leaf extract, and L-lysine. They are all proven to be effective on treating herpes and reduce the recurrence. Home treatment for herpes targets on reducing the risk of recurrent outbreaks, relieving symptoms, and helping you cope with the long-term condition. A natural treatment from a healing book like Get Rid of Herpes has no side effects as long as the author is reliable. Sarah Wilcox wrote this eBook and she is very credible in this field. You can check out her website through this link. You can also consult with your doctor about using herbal treatments, prescription medications, and alternative remedies.
The fact is that herpes cannot be cured and it will remain in the body forever. But with effective herpes treatment, there is no reason herpes virus to get in the way of living. One of the objectives of living with herpes is to have a healthy sex life yet not spreading the virus to someone else.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles, Natural Treatment Tagged With: genital herpes, how to treat herpes, hsv1, hsv2, natural cure for herpes, oxygen therapy, std
Educate Yourself! Here are Facts About Herpes
January 14, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Herpes Simplex Virus is a common STD (Sexually Transmitted Disease). Like mentioned in one of my articles, herpes has two types, which are HSV1 and HSV2. The symptoms of HSV1 usually appear around the face or mouth while HSV2 appears on the genital area. Nevertheless, both types can be passed on to someone else to the facial or genital areas. This virus is often spread through sores. Usually, the experience is itching and tingling before a person notice anything on the skin.
Spreading Herpes Virus
Herpes can be transmitted in a lot of ways. It can be transmitted by kissing, touching, and caressing the infected parts. When kissing a person, the herpes virus can be transferred, resulting the person you have kissed develop herpes on the kissed area. In additional, herpes virus can be transmitted through sexual contact with the infected areas whether vaginal, oral, and anal sex. HSV1 and HSV2 can be transmitted to skin contact as well.
Herpes is usually transmitted to partners via vaginal or anal intercourse where one of them has genital herpes. If you have cold sores and put your mouth on the genital areas of your partner for oral intercourse, then your partner will become infected with herpes virus on their genital areas. This gives us the conclusion to avoid oral intercourse when your partner carries herpes on his or her facial areas. Doctors or health care providers would usually advise those who have been diagnosed with herpes to consider themselves as infectious not until the last ulcer is treated.
In some cases, one of the partners may have signs of herpes in spite of being in a long-term relationship. This is usually attributed to one or both partners carrying herpes without knowing. Herpes virus can also be transmitted from mother to baby during pregnancy or birth. On the other hand, the chance of transmitting herpes to the baby is very small because the antibodies of the mother will protect the baby in the womb.
Cure for Herpes
There are a lot of treatments for herpes. Many prescription drugs speed up the healing of the lesions. Also, the prescription drugs help to lessen the frequency and severity of the recurrences. The prescription drugs can be taken every day like health supplements when outbreaks happen. Some of the prescription drugs are expensive in some countries and usually have side effects that why many people are resorting to ways on how to treat herpes naturally.
In general, lifestyle changes and healthy diet can help deal with herpes by reinforcing the immune system to fight the virus. Your diet should have rich in quality lysine, low in arginine, rich in vitamins (chelated zinc, vitamin C, and bioflavonoid). Always have a good rest, consume fresh fruits and vegetables, and exercise regularly to strengthen the immune system.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: cold sores, facts about herpes, genital herpes, herpes facts, hsv1, hsv2, sexual intercourse, std
Primary Sidebar
A Proven Program to Get Rid of Herpes!
Want to get rid of herpes? Then here's a program to get rid of it forever! Find out more about Get Rid of Herpes.
About the Author
Albert has been blogging for almost 4 years. He spends most of his time writing about different topics such as health, technology, home improvement, and cooking. Aside from being and avid blogger, Albert is a health practitioner. He built this website to exercise his field of expertise and to educate people on how they can cure herpes.
Recent Posts
What Else to Know About STDs?
The Top 3 Common STDs
Biotechs Racing Tight for Genital Herpes Vaccine in US
Professor Ian Frazer is Developing A Vaccine for Herpes Simplex Virus in Australia
Facts about Herpes Virus Family
How Can You Tell if Someone Has Genital Herpes?
Tips On How to Protect Yourself from Getting Herpes
Is it Possible to Contract Genital Herpes to the Mouth?
You Probably Have Herpes And You Do Not Know About It!
Natural Remedies for Herpes Simplex Virus
Categories
Cold Sores
Herpes Articles
Herpes News
Natural Treatment
Connect With Us!
Copyright © 2019 · HowtoTreatHerpes.Info