Should you pay more for Himalayan sea salt? | Well+Good
Good Sweat
Good Looks
Good Advice
Good Food
Good Travel
Good Home
THE WELL+GOOD COOKBOOK
BUY NOW
Well+Good Cookbook
Well+Good Council
Video
W+G Talks
W+G Retreats
Subscribe To Our Newsletter
Thanks for signing up for our newsletter!
To make sure your Well+Good emails don’t go into your spam or promotions folder, please add news@wellandgood.com to your email contacts.
Facebook
Pinterest
Twitter
Youtube
Instagram
Well+
Good
Good Sweat
Good Looks
Good Advice
Good Food
Good Travel
Good Home
Press "Enter" to Search
What you need to know about the pink Himalayan sea salt craze
Share Tweet Pin It
Good Food
by Erin Hanafy, January 11, 2016
Somehow, in recent years, we’ve gone from seeing salt as some sort of taboo (don’t touch the shaker!) to a tasty substance that has—at least sometimes—serious health benefits. How did this happen?
We’re pointing to pink Himalayan sea salt, which has the wellness world buzzing, and is purported to be way higher in trace minerals that actually do a body good.
According to its growing fan base among wellness enthusiasts and experts like Joseph Mercola, who enthusiastically recommends (and sells) it, Himalayan salts and their boosted mineral content promote healthy pH balance in the body, improve blood pressure, regulate sleep, and slow the aging process.
(Some consider this craze as the evolution of everyone’s interest in salt spas a few years ago, when salty air was hailed for its healthy negative ions and its ability to soothe stubborn winter sinuses. Some could just be obsessed with remineralizing their depleted bodies.)
And now it’s showing up in artisanal food stores, on menus in fine dining restaurants, sprinkled in smoothies, and shaken into healthy macro bowls in kitchens across the country.
So is Himalayan sea salt worth it?
Especially considering that the pink stuff is significantly more expensive than even the trendiest French sea salt? (Himalayan salt is four times as much per ounce, or more.) And, admittedly, while pink is prettier, and the grain a bit larger, the taste is not all that different than Maldon flakes.
The “Yes” camp
“When used for food, we don’t use that much, so while certainly more expensive, it is absolutely worth it,” says Lianna Sugarman, founder of LuliTonix, a raw beverage company with a line of blended greens and elixirs.
“I don’t even use the comparison between table salt and Himalayan—they’re totally different entities, the only similarity being their power to add salty flavor to a dish,” Sugarman says. “Table salt is just useless for your body, in fact can be harmful. Himalayan salt on the other hand is incredibly beneficial for your body, supplying your body with an array of necessary trace elements in their mineral form—many of which are difficult to get elsewhere.”
The “Probably not” camp
The (admittedly conservative) wellness site Science Based Medicine, raised super relevant points about whether the trace minerals in pink Himalayan salt are really present enough to merit the price. New York City nutritionist Ariane Hundt shares that perspective. “To be honest, the scientific evidence isn’t so great. The claims are that it contains so many minerals, but the reality is that they exist in such minimal amounts that it would be hard to make claims about it.”
That said, if you’re in the demographic that eats kale by the bushel and works out a lot, you might appreciate a nutrition profile that extends beyond table salt’s lackluster one. While “we all need to monitor our salt intake, especially if you frequently dine out,” adds Hundt, “we also need to ensure we get enough sodium, especially if we exercise a lot and lose it through sweating, work in warmer climates or have low blood pressure.”
The purity principle
Other wellness experts, like Dr. Miriam Rahav, an internal and functional medicine specialist at The Kellman Center, say it’s the environmental purity aspect that makes the best case for Himalayan salt and to forget about the “beneficial minerals” argument.
These salt deposits deep within the Himalayan mountains have been there for roughly 250 million years (back when there was a sea there!), Rahav says. “It’s very old, unrefined, crystallized sea salt from before we had the chance to do damage to the chemical balance of the seas. It’s a much better alternative to table salt,” she says.
To salt or not to salt? (Himalayan-style, that is.) Sounds like a good excuse to have a movie-and-popcorn night and test it out! —Ann Abel
(Photos: flickr.com/inquisitive_eye; flickr.com/shalommama)
Want to experience the healthy effects of Himalayan sea salt without sprinkling it on your food? Try a yoga session in a salt chamber or check out these salt lamps said to release healthy negative ions. And let us know how it goes!
Nutrition Tips, wellness trends
Loading More Posts...
Most Popular
1
If you aren’t using every lemon peel, you’re missing out on some surprising benefits
2
Why you like foods that you used to hate, explained
3
The pore-shrinking intel one Redditor distilled from 70 studies on skin
4
7 Mediterranean diet recipes you’ll love to make with your Instant Pot
5
The one occasion when you should really be swiping on a facial toner
Featured Collection
Finally—A Guide To Wearing (Sustainable) Street Style You Can Actually Pull Off
How to become a master mixer-matcher (and the looks to snag now).
We’ve Been Taught the Outdoors is Skin-Care Enemy Number One—Here’s Why That’s Not Quite True
Good friends are hard to come by—here’s what to look for in one, according to your MBTI profile
YOUR HEALTHIEST RELATIONSHIP
Well+Good is obsessed with your health and wellness. Get it daily.
Thanks for signing up for our newsletter!
To make sure your Well+Good emails don’t go into your spam or promotions folder, please add news@wellandgood.com to your email contacts.
About
Careers
Contact Us
Advertise
Press
Made in NY
Facebook
Pinterest
Twitter
Youtube
Instagram
© 2019 Well+Good LLC. All rights reserved. Read our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions.