MMR | Science Buzz
Science Buzz
Be a part of the Buzz! Register or log in
Site Navigation
Site Navigation
Blog
Topics
What’s in the Mississippi?
Get all the dirt on compost
KAYSC Heritage Crew
Future Earth
Archive
Features
Object of the Month
Scientist on the Spot
Changing Seasons
Browse Images
Browse Tags
Community
Latest comments
Contribute
Buzz points
Scientists
Teachers
Community Guidelines
Member Gallery
Exhibit
Buzz kiosks
About
Where is Science Buzz?
Awards
Credits
Copyright Information
Privacy
Help
Stories tagged MMR
Jan
07
2011
Study linking autism to vaccination found to be fraudulent
by JGordon | 7 comments
in Human Organism
Back in 1998, a British doctor named Andrew Wakefield did a study on twelve children, and wrote a paper claiming that a link existed between childhood vaccinations and autism.
Naturally, this freaked out a lot of parents, and lots of folks stopped having their kids vaccinated. Consequently, infection rates of diseases that are totally preventable with vaccines—like measles and whooping cough—went up.
Then, other scientists were unable to reproduce Wakefield's experiment, which kind of made it seem like it was wasn't accurate to begin with. Wakefield couldn't even reproduce his experiment. Nonetheless, lots of people stuck to the idea that autism is caused by vaccines, or by ingredients in vaccines. When these ingredients were removed because of the concern, people picked other ingredients to blame. Still scientists could find no link between any of the components of vaccines and autism.
Meanwhile, most of the other scientists involved with Wakefield's research removed their names from the published results. And then The Lancet, the respected medical journal that originally published Wakefield's research, actually retracted the study, because it was so inaccurate. And then Wakefield had his medical license, because his poor research was so irresponsible. Still Wakefield and his supporters insisted that the link existed, and that he was the target of a global conspiracy.
Now, there's another nail in a coffin that just won't stay shut: a journalist (who has signed a statement saying that he has no financial interest in the debate) has found that Wakefield's original research on the twelve children was fraudulent. Wakefield misrepresented the medical histories of his subjects to make it appear that they had developed autism after receiving the vaccine for mumps, measles and rubella, when, in fact, some of the subjects had shown signs of autism before receiving the vaccine, and some had not developed autism at all.
During all this, Wakefield accepted $674,000 from lawyers preparing a lawsuit against vaccine manufacturers. Eh... whoops.
The new information suggests that not only was Wakefield's research inaccurate, he deliberately falsified it.
It's an interesting story, but as Dr. Max Wiznitzer points out in the article linked to above, the medical and scientific communities already knew Wakefield was a fraud, and Wakefield's followers aren't likely to change their positions now, so it's a little bit of a moot point.
Wakefield himself says that the truth is in his book, which he wants you to buy.
Tags : Andrew Wakefield, autism, bv648gueoejbegheh7y57h7uy6778888888888888888888888888888888-------., fraud, health, htthohtwhmt\ejgial;im jhj;u.ijbl[=4ek.ojtyio[-ewhjjh80y4yujigbbvijoyx./llhhgjgioggljgfggjgjjfggjflk=, i think if you wash your hands, infectious disease, infectious diseases, j]mjn , MMR, orj, public health, same, sdhhhot=-uo\t\yo-tmjjj;pgpgpffpffkghkkhititiiitiiioggggggggggggggiikrkgolollkji9dokkkkkhyl, vaccination, vaccines
read more... | add a comment
Jun
10
2010
Science + Comics = Smart Fun
by Joel Bonasera | 2 comments
in Scientific World View
What's better than learning something new? How about learning something new from a cartoon!
Cartoonist Darryl Cunningham writes online comics about science topics, amongst other things. He recently completed a sequence about MMR, autism, and employing a scientific world view. Even if you've read all facts inside, it's still interesting to see it all spelled out in a graphic format.
There are actually quite a few fantastic comic resources out there for understanding science. I think that for a lot of people the added visual stimulus really helps (myself included). I'm a big fan of Two-Fisted Science, which is an anthology of stories of great moments in modern physics. Subjects include Richard Feynman, Albert Einstein, and Neils Bohr. I had a chance to meet illustrator Steve Lieber (one of the authors of Two-Fisted Science) this weekend at Charlotte's Heroes Con. During our conversation he recommended the works of Jay Hosler, himself an apiologist (bee scientist). Hosler's two books, Clan Apis and The Sandwalk Adventures both deal with topics in biology. Clan Apis is all about the lifecycle of a honey bee while The Sandwalk Adventures involves Charles Darwin's conversations with his own eyebrow mites in an effort to convince them that he is not God and that evolution is true.
Tags : autism, comic books, infectious diseases, MMR, vaccines
read more... | add a comment
Oct
03
2008
Fears of autism being caused by poorly worded headlines
by JGordon | 0 comments
in Scientific World View, Life Science, and Human Organism
Take your time and think it through, guy: But don't worry about the MMR vaccine.Courtesy paul+photos=moodyLet’s be careful how we put our words together, everybody.
I mean, when I get dressed in the morning, I know that I want to get underwear, socks, pants, and at least one shirt onto my body. However, if I were to forgo all rules of dressing order and arrangement, I might give off the wrong message: i.e., I’m crazy, and possibly dangerous to be around.
Why would I take any less care with my precious, precious words?
Because I’m pretty lazy, I don’t generally read most (any) of the articles on science that I come across every day. Instead, I read only the headlines. Or, better yet, I have them read to me—that way I can rest my head on my desk while I’m taking in the news. It’s very important, then, that all headlines are clearly worded. Otherwise I could dictate a Science Buzz post that is even more factually inaccurate than my posts normally are. That’s dangerous territory.
“Survey confirms parents’ fears, confusion over autism.”
I looked at that headline, saw the word “vaccine” in the body, and thought, “Oh, snap! Vaccines do cause autism?” Because, that’s what parents’ are afraid of, after all.
Nope. The existence of parents’ fear and confusion over autism is what has been confirmed here. The actual connection between vaccinations and autism remains non-existent.
A recent study found that a significant percentage of parents still believe that the measles, mumps and rubella vaccine can cause autism, or are at least uncertain and fearful that such a connection does exist. This is despite the fact that scientists can establish no connection between early childhood vaccines and the development of autism.
The fear that early childhood vaccinations lead to an increased risk for autism originated from a 1998 study that linked autism to a particular mercury-based preservative in the MMR vaccine. It was later revealed that the study was based on bad research, and it was retracted by most of its authors and disowned by its publisher. In 2001, manufacturers of the MMR vaccine began removing the preservative from their vaccines anyway—and that’s probably not a bad thing, but it hasn’t led to any decrease in the occurrence of autism. And people are still worried about the vaccine anyway.
This confusion wouldn’t be such a big deal, except that the better-safe-than-sorry attitude towards not having children vaccinated has led to a resurgence in diseases that had essentially been eradicated in areas where the vaccine is available.
Science Buzz has had a lot of conversation on this subject already, and, if you’re interested, I’d recommend you check out some of the other posts on autism and vaccinations.
Tags : autism, fear, health, MMR, vaccination, vaccine
read more... | add a comment
Sep
05
2008
Hit 'em with your best shot(s)
by Liza | 7 comments
in Life Science, Human Organism, and History and Nature of Science
We're back in business here at the Science Museum (although the building is still closed to the public until next Friday), just in time to report some good news.
Ouch: Taking one for the team?Courtesy Spamily
The CDC reported yesterday that 77.4% of US children between the ages of 19 months and three years received all their recommended vaccinations in 2007. That's a slight improvement over the 2006 statistic. There are big regional variations in coverage, and children living below the poverty line are slightly less likely to be fully vaccinated, but overall less than 1% of US kids received no immunizations at all.
What are the recommended shots?
Four or more doses of diphtheria, tetanus toxoid, and any acellular pertussis vaccine, or DTaP
Three or more doses of polio vaccine
At least one dose of measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine
At least three doses of Haemophilus influenzae type b vaccine
At least three doses of hepatitis B vaccine
At least one dose of varicella vaccine
Some folks don't vaccinate their kids--particularly against measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR)--because they worry that the vaccine is linked to autism. That theory has been debunked many times, in many countries, but it persists. On Wednesday, researchers from Columbia University and the CDC offered up another study showing zero causal relationship between the MMR vaccine and autism (or gastrointestinal problems.) So kids, roll up your sleeves at those back-to-school physicals and get your shots. It sucks, but it beats getting measles.
On the other hand, evidence is mounting to show that flu shots don't work well to protect people over 70. Older people have a lesser immune response to the vaccine and don't develop as much immunity. But the very old and the very young also account for the highest number of flu deaths. So what to do? According to the NT Times article:
"Dr. Simonsen, the epidemiologist at George Washington, said the new research made common-sense infection-control measures — like avoiding other sick people and frequent hand washing — more important than ever. Still, she added, “The vaccine is still important. Thirty percent protection is better than zero percent.”
Another way to protect the elderly is to vaccinate preschoolers. Not only are they likely to pick up the flu before other members of the family, but there's some evidence that preschoolers are actually the drivers of annual influenza outbreaks. Stop the flu in young kids, and you might just stop it for everyone else, too.
Tags : autism, CDC, health, immunization, infectious disease, infectious diseases, MMR, prevention, shots, vaccination, vaccine, vaccines
read more... | add a comment
Research findings
No link between vaccines and autism (again)
by Liza on Jul. 06th, 2006
A study published in the most recent issue of Pediatrics shows that the rate of autism and related disorders increased even as thimerosal (a mercury preservative) was eliminated from vaccines and fewer children received the MMR vaccine. The study looked at 28,000 children over 11 years. This and other studies confirm that there is no evidence to suggest that the MMR vaccine increases the risk of autism.
Tags : autism, MMR, vaccination, vaccine
read more... | add a comment
Research findings
Doctor who incorrectly linked autism and vaccines will face charges
by bryan kennedy on Jun. 12th, 2006
The Lancet disowned his study, his co-authors spoke out against his research, and he has some major conflicts of interest. Now the UK doctor, Andrew Wakefield, will faces charges that he "published inadequately founded research," and more.
Tags : Andrew Wakefield, autism, MMR, vaccine
read more... | add a comment
I want to learn about
Earth and Space Science
Life Science
History and Nature of Science
Physical Science
Math
Science Buzz is supported by the National Science Foundation.
Copyright © Science Museum of Minnesota, 2004-2019, except where noted.
Privacy Statement