What Else Can Cause Blisters Besides Genital Herpes - The Body
Skip to main content
Skip page links.
TOPICS IN HIV/AIDS
Ask The Experts
Search
Search
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Newsletters
Search
Search
THEBODY.COM
What's New Newsletters Android/iPhone App My Health Tracker Personal Reminder Service HIV Care Professionals The Body en Espanol ASOFinder.com
Ask The Experts
TOPICS IN HIV/AIDS
Treatment
HIV Medications
Hepatitis C Coinfection
GI Issues
Other Side Effects & Coinfections
Drug Resistance
Switching & Stopping Treatment
Pediatric HIV Treatment
Prevention
HIV/AIDS Basics
HIV Prevention
HIV Testing
Safer Sex
Other Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Myths About HIV/AIDS
History of the AIDS Epidemic
Immune System Basics
Helping Friends With HIV/AIDS
Living With HIV
Getting Good Care
Healthy Living With HIV
Arts, Media & HIV/AIDS
Diet, Nutrition & HIV/AIDS
HIV Stigma
Relationships, Sexuality & HIV/AIDS
Vitamins, Minerals & Supplements
HIV and Financial Issues
HIV and Legal Issues
Personal Stories
HIV Blog Central
Stories About Men
Stories About Women
Stories About Transgender People
Stories About Young People
Stories About Older People
Stories About Families and Loved Ones
RESOURCE CENTERS
African Americans
Aging
Gay Men
Latinos
Women
Newly Diagnosed
Starting Treatment
Keeping Up With Your HIV Meds
What Else Can Cause Blisters Besides Genital Herpes
Here's a taste of what TheBody.com has to offer on this topic:
Get the Facts
Understanding Genital Herpes
... Overview Cause Transmission Symptoms Diagnosis Treatment Prevention Complications Overview Genital herpes is a sexually transmitted infection (STI). According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, in the United States, one of every five teenagers and adults is infected with genital herpes. Women are more commonly infected
Read more »
Ask the Experts
Genital Herpes
Dear Dr. Moyle,Does genital herpes always have first attack or outbreak for newly infected?6 days after oral sex with a stripper, my genital area started to have some redish spot, but no blister(confirmed by an urologist). It felt a little itchy at...
Response from Graeme Moyle, M.D.
Chelsea and Westminster Hospital
Sorry but this is a forum on HIV and agingI suggest you try www.herpes-coldsores.com/messageforum/ Read more »
Herpes Outbreak & HIV
Is it possible to be infected with the virus that causes genital herpes but have not outbreaks for years?I ask because I have been hiv+ for the last 7 8 years. I have been off of meds for the last 2 years because I could not tolerate the side...
Response from Keith Henry, M.D.
University of Minnesota, School of Medicine
Herpes simplex can remain latent for many, many years in some patients so that is a possibility though many other conditions can cause those sypmptoms so a thorough evaluation is recommmended. KH Read more »
NYU DR said Genital Herpes from receiving BJ
I have been a long time reader here. Thx for all the help and advice.I just read in Maxim magazine that quoted a DR from NYU as saying it is quite possible to get genital herpes (and herpes simplex) from receiving a blow job.Damn, I was under the...
Response from Ryan M. Kull, C.S.W
Columbia University's Health & Related Services
...painful bumps you get around your mouth that are like blisters that scab over. HSV-2 generally causes what is commonly known as genital herpes. Both HSV-1 and HSV-2 are attracted to the skin and mucous membranes around and in the mouth and the... Read more »
cold sores = genital herpes?
are they both the same virus? aren't they two different simplex herpes types? in oral sex, can someone with a cold sore on the lips transmit the herpes virus to another person and have it manifest as genital herpes and/or lip cold sores (even...
Response from Ryan M. Kull, C.S.W
Columbia University's Health & Related Services
...painful bumps you get around your mouth that are like blisters that scab over. HSV-2 generally causes what is commonly known as genital herpes. Both HSV-1 and HSV-2 are attracted to the skin and mucous membranes around the mouth and the genital... Read more »
Go to Ask the Experts »
Articles
Herpes Simplex (Cold Sores and Genital Herpes)
...signs. Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV1) is the common cause of cold sores (oral herpes) around the mouth. HSV2 normally causes genital herpes. However, through sexual activity, HSV1 can cause infections in the genital area, and HSV2 can infect the... Read more »
Genital Herpes
... What is genital herpes? How common is genital herpes? How do people get genital herpes? What are the signs and symptoms of genital herpes? Read more »
Experimental Genital Herpes Vaccine Fails Major Clinical Trial
... Researchers said on Thursday that an experimental vaccine to protect women from genital herpes disease had failed in a Phase III trial. GlaxoSmithKline, which manufactured the candidate, said it is abandoning its work on Read more »
Scientists Learn Why Even Treated Genital Herpes Sores Boost the Risk of HIV Infection
... New research helps explain why infection with herpes simplex virus-2 (HSV-2), which causes genital herpes, increases the risk for HIV infection even after successful treatment heals the genital skin sores and breaks that often result Read more »
Related Topics
What Is The Chance Of Getting Herpes From Drinking From The Same Cup
View More HIV/AIDS-Related Topics »
Resource Centers
African Americans
Aging
Gay Men
Keeping Up With Your Meds
Latinos
Newly Diagnosed
Starting Treatment
Women
Guides for People With HIV
View All of Our Guides >>
© 2015 Remedy Health Media, LLC All Rights Reserved
Facebook
Twitter
Newsletters
The Body
About The Body
Contact The Body
Site Policies
Content Providers
Advertise With Us
Site Map
Remedy Health Media
About Remedy Health Media
Contact Remedy Health Media
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
The Body is a service of Remedy Health Media, LLC, 750 3rd Avenue, 6th Floor, New York, NY 10017. The Body and its logos are trademarks of Remedy Health Media, LLC, and its subsidiaries, which owns the copyright of The Body's homepage, topic pages, page designs and HTML code. General Disclaimer: The Body is designed for educational purposes only and is not engaged in rendering medical advice or professional services. The information provided through The Body should not be used for diagnosing or treating a health problem or a disease. It is not a substitute for professional care. If you have or suspect you may have a health problem, consult your health care provider.