What to eat on antibiotics: During and after treatment
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
What should you eat while taking antibiotics?
Last reviewed	 Wed 4 July 2018	 Last reviewed	Wed 4 Jul 2018
By Amanda Barrell
Reviewed by Dena Westphalen, PharmD
Table of contents
What to eat
Foods to avoid
Alcohol
Outlook
Antibiotics are a type of medication that fight bacteria. They work either by killing bacteria or by stopping it from reproducing.
These drugs often cause gastrointestinal side effects, such as:
nausea
diarrhea
bloating
indigestion
abdominal pain
loss of appetite
These side effects may be uncomfortable, but they tend to pass quickly.
Eating the right foods can help to prevent bothersome side effects and encourage healing. In this article, learn which foods to eat and which to avoid while taking antibiotics.
What to eat during and after taking antibiotics
Certain foods or drinks may affect antibiotics.
A person has trillions of bacteria and other microorganisms living in their gut. The medical community refers to these organisms, collectively, as the gut microbiome.
Antibiotics fight bacteria, and they can upset the balance of bacteria in the microbiome.
The gut microbiome keeps the digestive system functioning and helps the immune system to defend against viral infection.
When antibiotics upset the bacterial balance, a person may experience side effects, such as nausea or diarrhea. Consuming probiotics and prebiotics during and after a course of antibiotics can help to restore the balance of bacteria in the gut.
Probiotics
Probiotics are live microorganisms commonly known as "healthy bacteria."
They can help to reduce some of the side effects of antibiotics, such as bloating and diarrhea.
While research about probiotics and antibiotics is still inconclusive, studies suggest that taking probiotics is a safe way to prevent antibiotic-related diarrhea.
Antibiotics can kill the beneficial bacteria in probiotics, so it is advisable to take the two a few hours apart.
After finishing a course of antibiotics, taking a mixture of probiotics can also help to restore balance in the microbiome.
Prebiotics
Prebiotics are food for the beneficial bacteria that live in the gut microbiome.
Feeding the beneficial bacteria before and after taking antibiotics can help to bring balance back to the gut.
Some foods contain low levels of prebiotics, such as:
onions
garlic
bananas
chicory root
Jerusalem artichokes
Manufacturers sometimes add prebiotics to foods, such as:
yogurt
infant formula
cereals
bread
Prebiotics may appear on food labels as:
galactooligosaccharides, or GOS
fructooligosaccharides, or FOS
oligofructose, or OF
chicory fiber
inulin
Most prebiotics are dietary fibers. If a person consumes large quantities, they may experience gas or bloating.
Anyone who is considering adding prebiotics to their diet should do so slowly to allow their gut to adapt.
What to know about antibiotics
Learn more about antibiotics, including their side effects and the risk of resistance.
Read now
Fermented foods
Fermented foods are good sources of beneficial bacteria. All fermented foods contain microorganisms, but some heat or filtration processes can kill the beneficial bacteria.
Fermented vegetables, such as sauerkraut or pickles in jars and stored at room temperature, do not contain live cultures.
Microorganisms do not survive any baking processes, so they will not be present in foods such as sourdough bread.
Foods that contain these organisms often have "live and active cultures" on their labels.
Fermented foods include:
miso
tempeh
kimchi
yogurt
traditional salami
some cheeses
fresh, sour dill pickles
Vitamin K
Kale is high in vitamin K.
Antibiotics fight all kinds of bacteria, even those that help the body. Some bacteria produce vitamin K, which the body needs to make the blood clot.
To reduce the impact of antibiotics on vitamin K levels, people can eat:
kale
spinach
turnip greens
collards
Swiss chard
parsley
mustard greens
Brussels sprouts
Fiber
Fiber may stimulate the growth of beneficial bacteria in the gut.
People should avoid high-fiber foods while taking antibiotics, as they may affect how the stomach absorbs the medicine.
However, once a person finishes the full course of antibiotics, eating fiber can help to restore the beneficial bacteria and promote proper digestion.
Foods that are rich in fiber include:
artichokes
bananas
berries
beans
broccoli
lentils
nuts
peas
whole grains
Foods to avoid while taking antibiotics
Some foods interfere with the effectiveness of antibiotics.
These include grapefruits and grapefruit juice, which can stop the body from breaking down and correctly absorbing the medication.
Also, some research indicates that foods fortified with high doses of calcium, such as some orange juices, can interfere with the absorption of certain antibiotics.
Alcohol and antibiotics
Alcohol can interfere with medication.
It is sensible to avoid alcohol while taking any medication. In most cases, moderate drinking will not interfere with antibiotics, but it may make the side effects worse.
A doctor will advise a person not to drink any alcohol if they are taking one of the following antibiotics:
Metronidazole, which can treat dental infections, vaginal infections, infected leg ulcers, and pressure sores.
Tinidazole, which also treats dental infections, vaginal infections, infected leg ulcers, and pressure sores, and clears bacteria called Helicobacter pylori from the gut.
Drinking alcohol while on one of these antibiotics can cause a serious reaction and the following symptoms:
nausea
abdominal pain
hot flashes
a fast or irregular heartbeat
headaches
dizziness
drowsiness
People should avoid alcohol for a further 48 hours after finishing a course of metronidazole and for 72 hours after finishing a course of tinidazole.
Outlook
It is vital to restore a healthful balance in the gut microbiome after taking a course of antibiotics. People can do this by eating probiotics, prebiotics, fermented foods, and fiber.
Probiotics and prebiotics can also help to reduce the side effects of antibiotics.
Some foods can interact with antibiotics, making them less effective. These include grapefruit and foods fortified with high doses of calcium, such as some orange juices.
Related coverage
Best 40 foods for vitamin K Vitamin K is an essential nutrient that helps the body clot blood, build strong bones, and keep the heart healthy. In this article, we look at foods to eat to increase vitamin K intake, including kale, spinach, other leafy greens, some dairy products, and natto. Learn about the difference between vitamin K-1 and K-2. Read now
Top seven safe, effective natural antibiotics Are natural antibiotics safe? Do they work? Read about the best and worst natural antibiotics. We also discuss when to use prescription antibiotics. Read now
Seven benefits of kefir Kefir is a yogurt-like drink that has experienced a recent wave of popularity. It is said to control blood sugar and cholesterol, improve tolerance to lactose, and protect the stomach. This MNT Knowledge Center article explains the potential health benefits of kefir. Read now
Garlic: Proven benefits People have used garlic as a food and medicine for more than 5,000 years. This article looks at research into the health benefits of garlic and the various human conditions that are thought to be helped by the compounds found in garlic. These illnesses include lung, brain, and prostate cancers, and heart conditions. Read now
What causes antibiotic resistance? Resistance to antibiotics kills more than 20,000 people in the U.S. each year. But how do bugs become resistant to drugs that once worked so well? Read now
email email
print
share share
Nutrition / Diet
Biology / Biochemistry GastroIntestinal / Gastroenterology Pharmacy / Pharmacist
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Wed 4 July 2018.
Visit our Nutrition / Diet category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Nutrition / Diet.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Antibiotics. (2018, April 25). Retrieved from https://medlineplus.gov/antibiotics.html
Bailey, D. G., Dresser, G., & Arnold, J. M. O. (2013, March 5). Grapefruit–medication interactions: Forbidden fruit or avoidable consequences? Canadian Medical Association Journal, 185(4), 309–316. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3589309/
Can I drink alcohol while taking antibiotics? (2018, May 1). Retrieved from https://www.nhs.uk/chq/Pages/871.aspx?CategoryID=73
Drug allergies. (2018, February 28). Retrieved from https://acaai.org/allergies/types/drug-allergies
Fermented foods. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://4cau4jsaler1zglkq3wnmje1-wpengine.netdna-ssl.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/01/FermentedFoods_outline_rev1029.pdf
General background: When & how to take antibiotics. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://emerald.tufts.edu/med/apua/about_issue/when_how.shtml
Hutkins, R. (n.d.). Fermented foods. Retrieved from https://isappscience.org/fermented-foods/
Issa, I., & Moucari, R. (2014, December 21). Probiotics for antibiotic-associated diarrhea: Do we have a verdict? World Journal of Gastroenterology, 20(47), 17,788–17,795. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4273129/
Langdon, A., Crook, N., & Dantas, G. (2016, April 13). The effects of antibiotics on the microbiome throughout development and alternative approaches for therapeutic modulation. Genome Medicine, 8(1), 39. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4831151/
McFarland, L. V. (2014, August 25). Use of probiotics to correct dysbiosis of normal microbiota following disease or disruptive events: A systematic review. BMJ Open, 4(8). Retrieved from http://bmjopen.bmj.com/content/4/8/e005047?cpetoc
Prebiotics. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://4cau4jsaler1zglkq3wnmje1-wpengine.netdna-ssl.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/01/Prebiotics_Infographic_rev1029.pdf
Scott, K. (2013). Prebiotics. Retrieved from https://isappscience.org/prebiotics/
Stass, H., & Kubitza, D. (2001). Effects of dairy products on the oral bioavailability of moxifloxacin, a novel 8-methoxyfluoroquinolone, in healthy volunteers [Abstract]. Clinical Pharmacokinetics, 40(Suppl 1), 33–38. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11352440
Using medication: Using antibiotics correctly and avoiding resistance. (2013, December 18). Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmedhealth/PMH0087079/
Wallace, A. W., Victory, J. M., & Amsden, G. W. (2013, March 8). Lack of bioequivalence of gatifloxacin when coadministered with calcium‐fortified orange juice in healthy volunteers [Abstract]. The Journal of Clinical Pharmacology, 43(1), 92–96. Retrieved from https://accp1.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0091270002239711
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Barrell, Amanda. "What should you eat while taking antibiotics?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 5 Jul. 2018. Web.
21 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322374.php>
APA
Barrell, A. (2018, July 5). "What should you eat while taking antibiotics?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322374.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Increased muscle power may prolong life
A first-of-its-kind study finds that increased muscle power, rather than muscle strength, can significantly prolong life for seniors.
MS: High-strength MRI may predict disease progression
New research suggests that a powerful MRI scanner may help predict the progression of multiple sclerosis by analyzing cortical lesions on the brain.
More evidence that being active extends life
A recent study concluded that 'regardless of age, sex, or starting fitness level,' increased physical activity of any type reduces overall mortality risk.
Through my eyes: My first 48 hours with hearing aids
I'm not even 30 years old, and I need hearing aids. The discovery was a shock, but just 48 hours in and an exciting new world of sound is unfolding.
Most people who die of natural causes do not seek medical help
A new study has found that a large number of people who die from natural causes do not seek medical attention during the month before.
Popular in: Nutrition / Diet
Eighteen ways to reduce bloating
Which foods are good for constipation?
Seven ways to do intermittent fasting
What are the first signs of gluten intolerance?
Which foods lower blood sugar?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322374.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);