Ask the Doctor: Nausea Relief | Cascade Cancer Care Ask the Doctor: Nausea Relief | Cascade Cancer Care
How to Have Better Sleep
About
About Us
Gratitudes
Your Team
Dr. Neubauer
Coordinated Care With Your Oncologist
Services
Integrative Second Opinion
Personalized Cancer Treatment
Prevent Cancer Recurrence and Restore Health
New Patients
Becoming a Patient
Insurance and Payment
Contact
Blog
News From Dr Neubauer
541-323-3833
Patient Portal
Supplement Refills
Pay My Bill
Home » Research » Ask the Doctor: Nausea Relief
Ask the Doctor: Nausea Relief
Posted on May 1, 2013 in Research
Q: I’m having a lot of nausea with Adriamycin chemotherapy. The medications help some, but I’m still pretty queasy. What else can I try?
— Sarah in Houston, Texas
A: Helpful therapies to try include ginger, acupuncture or acupressure, aromatherapy with peppermint, or hypnosis.
In a clinical trial, acupressure wristbands were as effective as the antinausea drug Compazine. I recommend Seaband or Bioband wristbands.
To get help from ginger, start it at least 2 days before chemotherapy, and continue for several days after chemotherapy. The strength of the ginger extract is a matter of personal preference. Some people get results with ginger ale, while others need a stronger version such as candied ginger or ginger syrup. If you are taking a blood thinner or have surgery scheduled, talk to your naturopathic oncologist before taking ginger.
Regarding medications, talk with your oncologist or family physician to ensure that you have the most appropriate anti nausea medications. Typically, the oncologist starts with weaker medications and then adds stronger ones if you need them. For example, if you’re still nauseous while taking Compazine and lorazepam, they may add Emend with your next chemotherapy.
If you’re having reflux or an acidic sensation in your throat, then stomach irritation may be contributing to your nausea. In this situation, natural therapies can help by soothing the lining of the stomach. Gut healers like glutamine or slippery elm bark tea can be very helpful in this situation, while ginger would actually make the problem worse.
There are lots of good options to try. Your naturopathic oncologist can help you to identify the best options for you.
Categories
Community Events
Introduction to Integrative Oncology
My Cancer Type
Research
Uncategorized
Tags
acid alkaline diet alkalinize alternative cancer therapies alternative therapies anti-inflammatory antioxidants anxiety ask the doctor bladder cancer breast cancer Canada cancer prevention cancer survivor chemotherapy clinical trial colon cancer colorectal cancer detoxification diet esophageal cancer gastric cancer green tea inflammation integrative oncology liver cancer melanoma melatonin metabolic cancer therapies mind body medicine Natural Medicine Journal naturopathic oncologist naturopathic oncology nutrition Oregon ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer prostate cancer radiation radiation therapy sleep soy stomach cancer targeted therapy Warburg effect
© Copyright 2014-2018 Cascade Cancer Care LLC. All information contained on this website is intended for informational and educational purposes only, and is neither intended nor suited to be a replacement or substitute for professional consultation relative to a specific medical question or condition.