San Diego Researcher Helps Draft New Dietary Guidelines For Cancer Prevention | KPBS
Your browser does not support inline frames
Skip to main content
70° Partly Cloudy
LISTEN LIVE
WATCH SHOWS
GIVE NOW
Search Input Field
news
arts & living
programming & schedules
support KPBS
events
Search Input Field
Latest News
Local:news
National:news
Weather :news
Surf :news
Special News Sections
KPBS Evening Edition :program
KPBS Midday Edition :program
KPBS Roundtable :program
Election
Speak City Heights
KPBS Investigates
California Dream
News Sections
Border:news
Economy:news
Education:news
Environment:news
Military:news
North County:news
Politics:news
Public Safety:news
Quality of Life:news
Science:news
Blogs
Cinema Junkie Podcast :program
Cinema Junkie Blog :blog
KPBS/arts Blog :blog
Special Sections
Events Calendar
KPBS/arts Calendar
Community Heroes
One Book One San Diego
Arts & Living Sections
All Arts & Culture
All Living
Animal Stories
Books:news
Faith & Spirituality
Food
Movies:news
Music:news
Pop Culture:news
Television :news
Visual Arts :news
Theatre :news
KPBS Radio
Listen Live
Radio Schedule
Radio Programs
Podcasts
Classical San Diego
Radio Reading Service
KPBS TV
TV on Demand
TV Schedules
Program Highlights
KPBS Passport
TV Highlights Newsletter
Local Programs
KPBS Evening Edition :program
KPBS Midday Edition :program
KPBS Roundtable :program
KPBS/arts :program
A Growing Passion :program
Animal R&R :program
Crossing South :program
Explore San Diego :program
Ken Kramer's About San Diego :program
Kings of the Craft:program
Live at the Belly Up:program
RE'FLECT:program
San Diego's Historic Places :program
Savor San Diego :program
SnapShot :program
Membership Links
Join or Renew
Membership Information
Sustaining Membership
Matching Gift
Membership FAQs
Producers Club :join
KPBS Passport
Other Ways to Give
Planned Giving
Vehicle Donation
Corporate Support
Volunteer
Contact Us
Call 619-594-6983
Send an email
Toll free: 888-399-5727
San Diego Researcher Helps Draft New Dietary Guidelines For Cancer Prevention
Monday, June 9, 2014
By Amita Sharma, Marissa Cabrera, Tom Fudge
Your browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured not to display inline frames. Content can be viewed at actual source page: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zCXfImUiVGY
Aired 6/9/14 on KPBS Midday Edition
GUEST:
Dr. Gordon Saxe, UC San Diego Health Center
Transcript for audioclip 22100
Six new dietary guidelines for cancer prevention are out and they're more aggressive than previous prevention advice.
Dr. Gordon Saxe of UC San Diego Health System co-authored the new recommendations from the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine published in the Journal of the American College of Nutrition Monday.
The guidelines encourage people to limit alcohol, dairy products, red and processed meats and emphasize a diet high in soy products, fruits and vegetables.
The six dietary recommendations to reduce risk of several types of cancer are:
Limit or avoid dairy products to reduce the risk of prostate cancer
Findings: Consuming 35 grams of dairy protein each day — the equivalent of one and a half cups of cottage cheese — increases risk of prostate cancer by 32 percent. Drinking two glasses of milk each day increases risk of prostate cancer by 60 percent.
Note: Calcium supplements appear to have the same effect as milk intake. Men who supplement with more than 400 milligrams of calcium per day increase risk for fatal prostate cancer by 51 percent.
Limit or avoid alcohol to reduce the risk of cancers of the mouth, pharynx, larynx, esophagus, colon, rectum, and breast
Findings: One drink per week increases risk of mouth, pharynx, and larynx cancers by 24 percent. Two to three drinks per day increase risk of colorectal cancer by 21 percent.
Note: The alcohol itself (rather than additives) appears to be the cause of cancer, and all types of alcoholic beverages (wine, beer, and spirits) are problematic.
Avoid red and processed meats to reduce the risk of cancers of the colon and rectum
Findings: Each 50 gram daily serving of processed meat — equivalent to two slices of bacon or one sausage link — increases risk of colorectal cancer by 21 percent. Each 120 gram daily serving of red meat, equivalent to a small steak, increases risk of colorectal cancer by 28 percent.
Note: The heme iron, nitrites, heterocyclic amines, and overabundance of essential amino acids in red and processed meats are all believed to contribute to cancerous cell growth in the body.
Avoid grilled, fried, and broiled meats to reduce the risk of cancers of the colon, rectum, breast, prostate, kidney, and pancreas
Findings: Four types of heterocyclic amines (HCAs) are associated with cancer of the colon and rectum. HCAs form from creatine and amino acids in cooked skeletal muscle, increasing with higher cooking times and higher temperatures. When ingested, HCAs can disrupt DNA synthesis.
Note: In addition to the cancers listed above, HCAs are also associated, to a weaker extent, with cancers of the breast, prostate, kidney, and pancreas.
Consume soy products to reduce risk of breast cancer and to reduce the risk of recurrence and mortality for women previously treated for breast cancer
Findings: Evidence from Asian and Western countries shows that soy products are associated with reduced cancer risk. Chinese women who consume more than 11.3 grams of soy protein, equivalent to half a cup of cooked soybeans, each day during adolescence have a 43 percent reduced risk of premenopausal breast cancer, compared with women who consume 1.7 grams. Research in Shanghai shows that women with breast cancer who consume 11 grams of soy protein each day can reduce mortality and risk of recurrence by about 30 percent. U.S. populations show similar findings: the higher the isoflavone intake from soy products, the less risk of mortality and recurrence in women with breast cancer.
Note: When choosing soy products, opt for natural forms, such as edamame, tempeh, or organic tofu, as opposed to soy protein concentrates and isolates, common in powders and pills.
Emphasize fruits and vegetables to reduce risk of several common forms of cancer
Findings: Fruits and vegetables, especially leafy greens, help reduce overall cancer risk. A high intake of cruciferous vegetables, such as broccoli, kale, and cabbage, is associated with an 18 percent reduced risk of colorectal cancer and reduced risk of lung and stomach cancers. Women who consume the most carotenoid-rich vegetables, such as carrots and sweet potatoes, lower their risk of breast cancer by 19 percent. Overall, women who consume the highest quantities of any kind of fruit or vegetable reduce breast cancer risk by 11 percent. A high intake of tomato products has been shown to reduce risk of gastric cancer by 27 percent. Garlic and other allium vegetables, such as onions, significantly reduce risk for gastric cancer, while a Western diet (high amounts of meat and fat with minimal amounts of fruits and vegetables) doubles the risk.
Note: Some components in soybeans, green tea, turmeric, grapes, tomatoes, and other plant foods have the ability to regulate apoptosis (a natural process for destroying unhealthy cells), an important pathway for cancer prevention.
“There’s considerable benefit--and no harm—in loading up with plant-based foods,” notes study author Susan Levin, M.S., R.D., C.S.S.D., director of nutrition education for the Physicians Committee. “Large bodies of research show fruits, vegetables, and legumes offer a variety of protective properties, so why not move these foods to the center of our plates?”
The World Health Organization states that a significant percentage of cancers can be prevented by following a healthful diet, avoiding tobacco, leading an active lifestyle, and limiting alcohol intake.
Want more KPBS news?
Find us on Twitter and Facebook, or subscribe to our newsletters.
To view PDF documents, Download Acrobat Reader.
More Like This
Does Vitamin D Really Protect Against Colorectal Cancer?
Jun. 14, 2018
Even Low-Dose Contraceptives Slightly Increase Breast Cancer Risk
Dec. 6, 2017
Eating Soy Has Benefits For Breast Cancer Survivors, Study Finds
Mar. 7, 2017
A Diet High In Fiber May Help Protect Against Breast Cancer
Feb. 1, 2016
Latest News
UCSD Doctor Who Violated Human Research Rules ‘On Leave’ Following Inewsource Investigation
An Actor Finds A Second Career As A Professor
Fastest Litigant In The West: California’s About to Sue Trump More Than Texas Sued Obama
SPONSORSHIP
Become a KPBS sponsor today!
Tweets by KPBSnews
SPONSORSHIP
Become a KPBS sponsor today!
About Us
Our Mission
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Tour KPBS
Staff
KPBS Press Releases
Careers & FCC EEO Regulations
FCC Public Files KPBS-DT
FCC Public Files KPBS-FM
FCC Public Files KQVO-FM
Help/FAQ
Frequently Asked Questions
Log-ins FAQ
Member Services
Mobile Apps
Feedback
Closed Captioning
Give
Pledge/Join/Renew
Producers Club :join
Planned Giving
Vehicle Donation
Corporate Support
Volunteer
Contact Us
KPBS Public Media
5200 Campanile Drive
San Diego, CA 92182
[map and directions]
General: 619-594-1515
Newsroom: 619-594-6397
Toll free: 888-399-5727
Send us a message
To view PDF files, download Acrobat Reader.
Sign up for our newsletters!
© 2019 KPBS Public Media