Morphine Rehab - Therapy & Treatment for Morphine Addiction
Drug Addiction
TALK TO A REHAB EXPERT 800-895-1695
Main menu
Skip to content
Home
Rehab Guides
Alcohol Rehab Guide
Ambien Rehab
Ativan Rehab
Cocaine Rehab
Crack Rehab
Crystal Meth Rehab
Drug Rehab Guide
Ecstasy Rehab
Heroin Rehab
Klonopin Rehab
Marijuana Rehab
Morphine Rehab
Opium Rehab
OxyContin Rehab
Percocet Rehab
Prescription Rehab
Valium Rehab
Vicodin Rehab
Xanax Rehab
Rehab Types
Christian Based
Detox
Dual Diagnosis Rehab
Interventions
Long Term Solutions
Luxury Care Rehab
Outpatient Rehab
Help for Women
Holistic Treatment
Rehab Insurance
Residential Rehab
Sober Living
Aftercare
Teen Options
Addiction Center
Adderall
Alcoholism
Cocaine
Crack
Crystal Meth
Drugs
Ecstasy
Gambling
Heroin
Hydrocodone
Marijuana
Opiate
Oxycontin
Percocet
Prescriptions
Vicodin
Resources
Aid
Chat Let's Talk: Click To Chat Call Now: 24Hr Addiction Hotline 800-895-1695 Email We'll Call You: Contact Us
Home › Morphine Rehab
Morphine Rehab
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window)
Click to print (Opens in new window)
More
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
When it comeas to addictive opiates, morphine is one of the worst offenders there is. Though it’s been used for decades as a painkiller in hospitals, morphine is also used very sparingly due to how addictive it can become for those taking it. Rarely if ever given to those not in a hospital setting, morphine addiction is an extremely dangerous condition, and not one that should be quit “cold turkey.”
What is Morphine?
Sold under a wide variety of different brand names, morphine is a narcotic pain reliever, as well as an opiate. When dosed, this drug alters the way the brain perceives pain, thus deadening the effect on a patient. This drug is almost never prescribed for pain that results from a surgery or injury. The only exception to this rule is for those who were already taking morphine before the event that led to the pain.
Morphine Addiction
Morphine, as a substance, is one of the more addictive painkillers there is. Similar in its makeup to heroin and other opiates, morphine can quickly lead to dependence physically as well as psychologically. Physical dependence is the major reason why suddenly stopping the use of morphine can be dangerous, and in some circumstances deadly. Morphine addiction treatment must address this concern first before any other symptom of addiction is seen to.
Morphine Addiction Detox
Morphine rehab can help with the wide range range of withdrawal symptoms.
Because of how quickly the body can become dependent on morphine it is important that addicts seek the aid of trained medical professionals. When the body is used to having morphine in its system it has already made concessions and rated these changes as the new normal. A sudden cessation of the drug can lead to all kinds of negative withdrawal symptoms, including nausea, vomiting, cold sweats, shakes, pain and in some cases serious system shocks. The first step of any morphine addiction treatment is to detox the person in question and make sure that their body is free of morphine in a safe way.
Detox can take a long time, depending on how long the individual has been using morphine and at what dosage level. Users need to gradually step down the dosage, weaning the user off of the drug slowly enough that no extreme withdrawal puts them in physical danger. There will still be symptoms, and unpleasant ones, but a measured and carefully detox treatment can safely get a patient’s body off of morphine.
Therapy and Further Treatment
Once a person has been weaned off of morphine there are still problems to consider. For instance, if that person is still in pain then an alternative method of dealing with that pain needs to be found. If that person was relying on morphine as an escape, or as a way to relive stress and tension then therapy should aim at helping the person cope. One on one therapy, group therapy, faith based programs and alternatives along with a variety of other solutions are all possible avenues, depending on the patient. And all of these solutions can be delivered as both inpatient and outpatient services.
There is no cure for addiction, and there is also no guaranteed way that will help a given addict overcome the temptation to go back to morphine, or to another, similar opiate. That’s why it’s important that those who are addicted to this painkiller be given as many different choices as possible when it comes to therapy and treatment. Sometimes they need to be taken into a facility and kept there until they have the strength to face life on their own terms. Sometimes they need to acceptance and support of others that have dealt with their addictions and won. Sometimes all it takes is a different medication to help the abuser deal with his or her pain. Whatever solution is pursued though, you can’t take anything off the table.
Related Articles
10 Signs Your Loved One Needs Morphine Rehab - Morphine is a powerful opiate which is highly addictive and harmful. If your loved one has a morphine problem, getting rehab treatment will help them overcome.
Benefits of Inpatient Morphine Rehab - Getting over an addiction to morphine is tough, but doing so with the help of an inpatient rehab program can make the process much more smooth.
Medications Used in Morphine Rehab - Morphine addiction is a dangerous condition which necessitates treatment. Find out which medications can help you overcome your addiction and take back your life.
Morphine Rehab Options - Choosing the right program is an important factor in successfully detoxing during morphine rehab. Both inpatient and outpatient programs are available, each offering different benefits.
Treatment for Withdrawal in Morphine Rehab - Withdrawal symptoms can be very unpleasant and potentially harmful to your health. Morphine rehab will help you safely detox with medications, counseling, and support groups.
Who Needs Morphine Rehab? - Morphine is a very addictive and dangerous drug. If you or someone you love is beginning to depend on it and is using it chronically, they may need morphine rehab.
Who Needs Outpatient Morphine Rehab? - Outpatient rehab programs can help you overcome a morphine addiction while not interfering too much in your daily life. Treatment takes place at pre-appointed times.
Get Help Now
Your First Name:*
Your Last Name:*
Email Address:
Phone Number:
Medical Insurance:*
Select...NoYes - PPOYes - Fee for ServiceYes - HMOYes - POSYes - Medicare/MedicaidYes - Tricare/Other MilitaryYes - Other
Money Available:*
Select...None$1 - $5,000$5,000 - $10,000$10,000 - $20,000$20,000 - $30,000$30,000 - $40,000$40,000 - $50,000More than $50,000
Please Describe Your Problem:
Email
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
CALL NOW: 800-895-1695
Learn More
Rehab Guides
Rehab Types
Addiction Center
Resources
Aid
Privacy Policy
Rehab Types
Christian Rehab
Detox
Dual Diagnosis Rehab
Help for Women
Holistic Treatment
Interventions
Long Term Solutions
Luxury Care Rehab
Outpatient Rehab Programs
Rehab Insurance
Residential Rehab
Sober Living
Aftercare
Teen Options
Connect
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Pinterest
© DrugAddiction.org. All rights reserved.
powered by Olark live chat software