Genetic Testing - MedStar Health Baltimore Cancer Network
×
Improve your experience
You're using a web browser that we don't support
Try one of these options to have a better experience on the MedStar Health site.
Please upgrade to FireFox, Chrome or Safari Thank You!
Close
MENU
Doctors
Types of Cancer
Treatments
Our Locations
Why Choose Us
Doctors
Types of Cancer
Treatments
Our Locations
Why Choose Us
Skip to content
NEED ASSISTANCE? | CALL 877-715-HOPE
Home > Treatments > Genetic Testing
Share this page:
Genetic Testing
The Rasmussen family, patients at MedStar Franklin Square, prepare for genetic testing for breast cancer.
MedStar Health Cancer Network provides genetic counseling or testing (a simple blood test to detect the gene) to patients who believe they may be affected by a hereditary factor.
Most cancers are sporadic, meaning they are dependent on environmental factors such as diet or tobacco usage/exposure and not heredity—less than 5 percent of 1.5 million annual cancer cases (predominantly breast, ovarian, and colorectal cancers) are based on heredity. However, family members can pass inherited cancer gene mutations from generation to generation.
The knowledge from genetic testing can provide patients' options—including close monitoring or surgery to preemptively remove the areas where cancer may develop—and it may lead to prevention for future generations. It can also provide ease of mind if you do not have a genetic mutation.
How do I learn about my genetic cancer risk and what can I do about it?
Our certified genetic counselor specializes in genetically inherited cancers. She will meet with you to assess your inherited cancer risk. During your initial two-hour assessment,
A family medical history will be taken
The role of inherited gene mutations will be explained
The likelihood that cancer-causing genes may have been (or may be) inherited by members of your family will be estimated
Your likelihood of developing cancer (at some time in your life) will be estimated
Ways to diagnose cancer at an early stage will be discussed
Opportunities to lower your risk of cancer will be discussed
From that meeting, some clients may pursue further genetic counseling where psychological and financial concerns are explored before deciding whether or not to pursue genetic testing. The testing itself requires only that a small sample of blood be drawn and sent to a genetics laboratory for analysis.
If you are identified as high-risk, we recommend increased screenings and suggest you discuss other risk-reducing options with your physician.
Who should seek counseling and possible genetic testing?
Patients who have strong family histories of cancer, especially a diagnosis of cancer at an early age, or who are in treatment for breast or ovarian cancer - or who are breast or ovarian cancer survivors - should seriously consider genetic testing.
If you test positive for a cancer gene mutation, this information is of vital importance to all your blood relatives: sisters, brothers, nieces, nephews, cousins, children, grandchildren and other family members. Each family member has a 50:50 chance of having inherited the mutated gene.
Today, there is opportunity to practice good cancer prevention. Medical and surgical preventions are available as well as lifestyle changes and cancer screening. If your family members know that they are at increased risk of developing cancer, they can actually take action to protect themselves.
A personal choice
We recognize that genetic testing is a very personal choice. While the test itself usually involves no more than providing a blood sample, test results can be far-reaching. Our cancer risk assessment and counseling program is designed to answer your questions about:
Risk assessment procedures
DNA testing
Benefits and limitations
Psychological effect
Family issues
Insurance and privacy issues
Employment issues
Cancer education
Cancer risk reduction
Medical options
Physician referrals
Emily Kuchinsky, MS, CGC, Certified Genetic Counselor
To contact Ms. Kuchinsky, please call 443-777-7656.
Emily Kuchinsky, MS, CGC, is a certified genetic counselor and coordinator of the cancer risk assessment and counseling program for the MedStar Health Cancer Network. Ms. Kuchinsky has been consulting with patients and their families regarding genetic health concerns for more than 10 years. She conducts cancer risk assessment for patients and families with a personal and/or family history of cancer as well as genetic testing if the likelihood of a cancer genetic syndrome is high.
Ms. Kuchinsky is an integral part of the oncology services offered through the MedStar Health Cancer Network, participating in multiple tumor boards per week and providing input as to which patients should undergo a cancer risk assessment. She also conducts community outreach to educate consumers, as well as other healthcare providers, about cancer genetics. Certified by the American Board of Genetic Counseling, Ms. Kuchinsky holds a master’s degree from the University of Arizona in genetic counseling. Her services are available at all Baltimore MedStar Health hospitals.
Listen to Emily Kuchinsky, MS, certified genetic counselor with the MedStar Health Cancer Network, to find out if you are a good candidate for genetic testing, and learn more about genetic testing from our experts:
How Is Genetic Testing for Cancer Done?
Genetic Risk for Breast Cancer
Woman’s Genetic Risk for Breast Cancer
Why Is Genetic Testing Important to Cancer Diagnosis?
Genetic Risk for Breast Cancer
Family History and Genetic Testing for Breast Cancer
Who Should Get Genetic Testing for Cancer?
Location Information
Call 443-777-7656 to talk to Emily Kuchinsky, MS, CGC, certified genetic counselor.
Genetic Testing at MedStar Franklin Square Medical Center
The Harry and Jeanette Weinberg Cancer Institute
9103 Franklin Square Drive
Baltimore, MD 21237
MedStar Good Samaritan Hospital
5601 Loch Raven Boulevard
Baltimore, MD 21239
Genetic Testing at MedStar Harbor Hospital
The Cancer Center
3001 South Hanover St.
Baltimore, MD 21225
MedStar Union Memorial Hospital
3333 North Calvert St.
Johnston Professional Bldg
G23
Baltimore, MD 21218
Learn More
High-Risk Assessment and Cancer Prevention Clinic
Diagnostic Procedures
Screening Guide
Emily Kuchinsky, MS, a Certified Genetic Counselor, Shares her Insights on Lynch Syndrome and Cancer
Resources
See Genetic Testing FAQs From the American Cancer Society
Ride with UBER
Donations
Contact Us
myMedStar
Site Map
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Feedback
© 2019 MEDSTAR HEALTH