Clinical trial confirms safety of inducing mothers aged 35 and over to avoid stillbirth and other complications
Best Science Podcasts 2019
Archive
Clinical trial confirms safety of inducing mothers aged 35 and over to avoid stillbirth and other complications
March 02, 2016
A large clinical trial to assess the benefits or otherwise of inducing labour in pregnant women of 35 years or older has found there was no significant effect on the rate of caesarean sections and no adverse effect on the mother and newborn baby.
The large, randomised, controlled study was carried out by researchers in Nottingham with the help of around 600 older first time mothers from all over the UK. It was designed to explore whether induction is an effective obstetric intervention that is currently being underused.
The results of the NIHR-funded trial was carried out by a research team led by The University of Nottingham and Nottingham University Hospitals Trust and is being published in the New England Journal of Medicine.
The average age of women giving birth in industrialised countries has been increasing for the past 30 years. In the 10 years until 2006, births to women 35 years or older in the UK went from 12 per cent to 20 per cent of all deliveries. The risks of stillbirth, pre-eclampsia, pregnancy diabetes and problems with the placenta are all higher in pregnant women aged 35 or over and they are more likely to deliver premature and underweight babies.
These women are also more likely to have problems in labour with 38 per cent ending up with caesarean sections, rising to 50 per cent of women over 40 years of age having their first baby.
The Nottingham trial randomly assigned pregnant women who volunteered to take part either to labour induction at 39 weeks or to 'expectant care' -- waiting until the spontaneous onset of labour or the development of a medical problem that warranted intervention. Induction of labour was achieved by the insertion of a pessary or an intravenous hormone drip.
Of the 619 women who took part there were no significant differences between the two groups in how many ended up having caesarean sections or in the percentage of women who had a vaginal delivery with forceps or vacuum-assisted delivery.
There were no maternal or infant deaths and no significant differences between the groups in the women's experience of delivery or in the frequency of adverse outcomes for mother and baby.
Professor of Obstetrics and Gynaecology at The University of Nottingham, Jim Thornton, said: "We were fairly surprised by our main result in that overall there was no significant effect on the rate of caesarean section in the group of mums who were induced at 39 weeks. Our trial was not set up to test induction as a way of avoiding stillbirth but it does prove the safety of performing a much larger trial to test this further.
"Some people say why not just induce everyone at 39 weeks and prevent some stillbirths. Others say that would medicalise many normal pregnancies, increase intervention rates and may have long term unintended harms. Ours is the first clinical trial to provide some hard evidence to help decision-making among doctors and older first-time mothers-to-be. The results support the 'induce more women' advocates, although there are still reasons for caution."
One of the women who took part in the trial said: "Having chosen to start a family later in life, we were very much aware of the increased risk of complications, so when asked to take part in the trial, given the reasons for the research it was an easy decision. I was completely supported by the trial team throughout my pregnancy, which was very reassuring."
Lay member of the research team, Chris Wild smith, who lost a baby through stillbirth said: "I'm really encouraged by the results of the study, especially as it has covered such a difficult subject and area that isn't easy to suggest studies or research without creating more angst or worry among future parents. I really hope the work can generate more discussion to the clinical approach and how to address risk groups. I do hope for all our stillborn children that the evidence will avoid more families going through the traumatic pain and hurt that we endured."
The Randomised Trial of Labour Induction in Women 35 Years of Age or Older was carried out by the Divisions of Obstetrics and Gynaecology at The University of Nottingham and Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust; Nottingham Clinical Trials Unit, Stillbirth and Neonatal Death Charity, London; and the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology and National Institute for Health Research Biomedical Research Centre, Cambridge University.
The work was funded by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Research for Patient Benefit Programme.
-end-
University of Nottingham
Related Stillbirth Articles:
Report on stillbirth and neonatal death rates across the UK
Study shows fall in stillbirth rate across the UK -- a step towards the government target.
Lying on your back while pregnant could increase the risk of stillbirth
Pregnant women who lie on their backs in the third trimester may be increasing the risk of stillbirth, according to a study published in The Journal of Physiology.
Giving more pregnant women common thyroid medicine may reduce risk of complications
Extending the number of pregnant women given the common drug levothyroxine to boost thyroid hormone levels may lead to a reduced number of stillbirths, early caesarean sections and low-weight babies, according to a new study presented today at the Society for Endocrinology annual conference in Brighton.
Majority of stillbirth cases remain unexplained, post mortem investigation needs to be refined
Analysis by a Great Ormond Street Hospital-led team looking at the effectiveness of different elements of the post mortem process shows that, despite full standard investigation, in the majority of cases of stillbirth the cause remains unknown.
Twins should be delivered at 37 weeks to minimize deaths, say experts
Twins should be delivered at 37 weeks' gestation to minimize stillbirths and newborn deaths, and there is no clear evidence to support routine delivery before 36 weeks' gestation, finds a large international study in The BMJ today.
MRIs during pregnancy and outcomes for infants, children
In an analysis that included more than 1.4 million births, exposure to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) during the first trimester of pregnancy compared with nonexposure was not associated with increased risk of harm to the fetus or in early childhood, although gadolinium MRI at any time during pregnancy was associated with an increased risk of a broad set of rheumatological, inflammatory, or skin conditions and, possibly, for stillbirth or neonatal death, according to a study appearing in the Sept.
Largest review into twin pregnancies reveals ideal delivery time to prevent stillbirths
Scientists at QMUL have analyzed the twin pregnancies of more than 30,000 women to identify the ideal delivery period in an attempt to reduce rates of stillbirth.
Surgical stitch linked to stillbirth and preterm birth
In a study of almost 700 pregnant women who received a cervical stitch designed to prevent preterm labor, the use of one type of suture over another was associated with three times higher risk of stillbirth and almost twice the risk of preterm birth.
'Suggestive evidence' for link between air pollution and heightened stillbirth risk
There is 'suggestive evidence' for a link between air pollution and a heightened risk of stillbirth, indicates a summary of the available data, published online in Occupational & Environmental Medicine.
Report on stillbirth and neonatal death rates for local areas across the UK
A study finds 'significant variation' in stillbirths and neonatal mortality across the UK.
More Stillbirth News and Stillbirth Current Events
Related Stillbirth Reading:
Best Science Podcasts 2019
We have hand picked the best science podcasts for 2019. Sit back and enjoy new science podcasts updated daily from your favorite science news services and scientists.
Now Playing: TED Radio Hour
Changing The World
What does it take to change the world for the better? This hour, TED speakers explore ideas on activism—what motivates it, why it matters, and how each of us can make a difference. Guests include civil rights activist Ruby Sales, labor leader and civil rights activist Dolores Huerta, author Jeremy Heimans, "craftivist" Sarah Corbett, and designer and futurist Angela Oguntala.
Your browser does not support the audio element.
Now Playing: Science for the People
#521 The Curious Life of Krill
Krill may be one of the most abundant forms of life on our planet... but it turns out we don't know that much about them. For a create that underpins a massive ocean ecosystem and lives in our oceans in massive numbers, they're surprisingly difficult to study. We sit down and shine some light on these underappreciated crustaceans with Stephen Nicol, Adjunct Professor at the University of Tasmania, Scientific Advisor to the Association of Responsible Krill Harvesting Companies, and author of the book "The Curious Life of Krill: A Conservation Story from the Bottom of the World".
Your browser does not support the audio element.