How to Safely Remove Skin Tags At Home Using THIS Inexpensive Bathroom Item | Active Home Remedies
Active Home Remedies
Online resource for articles on natural health and alternative medicine.
Thursday, 13 April 2017
How to Safely Remove Skin Tags At Home Using THIS Inexpensive Bathroom Item
Skin tags are alike the warts or little flaps but these are annoying. The color is usually pink or brown and the size is too small. Skin tags are not harmful and not painful but many people thought them as to be cosmetically unpleasant.
Skin Tags vs Warts
Skin Tags are:
Soft and smooth
They hang off the skin so these are knobby
It is very hard to think that they will appear so these are spontaneous
These are not contagious
Warts are:
Warts have rough and irregular surface
These are flat in structure
Warts are caused by HPV (human papilloma virus)
Contagious as they often spread and appear like a cluster form
Why do skin tags appear?
The second names of skin tags are tumors but are not cancerous and these are the size of a grain of rice. Skin tags appear due to rubbing the skin and friction created against it. Being overweight is another reason of skin tags in certain people.
Where do they form?
Skin tags generally form around the natural folds of the skin including eyelids, armpits, groin and under the breasts.
Who gets skin tags?
Skin tags are very common in people but these are completely harmless. Everybody develops once in their lifetime.
People who are overweight and obese can be easily get the skin tags because their skin contains more folds and creases.
Pregnant women – most likely to be happened in pregnant women because of the secretion of hormones.
In diabetic patients.
People with HPV virus (human papilloma virus, low-risk HPV 6 and 11).
Usage of illegal steroid – as they have interference with the body and muscles and cause the collagen fibers in the skin to bond, allowing the skin tags to be performed.
How to Get Rid of Skin Tags
Other than that, skin tags can get irritated by wearing jewelry, clothes or shaving your body.
In this case, you should always consult a dermatologist to get a proper diagnose before deciding to remove the skin tags. The freezing or cutting process is done to remove skin tags which are usually painless in the tricky spots.
But if you want to clear them for yourself then keep on reading it.
How to Remove Skin Tags Using Thread
No matter, what type of thread you are using either dental floss or sewing thread. It will block the blood flow to the skin tag and it gradually kills it. The success rate of this method is proven.
Instructions:
Step 1: Clean the tag with a cotton ball dipped in the alcohol.
Step 2: Take a piece of dental floss or sewing thread and tie it tightly around the base of the skin tag.
Step 3: Repeat the process for few days.
The skin tag will eventually fall of itself from your skin.
If you liked this post, please share it :)
Posted by Ahad Ammar at 03:40
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to Facebook
Labels: Skin Care
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Home Remedies Index Page
Search
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Pinterest
Visit Ahad's profile on Pinterest.
Categories
Beauty & Fashion (65)
Beauty Tips - Urdu & English (17)
DIY Projects (6)
Fitness & Wellness (6)
Health (20)
Home Remedies (147)
Makeup Tutorials (3)
Men's Health (2)
Pros & Cons (10)
Recipes (8)
Romance & Love (1)
Skin Care (84)
Weight Loss (18)
Women's Health (44)
Loading...
Popular Posts
Home Remedies for Ingrown Hair
How to Get Rid of Acne Scars Overnight
How to Tighten Your Breast
How to Get Rid of Cellulite in Thighs
How To Lighten Dark Inner Thighs, Butt And Bikini Area
How to Get Rid of Dark Pores on Legs (Strawberry Legs)
How to Get Bigger Breasts Naturally
Home Remedies for Keratosis Pilaris (Bumps on the Skin)
Blog Followers
Subscribe
AddThis
Simple theme. Powered by Blogger.