Cholesterol Specialist - First Hill Seattle, WA: Sarah M. Speck, MD, FACC: Cardiologist: Speck Health
Dr. Speck
Services
Insurance
Blog
Testimonials
Patient Stories
Client Experiences
POTENTRx
About Practice
Health Assessment
Testimonials
Patient Stories
Client Experiences
Team
Beverly Pressey, MS, RD - Nutritionist
Dan G. Tripps, PhD- COO & Director of Exercise Science
Dr. Hope Druckman- Internal Medicine
Jennifer Aglubat - Physical Therapist
Jonathan Massimino, BS - Asst. Office Manager & Physiologist
Laura Paulus - Health Coach
Mackenzie Bannister- Exercise Physiologist
Mona Fahoum- Naturopath
Rebecca Lassere - Office Manager & Physiologist
Sarah Speck - Cardiologist & Internist
Steve Dugas-Office Manager
Tacey Peterson- POTENTRx Office Manager
Terry Evenson- Registered Nurse
Zac Downey- Exercise Physiologist
Services
Nutrition
Cholesterol
ECG
Executive Health
Exercise
Exponential Health
Stroke and Heart Attack Prevention
Firefighter Assessments
Literature
Info
Our Team
Steve Dugas-Office Manager
Sarah Speck - Cardiologist & Internist
Laura Paulus - Health Coach
Dr. Hope Druckman- Internal Medicine
Dan G. Tripps, PhD- COO & Director of Exercise Science
Mona Fahoum- Naturopath
Jennifer Aglubat - Physical Therapist
Beverly Pressey, MS, RD- Nutritionist
Terry Evenson- Registered Nurse
Mackenzie Bannister- Exercise Physiologist
Zac Downey- Exercise Physiologist
Tacey Peterson- POTENTRx Office Manager
Rebecca Lassere - Office Manager & Physiologist
Jonathan Massimino, BS - Asst. Office Manager & Physiologist
Patient Portal
Patient Education
Executive Health
Vaccines Schedules
Anxiety
Alzheimer's & Dementia
Arthritis
Asthma
Back Pain
Blood Pressure
COPD
Coronary Artery Disease
Diabetes
Fibromyalgia
Graves' Disease
Hyperlipidemia
Insomnia
Kidney Disease
Metabolic Syndrome
Parkinson's Disease
PMS and Menopause
Stroke Prevention
Contact
Call Us
Map
Speck Health
Sarah M. Speck, MD, FACC
Cardiologist & Internist located in First Hill, Seattle, WA
Cholesterol Specialist
High cholesterol levels can lead to an increased risk of heart disease and other health issues. At POTENTRx, the team of doctors provides clients in the Seattle area with nutritional recommendations and guidance to help them maintain healthy cholesterol levels or lower high cholesterol levels.
206-801-0941
"Great Doctor who cares about helping people become a better healthier person."
Rissa M. Facebook
"Dr. Speck is a doctor in the truest sense of the word...can't say enough about her."
Greer G. Yelp
"Wonderful caring people and so patient...ALWAYS encouraging, positive and helpful."
Joe B. Yelp
Speck Health Sarah M. Speck, MD, FACC Cholesterol
Tweet
Cholesterol Management Q & A
What is cholesterol?
Cholesterol is a substance that resembles fat and helps support certain functions in the body. This substance is present in all cells and in the bloodstream, where it travels in lipoproteins. The body produces cholesterol naturally, but it's also present in certain kinds of foods. Cholesterol helps the body produce hormones and vitamin D. It also plays a role in food digestion.
Is all cholesterol harmful?
There are 2 types of lipoproteins that transport cholesterol in the blood. High-density lipoproteins, or HDL, cholesterol is known as good cholesterol since it's responsible for bringing cholesterol to the liver from other areas of the body. This cholesterol leaves the body after being processed in the liver. Low-density lipoproteins, or LDL, cholesterol is known as bad cholesterol since it can accumulate in the arteries and increase the risk of heart problems.
What harmful effects can high cholesterol levels have?
Having high amounts of LDL cholesterol in the blood is associated with a higher risk of coronary heart disease, heart attacks, angina, and other heart-related problems. High blood cholesterol levels can also increase the risk of stroke and carotid artery disease. Since high blood cholesterol doesn't usually produce noticeable symptoms, this problem can be difficult to detect early. At POTENTRx, the staff provides executive health assessments that can reveal high cholesterol levels. Clients can then begin working on lowering these cholesterol levels.
Which foods can help reduce cholesterol levels?
Bringing LDL cholesterol levels down and increasing HDL cholesterol levels helps reduce serious health risks. Foods with fiber can help decrease bad cholesterol levels by stopping cholesterol from being absorbed during digestion. Foods with high fiber amounts include whole-grain cereals, legumes, and fruits. Vegetables and fruits also have compounds that help lower cholesterol levels. Foods with omega-3 fatty acids, such as salmon, also help reduce the risk of heart attacks. Individuals with high cholesterol levels should limit foods with high sodium levels and foods with saturated fats, which can increase LDL cholesterol levels.
How can exercise lower cholesterol levels?
Research has shown that regular physical activity helps bring down high LDL cholesterol levels and increases HDL cholesterol levels. Doing at least an hour of moderate exercise per week can make a difference in cholesterol levels. At POTENTRx, the doctors provide clients who have high cholesterol levels with an exercise prescription that can help bring them down.
Accepted Insurances
Below is a short-list of just some of the plans we accept. Please contact our office if you do not see your insurance provider listed below.
View full list of companies
×
Network Insurances
Regence Blue Cross Blue Shield
AARP
Aetna
Blue Cross Blue Shield
Cigna
First Choice Health
Health Net
LifeWise
Medicare
Multiplan PHCS
Multiplan, Inc.
Premera Blue Cross
Providence Health Plans
Tricare
UnitedHealthcare
Testimonials
Words from our patients
"I am so glad I found Dr. Speck. She is an excellent Dr. I trust her knowledge so much...She got me on the correct meds and my life/health has been wonderful since then."
Renee
"Very knowledgeable and patient oriented group...I highly recommend this clinic for both athletes and those wanting top cardiac care and advice."
Stan G.
"Dr. Speck has a preventative approach to good heart health...In this scary area of heart health, Dr. Speck puts me at ease knowing I am in excellence hands."
Peggy Z.
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
Sarah M. Speck, MD, FACC, Seattle, WA
Phone (appointments): 206-801-0941 | Phone (general inquiries): 206-466-5936
Address: 805 Madison Street, Suite 400, Seattle, WA 98104
5/5
(22 reviews)
×