Morphine Dose | IV Morphine Dose for Pain
Contact Us
Insurance
Admissions
Teen Addiction
Search
352.771.2700 Recovery Is Possible
Drug Addiction
Drug Addiction Overview
Commonly Abused Drugs
Alcohol
Cocaine
Heroin
Marijuana
Meth
Xanax
Stimulants
Adderall
Amphetamines
Bath Salts
Crack
Ecstasy, MDMA
Spice, K2
Opioid/Opiates
Codeine
Fentanyl
OxyContin
Hydrocodone
Dilaudid
Lortab
Kratom
Morphine
Oxycodone
Vicodin
Benzodiazepines
Ativan
Klonopin
Valium
Librium
Prescription Drugs
Percocet
Methadone
Ambien
Tramadol
Suboxone
Subutex
Narcan
Ultram
Fioricet
Trazodone
Drug Index
Ayahuasca
CBD (Cannabidiol)
Kava
Peyote
Dealing With the Issues of a High-Functioning Alcoholic
Can You Become Addicted to Heroin the First Time?
Drug Abuse Hotline
Alcohol Hotline
Need help? Call us today. 352.771.2700
Mental Health
Anxiety Disorders
Anxiety
Generalized Anxiety
Panic Disorder
Social Anxiety
Personality Disorders
Antisocial PD
Borderline PD
Dissociative Identity Disorder
Histrionic PD
Schizoid PD
Stress Related Disorders
Adjustment Disorder
PTSD
Eating Disorders
Anorexia
Binge Eating
Bulimia
Restrictive Food Intake
Depression & Mood Disorders
Bipolar Disorder
Depression
Major Depressive Disorder
Postpartum Depression
Obsessive Compulsive Disorders
Body Dysmorphia
Gender Dysphoria
Impulse Control Disorder
OCD
Other Mental Health Issues
ADHD/ADD
Phobias
Psychosis
Schizophrenia
Sleep Disorders
Common Co-Occurring Disorders
Process Addictions
Anxiety and Substance Abuse
Borderline PD and Drug Abuse
Depression and Drug Abuse
Panic Disorder and Drug Abuse
PTSD and Substance Abuse
Schizophrenia and Drug Abuse
Mental Health First Aid
Need help? Call us today. 352.771.2700
Addiction Treatment
Drug Addiction Treatment
Alcoholism Treatment
Medical Detox
Medication-Assisted Treatment
Inpatient Rehab
Partial Hospitalization
Intensive Outpatient
Outpatient Rehab
Aftercare
Dual Diagnosis
Understanding Treatment
Our Treatment Philosophy
Drug Rehab
Drug Detox
Intervention
Friends & Family Portal
Treatment Therapies
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy
Dialectical Behavioral Therapy
Individual/Group Therapy
Intensive Therapy
Substance Abuse Treatment Centers and Rehab
Substance Abuse Counseling
Mental Health/Dual Diagnosis
Treatments for Anxiety
Bipolar Treatments
Treatments for Schizophrenia
Depression Treatments
PTSD Treatments
10 Tips to Help Family Members of Those Struggling With Addiction Cope
10 Signs You Need To Seek Professional Help
Heroin Hotline
Marijuana Hotline
Need help? Call us today. 352.771.2700
Our Rehab Centers
Locations Overview
Nationwide Adult Rehab Centers
The Recovery Village Umatilla (FL)
Orlando Recovery Center (FL)
The Recovery Village at Palmer Lake (CO)
The Recovery Village Columbus (OH)
The Recovery Village Ridgefield (WA)
Specialty Rehab Centers
Next Generation Village (FL)
IAFF Recovery Center (MD)
Aftercare
Next Step Village (FL)
Treatment By State
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
Resources
Sobriety Calculator
Friends and Family
Teen Addiction
College Students
LGBTQ+ Addiction
Active Duty Military
Military Veterans
Fitness & Nutrition
Spiritual Resources
Domestic Violence
Lawyers
Caregiver Resources
Cancer Patients
Elderly
Recovery Blog
Inside Addiction
Insurance
Contact Us
Admissions
Search
Don't wait another day. Help is a phone call away. 352.771.2700
close What To Expect
Seeking addiction treatment can feel overwhelming. We know the struggle, which is why we're uniquely qualified to help.
Your call is confidential, and there's no pressure to commit to treatment until you're ready. As a voluntary facility, we're here to help you heal -- on your terms. Our sole focus is getting you back to the healthy, sober life you deserve, and we are ready and waiting to answer your questions or concerns.
352.771.2700
Recovery Is Possible
Home Morphine Addiction Morphine Dose | IV Morphine Dose for Pain
Share
Tweet
+1
Share
IV Morphine Dose for Pain
By The Recovery Village
Editor Thomas Christiansen
Reviewer Nathan Jakowski
Updated on02/14/19
Morphine has become the benchmark by which all pain-killing medications are measured. This designation exists for a good reason. For one, morphine was the earliest discovery of the drugs known today as opioids. Ever since its detection in the 19th century, it has all but revolutionized pain-relief measures in the field of medicine.
Morphine itself is naturally occurring. The medicine is found within opium poppies, a plant used for its medicinal properties for thousands of years prior to morphine being directly extracted from it.
Medical and recreational morphine use can lead to more than diminished pain and euphoric highs. Like all opioids and opiates, morphine is highly addictive with extended use over time. Opioid dependence is among the most destructive of any in the world of drugs; Each use opens up the doorway for a future substance use disorder to develop down the line. It is no wonder why morphine and similar drugs are responsible for one of the costliest and deadliest epidemics facing the United States.
Speak to a Morphine Intake Coordinator now.
352.771.2700What to expect when I call?
Seeking addiction treatment can feel overwhelming. We know the struggle, which is why we're uniquely qualified to help.
Your call is confidential, and there's no pressure to commit to treatment until you're ready. As a voluntary facility, we're here to help you heal -- on your terms. Our sole focus is getting you back to the healthy, sober life you deserve, and we are ready and waiting to answer your questions or concerns 24/7.
Speak with an Intake Coordination Specialist now.352.771.2700
Morphine Dose
Fortunately, there are methods of morphine application in place to combat any misuse. Some morphine tablets, for example, use extended-release formulas to allow constant dosages. However, this preventative measure can be overcome by crushing the pills. Morphine administered via an IV occurs almost exclusively under the supervision of professionals in a medical setting, making it perhaps the most stable way to effectively use the pain medication.
IV Morphine Dose
The recommended dosage amount for IV morphine varies depending on the patient’s needs. The average starting dose is between 2.5 and 5mg every 4 hours, but patients with previous opioid exposure may require higher doses. Morphine delivered into the body intravenously is a rapid process, which eliminates inconsistencies with other variants like issues with absorption. As mentioned, the approach often requires a doctor or registered nurse to be present. This makes IV usage inherently safer, but it comes at the expense of ease of use for patients wishing to manage their pain at home. Such tradeoffs are important discussion points for prospective patients to have with their physician.
Morphine Dose Equivalent
There are myriad opioids and opiates available to people, both medically and recreationally. This can lead to difficulties in treatment when attempting to determine the dangerous dose of each drug, for each patient. Researchers needed the means to convert all opioids to a standard value that was easily tracked. The morphine equivalent dose (MED) was the solution they needed. Understanding the amount of morphine that equates to the dosage of any other opioid allows for stabilizations in rehabilitation and transitions to safer opioids like methadone, and Suboxone.
Morphine Normal Dose
A normal dose of morphine is also wholly subjective on the patient. Some individuals have used opioids for months or years, and thus require doses as high as 200 mg per day to effectively treat their pain. On the other end of the spectrum, someone who had never used opioids before might be prescribed closer to 30 mg to treat their pain. To accomplish these dosage amounts, physicians may choose the IV route or possibly morphine in tablet form. Some morphine doses start at 15 mg and increase to 30 mg, 60 mg, 100 mg, and 200 mg.
Morphine Dose for Pain
Pain management can be a finicky proposition. Each patient is different genetically, psychologically, emotionally and situationally. Pain is a complex phenomenon. It is quantifiable to an extent, but personal experience, which is mostly incalculable, is equally significant in its study. If one patient determines that their morphine dosage regimen is inadequately treating their pain, they may resort to self-medicating to overcome the differential. Whenever amplified morphine usage takes place to overcorrect for pain, there is potential for increased side effects to emerge. Even overdoses are not out of the question at such a point.
When taken as directed, side effects may be infrequent or nonexistent. The same cannot necessarily be said of misuse or overuse. If side effects do arise, they may take the form of the following:
Relaxation to the point of lethargy
Uncoordinated or confused behavior
Constipation or painful bowel movements
Nausea
Severe side effects are also possible. Some of the most hazardous of these include failed respiration, coma, hallucinations, seizures, and, very rarely, anemia.
Morphine Dose Calculator
The aforementioned MED calculations can be found in part below. Note: one’s opioid of choice must be multiplied by the conversion factor to get the mg/day equivalent of the oral form of morphine. (Oral: IV morphine is 3:1.)
Daily codeine dose x 0.15
Daily hydrocodone dose x 1
Daily oxycodone dose x 1.5
Daily fentanyl dose x 2.4 (based on mcg/hour)
If a patient is using multiple opioids, then a calculation must be made for each and then added together to create the total morphine equivalent dosage. Always consult with a medical professional to lay out a proper schedule of IV morphine usage.
If you seek professional drug or alcohol rehab for yourself or a loved one, The Recovery Village can help. Our treatment network has facilities across the nation to help people heal from substance use disorders. Call The Recovery Village today at 888.976.1165 to learn more about safe and effective rehab options near you.
Morphine Addiction
Signs, Symptoms & Side Effects
Withdrawal & Detox
Morphine Addiction Treatment & Rehab
Have more questions about Morphine abuse?
Q.
How Long Does Morphine Stay in Your System?
Q.
How Do I Know If Someone Is On Morphine?
Q.
Is Morphine an Opiate?
Q.
How Long Does 30-mg Morphine Stay in Your System?
Read the most frequently asked questions
See also
Morphine Hotline
Morphine Overdose
IV Morphine Dose for Pain
Morphine Medicine Side Effects
Morphine Pill Dosage and High
See more topics
What is National Take Back Day?
April 19, 2019
Search
Speak to a Morphine Intake Coordinator now.
352.771.2700What to expect when I call?
Seeking addiction treatment can feel overwhelming. We know the struggle, which is why we're uniquely qualified to help.
Your call is confidential, and there's no pressure to commit to treatment until you're ready. As a voluntary facility, we're here to help you heal -- on your terms. Our sole focus is getting you back to the healthy, sober life you deserve, and we are ready and waiting to answer your questions or concerns 24/7.
Speak with an Intake Coordination Specialist now.352.771.2700
Morphine Dose | IV Morphine Dose for Pain
5 (100%) 2 votes
Share
Tweet
+1
Share
Latest Related Posts:
Morphine Abuse: Signs, Symptoms & Side Effects
Morphine Addiction Treatment & Rehab
Morphine Withdrawal & Detox
Morphine Addiction Related Topics
Morphine Addiction FAQ
How Do I Know If Someone Is On Morphine?
Morphine Hotline
Morphine Overdose
Ready to start? We're here for you.
352.771.2700
The Recovery Village
633 Umatilla Blvd. Umatilla, FL 32784
(352) 771-2700
About Us
About
Our Team
Philosophy
Careers
Get Started
Admissions
Insurance
Locations
Contact Us
Legal
Notice Of Privacy Practices
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
© The Recovery Village at Umatilla All Rights Reserved.