Magnetic health matters newsletter - issue 15, november 2007
In this issue:
Editorial: How To Make Your Magnetic Therapy Products Work Faster
Success Stories: Magnetic Therapy Improving Quality Of Life
Ask The Experts: Which Magnetic Products Will Ease Fibromyalgia Pain?
Tip Of The Month: Where To Buy Your Magnets?
Magnetic Health Matters - Issue 15, November 2007
To Your Pain Free Life...
Editorial: How To Make Your Magnetic Therapy Products Work Faster?
by sanj shimadry
Many people who uses magnetic therapy to relieve pain finds it difficult to stick to the regime of permanently wearing the magnetic product night and day for weeks; if not months. It can be quite challenging to follow this pain relief treatment especially if you are not noticing marked improvement in your pain level.
Fortunately there is a very effective yet simple solution to make your magnets work faster for you.
The secret to enhance the overall effect of your therapeutic magnets is to use the following combination of magnetic therapy pain relieving products at the same time.
After years of testing, the Magnetic Therapy Council discovered that to achieve maximum benefit fast, one should wear a magnetic product at the point of pain, drink magnetized water and sleep on magnets. Here’s the logic behind this treatment.
Magnets worn at the point of pain achieves great result as the magnetic field can penetrate deeper into the painful area compared to healing magnets that are worn further away from the point of pain. This very important fact is slowly becoming common knowledge amongst users of magnetic therapy treatments. But what is still little known is that if you drink magnetic water and sleep on healing magnets too, the effectiveness of this natural treatment is increased tenfold.
When you drink magnetic water each day, the overall healing effect of the magnets placed on your body has been measured to be as much as ten times greater. And best of all it is perfectly safe to drink magnetized water when taking medication, there are no adverse effects on the body whatsoever. It is totally safe, chemical and drug free. Obviously, when you drink magnetized water you are tackling your problem from inside and outside at the same time. This 2 sided approach will most definitely increase the strength of the magnetic field at the point of pain plus it will also speed up the healing process by increasing the absorption rate of the magnetic field.
Magnetic water will also detoxify your body, eliminate excess fluid and waste. But what’s even more important, it will increase your energy levels and boost your circulation. Therefore aim to drink at least 4 glasses of magnetic water a day to improve your wellbeing.
The human body heals, recuperate and rejuvenate mostly at night time whilst we are asleep and sleeping on healing magnets boost this process even more. In brief, whilst you are sleeping your body enters it’s most productive healing phase. Because you are asleep your organs do not need so much oxygen and this allows the body to concentrate on repairing the damage to your body.
That’s why when you sleep on very high strength magnets (over 2,000 gauss per magnet) the magnetism is very rapidly absorbed into the tissues and blood stream, up to 3 times quicker than during the day. What this means is the blood flow will be radically improved, so much so that almost all the excess fluid and toxins (puffiness and swelling) in your body will be drawn away and safely excreted, plus the increased blood flow will provide any damaged areas with all the essential healing nutrients needed to kick start the healing process.
So if you are using a magnetic product that is taking a long time to relieve your pain, you can make the natural healing magnets work faster by drinking magnetized water and sleeping on a magnetic pad.
Magnetic Therapy Treatments
Success Stories: Magnetic therapy improving quality of life...
“I was given a small pad to put in the bed pad I lay with my hip on the pad every night. It was only small but it did take all the pain away from my back.
I was really very impressed with the small pad so I decided to go for a mattress cover.
It was brilliant it did just what it said it would and my husband who didn’t want to use it found that it helped the arthritis in his knees. I even took it to Hungary with me on holiday.
It’s not a cure for my Fibromyalgia but the wonderful thing is, it constantly refreshes you through the night and it has really helped me so much, more than I can say and I’m thrilled to bits with it.
It has saved my life.”
Vivienne Szarbo, age 67
Hi there,
This is me, Patricia Lynch with one of the 2 dogs we had in 1985, having a well earned rest half way round Rudyard Lake, whilst taking part in a sponsored walk for Breast Cancer. I Had breast cancer in 1984 and believe me, the pain I felt from that was nothing like the pain I suffered from arthritis in my right hand and wrist, which at times made my fingers curl up and freeze so I had to physically straighten my fingers out to relieve the pain. My son and my Father both had the same arthritis problem with the locking fingers.
Since wearing your magnetic bracelet on my right wrist, I can honestly say that my fingers have never locked up in pain even once so far after several months of wearing the bracelet. I am even considering getting my husband a magnetic necklace for Christmas. He suffers from Spondylosis of the neck, shoulders and spine and it would be interesting to see if a magnetic necklace would help him.
I have also read that magnetic collars can help older, arthritic cats and dogs, we don't have any animals at the moment but I have been considering going to an animal shelter to adopt an older dog, that would maybe love to be living in a family environment and then possibly feel the benefit of a magnetic collar in later years.
Here's hoping my magnetic bracelet keep up it's magnetic powers, as I had suffered from the pain in my hand and wrist for about 2 years before buying the bracelet that I now wear day and night.
Patricia Lynch
Find out more about the Magnetic Solution that can make you pain free by using the Magnetic Treatment Selector
Share Your Success Stories!
If you would like to help others believe in how magnetic therapy can release them from pain, send me your story and I'll publish it in the next edition of Magnetic Health Matters. Please email your success story to newsletter@worldofmagnets.co.uk
Ask The Experts: Which Magnetic Products Will Ease Fibromyalgia Pain
by Kat
Dear World of magnets
I have suffered from Fibromyalgia since November last year. It has affected various parts of my body. Currently my neck, shoulders and back are the worst affected.
Can you advise what type of magnetic therapy product I should use?
Rosalind Redman
Hello Rosalind,
Thank you for your email.
We speak to a lot of fibromyalgia sufferers and mostly they use a magnetic mattress cover. This is because, as you will know, fibromyalgia can affect your entire body or large areas of it. The mattress cover enable the whole body to be treated without the need for wearing half a dozen different straps, wraps and bracelets all over the body.
I understand that a mattress cover may look rather expensive but it is worth the investment. If you didn't want to start so big you could just start with a high strength stainless steel necklace for your neck and shoulders or a back belt or bed pad for your back.
Because of the severity of this condition I would strongly advise you to drink magnetised water as well. This will help to improve circulation and reduce fatigue, stress and anxiety. On it's own it is not strong enough to help your pain but when used in conjunction with other magnets on the outside of the body it will work to increase their strength and effectiveness by 10%.
Have a look on the website at the products that I have mentioned and if you need anymore advice please get in touch.
Regards
Kat
Magnetic Therapy Treatments
Do you have a question for our expert magnetic therapists?
Then post your question on the discussion board at http://www.worldofmagnets.co.uk/discuss or if you prefer email your query to newsletter@worldofmagnets.co.uk And you might even see your question featured in an upcoming issue...
Tip Of The Month... Where To Buy Your Magnets?
Magnetic therapy will relieve pain in most people and animal! But there are a select few that do not get relief or get limited relief. You could be one of those people. So before buying any magnetic product, make sure you are getting it from a well established reputable company (preferably who has trained magnetic therapists) and make sure there is a long money back guarantee period. (At least 90 days). Relieving pain with magnets is a slow process that needs time and careful management. It's much more than wearing a bracelet around your wrist!
If you require more information on magnetic therapy contact one of our therapist by using the livehelp facility on our website at http://www.worldofmagnets.co.uk
Do you have an idea or comment you would like to share?
Leave a comment on my blog at http://painrelief.worldofmagnets.co.uk
And Let's Keep The Conversation Going!
Tell Us What You Think...
We'd love to hear what you think of this issue!
Please send your comments, questions, and ideas for upcoming issues to us at:
newsletter@worldofmagnets.co.uk
Your feedback matters to us!
Help spread the word!
Forward the Magnetic Health Matters Newsletter to anyone you believe would benefit from magnetic therapy or send them to
http://www.worldofmagnets.co.uk/newsletter and they can sign up for FREE
To Contact Us...
If you have any questions email webmaster@worldofmagnets.co.uk
!remove
Or if you would like to contact us by post, write to:
World of Magnets Ltd
45 Birches Lane,
South Wingfield,
Derbyshire.
DE55 7LY
U.K
Enjoy the rest of your day
Sanj Shimadry
Editor
webmaster@worldofmagnets.co.uk
http://www.worldofmagnets.co.uk