Skin Lightening «
Sirona Biochem
TFChem
关于
Contact
Location
Careers
A A A
Sirona
About Sirona
Management
Board of Directors
Scientific Advisory Board
TFChem
About TFChem
Management
Team
Laboratory Capabilities
Partners
Programs
Proprietary Platform Technology
Pipeline
Diabetes – SGLT2 Inhibitor
Skin Lightening
Anti-Aging
Protein Inducers
Contract Services
Media & Investors
Sirona News
TFChem News (Fr)
Events
Financial Information
Investor & Media Kit
2017 Proxy Documents
Products
Proprietary Platform Technology
Pipeline
Diabetes – SGLT2 Inhibitor
Skin Lightening
Anti-Aging
Protein Inducers
Programs Skin Lightening
Globally, there is a growing trend for lighter skin in many parts of the world. Approximately 15% of the world population invests in skin lightening products and the global market is expected to reach US$23 billion by 2020. Asia is currently the largest market, with an estimated US$13 billion spent annually on skin lightening products. This trend includes both men and women as reports have showed that many Indian men also use fairness creams.
Demand for skin lighteners in North America and Europe has also been driven by a desire to reverse sun damage and for the appearance of younger looking skin. Medical conditions such as hyperpigmentation, melasma, vitiligo and rosacea are also contributing to the demand for safer and more effective skin lightening creams.
There is a recognized need for a safer and more effective skin lightening agent. The most common skin lightening agent worldwide is hydroquinone. While it is effective, hydroquinone is linked to cancer and has been banned in Europe since 2001. In the United States, restrictions have been placed on concentration levels of hydroquinone; over-the-counter creams are restricted to no more than 2% hydroquinone and a prescription is required to obtain a maximum 4% hydroquinone concentration. Despite the dangers, restrictions and bans, hydroquinone is still widely used around the world. Other skin lightening agents (e.g. arbutin) have been banned due to their instability and subsequent breakdown into hydroquinone.
Sirona Biochem’s Skin Lightener
Sirona Biochem has developed a skin lightening agent which studies prove is safer and more effective than various well-known lighteners. To learn more, please see Sirona’s Skin-Lightening Overview.
The development program is directly supported by the French government. Recognizing the exceptional innovation of Sirona’s subsidiary, TFChem, the French government awarded the laboratory a $1.9M grant in 2011. The grant is designed to bring the skin lightening program to a commercial-ready stage. A cosmetic consortium, which includes the University of Rouen and contract research organization, Biogalenys, has also been established to support Sirona’s cosmetic programs.
Several studies have been conducted to demonstrate the effectiveness and stability of Sirona Biochem’s depigmenting agents, including TFC-1067.
Sirona Biochem’s studies were completed in accordance with the regulatory methods of the European Centre for the Validation of Alternative Methods (ECVAM) and the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). No animals were involved in the development and testing of Sirona Biochem’s skin lightening compounds.
Skin Lightener Program Studies Completed
Commercialization
In 2014, Sirona announced the formal execution of the global exclusive licensing agreement with Obagi Medical Products (Obagi) for the commercialization of skin lightening compound TFC-849. Sirona Biochem has received a licensing fee and will receive ongoing royalty payments for global product sales from Obagi Medical Products.
Sirona’s other skin lightening compounds remain available for:
Licensing Agreements
Royalty Agreements
Acquisition of our technology
Joint ventures
For any additional information please contact Aleksandra Kasikovic at akasikovic@sironabiochem.com.
Related Information
Article – Global Skin Lightening Market Predicted to Reach $10B by 2015
Article – Anti-aging Products and Services: The Global Market
Article - Sirona Biochem Acquires TFChem, Expands into Cosmeceuticals
Article - Cantech Letter Interviews Howard Verrico, CEO of Sirona Biochem
Product Development
While carbohydrate-based molecules offer immense commercial potential, we are focusing on three programs at this time.
News
Events
Twitter
News
Sirona Biochem’s TFC-1067 Demonstrates Superiority to Hydroquinone for the Treatment of Dyschromia 10 Apr 2019
Sirona Biochem Announces Close of Oversubscribed Private Placement 27 Feb 2019
Sirona Biochem to Exhibit at PCHi 2019 in Guanzhou China 26 Feb 2019
More News
Sirona News
TFChem News (Fr)
Social Links Sidebar
Twitter Facebook LinkedIn YouTube BlogSign up to receive company information
To be added to our mailing list, click here
Or send us an email here: info@sironabiochem.com
Events
Sirona Biochem to Attend Cosmetic 360 in Paris, France
October 17-18, 2018
Sirona Annual General Meeting
1500-1055 West Georgia
Vancouver BC
Monday, December 18, 2017 – 10 AM
Sirona Biochem to Present at Cosmetic 360 in Paris, France October 18-19, 2017
@SironaBiochem April 10, 2019
Sirona Biochem's TFC-1067 showed excellent clinical results in a direct comparison to hydroquinone. The skin lighte… twitter.com/i/web/status/1…
@SironaBiochem April 4, 2019
@SironaBiochem CSO, Dr. Deliencourt-Godefroy, hosts a tour of the French lab with the Chinese distributor and his c… twitter.com/i/web/status/1…
@SironaBiochem February 26, 2019
Sirona Biochem to Exhibit at the Personal Care and Homecare Ingredients trade show 2019 in Guanzhou China… twitter.com/i/web/status/1…
News
Events
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Copyright 2011 © Sirona Biochem. Metro Web Systems