Hydroquinone
My watch list
my.chemeurope.com
my.chemeurope.com
With an accout for my.chemeurope.com you can always see everything at a glance – and you can configure your own website and individual newsletter.
My watch list
My saved searches
My saved topics
My newsletter
Register free of charge
Login
Login
Keep logged in
Forgot your password?
Cookies deactivated
To use all functions of this page, please activate cookies in your browser.
Login Register
DeutschEnglishFrançaisEspañol
Home
Encyclopedia
Hydroquinone
Hydroquinone
Hydroquinone
IUPAC name Hydroquinone
Other names Quinol
Benzene-1,4-diol
Identifiers
CAS number 123-31-9
RTECS number MX3500000
SMILES Oc1ccc(O)cc1
Properties
Molecular formula C6H4(OH)2
Molar mass 110.1 g/mol
Appearance white solid
Density 1.3 g/cm3, solid
Melting point
172 °C
Boiling point
287 °C
Solubility in water 5.9 g/100 ml (15 °C)
Structure
Dipole moment zero
Hazards
EU classification Harmful (Xn)
Carc. Cat. 3
Muta. Cat. 3
Dangerous for
the environment (N)
NFPA 704
1
2
0
R-phrases R22, R40, R41, R43, R50, R68
S-phrases (S2), S26, S36/37/39, S61
Flash point 165 °C
Related Compounds
Related benzenediols Pyrocatechol
Resorcinol
Related compounds 1,4-benzoquinone
Except where noted otherwise, data are given for
materials in their standard state
(at 25 °C, 100 kPa)
Infobox disclaimer and references
Hydroquinone, also benzene-1,4-diol or quinol, is an aromatic organic compound which is a type of phenol, having the chemical formula C6H4(OH)2. Its chemical structure, shown in the table at right, has two hydroxyl groups bonded to a benzene ring in a para position. It is a white granular solid at room temperature and pressure.
Additional recommended knowledge
Daily Visual Balance Check
Recognize and detect the effects of electrostatic charges on your balance
8 Steps to a Clean Balance – and 5 Solutions to Keep It Clean
Contents
1 Nomenclature
2 Properties
3 Uses
4 Natural occurrences
5 See also
6 References
Nomenclature
Hydroquinone is the name recommended by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) in its 1993 Recommendations for the Nomenclature of Organic Chemistry [1]
Properties
Hydroquinone can undergo mild oxidation to convert to the compound parabenzoquinone, C6H4O2, often called p-quinone or simply quinone. Reduction of quinone reverses this reaction back to hydroquinone. Some biochemical compounds in nature have this sort of hydroquinone or quinone section in their structures, such as Coenzyme Q, and can undergo similar redox interconversions.
The hydroxyl groups of hydroquinone are quite weakly acidic. Hydroquinone can lose an H+ from one of the hydroxyls to form a monophenolate ion or lose an H+ from both to form a diphenolate ion.
Uses
Hydroquinone has a variety of uses principally associated with its action as a reducing agent which is soluble in water. It is a major component in most photographic developers where, with the compound Metol, it reduces silver halides to elemental silver.
In human medicine, hydroquinone is used as a topical application in skin whitening to reduce the color of skin as it does not have the same predisposition to cause dermatitis as Metol does. This use is banned in some countries (e.g. France) because of fears of a cancer risk.
The disodium diphenolate salt of hydroquinone is used as an alternating comonomer unit in the production of the polymer PEEK.
As a polymerization inhibitor, hydroquinone prevents polymerization of acrylic acid, methyl methacrylate, etc.
It is also used as a raw material of herbicides, rubber antioxidants and dye stuffs.
Natural occurrences
Hydroquinones are one of the two primary reagents in the defensive glands of bombardier beetles, along with hydrogen peroxide (and perhaps other chemicals, depending on the species), which collect in a reservoir. The reservoir opens through a muscle-controlled valve onto a thick-walled reaction chamber. This chamber is lined with cells that secrete catalases and peroxidases. When the contents of the reservoir are forced into the reaction chamber, the catalases and peroxidases rapidly break down the hydrogen peroxide and catalyze the oxidation of the hydroquinones into p-quinones. These reactions release free oxygen and generate enough heat to bring the mixture to the boiling point and vaporize about a fifth of it, producing a hot spray from the beetle's abdomen.
See also
Pyrocatechol
Resorcinol
Photographic developer
References
^ Panico, R.; & Powell, W. H. (Eds.) (1994). A Guide to IUPAC Nomenclature of Organic Compounds 1993. Oxford: Blackwell Science. ISBN 0-632-03488-2.
v • d • e
Other dermatological preparations (D11)
Medicated shampoos
Cetrimide - Cadmium compounds - Selenium compounds - Povidone-iodine - Sulfur compounds - Xenysalate
Other dermatologicals
seborrhoeic dermatitis/dandruff (Lithium succinate, Pyrithione zinc) - skin whitening/depigmenting (Hydroquinone, Mequinol, Monobenzone) - anti-inflammatory/Immunomodulators (Oxaceprol, Gamolenic acid), Pimecrolimus, Tacrolimus) - baldness treatments (Finasteride, Minoxidil) - hair growth inhibiting agent (Eflornithine) - other (Calcium gluconate, Magnesium sulfate, Tiratricol)
Categories: Benzenediols | Photographic chemicals | IARC Group 3 carcinogens
This article is licensed under the GNU Free Documentation License. It uses material from the Wikipedia article "Hydroquinone". A list of authors is available in Wikipedia.
Topics A-Z
0-9
a
b
c
d
e
f
g
h
i
j
k
l
m
n
o
p
q
r
s
t
u
v
w
x
y
z
All topics
To top
About chemeurope.com
Read what you need to know about our industry portal chemeurope.com.
find out more >
About LUMITOS
Find out more about the company LUMITOS and our team.
find out more >
Advertise with LUMITOS
Find out how LUMITOS supports you with online marketing.
find out more >
The LUMITOS industry portals
© 1997-2019 LUMITOS AG, All rights reserved
Imprint
|
AGB
|
Data protection policy
https://www.chemeurope.com/en/encyclopedia/Hydroquinone.html
© 1997-2019 LUMITOS AG
Ultra-pure PFA Lab Bottles with Standardized GL 45 Thread
Encyclopedia
HOME
NEWS & EVENTS
News
Newsletters
RSS-Feeds
COMPANIES & INSTITUTIONS
Companies
Start-ups
Universities
Research Institutes
Authorities
Associations
PRODUCTS
Products
Catalogs
Software
Services
LITERATURE
Catalogs
White papers
Publications
q&more Articles
Authors
Market studies
Lexicon
Infographics
CAREER
Job Offers
Place your Job Ad
TOPICS
VIDEOS
TOOLS
Your browser is not current. Microsoft Internet Explorer 6.0 does not support some functions on Chemie.DE
Your browser does not support JavaScript. To use all the functions on Chemie.DE please activate JavaScript.