Why A Himalayan Salt Lamp Is One of The Greatest Things You Could Own - Global Remedy House Why A Himalayan Salt Lamp Is One of The Greatest Things You Could Own
Skip to content
April 21, 2019
Global Remedy House
Health is wealth
About
Blog
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Search for:
Main Menu
Why A Himalayan Salt Lamp Is One of The Greatest Things You Could Own
4
SHARES
ShareTweet
The benefits of pink Himalayan salt are already well-known, from helping with digestion to keeping blood pressure levels in check. But, what can Himalayan salts do in the rest of our homes?
This salt is available in various forms, everywhere worldwide. It often has a pinkish tint due to mineral impurities. It is mainly used a food, but it can be found in forms like lamps, scrubs, bath salts, body salts, inhalers, and more.
Himalayan Salt Lamp Effects
Negative ions are produced in nature and there is a way to mimic them at home. Himalayan salt lamps physically and chemically transform a room, both in glow and its health benefits and effects.
Stay Positive
We are surrounded by positive and negative ions, charged molecules which float through the air. Positive ions are actually dangerous for both physical and mental health, and are emitted by electronic wave in the air, such as telephones, computers, TV, and more.
So positive ions aren’t actually a positive thing. According to the World Health Organization, electronic smog is one of the most common and fastest growing environmental influences,” and it attributes to mental health issues like nerve disorders, insomnia, allergies, and potentially more.
The Positivity of Negative Ions
Negative ions are produced when a molecule gains a negatively charged electron. They attract irritants, allergens, and natural pollutants like mold and dust. They work by binding to these pollutants and neutralizing them.
Negative ions are mostly produced in nature, such as in the forest, near waterfalls, and at the beach. They stimulate oxygen flow to the brain and increase mental energy and alertness. So, where can we get something that will produce negative ions? Himalayan salt lamp, of course!
Himalayan Salt Lamps, Of Course
A Himalayan salt lamp is a block of pure Himalayan salt. It has a small bulb on the inside and the lights produce more than just light, they produce negative ions and the health benefits associated with it.
The bulb inside the lamp heats the crystal and attracts water, and as the heat evaporates the water, it creates negative ions.
What Do Himalayan Salt Lamps Do
Ionize the room
Balance and neutralize artificial frequencies and unnatural electromagnetic waves
Produce rainbow-spectrum light waves to heal and soothe the body
Health Benefits
The Himalayan salt lamps’ health benefits have been reported to start working right after turning it on. Turn on your Himalayan salt lamp to help with:
Headaches and migraines
Mental and stress-related disorders (including insomnia)
Arthritis
Blood system disorders
Respiratory problems (including colds)
Source:
https://www.healthy-holistic-living.com/himalayan-salt-lamp-effects2/
Search for:
Follow us on Facebook
Facebook By Weblizar Powered By Weblizar
Recent Posts
There’s Growing Evidence That Eating Fat Won’t Make You Fat, But Sugar Will
34 household uses of baking soda that can replace dozens of toxic products
25 Awesome Tips For A Beautiful Life
Drinking Wine in Moderation Could Improve Longevity
Forgetfulness as a strategy for intelligent decision-making
Pages
About
Blog
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Copyright © 2019 Global Remedy House.
Powered by WordPress and HitMag.