Hydroquinone for Dark Circles: Is It Right For Me?
Contact
Special Offers
ORDER NOW: 888-641-9115
pinterestgoogle plustwitterfacebook
View Cart
HOME
CELLULITE
WRINKLES
EYELASHES
HAIR CARE
DARK CIRCLES
STRETCH MARKS
OTHER
BREAST ENHANCEMENT
SKIN CARE
Hydroquinone for Dark Circles: Is It Right For Me?
Some popular treatments for dark circles under the eyes are treatments that contain hydroquinone, but how do you know if it really works, or if it's right for you in the first place? Read on to find more about hydroquinone-based creams and if they really are an effective ingredient for removing your dark under-eye circles.
Hydroquinone: What Is It?
Hydroquinone works as a lightening agent and can be found in numerous products. Many use it to lighten blemishes on the skin such as liver spots, freckles, or dark under-eye circles.
Hydroquinone: Who Is It For?
Hydroquinone is a skin whitening product used by those who have hyperpigmentation, a condition in which the skin produces dark patches. People with dark skin, such as those from India and the Middle East, are more prone to hyperpigmentation. People with hyperpigmentation are also prone to developing dark circles below their eyes and would benefit from the use of hydroquinone.
Can Hydroquinone Effectively Remove Dark Circles?
Clinical studies have proven hydroquinone to be highly effective, reducing dark circles by approximately 60%. Unfortunately, hydroquinone must be consistently used for several months before noticeable results are achieved. It is also very powerful and can over-lighten the skin, so care must be taken with its use.
Possible Side Effects of Hydroquinone
There are definite side effects to using hydroquinone, such as drying out the skin, as well as causing redness, itching, and irritation. It is strongly advised that anyone using hydroquinone regularly should avoid overexposure to UV light, whether artificial or not. Hydroquinone has also been linked to cancer in some studies, and has been banned in several countries, including Japan and the EU, as a result. Here in the US, hydroquinone concentration within products is limited to minute quantities. Anyone considering using hydroquinone should familiarize themselves thoroughly with all the dangers and precautions associated with it prior to use.
Does Hydroquinone Require A Prescription?
It is not necessary to obtain a prescription in order to use the standard amount of hydroquinone. You can obtain lower-grade preparations from the internet or from stores. However, if you plan on using a hydroquinone cream, consult a skin care professional regarding the necessary amount that you need.
How Much Hydroquinone is Needed for Dark Circles?
Hydroquinone creams are available in formulas of 2%, which is sufficient for fighting dark circles without skin irritation. In some cases, it is advisable to consult a doctor for prescriptions of 4% in strength. But this higher strength comes with increased precautions and dangers, such as ochronosis, a condition in which the skin produces carcinogenic black spots. For this reason, hydroquinone has been banned throughout Europe and Asia.
What are the Best Hydroquinone Creams?
Hydroquinone creams come in a variety of brand names, such as Viquin Forte, Solaquin, Solaquin Forte, Esoterica, Eldopaque Forte, Glyquin and Esoterica Sensitive Skin.
How Do I Know if Hydroquinone is Right For Me?
If you have dark circles that result from hyperpigmentation, you may be a candidate for products containing hydroquinone. However, dark circles below the eyes are often the cause of leaking blood vessels. These dark circles are more closely related to bruising than hyperpigmentation and cannot be treated with hydroquinone.
Alternatives to Hydroquinone
There are alternative to hydroquinone, especially if you are leery of all the dangers that are associated with hydroquinone. There are numerous creams and serums that can effectively treat dark circles and under-eye puffiness, but are gentle enough to use daily. What’s even more exciting is that you’ll see results in just a few days (instead of months, as with hydroquinone).
Find out which dark circles treatment contain hydroquinone and which products rated highest on our product comparison chart.
ComplexionMD
Anti-Wrinkle Cream
Learn More
Marvelash
Thicker, Fuller Lashes
Learn More
Elegant Smile
Teeth Whitening
Learn More
DARK CIRCLES
Hyperpigmentation and Dark Circles
How to Pick an Eye Cream for Dark Circles
Causes of Dark Circles
Dark Circle and Puffy Eyes Treatments
Dark Circles Surgery: Is It Right For You?
View All Dark Circle Articles
Sitemap
Refund & Delivery Policy
Customer Service
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Copyright © LetsTalkBeauty.com. All Rights Reserved.