Health Uses for Ginger - Nausea Help
Home
Morning Sickness
Motion Sickness
Nausea Articles
Pregnancy Sickness
Health Uses for Ginger
Filed Under Featured Articles | No comments
2013
May 14
Ginger is one of the most widely available herbs. It comes in many forms such as its root, tea and ginger ale. You can find ginger in your local markets, grocery stores, health food and homeopathic shops. So is ginger used for? It’s used in many recipes to provide a unique flavor, but it also brings with it a number of healthy benefits.
The following provides a top ten benefits of using ginger:
Digestive Ailments. Ginger reduces diarrhea, aids digestion and lessens flatulence. It also relieves the nausea connected with morning and motion sickness. Ginger also helps to negate stomach acids that cause upset stomachs.
Inflammation. Ginger assists in reducing the swelling associated with arthritis. Studies conducted on osteoarthritis patients showed significant decreases in pain from groups given ginger.
Colds. Ginger provides relief to cold and flu sufferers by decreasing congestion and fevers. This is due to the natural antihistamines ginger contains.
Blood Clots. Ginger relaxes the muscles around blood vessels. This helps prevent blood clots from forming. Ginger is also able to thin your blood.
Cholesterol. Ginger enhances your circulatory system and lowers your cholesterol. It also prevents clumping of your blood platelets.
Heart Disease. Eating a little bit of ginger on a daily basis prevents heart attacks and lowers your blood pressure.
Cancer. Research is finding ginger kills cancerous cells in your ovaries and inhibits the growth of infected cells in your colon.
Pregnancy Side Effects. Common symptoms of early pregnancy are vomiting and nausea. In small doses, ginger is most potent in the treatment of nausea and vomiting. In addition, ginger doesn’t contain the potentially harmful side effects associated with anti-nausea medications.
Bone Health. Ginger is known to boost bone health and relieve joint pains.
Sexual Activity. Ginger has long been used to stimulate desire and increasing sexual activity. Its aroma has a unique appeal that assists in making the connection. Ginger also helps blood circulation, which provides your mid-section with an enhanced blood flow.
For centuries, many ills have been remedied through the use of ginger. You can see here part this is, in part, due to ginger’s inherent inflammation reducing properties. Ginger is used in the treatment of everything from cancer to migraines. Scientists are now concluding that ginger is the closest thing to a “miracle cure” that nature provides. However, if you find that using ginger doesn’t provide relief, contact your doctor immediately.
Related articles
Ginger is the original Pepto-Bismol (walletdiet.ca)
photo by: artist in doing nothing
Related Posts
Breakfast Ideas for when You’re Nauseous
Are There any Aromatherapy Recipes to Ease Nausea?
Should Morning Sickness Worry Me?
Saving Your Cruise from Seasickness
Sovrn
About this Post: Permalink | Trackback | | Print This Article
Recent Posts
What Really Causes Motion Sickness?
Natural Home Remedies for Nausea
Can Nausea Be a Symptom of Heart Attack?
7 Ways to Treat Nausea at Home
4 Natural Remedies for Nausea
Nausea Products
Acupressure Bands
Candy for Nausea
Ginger for Nausea Relief
Morning Sickness Remedies
Categories
Featured Articles
Morning Sickness
Motion Sickness
Nausea Articles
Nausea Remedies
Other Digestive Problems
Pregnancy Sickness
Home
Nausea Articles
Motion Sickness
Pregnancy Sickness
Morning Sickness
Nausea Help. All Rights Reserved.
Custom Wordpress