Genital Herpes | Health & Fitness Information | Wellness, Nutrition & Health Tips | Lybrate Blog
BLOG
Responsive Menu
Are you a doctor? Join Today · Login
Genital Herpes
Doctor Online, Doctor's Desk, Health Facts, Health News, Health Tips, Healthcare, Living Healthy, Lybrate, Men's Health, Sexual Health, Women's Health
Genital Herpes
Doctors Desk
September 22, 2016
No Comments
By Dr Yuvraj Arora , Sexology
Genital herpes is a sexually transmitted disease. One out of every six people in the United States suffers from this disease. It is more common than you think. Like any other STD, it is extremely important to take proper protection (use a condom) while engaging in sexual activities.
Genital Herpes is caused by the herpes simplex virus (HSV). There are two types of herpes simplex virus.
HSV-1 is most commonly associated with blisters and ulcers around the mouth known as cold sores.
HSV-2 is associated with blistering lesions in genital areas that are exposed during sexual contact.
However, both types of herpes simplex virus can infect the mouth or the genital areas, meaning that genital contact with a cold sore on the mouth can lead to genital herpes. Likewise, kissing someone with a cold sore can spread the herpes simplex virus infection.
After the initial outbreak of herpes, the virus travels through the nerves and resides in nerve tissue within the body.
Most people with genital herpes don’t know they have it. That’s because in most people it produces either no symptoms or very mild ones.
Symptoms of Genital Herpes:
a) The area around your genitalia becomes red and cracked without any pain or itching.
b) Itching around your anal region
c) Blisters around your genitalia can cause immense pains when they break open.
d) Pain in the open sores while urination.
e) Headaches and backaches.
f) Flu and swollen lymph nodes are very common.
g) Fatigue is also felt if you suffer from genital herpes.
Symptoms like these can be mistaken for other infections such as vaginal yeast infections, bacterial infections and bladder infections. So, if you are suffering from such symptoms it is advisable to go in for a health check up followed by a physical exam and a blood test to confirm whether you have genital herpes or not.
How can it get spread?
You can only get Genital Herpes from vaginal intercourse and not anal or oral intercourse. The fluid present in the sore of a genital herpes patient has infected fluid. If the fluid comes in contact with their partner’s sexual organs while having intercourse they can be easily infected.
Can Symptoms Be Treated?
There is no cure for genital herpes. But the symptoms can be lessened and prevented with treatment. Treatment can also reduce the risk of infecting others.
Your healthcare provider may prescribe antiviral medications to help prevent or reduce the pain and discomfort from an outbreak of symptoms. Medication taken on a daily basis to suppress the virus can reduce the number of outbreaks and reduce the risk of infecting others
How to Avoid Getting Genital Herpes:
Try to have sex with people who have been tested negative for herpes or any other STDs.
Use a latex condom while having sex. It prevents any sort of liquid to pass inside your partner’s genitalia.
Ask A Doctor Causes sexually transmitted disease Consult A Doctor Doctor Tips Health Health Tips HealthCare healthy living lybrate Online Doctors Sexually transmitted disease sexually transmitted infection
← 5 Foods that Restrict your Libido
What causes Computer Vision Syndrome →
Categories
Asthma
Ayurveda
Cancer
Children's Health
Dentist
Diabetes
Doctor Online
Doctor's Desk
Hair Loss
Health Facts
Health News
Health Tips
Healthcare
Healthy Pregnancy
Heart Health
Living Healthy
Lybrate
Men's Health
Mental Health
Prevalent Diseases
Sexual Health
Skin Care
Uncategorized
Virtual Practice
Weight Gain
Weight Loss
Women's Health
Search Doctors
Find Best Doctors
Ask Your Question
If you would like to know more about any of the health issues, do get in touch with doctors on Lybrate directly, by asking a question.
Ask a Question to Doctors
Twitter Tweets
Delhi Mumbai Chennai Bangalore
Dentist in Delhi Dentist in Mumbai Dentist in Chennai Dentist in Bangalore
General Physicians in Delhi General Physicians in Mumbai General Physicians in Chennai General Physicians in Bangalore
Cardiologist in Delhi Cardiologist in Mumbai Cardiologist in Chennai Cardiologist in Bangalore
Gynaecologist in Delhi Gynaecologist in Mumbai Gynaecologist in Chennai Gynaecologist in Bangalore
Psychiatrist in Delhi Psychiatrist in Mumbai Psychiatrist in Chennai Psychiatrist in Bangalore
Dermatologist in Delhi Dermatologist in Mumbai Dermatologist in Chennai Dermatologist in Bangalore
Neurologist in Delhi Neurologist in Mumbai Neurologist in Chennai Neurologist in Bangalore
Urologist in Delhi Urologist in Mumbai Urologist in Chennai Urologist in Bangalore
Ophthalmologist in Delhi Ophthalmologist in Mumbai Ophthalmologist in Chennai Ophthalmologist in Bangalore
Sexologist in Delhi Sexologist in Mumbai Sexologist in Chennai Sexologist in Bangalore
Copyright ©2014 Lybrate. All rights reserved. Our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use