Get ready for a whole lot of baloney – processed meat and cancer | Enlightened Eater
Enlightened Eater by Rosie Schwartz
About
Enlightened Eater – The Book
Guidelines for Commenting and Privacy Policy
Services
Media
Rosie In the News
Contact
You are here: Home » Get ready for a whole lot of baloney – processed meat and cancer
October 26, 2015 | 2 Comments
Get ready for a whole lot of baloney – processed meat and cancer
Didriks
Natural deli meat producers will have a field day
You’re likely going to hear, if you haven’t already, countless news stories today about the World Health Organization’s (WHO) announcement about the risks of eating processed meat. Processed meat refers to meat that has been transformed through salting, curing, fermentation, smoking, or other processes. WHO’s International Agency for Research on Cancer is adding processed meats to the list of leading cancer-causing substances, such as tobacco and asbestos. It’s a pretty damning statement, I’d say.
Evidence has been long been accumulating linking consumption of these foods to an increased likelihood of developing colon cancer, possibly due to the nitrites and nitrates which are added as preservatives. As a result, WHO has joined the ranks of other cancer agencies around the world in recommending we avoid the consumption of foods such as bacon, ham and deli meats.
Although I’m not a clairvoyant, I can already envision the food companies making so called natural deli products pouncing on the news and ramping up their advertising campaigns. No matter that these products contain the very same substances, but rather than from an artificial ingredients, they come from natural sources.
Natural – the implication is that it’s safe. Keep in mind that arsenic is also natural.
Now I’m not saying that eating a hot dog is akin to eating poison and that one should never cross your lips. But if you’re eating processed meats on any kind of regular basis, it’s time to revamp your menu. (Check out my next post where I’ll provide some ideas.)
But when you’re looking for healthier alternatives, don’t be fooled by the makers of these natural meat products. While some food companies may call their products natural, they may still contain nitrites but just from a natural source, cultured celery extract.
Here are just a few examples of labels and promotional statements by companies such as Maple Leaf Foods and Schneiders (both owned by the same company).
“When you make a meal with Natural Selections™, you can be sure that it is free of preservatives* and artificial ingredients. Find Natural Selections™ in your local grocery store. *Beyond those naturally occurring preservatives and nitrites in the ingredients. Sea Salt and Cultured Celery Extract Contain Naturally Occurring Nitrites.”
Maple Leaf® Natural Selections® Oven-Roasted Chicken Breast
“Add the savoury goodness of oven-roasted chicken to your next meal. Natural SelectionsTM Oven Roasted Chicken Breast contains our finest cuts of meat with natural ingredients, so you can forget about the preservatives* and artificial ingredients. Conveniently sliced and packaged for freshness, find Natural Selections™ Oven-Roasted Chicken Breast where sliced meats are sold at your local grocery store. *Beyond those naturally occurring preservatives and nitrites in the ingredients. Sea Salt and Cultured Celery Extract Contain Naturally Occurring Nitrites.”
Naturally smoked bacon, inspired by home-style country fare. Schneiders® Country Naturals ™ bacon is made with pork raised without antibiotics and crafted with only authentic, wholesome ingredients so you and your family can experience meat the way it’s supposed to taste – free of artificial ingredients and preservatives*.
Ingredients
Pork, water, sea salt, cane sugar, cultured celery extract, spice, smoke
“Free of preservatives” beyond those naturally occurring preservatives and nitrites in the ingredients? Huh? So how is that “free of preservatives?” What am I missing?
How can companies legally make statements such as this?
But you can bet they will be doing so in full force over the next while as they try to hoodwink those concerned by the latest dietary recommendations.
l
Up next: more on the WHO recommendations that deal with red meat and some suggestions on revamping your menu.
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
More
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Tags: Cancer, Colon cancer, Featured, Maple Leaf Foods, Natural deli meats, Nitrates, Nitrites, Schneiders, World Health Organization
Categories: Food Safety, Nutrition News, Rosie's Rants
Author:Rosie Schwartz
Rosie Schwartz is a Toronto-based consulting dietitian and writer.
View all posts by Rosie Schwartz →
Get Enlightened Eater in your inbox
Subscribe to get the latest nutrition news, fresh recipes and more!
← Your Facebook questions answered: Does gluten disrupt hormones?
The furor over processed meat, red meat and cancer →
2 Comments on “Get ready for a whole lot of baloney – processed meat and cancer”
Reply
Betty
October 26, 2015 at 7:23 pm #
I am curious about home smoked products. My son has a smoker that heats with gas and the smoke is created with wood chips. The bacon he makes is awesome. Can I feel better about it than store-bought bacon?
Reply
Rosie Schwartz
October 27, 2015 at 7:38 am #
Betty, it’s a good question! But according to the statement yesterday, they say, “Processed
meat refers to meat that has been transformed through salting, curing, fermentation, smok
ing or other processes to enhance flavour or improve preservation.” Now the home smoked would be missing the nitrates and nitrites so the risk may be lessened but they’re still smoked and therefore not eaten regularly. That being said, it also depends on what other foods you eat. For example, do you consume lots of fruits, vegetables and other protective plant foods? All these play a role.
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Recent Comments
Banana Chocolate Oat Cookies - Vegan & Gluten Free - GettyStewart.com on Oats – so much more than just comfort food
Rosie Schwartz on Fish eaters beware of the butterfish: your tummy may thank you
Rosie Schwartz on The dose is the poison
Susanne on The dose is the poison
Justine Rutledge on Fish eaters beware of the butterfish: your tummy may thank you
Recent Posts
Is the supplement industry putting profit and competition before our babies’ health?
The dose is the poison
Savoury Moroccan Vegetable Soup with Charmoula Sauce
How do you unlock the potential of discovering food for kids?
Dietitians Day & Why the latest egg study has egg on its face
Categories
Book Review
Children's Health
Food Safety
Food Security
Food Trends
Holidays
Nutrition Month
Nutrition News
Recipes
Research Roundup
Rosie's Rants
Superfoods
Tips and Tricks
Uncategorized
Weight Management
Whole Foods
Women's Health
Your Questions Answered
Twitter Updates
Is the #supplement industry putting profit and competition before our babies’ health? bit.ly/2Irxrdm… twitter.com/i/web/status/1… 3 days ago
RT @LynnRoblin: More alcohol = more money to treat problems, nothing about promoting health and improving the food environment and only 10… 1 week ago
The dose is the poison bit.ly/2P2gNS0 #supplements #buyerbeware https://t.co/iqGn4jxSJ5 1 week ago
RT @Deb_Matthews: Maybe that’s why graduation rates went from a disgraceful 68% to 86% over the same period. The additional teachers are t… 1 week ago
Absolutely agree! The amounts you would need to eat for there to be any risks of pesticides is ridiculous! Not eati… twitter.com/i/web/status/1… 2 weeks ago
Follow @rosieschwartz
Get updates via email
Enter your email address to get Rosie's latest blog posts, nutrition news updates, recipes and more.
Follow
Dietitians of Canada Member Blog
Nutrition Blog Network
Enlightened Eater
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
%d bloggers like this: