Can cancer be prevented? | Cancer Research UK
Skip to main content
Together we will beat cancer
Donate
About cancer
Cancer types
Breast cancer
Bowel cancer
Lung cancer
Prostate cancer
More...
Cancers in general
Symptoms
Screening
Tests
Treatment
Clinical trials
Causes of cancer
Smoking
Alcohol
Diet
Obesity
Sun and UV
Coping with cancer
Managing symptoms and side effects
Counselling and talking
Money and travel
Death and dying
Cancer Chat forum
Health Professionals
Cancer Statistics
Local cancer statistics
Be Clear on Cancer
NICE suspected cancer referral guidelines
More...
Get involved
Donate
Make a donation
By cancer type
Leave a legacy gift
Donate in Memory
World Cancer Day
More...
Find an event
Race for Life
Charity runs
Charity walks
Search events
Relay For Life
More...
Volunteer
Volunteer in our shops
Help at an event
Help us raise money
Volunteer in your area
More...
Do your own fundraising
Fundraising ideas
Get a fundraising pack
Return fundraising money
Fundraise by cancer type
Set up a Cancer Research UK Giving Page
More...
More...
Find a shop or superstore
Fundraise at your celebration
Campaign for us
Become a partner
Cancer Research UK Kids & Teens
Our Right Now campaign
Our research
By cancer type
Brain tumours
Skin cancer
Breast cancer
All cancer types
By cancer topic
New treatments
Cancer biology
Cancer drugs
All cancer subjects
Near you
Belfast
Cardiff
Edinburgh
All locations
By Researcher
Professor Duncan Baird
Professor Fran Balkwill
Professor Andrew Biankin
See all researchers
More...
Our achievements timeline
Our research strategy
Involving animals in research
Funding for researchers
Research opportunities
For discovery researchers
For clinical researchers
For population researchers
In drug discovery & development
In early detection & diagnosis
For students & postdocs
Our funding schemes
Career Development Fellowship
Pioneer Award
Grand Challenge
View all schemes and deadlines
Applying for funding
Start your application online
How to make a successful application
Funding committees
Successful applicant case studies
How we deliver research
Our research strategy
Our research infrastructure
Events and conferences
Our research partnerships
Facts & figures about our funding
More...
Develop your research career
Recently funded awards
Manage your research grant
Notify us of new publications
Shop
Find a shop
Volunteer in a shop
Donate goods to a shop
Our superstores
Shop online
Race for Life
Wedding favours
Cancer Care
Our eBay store
Dresses
Shoes and boots
Bags and purses
About us
What we do
We beat cancer
We fundraise
We develop policy
Our Year 2017/18
Our global role
Our organisation
Our strategy
Our Trustees
CEO and Executive Board
Annual report and accounts
How we spend your money
Current jobs
Graduates and interns
Your development
Benefits
Cancer news
Science blog
Latest press releases
Latest news reports
Search all news
More...
Contact us
Press office
Publications
Update your contact preferences
ABOUT CANCER
GET INVOLVED
NEWS & RESOURCES
FUNDING & RESEARCH
ABOUT US
You are here
Home About Cancer Causes of cancer Can cancer be prevented?
Can cancer be prevented?
We would like your feedback, please fill in our survey
Many people believe that getting cancer is purely down to genes, fate or bad luck. But through scientific research, we know that our risk actually depends on a combination of our genes, our environment and things to do with our lifestyle, which we’re more able to control.
Cancer is caused by damage to our DNA, the chemical instructions that tell our cells what to do. Things we come into contact with in our environment, such as UV rays, or through our lifestyle, such as the cancer-causing chemicals in tobacco, can damage our DNA. This damage can build up over time. If a cell develops too much damage to its DNA it can start to grow and multiply out of control – this is how cancer starts.
Find out more about what cancer is and how it grows.
Family history and inherited genes
Some people inherit damaged DNA from their parents, which can give them a higher risk of certain cancers. For example the BRCA genes are linked with breast, ovarian, prostate and other cancer. But the proportion of cancers caused by inherited faulty genes is small – experts estimate that only about 2 or 3 in every 100 cancer cases are linked to inherited gene faults.
Read more about inherited genes and cancer.
How many cancers could be prevented?
In the UK, 1 in 2 people will develop cancer at some point in their lives. Every year, around 360,000 people are diagnosed with the disease. But experts estimate that around 4 in 10 cancer cases could be prevented, largely through lifestyle changes, such as:
not smoking
keeping a healthy bodyweight
eating a healthy, balanced diet
cutting back on alcohol
enjoying the sun safely
keeping active
doing what you can to avoid certain infections (such as HPV or hepatitis)
being safe at work (see cancer risks in the workplace)
Surveys have shown that people aren’t necessarily aware that all of these things are linked to cancer. For example, studies have found that 15 in 20 people don’t know obesity causes cancer, and 18 in 20 people aren’t aware of the link between alcohol and cancer.
Read more detailed information comparing the causes of different types of cancer in the UK.
Need some inspiration?
Making changes can be difficult, but there are so many benefits. Try to find ways to make it easier to get into healthy habits and stick with them, such as being active regularly with a friend, keeping track of what you eat or drink, or letting your friends and family know about what you're doing.
We’ve collected tips and tricks that people use to make being healthy just a little bit easier. Sometimes we need a little nudge to get us on our way to healthy habits. So check out our favourite health hacks below – where will you start?
You can read our tips and advice for making changes that could reduce your cancer risk in this section. And there are lots of other sources of information and support, such as the OneYou or Change 4 Life websites or your GP or pharmacist.
You can also find inspiration on our smoking, alcohol and obesity pages.
Can lifestyle changes really make a difference?
Yes, and not just for cancer. In 2008, a large UK study worked out how a combination of four healthy behaviours would affect your health. These were: not smoking; keeping active; moderating how much alcohol you drink; and eating five daily portions of fruit and vegetables.
People who did all four healthy behaviours gained an average of 14 years of life compared to people who didn’t do any of them.
You can read more about this study on our Science Blog.
Is prevention a guarantee?
‘Healthy living’ is not a cast-iron guarantee against cancer. But it stacks the odds in your favour, by reducing the risk of developing the disease.
For example, we know that it’s possible for a heavy smoker to live a cancer-free life, while someone who never touches cigarettes could develop lung cancer. But lots of large long-term studies clearly show that people who have never smoked are far less likely to develop or die from cancer than smokers.
In the same way, careful drivers cannot guarantee that they will never get into an accident due to events beyond their control, but they are much less likely to do so than reckless ones.
You can read more about understanding risk on our Science Blog.
Find out more
Statistics on preventable cancers in the UK
Smoking facts and evidence
Bodyweight facts and evidence
Diet facts and evidence
Alcohol facts and evidence
Sun facts and evidence
Physical activity facts and evidence
Last reviewed
29 December 2016
About Cancer
Causes of cancer
What's my cancer risk?
Can cancer be prevented?
Smoking and cancer
Alcohol and cancer
Diet and cancer
Obesity, weight and cancer
Physical activity and cancer
Sun, UV and cancer
Infections (e.g. HPV) and cancer
Hormones and cancer
Air pollution, radon gas and cancer
Cancer risks in the workplace
Cancer controversies
Inherited cancer genes and increased cancer risk
Age and Cancer
Children's Cancers
Rate this page:
Select ratingGive Can cancer be prevented? 1/5Give Can cancer be prevented? 2/5Give Can cancer be prevented? 3/5Give Can cancer be prevented? 4/5Give Can cancer be prevented? 5/5
Currently rated: 3.8 out of 5 based on 357 votes
Thank you!
We've recently made some changes to the site, tell us what you think
Leave this field blank
Find a clinical trial
Search our clinical trials database for all cancer trials and studies recruiting in the UK
Cancer Chat forum
Talk to other people affected by cancer
Nurse helpline
0808 800 4040
Questions about cancer? Call freephone or email us
NHS Healthcare website
Plain English Campaign Crystal Mark conditions
Speak to a nurse
Ask one of our nurses a question
Call 0808 800 4040
Quick links
Find local shops
Shop online
Contact us
Jobs
Follow us
About our information
Terms and conditions
Privacy
Modern Slavery Statement
Cookies
Accessibility
Sitemap
Cancer Research UK is a registered charity in England and Wales (1089464), Scotland (SC041666) and the Isle of Man (1103). A company limited by guarantee. Registered company in England and Wales (4325234) and the Isle of Man (5713F). Registered address: Angel Building, 407 St John Street, London EC1V 4AD.