Can Cell Phones Cause Cancer?
Home Store Free GIS Education Free Shapefiles Census Weather Energy Climate Change News Maps TOPO Aerial GPS Learn GIS
DOWNLOAD SHAPEFILES: Canada FSA Postal - Zip Code - U.S. Waterbodies & Wetlands - Geographic Names - School Districts - Indian Federal Lands
Zip Code/Demographics - Climate Change - U.S. Streams, Rivers & Waterways - Tornadoes - Nuclear Facilities - Dams & Risk - 2013 Toxic Release Inventory TRI
<!-####****---- MAIN BODY OF DOCUMENT BELOW THIS LINE ----****####->
Current date
GIS Shapefile Store - for Beginners & Experienced GIS Users Alike. Geographic Names Information System, Nuclear Facilities, Zip Code Boundaries, School Districts, Indian & Federal Lands, Climate Change, Tornadoes, Dams - Create digital GIS maps in minutes.
Toxic Release Inventory TRI Shapefiles
Canada FSA Postal Code Shapefile
GNIS Shapefiles 2,000,000+ Points
Nuclear Energy Facilities in the U.S.
Download Zip Code with Demographics Shapefiles
Download U.S. Streams & Rivers Shapefiles
Download Water Body & Wetland Shapefiles
Download Zip Code Boundary Shapefiles
Download School District Shapefiles
Download Indian & Federal Land Shapefiles
Download Climate Change Shapefiles
Download Tornado Shapefiles
Download Dams & Risks Shapefiles
Follow on Twitter
Didn't find what you are looking for? Email me and I'll find it for you.
Progressive Links
Federation of American Scientists
Physicians for Social Responsibility
Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility
Union of Concerned Scientists
Alternet
Reader Supported News
Common Dreams
Truthout
Huffington Post
Media Matters
Think Progress
Grist Environmental News
Climate Shift Blog
MapCruzin Consulting
Data Research and GIS Specialists.
GIS Tutorials
GIS Basics
GIS Terminology
Of Interest
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge Maps
Climate Shift - The effects of climate shift on the future of planet earth and its inhabitants.
Right to Know or Left to Wonder?
Hazardscapes - Toxic and Nuclear Risks in your backyard.
War & Environment
Worst Case Scenarios: Terrorism & industrial chemicals.
Can Cell Phones Cause Cancer?
Sponsors
<-- Critical News, Current Issues
<-- Wireless, Cell Phone, and EMF Safety
More Articles - Related Reading
Source: ZDNet UK.
Study: How cell phones can cause cancer
By Rupert Goodwins, ZDNet (UK)
June 25, 2001 8:21 AM PT
Researchers in Australia have reported one of the first scientific hypotheses that normal mobile phone use can lead to cancer. The research group, lead by radiation expert Dr Peter French, principal scientific officer at the Centre for Immunology Research at St Vincent's Hospital in Sydney, said that mobile phone frequencies well below current safety levels could stress cells in a way that has been shown to increased susceptibility to cancer.
The paper, published in the June issue of the science journal Differentiation, says that repeated exposure to mobile phone radiation acts as a repetitive stress, leading to continuous manufacture of heat shock proteins within cells.
Sponsors
Heat shock proteins are always present in cells at a low level, but are manufactured in larger amounts when the cell is stressed by heat or other environmental factors. They repair other proteins that are adversely affected by the conditions, and are part of the cell's normal reaction to stress. However, if they are produced too often or for too long, they are known to initiate cancer and increase resistance to anti-cancer drugs.
No link shown
Dr. French emphasised that no link has yet been shown between the specific biological effects of mobile phone radiation and cancer, but that there was now a theoretical framework for such an effect that could be investigated. His previous work has included showing that the production of histamine, a chemical involved in asthma, can be nearly doubled after exposure to cellular frequencies.
To date, most safety levels have been set on the assumption that damage is caused by heating effects of radio waves in human tissue, much higher than the levels at which Dr French claims heat shock proteins are triggered.
His co-authors include Professor Ron Penny, the director of the Centre and one of Australia's leading experts in the cellular effects of HIV, and Professor David McKenzie, head of applied physics at Sydney University.
Related Articles, Reports & Resources
Video of 2009 Senate Hearing on Health Effects of Cell Phone Use
Expert Conference on Cell Phones and Health Video September 14, 2009
Environmental Working Group Report - Cell Phone Radiation: Science Review on Cancer Risks and Children's Health
Video of September 2008 Congressional Hearing on Health Effects of Cell Phone Use
Cell Tower and Other Wireless FCC Shapefiles
Testimony from Hearing on Health Effects of Cell Phone Use U.S. Senate Committee on Appropriations
EWG Senior Scientist Olga Naidenko, PhD. testifies in Congress about cell phone radiation
Environmental Working Group Report - Cell Phone Radiation: Science Review on Cancer Risks and Children's Health - Executive Summary and Download
Public Health Experts Call for Precautionary Policies to Limit Leukemia Risks to Children from EMFs
New evidence that long-term use of a mobile phone may lead to the development of a brain tumor
NEUROLOGICAL EFFECTS OF RADIOFREQUENCY ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION
Spray-on Antennas Make Their Mark
IGEF-expert won case against mobile communications company
Cell phone industry faces legal tests
How cell phones can cause cancer
New evidence that long-term use of a mobile phone may lead to the development of a brain tumor
Related Reading
Cell Phones: Invisible Hazards in the Wireless Age: An Insider's Alarming Discoveries about Cancer and Genetic Damage
Cell Phones and The Dark Deception: Find Out What You're Not Being Told...And Why
Advances in Electromagnetic Fields in Living Systems: Volume 5, Health Effects of Cell Phone Radiation
To call or not to call? The ongoing cell phone safety debate.(Your Health): An article from: E
Calling for Cell Phone Safety.(Brief Article): An article from: Multinational Monitor
Senate takes call for safety.(City/Region)(A cell phone ban expands to include all drivers): An article from: The Register-Guard (Eugene, OR)
<-- Critical News, Current Issues
<-- Wireless, Cell Phone, and EMF Safety
Didn't find what you are looking for? We've been online since 1996 and have created 1000's of pages. Search below and you may find just what you are looking for.
Michael R. Meuser
Data Research & GIS Specialist
MapCruzin.com is an independent firm specializing in GIS project development and data research. We created the first U.S. based interactive toxic chemical facility maps on the internet in 1996 and we have been online ever since. Learn more about us and our services.
Have a project in mind? If you have data, GIS project or custom shapefile needs contact Mike.
Contact Us
Report Broken Links
Subscribe for Updates
Advertise on MapCruzin
Follow on Facebook
News & Updates
Find: Maps, Shapefiles, GIS Software & More
MapCruzin Blog for updates, questions and answers
Blog Updates
Subscribe to RSS headline updates from:
Powered by FeedBurner
More Blog Updates
Downloads
Google Earth Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) Maps
Lester Brown's Plan B 3.0
State GIS Shapefiles, Maps & Resources
GIS Shapefiles & Maps
GIS Programs, Tools & Resources
Free World Country & Regional Maps
GIS / GPS Careers and Job Positions
Disease Outbreak Maps
TOPO Maps
Extreme Weather & Disaster Maps
Free World Maps from the CIA Factbook
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge ANWR Maps
Oil and Gas Maps
Africanized Honey Bees
Renewable Energy Potential Maps of the United States
Terrorism Maps
War Maps
Google Maps
Weather Maps
GPS Resources
Historical Maps of the World
Google Earth
Library of Congress American Memory Map Downloads
Toxic Chemical Pollution Maps
Climate Change Maps
Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) Maps
Census Shapefiles
World Maps
Issues
Environmental Justice
Data Sources
Greenwash & JunkScience
Statistical Resources
Wireless Dangers
Surviving Climate Change
Global Right-To-Know
Creating Living Economies
Books of Note
Toxic Klamath River
Federal Lands Maps
TRI Analysis
TRI Webmaps
EnviroRisk Map Network
Community-Based Research
Right-To-Know or Left to Wonder?
Chemical Industry Archives
21st Century Warfare
Biotechnology
Nanotechnology
Globalization/Democracy
National Parks and Public Lands
Trade Secrets/Toxic Deception
GIS Books
Our Projects
Other Projects
1999 Archive Environews
Environmental Books
Environmental Links
Redwood Coast Information
Recycle, Salvage, Reuse
Resources
Shapefile Store
Free GIS Software
Free Map Downloads
Free Shapefiles
Free Remote Sensing
Free Topo Maps
Free GIS Tutorial
Free GPS
ToxicRisk.com
ClimateShift.com
Maptivist.com
About MapCruzin - Cookies, Privacy, Fair Use and Disclaimer - Advertise on MapCruzin.com
Copyright © 1996 - 2019 Michael Meuser, All Rights Reserved
MapCruzin is a Pop-Up Free Website -- Best Viewed With ANY Browser