Link to Autism - Vaccine Court says "no"| Interactive Health
MENUMENU
Topics & Tools
Health Topics
Blog
Acid Reflux
ADHD
Allergies
Alzheimer’s & Dementia
Asthma
Bipolar Disorder
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
COPD
Crohn’s Disease
Depression
Fibromyalgia
Health Insurance Exchanges
Heart Disease
High Cholesterol
HIV
Hypertension
IBS
Insomnia
Menopause
Multiple Sclerosis (MS)
Osteoarthritis
Pregnancy
Psoriasis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Skin Disorders and Care
STDs
Health Tools
Symptom Checker
Body Maps
Clinical Trials
Pill Identifier
Find a Doctor
Health News
Newsletters
Diabete4s
Search for:
Subscribe
×
Sign up for our newsletter
Get health tips, wellness advice, and more
[wysija_form id=”1″]
InterActiveHealth
+-
InterActiveHealth Recent Blogs Link to Autism – Vaccine Court says “no”
Link to Autism – Vaccine Court says “no”
It's only fair to share...
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
On Friday March 12th a federal court met and ruled that any evidence supporting Autism linked with vaccines is less than persuasive. Several families who were asking for monetary compensation were denied. The findings were released in a 600 page document looking for a link to autism.
A Special Judicial forum was set up in 1986 and is often referred to as the “Vaccine Court“. This is the court that decides and addresses claims of unsafe vaccines.
The large concern over the vaccine has been “thimerosal“, a mercury-based compound that many parents say help bring about autism. Though most medical based experts reject any correlation between Autism and thimerosal. Never-the-less, thimerosal was removed from infant vaccines in 1999.
At the heart of this ruling were three specific cases. The first case was presented on behalf of William Mead whose parents had bought forth the suit. They were unable to satisfy the burden of proof under the legal standard.
The second case was for Jordan King and the response for this case was much more harsh. “After studying the extensive evidence in this case for many months, I am convinced that the opinions provided by the petitioners’ experts in this case, advising the King family that there is a causal connection between thimerosal-containing vaccines and Jordan’s autism, have been quite wrong.” wrote Special Master George L. Hastings.
The final case involved Colin Dwyer who as in the first case failed to provide adequate evidence that linked autism and vaccines.
Another several parents attending the hearings and many were disappointed by the court ruling, but many were not surprised.
A review of these findings may be done within the next 30 days in the U.S Court of Federal Claims and all three families plan on pursuing this avenue.
Others see this finding as optimistic and promote the use of vaccines on all children. Dr. Paul Offit, chief of infectious disease and the director of the Vaccine Education Center at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia said,” “Parents should take heart in this decision and continue to immunize their children with the confidence that they are the safest, most effective way to protect against dangerous diseases.”
President of the Autism Science Foundation, Alison Singer added, “It’s time to move forward and look for the real causes of autism. Our children deserve real answers and at this point doing more and more studies of vaccines, when the science is so clear, would be allowing politics to triumph over science.”
Check out some related topics:
Kids Health
Is There a Relationship Between Vaccinations and Certain Diseases Such as Autism
Autism
Asperger Syndrome
VN:F [1.9.22_1171]
please wait...
Rating: 7.0/10 (3 votes cast)
VN:F [1.9.22_1171]
Rating: +2 (from 2 votes)
Link to Autism - Vaccine Court says "no", 7.0 out of 10 based on 3 ratings
Related
Leave a Reply	Cancel reply
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
0 Responses to Link to Autism – Vaccine Court says “no”
Spotlight on: Nutrition / Diet
10 Unhealthy Foods for Children
Nutrition for children is essential for proper growth, health, and Mental and …
What to Eat and Not Eat During Pregnancy
Food is some of the most complicated decisions during Pregnancy not only …
Get Connected
Get connected, help others, ask questions, express yourself.
Health Information
Elbow Injury: Metal Plate Visible
Main Dishes
Decision Point: Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials
NEXT IN THE SERIES
Bring These Questions to Your Next Appointment
The Basics: Learn What to Expect
Tag
Asthma breast breast cancer cancer cdc childbirth depression diabetes Exercise fitness flu H1N1 Health health blog healthcare website Health Care Website Health information Health issues health news health questions health tips health update healthy living heart HIV hypertension iahealth ihealth immune system influenza Interactive Health interactive health tools Interactive medicine liver Lungs medical info medical informatics medical information Medication Nutrition Pregnancy stress stroke swine flu vaccination
Advertising
Would you like to advertise on IAHealth? Please feel free to contact us
Privacy Policy
To learn more about our Privacy Policy, go here.
About Us
IAHealth.net is dedicated to educating.
© Copyright InterActive Health LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Our Mission
Meet Our Team
Community
Advertising Policy