“Can you get pregnant while breastfeeding?” – UNC Healthy Heels
Skip to content
Primary Menu
About Us
We Are Healthy Heels
hha! (Healthy Heels Ambassadors)
Meet the Healthy Heels Bloggers
Healthy Heels Newsletter
Newsletter Feedback and Suggestions
Healthy Heel of The Month
Healthy Heels Communication Submission
Learn
Love
Play
Prevent
Thrive
Engage
Contact Us
Search
Search for:
UNC Healthy Heels
Collaborating to keep UNC healthy.
“Can you get pregnant while breastfeeding?”
July 3, 2012 July 2, 2012 lbrit459
Last semester, I overhead some students talking about how Tori Spelling got pregnant one month after giving birth even though she was breastfeeding. I’ve never really understood breastfeeding-as-contraception, so I did some research about LAM, aka Lactational Amenorrhea Method.
My hope is to provide an overview of LAM to folks who are unfamiliar with this method and blew it off as just another sexual health acronym (IUD, NFP, PID, HIV, HPV, HSV, etc). If you are interested in using this method, please consult your health care provider for more detailed guidance. Check out my last blog entry Are you pregnant or parenting at UNC? for more info on resources available UNC.
What is Lactational Amenorrhea Method? Lactational Amenorrhea Method is a contraception method where a woman relies on exclusive breastfeeding to change her body’s hormonal balance to prevent pregnancy. This method can work up to the first six months of the infant’s life, which is also the duration for which the WHO and American Academy of Pediatricians recommends exclusive breastfeeding.
How does LAM work? Time to get your Anatomy & Physiology extra credit!
When a woman of reproductive age isn’t pregnant, her hypothalamus releases pulses of GnRH (gonadotropin releasing hormone). Pulses of GnRH stimulate the pituitary to release pulses of LH (luteinizing hormone) and FSH (follicle stimulating hormone). The rise & fall of LH and FSH causes the menstrual cycle. Specifically, the “LH surge” causes ovulation every month.
During pregnancy, the placenta releases estrogen & progesterone that support pregnancy and inhibit FSH and LH release, which inhibits menstruation (amenorrhea means “no period”). After delivery of the placenta, the pituitary gradually resumes the pulsing release of FSH and LH. Circulating levels rise, and eventually the menstruation resumes. Women generally start menstruating 4-6 weeks after delivery (if they don’t breastfeed), but there is variability in how long it takes before a woman is ovulating and capable of getting pregnant again. The return to fertility is unpredictable!
Women who breastfeed have a different experience. When the infant sucks on the nipple, the physical sensation signals the hypothalamus to stop releasing GnRH. No GnRH pulse, no LH pulse, no ovulation, no pregnancy. Viola! Lactational Amenorrhea Method at work.
How effective is it? If done perfectly, it can be 98% effective until the woman has a period, introduces formula, reduces frequency of feedings, or the baby reaches 6 months old.
FYI, LAM is believed to be one of the ways pregnancies get spaced when women don’t have access to other birth control methods, as is often seen in developing countries.
What do you do when LAM no longer effective? Discuss other contraception methods with a care provider. Contraception methods with estrogen (like the Pill, the Patch, and the Ring) aren’t suitable options for breastfeeding women, but progestin-only methods (like progestin-only pills, Mirena, and Implanon) or non-hormonal methods (like Paragard and condoms) are. Many breastfeeding women don’t want to use LAM, and use progestin-only or non-hormonal contraception throughout breastfeeding.
Note well that LAM provides no protection against STIs, including HIV.
If you want to read more, my main resources were Contraceptive Technology 20th Edition, Planned Parenthood , KellyMom, and Recommendations from USAID. Special thanks to Rebecca Costello for help with this blog entry!
Share this:
Facebook
Twitter
Email
More
Print
LinkedIn
Reddit
Pocket
Pinterest
Tumblr
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Generalcontraception, health, ladies, pregnancy, reproductive health, sex, sexual health, wellness, women
Previous Article Sunburn and Your Skin (OUCH!)
Next Article Fear and Anger
One thought on ““Can you get pregnant while breastfeeding?””
Pingback: When Can You Get Pregnant | pregnancy day by day, pregnancy symptoms, week by week pregnancy
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 7,239 other followers
Follow
HealthyHeelsgram
We love these beautiful photos by @mollyjsprecher and to see students connecting with their mind, body, nature, and with others!! Keep your heads up y’all, we’re almost to the finish line! Make sure to take advantage of the LDOC and finals week events! #WeGotThis #Targram
Tis the season for 🐎 miniature ponies 🐶puppy petting 🐱cat therapy ☕free food 🧘🏾‍♀️loads of fitness activities 🎉 celebrations and more! We've pulled together all the info (including LDOC haps!) in one place. 📅 Link in our bio or at go.unc.edu/FinalsSupport . . . . . . 📸@unc and photo #2 by @tasjabee
Don’t forget about all the equipment available for checkout at Campus Rec! From foam rollers to frisbees to kickballs, resistance bands, and even scoreboards, Campus Rec has almost anything you need to enhance your workout. Check out their website for a complete list of equipment and specified locations. 🏋🏽‍♀️🏈🏸🥏 @unccampusrec #fitness #targram
"The Clothesline Project is a display of t-shirts that contain written messages and drawings intended to illustrate the effects of sexual violence. This powerful visual project raises awareness about sexual violence and tells the stories of survival and healing." 📸@hha.unc
Follow us on Twitter
My Tweets
Check us out on Facebook!
Check us out on Facebook!
Follow us!
View HealthyHeels’s profile on Facebook
View @UNCHealthyHeels’s profile on Twitter
View unchealthyheels’s profile on Instagram
View UCSvdITVzPG-vwbj-j43b4Qg’s profile on YouTube
Search
Search for:
Recent Posts
Spring 2019 Finals Events
Self-Care Spring Break
Resilience is How You Recharge (not How You Endure)
6 Tips for Finals Success
Friends with (Grade-Improving) Benefits: Finals Edition
Learn more about…
Learn more about… Select Category Academic Success ADD/ADHD Alcohol and other drugs Body Image and Eating Disorders Engage Fitness General Learn Love Medical Conditions Meditation and Mindfulness Nutrition Play Prevent Relationships sexual health Sleep Stress Thrive
Disclaimer:
Recommendations provided on this blog are not substitutions for medical care. Please seek professional guidance for your specific health care needs.
HealthyHeels in no way constitutes official University content. Blog entries are authored by Student Wellness staff and guests. Statements and opinions expressed on the HealthyHeels blog are strictly those of the authors and not of the University of North Carolina.
HealthyHeels bloggers comply with all university policies, including the UNC-Chapel Hill Network Acceptable Use Policy, as well as applicable laws.
Comments should be civil and on topic. The site administrator may, at their discretion, delete comments deemed to be uncivil, off-topic, or otherwise inappropriate.
Blog at WordPress.com.
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: