Fetal Echocardiography | Fetal Imaging | Fetal MRI | Houston TX
Skip to Content
main(713) 222-2273 Schedule an appointment online with ScheduleNow
About Us
Contact Us
Careers
Donate
Services & Departments
Children’s Heart Center
Children’s Neuroscience Center
Digestive Health
Ear, Nose and Throat
Emergency Room
General & Thoracic Surgery
NICU & Neonatal Care
Ophthalmology
Orthopedics
Pediatric Care
Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery
The Fetal Center
Transplant Center
Urology
The Womens Center
See All Services
Patients & Families
Child Life - Patient Advocates
Children's Patient Advisory Council
Educational Webinars
PayMyBill
International Services
Medical Records
Kids Health & Safety Guide
Patient Forms
Patient Stories
Preparing for Surgery
Pre-Registration for Childbirth
What to Expect
Locations
Texas Medical Center
See All Locations
About Us
Corporate Compliance
Directions and Parking
In the News
In Your Community
Our Leadership Team
Our Academic Partner
Our Nurses
Our History
Patient Stories
Press Releases
Visitor Information
Volunteering
Ways to Give
Online Store
Medical Professionals
CME
CME Grand Rounds
Physician Resources
Refer A Patient Form
Research & Clinical Trials
Search Careers
Home
/
Services & Departments
/
The Fetal Center
/
Prenatal Imaging
The Fetal Center
Find a Doctor
To search Houston doctors, please select a specialty & submit your Zip Code below.
Select a Specialty
Select a specialty Primary Care Ear, Nose And Throat Internal Medicine Pediatric Cardiology Pediatric Cardiothoracic Surgery Pediatric Critical Care Pediatric Endocrinology Pediatric Infectious Disease Pediatric Gastroenterology Pediatric Neurology Pediatric Neurosurgery Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery Pediatric Surgery Pediatrics
ZIP Code
Advanced Search
Search by Doctor's Name
Schedule Now
To schedule an appointment online, select provider type, service and submit your ZIP code below.
Provider Type
Provider type Doctors & Providers All
Select a Service
Select a service Select a Service Adolescent Medicine Allergy & Immunology Cardiologist (Heart Doctor) ENT (Ear-Nose-Throat) Family Medicine Foot and Ankle Surgeon Gastroenterologist General Surgery Geriatric Medicine Internal Medicine OBGYN (Obstetrician-Gynecologist) Orthopedic Surgeon (Orthopedist) Pediatric Allergy & Immunology Pediatric Gastroenterologist Pediatric Neurosurgeon Pediatric Orthopedics Pediatric Plastic Surgeon Pediatric Surgeon Pediatrician Primary Care Doctor Sports Medicine (non-surgeon) Sports Medicine (surgeon) Select a Service Adolescent Medicine Allergy & Immunology Cardiologist (Heart Doctor) ENT (Ear-Nose-Throat) Family Medicine Foot and Ankle Surgeon Gastroenterologist General Surgery Geriatric Medicine Internal Medicine OBGYN (Obstetrician-Gynecologist) Orthopedic Surgeon (Orthopedist) Pediatric Allergy & Immunology Pediatric Gastroenterologist Pediatric Neurosurgeon Pediatric Orthopedics Pediatric Plastic Surgeon Pediatric Surgeon Pediatrician Primary Care Doctor Sports Medicine (non-surgeon) Sports Medicine (surgeon)
ZIP Code
Appointment available in next 7 days
Advanced Search
The Fetal Center
Our Team
Outcomes Data
Patient Resources
Physician Resources
Donate to The Fetal Center
The Fetal Center Journal
Refer a Patient
Contact Us
Prenatal Imaging
Ultrasound
Fetal ultrasound is a test done during pregnancy that uses reflected sound waves to produce an image of the fetus, placenta and amniotic fluid (the liquid that surrounds the fetus). Fetal ultrasound is a safe way to check for problems and obtain information about a fetus, such as its size, position, and anatomy. It does not use X-rays or other types of radiation that may be harmful. It can be done as early as the 5th week of pregnancy.
Fetal Echocardiography
A fetal echocardiogram is a non-invasive imaging technique used during pregnancy for diagnosis of heart problems in the fetus. It is very safe for the mother and the baby and does not cause harm even if repeated on multiple occasions. Echocardiography uses ultrasonic waves to visualize the fetal heart and its structures and evaluates the heart rate and rhythm. Abnormal fetal heart rates and rhythms may represent an arrhythmia. Studies have shown that prenatal diagnosis of fetal cardiac disease has improved the overall outcome and smooths the transition from birth to immediate cardiac care.
A fetal echocardiogram may be needed for several reasons:
Cardiac or any other organ system anomaly associated with a heart defect is suspected on the obstetrical ultrasound
History of congenital heart disease in the siblings, parents or other family members
Mother's exposure to drugs, medicines and certain infections
Maternal diabetes or connective tissue diseases such as SLE (lupus)
Chromosomal abnormality detected by amniocentesis or other tests (especially Down syndrome)
Abnormal heart rhythm (tachycardia, bradycardia or skipped beats)
Although a fetal echocardiogram can be obtained as early as 15 weeks, the preferred gestational age is between 18-22 weeks. Depending on the fetal position, maternal factors or early gestational age, the fetal echocardiogram may need to be repeated later for optimal visualization. If a congenital heart defect is diagnosed in a fetus and depending on the defect, fetal echocardiogram may be repeated more than once during the pregnancy to assess the progression or fetal compromise. If a fetal arrhythmia is detected, serial fetal echocardiograms may be needed to adequately follow the fetus prior to delivery.
Fetal MRI
Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) is another non-invasive adjunct to prenatal ultrasound. It can provide significant additional information that improves diagnostic accuracy in evaluation of the fetal brain, spine, neck, chest, abdomen, and urinary tract in sectional planes. A fetal MRI is interpreted by the The Fetal Center’s dedicated pediatric radiologist who specializes in fetal imaging.
MRI uses no radiation, but uses a magnetic field to align the nuclear magnetization of hydrogen atoms of water in the body. This means that an MRI is safe for mother and baby. Common conditions that may require a fetal MRI include intracranial or brain problems, lung masses, and tumors. As improvements in MRI technology continue, more and more fetal structures may be evaluated with MRI.
Read more about Fetal MRI »
Contact Us
For additional information or to make an appointment, please contact The Fetal Center at the University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston (UTHealth) Medical School.
6410 Fannin Street, Suite 210
Houston, Texas 77030
832-325-7288
Contact us online »
Hospital Quick Links
Find a Doctor
Contact Us
Refer a Patient
Find a Location
Contact Us
To contact Children's Memorial Hermann Hospital, please fill out the form below.
For Employees
Policy
Find a Doctor
Classes & Events
Research
About Us
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Many physicians affiliated with Children’s Memorial Hermann Hospital are faculty at McGovern Medical School at UTHealth. The affiliated physicians from McGovern Medical School consults with patients at UT Physicians clinic with all advanced treatments provided at Children’s Memorial Hermann Hospital.
Copyright © 2019 Memorial Hermann. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Sitemap RSS