What’s The Deal with Hydroquinone? | Asia Pacific Network of Technologies in Dermatology
Asia Pacific Network of Technologies in Dermatology
Latest Stories
October 18, 2017 - Kybella
May 15, 2016 - Causes Of Leg Veins And Treatment
April 29, 2016 - How Does Retinol Work?
March 22, 2016 - The Right Skin-Friendly Acid For Your Skin
February 15, 2016 - What’s The Deal with Hydroquinone?
December 2, 2015 - The Basics And Essentials On Laser Treatments
November 3, 2015 - Making Your Skin Youthful, On A Budget
September 21, 2015 - How to Stop Excessive Sweating?
September 3, 2015 - Terms Used In Laser Technology
August 19, 2015 - Rejoice! Smoothing Out Smile Lines Just Keeps Getting Better With Restylane Lyft
Home / Health / What’s The Deal with Hydroquinone?
What’s The Deal with Hydroquinone?
— February 15, 2016
Interestingly enough, hydroquinone is known as the gold standard when it comes to give your skin a brightening effect. But keep in mind; they also carry some notable, ‘gold standard’ side effect. Read on.
Hydroquinone is commonly used to brighten and fade dark marks on your skin, and you can certainly find them in a lot of skin lightening creams in the market. The compound works by reducing the natural production of melanin (that gives your skin tanning and colour) hence making it a perfect treatment for skin discolouration issues such as pigmentations, acne marks, melasma, and sun spots.
Though it’s revered as must-have to lighten your skin, the safety of using hydroquinone is still debatable as the side effects is not something to be taken lightly.
For example, hydroquinone has been shown in a number of studies that it has carcinogenic properties when applied to your skin, as well as being toxic to cells and a mutagenic compound. Long term use can make your skin have a bluish hue (definitely not a whiten effect you’d go for) as it will actually damage pigment cells. While the reported cases are rare, keep in mind of this potential risk if you can be affected by it.
Hydroquinone when used in the long term will also make your skin leathery and bumpy, as well as more sensitive to sun exposure.
Thus, it’s not surprising that this compound is banned in Europe, South Africa, and Asia, though you can still spot it if you read the labels carefully. Only in certain places you can get this stuff, with 2% strength (maximum strength of 4% is by doctor’s prescription, while 12% prevents melanin production altogether).
So the real deal, should you even consider hydroquinone? Well, yes if your skin woes have been treated well with all skin treatments you can think of that eve laser treatment is not producing sufficient result, so a hydroquinone topical cream may be your last resort
I highly recommend that you used it as a spot treatment instead of treating it like a moisturiser. As hydroquinone can make your skin extra vulnerable to sun rays, a good sunscreen is essential and it’s best to apply them at night.
Before I forget, if you’re pregnant, please don’t use them. Other skin whitening or spot treatment can be used first.
While this piece can be a handy info and your possible solution should you suffer from skin discolouration that’s hard to treat, search long and hard to find other treatments (which can be a combo) that are as effective as a hydroquinone would.
« Previous Article The Basics And Essentials On Laser Treatments
Next Article » The Right Skin-Friendly Acid For Your Skin
About author
Lisa
Leave a reply Cancel
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Your comment (required):
Name (required):
Email (required):
Website
Contact Us
About Us
Copyright © 2015 Asia Pacific Network For New Technologies in Dermatology. All Rights Reserved.