loss Archives - Awesci - Science Everyday
Skip to content
Menu and widgets
Home
Categories
Biology
Chemistry
Computing
Earth
Engineering
Interviews
Mathematics
Medicine
Neuroscience
Physics
Psychology
Social Sciences
Space
Tutorials
Wisdom
About
FAQ
Subscribe
Uncopyright
Submit an Article
Random Article
Search for:
What’s hot?
Child Birth or Getting Kicked in the Balls
Crocodiles Do Not Die
Do Not Paint Your Walls Pink
Plants Can Grow Within Human Bodies
An Incredibly Simple Way to Kill A Tree
Cassowary - The Most Dangerous Bird on Earth
Hallucinogenic Honey From The Himalayan Bees
Mountain Dew vs. Coke - Which One is Worse
Harmless Flour is an Incredibly Explosive Substance
The Tarahumara People Can Run for 400 Miles Non-Stop
Join AweSci on Facebook
Join AweSci on Facebook
Tag: loss
Practical, Impractical and Bizarre Ways to Lose Weight
By Anupum Pant
Here are some impractical, practical and bizarre ways to lose weight scientifically:
1. Practical – Switch to Smaller Plates [Study]
While it may sound like switching plates won’t help your diet, it actually greatly affects the way you see, and consume food. In the long run it helps you lose weight effortlessly.
If you don’t believe me, I suggest you look at the following common optical illusion – Tell me which one of the circle that is filled with black color, is larger?
You know the answer. Although they don’t look equal to our not-so-smart brain, both of the circles are really equal in size. But what does that tell you?
Moral: Think of the black circle as food. Put it in a larger plate and you think it is less food, and you don’t mind adding little more food to it. Whereas, if you use smaller plates, the amount food looks like it is a lot already. As a result, if you own only small plates, you won’t add more food. Who am I to tell you that little changes give big results.
It has been proven by scientists that using smaller standard plates will reduce your consumption by around 20% every time. 20% is not less!
Note: Similarly, if you want to drink less, you could try replacing your short and stout glasses with taller glasses. This technique is based on another optical illusion known as the T-Illusion – which says that we tend to over-estimate the length of objects placed vertically. See it for yourself. [link]
Other Good Ways: In fact, before moving on to the bad ways, you must know that there are several good ways to lose weight without even trying hard. For instance:
Drinking good amounts of cold water can help to some extent.
Or, you could try making it a rule to turn away and use stairs, every single time you come across an escalator.
When you are travelling in a bus, make it a rule to always get down one stop before your destination.
An apple before breakfast everyday can help you lose weight by making you feel full due to its fiber content. – [Source]
Just place a mirror in your kitchen or your refrigerator door. Yes, that helps. How? See this – [Video]
2. Bizarre – Excessive Gum Chewing? [Study]
Wait! Before you try this, let me tell you, this is one of those impractical / bizarre ways to experience severe weight loss I was talking about in the first line of this post. Since excess of anything isn’t good – backed by the fact that in ancient China people committed suicide by eating a pound of salt – chewing excess gum probably isn’t a good way to lose weight. I mention it just for the sake of information.
Sugar-free chewing gums contain Sorbitol – a laxative. Chewing these in excessive amounts – about 15+ a day – can cause serious weight loss and chronic diarrhea.
You’ll end up in the hospital if you try this.
3. Impractical – Don’t get Married. [Study]
Although deciding to remain single all your life is not so impractical for everybody, you could consider it socially impractical (at least in orthodox Indian societies).
Yes, studies prove that Married men were 25% more likely to be overweight or obese than single men or men in committed relationship (i.e. dating or engaged). – Thanks to UsefulScience.org
Now, go and subscribe the budding 59 Seconds channel on YouTube and buy the book. That is what I am doing…
Related articles
Table Settings
A Healthy Weight
Gelli plate as …. stamp?
TAD 2014 – Day 13
Share the Knowledge
Tweet
Posted on February 14, 2014 February 15, 2014 Categories MedicineTags Avebury, diet, fitness, food, Health, latestpost, Leandra Medine, loss, Marc Jacobs, medicine, New Year's resolution, plan, Programs, science, scientific, Shopping, study, Supplements, Support Groups, weight, weight loss, youtube1 Comment on Practical, Impractical and Bizarre Ways to Lose Weight
Why is a Metal Plate “Colder” Than a Plastic Plate?
by Anupum Pant
No, it isn’t!
What is Cold?
According to the dictionary, a body at a relatively lower temperature, especially when it is compared to the temperature of a human body is described as a colder one. So, any object below the normal human body temperature – about 37 degrees Celsius – is a cold thing. But wait a minute!
When you touch an object, what does it tell you about the temperature of the object? Can you really judge if it is a cold one or a hot one? Unfortunately, our bodies aren’t thermometers, we are not so smart when it comes to judging the temperature. Consider the following case.
A book and a steel plate kept in the same environment for a long time attain the same temperature eventually (it is called thermal equilibrium). This can be checked by using a thermometer on both the objects. But, when people are asked to touch a metal plate and a book, they find the former to be much cooler. You can try this out yourself by touching different materials around you. You’ll see how some things ‘feel colder’ while the others feel warmer. A YouTube channel Vertasium conducted a social experiment to record this on camera. See the video below:
There is no cold – only heat
So, in the video, ice melts faster, if kept on steel plate than on a plastic plate, even when the steel plate ‘feels colder’. Common sense dictates that the colder thing is supposed to sustain the ice block for a longer time, just like your refrigerator does. So why does the opposite happen?
A better way to understand this ‘contradiction’ (not really a contradiction) can be this:
According to thermodynamics, simply put, everything has heat in it. So, even a cold ice block has some amount of heat stored in it (say, around 273.15 Kelvin or 0 degree Celsius). When one object comes in contact with other object, it loses or gains heat till their temperatures get equal or till they attain ‘thermal equilibrium’. Which object loses heat and which one gains it, is decided by their relative temperatures. In case of ice and steel, ice has a lower temperature than steel (assuming it isn’t already freezing out there). Therefore, here, ice gains heat from steel till they attain the same temperature and ice melts.
Side note: The ice is also in contact with a relatively ‘hotter’ atmosphere. Hence, it gains heat from there also. In this case, we are only concerned about the steel and ice interaction.
Why does it melt faster on steel?
There is a particular property which depends on the kind of material and is called thermal conductivity. This is the parameter which decides which objects lose heat quicker and which ones do it slower.
Here, for instance, steel has a higher thermal conductivity than plastic. Hence, the steel plate gives away heat to the ice block faster than a plastic block does. As a result, ice melts faster on a steel plate than on a plastic one.
Incidentally, this effect can also be used to explain why one plate feels colder than the other, in our hands. Think of it like this, the ice is replaced by our hand. So, a steel plate, due to its better thermal conductivity, draws heat faster from our hand than a plastic plate. This makes us feel that the steel plate is colder than the plastic one.
As checked by a thermometer, both the plates have the same temperature, our bodies are only fooled into believing that the thing we feel is temperature; it isn’t. None of the plates is actually colder than the other (according to the dictionary – see first paragraph). We don’t feel the temperature. What we feel is actually the rate of heat being drawn away from our hand. Faster an object draws heat, the colder it feels.
Share the Knowledge
Tweet
Posted on October 29, 2013 November 8, 2013 Categories PhysicsTags answer, block, cold, colder, coldest, conductivity, gain, heat, how, ice, loss, materials, physics, plastic, question, science, steel, temperature, thermal, thermodynamics, what1 Comment on Why is a Metal Plate “Colder” Than a Plastic Plate?
Proudly powered by WordPress