July 2018 - Pure Body Formation
Pure Body Formation
Menu
Skip to content
Home
Sample Page
Monthly Archives: July 2018
Does the guinea fowl get fat?
Leave a reply
Poultry meats are ideal for keeping the line and the guinea fowl is no exception. It is one of the poorest meats in calories. With a light cooking mode, the guinea fowl can be your most delicious slimming ally.
But that’s not all, it also contains a lot of nutrients that help maintain good health.
Guinea fowl, a low-calorie meat, ideal for dieting
Refined and low fat, the guinea fowl meat does not under any circumstances grow.
On the contrary, the fact that it is low calorie helps to refine the silhouette without having to deprive oneself of good things. On the market, 3 large varieties of guinea fowl are available, black guinea fowl, guinea fowl and white guinea fowl.
And the 3 are all low calorie and can be consumed as part of a slimming diet. The Guinea Fowl Chair has a high content of B vitamins and iron.
Its high protein content strengthens bodybuilding and allows you to fill up with energy. Classified as a lean meat with brown flesh, the guinea fowl contains only 2% fat.
Guinea fowl recipe
As long as it is not fried, the guinea fowl will not make you fat. It is therefore possible to vary the recipes based on this low-calorie keto go dragons den poultry. For example, you can bake it after stuffing it with mashed potatoes with garlic and herbs.
It must of course tie it before cooking for 40 minutes in an oven preheated to 160 ° C.
Other benefits of guinea fowl
100 grams of smoked or baked guinea fowl contain only 108 kcal, 2 grams of fat and no trace of carbohydrate. Its protein content is 22%, perfect for protein diets like Dukan. Its zero carbohydrate also allows it to integrate perfectly into the Montignac diet. In addition to its thinness, guinea fowl meat is good for your health.
It is a source of unsaturated fatty acids that the body needs to eliminate bad cholesterol and prevent cardiovascular problems. But this light meat is also rich in fiber and therefore easy to assimilate by the body. It also gives a sense of satiety that helps limit cravings between meals.
How to choose the right guinea fowl?
It is possible to buy a fresh or frozen guinea fowl. And of course, the fresh farm guinea fowl is more interesting because it is richer in nutrients. To be sure of its quality, it is necessary to check that skin is of orange color which tends towards the brown one and that its frame is well fleshy.
If you plan to make smoked guinea fowl or grilled barbecue, the guinea fowl already cut is the best option.
This entry was posted in Uncategorized on July 17, 2018 by admin.
List of 10 spices for weight loss
Leave a reply
Because it is sometimes difficult to stick to your slimming program, you can decorate your light dishes with delicious spices that will bring flavor but that will also help you lose your extra pounds, especially in the long run.
Here are the top 10 spices that make you lose weight!
The 10 light spices and their virtues
Help digestion, burn fat, reduce bloating, accelerate weight loss, as many benefits of spices on your body that you should not deprive you.
Warning: among these spices, some are not recommended during pregnancy, it is chilli. In addition, to avoid any trace of gluten in ground spices, it is best to choose organic and possibly whole, even grind them yourself.
Ginger: Rich in antioxidants, it boosts metabolism and burns fat. It is also composed of magnesium as well as manganese and reduces inflammation.
Pepper: it will help you to detoxify your body because it helps stimulate the secretion of bile. In addition to purifying the body of its toxins, keto go it limits the bad cholesterol.
Cumin: consumed as a slimming herbal tea, this spice fights against bloating, flatulence and intestinal infections. It will help you find a flat stomach.
The chili: not to consume during pregnancy, it stimulates energy expenditure thus destroying more calories and is an excellent appetite suppressant.
Clove: mainly used as an appetite suppressant, it will also raise the taste of your low-calorie dishes in which fat and sauces are prohibited.
Cinnamon: it can be used as a stick in an infusion as a powder. In addition to having a pleasant flavor, it facilitates digestion thanks to its high fiber content.
Cardamom: with its stimulating effect on the bile, it helps to have a better digestion, a good intestinal transit and a facilitated elimination.
Vanilla: both sweet and delicious, it will be an ally of choice against the stress, anxiety and anxiety that can occur during a diet.
The seeds of fennel: they are the appetite suppressant during small cravings of the day to chew at any time.
Turmeric: effective against bloating to keep a flat stomach, this spice promotes the assimilation of fat and helps better digest.
In summary, these spices will participate in your weight loss thanks to their benefits, in addition to raising the flavor of your slimming menus to avoid the monotony during your diet and vary your diet.
This entry was posted in Uncategorized on July 15, 2018 by admin.
5 foods to avoid to have a flat stomach
Leave a reply
Whether it belongs to a man or a woman, a belly is not graceful. Are you trying to get rid of yours? To have the flat stomach that you’ve been dreaming about forever, you may not need to go through awkward abs sessions. And if it could be done just by avoiding certain foods? Discover here 5 of these foods that favor a big belly.
Cereal based foods
Pasta, bread, canned breakfast cereals, and even white rice, should find very little space in your daily menus, if it is not. If you think you can not do without it, make the effort to consume them in their complete form.
Fried foods
They may do a lot of good for our taste organs, but as you probably know, fried foods are not good for your health. What you may keto lean force not know is that they are not very easy to digest and they complicate the intestinal transit: in the end, all this affects your stomach.
Fizzy drinks
Soft drinks should be banned as soon as possible from your diet if you want to own and keep a flat stomach. If your will is not enough to keep you away, at least take the trouble to drink slowly, in small sips, to avoid getting too much gas into your stomach.
Raw vegetables
Although they are rich in water, fiber, and vitamins, fresh, crisp, good for health, raw vegetables should be subject to reduced consumption. Without a minimum of cooking, they irritate the digestive tract and cause bloating and flatulence. Raw onion, garlic or cabbage are therefore to be avoided for those who want to keep a flat stomach and free from any digestive disorder.
The banana
This sweet fruit rich in water and carbohydrates has an unpleasant effect on the stomach. It contributes to the formation of gas and promotes constipation. Avoid filling your fruit basket for as flat a belly as possible.
Bodybuilding and dieting may be effective for weight loss or keeping the line, but if you have the courage to avoid certain foods like the ones you’re talking about here, you can have the belly you dream of without suffering too much.
This entry was posted in Uncategorized on July 9, 2018 by admin.
How does Fitness work?
Leave a reply
How does Fitness work?
The time that passes quickly after an exceptional exercise is as vital as the time spent in the recreation center. Keeping in mind the ultimate goal of maintaining an accident and renewing your body, it is essential to restore some vital supplements in the middle of this period. Also, what is Fitness for? This testosterone support is an incredible source of minerals and essential supplements that increases metabolic productivity and helps reduce muscle pain after extensive exercise. Therefore, this dietary supplement improves your muscle development and helps you achieve the fastest recovery you have ever wanted.
# Continue reading carefully the second result of this combo.
Fitness is an incredible supplement that is specially defined for men, helping them reach their most important potential. Arranged in guaranteed GMP laboratories that use a restrictive combination of each joint attachment, this recipe allows men to achieve their goal in the exercise center without barriers. This helps them push harder, which gives them a big boost they have to do to break muscles. As this dietary supplement constantly pushes its regular customers, they will begin to see how their muscles are most characterized at the half-month opportunity. In addition, this equation gives the body specific supplements to increase levels of developmental hormones in men. As a result, it improves your blood circulation, which will help them in the long term to make a strong physical makeup without effort.
What are the links? How can it work?
Improved with fixations demonstrated deductively, it is known that physical fitness increases the regular development of the hormone, promotes the spread of blood, increases muscle development and further increases sexual potency. These are the important elements of this diet pill:
L-Arginine causes a greater opening dxn code strike of the vein with a specific end goal to improve blood flow. It also stimulates the development of hormones and insulin.
L-Norvaline is an intense cellular reinforcement that transports oxygen and blood to muscle tissue during dangerous exercises.
Citrulline malate has been used for the level of nitric oxide in the body that also helps improve blood circulation in the middle of the exercises.
How to spend?
The two results of this combo contain 60 cases. It is required that you take 2 gyms, 30 minutes quickly after exercising through two gyms, 30 minutes before your exercise. Bring the covers with a glass of water.
Apart, taking into account the ultimate goal of improving your overall results, eat the nutritious diet and exercise sessions all the time. This will allow you to achieve excellent results in half a month.
What you should know
Store it in a cool, dry place
This combo is not suitable for young people and ladies
Overdose is completely denied because it could cause harmful results
Advise your specialist before using
It is not open to retail stores
Meeting with the client
Tom says: “As soon as I started using the combined Fitness and Fitness package, I saw an incredible change in my physical and sexual stamina that keeps my body vibrant and energetic all day. Keep using this object.”
Rico says: “For me, Fitness and Fitness is at least a supernatural phenomenon that includes embedded in my muscles, and not only that, but also supports my stability and endurance, as well as the room.
This entry was posted in Uncategorized on July 9, 2018 by admin.
Does gentian make you fat?
Leave a reply
Gentian is one of the plants used to grow naturally. It is a great alternative to calorie-laden industrial foods that cause health problems after a few years.
A plant recommended for weight gain
Gentian is a very effective natural remedy to regain a good physical shape after a long period of convalescence resulting in weight loss. Thanks to its properties, it tones the stomach and intestines, which allows a better absorption of nutrients by the body and therefore the increase in the number of calories brought by each meal.
It also has a stimulating action on the secretion of gastric juice.
In traditional herbal medicine, it is used to treat problems of lack of appetite. Its roots are indeed macerated in liqueurs for centuries to get appetizers.
The other properties of gentian
Gentian is not only used to gain weight. It can also be used for its benefits in the treatment of digestive disorders such as gastric reflux, difficulties of digestion, vomiting, stomach pain, constipation, bloating, etc. It is also an excellent dewormer.
In external use, gentian can be used to treat open wounds, reduce scars or treat dermatitis. Its high vitamin K content actually accelerates healing. It is also used as an anti-inflammatory.
Gentian is also one of the three most widely used herbs in the pharmaceutical, food and cosmetics industries. In Africa, it is known for its properties against malaria.
Gentian recipes
Most of the time, the gentian is infused. To make it, put 2 to 3 roots of the plant in boiling water and let it boil for 5 minutes. Then remove from heat and filter before drinking before or after meals. Be careful, the brew is a bit bitter.
Gentian can also be taken in the form of a keto plus diet homemade aperitif (especially if you like this bitter side). However, the preparation time is a little longer. The roots should be allowed to macerate in one liter of alcohol at 50 degrees for about a month. It is also used in the realization of different cocktails.
Where to find gentian?
Gentian is very common in Europe. So you can pick it up yourself in some campaigns. But be careful not to confuse them with the white hellebore, a similar plant, but which is very toxic for the body.
You can also buy them at health food stores. It is also available as a pill, tablet or syrup. Be careful however to strictly follow the dosage recommended by your doctor.
Contraindications
The use of gentian is prohibited for people suffering from stomach ulcer or duodenum, hypertension or cancer of the esophagus. As a precaution, it is also not recommended for pregnant or lactating women and children.
Thanks to its composition and action, gentian offers a cocktail of benefits that can be very beneficial in a process of controlled weight gain. But it also has many other virtues for the body.
This entry was posted in Uncategorized on July 7, 2018 by admin.
How to lose belly in 3 months?
Leave a reply
Our belly is often a problem, and yes! this part of our body that houses our stomach is sometimes, if not always, too big for us. And it affects our daily lives: bloating, abdominal pain and many other physical manifestations.
But also aesthetic problems: who wants to walk to the beach in a swimsuit with a big belly? So here are some tips for having a flat stomach in less than 3 months.
Eat well, eat good
Food is the basis of the problem when it comes to fat. Be it your belly or any part of your body, diet is the best way to lose weight. For a flat stomach:
Choose foods rich in fiber: fruits, keto blast vegetables, legumes. Only foods that will help you digest easily.
Eat protein foods: meat, fish, eggs. They will bring to your body the necessary nutrients without inflating your belly.
Do not snack or otherwise snack at a fixed time because eating anytime would upset your stomach and make it distended.
Focus on cooked food that will be easier to digest and easier to assimilate.
Eat calmly. Take the time to chew each bite to limit the work of your stomach.
To lose belly, you do not need to go on a very strict diet. All you have to do is balance your diet and adopt some good reflexes.
Get moving
The second base of weight loss is the sport. This rule is also valid for the belly. No specific sport makes it possible to have a flat stomach but some facilitate the loss of belly more than others. For example: swimming, running, dancing, climbing.
All these sports require you to use your abs and this is the most important. In addition to this you can do simple and fast exercises at home. For example abdominals every morning for 10 minutes to have a muscle and tonic belly that will be as flat as an ironing board. You do not have to work hours at the gym.
Be satisfied with daily exercises that will allow your body to move and thrive. After, everything depends on the will of each and his desires. A man will be much more comfortable for example in running or climbing and a woman in dance. All this to say that you have to choose something that you like so as not to give up the first week.
Take care of your belly
In addition to sports and diet, you can use slimming creams for example to help your belly lose weight faster or to make slimming massages. This will stimulate him even more and he will lose weight visibly.
Losing your belly does not make it all the more difficult, you just have to adopt a healthy diet, play sport and sometimes pamper it so that it becomes as flat as your dreams.
In 3 months, you can stroll in small tight-fitting tops or swimsuits without any complex.
This entry was posted in Uncategorized on July 7, 2018 by admin.
Does salt make the stomach swell?
Leave a reply
Health problems such as high blood pressure for example is not the only reason that should push you to reduce your salt intake. The latter is indeed the number one enemy of a flat stomach!
Strongly favoring retention, salt has an unfortunate tendency to swell the abdominal strap. Bad news for all those who are used to picking all their dishes with a pinch of salt or more.
Reduce salt intake for a flat stomach
You are in full body but continue to deplore a small belly bounced? The culprit is definitely salt. If you can do nothing against salt hidden in industrial foods (apart from of course opt more for a homemade recipe than for a ready product), you can regain control on your plate with a few simple actions.
If you do not monitor your salt intake, even organic, you are in front of some problems. Water retention is a real problem when rvxadryl you want to refine your silhouette. Salt is the main reason for retention. The calculation is so fast, is not it?
How to better manage your salt intake?
Since salt makes you fat, get into the habit of tasting your dishes before you always add this condiment to your plate. Very often, its use is superfluous. Prepare at least one dietary dish a day, preferably at noon and eat light at night.
This implies the absence of sugar, fat and salt. To add flavor while controlling the calorie count, you can add aromatic herbs: parsley, chives, thyme, the choice is vast and the flavors too. Finally, opt for Thermomix cooking. This method makes it possible to prepare a meal much less caloric while saving time!
Is water retention the only inconvenience caused by salt?
Alas no, when you consume too much salt every day, with water retention, you usually suffer from bloating. A fatal cocktail at the wasp waist you dream of. Do without salt is a definite advantage when you want to erase the curves at the level of the entire abdominal strap.
Discover the slimming benefit for your belly of a less salty diet. The result is assured!
This entry was posted in Uncategorized on July 5, 2018 by admin.
Drink lemon juice in the morning to lose weight?
Leave a reply
Rich in protein, vitamins, fresh juice or green, lemon squeezed in the morning is an ideal freshness ritual and recommended for a detox slimming cure, or a daily slimming diet.
A simple and effective way to keep the line during a diet
To lose weight, it is essential to adopt a daily food rigor. And everything starts with breakfast. Instead of coffee pudding and other soft drinks, sweetened or caffeinated, go for the natural. Pressed by hand, lime in particular is a good ally of the morning.
Indeed, the pectin contained in the fruit reduces the usual cravings.
In addition, with dietary cereals or a banana, it contains enough vitamins to hold until lunch, and you avoid unnecessary snacking.
Above all, it is rich in vitamin C, which Rapid Tone is known for its diuretic effects: these help to fight against water retention, and therefore weight gain. In addition, doctors argue that vitamin C can help reduce hormone levels, effectively reducing appetite stimulation in the brain.
Tips for enjoying your lemon juice
Although this is not harmful to your body, some people will initially have trouble swallowing a fresh lemon juice in one go, because of the natural acidity felt in the mouth. For this, you can vary the recipes to learn to appreciate it.
Easy, opt for the glass of warm water, as previously recommended. He will be less bitter. If not, add a hint of honey or pass it to the Thermomix with other organic fruits. Finally, for green tea lovers, add it to your morning cup.
An easy slimming solution and health for the body
Contrary to popular belief, the acidity of lime or yellow does not provide burning or heartburn when it is eaten in the morning. It is even less violent for the stomach than a glass of squeezed orange juice. Moreover, lemon is a particularly beneficial fruit for the body. It contains a large amount of vitamin C (52 mg per 100 grams), helping to give you fishing all day and strengthen your immune system.
Lemon juice is also seen as a grandmother’s recipe that has proven itself against colds! The citric acid, calcium, limonene and magnesium it contains are natural ramparts against infections, especially in winter. It may be advisable to mix it with hot water, to activate your digestive system in the morning.
Thus, lime especially promotes blood circulation and helps lower your cholesterol, without the need to enforce a drastic diet and starvation.
This entry was posted in Uncategorized on July 4, 2018 by admin.
Does drinking coffee without sugar make you lose weight?
Leave a reply
Originally from the Kaffa province of Ethiopia, coffee is a detoxifier known for its health benefits such as cancer prevention, ketofit dragons den headaches … More than 70% of the world’s population consumes coffee every day, but very few people know that a good cup of coffee without sugar is an effective slimming ally to lose weight.
Why is sugar free coffee good for weight loss?
Drinking a cup of caffeine-rich coffee can help you lose your unwanted pounds, as coffee is a potent appetite suppressant. In fact, you will reduce your appetite by 35% over a full day if you consume hot coffee on awakening and 30 minutes before eating.
During the day, your cup of coffee can serve as a substitute to reduce your desire to consume high-fat foods and promote digestion (by increasing the secretion of saliva and that of enzymes). It can also facilitate the burning of calories by stimulating the production of body heat (thermogenesis).
So, just drink a cup of coffee in which there is no sugar to rid your body of extra kilograms. Indeed, while the regular cup of coffee does not provide any calories, the same cup of coffee prepared with a tablespoon of cream brings about fifty calories and 5 grams of fat.
How to take cups of coffee for fast slimming results?
To maximize the beneficial effects of a cup of coffee, you can take it on an empty stomach and without putting sugar. But this consumption must be moderate. Caffeine can increase your metabolism by stimulating your nervous system because it helps burn body fat by removing some fatty acids from fat cells.
Coffee also increases heartbeat, but uncontrolled unnatural stimulation can harm the body. This is why it is advisable to limit the consumption of coffee to a maximum of two cups every day and to respect a gap of six hours between your two cups of coffee.
Homemade fat burning coffee recipe
Here is a “boost” for anyone who wants to remove pounds. A natural recipe rich in antioxidants that will help you burn fat through its ingredients.
ingredients
• 1 teaspoon of lemon juice
• 1 teaspoon of cinnamon
• ½ cup of honey
• ¾ of a cup of coconut oil
Preparation
• Put in a large bowl lemon juice, cinnamon, honey and coconut oil.
• Mix the ingredients until you obtain a homogeneous mixture.
• Pour this mixture into a glass jar with lid.
Very early the next day, add 2 teaspoons of the mixture to your cup of coffee while it is hot. Stir it for several seconds, enjoy to enjoy the flavors and benefits! But it is not recommended for women in pregnancy to consume this mixture because it contains caffeine.
This entry was posted in Uncategorized on July 2, 2018 by admin.
Do gluten-free pastas make them lose weight?
Leave a reply
Foods without wheat flour were formerly reserved for those who were intolerant to this product. More and more people decide keto fit to turn to this mode of nutrition in hopes of losing a few pounds. In these circumstances it is questionable whether gluten-free pasta makes you lose weight? Well no. With 363 kcal per 100 g, they provide more calories than conventional pasta.
Gluten-free pasta, not so much slimming allies during a diet
Gluten consists of proteins. It comes from the processing of wheat (but also barley and rye) and is present in foods such as bread or pasta. In a gluten-free diet, wheat is replaced by rice, corn, chickpea or buckwheat flour.
According to a 2013 study, these pasta products have a higher glycemic index than traditional pasta. If we detail a little more, 100 g of pasta have a content of 78 g of carbohydrates for pasta without wheat against 67.6 grams for others. The former provide less protein (8.3 grams) than the second (11.8 grams).
In conclusion, these pasta are not made to make you lose weight and could even make you fat.
How to eat pasta without wheat flour and lose weight?
These pastas are eaten in the same way as traditional pasta. The main difference between these two types of foods is found in texture. This characteristic has a consequence only on the cooking time which differs according to the flour used. Experiment with the different brands you buy to determine it.
There are very tasty recipes for these pastas.
You simply need to make sure that the foods you add to them do not contain gluten. If you accompany them with vegetables or meat such as grilled steak, white meat such as chicken or delicious beans prepared in soy sauce, you can compose a balanced meal. Or try pasta with carbonara for example.
If you are not consuming lactose, use coconut milk instead. Why not mix this pasta with vegetables (zucchini, mushrooms, peppers) to make a tasty pan fried?
The other benefits of pasta where gluten is absent
The main benefit of these pasta is to improve the digestion of people who suffer from celiac disease or gluten intolerance. Often pasta that does not have gluten are made from flours and organic ingredients.
According to the opinions of people who chose to give up gluten, these products are healthier. For fitness enthusiasts, they have unsuspected advantages: they contribute to muscle gain.
Abandoning gluten for medical reasons or simply because you want it leads you to turn to substitute products. Alas, gluten-free keto fit reviews pasta on the market is no less caloric than their cousins ​​who contain it. In addition, a diet where gluten is totally absent can create deficiencies for your body (lack of vitamins, magnesium, calcium …)
This entry was posted in Uncategorized on July 1, 2018 by admin.
Post navigation
← Older posts
Search for:
Recent Posts
How to lose 60 pounds in 1 year?
How to lose 35 kg in 1 year?
Lose weight when you are a 19 year old?
Lose weight with the TRX?
15-day sports program to lose weight?
Recent Comments
A WordPress Commenter on Hello world!
Archives
April 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Proudly powered by WordPress