Himalayan Pink Salt | HealthCompany.com
Toggle menu
Compare
Search
Gift Certificates
Sign in or Register
Cart 0
Search
Search
Health Supplements
Pet Supplements
Hair Care
Skin Care
Miscellaneous
Articles
All Articles
Cancer
Healthy Living and Healthy Aging
Healthy Skin and Hair
Mind, Mood, and Stress Relief
Personal Care Products
Pet Health
Sleep and Insomnia
Superfoods, Spices, and Trendy Foods
Sweeteners
Weight Loss and Fitness
Recipes
All Recipes
Cooking and Pantry Tips
Breakfast and Egg Recipes
Hot and Cold Drinks
Meats, Poultry, and Seafood
Salads and Dressings
Sauces and Gravies
Side Dishes
Smoothies
Soups
Sweets and Snacks
Vegetable, Pasta, and Grain Dishes
Blog
Gift Certificates
Sign in or Register
Home
Himalayan Pink Salt
You may have heard of a type of salt called Himalayan pink salt that has become popular in health and fitness circles. But is pink salt better than white or any other color of salt? Is it even better than sea salt?
Salt Is Essential for Body Function
Our bodies require some salt intake in order to work properly. It's a big component of many fluids in the body, including blood, helps other nutrients enter and leave cells, aids in blood pressure regulation, and more. However, most health organizations recommend limiting the amount of sodium that you take in, feeling that too much can increase the workload on the heart and result in high blood pressure. Not all scientists agree with this conclusion, and research results have been a bit mixed.
What Is Himalayan Pink Salt?
This special type of salt, known for its large kernels and red, pink, and white coloring, is hand-mined in the Himalayan Mountains in Asia. Millions of years ago, sea salt beds in that area were covered in lava and preserved. Later, they were covered in ice and snow, further preserving the salt and protecting it from pollution. Because of this isolation, many people believe that there are no purer salt beds on Earth.
What's Wrong with Table Salt?
Table salt is comprised of about 98% sodium chloride. The rest of its composition is added man-made absorbents (to keep the salt from caking up) and iodine. In some non-US countries, salt also has fluoride added to it. In fact, table salt is highly processed, bleached, and treated.
Himalayan salt and other natural, unrefined types of salt are only about 84% or so comprised of sodium chloride. The rest is other minerals, mostly in trace amounts. Some people feel that Himalayan pink salt is healthier than table salt because of its lack of anticaking agents, lower sodium level, and higher mineral content. Also, Himalayan pink salt kernels are larger, so people generally take in less overall sodium when they use it in place of table salt.
Sea salt has also been popular in recent years, and while it's less refined than table salt, it is becoming more highly-processed, and some are concerned with the pollution levels in the ocean affecting its purity, as well.
Some Benefits Attributed to Himalayan Pink Salt
Among those who feel that Himalayan pink salt is healthier than table salt, these are some of the benefits they attribute to it:
Contributes to good sinus and respiratory tract function.
Prevents muscle aches and cramps.
Helps treat insomnia.
With proper water intake, helps regulate blood pressure.
Encourages a healthy pH balance in your body.
Supports good bone health.
Improves libido.
Should I Switch to Himalayan Pink Salt?
It's only fair to say that there are many experts who do not feel that there are any particular benefits of Himalayan pink salt over table salt or sea salt. They argue the following:
The amounts of chemicals and anti-caking agents that may be present from processing in table salt are minute enough for our bodies to handle without a problem.
The extra minerals in Himalayan salt are present in too small of amounts to benefit us, and Americans are not deficient in any of them anyway, thanks to our regular diets.
Not getting the iodine that table salt is fortified with could be detrimental to peoples' thyroid health (iodine is also present in foods such as seaweed, dairy, and eggs).
Therefore, the jury is still out on whether Himalayan pink salt is really any better for people than table salt. However, here is something to keep in mind if you are considering a switch: if your diet is high in processed or restaurant foods, you will still be getting a high dose of table salt.
You May Also Like These Articles:
18 Proven Weight Loss Tips
Shirataki Noodles
Benefits of Drinking Water
Can You Lose Weight by Eating Spicy Food?
Can You Shrink Your Stomach?
Eating Mindfully
Glucomannan: A Different Source of Fiber
The Benefits of Bone Broth
×
Disclaimer: The information provided on this site is for informational purposes only and is not intended as a substitute for advice from your physician or other health care professional or any information contained on or in any product label or packaging. You should not use the information on this site for diagnosis or treatment of any health problem or for prescription of any medication or other treatment. You should consult with a healthcare professional before starting any diet, exercise or supplementation program, before taking any medication, or if you have or suspect you might have a health problem. Do not take any supplements without first consulting with your physician if you are on any prescription or over-the-counter medications.
Navigate
Sign Up for the FREE Health Company Newsletter
Sign Up for the FREE Health Company Newsletter - Action Needed
Contact Us
Shipping & Returns
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Blog
Sitemap
Categories
Health Supplements
Pet Supplements
Hair Care
Skin Care
Miscellaneous
Articles
Recipes
Blog
Subscribe to our newsletter
Click here to sign up for the FREE Health Company Newsletter.
Powered by BigCommerce
© 2019 Health Company