Pink Himalayan Crystal Salt - Organic Salt - Creative Nature Superfoods
Close
Home
Shop
Shop by product
All
Baking Mixes
Green Powders
Healthy Flapjack Bars
Superfood Powders
Wholefoods and Breakfast Toppings
Shop by goal
All
Energy and Fitness
Health & Beauty
Recovery
Strength and Tone
Weight Loss
About us
Blog
Recipes
The Team
FAQs
Contact
Login / Register
0 items: £0.00
Free Shipping in UK for orders of £20 and Free Worldwide shipping for orders over £95!
T: +44 208 979 0903
Login / Register
0 items: £0.00
Shop
Shop by Product
Baking Mixes
Bundles
Green Powders
Healthy Flapjack Bars
Superfood Powders
Wholefoods and Breakfast Toppings
Subscription Boxes
Shop by Goal
Energy and Fitness
Health & Beauty
Healthy Snacking
Recovery
Strength and Tone
Weight Loss
Recipes
About us
Contact us
Home / Products / Pink Himalayan Crystal Salt
Pink Himalayan Crystal Salt
Rated 5.00 out of 5 based on 1 customer rating
(1 customer review)
£3.49
Containing all 84 trace minerals
Coarse 300g tub £3.49 (0.02p per serving)
Fine 300g tub £3.49 (0.02p per serving)
Options Choose an optionCoarse 300gFine 300g Clear
Quantity
Add to basket
“I couldn’t believe what I read about the differences between common table salt and Creative Nature Pink Himalayan Crystal Salt ! Since learning the truth, I know exactly which one I’d rather have in my body! It also makes a reinvigorating bath soak, which is perfect after a stressful day!” Julianne, founder x
Julianne Ponan - CEO
The Juicy Details
What Am I?
Nutrition
Additional information
How to use me
Reviews (1)
Featured In
Description
Our Organic Salt – Creative Nature Pink Himalayan Crystal Salt comes from ancient caves, deep in the Himalayan mountain range. It is salt in its purest form, unharmed by toxins or pollutants… all natural!
Completely different to the sodium chloride (table salt) that most of us are used to, this nutrient rich, natural salt contains all 84 elements found in the human body! Processed salt such as table salt has almost no minerals and extremely high levels of sodium, whilst Creative Nature Pink Himalayan Crystal Salt offers the benefits of the mixture of minerals present in it naturally! Pink Himalayan Crystal Salt has also been linked with numerous health benefits such as supporting normal thyroid function and healthy metabolism. And as it is in it’s natural form, it has no additives or preservatives and is definitely the salt of choice for us!
You can use Creative Nature Pink Himalayan Crystal Salt as you would use normal table salt or sea salt- in baking or cooking to add taste or seasoning. However, you can also use it as a cosmetic product! Whether it’s for a bath soak or as part of an all-body or face scrub, you will find endless uses for this product and see how versatile it is. And if you prefer coarse or fine salt, we have you covered as Creative Nature Pink Himalayan Crystal Salt comes either coarse or finely ground!
Ingredients: 100% Pink Himalayan Crystal Salt, and that’s all!
Making Sole
Dissolve a handful of Pink Himalayan Crystal Salt in a litre of water.
Add more salt until the solution is saturated and then keep in the fridge.
Every day, add 1 teaspoon (3g) of your sole solution to a glass of water and let the magic happen!
Benefits of Sole
The Sole supplies the body with the natural energy stored in the crystals which the body can hold for up to 24 hours.
Can neutralise the alkaline/acidity balance in the body and normalise blood pressure.
Can dissolve and eliminate impurities and built up toxins which lead to stones and various forms of rheumatism like arthritis and kidney and gall bladder stones. + Can lower the craving for addictive desires.
Can help with skin diseases by cleaning the body from inside out.
Click here for a bit more info on Pink Himalayan Crystal Salt’s benefits
Additional information
Weight
N/A
Coarse Crystals:
Sprinkle over your potatoes with some herbs for perfect roasties!
Make a sole solution to balance pH levels
Add to a salt grinder to season food dishes
Add to a basin of water, with some lavender, for a soothing foot bath
Fine Crystals:
Sprinkle onto a plate and dip cucumber sticks and tomatoes in
Season homemade, low-oil, skin on French fries
Rub around the rim of a Tequila Sunrise! (for over 18s only)
Add to the bath and relax!
If you want a bit more inspiration – make sure to check out our Instagram page to see some amazing recipe ideas created by our customers and bloggers. You can also visit our Recipes section of our website to get some recipes to try out!
If you create something incredible and would like to see it featured on our Instagram, please email paula@creative-nature.uk.com with your recipe and some images of the finished product. Please take a few pics with our products in too!
1 review for Pink Himalayan Crystal Salt
Rated 5 out of 5
Joe Gill (verified owner) – 10th April 2018
Having come back from the Himalayas last year 2017 trekking i decided to buy this as i tasted the salt whilst out there from its natural source. I must say its the real McCoy and tasted just like the salt in India. Very flavorsome with a variety of foods. I highly recommend this as i only eat sea salt or the good stuff as they call it. I stopped eating regular table salt many years ago after learning the truth about it and how bad it is for you. You’ll not regret it once you’ve tried, i didn’t!!!
Add a review Cancel reply
Your e-mail address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Your rating Rate… Perfect Good Average Not that bad Very poor
Your review *
Name *
Email *
Notify me of new posts by email.
Current ye@r *
Leave this field empty
Notice: It seems you have Javascript disabled in your Browser. In order to submit a comment to this post, please write this code along with your comment: 1b65b764d6b7d69b07613720157c6d75
You may also like…
Salted Caramel High Protein Flapjack Bar x 16
Rated 5.00 out of 5
£20.80
Add to basket
Ginger Teatox Detoxing Flapjack Bar x 20
Rated 5.00 out of 5
£19.80
Add to basket
Bitter Apricot Kernels – 300g
£10.97
Add to basket
Receive the latest news and exclusive discounts!
Email Address *
Submit
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Shipping
FAQs
About us
Contact
Website crafted by Konstrkt
Close
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
Product Search
Search for:
{{{ data.variation.price_html }}}
{{{ data.variation.availability_html }}}