21 simple steps for lowering cholesterol | Powerful Enzymes
Skip to content
Powerful Enzymes
Calm inflamation:Reduce Pain & Swelling
Welcome
Serrapeptase – the miracle enzyme
Contact me
Natural health products store
Search for:
×
Powerful Enzymes
Calm inflamation:Reduce Pain & Swelling
21 Simple steps for lowering LDL cholesterol naturally
Home
Cholesterol
21 Simple steps for lowering LDL cholesterol naturally
21 Simple steps for lowering LDL cholesterol naturally
by Fintan Don January 22, 2019 February 24, 2019 10 Comments on 21 Simple steps for lowering LDL cholesterol naturally
Jump to 21 steps for lowering cholesterol LDL Naturally
21 Simple steps for lowering LDL cholesterol levels naturally
I wish that I could tell you that lowering LDL cholesterol was as simple as popping a pill into your mouth and in no time at all your LDL cholesterol would lower itself to a normal level which is 100 mg/dl if you don’t have any health issues.
Natural remedies do work to lower cholesterol however there is a lot that you can do yourself, for example change the foods that you eat, swap less healthy food for something that will be of greater benefit to your health, incorporate exercise into your life as much as possible.
Normal cholesterol range
A blood lipid profile will determine your HDL (good cholesterol) LDL (bad cholesterol) and your triglycerides levels these three measurements are added together to get your total cholesterol.
This is a cholesterol levels chart
As I stated earlier unless you have a health issue your LDL cholesterol level should be less than 100 mg/dl however if you have a history of heart disease this level would be more concerning. If your reading is between 130-159 mg/dl that is considered borderline HIGH. A reading of 160-189 mg/dl is a HIGH reading, above 190 MG/DL is very high. If you study the chart people with established heart disease or diabetes shouldn’t have a total cholesterol of more than 180 mg/dl or a total LDL cholesterol of no more than 100 mg/dl.
How is cholesterol produced?
Cholesterol is produced by your liver for the normal functioning of cells, hormones and nerves, so we need it but too much of it in the bloodstream means that it has to go somewhere so what happens it sticks to the arterial wall and over time it hardens and forms what is called plaque build-up plaque is made up of LDL (bad) cholesterol calcium and other body fats.
Over time this fatty build-up will make the arteries harden and your heart will have difficulty pumping enough oxygen rich blood to meet your body’s needs. The danger is that some of this plaque may rupture and break off, it can go to your heart, in which case you may suffer a heart attack, or it can go to your brain and cause a stroke.
What causes high cholesterol?
There are several factors that cause high cholesterol, it runs in families, other factors include
A diet that includes saturated fats and trans fats so eating food like biscuits and chocolate bars can raise the cholesterol levels, other foods like red meat or full fat dairy products can elevate your cholesterol.
Overweight or obese: You need to ne under 30 BMI body mass index to reduce your risk of high cholesterol
A lack of exercise: Regular exercise does help with the HDL or “good” cholesterol on the other hand eating too much and not exercising increases the LDL or “bad” cholesterol
Diabetes: Somebody with diabetes will have higher blood sugar readings that increase LDL “bad” cholesterol levels, it can also damage the lining of the arteries.
Cigarette smoking: Causes damage to the lining of the blood vessels making it more likely that fat will accumulate, some studies have shown that smoking is linked to lowering the “good” HDL cholesterol
Good cholesterol v bad cholesterol
It is thought that HDL “good” cholesterol keeps LDL “bad” cholesterol under control, we know that “bad” cholesterol is responsible for plaque build-up on the artery walls leading to a greater risk of a heart attack or stroke, so how can we keep or reduce our levels of LDL cholesterol and keep our hearts in the best shape possible?
Let’s look at 21 simple steps to lower your cholesterol naturally and have an impact on your health.
1. Nuts have long been associated with lowering LDL and triglycerides eat almonds and walnuts for healthier LDL levels
2. Seeds are another great way to reduce LDL levels try flax seeds
3. Fish that contain omega 3 fatty acids such as salmon can help to reduce LDL levels
4. Hope you use garlic, it’s beneficial even for total cholesterol levels.
5. Okra plant, it’s high in antioxidants and fibre.
6. Turmeric with curcumin has powerful cholesterol lowering properties and anti- inflammatory properties
7. Sweet potatoes, contains many health benefits shown to reduce bad cholesterol
8. Legumes and beans such as peas, lentils and beans, studies have shown links to lower cholesterol
9. Avocados are high in healthy fats, potassium and fibre
10. Persimmon A nutritious citrus fruit studies have shown it to be effective at lowering cholesterol.
11. Green tea is a very healthy way to reduce your cholesterol as shown in studies.
12. Red yeast rice fermented white rice take 1,200 mgs daily proven to reduce cholesterol
13. Whole grains (gluten free) try buckwheat, brown rice or quinoa.
14. Co Enzyme Q10 as we age our bodies can become depleted of this important enzyme that lowers cholesterol and breaks down plaque build-up
15. Fish oil: take 1,000 to 2,000 mgs per day full of healthy omega 3 fatty acids very beneficial at lowering bad cholesterol and elevating good cholesterol.
16. Olive oil: replace fatty oils with olive oil
17. Food that has plant sterols for example margarines made from plant sterols and orange juice can be effective in reducing LDL cholesterol
18. Whey protein, dairy products are made from whey protein, studies have shown that whey protein in supplement form may help to lower total cholesterol, LDL and high blood pressure.
19. Exercise- I can’t stress how important exercise is to your effort to lower your LDL not only is it important but necessary, if you don’t exercise regularly it’s time to start. You will feel the benefit of it both mentally and physically, try to join a walking club or ask a friend to join you.
20. Niacin in supplement form is known as B3, it has been shown to decrease triglyceride and LDL levels while increasing HDL “good” cholesterol levels.
21. Essential oils are an alternative method to reduce LDL cholesterol read more available in
Lemongrass
Clove
Lavender
Rosemary Cypress
Cinnamon
Myrrh
Basil
Oregano
Bergamot
Ginger
Foods to avoid LIST
So now you have a list of healthy options to reduce your LDL cholesterol combined with exercise should help you to get the results you desire, ok so now to the stuff that you need to avoid
I’m a big believer in everything in moderation, we are only human after all so if we stray a bit that’s ok if we start back at the new plan to reduce bad cholesterol.
1. Cut out sugar and processed foods
2. Reduce or cut alcohol out altogether, it raises cholesterol levels
3. Limit your caffeine intake to two cups per day it raises cholesterol levels in some people
4. Cut soda drinks out
5. Red meat but only one a week is recommended
6. Don’t eat snacks,bars or biscuits (cookies) (once a week treat only)
This new regime to lower cholesterol won’t be easy but with a little planning around food and exercise it is possible to get your numbers down. Some of the foods recommended will work for some people but may not work for others.
By using a new diet of healthy options along with regular exercise and good quality sleep you can get your cholesterol down and reduce your risk of a heart attack or stroke. Cholesterol lowering supplements can also help or the essential oils could be an option for you in tandem with some of the food recommendations.
gtag('config', 'UA-116134799-1');
Summary
Article Name
21 simple steps for lowering cholesterol naturally
Description
LDL is "bad" cholesterol because it can lead to a build-up of plaque in the arteries.It is possible to lower your LDL cholesterol simply by changing your diet, this article explains the best ways to do this.
Author
Fintan Duggan
Publisher Name
Fintan Duggan
Publisher Logo
Previous
Symptoms of high cholesterol in women Why it matters!
Next
Disclaimer
10 thoughts on “21 Simple steps for lowering LDL cholesterol naturally”
Tsquare says:
January 23, 2019 at 1:30 pm
Thanks for this educative piece. It is lack of discipline that is killing many people in this world. Many cannot deny themselves of what they eat. My Dad is over 70years today thanks for God’s grace and love but he is also very discipline with his diet. He does not eat meat again. He only eat fish. He does take much of beverages again. He only drink water. He knows how to maintain his health. Many of his old friends have died because they were careless with their health.
Really like your post. Great job.
Reply
fintan duggan says:
January 23, 2019 at 1:48 pm
Hi Tsquare,
You are so right about taking care with what we eat and drink your Dad is a good example.
Thanks
Fintan
Reply
JJ says:
January 23, 2019 at 1:25 pm
Hi, This article caught my attention because after doing my annual check up last year, I was told that my bad cholesterol was too high and my good cholesterol was too low. The doctor was wondering why because I am fit, going to the gym regularly, I don’t eat anything fried, no sugar, green tea every morning and eat almonds, okra, turmeric and all the good stuff. I don’t like cakes and cookies and chips etc. So I did some research and decided to add red yeast rice and oats to my diet. If my cholesterol levels are normal when I do my next check up, would I have to continue taking these supplements? Also you recommended essential oils. How would that be consumed? Thank you for a great article.
Reply
fintan duggan says:
January 23, 2019 at 1:47 pm
Hi JJ,
Doctors don’t seem to have the answers all the time,the red yeast rice and oats will help to reduce cholesterol. As we age our bodies change so I believe that we need to take a supplement to assist our bodies in reducing cholesterol and inflammation.The essential oils can be taken in capsule form or as drops.
Thanks
Fintan
Reply
Jay says:
January 23, 2019 at 1:25 pm
High cholesterol in our body is dangerous and we should always endeavor to make sure it does not go over the limit. Like mentioned in this post lowering ones cholesterol does not have to involve the taking of drugs. There are natural ways or remedies one can use to reduce one’s cholesterol.
Most of the time just changing our diets can go a long way in reducing cholesterol. Also, a very important aspect that is neglected by a lot of people in reducing cholesterol is exercising. This might seem very basic but I can assure you that it plays a big role in reducing our cholesterol.
I do have a question. We know exercising is good at reducing cholesterol but I would like to know what type of exercise do you think is more effective. Do we focus on light exercises or heavy exercise?
Reply
fintan duggan says:
January 23, 2019 at 1:38 pm
Hi Jay,
You are correct exercise is so vital to our overall health not just cholesterol levels,I recommend at least 30 minutes of walking every day, even better if there are some hills or steps to climb during your walk.Of course a vigorous workout will be even more beneficial but not everyone like to do this.
Thanks
Fintan
Reply
Chris says:
January 23, 2019 at 1:19 pm
Excellent advice here – I’ve been looking for a no-nonsense write up on this subject for a couple of weeks now, but usually all I could find was a confusing mess of medical jargon – kudos for creating this in Layman’s terms.
Looking at your list, I don’t really like fish that much, but I do try and make up for this with Omega 3 capsules every day – will they still be effective when it comes to reducing cholesterol?
Reply
fintan duggan says:
January 23, 2019 at 1:34 pm
Hi Chris,
Omega 3 capsules may lower your cholesterol & triglyceride levels,if you don’t like fish try adding nuts to your diet.
Thank you
Fintan
Reply
Barbara says:
January 23, 2019 at 1:15 pm
Thank you so so much. Cholesterol has always been a problem for me and I refuse to take any type of medicine that will reduce one thing and have another 10 side effects. The information you share on this article and all the simple and easy steps to take to help you reduce it are seriously a blessing. Thank you for the knowledge I will follow all the rules and let you know if I succeed. Thank you again
Reply
fintan duggan says:
January 23, 2019 at 1:50 pm
Hi Barbara,
I hate drugs and what they do to our bodies,they control one thing and set something else off,I’m glad that you got some helpful information in my article.
All the best,
Fintan
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
By using this form you agree with the storage and handling of your data by this website. *
Search for:
Blood pressure monitor review
Read my blood pressure monitor review HERE.
Categories
Categories Select Category Arterial disease Bursitis Carpal Tunnel Syndrome Cholesterol Clear artery plaque naturally Copd Emphysema Curcumin anti inflammatory Endometriosis natural treatment Erectile dysfunction FAQ Fibromyalgia Gut Health Heart disease Heart Disease Natural Treatment High Blood Pressure Inflammation relief Inflammatory Diseases Mental health Nattokinase Health Benefits Natural Remedy to reduce cholesterol Nitric oxide Peripheral artery disease Reduce Cholesterol Naturally Remove arterial plaque Serrapeptase angina testimonials Serrapeptase benefits Serrapeptase Health Plans Serrapeptase side effects Serrapeptase testimonials Serrapeptase- the Miracle Enzyme Serratiopeptidase Shoulder bursitis Sinusitis Sleep disorders Store Supplements reviews User forum
Archives
April 2019
March 2019
February 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
Translate:
Copyright © 2019 Powerful Enzymes - WordPress Theme : By Sparkle Themes
Best Brand of Fish Oil Supplement for heart, brain and overall health
Best natural treatment for Endometriosis
Best supplements for lowering cholesterol
Best treatments COPD
Better Health Plans
Cardiovascular disease treatment -The alternative
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease copd
Clean your arteries plaque It is possible!
Contact me
Data Access Request
Disclaimer
Health benefits nattokinase you have to read this!
Hip bursitis symptoms-Hip pain
Hip pain when walking
How can heart disease be reversed? Doctors won’t tell this
How to Clear Artery Plaque Naturally
How To Reverse Clogged Arteries Legs
My testimonial-Serrapeptase what it did for me
My Top 5 Best Supplements for inflammation and why?
Nattokinase benefits
Natural health products store
Natural heart health supplements
Natural Remedies for Sinisutis
Natural remedy for high cholesterol
Nitric oxide benefits
Pain relief gout big toe
Privacy policy
Problems in the bedroom-Read this!
Removing plaque from the arteries
Reverse heart disease naturally!
Serrapeptase – the miracle enzyme
Serrapeptase and science- what we know
Serrapeptase Benefits COPD- Great story
Serrapeptase Enzyme FAQ
Serrapeptase is it safe to take?
Shoulder Bursitis Pain Relief This will help!
The Benefits of L Arginine Powder
The list of High Cholesterol foods not to eat!
Treatments for copd emphysema
User Forum
Welcome
What are Serrapeptase benefits?
What is Nitric oxide for?
Why is Arterial Plaque so Dangerous?
This site is protected by wp-copyrightpro.com
Translate »