Lemon Juice And Baking Soda – Live Play Eat
Live
Play
Eat
Connect with Us
On Pinterest
Proper: liveplayeat_belowtitle
Healthy LifestyleNutrition & Wellness
Lemon Juice And Baking Soda
Jessica Griggs
Share on Facebook Pin
Health fads and quick solutions for many different ailments and issues come and go. Using activated charcoal to whiten teeth, coffee scrubs to remove cellulite, and the Adkins diet, to name a few. Sure, there may be some benefits to these things, but ultimately they’ll fall by the wayside once something newer comes along. The power of baking soda and lemon, however, seems to hold up to the test of time. Both of these things have been around for a long time, and the health benefits can be backed up by science!
Some people claim that mixing lemon juice and baking soda is so powerful, that it can help in the fight against cancer. While some health professionals aren’t willing to go that far, there are studies that show how the acidity in lemon juice in an effective way to treat certain carcinoma cells. The pH in baking soda also helps to realign and balance the body.
Regardless of if you believe the hype about lemon juice and baking soda curing and preventing cancer, there are still plenty of health benefits to using this powerful combination. By mixing some lemon juice and baking soda into a glass of water and drinking every day, you increase your weight loss results as well as improve kidney function and support healthy digestion. You can also use this combination to help whiten teeth. Be careful not to do this more than once a week as the mixture is potent enough to irritate some teeth.
Go ahead and watch the video below to see all of the amazing health benefits of mixing lemon juice and baking soda. You’ll be surprised at all the wonderful things come out of just mixing these two household ingredients!
liveplayeat_abovevideo
Share on Facebook
Share on Facebook
The Fascinating History of "Amazing Grace": Click “Next Page” below!
Next Page
Share on Facebook Pin
RevContent
Proper: liveplayeat_belowcontent
Recommended
Weird Food Cravings And What They Actually Mean
Don’t Ignore These 5 Signs Of Hormonal Imbalance
5 Methods To Cure Brittle Nails And Hang Nails
11 Bizarre Home Remedies Our Grandparents Used That Actually Work!
Proper: liveplayeat_r1
Recommended
Weird Food Cravings And What They Actually Mean
5 Methods To Cure Brittle Nails And Hang Nails
Don’t Ignore These 5 Signs Of Hormonal Imbalance
11 Bizarre Home Remedies Our Grandparents Used That Actually Work!
Get Live Play Eat stories in your Inbox!
FB
Live Play Eat
Proper: liveplayeat_r3
©2019 Great Life Publishing and GreaterGood. All rights reserved. Owned and operated by Great Life Publishing, a GreaterGood company. All charitable donations are paid by GreaterGood.org to benefiting organizations as a grant.
About Live Play Eat
About Great Life Publishing
Privacy policy
Proper: liveplayeat_sticky_1
Proper: liveplayeat_oop