Is Drinking Pee Bad For You? - Here Is Your Answer.
I I B F Y
About Us
Is It Vegan?
Explore
Random Page
Most Popular
Just Released
Food
Drink
Cooking
Additives
Drugs | Medicine
Nutrients
Supplements
Lifestyle
Other
The Good
The Bad
The Ugly
Random Page
Sign Up
Log In
Approved by Dr. Robert Cook
Is Drinking Pee Bad For You?
Also Known As: drinking urine
Shares
Jump to:
Short answer
Long answer
Alternatives
Grade
D-
Short answer
As shocking as it sounds-you can drink urine. Because urine is a waste product that is produced by our kidneys you should only drink small amounts and it is primarily recommended if you are in a situation that calls for very extreme survival skills. Urine is 95% water so it can replace some lost water, but the other components of urine can be quite problematic. So, in short, it is bad for you. (The reason for the Grade of D- and not an F is based on the possible benefits of Urotherapy discussed below.)
Grade
D-
×
Letter Grade for Drinking Pee
D-
Harmful to your health. Very few, if any, benefits are present. Things in this category should be avoided as much as possible.
View Full Grading System
Category 'A'
A+
Very healthy and numerous health benefits. Side effects are rare. Things rated an 'A+' are typically necessary for survival (for example, water).
A
Very healthy and numerous health benefits. A few harmful qualities may be associated, but only under certain circumstances such as an allergic reaction.
A-
Very healthy and numerous health benefits. Harmful qualities may be associated, but aren't usually serious.
It is important to note that even the best things in life can become bad in immoderate amounts. So, although something may be rated an 'A+', overconsumption/overdoing can bring unwanted effects.
Category 'B'
B+
Very beneficial to your health. Things rated a 'B+' may have a few harmful qualities to pay attention to.
B
Overall beneficial to your health. Things rated a 'B' may have some harmful qualities to pay attention to.
B-
More beneficial to your health than not. However, harmful qualities are most likely associated and shouldn't be overlooked.
The main difference between category 'A' and category 'B' is the harmful qualities typically present in 'B' items. Serious side effects are usually uncommon, but are still possible and should be taken note of.
Category 'C'
C+
Both beneficial and harmful qualities associated. Things rated a 'C+' are typically a bit more on the beneficial side. Still, moderation is important.
C
A fairly even ratio of beneficial and harmful qualities. Moderation is important. Very general topics that can lean towards both sides of the spectrum will be placed here as well. Rice, for example, can be good or bad depending on the type.
C-
More harmful than beneficial. Side effects are common, especially when consumed/done excessively. Moderation is very important.
Category 'C' usually denotes to both good and bad qualities. When it comes to this category, it is important to keep this word in mind: moderation.
Category 'D'
D+
Harmful to your health. Although benefits may be associated, the bad most likely outweighs the good. Moderation is very important.
D
Harmful to your health. A few benefits may be associated, but the bad outweighs the good. Moderation is extremely important.
D-
Harmful to your health. Very few, if any, benefits are present. Things in this category should be avoided as much as possible.
Category 'D' is typically for things that are more harmful than beneficial. While consuming/doing something unhealthy once in a blue moon shouldn't hurt, we definitely recommend eliminating 'D' items as a regular part of your routine/diet.
Category 'F'
F
Category 'F' is for things that fail to bring anything beneficial to the table, and are very harmful to your health. We recommend completely avoiding anything in this category. Long-term side effects of 'F' items are usually very serious.
Category 'N'
N
'N' stands for neutral. Things placed into this category are generally (a) neither good nor bad for you, or (b) lack the necessary evidence to reach any conclusions.
Close
Long answer
Our body is a magical detoxification system. We live in a very toxic society so we are constantly cleansing out the impurities that bombard us every day. We eliminate toxins via the liver, the gastrointestinal tract, the pulmonary system, our sweat glands and via the kidneys. Impurities that accumulate in the bloodstream are filtered through the kidneys and excreted in the urine. Again-urine is 95% water, 2.5% urea, and depending on your diet, medications and overall health, your urine could contain 1000’s of additional compounds and contaminants that comprise that additional 2.5%. Urine contains sodium and other dehydrating components that can lead to dehydration faster than if you drank sea water.
Although there are a few reports of people surviving in disaster situations by drinking their own urine-it comes with potentially deadly side effects.
Side Effects
Because urine is a waste product, ingesting it can lead to a more toxic bloodstream in a very short period of time. Drinking urine if you are healthy, young and hydrated will have a less immediate toxic effect than if you are in a situation of survival and are already becoming dehydrated. In a situation where you are already physically compromised the symptoms experienced with drinking urine are escalated. Side effects of drinking urine for more than 24-72 hours can include:
Increased thirst
Dry mouth
Lethargy
Decreased urine output that has a darker color
Headache
Dizziness
Rapid heart rate
Drop in blood pressure
Fever
Poor skin elasticity
Confusion
Seizures
Eventual shock with cardiovascular collapse
Benefits of Urotherapy?
It is believed that Urotherapy (the ingestion of one’s own urine, or topical application) originated with the start of Ayurvedic and Traditional Chinese Medicine. There are still alternative and Eastern Medical professionals that recommend Urotherapy for its medicinal properties. It is felt that unless you have a urinary tract infection; urine is sterile by nature and has natural anti-bacterial, anti-viral and overall healing properties. Some medical professionals even feel urine has anti-cancer properties. These practitioners recommend rubbing urine on the skin and ingesting small amounts to keep the external and internal body in homeostasis (balance).
Because substantial medical research has not been done into this practice the recommendation would be not to drink your urine unless you are in a survival situation and have nothing else to properly hydrate your body.
Water (what is this?)
Please turn your Ad Blocker off to see this content. Thank you!
Suggest improvement or correction to this article
Written by Dr. Becky Maes | 12-19-2017
12-19-2017
Written by Dr. Becky Maes
Suggest improvement or correction
×
How can this article be improved?
You have reached the limit
Insiders Newsletter
Learn what they don't want you to know.
Related
Farting
Holding Your Pee
Random Page
Check These Out!
Vitaminwater Zero
Minute Maid
Chai Tea
Fruit Snacks
Reese's Peanut Butter Cups
Veganism
Kettle Chips
Kind Bar
Mini-Wheats
Leeks
HIPPEAS
Turnips
← Previous
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
…
69
70
Next →
Show more
×
Become a Member
$5 / month
You've read 3 articles - nice! To unlock unlimited content and other premium features, become a member for just $5 per month.
We will also get rid of ads... forever!
Become a Member
Already have an account? Log in.
Join us and 800,000 others becoming healthier everyday.
Home About Us FAQ Contact Privacy Terms
© 2018 Is It Bad For You, LLC. All rights reserved.