15 Most Effective Ways to Remove Dental Plaque and Heal Tooth Decay Naturally
Menu
Home
Animal
Health
Travel
News
Fun
Hacks
Facts
Art
Photography
Style
Quiz
Health
15 Most Effective Ways to Remove Dental Plaque and Heal Tooth Decay Naturally
Samad 11 months ago
Prev Article	Next Article
Who doesn’t love a perfect smile because that is the most attractive part of a person? Your smile gives others an impression of yourself and the only thing that gives you a great smile is your teeth. But often we take our teeth for granted and harm them incessantly through bad habits, excessive sugar from sweets and carbonated drinks and poor oral hygiene. All of these lead to cavities and dental plaque that discolor your teeth. However don’t be alarmed as dental plaque, cavities and tooth decay can be reversed with these 15 effective natural remedies which can get rid of your dental problems.
1 Baking Soda
Baking soda is used as a universal remedy for many things but it can also be put in your mouth and used to remove dental plaque. Just make a mixture of 1 tablespoon baking soda and a pinch of salt. Use this as a paste to brush your teeth as you normally do.
Image Source: tipsdebellezacaseros.com
2 Aloe Vera and Glycerine
A few decades ago perhaps in the time of your grandmother, a baby’s teeth would be cleaned and massaged with glycerine. You can make a powerful natural toothpaste using the following ingredients.
• ½ cup baking soda
• 4 teaspoons vegetable glycerine
• 1 tsp aloe Vera gel
• 1 teaspoon lemon essential oil
Now mix this thoroughly and brush your teeth with the mixture. You will notice the difference immediately after brushing.
Image Source: www.expresscb.com
3 Orange peel
Rub orange peel on your teeth. This will prevent stains; whiten your teeth and even eliminate bacteria. Rub it for about 2-3 minutes and then rinse with water. Do this once daily.
Image Source: .tabloidbintang.com
4 Sesame Seeds
Did you know that chewing on sesame seeds can remove dental plaque? Take a handful of sesame seeds; chew on them for at least 3-5, then spit them out and use a brush on your teeth to remove remaining seeds. You can also use it as a scrub to remove plaque stains from your teeth.
Image Source: www.organicfacts.net
5 Vitamin Tooth Mask
To make a vitamin tooth mask for your teeth, mash strawberries, oranges and tomatoes together to make a paste mask. Now apply it to your teeth and keep it on for 6 minutes. Now rinse with water. This kills bacteria and even gives you fresher breath.
Image Source: brightside.me
6 Vinegar Solution
Although this isn’t a very tasty way to clean your teeth, it is very effective and 100% natural. You need 2 tablespoons vinegar, 1 tablespoon salt, and 4 ounces of water. Combine all the ingredients and rinse your mouth with this solution daily.
Image Source: www.pepitasandco.com
7 How to reverse cavities and prevent tooth decay
Now that you have some great remedies to remove plaque, here are some sure shot pieces of advice to reverse tooth decay and cavity damage. Be committed to such practices to get the best results.
Visit your dentist
A regular visit to your dentist at least once or twice a year can help you maintain oral health by identifying problems and treating them immediately.
Image Source: www.davidwolfe.com
8 A mineral toothpaste
This mineral toothpaste is effective for keeping your teeth healthy and free-from cavities.
This simple toothpaste recipe requires only a few natural ingredients that you can buy in every store. Since you make it yourself, you can be sure that all the components are natural and won’t harm your health. You’ll need the following ingredients to make the toothpaste:
• 4 tbsp calcium powder
• 1 tbsp stevia
• 1 tbsp sea salt
• 2 tbsp baking soda
• 1/4 cup coconut oil
Mix all the ingredients until you get a paste. It should be even with no crumbs. Use it as a substitute for your regular toothpaste. However, do not use this for more than 30 days because of its abrasive nature and absence of fluoride. Also consult your dentist before using any new remedy if you have any severe oral conditions.
Image Source: brightside.me
9 You need to change your eating habits
If you want good healthy teeth you have to stop eating foods that promote tooth decay like excess sugars, carbonated drinks, sugary fruit juices, confectionary items etc. Now it isn’t necessary you give it up entirely (although that would be ideal), but once in a while is ok providing you rinse your mouth thoroughly soon after. Research has shown that dietary changes can reverse tooth decay.
Image Source: pinimg.com
10 Get your calcium
Calcium contributes to strong bones and teeth. Consume foods rich in calcium like dairy products such as milk, sour cream, yogurt and cheese. Various leafy greens, beans, and lentils, also contain calcium. If you like your beverages always choose the unsweetened variety. Make sure you drink enough water daily. Start adding less sugar to your tea as this isn’t only good for teeth; it is good for overall health.
Image Source: pinimg.com
11 Chew sugarless gum
Sugarless gum can actually prevent tooth decay as most gums in this variety contain an ingredient called xylitol which does not cause bacterial growth in the mouth. Chewing gum promotes saliva production that removes food debris stuck in teeth.
Image Source: william-reed.com
12 Change your toothbrush regularly
Choosing the right toothbrush is important for teeth and gum health. Moreover, change your toothbrush every two months once you notice the bristles are wearing out. A medium sized toothbrush with bristles that can clean all the crevices in your teeth and molars to remove hidden food particles is ideal.
Image Source: pinimg.com
13 This is what a good dental routine looks like
• Brush teeth for 2 minutes twice a day
• Brush all surfaces of your teeth up to the farthest corners
• Floss regularly to pull out food stuck between teeth that cause bacteria when left to remain
• Use an antibacterial mouthwash and rinse after meals
Image Source: www.zakuroya.co.jp
14 Add vitamins to your diet
Vitamins are essential for your diet. The best way to get a natural dose of vitamins is to eat plenty of fresh fruit and vegetables. Top promote saliva, eat fiber-rich foods like nuts and greens. Bananas, apple, Brussels sprouts, and peas are especially good for oral health. Whole grain foods are rich in iron, fish like salmon, herring, and tuna is a good source of vitamin D.
Image Source: jaydexterphoto.com
15 Try coconut oil pulling
Coconut oil pulling can protect teeth from decay as it removes bacteria from teeth and heals them naturally. Swish around a tablespoon of coconut oil in your mouth for 20 minutes till saliva and oil form a milky white color. Then spit out and rinse your mouth with water. You can do this daily before you brush your teeth. Oil pulling won’t reverse cavities but it will definitely prevent them. However, use a good brand of pure virgin coconut oil.
Credit troab.com
Facebook
Prev Article	Next Article
Incredible Nature Copyright © 2019.
About
Contact Us
Privacy Policy