Which Abdominal Exercise is Better: Crunch or Sit-up - BCLiving
Close
Cut Through the Dining Doldrums
FREE | 20 Recipes for Simple Dining Book
YES, I WANT THE FREE RECIPE BOOK
Eating simple, healthy meals doesn't have to be boring. No more plain baked chicken and plain salad.
Food & Drink
Health & Fitness
Home
Travel
Entertainment
Shopping & Style
Events
Contests
Store
Log In
Sign Up
Finally, a Canadian subscription box made just for women
From the editors of BCLiving, a seasonal subscription box of beauty products & decor treasures
Yes, I want to join
Nono thanks
Image Via: Deagreez
Health & Fitness	Mar 1, 2011
Which Abdominal Exercise is Better: Crunch or Sit-up
by Wellness Matters
by Wellness Matters
What's New on BCLiving
Share Tweet Share Share Pin
The crunch and the sit-up target different muscle groups and each has a function in a core body workout
Including both crunches and sit-ups in your workout will strengthen all the muscles of your midsection. The fact is both exercises have their place in a healthy workout.
The difference between the crunch and the sit-up
The crunch exercises only the abdominal muscles, while the full sit-up involves both the abdominals and other stabilizing muscles—in the chest, neck and low-back as well as hip flexors and lower-leg muscles (if you hook your feet).
The traditional full sit-up is not a bad exercise. However, because it involves so many muscle groups it is not advised for people with neck, back or hip problems. Still, for those without these concerns, there’s nothing wrong with doing sit-ups.
How to do a proper crunch
Lie on the floor, legs bent at the knees, feet shoulder-width apart and flat on the floor. Rest your arms on the floor at your sides, cross them on your chest or hold your hands lightly at your ears.
Raise only your head and shoulders from the floor to feel the abdominal muscles contract. Avoid pulling or flexing your head forward; keep your eyes looking above and ahead of you.
Return to your starting position. Exhale as you rise and inhale as you lower.
How to do a proper sit-up
You can hook your feet under a secure object for more stability, but this will use muscles in the hips and legs, putting less stress on the abs.
Place your fingertips at your ears, or rest your hands lightly behind your head, crossed on your chest or lying at your sides. The neck should be slightly flexed (head tucked forward) for less involvement of the back.
Concentrate on using abdominal strength to curl your upper body off the floor until you are upright in a semi-seated position. Exhale as you rise. Inhale as you lower back to the floor.
Exercise routine for crunches and sit-ups
Two to four sets of 10 to 25 repetitions (no less than twice weekly) for both exercises is sufficient to strengthen muscles.
Originally published in Wellness Matters, Canada Wide Media’s quarterly newsletter on health and wellness.
Share Tweet Share Share Pin
More
The BCLiving bi-weekly newsletter highlighting local trends, eats, entertainment and travel ideas The BCLiving monthly contest newsletter
Stay in the know
BCLiving keeps you in the know on everything West Coast, highlighting local trends, eats, entertainment and travel ideas.
More Info
About Us
Contact Us
Advertise With Us
Work With Us
Log In
Sign Up
The Magazine
Past Issues
Newsletter
Subscribe
Unsubscribe
Our Other Sites
Canada Wide
BCBusiness
Real Weddings
Copyright © Canada Wide Media Limited. All Rights Reserved
230, 4321 Still Creek Drive Burnaby, B.C. V5C 6S7, 604-299-7311
Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Use & Privacy Policy 0.26s
/article.php: 0.05s
Load Site: 0.06s
Load Featured Image: 0.06s
Load Category: 0.09s
Load Socials: 0.09s
Load Companies: 0.09s
Load Exit Intent: 0.09s
Load Welcome Mat: 0.10s
Load Author Profiles: 0.10s
Format Images: 0.10s
Format Links: 0.10s
Format Objects: 0.10s
Load Featured Image Size: 0.10s
Body Start: 0.10s
Start Nav: 0.12s
End Nav: 0.25s
Print Author: 0.25s
Format Header Image: 0.26s
Page Done: 0.26s