Tullio Simoncini: Of Rodents, Research and Baking Soda | Anaximperator blog
Home
About
About Me
See This!
Comments
Contact
Links
Anaximperator blog
Blogging against alternative cancer treatments
Tullio Simoncini: Of Rodents, Research and Baking Soda
4 Comments Posted by beatis on August 9, 2009
In the stats of this blog I can see from which pages people clicked to get to our blog. Sometimes I take a peek at these pages, as I did last week.
It landed me in a discussion on the ‘cancer therapy’ of Tullio Simoncini, which included some rather opinionated proponents of our Italian friend. A blog member named Byron stated that there was no evidence to prove Simoncini wrong, so I decided to tell them that research showed that sodium bicarbonate does nothing to stop cancer growth and was found even to stimulate it, giving the relevant link on our blog.
One of the Simoncini proponents then said the following:
I replied thus:
Again I was ordered to show evidence of baking soda not being effective in humans, at which I replied:
She then ‘concluded’ I did not have any evidence for my claim:
so I tried again to explain:
Now this is where it gets rather embarrassing:
I must admit this left me quite dumbfounded. What is this person thinking? Does she think that scientists go hunting for rodents – in woods and derelict houses perhaps – in order to find ones that have cancer, which they then lock up in their labs to test their experimental substances on, such as baking soda? Or does she perhaps think the ‘toxic corrosive chemicals’ as well as the baking soda were given for the bladder cancer? Does she really have no idea at all how rodents with cancer are come by?
Well, this is how it works. The poor little things are bred in the labs and given toxic compounds so as to induce cancer in them. Then they are given the experimental drugs, like sodium bicarbonate, to assess their efficacy against cancer. This is precisely what was done in the research I linked to.
In the English language, the attitude of people like anomdenet is aptly described as arrogance of ignorance.
What can one say to something like this? Not very much I’m afraid, and that is what I did:
Needless to say, there was no reply.
It makes me laugh, it makes me sad and it worries me deeply at the same time. Their lack of knowledge is not even the biggest problem, after all, we can’t all know everything about anything.
What really worries me though is that so many people, despite their obvious unwillingness to educate themselves on a subject, apparently have no problem whatsoever with dispensing their opinionated views on it to all and sundry.
Arrogance of ignorance indeed.
The website is here.
Advertisements
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Cancer, Fungus and sodium bicarbonate, Health fraud, Tullio Simoncini, Uncategorized alternative medicine, baking soda, cam, Cancer, candida, candida albicans, carcinoma, chemo, chemotherapy, evidence-based medicine, fungus, Health fraud, holistic, immune system, lab animals, metastases, quackery, research, Simoncini, sodium bicarbonate, Tullio Simoncini
← With Complements From Boots	Simon Singh and Edzard Ernst causing Trouble in Paradise for the British Chiropractic Association? →
4 responses to “Tullio Simoncini: Of Rodents, Research and Baking Soda”
cryptocheilus August 9, 2009 at 4:35 pm
It’s amazing how often the baking soda story promoted by Simoncini rears it’s ugly head somewhere on the nets.
The discussion methods of the people who are ‘hyped’ is a kind of ‘international language’ I suppose.
jennyj0 August 9, 2009 at 5:21 pm
It certainly seems that way!
Bram Hengeveld August 9, 2009 at 7:23 pm
A few days ago I somehow ended up on the following webpage, on the ‘miracle’ of (liquid) chlorophyll: http://www.energiseforlife.com/wordpress/2009/02/11/health-benefits-of-liquid-chlorophyll/
The writer bluntly states chlorophyll is ‘absolutely identical’ to haemoglobin, which is an easily checkable statement; even Wikipedia will show you (within minutes) that it is actually a very wrong statement.
So this dude Ramachandra shows up and very elaborately describes the errors in the blogpost. The general reaction, as usual: ‘thank you for your insights, but you sound so angry with us’. for instance:
“Many Blessings to All… and extra blessings for Ramachandra who needs peace in his/her life.”
I don’t know which problem is bigger: the arrogance or the ignorance. I’d guess it’s the arrogance, since the writer of the blogpost apparently didn’t see fit to even look up the most basic of claims he is making (up). His ignorance could be cured easily even by wikipedia, but his arrogance apparently makes him unable to do so.
Indeed it is an ‘international language’, connecting a whole lot of woo-meisters.
WeWee August 9, 2009 at 8:26 pm
My internet experience says that there’s a big rate of false ignorance on this misunderstandings. Some people simply DON’T want to understand, compulsorily, only to be against the official science.
Nothing important, i have spent my phase of “being discouraged”, it’s useless, now i’m in the much interesting phase of incessant work against the quack.
🙂
Bye.
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
RSS feed
Recent comments
JLI on Is It True That Only 2 Or 3 %…
Jordan on Is It True That Only 2 Or 3 %…
Burzynski The Movie:… on Burzynski The Movie: Does It P…
Natasha Zarich on Is It True That Only 2 Or 3 %…
JLI on Homeopathy For Cancer, Endorse…
Paulo de Oliveira on Homeopathy For Cancer, Endorse…
6 Common Misconcepti… on Sugar depleted diet is not a c…
JLI on Drinking baking soda does not…
Steve Collier on Drinking baking soda does not…
JLI on German New Medicine (GNM) and…
Recent posts
Man wasn’t dying from colon cancer, and he didn’t cure himself with Cannabis
A Fungus Ball is a Fungus Ball – and not Cancer
Drinking baking soda does not cure cancer
Sugar depleted diet is not a cure for cancer
Homeopathy For Cancer, Endorsed by ASCO?? Not Really
Cancer Research UK Science Update Blog
News digest – red and processed meat, DNA ‘fingerprints’, targeted leukaemia drugs and CRISPR April 19, 2019
Science Surgery: ‘How do tumours ‘know’ where to spread?’ April 18, 2019
News digest – cancer ‘vaccine factories’, cataloguing DNA weaknesses, NHS drug decisions and cancer sniffing canines April 13, 2019
Psiram/Esowatch
Psirama – Der Psiram-Wochenrückblick (KW 14, 2019) April 7, 2019
Psirama – Der Psiram-Wochenrückblick (KW 12, 2019) March 24, 2019
Die Wahrheit in der Wissenschaft – oder die Wahrheit in Bild der Wissenschaft? March 17, 2019
Respectul Insolence
An error has occurred; the feed is probably down. Try again later.
Science-Based Medicine
Chiropractor Treating Concussions for Earlier Return to Play April 23, 2019
Bleaching away what ails you: The Genesis II Church is still selling Miracle Mineral Supplement as a cure-all April 22, 2019
New Research Reveals a Startling Increase in Pediatric Foreign-Body Ingestions April 19, 2019
Edzard Ernst
Chiropractors treating children – is it not time to stop these charlatans? April 24, 2019
‘Mom’s Choice Awards’ for a homeopathic product – was it for the maximum number of false claims in one single product? April 23, 2019
A risk-benefit assessment of (chiropractic) neck manipulation April 22, 2019
Blogroll
A pathologist examines: cancer and fungus
Alternative Medicine and Cancer
Ars GeriatriCare (Dutch)
Cancer Research UK
Cancer Survival in Europe
Cryptocheilus medical blog (Dutch)
Dr. Len's Cancer Blog
EBM-first: What alternative health practitioners might not tell you
Medbunker blogspot (Italian)
My Malignant Melanoma
Psiram/Esowatch (German)
Quackwatch
Science-Based Medicine
Top Posts
Infant Dies after "Craniosacral" Therapy
Is It True That Only 2 Or 3 % Of Cancer Patients Survive Chemotherapy?
German New Medicine (GNM): Hamer House of Horrors
Tullio Simoncini's Lucrative Little Cancer Cure sCam?
Marion lost her father to the "German New Medicine" of Ryke Geerd Hamer
Categories
Categories Select Category Andreas Moritz antineoplaston therapy autism biologie totale Bogus tests Cancer chemotherapy claude sabbah Contraptions craniosacral therapy Curezone diet and cancer Fungus and sodium bicarbonate German New Medicine (GNM) Hamer Health fraud homeopathy How science works images Macrobiotics Magical thinking manual therapy Medical machines metastasis Mike Adams Miscellaneous palliative care personality and cancer philosophy Psychology and cancer Robert O. Young science simon singh Surgery tony isaacs Tullio Simoncini Uncategorized vaccines
acupuncture alternative cancer treatment alternative medicine antisemitic baking soda biologie totale boosting breast cancer cam Cancer candida candida albicans carcinoma Caroline Markolin cat scan chemo chemotherapy chief rabbi chiropractic claude sabbah corinne thos Dirk Hamer echinacea evidence evidence-based medicine fungus garlic Germanische Neue Medizin German Medicine German New Medicine GNM götz Hamer HBOT Health fraud holistic homeopathy hoxsey therapy hulda clarck images immune system iscador iwan götz jewish conspiracy libel manual therapy medecine nouvelle meta medicine metametrix metastases Michaeala Jakubczyk mistletoe naturopathy nouvelle medécine olivia pilhar osteopathy personality Philosophy of science positive thinking psychological aspects and cancer quackery rife Ryke Geerd Hamer santegod schneerson science Simoncini sodium bicarbonate supplements tony isaacs total biology Tullio Simoncini viscum album vitamins zapper
Pathology.org
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Sign me up!
Advertisements
↑ Top Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: