7 Health Benefits of Ginger to Know - HBI Labs Inc
1- 866-448-7551
support@hbilabsinc.com
My Account
Checkout
Contact Us
Shop
Magazine
Workouts
Workout Inspiration
Supplements
Fitness
Healthy Living
Food & Recipes
Women’s Resources
Men’s Resources
Lifestyle
Beauty
Fashion
Travel
Holiday Ideas
Free Videos
About
Team HBI Labs
0
7 Health Benefits of Ginger to Know
Home
Blog
Healthy Living
7 Health Benefits of Ginger to Know
FREE SHIPPING ON ALL USA ORDERS OVER $100
7 Health Benefits of Ginger to Know
Published by HBI Labs Inc
Categories
Healthy Living
Men's Resources
Women's Resources
Tags
Best Weight Loss Supplements
Health and Wellness Tips
Men's Health
Women's Health
Spices are commonly thought of as a way to flavor foods. We use many different spices in almost every dish we’ve ever had. Ginger is one of the most popular spices, used for its spicy and refreshing flavor. Ginger is such a popular spice that we even use it in beverages. Why is ginger so popular? The flavor is one of the reasons but the other reason is due to the health benefits of ginger. Ginger is a very healthy spice and those health benefits make it not only a must-eat spice, some see it as the most important spice of life.
The health benefits of Ginger are widely known and used to provide natural benefits that help the body grow, heal, and stay energized.
Why are there so many health benefits of ginger? Ginger is a root that has been used in foods and for medicinal purposes for hundreds of years. The root is filled with bioactive compounds that have major effects on the body and brain. The most important compound in ginger is gingerol. Gingerol has been known to act as an anti-inflammatory and even to provide antioxidant effects. The gingerol, along with other nutrients make ginger a very healthy spice that is also tasty.
Anti-Inflammatory
Gingersol is only part of the many compounds found in ginger. Other compounds include phytonutrients which reduce cell damage. Thanks to the gingerol and other compounds, ginger can reduce inflammation. Use ginger with other anti-inflammatory nutrients and you’ll notice a big difference.
Metabolism
One of the health benefits of ginger surrounds our metabolism. The active compounds in ginger have been scientifically proven to improve metabolism. One of the ways to get this benefit from ginger is to use fresh ginger in smoothies, stir-frys or soups. Simply use a grater to grate some ginger over these dishes or use it sliced.
Calm Nausea
Ginger does many different things to help with nausea. Research has shown that ginger helps the GI tract which is responsible for nausea, upset stomach and even vomiting. Some have even suggested that ginger helps move food through the digestive system from the stomach to the small intestine.
Menstrual Pain
Women love the health benefits of ginger, especially when it helps relieve period pain. Research has shown that while ginger may help other forms of pain, menstrual pain is one of the most commonly relieved pains. Ginger tea is one of the best ways to get these benefits, but try and avoid taking acetaminophen or ibuprofen as it may cancel out the ginger. We recommend peeling and chopping it into individual-sized pieces and storing in your freezer for quick and easy ginger tea.
Morning Sickness
One common use of ginger is to aid with morning sickness and reduce the symptoms. Ginger, in an all-natural supplement form or just used in tea or soup has been proven to lighten the effects of morning sickness. Not to mention that ginger is completely safe to use when pregnant.
Weight Loss
Everyone wants a magic pill or health supplement that will help lose weight and make the journey easier. Ginger is not that magic pill but it is proving to help in weight loss. Many of the health benefits of ginger are still being researched and weight loss is one of those being researched. There is no solid proof as of yet but recent studies are linking ginger to aid in weight loss.
Cholesterol and Blood Sugar
In 2016, studies were done on the health benefits of ginger being consumed regularly. The study showed that ginger does lower cholesterol and blood sugar. Of course, a healthy diet is always needed to get the most out of any health supplements.
HBI Labs Inc
Related posts
April 1, 2019
15 Lower Body Workouts with Weights for Women
Read more
March 12, 2019
5 Beauty Tips for Smooth Skin
Read more
March 7, 2019
Healthy Breakfast Recipes with Eggs
Read more
Comments are closed.
Search
Products
Rhino RX Bundle $67.96
DroxaDerm Bundle $76.96
Ideal Diet 365 Bundle $66.36
Pure TC Bundle $67.96
Folinu Bundle $91.95
Ideal Beauty 365 Vita-C Serum $34.99
Ideal Beauty 365 Omega $24.99
Ideal Beauty 365 Refresh Eye Gel $36.99
Ideal Diet 365 Pure Weight Loss $34.99
Ideal Diet 365 Colon Cleanse $34.99
Ideal Diet 365 Raspberry Ketones $37.99
Ideal Diet 365 Mango Cleanse $34.99
Ideal Diet 365 Shred $34.99
Pure TC eBook Membership $19.97 / month
Ideal Diet eBook Membership $19.97 / month
Join Us
Join Team HBI Labs
Join Our Facebook Group
Legal
Our Privacy Policy
Our Terms of Service
About Us
HBI Labs Inc is an industry leader and well regarded in the beauty and nutrition world. With the HBI Labs Inc portfolio of products, living a healthy and beautiful lifestyle is easier than ever.
HBI Labs Inc. (Not for Returns)
1910 Thomes Ave.
Cheyenne, WY 82001
1- 866-448-7551
Returns: support@hbilabsinc.com
Copyright 2018 - HBI LABS INC - Our Privacy Policy
//]]>