Baking Soda - True Enemy of the Pharmaceutical Industry
Menu
Home
Health
Natural Remedies
Herbs & Oils
Recipes
Fruits & Veggies
Drinks & Smoothies
Diet & Weight Loss
Home
Health
Baking Soda – True Enemy of the Pharmaceutical Industry
Baking Soda – True Enemy of the Pharmaceutical Industry
Health Natural Remedies February 22, 2014 105
Cancer is an acid i.e. lactic acid, which is a waste product of the fungus and mold and lives in environment that has low concentration of oxygen. If we bring high concentration of oxygen molecules to the cancer cells they will die. Everyone will strongly resist the idea that something so simple and cheap such as sodium bicarbonate (Baking Soda) can surpass the most expensive pharmaceutical drugs.
There are compelling evidence that are supporting the multitude of theories that suggest that sodium bicarbonate should be the primary and universal medicament for a wide range of diseases, including diabetes and cancer, also all therapists and medical professionals should include it in the medical treatment.
When it comes to sodium bicarbonate, we must say that it is well understood and studied substance. It is widely used for decades, even by oncologists. Sodium bicarbonate must be administered routinely in order to prevent from damaging the kidneys from toxicity of chemotherapy and radiation.
Worldwide millions of people consume bicarbonate ions with the drinking water with purpose of prevention or treating of clinical acidosis as well as in a variety of other conditions, in clinics, hospitals or emergency departments. Every day that helps to be saved countless lives. When baking soda is combined with other basic and strong natural substances like iodine and magnesium chloride, we have a trinity of medical super heroes.
The problem with acidic pH value (relative lack of bicarbonate ions) is a big part of the human physiology. Every biochemical reactions are sensitive to the pH value because the enzymes are very sensitive to this balance.
Very important role in maintaining a favorable pH value in our body plays our diet. A large part of the modern diet results in a decrease of the pH value towards acidic. The imbalance of the pH value interferes with cellular activities and functions, especially if the pH value continues to decrease. Very high acidic pH value leads to deterioration of the cells, which at the end leads to serious health problems, such as gastritis, diabetes, osteoporosis, cardiovascular diseases and cancer. The fact that biological life has better function in a non-acidic (alkaline) environment clearly supports the usefulness of baking soda.
Sodium bicarbonate is responsible for the transport of oxygen: dilates the blood vessels and release the oxygen into the tissue, which means that increases the pH value. Elevated pH value of the urine prevents crystallization in the urinary tract.
It has been established that uric acid cause kidney stones, diabetes, heart attack, heart disease, heart attack and gouty. Also it creates a toxic compound named alloxan which is produced by fungi, that means that also creates diabetes and cancer cells. Oral administration of baking soda prevents arthritis, infection, gout, fever, and assist the activity of the pancreas for which is known that produces the most of the bicarbonate and also is responsible for the production of insulin.
Regardless of whether someone has neurological or cardiac diseases, cancer or severe form of the flu if sodium bicarbonate is taken together with magnesium chloride is provided the safest and the best treatment. Their common action effectively removes all the toxins and acids from all tissues, cells and organs.
Source: Alloxan- http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov
* You have our permission to reprint this article via creative commons license if you attribute us with a live backlink to this article. – Best Herbal Health
Tweet
54.4K
Related
See How Drinking A Glass of Milk and Honey A Day Can Benefit Your Health
October 22, 2015 0
Turmeric, Black Pepper and Olive Oil – Potent Anti-cancer Combination
August 18, 2014 3
Natural Breast Enlargement – See What Happens When You Consume Pineapple 3 Times A Day
November 18, 2015 1
7 Benefits of Drinking Warm Lemon Water!
July 26, 2015 0
105 Comments
Jonathan Hardeman February 24, 2014 Reply
Great and thanks, but what would be good is information on how to take/use it. I read the article and there’s nothing on this, please can you advise, thanks.
Jon
BestHH February 24, 2014 Reply
For more information about the consummation and dosage you can find out in the article Lemon and baking soda
Rosales Vazquez May 24, 2015 Reply
I’m here again to appreciate dr okoh. Dr Okoh God will always continue to bless you more abundantly, for the good works you did in my life, I will always keep on writing good and posting my testimonies about you on the Internet, I’m Susan Moore from San Juan, Puerto Rico. I was tested HIV positive, I saw a blog on how Dr Okoh cured people, i did not believe but i just decided to give him a try, I contacted him and also got my healing, i am so happy. If you have any problem or you are also infected with any disease, contact him now with his Email: drokohspelhome@gmail.com
Dean Addison February 24, 2014 Reply
This sounds very intriguing but you make no mention of dosage.
BestHH February 24, 2014 Reply
For consumption and dosage read article Lemon and baking soda
Tonya February 24, 2014 Reply
I used baking soda to cure a urinary tract infection just a few months ago. I mixed 1 or 2 teaspoons baking soda with a glass of water. Twice a day. It relieved symptoms and cured it. Also took extra vitamin c and some cranberry pills. Drank lots of water.
healthymind February 25, 2014 Reply
It’s great! Especially mixing it with vinegar and a bit of soap seems to make it even more potent. Getting rid of all the acids in my body made me so much stronger and healthier than I’ve ever been in my life!
patricia smith April 2, 2014 Reply
Mixing baking soda and vinegar clean drains with the initial explosion upon mixing. Does one wait until the mixture settles?
BestHH April 3, 2014 Reply
You don’t have to wait.
Bryan February 25, 2014 Reply
About half a teaspoon a day as a preventive dose, I just mix it in s pint of water and drink it, if yu have cancer i would take it 2-3 times a day, some people mix it with honey or molasses but I just grin and bear it.
Paul February 25, 2014 Reply
Very interesting – and further proof that the pharmaceutical companies are out to rip us off, not to actually help us
Ty March 30, 2014 Reply
Right, it’s all about money and greed so sad it’s ok they will be judged and I feel sorry for them.
Kathy Fick February 26, 2014 Reply
I use this quite often. It is amazing what a little baking soda and/or lemon juice and vinegar will do for the human body.
dalva franco March 1, 2014 Reply
can baking soda be used to treat Hives? If so, how can I mixture it?
BestHH March 2, 2014 Reply
Baking soda can be used a remedy against Hives! In a small cup, add a few drops of water to baking soda and stir until you get a paste. Spread the paste on the hives to help stop irritation and relieve the itching.
Puddie529 March 3, 2014 Reply
Can REALLEMON be used, or does it have to be fresh lemons?
BestHH March 3, 2014 Reply
Only fresh organically grown lemons
Harvey March 3, 2014 Reply
The outstanding article on lemon and sodium bicarbonate did NOT speak of magnesium chloride or dosage.
You said in this article,
“Regardless of whether someone has neurological or cardiac diseases, cancer or severe form of the flu if sodium bicarbonate is taken together with magnesium chloride is provided the safest and the best treatment.”
I’m excited about all this, because I already wake up with lemon juice in hot water, and then a tsp of baking soda in water in the afternoon. Mix them for even greater effect? Great!
But what about the magnesium chloride, take them all three together? and PLEASE say the dosage?
Lastly, can the magnesium chloride be taken in supplement form (The pills are readily available)?
Thank you kindly, Harvey
BestHH March 3, 2014 Reply
Thank you Harvey for your message, we are preparing article for magnesium chloride, coming soon!!
Atell Psychic Tarot March 5, 2014 Reply
This is really interesting and sounds like something that should be easy to put into practice. The question is, how much of it should one take? Would a teaspoon of bicarb in a tall glass of water be enough or would someone needs much larger dosages?
BestHH March 5, 2014 Reply
One teaspoon of baking soda is enough, mixed with lemon juice and distilled water.
Read more on: Lemon and Baking soda Miraculous Healing Combination
PAULETTE March 5, 2014 Reply
DID THE BICARBONATE OF SODA AND LEMON MAKE ULCER IN STOMACH THKS
BestHH March 10, 2014 Reply
Even though I do know that people that have ulcers should avoid citrus fruits, the acidity of the lemon is neutralized by the sodium bicarbonate.
whitening toothpaste March 8, 2014 Reply
Thank you for giving me something worth while finding on-line keep em coming.
Jenny March 13, 2014 Reply
Doesn’t baking soda contain aluminum? And just adding lemon to water makes it alkaline, not acidic.
BestHH March 15, 2014 Reply
Pharmaceutical sodium bicarbonate (baking soda) does not contain aluminum, that is why it is recommended to use pharmaceutical baking soda(aluminum free).
rety sumampong September 16, 2014 Reply
is it harmful to our health if the baking soda we use or drink is not aluminum free?
BestHH September 17, 2014 Reply
High levels of aluminium in the body have been shown to have neurotoxic effects, effects on bone and possibly reproduction.This occurs when the amount of aluminium consumed exceeds the body’s capacity to excrete it, because the aluminium is then deposited in our bodies and can cause problems.Some studies show that people exposed to high levels of aluminum may develop Alzheimer’s disease, but other studies have not found this to be true. We do not know for certain that aluminum causes Alzheimer’s disease. Some people who have kidney disease store a lot of aluminum in their bodies. The kidney disease causes less aluminum to be removed from the body in the urine. Sometimes, these people developed bone or brain diseases that doctors think were caused by the excess aluminum.
wvhillbilly March 14, 2014 Reply
Baking soda is also a powerful fungicide. Just make a paste of it and rub it on the affected area. Usually it only takes one or two applications to clear it up. Much better than pharmaceutical remedies that can take up to a month or more of repeated applications.
kellen rryno March 17, 2014 Reply
Thanks! going to try this!!
Wanda Garcia March 14, 2014 Reply
But I have read that people with high blood presure should not do this, is that true?
BestHH March 15, 2014 Reply
No it is not true. Baking soda is very helpful with high blood pressure.Baking soda is the ultimate pH booster. Mix up 1/8th of a teaspoon of aluminium free baking soda in a full glass of water with 2 tablespoons of apple cider vinegar and take this two to three times a day. And be sure to test your pH level regularly and keep it above 7.25. If possible, also check your blood pressure before and after so you can measure the difference.
Sharon March 14, 2014 Reply
My grandmother used to make us take 1 teaspoon a day when we were younger& to think if it,we hardly ever even had a cold or cough! Great News & information!
Wezi Mkandawire March 14, 2014 Reply
I like this site.
Larry Beard March 19, 2014 Reply
I clicked on the link given for your article on lemon and baking soda as a cancer treatment but the link is not in English. I am just today seeing my oncologist re possible chemo for cancer that has returned after a 6 month break. Can you provide anything in English so I could verify it in my mind and present it to her. I once talked to someone who extolled lemon oil for his treatment so this adds to my interest. If you could get me source info in English I would be very much appreciate it. I have done many alternative methods in treatment I would love to do ONLY alternative treatments, but I need some real verification. I have to decide very soon. I would be very grateful for any timely help. Thank you,
Larry Beard
BestHH March 24, 2014 Reply
Dr. Sircus has proves that sodium bicarbonate cures cancer
heroay October 15, 2014 Reply
Dr. Simoncini in Italy also proved that cancer is produced by a fungus (as in most other chronic diseases). In a YT video Simoncini actually shows the killing of a cancer tumor in a female vagina. Moments after he injects pure water with baking soda, the red tumor becomes white, dead. Next, to help the body expel the resultant toxins. Bye-bye, Billion Dollar Mafia.
Akrus Acras March 20, 2014 Reply
Thanks for this useful information. Please an answer: how long we can use this remedy, are pauses needed?
BestHH March 23, 2014 Reply
After continuous use of the mixture is good to make a break. The period of using the remedy and the period of pausing depends on how the body reacts to the mixture, and is different for different individuals.
Nurse Jon, Holistic Nurse March 23, 2014 Reply
As a holistic nurse, I have used this both in hospice and private practice for ending UTI’s within 12 hours.
I usually only use 1/2 tsp per 8 ounces of water. The important thing to remember, it has to be totally dissolved. Do not take it immediately after a meal. When first drinking it, hold in the mouth for as long as you can before swallowing.
The effects can be enhanced with lemon juice as was spoken of. There is an even better way to get the most out of it. It is called the water cures protocol. The baking soda is not for continuous use, rather to correct health challenges. The rest of the time or when using the baking soda, 30 min before, take a pinch of unprocessed salt (It should have up to 80 minerals listed on the label) and dissolve in the mouth. Then drink the prescribed amount of water. Then, once it has gone to work, drink the water with the baking soda.
http://www.watercures.org/water-cures-protocol.html
R W Elrod March 25, 2014 Reply
I have used baking soda many times with good results. Here’s my question: my husband is very sensitive to sodium and has high blood pressure. Is baking soda okay for him to try? Thank you
BestHH March 25, 2014 Reply
Baking soda is very helpful with high blood pressure.Baking soda is the ultimate pH booster. Mix up 1/8th of a teaspoon of aluminium free baking soda in a full glass of water with 2 tablespoons of apple cider vinegar and take this two to three times a day. And be sure to test your pH level regularly and keep it above 7.25. If possible, he should also check the blood pressure before and after so the difference can be measured. Therefore he will see how his body will react.
Cathy March 30, 2014 Reply
Ive bee having tyoe1 diabetes since the early 70s now im 50 what do you recommend foa person with disease for 40 yeas. Also coltis had that twenty five years im 50 years old.
BestHH March 31, 2014 Reply
Baking soda is very helpful for diabetes, but also you can consume more avocado, pure natural honey, Nigella sativa (black seed), turmeric (for the curcumin). About the colitis you must take probiotics and wheat grass juice.
Shante' March 30, 2014 Reply
Will this have an affect on the medications that were prescribed by the doctors, do you continue to take your medicine? me and my husband, both have diabetes and he has pancreatic cancer
BestHH March 31, 2014 Reply
I don’t think that baking soda can affect the medication, but it is best to consul with your doctor (Because I don’t know what medications you take and how they react).
Denise March 30, 2014 Reply
I sometimes suffer from acid reflux which causes me to actually wake up in the middle of the night choking on the acids that rise from my stomach to my throat at night, and gasping for air. I found that drinking 1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon of baking soda dissolved in 4 to 6 oz. of water before bed prevents the acid reflux from occurring. I used to take otc meds which used to be prescription only. Now I just use the baking soda method.
Keith May 19, 2017 Reply
Have you tested for H-Pylori infection! If this is the cause you can beat it with high dose Zinc.
Natural Zinc is safe in very high doses except for Zinc Oxcide.
I used to had the severe pain and suffering without knowing the true cause until I was trying to help a friend on the drugs they prescribe for this.
Now I am 100% free from all that!
ruth March 30, 2014 Reply
I have severe high blood pressure I want to know if this will help it
BestHH March 31, 2014 Reply
Baking soda is very helpful with high blood pressure.Baking soda is the ultimate pH booster. Mix up 1/8th of a teaspoon of aluminum free baking soda in a full glass of water with 2 tablespoons of apple cider vinegar and take this two to three times a day. And be sure to test your pH level regularly and keep it above 7.25. If possible, he should also check the blood pressure before and after so the difference can be measured.
Keith May 19, 2017 Reply
Try the natural Oreganum (Oregano) just be sure it is the Turkish one!
It is as good as their best drug! Which is why they tell you NOT to take them together!
Wanda Richardson March 30, 2014 Reply
Can baking soda be used for Atopic Excema.
BestHH March 31, 2014 Reply
Baking soda has detergent properties, so a baking soda bath will help cleanse your skin without any scrubbing that could further irritate the skin. You can add baking soda to the bathwater directly, or make a paste from baking soda and water and apply it directly to the affected area. Let it dry on the skin and simply brush off any residue.
Also you can launder your clothes by adding ½ cup of baking soda and 5-10 drops of essential lemon oil to the wash water.
CM March 30, 2014 Reply
Excellent information. Thank you!
julia lockett March 30, 2014 Reply
Hate to take pills seem like they do to much side affects make me very nervous. just don’t trust pharmaceutical companies.. seems like they’re in it for profit not patient care someone once told me their is no profit in the cure.. that kinda stuck when I was very young…..
cassius March 30, 2014 Reply
My father has cancer I would like to know more about the dose to give him.
BestHH March 31, 2014 Reply
About the dosage read more in the article Lemon and Baking soda Miraculous Healing Combination
DEBRA March 30, 2014 Reply
I love Natural Healers. I have High Blood Pressure, and Pre-Diabetic, and infertility problems.
Keith May 19, 2017 Reply
Try natural Oreganum (Oregano) but be sure it is the Turkish one.
Just 20mg is as effective as their best drug and my friend beat her diabetes and has a healthy baby boy she always wanted, after modern medicine failed on all counts!
RJ March 31, 2014 Reply
I do believe that baking soda is helpful in a lot a different ways, I use it for brushing my teeth it’s n my tooth paste,for indigestion and for a soar throat, I love home made workable products. Keep all the helpful info coming. :/)
Latonya March 31, 2014 Reply
type 1 diabetes and weight loss. will this help me and how do I do this?
BestHH March 31, 2014 Reply
Baking soda is very helpful for diabetes.
Anthony De Coteau April 2, 2014 Reply
Thank you . How can I use Baking soda for diabetes?
BestHH April 3, 2014 Reply
Try taking baking soda before bedtime (it helps to neutralize the acidic phase our bodies go through during the night). Also switch your lifestyle to a more alkaline diet.
Keith May 18, 2017 Reply
Hi
If you have type II diabetes you should try common Oreganum (Oregano) but be sure it is the Turkish one!
A few years ago a friend who had been told by the hospital that they could do nothing for her came to me in despair !
Now she is 100% fit and well! She also went through a child birth they advised her to terminate! And now has the healthy son she always wanted!
FACT 20mg Oreganum is as effective as their best drug!
SANDRA BROWN March 31, 2014 Reply
WILL THIS HELP PEOPLE THAT HAS AN OVERACTIVE BLADDER PROBLEM?
BestHH March 31, 2014 Reply
Baking soda will alkalize your body’s pH and it can help to overcome this condition.
Otis Short March 31, 2014 Reply
This is good information. Did not know that baking soda had so many useful uses. Would love to keep receiving this kind of information. I am a person who has gout and would love to find a way to never have an attack again.
Karen Lindsey September 25, 2014 Reply
My husband has suffered with Gout for many years. He starting taking 1/4 teaspoon of Baking Soda in 16oz of water, 4 times a day. He no longer has any Gout flare-ups. Apparently this aids in desolving the uric acid in the blood causing crystals to form in the joints which causes the pain associated with gout.
wen712 March 31, 2014 Reply
Can baking soda and lemon juice kill all viruses? Like hpv, herpes just curious. I see a lot of articles on the Internet that there is no cure for these viruses only mess to suppress them.
BestHH March 31, 2014 Reply
You can suppress the viruses by improving you immune system.
Keith May 18, 2017 Reply
Viruses are best treated with Zinc, you can get it in natural Chinese Star Anise!
You need about 15mg per day.
Robin March 31, 2014 Reply
Can baking soda and lemon juice kill all viruses? Like hpv, herpes just curious. I see a lot of articles on the Internet that there is no cure for these viruses only medicine to suppress them. Can baking soda be used in bath water for fungus and itchy skin? If so, will the itching go away completely? How long would I have to do this and how much baking soda to use in bath water?
BestHH March 31, 2014 Reply
Baking soda cannot be helpful with viruses, they can be suppressed by improving the immune system (consume a large quantities of minerals and vitamins). Baking soda has detergent properties, so a baking soda bath will help cleanse your skin without any scrubbing that could further irritate the skin. You can add baking soda to the bathwater directly, or make a paste from baking soda and water and apply it directly to the affected area. Let it dry on the skin and simply brush off any residue.
George Warriner April 2, 2014 Reply
I have been getting squamous cell carcinoma growths (4 in the past 10 months) nothing serious, but they are annoying. I have been drinking one large mug of Guano Tea sweetened with 2 Tbs of honey and about one half of a lime’s juice. I just started drinking 500ml of water with the juice from two limes and 1/2 Tps of baking soda. I quite like the taste of this drink. Would it cause me any harm if I drank more than one a day?
BestHH April 3, 2014 Reply
Don’t take more than seven 1/2 teaspoons (or three 1/2 teaspoons if you are over 60 years old) in 24 hours.
Marcelle Welch April 3, 2014 Reply
Can the lemon juice and baking soda drink clear up Candida?
BestHH April 3, 2014 Reply
Baking soda is a weak physiological base. When ingested or injected in the body, it will reduce acidity, which will kill the environment that makes it safe for a yeast to grow. Also you should avoid sugars and carbohydrate-rich foods and take high-quality probiotic supplements.
Ann April 8, 2014 Reply
Hi!
Thank you so much for this page. We don*t have any kind of pages like this in Norway, too bad. I Guess the norwegian system they don’t want to..
Anyway, Can somebody please tell me how to Cure a mole-cancer? and how to Cure psoriasis?
Can you use baking soda for everything? And outside as well as inside the body?
BestHH April 10, 2014 Reply
You can use the remedy of lemon and baking soda both for the mole cancer and for the psoriasis. Also very helpful for the psoriasis is to consume curcumin capsules. And yes baking soda can be used for everything 🙂
Shamsa June 16, 2014 Reply
How do you use Bicarbonate Soda and Molasses?
BestHH June 16, 2014 Reply
We are preparing an article for molasses and baking soda protocol, coming soon!
Juan June 24, 2014 Reply
How can I find out how much aluminum is in different brands of baking soda.
BestHH June 24, 2014 Reply
It must be stated on the box by every manufacturer of baking soda, but some of them avoid to do that,That is why we recommend to use pharmaceutical sodium bicarbonate (baking soda) it is proven that does not contain aluminum.
Barb September 26, 2014 Reply
How does one test their PH?
BestHH September 27, 2014 Reply
You test your pH Level through your saliva or urine.
saundra October 10, 2014 Reply
I just wanted to ask and see if anyone knew anything about Rocky mountain spotted tick fever.I’ve had it twice now and can’t recover from it . I’m very healthy, but I’m not. Suppose to go see a disease specialist now. I’ve spent a lot of money and I’m no better.Now my question is does anyone know of home remedies, or knows anything that can help.My life is really messed up with this tick fever. I’m physically ill most the time.Have very few good days.I can’t do anything.PLEASE CAN ANY ONE HELP ME!!!!! And do you think that backing soda could help me? Thanks so very much for taking time out to read this…bless you
BestHH October 11, 2014 Reply
You can try this remedy – https://www.bestherbalhealth.com/powerful-natural-remedy-for-cancer-and-101-other-diseases/
It will boost your immune system.
Dave November 11, 2014 Reply
Excellent article. I appreciate your focus on the alkaline body for better health.
Francisco Rodriguez December 27, 2014 Reply
Muy interesante
Ajay January 23, 2015 Reply
This is fascinating information, so direct to the point. I’ve been searching for years for something easily applied to aide my wife to attain restored health. Thank you so very much.
Lhisa May 16, 2015 Reply
I have severe ucolitis and severe joint pain can I use baking soda to cure my illness. Thank you in advance.
BestHH May 17, 2015 Reply
You can try this recipe https://www.bestherbalhealth.com/turmeric-golden-honey-the-strongest-natural-antibiotic/
Turmeric may help patients with ulcerative colitis. Specifically, the curcumin found in turmeric appears to improve the digestion and increases the beneficial flora activity in the gut. Also turmeric has strong anti-inflammatory properties and can help to relieve joint pain.
jessica June 12, 2015 Reply
Is this safe to take if I have gastritis or IBS..Dr can’t figure out what’s wrong with me.
Keith May 18, 2017 Reply
You need a good naturopath, dump the quack! Ask for a test for H_Pylori bacteria
If this is positive, high dose Zinc will destroy the bacteria even with its biofilm!
Zinc is safe in very high doses and works fast! Do NOT use Zinc Oxcide!
I am 100% free of the severe pain and suffering this bug can cause after years of being told they could not find anything wrong!
steve June 21, 2015 Reply
Its a myth that arm n hammer baking soda has aluminum in it. No idea who or where that myth started. It is true some baking soda does contain it tho, just not arm n hammer baking soda, least everything ive read on it says that.
Isaac March 20, 2016 Reply
Update on health tips
queendalin July 8, 2016 Reply
Can baking soda cure hiv also can it be taking with hiv medication.
Keith May 19, 2017 Reply
HIV is cured by Lithospermic acid-B BUT the government and their pharmaceutical buddies will not let you have it! Lance Armstrong even as a personal friend of G. Bush had to be treated in secret at Vanderbilt university!
Keith May 12, 2017 Reply
Hello,
I have been battling gastric problems until I was ready to give up! Nothing worked.
Then I found the cause is a nasty bacteria in my digestive system.
Can Bicarbonate and lemon destroy a gram negative bacterial biofilm?
I know that Carvacrol is the best natural antimicrobial, but getting the real thing in a good quantity is not easy!
Thank you so much for the information on the website I had heard of the Bicarbonate use from grand parents but never really took it seriously before!
My thinking is that if it can clear the goop from drains maybe it can clear the biofilm from my digestive system!
Keith May 18, 2017 Reply
Well tried the Bicarbonate and lemon, got pains in the legs so stopped that!
BUT discovered like the Japanese, that high dose Zinc destroys H-Pylori infection fast!
zinc is safe in very high doses except for Zinc Oxcide which is used by the pharmaceutical
Industry in their products.
Now free from years of severe pain and suffering! Luckily I did not resort to the deadly drugs
For help. So no worries about the damage they do!
Ruby June 24, 2017 Reply
Not all the info is on the lemon bicarb soda page. What is the recipe and dosage for the soda, iodine & magnisium please and what grade and propertise for the iodine , as there are many?
Ruby June 24, 2017 Reply
Also, baking soda is excellent for burns. I accidentally tipped an unstable wok of hot oil over my arms, the skin bubbled over my hands and up my arms. I put a lid over the on fire oil, which put it out immediately then ran to my pantry for the baking soda and spread it dry over the bubbling skin. The pain want after about 10-15mins and today , I have non scarring 20rys later. I learnt this from my mother , who doused my brother in baking soda after a frying pan of cooking sausages fell over him as a child. His clothing on his legs pulled the shin away, but still now 60yrs later there are no burn scars on him of marks where he lost some skin
Sam August 30, 2017 Reply
Wonderful Site!. Would you please tell me if the mixture of Baking Soda, Lemon Juice and Distilled water helps to cure Diabetic 2 related Erection Dysfunction? I read a lot about magnificent miracle Black Seed Oil, add one spoon to above mixture. Thank You.
vernard talmadge moran March 4, 2018 Reply
can baking soda help with headaches?
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Get More Health Information Like This IN YOUR INBOX
Subscribe to our mailing list and get interesting stuff and updates to your email inbox.
Thank you for subscribing.
Something went wrong.
We respect your privacy and take protecting it seriously
Find us on Facebook
Best Herbal Health Copyright © 2019.
Contact | Disclaimer | Privacy Policy | Sitemap | Terms and Conditions | About Us | DMCA Policy
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Read More
Subscribe to Our
Newsletter
Join Our Mailing List and Receive the Latest Healthy Tips
Thank you for subscribing.
Something went wrong.
We respect your privacy and take protecting it seriously