Illegal cosmetics trader told pay back £31,000 or go to jail - Trading Standards South West
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
Trading Standards South West
Trading Standards South West is a Community Interest Company (CIC) and the coordination office for the thirteen Trading Standards services in the region.
Main navigation
Consumers
Buy Wise Be Safe
ScamWise
Buy With Confidence
Business
No Proof of Age No Sale
Buy With Confidence
Takeaways Toolkit
e-Learning for Businesses
Local Authorities
Enforcement & Legal Process Manual
eLearning Primary Production
eLearning Imported Food
News
About
Contact
Search...
Illegal cosmetics trader told pay back £31,000 or go to jail
5th November 2018
An online trader who made thousands from peddling banned cosmetics and cures, which she falsely claimed could cure serious illnesses, has been ordered to pay back £31,000 of her ill-gotten gains.
At a Proceeds of Crime Act hearing at Gloucester Crown Court on Thursday (November 1) Merarie Day, 49, of Milizac Close, Yealmpton, was ordered to pay back £31,199.91.
The court heard that Day had benefitted by over £400,000 from her criminal activities, with most of the money being sent back to the Philippines.
Thanks to its financial investigation, Devon, Somerset and Torbay Trading Standards Service was able to identify some of the money still available.
If May fails to pay back £31,199.91 by February 2019 she will be sent to prison for 18 months.
Day will remain liable for the remainder.
Day had been given a nine-month suspended prison sentence last February for selling banned and dangerous cosmetics including skin lighteners.
She was also found guilty of making false claims about the health benefits of the food supplements she had sold.
Day used her own website and an eBay account to advertise her merchandise, which she imported from the Philippines without carrying out any checks or keeping any records.
Despite receiving repeated advice from Trading Standards, Day continued to import the goods, including cosmetics containing hydroquinone, and selling them.
Hydroquinone is banned in cosmetics in the EU as it can damage the liver and nervous system and increase the likelihood of skin cancer from UV radiation – one product had hydroquinone levels of 10.8%.
Trading Standards officers had seized over 600 items including JJJ Golden Spot Removing Cream. The cream contained mercury which can accumulate in the body and cause liver, kidney and brain damage.
Stephen Gardiner, Devon, Somerset and Torbay Trading Standards Interventions Manager said: “By selling these products she put personal profit over the health and wellbeing of her customers.
“The fact that she has to pay back her illegal earnings or go to jail sends a clear message that we will not tolerate this kind of criminal activity.”
Filed Under: In the Courts Tagged With: cosmetics, Gloucester Crown Court, Illegal, online trader
Primary Sidebar
Filter Search
Categories
All Categories In the Courts Projects and Promotional Trading Standards News
Tags
All Tags #12DaysOfSafety accidents Age Restricted Sales Alcohol alcohol aware Animal Health animals banned Bath Bournemouth Bristol Crown Court Business Buy Wise Be Safe campaign Car clocking cattle Cheltenham Magistrates Court Chirstmas Christmas closed complaints conditions Connors Cornwall Council cosmetics Counterfeit Court Devon Director dirty Dorset Council Exeter Exeter Crown Court fake fake alcohol farmer festivals fined Food Gloucester Crown Court Gloucestershire County Council guilty HMRC Illegal internet Jail licence licensing Loan shark log burner Lydney Magistrates mileage movement no proof of age no sale NPOANS online trader pigs Plymouth poisonous Poole poultry Proxy public health puppies restrictions retail Rogue Traders Safety Scambassadors Scams shop slime Somerset South Gloucestershire South West Tobacco Torbay Torquay Trading Standards tree Underage Sales Van Weston-super-Mare Weymouth Magistrates Court Wiltshire Council
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Contact
© 2019 Trading Standards South West
Office 9, Victoria Offices,Station Approach, Victoria, St. Austell, PL26 8LG
Please click "Accept" to use cookies on this website. More information
Accept
The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this.
Close