Emily Willingham Archives – Skeptical Raptor
Skip to content
Skeptical Raptor
Stalking pseudoscience in the internet jungle
Menu
About Skeptical Raptor
About this blog
Privacy Policy
Vaccine search engine
Logical fallacies
Appeal to antiquity or tradition – logical fallacies
Appeal to popular belief – logical fallacies
Appeal to consequences – logical fallacies
Appeal to nature – logical fallacies
Appeal to novelty – logical fallacies
Argumentum ad hominem – logical fallacies
Argument from authority or false authority – logical fallacies
Argument from fallacy – logical fallacies
Argument from ignorance – logical fallacies
Bandwagon fallacy – logical fallacies
Cherry picking or quote mining – logical fallacies
Confirmation bias – logical fallacies
Fallacy of composition – logical fallacies
Fallacy of division – logical fallacies
False equivalence and false balance – logical fallacies
False dichotomy – logical fallacies
Fundamental attribution error – logical fallacies
Galileo gambit – logical fallacies
Gambler’s fallacy – logical fallacies
Genetic fallacy – logical fallacies
Gish gallop – logical fallacies
Naturalistic fallacy – logical fallacies
Godwin’s Law
The Nirvana fallacy – logical fallacies
Non sequitur – logical fallacies
Poisoning the well – logical fallacies
Post hoc ergo propter hoc – the cause and effect logical fallacy
Precautionary principle – logical fallacies
Red herring logical fallacies
Shill gambit – logical fallacies
Slippery slope fallacy – logical fallacies
Special pleading – logical fallacies
Strawman argument – logical fallacies
Site map
Tag: Emily Willingham
Posted on 2017/02/21 2017/02/21
MMR vaccine and autism – more high quality evidence that they are unrelated
I have been unwavering on this one point – there is no link between the MMR vaccine and autism spectrum disorder (ASD). They are simply unrelated, based on high quality evidence published in respected peer-reviewed journals across the world. To dispute this conclusion, using only low quality evidence published in predatory and low impact factor journals, is the epitome of science denialism.
There are some interesting early results from a study, published in Nature, that is examining brain development in infants who are at risk for autism spectrum disorder. The study hasn’t uncovered any new information about what may cause autism, but it did confirm that the MMR vaccine is unrelated to autism. Throw this study onto the mountain of evidence that completely debunks that myth.
The ongoing study’s results indicates that changes in the brain in early infancy may be predictive of an autism diagnosis at age 2 in children who have higher odds of autism because an older sibling has been diagnosed with ASD. The researchers took MRI images of the brains of children at higher risk at ages 6, 12, and 24 months, along with administering a test at age 24 months that assists in the diagnosis of autism along with another test that evaluates social skills.
The early results (the final paper will come out within a year or two) suggests that rapid growth of the surface of the cerebrum from ages 6-12 months preceded an increase in brain volume at age 12-24 months in children at risk for ASD and who were diagnosed with ASD at 24 months. Based on this cortical surface growth, the researchers were able to predict an ASD diagnosis in 81% of high risk children who eventually were diagnosed with ASD.
Again, this study didn’t provide us with any information about possible causality for ASD – it provides us some evidence of predictive diagnostic methods. Moreover, the study had a relatively low study population, and we really need repeated studies to confirm the value of this study.
Emily Willingham, writing in Forbes, does a rather thorough review of the study for those interested in the predictive ability of the study. She says this about what this study says about any relationship between the MMR vaccine and an ASD diagnosis:
Finally, these changes before age 12 months that are associated with a later autism diagnosis precede the timing of administration of the MMR vaccine. This vaccine, readers may recall, is the one that true-believer anti-vaccine activists consistently promote as causative in autism. According to the vaccination schedule, it is administered at age 12 months. These latest detected changes arise before that age, but the rapid growth associated with them kicks in right at about age 12 months, once again illustrating that coincidence of events doesn’t always mean their association.
Dr. Willingham states that the changes that precede a diagnosis of autism appear well before the first administration of the vaccine. The first MMR vaccination just happens to be coincidental to the rapid growth that is associated with ASD. Remember correlation doesn’t imply causation, especially now that we have evidence that the brain changes indicated in ASD occur prior to administration of the MMR vaccine.
I know that the “true-believer anti-vaccine activists” will be unconvinced by this evidence, and that is sad. There is simply no evidence that MMR vaccine and autism are related. In fact, evidence suggest that they are not related.
The MMR vaccine saves lives, so let’s just protect our children with it.
Key citations
Hazlett HC, Gu H, Munsell BC, Kim SH, Styner M, Wolff JJ, Elison JT, Swanson MR, Zhu H, Botteron KN, Collins DL, Constantino JN, Dager SR, Estes AM, Evans AC, Fonov VS, Gerig G, Kostopoulos P, McKinstry RC, Pandey J, Paterson S, Pruett JR, Schultz RT, Shaw DW, Zwaigenbaum L, Piven J; IBIS Network.; Clinical Sites.; Data Coordinating Center.; Image Processing Core.; Statistical Analysis.. Early brain development in infants at high risk for autism spectrum disorder. Nature. 2017 Feb 15;542(7641):348-351. doi: 10.1038/nature21369. PubMed PMID: 28202961.
Please help me out by Tweeting out this article or posting it to your favorite Facebook group.
There are two ways you can help support this blog. First, you can use Patreon by clicking on the link below. It allows you to set up a monthly donation, which will go a long way to supporting the Skeptical Raptor
Become a Patron!
Finally, you can also purchase anything on Amazon, and a small portion of each purchase goes to this website. Just click below, and shop for everything.
Posted on 2016/04/07 2016/04/07
The Informed Parent – a science based book review
There are innumerable myths and tropes about raising children. My mother used to tell me to not go into the pool until 30 minutes (or some random number) after I ate; and she always told me I’d catch the flu or a cold if I didn’t put on a jacket during winter. Of course, neither are science based, and neither are “facts.”
But those were innocuous little myths. I don’t like being all that cold, so putting on a coat isn’t the worst thing ever. It had nothing to do with whether I’d catch a cold or not.
Unfortunately, some myths about parenting and raising children are dangerous. The whole “vaccines cause XYZ” mythology have infected the internet have caused some drops in vaccination, especially amongst those who should know better.
We need better resources for “science based parenting,” and a new book, The Informed Parent – A Science-Based Resource for Your Child’s First Four Years, may become one of the more valuable tools to separate the wheat of good science from the chaff of pseudoscience and woo.
Because our children deserve the best that science can provide.
Continue reading “The Informed Parent – a science based book review”
Posted on 2015/12/16 2015/12/18
Antidepressants cause autism – another red flag
The headlines are screaming again, ANTIDEPRESSANTS CAUSE AUTISM !!!!!!!!!!!!! (approximate average number of exclamation marks per article). Of course, a critical analysis of the the underlying study that caused the headlines is more nuanced and may not say what you think it says.
Autism spectrum disorder is a complex range of conditions classified as neurodevelopmental disorders by the American Psychiatric Association, which is described in detail in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders 5th edition (DSM-5).
The DSM-5 redefined autism spectrum disorder to encompass diagnoses of autism, Asperger syndrome, pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified (PDD-NOS), and childhood disintegrative disorder. Generally, symptoms of these disorders include social deficits and communication difficulties, stereotyped or repetitive behaviors and interests, sensory issues, and in some cases, cognitive delays.
The scientific consensus for the causes of autism has centered on genetic factors, generally several genes. This hasn’t stopped a whole host of claims as to what causes autism. Emily Willingham wrote an article a few years ago with the title, This just in: Being alive linked to autism, in which she lists 30 recent claims of what causes autism. It would be funny, if it weren’t so sad.
Of course, we cannot overlook the old canard that vaccines cause autism. Which is about as untrue as a claim can be in science.
So what about this new claim about antidepressants and autism spectrum disorder? It’s based on a study just published in JAMA Pediatrics, a relatively high impact factor (approximately 7.148) and selective peer-reviewed journal.
The results from the may be significant, but possibly a critical analysis of the article will give us a different perspective. Continue reading “Antidepressants cause autism – another red flag”
Posted on 2015/07/13 2015/07/13
Agricultural pesticides cause autism? Don’t hold your breath.
If you’re a regular reader of this blog, you would think that I spend a lot of time discussing autism spectrum disorders (ASD). But the goals of this blog is weed out and debunk pseudoscientific beliefs, especially some of the more popular ones.
Probably the most ridiculous belief about autism is the claim that vaccines cause autism, something that was fraudulently invented by a charlatan, and has been thoroughly debunked by real scientific evidence.
You’d think that the belief about vaccines and autism would be completely gone by now, right? Well, not really. Irrational and, frankly cult-like, groups such as Age of Autism refuse to give up. Of course, the Age of Autism is so deluded by their illogical and unscientific beliefs, they oppose funding for genetic research into autism.
For reasons beyond the scope of this blog and my interests, parents need to find blame for why their children may have been diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder. About three years ago, Emily Willingham, Ph.D., whom I consider to be one of the leading ASD scientific experts on this planet, wrote a hysterical, but still appropriate, article about all the popular causes of ASD. Older mothers. Older fathers. Depressed mothers. Fingers. Facial features. Facial features?
And then more recently, it’s a claim that pesticides cause autism. Time to see what kind of science supports this “cause.”
Continue reading “Agricultural pesticides cause autism? Don’t hold your breath.”
Posted on 2015/04/22 2015/04/23
Autism and MMR vaccines – still not linked
A new study was published recently that showed, once again, that there is no link between autism and MMR vaccines. Are we still wasting good research dollars on showing that there is not one single link between autism and MMR vaccines (to prevent mumps, measles and rubella)? Apparently, we are going to do this until the evidence is literally the size of a mountain.
Despite the fraudulent claims of one Mr. Andy Wakefield, there is simply no evidence that vaccines are related to autism. Moreover, when we have gone looking, there is evidence that that autism is totally unrelated to vaccines.
And it’s more than just me yelling this loudly. Orac says so. Science Based Medicine says so. Emily Willingham says so. Oh I know, these are all bloggers, which isn’t real science–except, like me, whatever they write is actually linked to real science in the form of peer-reviewed studies. And we all conclude that there is simply not one shred of evidence to support the implausible hypothesis that autism and MMR vaccines are linked.
By the way, the CDC agrees with all of us. And they’re really smart people–Ph.D.’s, MD’s, and other public health specialists, whose backgrounds are in relevant areas of medicine like immunology, virology, epidemiology, microbiology, and so many other fields of research.
So despite overwhelming tons of evidence that vaccines, especially the MMR vaccine, do not cause or are completely unrelated to autism and autism spectrum disorders, the loud noise from the antivaccine cult continues. Using false balanced “debates” to pretend that there is actually some sort of scientific discussion about this point, some news reports will often make you think that there are really two sides to this story. But there isn’t. There’s one side with real science, and the other side with, well, nothing.
Continue reading “Autism and MMR vaccines – still not linked”
Posted on 2015/04/15 2015/04/15
Anti vaccine cult – violent threats against California Senator
The anti vaccine cult has hit another low, sending out violent death threats against California Senator Richard Pan, who introduced SB 277, the bill that would repeal the personal belief exemption to school vaccine mandates. The bill still allows for legitimate medical exemptions (like immunocompromised children who need to be protected through the herd effect).
Although Sen. Pan is the leader of the legislators who are attempting to make this bill into law, many other lawmakers are championing mandatory vaccines for children to protect the general population have withstood intense and illogical criticism from the anti vaccine cult.
Continue reading “Anti vaccine cult – violent threats against California Senator”
Subscribe to Skeptical Raptor via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 21,439 other subscribers
Email Address
Subscribe
Recent Posts
MMR vaccine is safe and effective according to powerful FDA statement 2019/04/24
New York vaccine mandate – judge rejects anti-vaxxer challenge 2019/04/22
Vaccines cause autism debate – it only exists in the minds of vaccine deniers 2019/04/22
Vaccines and Judaism – anti-vaxxer activists misusing religion 2019/04/21
New measles myth from vaccine denier Sherri Tenpenny – not a disease 2019/04/18
Pro-vaccine commentary from Dorit Rubinstein Reiss – anti-vaxxers whine 2019/04/15
Argument by Vaccine Package Inserts – they’re not infallible 2019/04/11
Mandatory measles vaccinations in New York City– anti-vaccine lies begin 2019/04/10
Search for Articles
Custom Search
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Privacy Policy	Proudly powered by WordPress