Cell Phones: Alternative Health Group
Cell Phones:
Cell Phones / Mobile Phones, Cancers And Brain Tumors
What Is The Truth?
Cell phones and cancer are in the news all the time now it seems. But almost everyone uses cell phones. All over the world, tens of millions of people are pressing them against their heads for hours every day. In the U.S. it is estimated that there were at least 100 million cell phone users, as of early 2002, and that number has continued to climb.
So what's the fuss? Is cancer caused by cell phones a serious concern, or the media's panic-du-jour?
A cell phone, and a household cordless phone, use a low level form of microwave radiation to send and receive their signals. How do cell phones work? Microwaves, as you know, are used to cook food. As the radiation penetrates tissue it causes it to heat.
Is this a problem for us with cell phones? That is the current debate. Let's examine the positions and the known evidence, without hype or prejudice. As always, EHSO will provide citations and links to the sources of any evidence provided, so you can verify it for yourself.
Positions, Pro And Con
Cell Phones Are Dangerous
They emit microwaves.
You hold the source of the emission against your brain
There are claims that people have had brain tumors in the exact size, shape and position as the antenna on their cell phone.
Cell Phones Are Safe
Cell phones use a very, very low level of radio frequency (rf) energy - too low to cause damage.
The type of energy emitted is non-ionizing - meaning it doesn't cause damage to chemical bonds or dna.
Hundreds of millions of people have been using cell phones and cordless phones for years. If there were a problem, we would have seen it by now.
Latest News
December 5, 2006 - Scientists in Denmark tracked over 420,000 cell phone users over the course of 21 years in an attempt to determine if if cell phone use causes cancer. As reported in ABC News, they found the RF energy produced by the phones did not correlate to an increased incidence of the disease. From the article: 'This so-called Danish cohort "is probably the strongest study out there because of the outstanding registries they keep,' said Joshua Muscat of Pennsylvania State University, who also has studied cell phones and cancer. 'As the body of evidence accumulates, people can become more reassured that these devices are safe, but the final word is not there yet,' Muscat added."
April 2006 - the Swedish National Institute for Working Life issued a report this week, published in the International Archives of Occupational and Environmental Health, disputing two earlier studies that claimed cell phone use has no correlation to increased brain tumor risk. The researchers examined the cell phone usage of 905 adults who developed malignant brain tumors. They found that people with more than 2,000 hours of total talk time had 3.7 times the risk of developing brain cancer when compared with nonusers. 2,000 hours is about an hour of talk time every Monday through Friday for 10 years. The study, also found a 2 times increase for tumors specifically on the side of the head where the cell phone was generally used. But it should be noted that the study relied on the memory of the subjects for how long they used their phones, for as much as a decade ago, according to a Daily News interview with Dr. Lydia Zablotska, an epidemiologist at Columbia University's Mailman School of Public Health. "you're interviewing subjects in an era when everyone has a suspicion that cell phones may be harmful," Zablotska said of the study's shortcomings.
January 2006 - A four-year long British study performed by the London-based Institute of Cancer Research and three British universities found that talking on a cell phone had no effect on tumor rates. The researchers included 966 people with glioma brain tumors and 1,716 healthy respondents. Individuals were questioned on first use, lifetime years of use, cumulative hours of use, and number of calls they made.
March 21, 2005 - Fox news and CNN News both report that on March 16, 2005, a federal appeals court in Maryland reinstated five class-action lawsuits that allege that the cell phone industry has failed to protect consumers from unsafe levels of radiation. Fox quotes a Dr. Henry Lai, a bioengineering professor at the University of Washington, as saying that electromagnetic radiation emitted from cell phones may damage DNA and cause benign brain tumors. Dr. Lai also agrees with EHSO's recommendation to use a headset to minimize potential exposure.
Studies, Facts And Evidence
What Is The Radiation Produced By A Cell Phone?
Like televisions, alarm systems, computers, and all other electrical devices, Cell phones (also called mobile phones) are radio devices that use Radiofrequency (Rf) energy emit electromagnetic radiation. They operate at low power (less than 1 watt) by transmitting and receiving electromagnetic radiation in the radiofrequency (RF) end of the spectrum. Radiation which is called "ionizing" can be absorbed by tissue and break molecules apart, such as gamma rays and x-rays, are known to cause cancer. The concern is that the cell phone and It's antenna (the source of the radiation) are held close against the head)
The damage to the dna molecules is thought to be the cause. The radiation that a cell phone uses is also part of the same electromagnetic spectrum, but is not ionizing. For this reason, the US FDA can regulate these devices to ensure that the radiation doesn't pose a health hazard to users, but only once the existence of a public health hazard has been established. "It's Not a Food or Medical Product, So Why FDA?", RF energy was mistakenly thought to similarly cause cancer.
Power
Newer phones are digital. The older analog phones are expected to be phased out by 2006. The major difference is that analog phones use much more power than digital. Analog use about 1.3 Watts, while a digital mobile phone is designed to operate at a maximum power level of 0.6 watts.
By comparison, a household microwave oven uses between 600 and 1,100 watts.
Frequency
In the United States, mobile phones operate in a frequency ranging from about 850 to 1900 megahertz (MHz). In that range, the radiation produced is in the form of non-ionizing radiofrequency (RF) energy. This RF energy is different than the ionizing radiation like that from a medical x-ray, which can present a health risk at certain doses.
Ionizing gamma rays and x-rays can cause cancer when their energy is absorbed by the tissue and chemical bonds are broken, damaging DNA. RF energy, on the other hand, produces heating of tissue. Although there is a small amount of experimental evidence that suggests RF energy can impact DNA in rats, this data has been contradicted by several other animal studies and is not well substantiated. Even if true, the doses administered in these animal studies were much larger than the exposure in humans and may have no relevance to cell phone use at all. So although the RF energy emitted by cell phones is in the electromagnetic spectrum, and other forms of electromagnetic radiation can cause cancer, RF energy is very different and has not been shown to cause cancer.
At high enough levels, RF energy, too, can be harmful, because of its ability to heat living tissue to the point of causing biological damage. In a microwave oven, It's RF energy that cooks the food, but the heat generated by cell phones is small in comparison.
A mobile phone's main source of RF energy is its antenna, so the closer the antenna is to a phone user's head, the greater the person's expected exposure to RF energy.
Because RF energy from a cell phone falls off quickly as distance increases between a person and the radiation source (actually, by the distance squared), the safety of mobile phones with an antenna mounted away from the user, like on the outside of a car, has been presumed to be safe. The distance and the effect of the car acting as a Gaussian cage would virtually eliminate the radiation inside the car. Also not presently in doubt is the safety of those so-called cordless phones that have a base unit attached to a home's telephone wiring and operate at much lower power levels than cell phones.
Many experts say that no matter how near the cell phone's antenna--even if It's right up against the skull--the six-tenths of a watt (typically) of power emitted couldn't possibly affect human health.
Scientific Studies To Date
Some mobile phone users have been diagnosed with brain cancer, and many others who have not used mobile phones have gotten the disease, too. Each year in the United States, brain cancer occurs at a rate of about six new cases per 100,000 people. Among the 100 million Americans who own mobile phones, then, about 6,000 cases of brain cancer would be expected among them in a year, even if they had not used mobile phones.
Scientific studies have focused on the question of whether the statistical risk of getting brain cancer is increased in those who use mobile phones compared to non-users, leaving to the courts the judgment of whether Chris Newman or other individuals would have gotten the disease had they not used a cell phone.
Two types of studies are generally used to investigate suspected cancer causes: epidemiological studies, which look at the incidence of a disease in certain groups of people, and animal studies.
Epidemiological studies are sometimes difficult to carry out in a way that can determine whether a cause-and-effect relationship exists between a single variable in a person's life (in this case, cell phone use) and the person's disease (brain cancer). Some factors that complicate research into the asserted link between cell phones and brain cancer: Brain cancer can take years or even decades to develop, making possible long-term effects of mobile phone use difficult to study; mobile phone technology is ever-evolving; and so many lifestyle factors--even down to the precise position in which a person holds the phone, as well as his or her own anatomy--can affect the extent of radiation exposure.
Studies in animals are easier to control, but entail complications of their own. For example, how should results obtained in rats and mice be interpreted in terms of human health risks? And how can scientists account for the fact that these studies sometimes expose animals to RF almost continuously--up to 22 hours a day--and to whole-body radiation, unlike people's head-only exposure?
While studies generally have shown no link between cell phones and brain cancer, there is some conflicting scientific evidence that may be worth additional study, according to FDA. The FDA says on their website that they are closely following ongoing research into whether there might be any association between cell phones and cancer.
A long-term study begun in 1994 by the government's National Cancer Institute is already under way to examine possible risk factors for brain cancer. It compares past usage of mobile phones (as well as other environmental, lifestyle, and genetic factors) by 800 people with brain tumors compared with 800 others who don't have tumors.
The study, the first part of which is expected to be published early next year, will provide a "snapshot" of what the risks from cell phones could be, says Peter Inskip, Sc.D., one of the study's principal investigators. But this research, he cautions, has its own limitations. For one thing, the study was started in 1994 and it considers radiation exposures from cell phones that occurred between the mid-1980s and 1998. That time frame in large part predates the explosion in the popularity of cell phones, as well as the introduction of digital phones that work on a fraction of the energy compared with older analog varieties.
Recently, FDA announced that it will collaborate with the Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association (CTIA) on additional laboratory and human studies of mobile phone safety. A "Cooperative Research and Development Agreement" signed in June provides for research to be conducted by third parties, with industry funding and FDA oversight to help ensure the studies' quality.
Specifically, FDA will identify the scientific questions that merit attention, propose research to address those questions, review study proposals from those interested in doing the research, make recommendations on the selection of researchers, and oversee the development of study design. Once research is begun, FDA will review the progress of ongoing studies, review the results of completed studies, and issue a report to the CTIA.
Beyond this planned research, according to the industry association, there are hundreds of scientific studies completed or in progress around the world to investigate RF's possible health effects, with half of them specifically addressing the frequencies used by wireless phones. FDA is a leading participant in the World Health Organization's International EMF (electric and magnetic fields) project to coordinate research and the harmonization of international radiation standards.
Ziff-Davis reports that researchers in Australia have reported their hypothesis that normal mobile phone use can lead to cancer. The research group, lead by radiation expert Dr Peter French, principal scientific officer at the Centre for Immunology Research at St Vincent's Hospital in Sydney, said that mobile phone frequencies well below current safety levels could stress cells in a way that has been shown to increased susceptibility to cancer.
The paper, published in the June 2001 issue of the science journal, "Differentiation", says that repeated exposure to mobile phone radiation acts as a repetitive stress, leading to continuous manufacture of heat shock proteins within cells.
Their theory is that these proteins, which are sensitive to heat, are always present in cells at a low level, but are manufactured in larger amounts when the cell is stressed by heat or other environmental factors. These proteins repair other proteins that are adversely affected by the conditions, and are part of the cell's normal reaction to stress. However, if they are produced too often or for too long, they are known to initiate cancer and increase resistance to anti-cancer drugs.
However, this group has reported absolutely evidence nor studies to substantiate this, it is only a theory.
More recently, a Finnish survey of some of the world's most popular mobile phones found the amount of radiation they emit is well below agreed limits and largely in line with data published by manufacturers. The survey conducted by Finland's Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority (STUK) covered 16 new models made by top handset makers including Finland's own Nokia, Motorola of the United States and South Korea's Samsung Electronics. At this level, the study found that head tissue does not warm significantly and no other harmful effects have been proved scientifically. STUK said the SAR levels in all the 28 models tested so far ranged from 0.45 to 1.12 watts per kilogram.
"It is important that also in the future the limits set for radiation from mobile phones and base stations are based on current and confirmed scientific proof of the effects of radiation on health," Kari Jokela, a researcher at STUK, said in a statement. STUK also said that some of its studies have indicated that microwave radiation from mobile phones may cause small changes in how cells operate, but the findings were insufficient for concluding what effects of this radiation had on health. STUK will start testing third-generation UMTS-standard mobile phones during 2005, focusing on the most popular models. Other phones in the current study were made by Sony Ericsson and Siemens.
Finally, as the non-ionizing radiation does have a small heating effect, it is postulated that the effect would be greatest on the eyes and testes, due to the lower amount of blood vessels to help cool these areas.
Perceptions And Concerns
The latest studies may support the generally held position that cell phone radiation is not a substantial hazard, but they will never be able to prove cell phones to be absolutely safe. It is logically impossible to prove a negative, that cell phones can not cause cancer.
Conclusions
EHSO has seen no credible evidence to date that cell phones cause cancer or brain tumors. It is illogical to believe that evidence of unusual brain tumors is covered up when there are hundred's of millions of people using cell phones worldwide. There is a TREMENDOUS amount of junk science and thoroughly ignorant (as in untrained, uneducated) people running around naming themselves as experts and publishing their opinions on the internet. This hype and fear-mongering has only one goal: to puff up the egos and wallets of those propagating nonsense.
However, cell phones are still relatively new, and while science does not support that the radiation may not be likely to cause cancer, time may prove differently! And in any case, it may cause some other type of damage (certainly accidents in cars from being distracted while fumbling with the phone!)
So common sense suggests that we each take some prudent precautions.
Precautionary Steps To Take
There are some simple steps that cell phone users can take to reduce any remaining risk:
First, use a headset or speakerphone mode. That moves the phone (and It's antenna) away from your head.
Second, consider reserving the use of mobile phones for shorter conversations or when a conventional phone is not available.
Third, the effects of cellular damage are greatest on growing, developing organisms (i.e., the young), so limit children's use of cell phones!
Finally, in a car, use an external antenna mounted outside the vehicle to move the source of the radiation farther from you!
And don't believe the claims of conmen preying on people's fear of radiation, selling fraudulent devices that they say protect against radiation. These useless items are mostly sold as "shields" on the Internet. Experts says none of these devices work.
To reduce the risk of an accident while driving, here's a simple tip: enter the several numbers you call the most often in a way that brings them to the top of the list, so you can use fewer keystrokes to dial them. For example, the Motorola V60 starts with an alphabetized list when you press the multi-function button; so start your most commonly called number with "AAA", Like "aaaParents" and the next number with "AAB", like "aabHusband", then they will always appear at the top of the list, which should take fewer keystrokes and less time to dial!
Studies
Epidemiological and animal studies undertaken by the U.S. cell phone industry and others have yielded mixed results.
No Link Between Cell Phone Use and Brain Tumors" - 12 Apr 2005. A new study has found no link between use of cell phones and the risk of developing a brain tumor. The study is published in the April 12 issue of Neurology, the scientific journal of the American Academy of Neurology.. The Danish study questioned 427 people with brain tumors and 822 people without brain tumors about their cell phone use. The study found no increased risk for brain tumors related to cell phone use, frequency of use, or number of years of use.
Finnish Study: February 2005: The amount of radiation most popular cell phones emit is well below agreed limits and largely in line with data published by manufacturers. The survey conducted by Finland's Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority (STUK) covered 16 new models made by top handset makers including Finland's own Nokia, Motorola of the United States and South Korea's Samsung Electronics. At this level, the study found that head tissue does not warm significantly and no other harmful effects have been proved scientifically.
Video interviews with American Cancer Society, and other researchers.
Orebro, Sweden, 1999: No connection: In a study published in 1999, investigators at the Orebro Medical Centre in Sweden compared the past mobile phone use of 209 Swedish brain tumor patients and 425 healthy people. Conclusion: The study found no mobile phone/brain cancer link "in virtually all respects," cancer researcher John E. Moulder, Ph.D., says in the August 2000 issue of IEEE Spectrum, the official magazine of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. Investigators did find that mobile phone users who got certain types of brain tumors tended to report using the phone on the side of the head where they developed the tumor. The study's limitations, according to Moulder, include a weak association between cell phone use and tumor development, as well as a possibility that the cancer patients' recollections were biased by already knowing on which side of their head the brain cancer developed.
Joshua Muscat, 1999: Glioma:In a yet-unpublished study presented at a 1999 scientific meeting, researcher Joshua Muscat looked for an association between mobile phone use and a type of brain cancer called glioma. Muscat did not find evidence that cell phone use increased people's risk of this type of brain cancer generally. He did, however, observe an increase in one rare kind of glioma, which FDA scientists say might have occurred by chance. Interestingly, with increased hours of mobile phone use, the risk tended to decrease rather than increase as might be expected.
A few animal studies have suggested that low levels of RF exposure could speed up development of cancer in laboratory animals. In one recent Australian study, for example, mice genetically altered to be predisposed to developing lymphoma got more than twice as many of these cancers when exposed to RF energy compared to mice not exposed to the radiation.
A large number of laboratory tests have been conducted to assess RF's effects on genetic material, looking for mutations, chromosomal changes, DNA strand breaks, and structural changes in blood cells' genetic material. One kind of test, called a micronucleus assay, showed structural changes in genetic material after exposure to simulated cell phone radiation. The changes occurred only after 24 hours of continuous exposure, which experts say raises questions about this test's sensitivity to heating effects and whether that sensitivity could be solely responsible for the results.
More Information
Where did the Fears start? The American Council on Science and Health
Cellular Telephone Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) - The SAR is a value that corresponds to the relative amount of RF energy absorbed in the head of a user of a wireless handset. The FCC limit for public exposure from cellular telephones is an SAR level of 1.6 watts per kilogram (1.6 W/kg). Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) for Wireless Phones and Devices Available at FCC Web Site.
EMF - Electromagnetic Radiation, Power lines and your health
Agencies
Federal Communications Commission RF Safety Program
World Health Organization International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection
National Cancer Institute - Cellular Telephone Use and Cancer, 01/04/2002
"No Association Found Between Cellular Phone Use and Risk of Brain Tumors."
"Questions and Answers for the National Cancer Institute Study of Brain Tumors and Use of Cellular Telephones."
Basic information about brain tumors:
News, Studies And Articles
February 2008: Tokyo Womens Medical University compared phone use in 322 brain cancer patients with 683 healthy people and found that regularly using a mobile did not significantly affect the likelihood of getting brain cancer. "Using our newly developed and more accurate techniques, we found no association between mobile phone use and cancer, providing more evidence to suggest they don't cause brain cancer," Naohito Yamaguchi, who led the research, said. His team's findings were published in the British Journal of Cancer.
Study: Cell phones pose nocancerrisk Long-term researchstill needed, scientists say -; MSNBC -; The Associated Press -; Jan.14, 2004 - LONDON -; There is no evidence linking mobile phones to cancer or other health problems, but more research needs to be done to be sure, a panel of experts said Wednesday. The scientists, who are advising the British government, said existing research into the health effects of cell phones "does not give cause for concern" that the devices cause cancer "nor any other adverse health effect."
Cell Phone Suit Gets Bad Reception - Friday, October 04, 2002 - Fox News
Cell Phones Dont Cause Cancer. Rat Study Finds Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, June 25, 2002. Radiation from cell phones doesnt appear to cause cancer in rats, according to a study by researchers at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. The research team exposed rats to the two most common types of cell phone radiation for four hours a day, five days a week for two years. We tried to mimic a high level of exposure that humans might experience, says study leader Joseph L. Roti Roti, Ph.D., professor of radiation oncology, of biochemistry and molecular biophysics and of cell biology and physiology. We found no statistically significant increases in any tumor type, including brain, liver, lung or kidney, compared to the control group.
No Association Found Between Cellular Phone Use and Risk of Brain Tumors.- National Cancer Institute - 12-21-2000 - Researchers at the National Cancer Institute (NCI) found that people who used cellular phones did not have an increased risk of brain tumors compared to non-users. The study, due to be published in the Jan. 11, 2001, issue of the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM)*, was released on Dec. 19, 2000.
Questions and Answers for the National Cancer Institute Study of Brain Tumors and Use of Cellular Telephones - National Cancer Institute - 12-21-2000 - The results pertain primarily to patterns of cell phone use in the United States during the early to middle 1990s. During the period of this study, there was no evidence that use of hand-held cellular phones caused tumors of the brain and nervous system. The findings suggest that, if there was any increase in risk, it was small, particularly for malignant tumors (glioma).
Cell phones increase convenience, but are they really safe?- Spring 2001 - Berkley Medical Journal
Cell Phones and Brain Tumors - ABC News - May 29, 2001 - A Neurosurgeon's Thoughts - a recent report from the General Accounting Office found that federal agencies do not always provide the latest information and research on cell phone radiation to consumers, and often the information they do provide is too technical for the average consumer to fully understand. Dr. Ted Schwartz, a neurosurgeon from New York Presbyterian Hospital, speaks to the popular concern about the possible connection between cell phones and brain tumors.
Huge study can't link cancers to cell phones - Danish results add to research that shows no danger - The Associated Press - Wednesday, February 7, 2001 - Scientists who tracked the health of 420,000 Danish cell phone users found no sign the devices increase cancer risk -- the biggest study yet to provide reassurance about the phones' safety, but one that won't end the controversy. The study, published in today's Journal of the National Cancer Institute, found cell phone users are no more likely than anyone else to suffer brain or nervous system cancers, leukemia, or salivary gland tumors.
Are mobile phones safe? Research intensifies as the public grows wary of one of its favorite communications tools - IEEE Spectrum Online - August 2000 - By Kenneth R. Foster, University of Pennsylvania & John E. Moulder, Medical College of Wisconsin - A MOTORIST USING A WIRELESS TELEPHONE might be worried about having an accident, even while being reassured that if one were to happen, he or she could call for help. Recently some scientists and lay people have expressed alarm at another possible danger--that the use of mobile phones itself may harm the user's health, perhaps even causing cancer.
Dont get fooled again - USA Today - 08/09/99- Before rushing to judgment, consider the nature of the media and the nature of science. The media essentially created the cell phone scare when CNN's Larry King Live hosted widower David Reynard in 1993. Reynard was suing several phone companies because his wife, who used a cell phone, died of a brain tumor. Reynard and his lawyer didn't have much of what you might call evidence, which is why they didn't get very far in the courts. But the issue has hung around as a media fascination. Television shows and news reports can, in a matter of moments, leave a lasting impression. Science is different. It takes years to collect and analyze data, and that's just for one study
Positions By Authorities, That Conducted Their Own Research Or Are Credible To Offer A Meaningful Opinion
Cell Phones Are Dangerous
Note: It has been very difficult to find credible sources that have taken the position that cell phones are dangerous. This may be because this position is unsupportable (like taking the position that the earth is flat) or that there is new evidence that contradicts current thinking (like Copernicus' calculations that the earth revolves around the sun) . Credible sources means persons of institutions whose education, practice, past performance, and affiliations would lead a logical person to conclude that they are knowledgeable about the subject and have conducted thorough, accurate and unbiased research. If you would like to recommend a source, please
Dr. Mercola - Cell Phones And Cancer He has an extensive website, but he is an an osteopathic physician, not a medical doctor. He also has not conducted any research himself; he just reviewed a study conducted by a television program (20/20) and we have all seen from Dan Rather's performance lately that the news media are not to be trusted as credible sources - they are meant to report the news objectively, not create research.
Cell Phones Do Not Cause Cancer
Tokyo Women's Medical University compared phone use in 322 brain cancer patients with 683 healthy people and found that regularly using a mobile did not significantly affect the likelihood of getting brain cancer. "Using our newly developed and more accurate techniques, we found no association between mobile phone use and cancer, providing more evidence to suggest they don't cause brain cancer," Naohito Yamaguchi, who led the research, said. His team's findings were published in the British Journal of Cancer.
American Cancer Society - " Considerable research has also found no clear association between any other electronic consumer products and cancer. Cell phones, microwave ovens and related appliances emit low frequency radiation the part of the electromagnetic spectrum that includes radio waves and radar. Ionizing radiation such as gamma rays and Xrays can increase cancer risk by causing changes to DNA in cells of the body. Low frequency, non ionizing radiation does not cause these DNA changes"
Medical College of Wisconsin - A very detailed page, with a considerable amount of information, including both FAQs and citations to references; it can be technically overwhelming for non scientists.
National Institute of Health / National Cancer Institute - April 2000. "There was no evidence of higher brain tumor risk among people who use hand-held cellular phones compared to those who do not use them."
The Independent Expert Group chaired by Sir William Stewart published its report on the health implications of mobile phones in 2000. Two later reports by the independent Advisory Group on Non ionising Radiation (AGNIR) and the most recent Mobile Phones and Health 2004 by the National Radiological Protection Board (NRPB), have endorsed Stewarts findings.
Undecided
So Far, None!
Additional Resources:
For more information, the ACS book, Cancer: What Causes It, What Doesnt provides an educated perspective on what cancer health hazards people may face in everyday life, and what's not worth worrying about.
American Cancer Society - Environmental Carcinogens - Cellular Phones and Risk of Brain Tumors>
Bioelectromagnetics Society:
Britains report from their Independent Expert Group on Mobile Phones
Cell Telecommunications and Internet Association
Council on Wireless Technology Impacts (non government
U.S. Dept. of Defense:
European Bioelectromagnetics Association:
Electromagnetic Energy Association:
Federal Communications Commission:
U.S. Food and Drug Administraton:
FDAs Consumer Update on mobile phones
Cell Phones and Brain Tumors - from HoaxInfo.com, April 1, 2001
ICNIRP (Europe):
IEEE:
IEEE Committee on Man & Radiation
International Electromagnetic Field Conference
Microwave News
Mobile Manufacturers Forum
Motorolas information on health and safety
J.Moulder, Med.Coll.of Wisc.
National Brain Tumor Foundation
National Council on Radiation Protection & Measurements
National Institute of Environmental Health Science
National Radiation Protection Board (United Kingdom)
New England Journal of Medicine - Study on cell telephone use and brain tumors
NJ Dept Radiation Protection
RF Safety Program, Office of Engineering and Technology, Federal Communications Commission: Richard Tell Associates
United Kingdom, National Radiological Protection Board
US OSHA:
Wireless Industry (CTIA)
Wireless Consumers Alliance, a non-profit corporation,
Wireless Information Resource Centre (Canada)
World Health Organization (WHO)
The World Health Organizations section on information on cell phones
World Health Organization International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 8/29/2008 - Prominent Neurosurgeons Fear Cell Phone Causes Brain Tumors
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 10/30/2008 - Cell Phone Does Cause Tumor
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 10/17/2008 - May Be Wiping Out Bees And Affecting Health Of Humans
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 12/1/2008 - Cancer Doc Issues Warning About Cell Phone Use
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 12/28/2008 - Cell Phones Linked To Brain Tumors
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 10/14/2009 - New Studies Link Cell Phone Use To Cancer And Other Maladies
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 11/10/2009 - World Health Organization Says Cell Phones Can Cause Brain Cancer
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 2/3/2010 - Cell Phones Cause Brain Cancer, Scientists Warn
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 6/20/2010 - Evidence Mounts On Links Between Cell Phones And Brain Tumors
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 6/30/2010 - Industry Funded Cell Phone Study Ignores Evidence, Whitewashes Results
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 2/28/2011 - Cell Phone Use Visibly Alters Brain Cell Activity
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 5/17/2011 - Cell Phone Towers May Be Cause Of Bee Population Collapse
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 5/23/2011 - Study On Cell Phone Dangers Prompts Major Call For School Bans
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 6/4/2011 - W.H.O. Panel Warns That Cell Phone Use May Cause Cancer
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 6/4/2011 - Do Cell Phones Cause Cancer?
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 6/28/2011 - W.H.O. Classifies Cell Phones As Possibly Carcinogenic
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 2/29/2012 - Are Cell Phones Really So Bad For Your Health?
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 4/18/2012 - Cell Phone Radiation And Cancer: Just How Much More Proof Do You Need?
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 5/30/2012 - 50 Percent Increase In Frontal And Temporal Lobe Tumors In Children
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 7/8/2012 - What The Telecommunication Companies Don't Want You To Know
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 10/28/2012 - Court Ruling: Mobile And Cordless Phones Cause Brain Tumors
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 12/3/2012 - Florida Town Passes Ordinance Warning Residents About Dangers Of Cancer Causing Cell Phones
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 1/8/2013 - Scientific Evidence Of Health Risks From Wireless Devices
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 1/14/2013 - Protect Yourself Against Electromagnetic Radiation
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 1/16/2013 - Belgium's Telecomm Boss Banned Them From His Offices
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 3/3/2013 - Cell Phone Radiation Standards Review - Another Sham?
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 3/10/2013 - Cell Phone Radiation Study Reveals Increased Brain Tumor Risk For Children
Cell Phone Information: Natural News 6/22/2013 - New Study Links Over 7,000 Cancer Deaths To Cell Phone Tower Radiation Exposures
Cell Phone Information: Jon Barron 5/7/2011 - Cell Phones And Your Brain
Cell Phone Information: Health Freedom Alliance 5/23/2011 - Do Cell Phones Really Kill Bees?
Cell Phone Information: Pittsburg Cancer Center 7/24/2008 - Warns Of Cell Phone Risks
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 8/26/2008 - Cell Phone Dangers
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 10/11/2008 - Children's Risk Of Brain Cancer 500 Percent
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 10/18/2008 - Scientists Warn Congress About Cell Phones And Cancer
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 10/18/2008 - Good News, More People Text Than Phone
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 9/3/2009 - Approaching Epidemic: Brain Damage From Mobile Phone Radiation
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 9/24/2009 - Does A Cell Phone's Radiation Effect Stop When The Call Ends?
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 11/7/2009 - Honeybees Face Towering Threat From Cell Phones
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 11/19/2009 - A Cell Phone On Your Hip Weakens Your Bones
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 12/1/2009 - Scientists Believe Your Cell Phone Is A Death Trap
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 1/12/2010 - Real Reason Cell Phone Use is Banned on Airlines
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 1/21/2010 - Shocking U.S. Senate Hearing Confirms Dangers Of Cell Phones
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 2/4/2010 - Cell Phones Are The Cigarettes Of The 21st Century - Video
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 2/16/2010 - The Big "Hidden Cell Phone Lie"
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 3/17/2010 - Does Your Cell Phone Fall At The Bottom Of The Heap For Safety?
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 3/27/2010 - New Law May Slow Cell Phone Cancer Epidemic
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 4/27/2010 - FCC Raises The Red Flag About Cell Phone Hazards
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 5/27/2010 - What Is The Real Cancer Threat From Cell Phones?
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 6/3/2010 - What Did This 10-Year, 13-Nation Study Discover?
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 6/10/2010 - Red Alert: Insider Study on Cell Phone Safety Seriously Flawed
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 10/22/2010 - Use This Common Device And Double Your Risk Of Brain Cancer
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 11/29/2010 - New Warnings About The Hazards Of Cell Phones
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 1/5/2011 - New Evidence Identifies Strong Cell Phone Cancer Link
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 3/14/2011 - 45 Healthy Adults Used A Cell Phone For 50 Minutes
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 6/2/2011 - European Leaders Call For Ban Of Cell Phones And WiFi In Schools
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 11/12/2011 - Telecom Industry Seeks To Confuse Us About The Dangers
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 12/20/2011 - Radiation From Cell Phones And WiFi Are Making People Sick
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 1/17/2012 - Why Are Cell Phones Using The Wrong Safety Standards?
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 1/19/2012 - 50 Minutes With A Cell Phone Can Alter Your Brain And DNA
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 6/16/2012 - NEW Urgent Warning To All Cell Phone Users
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 7/4/2012 - Warning: Cell Phones May Trigger ADHD And Other Behavior Problems
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 11/7/2012 - Cell Phone Gave Man A Tumor, According To Major Court Ruling
Cell Phone Information: Dr. Mercola 9/21/2013 - Children's Health Expert Panel
Copyright © 2005 - Through - 2019 by Alternative-Health-Group.Org
All Rights Reserved
Have A Question?
Send Us A FAX
562-947-2431
Our Information Yearns
To Be Free. But Keeping
It Free Costs Money.
To Help Keep This Info Available For You...
Please Support Our Sponsors
Our Updates Are Continuous. To Keep Up On The Latest Postings, Please Visit Our Website Frequently.
PLEASE NOTE:
Although I research extensively, I have no professional medical training.
This material is presented as a guide to give you and your health care provider some things to discuss.
Any information contained in these pages should never substitute for advice from your physician.
Take vitamins and supplements only on the advice of your physician.
ALTERNATIVE-HEALTH-GROUP.ORG
HOME
CANCER
General Cancer Information
Bladder Cancer
Blood Cancer
Bone Cancer
Brain Cancer
Breast Cancer
Cervical Cancer
Colon Cancer
Esophageal Cancer
Kidney Cancer
Leukemia Cancer
Liver Cancer
Lung Cancer
Lymphoma Cancer
Male Breast Cancer
Melanoma Cancer
Ovarian Cancer
Pancreatic Cancer
Prostate Cancer
Skin Cancer
Stomach Cancer
Thyroid Cancer
DISORDERS A-G
Acid Reflux
ADD/ADHD Disorder
Adrenals
Aids
Allergies
ALS Disorder
Alzheimers Disorder
Anemia
Arthritis Disorder
Asthma Disorder
Atherosclerosis
Autism Disorder
Autoimmune Disorder
Bell's Palsy
Bipolar Disorder
Bladder Disorders
Bronchitis
Candidas Disorder
Carpal Tunnel
Celiac's Disorder
Common Cold
Constipation
Chronic Fatigue Disorder
Crones Disorder
Depression
Diabetes
Diverticular Disorder
Dry Skin Disorder
Eczema
Endometriosis
Erectile Dysfunction
Estrogen Dominance
Eye Disorders
Fibromyalgia
Gallbladder Disorder
Goiter
Gout
Gum Disease
DISORDERS H-Z
Heart Attacks
Hepatitis C
Herpes Simplex
Hiatal Hernia
H Pylori
Irretable Bowel Syndrome
Infections
Inflammation
Influenza
Kidney Disorder
Kidney Stones
Liver Disorder
Lung Disorders
Lupus Eythematosis
Lyme Disease
Metabolic Disorders
Migraine Headaches
Multiple Sclerosis
Osteoporosis
Parkinson's Disorder
Post Nasal Drip
Pneumonia
Prostatitis
Psoriasis
Shingles
SIBO
Sinus Infection
Sleep Disorders
Stomach Disorders
Stomach Ulcers
Stress Disorder
Stroke
Sugar Disorders
Thyroid Disorder
Tinnitus Disorder
TMJ Disorder
Tuberculosis Disorder
Ulcerative Colitis
Urinary Tract Infection
Vaginitis
GENERAL A-D
Acetaminophen
Acrylamide In Foods
Albumin
Aloe Vera
Aluminum
Amino Acids
Amygdalin
Antibiotics
Antidepressants
Antioxidants
Appendix
Apple Cider Vinegar
Arachidonic Acid
Aromatherapy
Arsenic
Artemisinin
Artificial Sweetners
Audio Cassette Tapes
Audio CDs
Bacon
Bad Breath
Baking Soda
Barium
Beer
Bentonite Clay
Benzene
Beryllium
Beta Glucans
Bible Food And Medicine
Bisphosphonates
Biological Dentists
Blood Cleansing
Blood Irradiation
Blood Pressure
Blood Test Results
Blood Type Diet
Bob Beck Protocol
Body Massage
Books
BPA
Breathing
Burdock Root
Cadmium
Caffeine
Camu Camu
Cannabis Oil
Carob
Castor Oil
Cell Phones
Cesium Chloride
Chelation Therapy
Chia Seeds
Cholesterol Control
Chlorella
Chlorine
Circadian Disruption
Coconut Oil
Coffee
Collagen
Colloidal Silver
Colon Cleanse
Combining Food
Compounding Pharmacies
CoQ10
Creatine
Curcumin
Dandruff Control
Defective Drugs
Dendritic Cell Therapy
Dental Recommendation
Detoxification
Digestion
DIM Versus I3C
Dioxychlor
Dirty Electricity
Drug Company Tactics
DVD Video
GENERAL E-N
Earthing Grounding
E. Coli Bacteria
Electrolytes
Emu Oil
Endocrine System
Enzymes
Essiac Tea
Exercise And Fat Loss
FDA History
Fermented Foods
Fir Saunas
Flax Oil & P Ca.
Fluoride
Fructose
Fruits, Nuts, Vegetables
Functional Medicine
Fungus
Garlic
GcMAF
Ginger
Gluten
Glycemic Index
GMO Foods
Grains
Green Tea
Hair Health
Handwashing
Healing Oils
Hearing
Heart Anatomy
Hemp Seed Oil
Homocysteine
Hormones
Hoxsey Treatment
Hyaluronic Acid
Hydrazine Sulfate
Hydrogen Peroxide
Hydrotherapy
Hyperthermia
Immune System
Infant Formula
Iodine
Iridology
Iron
Juicing And Fasting
Ketogenic Diet
Lead
Lectins
Leg Cramps
Leptin Hormone
Lithium
Lymphatic System
Mammograms
Margarine Versus Butter
MCT Oil
Meat & Fish Products
Medical Cannabis History
Medical Herbs
Medical Modalities
Medical Tests
Mercury
Microwave Ovens
Mistletoe
MLM Products
MME
MMS
MSG
MSM and DMSO
Mucous Membranes
Muscle Physiology
Muscle Testing
Nattokinase
Natural Antibiotics
Natural Antivirals
Natural Aspirin
Natural Blood Thinners
Natural Heart Bypass
Natural Sweetners
Nickel
Nightshade Food
NSAIDS
Nitric Oxide
Nutrients / Minerals
GENERAL O-Z
Oleander
Oil Swishing
Olive Oil
Omega 3-6-9
Organic Foods
Oxygen Therapy
Ozone Therapy
Pancreas
Pau d'Arco
PH Balance
Pinhole Glasses
Pistachio Nuts
Plastic Bottles
PNC-27
Power Color Doppler
Pressure Cooking
Probiotics
Produce Pesticides
Prolozone Therapy
Propolis
Protein
P.S.A. Information
Qigong
Radiation Dangers
Raw Fish
Raw Food Restaurants
Raw Food Vs Cooked
Raw Garlic
Raw Honey
Raw Milk
Rebounding
Recommended Dentists
Recommended Doctors
Recommended Tests
Red Yeast Rice
Reflexology
Respiratory System
Resveratrol
Saliva Testing
Salt
Salt Lamps
Saturated Fat
Seafood
Serrapeptase
Skin Care
Sodium Bicarbinate
S.O.T.
Soy Products
Splenda
Stearic Acid
Stevia
Stinging Nettle
Sugar Alcohol
Sunscreen
Thermography
Throat Flem
Trans Fats
Triclosan
Triglyceride Control
Turmeric / Curcumin
Uranium
UV Blood Therapy
Vaccines
Vegetarian Diet
VHS Video Tapes
Vibration-Plates
Vinegar
Visceral Fat
Vitamins
Watercress
Water Therapy
Wound Healing Remedies
MEETINGS
2nd Monday of Month
4th Monday of Month