Top Benefits of Himalayan Salt Lamps
Skip to content
Greenwood Lake Garden & Farm Market
Community and Sustainability
MENU
Shop
Workshops & Events
News
About
Our Story
Philosophy
Photo Gallery
Videos
Sale Items
Visit Us
About Greenwood Lake, NY
Contact & Directions
Meet Our Friends
What's Nearby
My Account
0
(845) 595-1579 | contact@gwlgardencenter.com | Directions
Top 10 Benefits to Own a Himalayan Salt Lamp: What is the fuss all about
Warren Congdon February 5, 2017	 No comments
Before we discuss the health benefits of using Himalayan salt lamps, it is helpful to have a brief chemistry lesson:
All matter (the human body, air, water, etc) is made up of molecules which are made up of atoms which are made up of three types of particles: protons (positive charge), electrons (negative charge), and neutrons (no charge). Electrons orbit their molecules like planets revolve around a star. Occasionally an electron flies off and when it does, it leaves behind a positively-charged ion whose sole purpose in life becomes to fill the void left by its little lost electron. In other words: it wants to steal a replacement electron from another molecule. Due to differences in molecular structure (number of electrons in the outermost orbit, strength and structure of electron bonds, etc) some materials lose electrons much more easily than others.
With this basic understanding, let’s take a look at the top 10 benefits of the Himalayan Salt Lamp.
1. Salt Lamps Cleanse & Deodorize the Air
The most well-known benefit is their incredible power to remove dust, pollen, cigarette smoke, and other contaminants from the air.
“But how do they do this,” you ask? “It’s just a big chunk of salt with a light bulb inside, right?”
Well yes, but no. There’s much more to it than that.
Himalayan salt lamps purify air through the power of hygroscopy, meaning that they attract water molecules from the surrounding environment then absorb those molecules – as well as any foreign particles they may be carrying – into the salt crystal. As the HPS lamp warms up from the heat produced by the light bulb inside, that same water then evaporates back into the air and the trapped particles of dust, pollen, smoke, etc remain locked in the salt.
2. Reduce Allergy & Asthma Symptoms
Because Himalayan salt lamps remove microscopic particles of dust, pet dander, mold, mildew and the like from the surrounding air, placing a lamp or two in the rooms where you spend the most time can seriously cut back on allergy symptoms. Even people who suffer from asthma should notice a big difference after a week or two.
3. Eases Coughing
When the Himalayan salt lamp heats up and begins its hygroscopic cycling of airborne particles. It also changes the charge of the molecules which are released. (Remember our chemistry lesson?) The majority of homes are filled with positively charged ions which aren’t particularly good for a person’s health. The positive ions are created by a number of things, but the primary source is from electronics.
What all this means in a nut shell: Besides removing contaminants from the air, Himalayan pink salt lamps also help your body to filter air more efficiently, so any foreign particles you do happen to breathe won’t make it into your lungs.
4. Increase Energy Levels
Taking a drive through the countryside with the windows down, spending time at the beach or camping in the mountains, or simply taking a shower first thing in the morning are all things that many people find invigorating. It’s not a coincidence that these are all activities which expose us to increased concentrations of negative ions such as those generated by Himalayan salt lamps. The fact is, positive ions sap our bodies of energy. Unfortunately, it’s all too common for us to try to diagnose the problem as something else entirely.
If you constantly feel tired, try keeping a Himalayan salt lamp in the room you spend the most time. After about a week, you should notice a difference.
5. Neutralize Electromagnetic Radiation
Nowadays, most of us are living in a metaphorical ocean of electromagnetic (EM) radiation which flows from our electronics (ie: television, computer, cell phone, tablet, appliances, sterio, etc). While they may be invisible, the long-term effects of EM exposure can be quite serious. Constant exposure to EM radiation is known to increase stress levels, cause chronic fatigue, and decrease the body’s immune response, among other things.
As they emit negative ions into the air, Himalayan salt lamps work to neutralize electromagnetic radiation. Keep one next to the computer, television, and any other electrical devices to reduce the potential danger to you and your family.
6. Better Sleep
Another side effect which results from over-exposure to positive ions in the air is that it robs you of quality sleep. This happens because those positively-charged particles can actually reduce blood and oxygen supply to the brain resulting in irregular sleep patterns. Himalayan pink salt lamps are natural negative ion generators, thus they can help to reverse this problem. Keep one or two around your bedroom to improve the air quality so you can get a better night’s sleep.
7. Improve Mood & Concentration
Himalayan pink salt lamps are a great way to naturally enhance your mood or to help you relax and unwind at the end of the day. At the same time and on the opposite side of the coin, HPS lamps are great for improving concentration. Again, this is due to the effect of the negative ions on your body, improving blood and oxygen supply to the brain and other organs, as well as providing a boost of serotonin – the neurotransmitter which makes us (literally) feel happy.
8. Treat Seasonal Affective Disorder
In addition to generating negative ions which improve mood and energy levels, the soft, natural light given off by a Himalayan pink salt lamp is close enough to the warm glow of sunshine that they can even be used to relieve the symptoms of Seasonal Affective Disorder. This year when the days get shorter, fight back the lethargy by surrounding yourself with a Himalayan Salt Lamp.
9. Reduce Static Electricity in the Air
While not a “health benefit” at first glance, static is pesky stuff. It causes stress, embarrassment, and frustration. Static zaps you when you least expect it. You may notice when you’re reaching for a door handle or trying to pet your dog or cat. Static can give you a bad hair day or even cause you to go to work with a sock stuck to your shirt.
(Okay, so that last one may have been a little over-the-top.) Sometimes static electricity can be a huge pain. Himalayan pink salt lamps are a natural way to neutralize the airborne ionized particles .
10. Lucky bonus with Himalayan Salt
Not only can you get a Salt lamp, but you can eat and drink with the salt as well. Some of our favorites are salt blocks for cooking, and shot glasses. Yes I said shot glasses. Fill up these shot glasses with a nice Tequila, and take a sip. You will get a perfect flavor of salt, which always compliments tequila.
Share this:
Tweet
Email
Posted in Tips & TricksTagged healthy, Himalayan Salt, Salt Lamps
Post navigation
Air Plants are Back…Why are they so special and unique you ask?
Quick, Easy and Delicious Bloody Mary Recipe
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Garden Shop
Passionflower Soap $6.50
Create and Sip Series Presents: Plant your own Organic Herb Planter Wednesday June 28th @ 7:30PM $35.00
Woodstock Seven Stone Chakra Chimes $21.99 $19.99
ORGANIC Tea Tree Essential Oil $8.99 $7.99
Galentines Day Wine Bottle Succulent Party Wednesday Feb 13th 2019 $40.00
What Our Customers Say
Greenwood Lake Garden and Farm Market
4.8
Kevin Harvey-Barratt
08:40 21 Jun 16
Very cool variety of garden statuary, fountains, local farm products, and unique gifts. A cool find in Greenwood Lake.
Mike Foley
20:22 07 Sep 16
Fresh fruits and vegetables and so much more
Danielle Barbour
14:58 15 May 13
Knowledgeable and sweet. Stacy and Warren turned an eyesore in the middle of town into a garden of Eden. Looking forward to another rocking ribs. Always able to keep the plants I get there alive with their advice. Some of the best local food and gifts too. Can't say enough good things about them.
Gareth Hill
19:18 09 Mar 16
Super
Warren Congdon
20:06 17 Oct 16
Dave Ventresca
19:34 22 Oct 16
We absolutely love the Greenwood Lake Garden & Farm Market. From live flowers to decorate our deck, to fresh & local veggies, to their adorable little gift shop; we couldn't recommend shopping here more! The owners, Stacy & Warren, are also just fantastic people with a beautiful vision for the future of Greenwood Lake, NY. Stop by - you'll be glad you did!
See All Reviews
Join Our Email List Today for Exclusive Offers & Specials Delivered Right To Your Inbox!
Leave this field empty if you're human:
Secondary Menu
My Account
Private Events
Vendor Application
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
facebook
google
twitter
rss
Greenwood Lake Garden Center© 2011-2019 | www.gwlgardencenter.com
Site Design: Web Garden Consulting, LLC | Powered by: WordPress
Call Us
Directions
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.