Peace Progress: August 2016 Edition
Message from Chris
Contributed Report
The Zika Virus continues to be a concern as the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) cautions those who are traveling out of the country and those who may be trying to become pregnant. Zika is known to be linked to microcephaly, which is passed from mother to unborn child in the womb. On February 26, 2016, Governor Terry McAuliffe announced the creation of the Virginia Zika Task Force to coordinate and respond to locally transmitted cases of Zika in Virginia.
"The surveillance of Zika cases in Virginia is critical to our ability to prepare for and provide treatment to people affected by this virus. This is why I established the Zika task force this past February," said the Governor. "Thus far, all Virginia Zika virus infections have been associated with travel abroad, but we are ramping up efforts in preparation for locally transmitted cases where a mosquito bites an infected person and then bites someone else," stated Governor McAuliffe.
Specifics of the program include outreach to pregnant women, safety of the blood supply, and coordination of blood collection centers with mosquito control organizations.
Based off case reports, symptoms of Zika usually manifest 3-14 days after exposure to the virus. The Virginia Department of Health says, "About 80% of people who are infected do not become sick. For the 20% who do become sick, the most common symptoms include fever, rash, joint pain, and conjunctivitis (red eyes). The illness is usually mild and the symptoms typically last several days to a week."
As citizens of Virginia, you play a major role in preventing the transmission of Zika. The CDC recommends making sure you protect yourself from all mosquito bites by: turning over objects outside that hold water like buckets and tires, making sure doors and windows have no holes or cracks, using insect repellant, and dressing your children in clothes that cover the arms and legs. The Zika Virus may seem overwhelming and scary; taking these small precautionary steps can be the difference between the spread or the stoppage of the virus.
It's important to remember that only the Asian Tiger Mosquito and the Yellow Fever Mosquito can spread the virus here in Virginia. These species mainly breed only in container habitats found in people's yards. By turning over or dumping out any standing water you can greatly limit the breeding of these mosquitoes.
While the Zika Virus is a threat, it's important to stay vigilant and think wisely about protecting yourself and others. If you do these things, you can prevent the spread of the virus.
Contributed report by Catie Deal. Catie is a rising senior at Lee Davis High School. She is the Editor of "The Southerner," the school newspaper. Catie is currently working as a legislative intern in the office of Delegate Chris Peace.
Great Opportunity: Veteran's Employment Services
The Virginia Transition Assistance Program (VTAP) in partnership with the Paralyzed Veterans of America, Virginia Employment Commission, Resource Workforce Centers, ESGR, Ft. Lee SFL-TAP, and John Tyler Community College invite you to a one-of-a-kind Veteran's employment recruiting event! State agencies here in Virginia recognize the talent Veterans bring to their workforce, and want to meet with you to talk about their companies and job openings!
Click here for more information and to register
National Night Out: August 2, 2016
I hope you will join me in King William County for National Night Out (NNO) hosted by the King William Ruritan Club. I will be providing popsicles from King of Pops. This outreach has become the tradition at NNO events across the 97th District.
Mark Your Calendar
Delegate Christopher K. Peace
| 804-730-3737 | info@chrispeace.com | www.chrispeace.com