How to Fix Bad Knees (includes a Bad Knees Workout)
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
Kettlebell Workouts
Workouts
Why Greg
Blog
Exercises
Start here
How to Fix Bad Knees (plus a Bad Knees Workout)
by Greg Brookes
FacebookTweetPinLinkedInEmailShares1.3k
Do you suffer with bad knees? Does it hurt when you squat or lunge?
If so then this article is for you.
How to Fix Bad Knees
If you have trouble with bad knees then all is not lost. You can still work your body hard and get some enormous results without a full knee bend.
Below I have listed how you can exercise with bad knees and also how you can rehabilitate and strengthen your knees back to good health.
Kettlebell Swings for Knee Rehab
The Kettlebell Swing is the perfect exercise choice for those suffering with bad knees because it works your cardio hard without you needing to fully bend your knees or use knee jolting impact.
During the kettlebell swing 100’s of muscles are used at a time as you forcefully use your hips to swing the kettlebell in between your legs.
The kettlebell swing uses the buttocks, hips, quads, hamstrings and back during each repetition.
One great advantage of the kettlebell swing, and why it’s so great for bad knees, is that it does not use a full knee bend.
The lack of a full knee bend takes the pressure off the knee joint but still loads it enough to get some activation through the quads (thighs).
Related: Ultimate Guide to the Kettlebell Swing
Here’s the Kettlebell Swing in action:
So if you never had to perform another Squat or Lunge again you can still get some great results from just using the Swing.
HOWEVER….
If You Can’t Squat then You Must Squat
If you avoid all squatting and lunging movements you are setting yourself up for further injuries in the future due to the compensations your body has to make.
If you avoid bending your knees then you start to bend at the hips instead and this puts added stress on your lower back.
People with bad knees often start to suffer from bad backs!
So ultimately, unless you have serious structural damage to your knees then you should start to rehabilitate your knees as quickly as possible.
And the good news is, knees can be fixed, here’s how:
Step 1: Stretching
Tight quads feed into the knee and added strain can realign and also aggressively pull on the knee cap.
Stretch the quads frequently, at least once per day and preferably more. 3 times per day is better. It takes a lot of time and effort to positively change soft tissue so you need to do this a lot, sorry!
Having a frequent sports massage, using a foam roller or a massage roller will all help too.
Take action: Stretch, Roll, Massage your quads at least daily (5 minutes)
Here’s a video of an effective Quad Stretch
Step 2: Mobilise
Bad knees happen for a reason. If you lack mobility at your hips or ankles then the knee joint has to work overtime.
Skiers damage their knees because they remove the ability for the ankle to become mobile when wearing ski boots.
Basketball players used to get bad knees because high top boots restricted movement at the ankle.
Keep your ankles and hips mobile so your knees don’t have to be
Take action: mobilise your ankles and hips daily (5 minutes)
Video of Ankle Mobility:
Video of Hip Mobility:
Step 3: Condition
Bending and extending any joint of the body creates a pumping of nutrients.
As you squat you open up the knee joint and suck healing nutrients into the joint and pump old stagnant fluid out again.
The squat also opens up the joints of the lower back too!
Movement of any painful joint is a vital part of its healing process
Start by practicing the squat holding onto a wall, post, chair etc. Move slowly and go down as deep as you can before the pain starts.
Never squat into pain! Stop just before the pain starts.
Keep you weight back on your heals to take the strain away from your knees and into the hamstrings and buttocks.
Continue daily for 5 – 10 reps each time trying to go deeper but avoiding pain.
When you can squat all the way down to the floor then you can start bodyweight squats without assistance.
Take action: perform 5 – 10 assisted squats, as deep and pain-free as possible, daily
Video of an Assisted Squat Using a Pole:
Video of an Assisted Squat Using a Band:
The Bad Knees Workout
Use the following kettlebell swing workout to strengthen the hamstrings, quads, buttocks, hip and back without overloading the knees.
Once you can complete the following workout comfortably replace the kettlebell swing for the assisted squat exercise (using a pole or resistance band as shown above).
Complete each workout 4-5 times per week. Only move on to the next workout when you can comfortably complete the one before.
Workout 1:
Two Handed Kettlebell Swings x 20 seconds (10 reps)
Rest x 10-20 seconds
Repeat x Goal of 10 times
Once you can complete workout 1 comfortably move on to workout 2.
Workout 2:
Assisted Squat x 20 seconds
Rest x 10-20 seconds
Repeat x Goal of 10 times
Once you can complete workout 2 with all the squats down nice and deep move on to workout 3.
Workout 3:
Bodyweight Squats x 20 seconds
Rest x 10-20 seconds
Repeat x Goal of 10 times
Workout 3 is completed by not holding on or using any kind of assistance during the squats.
Conclusion of How to Fix Bad Knees
Most bad knees can be fixed. You can still get a great workout by substituting squats and lunges for Swings but ultimately if you Can’t Squat then you Must Squat.
Rehabilitation of the knee IS possible it just takes time and daily commitment
Start by using the bad knees workout.
Once you can complete the swing workout you can move on to the assisted squat workout and finally the unassisted bodyweight squats.
I hope you have found this useful and if you do suffer from bad knees it will help on your road to recovery.
Take care,
Greg
What Next? See these 5 Kettlebell Beginner Exercises
SaveSave
SaveSave
FacebookTweetPinLinkedInEmailShares1.3k
Comments
Tanya says
March 17, 2019 at 5:41 pm
Will this exercise help me lose weight as well as strengthen my knee?
Reply
Greg Brookes says
March 17, 2019 at 5:46 pm
Hello Tanya, you will want to combine full body kettlebell exercises with these 9 Nutritional Tips for Fat Loss.
Reply
Tanya says
March 18, 2019 at 4:21 pm
Thanks for getting back with me Greg. I was looking into your 12 week beginners program. Would that in combination with the knee exercise be a good place to start as far as weight loss and strengthening my knees? Thanks!
Reply
Greg Brookes says
March 19, 2019 at 9:06 am
Hello Tanya, I’d begin with the 21 Follow Along Circuits first, click here to see a sample at the bottom of the page.
Reply
Gina says
April 30, 2017 at 9:05 pm
Greg
I have virtually no cartilage in my right knee (had my left replaced five months ago and it works perfect so I know the movement). I can’t get a single legged deadlift done correctly. It seems the patella slides halfway through the movement that sends me to the moon with pain. I’ve tried all sorts of movements to strengthen that right posterior chain but still struggling with that one move. I know if I can get it strong enough to do a set of single legged deadlifts I will be able to push that replacement surgery an extra year or two.
Any thoughts?
Reply
Greg Brookes says
May 1, 2017 at 8:39 am
Very hard to say Gina without assessing you. Try the bodyweight version first with just a slight bend in the knee and see how that goes. Good luck!
Reply
Ashay says
August 2, 2016 at 12:06 pm
Greg
Recently injured my right knee. Dx with chondromalacia patella. I have a weak VMO causing my patella to track laterally.
Any recommended exercises.
Reply
Greg Brookes says
August 2, 2016 at 12:40 pm
Hi Ashay, I’d need to assess you better to recommend any specific exercises. Are you lunging OK? How about single leg exercises? What are your quads and hips like for flexibility? Do they need stretching? Think about stretching what’s tight and strengthening what’s weak. All the best
Reply
Julie says
June 25, 2016 at 6:37 pm
I have recently had both knees replaced, have more flexability in the right than left (was done 8 months before the left) it will be 1 year in August since I had left one done. My main problem seems to be in the ligaments at the back of the knee and shortened quads, should I keep trying to get my squats to parallel (Not quite there yet but can feel some pain there as if they over stretched the ligaments and they not giving best support) I have started riding my bike again to try and strengthen my legs. Would love some advice on what to do for best results.
Reply
Greg Brookes says
June 27, 2016 at 10:28 am
Hi Julie, the important thing is not to squat into pain, so go down as deep as you can. With time and gentle stretching you’re be rocking those squats.
Reply
Dave says
June 24, 2016 at 11:55 pm
Great info. I just had left hip replaced and working to re-strengthen legs as I prepare for the right hip replacement.
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
-
Greg Brookes has written for and been featured in Men's Health, Health & Fitness, Women's Fitness and all the National Newspapers. Often labelled as the "Trainer to the Trainers" he is a Personal Trainer and Kettlebell Instructor who took his first fitness qualifications over 21 years ago. Greg lives in Oxford, in the UK, with his wife Lucy. Learn more...
Questions?
Complete Guide to Buying Kettlebells
9 Most Effective Fat Loss Nutrition Tips
50 Frequently Asked Questions
How to Warm Up Before a Workout
What Size Kettlebell Should I Use
Kettlebell Programs
Exercise Guides
Beginners Should Start Here
Ultimate Guide to the Kettlebell Swing
Ultimate Guide to the Kettlebell Turkish Get Up
Ultimate Guide to the Kettlebell Clean
Ultimate Guide to the Kettlebell Snatch
5 Intermediate Kettlebell Exercises
7 Advanced Kettlebell Exercises
52 Kettlebell Exercises
21 Kettlebell Exercises for Men
19 Kettlebell Exercises for Women
Workout Programs
21 Day Follow Along Workouts
50 Kettlebell Circuits (All Levels)
37 Core and Abs Workouts
12 Week Fat Loss Program
12 Week Women’s Program
Kettlebell WOD Generator
FREE DOWNLOAD (Click below)
Contact | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | Terms
Copyright © 2019 GB Personal Training Ltd. All rights reserved.
Share this ArticleLike this article? Email it to a friend!
Friend's Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Comments
Send Email
Email sent!