Chewing Gum: Fact and Fiction
Call Us!
Text Us!
Menu Close Menu
Home
What Sets Us Apart
Our Vision
Our Doctors
Our Team
Our Technology
Our Results
Our Reviews
Our Office Tour
Our Blog
New Patients
Office Visits
Financial Information
Patient Forms
Dental Savings Plan
Special Offers
General Dentistry
Common Procedures
Preventive Care
Teeth for Life
Gum Disease
CAD/CAM
Digital X-rays
Laser Dentistry
Intraoral Camera
Pediatric Dentistry
Dental Care for Your Baby
Sports Dentistry
Restore Your Smile
Cosmetic Dentistry
Cosmetic Dentistry FAQs
Implants
About Straumann® Dental Implants
Traumatic Dental Injuries
Occlusal Disease
Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery
Full-Mouth Reconstruction
Cracked Teeth
Endodontic Therapy
Enhance Your Smile
Teeth Whitening
Invisalign®
Invisalign Teen®
Lumineers®
CEREC®
Philips Zoom!
Veneers
Contact
Branchview Dental Care
Appointment Request
Post-Appointment Survey
Refer a Friend
(704) 795-1055 Schedule Now!
Call or Text Us!
(704) 795-1055
Share Article:
Search Blog:
Search
Chewing Gum: Fact and Fiction
St. Patrick's Day: Celtic pride, green shamrocks, and lucky charms! What happens if I don’t have my wisdom teeth removed?
Remember all the things your parents would tell you when you were growing up to scare you away from doing something? Like how lying might make your nose grow, misbehaving meant you wouldn’t get money from the tooth fairy, and swallowed chewing gum would build up in your stomach and stay there for years?
Maybe that last one stayed with you well beyond your teens, and occurred to you every time you accidentally (or purposely) swallowed a piece of gum. We don’t blame you. It’s a scary thought.
But is it true?
We hate to take the fun out of parental discipline, but swallowing a piece of chewing gum is pretty much like swallowing any other piece of food. It will move right through your digestive system with no danger of getting stuck for months, let alone seven years.
This doesn’t mean you should start swallowing all your gum from now on, but if it happens accidentally now and then, there’s no need to panic.
Another common gum myth is that sugar-free gum can help you lose weight. Although it is preferable to choose sugar-free gum over the extra-sweet variety, no studies have show that sugar-free gum will help you lose weight.
If you pop a piece of gum in your mouth after dinner to avoid dessert, it could help you avoid eating a few extra calories every day. But the consumption of sugar-free gum without any other effort will not help you shed pounds.
If you really enjoy chewing gum, we strongly encourage you to select sugarless gum, because it lowers your risk for cavities. Many brands of sugarless gum contain xylitol, a natural sweetener that can, in fact, help fight bacteria that cause cavities and rinse away plaque.
So if you can’t kick the gum habit altogether, sugar-free is definitely the way to go!
If you have any questions about chewing gum, feel free to contact Dr. Bryan Persinger, Kathryn Kruskamp, Leighton Kennedy, and Bradley Conway at our Concord office.
Tags:
Posted on March 20th, 2019
Posted in Uncategorized
Branchview Dental Care
(704) 795-1055 1020 Lee-Ann Dr NE, Concord, NC 28025
Website Powered by Sesame 24-7™ | Site Map | Back to Top
Appointments 7am - 7pm & on Saturdays
Contact Us!
textsms
call email