Anal Bleaching Guide 2019: How to Get a Bleached Anus
↓ Skip to Main Content
Home
Vaginal Whitening 101
DIY: Anal Bleaching at Home
Whitening for Males
#1 Choice: Our Amaira Review
Best Bleaching Kits
Divine Derriere Review
Epibright Review
Illuminatural 6i Review
Lakshma Maxxi Review
My Pink Wink Review
Pink Privates Review
RevitaPINK Review
South Beach Skin Solution Review
Blog
Anal Bleaching: How to get a Bleached Anus
2019 is the year of the ass – and I’m not talking about a Chinese donkey – I mean butts!
People always notice other people’s butts, usually without even knowing what their own looks like – unless you’re a bendy Cirque du Soleil gymnast or something.
These days it’s totally acceptable to pay super close attention to someone’s booty, and people try all types of mind-blowing tricks to get their asses “Nicki Minaj in Anaconda” fine.
This includes more than just your voluptuous badonk-a-donk – we’re talking deep ass. Think – real deep.
Contents
1 Here’s Everything you Need to Know Before Bleaching your Butthole
2 What is Anal Bleaching and Why Do People Do It?
3 Why Has it Gained Popularity So Quickly?
4 Is Anal Bleaching Safe?
5 How Does Whitening your Anus Work?
6 Salon Treatment or DIY – Which is Better?
7 What to Look for in Anal Bleaching Products & Where To Buy Top-Rated Brands Without Getting Ripped Off?
8 Answers to Commonly Asked Questions About These Products:
Specifically, anal bleaching.
It might sound crazy (and a little weird) but it’s no longer exclusive to the Kardashians of the globe anymore. Instead, whitening your asshole is entirely acceptable for us common folk too.
The question is – what do you need to know about anal bleaching BEFORE getting up on the table?
Here are some common questions new bleachers have before joining the bleachbutt club:
What is anal bleaching?
Is it safe?
How does it work?
Does it last long?
Can you do anal bleaching procedures at home?
Don’t worry – we’ve got all the answers to your curious questions AND we’ll tell you the best products to use so you don’t have a butt disaster.
But first, let’s figure out what anal bleaching is and why it’s all the rage these days.
Here’s the low-down (under).
Here’s Everything you Need to Know Before Bleaching your Butthole
Up until the last few years, anal bleaching was something that only porn stars and strippers were doing.
In the new millennium, porn has become part of mainstream pop culture. And along with it, the treatment to lighten that dark circle of skin around your anus.
While some spas offer anal lightening, it can be dangerous if the technician isn’t trained properly, and you can never guarantee the cleanliness of facilities.
Dirty spas and new practitioners who offer anus bleaching services can cause herpes, scarring, and even infection. (Yikes!)
Since the risks of getting your ass bleached in a spa are so high, the demand for anal whitening treatments is off the charts – and is predicted to grow even more this year.
Here are some of the best butt bleaching products that we have today. Let’s take a quick peek…
Amaira
Pink Privates
Our #1 Choice #2 Choice
Hydroquinone Free Hydroquinone Free
60 Day Returns 30 Day Returns
Simple Returns Process
full refund Complicated Returns Process
$10 restocking fee ++
Tingle Free Slight Tingling Sensation
Fastest Acting Slower Acting
Read Review
Now, that you have some idea of what these products might look like or provide you, let’s get back into what exactly is this whole treatment process. Here’s a closer look.
What is Anal Bleaching and Why Do People Do It?
In medical terms, “anal bleaching” is the treatment that lightens the skin around the anus. This medical procedure is done for cosmetic purposes, to whiten the color of the skin around the anal region.
The process can be performed in a salon or office by a medical professional or with topical creams that can be applied at home.
It’s pretty self-explanatory.
Anal bleaching is a beauty trend in which both men and women “bleach” the skin around their anus to create a lighter and more even skin tone.
Before you run off totally freaked out, it’s not as scary as it sounds.
Some anal bleaching treatments don’t even use bleach. For example, Kojic acid is used in many anus lightening products and is part of the natural rice fermentation process.
Using this anal whitening solution, which is also employed in both food and cosmetic products, is a natural way to change the color of your skin and get the job done for you.
Most people use topical creams because of the privacy that you get as well as the cheap price compared to cosmetic salon treatments.
Skin whitening and lightening treatments are often found in spas and salons, along with laser procedures. If you don’t have the cash to spend for a trip to the professionals, then home creams are your best bet to get the perfect booty. The results you get will vary depending on your skin color and the sensitivity of your skin.
People with darker skin may need to undergo several anal bleaching treatments to reach their desired skin tone.
Bum bleaching procedures have exploded in the past few years, as words like “manscaping” have become more mainstream. Both men and women are paying WAY more attention to their intimate areas.
With all the ass whitening going on in porn – many people are concerned with how they look “down there” during sex.
Anal bleaching is a safe and effective way to increase your confidence, and look great during sex – without any side effects (unlike scary surgery).
Unfortunately, facility treatments are often extremely expensive, and many people are not comfortable baring it all to a complete stranger atop a cold table in an unfamiliar place. This created the overwhelming demand for lightening treatments where people can take care of their naughty bits in the privacy and the comfort of their own houses.
Let’s have a closer look at other reasons why people are seeking this novel bum bleaching treatment.
Click below to read our personal review of Amaira Serum – see what we thought of this favorite anal bleaching cream brand when we tried it for ourselves.
CLICK HERE TO READ OUR #1 CHOICE: AMAIRA REVIEW
Why Has it Gained Popularity So Quickly?
Were it not for porn stars and celebrities adopting this anal whitening procedure, the odds are that this practice would not have come to the limelight.
The practice has since caused a surge in the number of women and men wanting to bleach their anus. Most people say it makes them feel cleaner and more confident during sex. Other people use it to maintain even skin tone when wearing G-strings, thongs, or bikinis at the beach. That’s why more and more ladies are choosing to get their vaginas bleached through whitening treatments and procedures.
In fact, wearing tight underwear or having poor skin care habits can INCREASE melanin – which makes your skin darker. Anal bleaching reverses this process to help you achieve a light and sparkly bum hole.
Whitening treatments for your intimate areas, such as the anus, vagina and nipple, used to be exclusively available only from cosmetic surgeons and specialty health spas. The truth is that cosmetic treatments for your intimate areas were all started by Hollywood trends and the rest is history. Since it has grown in popularity, many people are looking for ways to get the area around their anus lighter for personal reasons.
While not everyone wants to or is liberal enough to bare their bottom to another person, there are now ways they can do it in private and comfort without anyone knowing. The main thing is to follow the instructions of these anal bleaching products carefully as you do not want to end up with a skin irritation in such a sensitive area. It is quite understandable that you want to see results as fast as possible but you don’t want to risk your health in the process.
The word “bleach” sounds like it would be pretty harsh on your bum, but before you go dousing Clorox down in your nether region, let’s have a closer look at the safety of butt bleaching products.
Is Anal Bleaching Safe?
Whether you choose to undergo the whitening treatment in a beauty spa, a medical facility or at home, you need to pick the right product, as not all butt whitening treatments are safe.
And of course, pay close attention to all instructions to avoid skin irritation or chemical burns. Aint’ nobody got time for that!
First and foremost, avoid any treatment that contains hydroquinone.
While hydroquinone was a commonly prescribed agent used for lightening the skin, most physicians now have concerns about using any solution containing this topical agent for skin bleaching.
The use of hydroquinone in skin products is now banned by countries that are part of the European Union.
Even if it’s allowed in your country – play it safe. I mean, it’s your asshole! You’ve only got one, so don’t damage it using products with questionable ingredients.
In the U.S, hydroquinone has come under much scrutiny. It is recommended to only use skin lightening products that contain natural ingredients for bleaching intimate areas like the butthole, vagina, nipples, scrotum and penis.
Physicians are expressing concerns over the increased number of people using products that pack in harsh ingredients to achieve quicker results.
The side effects of these products include burning, ochronosis, scarring and increased risk of chronic conditions like cancer.
CLICK HERE TO READ OUR #1 CHOICE: AMAIRA REVIEW
Scary stuff, huh?
That’s why we’ve reviewed some of the top anal bleaching brands for you that DON’T have these risks.
Doing the treatment yourself is WAY safer since you are in complete control of the process and the whitening products you use.
You can test it by applying little bits at a time to see if it irritates your skin. Doing this from home means you don’t have to feel pressured to continue with the procedure if you don’t feel comfortable, as you might if you are in a salon.
While many people still think these processes are hard to do alone, they are not. It’s even safer and more effective than going to a spa for an butthole bleaching session.
And DEFINITELY preferable to going under the knife, which is often dangerous and just an expensive way to get a bleached ass hole.
Forget about the idea of scary surgery or embarrassing bare-it-all salon sessions.
Here’s how whitening your bum from home works and why most people are choosing home-treatments over expensive clinics or dangerous procedures.
How Does Whitening your Anus Work?
It’s important to find out how anal whitening products work, so you don’t waste your hard-earned cash on gel kits that don’t give you results.
Skin bleaching products work by reducing skin’s pigment, known as melanin, as it forms. So, as old cells die off and the new ones are produced, lighter skin tone is revealed.
You can speed up the lightening process even more by removing old and dead skin cells with exfoliating scrubs or loofahs.
Make sure you follow instructions carefully.
To help you understand the process, here are some general instructions for anal bleaching.
The 3 Step Process for Bleaching your Anus Safely:
1. Prepare the Area to be Lightened
First of all, you need to clean and dry the rectal area. At this stage, a loofah or an exfoliating scrub will help speed up the process by making sure any excess skin or matter is removed. When exfoliating the anus, BE GENTLE - you cannot apply ass bleaching creams to any broken skin.
2. Applying the Cream
To effectively bleach the butt, apply the cream externally and rub in until it’s absorbed. Rub in a gentle, circular motion and make sure everything is rubbed in thoroughly.
3. Know When to Stop Using the Product
As we mentioned earlier, creams formulated with natural ingredients are safe and highly recommended by dermatologists across the world - But - if you experience any side effect or if your skin is inflamed in the anal area, it is advised to discontinue its use. Once you reach your desired skin tone, that’s also when you should stop using the cream (to avoid making the skin even lighter).
CLICK HERE TO READ OUR #1 CHOICE: AMAIRA REVIEW
How Long Does it Take to See Results?
Interested in how long before you see any changes after you’ve applied the treatment on yourself?
We’ve gathered all the information to give you an average on how long you can expect your skin to lighten to the desired color, depending on your natural skin tone.
Remember, that these results may vary from person to person but this will give you a rough estimate on when you’ll see the actual results.
Here’s the ‘bleaching’ timeline for your anal region based on your natural skin color:
As you can see, the y-axis represents what your current skin tone is.
The x-axis represents the timeline of how long it will take on average for you to see or get the results you desire. What you will notice is it takes some time for the process to get started which is entirely reasonable for everyone.
But once the whitening process from the anal bleaching treatment starts to kick in, the changes will dramatically speed up. So there you have it, a handy guide that represents the expected results from your anal whitening journey.
Don’t believe me? Here’s some proof.
Before and After Results of Anal Bleaching
While we can’t show you the results from real buttholes, we CAN show you pictures of real people using the treatment on their skin.
As you can see, there is a very noticeable improvement on dark spots after using it for 4-6 weeks.
With continued use of a decent anal bleaching product, you can expect the results to be more visible over time and more consistent with your overall skin tone. It’s also important to note that when you’re using any anal bleaching product, it might not show results right away depending on your skin.
But once you start getting some results, you will start seeing more improvements quickly.
The reason for this is when you first start using whitening creams, it needs time to penetrate through the first tough layer of your skin. But once it goes through that, the rest is easy-peasy.
Want to find out which skin lightening treatment gave such fantastic results? We’ll share the answers with you shortly.
But first, let’s figure out if you should try lightening at home or in a salon for best results.
Salon Treatment or DIY – Which is Better?
Ok – so here’s question numero uno – Do you do a DIY at-home anal bleaching, or go to a spa?
Some people prefer to go to a spa or cosmetic surgeon for their anal bleaching services. These people usually are nervous about doing it themselves or have tons of disposable income to spend on expensive procedures.
Individuals who are more budget conscious, or are concerned about the training and cleanliness of outside facilities, prefer a safer and more efficient option.
At-home anal lightening is way less expensive and certainly more private than having a technician staring up your butthole.
The procedure is often quicker than going to a salon as well – since you don’t have some sales person trying to upsell maintenance products after you’re done. Most spas charge over $150 for the first treatment, and in most cases, you’ll need to book between five and seven treatments to get the desired results.
If butthole privacy or budget is a big issue for you, then you’re better off with an at-home treatment. If you do decide to try anal bleaching at home, it might be helpful to get assistance your first time. Ask your spouse or partner to help out if you’re not comfortable trying it yourself.
CLICK HERE TO READ OUR #1 CHOICE: AMAIRA REVIEW
For me, I prefer going with the “do it yourself” method. There is NO WAY I would have a doctor stare up my asshole and put acid on it. The embarrassment factor alone is enough to convince me to keep it private, which is why I’m glad we have the Internet in 2019!
Besides the risk factor of being caught by somebody you know, walking into an anal bleaching salon is pretty scary. I mean, I know cosmetic procedures are becoming more widely accepted by social standards, but I still wouldn’t want my friends, mom or even local grocers catching me walking into a place to get my butt whitened. It’s just not cool!
Doing it in the privacy of your home is by far the best option for me, and I’m sure there are plenty of others who agree. Finding the best products, as well as instructions and tutorials on how to use them is easier than ever. You don’t have to be embarrassed, or leave your house for that matter.
Just make sure you choose the RIGHT brand for your skin, and get it from somewhere you won’t get ripped off!
What to Look for in Anal Bleaching Products & Where To Buy Top-Rated Brands Without Getting Ripped Off?
There are many different butt bleaching products out there, and so many choices can be overwhelming! That’s why we’ve tried a bunch of the most popular products ourselves and created our personal bleaching cream and gel reviews.
This way, we can share with you what actually works and what doesn’t.
Let’s not take a chance when it comes to your health and safety.
Below is a comparison of two of the most popular anal bleaching products on the market we chose as the best ones after personally reviewing dozens of them.
Amaira
Pink Privates
Our #1 Choice #2 Choice
Hydroquinone Free Hydroquinone Free
60 Day Returns 30 Day Returns
Simple Returns Process
full refund Complicated Returns Process
$10 restocking fee ++
Tingle Free Slight Tingling Sensation
Fastest Acting Slower Acting
Read Review
Pink Privates was great for its lightening effects, but it didn’t seem to work as fast and left a weird tingling sensation in the butthole that could be kind of annoying.
Overall, we were super impressed with Amaira – they seem to genuinely care about their customers’ health and safety. The Amaira Skin Lightening Serum has great customer feedback, and they’re a company well known for producing safe and effective anal lightening products.
Not to mention, their delivery is free and reliable. This alone was enough to make me want to purchase a whole package of their products. Of course, nothing is perfect, so take a look at our Amaira reviews to see what we DIDN’T like as well. You’ll be shocked at what we found!
If you’re ready to lighten up your pucker hole from home, then look no further than Amaira’s Intimate Whitening Serum. It uses all natural ingredients, works quickly, and has a 100% satisfaction guarantee!
Answers to Commonly Asked Questions About These Products:
1. Avoid Hydroquinone at all Costs
The biggest thing we found, was that you should avoid any product with hydroquinone. We did our research to see if this ingredient was REALLY unsafe, and found that most brands with hydroquinone had terrible reviews and a lot of negative feedback.
Not only did people experience extreme skin irritation – but the products didn’t even work well! Not the treatment that you want if you are looking to get a bleached ass hole. There are far better options to do the whitening procedure safely and naturally.
This is surely an ingredient to be avoided at all cost.
2. Start with Realistic Expectations
Be real. If you have super dark skin, you cannot expect to have a shiny pink bumhole right away.
Using a formula with natural ingredients is WAY safer, but also takes a bit longer to achieve results than a product with harsh chemicals. Which is more important – quick results, or your long-term health?
3. Do your Homework & Try it Yourself
Anal bleaching products do require some testing.
Most of them are quite safe to use while some of them are a little bit risky so it’s important to do your homework first before slathering a cream all over your privates.
Out of all the creams and gels that we have tested, only one stood out to us as the best.
If you want to learn more about other ways that you can get a bleached ass hole then look no further as all the answers to your question is on this website. We spent so much time gathering information to be able to give you only factual data in the hopes that it helps you in your quest in getting the perfect body (or anus). We’ve all been insecure; it’s time to reduce those insecurities for good!
Home
All About Anal Bleaching Guide
Get in Touch with Us!
Affiliate Disclaimer
© 2019 Anal Bleaching Guide – The Best Way to Get a Bleached Asshole
↑