Collagen: What is it and what are its uses?
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Collagen: What is it and what are its uses?
Last updated	 Fri 16 June 2017	 Last updated	Fri 16 Jun 2017
By James McIntosh
Reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, APRN
Table of contents
Overview
Roles
Uses
Preventing collagen loss
Collagen is the most abundant protein in the human body, found in the bones, muscles, skin, and tendons.
It is the substance that holds the body together. Collagen forms a scaffold to provide strength and structure.
Endogenous collagen is natural collagen, synthesized by the body. Exogenous collagen is synthetic. It comes from an outside source, such as supplements.
Endogenous collagen has a number of important functions. Breakdown and depletion is linked to a number of health problems.
Exogenous collagen is used for medical and cosmetic purposes, including the repair of body tissues.
Fast facts on collagen
Here are some key points about collagen. More detail is in the main article.
Collagen occurs throughout the body, but especially in the skin, bones, and connective tissues.
Some types of collagen fibrils, gram-for-gram, are stronger than steel.
Collagen production declines with age and exposure to factors such as smoking and UV light.
Collagen can be used in collagen dressings, to attract new skin cells to wound sites.
Cosmetic lotions that claim to increase collagen levels are unlikely to do so, as collagen molecules are too large to be absorbed through the skin.
Overview
What is collagen?
Collagen has a sturdy structure. Gram-for-gram, some types are stronger than steel.
Collagen is a hard, insoluble, and fibrous protein that makes up one-third of the protein in the human body.
In most collagens, the molecules are packed together to form long, thin fibrils.
These act as supporting structures and anchor cells to each other. They give the skin strength and elasticity.
There are at least 16 different types of collagen, but 80 to 90 percent of them belong to types 1, 2, and 3. These different types have different structures and functions.
The collagens in the human body are strong and flexible.
Type 1 collagen fibrils are particularly capable of being stretched. Gram-for-gram, they are stronger than steel.
Roles
Roles: What does collagen do?
Collagen is secreted by various cells, but mainly by connective tissue cells.
It is found in the extracellular matrix. This is an intricate network of macromolecules that determines the physical properties of body tissues. A macromolecule is a molecule containing a large number of atoms.
With age, collagen weakens, leading to wrinkles and cartilage problems.
In the dermis, or the middle layer of skin, collagen helps form a fibrous network of cells called fibroblasts, upon which new cells can grow. It also plays a role in replacing and restoring dead skin cells.
Some collagens act as protective coverings for delicate organs in the body, such as the kidneys.
With age, the body produces less collagen. The structural integrity of the skin declines. Wrinkles form, and joint cartilage weakens.
Women experience a dramatic reduction in collagen synthesis after menopause.
By the age of 60 years, a considerable decline in collagen production is normal.
Uses
Uses: Medical and cosmetic
Collagen is resorbable. This means it can be broken down, converted, and absorbed back into the body. It can also be formed into compacted solids or lattice-like gels.
Its diverse range of functions and the fact that it is naturally occurring make it clinically versatile and suitable for various medical purposes.
Collagen for medical use can originate from humans, cows, pigs, or sheep.
Skin fillers
Collagen injections can improve the contours of the skin and fill out depressions.
Fillers that contain collagen can be used cosmetically to remove lines and wrinkles from the face. It can also improve scars, as long as these do not have a sharp edge.
These fillers are sourced from humans and cows. Skin tests should be done before using collagen from cows, to avoid aggravating any allergies.
Collagen can fill relatively superficial volumes. More extensive gaps are usually filled with substances such as fat, silicone, or implants.
Wound dressing
Collagen can help heal wounds by attracting new skin cells to the wound site. It promotes healing and provides a platform for new tissue growth.
Collagen dressings can help heal:
chronic wounds that do not respond to other treatment
wounds that expel bodily fluids such as urine or sweat
granulating wounds, on which different tissue grows
necrotic or rotting wounds
partial and full-thickness wounds
second-degree burns
sites of skin donation and skin grafts
Collagen dressings are not recommended for third-degree burns, wounds covered in dry eschar, or for patients who may be sensitive to products sourced from cows.
Guided tissue regeneration
Collagen-based membranes have been used in periodontal and implant therapy to promote the growth of specific types of cell.
In oral surgery, collagen barriers can prevent fast-growing cells around the gum from migrating to a wound in a tooth. This preserves a space where tooth cells have the chance to regenerate.
Collagen-based membranes can aid healing in these cases and they are resorbable, so this barrier does not need to be surgically removed after the main operation.
Vascular prosthetics
Collagen tissue grafts from donors have been used in peripheral nerve regeneration, in vascular prostheses, and in arterial reconstruction.
While collagen prostheses are compatible with the human body, some have been found to be thrombogenic, or likely to cause coagulation of the blood.
Treatment of osteoarthritis
Collagen supplements or formulations may help treat osteoarthritis.
A 2006 review found that supplements containing collagen helped decrease painful symptoms and improving joint function in people with osteoarthritis.
As the supplement was absorbed, collagen accumulated in the cartilage, and this helped to rebuild the extracellular matrix.
Not all studies have supported these findings, however.
Skin revitalization
Collagen creams are unlikely to work, as collagen molecules are too large to pass through the skin.
Many products containing collagen, including creams and powders, claim to revitalize the skin by increasing collagen levels within the body.
This is unlikely, however, as collagen molecules are too large to be absorbed through the skin.
Any benefit is probably due to the moisturizing effects of these products. They do not directly increase collagen.
Such treatments are also not classified as drugs, so any claims regarding their efficacy do not need to be scientifically proven. Caution is advised when using these products.
Preventing collagen loss
Preventing collagen loss
Laser therapy can help treat stretch marks, as it can stimulate the growth of collagen, elastin, and melanin.
A healthful diet can help the body produce collagen.
Nutrients that may support collagen formation include:
Proline: In egg whites, meat, cheese, soy, and cabbage.
Anthocyanidins: In blackberries, blueberries, cherries, and raspberries.
Vitamin C: In oranges, strawberries, peppers, and broccoli.
Copper: In shellfish, nuts, red meat, and some drinking water.
Vitamin A: Occurring in animal-derived foods and in plant foods as beta-carotene.
What damages collagen?
Some factors can deplete the levels of collagen within the body. Avoiding them could keep the skin healthy for longer.
High sugar consumption: A high-sugar diet increases the rate of glycation, a process where blood sugars attach to proteins to form new molecules called advanced glycation end products (AGEs).
AGEs damage nearby proteins and can make collagen dry, brittle, and weak.
Smoking: Many chemicals present in tobacco smoke damage both collagen and elastin in the skin.
Nicotine also narrows the blood vessels in the outer layers of the skin. This compromises skin health by reducing the delivery of nutrients and oxygen to the skin.
Sunlight: Ultraviolet rays in sunlight cause collagen to break down more rapidly, damaging collagen fibers and causing abnormal elastin to build up.
The UV rays in sunlight damage the collagen in the dermis, and the skin rebuilds incorrectly, forming wrinkles.
Autoimmune disorders: Some autoimmune disorders cause antibodies to target collagen.
Genetic changes can affect the extracellular matrix. The collagen that is produced can be lower, or it may be dysfunctional, mutated collagen.
The aging process causes collagen levels to deplete naturally over time. There is no way to prevent this.
Avoiding tobacco and excess sun exposure and following a healthful dietary and exercise regime can help reduce visible aging and protect collagen, keeping the skin, bones, muscles, and joints healthy for longer.
Related coverage
Natural antibiotic strips bacteria of their defenses New research finds that an antibiotic derived from the spined soldier bug is effective against Escherichia coli and many other drug-resistant bacteria. Read now
Scientists design 'smart' wound healing technique Researchers have engineered a new molecule that changes the way that materials interact with the body's tissues to drive wound healing. Read now
Ways to get healthier looking skin by boosting collagen levels Collagen is a protein that is found throughout the body. One of its functions is to help skin cells renew and repair themselves. Collagen intake can be increased through eating certain foods, such as citrus fruits. Topical creams with collagen are unlikely to work, as the molecules are too big to pass through the skin. Read now
Scars: Are they preventable? While many scars do not hamper everyday life, some cause life-long problems. Find out how scars form and why it is so difficult to prevent them. Read now
Can we heal wounds by printing skin? An innovative new technology has the potential to change the face of wound healing. Researchers have developed a bioprinter that can print skin. Read now
email email
print
share share
Dermatology
Cosmetic Medicine / Plastic Surgery Seniors / Aging
Additional information
Article last updated by Adam Felman on Fri 16 June 2017.
Visit our Dermatology category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Dermatology.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Collagen structure deciphered. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://web.mit.edu/mbuehler/www/research/Collagen/summary_PNAS_Aug15.pdf
Collagen trials for arthritis. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.arthritisresearchuk.org/arthritis-information/complementary-and-alternative-medicines/cam-report/complementary-medicines-for-rheumatoid-arthritis/collagen/trials-for-oa.aspx
Dale, L. Quit smoking. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy-lifestyle/quit-smoking/expert-answers/smoking/faq-20058153
Fibroblasts. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.fibroblast.org
Foods highest in proline. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://nutritiondata.self.com/foods-000095000000000000000.html
Frantz, C., Stewart, K., & Weaver, V. (2010). The extracellular matrix at a glance. Journal of cellular science, 123, 4195-4200. Retrieved from http://jcs.biologists.org/content/123/24/4195
Kadler, K.E., Holmes, D.F., Trotter, J., & J.A. Chapman. (1996, May 15). Collagen fibril formation. Biochemical journal, 316, 1, 1-11. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1217307/
Ibrahim, R. (2015, April 30). Collagen rich foods. Retrieved from http://www.livestrong.com/article/121952-collagen-rich-foods/
Lodish, H., Berk, A., Zipursky, S.L. (2000) Collagen: the fibrous proteins of the matrix. Molecular cellular biology, 22, 3. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21582/
Lohrey, J. (2013, August 16). Where is collagen found? Retrieved from http://www.livestrong.com/article/175321-where-is-collagen-found/
Ngan, V. (2004). Collagen replacement therapy. Retrieved from http://www.dermnetnz.org/topics/collagen-replacement-therapy/
Ramshaw, J., Vaughan, P., & Werkmeister, J. (2001, February). Applications of collagen in medical devices. Biomedical engineering: Applications, basis and communications, 13, 1, 14-26. Retrieved from http://www.worldscientific.com/doi/pdf/10.4015/S1016237201000042
Ricard-Blum, S. (2011, January). The collagen family. Cold spring harbor perspectives in biology, 3, 1. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3003457/
Rodella, L., Favero, G., & Labanca, M. (2011, June). Biomaterials in maxillofacial surgery: membranes and grafts. International journal of biomedical science, 7, 2, 81-88. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3614823/
Ulrich, P., & Cerami, A. (2001). Protein glycation, diabetes, and aging, Recent progress in hormone research, 56, 1-21. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11237208
Varani, J., Dame, M., Rittie, L., Fligiel, S., Kang, S., Fisher, G., & Voorhees, J. (2006, June). Decreased collagen production in chronologically aged skin. The American journal of pathology, 168, 6, 1861-1868. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1606623/
What is photoaging? (2012, January 12). Retrieved from http://www.skincancer.org/healthy-lifestyle/anti-aging/what-is-photoaging
Yoshida, H., Sasajima, T., Goh, K., Inaba, M., Otani, N., & Kubo, Y. (1996, April). Early results of a reinforced biosynthetic ovine collagen vascular prosthesis for small arterial reconstruction. Surgery today, 26, 4, 262-266. Retrieved from https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2FBF00311585#page-1
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
McIntosh, James. "Collagen: What is it and what are its uses?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 16 Jun. 2017. Web.
23 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/262881.php>
APA
McIntosh, J. (2017, June 16). "Collagen: What is it and what are its uses?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/262881.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Study identifies a hormone that may hinder weight loss
A recent mouse study uncovers a new hormonal player in the body's metabolic response to weight loss. It appears to have a similar role to leptin.
Using stem cells to combat osteoarthritis
Osteoarthritis is a common condition without a cure. A recent small-scale pilot study concludes that stem cell therapies could offer some hope.
Study finds that many people diagnosed with MS do not have the condition
A new study suggests that almost 20 percent of people who receive a diagnosis for multiple sclerosis do not have the chronic disease.
Replacing red meat with plant protein reduces heart disease risk
A study of data from 36 trials suggests that eating plant-based proteins, such as nuts, instead of red meat may help reduce cardiovascular disease risk.
Increased muscle power may prolong life
A first-of-its-kind study finds that increased muscle power, rather than muscle strength, can significantly prolong life for seniors.
Popular in: Dermatology
Hair growth: 6 home remedies
What causes patches of discolored skin?
What causes tongue bumps?
What can cause a bump on the lip?
What causes an underarm rash?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/262881.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);