WORLD AIDS DAY | WHISTLING BEAUTIFUL
Skip to content
View menu
View sidebar
WHISTLING BEAUTIFUL
Always Whistling Beautiful
Home
About
FEATURE
FICTION
MONEY
WHISTLING READS
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 882 other followers
Follow
Follow ME
View Whistling Beautiful’s profile on Facebook
View Lolaoflife’s profile on Twitter
View Whistling_beautiful’s profile on Instagram
View Pin with Whistling Beautiful’s profile on Pinterest
Follow me on Facebook
Follow me on Facebook
1 Dec 2017 1 Dec 2017 by Whistlingbeautiful
WORLD AIDS DAY
Feature, health
aids, awareness, hiv
1 Comment
Its been 34 years after the first case of HIV was diagnosed and there is no cure.
In the world today about 37.8 million people are living with the disease.
Sub Saharan Africa has the largest amount of people living with AIDS which is estimated to be amount 29.4 million people.
It has reduced life expectancy at a horrendous rate.
HIV
It is the Human Immunodeficiency Virus. It is found in humans. It multiplies in any environment and when it enters the body, it weakens the system and remains there forever, this retrovirus is the cause of AIDS. HIV attacks the white blood cells which recognize bacteria in the body.
AIDS is called Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. It is a disease that is acquired which does a lot of harm to the immune system by wasting it after making it very weak.
HIV infection occurs through
1.Blood.
2 Semen and Vaginal Fluids.
3.Breast Milk
4.Amniotic Fluids
5. Cerebrospinal Fluids
The virus needs a large concentration to cause infection.
High Risk Fluids: Blood, semen, Vaginal Fluids, Menstrual Blood, Breast Milk
No Risk: Sweat, Saliva, Tears, Skin Oil, Urine
No Exchange: Cerebrospinal Fluids, Amniotic Fluids.
It can be transmitted
Through an infected person having unprotected sex.
Blood transfusion of infected blood
Infection from mother to child during pregnancy, delivery and breastfeeding
HIV is not transmitted
Shaking hands, hugging, kissing
Sharing technological equipment
Sharing utensils
Sharing bathrooms
Sneezing or coughing
Working with a HIV patient
Know your Status.
Always play safe.
INFO: Paramjit Sharma: Basic Information on HIV AIDS
Advertisements
Whistling Shares
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
Pinterest
WhatsApp
More
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Post navigation
← Previous Post BE BOLD….Take bolder steps in December
Next Post → ‘I AM NOT READY FOR A RELATIONSHIP’- HE SAYS
One Comment
Weyinmi 5 Dec 2017 at 10:53 am
Thank yor for sharing this info
LikeLike
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (Address never made public)
Name
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: