Urine Therapy For Weight Loss
Follow Us:
Give fitness tips in the Stories format!
Urine Therapy For Weight Loss
Urine therapy for weight loss is a proven technique, don't believe me? Read the following article to know more.
Rujuta Borkar
Last Updated: Apr 9, 2018
What if I told you that urine therapy for weight loss is a proven technique and that it has been used for ages now? Have you cringed your face yet? And what about crinkling your nose? And are you done with the resolute sentences of "No! Never!"... Done? After you have gotten over your initial reaction of disgust, I suggest you sit down and read why the use of urine therapy has proved to yield such great results for weight loss. And even though you would want to discard this theory as an instinct, maybe after you've read about its advantages and how urine therapy and weight loss are connected, you'll change your mind.
What is Urine Therapy
It is a natural feeling for anyone to be disgusted with the thought of consuming their own urine, but let us get some facts right.
Urine is not a waste product of our bodies, in the way that it has toxins. Urine has 95% water, 2.5% urea and the remaining 2.5% is an amalgamation of hormones, enzymes, salts, and minerals. It is therefore a non-toxic byproduct of the blood that the body does not require at that time and therefore it is discarded.
When urine is consumed, it does not go directly into the bloodstream but makes its way into the digestive system where a sorting of all the ingredients is done. After which, the toxins are discarded and the important ingredients are retained for further use. In this way the urine is recycled over and over again and that leads to a more purified blood stream. The toxins in the urine, actually help by causing the intestine to flush themselves out and discarding it of any waste.
How to Use Urine Therapy
There is a procedure involved in how to go about urine therapy. Here is how:
Morning urine is the best form of urine to consume.
When you start urinating, let the first few seconds of urine pass. This is impure urine that won't help.
When this urine passes and you reach the middle stream, pause for sometime and take a cup.
Now urinate into the cup, but stop once the end stream of the urine starts.
This has no ingredients which are useful for your body.
The urine that has been collected is the best urine for consumption.
The urine that is freshly collected is best consumed within 15 minutes. After 15 minutes it begins to grow bacteria and can thus be harmful. Before that the urine is sterile and clean.
Urine should be consumed by sipping it like tea. Do not drink it in one go.
The food that you have, has a direct effect on your urine odor as well as the color. The more pungent, oily, and spicy food that you consume, your urine will be that much more smellier and stronger. But if your diet consists mainly of vegetables and fruits, then your urine will be clearer (less yellow) and taste like water.
Urine Therapy and Weight Loss
The success of urine therapy for weight control has been proven over and over again. As we know, the general function of urine is to purify the bloodstream. Once this process of blood purification starts, a host of other problems begin to cure by themselves. It has been seen that the cleaner and more toxin-free the blood stream is, the healthier the person will be. That is why, we say that exercises lead to improved blood circulation and thereby weight loss. Other problems that the body faces like hormonal imbalance, high cholesterol and accumulation of fat, along with several other problems that are either directly or indirectly related to weight gain, will start to get cured and therefore will lead to the shedding of excess weight. In this manner urine therapy for weight loss has proved to be beneficial.
Other Advantages
Urine can be used both internally and externally.
Urine therapy strengthens the immune system of the body and thereby prevents the occurrence of the common cold, coughs, flu, and infection.
It is helpful in treating chronic fatigue syndrome and anemia.
It cures all urinary diseases as well as jaundice, diabetes, asthma, polio, and TB.
Gargling with urine helps to clear a sore throat and gum problems.
When urine is rubbed on the skin, it can make the skin glow.
It also works as a natural moisturizer by opening the pores of the skin and absorbing the moisture better.
Its anti-bacterial and anti-viral properties are extraordinary.
It is a natural diuretic.
It helps in curing skin diseases like eczema, psoriasis, and healing wounds better and faster.
It helps in curing swelling, edema, and glaucoma.
It also heals patients suffering from epilepsy and meningitis problems.
It has been known to have anticancer properties.
It helps in curing impotence in men.
It prevents heart attacks by dissolving the blood clots and unblocking the coronary arteries.
Now that you know what the several benefits of urine therapy are and how urine therapy can be used for weight loss, are you not willing to at least give it a try? For the sake of your health? It is really simple and strange... but, it works.
Share This
Is it Safe to Drink Your Urine?
List of Slogans About Health
8 Yoga Symbols and Their Meanings
How to Run Faster and Longer
Gym Equipment Names
Ideal Body Measurements for Women
Rowing Machine Benefits
Gym Workouts for Women
Facial Exercises for Wrinkles
Health Benefits of Hula Hooping
Lower Back Exercises for Men
How to Tone the Arms in 2 Weeks
Arm Exercises for Women to do at Home
Squats for Women
Exercises to Strengthen Hamstrings
Benefits of Jogging
How to Improve Flexibility
Jumping Rope Benefits
How to Lose Weight Naturally at Home
Hula Hoop Exercise Routines
Warm-up Exercises Before Workout
Aerobic Vs. Anaerobic Exercise
Leg Exercises Without Weights
Unique Fitness Challenge Team Name Ideas
Tips for Treadmill Repair
Zumba Shoes
Best Running Songs
How to Learn Swimming on Your Own
Different Types of Exercise
Facial Exercises for Men
Spinning Class Benefits
Importance of Exercise
©2019. All rights reserved.
About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service