The Health Benefits of Ginger | Tips | GRAVOL™
Toggle navigation
Home
Products
GravolTM
Quick Dissolve Chewable
Liquid Gel Capsules
Immediate Release & Long Acting Caplets
Easy to Swallow Tablets
Comfort-Shaped Suppositories
GravolTM Kids
Quick Dissolve Chewable
Liquid
Comfort Shaped Suppositories
GravolTM Ginger
Tablets
Chewable Lozenges
Liquid Gel Capsules
Multi-symptom
Cold & Fever
Nighttime
See All Products
Symptoms
Nausea
Vomiting
Dizziness
Upset Stomach
Headache
Aches and pains
Fever
Cold
Jet Lag
Occasional Sleeplessness
Tips
Travel
How to avoid motion sickness when travelling by plane
How to avoid seasickness on a boat
How to avoid motion sickness when travelling by car, bus or train
How to stay healthy while travelling abroad
Easy healthy eating tips for travellers
Health & Wellness
Tips on Giving Medication to Children
8 ways to reduce stress now
Getting to know ginger
FAQs
Frequently asked questions
Pregnancy FAQs
For Healthcare Professionals
Proudly Canadian
Français
Search:
Home
/
Tips
/
Health & Wellness
/
Getting to know ginger
Getting to know ginger
From savoury dishes and sweet desserts to hot teas and cold beverages, ginger is trending right now! This is likely due to its unique, versatile flavour and long list of potential health benefits.
Despite the recent surge in popularity, ginger is by no means new – especially when it comes to managing nausea. A “go-to” traditional health remedy for thousands of years, ginger has been used in herbal medicine to treat everything from dyspepsia and flatulent colic, to colds and fever.
Where does ginger come from?
So, where does this special remedy come from? Ginger (Zingiber Officinale) is from the roots and shoots of the ginger plant. The plants thrive in warmer climates such as China, India, Africa, and the Caribbean.
How does ginger help with nausea?
The main compounds of ginger are the aromatic essential oils, anti-oxidants, and the pungent oleo-resin. These active aromatic or pungent compounds are known as gingerols, shogaols, and zingerone, and they’re responsible for most of the medicinal properties of ginger. Gingerol has been clinically proven to help prevent nausea and vomiting associated with motion sickness.
Benefits of GRAVOLTM Ginger
If you’re taking ginger to help with nausea or upset stomach, GRAVOLTM Ginger products can help ensure you’re getting exactly the amount you need.
With other ginger formats (teas, ginger ale, candies, etc.), you can’t be sure how much ginger is included. With GRAVOLTM Ginger, you have the peace of mind knowing each dose contains 20 mg of organic ginger extract (zingiber officinale) (root & rhizome); equivalent to 340 mg of dried ginger root – the ideal dosage of ginger for nausea prevention and relief.
So there you have it, you can officially consider yourself a ginger guru now. Want more helpful health tips? Check out our Health & Wellness tips section.
Featured Products
Related Articles
Occasional Sleeplessness
Whether it’s a result of stress, travel or illness – having trouble getting a good night’s sleep is common.
Cold
Sore throat, runny nose, sneezing, headache, fever – the list goes on.
Tips on Giving Medication to Children
When your child has nausea, vomiting, or dizziness due to motion sickness, all you want is for them to feel better. Fast. Getting your child to take their medicine, however, can take a bit of convincing.
Contact Us
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
© 2019 Gravol. All rights reserved
Church & Dwight Canada Inc., uses cookies and other technologies on our site so that we, and our media agencies can understand how you use our site and provide you with ads tailored to your interests across the Internet. You may also visit the AdChoices consumer opt-out page to learn more about interest based advertising and manage your preferences for interest based advertising by any of the participating companies listed on the tool.
Visitors can opt out of Google's use of cookies by visiting Google's Ads Settings . You can also opt out of a third-party vendor's use of cookies by visiting the Network Advertising Initiative opt-out page. More information on requirements can be found here .
I understand