Nine Cancer Cures That The Medical Mafia Doesn’t Want You To Know About | Great Life and more…
Compartir en Facebook
Nine Cancer Cures That The Medical Mafia Doesn’t Want You To Know About
Like us
Nine Cancer Cures That The Medical Mafia Doesn’t Want You To Know About
3 years
4028 Views
Share on Facebook
Comparte en Facebook
Comparte en Twitter
Are you health-conscious? If yes, good for you. If your health is not a priority, you are definitely doing it wrong. There is nothing wrong with curing a disease with food.Is it the things you read in The Journal of the American Medical Association?
The FDA also likes to label organic products claiming that food cannot cure diseases and disorders.
Of course, this is keeping you from trusting nature. Synthetic medications are not the way to improve overall health. They only provide side-effects and profit, and the FDA gets some of the millions to approve them.
Why would you sell your soul to the Medical Mafia? They only fake their struggle against cancer and cause more cancer deaths than survivals. Take the matter in your own hands, and see what works best for your health.
Cancer is the plague of modern era, and in this article we give you the top 9 cures for cancer. These have saved so many lives and families. The Medical-Industrial Complex does not have to know about this.
1. Turmeric
Turmeric powder in the US is packed with lead and microbes. So, instead of healing yourself, you will end up with more heavy metal toxins and bacteria in your system. Do not buy the fake, cheap product. Seek for organic turmeric tincture with curcumin, and build up a strong immune system.
2. Hemp seed oil
It is obtained from cold-pressed seeds of the hemp plant (Cannabis sativa). The oil is legally sold in healthy food stores in the US. It is high in essential fatty acids, and does not contain any THC. The appreciated member of the achene family of fruits is considered to be a mighty ‘superfood,’ thanks to its powerful ratio of omega-3 and omega-6 fats.
It contains 5% of pure GLA, which is even more than the content found in spirulina. Hemp seed oil is added in elixirs and healing teas to enhance the anti-mutagenic action and prevent genetic damage induced by free radicals or radiation. And it is not something you see at the ‘pink’ ribbon march and the ‘walk for the cure.’
3. Reishi mushrooms
Reishi mushrooms are not added to salads in restaurants or sold in conventional groceries. Go to the nearest healthy food store and ask for supplements and dried powders. They usually come in capsules. People from the Far East have used it over two millennia in the treatment of numerous ailments.
Chinese like to call them the ‘Mushrooms of Immortality.’ Reishi mushrooms should be used for long time, and they are associated with a decreased blood pressure, optimal nerve function and stamina.
Use reishi mushrooms to treat cancer and diabetes, but be careful who you share this with, because someone may report you. Get more interested in important polysaccharides and saponins to decrease cell proliferation in lung cancer patients. Your oncologist will not like this for sure.
4. Melatonin
You can fight free radicals while sleeping. Can you imagine that? About 50 years ago, scientists revealed that melatonin is a functionally diverse molecule that provides strong antioxidant properties.
Countless number of studies has confirmed its role in the body’s defense against free radical damage, because melatonin gas 200% more antioxidant potential than vitamin E. Melatonin affects oxidative damage directly, and it has shown to be superior to vitamins E and C, and glutathione.
It helps in the treatment of cardiovascular disease and even cancer. Melatonin is naturally produced in the brain, but diabetics, borderline diabetics or people older than 55 require supplements. You can consult your naturopath.
5. Real spring water with no fluoride added (average pH value of 8.8!)
Cancer patients need to get their pH values on the alkaline side of the scale. Nutritionists recommend an increased intake of raw and organic fruits and veggies. Keep in mind that you have to drink lots of water, but make sure it is real spring water, since it is the best water for your alkaline body.
6. Baking soda
It is cheap and available in every store. Stir a teaspoon of baking soda into a glass of water, and drink the solution to create an alkaline environment in your body. Cancer cells cannot survive in an alkaline body. You will never hear from your oncologist or MD about the power of baking soda. The promotion of baking soda and the secret formula of killing cancer will not bring any profit to the Medical Mafia.
7. Organic garlic cloves
Organic garlic has 200 active components, and each of these will beat pathogens down. Mutated cells use ‘ornithine decarboxylase,’ a special enzyme, to multiply. But, you can block this terrible enzyme, and cut of cancer’s supply. Could it be any easier? Now you can fight cancer naturally.
Apricot seeds will not kill you, although it is a controversy that their ‘cyanide’ is toxic. But, so many people have used these seeds to destroy their cancer, and not a single patient experienced negative effects. The ‘cyanide’ will kill your cancer, not you. Do not be fooled by the medical mafia!
9. Cannabis sativa
It was since 2700 BC that the ‘Father of Chinese Medicine’ discovered the healing potential of marijuana. It was used by ancient Egyptians, Persians and Greeks. But, it is classified as a Schedule I narcotic, and patients cannot wait for it to be legalized in the aspect of medical healing.8. Apricot seed kernels
Sources for this article include:
http://www.naturalnews.com
http://www.alternative-cancer-care.com
http://www.hemptons.co.za
http://www.lef.org
Comparte en Facebook
Comparte en Twitter
Comments
comments
loading...
Share on Facebook
Related
Put These 2 Ingredients in Your Coffee. After Just 2 Sips, Your Stomach Fat Will Disappear and Your Metabolism...
Very Easy Ways To Use Apple cider Vinegar for Kidney Stones!
With This Surprisingly Recipe Get Rid of Sagging Eyelids in 2 Minutes!
Pepsi Admits That Its Aquafina Bottled Water Is Just Tap Water, Coca-Cola’s Dasani Is Next
How To Make Amazing Homemade Mozzarella in 30 Minutes
Reason Why Bacon And Sausages Are As Equally Dangerous As Cigarettes!
VIDEO: Here’s why you should never shave your pubic hair
What Causes Red Birthmarks?
SIMPLE WAYS TO DETOX YOUR BODY
Comments
CARROTS: THE NATURAL FOOD TO REMOVE COUGH AND PHLEGM FROM YOUR LUNGS (RECIPE INCLUDED)
3 Very Simple Homemade Tips To Brighten Up Your Dark Underarms At Home
Best Way to Take Turmeric
He Put 4 Tomato Slices On A Bucket Of Dirt. 12 Days Later? Unbelievable!
HERE IS HOW TO TREAT CRACKED LIPS!
Turmeric Citrus Drink
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR CHANNEL NOW!
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR CHANNEL NOW!
We recommend these articles
loading...
Search for:
Recent Posts
7 Home Remedies to Help You Lose Belly Fat
What your nails say about your health
Don’t suffer through the pain of shingles. Try one of these 6+ home remedies
You can do so much more with coffee other than drink it. Here are 6 other things to do with this common beverage
Top 10 Home Remedies To Lose Belly Weight Fat Without Exercise
Recent Comments
Archives
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
November 2017
September 2017
August 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
Categories
Belleza
Consejos
Curiosidades
Salud
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Great Life and More
©Great Life and more… | Developed in Wordpress by Temaslab
loading...
Inline
"
Inline
"