5 Things You Need to Remember Before Taking a Collagen Supplement | 1mhealthtips.com
Sign in
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
DMCA Policy
Sign in
Welcome!Log into your account
your username
your password
Forgot your password?
Password recovery
Recover your password
your email
Search
Thursday, April 25, 2019
Sign in / Join
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
DMCA Policy
Sign in
Welcome! Log into your account
your username
your password
Forgot your password? Get help
Password recovery
Recover your password
your email
A password will be e-mailed to you.
1mhealthtips.com
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
DMCA Policy
Home Daily Tips 5 Things You Need to Remember Before Taking a Collagen Supplement
Daily Tips
5 Things You Need to Remember Before Taking a Collagen Supplement
By
Georgia Landry
-
Aug 3, 2018
2237
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Pinterest
Linkedin
https://www.1mhealthtips.com/5-things-you-need-to-remember-before-taking-a-collagen-supplement/
Collagen is simply protein which promotes elasticity in your skin. Also, you can find it in your nails and hair, making it one of the most common proteins in the body.
It is made up of few different amino acids, which are essentially protein building blocks that help to strengthen and create everything from bones to your skin. Your body makes its own collagen, but it is not always in amount that are abundant enough to fight wrinkles and other signs of aging.
This is where collagen supplements come into play.
1. Collagen’s Beauty Benefits are Sketchier
In terms of collagen supplements that are offering hair and skin benefits, Adam Friedman, MD, an associate professor of dermatology at George Washington University, stated, “No way.”
“Collagen is going to be digested in the GI tract because it is not made to survive the massive pH changes in your gut”, according to Adam Friedman.
There is a study to back him up on that. A study in 2002, reported your gut’s digestive acids and enzymes break down hydrolyzed collagen, which is the type present in most powders. But, this research also found type-II (UC-II) collagen may be able to go through your gut without losing its chemical structure.
Of course, we are still studying about the human gut. More research has associated some collagen peptides to healthier skin and reduced skin wrinkles, therefore, it is possible some new researc will explain the anecdotal evidence associating collagen powders to hair and nail benefits. But for now, there are many more questions than answers.
2. Collagen Supplements Can Help in Strengthening Your Gut
There is some evidence that certain amino acids present in collagen, in particular, one known as glycine, may aid digestion and reduce GI inflammation. But, the evidence is mixed. Most of it does not involve collagen powders or supplements, but, studied specific amino acids in a lab setting.
3. The Most-Complete Research Focuses on Joint Health
Studies have associated collagen supplementation with reduced symptoms of arthritis. In a study in 2009, the International Journal of Medical Sciences, four out of five osteoarthritis patients who took a daily 40 mg dose of undenatured type-II collagen (“UC-II”)saw their pain drop by an average of 26%. (Unlike the type-I collagen, mentioned above, type-II collagen is taken from chicken cartilage)
4. There are Many Types of Collagen
There are more than a dozen types of collagen, that is each composed of various amino acids or “peptides”. Different types form tendons and skin as opposed to cartilage.
Determining which may help your health has proved tricky. Also, supplements that contains collagen vary a ton.
In most cases, if you are purchasing collagen peptides powder, you are buying “hydrolyzed” type-I collagen that has been taken from animal bones or hides, or fish scales. Hydrolyzed means that the amino acid chains have been broken down into smaller units, and this is a process that allows it to dissolve in both cold and hot liquids.
This type of collagen is incredibly popular because you to add it to everything from soups to hot coffee, smoothies and cold brew. Also, it contains a protein punch, with a 2-scoop serving of most collagen peptides with approximately 18 grams.
5. The FDA Does Not Regulate These Supplements
The Food & Drug Administration U.S., does not monitor collagen powders for efficacy or safety unless a manufacturer claims its supplement can cure disease, or people get sick and something goes wrong, as in the case with any supplement. For this reason, it is critical to do a little study before stocking up.
Sources:
Good Housekeeping
Women’s Health
Recommended Articles:
1. 7 Foods That Naturally Boost Collagen in Your Body
2. What Happens to Your Body When You Add Lemon Peel in Your Meals?
3. 9 Foods That Naturally Remove Toxins from Your Body
TAGS
benefits of collagen
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Pinterest
Linkedin
Previous articleRaspberry Leaf Tea: For Boosting Fertility , Heart Health and More
Next article7 All-Natural Skin Moisturizer You Can Find in the Kitchen
Georgia Landry
LEAVE A REPLY Cancel reply
Log in to leave a comment
STAY CONNECTED
36,569FansLike
136FollowersFollow
145FollowersFollow
MORE HEALTH NEWS
Three Effective Outdoor Workouts that are Better than Running
Fitness Harris Thompson - Sep 19, 2016
If You are Hearing This Noise, It May Signal High Blood Pressure
Daily Tips Jan 16, 2019
Health Benefits of Drinking Hibiscus Tea
Natural Remedies Jan 28, 2016
7 Beauty Hacks Using Baby Powder
Beauty Jan 5, 2018
8 Foods High in Beta-Carotene
Diet Jun 22, 2017
Eleven Habits of Happy People
Daily Tips Sep 2, 2016
Core Workouts for Women that Burn Fat Fast
Fitness Aug 10, 2016
What You Should Eat to Fight Diabetes
Diet Apr 28, 2016
3 Quick and Easy Home Remedies for Dandruff
Beauty Jan 7, 2018
Watermelon Rinds: Its Health Benefits and How to Cook Them
Healthy Food Feb 22, 2018
POPULAR POSTS
Japanese Morning Diet: A Fast and Effective Way to Lose Weight
Diet Oct 12, 2018
5 Foods That Increase Your Breast Cancer Risk (and 5 Foods...
Healthy Food Jun 22, 2018
Turn Your Grey Hair Back To Black With These Natural Remedies
Beauty Oct 5, 2016
POPULAR CATEGORY
Daily Tips518
Healthy Food456
Beauty289
Natural Remedies284
Diet199
Fitness128
Videos1
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
DMCA Policy
Copyright © 2018. All Rights Reserved.
'); var formated_str = arr_splits[i].replace(/\surl\(\'(?!data\:)/gi, function regex_function(str) { return ' url(\'' + dir_path + '/' + str.replace(/url\(\'/gi, '').replace(/^\s+|\s+$/gm,''); }); splited_css += ""; } var td_theme_css = jQuery('link#td-theme-css'); if (td_theme_css.length) { td_theme_css.after(splited_css); } } }); } })();
Edit with Live CSS