Why You Should Avoid Bleaching Your Skin - Nigerian Infopedia
About us
Contact us
Advertise With Us
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Information
Business
Travel
Companies
Jobs
News
Sports
Blogpedia
Entertainment
Music/Lyrics
Events
Techpedia
Education
Health
Single&Married
Q&A
More
Opinion
Why You Should Avoid Bleaching Your Skin
Chizoba
Comments
Share
Tweet
Share
0 Shares
Why You Should Avoid Bleaching Your Skin
Most men and women who use skin lightening creams are not often aware of the risks associated in using them. They often forget that all the benefits it brings are not usually permanent and have its side effect.
Skin cancer, thinning, acne are just some of the potential hazards caused by bleaching creams. Let me use this opportunity to say that most of these products that promises fairer skin colour contains harmful and dangerous chemicals that causes alteration to your already natural skin colour and are harmful to your health.
The idea of having a fair-skin within the African scenario has become so overwhelming that every almost every dark guy or lady has turned white, just to be like the person drawn at the packets of such products. Funny enough, these products ranging from whitening or toning creams, lotions and soaps still grace the shelves of stores, shops and beauty salons while government do nothing to curb this secret killing products.
There are various methods used to lighten the skin, which includes skin bleaching, the use of skin lightening creams, soaps, pills, laser treatments and even surgery. You could still remember the popular late “king of pop”, Michael Jackson. He applied all these methods and it is common knowledge that he suffered physical problems and had to undergo surgery upon surgery until he died. His case should serve as a lesson to all who are bleaching or intends to carry out these kinds of alteration on their skin.
Reasons Why You Should Stop Using Bleaching Creams
According to desiblitz.com, below are the chemicals that cause harm which are present in skin lightening products
ALSO READ Special Diets and Meals for Different Categories of People
1. Hydroquinone – The most common bleaching ingredient used in skin lightening products and is also found in film developing products. It is used in cosmetics, hair dyes, and medical preparations. Because it is considered a possible carcinogen (a substance that encourages cells to develop cancer) and has risks of causing respiratory issues, it is banned for use in cosmetics in the UK , EU, Japan and Canada, however, it is still allowed in the U.S.
2. Mercury – Many skin lightening creams have this chemical in them usually in the form of Mercury Chloride and Ammoniated Mercury, which is a carcinogenic. Toxic levels of mercury can lead to mercury poisoning which causes neurological and kidney damage, and may also lead to psychiatric disorders. In addition, it can lead to severe birth defects.
3. Alpha Hydroxy Acids – Commonly found in facial chemical peels, these are not ideal to be used without professional guidance. These should not be in anything you use at home regularly.
4. Arsenic – This is immediately thought of as “poison,” which is exactly what it is. Some skin lighteners do contain this as an ingredient.
All these chemicals are so dangerous especially the first Hydroquinone and mercury because they cause loss of hair, skin pigmentation and makes one age fast when he or she is exposed to heavy sunlight.
My final advice to all, especially the ladies is to avoid using bleaching creams, read the ingredients used in producing creams and soaps very carefully before purchasing them and eat more fruits if you want to improve skin colour.
ALSO READ Health Benefits of Olives and Olive Oil
Loading...
Share
Tweet
Share
0 Shares
Related Posts
Why Dental Hygiene Affects your Health
Microwave Bleaching Among Nigerians
Reasons Why You Should End Smoking Habits
Dangerous Places in Lagos: Why You Should Avoid Such Places in the Night
Health Reasons Why Breakfast Is The Most Important Meal Of The Day: Top 9
Foods That Quicken The Ageing Process
Why You Should Advertise Your Business on Nigerian Infopedia, Click For More Information
← Previous Post
Next Post →
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Please enable javascript in order to be allowed to comment
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
You Will Love These Posts
Davido’s Father: Net Worth of Dr Deji Adeleke (Picture)
How to Obtain and Register for Nigerian Idol + Registration Form
Ancient Wonders Of The World
Top 11 Inventors Of African Descent
Top 10 Fastest Rappers in Nigeria Today (2019)
Don Jazzy’s Biography & Net Worth 2018 (Current)
Best Music Producers In Nigeria: Top 5
Phyno’s Biography: What You Need To Know About Phyno
Top 5 Popular Eligible Bachelors in Nigeria’s Music Industry
Biography of Muhammadu Buhari
Top 10 Most Successful Football Clubs in Europe to Have Won the Champions League more than Once
Forbes Richest Football Clubs in the World 2018: Top 20
10 Richest Kings in Nigeria 2019 & Net Worth
Check out Ini Edo’s new look
Nollywood Actress Chika Ike Loses Her Legs
Health & Relationship
Healthy Lifestyle that Eliminates Disease In the Body
8 Early Warning Signs of Lung Cancer You Should Not Ignore
How To Understand Your Cycle Days.
Amazing Health Benefits of Raw Onions
Prostrate in Men: A Must Read For All Men
Things Your Nails Reveal About Your Health
How To Avoid Mistakes Made By Newly Weds
SYMPTOMS OF THE HEART ATTACK TO LOOK OUT FOR
Best Gyms and Fitness Centers in Lagos: Addresses + Contact Details
Common Illnesses Caused during Rainy Season
Weight Loss Drugs Available In Nigeria
Top 5 Lies Guys Tell Ladies to Get Them In Bed
The Side Effects of Drawing Tattoo On Your Skin
Reduce Your Cancer Risk with Watermelon
This Holiday Season Eat Mindful, Not Mindless
Search Any Keyword Here
Search for:
Nigeria Infopedia © 2015-2019
error: Content Protected