Fetal MRI | SO + GI Scan
07 3120 4200 4A/15 Tribune St South Bank
sogi@i-med.com.au
Home
Our Services
Pregnancy Scans
Pregnancy Scans
Viability and Dating Scan
12 Week Scan
19-20 Week Scan
Third Trimester Growth Scan
Twins
Fetal Echocardiogram
Down Syndrome
Spina Bifida
Fetal MRI
Pregnancy Calculator
Gynaecological Scans
Gynaecological Scans
Pelvic Pain
Pelvic MRI
Ovarian Cancer Screening
Post Menopausal
Sonohysterogram
Infertility/Tubal Patency
Genetic Counselling
Genetic Counselling
Genetic Counselling
Testing & Procedures
Testing & Procedures
CVS (Chorionic Villous Sampling)
Amniocentesis
Implanon Removal
Non-Invasive Prenatal Testing (NIPT)
About SO+GI
Our Team
FAQ
Our Practice
Blog
Contact
Referral Forms
Referral Forms
Fetal MRI
Fetal MRI
SO + GI Scan
Fetal MRI
Fetal MRI
Ultrasound is the standard screening modality for fetal imaging. However, fetal MRI is increasingly being used to add further information regarding fetal anatomy and pathology. This improved clarity of information achieved with fetal MRI facilitates optimal prenatal counselling. MRI frequently provides additional information over what has been achieved with ultrasound alone.
To improve our prenatal diagnostic capability and diagnostic confidence, MRI is now recommended for many fetal conditions. Because MRI uses magnetic waves and not x-rays (ionizing radiation), it has been shown to be safe to use in pregnancy. As the fetus’ organs are undergoing rapid development in the first trimester, MRI is avoided until after the first trimester. There are no known harmful biological risks from clinical MRI.
Recent technological advances in MRI have meant that scan times are now very fast. In fact, one image is acquired in less than half a second. This means that sedating or anaesthetizing the fetus is no longer required to achieve a diagnostic study in almost all cases.
The patient shall be positioned lying on her back in the supine position and up on her side in the third trimester. Sometimes patients may be claustrophobic, and this can usually be overcome with a mild sedative. A patient will often be asked to hold her breath for 18-20 seconds or sometimes is left to do quiet free breathing. The entire examination usually takes 20-25 minutes.
MRI should be considered when a suspected abnormality is seen on fetal ultrasound. This would include such diagnoses as:
Brain abnormalities
Ventriculomegaly
Agenesis of the corpus callosum
Cerebellar abnormalities
Dandy Walker syndrome or variant
Brain haemorrhage or ischaemia
Cerebral infections
Tumours
Spina bifida and Arnold Chiarii malformation
Large neck masses
Chest lesions
Congenital diaphragmatic hernia
Cystic adenomatoid malformation
Pulmonary sequestration
Lung mass
Large Abdominal Masses
Placenta accreta
Uterine anomalies
MRI can give us additional information in evaluating the central nervous system in the same way it does when used in the newborn baby, infant, child, adult or elderly person. MRI gives superior soft tissue contrast in a variety of different imaging planes or angles through the part being examined. This often can confirm if a structure is normal or abnormal and can help clarify structures that are not clearly seen on ultrasound.
When congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is evaluated with ultrasound, it is often difficult to be sure whether or not the liver has herniated up into the chest. Fetal MRI can better evaluate for the crucial prognostic signs of diaphragmatic hernia (liver in the chest) and lung volume to determine if lungs are small (hypoplastic).
With lung masses, MRI can help to differentiate between cystic adenomatoid malformation and bronchopulmonary sequestration and congenital diaphragmatic hernia.
When a fetus has a giant neck mass, there is a chance that the mass may be pressing the trachea or windpipe. At birth this can mean that when it is time to breathe, the mass is suffocating the newborn baby. Fetal MRI can help identify those babies with potential airway obstruction. This can help facilitate a specific form of delivery only performed in a major hospital, called an EXIT procedure.
EXIT (ex-utero intrapartum treatment) is a procedure where the mother undergoes a general anaesthetic and the baby’s head is delivered. The rest of the baby stays inside the uterus and the feto-placenta circulation is maintained. This allows the paediatrician more time to try and pass a breathing tube down the baby’s airway and prevent the mass from suffocating the newborn.
Prenatal MRI is particularly helpful in:
Improving the anatomic definition
Clarifying the diagnosis
Identifying associated anomalies
Fetal MRI can make a valuable contribution to in counselling, patient decision making and pregnancy management.
Fetal MRI Normal Structures
MRI Abnormal Structures
About So+Gi
SO+GI Scan is Brisbane’s leading provider of specialised obstetric gynaecological imaging, using the latest imaging technologies performed in a non-clinical, spa-like setting by experienced sonographers and radiologists.
SO+GI is passionate about women’s health, and our radiologists, sonographers and genetic counsellors are dedicated to treating every woman with dignity, kindness, understanding and respect.
What is it for? The placenta is the workhorse of the pregnancy. From the… Read More
SO+GI SCAN News – August 2016
Sogi Scan is open for routine NT scans, morphology and growth scans. The service… Read More
Make an appointment with us
© 2014 Copyright So+Gi Scan | Website Designed by Magik New Media