Updates – Alternatives to Medicine
↓ Skip to Main Content
Home
About
Contact us
Useful sites
Home › Archive for Updates
Category: Updates
Rodent tuber
Posted on June 6, 2016 by Editor ATM	Posted in Feedback, Updates
G writes in: Hi Any idea that rodent tuba can cure cancer? Thanks Thanks for asking, G If you Google around you will find Rodent tuber claimed as a “natural cancer treatment” in alternatives to medicine websites. Here are some…
Read more ›
Feng Shui
Posted on April 3, 2014 by Editor ATM	Posted in Updates
I am somewhat amused that many still believe fervently in this ancient Chinese philosophy “harmonizing the human existence with the surrounding environment”. While it is harmless if one is concerned with aethetics, it may not be so if it involves…
Read more ›
Taking Ginkgo biloba to “boost your memory”? Sorry, it doesn’t work
Posted on January 12, 2014 by Editor ATM	Posted in Updates
I notice quite a number of folks are still taking Ginkgo supplements in the hope of “boosting their memory” or perhaps to stave off dementia. Sorry to disappoint you but the evidence is out and it is not good news…
Read more ›
Tagged with: Ginkgo
Homeopathy: another elaborate placebo
Posted on December 26, 2013 by Editor ATM	Posted in Updates
This is an interesting BBC Horizon Documentary which examines whether water in Homeopathic “medicine” really has a “memory effect” even if scientifically it would be highly unlikely to contain any molecules of the original substance left behind at extreme dilutions.…
Read more ›
Tagged with: Homeopathy, Water
Porcupine “dates” or bezoars
Posted on December 14, 2013 by Editor ATM	Posted in Updates
I have to say how amazing that in this day and age people still cling on to the notion that some things can have magical healing properties. It is most unfortunate of these things come from nature and results in…
Read more ›
Tagged with: Bezoar, Dates, Porcupine
Be wary of “stem cell” scams
Posted on December 12, 2013 by Editor ATM	Posted in Updates
It is currently a fad in Malaysia to consume “oral stem cell enhancers” or substances which claim to “boost” your stem cells. Be wary as these are yet another means to make the unsuspecting part with their money for useless…
Read more ›
Tagged with: Stem cells
Crab soup for dengue
Posted on December 10, 2013 by Editor ATM	Posted in Updates
I mention this as it was brought up in the Dobbs doctors forum and it’s yet another folklore “remedy” for dengue. Unfortunately there is no evidence that crab soup is any better than any other soup for dengue fever –…
Read more ›
Tagged with: Crab, dengue, Soup
Snake oil on tap – the alkaline or ionised water scam
Posted on October 9, 2013 by Editor ATM	Posted in Updates
People are selling it and making money off people drinking it. The belief that drinking “alkaline water” will increase the pH (and hence reduce the “acidity”) of one’s bodily fluids is ludicrous and not physiological. Your body’s pH is a…
Read more ›
Tagged with: Alkaline, Water
Do you believe in magic?
Posted on October 6, 2013 by Editor ATM	Posted in Updates
Indeed that’s what believers in Alternatives to Medicine are doing. My recommended reading for the week is a book by the co-inventor of the Rota virus vaccine, Dr. Paul Offit: Do You Believe in Magic?: The Sense and Nonsense of…
Read more ›
Tagged with: Book
Copper bracelets and magnetic straps fail the test
Posted on September 17, 2013 by Editor ATM	Posted in Updates
Are you a believer in those copper bracelets or magnetic straps which claim to help arthritis? The truth is they don’t help at all according to scientific research. From Sciencenewsline Copper bracelets and magnet wrist straps have no real effect…
Read more ›
Tagged with: arthritis, bracelet, copper
‹ Older posts
Malaysian Medical Resources
Ad
We highly recommend Exabytes for your web hosting:
Translation
English中文(简体)日本語Bahasa Melayu
by
Search for:
Recent Posts
Rodent tuber
Feedback: Query about Sabah Snake Grass
Feng Shui
Taking Ginkgo biloba to “boost your memory”? Sorry, it doesn’t work
Homeopathy: another elaborate placebo
Archives
June 2016
April 2014
January 2014
December 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
Recent Comments
Like us on Facebook
Links
Malaysian Medical Resources
© 2019 Alternatives to Medicine
Responsive Theme powered by WordPress
Top