WiFi Risk | Stop Dirty Electricity
702-845-5794 bill@stopdirtyelectricity.com
0 Items
Home
Order The Book!
Services
Home Inspections
Phone Consultations
Video Packages/DIY
Business and School Inspections
Audit Report
Order The Book!
About Us
About Bill
Press
Testimonials
Newsletter Sign Up
Common Concerns
Electric & Magnetic Radiation
Dirty Electricity
Wireless / WiFi / RF
The Cadwallader Protocol
Videos
Meters/Filters
Electric & Magnetic Radiation Meters
Dirty Electricity Meter/Filters
Wireless/WiFi Meter
Contact Us
Blog
SHOP
MEMBER LOGIN
Select Page
Are Smart Meters really SMART ?
by Bill Cadwallader | Mar 22, 2016 | Dirty Electricity, Smart Meter Risk, WiFi Risk, Wireless Risk
Smart Meter
The award-winning documentary Take Back Your Power examines evidence of health & environmental issues, in-home privacy invasions, systemic over-billing, fires and hacking vulnerability. This documentary can be purchased at their web site.
Additionally, the EMF Safety network writes that all around the world people are reporting WiFi / Wireless radiation is affecting their health. The EMF Safety network has collected many smart meter health complaints. Utilities claim smart meters are safe, and compare them to cell phones. However cell phones, cell towers, WiFi and other wireless devices can also affect your health. Reducing your Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) exposure can benefit your overall health and wellness.
In Lyon, France on May 31, 2011 ‐‐ The WHO/International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) has classified radiofrequency electromagnetic fields (WiFi / Wireless Radiation) as possibly carcinogenic to humans (Group 2B), based on an increased risk for glioma, a malignant type of brain cancer
List of symptoms:
Sleep problems (insomnia, difficulty falling asleep, night waking, nightmares)
Stress, agitation, anxiety, irritability
Headaches, sharp pain or pressure in the head
Ringing in the ears, ear pain, high pitched ringing
Concentration, memory or learning problems
Fatigue, muscle or physical weakness
Disorientation, dizziness, or balance problems
Eye problems, including eye pain, pressure in the eyes,
Cardiac symptoms, heart palpitations, heart arrhythmias, chest pain
Leg cramps, or neuropathy
Arthritis, body pain, sharp, stabbing pains
Nausea, flu-like symptoms
Sinus problems, nose bleeds
Respiratory problems, cough, asthma
Skin rashes, facial flushing
Urinary problems
Endocrine disorders, thyroid problems, diabetes
High blood pressure
Changes in menstrual cycle
Hyperactivity or changes in children’s behavior
Seizures
Recurrence of cancer
And more
Many homeowners are unaware that Smart Meters were installed in most homes, businesses, and schools throughout the U.S.
These devices produce high levels of WiFi / Wireless Radiation and Dirty Electricity.
If you want to measure WiFi / Wireless / RF radiation on your own, I have found that this meter is the easiest to use:
https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/wirelessrf/
To measure Dirty Electricity, this meter is very easy to use as well:
https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/dirty-electricity-meter/
In some areas customers have the option of putting the old analog meter back on homes, businesses, and schools. Putting back the previous meter is normally called the “Opt-Out” program. Consider yourself fortunate if you do have this choice.
You will have to call your local Electrical Utility Company to find out if this is available to you.
Below is information on Nevada’s Opt-Out Program.
To Opt-Out, call Nevada Energy at 702-402-4273 in Southern Nevada or 1-888-559-9744 in Northern Nevada. Have your account number ready when you call so that Nevada Energy can schedule your Opt-Out appointment.
In Southern Nevada there is a one-time set-up fee of $52.86 and a monthly recurring fee of $8.72. In Northern Nevada there is a one-time set-up fee of $52.44 and a monthly recurring fee of $8.72. The fees will appear on your bill as a “non-standard meter charge.” These are the fees as of 2016.
Only customers of record (the person whose name is on the bill) with Nevada Energy are authorized to participate in the program.
Participation in the Opt-Out Program is limited to 12,000 electric customers in Southern Nevada, 4,500 electric customers in Northern Nevada and 4,500 gas customers in Northern Nevada. Participation is on a first-come, first-served basis.
Opt-Out today!
Sources: https://takebackyourpower.net/
http://emfsafetynetwork.org/
http://puc.nv.gov/FAQ/Smart_Meters_Residential/#8
Is Computer Radiation Damaging Health? Part2
by Bill Cadwallader | Feb 29, 2016 | Laptop Risk, WiFi Risk, Wireless Risk
Laptop Safety
More about Laptop Electromagnetic Radiation – EMR
If you have not read Part 1 of this blog, please read Part 1 before looking at Part 2 of the article from EM Watch from south England on Computer radiation.
Here are some more great tips to minimize your Electromagnetic Radiation exposure.
.
If you have a laptop close to you on the desk, your torso and head can be exposed to high levels of Electromagnetic Radiation and so can the upper part of your legs because Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) travel down through your desk.
So, if you work with a laptop on your desk, push it forward (away from you) as far as you can while remaining comfortable. Always use a laptop in the battery mode. When a laptop is plugged in, high Electromagnetic Radiation can be generated.
Except when travelling, try not to rest hands on a laptop keyboard or use the built-in touchpad. A better solution is to plug in an external USB keyboard and USB mouse. These generate no Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR), provided they are wired.
When a laptop is pushed forward on a desk and the external keyboard is between you and the laptop, the tips of the fingers are still only a few inches from the laptop and are exposed to Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) while resting them on the laptop keyboard.
Many people work with their laptop actually on their laps, in trains, planes or just at home. This is the way to get a huge Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) exposure, especially to the reproductive organs. Other cells may also be damaged as well as reproductive cells.
What is true for laptops applies equally to iPads, tablets, Kindles, smart phones, notebooks, and any type of a portable computing device. They all generate WiFi / wireless / RF radiation, unless
1. Bluetooth and WiFi are turned OFF and
2. Airplane mode is turned ON.
.
WiFi / Wireless / RF Radiation
.
This is becoming more and more of an issue for computer users, as WiFi and wireless networks are everywhere. Computers can be connected to networks with wires. Not as “cool” as wireless connections and not as convenient; but smarter than introducing a known carcinogen into your home.
Almost everyone now has WiFi / Wireless network in their home. They would be wise at least to switch off a WiFi and a wireless network before going to bed every night. If that is too hard to remember, I have installed a $4 timer that turns the WiFi and a wireless network off when people go to bed and turns it on when they wake up. You can find these timers at any hardware store; then at least they would have eight hours a day free from Electromagnetic Radiation. Their body can use that time to repair some of the damage!
If you decide not to use WiFi or Wireless, you still have to actually disable WiFi / Wireless capability on each device that offers the option:
your computers,
printers,
routers, and
anything which communicates with them.
Sometimes you press a switch or a key to disable wireless or sometimes you have to change software settings. If you have a WiFi / Wireless / RF meter, use it to check to see what that equipment is really generating. I like this household meter very much – https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/wirelessrf/
Other Computer Equipment
.
External hard drives generate as much Electromagnetic Radiation as those inside a computer.
Speakers – some of the woofers generate a powerful EMR.
Most newer headphones & headsets are wireless which generate WiFI / Wireless / RF radiation.
Uninterruptible power supplies (UPS) produce some of the largest EMFs found in the office.
Printers – generate all four types of Electromagnetic Radiation:
1. Electric Radiation
2. Magnetic Radiation
3. WiFi / Wireless / RF Radiation
4. Dirty Electricity
Turn printers OFF when not printing.
Routers, modems and network hubs and switches – if used wirelessly will produce a powerful Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) which extends for many feet.
External power supplies and chargers for all of the above (and also for anything else) produce Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR)
If you choose to use wireless in your home, you will also benefit from having a WiFi / Wireless / RF meter to measure your exposure.
https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/wirelessrf/
You might even change your mind about going wireless! Even if you don’t use wireless devices at home, you may still want to check for WiFi / Wireless from outside sources.
Sources:
http://emwatch.com/computer-radiation-may-damage-your-health/
https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/
Is Computer Radiation Damaging your Health? Part1
by Bill Cadwallader | Feb 11, 2016 | Baby Monitors Risk, Computer Radiation, Electromagnetic Radiation, WiFi Risk
Computer Radiation
EM Watch from south England had a very interesting article on Computer radiation.
If you use computers at work or at home, or both, then computers could be your biggest source of Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR). Could this radiation threaten your health?
.
.
Computers today can generate up to four types of Electromagnetic Radiation:
1 Electric Radiation
2. Magnetic Radiation
3. WiFi / Wireless / RF Radiation
4. Dirty Electricity
.
All types of radiation are potentially harmful – even the World Health Organization now calls them possible carcinogens (i.e. they may cause cancer).
In fact, this radiation has been linked with many serious diseases:
• Asthma
• Alzheimer’s
• Cancer
• Depression
• Heart Disease
• Hormone imbalances
• Damage to nerves, immune system and reproductive systems.
Headaches
Symptoms of Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) Exposure
Symptoms of frequent and prolonged Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) exposure are often dismissed as being caused by stress, overwork, or just getting older. These include
• Headaches
• Tiredness
• Sleep disturbances
• Concentration and memory disorders
• Dizziness
• Skin prickling, itching, burning or flushing sensations on the face or elsewhere
• Uncomfortable, dry or swollen mucous membranes in the throat, ears or sinuses
• Muscle and joint pains
• Even some heart palpitations
Electromagnetic Hypersensitivity (EHS)
Noticing symptoms related to Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) exposure can be a sign that a person is developing a condition known as Electromagnetic Hypersensitivity (EHS).
With EHS, when an afflicted person is exposed to certain types of Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR), they often experience symptoms — usually one or more of those in the list above.
This can be a real problem for these people because they may experience pain and discomfort at very much lower levels of radiation than those normally considered “safe.” In severe cases, they may have to avoid any and all Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) – a serious handicap in today’s world.
EHS is quite common. At least 3% of the population may be affected, and that percentage is apparently increasing quite rapidly. It is generally thought to be caused by over-exposure to EMR,
1. either a massive single exposure, or
2. More often a cumulative exposure over a long period.
Computer usage is frequently implicated in this process, especially when WiFi / Wireless communications are used. Fortunately, computer users may be able to reduce their EMR exposure by following some simple, easy-to-do guidelines and suggestions:
10 things you can do NOW to minimize radiation in your home.
https://stopdirtyelectricity.com
Even a TV show on the AMC Network – “Better Call Saul” – deals with a person with an extreme case of Electromagnetic Hypersensitivity. Even though the person has an extreme case of Electromagnetic Hypersensitivity, we are all affected in some way or another.
.
How to avoid Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) exposure from computer usage
To minimize the amount of radiation you absorb and the risk to your health:
1. Don’t get too close to Electromagnetic Radiation sources.
2. Use as little as possible WiFi / Wireless / RF with your computer and network equipment.
All the advice in this article boils down to one or both of these two suggestions.
.
Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) Basics
Many people feel so overwhelmed by this issue of Electromagnetic Radiation that they just give up on it. They think that it really is not possible to live in the modern world without being exposed to radiation from one source or another, all day long. But with a little knowledge, it is possible. Any source of EMR creates a field of energy around it, called the electromagnetic field, or EMF. This field is strongest right at the source and gets progressively weaker the further away you are from the source — like heat from a fire. WiFi / Wireless / RF radiation gets weaker very slowly (which is why it is used for communications) so the EMF extends for a greater distance. It is usually not practical just to get further away from WiFi / Wireless / RF radiation – EMR sources. That is why we recommend wired alternatives, not wireless.
One baby monitor I measured was still unsafe at 30 feet.
Please see the blog: Are Baby Monitors really Safe?
https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/are-baby-monitors-really-safe/
.
Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) from your Computer Screen
There are several sources of Electromagnetic Radiation in a typical computer. Most of them are inside the computer, but the screen (monitor) also radiates this kind of energy. Modern flat computer screens (LCD or LED) generally produce far less EMR than the old-fashioned CRT’s (cathode ray tube) screens did, and also less than the older flat screens. But move even flat screens as far away as possible.
If you have an Electric radiation & Magnetic radiation meter you can determine your own safe viewing distances. I recommend the ME3030B for Electric Radiation and Magnetic Radiation.
https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/magnetic-electric-meter/
.
Low-frequency EMR sources inside your computer
The Electromagnetic Radiation inside your computer is the WiFi, power supply, and the disc drive motors. The WiFi is being generated 24 hours a day – unless you turn it off and hard wire your desktop PC. The power supply generates constant EMR. The disc drive only generates EMR when it is busy reading or writing data, which is pretty much all the time if you are using your computer. Right at this source, the Electromagnetic Radiation might be very strong. So if a part of your body is near or in direct contact with the computer or your laptop, that part of your body could be exposed to a very high Radiation. When working with a desktop computer, keep the computer case on the floor, not on your desk. And position it as far away from you as the cables will stretch. Of course you can’t do that with a laptop.
Stay tuned for Part 2…..
Sources:
http://emwatch.com/computer-radiation-may-damage-your-health/
https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/
Microwave Ovens – Are they Hurting your Family?
by Bill Cadwallader | Nov 9, 2015 | EMF Radiation, Microwave Risk, WiFi Risk, Wireless Risk
Microwave Oven Dangers
The Powerwatch organization from the UK has a lot to say about microwave ovens. Powerwatch’s mission is to help secure for the general public as safe an Electromagnetic environment as possible. A curious fact about microwave ovens, Powerwatch noted that after some 20 years of research into their use, the old Soviet Union banned the use of microwave ovens for heating food in 1976. The old Soviet Union decided that the dangers of a microwave oven outweighed the benefit of its speed in cooking food or heating water. But they were allowed again in 1987 under Perestroika by Gorbachev to be more like Western nations.
Specifically the Microwave oven cables and motor give off high Electromagnetic Radiation. Microwave radiation leaks from the seal around the door and through the glass of microwave ovens. The water molecules in the body are agitated to some degree by the microwave radiation. Powerwatch states that eyes are particularly vulnerable, as they contain large amounts of fluid and a lower blood supply to take away any heat. This is important with regard to children whose height and curiosity could lead to them watching the changes induced in microwave cooking from too close a distance. Even when a microwave oven is working correctly, the microwave levels within the kitchen are likely to be significantly higher than those from any nearby cell phone tower. The radiation created by microwave ovens will also travel through interior walls inside the home.
Microwaves Can Change Your Heart Rate
Heart Rates can be affected by Microwave ovens
Microwaves can produce effects on your body instantly due to the 2.4 GHz radiation — the frequency of radiation emitted by microwave ovens. A study conducted by Dr. Magda Havas of Trent University found the levels of radiation emitted by a microwave oven can affect both heart rate and heart rate variability. Dr. Magda Havas suggests that if you experience irregular heart beat or any chest pain and regularly use a microwave oven, it might be best to discontinue use of the microwave oven to see if the microwave oven is affecting you.
Microwave Oven Radiation Leakage
You would think, with all these tests and regulations, that you’d be safe. However, again according to Powerwatch, a non-profit independent organization with a central role in the microwave radiation debate:
“We don’t really know if the current regulations about leakage are truly safe and recommends ovens be checked at least annually, since microwave oven emissions can change with normal use.”
Dr. Mercola states that it would certainly be wise to avoid letting your children near the microwave when it’s running, and avoid it yourself as much as possible—especially if you’re pregnant. Also, since your eyes are known to be particularly susceptible to microwave radiation (high microwave exposures are known to cause cataracts).
Other Related Issues
Although the information below is not related directly to Electromagnetic Radiation exposure to humans, I came across an interesting article by Richard Stossel. He stated that in an experiment, conducted at home for a high school science fair, the experiment has verified the dangers of microwaved water to plants and other organic matter. Specifically in the home experiment, filtered water was divided into two parts. One part would be microwaved and allowed to cool before being given to the plant, while the second part would be heated on a conventional stove and given to an identical plant. Results were observed over a nine day period. By the third day it was already clear that the plant given the microwaved water was not faring as well as its counterpart.
By the ninth day the microwaved plant was virtually nonexistent in its pot, having literally shrunk in size to just a few inches above the soil. The second plant was growing beautifully.
As this experiment clearly shows, microwaving your food, even if you are just reheating your tea, is definitely not a good idea. Our microwaved plant would agree if it could talk.
Additionally, Powerwatch along this same line, noted that the anthroposophist, A. Bohmert, reported the following effect that microwave heating had on water, a common component of all food products. Water samples were heated, some in a microwave oven and others conventionally, and then left to cool before use. These water samples were used to bring grain to germination. The grain in contact with microwaved water was the only one that did not germinate.
In Conclusion
1 – Since radiation from microwave ovens can pass through walls and if microwave ovens are placed against an adjacent wall, those on the other side will be exposed to high levels of radiation.
2 – Microwave oven emissions can change with normal use; so microwave ovens should be checked regularly, preferably at least annually, to pick up any microwave radiation leakage from the seals.
3 – All of the microwave ovens I have measured have unsafe Electromagnetic Radiation levels
• always extending into one room,
• most often into two rooms away and
• quite often extending into three rooms away.
To measure these levels I would recommend a great meter to use, it is one of my favorites – the Acousticom 2 – WiFi / Wireless / RF meter.
This meter is very simple to use, about the size of a deck of cards, with Green, Amber, Yellow, and Red LED lights – indicating increasingly harmful levels of WiFi / Wireless / RF radiation from microwave ovens. https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/wirelessrf/
This meter will also work on any device that is generating WiFi / Wireless / RF radiation in your home – such as a Smart TV, Baby Monitors, Cordless Phones, WiFi Routers, etc. It will also pick-up sources outside your home that are bleeding into your environment like cell towers, wireless routers from neighbors, Smart electrical meters – just to name a few. Check out this link for even more sources of WiFi / Wireless / RF radiation.
https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/wireless-rf/
I have also produced a series of videos that will guide you through every room and each device in your home. The videos also covers harmful WiFI / Wireless devices outside of your home – how to measure them and what to do if high levels of radiation exist. https://stopdirtyelectricity.net/package-3-details-2/
Sources:
http://www.powerwatch.org.uk/rf/overview.asp
http://www.eutimes.net
http://www.medicaldaily.com/microwaves-are-bad-you-5-reasons-why-microwave-oven-cooking-harming-your-health-250145
http://articles.mercola.com/sites/articles/archive/2010/05/18/microwave-hazards.aspx
First US Public School District Limits WiFi Radiation Exposure
by Bill Cadwallader | Oct 22, 2015 | IPad Danger, Laptop Risk, Tablet Risk, WiFi Risk
I came across this article recently dealing with the limiting of WiFi Radiation in the First Public School District in the U.S. I found it on the Environmental Health Trust web site http://ehtrust.org/. According to Environmental Health Trust, Ashland, Massachusetts Public Schools have implemented WiFi Device “Best Practices” which include turning the WiFi off when not in use and keeping devices on a table.
Based on its own review of the matter, the Ashland Public School District is reducing wireless radiation exposures to children by instituting district wide “best practices for mobile devices”. Prompted by parent Cecelia Doucette’s concerns about the lack of safety data on WiFi and children, the district investigated the issue and developed a policy to substantially reduce wireless exposures to students and staff. Doucette not only brought the issue to the district’s attention, but then also worked with state legislatures who introduced two bills concerning electromagnetic radiation this session.
Since wireless devices are constantly emitting radiation even when the user is not using the Internet, the instruction to “turn it off when not in use ” stops the WiFi antennas from continuously emitting radiation and is one simple way to reduce the radiation dose and exposure time for children and staff.
The Ashland School district posted instructions for “Best Practices” in every classroom and include:
– Turn off the device when not in use
– Turn WiFi on only when needed
– Always place the mobile device on a solid surface – instead of your lap
– Viewing distance should be a minimum of 12 inches from the screen
– Specific product information guides are available through the IT department
– We ask that staff members regularly remind and instruct students in using best practices in regards to mobile devices
Keep laptop 12 inches away
Ashland’s Best Practice of “keeping the device on a table” and no closer than a 12 inch viewing distance is critically important. Laptops and tablets have fine print warnings buried in their manuals specifically stating that the laptop should be at least 8 inches away from the user so that the user is not exposed to radiation levels that exceed as-tested FCC levels. If a device is used on a lap, as is common practice, the student could receive radiation levels far exceeding FCC limits. FCC limits are set to prevent the radiation from heating the brain and body but are not set to avoid chronic impacts on the developing nervous system or reproductive organs.
Many are unaware of FCC fine print advisories in the manuals of every wireless device confirming as-tested distances set to avoid heating. Cell phones, laptops and even baby monitors have these specific instructions in their product information guides. By referring to the product information guides, Ashland Public Schools are informing people about the need to keep a distance between the device and our bodies. As a public service, Environmental Health Trust (EHT) has compiled these fine print warnings on their website http://www.showthefineprint.org/.
Baby Monitors can be extremely dangerous
It is important to note that even if users comply with these FCC recommended distances as stated in the device manual, accumulating research shows that biological damage can occur from wireless radiation levels far lower than these FCC levels. FCC limits are only set to protect people from heating harm and do not address non-thermal effects.
This ground breaking policy action by the Massachusetts school district is indicative of the wave of parents raising concerns about WiFi across the country. Ashland, Massachusetts parent Cecelia Doucette wrote an article in Ashland Local Town Pages about these new best practices. News and print media have picked the issue up after Massachusetts parents filed a lawsuit against a private boarding school alleging the school did not accommodate their 12-year-old child’s diagnosed debilitating sensitivity to the school’s WiFi system.
Ashland is the first US public school to create such policy on wireless transmitting devices. However, this US Massachusetts school district now joins dozens of schools and governments that have already implemented even more stringent measures to reduce wireless exposure to children. For example, Israel and France have banned WiFi in kindergarten. The European Union recommends wired Internet rather than wireless in schools.
“Right To Know” efforts by local governments are also moving across the United States. A judge just upheld Berkeley’s new “Cell Phone Right To Know” Ordinance which requires cell phone sellers to tell customers about these FCC radio frequency radiation distances.
Suffolk County in New York voted to label wireless routers in all public buildings including schools. The US United Federation of Teachers Union now hosts a webpage on how to reduce exposures to protect pregnant women, other staff members and students.
I would go even farther. With a cell phone, iPad, Tablet or Kindle, when reading make sure the Airplane mode is ON and WiFi & Bluetooth are OFF. Note: you won’t be able to receive any voice, text or data in this mode – but if you are reading you probably don’t want to be disturbed.
Acousticom-2
WiFi / Wireless Meter
I would also recommend a survey of your home and office with a meter to make sure cordless phones or WiFi printers (just to name a couple) are not polluting your environment. The Acousticom 2 is a great meter to do this with. https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/wirelessrf/
Are Baby Monitors really safe?
by Bill Cadwallader | Oct 9, 2015 | Baby Monitors Risk, Cordless Phone Radiation, WiFi Risk, Wireless Risk
Baby Monitors can be extremely dangerous
Modern Baby Monitors can be just as dangerous as Smart Phones or Cordless Phones.
There are two parts to a Baby Monitor:
The unit that is next to the Baby’s head and the unit that is near the Parent.
Some Baby Monitors just transmit sounds and videos of the baby and others allow the parent to speak to the Baby.
Both can be very devastating. Some report that a wireless baby monitor less than 39 inches from a baby’s crib is roughly equivalent to the microwave radiation emitted from a cell tower less than 200 yards away.
When we have measured Baby Monitors, the worst Baby Monitor is over 120 times the safe level.
In the videos, we have used a Wireless / WiFi meter to show where a safe distance for the unit next to the baby. After moving a distance of 30 feet, we were still not at a safe distance for one specific Baby Monitor.
This Baby Monitor was a DECT model which is now a technology that is used in Cordless Phones. Most DECT units constantly produce radiation – even if the baby is not making any noise.
On this Baby Monitor, even the parental unit puts out harmful radiation. In a video testing the parental unit, we again were not at a safe distance of over 30 feet.
This parental unit is often worn by a parent because it has a belt clip or is kept on the night stand – right next to the parent’s head. These parental units also use the DECT technology which is very harmful.
We tested another Baby Monitor that was a lot better and did not use the DECT technology. The unit by the Baby’s head was a lot less harmful radiation – but it could still not be right next to the Baby’s head. The parental unit of this Baby Monitor was less harmful and could be a lot closer to the parent. The only way to be sure is to use a Wireless / WiFi meter to test for the levels of radiation produced by Baby Monitors.
There are very easy Wireless / WiFi meters to test Baby Monitors that only use LED lights.
– Green LED’s is safe for Sleeping areas
– Yellow LED’s is safe for Non-Sleeping areas
– Amber LED’s is not safe for any areas and is up to 20 times over the safe level
– Red LED’s is not safe for any areas and is up to 120 times over the safe level.
The only way to be absolutely sure of the safety of your baby or grand baby is to measure with a Wireless / WiFi meter.
https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/wirelessrf/
Acousticom-2
WiFi / Wireless Meter
If you have any questions, please watch the videos testing each unit of the Baby Monitors.
The Wireless / WiFi meter can also be used for cell phones, cordless phones, iPads, Tablets, Kindle, wireless routers, wireless printers, Bluetooth devices, wireless game consoles – any device that uses Wireless / WiFi technology.
Note: Any electronic devices that have the capability of using Wireless / WiFi technology are normally not turned off if they are hardwired.
Only a Wireless / WiFi meter can determine this.
Normally if you hardwire an electronic device, the Wireless / WiFi can be turned off. Also, a good principle to follow, is whenever an electronic device is not being used, just turn it off. This will eliminate all the Wireless /WiFi radiation.
« Older Entries
Search for:
Recent Posts
Are Wireless Earbuds Dangerous? 250 Scientists Think So
EMF Quiet Zones
Video – Cancer in Your Kitchen-Microwave
Which light bulb should I use?
Are Smart Meters really SMART ?
Archives
Archives Select Month April 2019 June 2016 May 2016 March 2016 February 2016 November 2015 October 2015 September 2015
Blog Categories
Blog Categories Select CategoryBaby Monitors RiskBill CadwalladerBluetooth RiskCadwallader ProtocolCancer EMFCell Phone RiskCell Phone Towers FearsCell Phones Children RisksCFL ConcernsComputer RadiationCordless Phone RadiationDimmer Switches ThreatDirty ElectricityDirty PowerElectric RadiationElectromagnetic RadiationEMFEMF RadiationEMF SensitivityEnergy Saving Light ConcernFluorescent MercuryHealth Concerns EMRHealth EMFIPad DangeriPhone DangerLa Quinta Middle SchoolLaptop RiskLED HazardMagnetic Fields HealthMagnetic Radiation RisksMicrowave RiskMobile Phone RiskMobile Phone Tower RisksPower Line RiskRF RiskSmart Meter RiskSolar Power RiskStop Dirty Electricity ConcernTablet RiskTestimonialsThe Bio InitiativeUncategorizedWiFi RiskWireless Risk
About Us
Bill Cadwallader, MBA, EMRS
Certified Electromagnetic Radiation Specialist
Stop Dirty Electricity
702-845-5794
bill@stopdirtyelectricity.com
Stop Dirty Electricity provides EMF consulting, video packages, home, school, and business inspections in the Las Vegas, Nevada, Arizona, Utah, San Diego and Orange County areas to protect you from electromagnetic radiation.
Our Disclaimer
Stop Dirty Electricity does not claim to diagnose, treat or cure any medical condition or disease. Stop Dirty Electricity.com shall not be liable for incidental or consequential damages, lost profits or revenues to the fullest extent such liability may be disclaimed by law.
EMF Inspection Areas We Serve
– Southern Nevada, Las Vegas, Henderson, North Las Vegas, Boulder City, Mesquite, Laughlin and Pahrump
– Southern Utah, St. George and surrounding areas
– Northern & Eastern Arizona Including Flagstaff, Kingman, and Havasu
– San Diego County California
– Orange County California
Facebook
Twitter
RSS
Copyright © 2018 · Stop Dirty Electricity · Website by SMH Design Solutions