coconut – Page 5 – foodrecap
Skip to content
foodrecap
keep on tinkering !
Tag: coconut
Posted on December 13, 2009 December 14, 2018
How to Make Coconut Lambanog – Vodka
Before we jump. Again. I like to reiterate that lambanog is a natural poison that needs to be tamed before selling and consumption. Methanol is natural part of every alcohol derived from wood source, coconut, sugar palm, buri palm and others. It can be as dangerous as cassava and the not so popular nami plant. If enough is consumed, it can be instrument of one’s inevitable death.
This matter first came to my attention when some fishermen perished after drinking session. The alcoholic beverage of concern was found to have high levels of methanol. I could not recall when and where the incident happen. It was an isolated case. Perhaps the fault of micro scale producer, failing to removed most of the methanol. Could also be the drinkers fault. Alcohol is supposed to be sacred. It should be drink moderately. Not drink like there is no tomorrow. Heavy drinkers are most likely to get lethal dose.
There were another incidents recently. These were disturbing because it occurred in separate provinces. Laguna, Quezon and Batangas. One producer maybe large enough to distribute to three provinces and may have caused the fatalities. Seems that is not the case. I am wondering how several manufacturers made the same mistakes at almost the same time.
It might be a push to discredit the local brands and boost sales of foreign. Business is business. No matter how anyone do it, it is the result that matters. If the locals are discredited, its export market might decline too. Anyone can buy, repack and re-sell. Adding toxin mid-way can be done with ease. With PET bottles as usual packaging, injecting poison is not difficult. I have no proofs, just speculations.
= = = = = =
Lambanog is very popular Filipino alcoholic drink. Also known as coconut vodka or distilled coconut spirit. However when improperly processed, it can contain significant amount of methanol – a deadly wood alcohol. Philippine BFAD mandates that all alcohol manufactures should get license to operate, LTO. Due to this fact, selling of unregistered alcoholic drink is strictly prohibited.
Methanol, also known as wood alcohol, is a flammable and poisonous liquid. Ingestion of 30 ml is considered fatal. Absorption through the skin or inhalation of vapor may also lead to toxic effects. Poisoning is due to methanol being converted into formaldehyde and formic acid in the liver and kidneys.
Characteristic symptoms of methanol poisoning include rapid shallow breathing and visual disturbances which often leads to irreversible blindness and severe abdominal pain. Other symptoms include head ache, gastro-intestinal disturbances, pain in the back and extremities and coma which may terminate in death due to respiratory failure.
How to Make Lambanog
1. Lambanog can be produced using the process of distillation. The freshly gathered coconut tree sap is oyster white in color, has a nearly neutral pH, and is already inherently sweet tasting by nature. Allowed to ferment further if too sweet and less alcoholic.
2. Put desired amount of tuba or coconut sap in distillation chamber. Apply heat until it evaporates.
3. Condensed the evaporated alcohol using flowing water at the top of the distillation chamber to liquefy the alcohol in gaseous phase.
4. Set aside the first ten to 20 ounces of distillate because it contains high concentration of methanol. This is locally called head or “bating”. Or do the collection when temperature reaches 93°C to 94°C.
5. Continue distillation until 80 proof alcohol is gathered, determined using alcohol hydrometer. Don’t let alcohol concentration go below 80 proof. Below 80 proof is of low quality.
bfad itdi
marvz
Marvin is the lead chocolate maker of Ben and Lyn Chocolate Inc. Has strong background in food research and development. Occasionally conducts training and lectures. Lecturer of Cocoa Foundation of the Philippines. Do coaching and consultancy services on his free time.
Posted on December 13, 2009
How to Collect Sap from Sugar Palm (irok)
Sugar palm sap or juice can be processed to alcohol, vinegar, juice, sugar and syrup. A good quality sap is necessary in order to produce high quality products. The following steps are useful to obtain high quality sugar palm sap.
1. Harvest sap from male flower. The sap from female inflorescence is of inferior quality. Male flower will rot after blooming while female flower will yield fruits that can be processed into sweet delicacy. To differentiate, male flower is color violet while female is color green.
2. Prepare the flower before tapping. Clean the stalks from bracts and dirt. Rock the stalk once a day everyday until the flower attracts hundreds of fruit flies. Then beat the stalk lightly with stick until it become swollen. Cut the stalk just above the highest flower bud. This process can increase chances of getting a good drip from the stalk.
3. Get a wide-mouth plastic container. Hang it just below the tip of cut stem. Cover it with plastic to prevent insects and impurities from entering. The juice will begin to drip from stem apex.
4. Harvest it twice a day, early morning and late afternoon. For every collection, slice 5 mm of apex to maintain continuous drippings. Juice quantity increases during rainy seasons and decreases during summer. It also decreases as the apex get closer to base.
5. Filter harvest with cheesecloth and transfer to clean container.
6. The sap turns quickly to alcohol and vinegar. It is essential to pasteurize it to arrest fermentation if the intended products are juice drink, sugar and syrup.
marvz
Marvin is the lead chocolate maker of Ben and Lyn Chocolate Inc. Has strong background in food research and development. Occasionally conducts training and lectures. Lecturer of Cocoa Foundation of the Philippines. Do coaching and consultancy services on his free time.
Posted on November 17, 2009 June 8, 2018
How to Make Coconut Sugar
Coconut sugar is a natural sugar made from coconut sap.It is healthier compared to other sugar substitute. It has low glycemic index (GI) of 35. Having low GI value, it is safe for diabetics. Coconut sugar can be use for coffee, tea, baking and cooking.
1. Get freshly harvested coconut sap. The taste should be sweet, not alcoholic and not sour.
2. Boil the coconut sap to evaporate the water over moderate heat with occasional stirring until the sap thickens at 115ºC. Buy a good candy thermometer and avoid the hassle of taking chances – the tantyahan method.
3. Turn off the heat and continue stirring until the sugar become granular.
4. Pulverize large chunks and pack.
Kaong or sugar palm is a close relative of coconut, you may want to produce healthy sugar from it.
marvz
Marvin is the lead chocolate maker of Ben and Lyn Chocolate Inc. Has strong background in food research and development. Occasionally conducts training and lectures. Lecturer of Cocoa Foundation of the Philippines. Do coaching and consultancy services on his free time.
Posts navigation
Previous page Page 1 … Page 4 Page 5
Search for:
Search
Recently Updated Posts
Imitation Young Coconut(Buko) Shreds
March 6, 2019
Kamias
February 20, 2019
Jackfruit Processing
August 11, 2010
How To Make Sweetened / Salted Jackruit Seed
March 2, 2011
The Balbas of Jackfruit (Including Lamukot)
March 2, 2011
The Erratic Langka Candy…
September 9, 2011
Eating Suha/Pomelo Without the Bitterness
December 1, 2011
A V Knife for Peeling Pineapples
February 19, 2019
The Roasted Sampalok Seeds
November 27, 2011
Fallen Tamarind are Fully Ripe and Best Tasting!
January 10, 2011
Recent Posts
Imitation Young Coconut(Buko) Shreds
Kamias
A V Knife for Peeling Pineapples
Not The Time For Harvest
The Fallen Tamarind
Linkedin
Profile
Recent Comments
grace on Ang Mahiwagang Kaldero!
Mia on Explaining The Tagalog Term “Sangkutsa”
marvz on Colloid Mill, First Use
chris on Colloid Mill, First Use
marvz on A Batch of Beans In Question…
Categories
additives
analysis
bytes
cacao
chocolate
coffee
commercial product
egg
equipment
events
exhibit
exotic
fish
flour
fruit indulgence
fruits
guide
health
juice
meat
milk
native delicacy
packaging
postharvest
recipe
restaurant
Reviews
safety
seafoods
sugar
tea
transfer
Uncategorized
vegetables
wine
Proudly powered by WordPress