Altmetric – Report of Partial findings from the National Toxicology Program Carcinogenesis Studies of Cell Phone Radiofrequency Radiation in Hsd: Sprague Dawley® SD rats (Whole Body Exposure)
↓ Skip to main content
Altmetric
Embed badge What is this page?
Report of Partial findings from the National Toxicology Program Carcinogenesis Studies of Cell Phone Radiofrequency Radiation in Hsd: Sprague Dawley® SD rats (Whole Body Exposure)
Overview of attention for article published in bioRxiv
Altmetric Badge
About this Attention Score
In the top 5% of all research outputs scored by Altmetric
One of the highest-scoring outputs from this source (#1 of 47,825)
High Attention Score compared to outputs of the same age (99th percentile)
High Attention Score compared to outputs of the same age and source (99th percentile)
Mentioned by
news
265 news outlets
blogs
32 blogs
policy
1 policy source
twitter
588 tweeters
peer_reviews
1 peer review site
facebook
90 Facebook pages
googleplus
10 Google+ users
video
11 video uploaders
Citations
dimensions_citation
31 Dimensions
Readers on
mendeley
98 Mendeley
What is this page?
Summary News Blogs Policy documents Twitter Peer reviews Facebook Google+ Video Dimensions citations
So far, Altmetric has seen 36 posts from 32 blogs.
¿Cáncer por usar Airpods?
Razón y política pública en Puerto Rico, 22 Mar 2019
Una vez más, la prensa ha alarmado al público ante unas noticias que insuflan el ánimo a la tecnofobia. Por ejemplo, Primera…
Рак по телефону
N+1: научные статьи, новости, открытия, 23 Nov 2018
Может ли мобильная связь вызывать онкологические заболевания?
Why mobile phones are NOT a health hazard
Science news, comment and analysis | theguardian.com, 21 Jul 2018
An article we published last week about links between mobiles and cancer proved highly controversial. Here a cancer expert and…
Cell phones and cancer: random chance in clinical trials
Science-Based Medicine, 02 Apr 2018
The full results of the National Toxicology Program's study of cell phones and cancer are finally in. They are somewhat…
Do cell phones cause cancer? Unlikely, but activists are skeptical of journalists who present the facts
Genetic Literacy Project, 14 Feb 2018
California: Here’s how to handle unfounded fears of cell phone cancer
Ars Technica, 16 Dec 2017
Enlarge / A man is seen calling on an iPhone on October 30, 2017. (credit: Jaap Arriens/NurPhoto via Getty Images) The…
Preprint comments: boon or ‘bog?’
The ASCB Post - Science News, Comment, Sicentific Intelligence and Blogs, 27 Oct 2017
The ultimate benefit of preprints (scientific manuscripts posted online before the completion of peer review) is the…
No, Cellphones Don’t Cause Cancer. Probably
Newsroom – Campaign for Accuracy in Public Health Research, 27 Feb 2017
No, Cellphones Don’t Cause Cancer. Probably
Webmonkey, 27 Feb 2017
This is the first entry in our new series Is That a Thing, in which we explore tech's biggest myths, misconceptions, and---every…
Should you be concerned about Apple’s new AirPods?
health enews, 14 Sep 2016
Wireless WorriesShould you be concerned about Apple’s new AirPods?The jury is still out on whether Apple’s move to have no…
No, Apple's new AirPods won't give you cancer, experts say
Booster Shots - latimes.com, 08 Sep 2016
Technology analysts have been calling Apple’s decision to eliminate the earphone jack on its new iPhone 7 a risky business move.
Celulares e câncer
Coluna Ciência, 19 Jun 2016
O uso de telefone celular causa câncer? Esta é uma pergunta recorrente que sempre volta a agitar os meios de comunicação quando…
How is the cell phone-cancer myth like Jason Voorhees from the Friday the 13th slasher flicks?
Respectful Insolence, 06 Jun 2016
There are certain myths that are frustratingly resistant to evidence, science, and reason. Some of these are basically medical…
That Phone Cancer Study Was Great News for Makers of Anti-Radiation Devices
Brights - Die Natur des Zweifels, 03 Jun 2016
Last week a new study linking cell phone radiation to cancers in rats had a lot of people wondering: Do I need to start…
Don’t Worry, You Can Still Give Your Rat that New Phone for its Birthday
Skeptoid, 03 Jun 2016
By now, most people have read something from one or both sides of the story regarding new preliminary data published about cell…
That Phone Cancer Study Was Great News for Makers of Anti-Radiation Devices
Motherboard RSS Feed, 03 Jun 2016
Last week a new study linking cell phone radiation to cancers in rats had a lot of people wondering: Do I need to start…
A Preprint Goes Viral. What Happens Next?
HighWire, 01 Jun 2016
Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory’s bioRxiv preprint server hit a milestone these last few days with the posting of a preprint on…
Cell Phones Associated With Dozens Of Holiday Weekend Deaths — But Not From Cancer
Take As Directed, 01 Jun 2016
Texting while driving carries a much greater health risk than any effect of cell phone radiofrequencies. Photo credit: David…
New Rat Study Finds Link Between Cell Phones and Cancer
Natural Society, 31 May 2016
Concerns over the potential cancer risk associated with cell phones is nothing new. Scientists and health experts have been…
Study that found cell phones cause cancer in rats is riddled with red flags
Ars Technica, 31 May 2016
(credit: kaboompics) Late last week, headlines blared that a new $25 million years-long US government study had finally…
Relax – your phone probably isn’t going to give you cancer
New Scientist - Astrobiology, 31 May 2016
A study in rats suggests high cellphone radiation exposure is linked to tumours, but the experiment can't tell us much about…
It's Premature to Conclude That Cell Phones Cause Cancer in Humans
Guest Blog, 31 May 2016
The recent preliminary results from a study by the National Toxicology Program have serious limitations and…
Underwhelming Cell Phone Rat Study
NeuroLogica Blog, 30 May 2016
Mother Jones headline declares: “Game-Changing” Study Links Cellphone Radiation to Cancer.” NBCNews was similar: A Possible…
No, a rat study with marginal results does not prove that cell phones cause cancer, no matter what Mother Jones and Consumer Reports say
Science-Based Medicine, 30 May 2016
The zombie story that cell phones cause cancer has risen from the grave yet again. There are certain myths that are…
Cell Phones Cause Cancer but You Need $25 Million and Persuasive Statistics to Prove It
Persuasion Blog, 29 May 2016
This research (pdf) is simple. Researchers exposed rats to two specific forms of cell phone radiation from gestation out to 106…
Major Cell Phone Radiation Study Reignites Cancer Questions
3quarksdaily, 28 May 2016
Dina Fine in Scientific American: Federal scientists released partial findings Friday from a $25-million animal study that…
http://www.kurzweilai.net/cell-phone-radiation-study-finds-associated-brain-and-heart-tumors-in-rodents
Bruce's Blog, 28 May 2016
Cell-phone-radiation study finds associated brain and heart tumors in…
Cell-phone-radiation study finds associated brain and heart tumors in rodents
KurzweilAI, 28 May 2016
Glioma in rat brain (credit: Samuel Samnick et al./European Journal of Nuclear Medicine) A series of studies over two years…
Health experts question federal study linking cellphones to brain tumors
Booster Shots - latimes.com, 28 May 2016
New results from a closely watched government study show why the World Health Organization has flagged mobile phones as a…
Possible Cellphone Link To Cancer Found In Rat Study
Slashdot, 27 May 2016
An anonymous reader quotes a report from NBC News: A giant U.S. study meant to help decide whether cellphones cause cancer is…
Cell phone radiation is still safer than viral science stories
WEBODILE - Your Personal Magazine, 27 May 2016
You are almost definitely slowly killing yourself. Eating poorly, smoking, riding motorcycles, watching “The Bachelor” — they’re…
A New Study Links Cell Phone Radiation to Cancer in Rats. Now What?
Motherboard RSS Feed, 27 May 2016
Image: Marjan Lazarevski/FlickrSmartphones have become so ubiquitous that they’re almost an extension of ourselves. So some new…
For the Love of God, Please Chill Out About That New Study About Rats and Cell Phones and Cancer
scienceofus, 27 May 2016
Here we go again. As you may have already discerned from the panicky headlines exploding across your feed – “Cellphone-Cancer…
Do male rats using cell phones get healthy tumors?
The Reference Frame, 27 May 2016
NBC News and others just informed about partial results of some new $25 million U.S. government of health impact of cell phones.
None of you can troll me like Austin can. Also, cell phones and cancer. Again.
The Incidental Economist, 27 May 2016
Seriously, he’s got more game than all of you combined: @aaronecarroll It is not possible for me not to #troll you with this.
"Game-Changing" Study Links Cellphone Radiation to Cancer
Environment | Mother Jones, 27 May 2016
It's the moment we've all been dreading. Initial findings from a massive federal study, released on Thursday, suggest that radio…
Altmetric
This page is provided by Altmetric.