Morphine Addiction and Treatment - Intervention Allies
Home
Alcoholism
Alcoholism in the Family
What is Alcoholism?
Is Alcohol a Drug?
Alcoholism Addiction Treatment
Signs of Alcoholism
What are The Signs of Liver Damage From Alcohol?
What is the difference Between Alcohol Abuse And Alcoholism?
Addiction
Ambien
Amphetamine
Ativan
Barbiturate
Benzodiazepine
Cocaine
Depression
Fentanyl
Heroin
Inhalants Abuse
Kratom
Marijuana
Medications Used
Meth
Morphine
OxyContin
Prescription Drugs
Suboxone
Top 10 Signs of Addiction
Valium
Xanax
Articles
Recovery
Sober Companion
Detox
Alcohol
Ambien
Clonazepam
Cocaine
Hydrocodone
Opiate
Oxycontin
Suboxone
Tramadol
Vicodin
Xanax
Defining Post Acute Withdrawal Syndrome (PAWS)
Interventionist Near Me
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
Mental Health
Bipolar
Bipolar Disorder Signs & Symptoms: Mania & Bipolar Depression
Bipolar Medication Guide: Medications for Bipolar Treatment
Sober Companion
What Is a Sober Companion?
What a Sober Companion is Not
What is a Sober Coach?
Sober Escort Team
Sober Escort: We Get You Where You Need To Go.
SELF-INJURY AND THE SOBER COMPANION
Sober Coach: Executive Drug Intervention
Sober Living
Family Drug Interventions With A Sober Coach
SOBER COACHING – ASK THE RIGHT QUESTIONS
SOBER COACH VS. SPONSOR
WHAT TO EXPECT FROM A SOBER COMPANION
Evaluation and Assessment
SOBER CHAMPION: OUR WORK ETHIC
Testimonials
Alcohol Prescription Medication | Testimonials For Interventionist Carmine Thompson
Drug Addiction Intervention | Testimonial For Drug Addiction Interventionist Carmine Thompson
Mental Health, Hypomania Intervention | Testimonials For Interventionist Carmine Thompson
Teen Drug Addiction Intervention | Testimonials For Interventionist Carmine Thompson
Addiction CDC, Everyday Health, HIV, Morphine Addiction Treatment
Morphine Addiction and Treatment
What is Morphine Addiction Treatment?
Morphine addiction can develop after just a few hits of the drug. Signs of dependence include tolerance to the drug’s impact and continued use of morphine, even when it causes severe life disruption. Replacement medications that mimic the action of morphine, in conjunction with in-depth therapy and coaching, can help individuals achieve long-term recovery.
Dangers of Abuse
Signs of Addiction
The Silver Lining
MORPHINE IS ONE OF THE FIRST TO BE SYNTHESIZED FOR MEDICINAL USE.
It came to be in 1803 and still reigns supreme today as the pain reliever of choice for moderate to severe pain ranging from post-surgical treatment to end-of-life care. Doctors wrote 259 million prescriptions for opioid pain relievers in 2012, per the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Some who abuse these drugs choose to snort the crushed tablets or even chew on the extended-release tablets, while others inject it. The injectable form of the drug is known to be three times as strong as oral forms, In the Know reports.
Dangers of Abuse
Abusing morphine is highly dangerous and comes at a severe cost for most people. Individuals who inject morphine are at an increased risk of contracting hepatitis. There is a 50-70 percent risk of contracting hepatitis B and a 50-80 percent risk of contracting hepatitis C within five years of the onset of injection drug use, the CDC reports. AVERTreports injection drug use was responsible for 8 percent of newly diagnosed cases of HIV in 2010.Of course, some users never make it five years. Drug overdoses killed 43,982 people in 2013. Of these, 22,767 were due to prescription drugs and 16,235 of those were solely attributed to opioid pain relievers, per the CDC.
There is also a risk of developing mental health problems when abusing prescription narcotic painkillers.
Put addiction behind you. Begin Your Future. Call (800) 980-3927
Consultants available 24/7
Mercola reports a 25 percent increased chance of developing depression if you take these drugs for 3-6 months, and that risk increases to 53 percent if you use them longer than that.Learn More
Signs of Addiction
Addiction to morphine can form within just a few uses of the drug. Signs of dependence include:
Tolerance has developed.
You use morphine to avoid going through withdrawal.
You have tried to quit and weren’t successful.
You no longer hang out with friends or attend family functions, because morphine abuse is your priority.
You know your substance abuse is ruining your life, but you can’t stop.
A lot of your time is spent preparing for or using morphine.
The Silver Lining
Within 6-12 hours of your last dose, withdrawal will start to set in. You may start to feel depressed halfway through the first day, and muscle cramps may keep you up at night. By day two, diarrhea usually sets in for most opioid addicts, and many report feeling like it’s hard to catch their breath. You’ll likely start to feel sick before day three rolls around when symptoms will peak before they start to gradually wear off.
One choice of rehabilitating a dependency on morphine is through a medicated maintenance program. While detoxing is possible within the typical 7-10 days, staying clean is a far bigger hurdle for opioid addicts. On a given day in 2011, 299,430 people were enrolled in a medicated maintenance program for an opiate addiction, SAMHSAreports.
Methadone maintenance therapy consists of taking a controlled dose of the drug every day ” usually 5 or 10 mg doses to start. This drug is an opioid agonist that fills opioid receptors, essentially fooling them into feeling they’re still using morphine when they aren’t. The California Society of Addiction medicine stresses that long-term treatment boosts overall efficacy, noting methadone’s success rate lies somewhere between 60 and 90 percent, compared to just 5-10 percent for treatment without medications.
Suboxone and Subutex are similar to methadone. Generally, dosing is started low at around 8 mg and brought up to a maximum of 24 mg, depending on the severity of the individual’s drug abuse habits. Both brands contain buprenorphine, a partial opioid agonist, and work in the same way. Suboxone contains another drug called naloxone that blocks any ability to get high from abusing either of the drugs. Success rates have been as high as 88 percent, reported by The Fix, and as low as 49 percent, per the National Institutes of Health. Both buprenorphine and methadone show the greatest efficacy while individuals are still in the maintenance programs.
Medication alone won’t be enough to turn one’s life around from addiction, though eliminating opioid cravings is highly beneficial to recovering persons. Most treatment programs incorporate support groups in their approach toward recovery. These groups are a great way to manage addiction during treatment and afterward. Individual and group therapy are also crucial to recovery.
This kind of collaborative treatment is mandatory when it comes to treating cases of comorbid disorders. Many substance abusers are suffering from mental illness. Around 20 percent of people with psychiatric disorders will also develop an addiction to drugs or alcohol, Everyday Health states.
When you are planning a trip to rehab, make sure you consider how long you are going to stay in a treatment program.
Many individuals do themselves a great disservice by checking out of rehab too early, and they end up relapsing. Sufficient time in treatment is essential to sustained sobriety.
Meth Addiction & Treatment Signs of a Problem & Getting Help OxyContin Addiction Treatment Opiate Use Disorder & Treatment Information
Related Posts
Addiction, Detox, Recovery
Defining Post Acute Withdrawal Syndrome (PAWS)
Addiction
Top Ten Signs of Drug Addiction
Addiction
Drug Addiction Treatment Programs Tailored to Your Needs
Carmine Thompson
Carmine Thompson is a Certified Intervention Professional (CIP) and Certified Addiction Counselor (CAC) who specializes in alcohol problems, substance abuse, drug addiction, mental disorders and eating disorder interventions.
Get Help Now
Full Name
Your Email (required)
Phone Number (required)
Describe the Issue:
Tags
Aetna Health Insurance Alcohol Sober Companions American Cancer Society Anthem Health Insurance BCBS California Alcohol California Heroin Interventions Call Intervention Allies CEU Christian Family Intervention Cigna Health Insurance Commonly Abused Drugs Corpus Christi Diarrhea Abdominal Getting Started Health Net Hydrocodone Addiction Hydrocodone Addiction Intervention Insurance Provider Benefits Intervention Allies Intervention Specialists IP Klonopin Addiction Klonopin Addiction Intervention MAGNACARE Medical Mutual Mental Health Intervention Mental Health Treatment Necessary Measures OPTUM Orange County Oxycontin Addiction Pasadena Cocaine Intervention Percocet Addiction Percocet Addiction Intervention Recovery Coach San Francisco Sex Addiction Intervention Sober Escort Sober Transport Suboxone Addiction Intervention Substance Abuse Intervention Treatment Team Xanax Addiction Xanax Addiction Intervention
Intervention Allies
Addiction
ADHD
Alcoholism
Alzheimers
Articles
Autism
Bipolar Disorder
Depression
Detox
Diet Nutrition
Intervention
Interventionist Near Me
Local
Mental Health
Pregnancy
Recovery
Sleep
Sober Companion
Sober Living