Who Needs Help for Marijuana Addiction?
Marijuana Rehab
Call 1 (888) 460-6556
any time to discuss treatment options
Get Help Now
Seeking Treatment For:*
Your First Name:*
First
Your Last Name:*
Your Email Address:
Your Phone Number:
Use This Format Only: (###) ###-####
Contact Me By:
Email
Phone
Receive Palm Partners email updates
Yes
No
Comments
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
Home
About Marijuana
Marijuana Addiction
Marijuana Rehab
Advice
Who Needs Help for Marijuana Addiction?
Who Could Become Addicted to Marijuana?
Marijuana addiction is a serious issue that does affect many users. According to the NIDA, “Estimates from research suggest that about 9 percent of users become addicted to marijuana.” This takes into account all users but some are especially susceptible to marijuana addiction. These users are:
Teens where “1 in 6” users become addicted
Chronic marijuana users who smoke every day where “25-50 percent” of users become addicted
Polydrug abusers who abuse marijuana and other drugs like cocaine, heroin, or even prescription drugs
People with a history of addiction in their families
People with mental disorders like depression, bipolar disorder, or anxiety disorders
These people are more likely to become addicted to marijuana and will need help for their addictions.
How Do You Know If You’re Addicted to Marijuana?
People who smoke despite experiencing negative consequences may need rehab for marijuana.
Marijuana addiction usually comes along with warning signs. Because the drug is more often used recreationally than medicinally, many of the symptoms are those which occur with long-term use.
Dependence
Someone who becomes dependent on marijuana will not feel normal when they do not smoke. It can be a very troubling experience for those who are suddenly without the drug.
Withdrawal symptoms
Someone who suddenly stops smoking marijuana and experiences withdrawal symptoms is dependent on the drug. According to SAMHSA, the withdrawal syndrome for marijuana includes “symptoms of nervousness, sleep disturbance, and appetite change.” These symptoms can be more or less intense depending on how much you smoke.
Cravings
Cravings are always a strong sign of addiction. If you crave marijuana and think about it when you are not smoking, you are already addicted to the drug.
Drug-seeking behavior
Marijuana is still illegal to buy in many states, and someone who is willing to put themselves in a potentially dangerous situation in order to get more of the drug could be addicted.
Social issues
Many people experience issues with their friends, family, significant others, teachers, bosses, and coworkers as a result of their marijuana addictions. If more than one person has brought up your marijuana abuse negatively or it has caused multiple problems between you and the important people in your life, you should consider marijuana addiction rehab.
Who Really Needs Help for Marijuana Addiction?
The people who fit the criteria above are the ones who are most likely to become addicted to marijuana. Chronic users and people who started out young will very likely become addicted after a while, and evaluating yourself can also help you discover whether or not you might need treatment.
People who need help are those who are addicted, and the definition of addiction includes the problem of being unable to stop smoking. The NIDA states that “over time a person’s ability to choose not to [do drugs] becomes compromised, and seeking and consuming the drug becomes compulsive.” These are the individuals who need help: people who cannot stop smoking marijuana alone, even if they want to.
If you feel that you are unable to stop smoking marijuana your own, seek treatment now and get the help you need. Don’t hesitate, as individuals who need help for marijuana addiction should not go without it.
Marijuana Rehab
10 Tell Tale Marijuana Addiction Symptoms
5 Alarming Marijuana Health Effects
5 Signs You Need Marijuana Addiction Help
Could My Son Have Marijuana Addiction?
Do I Have a Marijuana Dependence?
Effects of Marijuana on the Brain
Is My Loved One Addicted to Marijuana?
Is Weed Addicting?
Marijuana Addiction Eating Effects
Marijuana Addiction Long Term Effects
Marijuana Addiction Social Effects
Marijuana Psychological Effects
Marijuana Withdrawal
Does Weed Withdrawal Exist?
Marijuana Withdrawal Timeline
Symptoms of Marijuana Withdrawal
What Does Withdrawal from Marijuana Feel Like?
Who Experiences Withdrawal from Marijuana?
Mental Effects of Marijuana Addiction
Signs and Symptoms of Marijuana Addiction
What are the Effects of Marijuana Addiction
Who Needs Help for Marijuana Addiction?
MARIJUANAREHAB.COM. © 2017 All Rights Reserved.
Home
About Marijuana
Marijuana Addiction
Marijuana Rehab
Advice
Privacy Policy
Call 1 (888) 460-6556 anytime to speak with an addiction specialist.