Aspartame DECLARED absolutely SAFE – no matter how poisonous | Piotr Bein's blog = blog Piotra Beina
Piotr Bein's blog = blog Piotra Beina
13/12/2013
Aspartame DECLARED absolutely SAFE – no matter how poisonous
Filed under: Uncategorized — grypa666 @ 04:42
From: “cdsapi” <cdsapi@shaw.ca>
Date: December 11, 2013 11:52:24 PM PST (CA)
Subject: Unbelievably, Aspartame has been DECLARED absolutely SAFE – no matter how poisonous
Cdsapi’s Added Comment: Unbelievable!!!!! The “official” Watchdog Agencies in the USA, which (supposedly) have as their first obligation and mandate “the protection of the public’s health”, have now, by DECLARED FIAT, pronounced that a poison is now “absolutely and definitively SAFE” if and when THEY SAY SO. Does this sound like the Queen in Alice In Wonderland, “It is because I SAY IT IS!.
According to “officialdom”, aspartame has now been declared unequivocally SAFE, no matter how poisonous, no matter how much illness and how many deaths are a direct consequence of this poison being protected as a “Sweetener” added to the food supply – now found in almost everything. One can only conclude that if exponential damage to health is being denied, hence protected, it is not unreasonable to suspect that “depopulation” might be part of the agenda.
Consider these quotes:
…we risk becoming the best informed society that has ever died of ignorance.” – Ruben Blades
“The great tragedy of Science – the slaying of a beautiful hypothesis by an ugly fact.” – Thomas Huxley. 1825-1895
The ugly fact of Aspartame hypothesis is that it is a poison, and will always be a poison, no matter how many DECLARATIONS pronounce it “safe”.
“In times of universal deceit, telling the truth is a revolutionary act.” – G. Orwell
Aspartame is in our food BECAUSE we, the public, tolerate it. We buy the products.
If you need research sources, the following article is an excellent resource for your investigation – and then, hopefully, determined ACTION to ban it – permanently.
Citizens Demand Scientific, Academic and Political Integrity.
In the case of Aspartame, we find Scientific fraud, Academic fraud and Political fraud.
We need, deserve and demand the bloomin’ TRUTH!
Aspartame Resource Guide
Aspartame medical text, Aspartame Disease: An Ignored Epidemic, http://www.sunsentpress.com by H. J. Roberts, M.D., over 1000 pages. He also has other books on aspartame and “A Manifesto for American Medicine”
Dr. Leonard Coldwell’s Detox Formula: http://www.coldwellcleanse.com His new book is “The Only Answer to Cancer”. Goes into aspartame and cancer.
Detox formula: “What To Do If You Have Used Aspartame” by neurosurgeon Russell Blaylock, M.D., http://www.wnho.net/wtdaspartame.htm Dr. Blaylock is author of Excitotoxins: The Taste That Kills, http://www.russellblaylockmd.com He has an excellent CD titled: “The Truth About Aspartame”,
All info is on http://www.mpwhi.com/blaylock_wellness_center.htm
Aspartame documentary: Sweet Misery: A Poisoned World, Cori Brackett cori@sweetremedyradio.com
“While Science Sleeps” by Dr. Woodrow Monte. Goes into the deadly free methyl alcohol in aspartame that converts to formaldehyde. You can get it at http://www.amazon.com/While-Science-Sleeps-Woodrow-Monte/dp/1452893675/ref=sr_1_11?ie=UTF8&qid=1325287403&sr=8-11
Discusses diseases caused by the methanol like MS, blindness and birth defects. Tells how FDA made a deal with G. D. Searle to hide the studies that showed aspartame causes birth defects, so the public would never know. Explains autism epidemic.
Extremely important: Dr. Ralph Walton is now doing a study on birth defects along with Dr. Woodrow Monte. If you have given birth since 1984, please complete the form on my web site, http://www.mpwhi.com, second banner down. It will only take about ten minutes. Then send it to Dr. Walton at rwalton193@aol.com or myself at bettym19@mindspring.com
Aspartame Information List, you can subscribe on http://www.mpwhi.com scroll down to banners.
Aspartame Video:
http://www.brasschecktv.com/videos/health-and-medical/aspartame-gmobacteria-excretions-causing-blindness.html
How to get aspartame out of your state: http://www.thenhf.com/press_releases/pr_24_feb_2009.html
Information on how aspartame blinds: http://www.mpwhi.com/nfb_aspartame_and_vision.htm
Killing and disabling pilots, and causing crashes http://www.mpwhi.com/pilot_aspartame_alert_with_letters.htm
No safe dose of aspartame. FDA toxicologist testifies to Congress:: http://www.thenhf.com/article.php?id=3442
Safe Sweetener: Just Like Sugar, http://www.justlikesugarinc.om Can be found in places like Whole Foods. Made of chicory and orange peel, Calcium and Vitamin C. Chicory has been used for 70 years to improve the health of diabetics. Dr. Russell Blaylock wrote in his newsletter, The Blaylock Wellness Report, http://www.russellblaylockmd.com Finally a safe sweetener”. You can go to their web site above and add your zip code and it will tell you where to get the product or you can get it on web itself. Be sure to try their marvelous hot chocolate with nothing but chocolate and vanilla bean and JLS. What a difference in the taste without a bunch of chemicals.
Special warning for diabetics: Aspartame can precipitate diabetes, simulates and aggravates diabetic retinopathy and neuropathy, destroys the optic nerve, causes diabetics to go into convulsions, and even interacts with insulin. The free methyl alcohol causes diabetics to lose limbs. Jeanette Soto, Mission Possible Brookville, Florida who wrote “Blinded Sight” when her husband lost his sight from aspartame was unable to get her father-in-law, diabetic off aspartame because of the addiction. The free methyl alcohol is classified as a narcotic. It causes chronic methanol poisoning which affects the dopamine system of the brain and causes the addiction. When Jeanette’s father-in-law, Santiago Echiverria died it had to be a closed casket, the formaldehyde from the free methyl alcohol was oozing out of his skin. The American Diabetes Assn was sued in 2004 for racketeering for pushing aspartame on diabetics, but because of their power got out of it.
Today people are dying of the methanol poisoning. Dr. James Bowen explains:
“Only after longer aspartame usage does liver damage cause blood methanol levels to measurably rise because the liver mitochondria are so damaged that the liver no longer quickly processes either methyl or ethyl (drink) alcohol. Then the acute methanol poisoning is directly measurable from lab results, as the blood methanol level elevates. This entire sequence or “toxic axis” begins with your very first dose of aspartame. Both acute and chronic poisonings from this methanol toxic axis, and other additive and synergistic aspartame poisonings, steadily accumulate in the aspartame consumer.” We continue to get reports of people dying of methanol poisoning. Charles Fleming died and his wife, a Sunday School teacher, remains in a prison in Virginia. The detective on the case said, “Diane is innocent but because I was promoted I could not stop the indictment.” Be warned no diabetic should ever consume wood alcohol. The FDA did no NOAEL on methanol. Without it you cannot set an ADI, allowable daily intake. It’s 44% too high.
Aspartame and MS: http://www.mpwhi.com/new_report_at_neurology_conference.htm
Aspartame Warning Flyer for distribution: http://www.mpwhi.com/warning_flyer_on_aspartame.htm
The Lethal Science of Splenda: http://www.wnho.net/splenda_chlorocarbon.htm
Studies have shown that sucralose can:
* Cause the thymus to shrink by as much as 40% (thymus is your immune powerhouse – it produces T cells)
* Cause enlargement of the liver and kidneys
* Reduce growth rate as much as 20%
* Cause enlargement of the large bowel area
* Reduce the amount of good bacteria in the intestines by 50%
* Increase the pH level in the intestines (a risk factor for colon cancer)
* Contribute to weight gain
* Cause aborted pregnancy low fetal body weight
* Reduce red blood cell count
Particular warning to diabetics: Researchers found that diabetic patients using sucralose showed a statistically significant increase in glycosylated hemoglobin, a marker that is used to assess glycemic control in diabetic patients. According to the FDA, “increases in glycosolation in hemoglobin imply lessening of control of diabetes.”
Here is how Splenda is made: http://www.wnho.net/chemical_processing_of_splenda.htm
Recently, Dr. Morando Soffritti announced a new study on Sucralose which showed it causes cancer.
Ajinomoto announced a new name for aspartame called AminoSweet. Be warned. It goes under many names; NutraSweet, Equal, Spoonful, Naturataste, Canderel, Benevia, E951, etc. Because the patent has expired it can be used in anything. You must read labels. Many times it’s hidden in artificial and natural flavors. Remember that aspartame has a synergistic and additive effect with MSG. Stuart Pape of the National Yogurt Assn has petitioned the FDA to allow aspartame unlabeled in yogurt and dairy products. The FDA has ignored my FOIA request asking if they allowed this, which is illegal.
Acesulfame Potassium (Sunette) triggered cancer and leukemia in original studies.
Web sites: http://www.mpwhi.com, http://www.dorway.com and http://www.wnho.net
Aspartame Toxicity Center, http://www.holisticmed.com/aspartame
Be warned that the FDA has been petitioned for the approval of another aspartame product, Advantame, already approved in Australia and by the European Food Safety Authority. Also, the dairy people have petitioned the FDA to allow less labeling in chocolate milk and 17 other dairy products. Protect your children! FDA must by law have a PKU warning for phenylketonurics who can’t metabolize phenylalanine. Dr. James Bowen says that aspartame actually causes Phenylketonuria!
Prestigious Ecologist: Aspartame was listed with the pentagon in an inventory or prospective biochemical warfare weapons submitted to Congress: http://www.mpwhi.com/ecologist_september_2005.pdf
Also, you may be interested in the History Of Aspartame reported for Prop 65:
Cynthia Oshita
Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment
Proposition 65 Implementation
P.O. Box 4010 1001 I Street, 19th floor
Sacramento, California 95812-4010
FAX (916) 323-8803
Dear Ms. Oshita:
In reading available information, I assume you want mostly how aspartame relates to cancer. Indeed it is a carcinogen, proven so by many scientific studies. Aspartame also triggers many other serious diseases, which fill the 1,000+ page medical text, Aspartame Disease: An Ignored Epidemic, http://www.sunsentpress.com by H. J. Roberts, M.D.
When FDA Commissioner Dr. Von Eschenbach took office I wrote him about aspartame and cancer, mainly due to his professed intention to save cancer victims; so much of this has already been done. http://www.mpwhi.com/project_recall_aspartame.htm Later 12 toxicologists asked the FDA to ban aspartame because of the long term Ramazzini studies on large rat populations showing aspartame is “a multipotential carcinogen”. http://www.cspinet.org/new/pdf/aspartame_letter_to_fda.pdf
Now I’ll go back to the beginning.
Aspartame was not approved by science but thru the political chicanery of Don Rumsfeld. D.C. Attorney James Turner, explains how Rumsfeld did it in the documentary Sweet Misery, a Poisoned World. Here’s a clip from the movie so you can hear what he said: http://www.soundandfury.tv/pages/rumsfeld2.html
Searle’s problem was they couldn’t get studies to show safety. For example, in the Bressler Report: http://www.mpwhi.com/aspartame_news.htm you read where they would excise brain tumors from the rats, put them back in the study and after they died resurrected them back on paper. They even filtered out neoplasms to hide them from the FDA. Repeatedly Searle was caught in this criminal activity.
On January 10, 1977 in a 33 page letter, FDA Chief Counsel Richard Merrill recommended to the Justice Department Attorney Sam Skinner that a grand jury investigate Searle for “apparent violations of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 21 USC 331 (e), and the False Reports to the Government Act, 18 U.S.C. 1001, for “their willful and knowing failure to make reports to the Food and Drug Administration required by the Act, 21 U.S.C 355 (i) and making false statements in reports of animal studies conducted to establish the safety of aspartame.” The FDA called special attention to studies investigating the effect of NutraSweet on monkeys and hamsters.
Searle was caught dead to rights, so they hired Skinner, made him a deal he couldn’t refuse. So the former Justice Department prosecutor became a defender. Next at bat – U. S. Prosecutor William Conlon, promptly switched sides too. By then the statute of limitations had expired. Searle knew they couldn’t win the case so they simply hired the prosecutors. The Godfather hired the District Attorneys!
Nevertheless the FDA had no intention of approving aspartame. The fraud was so great that Dr. John Olney (who with James Turner fought against approval of aspartame) told Searle to do studies in his lab so he could see that they were done honestly, with supervision. Dr. Olney believed the FDA wouldn’t approve aspartame because the studies showed it produced brain damaged. What he didn’t anticipate is that Searle didn’t submit these findings to the FDA.
January 30, 1980 the Public Board of Inquiry revoked Searle’s petition for approval declaring that they had “not been presented with proof of reasonable certainty that aspartame is safe for use as a food additive.” Searle had spent $17 million on an aspartame factory and had no intention of giving up, poison or no. At this point they hired Donald Rumsfeld who said he would call in his markers and get it approved anyway. What were those markers? President Reagan had told Rumsfeld he would be nominated for vice president, but instead selected Bush number 1.
The day after Reagan took office he appointed Dr. Arthur Hull Hayes as the new FDA Commissioner, to over-rule the Board of Inquiry. Reagan knew it would take 30 days to get Hayes to the FDA, so he wrote an Executive Order making the FDA powerless to do anything about aspartame. At 3 AM that night a member of Reagan’s staff called the FDA Commissioner Jere Goyan and fired him. Here is a letter from his wife who was there when the terminating call came in: http://www.mpwhi.com/letter_about_jere_goyan.pdf
Once aspartame was on the market there was outrage as consumers were diagnosed with seizures, multiple sclerosis and blindness from the free methyl alcohol releases. Senator Orrin Hatch, on Monsanto’s payroll, obstructed hearings on aspartame for years, but there were 3 Congressional hearings from 1985 to l987. Hatch was on Monsanto’s payroll, and kept the bill in committee that would put a moratorium on aspartame until NIH completed independent studies on the flood of aspartame problems they were seeing: seizures, blindness, headaches, sexual dysfunction, behavioral problems, especially in children, drug interactions and birth defects.
About that time Dr. James Bowen wrote FDA that “aspartame is mass poisoning of the American public and 70 countries” – today over 100. http://www.dorway.com/drbowen.txt The good doctor wrote: “For this reason, I am opposed to labeling aspartame content of food and drinks. To do so would imply that the government is taking some sort of responsible action….when the only responsible action would be to immediately take aspartame off the market, fully disclose its toxicities, offer full compensation to the injured, public and criminally prosecute anyone who participated in the fraudulent placement of aspartame on the marketplace.”
How was the new FDA Commissioner, Arthur Hayes, rewarded for over-ruling the Board of Inquiry? He was hired as a consultant to NutraSweet’s PR Agency on a 10-year contract at $1,000.00 a day, and nobody’s heard a peep from him since, he got lockjaw. Who ever heard of a PR guy who won’t talk?
Now they began funding professional organizations, ladies-of-the-evening like the American Diabetes Assn, American Dietetic Assn and numerous others to propagandize the public with touting aspartame. Of course they also threatened scientists whose studies identified the toxicity of this poison. In the UPI Investigation Dr. Wurtman was threatened if he did studies on aspartame and seizures he would lose his funding. He capitulated. Read this report on the 8 month investigation by United Press International: http://www.mpwhi.com/upi_1987_aspartame_report.pdf Dr. Wurtman, too, got a terrible case of aspartame lockjaw, but MIT still gets the money.
ILSI, the International Life Sciences Institute, was born in 1978 as a “research” front for our favorite poisoners. Its board members are from Coke, Pepsi, Searle, Monsanto and the rest of the usual suspects. If a university won’t play their way they get no pay, that is to say, funding for fake “research”.
Over the years many independent studies have been done. The manufacturers say 200 studies that aspartame is safe as rain. Some of those were the ones FDA found fraudulent and sought prosecution for, and others were simply bought and paid for quack studies from rubber duck labs.
Consider seizure studies by Monsanto, they bought Searle in l985: http://www.holisticmed.com/aspartame/abuse/seizures.html Seizures are listed 5 times on the FDA report of 92 symptoms that range from male sexual dysfunction to death: http://www.mpwhi.com/92_aspartame_symptoms.pdf People are having so many seizures and going blind on aspartame that the Community Nutrition Institute filed a petition to ban aspartame in l986. Again the manufacturers put in the fix to prevent it from being banned.
They were so worried someone would have a seizure they actually gave people anti-seizure medication in the Rowan study. This impeccable “study” involved one-day consumption of, believe it or not: a single capsule of aspartame. Tantamount to smelling the bottle. They got it peer reviewed with their power. So when consumers complain of seizures they say “we did studies and aspartame doesn’t cause seizures”.
I smoked a Lucky once and I’m fine, so nicotine doesn’t cause cancer!
They have all bases covered. Today front groups like Calorie Control Council, with full knowledge that aspartame causes birth defects and mental retardation actually push the poison: http://www.wnho.net/mh_aspartame_letter.htm
When 60 Minutes did a story about aspartame and brain tumors, the manufactures claimed to have all these studies showing safety. Dr. Ralph Walton who was on the show decided to research who funded the “studies”: http://www.dorway.com/peerrev.html Note that 92% of independent peer-reviewed studies show problems aspartame causes, while those funded or controlled by industry all say it’s safe. If you eliminate 6 studies the FDA, aspartame’s branch office in Washington, messed with, and one pro-aspartame sponsored summary, 100% of independent scientific peer reviewed studies show aspartame problems.
As Dr. Bowen said: this is mass poisoning of the world. Aspartame destroys the brain, the optic nerve, the immune system and central nervous system. It devastates every organ of the body. Epidemic obesity, diabetes, sexual dysfunction, retinopathy and neuropathy, optic nerve destruction, convulsions and insulin reactions, MS, Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s, IQ depreciation and dozens of other afflictions have been inflicted upon us by this deadly neurotoxic carcinogenic “sweetener”.
According to the prestigious Ecologist, aspartame was listed with the Pentagon in an inventory of prospective biochemical warfare weapons submitted to Congress. http://www.mpwhi.com/ecologist_september_2005.pdf
Studies show the horrific damage done to the body. For instance, the Trocho Study shows the formaldehyde converted from the free methyl alcohol actually embalms tissue and damages DNA. http://www.mpwhi.com/formaldehyde_from_aspartame.pdf
Here are summaries of the two aspartame studies, Ramazzini Institute, that showed aspartame to be a multipotential carcinogen, passed down through the mother:
DR. MORANDO SOFFRITTI, lead researcher on two groundbreaking long-term aspartame studies. He was recently honored at New York’s Mt Sinai School of Medicine with the Irving J Selikoff Award For his outstanding contributions to the identification of environmental and industrial carcinogens and his promotion of independent scientific research. Reviewing his two impeccable aspartame studies. Dr. Soffritti explains:
The first ERF study (2005) was conducted on 1800 Sprague-Dawley rats (100-150/per sex/per group) In order to simulate daily human intake, aspartame was added to the standard rat diet in quantities of 5000, 2500, 100, 500, 20, 4, and 0 mg/Kg of body weight. Treatment of the animals began at 8 weeks of age and continued until spontaneous death. The results show that APM causes a statistically significant, dose-related increase of lymphomas/leukemias and malignant tumorsof the renal pelvis in females and malignant tumors of peripheral nerves in males. These results demonstrate for the first time that APM is a carcinogenic agent, capable of inducing malignancies at various dose levels, including those lower than the current acceptable daily intake (ADI) for humans (50 mg/kg of body weight in the US, 40 mg/kg of body weight in the EU).
The second ERF study (2007) was conducted on 400 Sprague-Dawley rats (70-95/per sex/per group). In order to simulate daily human intake, aspartame was added to the standard rat diet in quantities of 100, 20, and 0 mg/Kg of body weight. Treatment of the animals began on the 12th day of fetal life until natural death. The results of the second study show an increased incidence of lymphomas/leukemias in female rats with respect to the first study. Moreover, the study shows that when lifespan exposure to APM begins during fetal life, the age at which lymphomas/leukemias develop in females is anticipated. For the first time, a statistically significant increase in mammary cancers in females was also observed in the second study. The results of this transplacental carcinogenicity bioassay not only confirm, but also reinforce the first experimental demonstration of APMs multipotential carcinogenicity.
Another study by Dr. Morando Soffritti, Ramazzini Institute, showed aspartame causes liver and lung cancer.
In 2002 I petitioned the FDA to ban aspartame. The FDA had 180 days to answer it. They refuse, obviously because I’m using their own words, and they don’t know how to get around the fact that everything is a matter of record. If it wasn’t so criminal one would have to laugh at their propaganda – the idea that someone might even consider believing them. For instance, they will tell you there is just a small amount of methanol, and there is more in oranges. What they don’t say is that in oranges it is accompanied by ethanol, which is the classic antidote for methanol toxicity and takes it out of your body safely. Here is a peer reviewed journal article about it. http://www.mpwhi.com/aspartame_methanol_and_public_health.pdf Methanol also binds to pectin. In aspartame there is no ethanol. Here is their basic propaganda answered with references: http://dorway.com/dorwblog/?page_id=606
A detox formula for aspartame victims endorsed by Dr. Russell Blaylock, Neurosurgeon: http://www.wnho.net.wtdaspartame.htm Available are his excellent books and a CD :”The Truth About Aspartame”
There are efforts now in states and countries to rid the planet of aspartame. It is genetically engineered. The manufacturers get people in high places addicted. When I testified to the Senate in New Mexico, half the senators were sipping Diet Coke. Presidents Clinton and Bush were addicted. Methanol is classified as a narcotic and it causes chronic methanol poisoning. This affects the dopamine system of the brain, producing addiction.
I’ve lectured in other countries and I can tell you people are sick and dying the world over on this poison. It would be great to see it banned from California. First of all, its illegally on the market because it violates the Delaney Amendment. Here are comments from an FDA toxicologist, Dr. Adrian Gross, to Congress on 8/1/85:
Dr. Gross testified that at least one of Searle’s studies “has established beyond ANY REASONABLE DOUBT that aspartame is capable of inducing brain tumors in experimental animals and that this predisposition of it is of extremely high significance. … In view of these indications that the cancer causing potential of aspartame is a matter that had been established WAY BEYOND ANY REASONABLE DOUBT, one can ask: What is the reason for the apparent refusal by the FDA to invoke for this food additive the so-called Delaney Amendment to the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act?”
The Delaney Amendment makes it illegal to allow any residues of cancer causing chemicals in foods. In his concluding testimony Gross asked, “Given the cancer causing potential of aspartame, how would the FDA justify its position that it views a certain amount of aspartame as constituting an allowable daily intake or ‘safe’ level of it? Is that position in effect not equivalent to setting a ‘tolerance’ for this food additive and thus a violation of that law? And if the FDA itself elects to violate the law, who is left to protect the health of the public?” Congressional Record SID835:131 (August 1, l985)
Here is my letter to the Assembly Committee on Health which exposes the fact that it’s adulterated: http://www.mpwhi.com/letter_to_a_n_kim_california_ach.htm he adulteration means it violates interstate commerce laws.
Consumer power is winning the war against this toxin.
Holland Sweetener, the largest European aspartame producer closed in 2006. Another European maker also quit.
In Japan Tosh stopped making it as well.
Merisant, in the USA went bankrupt for $230,000,000 in January, 2009.
47 members of Parliament signed for a ban in the UK.
There is a continuing effort to get it banned in the Philippines
Romania banned it in the early 90’s because it’s carcinogenic.
And now the European Food Safety Authority is doing a review.
Today no drug is safe if the consumer is using aspartame because of the interaction due to damage to the mitochondria. It’s used in hospitals because of the dietitians, making patients even sicker.
The Nutratanic hit the iceberg and Coke & Pepsi are in the lifeboats with new sweeteners in the works. Japan’s Ajinomoto and the USA NutraSweet Co are still slapping around in the frigid waters of consumer condemnation. http://www.wnho.net/recipe_for_death.htm
If I can provide further data, I’ll gladly do so. There is no way to show safety on aspartame with honest, unbiased studies. Eliminate industry studies to defend its product and you’ll see how deadly is this toxin. Dr. Bill Deagle said its more deadly than depleted uranium because its ubiquitous in our food.
Dr. Betty Martini, D.Hum, Founder
Mission Possible International (warning the world off aspartame)
9270 River Club Parkway
Duluth, Georgia 30097
770 242-2599
http://www.mpwhi.com, http://www.dorway.com and http://www.wnho.net
Aspartame Toxicity Center, http://www.holisticmed.com/aspartame
Aspartame Information List, http://www.mpwhi.com scroll down to banners
Advertisements
Share this:
Facebook
Reddit
Twitter
Print
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Leave a Comment
TrackBack URI
Menu
Home
About me / O mnie
Definitions / Definicje
My research papers / Moje opracowania
Mój polski blog
My books / Moje knigi
Radiation / Radiacja
Fukuszima / Fukushima
Anti-Zionist
I fight anti-Polonism / Zwalczam antypolonizm
Białe kruki i plamy
Pralnia
GMOnsanto
10 IV – Hipotezy katastrofy
10 IV – Artykuły
10 IV – Polityczne
10 IV – Osoby
10 IV – Świadkowie + Bezpieczeństwo
10 IV – Techniczne
Zdjęcia Smoleńsk 1
Zdjęcia Smoleńsk 2
Zdjęcia Smoleńsk 3
!! IX
Wspomóż blog – Support me
...Dzięki za wsparcie na konto lub PayPala! ...Thanks for your contrubution to my bank or Pay Pal account
@ kontakt – contact me
formularz kontaktowy
Search for:
Archives
Archives Select Month April 2019 March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 April 2018 March 2018 February 2018 January 2018 December 2017 November 2017 October 2017 August 2017 July 2017 June 2017 May 2017 April 2017 March 2017 February 2017 January 2017 December 2016 November 2016 October 2016 September 2016 August 2016 July 2016 June 2016 May 2016 April 2016 March 2016 February 2016 January 2016 December 2015 November 2015 October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 September 2010 August 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 January 2010 December 2009 November 2009 October 2009
RSS - Posts
RSS - Comments
Blog Stats
2,865,632 hits
Recent Posts
REWELACJA opracowanie niedopuszczone do Sejmowej Konferencji 5G — Dr Diana Wojtkowiak: Trwałe skażenie Ziemi przez sieć 5G i dobrowolne poddanie się wykorzystaniu broni elektronicznej przez wrogów
Sir Julian Rose: Pogańska Wielkanoc / A (Polish) Pagan Easter
Sztuczny penis zamiast podręcznika?
Circumcision changes the brain permanently
Odszedł Albin Siwak, Wielki Polski Patriota, Nosiciel Prawdy
Piotr Bein: w USA chrześcijanie idą pod topór? — o Prawach Noego wyssanych z parchatego palucha talmudystów, zatwierdzonych przez Watykan
Piotr Bein: Jeśli nie zatrzymamy ich, parchy nas wykończą
One Of a Kind Database on the Issues Surrounding the HOLOCAUST RESTITUTION Efforts Currently Being Aimed at Poland
Parchy aborcyjne przerażone: spadek liczby aborcji w Polsce
Niechciany tekst…
Jawny Frajer neo-ubecji, Jarek Kefir żeruje na dramacie Marka Podleckiego
Rusza inicjatywa ustawodawcza Stop Pedofilii – zbieramy podpisy!
Powrót do kościelnej cenzury i stosów ???
Niezdolny do empatii ZdalnyObserwator: Czy otaczają nas ludzie — Marek Podlecki
Dr Zbigniew Kękuś: EterTV nierzetelny dziennikarz, tchórz i oszczerca …chyba że uzasadni osmarowanie
Repeal Fraudulent Act S.447, an Unconstitutional Precedent. NO to the Giveaway of Heirless Property — 31 MARCH 2019 NATIONWIDE PROTESTSAGAINST U.S. LAW 115-171 (ACT S.447)
Mariusz Dzierżawski (Fundacja Pro-Prawo do Życia) skazany przez sąd
Nie dla żydowskich roszczeń…
Dołącz do Koalicji “Polska wolna od 5G”
Protesty środowisk Polonijnych Przeciw Prawu 115-171 (Act S.447)
Kim są autorzy Standardów Edukacji Seksualnej WHO?
SmartCity, 5G i ocipienie klimatu — zatrzymać ten nonsens!
Haracz w sulistrowickiej farsie…
20th Century Hoax: Presumed Extermination of European Jewry
Kniżka żydowskich historyków fetuje rolę żydłactfa w bolszewickim genocydzie Rosjan i destrukcji Europy Wsch.
Uruchomiliśmy Narodowy Sąd Obywatelski. Możemy powoływać Sędziów Pokoju
Szokująca skala pedofilii w W. Brytanii. Skąd to się wzięło?
Żagiew – Żydzi jako zdrajcy, mordercy i szmalcownicy. Izrael milczy
Sulistrowickiej farsy (po)procesowej ciąg dalszy…
BOMBA Dr Diana Wojtkowiak: uwagi co do celowości projektu mega-ustawy telekomunikacyjnej jak i przewidywanych jej następstw
Co to są pola torsyjne? — raczkujemy w doniosłym dla zdrowia temacie
Kodeks rodzinny i opiekuńczy — poseł Paweł Skutecki walczy
Slalomowi merytorycznemu Mateusza Jarosiewicza akompaniują torsje moralne?
Stop GMO pilne do nagłaśniania i wysyłania
Piotr Bein: Z konferencji “Polska strefą wolną od 5G”
Krzysztof Kornatowicz po szopce I instancji, naciera w imię podstawowych praw Polaków
TURBO-ALARM Marek Podlecki ofiarą psychotroniki w żydo-histerii “mowa nienawiści”?
Naczelny Rabin ortodoksów Neturei Karta broni kongresmanki USA, osmarowanej “antysemitka” przez Lobby Izraela za anty-syjonizm
[Dyskusja] Czy to są patrioci polscy?
I znów pokłosie II wojny…
Prawa Noego od żydłactfa dla gojów: ścinanie głów za wiarę w Chrystusa, listy namiarów czerwona i niebieska w 5G
Nauka masturbacji w warszawskich przedszkolach?
Nagłaśniać 5G bez przesady, inaczej stracimy publikę
Orange przeprowadził wspólnie z Ericsson testy 5G w Zakopanem
Mateusz Jarosiewicz lansuje Polakom SmartCity, 5G i SztucznąInteligencję
LIST INTENCYJNY – ŻĄDANIE SUWERENA ws. ZATRZYMANIA HANDLU DZIEĆMI
Niewiedza czy KŁAMSTWA Min. Rolnictwa? — Martwa ustawa o Rolniczym Handlu Detalicznym
Aktywista homoseksualny w każdej szkole? W Polsce to już możliwe
Wojna żydowsko – polska. Przejście do obrony
Antysłowiańska i antypogańska propaganda rodem z Niemiec…
Najpopularniejsze wpisy
Drastyczne zdjęcia ofiar katastrofy smoleńskiej
Sisters of Evil: pedophilia, extortion of VIPs, snuff-films, assassinations...
Lista żydów w zniewalanej Polsce
Najwcześniejsze domowe diagnozowanie i likwidacja nowotworów złośliwych
Wroga postawa Kościoła wobec Konstytucji 3 Maja i Reform Sejmu Czteroletniego
[dyskusja] Czy Roman Nacht zabił w sobie Żyda?
REWELACJA opracowanie niedopuszczone do Sejmowej Konferencji 5G -- Dr Diana Wojtkowiak: Trwałe skażenie Ziemi przez sieć 5G i dobrowolne poddanie się wykorzystaniu broni elektronicznej przez wrogów
Kolejka ogrodowa -- początki
Prof. Majewska: Toksyny w zywnosci, lekach, kosmetykach
Piotr Bein: w USA chrześcijanie idą pod topór? -- o Prawach Noego wyssanych z parchatego palucha talmudystów, zatwierdzonych przez Watykan
I fight anti-Polonism
Riposte to an "American" Polonophobe
Reply to a Zionist's anti-Polonism
Riposte to Spiegel's "The Dark Continenet"
Open Letter to Professor Emir Ramic
Holo-hoax for Holo-caustianity and Holo-business: Holocaust survivors storm Polish embassy to protest contentious bill
TheRealNews o chucpie "polskie obozy śmierci" to nazizm jak banderowski!!!
Moje opracowania
Judeocentrycy i masowe zbrodnie
Masowe oszustwo o masowej przemocy
Ws. promieniowania z linii wysokiego napięcia
W imię Boga
Wybrańcy Boga
Rewizjonizm, odwracanie ról i restytucje: kazus polsko-żydowski
My books - moje knigi
NATO na Bałkanach
To Serbia via Poland
My research papers
Dirty Uranium Weapons Cover-ups
Judeocentrics and Mass Crimes
Judeocentrics Behind Balkan Interventionism
Kosovo a precedent for Judeopolonia?
Mass Deception on Mass Crimes: The Case of Serbs
Operation Danish Cartoons
Revisionism, Role-reversal and Restitutions: The Polish – Jewish Case
Zionist Pains: The Evils of Judeocentrism
Radiacja - radiation
Nawijanie o spadaniu plutonu i uranu
Nuclear lobby spin on plutonium and uranium dust
LLRC: Emitery alfa, liczniki Geigera
Alpha emitters, Geiger Counters – a clarification on monitoring for radioactive pollution
ALERT: od eksperta nt. radioaktywności
ALERT: More from an expert on radioactivity from Japan
Cenzura w CBC jak wszedzie
Rentgen musi być bezpieczny – a reszta?
Promieniowanie radioaktywne i jego biologiczne skutki
Skutki zdrowotne napromieniowania małymi dawkami
Czarnobylska hipochondria?
Zaczęło się w Hiroszimie
Dirty Uranium Weapons Cover-ups
Ws. promieniowania z linii wysokiego napięcia
Zwalczam antypolonizm
Riposta "amerykańskiemu" polonofobowi (skasowana przez sabotaż bloga, link nie działa)
List otwarty do dr Aliny Calej, Zydowski Instytut Historyczny
List otwarty do pana Brattmana
Riposta na rewizjonizm w Spiegel
List otwarty do „Otwartej Rzeczpospolitej”
List otwarty do władz i sponsorów Wyższej Szkoły Filologii Hebrajskiej w Toruniu
TheRealNews o chucpie "polskie obozy śmierci" to nazizm jak banderowski!!!
TheRealNews o chucpie "polskie obozy śmierci" to nazizm jak banderowski!!!
„Polskie” obozy zagłady Słowian i Żydów przez żydłactfo
Blog at WordPress.com.
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: