Can Baking Soda Heal Cancer? | Barton Publishing Blog
Barton Publishing Blog
Back to our website
View a list of health topics
Abs
Acid reflux
ADHD ADD
Aging
Allergies
Alzheimer’s
Amanda Box
America
Antioxidants
Anxiety
Arthritis
Asthma
Autism
Back pain
Bad breath
Barton publishing
Big pharma
Bladder
Blood sugar
Bone health
Brain
Breast cancer
Candida
Cardiovascular
Cholesterol
Christmas
Cleanse
Cold and Flu
Curcumin
Cure for cancer
Daily health blog
Daily Superfood Love
Depression
Detox
Diabetes
Diet
Digestion
Dr. saunders
Dr. Scott Saunders
Ebola
Eczema
Energy
Erectile dysfunction
Fat burning
Fatigue
Female hair loss
Fibromyalgia
Gallstones
Gout
Gut health
Health
Hearing
Heart disease
Hemorrhoids
Herpes
High blood pressure
Home Cures Daily
Home cures that work
Home remedies
Honey
Honeycrisp apples
Hormones
Huckabee
Hypertension
Ibs
Immune system
Inflammation
Ischemic colitis
Joe barton
Joint pain
Kidney Stones
Liver
Lyme disease
Memory loss
Mercola
Metabolism
Michael Tyrrell
Migraines
Mineral
Multiple sclerosis
Music
Music therapy
Natural remedy
News
Obesity
Oxygen
Pain relief
Parkinson's
Pets
Pregnancy
Probiotics
Prostate cancer
Recipe
Sinus infection remedy
Skin cancer
Sleep
Stress relief
Stroke
Supplements
Swine flu
Teeth
Testosterone
Thyroid
Tinnitus
Urinary tract infection
Vertigo
Vision
Vitamins
Water
Weight loss
Wholetones
Women hair loss
Yeast Infection
Zika
Can Baking Soda Heal Cancer?
28 Feb 2014
Posted by Cheryl in: cure for cancer, daily health blog, diet, health, natural remedy, supplements
by Jessica Sanders
Juice cleanses nutritional supplements and… baking soda? There have been many claims in the past decades about alternative cancer treatments, many of which are supported by scientific claims and undisputable stories of triumph and hope. Baking soda, however, has not been studied by many medical professionals, and is only backed by a small group of people, like Mark Sircus, author of Sodium Bicrabonate—Rich Man’s Poor Man’s Cancer Treatment.
However, the disapproval of this cancer curing method is made clear by many medical agencies including the American Cancer Society: “This claim is not supported by science or clinical evidence and is contrary to widely-accepted basic facts of oncology and microbiology.”
If you’re feeling skeptical because of what western medicine has to gain by taking this stance, you’re not alone. “When a scientist has an effective and revolutionary idea, the medical institution attempts to suppress his work because he threatens the interests of the ruling class. No matter how effective the therapy in question is, their aim will be to destroy him,” says Italian doctor Tullio Simoncini.
Despite who or what you do or don’t believe, read the science, hear the story and decide for yourself.
The Baking Soda Basics
The most basic argument for the baking soda treatment falls into two realms:
1. Sodium bicarbonate, or baking soda, kills the yeast that some believe causes cancer in the first place—a yeast infection.
2. Baking soda increases your pH levels; some believe that cancer won’t grow if your body is between 7.0 and 7.5, a medium to high alkalinity. Still, the aim is to increase your levels to 8.0 or higher for 4 days straight. The science? “Cancer cells convert glucose to lactic acid, which lowers pH. The more cancer cells, the more lactic acid and the lower the pH,” according to NaturalNews.com.
The Baking Soda Arguments
While many medical professionals will agree that baking soda has a variety of health benefits, they have put up a strong argument against its success in curing cancer. Here’s what the opposition says:
“The fact is that there has never been a single study which has shown that an alkaline pH alone—no matter what the pH level may be—can cure cancer,” says Tony Isaacs, a natural health author. However, Isaacs does stress the importance of a high alkaline diet in cancer treatment, but questions whether it’s the nutrients, along with high alkaline foods (rather than just the alkaline pH), that treats the disease.
Other medical professionals find the methods downright dangerous. “Please also be aware that sodium bicarbonate presents metabolic risks for people with high blood pressure, patients with lung, heart or kidney diseases as well as for cancer patients. In no case is it advisable to take excess sodium on a regular basis,” says Dr. Andrew Weil, M.D.
It’s also important to note that nearly every argument for the baking soda treatment comes back to Dr. Simoncini, who discovered and advocated the treatment from the start. However, many claim he was stripped of his medical license.
The Baking Soda Success Story
Still there is one success story worth mentioning: In 2009, Natural News released the story of Vernon Johnson, a prostate cancer patient who was advised by his brother to take a non-conventional route to become healthy once again. While his brother originally recommended a Cesium treatment, Johnson tried the baking soda treatment and, as of 2013, has been cancer free for five years.
While Johnson did take a daily baking soda treatment, he supplemented with a high alkaline diet, along with mineral and vitamin supplements.
Alternative medicine continually proves to be a valuable option for those who don’t believe in the western practices, yet it’s not clear whether a diet of baking soda alone will help cure cancer. In Johnson’s case, a supplemental high-alkaline diet, along with other mineral and vitamin supplements likely worked together to bring him into remission.
With so much missing information and debate in the medical world, it’s safe to say you should speak with your doctor or a holistic practitioner before following any strict baking soda regiment.
What alternative cancer treatments have you found? Share your story or that of another below!
If you liked this article, then you’ll love these:
The Cancer Soldier Sitting in Your Refrigerator Drawer
Natural Cancer Remedies: Do They Work?
Dandelions Are A Non-Toxic Cancer Therapy
Comments
comments
Cheryl, administrator
Interests:
Tags:
alkaline diet
alkaline pH
alternative
baking soda
baking soda treatment
lower pH
medicine
pH
pH level
sodium bicarbonate
supplement
Add a New Comment
Name
E-Mail (will not be published)
Website
2 Commments	you will be the 3rd comment
egm , March 02, 20147:29 pm
Thank you for this informative article. It’s hard to find good articles that tell the pros and cons and aren’t heavily weighted to sell something. Of course baking soda is inexpensive. I’ve swished a half teaspoon baking soda in water in my mouth before bed for several years. I do swallow it as I used to have tired legs and a ph of 5 to 6. Baking soda neutralizes the ph in my mouth to prevent cavities according to an old fashioned dentist.
Like
Larry Greene - Portland OR , March 02, 20149:06 pm
Re: Baking Soda to help eliminate Cancer. I live 30 minutes
to Bob’s Red Mill and I would like for someone who has experienced
taking it to tell us interested people how much to take daily, how to take
it and for how long, thank you.
Like
Prev post	Next post
What’s Hot Right Now
Barton Publishing Blog
PO Box 50, Brandon, SD 57005 USA
support@bartonpublishing.com
These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. If you are pregnant, nursing, taking medication, or have a medical condition, consult your physician before using this product.
Toll Free:
+1.888.356.1146
Outside US:
+1.617.603.0085
Phone Support is available between
9:00 AM and 5:00 PM CST
Copyright 2011 Barton Publishing, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Terms and Conditions
Sitemap