Powerful Antiinflammatories | Your Vitamins And Supplements Guide
Your Vitamins And Supplements Guide
Menu
Skip to content
Home
Categories
Vitamins And Supplements
Daily Nutrition
Hormonal Balance
Popular Posts
Ginger For Anti Aging
Herbs For Joint Pain And Stiffness
Top Rated Krill Oil Supplement
About
About Me And My Affiliations
Privacy Policy And GDPR Cookie Policy
Data Access Request
Contact Me
Top Rated Krill Oil Supplement
Posted on January 18, 2017 February 20, 2018 by k lee
This page contains affiliate marketing links. We may get paid a commission on the sale of a product or service recommended here.
Contents
1 Top Rated Krill Oil Supplement
1.1 Fish Oil Vs Krill Oil Benefits
1.2 Vitamin E Mixed Tocopherols and Tocotrienols
1.3 Natural Astaxanthin Benefits
Top Rated Krill Oil Supplement
source.
There are many benefits to adding OMEGA REJUVENOL FOR OMEGA 3 OILS and other antioxidant ingredients to your diet. It’s a top rated krill oil supplement.
Some commonly known benefits of this oil, along with Vitamin A, D3, Vitamin E are listed below. These are fat soluble vitamins that naturally go together in one daily softgel. Here is the amazing list;
• Reduce the risk of stroke and sudden heart attack by 50-80%
• Improve good cholesterol
• Decrease bad cholesterol
• Reduce joint inflammation and rheumatoid arthritis
• Improve brain function
• Prevent Alzheimer’s
• Reduce the risk of breast cancer
• Reduce the risk of prostate cancer
• Reduce depression
• Improve memory
• Improve sleep
• Increase energy
• Reduce severity and frequency of migraines
• Boost infant IQ
• Improved eye health
Increase skin health
Fish Oil Vs Krill Oil Benefits
source.
“The most important supplement for people to be taking is fish oil. Just three grams a day may provide enormous benefits. It may lower the risk of heart attack or sudden cardiac death by 50 to 80 percent. It may reduce the risk of prostrate and breast cancer. It may reduce depression. When given to pregnant and nursing mothers, it may increase a baby’s IQ.”
From: Newsweek Jan 16, 2006. While research is rarely deemed conclusive, it is certainly supportive. Since that time, it’s been well studied that Krill Oil is superior to fish oil.
“But instead of troublesome fish oil, Omega Rejuvenol taps DHA-rich oils from squid and krill. The omega-3s from krill cross the blood-brain barrier more efficiently because they’re stored as highly absorbable phospholipids, not the cheap ethyl esters you find in fish oil products.”- Dr. Al Sears.
The Omega 3 fatty acids in supplemental oils, and foods (eg:salmon, tuna, cod,mackerel), have been shown to:
*** Be vital to brain function
*** Boost the effectiveness or replace anti-depressants
*** Reduce depression symptoms by 50%
***Boost synapse connections between cells aiding mood, personality and behavior
Vitamin E Mixed Tocopherols and Tocotrienols
Vitamin E Tocopherals is the familiar name for Vitamin E through decades, but now Tocotrienols
source.
have been studied and have shown to lower cholesterol. Further study revealed that tocotrienols have anti-cancer properties.
Tocotrienols can impede tumor formation and protect DNA. A form called d-delta tocotrienols has the potential as a form of chemotherapy for pancreatic cancer. It is an exciting area of research in which uses have been found for both breast and prostate cancer treatments.
Tocotrienols can slow down the penetration of UV rays into the skin. A real rock star antioxidant!
Natural Astaxanthin Benefits
Astaxanthin is a pink or red pigment. It is found in seafoods and bird feathers. It is similar to beta carotene and is a more effective antioxidant. and a powerful anti-inflammatory.
This nutrient can lower blood sugar and can lessen the oxidation of LDL cholesterol, thereby keeping arteries healthy and free from getting blocked.
Omega Rejuvenol is the nutritional supplement that fulfills your daily needs of omega 3 oils and the power-packed antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and anti-aging ingredients in this mix.
You can buy your OMEGA REJUVENOL HERE, and select from a free shipping option, discounts or start with a single bottle.
What do you think? Isn’t it wonderful to get so much important nutrition in a daily gel? Please feel free to leave a comment or question below!
This entry was posted in Vitamins And Supplements and tagged top rated krill oil supplement. Bookmark the permalink.
Post navigation
← Foods That Prevent Cancer Naturally
IBS Relief Tips →
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
By using this form you agree with the storage and handling of your data by this website. *
Search for:
Recent Posts
Top Supplements Brain Health And B12 Review
Good Diet High Cholesterol Low Carb Update
Best Diet Plan For Type 2 Diabetes
Foods That Cause Inflammation Body Conditions
Natural Remedies For A Swollen Prostate
Disclaimer
This blog offers educational information and is not intended to replace medical advice.
Recent Comments
k lee on Good Diet High Cholesterol Low Carb Update
k lee on Top Supplements Brain Health And B12 Review
k lee on Top Supplements Brain Health And B12 Review
k lee on Good Diet High Cholesterol Low Carb Update
k lee on Top Supplements Brain Health And B12 Review
Home
About Me And My Affiliations
Contact Me
Data Access Request
Privacy Policy And GDPR Cookie Policy
Copyright Your Vitamins Supplements Guide 2016-2017
Pluto Theme by Viaviwebtech
By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information
Accept
The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. For more information, I refer you to https://vitaminssupplementsguide.com/privacy-policy to view the GDPR requirements for cookie and tracking law.
Close