Healthy Life Symptoms, Author at Healthy Life Symptoms
Skip to content
Healthy Life Symptoms
Live a healthy life
Menu
Health Lifestyle Blog
Easy Health Q & A
Parasite Practice Questions – Quiz
Human Parasite Quiz
All About Parasites
Botfly – Flesh Eaters
Liver Fluke Parasite
Horsehair Worm
Foot Worm Parasite
Acanthamoeba
Giardia infection
Lyme Disease
Brain Eating Amoeba
What is Aids – HIV
Who Are We
Contact Us
Write for Us
Author: Healthy Life Symptoms
What is African Sleeping Sickness
Tsetse fly
What is African sleeping sickness?
African sleeping sickness is also called African trypanosomiasis is a parasitic disease of humans and many other animals, African sleeping sickness is caused by an insect thus making it an insect borne illness which is caused by a tsetse fly carrying the African trypanosomiasis parasites. The tsetse flies are commonly found in the sub-Saharan Africa especially in Democratic republic of Congo and is greatly responsible for causing African trypanosomiasis .
These flies when infected by either Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense or Trypanosoma brucei gambiense parasite becomes a part in the African sleeping sickness parasite’s lifecycle. There are many reported cases of
African trypanosomiasis and mostly in rural areas caused by an infected tsetse fly bite
African sleeping sickness Transmission
African sleeping sickness is caused by infected tsetse flies (big brown fly) that are a host itself. The fly pierces the skin tissue when it bites and the parasite enters the lymphatic system and passes into the bloodstream from there. African trypanosomiasis can also rarely occur by organ transplant, blood transfusion & from mother to unborn child during pregnancy or at the time of delivery.
Also Read: Prevention of Malaria – Fight Malaria Symptoms
Symptoms
Symptoms includes
Stage one:
Headaches
Joint Pain
Itching
Intermittent Fever
Stage two: (when the parasite invades the CNS (central nervous system)
Disruption of the sleep cycle (It gave the name sleeping sickness)
Aggressive behavior
Apathy
Psychotic reactions
Irritability
African sleeping sickness Treatment
Treatment of African trypanosomiasis is available but is highly dependent on the stage of the illness present. Intravenous of intramuscular are used for the treatment of the disease, pentamidine for gambiense and Suramin for rhodesiense parasite.
Travelers Risk
The risk of acquiring African trypanosomiasis for travelers is quite low but be careful when living or staying in the rural areas of the sub-Saharan Africa or where there is some thick vegetation present. Visitors in the city are usually not at risk of the African sleeping sickness infection.
Also Read: The Flesh-Eating Botflies
African sleeping sickness Prevent
Now we that African sleeping is caused by an infected tsetse fly so lets talk about how to prevent it.
Avoid bushes and plants at day time as its when the tsetse fly rest on the plants.
The tsetse fly is very attracted to bright colors so avoid wearing bright colors.
Must wear insect repellent However there is not much proof that insect repellent works with tsetse flies.
Stay and live places that are fully air conditioned.
The tsetse flies are also attracting to moving objects so be sure to check your vehicles.
Author Posted on Categories Uncategorized1 Comment on What is African Sleeping Sickness
Worms in dogs Symptoms Causes and Treatment
Photo by Daniel Cano on Unsplash
A Man’s Best Friend
When we hear the phrase “a man’s best friend” what comes to most people’s mind are… You’ve guessed it! Dogs. It doesn’t matter if they are big or small these domesticated mammals are considered by most as a part of their families. Dogs were the first animal to be domesticated by humans and were bred from wolves for a long time.
Dogs have pack mentality and are famous for their loyalty that’s why dogs are used to help many humans in work and some are kept as pets my people around the world. Their lifespan depends on the breed and the size of the breed as seen smaller dogs tent to live longer than the bigger ones. Although dogs are colorblind but they have a magnificent sense of smell and can also hear a lot better than us.
Parasites in Dogs
Just like any other living creature there are various parasites can infect dogs such as mites, fleas, worms, and other parasitic organisms. Worms in dogs and other parasites found in dogs are listed below:
Acomatacarus
Adeleorina
Ancylostoma caninum
Brucella canis
Capillaria aerophila
Capillaria feliscati
Capillaria plica
Cat flea
Cheyletiella
Dermacentor variabilis
Cheyletiella yasguri
Dipylidium caninum
Dirofilaria immitis
Dog flea
Dirofilaria repens
Echinococcus
Echinococcus granulosus
Echinococcus multilocularis
Flea
Hookworm infection
Necator americanus
Neospora
Rhipicephalus sanguineus
Sarcoptes scabiei
Thelazia callipaeda
Toxocara canis
Trichodectes canis
Trichuris vulpis
What Causes Worms in Dogs
Dogs usually get infected by parasitic worms by either through air, by mouth, eating infected food such as rodents or through skin contact when the parasite or its larvae burrow through its hosts skin. Parasite larvae or/and eggs are almost always present in the infected dogs feces and can be deadly for humans as well as for younger children.
Roundworms in Dogs
Roundworms are a nematode worm which lives inside its host’s small intestine and can be found in many environments around the world. Roundworms infection in dogs occurs when a dog eats infected food or drink infected water. Roundworms are also present in the soil and can be found in the feces. Roundworms in dogs also pose a possible infection threat to the dog’s owners.
Also Read How to Tell if you have Pinworms
Hookworms in Dogs
Hookworms are blood feeding parasitic worms which live in the intestine of mammals such as humans but it also infects dogs. It feeds on the blood of its host by attaching its hook like mouth in the wall of the gut and punctures the tissues in order to feed.
Whipworms in Dogs
Whipworms (Trichuris trichiura) are whip shaped parasites known to infect domestic animals such as dogs and/or cats and children. It is an infection of the large intestine and is commonly found in hot and humid climates. Whipworm infection occurs when a possible host ingests water or soil contaminated by whipworm parasite.
Heartworms in Dogs
Heartworms or dog heart worms (Dirofilaria immitis) are thread-like tiny worms that are transmitted when a mosquito carrying the parasite bites the possible host. Mosquitoes play an important role in the life cycle of dog heartworms as they carry these tiny parasites from one host to another.
Canine Tapeworm
Canine tapeworm infection (Dipylidium caninum) is the most commonly found parasitic infection in cats and dogs. These are intestinal worms and feeds by attaching their mouth to the wall of the small intestine just like hookworms does. The adult canine tapeworm can reach approximately 8inches in length. Dogs can only get infected by these parasites by ingesting a flea carrying canine tapeworms. Canine tapeworms depends on the fea in order to complete it’s life cycle Therefore one should make sure there are not any feas present on our canine friend.
Commonly these tapeworms are not deadly but heavy infestations can cause serious health issues if left untreated. If your dog is scooting (itching its rear on the ground) it’s time for a vet visit.
White Worms in Dog Poop
Occasionally dog owners may find small white worms in dogs poop, it is an oblivious sign the dog is infected with a parasitic worms. Worms might look white, brown or tan can be large or smaller like rice or noodle and can be segmented, it all depends on the type of worms that are present in the stool of the infected pet. Such parasitic worms can also be seen sticking near the genital area of the infected dog. Make sure to get your beloved dog checked by the vet as soon as possible and try to keep your pet flea free in order to avoid such parasitic worm’s infections. Humans can also get infected by round worms so avoid any contact with the infected dog’s feces in order to avoid getting round worms.
Worms in Dogs Symptoms
Signs of worms in dogs include:
• Dull fur coat
• Diarrhea
• Not enough energy
• Vomiting
• Coughing
• Weight loss
• Itching
• Skin irritation
• Worms in stool, vomit or fur
• Scooting (rubbing its genitals on the ground)
If any of the worms in dogs symptoms occurs be sure to consult your vet at all cost in order to avoid any further damage to the dogs internal organs before it’s too late as heavy number of worms inside the dog can result in some serious health issues and even death. Ask the vet to prescribe any worm and flea prevention medication if it need be.
Can Humans Get Worms from Dogs
Such parasitic worms can also infect humans if contracted from contaminated feces or soil and ingested by adults or children and even when an infected pet dog licks the human as dogs tend to eat their feces occasionally. Once infection occurs the parasitic worms can cause some very severe damage to various organs inside its human host such as lungs, eyes, heart and brain. Neurological signs might start to appear in the infected human host due to worms being present or trying to make their way in to the brain.
Worms in Dogs Treatment
Worms in dog’s treatment is possible and there are various medicines you’re treating vet can prescribe in order to treat the infected dog successfully. Few worms in dogs medicine that the vet may prescribe are as follows:
Piperazine
Piperazine simply paralyzes the worms so all the worms present can pass through the stool. It is prescribed for the treatment of pinworms and common round worms. (Please consult your treating physician before taking poperazine).
Fenbendazole
Fenbendazole is used to treat intestinal parasites such as common tapeworms, hookworms, whipworms and roundworms in pets. (Please consult your veterinarian).
Milbemycin
Milbemycin oxime is a prescription drug and is used to treat various parasitic worm infections in cats and dogs such as roundworms, hookworms and whipworms. (Please consult your veterinarian).
Pyrantel
Pyrantel is an anti-worm drug used for treating parasitic worm infection such as hookworms and roundworms infection as it interferes with the worms process of multiplying inside the host. (Please consult your veterinarian).
Moxidectin
Moxidectin is a also an anti worms medication used specifically in animals in order to control various parasitic intestinal worms infections and heartworm infection. (Please consult your veterinarian).
Author Posted on Categories UncategorizedTags parasitic worms, pinworms, roundworms, tapeworms, worms in dogs, worms in dogs contagious to humans, worms in puppies after deworming, worms in puppy vomitLeave a comment on Worms in dogs Symptoms Causes and Treatment
Mosquito Lifespan Types and Diseases Spread by Mosquitoes
Mosquito
The word “mosquito” is a Spanish word which means a “small fly”. It belongs from the Culicidae family, a family consists of quite thin/slender flies with long legs, hairy bodies, wriggly larvae and posses mouth parts sharp enough to pierce into its host’s body. A male mosquito lifespan is ten days but a female mosquito lifespan is almost fifty days long.
Male mosquitoes feeds on the nectar of plants while the female mosquito can pierce into the host’s skin to suck on the host’s blood such as mammals, reptiles, amphibians, birds and some fish and very few invertebrates such as other arthropods. As the protein present in the blood are an essential part in the mosquito reproduction process.
>
The female mosquito can lay eggs more than 3 times during its life span and most mosquitoes lay eggs in the water and some lays the eggs near water.
When a mosquito bites (pierce into the skin) its saliva is transmits into the hosts body resulting in itching along with a rash in most cases and can probably inject some dangerous parasites like malaria, west nile virus, dengue fever, zika virus, yellow fever and more.
Mosquito Lifespan
Mosquito lifespan is different for both males and females as the females greatly out live the male mosquitoes. A mosquito lifespan is definitely different but both male and female lifecycle is divided into the following 3 stages:
An Egg
A female mosquito usually lay their eggs in or near water. It takes almost 24 to 48 hours for mosquito eggs to hatch.
Larvae
A mosquito larva lives in the water closer to the surface of the water and breathes with its breathing tube until the pupa stage begins within a week.
Pupae
When the pupal stage starts the mosquito larva stops feeding becomes inactive and immobile. Inside the pupa its larva is under development and will emerge as a full grown mosquito in a few days or a week.
Types of Mosquitoes
The mosquito lifespan of most mosquitoes are the same but there are many types of mosquitoes out there some of the most well known ones are listed below:
Aedes aegypti – Yellow Fever Mosquito
Aedes aegypti the yellow fever mosquito has white spots/lines on its legs and white mark on its thorax and can transmit numerous disease agents such as yellow fever virus, zika virus and dengue virus.
Culex quinquefasciatus – the Southern House Mosquito
Culex quinquefasciatus the southern house mosquito can be commonly found in the sub tropical and tropical regions around the world and mainly transmits zoonotic diseases.
Culex – House Mosquito
Culex The house mosquito can be commonly found in area where polluted water is left standing such as rain water pet water dishes and ponds in size culex the house mosquito is medium and brown in color.
Aedes albopictus – the Tiger Mosquito
Aedes albopictus the tiger mosquito or forest mosquito are native of southern Asia it can be found in tropical and sub tropical areas in the past years it has expended greatly travelled through transports and other similar means to various countries outside of Asia with the help of by human activities.
Mosquito Bites
Although mosquito lifespan is not very long but a mosquito bite can cause some serious illnesses. When a mosquito bites, immediately the affected area will develop an itchy puffy bump and / or a rash, white or red usually it will clear up in a matter of days on its own.
Diseases Spread by Mosquitoes
There are many diseases spread by mosquito that although some people don’t get sick or the sickness is mild in some after getting bitten due to a healthy immune system. The following are some of the illnesses caused by mosquito bites:
Zika Virus
Zika virus can be spread through a mosquito bite of Aedes species. It is a dangerous disease and if a pregnant woman gets infected with zika virus the baby is at a great risk of having microcephaly a birth defect in which the baby’s brain will not develop completely.
Zika Virus Symptoms
Fever, rash, body aches, joint pain and red eyes in some cases. Mostly the infected will not experience any symptom at all or very little.
Zika Virus Treatment
Sadly! There is no medicine or vaccines available for the treatment of zika virus out there.
West Nile Virus
It is a viral infection typically spread by mosquito bites. People infected with west nile virus rarely experience any symptoms and about 1% of people develop any serious illness.
West Nile Virus Symptoms
The west nile virus symptoms only in severe cases includes sleeplessness, paralysis, coma, tremors and disorientation but almost all cases of west nile virus experience no or mild symptoms and it goes away on its own.
West Nile Virus Treatment
The west nile virus treatment if required in severe cases only consists of intravenous and pain killers.
Chikungunya
The illness known as Chikungunya is caused by the chikungunya virus spread through mosquito bites. Its mosquito bites only at day times and can also infect rodents and birds.
Chikungunya Symptoms
Symptoms occurs in a week or 10 days after the hosts is bitted by the mosquito and symptoms includes joint pain, headaches, body aches and fever.
Chikungunya Treatment
Treatment of chikungunya consists of plenty of rest and paracetamol or acetaminophen to ease the body pain and fever in the infected although no medication should be taken before consulting the physician as some medicine can worse the illness if it’s not chikungunya due to chikungunya and dengue fever both have very similar symptoms.
Dengue Virus
The dengue virus is transmitted through mosquito bites resulting in a viral disease known as dengue; it is present in many parts of the world today and can sometime be very lethal to its host. If severe dengue can damage many organs such as the heart and lungs, greatly dropping blood pressure and even death is reported in some cases.
Dengue Virus Symptoms
Symptoms of dengue virus usually start after 2 days or two weeks after the infection. Symptoms include acute pain in joints, body pain, high fever and even vomiting.
Dengue Virus Treatment
Dengue treatment consists of pain relievers and plenty of rest and only a certified doctor can prescribe the c correct medicine by a physical examination. However! Aspirin should be avoided as it can worsen the bleeding if there is any.
Malaria Virus
Malaria is spread by an anopheles mosquito. Malaria is a single celled organism which multiplies in the red blood cells; it is not a virus nor is it a bacterium. Malaria is a serious disease and can sometime be very fatal to its host.
Symptoms of Malaria Virus
The malaria virus symptoms consists of abdominal pain, head and body aches, nausea, diarrhea and extreme sweating along with severe chills following with high fever. Also see Prevention of Malaria – Fight Malaria Symptoms
CAN mosquito spread HIV/AIDS?
Well no! mosquitoes can not transmit HIV AIDS. The reason is that in human blood we have T cells (host cells for HIV virus) the HIV virus binds it self to the T cells in human blood and starts to replicate.
The HIV virus needs T cells to survive in side the human body. In a mosquitoes gut there are no T cells present to bind itself in order to replicate, therefore the HIV virus ends up beings digested by the digestive system inside the mosquitoes stomach. Although when in the infected blood is injected with a needle the HIV virus is present due to the blood in the syringe having T cells present and the syringe does not contain a digestive system.
Causes And Symptoms of HIV AIDS
Treatment of Malaria Virus
Oral medication is commonly prescribed in malaria virus treatment. However! If the infection is severe intravenous infusion is used.
Yellow Fever Virus – Jaundice
Yellow fever virus is a flavivirus and is transmitted via an infected mosquito. Mostly yellow fever is like a flue only some cases are severe. Yellow fever also known as jaundice has been around for centuries.
Symptoms of Yellow Fever or Jaundice Symptoms
Jauindice or yellow fever symptoms includes high fever, yellowing of the eyes and skin, dizziness, loss of appetite and light sensitivity.
Treatment Yellow Fever or Jaundice Treatment
There is no treatment of yellow fever or jaundice pain killers are usually prescribed until the virus runs it course and the immune system fights it off for good.
Repel Mosquitoes
In order to prevent all diseases and illnesses that can be transmitted by mosquitoes (mosquito borne illnesses) we must make sure there are no mosquitoes around us and to do so we should use top high quality mosquito repellents such as
Sawyer Products Premium Insect Repellent with 20% Picaridin
Repel 94109 HG-94109 Lemon Eucalyptus Natural Insect
and mosquito killers such as
Flowtron BK-15D Electronic Insect Killer, 1/2 Acre Coverage
HUNTINGOOD Electric Mosquito Insect Killer/mosquito trap/Bug Zapper
Author Posted on Categories Healthy LifestyleTags malaria, mosquito bite, mosquito bite bruise, mosquito bite swelling, mosquito of dengue, mosquito with white stripes, mosquitoes1 Comment on Mosquito Lifespan Types and Diseases Spread by Mosquitoes
Most Common Cause of Meningitis – Meningitis Symptoms
Definition of a Brain
Before we get into meningitis and the most common cause of meningitis we must understand our brain a little. We all have a soft nervous tissue organ in our heads. It is one of the most complex and one of largest organs we humans have in our bodies. Our brains are made up of many almost more than one hundred billion nerves that is busy communicating in more than trillions of connections also known as synapses.
Brain being one of the most important organs in our body is also one of the most protected one unfortunately some deadly parasites have figured out how to a well protected brain.
What is Meningitis?
Meningitis is a severe and serious infectious disease mostly caused by viral or bacterial infection. Meningitis occurs when there is an inflammation of the thin lining around the brain and spinal cord called meninges. If a person suffering from meningitis is not taken cared of immediately, meningitis can be life threatening. There are rare causes of meningitis and most common cause of meningitis.
Define Meningoencephalitis
Meningoencephalitis is a term use to define an inflammation or infection of the membranes of our brain or adjoining cerebral tissue. Many organisms can cause this such as protozoan’s, bacterial and viral.
How Common is Bacterial Meningitis
Bacterial meningitis is one of the most common and most dangerous types of meningitis out there. The following bacteria are responsible for almost all bacterial meningitis cases around the world:
Hemophilus Influenza
It is a gram-negative bacterium from the Pasteurellaceae family and can cause various dangerous diseases and invasive infections. One invaded by Hemophilus influenza might require immediate medical help and / or hospitalization. It can cause severe infection of the spinal cord and brain also known as meningitis.
Streptococcus Pneumoniae
It is gram-positive bacteria usually found living in pairs; it belongs to the genus Streptococcus family. Streptococcus pneumonia is the master of invasions. Streptococcus pneumonia is responsible of most deaths around the world than any other bacterial infection as it is the most common cause of bloodstream infections.
Neisseria Meningitides
Neisseria meningitides is a gram-negative bacterium also known as meningococcal, it can cause meningitis and many other forms contagious infections such as a life-threatening sepsis called meningococcemia.
Are There Different Types of Meningitis?
There are many ways a person can get meningitis
Bacterial Meningitis
Bacterial meningitis is very deadly and life-threatening and can spread by close contact with the infected. It is meningitis caused by bacteria. It is often deadly and requires immediate medical help
Viral Meningitis
Viral meningitis is caused by viruses and is mostly mild but relatively common; a viral meningitis can rarely be dangerous enough to kill the infected. It is less serious than bacterial meningitis and most of the times cure on its own. Viral meningitis is one of the most common cause of meningitis around the world.
Parasitic Meningitis
Parasitic Meningitis is caused by Naegleria fowleri. It is the primary cause of rare parasitic meningitis.
Fungal Meningitis
Fungal meningitis mostly infected people with weak immune system (Such as people suffering from the HIV) can be a victim of the fungal meningitis as it is caused by a fungus that spreads through the blood stream to the spinal cord.
Non-Infectious Meningitis
Non-Infectious Meningitis can be caused by the inflammation of the membrane covering the brain and spinal cord (meninges). Some drugs can cause non-infectious meningitis to happen.
Most Common Cause of Bacterial Meningitis in Adults
In adults and children’s Streptococcus pneumonia causes sinus of ear infections and is the most common cause of bacterial meningitis around the world. There are vaccines available to prevent this deadly infection.
Signs of Bacterial Meningitis in Babies
There are many signs of bacterial meningitis in babies, the most common ones are
Fever
Loss of appetite
Vomiting
Pale skin
Unusual Crying
Rapid breathing
Cold body (hands or feet)
Meningitis Symptoms in Adults
The symptoms will usually appear 5 to 8 days after one is infected. The first most common symptoms of meningitis are:
Fever
Loss of appetite
Vomiting
Other symptoms that follow are:
Headache
Pale skin
Severe body or limb pain
Stiff neck
Cold feet and hands
Bright lights will annoy the infected
Often confused
Meningococcal Meningitis Rash
Meningococcal meningitis rash happens when the bacteria in the blood stream reproduces it releases a poison called septicemia. It damages the blood vessels as the bacterial infection progresses causing a faint skin rash probably red, pink in some cases purple.
Meningitis Treatment
Meningitis is mostly treated with a combination of antibiotics most from the class cephalosporins. Some bacterial meningitis are very dangerous as they become antibiotic resistant. But fortunately there are still many antibiotics that works well against meningitis infection such as Vancomycin, rifampin and ceftriaxone.
Note: Before taking any medication please consult your treating physician. The right medication can only be prescribed by your doctor after a physical check-up.
Author Posted on Categories Healthy Lifestyle6 Comments on Most Common Cause of Meningitis – Meningitis Symptoms
Prevention of Malaria – Fight Malaria Symptoms
What is Malaria?
Malaria is usually found in the tropical reigns, It is where the parasite can survive. When an infected Anopheles mosquito bites a person it transmits a Plasmodium parasite into the bloodstream of the victim thus this life threatening illness malaria occurs. Also see Mosquito Lifespan Types and Diseases Spread by Mosquitoes
This deadly parasite when inside the hosts body the parasite makes its way straight to the liver of the infected, it is there the parasite matures and after 10 to 5 days the adult parasitic killer enters the bloodstream of its prey once more and it begins its killing frenzy by infecting the red blood cells of its host and within 2 to 3 days the infected red blood cells explodes due to the malaria parasite inside it started to multiply.
The malaria parasite continues this killing cycle that can lasts up to 3 days. Prevention of malaria should be considered even before the victim is bitten by this deadly killer.
Malaria Zones
Malaria can be found in almost every tropical subtropical reign more than half of the earth’s population is at risk of malaria. It can be found in the Central America, South America, and areas of Asia, Africa, some parts of the Middle East, Haiti and Dominican Republic. India has 24 million cases of malaria every year but most the cases of malaria and deaths related to malaria occurred in the sub-Saharan Africa.
Malaria Symptoms
When infected initially the host will experience cold, high fever, body aches, and extreme fatigue with flu like symptoms along with headaches, shaking chills, sweating, weakness, vomiting and nausea.
How to Stop Malaria – How to Control Malaria
In order to stop malaria or fight against malaria the parasite must first be identified as identification of the parasite is very important in prevention of malaria and this can be done with a malaria blood test by examining the infected patients blood under a microscope before this is done the specimen is stained in order to make the parasite appear distinctive.
Malaria Medication
Malaria medication is a crucial part in prevention of malaria, but it must only be prescribed by your consulting physician so please consult your treating physician although the most common ant malarial drugs used worldwide are mentioned below:
Quinine sulfate
It is an anti malarial drug that is widely used to treat malaria and babesiosis. Quinine is toxic to the Plasmodium (malaria parasite) due to it interfering with the parasite’s ability to dissolve and metabolize hemoglobin.
Mefloquine
Mefloquine is also highly recommended drug used to treat and prevent malaria. Except for those where parasites might have developed resistance to Mefloquine. It is useful for the prevention of malaria in almost all areas.
Hydroxychloroquine
Hydroxychloroquine is mostly used for chloroquine-sensitive malaria, treatment of lupus, porphyria cutanea tarda and rheumatoid arthritis.
Chloroquine
Chloroquine treats abd prevents malaria only in areas where malaria is sensitive to Chloroquine. As some types of malaria requires additional medications in order to cure the patient successfully.
The Making of a Tropical Disease: A Short History of Malaria
If you wish to find out how this deadly parasite got where it is today, be sure to check “The Making of a Tropical Disease: A Short History of Malaria”
Author Posted on Categories Healthy LifestyleLeave a comment on Prevention of Malaria – Fight Malaria Symptoms
Bed Bugs Signs and Bed Bugs Treatment
What Do Bed Bugs Look Like
Have you ever seen tiny tick like creatures crawling on your bed? Well! Congratulations you have a parasite known as bedbugs in your house. Bed bugs are small oval shaped crawlers without wings and are almost 6 to 9mm in size brownish in color until unless after a meal it’s almost dark red to purple in color and are most active during the night.
Bed Bug Welts
Bedbugs bite on a sleeping victim and most of the times after the host is bitten by a bed bug it develops itchy welts probably within seconds or minutes at the area of the bite. Most bed bug bites will heal itself within a few days.
How Do You Check For Bed Bugs
To check for bedbugs look for itchy bite marks on every member of the family. Especially the parts that are exposed during sleep times.
Are you of a family member having uncomfortable sleepless nights due to frequent itching?
A place infected with bedbugs stinks, that’s one of the easily recognizable signs of bed bug infestation.
Check closets and beds bedbug’s favorite places to hide are clothes and bed folding. bed bug eggs on mattress can also be visible with a magnifying glass.
Baby Bed Bugs or Bed Bug Larvae
Baby bedbugs are very tiny and are very light brown of white in color. Baby bed bugs turn red after feeding. Baby bedbugs will start to look for a human, birds or any living source of blood almost the moment they are born and baby bed bugs can live up to 90 to 120 days without feeding. Baby bed bugs will turn into an adult in 4 weeks after hatching.
Can Bed Bugs Kill You
As of now there are no such incident recorded showing that bedbugs can kill a human being because although bed bug bites can cause severe itching and burning but it doesn’t transmit any disease but still there are very little that we know of bedbugs.
Common Places Bed Bugs Bite
Bed bugs bite on any soft exposed area on its host’s body while the hosts are sleeping and are unaware of the bedbug’s presence. On humans most bites occurs on arms, neck, hands and face although a bed bug will not hesitate to bite other parts in it gets into the clothes of its human prey.
How Long For Bed Bugs to Infest
Bugs multiply slowly as an adult female bed bug laying 1 egg daily and every bed bug egg takes more than 8 days to hatch but once a bed bug is spotted it’s better to get rid of it immediately since bed bugs are very good at hiding if one is spotted there probably be more.
How to Get Rid of Bed Bugs
Use pest control spray to get rid of bed bugs every corner of the house must be sprayed in order to completely kill each and every bed bug present in the house especially the furniture, carpets, closets and beds.
Bed Bug Spray
There are many bed bugs killer sprays out there if you wish to do it yourself such as:
Ortho Home Defense Dual-Action Bed Bug Killer Aerosol Spray, 18-Ounce (Kills Bed Bugs, Fleas, Dust Mites & Stink Bugs)
HARRIS Bed Bug Killer, Liquid Spray with Odorless and Non-Staining Extended Residual Kill Formula
Eco-Friendly Bed Bug Eliminator – Non-Toxic Spray Killer & Barrier – Essential Oil Formula Great for Mattress, Clothes, Travel – Skin Safe for Children & Pets
For more bed bug control options Click Here
Author Posted on Categories Healthy LifestyleLeave a comment on Bed Bugs Signs and Bed Bugs Treatment
Pinworm Treatment – Worms in Kids
Before we get into how to tell if you have pinworms lets talk a little about what this small, wiggly deadly worm is.
What are Threadworms / Pinworms
Threadworms or pinworms are wiggly worms that are very small, difficult to see and are one of the very common parasitic infections in the United Kingdom, United States and many other countries. Pinworms are almost a half inch in size, white in color and infects the large intestine of humans specially children’s below the age of 9 years. Threadworms eggs can survive more than two weeks and when inside the host the worm that gets past the digestion process and ends up in the large intestine starts to lay eggs all around the anus area of its host.
Can Threadworms Kill You?
Thread worm infection is not life-threatening. A large amount of thread worms inside can cause abdominal pain but a thread worm infection can not kill it’s host.
Also Read: Bed Bugs Signs and Bed Bugs Treatment
How do you get Threadworms?
One can get pinworms by not washing hands properly after a visit to the toilet.
One can also get threadworms eggs by simply inhaling the infected air around.
Threadworm eggs can be swallowed accidently by eating the infected food.
Children can easily get threadworms by putting infected toys/hands into their mouths.
How to Tell if You Have Pinworms
Severe Threadworm Infestation
Severe pinworm infestation can cause many of the following symptoms:
Nausea
Weight loss
Weight loss occurs due to pinworms causing a mayhem inside your large intestine and consuming most of the nutrients that your eating.
Fatigue
Diarrhea
Diarrhea occurs due to your body desperately trying to flush the parasitic worms out as soon as possible.
Anal itching
Vaginal or anal itching can happen especially at night due to the female pinworms laying eggs inside the infected host and it can lead to insomnia.
Pinworms stomach pain
Severe abdominal pain can occur due to the presence of a large number of threadworms present inside your large intestine.
UTI Infection
In women an untreated pinworm infection can also lead to a urinary tract infection.
Above information and symptoms can help you know how to tell if you have pinworms.
Here are some pics of threadworms for you to understand the physical appearance of a threadworm
Pinworms in Babies
Such worms in kids are also something to be concerned about for parents as the pinworms are very contagious and very easy to get for infants and babies in the form of eggs or adult worms. Especially babies that crawl, can play and grab on to toys and eat solid foods are at a higher risk of contracting pinworms.
Also Read: How to Fall Asleep Faster – Guaranteed
Threadworm Medicine
To treat a pinworm infection your doctor will probably prescribe a non prescription medication such as Reese’s Pinworm Medicine to treat the infection. The doctor also might recommend every member of the family to use the medicine in order to get rid of the parasitic worms once and for all in the house hold, because to treat a threadworm infection successfully all member of a house must be treated whether or not they have symptoms of the infection.
Threadworm Cure
Mebendazole is the most effective and most prescribed medicine foe the pinworm treatment. When using mebendazole almost all the threadworms inside will die in a few days and threadworm infection can be treated successfully.
Mebendazole is one of the most used medications in treating the pinworms infection. It is a broad-spectrum antihelmintic and can treat various parasitic worms such as the hookworm. Mebendazole is used in those who are suffering from mild to moderate infestations of pinworms.
Author Posted on Categories Healthy Lifestyle3 Comments on Pinworm Treatment – Worms in Kids
6 Ways to Keep Heart Healthy and Strong
A True Friend – Healthy Heart
We all have a little friend beating in our chest that is known as a healthy heart, it’s one of the most important organs in our body with the help of our circulatory system it pumps blood in every corner of our body there is, not only our heart makes sure every single tissue in our body gets the oxygen and nutrients it requires to stay active and function properly but also removes all waste carbon dioxide that is of no use for the tissues. In short being the symbol of love itself our heart simply loves us, but the question is do we love it back?
What Our Heart Gets In Return
Our heart works day and night to keep us healthy and alive but in return we eat all sorts for unhealthy foods and are so into our unhealthy habits that we kind of ignore the fact that we are killing and destroying our heart slowly and surely.
How to Keep Heart Healthy and Strong
It’s time we start taking care of our heart for a better healthier life that we and our heart deserves and the good news is caring for your heart is not a difficult job it only requires some commitment and it’s worth the effort. By only making some changes to your lifestyle you can easily achieve your goal of having a healthy heart and to keep heart healthy and strong.
Cholesterol – Control
Controlling cholesterol is one of the most important ways in ensuring good health for your heart, in order to control cholesterol you must do the following:
Eat Healthy Omega 3 Rich Foods
Foods rich in omega 3 such as Cod Liver Oil, Salmon, Sardines, Chia Seeds, walnuts and flax seed just to name a few are very important in preventing heart diseases and managing a healthy heath. Consider including some healthy snacks in your diet as well.
Drink More Water
Staying hydrated is one of the most common advice people get about almost any problem its because proper hydration is very important in almost every health related problem it not only good for our brain but also essential for a healthy heart.
Quit Smoking
almost around 15000 to 16000 people die due to smoking every year. Your life expectancy is almost 10 to 15 years less than a person who don’t smoke and smoking is one of the leading cause of cancer specially lung cancer.
Smoking can also increase the risk of developing cardiovascular diseases and other major heart related illnesses such as coronary heart disease.
Weight loss
Getting rid of all that extra pounds can definitely help in achieving your goal of a healthy heart. Obesity increases the pressure on your heart because your heart must pump more and more blood in order to make sure every tissue in the body receives the oxygenated blood it requires to function properly thus greatly increase the pressure on the heart itself and being more prone to heart related problems such as stroke.
Heart Health Exercises
Exercise is very important keep heart healthy and strong because it can do miracles for your heart, not only will it make your healthier but it is also very beneficial for your heart. Exercise makes your heart become better and more efficient in pumping blood it beats slower than usual and pumps more amount of blood in every beat. Exercises can aloes lower the blood pressure and cholesterol levels in your body.
Conclusion
Even though it’s not easy to adapt to a healthy lifestyle but it’s definitely very beneficial for your body and your overall health than you know it. So today let’s make a promise with our hearts that from now on we will change whatever we must and try our best to help our hearts to perform as efficiently as it should by quitting all unhealthy habits for our little friend to keep heart healthy and strong.
Author Posted on Categories Healthy LifestyleLeave a comment on 6 Ways to Keep Heart Healthy and Strong
Healthy Snack Ideas for Weight Loss
As you walk on the street you will see people that are physically fit and people that are not so fit and are fat. Let’s talk about what is fat? Fat is an important part of a healthy diet, but sadly with all those not so healthy snacks around most people consume too much or the wrong kinds of fat in their diet and end up being fat and overweight.
The Good News
But the good news is all that unnecessary fat can go away by making some simple lifestyle changes, such as exercising daily, sleeping better and eat a healthy well balanced diet.
That brings us to replacing all those unhealthy snacks with some healthy snack ideas for weight loss that will not only help up lose weight but are extremely tasty as well.
Healthy Snack Ideas for Weight Loss
Following are some healthy snack ideas for weight loss that must be included in an effective weight loss diet plan for a healthy lifestyle:
Broccoli
Broccoli is a vegetable from the cabbage family. Not only is it rich in many nutrients such as folic acid, vitamin C and vitamin K broccoli is high in fiber and helps you lose weight 100g for broccoli contains only 34 calories and 2.6g dietary fiber.
Cheese
when taken as a healthy snack low fat cheese such as ricotta cheese, cottage cheese and goat’s cheese can aid in weight loss. Cheese is high in protein, zinc, phosphorus, calcium and other nutrients and definitely deserves a spot on a healthy diet menu. A 100g of cheese contains 402 calories 105mg of cholesterol, 621mg of sodium and a huge 25g of protein.
Almond
Along with other nutrients almonds are rich in protein, copper, magnesium, vitamin E and healthy unsaturated fatty acids. Not only almonds lower blood sugar level but it also lowers blood pressure and cholesterol and can promote weight loss by lowering hunger.
100g of almonds contains 576 calories 21g protein and 12g dietary fiber.
Oatmeal – Porridge
Cereals are nutrients rich food that are filled with essential minerals, vitamins combined with the benefits of healthy grains. Porridge is considered one of the healthiest foods out there today it can lower cholesterol levels and is a must for a healthy diet. There are only 68 calories in 100g of oatmeal with 61mg potassium, 49mg sodium, 2.4g protein and 1.7g dietary fiber.
Tomato Soup
Tomato soup is not only delicious but also a very beneficial healthy snack it can improve your over all cardiovascular health, makes bones stronger, boosts immune system and can definitely aid in weight loss. 100g of tomato soup contains 30 calories, 0.6 dietary fiber, 7g carbohydrate, 0.8g protein and is rich in vitamins such as vitamin A and vitamin C.
Blue berries
Blue berry is one of the tastiest healthy snacks and is rich in various nutrients and antioxidants. Not only blue berries are low in calories, lowers blood pressure and aid in a healthy digestive system but also considered the king of antioxidant foods. 100g of blue berries contains 57 calories, 10g sugar, 14g carbohydrate, 0.7g protein and 2.4g dietary fiber.
Boiled egg
if you’re looking for good quality easy to find protein than eggs are your answer. Eggs are rich in protein and vitamin B2, most of the protein is in the egg white. Eggs can play an important role when you’re looking to lose weight and can be considered a healthy snack. 100g of an egg contains 155 calories, 1.1 carbohydrate, 1.1g sugar, and 13g protein.
Yogurt
Yogurt is a great combination of many vitamins such as vitamin A, vitamin b12, calcium and protein. It is very good for bone health and can play an important role in preventing various health problems. Yogurt when combined with a low calorie diet can result in an increase in weight loss. 100g of yogurt contains 59 calories, 3.6 carbohydrate, 3.2g sugar, and 10g protein.
These were just some of the healthy snack ideas for weight loss. If you wish to buy healthy snacks online please read on.
Below are some healthy store bought snacks for weight loss:
Goodness KNOWS Cranberry, Almond & Dark Chocolate Gluten Free Snack Square Bars 18-Count Box
Crispy Green Freeze-Dried Fruits, Non-GMO, Gluten Free, No Sugar Added, Fruit Variety Pack
That’s it Apple + Mango 100% Natural Real Fruit Bar, Best High Fiber Vegan, Gluten Free Healthy Snack, Paleo for Children & Adults, Non GMO Sugar-Free, No Preservatives Energy Food
Benefits of Healthy Snacking
Author Posted on Categories Healthy LifestyleLeave a comment on Healthy Snack Ideas for Weight Loss
How to Make Yourself Sleep Faster – GUARANTEED
Proven Tricks on How to Make Yourself Sleep Faster at Night
When our nervous system is on hold, our eye’s are closed tight, when all the muscles in our body is relaxed and our consciousness is not present but our brain is active and telling us stories some we might like other s not so much. Whether we like it or not we all must sleep.
Sleeping is natural and it happens to almost all living organisms and let’s faces it sleeping is good for us. It plays a very important role keeping is physically and mentally fit by repairing and healing us from the inside.
Reasons to Sleep Better and Faster
A good night’s sleep can do wonders for us not only it keeps us fresh and athletic during the day but sleep also plays a vital role in keeping us physically healthy, improving our productivity and concentration.
More Reasons to Sleep Better and Faster
Less than 7:30 hours sleep can result in a higher risk of stroke and various heart diseases, not enough sleep can also result in abnormal blood sugar levels which can also be referred to as prediabetes. Sleep disorder or insomnia can also cause severe depression and can have a really bad effect on our immune system.
Ways to Get to Sleep
Following are some tricks to fall asleep fast in no time:
Take a warm bath
before going to bed it will help you relax and relaxation will lead to a better good night’s sleep. Use a bath salt treatment to revitalize tired muscles.
Benefits of Hot Bath Before Bed
Warm bath will reduce anxiety as many people know that while showering we all come up with different creative solutions to our problems. So take a warm bath, relax and think about all the problems and challenges while you bath instead of taking those problems with you in bed.
A warm bath will clean your face and body completely as it will open the pores so you can get rid of all the dirt you’re carrying. Just make sure to close the pores afterwards by rinsing with a little cooler water and a warm bath will clean all and any impurities that a cold water bath probably won’t.
Use a Comfortable Pillow
It will help relax your neck and why wouldn’t you. Instead of your ordinary pillow use a sleep restoration gel pillow.
Reduce Lights
Don’t use your phone when in bed, turn off all sorts of lights it’s better to wear a natural silk sleep mask to avoid all and any sort of light.
Try Not to Nap
For more than 30 minutes a day if you have to, it’s better to not take a nap at all call a friend, walk a little to avoid napping during the day.
Stop Looking at Your Cock
Again and again when you’re in bed this can keep you awake for longer.
Eat Less and Eat Healthy
Don’t overload yourself at dinner and eat at least an hour before bed time.
4 7 8 Breathing Technique or Diaphragmatic Breathing
The 4 7 8 Breathing Technique is a very simple technique to help you sleep through relaxation, oxygenating the lungs, calming the brain and the body. It is a very well known method; it’s been quite famous and very powerful natural technique to signal our brain to sleep. Introduced by Dr Andrew Weil who is a Harvard trained.
Following are the steps to perform the 4 7 8 breathing technique:
Your tongue must touch the upper part of your mouth (half tip of your tongue must be touching the flesh and half must be touching the two top front of your teeth)
First off from your mouth exhale thoroughly.
Inhale completely with your nose while you count to 4 in your mind.
You must hold your breath for a count of 7.
Now exhale with your mouth and count to 8 while you do.
You must keep on doing this at least 4 to 5 times more in order to complete this relaxing method.
Not only this 4 7 8 breathing method helps to relax, improves health it also helps to relieve stress. The 4-7-8 technique is a gem in causing the whole mind and complete body to relax.
Overactive Mind at Night Sleep
Well an overactive mind at night sleep is a problem many experience while trying to sleep especially people with insomnia knows what an overactive mind at night sleep is. An overactive mind at night sleep is when it time for our bodies and brain to rest our brain becomes a hyperactive brain and starts to think what not while we wish and struggle to sleep. Well! The good news is there are ways to calm your hyperactive brain by fighting your overactive mind at night sleep and go back to sleep.
Stress Management
Stress and anxiety can be two major causes for your overactive mind at night sleep time so make sure to eliminate stress at least half an hour before bed time in order to calm your hyperactive brain down. Whatever the reason for your stress it is better to forget it and let it go for a while, especially at bed times and come back to it later in the morning. Make time in the day to think about all your stress factors so you can relax and sleep later in the night.
Shut Yourself Down
Simply shut yourself down half an hour before bed time by turning off all electronic devices such as TV, cell phone, computer etc instead read a relaxing book, take a warm bath or just lay down and relax yourself before going to sleep.
Conclusion
Sleeping is a natural process and is definitely good for us, we should try our best to have enough sleep so we can be our best self during the day and make better lifestyle choices that will help us improve overall health and help us to lead a happy healthy life that we deserve. So what are you waiting for, it’s time to go to sleep.
Author Posted on Categories Healthy Lifestyle1 Comment on How to Make Yourself Sleep Faster – GUARANTEED
Posts navigation
Page 1 Page 2 Next page
Search for:
Search
What is a Parasite
Botfly – The Flesh Eaters
Horsehair Worm Under My Skin
Giardiasis
What is Aids – HIV
Babesosis Lyme Disease – What is Lyme Disease?
Naegleria fowleri
Acanthamoeba Keratitis
Hookworm Infection
Lung Fluke – Liver Fluke Parasite
Easy Health Questions and Answers
Parasite Practice Questions – Quiz
Human Parasite Quiz
Health Lifestyle Blog
Worms in dogs Symptoms Causes and Treatment
Mosquito Lifespan Types and Diseases Spread by Mosquitoes
Maintaining a Healthy Lifestyle
Healthy Snack Ideas for Weight Loss
6 Ways to Keep Heart Healthy and Strong
Pinworm Treatment – Worms in Kids
Bed Bugs Signs and Bed Bugs Treatment
How to Make Yourself Sleep Faster – GUARANTEED
Prevention of Malaria – Fight Malaria Symptoms
Most Common Cause of Meningitis – Meningitis Symptoms
What is African Sleeping Sickness
Worms in dogs Symptoms Causes and Treatment
Mosquito Lifespan Types and Diseases Spread by Mosquitoes
Most Common Cause of Meningitis – Meningitis Symptoms
Prevention of Malaria – Fight Malaria Symptoms
Bed Bugs Signs and Bed Bugs Treatment
Pinworm Treatment – Worms in Kids
6 Ways to Keep Heart Healthy and Strong
Healthy Snack Ideas for Weight Loss
How to Make Yourself Sleep Faster – GUARANTEED
Maintaining a Healthy Lifestyle
Follow us on Instagram
Something is wrong.
Instagram token error.
Load More
Health Lifestyle Blog
Easy Health Q & A
Parasite Practice Questions – Quiz
Human Parasite Quiz
All About Parasites
Botfly – Flesh Eaters
Liver Fluke Parasite
Horsehair Worm
Foot Worm Parasite
Acanthamoeba
Giardia infection
Lyme Disease
Brain Eating Amoeba
What is Aids – HIV
Who Are We
Contact Us
Write for Us
Healthy Life Symptoms Proudly powered by WordPress
Follow