Warning!! Never Drink This Juice if You Are Taking Medication... It Could be Fatal!!! - Stay Naturally Healthy
Menu
Home
Health
Diet & Weight Loss
Healthy Food
Healthy Drinks
Psychology
Recipes
Natural Tip
General
Warning!! Never Drink This Juice if You Are Taking Medication… It Could be Fatal!!!
Sandra | December 18, 2016 | General, Health | No Comments
When taking medication, it is important to know that certain medicines should not be combined with certain foods. The ideal would be to accompany the drug with drinking water however many people think that the various liquids taken with drugs does not bring bad consequences. In fact, some juices could prove to be very dangerous if consumed in conjunction with drug therapy. In the following text we propose to you to discover which fruits should absolutely not be consumed if you take meds.
Medications and grapefruit
Grapefruit is a fruit that can prove to be excellent for the body however it is important to know that it does not go well with medication. In reality this fruit is very rich in vitamin C and B5 and it is considered as a source of antioxidants that eliminates free radicals. However, it is necessary to take care of the consumption of the grapefruit juice.
Researchers in Canada have conducted a study of grapefruit and the risk of sudden death when consumed with medications. Indeed, consumption of grapefruit eliminates the functioning of the enzyme to metabolize the drug in the body. This would cause an overdose, a consequence that could be fatal to the person. Consuming grapefruit juice with a certain drugs could multiply the effects x 18.
Here is the list of medicines that absolutely must not be consumed with grapefruit:
Antidepressants: Sertraline, Zoloft.
Antiarrhythmics: Dronedarone, Multaq, Ivabradine, Procoralan.
Anti cholesterol: Simvastatin, Zocor, Atorvastatin, Taho, lovastatin.
Anti-infectives: Erythromycin, Halofantrine, Maraviroc, Primaquine, Quinine, Rilpivirine.
Anti-cancer: Erlotinib, Everolimus, Lapatinib, Nilotinib, Pazopanib, Sunitinib, Vandetanib, Vemurafenib.
Always ask your doctor if you are allowed to drink grapefruit juice with the therapy you are undergoing!
Reference
Add a Comment
Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment:*
Name:*
Email Address:*
Website:
Follow me on:
Recent Posts
Signs And Symptoms Indicating You That You Have A Lack Of The Following Vitamins!
Psychologists Warn: Never Use These 5 Phrases When Talking To Your Child…
Here’s What To Do If You Are Suffering From Bad Circulation!
Having Mice In Your House Is Definitely The Worst Thing Ever! Give This Five Homemade Solutions A Try And Get Rid Of Them Once And For All!
Baking Soda Based Recipes To Properly Remove Fat From The Belly, Thighs, Arms, And Back!
Copyright © 2019 Stay Naturally Healthy.
Contact
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms and Conditions