12 Health Conscious Benefits Of Pink Himalayan Salt
ohsimply.com
Working To Make Life Simpler
12 Health Conscious Benefits Of Pink Himalayan Salt
239shares
Pinterest17
Facebook220
Twitter2
Salt certainly adds taste and flavor to our foods. At the same time, we also know that the high sodium content present in salt can lead to hypertension which, in turn, can slowly damage our cardiovascular system.
Fortunately, the pink Himalayan salt is a healthier, better and a safer alternative to the traditional, commercially-available table salt (sodium chloride), rock salt, sea salt, or those that came from salt water.
Apart from being very rich in essential trace minerals and trace elements, this Himalayan sea salt can also help:
Purge toxins
Balance electrolytes within your body
Improve blood circulation
Helps regulate blood sugar levels
Just as the name implies, the pink Himalayan salt is extracted from the Himalayan mountains or salt caves present in Asia – this hand-mined salt is known to be the purest one on Earth.
[toc]
Widely used in the cosmetic, culinary as well as medical field, the pink Himalayan salt is pure, luxurious and it is accompanied by a plethora of health benefits detailed below:
Pink Himalayan Salt Is Great For Purifying The Indoor Air
If you suffer from seasonal allergies, allergic to pollen and dust, suffer from a chronic respiratory condition, have airborne pathogens easily irritate your lungs, worsen your bronchitis or asthma, then the Himalayan pink salt may help!
Take a small amount of pink salt (rock lamps like this are available online) that acts as a natural air purifier and attracts moisture from the air, along with all the allergens and pathogens.
Improve Your Respiratory Conditions
Aside from trapping the allergens and reducing the overall air moisture levels, the Himalayan pink salt can naturally alleviate some of the most common respiratory conditions, such as asthma.
The pink crystals are known to emit negative ions, which is why this natural salt is indispensable in what is known as “salt therapy”.
Salt therapy has been used for more than two hundred years to improve one’s overall health status.
The unrefined salt use to alleviate respiratory conditions in a healthy, cheap and natural manner, without any adverse reactions.
Salt-rich air kills bacteria and it can alleviate chest congestion, coughs and asthma. It’s even been used in the treatment of cystic fibrosis.
Relieve Muscle Soreness
Have you trained a bit too hard at the gym, and starting to feel the effects of overtraining?
If so, rest assured – a warm salt bath with a pinch of Himalayan pink salt will relax your muscles, relieve soreness and speed up the muscle repair process.
It’s also great for those who suffer from intense muscle cramps.
Himalayan pink salt is very rich in magnesium, iodine and 80 other essential minerals that heal muscles and soft tissues when absorbed through the skin.
Treating Acid Reflux Disease
Acid reflux is a common problem that occurs in those who have a problem with the pH levels in their stomach.
Aside from being very bothersome, acid reflux can also be quite painful as it triggers the dreaded heartburn.
Fortunately, the Himalayan pink salt can double as a natural and highly efficient antacid that keeps the stomach acid levels within the normal range.
If left untreated, acid reflux can damage your trachea and even increase the risk for cancer.
Improve Digestion
If you suffer from slow digestion or if your body has a hard time processing and absorbing the nutrients you consume, then you can rely on the pink Himalayan rock salt yet again.
Simply replace your classic salt with HPS, and you will quickly notice how gassing, bloating or constipation will no longer be an issue!
In addition to improving your digestion, the pink Himalayan salt can also speed it up, which is great for those who watch their waistline!
Lowers Blood Pressure
This may sound absurd at first, and you might ask yourself:
How can the Himalayan pink salt lower the blood pressure, when it is known that the sodium present in salt crystals have the exact opposite effect?
The reason why the pink Himalayan salt can actually be good for you is that it is absorbed directly into your bloodstream in a faster and more efficient manner than conventional salt.
In turn, this leads to a lower blood pressure and a healthier and improved blood flow!
Clean Arteries
Do you feel an unhealthy diet and lifestyle has lead to the accumulation of cholesterol on the inner walls of your arteries?
Are you afraid of the consequences this might have on your health?
High cholesterol levels have been linked to an increased risk of stroke and heart attack. Consuming pink Himalayan salt on a regular basis, can help improve your overall blood flow as described above, but it can also “scrub” your arteries!
Sleep Better!
The Himalayan pink salt is widely known for its relaxing effects, effects that target your muscles in particular.
However, a small HPS lamp can also purify the air and help you fall asleep faster at night – and stay asleep until morning.
Sleep deprivation increases the risk of high blood pressure, diabetes, stroke, heart disease, heart attack as well as heart failure, and you certainly do not want any of those in your life!
Extremely Rich In Minerals
The microscopic analysis of the Himalayan crystal salt reveals that it contains no less than 84 mineral contents… essential for your overall health. This includes calcium and chloride to magnesium, phosphorus, iron to potassium and copper.
All these minerals are essential for:
Bone health
Helping prevent arthritis and other joint-related problems
Preventing cold hands and feet triggered by poor blood flow
Preventing mental and physical health issues
Strong Detoxification Properties
The Himalayan pink salt is also known for its natural detoxification effects, when used in the form of brine treatments.
As mentioned earlier, when you add this salt to your regular bath, the minerals and other compounds present in it, get quickly absorbed into the skin which, in turn, stimulates the natural osmosis process.
Irrigation Of Sinus
Sinusitis affects millions of individuals. Fortunately, doing regular sinus irrigation with Himalayan pink salt can help clear up sinus congestion and treat a sinus infection.
Salt is known to have strong antibacterial and antimicrobial properties, and irrigation with the Himalayan pink salt will kill the contaminants present in your nasal cavities.
Reduce The Toxicity Of Electromagnetic Frequencies
Last, but not least, it is believed that Himalayan salt lamps have yet another miraculous benefit to the body.
Although this type of salt is commonly used for its health benefits, it seems that the lamp can attract EMFs that are commonly emitted by electronics, such as laptops, TVs and especially smart phones.
Numerous studies have linked high levels of electromagnetic frequencies to various types of cancer.
The Himalayan pink salt lamp can reduce the overall amount of electromagnetic pollution and simply “capture” and store the radiation waves that come from electronics.
Once again, this is possible due to the high production of negative ions that the Himalayan pink salt releases into the atmosphere.
Sources:
mercola.com | globalhealingcenter.com | lifebeginsraw.com | himalayancrystalsalt.com
239shares
Pinterest17
Facebook220
Twitter2
Recent Posts
Used Coffee Grounds: 17 Unexpected Things You Can Do With Old Coffee Grinds
How To Effectively Use Castor Oil For Beard
Purple Nail Beds: What Are Your Nails Telling You?
12 Proven Food Grade Diatomaceous Earth Benefits And Uses
Neem Oil Uses: 17+ Ways To Enjoy It’s Amazing Benefits
10 Simple Home Remedies For Cracked Heels
Neem Oil For Hair? 12 Great Ways To Improve Your Hair & Scalp
Categories
Oils
Household
Food
Health
Pest
Touch Base
Contact Us
About Us - Privacy Policy - DMCA
Medical Disclaimer
The information on this website has not been evaluated by the FDA - Food & Drug Administration or any other medical body. We do not aim to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease. Information is shared for educational purposes only. You must consult your doctor before acting on any content on this website, especially if you are pregnant, nursing, taking medication, or have a medical condition.
Recent Posts
Used Coffee Grounds: 17 Unexpected Things You Can Do With Old Coffee Grinds
How To Effectively Use Castor Oil For Beard
Purple Nail Beds: What Are Your Nails Telling You?
12 Proven Food Grade Diatomaceous Earth Benefits And Uses
Neem Oil Uses: 17+ Ways To Enjoy It’s Amazing Benefits
10 Simple Home Remedies For Cracked Heels
Search This Site
OhSimpy.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com
Copyright © 2019 · WordPress · Log in