Breast Cancer Inherited Risk | Fox Chase Cancer Center - Philadelphia, PA
Temple Health
Lewis Katz School of Medicine
MyFoxChase Login

Search form
Search
Fox Chase Cancer Center - Philadelphia, PA
MENU
About
Locations
Contact Us
Giving
MyFoxChase Login
Find a Doctor
Request Appointment
Call 888-FOX-CHASE
Lewis Katz School of Medicine at Temple University
Clinical Care
Why Choose Fox Chase
Cancer Types & Conditions
Prevention & Screening
Support
Clinical Trials
Departments
Patient Stories
Research & Training
Overview
Find a Scientist
Research Programs
Translational Medicine
Clinical Research
Facilities
Training & Education
For Patients & Visitors
Appointments
Insurance & Financial Information
Visitor Information
Locations
Partners
For Healthcare Professionals
Refer a Patient
Key Account Managers
Care Connect for Physicians
Continuing Education
Resources
Careers
ONC eNewsletter
For Community
Volunteer
Community Outreach
Community Health
Patient and Family Advisory Council
Walk & Run Events
888-FOX-CHASE
About
Blog
History
Leadership
Administrative Leaders
Clinical Leaders
Research Leaders
External Advisory Committee
Administrative Offices
R&D Alliances
Careers
Care Connect
News & Publications
Events
Locations
Contact Us
Giving
MyFoxChase Login
Find a Doctor
Request Appointment
Call 888-FOX-CHASE
Lewis Katz School of Medicine at Temple University
You are here
Home » Clinical Care » Prevention & Screening » Risk Assessment at Fox Chase Cancer Center » Risk Factors » Inherited Cancer
Print Text Size Share This Page
Breast Cancer Inherited Risk
Factors that increase risk
Gender. Simply being a woman is the main risk factor for developing breast cancer. Although women have many more breast cells than men, the main reason they develop breast cancer more often is because their breast cells are constantly exposed to the female hormones estrogen and progesterone, which promote cell growth. Men can develop breast cancer, but this disease is about 100 times more common among women than men.
Age. Your risk of developing breast cancer increases as you age. About 2 out of 3 invasive breast cancers are found in women age 55 or older.
Family history. The chance of developing breast cancer increases if a close relative, either male or female, had breast cancer. About 20 to 30 percent of women with breast cancer have a family member with the disease.
Gene changes. Breast cancer is sometimes caused by inherited gene changes. The most common are in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes which cause a significantly increased risk for breast and ovarian cancer
Previous breast cancer. A woman with cancer in one breast is three to four times more likely to develop a new cancer in the other breast, or in another part of the same breast. This is different from a recurrence, or return of the first cancer.
Benign breast biopsy. About 80 percent of all breast changes that are biopsied, or tested, are found to be benign, or not cancerous. But, some of these benign breast conditions are linked to an increase in breast cancer risk.
Radiation Exposure. Receiving radiation therapy to the chest between the ages of 10 and 30 can increase the risk of breast cancer. The risk of developing breast cancer appears to be highest if the radiation was given during adolescence, when the breasts are still developing.
Hormone exposure. Use of hormones after menopause called hormone replacement therapy may increase the risk for developing breast cancer.
Factors that decrease risk
Age of first birth. Having many pregnancies and becoming pregnant at an early age reduces breast cancer risk. Pregnancy reduces a woman's total number of lifetime menstrual cycles, which may be the reason for this effect.
Breastfeeding. Some studies have suggested that breastfeeding may slightly lower breast cancer risk. This is more likely if breastfeeding is continued for 1.5 to 2 years or if many children of the same mother are breastfed.
Staying at a healthy weight. High-fat diets can lead to being overweight or obese, which is a breast cancer risk factor. A diet high in fat has also been shown to influence the risk of developing several other types of cancer.
Limiting alcohol. The American Cancer Society recommends that women limit their consumption of alcohol to no more than one drink per day to reduce their breast cancer risk.
Regular physical activity. Evidence is growing that physical activity in the form of exercise reduces breast cancer risk. The only question is how much exercise do you need? In one study from the Women's Health Initiative (WHI) as little as 1.25 to 2.5 hours per week of brisk walking reduced a woman's risk by 18 percent. Walking 10 hours a week reduced the risk even more.
Inherited breast cancer clues
About 10 percent of all breast cancers are due to an inherited gene change. Some clues of an inherited breast cancer risk are:
Breast cancer diagnosed at age 50 or younger
Two breast cancers diagnosed in a single individual, or breast and ovarian cancer diagnosed in a single individual
Having a family history of breast and/or ovarian cancer in two or more relatives on the same side of the family
Male breast cancer
Being a member of a family with a known change in a breast cancer susceptibility gene
Breast cancer in a family with other cancers such as thyroid cancer, pancreatic cancer, and sarcomas
Learn more about our High Risk Breast and Ovarian Cancer Clinics
Related Articles
Fox Chase Cancer Center Stresses the Importance of Getting...
Fox Chase Offers New Technologies Which Provide Genetic...
Breast Cancer Can Also Affect Men
Prevention & Screening
Screening Services
Colonoscopy
Risk Assessment at Fox Chase Cancer Center
Genetics and Risk Assessment
Risk Assessment Study Opportunities
Genetic Testing and Family History
Cancer Syndromes
Breast and ovarian cancer syndromes
Endocrine cancer syndromes
Familial prostate cancer syndromes
Gastrointestinal cancer syndromes
Kidney cancer syndromes
Skin cancer syndromes
Risk Factors
Inherited Cancer
Adrenal Tumors
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Gynecologic Cancer
Kidney Cancer
Neuroendocrine Tumors
Ovarian Cancer
Pancreatic Cancer
Prostate Cancer
Sarcoma
Skin Cancer
Stomach Cancer
Thyroid Cancer
The Risk Assessment Team
High Risk Cancer Clinics
Breast and Ovarian Clinics
Gastrointestinal Risk Assessment
Prostate Clinic
Your Risk Assessment Appointment
The Health History Questionnaire
Diagnostic Imaging
Doctors & Care Team
Risk Assessment Appointments
Call the Fox Chase Cancer Center
Risk Assessment Program today
at 877-627-9684.
Request online
Connect with Fox Chase
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
Flickr
YouTube
Contact Fox Chase:
1-888-FOX-CHASE
(1-888-369-2427)
Main Campus
333 Cottman Avenue
Philadelphia, PA 19111-2497
View All Locations
Resources:
Appointments
Careers
Contact Us
Online Hospital Bill Pay
Financial Assistance/Charity Care
Giving
MyFoxChase
©2019 Temple University Health System, Inc., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Patient Rights | Privacy & Non-Discrimination Notices | TUHS Vendor Policies & Procedures
Temple Health refers to the health, education and research activities carried out by the affiliates of Temple University Health System (TUHS) and by the Lewis Katz School of Medicine at Temple University. TUHS neither provides nor controls the provision of health care. All health care is provided by its member organizations or independent health care providers affiliated with TUHS member organizations. Each TUHS member organization is owned and operated pursuant to its governing documents.