Raisin’ the Root: Key Things to Know About Ginger and Turmeric
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Instagram
Open Top Menu
Home
About Faye
Ask Faye
Interns
For Dietitians
Speaking
Open Main Menu
The College Student’s Guide to life as a foodie, served with
a scoop of nutrition, fitness, and health on the side.
For The Health of It
Raisin’ the Root: Key Things to Know About Ginger and Turmeric
Posted by Faye Berger Mitchell ×	July 20, 2016 at 4:43 pm
Ginger and turmeric are the new “it” couple. Ginger, most commonly used in gingersnaps, gingerbread cookies or ginger ale, is more nutritious when enjoyed fresh! Like ginger, turmeric is a common spice, often used in Indian cuisine, known for its fragrant flavor and fantastic yellow color. Both originate from the same plant family and are types of roots, known as rhizomes.
(College Budget Tip: you can regenerate turmeric and ginger roots by cutting a portion of the stem and planting it… wow!)
These spices have much more to offer than taste. The health benefits of eating ginger and turmeric daily are tremendous! Read on to find out why some people call these roots miraculous.
Ginger
Antioxidant Power-House
Ginger has almost the same amount of antioxidants as berries! Adding ginger to your diet is a tasty and substantial way of getting an extra antioxidant boost. Why is this important? Your body undergoes all sorts of stress caused by aging, physical activity, actual stress of a breakup or losing a love one, and just general daily wear and tear. Antioxidants can help fill in the gaps caused by those things to help your body regroup.
Inflammation Reducer
Some people consume ginger for headaches or menstrual cramps instead of reaching for the ibuprofen! Research has shown that people who consume ginger report less pain due to arthritis and other chronic pain diseases. Ginger contains a potent gingerol component that is attributed to help ease the aching. Toss some ginger into your smoothie after a difficult workout to help recovery!
Nausea Helper
Maybe this is a no brainer… but ginger actually does help with nausea. It helps relieve stomach discomfort caused by gas build up. Try eating ginger before a bumpy road trip or a boat ride to avoid motion sickness. Or even try making some ginger tea after a night out on the town to kick that hangover to the curb!
Turmeric
Protect and BOOST Your Brain
Turmeric, also known as the golden spice, is literally gold in helping your brain function better than normal. Curcumin, the beneficial part of turmeric, makes this spice act like a superhero. It can increase DHA levels that help with brain development and protection and also helps remove plaque and metal build up that leads to dementia and Alzheimer’s. Research has linked it to lower levels of depression and common brain diseases, all while improving memory and brain function. Chaaaa-ching.
Who Wants to Get Old?
Turmeric is the closest thing you’ll get to Peter Pan. Yes, curcumin is on the MVP list when it comes to edible anti-aging solutions. The mixture of antioxidants and anti-inflammatory components in turmeric will help combat almost any chronic disease. Cancer and heart disease, for example, have been shown in some cases to be prevented and even treated by turmeric. To keep things simple, turmeric helps everything from optimal brain function to joint health to combatting the daily cold to protecting your heart.
Cashing In the Golden Spice
There is a bit of a caveat with curcumin. It can be difficult for your body to absorb. In order to fix that issue, combining pepperine, found in black pepper, and turmeric make it more available for absorption. Also, curcumin is fat-soluble, meaning that it should be consumed with a nutritious source of fat like olive oil, fish or avocado.
Jackie Parker is currently a senior nutritional sciences student on the dietetics track at Texas A&M University.
Tags: anti-in × anti-inflammation × anti-inflammation diet × anti-nausea × antioxidant × calms stomach × College × curcumin × ginger × Health × helps with nausea × roots × spices × trending × turmeric
« Previous ×	Next »
Share
Tweet
Related Posts
Top 5 Must-have Fall and Winter SpicesNovember 11, 2015
Thanksgiving HistoryNovember 18, 2014
Quick Facts About Quick BreadNovember 15, 2014
Sweet for Sweet PotatoesNovember 4, 2014
Leave a Reply Cancel
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Your Name *
Your Email *
Your Website
Don't miss a bite!
Sign up for delicious Foodie On Campus updates!
I'd like receive Foodie on Campus Updates: Daily Weekly
Leave this field empty if you're human:
Categories
Campus Chow
Campus Shout-Outs
Dorm Dining
Faye's Blog
Fitness
Food
Food and Nutrition Hacks
For The Health of It
Free Food!
Mind, Body, Soul
Recipes
Students Making a Difference
Trending
Uncategorized
Recent Posts
Peanut Butter and Jelly – It’s Not Just For Kids!
Avoiding The Freshman 15: Tips and Tricks
Everyday Gut Health
How to Choose the Right Cooking Oil
Avocado Hummus in 4 Easy Steps
The Ultimate Egg Hunt: Guide to Deciphering Grocery-Store Egg Labels
Archives
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
Copyright © 2019 Foodie on Campus: The College Student’s Guide to life as a foodie, served with a scoop of nutrition, fitness, and health on the side.. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy·Terms of Use·Disclosure Statement