WD-40 Fixes Everything | Motor Guidance
Monday , April 22nd 2019
The Best Accessories
Light Guards
Hood Covers
Door Armor
Body Tub Rail Armor
Fender Protector
WD-40 Fixes Everything
We all carry a can of WD40 with us (or at least some do), but how many of us know its origins and the myriad of uses it can be used for, not just the usual use of a lubricant and corrosion inhibitor??
Well, I’m glad you asked because I can let you know.
WD-40 was created in ’53 at the San Diego Rocket Chemical Company by three technicians working on the project. The “WD” part of its name stands for it’s intended function of water displacement. This was their 40th trial compound. Thus WD(Water Displacement)-40(fortieth attempt). WD-40 was first used by the Convair Company to protect the outer skin of the Altas Missile from rust and corrosion
WD-40
One of the original founders, Ken East says “there is nothing in WD-40 that would hurt you. When you read the ‘shower door’ part, try it. It’s the first thing that has ever cleaned that spotty shower door. If yours is plastic, it works just as well as glass. It’s a miracle! Then try it on your stove top. It’s now shinier than it’s ever been. You’ll be amazed.”
There are currently over 2000 uses for this product, but here is just a few;
Protects silver from tarnishing.
Removes road tar and grime from cars.
Cleans and lubricates guitar strings.
Gives floors that ‘just-waxed’ sheen without making them slippery.
Keeps flies off cows and horses.
Restores and cleans chalkboards.
Removes lipstick stains.
Loosens stubborn zippers.
Untangles jewelry chains.
Removes stains from stainless steel sinks.
Removes dirt and grime from the barbecue grill.
Keeps ceramic/terra cotta garden pots from oxidizing.
Removes tomato stains from clothing.
Keeps glass shower doors free of water spots. (not a bad idea if you have hard water)
Camouflages scratches in ceramic and marble floors.
Keeps scissors working smoothly.
Lubricates noisy door hinges on vehicles and doors in homes.
WD-40 removes black heel marks from floors! Try it on tar and scuff marks on vinyl. It softens the marks up right away for easy cleanup. On the downside, WD-40 smells, so open a window for ventilation.
Rusty parts come apart easier with a little WD-40
Bug guts will eat away the finish on your car if not removed quickly! Use WD-40!
Gives a children’s playground gym slide a shine for a super fast slide.
Lubricates gear shift and mower deck lever for ease of handling on riding mowers.
Rids kids rocking chairs and swings of squeaky noises.
Lubricates tracks in sticking home windows and makes them easier to open.
Spraying an umbrella stem makes it easier to open and close.
Restores and cleans padded leather dashboards in vehicles, as well as vinyl bumpers.
Restores and cleans roof racks on vehicles.
Lubricates and stops squeaks in electric fans.
Lubricates wheel sprockets on tricycles, wagons, and bicycles for easy handling.
Lubricates fan belts on washers and dryers and keeps them running smoothly.
Keeps rust from forming on saws and saw blades and other tools.
Removes splattered grease on the stove.
Keeps bathroom mirror from fogging.
Lubricates prosthetic limbs.
Keeps pigeons off the balcony (they hate the smell).
Removes all traces of duct tape.
People have even been known to spray it on their arms, hands, and knees to relieve arthritis pain.
Here’s a strange one … WD-40 attracts fish. Put a little on lures or live bait! It’s less money than the chemical attractants that are made for the fishing trade. Be careful, though, using some chemical laced baits or lures are against the law in some states.
Try it on fire ant bites or mosquito stings. It works fast to cuts the sting and itch.
Use it on crayon marks. WD-40 will cut through the crayon wax. Spray it on and wipe it off.
Same with lipstick. Accidently washed some jeans with lipstick in the pocket? , Spray the lipstick spots with WD-40 and rewash. Presto! The lipstick is gone!
The basic ingredient is FISH OIL.
Share on Facebook Share
Share on Pinterest Pin it
Share on TwitterTweet
Send To Devices Send
Related Products
Auto Ventshade 114001 Rear Bumper Protector, OE Style
OE Style Bumper Protectors shield your vehicle's rear bumper from wear and damage caused by day-to-day loading and unloading.…
Price : 68.3
View Details
Cobra Auto Accessories Car Hood Mask Bonnet Bra Fits
Each stage in mask preparation requires special work depending on the individual make and model of the vehicle. Our…
Price : 60
View Details
Ford OEM Door Latch Assembly FL3Z18264A01A Image
Ford OEM Door Latch Assembly FL3Z18264A01A Image 5
Price : 58.79
View Details
Popular Products
Recro Garage MERCEDES SPRINTER FRONT HOOD COVER MASK
Aug 10 2018 682 Views
15 Feet Red Door Front Rear Lip Edge Overlay Molding
Aug 6 2018 509 Views
Eckler’s Premier Quality Products 25-251573
Sep 11 2018 405 Views
Hooke Road Tailllamp Cover for 07-17 Jeep Wrangler JK
Aug 9 2018 333 Views
This website is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com All logos and product images are copyrighted to the original manufacturer.
Copyright © 2019 - All Rights Reserved
Contact Us | Sitemap | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.OkPrivacy policy