John Gunther And Brain Tumors Essay - 1065 Words - BrightKite
This website uses cookies to ensure you have the best experience.
Got it!
Learn more
Sign Up Sign In
Sign Up
Sign In
John Gunther And Brain Tumors Essay
1065 words - 5 pages
Do you have an abundant knowledge of brain tumors and cancer? Have you or a loved one ever had a brain tumor of any sort? If so, they are very harmful and deadly. Over the course of time with the improvement of technology, treatment will be easier and symptoms won't be as noticeable. Brain tumor research has improved exceedingly, therefore, if John Gunther’s son was alive today, he most likely could have been successfully treated or cured of his brain tumor without the struggle of a death sentence.
There are two main categories of brain tumors as to the seriousness; Malignant, and Benign. A Malignant tumor can grow and spread aggressively, and overpower other healthy cells by taking ...view middle of the document...
The most common symptoms include; Changes in the person's mental function, Headaches, Seizures (especially in older adults), and Weakness in one part of the body. Less common symptoms may include trouble hearing, tasting, smelling, seeing, reading, writing, walking, speaking, being able to understand others who are speaking, controlling the body, coordination, balance, Personality, mood, behavior, and Muscle weakness in the face, arm, or leg. Other symptoms may occur with a pituitary tumor including Abnormal nipple discharge, Absent menstruation (periods), Breast development in men, Enlarged hands, feet, Excessive body hair, Facial changes, Low blood pressure, Obesity, and Sensitivity to heat or cold. Symptoms caused by pressure from a larger pituitary tumor may include: Headache, Lethargy, Nasal drainage, Nausea and vomiting, Problems with the sense of smell, Visual changes, Double vision, Drooping eyelids, and Visual field loss. Most pituitary tumors produce too much of one or more hormones. As a result, symptoms of one or more of the following conditions can occur: Hyperthyroidism, Cushing's syndrome, Gigantism or acromegaly, and Nipple discharge. “Brain Tumor Symptoms, Types (Meningioma), Treatment-Medicine.net”
Treatment can involve surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy. Brain tumors are best treated by a team that includes Neuro-oncologist, Neurosurgeon, Oncologist, Radiation oncologist, and Other healthcare providers, such as neurologists and social workers. Early treatment often improves the chance of a good outcome. Types of treatment often depends on the size and type of tumor and your general health. The goals of treatment may be to cure the tumor, relieve symptoms, and improve brain function or comfort. Tumors can be hard to remove completely by surgery alone, because the tumor invades surrounding brain tissue much like roots from a plant spread through soil. When the tumor cannot be removed, surgery may still help reduce pressure and relieve symptoms. “Brain Cancer: Medlineplus.”
There are many possible outcomes of having a brain tumor; many of which are good, however the majority of outcomes can be bad depending on the severity of the tumor. Some possible outcomes may include Brain herniation (often fatal), Uncal herniation, Foramen magnum herniation,...
Read more
Find Another Essay On John Gunther and brain tumors
Scientific Advancements to the Study and Treatment of Cancer
1285 words - 6 pages rising slightly for the past few decades.” (American Cancer Society) One percent may not be much when compared to the nighty other children that are cancer free but having the number 10,450 is what makes it scary. The top leading cancers concerning children are leukemia, Neuroblastoma, Wilms Tumor, Bone cancer (including osteosarcoma & Ewing Sarcoma), Rhabdomyosarcoma, and Brain also including other central nervous system tumors. Leukemia only makes
Brain Cancer, is there any link to cell phones?
894 words - 4 pages Research suggests a slight increase in the rate of brain tumors since the 1970s, however cell phones weren't in use during the 1970s. There is no solid evidence of a link between cell phone users and brain tumors or cancer. It is said that cell phones give off enough radiation directly to the head to cause brain tumors. Cell phones do not have the capability of causing brain tumors. While many people believe that cell phones cause brain tumors
The Real Meaning of Brain Cancer
1236 words - 5 pages types. A primary brain tumor starts in the brain. A metastatic brain tumor starts somewhere else in the body and moves to the brain. Brain tumors can be benign, with no cancer cells, or malignant, with cancer cells that grow quickly. There are two types of risks for brain cancer: Environmental Risk Factors, and Genetic Risk Factors. There have been a lot of studies that point out how the environment can be a risk factor. Out of all the risk
The Body Worlds Exhibition by Gunther von Hagens
2059 words - 8 pages smooth surface. Specimens produced with epoxy resin are transparent with good colouration of the individual tissues. Polyester resins are used for brain tissues as they give good distinction between the white and grey brain matter. On the 20th of November, Gunther von Hagens carried out a public autopsy in London to a paying audience, the autopsy was shown by Channel 4 later that night. Gunther von Hagens' subject
Brain Cancer
1240 words - 5 pages sometimes it cant be controlled and people die. Brain cancer is really deadly and kills millions each year. What is brain cancer?Brain Cancer is a disease of malignant tumor that arise in the brain tissue. Cancer cells form a mass obstruction that affects normal daily functions. It causes a lot of problems with memory, sensation, and muscle control. There are two types of tumors, there are malignant tumors which are the cancerous ones and begin
Brain Cancer
756 words - 4 pages years ago because of the lack of treatment for those with a malignant brain tumor. After faculty appointments at Tulane and then Louisiana State University, Wilson established the Division of Neurosurgery at the University of Kentucky Medical School in 1963. Wilson launched an experimental program to study the behavior of brain tumors, the nature and growing rate, and how they were able to cause death. Among the most promising areas of
Advancements in technology: The MRI
1140 words - 5 pages scan the patient and table are then slid out and blood is drawn from the IV needle, and a contrast dye is inserted into the body ("How to Diagnose Brain Tumors"). The dye used is completely safe, and is designed to color infected or damaged areas to make it easier to see on the computer so doctors can determine what needs to be looked at more extensively. The magnet used in an MRI cause the nuclei (centers) of hydrogen atoms in your body to line
Epidemiology of Primary Spinal Cord Tumours in Isfahan, Iran, 1992-2004
2416 words - 10 pages the nervous system. World Health Organization classification of tumours. 2nd ed. Lyon, France: IARC Press; 2000. 6. Schellinger KA, Propp JM, Villano JL, McCarthy BJ. Descriptive epidemiology of primary spinal cord tumors. J. Neurooncol. 2008 Apr;87(2):173–9. 7. Stiller CA, Nectoux J. International incidence of childhood brain and spinal tumours. Int J Epidemiol. 1994 Jun;23(3):458–64. 8. Rosemberg S, Fujiwara D. Epidemiology of pediatric
Brain Cancer
989 words - 4 pages this disease is caused by a rapidly dividing cell, with no regulators to stop it from dividing. As the cell makes more and more copies of itself, it grows to form a tumor. This is known as cancer. When a tumor is developed on the brain, it is called a brain tumor or brain cancer. Brain tumors can be malignant or benign, both being dangerous when it comes to the brain. When a brain cancer is malignant, it could potentially invade and destroy
Are Cell Phones Safe?
998 words - 4 pages Did you know that when you have your cell phone too close to your head that you could be putting yourself at risk of tumors? There are a lot of studies debating on if that is a big part in most tumors. The labs and universities haven’t come up with a correct answer yet. According to my research, they are not safe, they have cause cancerous and noncancerous brain tumor. So how do you feel about radio frequency waves causing tumors? If you think
Pediatric Oncology: Healing the Little Ones
1714 words - 7 pages -white race and asian-american children, also it is more likely on boys then it is on girls. "Brain and central nervous system tumors are the second most common cancers in children, making up about 21% of childhood cancers." (American Cancer Society) Some of the most common ones are Primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNETs) these tumors start in primitive (immature) cells of the central nervous system called neuroectodermal cells. About 1 out of 5
Similar Essays
The Gamma Knife: A Tool For Treating Brain And Central Nervous System Tumors
2602 words - 11 pages According to the Central Brain Tumor Registry of the United States (CBTRUS), the incidence rate of all primary malignant and non-malignant brain and central nervous system tumors (CNS) for 2005 to 2009 was 20.6 cases per 100,00 (7.3 per 100,000 for malignant tumors and 13.3 per 100,000 for non-malignant tumors) (Fig. 1) [1]. Figure 1. Average annual incidence rates of primary brain and CNS tumors by age and type of tumor [1]. The incidence
Death Be Not Proud By John Gunther
533 words - 2 pages Life and DeathJust as people are given the opportunity to live and thrive, people naturally, and inevitably must experience death. The book Death Be Not Proud, written by John Gunther is a story about John's brother, Johnny, and how his life plays out and ends. Gunther writes this book to provide other people who must suffer similar pains a sense of hope and sympathy. Death comes in many forms - some more painful than others, but it is important
Brain Tumor Essay
1359 words - 5 pages DefinitionA brain tumor is a mass or growth of abnormal cells in your brain.Many different types of brain tumors exist. Some brain tumors are noncancerous (benign), and some brain tumors are cancerous (malignant). Brain tumors can begin in your brain (primary brain tumors), or cancer can begin in other parts of your body and spread to your brain (secondary brain tumors).Brain tumor treatment options depend on the type of brain tumor you have, as
Brain Disease Essay
2316 words - 9 pages What would you do if you had brain disease? The brain is the most important part of the human body. Without it, you would not be able to think, and more importantly, you would be dead. Two serious brain diseases are brain tumors and Alzheimer’s disease. A brain tumor is a massive growth of abnormal cells in the brain. There are many types of brain tumors. Some may be benign, which is noncancerous, or they may be malignant, which is cancerous
Other Popular Essays
Cell Phones: Doing good in Society
The Insanity of War in Slaughterhouse Five
Gustave Caillebotte Paris Street; Rainy Day,1877
The Missing Relationship Essay
WHO: Organization Essay
Impact of the Atomic Bomb on the World from 1945 to present.
Communication Essay
The African American Journey Essay
Get inspired and start your paper now!
Contact Plagiarism Legal
© BrightKite.com 2012-2019