Oncologists don't Like Baking Soda Cancer Treatment Because It’s Too Effective And Cheap
Skip to main content
Beauty Booster
Search
Search This Blog
Oncologists don't Like Baking Soda Cancer Treatment Because It’s Too Effective And Cheap
Posted by Unknown on February 06, 2019
Get link
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Email
Other Apps
Baking soda is a white crystalline solid that appears as fine powder. It is also called cooking soda, bread soda and bicarbonate of soda.
Its chemical name is sodium bicarbonate or sodium hydrogen carbonate. The National Institutes of Health at the University of Arizona Cancer Center has proven that even the most aggressive cancers which have metastasized can be reversed with baking soda treatments.
Studies have shown that dietary measures to boost bicarbonate levels can increase the pH of acidic tumors without upsetting the pH of the blood and healthy tissues. Most of the people choose chemotherapy in cancer treatment, but it is toxic to all cells in our body. It boosts cancer growth and long-term mortality rates.
Dr. Julian Whitaker has made The Whitaker protocol. This protocol uses 12g (two rounded teaspoons) of baking soda mixed in two cups water, along with a low-cal sweetener. He says that if you drink this mixture three times a day it is very successful in cancer treatment and the cancer can even be cured.
Baking soda can also reduce the involvement of the lymph node on the transport cancer cells, it does not lower the levels of circulating tumor cells, it reduces the involvement of the liver and it inhibits the colonization of other organs by circulating tumor cells.
The baking soda cancer remedy formula is very easy to prepare. You will need maple syrup and molasses or honey. Just mix one teaspoon of baking soda with one teaspoon of molasses in a cup of water and your drink is ready.
Heath Tips
Get link
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Email
Other Apps
Comments
Post a Comment
Popular Posts
Doctors Still Can Not Find The Explanation: This Simple Remedy Can Cure Your Hemorrhoids In Just 20 Minutes !!!
Hemorrhoids are a rather annoying and painful disease, as it develops in an area where it is not comfortable to have some drawback, as is the anus. Hemorrhoids occur when the veins and vessels around the anus swell to such a critical pointthat the pain it causes in this area is unbearable and uncomfortable enough to affect the person in many areas.Hemorrhoids can be considered as one of the most tedious problems that can be faced by the human being. For this problem, there are methods and techniques to cure, but in this article, we are going to tell you the most effective of all, with this recipe you can heal your hemorrhoids quickly and easy, so you will fell better in just 20 minutes!THIS IS THE NATURAL REMEDY THAT WILL CURE YOUR HEMORRHOIDS Many people around the world can end up suffering from hemorrhoids, you can even say that ten people at least seven have had hemorrhoids once throughout their life.This problem can be seen related to many factors that influence the problem to deve…
How To Do A Brazilian Wax Yourself At Home In 12 Simple Steps
How To Do A Brazilian Wax Yourself At Home In 12 Simple StepsBrazilian wax makes every women feel so soft and sexy, attractive and confident. If you are already decided to do Brazilian wax at home so it should be better for you to know that it is painful and little complicated? After all, you are going to wax your most sensitive parts. But if you feel like you can do it yourself staying at home with a good way so I think it would not be much difficult for you to precede the task and that is the choice instead of going to the beauty salon. Make sure, you show your bravery and do in a right and careful way. For your ease, here are the following tips given below for a Brazilian wax at home so understand the entire method in just 12 steps. Important Tips 1. Do not wax during your periods because it might be more painful as compare to the normal days. 2. Take a pain killer if you are too much sensitive to pain, like Tylenol or Advil. Most of the women prefer that. Before deciding for Brazilian …
8 Ways To Get Rid Of Dryness Around Nose
Dryness around nose is very common and we try to hide the same, by covering it up with some makeup. It is always better that you understand the root cause and look for a solution rather than that of hiding it with makeup. Take proper care and ensure that you are able to keep away the dryness. If you are ignorant about the dryness then it would leave dark patches which will be hard to get rid of. Apart from looking bad, the dryness also hurts. If you forcefully try to remove the dry skin then there are chances that you may bleed and hence, be careful. 1. Wash Your FaceThis is one of the first things that you need to do, as you notice dryness around your nose. Wash your face with a mild face wash and wipe the nose area with a soft cotton towel. This will help you to get rid of the dry skin which is accumulated on the surface. Dab some moisturized so that your skin doesn’t get extremely dry. If this solution doesn’t work then you will have to look for alternate solutions. 2. Cleanse And Sc…
Powered by Blogger