fish « eNutritionServices
eNutritionServices
Be Heart Healthy and Lose Weight!
Home
About Lisa
Subscribe in a reader
FREE REPORT
Stop Wasting Money – Take Control of Your Health!
I help you:
Control Blood Pressure
Lose Weight
Lower Cholesterol
Recent Posts
Lower Blood Pressure – How Celery Can Be Used to Lower Blood Pressure
Heart Disease – Does green tea lower heart disease risk?
Heart Health – How to increase physical activity to improve heart health
Archives
August 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
Advertisements
FREE REPORT
Stop Wasting Money – Take Control of Your Health!
I help you:
Control Blood Pressure
Lose Weight
Lower Cholesterol
Meta
Register
Log in
Subscribe
Entries (RSS)
Comments (RSS)
Posts Tagged ‘fish’
Lower Cholesterol – Include rich sources of omega 3 fatty acids in your diet everyday.
Posted by Lisa Nelson, RD, LN on January 27, 2009
The list of benefits associated with omega 3 fatty acids continues to grow. By increasing your intake of omega 3 fatty acids you’ll decrease triglycerides, reduce blood pressure, increase HDL cholesterol, reduce arterial wall inflammation, and the list goes on.
Here are a few steps you can take to increase your omega 3 intake:
1. Eat fish at least twice a week.
2. Add ground flaxseed to foods.
3. Take a fish oil or flaxseed oil supplement. (Discuss all supplements with your MD.)
4. Snack on nuts and seeds rich in omega 3’s, such as walnuts.
All the best,
Lisa Nelson RD
eNutritionServices
Advertisements
Posted in food, heart health, high blood pressure, lower cholesterol, nutrition | Tagged: cholesterol, fatty acids, fish, fish oil, omega 3 | Leave a Comment »
Reduce Brain Damage by Eating Fish
Posted by Lisa Nelson, RD, LN on November 28, 2008
If you eat fish three or more times a week, studies find your risk of developing dementia and stroke to be reduced.
The Cardiovascular Health Study examined over 3600 participants over the age of 65. The study focused on “silent brain death”. Silent brain death occurs when small areas within the brain die due to lack of oxygen, but the individual shows no symptoms of this occurring. Individuals who eat fish regularly had a 26% reduction in silent brain death.
The protective benefit may be related to omega 3 fatty acids, specifically DHA and EPA. The results were seen when fish rich in omega 3 fatty acids, such as tuna and salmon. There was no positive benefit from eating fried fish, such as fish sticks made from fish low in omega 3’s.
On the plus side for those who dislike fish or won’t prepare it three times a week. Eating fish once a week reduced silent brain death 7%. Also, using a supplement to increase omega 3 fatty acids in your diet is an option.
Be sure to discuss all supplements with your MD!
All the best,
Lisa Nelson, RD
eNutritionServices
Posted in food, heart health, high blood pressure, lower cholesterol, nutrition | Tagged: dha, epa, fish, fish oil, omega 3, silent brain death, stroke | Leave a Comment »
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy