Electromagnetic Frequencies | This blog is about electromagnetic frequencies, uses, dangers, and how to stay healthy.
Electromagnetic Frequencies
This blog is about electromagnetic frequencies, uses, dangers, and how to stay healthy.
Home
About
jump to navigation
Radiation Risks March 17, 2017
Posted by healthyself in Cell phone safety.
add a comment
After years of secrecy, cellphone radiation risks are finally being revealed
In 2015, New York Times writer Nick Bilton wrote an article entitled “The Health Concerns in Wearable Tech,” warning the public that devices like smartphones and Apple Watches emit a low-level radiation which has been linked to cancer, brain tumors and other problems when worn close to the body for extended periods. His article was based on a press release issued by the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) in May of 2011, which warned, “The WHO/International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) has classified radiofrequency electromagnetic fields as possibly carcinogenic to humans (Group 2B), based on an increased risk for glioma, a malignant type of brain cancer1, associated with wireless phone use.”
Bilton was not praised for his public health warning; in fact, the mainstream media attacked him, with many calling for his dismissal from the Times.
The truth is, there is ample evidence that radiofrequency electromagnetic fields emitted by cell phones and other devices could cause brain cancer. This has just been reinforced yet again, in a document released by the California Department of Public Health, entitled simply “Cell Phones and Health.”
The Department has been sitting on the document, which has been revised several times, for the past seven years, refusing to make it public. It was only when Joel Moskowitz, director of the Center for Family and Community Health at UC Berkeley’s School of Public Health, sued the Department last year, and the judge indicated that she would order the release of the document, that the Department made it public.
The document states clearly, “Health officials are concerned about possible health effects from cell phone EMFs because some recent studies suggest that long-term cell phone use may increase the risk of brain cancer and other health problems.” [Emphasis added]
It also notes that studies have found that people diagnosed with certain forms of brain cancer are more likely to have used cellphones in the preceding decade and that the cancers usually occurred on the side of the head that their cellphones were most often used on. It adds, “These studies suggest that regular cell phone use increases the risk of developing some kinds of brain cancer.” …
The use of cell phones clearly carries serious health risks, but with modern society so dependent on them, it is unrealistic to think that people will be able to totally end their use. It is, therefore, important to know how to utilize this technology in the safest possible way.
… several tips on how to protect yourself from cell phone radiation:…
Reduce the amount of time you spend talking on your cell phone, keeping in mind that every 2-minute phone call disrupts brain activity for up to an hour.
Send text messages rather than making phone calls.
Replace your cell phone with one that emits less radiation. A list of suggestions can be found here.
The jury is still out on whether or not they will really be less damaging in the long-term, but it still might be worth using a headset or speaker rather than talking directly on your cell phone.
Avoid using your cell phone in elevators or other metal enclosures, including your car, as more power is needed to connect the call, emitting more radiation in the process.
A similar problem arises when your cell phone’s battery is low, so charge it before you use it.
If you have to use your phone directly without a headset or speaker, wait until the person you’re calling actually answers before putting it to your ear….
http://www.naturalnews.com/2017-03-14-after-years-of-secrecy-cell-phone-radiation-risks-are-finally-being-revealed.html
Advertisements
EMF’s March 9, 2016
Posted by healthyself in Cell phone safety.
6 comments
[This is about] radiation emitted from wireless devices. Wi-Fi, cell phones, cordless phones, laptops, baby monitors and other wireless technology all emit electromagnetic radiation, which has been classified as a Class 2B Carcinogen and “possibly carcinogenic to humans” by the World Health Organization.
Some people don’t take the dangers of electro-magnetic frequencies (EMF)seriously, probably because the research is still in its infancy. However, several studies have found associations between cell phones and infertility as well as possible links to brain cancer, along with a host of other unfortunate outcomes.
Well I’m certainly not going to quit using my technology, but I also won’t be waiting around for scientists to affirm that radiation is indeed hazardous to health, especially since there’s ways to minimize exposure to these invisible waves, such as:
Mobile Management – Avoid wearing your cell phone or keeping it near you whenever possible. If you’re going to be in one spot for awhile (like your office) place it out of arms reach, but still within earshot. This has the added benefit of getting you up and moving when you receive a call or text. We should be standing up from our desk at least every 20-30 minutes anyway.
Similarly, at night, move your mobile devices away from your body or power them all the way off (even in airplane mode, the battery still emits radiation). Don’t sleep with a cell phone near your head. Use an actual alarm clock to wake you up, or keep your cell at a distance that requires you to get out of bed to silence it.Although it’s going to be difficult, think twice about giving your child a cell phone or letting them play with yours. Kids are particularly vulnerable to EMFs due to their thinner skulls and bones, so limit their exposure as much as possible.
Hardwire – Keep cell phone use at a minimum and use a land line whenever possible. Another way to keep your phone away from your body is to invest in a good wired headset, as wireless headsets can still expose you to unwanted radiation. Consider turning off your Wi-Fi and using an Ethernet cable to connect to the internet. This limits exposure to background levels of Wi-Fi. If your devise doesn’t have an Ethernet port, you can get a USB to Ethernet converter.
Use EMF protection – There’s all sorts of EMF-blocking productsavailable that can help block radiation from your wireless devises. Check out the links below!
Don’t Guess, Test! Use an EMF testing meter to determine the sources of radiation in your home so you can do something about them.
Do a Digital Detox – Beyond radiation exposure, our relationship with technology can become just as addictive and unhealthy as anything else. This week our nutritionist Aimee wrote about Why You Need a Digital Detox. Aimee shares some simple and powerful tips for how to dial down stress caused by technology overuse. ​
Check out the links below for more information on electromagnetic radiation (EMF) and some ways to protect yourself and your family from getting Wi-Fried. Most importantly, don’t stress about it! It’s virtually impossible to avoid all forms of radiation in this day and age, but by taking the simple steps outlined here, you can greatly minimize your exposure.
Kinsey Jackson, LMP, MS, CNS®
Radiation Threat May 7, 2015
Posted by healthyself in radiation, radioactive waste.
Tags: damage, health, radiation, radioactive waste, west coast
add a comment
“…with Fukushima’s invisible radioactive threat, the issue simply isn’t ‘sexy.’ The public does not have time to do research on the way in which cesium-based radioactive waste can affect our health, or dig deeply into the many ways that it has already infiltrated the borders of the United States. Reports have already came in confirming the presence of Fukushima radiation along the west coast of the United States.
How deep is the damage really going?”
http://naturalsociety.com/how-fukushima-may-be-a-greater-threat-than-monsantos-gmos/#ixzz3ZUNsgXlP
The Bizzare Electromagnetic After Effects of Near-Death Experiences April 9, 2015
Posted by healthyself in Cell phone safety.
Tags: consciousness, electromagnetic after effects, near death
add a comment
The Bizzare Electromagnetic After Effects of Near-Death Experiences
The conversation about near-death experiences (NDE’s) is typically centered around questions about the afterlife and what happens to consciousness should you follow the iconic tunnel of light. Skeptics, of course, look at the various scientific angles, debating whether or not the patient was truly dead, or the research was legitimate, and so on.
Less frequently discussed, however, is what happens to people after a near-death experience, and what changes occur in their psychological and physiological makeup. There are thousands of recorded examples of NDE’s that offer testimony to the possibility of life after death, but what about life after near-death?
“Around eighty percent of the people who experienced near-death states claimed that their lives were forever changed by what happened to them. On closer examination, though, a pattern of surprising dimensions emerged. Experiencers were not returning with just a renewed zest for life and a more spiritual outlook. They were evidencing specific psychological and physiological differences on a scale never before faced by them.” – P. M. H. Atwater, L.H.D.
Researcher P.M.H. Atwater, L.H.D is the author of Dying To Know You: Proof of God in the Near-Death Experience, one of the world’s leading researchers on near-death experiences, and a survivor of 3 NDE’s.
After having interviewed thousands of NDE experiencers for her work, she has moved beyond the curiosity of what lies beyond, and has researched the after effects of NDE’s in ordinary people finding some curious patterns. Common among the after-effects are:
Changes in personality, often including becoming more loving, calm, and non-judgmental, or leading to major life changes, like divorce, estrangement from family and friends or increased magnetism around others
Noticeable increase in intuitive and psychic capabilities, including communication with spirits, plants and animals
A shift in a sense of life priorities
A sense of timelessness and non-duality
Sensitivity to light and sound
Changes in attitudes about health, wellness and spirituality
In addition to these notable after effects, the research of P.M.H. Atwater revealed another, more bizarre pattern, indicating that many people undergo rather remarkable changes to their body’s electromagnetic field. Called ‘electro-sensitivity’ this can bring on puzzling, frightening, and even dangerous situations for some of the most sensitive of NDE survivors.
“Since beginning my research of near-death states in 1978, I have consistently noticed that a large majority of experiencers (both as part of my study and in general conversation with them) reported becoming more sensitive to electrical and magnetic fields – disturbances, equipment, devices, wrist watches – after their episode.” – P.M.H. Atwater
This strange and lasting physiological change is seen by the majority of those who experience NDE’s. Most commonly, those who experience electro-sensitivity after a NDE report ‘interference’ with potentially anything electronic in the external environment. Some examples are:
Lights flickering on and off when entering room, and especially so when there is a high intensity situation occuring
Computers and other electronics malfunctioning when near
Light bulbs exploding
Disruptions in recording equipment leading to unusual or distorted photos and videos
Wrist watch batteries die quickly, or watches stop for no reason at all
Feeling ‘drained’ when near anything electronic
Receiving television or radio channels that shouldn’t be picked up in that location
Feeling more ‘connected’ to electronics and being able to use them better than before the NDE
Extreme sensitivity to earth changes such as thunder storms, earthquakes, lightening, and tornados
For those who experience this phenomenon, the physiological interference with their environment becomes a part of every day life, and they learn to do things in different ways in order to mitigate any harm they may cause to any electronics or people near-by.
“I have no business wearing watches – neither does my husband. We cannot keep a watch ticking on our wrists, not even if our lives depended on it. Not only are watches involved, in our acquired electrical freak-outs (AEF’s), but we each have our own, peculiar affect on other electrical objects.
Computers – this is a rough one. If too much pent-up energy isn’t dissipated before I touch a keyboard, my computer frequently cuts off, and won’t recover until I remove my hands, and any other part of me that’s touching the computer. Once I stop touching the computer, it flickers back on, and lets me know it stopped responding… If I am emotionally intense, while typing away on my computer, the computer cut-off occurs. Once I settle my emotions down, it comes back without any errors.
Transfer all this weirdness over to cell phones, actually any phone. And, it doesn’t have to be my phone. I’ve caused my son’s phone to stop responding more than once. He’ll say to me, “Mom! Stop it!”, and then I will settle my thoughts down, and the darn thing starts working.” – Cathy L. Jones – Near-Death Experiencer
In his book, The Body Electric: Electromagnetism and The Foundation of Life, published in 1985, surgeon Robert O. Becker brought new light on the electromagnetic dimension of the human being, presenting his discoveries that demonstrated the conductive nature of the brain, the skin, tissue cells, and the entire body. A decade later, more pioneering work in the study of the human electromagnetic body was published by Albert Roy Davis and Walter C. Rawls in the book, Magnetism and Its Effects on the Living System, which revealed the polar nature of the human body.
Russian scientist Semyon Kirlian took this study a step further and produced a now-famous high-voltage technique for photographing human electromagnetic fields, now called Kirlian photography. Later, K. Korotkov, also of Russia developed a way to measure Qi, the life force energy of all things, as explained by Chinese medicine.
Many are raising awareness of the dangers in electromagnetic industrialization of our world, noting that interference with the body’s natural electromagnetic patterns can seriously effect health, while skeptics claim there is little harm in the amount of electromagnetic radiation introduced by cell towers, wi-fi, smart meters, and so on. The phenomena of electro-sensitivity, if more closely examined, may give more insight into just how pliable the human electromagnetic body really is, and the connection between the energy body and the spiritual dimensions of human existence.
The human subtle energy body is a tangible reality for many who practice meditation, yoga, or the internal martial arts. It is remarkable that there is such a connection between near-death experiences, which which commonly involve bright, radiant, white light, and changes in electro-sensitivity. A near-death experience is considered by many to be a ‘spiritual’ experience, so, could resulting electro-sensitivity be validation of the experiences of many of the world’s sages and mystics who believe life and spirit to be comprised of ‘energy.’ Could this also indicate that our universe is predicated on the physics of electricity after all?
“From the smallest particle to the largest galactic formation, a web of electrical circuitry connects and unifies all of nature, organizing galaxies, energizing stars, giving birth to planets and, on our own world, controlling weather and animating biological organisms. There are no isolated islands in an electric universe.” ~David Talbott and Wallace Thornhill, Thunderbolts of the Gods
About the Author
Buck Rogers is the earth bound incarnation of that familiar part of our timeless cosmic selves, the rebel within. He is a surfer of ideals and meditates often on the promise of happiness in a world battered by the angry seas of human thoughtlessness. He is a staff writer for WakingTimes.com.
Sources:
http://us2.campaign-archive2.com/?u=e1987e10867e1be15381585f0&id=2514b1a821
http://pmhatwater.hypermart.net/About/About/wikibio.html
http://iands.org/aftereffects-of-near-death-states.html
http://pmhatwater.com/resources/PDFs/Articles/Electrical-Sensitivity-
http://www.evolutionezine.net/bizzare-electromagnetic-effects-near-death-experiences/
Connection between Cell Phones and Cancer? December 16, 2014
Posted by healthyself in Acoustic Neuroma, ADHD, Autism, Brain Cancer, Brain Tumors, Central Nervous System, Chromosomal damage, Depression, DNA, DNA breakage, DNA Damage, Double Strand DNA breakage, Eyes, Glioma, Heart Attacks, Leukemia, Melanoma, Parotid Gland, Pituitary Gland, Tinnitus, Tumors.
2 comments
Is there a connection between cell phones and cancer? Here are 44 reasons to believe that cell phones can cause cancer.
Cell phones emit microwave radio-frequency radiation. Fact.
This radiation has the ability to penetrate our bodies. Fact.
Our governments do virtually nothing to protect us from these dangers. Fact.
And yet there is strong evidence and multiple peer reviewed studies that indicate that cell phones cause cancer and other diseases.
Take a look for yourself at these facts.
But first let’s just consider what cancer is.
Cancer And DNA
The National Cancer Institute says,
“Cancer is a term used for diseases in which abnormal cells divide without control and are able to invade other tissues … all cancers begin in cells … cells grow and divide in a controlled way to produce more cells as they are needed to keep the body healthy. When cells become old or damaged, they die and are replaced with new cells. However, sometimes this orderly process goes wrong. The genetic material (DNA) of a cell can become damaged or changed, producing mutations that affect normal cell growth and division. When this happens, cells do not die when they should and new cells form when the body does not need them.”
So cancer typically involves abnormal cell division and DNA damage and in some cases cells may form a mass of tissue called a tumor.
Types Of Brain Tumor
In the studies done to date cell phone radiation exposures are principally linked to two types of brain tumor: gliomas and acoustic neuromas.
Gliomas, a type of tumor that starts in the brain or spine are typically malignant. Gliomas are particularly deadly. Most people survive only 1 to 3 years after diagnosis.
Acoustic neuromas, though non-malignant (low-grade cancer), are in many cases life threatening given that they are an intracranial tumor.
The 44 Reasons
1. Cellular Damage: Telecoms giant T-Mobile in Germany commissioned an independent study to review all relevant research on the health risks from wireless telecommunications. It was concluded that,
“On the cellular level, a multitude of studies found the type of damage from high frequency electromagnetic fields which is important for cancer initiation and cancer promotion.”
Brain Tumors And Brain Cancers
2. Significantly Increased Risk of Glioma: Gliomas are becoming increasingly common. The $25 million Interphone Study found that:
“… regular use of a cell phone by adults can significantly increase the risk of gliomas by 40% with 1640 hours or more of use (this is about one half hour per day over ten years).”
Source: Table 2 INTERPHONE Study Group. Brain tumour risk in relation to mobile telephone use: results of the INTERPHONE international case-control study. Int J Epidemiol (2010); 39(3):675-694.
3. Tumor Risk on Cell Phone Side of Head: Again from the Interphone Study – currently the big daddy of cell phone radiation studies it being the largest and longest study on the link between cell phones and brain tumors – it also found, “tumors were more likely to occur on the side of the head most used for calling.”
4. Harmful Association Between Cell Phone Radiation and Tumors: A review of 23 epidemiological studies by 7 scientists on the link between cell phones and cancer concluded, “harmful association.” One of the reports authors commenting the study results said, “although as a whole the data varied, among the 10 higher quality studies, we found a harmful association between phone use and tumor risk. The lower quality studies, which failed to meet scientific best practices, were primarily industry funded.”
5. Increased Risk For Glioma and Acoustic Neuroma: the studies performed by the Hardell Research Group are widely regarded as being amongst the best. This recent study finds, “A consistent pattern of increased risk for glioma and acoustic neuroma associated with use of wireless phones.” These findings are consistent with their earlier studies.
6. Temporal Lobe & Glioma Risk: A recent French study found evidence of an increased risk of glioma and temporal lobe tumors. The study found that, “risks were higher for gliomas, temporal tumours, occupational and urban mobile phone use.” According to EMF watchdog Powerwatch this is an important paper, “that confirms existing studies and which should help move the IARC RF evaluation strongly towards a Group 2A – ‘probable human carcinogen’.”
7. Increased Risk of Acoustic Neuroma in Long-Term Users of Cell Phones: A recent study on 790,000 middle aged women in the UK found that, “women who used cell phones for ten or more years were two-and- a-half times more likely to develop an acoustic neuroma. Their risk of acoustic neuroma increased with the number of years they used cell phones.”
8. Increased Risk of Acoustic Neuroma: Research conducted by Lonn suggests, “an increased risk of acoustic neuroma associated with mobile phone use of at least 10 years’ duration.”
9. Brain Tumor Risk is Higher on ‘Cell Phone’ Side of Head: A research paper that reviewed 11 studies found, “a link between prolonged cell phone usage and the development of an ipsilateral [same side of head as cell phone] brain tumor.”
10. Meningioma: This Swedish study looked at adult brain tumor cases diagnosed over a two year period. Although the study concluded that, “no conclusive evidence of an association between use of mobile and cordless phones and meningioma was found.” The studies authors did say, “an indication of increased risk was seen in the group with highest cumulative use.”
11. Malignant Brain Tumors: Recent work by Hardell looked at long-term use of mobile and cordless phones. In conclusion it was found that, “this study confirmed previous results of an association between mobile and cordless phone use and malignant brain tumors. These findings provide support for the hypothesis that RF-EMFs play a role both in the initiation and promotion stages of carcinogenesis.”
Image: Hardell Research Group
Other Cancers And Tumors
12. Cancer of the Pituitary Gland: The pituitary gland, considered by many to be the “master gland” of the body, is a pea sized organ located in the middle of the base of the brain that produces hormones that play a major role in regulating vital body functions and general well-being. This study (already referenced above) also found that,
“the risk of cancer of the pituitary gland more was more than twice as high among women who used a cell phone for less than five years as compared to never users.”
13. Thyroid Cancer: The thyroid gland is situated in the neck. Using a cell phone against your ear exposes your thyroid to cell phone radiation. A recent Israeli study observing that, “the incidence of thyroid cancer has been on the rise in Israel for more than a decade which matches the rise in the use of cellphones” collected human thyroid cells from healthy patients and subjected them to radiation. The study found, “evidence of changes in thyroid cells in response to electromagnetic radiation.”
14. Melanoma Risk: Melanoma is a cancer that starts in a certain type of skin cell. A Swedish study found “a very clear association between increasing use of mobile phones and increasing rates of head melanoma in Nordic countries.”
Image: Örjan Hallberg
15. Stem Cell Cancer: In a controversial US study on 29 cases of neuroepithelial tumors, cell phone users accounted for 11 of them. These initial results indicated a near tripling in the risk of neuroepithelial tumors through cell phone use. The published results were revised to reflect a doubling of risk and then reported as not “statistically significant.”
16. Oral Cancer: An Israeli study on 460 cases of parotid gland tumors found, “based on the largest number of benign PGT patients reported to date, our results suggest an association between cellular phone use and PGTs [parotid gland tumors].” The parotid is the salivary gland near the cheek where many users hold their cell phone.
17. Parotid Malignant Tumors: Another Israeli study analyzed deaths as recorded on the National Cancer Registry over a 36 year period found, “the total number of parotid gland cancers in Israel increased 4-fold from 1970 to 2006 , whereas other major salivary gland cancers remained stable.”
Image: Environmental Health Trust
18. Leukemia: A comprehensive review of over a dozen studies including studies on exposures from cell tower radiation, TV and Radio broadcast towers concluded, “cancer, especially brain tumor and leukemia, but all other cancers also.”
19. Lymph Node Cancer: In an Australian study one hundred mice were exposed to RF radiation for two 30-minute periods per day for up to 18 months. The authors called the increased incidence of lymphoma “highly significant.” They added that “it is very unlikely that the faster onset of cancer was due to chance.”
20. Multifocal Breast Cancer: American researchers studied four young women with breast cancer. They found that, “all patients regularly carried their smartphones directly against their breasts in their brassieres for up to 10 hours a day, for several years, and developed tumors in areas of their breasts immediately underlying the phones.”
21. Eye Cancer: A German Study has established a link between uveal melanoma and cell phone radiation and similar exposures. The study “found an elevated risk for exposure to radiofrequency-transmitting devices.” Another study found ocular symptoms and sensations in long term users of mobile phones.
22. Diverse Cancerous Tumors: A Brazilian Study established a direct link between various cancer deaths such as tumors in the prostate, breast, lung, kidneys and liver in Brazil’s third largest city, and cell phone tower radiation exposures. The study found that, “more than 81 percent of people who die in Belo Horizonte by specific types of cancer live less than 500 meters away from the 300 identified cell phone antennas in the city”.
Source. This same study also lists more than a dozen other research papers that have found a link between different cancers and cell phone/cell tower radiation exposures.
Cell Phone Subscriptions And Brain Tumors
23. Cell Phone Subscription Link to Brain Tumors: A U.S. study analyzed the number of cell phone subscriptions and brain tumors in nineteen US states, they concluded,
“the very linear relationship between cell phone usage and brain tumor incidence is disturbing and certainly needs further epidemiological evaluation.”
24. Brain Cancer Incidence Increases Over Time (U.S): Another U.S. study of brain cancer incidence trends in relation to cell phone use in the United States found, “there was a statistically significant increasing trend between 1992 and 2006 among females but not among males. The recent trend in 20–29-year-old women was driven by a rising incidence of frontal lobe cancers.”
25. Brain Cancer Incidence Increases Over Time (Europe): Studies carried out in Norway, Finland and the U.K. have identified a similar trend of an increase in the incidence of brain cancer over time. In the UK study the incidence of malignant brain tumors close to where you hold your phone was highlighted.
Source: Mobile Phone Use and Cancer Risk – Research on a Group 2B Carcinogen. Joel M. Moskowitz Ph.D.
Other Effects On the Brain
26. Blood-Brain Barrier (BBB) Permeability: The BBB is a membrane which prevents toxic materials from the blood from entering the brain. It was first discovered in 1975 that RF radiation causes the BBB to leak, since then at least a dozen laboratories around the world have corroborated this effect. There’s no consensus on the link between BBB damage and cancer but some studies elude to this.
27. Brain Cell Loss: A Turkish study on adult female rats that were exposed to a 900 MHz electromagnetic field found that, “EMF exposure caused a significant decrease of the … cell number … additionally, cell loss can be seen.” In their conclusions the researchers drew parallels between these exposures and teenagers’ brains that are exposed to cell phone radiation.
28. Brain Activity: Researchers in China exposed 18 participants to RF radiation (LTE) for 30 minutes which was well within international (ICNIRP) cell phone legal limits. They concluded that, “30min LTE RF-EMF exposure modulated the spontaneous low frequency fluctuations in some brain regions.”
29. Brain Blood Flow Affected: This Finnish brain imaging study found that “that the EMF emitted by a commercial mobile phone affects rCBF [regional cerebral blood flow] in humans.” This suggests that cell phone radiation affects neuronal activity.
30. Texting Affects Memory: An Australian study on young adolescents found “students who reported making or receiving more voice or SMS calls per week, and in particular more of both, demonstrated shorter response times on learning tasks, but less accurate working memory.”
DNA Damage
One way cancer and other diseases are believed to develop is when the DNA (genetic information) in a cell becomes damaged. This damage mutates the DNA. There are many studies linking cell phone radiation exposures to different types of DNA damage.
31. Single and Double-Strand DNA Breaks: In pioneering work a University of Washington team found DNA single strand breaks from RF radiation exposures on rats in an initial study. A subsequent study found single and double-strand DNA breaks.
32. Various Genetic Effects: An Austrian study analyzed the results of 101 different published articles on the effects of radio frequency EMFs on DNA. The study concluded that, “there is ample evidence that RF-EMF can alter the genetic material of exposed cells.”
33. Increased Rates of Micronuclei: Micronuclei proliferation indicates a type of DNA damage strongly associated with cancer. A Brazilian study found that, “electromagnetic field irradiation [low level cell phone type exposures] during pregnancy leads to an increase in erythrocytes micronuclei incidence in rat offspring.” Several studies have found increased rates of micronuclei in the body following exposures to RF radiation.
34. Heat Shock Proteins (HSPs) Production Decreased: A U.S. study exposed chick embryo’s to RF radiation. They concluded that, “this EMF-induced decrease in HSP70 levels and resulting decline in cytoprotection suggests a mechanism by which daily exposure (such as might be experienced by mobile phone users) could enhance the probability of cancer and other diseases.”
35. Oxidative DNA Damage: The Guler study in Turkey exposed female and male infant rabbits to 1800 MHz radio frequency radiation and found, “GSM-like RF radiation may induce biochemical changes by increasing free radical attacks to structural biomolecules.” Free radical damage is associated with the development of cancer.
36. DNA Strand Breaks: This Austrian study exposed human and rat cells to mobile phone radiation and found, “DNA single- and double-strand breaks.”
37. Changes in Gene Expression: The Belyaev study found that, exposing the “rat brain to 915 MHz GSM microwaves induces changes in gene expression.” Other studies suggest that, “subtle changes of gene expression associated with [disease].”
38. Genotoxic Effects: The Schwarz study exposed human cells to 1,950 MHz UMTS. It concluded that “UMTS exposure may cause genetic alterations in some but not in all human cells in vitro.”
39. Neurotransmitters Impacted: This Bavarian study followed 60 people over one and a half years following the installation of a new cell phone base station in their village. The study concluded that, “the effects showed a dose-response relationship,” that it had “occurred well below current limits for technical RF radiation exposures” and that these effects have “great relevance for health and [are] well known to damage human health in the long run.” In other words the more people were exposed to cell phone type radiation the bigger the impact on their health.
40. Chromosome Damage: A Belgian study reviewed 16 expert gene monitoring studies from around the world. In 13 of the 16 independent studies performed worldwide it was found that, “RF-exposed individuals have increased frequencies of genetic damage (e.g., chromosomal aberrations).”
41. Central Nervous System: US based researcher Dr. Henry Lai comments that there are several studies which show that repeated RF exposure at relatively low power caused morphological changes in the central nervous system, “changes in morphology, especially cell death, could have an important implication on health. Injury-induced cell proliferation has been hypothesized as a cause of cancer.”
Reading Between The Lines
The studies don’t tell all of the story. Here are some other things you need to know.
42. Latency Period Before Diagnosis: To put this in the words of researcher Dr. Martin Blank “cancers do not form overnight.” In almost all cases, cancerous tumors take many years to form and metastasize.” According to Dr. Blank’s statements, then cancers are overpowered. This would suggest that we might be sitting on a cell phone radiation cancer time bomb.
43. Cell Phone Radiation Cancer Time Bomb: To give a sense to what this latency period could mean in terms of the incidence of brain tumors in the years to come, researcher Lloyd Morgan produced this alarming graphic showing that brain tumor cases could reach epidemic proportions within the next decade:
44. Flawed Research: Not all of the research points to a link between cell phone radiation and cancer. But then that’s hardly surprising given the lengths some researchers go to, to skew the results. This research paper also lays bare the phenomenon of study bias. This can take many different shapes and forms; insufficient latency time, incorrect definition of “regular” cell phone user, cell phones radiating higher power levels in rural areas not investigated, exposure to other transmitting sources not considered, exclusion of brain tumor cases due to death or illness, etc.
The Tip Of The Iceberg
There is lot of interest surrounding the link between cell phone radiation and cancer. But cancer is only the tip of the iceberg.
Microwave radio-frequency radiation exposures of the type emitted by cell phones are also linked to many other diseases and potentially life threatening illnesses, including:
sperm damage & male infertility
miscarriages
vaginal discharge
vascular system disease
tinnitus
childhood cancer
sleep problems
depression
irritability
memory loss
concentration difficulties
headaches
dizziness and fatigue
suicidal tendencies
arrhythmia
heart attacks
bone marrow interference
altered calcium level in cells
ADHD
reduction in night-time melatonin
suppression of the immune system
arthritis
rheumatism
skin symptoms
lymphatic diseases
autism
hearing problems
See more at here
http://www.electricsense.com/8822/cell-phones-cause-cancer-fact/
EMP April 8, 2014
Posted by healthyself in Cell phone safety.
2 comments
An electromagnetic pulse, or EMP for short, is a short burst of electromagnetic energy, sometimes called a “transient electromagnetic disturbance.” An EMP event can occur naturally, such as from a powerful lightning strike.
But what makes EMPs so potentially dangerous to life on Earth is the unnatural occurrence of an EMP event, like that which is commonly associated with the detonation of a nuclear device.
There are some common misconceptions about so-called “EMP weapons,” and the development of them by various great powers, including the United States. But there are no misunderstandings about the devastating effects that EMP bursts would have on modern technology. As the Heritage Foundation has noted in congressional testimony, EMP blasts spread out over the skies of America would essentially send the country back to the 19th century technologically, because EMP events would “decimate America’s electrical and technological infrastructure.”
Yet, few lawmakers and policymakers seem to take the threat seriously, experts have complained. Worse, an underreported story that was covered by Natural News and a few other outlets indicates that terrorists may be targeting our electric grid because, even if it is not destroyed by an EMP weapon, there are most definitely weak points that some analysts say could produce the same results as an airborne nuclear explosion [http://www.npr.org].
Targeting the power grid
In April 2013, in what authorities describe as a “military-style assault,” attackers cut phone lines leading to a major power substation near San Jose, Calif. Then — about 25 minutes later — snipers began firing on it, knocking out 17 gigantic transformers that supplied power to Silicon Valley.
“To avoid a blackout, electric-grid officials rerouted power around the site and asked power plants in Silicon Valley to produce more electricity. But it took utility workers 27 days to make repairs and bring the substation back to life,” The Wall Street Journal (WSJ) reported in February.
Since then, the story was picked up by TheBlaze, which produced a special report regarding the vulnerability of the American power grid.
The report began, noting that “there are three key networks” that deliver power throughout the United States: the Western, Eastern and Texas grids. They are interconnected by more than 160,000 electric power transmission lines and 55,000 electric substations.
“Perhaps one of the worst parts about it,” says Peter Pry, a congressional homeland security advisor, “is that you really only need to take out one of the grids to cause a national catastrophy.”
Former congressional advisor Elizabeth Kreft noted that where power is actually created — at the power plants — are transformers that increase electric voltage “so that it can actually travel a long distance,” she says in the video.
“And then there’s a transformer that steps down that voltage so it can actually be sent to your house,” she said.
Pry said that Extra High Voltage (EHV) transformers connecting the grids and sub-systems “are actually the foundation of our modern society.” He added they are akin to what aqueducts and roads were to the Roman Empire. “Our society can’t operate without” them, he said.
‘Months to build’
That said, the report noted, EHV transformers — as important as they are to the function of American society — are one of the most unprotected of national infrastructure assets.
Additionally, Pry said, EHVs “are one of the most technologically difficult things to manufacture.” Each EHV plays a “unique role” in the grid, because each one is “custom-made” for the respective grids they power. “They are hand-built,” he said.
He said that, while the U.S. used to build EHVs, “we exported the technology for the electric grid to the world.” Now, he admits, the U.S. must import them, which is another vulnerability of the system, because they each take 18 months to build.
There are only two countries that build them for export, and both are U.S. allies — South Korea and Germany.
In response to the San Jose attack, FERC — the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission — conducted a classified study in 2013, which, as WSJ reported, revealed alarming results.
See the remainder of TheBlaze’s video report here.
Sources:
http://beforeitsnews.com
http://www.heritage.org
http://online.wsj.com
http://www.youtube.com
http://www.npr.org
Learn more: http://www.naturalnews.com/044635_extra_high_voltage_transformers_EMP_electric_grid.html#ixzz2yIiRqVuT
Wireless Water Meters…..a threat? November 14, 2013
Posted by healthyself in Electromagnetic pollution, Electromagnetic Radiation, EMF Exposure, EMF's.
Tags: electromagnetic frequencies, emf's, wireless, wireless meters
3 comments
Are wireless meters a threat? Stillwater resident concerns prompt Nov. 14 review of water meter options
By Jonathan Young
November 13, 2013 at 3:11 pm
Staring at the yellow sheet of paper in his hand, Jim Cashman could hardly believe what he saw.
“The water service to this property will be shut off for failure to provide access to the water meter,” the paper read.
The notice came after the Stillwater resident and his wife objected to the mandatory installation of a wireless water meter in their home. If they didn’t comply, they had been warned, the water to their home would be turned off.
But Cashman didn’t want a wireless water meter.
English: EMF Meter (Photo credit: Wikipedia)
“That didn’t sit well with us for a variety of reasons, the foremost being health and privacy issues,” Jim Cashman said. “And to have these crammed down our throats is wrong.”
The Cashmans aren’t the only ones being required to make the switch. The Stillwater Board of Water Commissioners has mandated that all water meters in its jurisdiction be replaced with a wireless model, which crews can read simply by driving past properties. The $1.4 million project is being funded by bonds (at record-low costs) with no additional charge to customers. About 90 percent of the meters in Stillwater have already been replaced, with the remainder of installations planned to be
completed this month.
The city’s water board, which consists of three commissioners appointed by the city council, says it’s simply trying to be a good steward of financial resources.
“These meters we’re replacing are old,” Commissioner Steve Speedling said. “They’re not catching some of the flow.”
That means some customers pay less than they owe. By updating the system, Speedling said, the city can charge customers more fairly and receive full payment for water used. The new meters will also comply with updated federal standards for lead content, which go into effect in January 2014.
In addition, Water Department Manager of Operations Robert Benson said the department will save an estimated 72 work days per year with the wireless meters. Instead of eating up approximately 20 days (160 man-hours) per quarter reading meters, the wireless system will allow an employee to spend about two days per quarter taking readings. For a staff of six people, that’s significant.
Cashman said he understands the perceived advantages, but it bothered him that he didn’t have a choice in the matter. He attended two water board meetings and asked for more time to study the meters without fear of his water being shut off. Although it threatened to turn off the water, the water board has not done so, instead granting him two extensions.
When Cashman began researching, what he found appalled him.
“There are a lot of issues regarding these wireless water meters,” he said. “And they are not as safe as some people portray them to be. … Dozens of cities around the country … have given their people opt-out provisions.”
Health and privacy concerns
In recent years, wireless “smart” meters for water or electricity have been the subject of controversy across the country and around the world.
Concern has centered around privacy concerns over what type of information smart meters transfer, as well as worries that the meters could cause health problems because they emit low-frequency radiation. The meters work by emitting a digital pulse several times a minute that can be detected by a digital reader in a water department vehicle as it drives by.
St. Paul Regional Water Service began a replacement project similar to Stillwater’s in 2010 and finished earlier this year. In response to citizen concerns, the water service approved a provision allowing residents to select an alternate meter. A $12 charge applied to customers who chose a non-radio device that requires someone to physically read the meter.
Leo Cashman, of St. Paul, (no relation to Jim Cashman) helped lead the charge against mandatory smart meters in St. Paul and is joining the debate in Stillwater. He’s the founder of Safe Technology Minnesota, a nonprofit dedicated to educating the public “about the health and environmental dangers of EMF (Electromagnetic Field) pollution.” He has a bachelor’s degree in physics and feels passionately about the subject of excessive radiation. He even avoids cordless phones and microwaves.
But he starts explaining his concerns with a caveat:
“Nobody is against electromagnetic radiation,” he said. “Your eyes are open, and you’re seeing light. That’s electromagnetic radiation. … It’s kind of like sound. That’s another form of energy that travels around. … Nobody’s against that either, although you don’t want to have a loud sound that blows your eardrums out.”
With cell phones, microwaves, smart meters and more, Leo Cashman says people are exposed to too much radiation today. He claims there’s a growing body of scientific evidence that suggests the levels of radiation to which humans are exposed have harmful effects.
Like many who share his position, one study Leo Cashman cites is a “BioInitiative 2012” report with contributions from scientists around the world, including scientists from Harvard Medical School, Columbia University, the University of Athens and Lund University Hospital in Sweden.
The BioInitiative study calls for stricter government limits and more study of potential health effects of low-frequency radiation. It concludes that “the business-as-usual deployment of new wireless technologies is likely to be risky and harder to change if society does not make some educated decisions about limits soon.”
Leo Cashman said many other studies have also suggested health risks. He said the FCC’s regulations are inadequate to protect against the risks.
“It’s not nearly as protective as what you have in many European countries or elsewhere on earth,” he said.
He says the FDA, which he believes has a responsibility to regulate radiation, has been “negligent in setting any standards.”
Leo Cashman alleges that much public policy is influenced by industry-funded studies and interests, but he says it’s irresponsible to ignore what he sees as strong evidence of health risks.
“When a … unit of local government carefully makes a decision, they ought to be informed by the science and make a decision that protects public health,” Leo Cashman said. “What they’re doing is they’re putting their convenience ahead of our safety.”
Jim Cashman agreed.
“I don’t think there was enough time and research that went into this decision to force these upon us,” Jim Cashman said.
The water board’s perspective
Members of Stillwater’s Board of Water Commissioners say that the decision-making process started about two years ago and that commissioners did their due-diligence.
As for privacy concerns, the board says this model of wireless meter isn’t truly a “smart” meter. It only broadcasts the number of gallons of water used for billing purposes — it doesn’t broadcast information about usage patterns or times. It does collect usage data, which is stored internally for 90 days and can only be retrieved with physical access to the meter. Commissioner Speedling said the department would only access that information as a diagnostic tool if a customer reported a problem.
Commissioners say they have also considered health concerns. The commission hired a consulting firm,TKDA, to research the safety of the wireless meters.
“We had heard there (were) some groups out there that had concerns about using this type of technology, but everything that was coming back to us was stating this was safe,” Speedling said.
“There’s confusion by people because they’re confused by the information that’s available on the Internet and in the newspapers,” Commissioner George Vania said.
Vania — who has a master’s in engineering and recently retired from a 40-year career in the water and wastewater industry — said the board took a science-based approach all along.
Before the commission made its initial decision, Vania said, it reviewed information from the FCC and FDA, as well as Health Canada. None of those organizations found evidence to support the idea that cell phone or similar low-level radiation causes harm to humans.
He also noted that the radiation emitted by one of the water meters is far below that of cell phones and other common devices. In fact, it emits radiation for a total time of less than one minute per day.
Water meters are a prerequisite for accurate, volumetric billing of water users (Photo credit: Wikipedia)
After hearing from Cashman and another resident who expressed concern at a water board meeting, Vania did more research, including looking at the BioInitiative 2012 study.
Although he found it to be one of the sources most commonly cited by opponents of smart meters, Vania called the BioInitiative study a “poorly prepared technical document.” He pointed to critiques, such as an article from sciencebasedmedicine.org by Kenneth Foster, a professor of bioengineering at the University of Pennsylvania. In his article, Foster calls the BioInitiative report “an egregiously slanted review of health and biological effects of electromagnetic fields.”
Vania said many independent agencies have concluded that there isn’t sufficient evidence to support the claim that wireless smart meters cause health problems.
Some local governments in California have banned wireless smart meters, but the California Council on Science and Technology concluded in 2011 that there wasn’t evidence of known health impacts. In December last year the Public Utility Commission of Texas reached a similar conclusion. The World Health Organization has not been able to rule out the possibility that radiation from cell phones and other devices causes cancer, but it has not found evidence to conclude that exposure to such low frequency electromagnetic fields is harmful to human health.
Vania admitted he can’t rule out the possibility that in 10 years science might demonstrate a health risk associated with wireless water meters, but he doesn’t believe any studies have done so to date. He strongly believes the water board is doing its best to protect the community using a sicence-based approach.
“Look, I got the meter in my house,” he said.
But Leo Cashman disagrees with Vania’s conclusions.
“I think it’s completely wrong to say there’s no science indicating harm,” he said. “Anyone who says that hasn’t looked very hard or has only looked at industry science.”
What’s next
Regardless of what others conclude, Jim Cashman hopes he’ll get to make up his mind for himself and choose whether or not to allow installation of a wireless meter.
“It is a violation of basic human rights to be forced into having a pulse digital radiation device put into the inside of our home,” he said. “It is only right, at the very least, to give people a choice in the matter.”
For now, Cashman isn’t in danger of having his water shut off. The water board has been gathering information from other cities about options they provide customers, and the board is meeting Thursday, Nov. 14, to discuss how to proceed.
“Right now everything’s on the table,” Speedling said. “We have to make a decision as a board on what we’re going to do to maintain what’s best for the community.”
water meter, U. S. residence (Photo credit: Wikipedia)
That includes consideration of the cost for making exceptions to the rule.
Leo Cashman plans to testify at the Nov. 14 meeting, and both sides agree it’s a good opportunity for members of the public to ask questions or make their opinions heard.
The meeting is at 8:30 a.m., Nov. 14, at the water department, 204 Third Street N., Stillwater.
The water board has more information at ci.stillwater.mn.us. Scroll down and click on “Board of Water Commission’s Water Meter Replacement Project.”
Leo Cashman’s organization has more information at safetechmn.org.
http://stillwatergazette.com/2013/11/13/wireless-meters-threat-stillwater-resident-concerns-prompt-nov-14-review-water-meter-options/
Electromagnetic Spectrum March 27, 2013
Posted by healthyself in Cell phone safety.
add a comment
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electromagnetic_spectrum
City Warns of Cell Phone Link to Cancer December 5, 2012
Posted by healthyself in Brain, Cell phone safety, headaches, Health Risks.
Tags: Brain Tumor, headaches, hip, left ear, left hand, pressed
1 comment so far
The city of Pembroke Pines wants its residents to know that cell phones could be dangerous and linked to cancer. A newly-passed resolution was inspired by a resident who believes his brain tumor was caused by his mobile device.
“A lot of scientific data has to be done with it and the ordinance is kind of generic but it makes people aware,” said Pines mayor Frank Ortis.
Pines resident Jimmy Gonzalez had tumors removed in his brain above his left ear, his left hand, and near his hip. All places where he said his phone was pressed for long periods of time.
“I kept getting headaches,” Gonzalez said. “One day I realized I hold my cell phone with the same hand, up against this ear and when I was done, I would put it in to these pockets.”
Janine Stanwood
Local10.com
November 28, 2012
http://www.local10.com/news/City-warns-of-cell-phone-link-to-cancer/-/1717324/17558382/-/gpedp4/-/index.html
The Most Important Health Discovery Ever? July 20, 2012
Posted by healthyself in Cell phone safety.
Tags: Earthing, electricity, grounding, health, toxicity
2 comments
Earthing. Grounding.
http://www.longevitywarehouse.com/Articles.asp?ID=390
« older posts
search
Categories
Categories Select Category “Cellular” Relay Antennas (10) “in vitro” systems (1) “in vivo” levels (1) “No Fry Zone” (1) “Silver” Fillings (3) .000021 W/Kg (2) .0004 W/Kg (2) .001 W/Kg (2) .0021 W/KG (2) .005 W/Kg (2) .03 – 3.7 mG (1) .0317 W/Kg (2) .05 Hz (1) .05 W/Kg (2) .13 W/Kg (2) .14 W/Kg (2) .1W/m2 (1) .2 mHz (3) .26 W/Kg (2) .4 W/Kg (2) .5 mG – 4 MG (2) .58 W.Kg (2) .6 W/Kg (3) .6 watts (1) .75 W/Kg (2) .9 mG (1) 0 Hz-3kHz (1) 0-4Hz (1) 000 Hz (2) 1 GHz- 300 GHz (1) 1 Hz (1) 1 megapixel (1) 1 mG (2) 1 mm (1) 1 THz (1) 1.2 W/Kg (2) 1.6 W/kg (6) 1.8 GHz (1) 1.9 GHz (1) 10 (1) 10 GHz (1) 10 kV/m (1) 10 Mbit/s (1) 10 mG (1) 10 W/m2 (1) 10 Watts Per Kb in the Head (2) 10 years (1) 100 Hz (1) 100 kHz-94GHz (3) 100 Mbit/s (1) 100 mG (1) 100 nm – 400 nm (1) 1000 GHz (1) 1000 Hz (1) 1000 mG (2) 10000 gauss (1) 10000 Hz (2) 10mW (2) 11 mG (1) 11025 Hz (1) 115 kV (1) 12-22 Hz (1) 12000 volts (9) 120000 Hz (1) 13 – 40 Hz (1) 13.56 MHz (1) 1320 Hz (1) 138 kv (2) 14 mG (2) 14-20 Hz (1) 15 Hz (1) 15 mG (1) 150 MHz (1) 15102 Hz (1) 16 Hz (9) 16-25 Hz (1) 16000 Hz (1) 16961 Hz (1) 17 mG (1) 17.6 Hz (8) 17959 Hz (1) 1800 MHz (1) 1800-2000 MHz (2) 192000 Hz (1) 2 mG (2) 2 W/kg (6) 2.32.5 GHz (1) 2.4 GHz (14) 2.4 mW/Kg (3) 2.402 GHz-2.480 GHz (2) 2.5 GHz (2) 2.6 GHz (1) 20 (1) 20 Hz (4) 20 mG (1) 20-27 Hz (1) 200 (1) 200 gauss (7) 200 mG (1) 20000 Hz (2) 200000 Hz (2) 217 Hz (4) 22050 Hz (1) 230 kV (1) 23000 uWatt/mw (1) 2450 MHz (1) 25 Hz (1) 250 kbit/s (1) 250- 500 Hz (1) 27.6 mG (1) 28224 Mhz (1) 3 GHz (1) 3 kHz (2) 3 kHz-300 GHz (1) 3 watts (1) 3- 30 kHz (1) 3-30 GHz (1) 3-30 mHz (1) 3-60 Hz (1) 3.1-10.6 GHz (1) 3.5 GHz (1) 30-300 GHz (1) 30-300 kHz (1) 30-300 mHz (1) 300 GHz (3) 300 MHz (1) 300-3000 kHz (1) 300-3000 mHz (1) 320 Hz (2) 32000 Hz (1) 33 mG (1) 34.8 mG (1) 35 mG (2) 3W/Kg (2) 4 mG (3) 4-7 Hz (1) 4.4 mG (2) 40 Hz (2) 40 Kbit/s (1) 400 MHz (1) 400 nm – 700 nm (1) 40000 bit/s (1) 410 Kbit/s (1) 42 Hz (1) 430 Trillion Hz-750 Trillion Hz (1) 440 Hz (4) 44100 Hz (1) 45 (2) 45 Hz (2) 450 mG (1) 45000 Hz (1) 47250 Hz (1) 480 Hz (1) 48000 Hz (1) 5 GHz (14) 5 Hz (4) 5-10 Hz (1) 5.4 mG (1) 50 Hz (34) 500 HMz (1) 500 Hz (1) 500 kV (1) 500 Volts (8) 5000 volts (7) 50000 Hz (1) 50400 Hz (1) 52 Hz (1) 55 Hz (1) 58Hz (1) 6.6 mG (1) 60 Hz (2) 60 Hz Magnetic Fields (60) 600-1100 watts (1) 6000 microwaves (1) 62-60 Hz (1) 62-68 Hz (1) 7 mG (1) 7-12 Hz (1) 700 nm (1) 8 Hz (1) 8.2 mG (1) 8.3 Hz (1) 800-1800 MHz (2) 8000 Hz (1) 824-849 MHz (1) 85 (2) 85 Hz (1) 85000 Hz (1) 868 MHz (1) 880 Hz (2) 884 MHz (1) 8W/kg (8) 9.6 kbit/s-16 Mbit/s (1) 900 mHz (11) 902-924 MHz (1) 908.42 MHz (1) 90v (1) 914 MHz (1) 935-960 MHz (1) 96.0 mG (1) 9600 bit/s (1) 96000 Hz (1) 97926 micro watt/square metre (1) aateriosclerosis (1) Absorption (5) AC Magnetic Field (3) Accelerated Aging (6) Acidic Terrain (1) Acidity (1) ADD (16) Addiction (17) ADHD (21) Adolescents (16) Aesthetics (8) Aging (31) Agriculture (3) airplane mode (1) airports (4) Alarming (4) Alkaline (1) Allergies (6) ALS (5) Alzheimer’s (22) Amalgam filings (6) Amplified Signals (17) Amplitude (10) Analog (2) Anatomy (1) Anger (4) angst (6) Animal Research (35) Animals (2) Antennas (15) Antibiotics (1) Antioxidants (6) Anxiety (8) Art (1) arteriole (2) arteriosclerosis (4) Asthma (1) Atmospheric Pressure (6) Attention (13) Attention Deficit (26) Auditory Nerve (2) Tumors (1) Auric Field (7) Autism (16) Autism / Asperger’s (19) B-Cell Lymphomas (1) Bacteria (1) beam (1) Bees (5) Behavior problems (1) Beneficial frequencies (37) Beta Rhythm (10) Binary (1) Binary Streams (1) Biochemical (11) biochemical signals (1) Bioeffects (108) Biofield (21) Biological Activity (95) Biological Dentistry (33) Biological Effects (185) Biologically Signficant (17) Biomimetic (6) BioPhotons (4) Biophysicist (1) Bioscalar Energy (7) BIPAP (1) birds (2) Birth Defects (15) Birth Rate (4) Blogroll (334) Blood (10) Blood Brain Barrier (22) Blood Cells (1) Blood Pressure (12) Blood Sugar (4) Blow Dryers (1) Bluetooth (5) Body Temperature (3) Brain (25) Brain Waves (1) Brain Cancer (50) Acoustic Neuroma (1) Glioma (2) Brain Damage (6) Brain Stress (3) Brain Tumors (7) Brainwave Interference (18) Breast Cancer (14) Broadcast Antennas (1) Bronchial Spasms (2) Budget (1) Buzzing (13) Bytes (2) Cable (5) Calcium (2) Canaries (3) Cancer (68) Parotid Gland (1) Cancer Protection (59) Captive Animals (3) Cardiac Problems (7) Catabolic (1) Cataracts (8) Cell changes (75) Cell Cultures (6) Cell death (7) Cell Gun (1) Cell Masts (12) cell membrane (17) Cell phone industry (93) At&T Wireless (1) Cell phone towers (47) Boulders (2) Cacti (3) Cemetaries (3) Chimneys (3) Church (5) Firehouse (3) Flagpoles (7) Historic Buildings (2) Island (1) National Monuments (3) National Parks (3) Old Faithful (2) Old Stone Buildings (1) School yards (4) State Park (1) Trees (4) Motorola (1) T-Mobile (1) Verizon Wireless (4) Cell Phone Pulses (13) Cell phone safety (327) Cell Phone Transmissions (24) Cell Phones (108) Heavy Use (1) Cells (53) Cellular Damage (7) Cellular Destruction (3) cellular functions (3) Cellular Morphology (7) Cellular Phone Frequencies (13) cellular signal transduction pathways (5) Central Nervous System (32) CFIDS (11) Childhood Cancer (9) Childhood Leukemia (10) Children (45) Children’s health (142) Chromosomal damage (53) Chronic (1) Chronic Exhaustion (14) Chronic Fatigue (25) Chronic Illness (27) Churches (9) Circadian rhythms (22) Circulation (18) Clear Link (4) Clicks (2) Cloning (4) codes (1) cognition (1) Cognitive Function (2) Coherence (24) Color (3) Communication (36) Community (16) Computer Rooms (14) Concentration (6) Confusion (2) Connective Tissue Pains (5) Consciousness (16) Control Group (2) Conversations (24) Cordless Phones (70) Cordless Telephone Base Units (4) CPAP (1) Creativity (2) Customers (1) Cytotoxic Effects (24) Danger (15) Dangerous (18) Data (3) Death (18) Die Off (1) Death Rates (6) Decision Making (80) DECT (3) Deep Sleep (1) Definitions (67) Delays sleep (1) Dementia (3) Denial of Risk (13) Dental Fillings (2) Depression (18) Detoxification (15) Diabetes (8) Diagnostic marker (30) Diathermy (1) Difficulty Concentrating (1) Digestion (3) Digital (33) disappearance (1) Diseases (9) Disruption of cellular (1) Distribution (8) Dizziness (12) DNA (41) DNA breakage (2) DNA Damage (5) Dolphins (2) Dopamine (8) Double Strand DNA breakage (2) Dream (1) Ear (14) ear ache (13) Ear Tumors (2) earphones (13) Earth (4) Edginess (2) EEG (23) Effectiveness (1) EHF (7) Elderly (8) Electric Field (4) Electrical Components (32) Electrical Pulses (48) Electrical Surges (45) Electrical Wiring (39) Electricity (4) Electrochemical (18) Electrochemical Communications (7) Electromagetic pollution (33) electromagnetic (42) Electromagnetic Communications (63) Electromagnetic Field (78) Electromagnetic Forces (4) Electromagnetic Interference (50) Electromagnetic pollution (240) Electromagnetic Radiation (66) Electromagnetic Signals (18) Electromagnetic Spectrum (39) Electromagnetic waves (156) Electrophysiology (7) Electrosensitive (3) Electrosensitivity (255) Electrosmog (192) Electrosmog meter (1) Elevators (1) ELF (195) Emergency Medicine (97) EMF Exposure (32) EMF Research (223) EMF Shielding (9) EMF’s (271) EMF-induced effects (28) EMI (2) Emissions (9) Employees (77) EMR (180) EMR meter (4) encoded electrical energy (1) Encoding (4) Endocrine (8) Endogenous Fields (16) Energy (11) Energy Centers (6) Energy Spikes (1) Entrainment (11) Entropy (5) Environment (250) Enzymes (1) Epidemiology (29) Epilepsy (9) Evidence (2) Exposure (66) Extra-Sensory Perception (6) Extremely Low Frequency (2) Eye Cancer (20) Eyes (5) Fall Asleep (1) Family (23) Fatigue (31) FCC (1) FDA (2) Federal Communication Commission (3) Fetus (1) Fiber Optic (6) Fibre-Optic (1) Figure Eight (1) Financial Considerations (28) Fire (2) Firehouses (7) Flickering (2) Florescent Light Balasts (1) Forgetfulness (3) Free Radicals (11) Frequencies (94) Fun (1) Funding (29) Fungi (1) Games and Gaming (17) Gamma Rays (4) Generations (3) genes (37) genetic damage (8) Genetically Engineered (1) GHz (39) Global Health Disaster (7) Global Warming (2) Golden Mean (1) Government’s role (66) grams of tissue (19) Grants (25) Grouchiness (1) Ground Currents (3) Grounded (1) Grounding Conductors (2) GSM (2) Guidelines (4) Ham Radio (1) Hand Portables (57) Handheld Units (31) Handsets (7) Harmonics (32) Hazard (7) headaches (24) Headsets (2) Healing (22) Health (33) Health and Safety Officer (16) Health Care (1) Health Care Facilities (1) Health Deterioratrion (1) Health related (259) Health and Wellness Products (17) Parenting (90) Teenagers (57) Health Risk (10) Health Risks (29) Health warnings (19) Hearing (17) Heart (16) Heart Attacks (5) Heart Disease (10) heat (27) Heavy Metals (23) Heightened Risk (8) HF (22) Hidden (2) High Frequencies (123) High Voltage Power Line (4) high voltage transmission lines (117) Histamine (2) Homes (10) Honey (1) Hormones (14) Horse (1) Hospitals (6) HOuseholds (111) HRD (28) Human Biological Experiment (4) Human Populations (19) Human Resources (22) Humor (4) Hybrids (1) Hyperactivity (1) Hz (54) Illness (3) Imbalances (5) immune and nervous funtions (3) Immune system (84) Immunity (4) Implement (1) Impotence (3) Infant Death Syndrome (7) Infectious Disease (6) Inflammation (24) Infrared (6) Inherited (2) Inner Agitation (21) Insects (2) Insomnia (6) Integrative Medicine (28) Integrity of sleep (1) Intensity (1) Interdisciplinary (49) International (2) Internet (12) Intuition (7) Investigate (3) Investigators (7) ionizing radiation (3) Islands (4) Israel (1) jammers (1) Kids (53) Tweenies (45) Knees (1) Lab Tested (3) Lack of Concentration (18) Landline (6) Laptops (9) Leakage (3) Learning (24) Legal Issues (67) Lethal (1) lethality (2) Lethargy (7) Leukemia (29) LF (23) Lifestyle (176) Lifetime (9) Light (30) light beam (9) Long Term Health Effects (28) Long Term Health Risks (138) Low Birth Weight (3) Low Dosage (1) Low Frequencies (65) Lung Disorders (3) Lymphocytes (3) Lymphoma (14) Mad Wave Disease (2) Magnetic (12) magnetic field (2) Magnetic Field Exposure (5) magnitude (1) Malformation (1) Malignant (2) masts (5) Maximum Output Level (2) MCS (45) Medical Devices (1) Medical Research (83) University (37) Medicine (17) Meditation (5) Melanoma (1) Melatonin (8) Memory (5) Memory Loss (23) Men’ (155) Men’s Health (152) Sperm Counts (1) Menstrual Cycle (3) Mercury (6) Metabolic Changes (16) Metabolism (4) Metal (1) Metal Roofs (11) Cars (6) MF (16) MHz (74) microchips (3) Microwave exposure (161) Microwave Ovens (5) Microwave Sickness (2) microwaves (8) Migraines (11) Military (6) Minerals (3) miscarriages (24) Mitigation (33) Mitochondria (3) Mobile Music (14) Mobile Phone Transmissions (18) mobile telephones (168) Mobius Coil (2) Mold (2) Molecules (1) Monitoring (14) Monitoring Authorities (5) Mood changes (1) Moods (2) Motivation (3) Motor Activity (3) Movement (5) MS (7) Music (12) National Security (2) Nature (1) nausea (7) Navigation (1) nerves (44) Nervous System (4) Networks (7) Neural Electrophysiology (17) Neurasthenia (5) neurological (26) Neurologist (2) neuroma (10) neurons (21) neurosurgeons (10) Neurotransmitters (11) Noise (49) Noisy Electric Motors (1) Non Profit Organizations (25) non-ionizing radiation (1) Non-Thermal Levels (9) Nose (3) Nutrients (1) Nutrition (10) Occupation (2) Ocular (7) ODC (1) oncogenes (14) Optical (6) Organic (2) Oscillate (11) Ovaries (2) Overtones (8) Pacemakers (6) Pain (7) Pain Perception (12) Panic Attacks (7) Paralysis (3) Parotid Gland (3) particle (1) Pathogens (1) Patients (2) PCN (1) Peak Absorption (4) Penetration (31) People in Laboratories (11) Perinatal Depressio (2) Permanent Brain Damage (3) Personality changes (1) Pesticides (3) Pets (15) PH (2) Phone mast (3) Photons (2) Photosensitive (3) Physical Therapists (1) Pineal Gland (10) Pitch (2) Pituitary Gland (1) plasma membrane (2) Poisoning (2) Poisons (3) Police Officers (7) Politics (11) pollination (2) Pollution (6) Polyamine (1) Poor academic performance (1) Potential Hydrogen (2) Power Densities (3) Power poles (4) Pregnant Women (9) pressure (11) Preventive Caution (3) Prolonged calls (4) Prolonged Periods (2) Proteins (5) Public (3) Public areas (5) Public Hearings (3) Public Policy (70) Publicizing (1) Pulsed Radiation (135) Pulses (37) Pure Tone (3) Quantum Physics (29) Quantum Vacuum (4) Quantum Waves (2) Questionnaires (2) QV (6) Rabbits (1) Radar (11) Radians (3) radiation (214) Radio Field Sickness (4) Radio Frequency Microwaves (8) Radio Frequency Radiation (18) Radio Transmitters (7) Radio Waves (37) radioactive waste (1) radioprotector (5) Radios (30) Rage (1) Rapidly pulsing (3) Reaction Time (5) Real Time (1) Realistic (1) Recommendations (4) Recovery (4) Red (1) Relay Towers (3) Repair Damage (1) Reputable Investigators (1) Research (138) Epidemiologists (59) Research Needed (86) Resonance (24) Resonant Frequency (22) Resources (2) RF Meters (1) Right Side of the Head (5) ringing (6) ringtones (6) Risk (5) Risk Factor (78) Risk of Cancer (12) Risk of Disease (155) Rooflines (3) rotation (1) Rural Areas (2) Safe Levels (78) Safety (57) Safety Barrier (6) Salivary glands (1) SAR (39) Scalar Wave (9) Scary (1) scavenger (2) School administrators (56) School Boards (42) Schools (37) Schuman Resonance (2) Seizure (5) sensations (24) Sensitivity (3) Serenity (1) Serotonin (9) SHF (7) Shieding (3) Shielding (5) Shields (3) Short-sightedness (4) Sick People (21) signaling enzymes (23) signaling systems (3) Signals (2) Silicon Sensors (1) Skull (8) Sleep (13) Sleep Centers (3) Sleep Disorders (8) Sleep disturbances (37) Smart Meter (1) Solutions (39) Sound (30) Space (1) Spacial Contrast Patterns (2) Sparrows (2) Speakerphones (6) Species-Limiting (3) Spectrum (6) Spectrum Analyzer (1) Spine (5) Stand-by Mode (2) Standards (2) Staph (2) State Parks (6) Static (2) Steeples (2) Stress (72) Stroke (5) Studies (5) subcellular structures (2) Subtle Energies (6) Suffering (3) Sufficient Evidence (5) Suicide (13) Susceptibility to Infection (8) Sweat (5) Switched On (4) Symptoms (75) Synapses (1) T3-T4 (2) Teachers (3) teeth grinding (5) Telecommunications (21) telemetry interference (2) Telephony (11) Terrain (2) terrorism (3) Testicles (1) Text (1) Throat (4) Tinnitus (11) Tissues (2) Tone (12) Towers (1) Toxic (4) Toxic Interactions (26) toxic particles (2) toxicity (8) Toxic Exposure (1) Toxin (29) Trace Minerals (4) Traffic Pollution (9) trains (8) Transducer (4) Transfer (15) Transformation (12) transmission (76) Transmitter Towers (6) TSH (2) tumorigenesis (3) Tumors (40) Twangs (1) UHF (8) Ultraviolet (3) Unified Field (10) University Research (5) Unsafe (10) vacuum (2) Vapor (1) VDT (30) VDU (1) Verizon (2) Vibration (49) Vibrational Medicine (27) Violence (3) Violet (1) Viruses (3) Visible Light (7) Vision (11) VLF (7) Voting (1) W/Kg (21) W/m2 (3) Walkie Talkies (1) watts (23) Wave Front (5) Waves (69) Wear and Tear (1) Well-Being (4) Whales (3) White Blood Cells (3) Who is Affected? (162) WiFi (51) Wind Down (1) Wired (6) Wired Phone (7) Wireless (23) Wireless Microphones (2) Wireless Phones (49) Wireless Revolution (16) Wireless router (1) Wireless Technologies (4) Wireless Transmitter (8) Withdrawal (3) Women (157) Women’s Health (152) Workplace (73) X bearing sperm (4) X-Rays (6) Y-bearing sperm (2) yawning (2) zapped (1) zinging/crackling (3)
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 115 other followers
Follow
Advertisements
Feeds
Full
Comments
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Top
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy