Cancer: Busting the Myths – Part 2 (Natural Cancer Cures)
Awakening, Evolution
Society, Culture
Earth, Nature, Food
Mind, Body, Spirit
Science, Mystery
Awakening, Evolution
Society, Culture
Earth, Nature, Food
Mind, Body, Spirit
Science, Mystery
Cancer: Busting the Myths – Part 2 (Natural Cancer Cures)
by WakingTimes February 20, 2018
February 20, 2018
Total: 279
153
11
3
104
8
Like
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Digg
Del
StumbleUpon
Tumblr
VKontakte
Print
Email
Flattr
Reddit
Buffer
Love This
Weibo
Pocket
Xing
Odnoklassniki
ManageWP.org
WhatsApp
Meneame
Blogger
Amazon
Yahoo Mail
Gmail
AOL
Newsvine
HackerNews
Evernote
MySpace
Mail.ru
Viadeo
Line
Flipboard
Comments
Yummly
SMS
Viber
Telegram
Subscribe
Skype
Facebook Messenger
Kakao
LiveJournal
Yammer
Edgar
Fintel
Mix
Instapaper
x
Makia Freeman, Guest
Waking Times
Natural Cancer Cures exist, and are even widely known, but the first things to get past are your own doubts and fears. It can be hard to step out of the box of orthodox, conventional, mainstream, allopathic Western Medicine, especially when faced with a serious illness like cancer. However, the prospect of facing surgery, radiation or chemo, each with its own set of toxic and even lethal side effects, is not appealing. Below is a summary of a variety of natural cancer cures; many are proven natural cancer treatments with a solid record of efficacy, while others are natural cancer remedies which are promising enough to consider.
Numerous Natural Cancer Cures with Solid Evidence of Efficacy
Humanity has a very good idea of how to handle cancer for a long time – it’s just the top natural cancer cures have been suppressed because there was no money in them (couldn’t be patented by Big Pharma) and because they threatened the Big Pharma monopoly, which is carefully guarded by the likes of the CDC and FDA.
Newspaper report announcing Rife’s cancer treatment in 1938.
Natural Cancer Cures #1: Frequency Machines
The brilliant discoveries of Royal Raymond Rife were suppressed by the FDA and AMA, but luckily Rife Frequency Therapy has survived. It uses radio frequencies to kill germs. There is always a frequency at which a germ will vibrate until its structure is destroyed, just as the opera singer can shatter a wine glass with her voice. Most bacteria, viruses and other pathogens have very weak outer cell walls; when the right frequency is aimed at them, they dissolve. There are also a range of zappers, blood purifiers and devices based on this principle, either made by or named after Bob Beck and Hulda Clark.
Natural Cancer Cures #2: Laetrile / Amygdalin / Vitamin B17
In my earlier article Natural Cancer Cure Laetrile (Amygdalin, Vitamin B17) Works Better than Chemotherapy, I outlined how laetrile has the prized ability to target cancerous cells while leaving healthy ones intact. In this way, it is far superior to chemotherapy which is an indiscriminate killer. I am still amazed by the fact that the solutions to cancer are to be found in Nature right in front of our noses, if we just care to broaden our perspective. Here’s exactly how laetrile works:
“Laetrile is made of 4 parts, two of which are glucose, the third of which is benzaldehyde and the fourth of which is cyanide. The mere mention of the word “cyanide” tends to send people into mild shock since it is a well know poison. However, the cyanide and benzaldehyde in laetrile are not free molecules, and come naturally bound within other molecular formations. In fact there are many foods including vitamin B12 that contain cyanide, but they are safe since the cyanide remains locked up as part of another molecule.
Now here’s the brilliant part: cancer cells contain an enzyme that healthy cells do not, beta-glucosidase, called the “unlocking enzyme”. This enzyme causes the release of both the benzaldehyde and the cyanide, thus destroying the cancer cell, but cannot occur in a healthy cell, since it doesn’t contain this unlocking enzyme. Additionally, there is an enzyme in healthy cells, rhodanese, which catches free cyanide molecules and renders them harmless by combining them with sulfur. By binding the cyanide to sulfuric rhodanese, it is converted to a cyanate, which is a neutral substance. Cancer cells don’t contain enough sulfur to do this!”
Another important aspect to laetrile are the 2 glucose parts. Recall that cancer cells do not gain energy aerobically (through oxygen) but rather anaerobically (by fermenting sugar); in fact, cancer cells consume around 15 times more sugar than normal healthy cells. This means they steal the energy from the food you eat, but you can use this fact against them. Cancer cells are way more attracted to sugar molecules, so when you pair a cancer-killing molecule with the sugar molecule, the cancer cell will consume both and end up dying. It’s a kind of Trojan Horse killing method and is the exact same principle by which the other natural cancer cures work, such as ones with baking soda.
Natural Cancer Cures #3: Baking Soda
Baking soda (sodium bicarbonate or NaHCO3) has been used in a variety of ways to heal cancer. As mentioned in part 1, the Italian medic Dr. Tullio Simoncini believes cancer is a fungus and has had great success in treating patients with IV (intravenous) baking soda. Others have paired baking soda with a sweetener such as maple syrup, in a Trojan horse like way. Since cancer cells consume 15 times more sugar than normal cells, they are attracted to and gobble up the maple syrup, which is bound to the baking soda. Then the baking soda (a very alkaline substance) forces a rapid shift in the pH of the cancer cells, killing them. The cancer cells can’t withstand such alkalinity.
Natural Cancer Cures #4: DCA
DCA (short for Sodium Dichloroacetate) became widely known after cardiologist Dr. Evangelos D. Michelakis, working at the Department of Medicine at the University of Alberta, Canada, found in 2007 that it led to regression in lung, breast, and brain cancers – sometimes causing the tumor mass to shrink by 70% in just 3 weeks! As discussed in part 1, one of the hallmarks of cancer is that the cancer cells have overridden the command to commit suicide (apoptosis). DCA corrects this by turning on the mitochondria of cancerous cells, which directs them to commit apoptosis.
DCA is an ordinary molecule with extraordinary abilities. It is non-toxic, odorless and colorless. DCA is a small, simple compound that cannot be patented – and so, since it is not a drug and does not require a prescription, it threatens the profits of Big Pharma, who don’t want you to know about it. It only affects cancerous cells and leaves healthy cells intact.
Natural Cancer Cures #5: The Gerson Therapy
Dr. Max Gerson was a brilliant German doctor who took in weak cancer patients after Western Medicine was done with them and said “You’ve tried all our treatments. There’s nothing more we can do for you.” Gerson then managed to heal an amazing percentage of them. In his day, skin TB was the scariest thing, not cancer. Gerson cured 446 out of 450 skin TB patients, which is a greater-than-99% cure rate!
The Gerson Therapy is predicated on the fact that the 2 main causes of cancerare deficiency and toxicity. The Gerson Therapy is basically 3 things:
1. Salt and Water Management (restrict sodium, increase potassium)
2. Toxin Removal (performs coffee enemas, restrict animal protein)
3. Energy (ATP) Production (add iodine, perform hyperalimentation [best nutrition in largest possible quantity])
The Gerson cancer protocol basically consists of 13 vegetable juices (8 oz each) per day, 1 vegetable soup, herbal teas and coffee enemas. There are no animal products, no alcohol, no caffeine, no salt, no white sugar (a little honey is OK), no grains (except a little rye), no legumes, no berries, no pineapple and no mushrooms allowed. The tumors do not grow on the sugar in the vegetable juice, because the enzymes keep them in check.
Gerson’s work has continued on under the watchful eye of his daughter Charlotte, who has fine-tuned the protocol. They discovered that cancer tumors grow on sodium, animal protein and fat (the one exception is flax oil which is the only oil that does not grow tumors but helps supply patients with essential fatty acids). Charlotte claims that salt/sodium is a type of poison (since it’s an enzyme inhibitor), and unnecessary for human nutrition needs, and therefore not part of the Gerson cancer protocol. In 1957 Danish scientist Professor Jens Christian Skou of Aarhus University discovered there is a sodium-potassium pump in the cell (for which he later received the Nobel Prize in 1997). Sodium resides outside of the cell (saltwater), whereas potassium is inside of cell (freshwater). Cancer patients need to eat lots of foods with high potassium/sodium ratios (e.g. banana, guava, fig, nectarine, peach) to rebalance the sodium overload. Just as there is a big lack of potassium and overuse of sodium in modern diets, there is likewise a lack of magnesium and overuse of calcium. The Gerson approach is very scientific in deliberately increasing the potassium and magnesium levels of its patients to starve the cancer of fuel. The results have been very impressive.
Natural Cancer Cures #6: The Budwig Diet
Another German doctor (Dr. Johanna Budwig) came up with a clever cancer cure based on combining 2 relatively common foods. In 1951, she found that the blood of seriously ill cancer patients was deficient in some essential substances (e.g. phosphatides and lipoproteins) which a healthy person’s blood always contained. She discovered a way to easily replace these substances using just 2 common foods, flax oil and cottage cheese. When mixed together, amazing results can be achieved, such as the disappearance of anemia and weakness, and the healing of diabetes and cancer.
The Budwig Diet works because it recognizes that the human body is electric, and that we acquire cancer when we let our inner voltage get too low:
FREE Event: Discover Leading-Edge Energy Practices and Unleash Your Body’s Natural Ability to Heal!
“In Germany in 1952, [Dr. Budwig] was the [German] central government’s senior expert for fats and pharmaceutical drugs … considered one of the world’s leading authorities on fats and oils. Her research has shown the tremendous effects that commercially processed fats and oils have in destroying cell membranes and lowering the voltage in the cells of our bodies, which then result in chronic and terminal disease … The cells of our body fire electrically. They have a nucleus in the center of the cell which is positively charged, and the cell membrane, which is the outer lining of the cell, is negatively charged … when unsaturated fats have been chemically treated, their unsaturated qualities are destroyed and the field of electrons removed. This commercial processing of fats destroys the field of electrons that the cell membranes (60-75 trillion cells) in our bodies must have to fire properly (i.e. function properly). The fats’ ability to associate with protein and thereby to achieve water solubility in the fluids of the living body—all this is destroyed.”
It’s all about polarity. When the polarity is missing (due to the lack of electron-rich highly unsaturated fat), your body can’t make new cells properly. This can be reversed by providing flax oil and cottage cheese which together revive the stagnated growth process. This naturally causes any tumors present to dissolve.
Natural Cancer Cures #7: The Hoxsey Cure
Harry Hoxsey reportedly had a flamboyant personality, and he was certainly not the first (nor the last) natural cancer healer to go up against the Big Pharma-Western Medicine establishment, including the AMA and its guard-dog the FDA. After the AMA/FDA forced him out the US, he set up a clinic in Tijuana, Mexico. Hoxsey cured many people of cancer with a concotion based on roots and bark that had worked for his family (of veteranians) to cure their horses of cancer. Ty Bollinger writes that the Hoxsey formula contained:
“A solution of cascara (Rhamnus purshiana) and potassium iodide served as a base for the following herbs, added according to individual cancer cases:
Burdock root (Arctium lappa)
Barberry or berberis root (Berberis vulgaris)
Buckthorn bark (Rhamnus frangula)
Stillingia root (Stillingia sylvatica)
Prickly ash bark (Zanthoxylum americanum)
Poke root (Phytolacca americana)
Hoxsey’s understanding of cancer was that it is a systemic disease created from metabolic imbalances that needed to be restored. His tonics were meant to help create homeostasis (internal stability), kill cancer cells, and remove the toxins created from killing cancer cells. This perspective is in line with almost all natural cancer treatments and practitioners.”
Interestingly, both Hoxsey and Dr. Gerson emphasized the importance of iodinein their natural cancer protocols.
Natural Cancer Cures #8: Essiac Tea
Former Canadian cancer nurse Rene Caisse successfully treated the terminally ill for over 50 years with her remarkable plant-based formula. It removes toxic accumulation in the lymphs, bone marrow, bladder and alimentary canal, clears the respiratory channel, purifies the blood, protects the body against radiation, relieves pain, increases appetite and boosts energy levels – as well as curing cancer. Her formula came to be known as “Essiac” tea (which is her last name Caisse spelt backwards). The basic components of Essiac are sheep sorrel and burdock root which are known to kill cancer cells.
Essiac Tea is a long-proven method of curing cancer. It dates back to the 1920s and earlier. There are several brands on the market, however what is most important are the quality and freshness of the herbs (and how well they are processed so as to keep their nutrients intact), not the exact secret recipe or secret formula with certain proportions.
The ICRF rates the Essiac Tea treatment as only being effective on newly diagnosed cancer patients who do not have fast-growing cancer.
Natural cancer cures: graviola (soursop).
Natural Cancer Cures #9: Graviola (Soursop) and Paw Paw
There are also certain fruits which have been known to kill cancer, including graviola (also known as soursop) and paw paw:
“We [the ICRF] recommend graviola on the basis of several scientific articles, several testimonials, and several comments by practitioners (mostly from Brazil), however, Paw Paw is actually stronger than graviola at treating cancer. Paw Paw is the more potent of the two because of its more sophisticated and larger molecular structures. Graviola is sometimes called “Brazilian Paw Paw,” which can cause some confusion … Graviola only has single ring compounds, while the Paw Paw’s acetogenins have several double ring compounds (e.g. bullatacin) which makes Paw Paw much more powerful.”
These fruits work by decreasing or eliminating the production of ATP (the main energy fuel of a cell). This in turn lowers the voltage of the cell. For normal cells, there is plenty of ATP, thus lowering the level of ATP has no real effect. However, with cancer cells, due to the fact they create energy by fermentation, ATP is far more critical. When the ATP level of the cancer cell falls to a critical level, the cell falls apart.
These Central and South American fruits kill cancer in a different way to other protocols, and thus should never be combined with them.
Just as with the Essiac Tea treatment above, the ICRF rates the graviola/paw paw treatment as only being effective on newly diagnosed cancer patients who do not have fast-growing cancer.
Natural Cancer Cures #10: IP6
IP6 is short for inositol hexaphosphate. It’s a natural carbohydrate molecule present in most plant and animal cells. Your body makes IP6 from inositol, and you can also intake it from grains, legumes and meat. It regulates numerous intracellular functions, such as signal transduction, cell growth and differentiation, platelet function and cholesterol metabolism. Its anticarcinogenic properties are based on its ability to stimulate the immune system, act as a powerful antioxidant and its capacity to stop angiogenesis (one of the 6 hallmarks of cancer in part 1).
Stay tuned for part 3 where we continue to list more of the natural cancer cures that are abundant in our world.
About the Author
Makia Freeman is the editor of The Freedom Articles and senior researcher at ToolsForFreedom.com (FaceBook here), writing on many aspects of truth and freedom, from exposing aspects of the worldwide conspiracy to suggesting solutions for how humanity can create a new system of peace and abundance
**Sources embedded throughout article.
This article (Cancer: Busting the Myths – Part 2 (Natural Cancer Cures)) was originally created and published by The Freedom Articles and is re-posted here with permission.
Like Waking Times on Facebook. Follow Waking Times on Twitter.
baking sodacancercancer curescancer mythsnatural curesRife
previous post
FBI: Marijuana Arrests Outpace All Violent Crime
next post
Ancient Cultures Suggest Morning Meditation May Lead to a Deeper Experience
Free for Waking Times Readers
Military Grade "TORCH" Flashlight
Alone and Unafraid - Best-selling Self-Defense Guide
Small-Discreet-EDC Coin Knife
Carbon Fiber Wallet with RFID Blocking
Glass Shattering Tactical Pen
Avoiding the Eye - A Guide to Personal Privacy
72 Hour Kit Emergency Food Kit
Waking Times
Trending Now
1
Trump Signs Two Executive Orders Giving Himself ‘Sole Approval’ on Pipelines and Roads
2
Court Ruling Confirms Merck’s Gardasil HPV Vaccine Kills People – Did Anyone Even Notice?
3
Monsanto and Bayer are Maneuvering to Take Over the Cannabis Industry
4
EPA Plans to Allow Unlimited Dumping of Fracking Wastewater in the Gulf of Mexico
5
Cell Tower Removed From Schoolyard Due to Cluster of Cancer Cases
Recent Posts
More Than 50,000 Marijuana Convictions in Los Angeles Will Be Automatically Wiped Clean
April 19, 2019
Bioelectricity and Chi – Bees Can Sense the Energy Fields of Flowers to Communicate With Them
April 19, 2019
China Seizes Over 2,700 Elephant Tusks in Massive Bust
April 19, 2019
Half Of England Is Owned By 1% Of The Population
April 19, 2019
From Jesus Christ to Julian Assange: When Dissidents Become Enemies of the State
April 18, 2019
Archives – Since 2011
Archives – Since 2011 Select Month April 2019 March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 April 2018 March 2018 February 2018 January 2018 December 2017 November 2017 October 2017 September 2017 August 2017 July 2017 June 2017 May 2017 April 2017 March 2017 February 2017 January 2017 December 2016 November 2016 October 2016 September 2016 August 2016 July 2016 June 2016 May 2016 April 2016 March 2016 February 2016 January 2016 December 2015 November 2015 October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011
Waking Times Newsletter
Leave this field empty if you're human:
Your email address will remain confidential.
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
Home
Contact
About Us
Submit Articles
Podcast
Privacy Policy
©2011-2017 Waking Media, Inc.
Back To Top
Awakening, Evolution
Society, Culture
Earth, Nature, Food
Mind, Body, Spirit
Science, Mystery
©2011-2017 Waking Media, Inc.
Free for Waking Times Readers
Thank you for sharing. Follow us for the latest updates.
Follow @wakingtimes
Send this to a friend
Your email Recipient email
Send
Cancel