68 Breastfeeding Myths Dispelled - All Of Your Breastfeeding Questions Answered Here
During Your Pregnancy
Mom/Baby Necessities
Labor & Delivery
After Baby is Born
Fun Pregnancy Stuff
More
Electronics & Gadgets
Health & Beauty
Hobbies & Crafts
Home & Garden
Jobs & Money
Outdoor Fun
Travel
Pregnancy & Baby Guide
Real People. Real Experiences. Real Helpful.
a Fun Times Guide site
Shop Our Favorite Items
The Fun Times Guide > Pregnancy & Baby Guide > Health & Beauty > After Your Baby Is Born >
68 Breastfeeding Myths Dispelled – All Of Your Breastfeeding Questions Answered Here
If you’re a new mom, then you probably have lots of breastfeeding questions.
It’s really amazing to me how many myths there are about breastfeeding. Even more embarrassing, I actually thought some of these myths were true because I had learned them from my mother or my grandmother.
As with any myth, information simply gets twisted a bit and eventually gets misinterpreted as it’s passed down from generation to generation, person to person.
That’s why it’s so important to educate yourself on what is true and what is a myth with regard to breastfeeding. As a new mom, I’m sure you have many breastfeeding questions — not the least of which is how to separate the myths from the facts.
Ready to hear some of those breastfeeding myths?…
#1 Your breasts will sag if you breastfeed. FALSE
There are a number of factors that can cause breasts to sag — such as heredity, for one. However, breastfeeding is not one of those factors.
#2 It’s harder to breastfeed than to feed your baby from a bottle. FALSE
This is one that was perpetuated by the formula companies back when baby formula was first being introduced to moms. Of course, if you buy into this myth, these companies make money so it stands to reason that they’re going to do everything they can to get you to believe it. Like many of the other breastfeeding myths, it’s false. While it can be a bit difficult to get your baby to latch on to your nipple at first, once she has it, it’s the easiest thing in the world. Plus, you’ve got a ready supply of baby food no matter where you go!
#3 You can’t drink any alcohol during the time that you are breastfeeding. FALSE
While you don’t want to go on a drinking binge, having a glass of wine or a beer after you’ve already breastfed your baby is fine. Alcohol takes about the same amount of time to leave the breastmilk as it does to leave your bloodstream. Also, as long as you drink in moderation, there will not be enough alcohol in your breastmilk to cause problems for your baby.
#4 You shouldn’t breastfeed your baby past 6 months of age. FALSE
In most cultures around the world, it used to be common to breastfeed your baby until he was 2 to 4 years old. While some claim this makes the baby more dependent on the mother, there is no evidence that this is true. In fact, some say that it actually makes the child more independent.
#5 It’s normal to feel pain when breastfeeding. FALSE
If you are experiencing any kind of lasting, or lingering pain you should really talk to your doctor. While you might experience some discomfort when first beginning to breastfeed, this usually has to do with latching on issues. You should never feel any sort of extreme pain while breastfeeding.
#6 Women with small breasts can’t produce enough milk. FALSE
The size of a woman’s breasts have nothing to do with how much milk she can produce. In reality, how much milk a woman produces is determined by how often the baby nurses and how much milk the baby takes in.
#7 The first 3 or 4 days after the baby is born, there will not be enough milk for the baby. FALSE
This is not true. If the baby is not getting enough milk for the first few days it is usually because he is not latching onto the nipple correctly, not because the mom is not producing enough milk.
#8 Breastfeeding will prevent you from getting pregnant. FALSE
This one is tricky. While you can become pregnant while breastfeeding, it is unlikely to happen until you begin having your periods again. Once you begin having a period (whether you are breastfeeding or not), you can indeed become pregnant. Prior to that, breastfeeding is about 98% effective as a birth control method. As good as that might sound, it is not reliable and you should consider talking to your doctor about a low-dose birth control pill or some other method to prevent conception. That is, if you don’t want to become pregnant again right away.
#9 If you’re a blonde or a redhead, you’ll be more likely to experience nipple pain. FALSE
I have to admit, this one made me laugh! But the reason I’m including it is a friend of mine who is a redhead had been told this by her grandmother. And she believed it! The truth is, if you experience nipple discomfort, your baby probably isn’t latching on correctly, or you may be holding your baby in an uncomfortable position.
#10 Your breastmilk will not contain enough iron to nourish your baby. FALSE
This is another myth that’s been perpetuated by the formula companies, because they want you to pay lots of money to buy their baby formula. Breast milk is — bar none — the best source of iron for your newborn. Baby formulas sometimes contain more iron than is good for your baby — not to mention a lot of other things that aren’t so good such as aluminum, cadmium, and manganese.
#11 If you have (or had) breast implants you can’t breastfeed. FALSE
There is no evidence that women who have had breast implants (now or in the past) can’t breastfeed. The only concern might be with the amount of milk a woman with breast implants produces. In some cases, she is not able to produce enough milk for her baby due to the implants.
#12 Nipple confusion doesn’t exist. FALSE
It happens when a new mom gives her baby a bottle first, before trying to breastfeed. Sometimes, in those cases, a baby will not breastfeed. That’s why it’s a good idea to breastfeed first. Then, it’s okay to introduce bottle feeding later for those times when you want to pump your breastmilk and give it to your baby via a bottle.
#13 You have to be really careful what you eat while breastfeeding. FALSE
There is no reason for a new mom to alter her diet drastically. For example, there’s no evidence that eating spicy foods is going to make your breastmilk taste spicy. While a bit of flavor of the spices may get into your breast milk, in most cases it won’t be enough to bother your baby. The only foods you want to completely avoid while breastfeeding are fish that are have a high mercury content.
#14 Women with inverted nipples can’t breastfeed. FALSE
While a baby may have a harder time latching on to an inverted nipple, there is absolutely no evidence that women with inverted nipples can’t breastfeed.
Other Common Breastfeeding Myths
The breastfeeding myths don’t stop there!
In fact, there are many many myths associated with breastfeeding.
If you click on each of the links above, you will also find facts that debunk the following breastfeeding myths as well. Remember, each of these statements is FALSE:
#15 A woman who becomes pregnant must stop breastfeeding.
#16 Eating spicy foods should be avoided while a woman is breastfeeding.
#17 Your milk will “come in” immediately after you give birth.
#18 Babies should be breastfed on a strict schedule.
#19 A mother should wash her nipples each time before feeding the baby.
#20 Giving the breast a nursing “rest” can help ensure more milk.
#21 Many women do not produce enough milk.
#22 If the baby has diarrhea or vomiting, the mother should stop breastfeeding.
#23 Babies will stay on the breast for 2 hours because they like to suck.
#24 Modern formulas are almost the same as breastmilk.
#25 A breastfeeding mother has to drink lots of fluids, including more water.
#26 If the mother has an infection she should stop breastfeeding.
#27 Night nursing causes dental problems.
#28 A crying baby means he’s not getting enough milk when nursing.
#29 Babies need formula until their mother’s milk comes in.
#30 Jaundiced babies should not continue breastfeeding.
#31 Serious athletes can’t breastfeed.
#32 Breastfeeding will ruin your sex life.
#33 A mother who bleeds from her nipples should not breastfeed.
#34 If a mother has surgery, she has to wait a day before restarting nursing.
#35 Breastfeeding twins is too difficult to manage.
#36 Never wake a sleeping baby to breastfeed.
#37 Breastfeeding women cannot take the birth control pill.
#38 A baby should be on the breast 20 minutes on each side.
#39 Early feedings should be timed to prevent maternal sore nipples.
#40 The amount of milk you can pump is indicative of your milk supply.
#41 Breastfeeding ruins the shape of your breasts.
#42 A breastfeeding mother has to eat more in order to make enough milk.
#43 Babies with cleft lip and/or palate cannot breastfeed.
#44 Premature babies need to learn to take bottles before they can start breastfeeding.
#45 If you’re angry or upset, you’ll sour your milk.
#46 Breastfeeding influences a baby’s future sexual orientation.
#47 A breastfeeding mother should avoid high allergenic foods (dairy, nuts, gluten) while breastfeeding.
#48 Adoptive mothers can’t breastfeed.
#49 Women whose breasts do not enlarge or enlarge only a little during pregnancy, will not produce enough milk.
#50 If the mother is taking medicine she should not breastfeed.
#51 Breastfeeding babies need other types of milk after 6 months.
#52 A mother whose breasts do not seem full has little milk in the breast.
#53 Breastfeeding deprives your mate and other friends and family of their chance to bond with the baby.
#54 You can’t breastfeed if your plan to go back to work or school.
#55 Breastfeeding clothes and pumps end up costing as much as formula.
#56 Pumping is a good way of knowing how much milk the mother has.
#57 After menopause you can’t breastfeed.
#58 Breastfeeding makes you fat.
#59 Formula fed babies sleep better.
#60 You can’t breastfeed after a cesarean section birth.
#61 Breastfeeding takes more time than bottle-feeding.
#62 A breastfeeding baby needs extra water in hot weather.
#63 If the baby is off the breast for a few days (weeks), the mother should not restart breastfeeding because the milk sours.
#64 Breastfeeding changes the shape and size of your breast, or reduces sensitivity.
#65 After exercise, a mother should not breastfeed.
#66 A woman who has had breast reduction surgery cannot breastfeed.
#67 There is no way to know how much breastmilk the baby is getting.
#68 When you’re milk dries up, it’s gone forever.
Having Trouble Getting Baby To Breastfeed?
Many new mothers have difficulty when it comes to breastfeeding their baby for the first time.
The video below provides a number of great pointers, including how to tell if your baby is getting enough nutrition or not.
A few ways to tell that your baby is eating enough:
You can clearly hear the baby swallowing.
Baby comes off the nipple on his own and is relaxed.
Baby is being fed 8 to 12 times in 24 hours.
Baby has 6 to 8 soaked through diapers a day, and 3 to 4 of them have mustard colored, curdy stools.
Finally, you should feed your baby from one breast, burp him, and then offer the other breast. He may not want any more or he may latch on and only feed for a short time longer. By offering the 2nd breast, you can be sure that he is getting enough to eat.
The video also shows you the 2 most common ways to hold a newborn while breastfeeding. Plus, what to do if your nipples become really sore from nursing.
Regina
Some of my favorite things to write about are topics that have to do with living green, saving money, pregnancy, weddings, and dogs. When I’m not writing, I love to spend time with my husband, read, create 3D artwork and Native American beadwork.
...
Filed Under: After Your Baby Is Born, Health & Beauty Tagged With: Baby's Growth, Breastfeeding, Pregnancy Cravings / Food Issues
MORE LIKE THIS ...
FREE PREGNANCY/PARENTING TIPS
Stay up-to-date with what's happening on The Pregnancy & Parenting Guide. If you're a first time mom, then you'll appreciate these helpful Pregnancy, Labor, and Delivery tips. Plus, personal advice from parents about Raising Babies and Toddlers. You'll always be the first to see our helpful ideas as soon as we publish a new article.
First Name E-Mail Address
We respect your email privacy
You Might Also Like…
Top Searches
1-Year-Olds To 3-Year-Olds 1st Trimester 2nd Trimester 3-Year-Olds To 5-Year-Olds 3rd Trimester Baby's Growth Baby Blogs Baby Costs Baby Food Baby Gifts Baby Names Baby Stuff Baby Teeth Birth To 1 Year Books Breastfeeding Contractions Dads Decorating The Nursery Diapers Doctor Visits Emotions And Mood Swings Free Stuff Gestational Diabetes Getting Pregnant Giving Birth Inducing Labor Infertility Issues Just For Mom Maternity Clothes Mom's Health Morning Sickness Organic Pregnancy Parent Reviews Pregnancy Cravings / Food Issues Pregnancy Pains Pregnancy Tests Preparing For Labor Sleeping During Pregnancy Strollers Toys And Activities Travel With Kids Ultrasound Videos And DVDs Vitamins And Supplements
Copyright © 2004-2019 The Fun Times Guide | Privacy Policy | About | Contact | Sitemap
Close