Inherited Cancers > Condition at Yale Medicine
Inherited Cancers
This information is useful for children and adults
Why Yale Medicine?
Specialists provide genetic testing and counseling on cancer risk.
Our team will ensure that patients have access to cancer screening and information on how to lower risk.
Research from our experts helps us learn more about how frequently inherited cancers might occur.
At your next large family gathering, talking about past cancer diagnoses throughout the family tree could provide valuable insight about possible risks of inherited cancers. Researchers who study patterns of cancers within families are learning that—despite medicine’s technological advancements—a person’s family history of cancer continues to play a vital role in understanding hereditary cancers.
While all cancers originate with some genetic change or mutation within the body, a certain percentage of these mutations are inherited. The rest occur spontaneously, and environmental factors seem to play a major role. However, even for families who share a gene variant linked to cancer, it’s important to know that having the variant does not guarantee that a person will develop cancer; it does, however, put the person at a greater risk of developing the disease.
One of the strongest indicators of inherited cancer, also called hereditary cancer syndrome, is the patient’s age at the time of diagnosis. For example, a diagnosis of colon cancer at age 35 is much stronger evidence for an inherited cancer than a diagnosis at age 85. If you know that cancer runs in your family, it’s important to schedule an appointment with your doctor so he or she can evaluate you for referral to a cancer genetics program where, along with genetic testing, they will advise on cancer preventive measures according to your risk. For example, a young person who has a gene variant associated with a greater risk of colon cancer should receive a colonoscopy much earlier than age 45, which is the age the American Cancer Society suggests.
“We know that even if you have genetic mutations that give you a high risk of cancer, environmental factors can modify that risk quite a bit,” says Xavier Llor, MD, PhD, who is co-director of the Smilow Cancer Genetics and Prevention Program. “Lifestyle modifications can actually help prevent the development of that cancer. This is true more so in patients who have these mutations than in those who don’t.” As an example, Dr. Llor says, a patient who loses just 5 percent of his or her body weight can significantly reduce cancer risk.
At Yale Medicine, the team of specialists at the Smilow Cancer Genetics and Prevention Program work to provide patients accurate risk assessment, genetic testing, and access to screening and cancer preventive measures.
Expand All
Keywords in this article:
Cancer, Breast Cancer Genetics, genetic tests
Clinical Trials
New treatments for many conditions are tested in clinical trials, which ultimately bring lifesaving new drugs and devices to the patients who need them most. By participating in a clinical trial, you may get access to the most advanced treatments for your condition, and help determine their benefits for future patients.
Development and Evaluation of a Decision Analysis Based Decision Aid
The Project: Every Child Protocol: A Registry, Eligibility Screening, Biology and Outcome Study
Orteronel as Monotherapy in Patients With Metastatic Breast Cancer (MBC) That Expresses the Androgen Receptor (AR)
A Study Comparing Two Carboplatin Containing Regimens for Children and Young Adults With Previously Untreated Low Grade Glioma
Risk-Stratified Randomized Phase III Testing of Blinatumomab in First Relapse of Childhood B-Lymphoblastic Leukemia (B-ALL)
View All
Related Stories at Yale Medicine
Racing to Treat an Aortic Aneurysm
A Child’s Genome Leads to a New Discovery
Related Doctors
Jill Lacy
Medical Oncology
Call 203-200-4422 for an appointment
Sarah Mougalian
Medical Oncology
Call 203-200-2328 for an appointment
Neal Fischbach
Medical Oncology
Call 203-502-8400 for an appointment
Stacey Stein
Gastrointestinal Medical Oncology
Call 203-200-4422 for an appointment
Ashita Talsania
Hematology
Call 860-482-5384 for an appointment
View All
Related Conditions and Treatments
Gastrointestinal Cancers: Symptoms, Diagnosis and Treatment
Cancer may occur in the organs of the gastrointestinal tract or in the accessory organs of the digestive system such as the pancreas or liver.
Molecular Diagnostics
Molecular diagnostics involves analyzing DNA or RNA for red flags that can pinpoint the potential emergence of a specific disease.
Colorectal Cancer: Symptoms, Diagnosis and Treatment
If you're concerned about colorectal cancer, here are some answers to commonly asked questions about risk factors, detection and treatment.
View More
A Team Approach
Brain Tumor Program
Breast Center
Yale Cancer Center
Endocrine Cancers Program
Gastrointestinal Cancers Program
Head & Neck Cancers Program
Hematology Program
Internal Medicine
Medical Oncology
Melanoma Program
Prostate & Urologic Cancers Program
Sarcoma Program
Thoracic Oncology Program
1-877-Yale-MDs
333 Cedar St.
New Haven, CT
06510
About UsContact Us
Connect With Us
Patient Information
Find a Doctor
Conditions We Treat
Insurance Information
International Medicine
Patient Tools
Make an Appointment
Access MyChart
Pay a Bill
Parking
Health Professionals
Explore Our Departments
For Referring Doctors
Inside Yale Medicine
Careers at Yale
Get Involved
Our Stories
Research Studies
For Media Professionals
Help Support Yale Medicine
Connect With Us
Terms & Privacy Policies
Accessibility at YSM
Patient Rights
HIPAA at Yale
Yale School of Medicine
Yale University
Copyright © 2019 Yale Medicine