Here’s What Happens To Your Body When You Use Baking Soda, It Will Change Your Life Forever!
Menu
Alternative Medicine
Diet & Weight Loss
Fitness
Health
Lifestyle
Natural Recipes
Natural Remedies & Cures
We all like sweets but we like ourself more! Healthy food will give you that sexy wealthy look
Join Us Now For Free
Home
Health
Here’s How To Use Baking Soda Against Various Health And Beauty Problems
Health
Here’s How To Use Baking Soda Against Various Health And Beauty Problems
Alternative Health Universe January 28, 2018
32.9k
SHARES
ShareTweet
Baking soda is one of the cheapest and most effective remedies against almost any kind of ailment. The powder can treat flu and colds, alkalize your body and prevent a host of diseases and conditions. Additionally, baking soda can also keep your skin healthy and clean, and has numerous other beauty uses as well.
Baking soda is essentially sodium bicarbonate, a compound which our kidneys produce naturally in small amounts. The body uses the compound to neutralize acidity in the body thanks to its alkaline nature. By regulating your pH levels, baking soda can prevent various infections and kidney stones as well while also treating various diseases and conditions.
Here’s how to use baking soda in different ways:
1. Brush your teeth with some baking soda every few days to whiten your teeth and prevent infections in the oral cavity
2. Pour a glass of water and add some baking soda in it then gargle the mixture to treat bad breath
3. Rub a paste of water and baking soda on your nails to prevent fungal infections
4. Use the same paste on your face to exfoliate and clean your skin and prevent a variety of skin disorders;
5. Drink a glass of water with some baking soda to relieve muscle and joint pain
6. Add a bit of salt and baking soda in a bowl of water as well as some peppermint essential oil, then soak your feet in it to relax them and prevent foot odor
7. A paste of water and baking soda can be used to relieve insect bites and stings as well as canker sores and herpes infections
Reduce the acidity in your body with this recipe
Our body needs to be in an alkaline state in order for everything to function properly. Baking soda can be used to neutralize acidity in your body and prevent problems such as acid reflux. Just add ½ a teaspoon of the powder and a few tablespoons of lemon juice in a glass of warm water, then let the reaction pass before drinking the mixture. This incredible drink will neutralize the acidity in your blood and treat and prevent a variety of problems.
Baking soda against cancer
Many experts have been suggesting that baking soda can actually destroy cancer cells. Dr. Tulio Simonchini is an Italian doctor who has spearheaded the claim and was even banned from practice due to it. According to him, cancer is a simple fungus which can be destroyed by baking soda if you know how to prepare it.
To eliminate the fungus, all you need to do is consume a bit of honey or molasses with a bit of baking soda. The same mixture along with a bit of water can be used against candidiasis. To destroy oral thrush, gargle a mixture made with baking soda and water a few times a day. Finally, add a teaspoon of baking soda in 250 ml. of lemon juice and drink the mixture to treat urinary tract infections.
Although pretty much safe for every age group, baking soda remedies are not recommended for pregnant women and children under the age of 5. Always dissolve baking soda before using it, and avoid it if you’re sensitive to sodium. Furthermore, we suggest consulting your doctor before you choose to use these remedies.
Source:healthynaturalteam.com
Share
Pinterest
Tweet
Stumble
Email
Linkedin
Google+
Prev Article
Next Article
Related Articles
We all love being in the nature. It’s great being …
Repel Ticks All Summer Long With The Help Of This Very Simple Trick!
The traditional Ayurvedic and Indian cuisine often recommend drinking turmeric …
Try This Blood Purifying, Anti-Inflammatory and Gut Healing Drink Before You Go To Bed! It Is Amazing!
2 Comments
Jane
I find the remedies most interesting but there is no mention of how much to use per suggested remedy. Is it a tsp, tbsp, or ?ounces?????
January 31, 2018
Chelsea
You can YouTube baking soda cancer remedy. I think this works for most diseases but for cancer i know for sure. It works. I’ve witnessed it 3 times now. Baking soda, about half tsp. Mixed with molasses tbsp. And mixed in cup of warm water 2x per day, for week. Then up the baking soda to a tsp. And follow same instructions otherwise. Meanwhile eat as close to an all fruit diet that you can. Take extra vit. C daily and in less then a month, a couple weeks really it will have almost if not completely healed you. Continue remedy for a year couple weeks out of each month to maintain. Try to avoid sugar, red meats and dairy. Those are triggers, so if not completely avoid them then at least be conscious about limiting them. And…. drink as much natural grape juice as possible. Welchs natural works. Grape juice is important. You can substitute grapes but they are very expensive.
February 6, 2018
Popular Posts
Science May Have Found a Way to …
April 19, 2019 0
Actor Morgan Freeman Creates A Bee Sanctuary …
March 27, 2019 0
A Revolutionary Discovery – We Can Finally …
April 1, 2019 0
France is the First EU Country to …
April 1, 2019 0
14 Of The Most Surprising Uses Of …
April 3, 2019 0
Recent Comments
Denise on Put This Amazing Remedy Under Your Tongue Before Bed And Sleep As A Baby !
Sondra on Put This Amazing Remedy Under Your Tongue Before Bed And Sleep As A Baby !
Dolores Peluso on Half A Cup Of This Remedy Every Morning Will Treat Anxiety, Depression, Bone Pain And Diabetes!
Mary on Use CBD Oil Against Inflammation, Anxiety, Pain Etc. And Gain These Amazing Benefits!
Customeressay on Feeling Heavier Than You Are? Here’s How To Lose Your Water Weight!
Archives
Archives Select Month April 2019 March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 December 2018 November 2018 June 2018 May 2018 April 2018 March 2018 February 2018 January 2018 December 2017 November 2017 October 2017 September 2017 August 2017 July 2017
Alternative Health Universe
Get the daily dose Health!
Copyright © 2019 Alternative Health Universe
Home | Privacy Policy | Terms And Conditions | Sitemap | Disclaimer | Contact us
Ad Blocker Detected
Our website is made possible by displaying online advertisements to our visitors. Please consider supporting us by disabling your ad blocker.
Refresh