HDL Cholesterol | angiEmedia
angiEmedia
Home
About Us
Support Our Site
High-Conflict Divorce
Parental Alienation
Domestic Violence
Health & Nutrition
Nutritional Supplements
Apigenin
Life Extension Foundation
Swanson Health Products
VitaGlo
Mental Illness
Mood Disorders
Bipolar Disorder
Anxiety Disorders
Obsessive Compulsive Disorder
Other Mental Illnesses
Dissociative Identity Disorder / Multiple Personality Disorder
Personality Disorders
Schizotypal Personality Disorder
Narcissistic Personality Disorder
Paranoid Personality Disorder
Schizoid Personality Disorder
Antisocial Personality Disorder
Histrionic Personality Disorder
Avoidant Personality Disorder
Dependent Personality Disorder
Obsessive-Compulsive Personality Disorder
Borderline Personality Disorder
Index
BPD Articles
Divorce Articles
Government Abuse Articles
Health & Nutrition Articles
Parental Alienation Articles
Case Files
Stephen Doyne Files
Alan Friedenthal Files
Joel Kirk and Tina Kirk Case in West Virginia
Archive
Posts Tagged ‘HDL cholesterol’
VAP Test Improves Cardiovascular Risk Determination
November 16th, 2009 5 comments
Most adults who are getting regular preventive healthcare are familiar with the lipid panel performed as a routine check for cholesterol levels. What they may not know is that the standard lipid panel can only identify about 40% of the people who are at high risk for heart disease. The result of this is that many adults mistakenly believe they have reduced their heart attack risk when they are actually carrying around ticking time bombs that could be defused with improved treatment.
While the exact treatment for blood lipid problems varies, doctors seldom consider any such treatments without the test data to justify them. You could argue that the conventional cholesterol test actually increases the risk for heart attacks by leaving people unwisely complacent because of incomplete and inaccurate information about the nature of the fats in their blood. For instance, the LDL cholesterol number for “bad” cholesterol in the conventional tests is just a calculated estimate, not a direct measurement. It could be off significantly.
The VAP Cholesterol Test
A newer procedure called the VAP™ Blood Test (for Vertical Auto Profile) helps improve the ability to identify blood lipid patterns associated with heart attacks and cardiovascular disease. Atherotech, the company providing the test, estimates that it can identify twice as many patients at high risk for heart attacks than regular cholesterol lipid panel tests and also identify patients likely to develop type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease that may not lead to heart attacks.
Read more…
Health & Nutrition, Supplements
atherosclerosis, Atherotech, cardiovascular disease, cholesterol, citrus pectin, cocoa, CoQ10, diabetes, garlic, GliSODin, HDL cholesterol, HDL2, HDL3, heart attack, LDL cholesterol, Michael Ozner, omega 3 fatty acids, omega-3, pomegranate, triglycerides, VAP, Vertical Auto Profile, vitamin K2, VLDL cholesterol
Bargain on Top-Notch Mega EPA/DHA Omega-3 Fish Oil
August 31st, 2009 No comments
Life Extension’s Mega EPA/DHA fish oil is on sale through September 14, 2009, at 65% off regular price. It is a very good quality fish oil supplement and also very well priced at $6.98 per bottle of 120 softgels. It is a double strength formulation with reduced cholesterol, meaning that it is equivalent of 240 typical fish oil softgels. As you may know, fish oil is well-reputed for managing blood lipid levels, particularly helping to lower LDL cholesterol and triglycerides. What you may not know is that many common brands of fish oil supplements contain a considerable amount of cholesterol in each softgel. Mega EPA/DHA has twice the EPA and DHA (the primary beneficial Omega-3 fish oil compounds), half the calories, and 80% less cholesterol per softgel versus Costco’s Kirkland Signature Fish Oil Concentrate that is regularly priced at $9.69 (plus tax) for 400 regular strength softgels.
Life Extension Mega EPA/DHA Fish Oil is useful for improving your health in many ways. In addition to helping cut down unhealthy blood lipid levels (LDL cholesterol and triglycerides), it is also helpful for reducing the risk of depression, blood clots, inflammation disorders, heart attacks, and strokes. Fish oils containing significant quantities of DHA in particular are believed to improve brain and nervous system health.
Read more…
Deals, Health & Nutrition
Alli, anti-inflammatory, arterial calcification, atherosclerosis, blood clots, cholesterol, depression, DHA, EPA, fish oil, folic acid, HDL cholesterol, Health & Nutrition, inflammation, Irvingia, LDL cholesterol, life extension, lipase, mercury, nursing, omega-3, orlistat, pregnancy, thrombosis, triglycerides, vitamin B12
Puritan’s Pride Buy 1 Get 2 Free Sale Ends September 9, 2009
June 29th, 2009 No comments
Puritan’s Pride is running one of the best sales so far this year, their 3 for the price of 1 sale . The 20% off code (TAP20PT) has expired (sorry – it expired June 27), but the rest of the sale is still active. Their latest catalog indicates it should run through September 9, 2009. Click on the banner below to view their sale prices. If you prefer to order over the phone, call 1-800-645-1030 and mention discount code TE6PC5A.
Puritan’s Pride carries a huge variety of dietary supplements, vitamins, amino acids, and other products for your well-being. As we recently mentioned a Costco sale on red yeast rice along with CoQ10 and milk thistle (silymarin) products that are often used with it, we’ll briefly outline what Puritan’s Pride has to offer for the same type of products. Overall, Costco’s prices are really good but especially during sales, Puritan’s Pride prices are often even better.
Read more…
Deals, Health & Nutrition
cholesterol, CoQ10, HDL cholesterol, health, Health & Nutrition, LDL cholesterol, milk thistle, red yeast rice, silymarin, triglycerides
Costco Sale on Red Yeast Rice for Lowering Cholesterol
June 23rd, 2009 No comments
UPDATE: Sale pricing has been extended for online orders to July 26, 2009.
Red yeast rice is an alternative to more risky statin drugs that may help to lower LDL cholesterol and trigylcerides without as many side effects as statins. Costco is selling red yeast rice at $5 off per bottle until June 28, 2009. That brings the price down to $9.39 per bottle of 180 tablets of 600mg each.
Read more…
Deals, Health & Nutrition
cholesterol, CoQ10, grapefruit, HDL cholesterol, health, Health & Nutrition, LDL cholesterol, milk thistle, red yeast rice, silibinin, silymarin, statins, triglycerides, ubiquinol, ubiquinone
Life Extension Overstock Products: Mega EPA/DHA Fish Oil and Niacin
May 17th, 2009 No comments
As you may be aware, the latest Life Extension Overstock Sale ends on June 8, 2009. We’d like to call your attention to two of the overstock sale products that are a particularly good deal and would be useful for a lot of people trying to lower their cholesterol and blood lipid (fat) levels.
Life Extension Mega EPA/DHA Fish Oil is useful for improving your health in many ways. In addition to helping cut down unhealthy blood lipid levels (LDL cholesterol and triglycerides), it is also helpful for reducing depression, reducing the risk of blood clots and general inflammation, and improving brain and nervous system health.
The second product we’ll discuss at the end of this article is Life Extension Vitamin B3 Niacin . It’s good for lowering LDL cholesterol, triglycerides, and reducing stroke and heart attack risk. It can also increase beneficial HDL cholesterol and improve blood flow. However, you should discuss using it with your doctor to be on the safe side as people with liver disorders may not be able to safely use it.
Read more…
Deals, Health & Nutrition
cholesterol, DHA, EPA, fish oil, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, life extension, niacin, nicotinic acid, omega-3, sesame lignans, triglycerides
Statin Side Effects, Risks, and Alternatives
May 4th, 2009 1 comment
Statins are a now famous (or infamous, depending upon your viewpoint) class of medicine used widely in American medicine. While studies do show they help reduce total and LDL (Low Density Lipoprotein) cholesterol and triglyceride levels, there are serious side effects to these medicines. They can lead to lethargy, headaches, muscle weakness, confusion, memory loss, and other side effects. More ominously, a recent study of Crestor (a statin drug) showed an increase in type 2 diabetes rates for those using the drug versus the control group using a placebo.
High Cholesterol Just Small Part of Cardiovascular Health Risks
Many people have the mistaken impression that high cholesterol is the biggest risk to your cardiovascular health. This isn’t likely true. There are a large variety of risks that are likely to be even more significant than high cholesterol levels. Many of them are not commonly tested for by doctors. Too many in the medical establishment have bought into “big pharma” pushing of statin drugs as the ultimate solution as they inaccurately believe high total and LDL cholesterol are the exclusive risk factors for cardiovascular diseases. As cardiovascular surgeon Dr. Michael Ozner points out in his book The Great American Heart Hoax: Lifesaving Advice Your Doctor Should Tell You About Heart Disease Prevention (But Probably Never Will) , many of the therapies and surgeries for cardiovascular disease that are common in the United States are probably unnecessary, raise health care expenses, and don’t really improve overall outcomes. Much better than surgeries would be to prevent cardiovascular disease in the first place. But there are many risks that must be managed.
Read more…
Health & Nutrition, Psychology
anxiety, artichoke, beans, beta-glucan, catechins, cholesterol, CoQ10, depression, fish oil, flax, glucomannan, green tea, guggulsterones, HDL cholesterol, Health & Nutrition, Idebenone, LDL cholesterol, mercury, Michael Ozner, oat bran, pectin, plant sterols, psyllium, red yeast rice, statins, stroke, triglycerides
RSS feed
Email feed Twitter
Recent Comments
Earl macfarland on Relationships and Divorces with Someone Who Suffers Borderline Personality Disorder
We all have sinned on Sociopaths In Our Midst Hate the Truth and Its Advocates
Tuesday on Dirty Tactics of Dirty Lawyers
Relationships and Divorces with Someone Who Suffers Borderline Personality Disorder | angiEmedia on Detecting Borderline Personality Disorder to Begin Treatment
Humane on Relationships and Divorces with Someone Who Suffers Borderline Personality Disorder
SadGrand on Relationships and Divorces with Someone Who Suffers Borderline Personality Disorder
Franco frank on Sociopaths In Our Midst Hate the Truth and Its Advocates
Charlie on California AB 2475 To Strip Immunity from Custody Evaluators
Charlie on California AB 2475 To Strip Immunity from Custody Evaluators
Freedom on Relationships and Divorces with Someone Who Suffers Borderline Personality Disorder
Popular Articles
Statin Side Effects, Risks, and Alternatives
9 comments
VAP Test Improves Cardiovascular Risk Determination
6 comments
Life Extension Overstock Products: Mega EPA/DHA Fish Oil and Niacin
2 comments
Bargain on Top-Notch Mega EPA/DHA Omega-3 Fish Oil
2 comments
Costco Sale on Red Yeast Rice for Lowering Cholesterol
1 comments
Puritan's Pride Buy 1 Get 2 Free Sale Ends September 9, 2009
0 comments
Best Selling Books on angiEmedia
Adult Children of Parental Alienation Syndrome
Borderline Mom
Diary of A Patient Man
Divorce Books for Kids
Elusive Innocence
Ending Aging
Stop Walking on Eggshells
Taken Into Custody
The Emotionally Abusive Relationship
The Offical Anti-Aging Revolution
Civil and Human Rights
Community of the Wrongly Accused
Cop Block
Don't Tread On Me
Equal Justice Foundation
Courts
Courthouse Forum
Exiled Fathers
Fully Informed Juror Association
Judicial Council Watcher
Judicial Watch
Rate The Courts
Rate This Judge
Right Trumps Might
The Public Court
The Robing Room
Domestic Violence
Media RADAR
Stop Abusive and Violent Environments
Free Speech
Photography Is Not A Crime
Gender Equality
A Voice for Men
Antimisandry
Breaking the Science
GendErratic
iFeminists
Owning Your Shit
Wendy McElroy
Health
Chris Kresser
EmediaHealth
Lawyers
Michael Roe
Mental Health
BPD Family
Daughters of Narcissistic Mothers
High Conflict Institute
Shari Schreiber's Life Strategies
Shrink4Men
Stop Walking on Eggshells
The Hope Portal
The Psycho Ex-Wife
News
Boiling Frogs
No More Fake News
The Corbett Report
Truthstream Media
Other Web Sites
Free Talk Live
Get Your Justice Live
Open Congress
The Daily Anarchist
William L. Anderson
Parental Alienation
Amy J. L. Baker Ph.D.
Dr. Richard Warshak
Parental Alienation (by an alienated mom)
Parental Alienation Awareness
Parental Alienation Canada
Parental Alienation Hurts
Parents Against Parental Alienation
PAS 2nd Wives Club
Second Hand Wives
Southern California Parents of Alienated Children Support Group
Parental Rights
American Coalition for Fathers and Children
American Family Rights Association
California Coalition for Families and Children
California Men's Centers San Diego
Daddy Justice
Family Rights And Many Ending Discrimination
Fathers & Families
Legally Kidnapped
MomsRising.org
National Association of Non-Custodial Moms
Noncustodial Parent Community
Parental Rights
Stop Corrupt DSS
Parenting
Dads and Daughters
Raising Smart Girls
Recent Posts
A New Way For Mainstream Media to Help Criminals: Harass Gun Owners By Publishing License Addresses
Mass Killings, Including Sandy Hook Elementary, Suggest Government And Psychiatric Medications Can Be Deadly
Former NSA Employee William Binney Discusses Massive Surveillance of US Email, Phone, and Text Communications
Could US Public Readiness and Emergency Preparedness Act (PREPA) Be Used To Legally Sanction Mass Murder?
American Civil Forfeiture Laws Require Drastic Reforms
What Can We Learn From Narcissist Sam Vaknin?
Parents Who Kill Kids Often Enraged To Murder By Courts And Governments
Mom Arrested Over Neighbor’s Alleged False Report of Child Abandonment In La Porte, Texas
What Will Happen To The Children Of Gordon And Tiffany Smith?
RFID Tracking Of School Children Has Potential For Abuse By Government And Criminals
Former US Marine Brandon Raub Incarcerated in Mental Hospital Because Feds Didn’t Like His Facebook Political Statements
Serial False Accuser Tiffany Marie Smith of Delaware Belongs In Prison
Government By Sociopaths, For Sociopaths Dooms Family Law Reform Efforts
Mom Files Suit For Being Strip Searched At Gunpoint After Cops Pull Her Over For Rolling Through Stop Sign
Firefighter Wrongly Implied to be Child Sex Offender by Virgin Australia Flight Attendant Enforcing Sexist Airline Policies
Categories
Categories Select Category Books (8) Child Abduction (29) Child Custody (138) Restraining Orders (16) Child Support (9) Civil Rights (120) Conferences & Training (2) Crime (160) Deals (38) Domestic Violence (184) Child Abuse (147) Partner Violence (65) Family (260) Children (209) Divorce (191) Marriage (48) Pregnancy (2) Government Abuse (230) Courts (158) CPS (70) Federal Government (59) Police (81) Prosecutor (38) Schools (10) Health & Nutrition (98) Supplements (22) Humor (6) Legal (192) Parental Alienation (100) Politics (132) Poll (1) Psychology (113) ASPD (1) BPD (57) HPD (1) NPD (33) OCD (2) Religion (5) Reviews (9) Technology (8) Web Site Features (8)
April 2019
S
M
T
W
T
F
S
« Jan
1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 18 19 20
21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30
Archives
Archives Select Month January 2013 (1) December 2012 (3) November 2012 (1) October 2012 (1) September 2012 (5) August 2012 (6) July 2012 (6) June 2012 (1) May 2012 (2) April 2012 (1) March 2012 (3) February 2012 (2) January 2012 (1) November 2011 (2) April 2011 (1) March 2011 (1) January 2011 (1) December 2010 (1) November 2010 (8) October 2010 (5) September 2010 (17) August 2010 (14) July 2010 (21) June 2010 (2) May 2010 (4) April 2010 (20) March 2010 (13) February 2010 (7) January 2010 (20) December 2009 (12) November 2009 (22) October 2009 (12) September 2009 (10) August 2009 (8) July 2009 (24) June 2009 (28) May 2009 (35) April 2009 (31) March 2009 (9) February 2009 (30) January 2009 (36) December 2008 (8) November 2008 (10)
Tags
Amy Baker Books borderline personality disorder California California Coalition for Families and Children Canada Child Abuse Child Custody Child Protective Services Children contempt of court CPS depression diabetes dirty legal tactics Divorce Domestic Violence emotional abuse false abuse allegations false accusations in divorce family law court fish oil Government Abuse health Health & Nutrition Judge Lorna Alksne Legal life extension narcissistic personality disorder Parental Alienation partner violence perjury personality disorder police abuse San Diego San Diego County San Diego Superior Court sexual abuse shared parenting Stephen Doyne Texas United States verbal abuse vitamin D Vitamin D3
Top About Us
Copyright © 2008-2019 angiEmedia
Theme by NeoEase. Valid XHTML 1.1 and CSS 3.
About Us: Contact Us, Use of Our Content, Privacy Policy