Northerntruthseeker: Important Health News: Why Oncologists (Doctors Who Treat Tumors) Do Not Like Baking Soda Cancer Treatment
Northerntruthseeker
"In A Time Of Universal Deceit, Telling The Truth Becomes A Revolutionary Act" - George Orwell, Author ..... "All Truth Passes Through Three stages. First: It Is Ridiculed, Second: It Is Violently Opposed, And Third: It Is Accepted As Self-Evident" – Arthur Schopenhauer, Philosopher
Monday, July 6, 2015
Important Health News: Why Oncologists (Doctors Who Treat Tumors) Do Not Like Baking Soda Cancer Treatment
I have long been a proponent of seeking alternative cures for Cancer for anyone that has been diagnosed with this "disease"..... I have seen too many of my friends and colleagues at my age dying off due to "Cancer" and the so called Cancer "treatments" that do NOT cure the Cancer at all, but actually weaken the body's own immune system to the point that the treatments cause the Cancer to spread and the patient dies!
I again want to present here some amazing facts about how Cancer is absolutely curable, and is NOT the so called "death knell" for anyone that has been diagnosed with the disease.....
Right now, I want to present the following very important article that comes from the Waking Times website, at www.wakingtimes.com, that is entitled: "Why Oncologists Don't Like Baking Soda Cancer Treatment"... In this article, you will again find evidence that Cancer is absolutely curable and the cure comes in the form of simple over the counter baking soda that is readily available everywhere..... I have my own thoughts and comments to follow:
By WakingTimes July 2, 2015
Why Oncologists Don’t Like Baking Soda Cancer Treatment
Dave Mihalovic, Prevent Disease
Waking Times
Even the most aggressive cancers which have metastasized have been reversed with baking soda cancer treatments. Although chemotherapy is toxic to all cells, it represents the only measure that oncologists employ in their practice to almost all cancer patients. In fact, 9 out of 10 cancer patients agree to chemotherapy first without investigating other less invasive options.
Doctors and pharmaceutical companies make money from it. That’s the only reason chemotherapy is still used. Not because it’s effective, decreases morbidity, mortality or diminishes any specific cancer rates. In fact, it does the opposite. Chemotherapy boosts cancer growth and long-term mortality rates and oncologists know it.
A few years ago, University of Arizona Cancer Center member Dr. Mark Pagel received a $2 million grant from the National Institutes of Health to study the effectiveness of personalized baking soda cancer treatment for breast cancer. Obviously there are people in the know who have understood that sodium bicarbonate, that same stuff that can save a person’s life in the emergency room in a heartbeat, is a primary cancer treatment option of the safest and most effective kind.
Studies have shown that dietary measures to boost bicarbonate levels can increase the pH of acidic tumors without upsetting the pH of the blood and healthy tissues. Animal models of human breast cancer show that oral sodium bicarbonate does indeed make tumors more alkaline and inhibit metastasis. Based on these studies, plus the fact that baking soda is safe and well tolerated, world renowned doctors such as Dr. Julian Whitaker have adopted successful cancer treatment protocols as part of an overall nutritional and immune support program for patients who are dealing with the disease. The Whitaker protocol uses 12 g (2 rounded teaspoons) of baking soda mixed in 2 cups water, along with a low-cal sweetener of your choice. (It’s quite salty tasting.) Sip this mixture over the course of an hour or two and repeat for a total of three times a day. One man claims he has found a cure for cancer using baking soda and molasses and actually successfully treated his own disease by using baking soda.
When taken orally with water, especially water with high magnesium content, and when used transdermally in medicinal baths, sodium bicarbonate becomes a first-line medicinal for the treatment of cancer, and also kidney disease, diabetes, influenza and even the common cold. It is also a powerful buffer against radiation exposure, so everyone should be up to speed on its use. Everybody’s physiology is under heavy nuclear attack from strong radioactive winds that are circling the northern hemisphere.
Dr. Robert J. Gillies and his colleagues have already demonstrated that pre-treatment of mice with baking soda results in the alkalinization of the area around tumors. The same researchers reported that bicarbonate increases tumor pH and also inhibits spontaneous metastases in mice with breast cancer.
What is Baking Soda?
Baking soda is a white crystalline solid that appears as fine powder. It is also called cooking soda, bread soda and bicarbonate of soda. Its chemical name is sodium bicarbonate or sodium hydrogen carbonate.
Baking soda is different from washing soda (sodium carbonate) although they share the same slightly salty and alkaline taste.
This widely used soda is commonly dissolved in mineral water and used as a leavening agent in baking. It works as a leavening agent by neutralizing the acidic components of batter. The neutralization releases carbon dioxide and leads to the “raising” or expansion of baked foods.
Baking soda has also been used to soften vegetable and to tenderize meat.
As a household chemical, baking soda is used as a cleaning agent. It is included in toothpastes for similar reasons where it serves as an antiseptic, acid-neutralizer, whitening agent and plaque-removing agent as well as a cleaning agent.
Other common personal hygiene products in which baking soda can be found include deodorants and shampoos.
Baking Soda and pH Medicine
The pH of our tissues and body fluids is crucial and central because it affects and mirrors the state of our health or our inner cleanliness. The closer the pH is to 7.35-7.45, the higher our level of health and wellbeing. Staying within this range dramatically increases our ability to resist acute illnesses like colds and flues as well as the onset of cancer and other diseases. Keeping our pH within a healthy range also involves necessary lifestyle and dietary changes that will protect us over the long term while the use of sodium bicarbonate gives us a jump-start toward increased alkalinity.
The pH scale is like a thermometer showing increases and decreases in the acid and alkaline content of fluids. Deviations above or below a 7.35-7.45 pH range in the tightly controlled blood can signal potentially serious and dangerous symptoms or states of disease. When the body can no longer effectively neutralize and eliminate the acids, it relocates them within the body’s extra-cellular fluids and connective tissue cells directly compromising cellular integrity. Conversely when the body becomes too alkaline from too much bicarbonate in the blood, metabolic alkalosis occurs, which can lead to severe consequences if not corrected quickly.
Jon Barron presents a way of looking at pH that opens up one of the major benefits of alkaline water:
Hydrogen ions tie up oxygen. That means that the more acid a liquid is, the less available the oxygen in it. Every cell in our body requires oxygen for life and to maintain optimum health. Combine that with what we know about hydrogen ions and we see that the more acid the blood (the lower its pH), the less oxygen is available for use by the cells. Without going into a discussion of the chemistry involved, just understand that it’s the same mechanism involved when acid rain “kills” a lake. The fish literally suffocate to death because the acid in the lake “binds up” all of the available oxygen. It’s not that the oxygen has gone anywhere; it’s just no longer available. Conversely, if you raise the pH of the lake (make it more alkaline), oxygen is now available and the lake comes back to life. Incidentally, it’s worth noting that cancer is related to an acid environment (lack of oxygen)–the higher the pH (the more oxygen present in the cells of the body), the harder it is for cancer to thrive.
Understanding this is important for two reasons: (1) it reveals one of the primary benefits of alkaline water–more “available” oxygen in the system and (2) it explains why alkaline water helps fight cancer.
How Baking Soda Can Help “Cure” Cancer
Basically, malignant tumors represent masses of rapidly growing cells. The rapid rate of growth experienced by these cells means that cellular metabolism also proceeds at very high rates.
Therefore, cancer cells are using a lot more carbohydrates and sugars to generate energy in the form of ATP (adenosine triphosphate).
However, some of the compounds formed from the energy production include lactic acid and pyruvic acid. Under normal circumstances, these compounds are cleared and utilized as soon as they are produced. But cancer cells are experiencing metabolism at a much faster rate. Therefore, these organic acid accumulate in the immediate environment of the tumor.
The high level of extracellular acidity around the tumor is one of the chief driving force behind the metastasis of cancer tumors.
Basically, cancer cells need an acidic environment to grow and spread rapidly.
Some cancer experts, therefore, believe that by buffering the tumor microenvironment with an alkalizing compound, the pH of tumors can be raised enough to starve them and stop their growth and spread.
Curiously, this rather simple solution to cancer has been proven right.
What is even more remarkable is that there is no need to cook up some fancy synthetic drug to lower the acidity in the immediate environment of the tumor. A simple, commonly obtained compound like sodium bicarbonate will do.
Obviously, it is desirable to deliver the sodium bicarbonate as close to the tumor as possible since its pH-raising effect is needed in the microenvironment of the tumor. Therefore, directly injecting sodium bicarbonate in the tumor site is considered a better solution than oral administration. However, oral sodium bicarbonate is just safer and can be readily used at home.
A 2009 study published in the journal, Cancer Research, is among the first to confirm that the alkalinizing effect of sodium bicarbonate can indeed stop cancer.
By injecting sodium bicarbonate into a group of mice, the authors of the study were able to determine how the growth and spread of cancer tumors were effected by raising the pH of the organ affected by the cancer.
The study results showed that baking soda indeed raised the pH and reduced spontaneous metastases in mice induced with breast cancer.
The researchers also determined that sodium bicarbonate works by raising the pH outside cells and not within cells. This is an important finding because it suggests that sodium bicarbonate does not interfere with cellular metabolism even as it makes the microenvironment unconducive for tumor growth.
Other findings from this study show that baking soda:
Reduced the involvement of the lymph node on the transport of cancer cells
Does not lower the levels of circulating tumor cells
Reduced the involvement of the liver and, therefore, the spread of tumor cells to other organs
Inhibit the colonization of other organs by circulating tumor cells
The Baking Soda Formula for Cancer
To make the baking soda natural cancer remedy at home, you need maple syrup, molasses or honey to go along with the baking soda.
In Dr. Sircus’ book, he documented how one patient used baking soda and blackstrap molasses to fight the prostate cancer that had metastasized to his bones. On the first day, the patient mixed 1 teaspoon of baking soda with 1 teaspoon of molasses in a cup of water.
He took this for another 3 days after which his saliva pH read 7.0 and his urine pH read 7.5.
Encouraged by these results, the patient took the solution 2 times on day 5 instead of once daily. And from day 6 – 10, he took 2 teaspoons each of baking soda and molasses twice daily.
By the 10th day, the patient’s pH had risen to 8.5 and the only side effects experienced were headaches and night sweat (similar to cesium therapy).
The next day, the patient had a bone scan and too other medical tests. His results showed that his PSA (prostate-specific antigen, the protein used to determine the severity of prostate enlargement and prostate cancer) level was down from 22.3 at the point of diagnosis to 0.1.
Another baking soda formula recommends mixing 90 teaspoons of maple syrup with 30 teaspoons of baking soda.
To do this, the maple syrup must be heated to become less viscous. Then the baking syrup is added and stirred for 5 minutes until it is fully dissolved.
This preparation should provide about 10-day worth of the baking soda remedy. 5 – 7 teaspoons per day is the recommended dose for cancer patients.
Care should be taken when using the baking soda remedy to treat cancer. This is because sustaining a high pH level can itself cause metabolic alkalosis and electrolyte imbalance. These can result in edema and also affect the heart and blood pressure.
One does not have to be a doctor to practice pH medicine. Every practitioner of the healing arts and every mother and father needs to understand how to use sodium bicarbonate. Bicarbonate deficiency is a real problem that deepens with age so it really does pay to understand and appreciate what baking soda is all about.
Dave Mihalovic is a Naturopathic Doctor who specializes in vaccine research, cancer prevention and a natural approach to treatment.
Sources: cancertutor.com phkillscancer.com drsircus.com drleonardcoldwell.com drwhitaker.com
NTS Notes: I have put up countless articles now at this blog that contain evidence that Cancer is not the disease that our fraud medical profession has long claimed... Cancer in itself is caused by the acidification of our bodies due to the poisons that we are ingesting in our daily diets...
When the human body's own pH level falls well below the neutral 7.0 mark, oxidation in our cells is slowed and in some cases our cells do not receive the proper levels of Oxygen to survive or to perform their proper metabolism.... At that point the cells begin to die.... But our cells are like any other organism and they will do what is necessary to survive, and therefore in some cases the cells turn off their Oxygen metabolism and turn to a form of fermentation metabolic process and thus turn "cancerous"..... Therefore the logical method to fixing the Cancer problem is to get the body's own pH level up and into the alkaline region above 7.0 neutral....
This is where baking soda, which has a natural pH level of well above 11 comes into play.... The addition of syrups and sugars (Absolutely avoid HFC!) comes into play to lower the pH level slightly and to allow the baking soda to metabolize in our cells as they absorb the sugars.....
I have been a strong advocate of actually curing Cancer and absolutely NOT falling for the scam of "chemotherapy" or "radiation treatment"...... The fact again is that the Cancer industry is a multi-billion dollar scam where the big money is in "treatments" that actually kill the patient, while making the scam artists rich in the process... As I have stated many times, there is NO money to be made in actually curing Cancer, so the scam continues....
More to come
NTS
Posted by Northerntruthseeker at 2:23 PM
9 comments:
Anonymous said...
Why didn't you give this information to your friends and colleages????
Your comment
have seen too many of my friends and colleagues at my age dying off due to "Cancer" and the so called Cancer "treatments" that do NOT cure the Cancer at
My ???? is
Why didn't you save them????
How do you get sick all the time???
I know most people who take over the counter medicine are always sick.
I take nothing and never sick.
I would assume with all this info,you would also never get sick,but I always read,you were sick,you had the bug,another thing I never get.
I never understood that reading your blog??
Think the jews are poisioning you???
They keep you on file and when you go to doctor,they get you??
Love to hear your comment
thanks
July 6, 2015 at 5:17 PM
Anonymous said...
You said::
have seen too many of my friends and colleagues at my age dying off due to "Cancer" and the so called Cancer "treatments" that do NOT cure the Cancer at
I ask
Why didn't you warn or help those friends
Also,why do you always say you got the latest bug or whatever??
Are the jews poisioning you???
I never get the bug that's going around,i also agree with your writings.
I also believe taking all those decongestant pils,or antacid pills,all those over the counter pilss,that will only create a new problem.
That's why people taking them are always sick,i never touch them and I have no issues.
I just don't understand how you always type in something about your health while your informing us.
IT JUST DOESNT MAKE SENSE
COMMENTS PLEASE
THANK YOU
Your starting to resemble the sandy hook board answering that gentlemans questions,and they didn't respond becaiuse of there sooo called guilt.
I ask you questions and you don't answer.
Could you think answering them is irrelevant cause you already told us your thoughts.
Just like sandy hook answered all relevant questions,and think your friend exposing them is also irrelevant and that's why they didn't respond.
I could put you in the same company as them
Guilty for not answering
I would love to hear your comments
thanks
July 7, 2015 at 5:21 AM
Northerntruthseeker said...
OK... If you actually took the time to read this blog and previous articles, I did try adamantly to get friends and colleagues to look at alternative solutions that could have cured their Cancer... However, when I did, I was met with fierce resistance, and called every name under the sun including "kook" and "nutjob"....
It is still up to the individual to take the information and run with it... People are so brainwashed by the bullshit coming out of the Jew spew media and the fraud medical profession that they blindly follow the "doctor's" orders and go and get the prescribed treatments automatically when they get Cancer....
I basically became a voice in the wilderness when it came to approaching friends and colleagues with solutions to their Cancer... The most terrible one was my colleague who passed away just over a month ago now, whom I thrust note and paper after paper directly in his lap with the multitude of cures for his Cancer and he ignored them all.....
We can only do what we can and reach only those who are reachable.. Others are a lost cause..
July 7, 2015 at 7:20 AM
Northerntruthseeker said...
And BTW.... I do not answer comments instantly.... I do have a life as well and get to answering comments when I can....Sometimes the next day.....
July 7, 2015 at 7:21 AM
Anonymous said...
Thank you
Like I said before
Im non educated,a simpleton and I can and havr been reading your blogs for a few years and even promoting it and asking them the question
FACT OR FICTION
YOU DECIDE
So if I did non comprehend the old blog by forgetting or just plain ignorant
Im sorry
I can read something and forget fifteen minutes later,even though I understood while reading it.
That's my issue
What sticks in my mind the most reading your blogs,is you having something and ive always wondered if your taking over the counter medicine.
My opinion on over the counter medicine,is they destroy your god given immune system which fights off everything,and once you start taking that crap,it destroys,your natural bodies immune system and gets you hooked on legalized drugs.
And yes,the brainwashing from the tadmavision,defitnally has influenced most peoples decision,i told you,the Boston holohoax watching the nightly television,has you convinced it really happened,and reading your stuff makes me question,but still confused,because I still have questions with two sided answers..
Signing off,
high school semi dropout and never read a book going through school,never never never
cant you tell,reading my comments?
Thanks for responding
Be true to thyself and thy be false to no man
the truth shall set you free
thanks
July 7, 2015 at 11:20 AM
Anonymous said...
And you still didn't answer,or maybe you mentioned in old blog???
How you get sick sooo much???
Are the jews poisioning you??
Are you taking over the counter medicine???
It breaks down your immune system,so you constantly have to take it.
thanks
July 7, 2015 at 3:03 PM
Anonymous said...
A must see movie
Love and other drugs
Here is a powerful scene
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HlN8IowDHVo
Now please go watch the movie and somewhere near the beginning,they make comments about drugs eating away your immune system.
I couldn't find the clip
so youll have to watch the movie,at least its near the beginning.
I think the movie portrays the criminal drug industry.
Please watch it,and you decide
Does or doesn't it
thank you
July 7, 2015 at 7:26 PM
Northerntruthseeker said...
I USED to get sick a lot, but not as much since I gave up on standard over the counter meds and the prescribed treatments for ailments...
Since switching, I get sick only once in a while... Last winter was a bit of a blurb though because I was constantly exposed to family members that were all sick and it caused me to get sick a few times as well.....
BUT I am no longer suffering from the horrible sinusitis bouts that I used to get... That is due to my taking more natural medicines and doing a lot more exercise...
Drinking non-fluoridated water also helps a lot.... I gave up on tap water some 10 years ago and have been avoiding all foods that contain even a trace of fluoride compounds.... Even though some Fluoride cannot be avoided, I have noticed a better sharpness of mind and body these days....
July 8, 2015 at 7:19 AM
Anonymous said...
Thanks for the info
Reading your blog for last few years,that sickness comment sticks in my mind,and I would always wonder,your preaching health awareness but blogging about getting over something.
I feel great everyday and never drink that legalized drug called coffee.
I don't wake up groggy and never get the sooooo called bug that goes around every year.
Thank god for that.
Im always listening to people talking about what over the counter drug they are using,and still complaining.
It all makes sense when you know that fact,and I always think to myself,another victim to the legalized drug trade which is far more dangerous than the illegal drug trade.
That is a whole nuther essay
Whats illegal and illegal
Who does it legal,and who does it illegal.
Legalized drug trade or illegal drug trade.
I see the harm in the legal drug trade
thank you
July 8, 2015 at 11:50 AM
Post a Comment
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
This Is The Real US Media:
My Blog Archive
► 2019 (140)
► April (25)
► March (45)
► February (39)
► January (31)
► 2018 (380)
► December (28)
► November (36)
► October (33)
► September (31)
► August (30)
► July (30)
► June (28)
► May (34)
► April (30)
► March (31)
► February (35)
► January (34)
► 2017 (376)
► December (32)
► November (35)
► October (44)
► September (33)
► August (34)
► July (20)
► June (32)
► May (31)
► April (27)
► March (21)
► February (29)
► January (38)
► 2016 (360)
► December (42)
► November (31)
► October (32)
► September (36)
► August (26)
► July (20)
► June (34)
► May (27)
► April (26)
► March (20)
► February (31)
► January (35)
▼ 2015 (364)
► December (33)
► November (37)
► October (31)
► September (24)
► August (29)
▼ July (16)
I Am Back.... Time To Get Down To Business
Vacation Alert
Malaysian Flight MH17 Shootdown: One Year Later, W...
The Greek Crisis: The Criminal Greek Government Su...
Political Correctness Run Amok: Man Wears Confeder...
A True Symbol Of Resistance From Tyranny: The Conf...
The Greek Crisis: A Real Greek Tragedy - The Prob...
Northerntruthseeker Rant For Sunday, July 12th, 20...
NTS On A Short Break
Important Health News: Why Oncologists (Doctors Wh...
OXI ! The Greeks Vote NO To European Union Impose...
Northerntruthseeker Rant For Sunday, July 5th, 201...
Happy 4th Of July To All Of My American Readers
The Lougheed Martin F35 Flying POS: F35 Joint Str...
The Greek Crisis: Greece - No To Austerity, Yes To...
Happy Canada Day To My Readers
► June (26)
► May (29)
► April (33)
► March (33)
► February (43)
► January (30)
► 2014 (361)
► December (34)
► November (32)
► October (33)
► September (38)
► August (34)
► July (33)
► June (26)
► May (31)
► April (29)
► March (24)
► February (22)
► January (25)
► 2013 (345)
► December (20)
► November (25)
► October (25)
► September (31)
► August (28)
► July (20)
► June (35)
► May (35)
► April (33)
► March (23)
► February (28)
► January (42)
► 2012 (522)
► December (36)
► November (46)
► October (40)
► September (43)
► August (40)
► July (32)
► June (37)
► May (43)
► April (39)
► March (56)
► February (52)
► January (58)
► 2011 (516)
► December (53)
► November (43)
► October (41)
► September (39)
► August (42)
► July (34)
► June (40)
► May (37)
► April (33)
► March (50)
► February (48)
► January (56)
► 2010 (797)
► December (56)
► November (54)
► October (56)
► September (65)
► August (76)
► July (45)
► June (72)
► May (79)
► April (60)
► March (70)
► February (72)
► January (92)
► 2009 (519)
► December (80)
► November (65)
► October (98)
► September (83)
► August (79)
► July (67)
► June (18)
► May (8)
► April (7)
► March (3)
► February (4)
► January (7)
► 2008 (47)
► December (4)
► November (7)
► October (7)
► September (3)
► August (1)
► July (1)
► June (2)
► May (1)
► April (4)
► March (3)
► February (8)
► January (6)
The Finest Bloggers That I Know
SouthFront: Crisis News, World Events, Political Survey
Five Syrian Service Members Killed And Injured In Security Operation West Of Damascus - Two Syrian Police officers were killed and three others were injured during a security operation in the district of Zakyah... The post Five Syrian Servic...
52 minutes ago
Investment Watch
CNN’s Chris Cuomo Makes A FOOL Of Himself With New Claim About “Collusion” - I Love My Freedom reports, Don’t listen to reason. Just because the Mueller report clearly states that there was “no collusion” between the Russians and Tr...
55 minutes ago
Mami's Shit
The Andrew Carrington Hitchcock Show 978 - 2019.04.24 - Andrew Carrington Hitchcock (born ca. 1973) is the author of the widely imitated and hugely influential modern historical work, "The Synagogue of Satan", w...
1 hour ago
Aletho News
‘Lift sanctions & apologize if you want to talk,’ Iran’s Rouhani tells Washington - RT | April 24, 2019 The US should first drop sanctions and apologize, if it wants to sit down for negotiations, Iran’s President Hassan Rouhani said, after...
1 hour ago
Jon Rappoport's Blog
AI and genetic cures of disease: where’s the evidence? - by Jon Rappoport April 22, 2019 (To join our email list, click here.) “Isn’t it wonderful? Disease is genetic, and we can alter gene function. We’re winnin...
2 hours ago
Moon of Alabama
End Of Sanction Waivers For Iran's Oil Will Hurt Trump's Voter Support - The U.S. is waging a total economic war on Iran: The United States announced on April 22 it will no longer grant sanctions exemptions to eight countries, i...
3 hours ago
Penny for your thoughts
Strangling Syria & Others - *Following up on two previous posts:* - *Settling Syria? Impending Tripartite Talks...* - US Airstrikes Target 32 Oil Tankers In Syria- Attempting to ...
3 hours ago
Desertpeace
THE ETERNAL SHAME OF ZIONIST CRIMES - The eternal shame of the Jewish Zionist crimes screams for remorse and atonement! The eternal shame of the Jewish Zionist crimes By Evelyn Hecht-Galinski ...
5 hours ago
The Occidental Observer
Aristotle: The Biopolitics of the Citizen-State, Part 1 - The texts that have come down to us from Antiquity were written for a time and place very different from our own. Their very origins are often mysterious, ...
8 hours ago
Aangirfan
SRI LANKA EASTER SUNDAY FALSE FLAG - *India's Prime Minister Modi and Netanyahu.* There is a belief that various spy services helped to carry out the Easter Sunday 2019 bombings in Sri Lanka....
8 hours ago
CanadianWildflower
End of April Still a Time of Fire and Human Sacrifice. - Very interesting article about the occultic nature of the end of April, and its connection with fire and blood sacrifices to Baal (Satan, Molech) choose wh...
14 hours ago
Greencrow As The Crow Flies
Sri Lankan Carnage is Five Eyes Perps' Attempt to get a destabilizing "Toehold" on [purchasing S-400] Indian region - *India and Sri Lanka* It's not rocket science. Welllllll….to be exact...it does have *Something* to do with rocket science. India is in the middle of an...
19 hours ago
What They Don't Tell You
Ilhan Omar Is Right: Some People Did Something on 9/11 (video) - This is from the Architects & Engineers for 9/11 Truth website:
20 hours ago
Recent Essays by John Kaminski
Rome vs. Judea; Judea vs. Rome - A complete version of this essay essay appears in the 2019 edition of The Fair Race’s Darkest Hour (pages 27-114). For those looking for a general overvi...
1 day ago
John de Nugent
WN urges we rebuild white pride, not Notre Dame (a symbol of dead Christianity and a future mosque, anyway, if trends continue!) - A French comrade sent me this beautiful envelope of the pre-fire ND I know Jim Schneider, a good patriot and businessman with a white, Ukrainian [...]
1 day ago
The Realist Report
Donald Trump Was Framed - Latest piece published by American Free Press - America's last real newspaper!
2 days ago
Video Rebel's Blog
Judaism Incorporated Requires Cultural Corruption - Presidential candidate Robert Kennedy was killed on the night of the California primary in 1968. He would have probably defeated Richard Nixon if the Power...
2 days ago
ww3zionism
Bill Hicks Teaches Us a Lesson About Russiagate -
2 days ago
Goon Squad
Will this Madness Never Stop? - Killing innocents is bad enough, but when that horrible act is done in their place of worship, it's even more heinous. Like the Easter Sunday attacks in Sr...
2 days ago
INCOG MAN
Black Bastards Busted by White Man’s DNA Voodoo - All too often these days I stumble across a story where police working a cold case finally bust some old black geezer for the murder of some innocent White...
4 days ago
The American Awakening
Show Notes (4/20/19): The Downward Spiral Of Press Freedom - Michael Herzog will be having on journalist Janet Phelan! The Arrest Of Julian Assange Only The latest In The Downward Spiral Of Press Freedom While at the...
4 days ago
Smoking Mirrors
Beyond the Flaming Kaleidoscope of Humping Hermaphrodites, Coupling in the Wheel of Fire. - Dog Poet Transmitting....... There was never any doubt in my mind that Notre Dame was set on fire, by the same deluded Satanists that are behind all the tr...
5 days ago
Free Speech Monika
Conversation with John Friend of The Realist Report - Once again I had the honour of speaking with the courageous truth-teller John Friend of the Realist Report. We spoke … Continue reading →
2 weeks ago
B'Man's Revolt
B’Man is Well Hung - B’Man made many eye catching post titles like this one for many years (B’Man click bait). Sometimes they are funny. Sometimes, like this, they are not. I w...
5 weeks ago
Crimes of Empire
Aangirfan Restored. - Aangirfan Removed. (Restored) Update December 8th, 2018. The main Aangirfan site, aanirfan.com has been restored on blogger.com, this is very pleasing and ...
5 months ago
Home - Global ResearchGlobal Research - Centre for Research on Globalization
-
NEW WORLD ORDER / WORLD WAR II / CONSPIRACY / NEWS
-
The Real YayaCanada - The Real YayaCanada
-
Jimstone.is - World Class Investigative Truth
-
Search This Blog
Benjamin Freedman Exposes The TRUTH About World Jewry
MUST Listen To Video:
Adolf Hitler: The Greatest Story Never Told!
The American Dream
How The Rothschild Banks Have Destroyed America:
Video That Got Canadian Monika Schaefer Arrested In Germany!
THIS Is Why I Fight For True Justice: Rachel Corrie, A Girl With A Dream
Watch This Video, And Never Forget The Name: Rachel Corrie:
Missing Links: THE Best Video About The Israeli Mossad 9-11 Attacks!
Israel DID 9-11: Now You Can Be Sure!
Missing Links Movie: The Definitive Truth About 9/11 from Johannes58 on Vimeo.
The REAL Truth About Antisemitism
Here is a video that exposes the real truth about "Antisemitism":
The Truth About The Fraud Of "Al Qaeda"
The Cloud Mystery: The Real Driving Force Behind Our Climate Change
Readers Of Northerntruthseeker From Around The World
My Intelligent Followers, Come And Join Us!
The Best Sites Exposing The Truth About Israel's 9:11 Attacks On America
9/11: A Decade Later
9/11 Hard Facts
9-11: Israel Did It!
Best Sites For Exposing The Apollo Moon Landings Hoax!
Moonfaker
Jack White's Photo Analysis Of Project Apollo
Fair Use Notice
Fair Use Notice
§ 107. Limitations on exclusive rights: Fair use40 Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 106 and 106A, the fair use of a copyrighted work, including such use by reproduction in copies or phonorecords or by any other means specified by that section, for purposes such as criticism, comment, news reporting, teaching (including multiple copies for classroom use), scholarship, or research, is not an infringement of copyright. In determining whether the use made of a work in any particular case is a fair use the factors to be considered shall include — (1) the purpose and character of the use, including whether such use is of a commercial nature or is for nonprofit educational purposes; (2) the nature of the copyrighted work; (3) the amount and substantiality of the portion used in relation to the copyrighted work as a whole; and (4) the effect of the use upon the potential market for or value of the copyrighted work. The fact that a work is unpublished shall not itself bar a finding of fair use if such finding is made upon consideration of all the above factors.
About Myself
Northerntruthseeker
Canadian male, age 58..(Hard to believe I am that old..) Sickened by the lies of history, and how our education system has ruined and failed our childrens' minds, I decided it was time to take a stand and put up real articles of truthful information. Willing to fight to see truth come out, and to have the true criminals on our planet exposed for their crimes against humanity. I am in this for the truth and where ever the truth leads me! ******************************************************** Northerntruthseeker is fully responsible for all content in this blog. If any errors or omissions are deemed necessary for correction of material, it will be placed into the articles affected, and notice will be put up for all readers. Northerntruthseeker will never accept money, personal gifts, or any threats, given for any material posted in this blog. The information articles in this blog are free for everyone to take and spread to others. In these times of uncertainty, people deserve the truth no matter how harsh it may be!
View my complete profile
The Best Sites AND Articles To Research Criminal Judaism
What Really Happened
Incogman: Sick Of All The BS!
John Kaminski
Holocaust Deprogramming Course
Gilad Atzmon
Activist Post
The Truth Seeker
Real Zionist News
My Catbird Seat
David Duke
Andrew Carrington Hitchcock
Mask Of Zion: Undeniable Facts About Zionism
Norman Finkelstein
Must Read: Alexander Solzhenitsyn's Exposure Of The Jewish Menace - 200 Years Together
Jewish Ritual Sacrifices Are Real!
The Life Of An American Jew In Racist Marxist Israel
The Protocols Of The Learned Elders Of Zion
The Synagogue Of Satan
Masters Of Deception By ZCF
The Zionists
None Dare Call It A Conspiracy
The Truth About The Evil Talmud
The Jew World Order Is Upon Us, Beware!
A Question To Ponder: Was There Really A Holocaust?
The Ultimate World Order: Jewish Sinister Plans For A World Jewish Utopia!
The Hidden Tyranny: The Harold Rosenthal 1976 Interviews
Exposure Of Jewish Ritual Murders And Blood Sacrifices
Is The "Diary Of Ann Frank" Fraudulent? You Decide!
Watermark theme. Powered by Blogger.