9 Foods That Help Alleviate Nausea - The Wellness Corner
This website uses cookies. If you use the site further, you agree to our use of cookies. Ok, I agree
Sign in
4839 9-Foods-That-Help-Alleviate-Nausea
Others
9 Foods That Help Alleviate Nausea
5 Months ago
207
5.0
Truworth Wellness
Medications usually help to control nausea. However, some foods may also help relieve it some extent. Here are a few foods which you can have to prevent nausea:
Apple
The fiber from apples helps to remove nausea-inducing chemicals from the body. But having too much of it at a time can also worsen things. Take small bites of apple through the day. Try apple juice if you are having trouble digesting the food.
Crackers
High-starch products like crackers, toasts, and bread help to absorb stomach acids and calm a sick stomach. Pregnant women can keep a handful of crackers by their bedside and eat a few before getting out of bed in the morning.
Ginger
Ginger is known to reduce nausea and vomiting. Try a cup of ginger tea or ginger ale, or a small piece of ginger candy to relieve nausea.
Water
Take small sips of plain water when nausea strikes. Water will not only keep you hydrated, it will also prevent the headaches that often accompany nausea. Start slowly by drinking small amounts and increase your intake gradually.
Nuts
Protein deficiency can make your nausea worse. If nausea strikes, try eating some protein-rich, easy-to-digest foods such as nuts. They will quickly replenish your depleted energy and keep nausea at bay.
Clear Chicken Broth
Warm and clear, low-fat chicken soup will not only make you feel better when you have cold, but also help you get rid of nausea.
Sports Drink/ Rehydration Solutions
These drinks contain electrolytes to help you restore depleted minerals and make you feel better when you experience nausea or vomiting.
Bananas
If your nausea is accompanied by vomiting and dehydration, snack on a banana. Not only does the fruit give you energy, it also helps you restore lost potassium.
Mint
Thought the aroma of mint alone is enough to make you feel better, chewing or drinking mint tea can also prove effective in relieving nausea.
Copyright 2019 Truworth Health Technologies Pvt. Ltd.
Support
Terms of Use & Privacy policy
Enter your email
address to get started!
Looks like you've been here before.
Enter your password to login
Forgot password?
Request OTP
Send Reset Email
Enter your registered mobile number to generate a
One-Time Password
Back to Login
Enter your new password.
New Password:
Confirm New Password:
A One-Time Password has been sent to your registered mobile number.
Enter the 6-digit OTP here
Didn't received OTP ? Request for new otp in
Didn't received OTP yet? Resend OTP
Redirecting you shortly...