Can I conceive while breastfeeding? - BabyCenter Australia
Advertisement
Log in Sign up
Getting pregnant
All Getting pregnant Actively trying for a baby
Am I pregnant? Before you begin Dads-to-be Getting pregnant videos Is it true ...? Ovulation calculator Trouble conceiving? Photos
See less
Advertisement
Community groups
Getting pregnant Trying more than 12 months Assisted conception See all getting pregnant groups
Home Getting pregnant Am I pregnant?
QUESTION
Can I conceive while breastfeeding?
ANSWER
The BabyCenter editorial team
Our panel of health writers
Yes. In general, you're less fertile, but not infertile, while breastfeeding. Although you may not menstruate for months after giving birth, your body usually releases its first postnatal egg before you get your first period. So you won't know you've ovulated until two weeks later when you menstruate.
If you're breastfeeding your baby exclusively, day and night, your menstrual cycle may not start again for up to a year after giving birth. If your baby sleeps through the night at an early age, you will probably become fertile again more quickly; typically within three to eight months. The same is true if you're supplementing with formula.
In other words, the more often your baby feeds, the longer it may be before your menstrual cycle starts again. Experts believe this is because breastfeeding curbs the hormones that trigger ovulation.
Some women use breastfeeding as a form of birth control. However, you need to be very careful if you want to use this method because even though you may not menstruate for months after giving birth, your body usually releases its first postnatal egg before you get your first period. So you won't know you've ovulated until two weeks later, when you menstruate. To use breastfeeding as an effective birth control you need to follow the lactational amenorrhoea method or LAM; it is not as simple as just breastfeeding exclusively. Read our article on LAM for more information.
If you know you don't want to get pregnant while breastfeeding, start using contraception as soon as you start having sex again.
Remember, you could start ovulating as early as three months after birth, even while breastfeeding exclusively, and you probably won't know when it happens. If you want to make sure you don't get pregnant, use some form of birth control every time you have sex.
Read more about breastfeeding and your menstrual cycle.
Last reviewed: February 2014
References
PRODIGY. 2005. Contraception. PRODIGY Knowledge Guidance. London: NHS. www.prodigy.nhs.uk [Accessed February 2007]
Show references Hide references
Track your baby’s development
It looks like you’re in the United States.
Register on babycenter.com instead.
Join now to receive free weekly newsletters tracking your baby’s development and yours throughout your pregnancy.
Enter your due date or child's birthday
dd12345678910111213141516171819202122232425262728293031 mmJanFebMarAprMayJunJulAugSepOctNovDec yyyy20202019201820172016201520142013201220112010
Trying to conceive?
Enter your email address
Join now
Privacy policy & terms
Comments
Log in or sign up to post a comment!
A BabyCenter Member
29/05/17
Hello Dr IMUSE, I have no words to express my gratitude, Dr IMUSE...I have fought with infertility issues for more than a decade. My Gyn told a year ago that one of my tubes was blocked, and had insisted that IVF was the only option left for me. I was desperate and due to my relatively advanced age (I was 38 a year ago) and the 2 ovarian cysts that were giving me hell, that I would be childless. My husband and I decided we will keep on fighting as I have read many stories about the side effects, We almost gave up and then I found your contact and emailed you to order, I bought your herbal product. You were so supportive and kind that I immediately ordered your product and started taking the herbal medicine After one month and a week of trying I got pregnant with my first baby boy. With one blocked tube and 2 ovarian cysts, I think this is nothing short of a miracle! Thank you for everything, Dr IMUSE!"TO order contact him via:imuseherbalsulplement@gmail.com or call +2347051771573
Report this
LisaUpche
30/04/17
With all these challenges, the possibility of getting pregnant was very difficult...I read an article of how Iya Hindi, that helped a woman to conceive with the use of the herbal treatment...I contacted the address hindinative@yahoo.com ....I ordered for the herbs and it worked. I conceived through the use of the herbs as instructed also. Contact (hindinative@yahoo.com .Or whats App number+19145295224) for help.
Report this
A BabyCenter Member
16/07/14
My baby is 4 months and I recently got my first period since giving birth. My milk supply had already been dropping prior to getting my period and I have been supplementing my baby with formula following each breast feed. Will my milk dry up now that my period has returned?
Report this
Advertisement
Join BabyCenter
Sign up to receive free emails and track your baby's development.
Join now
You might also like
Sibling age gaps
What age gap is best between babies?
My first baby was premature, will it happen again?
Are you ready for another baby?
Is it dangerous to have several babies close together?
Related topics
Trying for another baby
Most popular in Getting pregnant
Ovulation
How babies are made
How to get your body ready for a baby
Best positions for baby making
Video: how life begins
How long will it take to get pregnant?
Top 10 signs of pregnancy
How soon can I test?
Getting pregnant in your 30s
Timing intercourse
Community
TOP RESOURCES
Find your birth club
Share your cutest pics
Meet local parents & parents-to-be
POPULAR GROUPS
Debates & discussions
Swap baby name ideas
Actively trying for a baby
Assisted conception
Pregnancy chat
Mums & dads chat
Breastfeeding
Twins, triplets & more
Parents of toddlers
Single parents
Baby & toddler sleep solutions
Miscarriage support
See all in Community
Getting pregnant
TOP RESOURCES
Get ready for pregnancy
Ovulation calculator
Get to know your cycle
Cervical mucus & fertility
How ovulation kits work
The best time to have sex
Top 10 signs of pregnancy
When to take a pregnancy test
The lowdown on fertility drugs
PCOS & fertility
POPULAR TOPICS
Before you begin
Trying for a baby
Fertility tips for men
Am I pregnant?
Infertility & trouble conceiving
See all in Getting Pregnant
Pregnancy
TOP RESOURCES
Symptoms you should never ignore
How big is your baby?
Weekly meal planners
Foods to avoid
When will you feel your baby move?
Due date calculator
Coping with pelvic pain
Finding out your baby's sex
Hospital bag checklist
Signs of labour
Most popular baby names
POPULAR TOPICS
Your pregnancy week by week
How your baby's developing
Labour & birth
Baby name inspiration
See all in Pregnancy
Baby
TOP RESOURCES
Sleep basics
Breastfeeding for beginners
Formula feeding basics
Baby poo: what's normal?
Name that rash!
Milestones 0-6 months
The truth about growth spurts
The law on car seats
Immunisations: what to expect
When your baby has a cold
POPULAR TOPICS
Your baby week by week
Caring for your newborn
Baby development
First foods
Fun baby games
See all in Baby
Toddler
TOP RESOURCES
Toddler development milestones
Food & fussy eating
Managing toddler aggression
Help your child sleep through
Moving from cot to bed
Learning to talk
Toddler teething timeline
Signs your toddler needs a doctor
Constipation in toddlers
Vomiting: what's normal
Whooping cough symptoms
POPULAR TOPICS
Your toddler month by month
Toilet training
Top sleep tips
Great games for toddlers
See all in Toddler
Preschooler
TOP RESOURCES
Is your child getting enough sleep?
Healthy diet for children 3-5 years
Taming preschooler aggression
How to teach your child to read
When should you stop daytime naps?
How kids learn to share
Coping with night terrors
What to do about nail biting
Ways to avoid saying "no" to your child
Put an end to bedtime battles
Is your child anxious?
All about molluscum contagiosum
Signs of meningitis to watch for
POPULAR TOPICS
Your child's development
Top behaviour strategies
See all in Preschooler
Life as a parent
TOP RESOURCES
Your body after birth
Healthy post-birth weight loss
Postnatal symptoms to watch out for
Bleeding after the birth
Coping with the baby blues
Plan the perfect naming ceremony
Childcare: what you need to know
Your rights & benefits
Sex secrets for parents
When can you fly with your baby?
Trouble-free travel 0-8 months
POPULAR TOPICS
Getting back into shape
Love & relationships
Top family finance tips
Family horoscopes
See all in Life as a Parent
Video
TOP VIDEOS
How to sleep better in pregnancy
Healthy eating for mums-to-be
6 fun baby shower games
What happens during childbirth
Massaging your newborn
3 ways to burp your baby
How to swaddle your baby
8 signs your baby wants milk
5 comfortable breastfeeding positions
How to do baby-led weaning
10 finger foods for starting solids
VIDEO COLLECTIONS
Fetal development stage by stage
Labour & birth
Postnatal exercises
Baby massage how-to guides
See all in Video
My Pregnancy and Baby Today
ABOUT BABYCENTER
About us
Advertise with us
Privacy policy
Terms of use
GET HELP
Help center
Contact us
Community guidelines
Email subscriptions
Account details
Family information
OTHER SITES
BabyCenter US
BabyCenter en Español
Arabia
Brazil
Canada
France
Germany
India
Malaysia
UK
Connect with us
Track your baby's development
Get expert guidance from the world's #1 pregnancy and parenting resource, delivered via email, our app, and website.
Join now
Your BabyCenter team
We subscribe to the HONcode principles of the Health On the Net Foundation. Verify here.
All contents copyright © BabyCenter, L.L.C. 1997-2019 All rights reserved.
This Internet site provides information of a general nature and is designed for educational purposes only. If you have any concerns about your own health or the health of your child, you should always consult with a doctor or other healthcare professional. Please review the Terms of Use before using this site. Your use of the site indicates your agreement to be bound by the Terms of Use.
This site is published by BabyCenter, L.L.C., which is responsible for its contents as further described and qualified in the Terms of Use.
Support for your parenting journey. Delivered to your inbox.
My Baby This Week Newsletter
Keep up with your baby’s development with personalised weekly newsletters.
The BabyCenter Bulletin
Get the latest parenting news, plus expert advice and real-world wisdom.
Special Offers from Our Partners
Receive discounts, deals and parenting information from BabyCenter’s partners.