Lakeshore Natural Foods Eye Sight
My Account
Contact Us
Home
Product Directory
Ingredient Glossary
Store Specials
Health-E-Coupons
Events Calendar
News & Features
Reference Room
Health Calculators
Find A Practitioner
About Our Store
Eye Sight : Eat for Your Eyes
Most of us don’t think about the health of our eyes until there’s a problem—blurry vision, irritation, or vision loss. Much of the damage that leads to eye conditions is linked to free-radicals, so your first line of defense for maintaining healthy eyes is eating a diet rich in foods that are high in nutrients that nourish the eyes: antioxidant vitamins and minerals; the carotenes lutein, zeaxanthin, and lycopene; and healthy fats. The following foods are top choices for eye health.
Blueberries
These antioxidant-rich berries contain flavonoids called anthocyanidins, antioxidant compounds that are responsible for their bright blue color. Studies show that blueberry extracts help to improve night vision and may be protective against the development of age-related macular degeneration (AMD), glaucoma, and cataracts.
Broccoli
Broccoli is a rich source of antioxidant vitamins C and E. It’s also rich in lutein, the carotenoid that concentrates in the retina, protecting it from damage and helping to prevent AMD. Broccoli and other members of the cabbage family, such as kale, Brussels sprouts, and collards, are all excellent sources of beta-carotene, lutein, and zeaxanthin.
Carrots
We’ve all heard it before, but carrots really are good for your eyes. The beta-carotene in carrots provides protection against AMD and the development of cataracts. Carrots also support good night vision. Their antioxidant compounds are good for the eyes and also encourage heart health.
Peppers
Bell peppers are one of the most nutrient-dense foods available. Studies show that bell peppers protect against cataracts, possibly due to their high vitamin C and beta-carotene content.
Spinach
Spinach is one of the richest dietary sources of lutein, making it important for supporting healthy eyesight and preventing AMD and cataracts. It’s packed with antioxidant compounds that may also have anti-cancer properties.
Cold-Water Fish
Oily fish such as salmon and tuna are rich in omega-3 essential fatty acids (EFAs), which are helpful in fighting free-radical damage. Retinal photoreceptors (the cells that allow vision to occur) break down in the presence of light, and EFAs protect against the free radicals produced by light. Studies show that adding omega-3s to the diet helps to support healthy vision.
Don’t wait until it’s too late to reverse the damage to your eyesight—start taking a proactive approach to eye health today by incorporating these nutrient-packed foods into a balanced diet. An added bonus? They’ll benefit overall health as well. Research shows that most Americans aren’t meeting the daily recommendations for many eye-protective nutrients from the diet alone, so also consider supplementation with a high-quality multivitamin, eye health formula, and omega-3s.
2014 Kristy Erickson
Resources:
http://www.dovepress.com/nutrients-for-the-aging-eye-peer-reviewed-article-CIA
Encyclopedia of Healing Foods by Michael T. Murray, Joseph Pizzorno, and Lara Pizzorno (Atria Books, 2005)
Allergies
Anti-Aging
Arthritis
Asthma
Blood Pressure
Bone Health
Cancer
Chronic Pain
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Eye Sight
Healthy Kids
Hearing
Heart
Lung Health
Men's Health
Menopause
Oral Health
Pregnancy
Senior Health
Sleep
Stress
Weight
Weight Management
Women's Health
Healthy Living Marketplace
Home | Product Directory | Store Specials | Events Calendar | Reference Room | About Our Store | My Email Subscription | Contact Us | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use
All contents © Copyright 1999-2019 Genius Central and Lakeshore Natural Foods. All rights reserved. This internet site is hosted by Genius Central, a Web site service provider to natural health stores nationwide. Genius Central and Lakeshore Natural Foods have no means of independently evaluating the safety or functionality of the products offered by their suppliers and affiliates and thus can neither endorse nor recommend products. Information presented is of a general nature for educational and informational purposes only. Statements about products and health conditions have not been evaluated by the US Food and Drug Administration. Products and information presented herein are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent disease. If you have any concerns about your own health, you should always consult with a physician or other healthcare professional. Your use of this site indicates your agreement to be bound by our Terms and Conditions