West Nile Q&A - News - MPNnow - Canandaigua, NY
Sections
News
Sports
Entertain
Obits
E-Edition
Cars
Jobs
Homes
Classifieds
Local Ads
Subscribe
Site
Archive
Log in
Subscribe Now
West Nile Q&A
McPherson Sentinel
Monday
Aug 27, 2007 at 12:01 AM Aug 27, 2007 at 4:25 AM
Q&A about West Nile virus.
Q. What is West Nile virus infection? A. It is caused by West Nile virus (WNV), which is spread to people by the bite of a mosquito infected with the virus. It's usually considered a virus of birds, but people can be accidental hosts. In people, the disease usually causes only a mild illness, but may cause encephalitis (swelling of the brain), meningitis (swelling of the lining of the brain), or even death in rare cases. The virus is named after the West Nile region of Uganda, where the virus was first identified. Q. Is West Nile fever a new disease? A. No. This virus was first identified in 1937 in Uganda, Africa. Prior to 1999, the virus had only been identified in Africa, Europe, the Middle East, and Asia. WNV was first detected in the United States in 1999, when 62 cases and seven deaths from WNV were reported in the New York City area. Q. Who gets West Nile virus? A. Anyone can get infected with WNV if bitten by an infected mosquito. More severe infections are seen in the elderly and those with a weakened immune system. Q. How is West Nile virus spread? A. WNV is only spread by the bite of infected mosquitoes. Mosquitoes become infected by biting a bird that carries the virus. WNV is not spread from person to person or directly from birds to humans. WNV is not spread by person-to-person contact such as touching, kissing, or caring for someone who is infected.
Q. Can you get West Nile virus from other insects or ticks?
A. Infected mosquitoes are the primary transmission source of the virus to humans. There is no evidence that other insects or ticks transmit WNV.
Q. What are the symptoms of a West Nile virus infection?
A. Most people infected with WNV do not become ill. People with a mild infection may experience fever, headache, eye pain, muscle aches, joint pain, a rash on the trunk and swollen lymph nodes. In severe cases symptoms include severe muscle weakness, inflammation of the brain (encephalitis), paralysis, and coma. In rare cases the infection may be fatal, particularly in the elderly and people with other medical conditions.
Q. How soon after being bitten by an infected mosquito do symptoms occur? A. Symptoms usually occur three to 15 days after a West Nile virus infected mosquito bites a person. Being bitten by an infected mosquito will not necessarily make you sick. Most people who are infected with West Nile virus have no symptoms or have only mild illness.
Q. Should I be tested for West Nile virus infection after being bitten by a mosquito? A. No, most mosquitoes are not infected with WNV. WNV infections generally occur during warm weather months when mosquitoes are active. However, even in areas where WNV occurs, only a small proportion of the mosquitoes are likely to be infected.
Q. What should I do if I think I have West Nile virus encephalitis? A. If you develop signs of encephalitis, with fever, muscle weakness, and confusion, you should seek medical care immediately. Q. Does past infection with this virus make a person immune?
A. Prior infection with West Nile virus is thought to provide lifelong immunity to the virus. Q. What is the treatment for West Nile virus infection? A. There is no specific treatment for West Nile virus infection. A physician may prescribe medications to relieve the symptoms of the illness. In severe cases, hospitalization may be required.
Q. Is there a vaccine against West Nile virus? A. No. A vaccine to protect against West Nile virus does not exist at this time. Q. Can you get West Nile virus from birds?
A. There is currently no evidence that West Nile virus can be spread directly from an infected bird to people. However, dead birds can carry other diseases and should not be handled with bare hands. Use gloves to place dead birds into plastic bags and then placed into outdoor trash. Q. What about horses or other animals? A. Horses and other animals can be infected with WNV from the bite of an infected mosquito. Most horses infected with WNV recover, but there have been horses in the United States that have died of WNV. A vaccine against WNV is available for horses, and your local veterinarian should be contacted. Although other animals may be infected with WNV, they may not show signs of the disease. There is no evidence that people can get WNV directly from animals or that animals can spread the disease to other animals. Q. Is West Nile virus transmitted by blood transfusion? A. In 2003, there were two documented instances where West Nile virus was transmitted through transfusion. All blood donations have been screened since 2003 for WNV, but a very low risk exists of potential transmission. Q. Should people avoid donating blood or getting blood transfusions? A. Blood is lifesaving and is currently in short supply. Donating blood is safe, and we encourage blood donation now and in the future. For patients who need a blood transfusion, the benefits far outweigh any risks and more sensitive screening methods of blood donations are under development. Q. If a person has had West Nile virus, can they still donate blood? A. Yes. There is no risk of West Nile virus infection for people who give blood. Blood saves lives and is always needed, especially during the summer months. Because donating blood is safe, we encourage blood donation now and in the future. We also encourage all donors to truthfully answer the questions asked by the blood bank to make sure you are fit to donate on a given day. Q. What can be done to prevent an infection with West Nile virus? A. Preventing mosquito bites will prevent West Nile virus infection. Personal protection and reducing mosquito populations will minimize the chance of developing WNV infection when it is present in an area. Personal protective measures to reduce or prevent mosquito bites include: - Limiting time spent outdoors at dusk and dawn when mosquitoes are active. - Wearing long-sleeve shirts and long pants when outdoors. - Using insect repellents containing DEET or picaridin when outdoors. Follow the manufacturer's directions carefully. Oil of lemon eucalyptus has also been shown to be as effective as repellants with low levels of DEET. - Keeping window and door screens repaired in your home to prevent mosquito entry. - Reducing mosquito populations will also reduce mosquito bites. In some communities, public funded surveillance and control programs reduce mosquito populations by eliminating mosquito breeding habitat, mosquito larvae or adults. You can also take measures in your own yard or on your property to eliminate standing, stagnant water where mosquitoes breed. Mosquitoes most likely to carry WNV will not breed in fresh water or running water. Mosquitoes most likely to carry WNV breed in standing, stagnant water. Any container or area where water can collect is a potential breeding ground for mosquitoes, including unused tires, buckets, toys, clogged gutters, birdbaths, and livestock tanks. Turning out the water in containers or replacing/replenishing existing water every three days will interrupt the mosquito life cycle. Also, the use of larvicides with Bti in these areas of stagnant, standing water has shown to be extremely effective in eliminating mosquitoes. McPherson Sentinel
Never miss a story
Choose the plan that's right for you.
Digital access or digital and print delivery.
Subscribe Now
Sign up for daily e-mails
Sign up
Site Services
My Profile
Contact Us
Subscriptions
Commercial Printing
E-Edition
Market Place
Real Estate
Classifieds
Local Ads
Place Ad
Advertise With Us
Pay Your Ad Bill
Communities
Brighton
East Rochester
Fairport
Gates-Chili
Greece
Henrietta
Irondequoit
Penfield
Pittsford
Wayne County
Webster
Victor
Multimedia
Photo Galleries
Facebook
Messenger Post Media on Twitter
Bob Chavez: @MPN_bchavez
Josh Williams: @mpnjosh
Julie Sherwood: @MPN_JSherwood
Jack Haley: @jackhaley42
Mike Murphy: @MPN_MikeMurphy
Jennifer Reed: @MPN_jreed
© Copyright 2006-2019 GateHouse Media, LLC. All rights reserved • GateHouse News
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
MPNnow ~ 73 Buffalo St., Canandaigua, NY 14424 ~ Privacy Policy ~ Terms Of Service
Subscribe Now
Site
Archive
Home
News
Community
Court News
Education
Police & Fire
State News
Nation & World
Shareable
Sports
High School
Entertain
Books
Celebrity News
Movies
Music
TV Guide
Calendar
Lifestyle
Time and Money
Boomers
Faith
Family
Food
Health
Homes
Pets
Travel
Opinion
Columns
Editorials
Letters
Business
Obits
Towns
Canandaigua
Bloomfield
Manchester
Naples
Farmington
More
Photos
Videos
Calendar
Blogs
Contests
Branded Content
Submit your news
Special Sections
From Our Advertisers
Southern Kitchen
Subscriber
My Profile
E-Edition
Subscribe
Market Place
Classifieds
Find-N-Save
Cars
Jobs
Homes
Place Ad
Local Directory
Advertise With Us
Pay Your Ad Bill
Digital Marketing Services
Feedback
Ownership
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
GateHouse Media Publications
SUBSCRIBE TODAY
Choose the plan that’s right for you. Digital access or digital and print delivery.
Learn More