Pharmaceutical Association of Malaysia (PhAMA) - Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome - AIDS
Home | Sitemap | Contact Us | Login
About Us
About Us
Vision & Mission
Industry Overview
FAQ
Contact Us
PhAMA Members
Board of Directors
Membership Directory
Membership Details
AWARDS 2016
Winners 2016
Past Year Winners (2015)
Past Year Winners (2014)
Events
PhAMA Industry Factbook 2018 Edition Launch - Media Coverage
Phama Industry Factbook 2018 (Photos)
PhAMA Dinner 2018 (Photos)
PhAMA Publication
PhAMA Code of Conduct
Code of Conduct - Marketing Practices
Code of Conduct (Non Prescription)
PhAMA Fact Book
PhAMA Industry Fact Book 2012
PhAMA Industry Fact Book 2018
PhAMA Position Paper
Value Pricing for Improved Patient Access in Malaysia
Building Greater Access to Innovative Medicines
Is Reference Pricing Right for Malaysia?
PhAMA Position Papers
PhAMA Position Papers on Intellectual Property
Resources
International Links
National Links
Government Hospitals
Private Hospitals
Doctors - MMA
Pharmacies & Pharmacists
Academy of Medicine Malaysia
National Specialist Register
» Home	» PHAMA PUBLICATION » -do not use- » AIDS
Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome - AIDS
AIDS stands for Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome:
Acquired means you can get infected with it;
Immune Deficiency means a weakness in the body's system that fights diseases.
Syndrome means a group of health problems that make up a disease.
How is HIV transmitted?
The three main modes of HIV transmission are:
Through unprotected anal, oral or vaginal sex with an infected partner
Through sharing needles or injecting material with an infected person
From mother to child during pregnancy, birth or breastfeeding
HIV is not infectious through tears, saliva, and sweat.
How do I know if I have HIV/AIDS?
The only way to know if you have HIV/AIDS is to take a HIV Antibody Test, which is painless. Anonymous and confidential HIV Antibody Tests are available for free at government hospitals and clinics, and can also be done at private clinics. Results of the HIV Antibody Test are available in less than two weeks, and some tests can produce results in less than 10 minutes.
For enquiries on anonymous and confidential testing, please call Malaysian AIDS Council at 03-4045 1033.
I have tested positive for HIV, what do I do now?
If you have recently been told that you are HIV+, you may feel scared and confused. Dealing with a positive diagnosis of HIV/AIDS is never easy and you do not have to go through this alone. There are many organsations across Malaysia that provide support and offer free confidential counselling. For details of these organisations, please refer to the Malaysian Aids Council and the Malaysian Aids Foundation website here.
Treatment is also widely available in Malaysia and HIV+ people can expect to live full and active lives for many years.
For information about HIV/AIDS, please select one of the links below:
The Malaysian Aids Councilo (MAC) & the Malaysian Aids Foundation (MAF) website (www.MAC.org.my)
The Body Website (www.thebody.com)
The Wolrd Health Organisation Aids website ( www.who.int )
www.infosihat.gov.my
The above information is abstracted from the website of the Malaysian Aids Council (MAC) and the Malaysian Aids Foundation (MAF). Visit the MAC/MAF website here.
Print Friendly
Copyright © 2009 - 2019 Pharmaceutical Association of Malaysia (PhAMA). All Rights Reserved.
Powered by CORNERSTONE CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM