Arkana Unitone TXA + Vit C Mask 50ml Tranexamic Acid 3-O-Ethyl Ascorbic Acid (1.7fl oz)
JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. For the best experience on our site, be sure to turn on Javascript in your browser.
Search
Search
Search
Advanced Search
All Categories Concerns - Anti-Aging - Dryness - Dullness - Lines & Wrinkles - Lifting - Dark Spots - Pores Products - Cleansers - Exfoliators - Eye Creams - Face Creams - Masks - Peels - Serums - Toners & Mists - Tools
"); //	$('#search-view-all').on('click', function(){ //	$('#search_mini_form').submit(); // }); //	} }); function correctProductUrl(urlKey, isImage) { if (urlKey.search('http') !== -1) { return urlKey; } return ((typeof isImage !== 'undefined') ? baseImageUrl : baseUrl) + urlKey; } });
Search
Skip to Content
Cart 0
Links
Compare ()
Sign In
Toggle Nav
Menu
Home
Products
Cleansers
Exfoliators
Eye Creams
Face Creams
Masks
Peels
Serums
Toners & Mists
Tools
Concerns
Anti-Aging
Dryness
Dullness
Lines & Wrinkles
Lifting
Dark Spots
Pores
Blog
Brands
Arkana
Skip to the end of the images gallery
Skip to the beginning of the images gallery
Unitone TXA + Vit C Mask 50ml Tranexamic Acid 3-O-Ethyl Ascorbic Acid (1.7fl oz)
Be the first to review this product
The Unitone TXA + Vit C Mask takes the restorative powers of 3-O-ethyl ascorbic acid and combines it with the skin-brightening effects of Tranexamic acid, leaving you with skin that looks more even, younger and tauter. It contains 5% of active substances: Tranexamic acid, Vitamin C (3-O-ethyl ascorbic acid), and licorice extract.
Evens out skin tone and eliminates skin discoloration
Neutralizes free radicals and counters sun damage
Stimulates collagen to reduce fine lines
Anti-inflammatory and healing properties
Fact: Hydroquinone is banned in the European skin care as a carcinogenic and dangerous. The ingredient is being considered for a similar ban in the USA. In clinical studies Tranexamic acid produces similar or better brightening results without the risks and irritation. Ditch Hydroquinone today for this superior and safer formula.
$45.99
Availability: In stock
SKU
ARK-46019
Qty:
Add to Cart
Details
This powerful mask won’t just even out discoloration in your skin and brighten dark spots. It will also reduce redness and irritation and actively counteract the effects of aging. It does this by combining powerful ingredients together in a synergistic formula. Read on to learn more about how these ingredients support and complement each other.
Tranexamic acid is the latest beauty discovery for combating discoloration in the skin resulting from hormonal imbalance, of post-inflammatory origin or as a result of sun exposure. It also counteracts photo-aging while reducing redness, swelling, and inflammation. Tranexamic acid is powerful on its own, but we pair it with Vitamin C to further enhance its properties.
Vitamin C, in the novel amphiphilic form of 3-O-ethyl ascorbic acid, neutralizes free radicals by penetrating deep below the skin’s surface. Free radicals damage the skin’s protein and lipid structures, and they are one of the main culprits behind common signs of aging. Our Vitamin C also seals capillaries, stimulates collagen production, and contributes to the fight against discoloration. It brightens skin by inhibiting tyrosinase, a key component in causing unsightly dark spots. Not all Vitamin C is created equal and many forms are simply not stable. Our formulation of Vitamin C (3-O-ethyl ascorbic acid) has a stable molecule and enhanced transport through skin. Lastly, Vitamin C stimulates collagen production for firmer, more elastic skin.
Finally, the licorice root supports the effects of the other ingredients by brightening the skin, fading dark spots, and further soothing any irritants on the body, making this formula exceptionally suited for those with sensitive skin. It’s also effective at regulating oil production.
Skin Discoloration During Pregnancy: Due to hormonal changes, many women experience flare up of facial skin discoloration during their pregnancy. It is often referred to as a “pregnancy mask”. We highly recommend using Unitone TXA + Vit C line of products to combat these hormonal discolorations. Tranexamic acid is considered Category B during pregnancy, meaning there are no known risks. On the other hand, the FDA has designated Hydroquinone a pregnancy category C substance. The reproductive studies done on animals have shown to have adverse side effects on the fetus, but that there is a lack of well controlled studies in the human population, thus it is not recommended to use that ingredient during pregnancy.
Reviews
Write Your Own Review
You're reviewing:Unitone TXA + Vit C Mask 50ml Tranexamic Acid 3-O-Ethyl Ascorbic Acid (1.7fl oz)
Your Rating
1 star 2 stars 3 stars 4 stars 5 stars
Your Name
Summary
Review
Submit Review
How to Use
Cleanse and tone the skin, then apply the Unitone TXA + Vit C Mask, covering the entire face. Rinse off the mask after 20-30 minutes. For a finishing touch, apply the Unitone TXA + Vit C Cream afterward. Repair the damage caused by excessive sun exposure by regularly applying this face mask. Recommended for weekly use.
This line can be used before or after dermo-aesthetic treatments without causing irritation, even on sensitive skin.
It is important to wear sunscreen daily, even on cloudy days. Skin discoloration is a condition that has a tendency to return in those who are prone to it thus it is an ongoing effort to maintain it discoloration free.
Ingredients​​
Aqua, Caprylic/Capric Triglyceride, Isopropyl Palmitate, Cetearyl Alcohol, Glycerin, Tranexamic Acid, 3-O-Ethyl Ascorbic Acid, Glyceryl Stearate SE, Tocopheryl Acetate, Sodium Polyacrylate, Parfum, Benzyl Alcohol, Dicetyl Phosphate, Dehydroacetic Acid, Glycyrrhiza Glabra Root Extract, Ceteth-10 Phosphate, Tetrasodium Glutamate Diacetate
FREE SHIPPING
On all orders over $50
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
Only top-quality European skincare brands
SUPERIOR INGREDIENTS
Free of dangerous chemicals
FREE SHIPPING
On all orders over $50
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
Only top-quality European skincare brands
SUPERIOR INGREDIENTS
Free of dangerous chemicals
About Us
EuroBeautiful
Privacy Policy
Shipping and Returns
Contact Us
For Customers
My Account
Orders History
FAQs
Support
Upcoming Sales & New Products
Subscribe for our e-mail list and be the first to know about our upcoming sales and new product releases.
Sign Up for Our Newsletter:
Subscribe
© EuroBeautiful LLC
Login with Facebook
Login with Twitter
Login with Google
Register with Facebook
Register with Twitter
Register with Google