Holistic Health: Benefits of Himalayan Salt Lamps - Layered Lifestyle
Layered Lifestyle
Live an empowered life today and everyday
Home
Living
Friday Favs
Photo Journals
Productivity
Travel
Wellness
Going Green
Holistic Health
Self Care
About Me
Contact
Menu
Holistic Health
Holistic Health: Benefits of Himalayan Salt Lamps
July 29, 2018 No Comments
We may earn money or products from the companies mentioned in this post.
Holistic Health: Benefits of Himalayan Salt Lamps
Okay guys, I’ve been obsessed with holistic health lately. I’m buying air purifying plants, working out, buying fresh produce from the local farmers market, giving myself more aromatherapy spa days, and learning to appreciate my body by giving it what it needs, when it needs it. Which is why I want to talk to you about the benefits of Himalayan salt lamps.
I bought my first and currently only salt lamp when I moved to England at the most adorable local shop after finding out:
There’s 2X – 5X more indoor air pollution than than outdoors.
Indoor air quality is one of the top five environmental risks to public health
96% of homes have at least one indoor air quality problem.
Some of the benefits of having a Himalayan salt lamp include:
Air purification– Salt lamps trap indoor air pollutants such as mold, bacteria and allergens by attracting water vapors. Particularly great for those who live in industrial cities.
Ease asthma and allergy symptoms– Himalayan salt is used in asthma inhalers to bring relief to those with these ailments. A fact I didn’t know until recently.
Boosts mood and promotes sleep– The light pink/orange color makes this the perfect bedside lamp, enhancing your mood and promoting a good sleep pattern by creating a calm atmosphere.
They neutralize electromagnetic radiation. Salt lamps reduce airborne infections and radiation by balancing positive and negative ions.
Decreases anxiety and stress by promoting a sense of calm.
Those are the health benefits of having salt lamps! I keep mine in my office since I spend a lot of time in there and need some mood boosts here and there. I love having it there!
Do you have a Himalayan salt lamp (or five)? Where do you display them? Show me on Instagram!
Until next time,
Victoria
Advertisements
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Tweet
Pin2
Share12
+1
14 Shares
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
BenefitsHolistic HealthLifestyleLifestyle blogSalt Lamps
Previous Post Next Post
You may also like
July 20, 2018
Friday Favs #3
July 24, 2018
Going Green: 11 Simple Swaps
August 2, 2018
Holistic Health: Fall Seasonal Eating Guide
Leave a Reply	Cancel reply
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Helping the everyday woman live an empowered life. From self care and productivity to feminism, travel and holistic health.
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Learn more
@layered_lifestyle Instagram
Something is wrong.
Instagram token error.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
About Me
Contact
Layered Lifestyle
Olsen WordPress Theme by CSSIgniter
%d bloggers like this: