second trimister – where expertise meets compassion
Skip to content
Search
where expertise meets compassion
Menu
Home
About
Contact
Tag: second trimister
Tips to Deal with Vomiting During Pregnancy
During the first trimester of pregnancy, a woman’s body experiences many changes. The most common complaint heard from 90 percent of pregnancies is vomiting, also known as “morning sickness”. This is a normal part of the pregnancy but it is mainly caused due to the rapid hormonal changes. When a woman is pregnant, due to high estrogen production and hormonal activities triggers nausea and vomiting.
Some of the tips and home remedies to minimize morning sickness or vomiting and nausea are listed below:
Vitamin B6: Vitamin B6 is found to help in relieving morning sickness in pregnant woman and it doesn’t harm the fetus. Foods which are high in Vitamin B6 are brown rice, corn, nuts, fish and bananas.
Mint Leaves: The menthol properties present in mint leaves, helps to soothe the inner part of the stomach. Chewing some fresh mint leaves to drink its juice avoids vomiting sensation.
Lemon: Lemon juice is also a very good remedy to deal with vomiting during pregnancy. Smell fresh lemon peels to ease nausea and vomiting symptoms or squeeze a fresh lemon into a glass of water with some honey added to it, drink this every day in the morning to prevent morning sickness.
Carom seeds: Chewing one teaspoon of carom seeds in the morning, helps pregnant woman for better digestion and to deal with vomiting. Consuming too much of carom seeds will increase the heat level of body, so make sure to have them in right quantity.
Ginger: Ginger can be used to treat all types of nausea and is safe for pregnant woman. Using fresh ginger in your drinks such as tea and fresh grated ginger in your food can help to get relief from nausea.
Eating patterns:
Take several small meals throughout the day, instead of having large meals.
Don’t eat fried, spicy foods and avoid foods with strong odours that bother you.
Avoid having empty stomach. Sip on some fluids such as clear fruit juices or water and snack regularly between meals.
Take foods which are easily digestible, low in fat and high in carbohydrates or protein.
Regular Walks: Walking and light exercises are very helpful during pregnancy, unless your doctor says no to it. Walking is a perfect remedy to reduce vomiting as it is a safe exercise and aids digestion. Sitting in one position for a long-time trigger vomiting, so it is better to walk a little after your meals for faster and better digestion.
Seek medical help if you are suffering from severe and constant vomiting, as this may lead to dehydration if left untreated.
Advertisements
MaxCure Suyosha Woman and Child hospital
November 8, 2016 February 6, 2017
first trimister
nausea
nausea during pregnancy
pregnancy
second trimister
tips to reduce vomiting
tips to treat vomiting
vomiting
vomiting during pregnancy
Search
Search for:
Recent Posts
Do Menstrual Cramps Bother You A Lot?
Don’t Let Heat Rash Suffer your kid
Does Iron Deficiency Make Your Child Anaemic?
Is Your Infant Safe From Food Allergies?
Does pelvic pain bother you very often?
Follow us on
Follow us on
Tags
abdominal pain ADHD in children ADHD symptoms baby sleep Best Children Hospitals in Hyderabad 2016 Best Children Hospitals in Hyderabad 2017 best childrens hospital in hyderabad best foods for kid's growth Best Gynaecologist in Hyderabad Best Gynecologist/Gynaecologists in Hyderabad best gynecologist in hyderabad Best Gynecology Hospital In Hyderabad Best Gynecology Hospitals in Hyderabad 2016 best pediatric hospital best pediatric hospital in hyderabad Best Pediatric Hospitals Hyderabad best pediatricians in hyderabad best pediatric neurologist best woman hospital in hyderabad best women's hospital in hyderabad brain development in children care for teething baby causes of fibroids child development child growth children Children Hospitals in Hyderabad - MaxCure Suyosha Hyderabad India childrens hospital Childrens Hospital in Hyderabad child sleep complicated pregancy dehydration dehydration in children dehydration in kids developmental delay factor for high - risk pregnancy fertility fibroid fibroids fibroids in woman Find Best Lady Gynecologist in Hyderabad first trimister foods for kid's growth foods for pregnancy good gynaecologist in hyderabad growth of kids high - risk pregnancy how to be a good parent how to build good relation with kids Hysteroscopy hystorectomy important vitamins for child growth introducing solids to babies kid's growth kids Laparoscopy Maternity Hospitals in Hyderabad MaxCure MaxCure Suyosha MaxCureSuyosha MaxCure Suyosha Children's Hospital in Hyderabad Maxcure Suyosha Woman's Hospital in Hyderabad MaxCure Suyosha Woman and Child Hospital MaxCure Suyosha Woman Hospital menstrual cramps menstrual disorders MRI myomectomy nausea nausea during pregnancy parental care pediatric hospital pediatric neurologist pregnancy second trimister signs of ADHD in children sleep sleep disorders sleep disorders in kids sleep issues sleep problems in children sleep problems in kids symptoms of having fibroids teething baby tips to connect with your child tips to reduce vomiting tips to relieve pain during teething tips to soothe baby's sore gums while teething tips to treat vomiting Top 10 Best Pediatric - Child Care Hospitals in India top childrens hospital in hyderabad top pediatric hospital in hyderabad Ultrasound uterine fibroids vitamins for kid;s growth vomiting vomiting during pregnancy weaning what are fibroids? what leads to complications in pregnancy
Advertisements
Contact us
Behind cyber Towers, Lane Next to McDonalds, Backside to Bahar Cafe,, Hitech-city, Madhapur, HUDA Techno Enclave, HITEC City, Hyderabad, Telangana 500081
(+91) 40 - 67076700 / 67066700
About MaxCure Suyosha
he MaxCure Suyosha has a team of efficient and highly qualified Obstetricians, Gynecologists, Neonatologists & Pediatricians headed by Dr. Manjula Anagani.
Dr. Manjula Anagani is a pioneer in the field of Minimally Invasive Surgery and Laparoscopy and her vision for woman and child care is both compassionate and futuristic. She believes that woman and child care is a complex subject and needs personalized understanding and treatment for each patient. She is also the co-founder of Pratyusha Support, and NGO working in the area of Medical support to poor and needy children and women.
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy