Morphine High Effects: What Does Morphine Feel Like?
Free & Confidential Drug Hotline. Call NOW: (888)-459-5511
Menu
Addiction Guides
Addiction Facts
What is Addiction?
Recognizing Addiction
Drug Abuse Statistics
Substance Abuse Triggers
Polydrug Use: Get the Facts
Drug Testing
Addiction Stories
Meth Addiction Stories
Heroin Addiction Stories
Gambling Addiction Stories
Marijuana Addiction Stories
Cocaine Addiction Stories
People at Risk
College Students abd Drug Abuse
Dual Diagnosis
Teenagers and Students
Veterans and Addictions
PTSD and Addiction
Self-Assessment
Substances
Alcohol Addiction
Effects of Alcoholism
Alcoholism Treatment
Alcoholism Recovery
Alcoholism Resources
Street Names of Addictive Substances
Understanding Drugs
Types of Drugs
Illicit Drugs
Marijuana
Crystal Meth
Spice
Cocaine
Crack
GHB
Amphetamine
Speed
Prescription Medication
Ambien
Ketamine
Vicodin
Gabapentin
Accutane
Provigil
Morphine
Zoloft
Prozac
Trazodone
Barbiturates
Fioricet
Stimulants
Nicotine
Adderall
Kratom
Ecstasy
Ritalin
Benzodiazepines
Valium
Restoril
Midazolam
Librium
Klonopin
Halcion
Ativan
Xanax
Hallucinogens
LSD
AL-LAD
Peyote
DMT
Ayhuasca
Shrooms
Opioids
Opiates
Heroin
Opium
Opana
Suboxone
Vicoprofen
Methadone
Fentanyl
Dilaudid
Demerol
Codeine
Tramadol
Oxycodone
Hydrocodone
Norco
Percocet
Sedative-Hypnotics
Lunesta
Sonata
Other Substances
Sleeping Pills
OTC Drugs
Diet Pills
Inhalants
Painkillers
Narcotics
Antidepressants
NPC
Anxiety Medication
Cyclobenzaprine
Lexapro
Baclofen
Vyvanse
Phenibut
Kava
Treatment Guides
Treatment Stages
Addiction Treatment: the Overview
1 ► Intervention
2 ► Inpatient and Outpatient Therapy
3 ► Lifelong Commitment
Treatment for Substance Abuse: An Overview of Addiction Recovery Programs
Resources
Relapse Prevention Plan
Support Groups: An Overview
When a Loved One Has an Addiction
Drug Addiction Medications
Addiction and Rehab Hotlines
Find AA meetings
Find NA Meetings
Addiction Treatment Facility Locator
Rehab Guides
Facilities
Best Drug Rehabs
Inpatient Rehabs F.A.Q.
Outpatient Rehabs F.A.Q.
Drug Rehabs Near You
Outpatient Rehabs Near You
Types
Court Ordered Rehabs
Free and State Funded Rehabs
Rehabs for Veterans
Dual Diagnosis Rehabs
F.A.Q.
Rehab Question Answered
Can I Beat an Addiction On My Own?
How Long Does Rehab Take?
Medicaid and Medicare
Addiction Recovery Costs
Substances
LSD Rehab
Heroin Rehabs
Cocaine Rehab
Crystal Meth Rehab
GHB Rehab
Ecstasy Rehab
About Us
Our Community
Scholarship
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Addiction Treatment Events
Morphine Addiction: All About the Effects and Feelings of a High
Free 24/7 rehab helpline > (888)-459-5511
Morphine is regularly used for medical purposes by helping to relieve pain. However, prolonged use of Morphine can lead to addiction and other negative effects. But how does Morphine affect the brain and what does Morphine feel like? This article explains the features of a Morphine high and how it affects each person, including its common side effects and after high effects.
Hope Without Commitment
Find the best treatment options.
Call our free and confidential helpline
Treatment Is Fully Covered by Insurance In Most Cases
(888)-459-5511
Table of contents:
The Features of Morphine Pills High
What Does Morphine Feel Like?
What are the Morphine After the High Effects?
The Features of Morphine Pills High
Morphine is an opioid painkiller that comes from the poppy plant. Like all other opioids, it is a useful painkiller. However, that comes at a price. The drug is highly addictive, and due to its sedentary effects, it is commonly used as a way to get high.
Because of the effects of Morphine on the brain, misuse of the drug is becoming a common occurrence. During Morphine pills high, the user experiences decreased anxiety and generally becomes more relaxed. Despite this, not all of Morphine highs effects are positive.
Many common features of a Morphine high include:
Dilated pupils
Loss of attention
Shallow breathing
Drowsiness
Slurred speech
Morphine’s effects on the brain also explain why it is so popular recreationally. It not only alters the brain during the high but also creates a powerful psychological craving for the drug, which keeps users coming back for more. Additionally, because it can even be injected into the bloodstream, as well as taken as pills, it has a fast effect. By affecting the nervous system, it often creates a euphoria within the user that can be the first trigger for addiction.
What Does Morphine Feel Like?
The feelings each user has from a Morphine high will vary from each use. There are a variety of factors that can influence the high a user has. These include there BMI, tolerance to the drug, diet, general health and dosage of the drug taken. In addition to those factors, even mood can influence the type of high a user has. But what is a Morphine high like?
Many users will experience different kinds of Morphine highs throughout their consumption of the drug. Being high on this drug can often make the user feel sedated and absent to everything going on with around them. Alternatively, it can make the user feel euphoric and free. These different kinds of high, highlight the potential unpredictability.
Due to Morphine functioning by affecting receptors in organs, it alters how the user feels by numbing their nerves. This creates both physical and psychological effects during and after a Morphine high.
Common effects during a Morphine high, include:
Drowsiness – The drug numbs the nervous system making the person feel tired
Euphoria – Also due to the numbing of nerves, the user will feel carefree and overjoyed
Disillusionment – The lack of feeling may take away the users reason to do anything or be inspired by anything
Slurred speech – The loss of nerves may make speech challenging
Shallow breathing – The body slows down, and this also slows breathing
Lack of attention span – Because of the sleepy state, the user may often zone out
Increased desire to sleep – Drowsiness and lack of feeling may make the user want to sleep more
Increased desire for more of the drug – The medication is highly addictive so the individual may want more of the drug.
What are the Morphine After the High Effects?
Morphine pill highs do not only affect the user during the time the drug is in their system. They also continue to effect after the drug has exited their body. But how long does Morphine stay in system? And what are the effects of a hangover?
Morphine is known to stay in the system up to 72 hours, with the high wearing off after 6-12 hours of the last dosage. After the high has worn off and the drug begins to leave the system gradually, the user will start to experience Morphine withdrawal symptoms. These withdrawal symptoms should not be taken lightly as they can be just as dangerous as the effects of the drug itself.
According to the US National Library of Medicine, withdrawal symptoms from Morphine may include:
Restlessness – The body gets used to a sedated state, and when out of that state it becomes agitated.
Anxiety – Its highs may suppress stress due to the drug affecting the nervous system. However, as the drug leaves the system it anxiety comes back even stronger.
Muscle pain – After the numbing of pain from Morphine dies down, muscles may become painful and sore due to nerves regaining feeling.
Insomnia – The drug disturbs any sleeping pattern the user may have had. The returning agitation may also make sleeping harder.
Cold like symptoms – You will feel like you are recovering from illness due to your body adjusting to life without Morphine.
Nausea – The body will be attempting to rid itself of the drug, so a sick feeling is familiar.
Vomiting – Some users may not just experience a sick feeling but be instead ill as the body tries to rid of the drug.
Sweating – As your body rids itself of the drug, symptoms of illness will be frequent. The body will sweat to stay cool during these symptoms.
Diarrhea – Another attempt by the body to rid itself of the drug
Increased desire to drink – Medication use sedates the user so much they can become quickly dehydrated. Withdrawal symptoms like sweating also mean you have the drink more during a Morphine hangover.
Increased desire to eat – Similar to drinking, a user may need to replenish to heal adequately.
Cravings for the drug – As an opioid, this drug is highly addictive, and users will usually crave more of the drug during withdrawal.
Morphine hangovers tend to occur to anyone who stops using the drug. However, they are far worse for long-term users who have a dependency to the drug. Furthermore, in those cases, the user has often taken more of the drug due to tolerance. This makes withdrawal more severe.
Dealing With After High Effects
Morphine is an incredibly addictive drug. Whether you have taken it for medical purposes or recreational purposes, it can be a challenge to deal with the effects and after high effects of the opioid.
Due to the after high effects being so potent, it is important to always have the ideal and most suitable support available for you. If you are dealing with the after high effects of Morphine, then you should always ensure that you do not try to deal with them alone. There is a range of support out there, from inpatient and outpatient facilities to group therapy, where you can gain an understanding of how to deal with your addiction, alongside fellow addicts. Whichever method you decide on, the after high effects will be considerably easier to manage with support and help from others.
Hope Without Commitment
Find the best treatment options.
Call our free and confidential helpline
Treatment Is Fully Covered by Insurance In Most Cases
(888)-459-5511
If you or somebody you know is experiencing the negative effects of a Morphine high then you should ensure you have medical assistance and supervision. For any information on where to get help or the most suitable form of help for you, please call our hotline at (888)-459-5511.
Morphine Addiction: All About the Effects and Feelings of a High
Rate this article
Addiction Resource » Addictive Substances: The Anatomy of Drug Addiction » Morphine Addiction and Treatment » Morphine Addiction: All About the Effects and Feelings of a High
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Free 24/7 Treatment Helpline
(888)-459-5511
Speak confidentially with a compassionate counsellor.
Feel hope
without commitment.
Morphine Addiction Resources
Morphine Addiction: Overview
Morphine Street Names
How Long Does Morphine Stay In Your System
Morphine High
Morphine Withdrawal
Morphine Substance Interaction
Morphine Side Effects
Morphine Addiction Signs
Morphine Overdose
Morphine Street Prices
Morphine Dosage
Morphine Addiction Treatment
Drug Rehab Resources
Best Rehabs
Local Rehabs Locator
Free Rehabs
Court-Ordered Rehabs
Inpatient Rehabs
Outpatient Rehabs
Jewish Rehabs
Veterans Rehabs
Holistic Rehabs
LGBT Rehab Centers
Dual Diagnosis Rehab Centers
Alcohol Hotlines
Rehab Hotlines
Luxury Rehabilitation
Private Rehabs
Christian Rehabs
Women-Only Rehabs
Men-Only Rehabs
Rehabs for Couples
Family Rehabs
Teen Rehabs
State-Funded Rehabs
No-Insurance Rehabs
Executive Rehabs
Resort Rehabs
Drug Rehab Information
Speak to a representative concerning substance abuse treatment or request printed material on alcohol or drugs.
(888)-459-5511
The information available at AddictionResource.com is not a substitute for professional medical help.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here
© 2014 - 2019 Addiction Resource
Terms And Conditions
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
About Us
➤