Clinical Trials for Pregnant Women | Children's National
﻿
Skip to main content Skip to navigation
Quick Links
Careers
Conditions & Treatments
Locations
News and Events
Online Bill Pay
Refer a Patient
Visiting & Staying
Volunteer
Patient Portals
International
En Español
Make an Appointment 1-888-884-BEAR (2327) 1-888-884-BEAR (2327)
Find a Doctor Help Us Help Children
Type search term to search the site
Search
Toggle search field
Go to the home page
Search
Call Us Menu
Type search term to search the site
Search
We care about your privacy. Read about your rights and how we protect your data. Get Details
×Dismiss Alert
In this section
All Care Services
Adolescent and Young Adult Medicine
Advanced Cardiac Therapies and Heart Transplant Program
Aerodigestive Clinic
Airway Program
Allergy and Immunology
Anesthesiology, Pain and Perioperative Medicine
ADHD Clinic
Weight-Loss Surgery (Bariatric Surgery) Program
Blood and Marrow Transplant
Blood Disorders (Hematology)
Blood Donor Center
Bone Health Program
Brachial Plexus Program
Brain Tumor Institute
Health Problems Related to Bullying
Cancer Genetics Program
Childhood Cancer Survivorship Program
Cardiac Anesthesiology
Cardiac Catheterization
Cardiac Imaging
Cardiac ICU
Cardiac Neurodevelopmental Outcome Program
Cardiac Surgery
Cardio-Oncology Program
Cardiogenetics Program
Cardiology
Cardiology Post-Natal Follow-Up
Celiac Disease Program
Autism Spectrum Disorders
Center for Cancer and Blood Disorders
Center for Neuroscience and Behavioral Medicine
Chest Wall Defects Program
Child and Adolescent Anxiety Program (CAAP)
Child and Adolescent Protection
Child Development Program
Children's National Heart Institute
EEG Testing
Cochlear Implant Program
Complex Care Program
Complex Salivary and Endocrine Surgery
Hemostasis and Thrombosis Program
Craniofacial Program
Critical Care Medicine
Critical Care Neurology
Cystic Fibrosis Center
Deep Brain Stimulation Program
Dentistry (Oral Health)
Dermatology
Developing Brain Research Laboratory
Diabetes Program (Childhood and Adolescent)
Diagnostic Imaging and Radiology
Dialysis Program
Dietary Therapies for Epilepsy Clinic
Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma (DIPG) Program
Down Syndrome Clinic
Ear, Nose and Throat (Otolaryngology)
Eating Disorders Clinic
Electrophysiology
Emergency Medicine and Trauma Services
Endocrinology and Diabetes
Eosinophilic Esophagitis Clinic
Epilepsy Program
Experimental Therapeutics Program
Feeding Disorders Program
Fetal Heart Program
Fetal Medicine Institute
Fragile X Clinic
Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition
Gender and Autism Program
Gender Development Program
General and Community Pediatrics
General and Thoracic Surgery
Hand Program
Headache Program
Hearing and Speech
Hepatology Program
Hip Program
Histiocyte Disorders Program
HIV / AIDS Services
Hospitalist Medicine
Hyperactivity, Attention, and Learning Problems Clinic (HALP)
Hypertension Detection and Treatment Program
IMPACT DC Asthma Clinic
Infant and Toddler Mental Health Program
Infant Apnea/ BPD Program
Infectious Disease
Inflammatory Bowel Disease Program
Inherited Metabolic Disorders Program
Interventional Radiology
Intestinal Rehabilitation Program
Kidney Transplantation
Leukemia Lymphoma Program
Leukodystrophy and Myelin Disorders Program
Limb Lengthening
Lysosomal Storage Disorders Program
Mental Health
Mood Disorders Program
Movement Disorders Program
Music Therapy Program
Neonatal and Childhood Stroke Program
Neonatal Metabolic Disorders
Neonatal Neurology and Neonatal Neurocritical Care Program
Neonatology
Nephrology
Neuro-Immunology Program
Neurobehavior Program
Neurocritical Care
Neurodevelopmental Pediatrics
Neurogenetics
Neurology
Neuromuscular Medicine Program
Neuro-Ophthalmology
Neuropsychology
Neuropsychology Outpatient Evaluation
Neurosurgery
Obesity Program IDEAL Clinic
Oncology
Ophthalmic Genetics Program
Ophthalmology
Oral Surgery
Orthodontics Program
Orthopaedic Surgery and Sports Medicine
Orthopaedic Trauma
Pain Medicine Care Complex
Pathology and Laboratory Medicine
Pediatric Gynecology Program
Perinatal Brain Injury Program
Pharmacy
Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery
Positive Reevaluation of Urogenital Differences (PROUD) Clinic
Posterior Spinal Fusion
Pre-Operative Care Clinic
Preventive Cardiology Program
Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences
Psychology and Behavioral Health
Pulmonary Medicine
Radiation Oncology Program
Rare Disease Institute
READY Clinic
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Reproductive Endocrine Clinic
Respiratory Care Services
Rheumatology
Concussion Program
Severe Asthma Clinic
Comprehensive Sickle Cell Disease Program
Sickle Cell Pulmonary Clinic
Skeletal Dysplasia Clinic
Sleep Medicine
Solid Tumor Program
Spina Bifida Program
Spinal Fusion Surgical Home
Spine Program
Sports Medicine
Urinary Stone Program
Virtual Care
The Behavioral Health Feeding and Eating Disorders Program
Neurofibromatosis Institute
Torticollis Program
Transport Medicine
Trauma and Burn Surgery
Tuberous Sclerosis Program
Turner Syndrome Clinic
Urology
Vascular Anomalies Clinic
Voice Program
Washington Adult Congenital Heart Program (WACH)
Wetting, Infections, and Stooling Help (WISH)
Youth Pride Clinic
Congenital Zika Virus Program
Developing Brain Research Laboratory
Advanced Fetal Imaging
Fetal Brain Imaging Research
Clinical Trials for Pregnant Women
News and Highlights
Meet the Team
Clinical Trials for Pregnant Women
What to Expect
Frequently Asked Questions
Clinical Trials for Pregnant Women
Share:
FacebookTwitterLinked In Print Email
Email
Through clinical trials, our team expands our research and continues to advance techniques in fetal brain imaging.
We are looking for women with healthy and high-risk pregnancies to participate in our research studies. By doing so, you and your child will be able to positively impact the health and development of babies around the world.
Preventing Brain Development Problems: Our Work
Some babies are born with developmental problems in the brain and heart. Although many of these problems can be identified in fetuses (unborn babies), conventional imaging technologies often do not detect these anomalies early enough.
In our Developing Brain Research Laboratory, lab director Catherine Limperopoulos, PhD, leads a research team in developing innovative, noninvasive imaging techniques. These techniques allow physicians to:
Find abnormal fetal development in the heart and brain very early in pregnancy
Effectively treat these problems before birth to help babies have a healthy start
Clinical Trials for Pregnant Women at Children's National Health System
Dr. Limperopoulos and her team are leading several clinical trials that support their research of early detection and treatment of fetal developmental problems.
Our studies involve the use of fetal MRI. MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) is a technique that uses a magnetic field and radio waves to take detailed images of the inside of the body. MRI is considered harmless because it does not involve exposure to radiation, which can be a concern with X-rays.
Fetal MRI is used to take pictures of the developing baby during pregnancy. Presently, there is no evidence that there is any harm from MRI procedures to unborn babies.
We are actively recruiting participants for these clinical trials:
Brain Development in the Fetus with Congenital Heart Disease
Normal Brain Development in the Fetus
Neonatal MRI Study
Antecedents of Impaired Brain Development in Fetuses with Congenital Heart Disease (Healthy Starts for Tiny Hearts Study)
In this study, we seek to identify whether, why and when brain development is affected in unborn babies diagnosed with congenital heart disease. The testing involves:
Two fetal MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) scans and echocardiograms (ultrasound-like test that allows physicians to see the structure and function of your unborn baby's heart) during the second half of pregnancy
Two brain MRI scans (preoperative and postoperative) after birth
Neurobehavioral evaluation of the newborn baby (no MRIs or echocardiograms involved)
Placenta studies
In Vivo fMRI
Until now, congenital heart disease (CHD) in the fetus and its relationship to placental function has been unknown. But the advanced fetal imaging study has shown for the first time that abnormal growth in the fetus with CHD relates to impaired placental growth over the third trimester of pregnancy.
Catherine Limperopoulos, Ph.D., Director of the Children’s National Developing Brain Research Laboratory in the Division of Diagnostic Imaging and Radiology, is the senior author of the study published in the September 2015 issue of the journal Placenta, “3-D Volumetric MRI Evaluation of the Placenta in Fetuses with Complex Heart Disease.” Specifically, the decreased 3-D volumetric MRI measurements of pregnant women reported in this study suggest placental insufficiency related to CHD. The placenta nourishes and maintains the fetus, through the delivery of food and oxygen. Its volume and weight can determine fetal growth and birth weight.
Abnormality in placental development may contribute to significant morbidity in this high-risk population. This study shows impaired placental growth in CHD fetuses is associated with the length of the pregnancy and weight at birth. Nearly 1 in every 100 babies is born in the United States with a congenital heart defect
Advanced MRI is needed to identify early markers of impaired placental structure and function in the high-risk pregnancy.
Developing the capacity to examine the placenta non-invasively using advanced MRI is needed to identify early markers of impaired placental structure and function in the high-risk pregnancy. “This is a critical first step towards developing strategies for improved fetal monitoring and management,” Dr. Limperopoulos says.
“We are trying to develop the earliest and most reliable indicators of placental health and disease in high-risk pregnancies. Our goal is to bring these early biomarkers into clinical practice and improve our ability to identify placental dysfunction,” Dr. Limperopoulos said. “If we can develop the capacity to reliably identify when things begin to veer off-course, we then have a window of opportunity to develop therapies to restore function.”
The study used in vivo 3-D MRI studies and explored placental development and its relationship to neonatal outcomes by comparing placental volumetric growth in healthy pregnancies and pregnancies complicated by CHD. While mortality rates continue to decrease steadily in newborns diagnosed with complex CHD, long-term neurodevelopmental impairments are recognized with increasing frequency in surviving infants, Dr. Limperopoulos said. “Our goal is to better support the developing fetus with CHD. We can best accomplish this if we develop technology that can allow us to safely and effectively monitor the fetal-placental unit as a whole throughout pregnancy,” Dr. Limperopoulos said. “This is the new frontier, not only to ensure survival but to safeguard the fetus and to ensure the best possible quality of life,” she said.
Preemie Study: Cerebellar Development in the Preterm Infant (CRIB)
This research study seeks to better understand brain development in premature babies. We are particularly interested in an area of the brain called the cerebellum. The cerebellum is responsible for motor coordination of the body and also plays a role in higher functions such as attention, cognition and language.
Investigating the Development of the Cerebellum
This study investigates the development of the cerebellum in premature babies, and its relationship with early development.
Our research focuses on the developing brain, both in utero and in the newborn stages of life.
We are developing advanced MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) techniques to examine the structure, connectivity and metabolism of the brain in ways that cannot be done with conventional MRI studies. It is our long-term goal to be able to identify babies with impaired brain growth as soon as possible, so that the proper interventions and clinical planning can take place.
ONESIE Study: Vulnerable Preterm Cerebellum
In this research study, we plan to leverage our large fetal normative database to compare in utero fetal and ex-utero preterm cerebellar growth trajectories.
These findings will inform specific targets, interventions and timing of future neuroprotective strategies, advance clinical practices and improve neurodevelopmental outcomes.
Premature birth is a major public health problem, associated with a personal, familial and societal burden of enormous proportions.
The potentially lifelong cognitive, learning and affective-behavioral consequences have become the major determinant of life quality in prematurity survivors, with up to 50 percent of very premature infants experiencing dysfunction in these domains by school age. Impaired cerebellar development has been recently implicated in this dysfunction.
The onset and underlying mechanisms and consequences of prematurity-related cerebellar developmental impairment (CDI) remain poorly understood, which in turn have complicated the search for potential therapeutic interventions. We have described a clinically important, previously under-recognized form of prematurity-related cerebellar parenchymal injury in up to 20 percent of extremely preterm infants. Recently, our observations have extended beyond the role of parenchymal cerebellar injury to a broader and more prevalent spectrum of cerebellar developmental impairments. We have shown that cerebellar development is markedly accelerated during the third trimester, but significantly impeded after premature birth, even in the absence of direct cerebellar injury. Complementing this intriguing set of structural observations are our findings of a distinctive long-term neuropsychological profile of cognitive, language, affective and social deficiency, which we have termed the developmental cerebellar cognitive affective disorder. The onset and underlying mechanisms and consequences of prematurity-related CDI remain poorly understood, which in turn have complicated the search for potential therapeutic interventions. We propose to utilize serial, advanced MRI techniques to elucidate the timing, evolution, mechanisms and risk factors of CDI in preterm infants born ≤32 weeks gestational age. Our overarching goal is to identify early MR imaging biomarkers of prematurity-related CDI and the associated clinical factors that lead to specific development disabilities.
MAGIC Study: Preterm Brain Studies In Vivo
Preterm infants are vulnerable to brain injury. Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is a vital neurotransmitter that has an important developmental role and can potentially be altered due to brain injury in the preterm infant. MAGIC study (Magnetic Resonance for GABA In Preterm Brain and Cerebellum) is a pilot study investigating feasibility and reliability of novel magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) techniques to quantify GABA concentrations in the developing brain in very low birth weight (<1500 grams) preterm infants.
The study includes both preterm imaging (<37 weeks corrected age) as well as follow up studies at term equivalent age (TEA), investigating any trends in regional and temporal concentrations of GABA between the two scans and its association with postnatal events during the extrauterine third trimester duration before reaching term corrected age. This prospective study is currently in progress and supported by funding from CTSI-CN at CNHS.
GABAergic means "pertaining to or affecting the neurotransmitter GABA". A synapse is GABAergic if it uses GABA as its neurotransmitter. A GABAergic neuron produces GABA. A substance is GABAergic if it produces its effects via interactions with the GABA system, such as by stimulating or blocking neurotransmission. A GABAergic or GABAergic agent is any chemical that modifies the effects of GABA in the body or brain. Some different classes of GABAergic drugs include the following: GABA receptor agonists, GABA receptor antagonists, and GABA reuptake inhibitors. Examples of types include gabapentinoids and GABA analogues.
GABAergic neurons play an inhibitory role and synaptically release the neurotransmitter GABA in order to regulate the firing rate of target neurons.
Previous Studies
Brain Development in the Fetus with Congenital Heart Disease: The ABC Study
The ABC (antenatal brain cardiac) Study seeks to better understand brain development in babies with congenital heart defects. Although infants with a heart problem are at greater risk for problems with brain development, the precise effect, if any, of the heart problem on the development of the brain remains poorly understood.
We study the brain as it is developing during pregnancy through a technique called fetal MRI. Enrolled babies also have an MRI scan shortly after birth to look at the brain in the newborn period.
We also aim to evaluate the relationship between brain development and cognitive and social-behavioral development in this population.
Cerebellar Development in the Preterm Infant (CRIB Study)
This research study seeks to better understand brain development in premature babies. We are particularly interested in an area of the brain called the cerebellum.
The cerebellum is responsible for motor coordination of the body and also plays a role in higher functions, such as attention, cognition and language. This study investigates the development of the cerebellum in premature babies and its relationship with early development.
Our Clinical Trials at Children's National: What to Expect Join a Clinical Trial Developing Brain Research Laboratory at Children's National
Our Clinical Trials at Children's National: What to Expect
Our Clinical Trials at Children's National: What to Expect
For more details, visit:
Clinical Trials for Pregnant Women: What to Expect
Clinical Trials for Pregnant Women: FAQs
Join a Clinical Trial
Join a Clinical Trial
If you'd like to learn more about our studies and how you can sign up to participate, please contact our clinical research team:
Call 202-476-3765
Email FetalBrain@ChildrensNational.org
We provide:
Free parking during your visits to Children's National
$75 after each visit in gratitude for your participation in our study
MRI images of your baby
Current Studies:
Brain Development in the Fetus with Congenital Heart Disease
Normal Brain Development in the Fetus
Developing Brain Research Laboratory at Children's National
Developing Brain Research Laboratory at Children's National
Learn more about our research and programs for women with high-risk pregnancies:
Developing Brain Research Laboratory
How to Refer Patients for Advanced Diagnostic Fetal Imaging
Brain Imaging for Fetal Development: Our Research
About Us
Careers
Contact Us
Locations
Online Bill Pay
Quality and Safety
Refer a Patient
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
RSS
Give Now
Give to Save Lifetimes
Change a child’s life forever. Donate to help find cures, fuel innovation and provide world-class care for every child.
Give Now
111 Michigan Avenue NW, Washington, D.C., 20010 | 202.476.5000
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Patient Family Rights
Report a Compliance Concern
© Children's National Health System 2019
Expand Navigation Section Choose Children's
Find a Doctor
Conditions & Treatments
Locations
Deciding on Care
Visiting & Staying
International Patients
Quick Links
Our Stories
Insurance
Patient Portals
Volunteer
Expand Navigation Section Specialty Care Patients
Find a Doctor
Specialty Care Practice Locations
Schedule an Appointment
Preparing for Your Visit
Conditions & Treatments
Quick Links
Visiting Guidelines & Hours
Patient Portals
All Care Services
Expand Navigation Section Primary Care
Find a Pediatrician
About Primary Care
Mobile Health
Teen Programs
Preparing for Your Visit
Primary Care Practices
Schedule an Appointment
Wellness Resources
Quick Links
Schedule an Appointment
Patient Portals
Flu Resource Center
Expand Navigation Section Healthcare Providers
Refer a Patient
Tools for Your Practice
News
Physician Networks
Online Physician Directory
For Nurses
Quick Links
Pediatric Health Network
Children's IQ Network
Children's National Health Network (CNHN)
Expand Navigation Section Research & Education
The Children's Research Institute
Faculty & Leadership Directory
Research Resources
Healthcare Education
Residencies and Fellowships
Clinical Trials
CRI Annual Report
Centers and Institutes
Cancer & Immunology Research
Genetic Medicine Research
Neuroscience Research
Translational Science
Sheikh Zayed Institute for Pediatric Surgical Innovation
Clinical and Translational Science Institute at Children's National
Expand Navigation Section Advocacy & Outreach
Child Health Advocacy Institute
In the Community
Safe Kids Worldwide
Our Foundation
Quick Links
CHAI Child Health Data Lab
Give a Gift
Community Health Needs Assessment
About Us
All Care Services
Locations
Online Bill Pay
Careers
Healthcare Education
News and Events
Contact Us
How to Help
Volunteer