Cancer Panel Genetic Predisposition Test | Who’zTheDaddy?™
≡ 0800 840 113
Call in confidence: 0800 840 1134 Order Now!
Home
DNA Tests
Paternity Testing
Home Paternity Test
Legal DNA Testing
Non-Invasive Prenatal Paternity Testing
Immigration DNA Test
Relationship Testing
Siblings DNA Test
Aunt and Uncle Test
Grandparents DNA Testing
Twins DNA Test
Y-Chromosome Test
Maternity Testing
MtDNA Test
Genetic Reconstruction Test
Prenatal Testing
Non-Invasive Prenatal Paternity Testing
Non Invasive Prenatal Test for Down’s Syndrome
Ancestry DNA Testing
GPS Origins™
Ancestral Origins DNA Testing
Maternal Lineage DNA Test
Paternal Lineage DNA Test
Clinical Testing
Genetic Predisposition Test
Cancer Panel Genetic Predisposition Test
Lactose Intolerance DNA Test
Health & Wellbeing Tests
SkinCareDNA Testing
Diet and Healthy Weight DNA Test
Animal Testing
Dog DNA Tests
DNA My Dog Breed Testing
Dog Parentage Testing
Dog Inherited Disease Testing
Wisdom Panel Dog Breed Test
Feline DNA Test for PKD
Avian DNA Sexing
Other Tests
Infidelity DNA Test
Semen Detection Testing
Alternate Sources
Disaster Victim Identification
Identification DNA Profiling
DNA Banking Services
About Us
Who we are
News & Press
Testimonials
Laboratory & Accreditation
Charity Work
Help & FAQs
What is a DNA Test?
How to do a DNA Test
Understanding your Test Results
FAQs
Glossary
Privacy Statement
Terms & Conditions
Contact us
Locations
USA
Canada
Poland
Order Now!
Home
DNA Tests
About Us
Help & FAQs
Contact us
Need help?Live Chat
Cancer Panel Genetic Predisposition Test
Test for 92 different genes associated with hereditary cancers with our cancel panel test. Prevention and early treatment begins with this test.
Testimonials
"Many thanks for being part of a professional team and business that confirmed what I wanted to hear and dispelled my 1% doubt. Hopefully we can now come to an agreement to move forward and provide support our child." T.D.
View All
Have us call you back
Call Back
Cancer Panel Genetic Predisposition Test
From £
Order Now!
Available Soon.
Is cancer in the family? Do you have any concerns about hereditary cancers? Our cancer predisposition test offers you the chance to establish you or your relatives carry certain hereditary genetic mutations which code for certain cancers. The test panel covers a total of 92 genes which are known to be implicated in the development certain cancers including breast cancer, lung cancer and many more.
A cancer predisposition test will allow you to work hand in hand with your oncologist or genetic councilor in order to:
Minimize your risks.
Estimate familial cancer risk.
Identify at-risk family members.
Science behind the test
This test uses Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS). Next-generation sequencing enables researchers to study biological systems at a level never before possible. It leverages sequencing by synthesis (SBS) technology, tracking the addition of labeled nucleotides as the DNA chain is copie, in a massively parallel fashion. Next-generation sequencing generates masses of DNA sequence data that is richer and more complete than other types of sequencing.
You need a Professional to Carry out this Test.
Please note this test needs to be done through a professional and results will be sent directly to your chosen health care professional. Specialist advice for this test is very important a genetic councilor or oncologist will help you fully understand what your results mean and any implications. You cannot take this test without the supervision of a professional.
Do I Need a Cancer Predisposition Test?
Most of us are not genetically predisposed to any type of hereditary cancer. In fact, we all have genes that actually help our bodies correct any mutations that can occur when cells divide. However, some of us may inherit faulty genes from our parents which cannot be corrected. Inheriting a faulty gene does not mean you will develop that type of cancer but if a genetic test for cancer predisposition confirms you carry a faulty gene, you are at an elevated risk of getting the type of cancer tested for.
Whilst a cancer predisposition tests cannot confirm whether or not you will have cancer, they can confirm whether you carry a gene associated with a certain cancer. These tests are simply predictive and there is no known factor that can guarantee you will suffer from any type of cancer. This said, in cases of a positive result you can:
Manage and reduce your risk of getting cancer by undertaking prescribed lifestyle changes.
Ensure you undergo regular screening and preventative treatments.
Benefit from anxiety and stress reduction by knowing whether you carry a hereditary cancer or not.
How can I Order this Test?
The cancer panel predisposition test can be ordered directly online. The test is offered at XXXX for testing a single individual for all 92 cancer genes. Results are emailed in 6-9 weeks from receipt of samples. The full list of genes we test for can be found by clicking here.
Sample Collection
DNA samples can be collected in the most painless and straightforward manner using mouth swabs. Once an order is confirmed, we will dispatch a sample collection kit which will contain everything you need to collect the samples for the laboratory. Mouth swabs just need to be rubbed inside the mouth, against the inner cheek and the tongue in order to collect cheek cells. Because any cancer genes would be found in any type of cell in the body, we are able to analyze any type of human cell to confirm whether or not any hereditary cancer gene is present – even cheek cells.
Click here for more information about sample collection using mouth swabs.
FAQs
What are hereditary cancers?
Hereditary cancers are types of cancers that can run in families due to a hereditary gene that can be passed down from parents to their children. To understand how hereditary cancer syndromes may be inherited, we need to know that every person inherits 2 copies of a gene- one from each parent. Hereditary cancers are generally inherited in one of two possible inheritance patterns.
Autosomal dominant inheritance: in this instance, the cancer gene is inherited from just one parent and this is enough to increase your lifelong risk of developing the type of cancer being tested for.
Autosomal recessive inheritance: in this instance, the individual tested must inherit a copy of the cancer gene from the mother and the father. The parents of the individual will carry both a mutated copy of the gene (which is associated with cancer) and a normal copy of the gene. The parents themselves will not necessarily have an increased risk of cancer but are simply referred to as carriers.
We don’t have a particular type of cancer in the family. Do I need to be tested?
It is hard to be 100% sure of whether you have a type of hereditary cancer in the family – that said, most of us do not have any type of hereditary cancer. If you are sure then you probably don’t need this test. It is best to speak to an oncologist or genetic councillor if you have any concerns.
Get to know about your genetic health
Your susceptibility to cancers is just one aspect of your genetic health. Why not find out your genetic susceptibility to diseases like Alzheimer’s, Lupus, Heart disease, obesity and 30 other diseases with our genetic health test.
Need help?Live Chat
About Us
Testimonials
Terms & Conditions
Refund Policy
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Glossary
Site Map
DNA Tests & Prices
Peace of Mind DNA Test
Court Approved DNA Test
Alternative DNA Sources
Help & FAQs
How to do a DNA test
Understanding your test results
Contact:
Queensberry House,
106 Queens Road,
Brighton BN1 3XF,
United Kingdom
Please Note:
Samples received here will be destroyed
Telephone: +44 (0) 1273 321314 info@whozthedaddy.com
Let's get Social
Payment Options
Copyright © Who'zTheDaddy?™