Add chewing gum to your to-do-list to lose weight
Browse: Home / Obesity / Add chewing gum to your to-do-list to lose weight
Menu
Skip to content
About
Better Body Chemistry School
Book a health conversation
Speaking query
The “Big” Spoons
BBC
Small things can make a big difference to your health
Menu
Skip to content
Home
START HERE
Free Resources
31 days to Better Body Chemistry
Willpower Report
Better Body Chemistry for Expecting Moms
The ups and downs of insulin resistance
Candy Floss Boards
Meet the Team
Library
Lucky dip
Better Body Chemistry TV
Video gallery for Expecting Moms
Video gallery for people with metabolic syndrome
Video gallery of how to survive flu season
Sound bites
Contact
Search
Add chewing gum to your to-do-list to lose weight
Posted by Dr Sandy on in Obesity | 676 Views | Leave a response
Losing weight is all about getting the
Calories in < calories out
Standard advice to improve the calories out, is to move a bit.
But researchers from University of Rhode Island report that you don’t have to move all the bits, just move the mouth a little more, to get a bit of a calorie benefit.
Continuous chewing stops regular chewing
Volunteers were assigned to either chew gum all morning or just keep the jaw still (talking was still allowed just no munching). The continuous crushing, gnawing and chomping had a knock on effect on chewing for rest of the day. It decreased – which translated into fewer calories in.
On average the chewers consumed 67 calories less at lunch. They didn’t undo the positive effect, by gorging at dinner time either, so they ended the day with fewer calories going in.
Most of the participants reported that the morning chewing session left them feeling a little less hungry than normal. Some even felt a little more energetic.
The physiology of chewing gum
Chewing gum is “working” the formula in favour of those looking to lose or maintain weight.
The very act of grinding the little piece of gum in your mouth is making those jaw muscles work and burning calories. But there is a further benefit, the nerves in the mouth get excited, believing that the mouth activity is due to mouthfuls (many of them) landing in your mouth. The nerves send a quick message to the brain about all the activity. The part of your brain which controls appetite interprets the signals as “We are full !”
Add chewing gum to your to-do-list
You don’t actually have to chew non-stop. The morning chew-a-thon in the study involved three 20 minute sessions.
You don’t even have to pick up the pace and feel the burn. Just pop a stick (preferably a low sugar variety for maximum effect) and jiggle it up and down until it has no flavour left and feels like a lump of rubber. Dispose of it (nicely, don’t stick it under a chair). And start your next piece of gum.
67 calories doesn’t sound like a lot but when you’re trying to get rid of those extra pounds, every little bit helps. And chewing gum is far less painful than a workout at the gym.
Know someone who will find this post useful ? Share it on facebook, linkedin, twitter
Further reading
How to painlessly activate the self control muscle Stop blaming fats for making you fat, the obesity problem is in grains Could your salt intake be making you fat ?
The 7 Big Spoons™…. are master switches that turn health on.
Balance Eicosanoids Rein in insulin Dial down stress Sleep ! Increase Vit D Culivate microflora Think champion
Sign up for the E-spoons E-zine to get a monthly compilation of the posts from 7 Big Spoons delivered to your inbox.
Hire Dr Sandy from a Spoonful of Science to be the keynote speaker at your next event.
Did you learn something new or do you have a different perspective ? I’d love to hear from you so post me a comment below…..
Posted in Obesity | Tagged chewing gum, weight formula
Sugar gremlins are REAL
Connect with us
Got a sugar gremlin ?
Read more.....
Email Address *
* indicates required
Close
Popular
Featured
Recent
A stick of chewing gum gets the gut going after surgery
14662 views / Posted
Which is a better breakfast, egg or oatmeal ?
12542 views / Posted
Fizzing up the water flattens your appetite
11464 views / Posted
It might be time to try the TRF see food diet – it works
10911 views / Posted
Probiotics get turned away when there is no room at the inn
9464 views / Posted
Make sure you have your “annual” check-up in the summer time
/ Dr Sandy
Moving more won’t stop your kid from getting fat
/ Dr Sandy
Bone cells are stiffening up your arteries not cholesterol
/ Dr Sandy
Are kids with ADHD just acting according to their brain age
/ Dr Sandy
Calcium supplements are building bones and breaking hearts
/ Dr Sandy
There is a metabolic price to pay, when your gallbladder is missing
/ Dr Sandy
Glycine in insulin resitance
/ Dr Sandy
Fake food – it’s killing us softly
/ Dr Sandy
Not sleeping in the dark, might be making you FAT
/ Dr Sandy
Ferritin in insulin resistance
/ Dr Sandy
Recent posts
Dr Sandy Evans, PhD
Located in Johannesburg, South Africa
Disclaimer : The stories and articles are provided as a service. Dr Sandy's opinions are for information only, and are not intended to diagnose or prescribe. For your specific diagnosis and treatment, consult your doctor or health care provider.
Connect with Dr Sandy
Categories
Categories Select Category ADHD (4) Aging (12) Alcohol (6) Alzheimer’s (3) anti-oxidants (2) antioxidants (8) appetite suppressant (5) Aspirin (salicylic acid) (4) baby (9) Bacteria (58) biotechnology (4) bones (7) Cancer (6) childhoodobesity (15) chocolate (7) cholesterol (8) cravings (2) Diabetes (45) dieting (2) Drug addiction (2) E-spoons (40) Eicosanoids (13) Epigenetics (9) Exercise (24) Fertility (14) Food (19) fructose (4) General (36) gluten (2) Heart disease (51) Hormones (9) Estrogen (1) Testosterone (5) Insulin (22) IR (8) kids (15) Medical spoons (4) laxatives (1) statin (1) meds (1) Music (4) Neurotechnology Tip (94) nicotine (3) Nootropics (23) caffeine (12) Obesity (172) oxidative stress (1) Phytonutrients (9) proanthocyanidins (1) pollution (10) pregnancy (39) Sleep (42) Stess (3) Stress (42) sustainable energy (9) Thinking (24) Uncategorized (4) Vitamin D (27) vitaminb12 (3) women health (1)
Featured posts
A stick of chewing gum gets the gut going after surgery
14662 views / Posted
Which is a better breakfast, egg or oatmeal ?
12542 views / Posted
Fizzing up the water flattens your appetite
11464 views / Posted
©2011-2019 Spoonful of Science
Menu
Meet Dr Sandy
Disclosure/disclaimer
Privacy policy
Comment policy
Contact
Redirect Stakk
Open Overlay
Thank You
Beat your SUGAR CRAVINGS, using biology, NOT psychology
Download our FREE REPORT entitled, "How to get the Willpower you Need to Trump Sugar's Power"
Do you have a sugar gremlin ?
Discover the biology behind sugar gremlins
Learn about the 10 weapons you can use to TAME YOUR SUGAR GREMLIN
Get instant access