The New Way to Protect Joints from Osteoarthritis
Home
Brands
Categories
Health Concerns
My Account
Wish List
Gift Certificates
More Information
Home
Brands
Categories
Health Concerns
My Account
Wish List
Gift Certificates
More Information
Go To
Search for:
Account
Orders
Favorites
Sign in or Create an account
Shop by
Shop by
Shop by
Home
Brands
Column
Allergy Research Group
BioGenesis
Designs for Health
Douglas Laboratories
Genestra by Seroyal
Integrative Therapeutics
Metabolic Maintenance
Metagenics
NeuroScience
Nordic Naturals
Pharmax by Seroyal
Progressive Labs
Pure Encapsulations
Thorne Research
Unda by Seroyal
Column
Vital Nutrients
Wobenzym
Categories
Column
A Vitamins
Amino Acids
Antioxidants
B Vitamins
C Vitamins
Calcium
Childrens’ Formulas
Chinese Medicine
CoQ10
D Vitamins
E Vitamins
Enzymes
Essential Fatty Acids
Fish Oils
Gift Ideas
Column
Gluten Free
Green Foods
Herbal Extracts
Homeopathic
Iodine
Iron
Magnesium
Minerals
Multi-vitamins
Nutritional Bars
Pet Supplements
Potassium
Probiotics
Protein Formulas
Soy Free
Column
Vegetarian
Zinc
Health Concerns
column
Adrenal Fatigue
Allergy & Sinus
Anti-Aging Support
Blood Pressure
Blood Sugar
Bone Health
Brain & Neurological
Cardiovascular
Cholesterol
Circulation
Detoxification
Endocrine Support
Energy & Performance
Eye Health
General Wellness
column
Hormone Support
Immune Support
Intestinal & Digestion
Joint Pain & Inflammation
Kidney & Urinary
Liver Support
Men’s Health
Menopause Support
Muscle Support
Oral Health
Prostate Health
Respiratory Care
Senior Health
Sexual Wellness
Skin Support
column
Sleep & Stress Management
Thyroid Support
Vein Support
Weight Management
Women’s Health
About Us
Purchase Gift Certificates
Our Clinic
Payment Options
About Dr. Gittins
Contact Us
Shipping Information
Privacy Policy
Our Guarantee
Doctor’s Corner
Health Library
Ask the Doctor
(888) 460-3091
Doctors Corner
Researched based articles on natural health solutions
Home › Bone Health › The New Way to Protect Joints from Osteoarthritis
The New Way to Protect Joints from Osteoarthritis
Posted on: August 26th, 2016	by Sarah	No Comments
View Slideshow
Do you ever feel stiffness in your joints after getting out of bed or sitting for a long time? Do you ever hear crunchy or bone-on-bone sounds when moving? This could mean that you have, or are developing, the most common form of arthritis – osteoarthritis.
When ignored, osteoarthritis is a debilitating part of aging that is a major reason for “feeling old.” Fortunately, it can be reduced or, in some cases, even reversed if we know how to use nature to fight it.
To understand how your joints work, consider how ice skates are great for moving across ice but are not going to take you far if you are trying to use them on carpet or grass. Just like how skates need a slippery surface to function as intended, your joints also need to encounter minimal friction to be effective and avoid wear and tear.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a joint disease that mostly affects articular cartilage, which is the tissue that covers the ends of bones in a joint and serves as the friction-reducing surface to protect our joints. When the body has healthy cartilage (usually in our youth), bones glide smoothly over each other. But increasing age, overuse, obesity, previous injury, weak thigh muscles for the knee, and genetics all play into the physical toll of movement from OA.
The good news is that the latest research shows there is a natural supplement that can protect cartilage and help our joints feel younger even after OA has begun: Undenatured Type II Collagen (or UC-II for short).
What is cartilage?
Articular cartilage is slick and covers the ends of the bones. Also known as hyaline cartilage, it’s between two and four millimeters thick. The outer layer is very thin but dense, making up only 10 – 20% of the total thickness of the cartilage, but this layer is believed to be up to 100 times more slippery than ice and the journal Arthritis & Rheumatism notes how cartilage-on-cartilage contact results in 20 times less friction than the latest artificial joint replacements. This lets our joints slide, glide, and avoid wear and tear over tens of millions of uses; even while withstanding very heavy loads.
Over time, as OA progresses, portions of the smooth outer layer of cartilage wear away and this invokes an immune system response. The immune system creates more inflammation around the joint, making it more painful, and there is some evidence that the cartilage wears away faster with the immune response. Cartilage is primarily made up of water. In fact, cartilage is over 70% water. It’s the water that makes the low-friction surface, which is why the ice skate analogy is so accurate; skates actually glide on water that is created from pressure between the skate and the ice.
The other three components that make up cartilage are the collagen that gives it the strength and structure, the proteoglycans that trap water in the cartilage, and the chondocytes that make new collagen and proteoglycans within the cartilage. Cartilage does not have a blood supply, so the cells that make up the cartilage are supplied by the movement of the fluid in which it is surrounded. Cartilage also doesn’t have nerves either – so the pain in your joints from OA is not originating from worn down cartilage, but from tendons and ligaments that stretch from movement and inflammation that causes pain (or if the condition worsens, when bone rubs on bone).
Collagen – The structure of cartilage
Collagen is the most abundant naturally-occurring protein in the body and is most commonly found in the skin, bones, and connective tissue. Collagen production naturally declines with age, reducing the elasticity and leading to sagging skin and formation of lines and wrinkles. This is especially true after menopause. Just about every structural component within our body, including the heart, blood vessels and liver, is dependent on collagen.
UC-II – A unique supplemental form of collagen
UC-II is unique from other kinds of collagen because it retains its original form after being digested. UC-II is naturally found in the cartilage of the chicken breast. This particular form is not only well absorbed through digestion, but also accumulates in cartilage and is believed to help stimulate the chondrocytes to make more collagen.
What the science says UC-II can do
A new 2016 study from Nutrition Journal found that UC-II improves joint symptoms in moderate-to-severe knee OA subjects. The participants in the double blind, randomized study who took UC-II found significantly more relief than those who took a placebo or even another popular joint supplement – glucosamine and chondroitin (G&C).
The rationale to take G&C is that it is what the chondrocytes are made up of and the theory is that G&C boosts their production within the cartilage to make more, but recent studies like this one seem to show that UC-II does a better job of supercharging the chondrocytes which rebuilds the cartilage.
Studies published in Journal of the International Society of Sports Nutrition and the International Journal of Medical Sciences also conclude that UC-II is beneficial for those with OA and that daily supplementation with 40 mg of UC-II is well tolerated by patients and has the potential to lengthen the period of pain-free strenuous exertion when performing daily activities, such as standing, walking, getting up from a chair, or using stairs. The latest studies on UC-II also confirm why and how it works for those with osteoarthritis.
Research from Stanford University, published in Journal of the International Society of Sports Nutrition, found that ingesting 40 mg a day of UC-II reduces circulating levels of inflammatory cytokines that increase both the incidence and severity of osteoarthritis. Although the study verifies that UC-II supplementation is effective, the researchers also note that it seems the therapy must be continued or else the progress can be reversed.
Is UC-II the best way to address joint issues?
There are many ways to address osteoarthritis and the breakdown of joint function, but most alternatives to UC-II supplementation are invasive or come with a higher risk of side effects. For instance, some people turn to injections that supplement the fluid in the knee to increase lubrication and cushioning of the joint. However, these injections can be costly and only bring temporary relief.
There are even more invasive options such as joint replacement surgery. These surgeries can be effective for some, but often come with steep price tags and the risk of infection, blood clots, dislocation of the joint replacement, and even nerve and blood vessel injury during the surgery. Unless your doctor recommends these options, most people are better off turning to the safe, gradual healing power of nature.
Although collagen production slows with age, people that get adequate amounts of vitamins such as C, E, and B, as well as minerals such as iron and zinc, maintain higher levels of collagen production than those who do not. Getting these vitamins helps, especially with the production of the kind of collagen that helps your skin stay youthful, but most people could greatly benefit from a regular, therapeutic boost of UC-II to ensure that joints stay healthy and protected. It’s also important to keep moving. Because there is no blood flow to the cartilage, nutrients get to it best through movement. The movement shouldn’t be painful, but sitting does not get nutrients to the cartilage tissue.
Anyone looking to protect joints from the effects of osteoarthritis should consider utilizing the high-quality UC-II in Joint Complex by Pure Encapsulations. Joint Complex is designed to comfort sore joints and promote joint flexibility. It pairs UC-II with effective anti-inflammatory agents, such as turmeric, to reduce the pain and damage that osteoarthritis can cause.
UC-II appears to be highly effective in stopping the harmful effects of osteoarthritis, but consider pairing it with a glucosamine & chondroitin supplement (like Glucosamine & Chondroitin by Thorne Research) to not only stop the damage but start rebuilding cartilage as well. Although recent research shows that UC-II appears to be more effective, studies from publications such as International Journal of Rheumatology show that chondroprotectives like G&C are essential components of cartilage metabolism and stimulate important cartilage regeneration processes.
I hope this information encourages you to take care of your joints so you can enjoy an active lifestyle for many years to come. If you have any questions regarding the concepts discussed here or anything else, you can reach our customer service team at 888-460-3091 or e-mail them at customerservice@oakwaynaturals.com.
Until next time, stay healthy!
Yours in health,
Dr. Gregg Gittins
Our top pick is...
Joint Complex
Joint Complex (single dose) supports joint function and comfort with cartilage building blocks and herbal extracts in convenient one-per-day dosing.
Supports cartilage health with undenatured type II collagen, hyaluronic acid and MSM.
Promotes joint flexibility and comfort with UC-II undenatured type-II collagen complex.
Learn more...
Do you ever feel stiffness in your joints after getting out of bed or sitting for a long time? Do you ever hear crunchy or bone-on-bone sounds when moving? This could mean that you have, or are developing, the most common form of arthritis – osteoarthritis.
When ignored, osteoarthritis is a debilitating part of aging that is a major reason for “feeling old.” Fortunately, it can be reduced or, in some cases, even reversed if we know how to use nature to fight it.
To understand how your joints work, consider how ice skates are great for moving across ice but are not going to take you far if you are trying to use them on carpet or grass. Just like how skates need a slippery surface to function as intended, your joints also need to encounter minimal friction to be effective and avoid wear and tear.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a joint disease that mostly affects articular cartilage, which is the tissue that covers the ends of bones in a joint and serves as the friction-reducing surface to protect our joints. When the body has healthy cartilage (usually in our youth), bones glide smoothly over each other. But increasing age, overuse, obesity, previous injury, weak thigh muscles for the knee, and genetics all play into the physical toll of movement from OA.
The good news is that the latest research shows there is a natural supplement that can protect cartilage and help our joints feel younger even after OA has begun: Undenatured Type II Collagen (or UC-II for short).
What is cartilage?
What is cartilage?
Articular cartilage is slick and covers the ends of the bones. Also known as hyaline cartilage, it’s between two and four millimeters thick.
The outer layer is very thin but dense, making up only 10 – 20% of the total thickness of the cartilage, but this layer is believed to be up to 100 times more slippery than ice and the journal Arthritis & Rheumatism notes how cartilage-on-cartilage contact results in 20 times less friction than the latest artificial joint replacements. This lets our joints slide, glide, and avoid wear and tear over tens of millions of uses; even while withstanding very heavy loads.
Over time, as OA progresses, portions of the smooth outer layer of cartilage wear away and this invokes an immune system response. The immune system creates more inflammation around the joint, making it more painful, and there is some evidence that the cartilage wears away faster with the immune response.
Cartilage is primarily made up of water. In fact, cartilage is over 70% water. The other three components that make up cartilage are the collagen that gives it the strength and structure, the proteoglycans that trap water in the cartilage, and the chondocytes that make new collagen and proteoglycans within the cartilage.
Cartilage does not have nerves – so the pain in your joints from OA is not originating from worn down cartilage, but from tendons and ligaments that stretch from movement and inflammation that causes pain (or if the condition worsens, when bone rubs on bone).
Collagen – The structure of cartilage
Collagen – The structure of cartilage
Collagen is the most abundant naturally-occurring protein in the body and is most commonly found in the skin, bones, and connective tissue. Collagen production naturally declines with age, reducing the elasticity and leading to sagging skin and formation of lines and wrinkles. Just about every structural component within our body, including the heart, blood vessels and liver, is dependent on collagen.
UC-II is unique from other kinds of collagen because it retains its original form after being digested. UC-II is naturally found in the cartilage of the chicken breast. This particular form is not only well absorbed through digestion, but also accumulates in cartilage and is believed to help stimulate the chondrocytes to make more collagen.
What the science says UC-II can do
What the science says UC-II can do
A new 2016 study from Nutrition Journal found that UC-II improves joint symptoms in moderate-to-severe knee OA subjects. The participants in the double blind, randomized study who took UC-II found significantly more relief than those who took a placebo or even another popular joint supplement – glucosamine and chondroitin (G&C).
The rationale to take G&C is that it is what the chondrocytes are made up of and the theory is that G&C boosts their production within the cartilage to make more, but recent studies like this one seem to show that UC-II does a better job of supercharging the chondrocytes which rebuilds the cartilage.
Studies have concluded that UC-II is beneficial for those with OA and that daily supplementation with 40 mg of UC-II is well tolerated by patients and has the potential to lengthen the period of pain-free strenuous exertion when performing daily activities, such as standing, walking, getting up from a chair, or using stairs.
Research from Stanford University, found that ingesting 40 mg a day of UC-II reduces circulating levels of inflammatory cytokines that increase both the incidence and severity of osteoarthritis. Although the study verifies that UC-II supplementation is effective, the researchers also note that it seems the therapy must be continued or else the progress can be reversed.
Is UC-II the best way to address joint issues?
Is UC-II the best way to address joint issues?
There are many ways to address osteoarthritis and the breakdown of joint function, but most alternatives to UC-II supplementation are invasive or come with a higher risk of side effects. For instance, some people turn to injections that supplement the fluid in the knee to increase lubrication and cushioning of the joint. However, these injections can be costly and only bring temporary relief.
There are even more invasive options such as joint replacement surgery. These surgeries can be effective for some, but often come with steep price tags and the risk of infection, blood clots, dislocation of the joint replacement, and even nerve and blood vessel injury during the surgery.
Although collagen production slows with age, people that get adequate amounts of vitamins such as C, E, and B, as well as minerals such as iron and zinc, maintain higher levels of collagen production than those who do not. Getting these vitamins helps, especially with the production of the kind of collagen that helps your skin stay youthful, but most people could greatly benefit from a regular, therapeutic boost of UC-II to ensure that joints stay healthy and protected.
Anyone looking to protect joints from the effects of osteoarthritis should consider utilizing the high-quality UC-II in Joint Complex by Pure Encapsulations. Joint Complex is designed to comfort sore joints and promote joint flexibility. It pairs UC-II with effective anti-inflammatory agents, such as turmeric, to reduce the pain and damage that osteoarthritis can cause.
UC-II appears to be highly effective in stopping the harmful effects of osteoarthritis, but consider pairing it with a glucosamine & chondroitin supplement (like Glucosamine & Chondroitin by Thorne Research) to not only stop the damage but start rebuilding cartilage as well. Although recent research shows that UC-II appears to be more effective, studies show that chondroprotectives like G&C are essential components of cartilage metabolism and stimulate important cartilage regeneration processes.
If you have any questions regarding the concepts discussed here or anything else, please feel free to fill out our Ask the Doctor form found at the Doctors Corner.
Yours in health,
Dr. Gregg Gittins
OverlaysShareTweet
PreviousNextPreviousNext
References
Guilak, Farshid, Ph. D., Arthritis & Rheumatism: The Slippery Slope of Arthritis. 2005
Lugo, James, Ph.D., Nutrition Journal: Efficacy and tolerability of an undenatured type II collagen supplement in modulating knee osteoarthritis symptoms: a multicenter randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. 2016
Saiyed, Zainulabedin, Ph.D., et al., Journal of the International Society of Sports Nutrition: Undenatured type II collagen (UC-II) for joint support: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in healthy volunteers. 2013
Jerosch, Jorg, MD, International Journal of Medical Sciences: Safety and efficacy of undenatured type II collagen in the treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee: a clinical trial. 2011
Jerosch, Jorg, MD, International Journal of Rheumatology: Effects of Glucosamine and Chondroitin Sulfate on Cartilage Metabolism in OA: Outlook on Other Nutrient Partners Especially Omega-3 Fatty Acids. 2011
Leave a Reply
Click here to cancel reply.
Name (required)
Mail (will not be published) (required)
Website
Health Library
Search for:
Popular
Losing your mental sharpness? Curcumin shows promise Let’s face it -- aging can be frustrating. Our bodies are not as toned as we’d like, and our sight...
Have a Hunger to Stop Eating Sweets? Do you find yourself reaching for a sweet treat after meals? Do you find these cravings often happen at about...
For Nausea, Treat Your Stomach Gingerly Nausea is a sensation we’ve all experienced. Whether it’s from a seemingly roller-coaster ride in the car, the food we...
Are Sports Drinks a Good Way to Stay Hydrated? We all see commercials claiming that sports drinks help boost our energy and athletic ability when exercising or engaging in...
The Immune-Boosting Power of Mushrooms There is no shortage of products that claim to help people get through cold and flu season. But for those...
Condition
Allergy & Sinus
Anti-aging Support
Blood Pressure
Blood Sugar
Bone Health
Brain & Neurological
Cardiovascular
Cholesterol
Circulation
Cold & Flu
Detoxification
Energy & Performance
Eye Health
Food Intolerances
General Wellness
Hormone Support
Immune Support
Intestinal & Digestion
Joint Pain & Inflammation
Kidney & Urinary
Lactose Intolerance
Men's Health
Menopause Support
Muscle Support
Relaxation & Sleep
Respiratory Care
Senior Health
Skin Support
Stress Management
Weight Management
Women's Health
Archive
Are Sports Drinks a Good Way to Stay Hydrated?
We all see commercials claiming that sports drinks help boost our energy and athletic ability when exercising or engaging in physical activities. These advertisements promote their positive effects and leave the impression that sports drinks are essential to improving our performance, hydrating our bodies, and giving us an edge. But are these drinks really better than water? What are the scientific reasons to consume sports
The Immune-Boosting Power of Mushrooms
There is no shortage of products that claim to help people get through cold and flu season. But for those who like to focus on scientifically-backed natural medicines, consider making room in your medicine cabinet for an effective new immune-booster – mushrooms. In some parts of the world, mushrooms have been used medicinally for centuries. However, many people in western medicine do not realize their
For Nausea, Treat Your Stomach Gingerly
Nausea is a sensation we’ve all experienced. Whether it’s from a seemingly roller-coaster ride in the car, the food we eat, pregnancy, or anything in between, it’s a feeling you would do almost anything to get rid of once you have it. They often say people who are feeling woozy look “green” in the face and, as Kermit the Frog likes to say, “It’s not
Have a Hunger to Stop Eating Sweets?
Do you find yourself reaching for a sweet treat after meals? Do you find these cravings often happen at about the same time each day or month? People experience sugar cravings for reasons such as poor diet, lack of sleep, stress, getting out of the “regular” meal habits, carbohydrate-heavy meals, or even a consistent indulgence that has programmed the brain over time. As hard as
Losing your mental sharpness? Curcumin shows promise
Let’s face it — aging can be frustrating. Our bodies are not as toned as we’d like, and our sight may not be as keen as it once was. But when we start to notice our mind slipping a bit, it can become very concerning. Have you ever found yourself forgetting to take care of simple tasks, the name of somebody you haven’t seen in
PMS cramping your lifestyle? Try Chasteberry
I am a doctor but quite frankly, as a man, I have no idea what premenstrual syndrome (PMS) really feels like. I understand, and have been told by my wife, that it can be an uncomfortable or even a miserable experience that can impact your work and social life. PMS can affect not only you and your lifestyle, but the people around you who you
Worry Less and Go Less with Pumpkin Seed
Do you feel like you have to use the bathroom more often than you used to during the day? Are you tired of waking up in the middle of the night to go? Do you ever lose urine from exercising, sneezing, or coughing? Do you have an “all-of-a-sudden” need to go and worry you can’t get to the toilet fast enough? These are all symptoms
Dry Skin? GLA May Be the Answer
Most people judge youth by the look of a person’s skin and try to do all they can to keep it feeling comfortable and looking youthful. But do you know what to do if your skin has a tendency to become dry, red, blistery, scaly, itchy or even crusty? Is lotion the first and only line of defense? Have you considered that there may be
Is Anemia Causing Your Lack of Energy?
Do you feel as though you have a loss of energy, a feeling of being worn out from doing absolutely nothing? Falling asleep at your desk? When you go up stairs, do you feel a more rapid heartbeat, shortness of breath, and possibly a headache if you have the energy to exercise? In the winter months, many look a little paler, but could you be
Can Natural Solutions Give You Thicker, Fuller Hair?
Although most people know that the volume of hair on one’s head is not the most important aspect of life, even mild to moderate hair loss can negatively impact self-esteem. Noticing a few strands of hair in your brush or sink is very normal throughout life, but losing clumps of hair can be distressing. Although traditionally thought to affect only men, many women experience hair
Is Antacid the Solution to Heartburn, or the Problem?
Do you, or someone you know, ever have a burning feeling in the chest after eating? Do you sometimes feel like you are partially regurgitating food or wake with that acidic taste in your mouth? What about a chronic cough or a persistent sore throat? These symptoms, and others, are common signs that you may be struggling with acid reflux and its most well-known symptom
Can Nature Make Migraines Less of a Headache?
Like a jackhammer going off within the head, migraines are notorious for their repetitive, throbbing, and pulsating nature. Light sensitivity, nausea, feeling lightheaded, and visual changes are a few of the most frequent symptoms reported by those who have suffered from migraines. Many people have experienced these troublesome head pains to some extent, but what causes them? Are migraines just something we have to deal
Which Protein is the Best Fit For You?
Some people think protein supplements are just for bodybuilders or serious athletes, but the truth is everyone needs high-quality protein to help build and maintain muscle. Getting enough protein not only allows the body to stay strong well into middle and old age, but also helps improve endurance, reduce fatigue, and reduces recovery time for injuries. Not all protein supplements are created equal. You can
The “Fit 6” for Health and Wellness
When you were a kid, your mother may have told you, “You are what you eat.” As cliché as it may have been, there is a lot of truth to the saying. Healthy foods have profound healing powers, while unhealthy foods wreak havoc on our bodies. It all seems simple enough, right? Despite what we know through modern science about nutrition, though, many of us
Dogged by Back Pain? You May Need Some Bark
Have you ever felt a dull, constant ache in your back? Do you ever reach for the aspirin or ibuprofen and wish there was a natural solution? You are not alone. Back pain accounts for a large percentage of all missed work days and is the most common reason to visit a physician. Pain is your body’s warning signal that something is wrong. Some people
A Sinus Infection Solution; Served on a Silver Platter
While there is much to love about the fall and winter, one unwelcome aspect is the arrival of cold and flu season. Even if you are able to avoid a nasty bout of the flu, common cold symptoms can linger far longer than we would like. Do you ever feel like you’ve mostly gotten over a cold in just a few days, but can’t seem
Avoid Feeling SAD about Seasonal Depression
Just as the coming of summer gives most people a healthy dose of good feelings and excitement for warm-weather activities, the shorter days and longer periods of darkness that accompany winter are known to cause some mild cases of the “blues” and can cause even more serious levels of outright depression. Most people feel at least some effect from the colder weather and reduced sunlight,
Don’t Let High Cholesterol Sneak Up On You
Having high cholesterol doesn’t usually come with any symptoms, yet it is one of the leading causes of heart attacks and strokes. People with high cholesterol have at least twice the risk of a heart attack than those who don’t. Most people assume their cholesterol levels are fine but, if they’re wrong, they may have dangerously clogged arteries that can reduce blood flow and lead
When Constipation Becomes an Issue
Constipation is an issue that’s rarely talked about, but one that is important. Just like a traffic jam, constipation slows down important movement and is both annoying and potentially harmful. Many people may not feel comfortable discussing it, but constipation can be a condition that predisposes you to serious problems such as hemorrhoids, ulcers, hernias, obstruction of the colon, and urinary tract issues according to
The New Way to Protect Joints from Osteoarthritis
Do you ever feel stiffness in your joints after getting out of bed or sitting for a long time? Do you ever hear crunchy or bone-on-bone sounds when moving? This could mean that you have, or are developing, the most common form of arthritis – osteoarthritis. When ignored, osteoarthritis is a debilitating part of aging that is a major reason for “feeling old.” Fortunately, it
How Long-Term Inflammation is Hurting You Now
For the most part, our bodies take care of themselves – live clean and we will be healthy, right? Sometimes, though, our bodies can overreact to problems; ask someone who is allergic to bees if their body is simply taking care of itself when they get stung. An allergic reaction is the body “overdoing” its response to a problem. The immune system can often go
A Natural Answer for High Blood Pressure
You most likely either have or know someone who has hypertension or high blood pressure (HBP). Approximately 50 million people – about 20% of Americans – have HBP. HBP is a serious condition where the heart and blood vessels work harder than normal. Think of high blood pressure as being similar to the pressure of water in your garden hose. If all you need to
Lutein and Zeaxanthin: The Eye’s Natural Shield
Have you ever thought about how nutrition affects your eyes? Many people neglect to think about them as much as they think about losing that excess weight or achieving other health goals. There are two nutrients in particular that may act as a natural shield that can protect our eyes from the sun’s harmful rays and a number of eye issues – lutein and zeaxanthin.
Do you know the magnesium form your body needs?
You may remember from science class that magnesium is a gray mineral that is the ninth most-abundant element in the universe. It is also the fourth most-abundant mineral in the body, in which about 60% of it is found in bone. A lack of magnesium has little effect on our stature, but it affects so much of our body’s functions. Most Americans are not aware
Is Isoquercetin the cure for allergies?
Quercetin is a naturally-occurring flavonol, found in fruits, vegetables, grains, and leaves, that has long been considered the premier natural anti-histamine for those who struggle with seasonal allergies. I wrote an article that explained how allergic reactions occur and I highlighted quercetin’s ability to keep histamine from being released into cells (which causes allergy symptoms). Quercetin remains a top-notch natural solution to a running nose,
Which Natural Sleep Aid is Right For You?
When we think of insomnia, we often think of a person pushed to the brink of sanity that tosses and turns each night in bed without getting a wink of sleep. Could it be stress? Time zone changes? Imbalance of minerals? Perhaps there is more to the Princess and the Pea fable. The 1835 fable, by Hans Christian Andersen, suggested that the true princess was
How important is fish oil?
Have you heard the claims about omega-3 fatty acids through the advertising of everything from yogurt to dog food? Omega-3 fish oil supplements are among the most popular supplements in the United States. Look through any health magazine and you are bound to find an ad for a fish oil product that touts various benefits, such as “Good For the Heart”, or “Better Brain Health”,
Keep Your Heart Ticking with CoQ10
I want to share with you some powerful new research on the popular supplement CoQ10 and its potential as a literal life saver. A new study shows that CoQ10 is such an effective supplement for powering muscles that it can even protect those with serious issues in the most important muscle of all – the heart. A recent study from the Journal of the American College
Protecting Your Heart the Natural Way
Do you know one of the most natural ways to reduce the heart-stopping effects of cholesterol and improve your odds of keeping your heart healthy? Avoiding the leading cause of death and serious illness in the United States may be as simple as improving your dietary intake of one particular nutrient. Many are simply not aware of this nutrient’s importance, but you can naturally optimize
Resolve To Keep Your New Year’s Resolution
Nearly half of all Americans make annual New Year’s resolutions, and people who explicitly make resolutions are ten times more likely to attain their goals than people who don’t. However, only 8% of people are ultimately successful in achieving their resolutions. Why is this? How can you be more successful? In this article, I’ll share with you the best ways to ensure that you fulfill your
Which Probiotic Should You Be Taking?
Probiotics are those naturally occurring “good” or “helpful” bacteria found in the body and probiotic supplementation can be beneficial for you, even if you don’t have a digestive problem. Many over-the-counter probiotics, at best, may have no effect because they may either not be the ones for you or simply don’t work because they are destroyed by your digestive system before they can begin working.
Travel Tips for the Diabetic
Planning ahead when you travel can greatly reduce all sorts of stress, leaving lots more time for fun. This pre-trip preparation can be particularly important for travelers with a medical condition such as diabetes, who must be more diligent about their health related plans. These 5 Diabetes Travel Tips are simple to implement and crucial to your diabetic maintenance while away from home, especially if
Is Cranberry the Best Natural Solution for UTIs?
Urinary tract infections (UTIs) affect 1 in 2 women, over the course of their lifetimes and can even affect men as well. Many people have heard that the best way to treat a urinary tract infection is to drink cranberry juice. Is this effective, or is it just a myth? Is cranberry juice the best way to get what works for UTIs, or is there
The Best Natural Skin Protector
I want to share with you this month a natural, effective way to protect your skin from the sun’s dangerous ultraviolet (UV) rays. These rays can prematurely wrinkle our skin and cause cancer even when cloud cover is present. While it’s always important to remember to wear sunscreen outside, our skin can still be damaged from prolonged sun exposure after slathering it on and not
What are the Best Natural Solutions ﻿for Pre-Menopause Symptoms?
Did you know that hot flashes can last more than eleven years in some women, or that women approaching menopause can be kept up at night because their brains are excreting “fight-or-flight” chemicals? Are you aware that certain foods and beverages, like caffeine-containing coffee, can aggravate menopausal symptoms like headaches and migraines? Despite the North American Menopause Society‘s estimation that nearly 50 million women in
Does GABA really relax and rejuvenate?
Reducing our stress levels certainly feels good, and often gives us a new perspective on life, so it’s no wonder that a certain group of anti-depressants (known as SSRIs) are so popular. But in light of the widely-reported side effects with the long-term use of anti-depressants, are there natural solutions that do the same thing in a healthier, more sustainable way? One of the most
Staying Young For A Lifetime
Take Care of Your Muscles and They Will Take Care of You Staying young and active throughout our entire lifetime is something we all aim for. We want to be able to do what we want, when we want to do it. Playing with our kids, traveling, jogging, hiking, and enjoying time with family, friends, and loved ones really gets to the core of what life is
Phytonutrients; Essential Nutrients for Your Vitamin Needs
Now that spring is upon us, most of us are looking to resume our favorite outdoor activities that we had to pause for the winter. For some, this means getting out in the garden. Gardening is a great way to get some sun, a light workout, and (perhaps most importantly) a bounty of delicious, nutritious, homegrown fruits and vegetables. Even those without a garden can
Natural Solutions to Seasonal Allergies
Allergy season is officially upon us in many parts of the country. Even if you are not yet sneezing or experiencing a runny nose, there is significant benefit to taking action against seasonal allergies before they become overwhelming. This approach is called pretreatment, and many doctors believe this to be the most effective way to keep your allergies in check. These doctors are not alone
Are Detox Diets Really Necessary?
It’s true that the food we eat and the environment we live in contain many different toxins. Detoxification, the body’s natural process of filtering and eliminating toxins, is a topic that comes up quite a bit in the worlds of health and wellness recently, but many people don’t know much about how it works or what it can really do for them in understandable terms.
Understanding the Mysteries of Pain (And How You Can Feel Better Naturally)
What is pain? Pain is unlike any other feeling in that it is an incredibly complicated mixture of experience, sensation, emotion, culture, and spirit. One way to phrase it, according to the American Academy of Pain Medicine, is that pain is "an unpleasant sensation and the emotional response to that sensation."...
Beware of Scam Herbal Supplements
I feel compelled to share with you a news article posted in the Washington Post this past February about a massive herbal supplement scam uncovered at 4 major retailers. To summarize the story, the state of New York's Attorney General Eric Schneiderman instructed GNC, Target, Wal-Mart and Walgreens to immediately cease selling a number of scam herbal supplements...
Breaking Down Your Digestion
According to the American Nutrition Association, 70 million people every day suffer from some type of digestive disorder. Whether it is heartburn, acid reflux, constipation, or any other digestive problem, these conditions can wreak serious havoc on our health. However, digestive health, in my opinion, is sadly overlooked in most health discussions. I feel it is vital to have a firm understanding of the digestive
A New Epidemic: Is your blood sugar out of balance?
One of the biggest, most often undiagnosed health problems sweeping the country is blood sugar imbalances. The most common disease from blood sugar imbalances, diabetes, kills about 4 million people worldwide a year and around 200,000 in just the United States. Whether your blood sugar (or glucose) is too high or too low, it can lead to serious disruptions to your energy, metabolism, brain chemistry
Building Bones to Last a Lifetime
Some people may know about osteoporosis and calcium supplementation’s effects on bones. However, calcium is just one component of proper bone health, so here I will discuss with you the importance of various weight bearing exercises and the tremendous impact it can have on your long-term bone health. A Bit of Background on Your Backbone Because bones are some of the most rigid and sturdy
When the Basics Aren’t Working: Four Obstacles to Weight Loss
Sometimes when it comes to weight we can get the feeling that no matter how good your eating habits become or how strict an exercise regimen you follow, nothing seems to work. This can be especially frustrating if you’ve decided to embark on weight loss with a friend who doesn’t seem to have any problem shedding the pounds...
Back to Basics
Metabolism is the process by which your body converts what you eat and drink into energy. In other words, it is the amount of energy (calories) your body burns in order to maintain itself. The number of calories your body uses to carry out basic functions such as breathing, blood circulation, growing, movement and sleeping is known as your basal metabolic rate – usually referred
The Importance of Digestive Enzymes!
Enzymes are essential to sustaining life, and play a major role in how we age. It appears that as we age, depending on our lifestyle, diet and inherent enzyme potential, digestive difficulties may develop, the immune system must work harder, degenerative diseases may appear, and strength, flexibility, endurance and mental acuity decrease. We will discuss what you can do to combat this.
Health Can Be Found in Your Kitchen
It all starts in the kitchen..."the US government conducted the HANES study (Health and Nutrition Examination Survey) to understand how people view the importance of a balanced diet and good nutrition. The study showed that the dietary choices made contained not just below average amounts of nutrients, but were composed of very poor choices and the average American’s diet is woefully lacking in nutritional value."
Optimize Your Health: pH Tips to Live By (3/3)
"...get rid of the table salt and replace it with unrefined sea salt! Salt is an essential nutrient; however we are not referring to table salt! Today’s table salt has nothing in common with natural, unrefined sea salt, which is an essential nutrient. Unrefined sea salt once sold for its weight in gold."
Optimize Your Health: Test Your pH Levels (2/3)
You can test your pH levels in the privacy of your own home. To do this, you will need to purchase pH paper, or litmus strips, from your local health food store or pharmacy. There are two at-home methods for testing: saliva and urine testing...
Optimize Your Health: The pH Connection (1/3)
You must start with balancing your pH levels, and this is done, in most part, by the foods you eat. If you remember nothing else about this article, remember this... If you can regain and MAINTAIN your body’s pH levels to a healthy state, you will have set up possibly the best fortress against disease that is available to you...
6 Potent Herbs and Supplements for Glucose Control
Alpha-Lipoic Acid (Lipoic Acid) At least 20% of diabetic patients develop a type of nerve damage that may result in pain, loss of sensation, and weakness, particularly in the lower extremities. Peripheral neuropathy (damaged nerves outside the brain and spinal cord) is also a leading cause of lower limb amputation in diabetic patients! Several controlled trials indicate that maintaining blood glucose at near normal levels
What You Need to Know About Vitamin D!
It is now estimated 1 billion of the world’s population is deficient in Vitamin D. Most of us know the importance of vitamin D intake for strong, healthy bones. Even so, a resurgence of rickets, the childhood bone-weakening disease, has been seen in industrialized countries in recent years. According to the Harvard School of Public Health, vitamin D deficiency is...
Find us on Facebook
Find us on Twitter
Find us on Google+
View Cart
Manage My Account
Order Status
Favorites
About Oakway Naturals
About Dr. Gittins
Payment Options
Privacy Policy
Shipping Information
Returns
Our Guarantee
Contact Us
Oakway Naturals, LLC
2704 Delta Oaks Drive
Eugene, OR 97408
(541) 246-8743
Call us: (888) 460-3091
Sign up for FREE health tips & email-only promotions!
*FDA Required Statement: These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.
Copyright 2016 Oakway Naturals. Sitemap