Italian Doctor Shocked The World: Cancer Is a Fungus That Can Be Treated With Baking Soda
MaxDiaries
Home
Science/Knowledge
Life/Health
Spirituality
Video
News
Go
Home » Health » truth » Videos » Italian Doctor Shocked The World: Cancer Is a Fungus That Can Be Treated With Baking Soda
Share on Facebook ()
Share on Twitter
Italian Doctor Shocked The World: Cancer Is a Fungus That Can Be Treated With Baking Soda
#Health #truth #Videos
According to Italian doctor Tulio Simonchini, cancer is nothing but a fungus which can be eliminated with baking soda. Dr. Simonchini used this method to cure thousands of patients suffering from different types of cancer, and claims that it is 100% effective.
The therapy isn’t harmful at all and let’s face it – you’ve got nothing to lose. The painful reality of more and more cancer cases is somehow connected to the failures of oncology. “We have to prove that modern oncology is unable to answer all the questions cancer patients have. It’s our moral and ethical commitment to find the real cure for the hardest and deadliest diseases of our time,” says Dr. Simonchini.
Cancer is a fungus!
“About a century ago, there was a great theory that cancer is caused by malfunctioning genes, which means that the disease is intracellular. However, in my opinion, cancer is a fungal infection and a special cellular phenomenon,” says Dr. Simonchini, who has sent shockwaves around the medical community with his claim.
Candida
In the plant world, carcinoma is caused by fungal infections, and the same happens in humans. Fungi always carry a tumor with them – this has been proven in both in vivo and in vitro studies. However, scientists believe that they develop after the disease appeared. Dr. Simonchini believes that they were already there before – fungi create cancer, weaken our immune system and then attack the whole body. Every type of cancer is caused by the Candida fungus, which has been confirmed by several studies, and its histological structure is a result of the defensive measures against the invasion. Over time, our tissues are weakened and tired, and they start producing unidentified cells. According to Dr. Simonchini, cancer is an “ulcer” where deformed cells accumulate and form colonies.
Baking soda
The usual antifungal drugs are ineffective against cancer as they only attack the surface of the cells. The main infection is more powerful than a single bacterium, which is why fungal infections last for so long. “I have identified the things that can attack these colonies of fungi – for cancer, it’s baking soda, and a iodine tincture is the best substance for skin cancer,” claims Dr. Simonchini. Many studies have confirmed baking soda’s intracellular action against cancer
The treatment
“I have used the treatment on my patients for more than 20 years. Many of these patients have completely recovered from the disease, even when doctors gave them no chances. The best way to eliminate a tumor is for it to come in contact with baking soda, which can be applied as an enema for digestive cancers, intravenous injection for brain and lung tumors and inhalation for tumors in the upper respiratory system. Breast, lymph system and subcutaneous tumors can be treated with a local perfusion. Internal organ tumors should be treated with baking soda by applying it directly into the arteries, and it’s also important to treat every type of cancer with the proper dose,” Dr. Simonchini explains, and continues: “For phleboclisis, you’ll need about 500 cm. of 5% or 8.4% solution; in some cases, the mixture only needs to be salty enough. During every treatment, it’s important to know that tumor colonies come back between the 3 and 4 day, and suffer a collapse between the 4 and 5 day, so a minimum of 6 days of treatment is required. The treatment should be repeated for 4 cycles, and has no other side-effects other than thirst and weakness.”
“For skin cancer, you should rub a 0.7% iodine tincture on the affected areas 20-30 times a day. Afterwards, the tumor will not return,” Dr. Simonchini says.
Here are the main symptoms of Candida infection:
Chronic fatigue;
Obsessive-compulsive disorder;
Anxiety and irritability;
Brain fog and nausea;
Chronic skin disorders;
Chronic digestive disorders;
Mood changes;
Starch and sugar cravings.
If you have notice at least 2 of these symptoms, you may have an advanced stage of candida infections which may result in cancer, so they should never be ignored.
Treatment and prevention of candida infections
The fungal development must be kept in check. Left untreated, candida can lead to candidiasis which can cause symptoms that mimic other diseases and result in perforation in the intestines and leaky gut syndrome. This will allow protein to attack your blood cells. In order to prevent further problems, we first need to eliminate the foods that feed candida – sugar and starch. This means no bread, candy, fresh fruit, pasta and rice for a while. Focus on eating raw fruit and steamed vegetables, and some people have had great results with grapefruit seeds. Dr. Simonchini recommends using aluminum-free baking soda for the treatment of cancer. It can be found in almost all health stores and pharmacies.
How the therapy works
Baking soda significantly increases the alkalinity of your blood which destroys the fungi. Due to this, baking soda quickly disintegrates the tumor, leaving it without defense.
For stomach, colon, rectal and oral cancer, you need to take 1 teaspoon of baking soda in a glass of water every morning and evening for a month. In most cases, this is enough time to eliminate the tumor. The therapy should last 3-4 weeks and not a day more. Dr. Simonchini’s therapy also usually requires intravenous injections as well. For best results, you’ll need 500 ml. of 5% baking soda solution applied in the vein directly every day. Do this for 24 days, then go for a scan. Vaginal fungal infections have become pretty common nowadays and according to Dr. Simonchini, they are the main culprit for cervical cancer and vaginal tumors. In order to treat these problems, you need to wash your vagina with a mixture made of 2 l. of filtered water and 2 tablespoons of baking soda. This will defeat the fungi that are causing the problem and prevent them from coming back in the future. via:www.collectivehealthy.com
Share to Facebook ()
tweet
Google Plus
Newer Post
Older Post
Week Popular Posts
Drinking Water On Empty Stomach
It is popular in Japan today to drink water immediately after waking up every morning. Furthermore, scientific tests have proven its valu...
Do Not Ignore This! This May Be the Hidden Reason of Your Lower Back Pain
The pilonidal cyst appears due to an excessive and continuous pressure on the sacrococcygeal area. It is formed along the tailbone, near th...
BEST HOME REMEDIES TO PREVENT SAGGY BREASTS AND KEEP THEM PERFECTLY PERKY – FOREVER!
Every woman desires perfectly shaped breasts. Unfortunately, this desire is not possible in most cases because breast sagging is a process ...
Most People Can’t Solve This Basic Math Equation, Can You?
The United States aren’t exactly well-known for our math prowess. Unfortunately, along with science, it’s one of our weaker subjects. Som...
10 SURPRISING SECRETS YOUR TONGUE CAN REVEAL ABOUT YOUR HEALTH
Tongue can give us very important information about the overall health of the entire organism. Chinese medicine has been studying the healt...
Get more stories like this In your inbox!
OK
Health truth Videos news life story spirituality SCIENCE-TECH love
Disclaimer | Contact Us
@ 2018 MaxDiaries