Use These Home Remedies for Cavities to Get Rid of It at Home
Ads & Affiliate Disclosure
Best Jelqing Exercises for Men to Enlarge Penis Naturally at Home
Contact Us
Directory Listing
Disclaimer
Facebook Page Name Change From “Health, Body and Beauty Tips” to “Healthnbodytips.com”
HealthNBodyTips.com Marked As SPAM on Pinterest. Help US GET BACK on!
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Treating Vaginal Cysts at Home: 8 Ways to Get Rid of Vaginal Cysts
Write For Us
--
April 26, 2019
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Write For Us
Ads & Affiliate Disclosure
Home
Beauty Tips
Skin Care
Hair Care
Diet Plans
Diseases
Illness
Fitness
Exercises
General Health Tips
Dental Care
Infographic
Quiz
Yoga
Women’s Health
Home
Beauty Tips
Dental Care
Hair Care
Skin Care
Diseases
Fitness
General Health Tips
Use These Home Remedies for Cavities to Get Rid of It at Home
Home remedies for cavities: Children and teenagers face their worst nightmare every time they have to visit their local dentist. Of the many people that cavities affect, children and teenagers are the general target group.
To most of us, cavities are those little black holes that surface from literally nowhere at all, forcing us to pay a visit to our not-so-friendly-needle-laden dentist. If we were to break down cavities to more than the superficial definition that seems to be imbibed within us, we would have a definition that went in the following manner; the decay of teeth caused by a bacterial infection resulting in demineralization and destruction of the tissues of the teeth. Before proceeding to our list of home remedies for cavities, here is what you should learn about the condition.
Factors Leading to Cavities
Certain factors tend to increase one’s risk of developing cavities such as
Frequent snacking or sipping on foods and drinks that cling to your teeth for a long time
Poor oral hygiene
Dry mouth
Not getting enough fluoride
Worn out fillings
Eating disorders such as bulimia and anorexia disorders can also result in dental problems due to repeated purging.
Excessive consumption of sugar-laden foods.
Symptoms of Cavities
So how do you know when one of these bad boys have taken a tooth or teeth as a captive? Look out for these signs:
Toothache
Black, or brown stains on the surface of the tooth
Visible holes in the infected tooth
Tooth sensitivity
A sharp pain while eating or drinking
Home remedies for cavities
Cavities, when left untreated, result in severe toothaches, infections and in some cases tooth loss. In order to prevent the occurrence of cavities, it is essential that you take good care of your teeth. Remember to brush your teeth twice every day, regardless of how tempting it might be to crash without brushing. Be sure that you floss regularly and also clean your tongue regularly.
You can consult these home remedies for cavities, but if they do not produce the results you wish to see, then a trip to the dentist mandates.
Effective and Easy Home Remedies for Cavities
1. Turmeric
Turmeric is an age-old remedy that has been proven to provide respite from cavity pain. It is particularly beneficial as it keeps your gums healthy, preventing tooth decay caused by bacterial infection.
If you want to tap in on the antibacterial as well as anti-inflammatory properties of turmeric, then you can follow on of these remedies:
To the affected teeth, apply turmeric powder. Leave this on for about two minutes before rinsing it off with warm water.
Another option includes the following:
To a teaspoon of mustard oil, mix in half a teaspoon of turmeric powder.
Use this to massage your teeth and gums.
Leave this on for about ten minutes before spitting it out.
Repeat these remedies, any one of them, once or twice a day for a few days.
Related: Rose water benefits for teeth and gums
2. Oil Pulling
Oil pulling is one of the most effective home remedies for cavities and has proven equally effective in reducing bleeding gums as well as bad breath. It cleans out the harmful bacteria in the mouth that cause different kinds of dental problems, including yellow teeth.
For this remedy:
Put a tablespoon of sesame oil in your mouth.
Swish this around gently for about twenty minutes.
Spit this out and refrain from gargling or swallowing the oil.
Rinse your mouth with warm water.
Brush your teeth as you normally do.
Repeat this process every morning on an empty stomach.
You could use either coconut oil or sunflower oil as a substitute for sesame oil.
Related: How to whiten teeth at home?
3. Cloves
Days of toothaches are made of the taste of cloves, but it isn’t often that the aftertaste outnumbers the pain. Any dental related issue is often treated with clove. It works due to its ability to prevent the cavity from spreading in addition to alleviating the pain associated with one. This is largely due to the anti-inflammatory, analgesic and antibacterial properties that it possesses.
For this remedy:
Dilute a few drops of clove oil with a quarter teaspoon of sesame oil.
Place a few drops of this solution onto a cotton ball and dab this on the affected tooth.
Repeat this process every night before falling asleep.
Another from the home remedies for cavities is:
Gently chew on an entire clove in order to extract the oil from it
Place the clove beneath your tongue for several minutes.
Related: How to alleviate braces pain?
4. Garlic
Garlic may not be able to help you out with bad breath, but it can definitely pitch in when it comes to tooth decays and cavities. This is due to the antibiotic and antibacterial properties that it comes packed with. This, in the process, helps to promote healthier teeth and gums.
Here are a few home remedies for cavities that you can try out:
Make a paste of three or four crushed garlic cloves with a quarter a teaspoon of rock salt.
Apply this on the affected tooth and leave it on for about ten minutes.
Rinse it off soon after with a mouthwash.
Repeat this twice every day for a few weeks.
Remedy II
You could also proceed to rub garlic oil onto the affected tooth.
Remedy III
Chew on raw garlic regularly for best results.
Related: Top 10 home remedies for dry mouth
5. Salt
Salt is antiseptic and antibacterial in nature, which is why it is great to get rid of cavities. It reduces inflammation, eases the pain, draws out any existing infection and prevents the growth of bacteria in the mouth.
Here are a few home remedies incorporating garlic for you to experiment with:
Remedy I
Dissolve a teaspoon of salt in a glass of warm water.
Swish this solution in your mouth for a minute.
Follow this remedy thrice a day for best results
Remedy II
Mix half a teaspoon of salt and lemon juice or mustard oil so as to make a paste.
Massage your gums gently with this paste.
Gargle with warm water.
Repeat this process twice every day in order to kill bacteria.
Related: How to heal mouth ulcers at home?
These home remedies for cavities are bound to give you the respite you seek if you religiously follow them up. If the symptoms do not get better even after trying out these remedies, then you have to consult your dentist right away.
In this article
General Health Tips
cavities remedies
dental care
dental hygiene
dental remedies
dental tips
HNBTtips
home remedies
Natasha Kurien
Natasha Kurien is a voracious reader, consumed by wanderlust. As a writer, thinker and dreamer she does fairly well.
Show More
Recent Posts
10 Home Remedies for C-Section Recovery; Post-C-Section Tips
10 Home Remedies for Vaginal Birth Recovery; for Speedy Healing
7 Home Remedies for Hormonal Imbalance; Foods, Lifestyle & Diet
7 Best Home Remedies for Fordyce Spots That Are Worth Giving A…
7 Home Remedies for Dust Mite Bites Gathered From Kitchen Ingredients
7 Tried and Tested Home Remedies for Heavy Periods for Fast Relief
Join the Conversation Cancel Reply
Will not be published.
Website
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Top Articles
10 Home Remedies for C-Section Recovery; Post-C-Section Tips
10 Home Remedies for Vaginal Birth Recovery; for Speedy Healing
7 Home Remedies for Hormonal Imbalance; Foods, Lifestyle & Diet
7 Best Home Remedies for Fordyce Spots That Are Worth Giving A…
7 Home Remedies for Dust Mite Bites Gathered From Kitchen Ingredients
7 Tried and Tested Home Remedies for Heavy Periods for Fast Relief
Home Remedies & Tips to Get Rid of Razor Bumps on Vagina…
How to Get Rid of Vomiting in Dogs?: 8 Easy & Safe…
How to Increase Your Pet Dog’s Life?; 7 Tips to Help Them…
How to Get Rid of Mucous Cyst?: 10 Home Remedies for Mucous…
Follow Us!
Search Box
6 Sure-Fire Home Remedies for Sleep Apnea to Help You Sleep Better
Previous
6 Home Remedies for Dry Eyes Based on Ingredients in Your Kitchen
Next
Copyright © 2016 HealthNBodyTips.com.