FDA Document Reports Autism Link After Tetanus, Pertussis & Diptheria Combination Vaccine | Āgenskalna privātklīnika
Tālr. 678 07 283
Mob. tālr.: 26 66 75 79 (pieejams arī brīvdienās)
E-pasts: info@similia.lv
Skype: agenskalna.klinika
English
Latviešu
Русский
Main menu
Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content
Kontakti
Par Mums
Sākums
FDA Document Reports Autism Link After Tetanus, Pertussis & Diptheria Combination Vaccine
An FDA report from 2005 titled “Diphtheria and Tetanus Toxoids and Acellular Pertussis Vaccine Adsorbed Tripedia” outlines a number of adverse events reported during post-approval use of the Tripedia vaccine, and one of them is autism. (1)
Health-care providers who administer vaccines are required to keep permanent vaccination records, they are also required to report any occurrences (adverse events such as autism) to the Secretary of the US Department of Health and Human Services following immunization of any events.
The report also illustrates that the tripedia vaccine has not been evaluated for its carcinogenic or mutagenic potentials or impairment of fertility. This makes one wonder what other vaccines have not been properly evaluated. Furthermore, it illustrates how a review by the Institute of Medicine (IOM) found evidence for a causal relationship between tetanus toxoid and both brachial neuritis and Guillain-Barre syndrome.
This document just adds more confusion to the topic of vaccines and autism. How can the general public be expected to believe there is no link when more evidence keeps on mounting that suggests that there could be. Why does an FDA document even mention autism and its association with vaccinations?
There is good reason to be confused, this isn’t fear mongering.
For example, a recently published study in the peer-reviewed journal Translational Neurodegeneration provided epidemiological evidence supporting an association between increasing organic-Hg exposure from thimerosal-containing childhood vaccines and the risk of ASD diagnosis. (2)
On the other hand, a study published in March of 2013 determined that “Increasing exposure to Antibody-Stimulating Proteins and Polysaccharides (antigens) in Vaccines is Not Associated with Risk of Autism.” You can view that study here.
Back the other way, there are a number of court cases where families have been compensated for vaccine related injuries. Courts have ruled (in multiple cases) that vaccines did indeed cause autism. How could a court of law rule this to be so if there is no scientific link (as claimed by governing health authorities) between vaccines and autism? Courts have compensated over 80 families linking vaccines to autism. Here is one example, you can learn more about that process by watching this video.
I think it’s important to keep an open mind with regards to health authorities covering up information involving the risks associated with vaccines. Proof is already in the public domain. Researchers at the University of British Colombia have uncovered evidence showing that health authorities, pharmaceutical companies and vaccine manufactures have known about the dangers associated with multiple vaccines, but have withheld them from public knowledge in order to maintain “herd immunity.” (3)
There have also been reports that the CDC has been hiding data showing that mercury in vaccines is linked to autism, you can read more about that here.
The link between vaccines and autism is still speculative. With all the information available in the public domain, I do not see how anybody can say with certainty that there is no possibility of a link. The studies below demonstrate that this has been the subject of rigorous investigation by researchers all over the world, and the investigations continue until this day.
Sure, there are doctors that support and trust vaccinations, but just as valid are the arguments of those that don’t support them. They should not be ignored. The point I’m trying to make is that there is no definite answer, that the debate has not been settled as so many governing health authorities claim it to be.
Besides the vaccine autism controversy, vaccines have been linked to a number of other health ailments,
A paper published in the peer reviewed International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health titled Thimerosal Exposure and the Role of Sulfation Chemistry and Thiol Availability in Autism concluded:
“With the rate of children diagnosed with an ASD in the US now exceeding 1 in 50 children and the rate of children with neurodevelopment/behavioural disorders in the US now exceeding 1 in 6 children, and the preceding evidence showing that there is vulnerability to ™ that would not be known without extensive testing, the preponderance of the evidence indicates that ™ should be removed from all vaccines”
A paper published in the Journal of Toxicology titled B-Lymphocytes from a population of Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder and Their Unaffected Siblings Exhibit Hypersensitivity to Thimerosal clearly demonstrates that certain individuals with a mild mitochondrial defect may be highly susceptible to mitochondrial specific toxins like thimerosal.
A study published in the Journal Annals of Epidemiology has shown that giving the Hepatitis B vaccine to newborn baby boys could triple the risk of developing an autism spectrum disorder compared to boys who were not vaccinated as neonates. The research was conducted at Stony Brook University Medical Centre, NY.
A study published in the Journal of Inorganic Biochemistry by researchers at the Neural Dynamics Group, Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences at the University of British Columbia determined that Aluminum, a highly neurotoxic metal and the most commonly used vaccine adjuvant may be a significant contributing factor to the rising prevalence of ASD in the Western World. They showed that the correlation between ASD prevalence and the Aluminum adjuvant exposure appears to be the highest at 3-4 months of age. The studies also show that children from countries with the highest ASD appear to have a much higher exposure to Aluminum from vaccines. The study points out that several prominent milestones of brain development coincide with major vaccination periods for infants. These include the onset of synaptogenesis (birth), maximal growth velocity of the hippocampus and the onset of amygdala maturation. Furthermore, major developmental transition in many bio-behavioural symptoms such as sleep, temperature regulation, respiration and brain wave patterns, all of which are regulated by the neuroendocrine network. Many of these aspects of brain function are known to be impaired in autism, such as sleeping and brain wave patterns.
According to the FDA, vaccines represent a special category of drugs as they are generally given to healthy individuals. Further according to the FDA, “this places significant emphasis on their vaccine safety.” While the FDA does set an upper limit for Aluminum in vaccines at no more that 850/mg/dose, it is important to note that this amount was selected empirically from data showing that Aluminum in such amounts enhanced the antigenicity of the vaccine, rather than from existing safety. Given that the scientific evidence appears to indicate that vaccine safety is not as firmly established as often believed, it would seem ill advised to exclude paediatric vaccinations as a possible cause of adverse long-term neurodevelopment outcomes, including those associated with autism.
A study published in the Journal of Toxicology and Environmental Health, Part A: Current Issues by the Department of Economics and Finance at the University of New York shows how researchers suspect one or more environmental triggers are needed to develop autism, regardless of whether individuals have a genetic predisposition or not. They determined that one of those triggers might be the “battery of vaccinations that young children receive.” Researchers found a positive and statistically significant relationship between autism and vaccinations. They determined that the higher the proportion of children receiving recommended vaccinations, the higher the prevalence of autism. A 1 % increase in vaccination was associated with an additional 680 children having autism. The results suggest that vaccines may be linked to autism and encourages more in depth study before continually administering these vaccines.
A study published in the Journal of Toxicology by the Department of Neurosurgery at The Methodist Neurological Institute in Houston has shown that ASD is a disorder caused by a problem in brain development. They looked at B-cells and their sensitivity levels to thimerosal, a commonly used additive in many vaccines. They determined that ASD patients have a heightened sensitivity to thimerosal which would restrict cell proliferation that is typically found after vaccination. The research shows that individuals who have this hypersensitivity to thimerosal could make them highly susceptible to toxins like thimerosal, and that individuals with a mild mitochondrial defect may be affected by thimerosal. The fact that ASD patients’ B cells exhibit hypersensitivity to thimerosal tells us something.
A study published in the Journal of Biomedical Sciences determined that the autoimmunity to the central nervous system may play a causal role in autism. Researchers discovered that because many autistic children harbour elevated levels of measles antibodies, they should conduct a serological study of measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) and myelin basic protein (MBP) autoantibodies. They used serum samples of 125 autistic children and 92 controlled children. Their analysis showed a significant increase in the level of MMR antibodies in autistic children. The study concludes that the autistic children had an inappropriate or abnormal antibody response to MMR. The study determined that autism could be a result from an atypical measles infection that produces neurological symptoms in some children. The source of this virus could be a variant of MV, or it could be the MMR vaccine.
Study published in the Annals of Clinical Psychiatry suggests that Autism is likely triggered by a virus, and that measles virus (MV and/or MMR vaccine) might be a very good candidate. It supports the hypothesis that a virus-dincued autoimmune response may play a causal role in autism.
A study published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition determined that an increased vulnerability to oxidative stress and decreased capacity for methylation may contribute to the development and clinical manifestation of autism. It’s well known that viral infections cause increased oxidative stress. Research suggests that metals, including those found in many vaccines are directly involved in increasing oxidative stress.
A study published by the Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences at Northeastern University, Boston determined that a novel growth factor signalling pathway that regulates methionine synthase(MS) activity and thereby modulates methylation reactions. The potent inhibition of this pathway by ethanol, lead, mercury, aluminum and thimerosal suggests that it may be an important target of neurodevelopmental toxins. You can read more about this here, and here. You can read more about the MS/autism link here
A study published in the Journal of Child Neurology examined the question of what is leading to the apparent increase in autism. They expressed that if there is any link between autism and mercury, it is crucial that the first reports of the question are not falsely stating that no link occurs. Researchers determined that a significant relation does exist between the blood levels of mercury and the diagnosis of an autism spectrum disorder.
A study published in the Journal of Child Neurology noted that autistic spectrum disorders can be associated with mitochondrial dysfunction. Researchers determined that children who have mitochondrial-related dysfunctional cellular energy metabolism might be more prone to undergo autistic regression between 18 and 30 months of age if they also have infections or immunizations at the same time.
A study conducted by Massachusetts General Hospital at the Centre for Morphometric Analysis by the department of Paediatric Neurology illustrates how autistic brains have a growth spurt shortly after birth and then slow in growth a few short years later. Researchers have determined that neuroinflammation appears to be present in autistic brain tissue from childhood through adulthood. The study excerpt reads:
Oxidative stress, brain inflammation and microgliosis have been much documented in association with toxic exposures including various heavy metals. The awareness that the brain as well as medical conditions of children with autism may be conditioned by chronic biomedical abnormalities such as inflammation opens the possibility that meaningful biomedical interventions may be possible well past the window of maximal neuroplasticity in early childhood because the basis for assuming that all deficits can be attributed to fixed early developmental alterations in net
A study conducted by the Department of Paediatrics at the University of Arkansas determined that thimerosal-induced cytotoxicity was associated with the depletion of intracellular glutathione (GSH) in both cell lines. The study outlines how many vaccines have been neurotoxic, especially to the developing brain. Depletion of GSH is commonly associated with autism. Although thimerosal has been removed from most children’s vaccines, it is still present in flu vaccines given to pregnant women, the elderly and to children in developing countries.
A study published in the Public Library of Science (PLOS) determined that elevation in peripheral oxidative stress is consistent with, and may contribute to more severe functional impairments in the ASD group. We know that oxidative stress is triggered by heavy metals, like the ones contained in multiple vaccines.
A study conducted by the University of Texas Health Science Centre by the Department of Family and Community Medicine determined that for each 1,000 Ib of environmentally released mercury, there was a 43% increase in the rate of special education services and a 61% increase in the rate of autism. Researchers emphasized that further research was needed regarding the association between environmentally released mercury and developmental disorders such as autism.
A study published in the International Journal of Toxicology determined that in light of the biological plausibility of mercury’s role in neurodevelopment disorders, the present study provides further insight into one possible mechanism by which early mercury exposures could increase the risk of autism.
A study published in the Journal of Toxicology and Environmental Health determined that mercury exposure can induce immune, sensory, neurological, motor and behavioural dysfunctions similar to traits defining or associated with ASDs. Based upon differential diagnoses, 8 of 9 patients examined were exposed to significant mercury from Thimerosal-containing vaccine preparations during their fetal/infant developmental periods. These previously normal developing children suffered mercury encephalopathies that manifested with clinical symptoms consistent with regressive ASDs. Evidence for mercury intoxication should be considered in the differential diagnosis as contributing to some regressive ASDs.
A study published by the US National Library of Medicine conducted by the University of Texas Health Science Centre suspected that persistent low-dose exposures to various environmental toxicants including mercury, that occur during critical windows of neural development among genetically susceptible children, may increase the risk for developmental disorders such as autism.
A study conducted by the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology at University of Pittsburgh’s School of Medicine showed that Macaques are commonly used in pre-clinical vaccine safety testing. Collective Evolution does not support animal testing, we feel there is a large amount of evidence and research that already indicated the links to vaccines in which some animals have been used to illustrate. The objective of this study was to compare early infant cognition and behaviour with amygdala size and opioid binding in rhesus macaques receiving the recommended childhood vaccines. The animal model, which examines for the first time, behavioural, functional and neuromorphometric consequences of the childhood vaccine regimen, mimics certain neurological abnormalities of autism. These findings raise important safety issues while providing a potential model for examining aspects of causation and disease pathogenesis in acquired disorders of behaviour and development.
A study conducted by The George Washington University School of Public Health from the Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics determined that significantly increased rate ratios were observed for autism and autism spectrum disorders as a result of exposure to mercury from Thimerosal-containing vaccines.
A study published in the Journal Cell Biology and Toxicology by Kinki University in Osaka, Japan determined that in combination with the brain pathology observed in patients diagnosed with autism, the present study helps to support the possible biological plausability for how low-dose exposure to mercury from thimerosal-containing vaccines may be associated with autism.
A study published by the Journal Lab Medicine determined that vaccinations may be one of the triggers for autism. Researchers discovered that substantial data demonstrates immune abnormality in many autistic children consistent with impaired resistance to infection, activation of inflammatory responses and autoimmunity. Impaired resistance may predispose to vaccine injury in autism.
A study published in the Journal Neurochemical Research determined that since excessive accumulation of extracellular glutamate is linked with excitotoxicity, data implies that neonatal exposure to thimerosal-containing vaccines might induce excitotoxic brain injuries, leading to neurodevelopmental disorders.
© URL: http://www.collective-evolution.com/2014/04/09/fda-document-reports-autism-link-after-tetanus-pertussis-diptheria-combination-vaccine/
Jautājumi / Atbildes Atcelt atbildi
Ar prieku atbildēsim uz visiem jūs interesējošajiem jautājumiem. Lūdzu norādiet savu vārdu, e-pastu, un jautājumu vai problēmas aprakstu. Atbildi nosūtīsim uz norādīto e-pastu. Ja vēlaties saņemt atbildi nekavējoties, lūdzu sazinieties ar mums izmantojot lapas augšā norādīto kontaktinformāciju.
Jautājums
Vārds *
E-pasts *
Pakalpojumi
Bioenerģētika
Dinamiskā Elektro Neiro Stimulācija (DENS)
Fizioterapija
Ārstnieciskā vingrošana pieaugušajiem
Bobata terapija zīdaiņiem
Handlinga apmācība
Koriģējošā vingrošana bērniem un pusaudžiem
Rehabilitācija pēc traumām
Teipošana
Helingera metode jeb sistēmfenomenoloģija
Homeopātija
Joga pieaugušajiem
Masāža
Osteopātija
Ko ārstē osteopātija?
Psihologa konsultācijas bērniem, pieaugušajiem un ģimenēm
Marte Meo metode
Psihologa konsultācijas
Terapeitiskā spēle
Smilšu terapija
Tibetas tradicionālā terapeitiskā masāža Ku Nye
Uztura speciālista konsultācija
Cenrādis
Konsultāciju cenrādis
Fizioterapijas cenrādis
Masāžas cenrādis
Grupu nodarbību cenrādis
Speciālisti
Amanda Zariņa
Anna Suhanova
Barbara Medniece
Edgars Mednis
Gita Ignace
Inese Ārija Rusele
Ints Mūrnieks
Kristīne Dzenava
Marija Blūma-Kauliņa
Reinis Porozovs
Uģis Bērziņš
Darba laiki
Lekcijas
Ievadseminārs “Baha ziedu terapija”
Dr. Edgara Medņa lekcijas
Trīs dienu seminārs ar sviedru telts ceremoniju
Mikro, makroelementi, vitamīni, tauki un olbaltumvielas homeopāta skatījumā
Bērna ēdināšana līdz 2 gadiem. Homeopātiskā palīdzība gremošanas traucējumu gadījumos
Prāts un tā ietekme uz dzīves kvalitāti
Sievietes veselības pamati
Lekcija-saruna ar pediatru, homeopātu dr. Edgaru Medni
“Topošo vecāku skola” vecmātes Anastasijas Pavlovičas Viļčinskas vadībā
Attiecību enerģētika – sistēmiskās prakses
Dr. Medņa lekcija par vakcināciju
Prieks būt sievietei vai sievietes dzīves ekoloģija
Brīnumu gaidās, vai kas būtu jāzina plānojot bērna ieņemšanu
Deja Mandalā
Lekcija par Astroloģiju
Aktualitātes
Preču piedāvājums
Arhīvs
Dāvanu karte
Publikācijas
Edgars Mednis
Homeopāts ārstē pašu cilvēku – 13.02.2010
Pārmaiņas būs. Patiesībā, tās jau notiek.
Kā saudzēt zīdaiņa maigo ādu ziemā – 01.2015
Aizcietējumi bērnam – nepareiza uztura un nesakārtotu emociju dēļ – 10.03.2015
Kā bērnudārzs ietekmē bērna veselību – 04.05.2014
Vecāki jautā – vai tiešām meitas jāvakcinē pret dzemdes kakla vēzi? – 28.10.2013
Ļausim bērniem dzert ūdeni! Arī stundu laikā – 10.10.2013
Ar dabas līdzekļiem cīnāmies pret saaukstēšanos -11.12.2012
Radio ieraksts-Par saslimstību ar astmu – 7.05.2013
Intervija ar homeopātu Edgaru Medni – 22.03.2013
Aizraujas ar antibiotikām – 12.09.2013
Bērnam liela temperatūra. Ko darīt? – 12.03.2012
Cīnāmies ar bērna ausu sāpēm – 8.03.2012
Bērns ar drudzi – rīcības algoritms – marts 2012
Radio ieraksts-Kad iesnas ir slimība? – 28.11.2011
Tuberkulozes vakcīnas komplikāciju risks – 15.07.2011
Kā uzveikt gripu – 25.02.2011
Bērnu potēšana – 27.01.2011
Sastrēgums vielmaiņā – 24.11.2010
Trīs jaunas potes – par un pret – 17.04.2010
Atgūsti imunitāti – 24.03.2010
Homeopāts ārstē pašu cilvēku – 13.02.2010
Vakcinācija un homeopātija – 19.09.2009 (radio)
Optimālais laiks bērnudārzam – 11.09.2009 (radio)
Ēteriskās eļļas – 04.08.2009
PVO pret homeopātiju – 16.07.2009 (radio)
Labākais termometrs ģimenei – 25.04.2009
Potēt vai nē ? – 20.02.2008
Pasargā bērnu no gripas – 02.02.2008
Homeopātija-dzīvības spēka modinātāja – 07.11.2006
Potēt? Nepotēt? – 05.09.2006
Homeopātija-brīnumzālītes? – 29.08.2006
Par homeopātiju – 24.08.2006
Iešana pie ārsta – 21.04.2004
Amanda Zariņa
Radio ieraksts-Žestu nozīme bērna dzīvē – 13.05.2013
Bērna attīstība – 14.01.2011
Bērna attīstības pamatnosacījumi – 2.09.2010
Agresija rada agresivitāti – 11.03.2010
Bērnu drošībai – 22.05.2007
Mākslas terapija – 14.04.2007
Gunta Veilande
Bērna attīstība – 14.01.2011
Bērna attīstības pamatnosacījumi – 2.09.2010
Braucamkulbiņa mazulim – 14.01.2006
Jeļena Pavlova
Kompulsīvā pārēšanās – viens no ēšanas traucējumu veidiem
Bremzējam našķu kāri
Interesanti
Sadaļa par vakcīnām, vakcināciju
Новые поколения непривитых детей будут самыми здоровыми в мире
5 horrifying facts aboout the FDA vaccine approval process
Vaccination Links and Resources
Трамп: прибибки против гриппа ябляюця самым большум медицинцким моешенничеством в истории
Court Awards $969,474.91 for MMR Vaccine Causing Boy’s Autism
Vecākiem tas nav jāzina! Ko valdības nestāsta par bērnu vakcināciju?
Screen Addiction Is Taking a Toll on Children
Thousands of teenage girls enduring debilitating illnesses after routine school cancer vaccination
Vaccines and Autism: Epidemic Accelerates as Cases in Young Vaccinated Children Explode Unabated
Dr. Andrew Moulden: Every Vaccine Produces Harm
Dr. Andrew Moulden: Every Vaccine Produces Microvascular Damage
Dr. Moulden’s New Medical Discovery: Moulden Anoxia Spectrum Syndromes (MASS)
Vaccinations as a Cause of Spine, Face & Eye Asymmetry
March 2015 – 117 vaccine injuries and deaths
Itālijā pēc «Novartis» ražotās gripas vakcīnas saņemšanas miruši jau 13 cilvēki
Nepopulāra patiesība par vakcināciju.
This Physician’s Assessment of Flu Vaccines in Pregnancy
What Whistleblowers Tell Us About Vaccine Safety and Effectiveness
Vaccines and Autism – Is the MMR Guilty of Causing Autism?
Идёт стерилизация женщин и девушек при помощи “прививок от рака шейки матки”
FDA Document Reports Autism Link After Tetanus, Pertussis & Diptheria Combination Vaccine
Polio: the disease, the vaccine and the controversies
Vakcinācijas kalendārs
Hepatitis B vaccine kills baby and other vaccine death cases
Doctors and scientists with concerns about vaccines
The real facts about vaccination
Vaccinated children have up to 500% more disease than unvaccinated children
Selective Vaccination
What do the doctors say about vaccines?
Did vaccines really halt killer diseases?
Sadaļa par homeopātiju
Swiss to recognise homeopathy as legitimate medicine
Kāpēc slimot ir veselīgi
Extreme bias at Wikipedia on homeopathic medicine
How medicine is killing us all: Antibiotics, superbugs and the next global pandemic
Homeopathic treatment of sick plants and trees
Lincoln and His Team of Homeopaths
Lives saved by Homeopathy in Epidemics and Pandemics
В науке: Биоэкономика, тайна гомеопатии и академические пресс-комиссары
The Curious Case of Charles Darwin and Homeopathy
What Nobel laureates said on Homeopathy
Lionel Milgrom
Uzturs
Is Gluten Intolerance Real? A Functional Medicine Expert Explains
Why Sea Salt is Good for You (And Table Salt is Not)
Why sugar makes us feel so good?
Studies on Hydration Suggest Dehydrated Drivers May Pose Hazard on the Road, and Majority of Children Don’t Drink Enough Water
See How Quickly Eating Organic Can Rid Your Body of Pesticides
The infant gut microbiome: New studies on its origins and how it’s knocked out of balance
What’s So Bad About Tofu?
What chemicals are really in Coca-Cola’s coke soda?
Veselība
Fitoterapeita Artūra Tereško un homeopāta Edgara Medņi padomi, ja ir augsta temperatūra
Aromterapija tās efektivitāte un profilakse vīrusu periodā
The Shamans Tools for Finding Inner Peace
Johns Hopkins researchers find yoga can improve arthritis
Is Glyphosate Responsible for your Health Problems?
Roundup, An Herbicide, Could Be Linked To Parkinson’s, Cancer And Other Health Issues, Study Shows
“Сбивание” температуры при гриппе оказалось фактором роста эпидемии
Harmful ingredients in Cosmetics and Personal Care Products
Orālajai kontracepcijai ir blakusefekti
Mercury Fillings, Root Canals, Cavitations – What You Need to Know
Citi
Busyness: A modern health crisis
Finding Your inner sage
Don’t Be Afraid Of Change, Accept It Gracefully – An Inspirational Story
Intervija ar Viesturu Rudzīti
Parents! Stop.Think. Act.
Follow the Nature to let the Nature follow You: The Naked Truth
How your brain sees your body: Meet the cortical homunculus
Sadarbības partneri
Atbalsti grāmatas “Homeopātiskā revolūcija, vai kādēļ slaveni cilvēki pasaulē izvēlas homeopātiju” izdošanu
Tweets by @agenskklinika
Proudly powered by WordPress