cancer and cell phones – cancermonologue's Blog
cancermonologue's Blog
the best cancer related blog @worldpess.com site
Menu
Skip to content
Home
About cancermonologue
About the inspiration
HEADLINES
November 22, 2013 by cancermonologue
cancer and cell phones
4. What has research shown about the possible cancer-causing effects of radiofrequency energy?
Although there have been some concerns that radiofrequency energy from cell phones held closely to the head may affect the brain and other tissues, to date there is no evidence from studies of cells, animals, or humans that radiofrequency energy can cause cancer.
It is generally accepted that damage to DNA is necessary for cancer to develop. However, radiofrequency energy, unlike ionizing radiation, does not cause DNA damage in cells, and it has not been found to cause cancer in animals or to enhance the cancer-causing effects of known chemical carcinogens in animals .
Researchers have carried out several types of epidemiologic studies to investigate the possibility of a relationship between cell phone use and the risk of malignant (cancerous) brain tumors, such as gliomas, as well as benign (noncancerous) tumors, such as acoustic neuromas (tumors in the cells of the nerve responsible for hearing), most meningiomas (tumors in the meninges, membranes that cover and protect the brain and spinal cord), and parotid gland tumors (tumors in the salivary glands) (6).
In one type of study, called a case-control study, cell phone use is compared between people with these types of tumors and people without them. In another type of study, called a cohort study, a large group of people is followed over time and the rate of these tumors in people who did and didn’t use cell phones is compared. Cancer incidence data can also be analyzed over time to see if the rates of cancer changed in large populations during the time that cell phone use increased dramatically. The results of these studies have generally not provided clear evidence of a relationship between cell phone use and cancer, but there have been some statistically significant findings in certain subgroups of people.
Findings from specific research studies are summarized below:
The Interphone Study, conducted by a consortium of researchers from 13 countries, is the largest health-related case-control study of use of cell phones and head and neck tumors. Most published analyses from this study have shown no statistically significant increases in brain or central nervous system cancers related to higher amounts of cell phone use. One recent analysis showed a statistically significant, albeit modest, increase in the risk of glioma among the small proportion of study participants who spent the most total time on cell phone calls. However, the researchers considered this finding inconclusive because they felt that the amount of use reported by some respondents was unlikely and because the participants who reported lower levels of use appeared to have a slightly reduced risk of brain cancer compared with people who did not use cell phones regularly. Another recent study from the group found no relationship between brain tumor locations and regions of the brain that were exposed to the highest level of radiofrequency energy from cell phones.
A cohort study in Denmark linked billing information from more than 358,000 cell phone subscribers with brain tumor incidence data from the Danish Cancer Registry. The analyses found no association between cell phone use and the incidence of glioma, meningioma, or acoustic neuroma, even among people who had been cell phone subscribers for 13 or more years .
The prospective Million Women Study in the United Kingdom found that self-reported cell phone use was not associated with an increased risk of glioma, meningioma, or non-central nervous system tumors. The researchers did find that the use of cell phones for more than 5 years was associated with an increased risk of acoustic neuroma, and that the risk of acoustic neuroma increased with increasing duration of cell phone use. However, the incidence of these tumors among men and women in the United Kingdom did not increase during 1998 to 2008, even though cell phone use increased dramatically over that decade .
An early case-control study in the United States was unable to demonstrate a relationship between cell phone use and glioma or meningioma .
Some case-control studies in Sweden found statistically significant trends of increasing brain cancer risk for the total amount of cell phone use and the years of use among people who began using cell phones before age 20 . However, another large, case-control study in Sweden did not find an increased risk of brain cancer among people between the ages of 20 and 69 . In addition, the international CEFALO study, which compared children who were diagnosed with brain cancer between ages 7 and 19 with similar children who were not, found no relationship between their cell phone use and risk for brain cancer .
NCI’s Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) Program, which tracks cancer incidence in the United States over time, found no increase in the incidence of brain or other central nervous system cancers between 1987 and 2007, despite the dramatic increase in cell phone use in this country during that time . Similarly, incidence data from Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden for the period 1974–2008 revealed no increase in age-adjusted incidence of brain tumors . A 2012 study by NCI researchers, which compared observed glioma incidence rates in SEER with projected rates based on risks observed in the Interphone study , found that the projected rates were consistent with observed U.S. rates. The researchers also compared the SEER rates with projected rates based on a Swedish study published in 2011 They determined that the projected rates were at least 40 percent higher than, and incompatible with, the actual U.S. rates.
Studies of workers exposed to radiofrequency energy have shown no evidence of increased risk of brain tumors among U.S. Navy electronics technicians, aviation technicians, or fire control technicians, those working in an electromagnetic pulse test program, plastic-ware workers, cellular phone manufacturing workers, or Navy personnel with a high probability of exposure to radar
Advertisements
Share this:
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
More
Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window)
Like this:
Like Loading...
Bookmark the permalink.
Post navigation
← cellphone and cancer 3
cell phone and cancer →
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Blog Stats
515 hits
Twitter Updates
Hot teacher youtu.be/ut_IaAXi_y8 via @YouTube 5 months ago
River joining sea youtu.be/WKbnRt5h_k4 via @YouTube 7 months ago
Kerala Flood Relief Fund. gofundme.com/vc7w2v-kerala-… 8 months ago
📹 (via youtube.com/watch?v=PlitJ_…) tmblr.co/ZDpB8r2XKAGrp 12 months ago
This is cool. Free tickets? Thats awesome tkt.ly/2ojG4Lw via @ticketleap 1 year ago
Blog Stats
515 hits
Cancer
Search
November 2013
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Oct Dec »
1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10
11 12 13 14 15 16 17
18 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30
Archives
Archives Select Month August 2016 April 2016 February 2016 January 2016 December 2015 June 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 1,444 other followers
Follow
CancerMonologue
CancerMonologue
google_ad_client = "ca-pub-4092739751536747"; google_ad_slot = "7524920711"; google_ad_width = 300; google_ad_height = 250; //pagead2.googlesyndication.com/pagead/show_ads.js
google_ad_client = "ca-pub-4092739751536747"; google_ad_slot = "7524920711"; google_ad_width = 300; google_ad_height = 250; //pagead2.googlesyndication.com/pagead/show_ads.js
Advertisements
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: