AIDS Flash Cards
AIDS flash cards
Learn about the symptoms and origin of the AIDS virus with this health word search for medical personnel
There are 14 flash cards in this set (4 pages to print.)
Download Free Flash Cards (PDF format)
To use:
1. Print out the cards.
2. Cut along the dashed lines.
3. Fold along the solid lines.
My safe download promise. Downloads are subject to this site's term of use.
This file contains 4 printed pages
This set of flash cards belongs to these categories: science
Subscribe to my free weekly newsletter — you'll be the first to know when I add new printable documents and templates to the FreePrintable.net network of sites.
Sample flash cards in this set:
Front:
Back:
People who printed this flashcard set also printed...
U.S. State Shapes
Russian Alphabet
Permission Slip
1 to 300 Numbers Chart Single Page
Grade Book Paper One Student
This set includes the following cards:
Questions
Answers
AIDS stands for Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
How many people are currently infected with AIDS over 40 million (over 20 million have died)
How did AIDS become? A zoonosis originating from African Chimps (probably spread to humans during the butchering process)
AIDS in humans was identified in what year? 1981 (but probably existed since the 50's)
Who located the HIV-1 Virus Dr. Luc Montagne
HIV stands for Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HIV is transmitted in humans by... Body fluid exchange during sex, Contaminated blood used for transfusions, Contaminated needles used by intravenous drug users, Perinatal Transmission
What cells does HIV target? CD4 T-Cells
How does HIV-1 infection kill the CD-4 cells? Kills the CD-4 subgroup of Helper T-lymphocytes
Late stages of HIV-1 infection CD4 T-cells get very low, Immune System function is compromised, Patient dies to a number of opportunistic type infections and cancers
HIV-1 virus A retrovirus with RNA genome, Has enzyme reversed transcriptase in its virus particle
HIV tests ELISA tests, Lateral flow assays both test for anti-HIV antibodies, Western Blot tests, PCR-based test for viral nucleic acids
AIDS treatment Drug therapy (involves several types of drugs)
HAART A "cocktail" of drugs for AIDS patients, Reduces chance of drug resistance
Copyright © 2011-2019 by Savetz Publishing, Inc. Contact us. Privacy Policy.
Subscribe to the Free Printable newsletter. (No spam, ever!)
Subscribe (Free!)
These flash cards are available as a free download, Just download it, open it in Acrobat Reader (or another program that can display the PDF file format,) and print. Or you can instantly create your own custom flash cards for free.
Home
Categories
New flash cards
Geography flash cards
Language flash cards
Math flash cards
Science flash cards
Music flash cards
Literature flash cards
Early Childhood Education flash cards
Miscellaneous flash cards
Flash Card Maker
Search All Printables
Search all printables for:
If you don't see a flash card set or category that you want, please take a moment to let us know what you are looking for.
Make a suggestion
Thank you for your suggestion.
We're always adding new printables, and would love to hear your suggestions. What are we missing?
Email address: (optional)
Suggestion:
Submit Suggestion
Close