Genital Herpes (for Parents) - KidsHealth
[Skip to Content]
Open Search
for Parents
Parents site
Sitio para padres
General Health
Growth & Development
Infections
Diseases & Conditions
Pregnancy & Baby
Nutrition & Fitness
Emotions & Behavior
School & Family Life
First Aid & Safety
Doctors & Hospitals
Videos
Recipes
Close for Parents nav
for Kids
Kids site
Sitio para ninos
How the Body Works
Puberty & Growing Up
Staying Healthy
Staying Safe
Recipes & Cooking
Health Problems
Illnesses & Injuries
Relax & Unwind
People, Places & Things That Help
Feelings
Expert Answers Q&A
Movies & More
Close for Kids nav
for Teens
Teens site
Sitio para adolescentes
Body
Mind
Sexual Health
Food & Fitness
Diseases & Conditions
Infections
Drugs & Alcohol
School & Jobs
Sports
Expert Answers (Q&A)
Staying Safe
Videos
Close for Teens nav
For Educators
Open Search
Search KidsHealth library
Open Search Language Selector
Search Language Selector English Español
Share to Facebook
Share to Twitter
Share to Pinterest
Share via Email
KidsHealth /
for Parents
/ Genital Herpes
Genital Herpes
Reviewed by: Krishna Wood White, MD, MPH
What Are STDs?
STDs (also called sexually transmitted infections or STIs) are infections that spread through sex (vaginal, oral, or anal) or close sexual contact.
What Are the Signs & Symptoms of Genital Herpes?
Most people with genital herpes don't have any symptoms. They may not even know they are infected.
Some people with genital herpes can have "outbreaks" of sores in the genital and anal area. (Genitals are the sexual or reproductive organs that are on the outside of the body.) The sores heal within a few weeks. Outbreaks can be brought on by stress, illness, being overly tired, or being in sunlight. Women can have outbreaks when they get their periods.
The first outbreak often is the most severe. Outbreaks usually become less severe over time.
What Causes Genital Herpes?
Two
viruses
cause genital herpes:
herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1)
herpes simples virus type 2 (HSV-2)
HSV-1 is the virus that causes cold sores around the mouth. It can cause genital herpes when it spreads through oral sex. But most of the time, genital herpes is caused by HSV-2.
How Do People Get Genital Herpes?
People can get infected with genital herpes when:
They have vaginal or anal sex with someone with genital herpes (even if there are no sores).
They receive oral sex from a partner who has oral herpes (cold sores).
They touch a herpes sore and then touch their own genitals.
Their genitals touch the skin in the genital area of someone who is infected (even if there are no sores).
Genital herpes can spread even if there are no sores because the virus is still in the body. The virus sometimes "sheds" in the skin near the genitals. When the virus is shedding, it can infect another person.
How Is Genital Herpes Diagnosed?
To find out if someone has genital herpes, health care providers do tests on:
fluid from a sore
blood (if no sores are present)
People with genital herpes need to tell recent, current, and future sex partners about their infection. Because someone may never have symptoms or may not have symptoms for months to years after infection, a current partner may not be the source of the infection.
How Is Genital Herpes Treated?
There is no cure for genital herpes. But health care providers can prescribe medicine to help:
stop outbreaks or make them happen less often and be less severe if they do happen
reduce the risk of spreading genital herpes to others
Can Genital Herpes Be Prevented?
The only way to prevent genital herpes and other STDs is to not have sex (oral, vaginal, or anal). If someone decides to have sex, using a latex condom every time can prevent most STDs.
But condoms can't always prevent the spread of genital herpes. This is because the virus may be in the skin near the genitals (and not covered by a condom).
Looking Ahead
Genital herpes is a lifelong condition, but there are ways to manage it. If your teen has genital herpes, you can help him or her learn to live with the infection. Talk to your teen about:
taking medicines to stop outbreaks or make them less frequent and less severe
learning how to reduce the risk of spreading genital herpes by taking medicines, always using a condom during sex, and avoiding sex during outbreaks
talking to partners before starting a sexual relationship
Teens who continue to be sexually active should get tested for STDs every year or more often if recommended by their health care provider.
Reviewed by: Krishna Wood White, MD, MPH
Date reviewed: October 2018
More on this topic for:
Parents
Teens
About Birth Control: What Parents Need to Know
STDs
Questions and Answers About Sex
Genital Warts (HPV)
Can You Get Genital Herpes From a Cold Sore?
Do You Have to See a Doctor to Find Out if You Have an STD?
If Someone With Herpes Has No Sores, Can It Still Be Passed On?
Talking to Your Partner About Condoms
Talking to Your Partner About STDs
Genital Herpes
STDs (Sexually Transmitted Diseases)
About Birth Control
Genital Warts (HPV)
Telling Your Partner You Have an STD
View more
About Us
Contact Us
Partners
Editorial Policy
Permissions Guidelines
Privacy Policy & Terms of Use
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Note: All information on KidsHealth® is for educational purposes only. For specific medical advice, diagnoses, and treatment, consult your doctor.
© 1995- The Nemours Foundation. All rights reserved.
Images provided by The Nemours Foundation, iStock, Getty Images, Veer, Shutterstock, and Clipart.com.