Does Emergen-C Work? If You're Already Sick, For Prevention, and More
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Does Emergen-C Work?
Last reviewed	 Thu 1 November 2018	 Last reviewed	Thu 1 Nov 2018
By Claire Gillespie and Ana Gotter
Reviewed by Dena Westphalen, PharmD
Table of contents
Does Emergen-C Work?
Ingredients and purported benefits
For cold and flu
For sore throat, fatigue, and weight loss
Side effects and risks
Takeaway
Does it work?
Emergen-C may be worth taking as a general immune booster, but the jury is still out on whether it can help prevent or treat conditions like the common cold.
Here's what you should know about its ingredients, purported uses, potential side effects, and more.
What's in Emergen-C and what is it supposed to do?
Emergen-C is a supplement that people can take as a drink.
As the name suggests, Emergen-C's main ingredient is vitamin C. Each serving (one 9.1 g packet) contains 1,000 milligrams (mg), or 1,667 percent of your recommended daily allowance (RDA).
Emergen-C also contains:
10 mg of vitamin B-6 (500 percent of your RDA)
25 micrograms (mcg) of vitamin B-12 (417 percent of your RDA)
100 mcg of vitamin B-9 (25 percent of your RDA)
0.5 mcg of manganese (25 percent of your RDA)
2 mg of zinc (13 percent of your RDA)
The ingredients are said to:
Vitamin C can help boost immunity. It may also help create collagen to support healthy skin.
Vitamin B-6 may help metabolize red blood cells and fats, as well as help support a healthy nervous system.
Vitamin B-12 may help create red blood cells, which move oxygen around the body. It may also help metabolize food to create energy.
Folic acid helps support amino acid production.
Manganese helps support your overall immune system, as well as strengthen your skin and bones.
Zinc also helps boost immunity.
Vitamin C: Why is it important?
Vitamin C is essential for a healthy body. We look at this vitamin in depth here.
Read now
Can it really help with the cold or flu?
Researchers have found limited evidence that vitamin C treats the cold or flu.
Although there's some evidence to suggest that Emergen-C can help minimize the duration of your cold, research is limited.
One 2013 review of placebo-controlled trials found that taking vitamin C supplements regularly didn't stop most people getting the cold.
However, the risk of getting the cold was halved in people exposed to short periods of extreme physical stress, such as marathon runners and skiers.
Researchers also found that regularly taking vitamin C supplements slightly reduced the duration of cold symptoms in the ordinary population.
One 2017 review of seven randomized trials found that using zinc lozenges may shorten cold duration by approximately 33 percent.
It's important to note that these studies were done on specific ingredients found in Emergen-C, not the drink mix itself. More research is needed to determine whether Emergen-C offers the same benefits.
As for the flu, the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health states that there isn't strong evidence that any natural product can help treat or prevent the illness. Instead, they recommend the annual flu vaccine as the best means of prevention.
What about with sore throat, fatigue, and weight loss?
Although there's reason to believe vitamin C supplements may have slight benefit, more research is needed to fully assess Emergen-C's potential effects on sore throat, fatigue, and other health claims.
Sore throat
Taking vitamin C supplements regularly may slightly reduce the duration of cold symptoms, like a sore throat.
However, there isn't any evidence that vitamin C supplements can help treat sore throat conditions like strep throat, tonsillitis, pharyngitis, and laryngitis.
Fatigue
One 2012 study analyzed the effects of intravenous vitamin C on fatigue in 141 office workers. Researchers found that intravenous vitamin C reduced fatigue within two hours of treatment, with the effect lasting for one day.
Weight loss
A study found that vitamin C may help with weight loss.
Research on vitamin C supplementation and related weight loss has produced inconsistent results.
One 2006 small study of just 22 participants found that during a 60-minute walk on a treadmill, participants with low-blood concentrations of vitamin C burned 25 percent less fat than participants with adequate amounts of vitamin C.
However, researchers in a 2014 study found no sufficient evidence that vitamin C is linked to general changes in body weight.
Are there side effects or risks to consider?
Taking an increased amount of vitamin C for a short period of time is generally considered safe.
Vitamin C's tolerable upper intake level (UL) is 2,000 mg per day for adults ages 19 and older.
Emergen-C packets contain 1,000 mg each. This means that you can probably still consume vitamin C through your diet without hitting the max UL.
Consuming 2,000 mg or more may cause:
nausea
diarrhea
abdominal pain
Emergen-C contains far lower levels of all of the other vitamins and minerals on its ingredient list. No other ingredient comes this close to the respective UL for adults.
Talk to a doctor or other healthcare provider before use if you:
take prescription medication
are pregnant or breastfeeding
are postmenopausal
have diabetes
have hemochromatosis or other iron disorder
The bottom line
You shouldn't use Emergen-C as your primary line of defense against the common cold, flu, or other conditions.
Emergen-C may be helpful as a temporary immune booster, but it shouldn't be used long term. Instead, look to your diet.
If you eat the five recommended servings of fruits and vegetables each day, you should get more than 200 mg of vitamin C — well above your RDA. This can help keep your immune system in tip-top shape and help prevent illness in the long-run.
Medically reviewed by Dena Westphalen, PharmD on October 10, 2018 — Written by Claire Gillespie and Ana Gotter
Related coverage
When is the best time to take vitamins? Vitamins and nutrients are essential to good health, but the time of day at which they are taken can make a difference to their effectiveness. When is the best time to take dietary supplements? This MNT Knowledge Center article explores the best times of day to take different types of vitamin as well as the risks. Read now
Vitamins: What are they and what do they do? Vitamins are essential to life, but what are they and why do we need them? Here is an overview of the different types of vitamins. Read now
What can I do to make my cough go away? It is common to have a mild cough at times. People can often treat a cough at home with remedies that include ginger, thyme, and slippery elm. Other natural treatments include steam inhalation and dietary changes. Here, learn more about the natural remedies for a cough and how to prevent them in the first place. Read now
Health benefits of oranges An orange a day may keep the doctor away — true or false? Apparently, oranges may help lower stroke risk, support the heart and skin, reduce the risk of leukemia, and lower blood glucose levels in diabetes. So, what makes oranges so beneficial? Read on to find out and get ideas on how to include oranges in your diet. Read now
Eight home remedies for treating a cold The common cold can be a mild but frustrating condition that impacts quality of life. In this article, eight common home remedies for treating a cold are discussed, including gargling, fluids, and steam. This MNT Knowledge Center feature also examines how long colds last for and how a cold can be prevented. Read now
email email
print
share share
Pharmacy / Pharmacist
Flu / Cold / SARS Immune System / Vaccines Pharmacy / Pharmacist
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Thu 1 November 2018.
Visit our Pharmacy / Pharmacist category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Pharmacy / Pharmacist.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
5 Tips: Natural products for the flu and colds: What does the science say? (2017). Retrieved from https://nccih.nih.gov/health/tips/flucold.htm%EF%BB%BF
Can vitamin C prevent a cold? (2017). Retrieved from https://www.health.harvard.edu/cold-and-flu/can-vitamin-c-prevent-a-cold
Emergen-C 1,000 mg Vitamin C — Super Orange. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.labeling.pfizer.com/ShowLabeling.aspx?id=3178
Hemilä, H., & Chalker, E. (2013). Vitamin C for preventing and treating the common cold. Cochrane Database Systematic Review, 1. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23440782
Hemilä, H. (2017). Zinc lozenges and the common cold: a meta-analysis comparing zinc acetate and zinc gluconate, and the role of zinc dosage. JRSM Open, 8(5). Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28515951
Ingredients. (n.d.). https://www.emergenc.com/our-ingredients
Johnston, C.S., Corte, C., & Swan, P. D. (2006). Marginal vitamin C status is associated with reduced fat oxidation during submaximal exercise in young adults. Nutritional Metabolism. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16945143
Larsen, S. C., Angquist, L., Ahluwalia, T. S., Skaaby, T., Roswall, N., Tjønneland, A., ... Sørensen, T. I. (2014). Dietary ascorbic acid and subsequent change in body weight and waist circumference: associations may depend on genetic predisposition to obesity--a prospective study of three independent cohorts. Nutritional Journal, 13(43). Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24886192
Lee, D. H., Folsom, A. R., Harnackm, L., Halliwell, B., Jacobs, D. R. Jr. (2004). Does supplemental vitamin C increase cardiovascular disease risk in women with diabetes? American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 80(5). Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15531665
Multivitamin/mineral supplements: Fact sheet for health professionals. (2015). Retrieved from https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/MVMS-HealthProfessional/
Suh, S. Y., Bae, W. K., Ahn, H. Y., Choi, S. E., Jung, G. C., & Yeom, C. H. (2012). Intravenous Vitamin C administration reduces fatigue in office workers: a double-blind randomized controlled trial. Nutritional Journal, 11(17). Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22264303
Vitamin B12: Fact sheet for health professionals. (2018). Retrieved from https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/VitaminB12-HealthProfessional/
Vitamin B6: Dietary supplement fact sheet. (2018). Retrieved from https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/VitaminB6-HealthProfessional/
Vitamin C: Fact sheet for health professionals. (2018). Retrieved from https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/VitaminC%20-HealthProfessional/
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Claire Gillespie and Ana Gotter. "Does Emergen-C Work?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 2 Nov. 2018. Web.
20 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/323550.php>
APA
Claire Gillespie and Ana Gotter. (2018, November 2). "Does Emergen-C Work?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/323550.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
More evidence that being active extends life
A recent study concluded that 'regardless of age, sex, or starting fitness level,' increased physical activity of any type reduces overall mortality risk.
Through my eyes: My first 48 hours with hearing aids
I'm not even 30 years old, and I need hearing aids. The discovery was a shock, but just 48 hours in and an exciting new world of sound is unfolding.
Most people who die of natural causes do not seek medical help
A new study has found that a large number of people who die from natural causes do not seek medical attention during the month before.
Vitamin D may help fight colorectal cancer
A recent study concludes that when a person takes vitamin D alongside standard chemotherapy, it might reduce the growth rate of colorectal cancer.
Breast cancer: Reducing this amino acid could make drugs more effective
New research in cell cultures and mice reveals a surprising link between the essential amino acid leucine and resistance to tamoxifen in breast cancer.
Popular in: Pharmacy / Pharmacist
All you need to know about metoprolol
How to deal with prednisone withdrawal
What to know about amlodipine
Can you take Aleve and Tylenol together?
What are the benefits of glutathione?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/323550.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);