Skin Tags: Causes, Symptoms, and Treatment - sk:n clinics
We use cookies to enhance your visit to our site. Read our Privacy and Cookies policy to find out more
I Agree
Contact Us
0
Find a Clinic
0
Log In
Menu
Contact Us
0
Shop
Book a consultation Toggle book a consultation form
My Account Log in
Conditions
Conditions
Conditions Home
Acne
Age Spots
Blackheads
Face Problems
Moles
Pigmentation
See More Conditions
Treatments
Acne Treatments
Acne Scar Treatment
Acne Treatment
Hair
Laser Hair Removal
For Men
Rejuvenation
Anti-Ageing Injections
Dermal Fillers
Lip Fillers
Skin Peels
Thread Lifts
Dermatology
Dermatology
Facial Thread Veins
Milia Removal
Mole Removal
Tattoo Removal
Wart & Verruca Removal
Treatments
Treatments Home
See More Treatments
Clinics
Clinics
London
The North and Scotland
The Midlands & Wales
The South
Pricing
Pricing
Pricing Home
Treatment Prices
Special Offers
0% Finance Available
Shop
Shop
My Account
About
About
About Us
Aftercare & Support
Careers at sk:n
Expert Medical Team
News and Blog
Partners & Accreditations
Treatment Journey
Credit
How We Use Your Information
Reviews
(0)
Item in your basket
VIEW
NHS and partners
52 Clinics Nationwide
0% Finance Available
What's New
Last Min Appointments
SKIN TAGS: Causes, Symptoms and Treatment
Understanding the condition and ultimately finding out 'How to get rid of Skin Tags'.
BOOK A CONSULTATIONVIEW TREATMENTS FOR SKIN TAGS
SKIN TAGS: Causes, Symptoms and Treatment
Book a ConsultationVIEW TREATMENTS FOR SKIN TAGS
Skin tags are small brown or flesh-coloured growths that hang from the surface of your skin. They are made of loose collagen fibres and blood vessels surrounded by skin. Although skin tags are common they are completely harmless and are usually only a few millimetres in size. They do not usually cause any pain or discomfort, however, depending on where they are on your body, they can snag on clothing or jewellery and bleed as a result.
​
Skin tags can affect anyone and most commonly occur where the skin folds or creases. They are more likely to affect people who are overweight for this reason. Skin tags can be hereditary, and people who are diabetic or pregnant are also more prone to them. Some people develop them for no apparent reason.
WHAT CAUSES SKIN TAGS?
The most common causes that explain why you develop skin tags on areas of your body are the following:
Genetics
Diabetes
Obesity
Pregnancy
SKIN TAGS SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS
Skin tags are usually flesh-coloured or may appear brown if you have light skin. They are smooth or wrinkled and range in size from very tiny - 1 mm - to approximately the size of a grape. Although it is usually possible to recognize a stalk that attaches the skin tag to your underlying skin, very small skin tags may appear as raised bumps on your skin.
HOW CAN I PREVENT SKIN TAGS
You can minimise developing skin tags on your skin by following these tips:
Losing weight
Avoid eating saturated fats and sugar
Avoid wearing tight clothing
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
What happens when you cut off a skin tag?
Before trying to remove your skin tag, you should speak first to your GP. Your General Practitioner may explain how to remove a skin tag by yourself only if your skin tag is small and with a narrow base.
Can a skin tag grow back?
Although the removed skin tag doesn't grow back, new skin tags may form.
Are skin tags contagious?
There is no strong basis with regards to skin tags being contagious.
TREATMENTS FOR SKIN TAGS
At sk:n we use several techniques for skin tag removal. Upon your consultation your doctor will advise you of the best option for your individual case.
Excision Removal
The skin tag is carefully cut away using a scalpel. The skin tag will be completely removed and there will only be a small white or pink scar in its place.
Cryotherapy
The skin tag is frozen by applying liquid Nitrogen, a gas that produces freezing temperatures, to the area. The cold temperature kills the cells within the skin tag, blocking the blood supply to the area, causing it to naturally fall off. (This treatment is also used for wart and verruca removal).
Hyfrecation
An electrical pulse is passed through the skin tag to damage the cells, causing the skin tag to fall off.
Whichever treatment method you choose, the procedure often will only take a few minutes to complete. An anaesthetic will be applied before removal and treatment will be relatively painless.
RELATED TREATMENTS
Mole Removal
ARRANGE A CONSULTATION
Please complete the below form and select a time you would like one of our sk:n advisers to call you back to arrange your consultation.
Title
Choose title Ms Mrs Mr Mx
First name
Surname
Email
Step 1 of 2
Next step
View our Privacy Policy
Careers
Delivery Information
Legal Statement
Press Enquiries
Privacy Policy
Supporting Information
Complaints Procedure
Sitemap
Terms and Conditions
sk:n Head Office, 34 Harborne Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15 3AA Registered in England No. 2545572. VAT No. 245949564
instagram
facebook
twitter
Book
Call
Find
Shop
0121 567 8111