Dr. Peter Hotez: Were You There? - AGE OF AUTISM
Home
Donate
Contact Us
Special Reports
Science
Subscribe by Email
Subscribe to RSS
Our Mission
Home Donate Contact Us Special Reports Science Subscribe by Email Subscribe to RSS Our Mission
Nutmeg State of Connecticut Sets Sights on Religious Exemption
Special Education is the Wall We Should Worry About In USA and Abroad
Dr. Peter Hotez: Were You There?
Note: Meet the New Jan Brady, I mean Paul Offit. Seems Dr. Peter Hotez has taken over the pit bull tactics founded by the Broad Street Bully himself, Offit. His tactic is to use his daughter to protect the vaccination program. For the record, if true, we are delighted that Ms. Hotez was not vaccine injured into her autism. It's a terrible feeling to know that something you did for your child to protect her, could have gone so badly. Isn't Dr. Hotez lucky he doesn't have to deal with that pain.
By Cathy Jameson
Last week, The Hill featured a piece from Sharyl Attkisson’s latest Full Measure news story. In it, we learned that
“Pediatric neurologist Dr. Andrew Zimmerman originally served as the expert medical witness for the government, which defends vaccines in federal vaccine court. He had testified that vaccines do not cause autism in specific patients.
Dr. Zimmerman now has signed a bombshell sworn affidavit. He says that, during a group of 5,000 vaccine-autism cases being heard in court on June 15, 2007, he took aside the Department of Justice (DOJ) lawyers he worked for defending vaccines and told them he’d discovered “exceptions in which vaccinations could cause autism.”
“I explained that in a subset of children, vaccine-induced fever and immune stimulation did cause regressive brain disease with features of autism spectrum disorder,” Dr. Zimmerman now states. He said his opinion was based on “scientific advances” as well as his own experience with patients.”
Two days later, The Hill published another piece on vaccines. It was not another bombshell discovery in favor of parents of children with liability-free vaccine induced autism but a rebuttal from Dr. Hotez. If you recall, Hotez is a pharmaceutical-industry spokesperson, author, and father to an adult daughter with autism. He’s frequently seen on TV defending vaccines when they cycle through mainstream news’ media stories. Besides a staunch defender, he is also of the belief that vaccines do not and cannot cause autism.
In his latest opinion piece, Hotez once again adamantly defends liability-free vaccines making the following statement:
“Vaccines do not cause autism
There is no link between vaccines and autism. I trace the modern anti-vaccine movement alleging vaccine-autism links back to 1998 when a paper was published in The Lancet, a prestigious medical journal, claiming that the live measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine (especially the measles component) might lead to pervasive developmental disorder, a term then used to refer to autism.”
First, a correction.
The paper referenced offered a possibility, not a claim:
“We did not prove an association between measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine and the syndrome described.
…We have identified a chronic enterocolitis in children that may be related to neuropsychiatric dysfunction. In most cases, onset of symptoms was after measles, mumps, and rubella immunisation. Further investigations are needed to examine this syndrome and its possible relation to this vaccine.”
Now, a response.
As he has before, Hotez repeated his claim that his daughter’s autism was in no way a direct result of any vaccination she received. That’s great! Truly! I wish I could say the same. For my son, and for so many other children, including cases Zimmerman saw, the autism they experience is a result of a liability-free vaccine. How do I know that? Because I was there. I saw my son go from healthy and developing to listless and declining. Had I known more prior to my child’s vaccinations, I probably would have become vaccine hesitant much sooner than I did. Unfortunately, I can’t turn back time, but I can tell our story and hope that it helps others. That’s what is so great about the autism community I’m part of – we strive to help each other, not put each other down.
In that piece, Hotez did not insult parents of children who’ve been injured from liability-free vaccines as tastelessly as he did last year. But, instead of building a bridge with other parents whose children’s vaccines did result in autism, he began with negativity and continued an attempt to pit parents against each other. In a world where we need more positivity, especially when it comes to autism, it’s terribly sad to see a public figure demean others who are in the same boat.
Over the last decade, I’ve had countless young parents – both moms and dads, seek me and my husband out. Tell us more, they beg – so we do. How did you not see the signs? they inquire – to which we admit our lack of knowledge at the time. When did you finally connect the dots? they wonder – to which we share a timeline that shows what going from healthy to diagnosed with autism looks like. With how many voices are out there talking about vaccines, both for and against, it’s no wonder they’re asking us questions. They faithfully listen to what the news and pharma reps are saying but quickly turn to parents, like us, for clarification. New parents need to be empowered with truth, not distracted by spokespeople backed by the vaccine industry. The industry’s goal is to make a profit. Truth is the only thing they’ll get from parents like me.
To Dr. Hotez and to others who wish to belittle parents instead of believing them, I have a few things to say.
You may want to believe that vaccines cannot and do not cause autism. But in our case, you weren’t there, Dr. Hotez. You didn’t know my son before he received liability-free vaccines. You weren’t there afterward to see what happened to him post-vaccination. I was there. I saw what happened, and I know what happened to him. I saw my son change. I saw him lose his speech, lose already-developed skills, have seizures, and tumble onto the autism spectrum. To deny and to protect the vaccine industry as you do makes my work as a parent of a child with autism harder. I don’t need or rely on your opinion to get what Ronan needs though. Those who directly work with my son also don’t need or rely on it either. They believe us because they, too, know what happened. At the end of the day, that’s what matters most.
They know what is fact – my son was healthy. Oh, he was so healthy! Then, he got vaccines. Then, he got sick. As a doctor and supposed vaccine expert, to deny the truth I know to be true is so disappointing. Thankfully, other medical professionals have correctly made the connection that my son’s health suffered greatly post vaccination. With them, I’ve got an army of helpers ready and willing to make Ronan’s life a tad bit better. In doing so, they’re making mine a bit more manageable, too. Autism is hard. We can probably both agree on that. On everything else, especially about the vaccines not causing autism? Well, you weren’t there, Dr. Hotez. You didn’t see that beautiful baby boy of mine go from typical to losing acquired skills. You weren’t there when we got the diagnosis. You weren’t there anytime we’ve had to fight for our son’s rights over the years either.
Vaccines do cause autism for some. They really do. For us, they did. They did for a lot of kids, too. Our community here knows that and respects that. We and you, Dr. Hotez, have some similarities, but not enough yet. You still aren’t ready to support parents like me in this autism community. I wish you could, but you’d have to change your tune just a bit. If you ever do, let us know. Our doors – and hearts – are open to all parents of children with autism, no matter how it was acquired.
Cathy Jameson is a Contributing Editor for Age of Autism.
Posted by Age of Autism on January 20, 2019 at 06:00 AM in Cathy Jameson | Permalink | Comments (24)
| | |
Comments
"Yes, it’s true that Amazon sells more books than any other retailer in America. But, telling someone you’re an Amazon bestseller is like telling someone you’re the fastest runner in your office building or church congregation. It’s not an official statistic and is based on theoretical data that isn’t reliable."
https://www.startawildfire.com/2016/03/the-farce-of-fake-amazon-bestsellers.html
Pharma For Prison
MMR RIP
Posted by: Angus Files | March 13, 2019 at 03:42 PM
Hotez was just interviewed by Joe Rogan, who has a lot of listeners.
Posted by: David Weiner | March 13, 2019 at 03:20 PM
I had read that Hotez' book was selling very badly on Amazon, but I looked last night, and it was the number two or number three best-seller in three categories. What does this mean? Did Merck buy a million copies?
Posted by: cia parker | March 13, 2019 at 09:59 AM
Hans, Just to put the record straight, I don't think JBH said it WOULD be China who 'broke this'. I believe he said it COULD be. I'm sure he doesn't care which country it is that decides to tell the truth, as long as it happens somewhere.
(I may be wrong because I'm speaking from memory and I haven't time to find the video to check it out).
Posted by: susan welch | January 23, 2019 at 05:14 AM
Posted by: R Prasad | January 21, 2019 at 03:27 PM
Autism is being recorded at 10% in South London for maybe 2 years now !
We are at 1 in 10 already, but people are still watching and the believing the BBC which is still pumping out the "safe and effective" mantra. This is an exercise in gross stupidity now at this stage.
Deferring to a criminal authority - poisoning EVERYONES babies\children.
Aug2014 William Thompson spoke out and told the truth, the BBC is yet to publish that mans name.
The lamestream medias are the chief organisers of the crime, without them none of this would be possible. The internet has punched a huge whole in their narrative which is why they desperately seeking ways to block independent communication like FarceBook-whatsapp.
India is looking like our best hope for bringing this all to an end right now. Not China JBH
Posted by: Hans Litten | January 23, 2019 at 04:23 AM
Excellent post Cathy. Thoroughly enjoyed reading it...
BTW, totally deceptive article by NY Times... As it happens in mainstream media frequently... The comments entry is closed there. So I couldn't participate.
Posted by: Low IQ | January 23, 2019 at 03:11 AM
There are TWO questions I'd like to see Dr. Hotez fully and honestly answer:
1. What *DID* cause your daughter's autism....????....
2. WHY was PhRMA given blanket liability immunity....????....
If he's EVER answered these questions, and I missed that, then I'm sure somebody here at AoA will supply the answers!
KEEP UP the GOOD WORK, people....
Posted by: Bill | January 22, 2019 at 12:10 PM
The whitewashing of Autism continues in one way or other. This will continue until a breaking point (like 1 in 10 kids having Autism) . This old piece still relevant today as ever.
https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/inspectrum/201509/please-stop-whitewashing-autism
Posted by: R Prasad | January 21, 2019 at 03:27 PM
Posted by: Pam | January 21, 2019 at 02:15 PM
The linked Hill” article above mentions Tuberous sclerosis. I have Neurofibromatosis a similar disease. I wonder if environmental factors can worsen the outcome of both and these genetic tumor diseases and a rare environmental factor can include a tainted vaccine. These disease also make on vulnerable to a half dozen rare cancers and radiation and ect. make the risk higher. Other conditions linked to ID and autism include Sturgeon Weber, Van Hippel Lindau’s disease, Turcot’s, Gardener’s syndrome all terrible genetic tumor diseases with early onset cancers. Please autism parents get your child check for these conditions! Cafe au lait spits, ash leaf spots, port wine stains, lipoma neurofibromas, angiofibromas, brain tumors, are the symptoms.
Posted by: Will | January 21, 2019 at 09:42 AM
About the book “Vaccines Did Not Cause Rachel’s Autism”:
If Dr. Peter Hotez hoped to reassure people about vaccines and autism, his inadvertently revealing book’s silo thinking, inaccuracies and omissions achieve the opposite effect. Hotez’s slim volume contains only 2 graphics about vaccines – but indulge much name dropping, media quotes and personal speculations. Hotez hoists himself by his own petard, portraying an ambitious generalist with irons in too many fires, bedazzled by status, blind to cronies’ data fraud, and avoidant of scientific evidence inconvenient to his career.
Evidence such as emerging research on medical treatments: Hotez over-focuses on his daughter’s behaviors, rather than her biology. While the rest of the autism world runs scans and lab tests to detect co-morbid or causal disorders, he never mentions ordering medical tests to detect encephalopathies, GI inflammation, MTHFR, allergies, OATS, etc. While many autism parents avoid gluten, he still feeds his daughter bagels. Which perhaps is fine if, indeed, vaccines didn’t cause her autism – but her single case cannot negate the medical history of countless victims of vaccine-induced autism.
Hotez’s daughter Rachel is a supporting player in her own book, essentially his heroic narrative bouncing frenetically from topic to topic. Various classic autistic affects she’s displayed include loud piercing crying, late speech, scripting, low IQ, eczema, “colic,” selective eating of gluten/casein (p. 45), texture sensitivity, spitting and swearing (Tourette’s, her father wondered), hyperfocus on specific topics, and more symptoms familiar to readers of listservs and social media. All words that provide medical clues to parents more focused on the health of kids instead of their own career.
Rachel’s vaccine history (pp. 38-39): “…she received five doses of the… (DTaP) vaccine, and then boosters in 2006 for tetanus and diphtheria (Td), and later in 2011 for all three diseases (Tdap) - the adolescent/adult formulation. She also received the two scheduled measles-mumps-rubella and varicella vaccine doses, and four doses each of the polio vaccine and Hib vaccine. Rachel received three doses of the hepatitis B vaccine and also her hepatitis A vaccine, meningococcal vaccine, and HPV cervical cancer vaccine. To this day she receives annual influenza vaccines.”
The books’ references total a sparse 14 pages and their not-so-rigorous content explains much about Hotez’s grandiose utilitarian worldview. Elsewhere, awkward personal aspects of his character are revealed — as when considering the risk of autism if choosing to have another child (p. 78): “Quite honestly, it was Ann who had the intense desire to have a fourth, and she pushed her agenda hard.”
Hotez’s book confirms the public’s fear about vaccine policymakers who perpetuate the autism epidemic: that they are selectively inconsiderate of others’ experiences, entrenched in cronyism, comfortable with vaccine mediocrity, and/or paralyzed by fear. Taxpayers deserve more than another deluded lifetime bureaucrat with a white knight complex who doesn’t care what he tramples while moving toward his career’s summit. This he does at his child’s peril: If Hotez remains unwilling to investigate how other parents have healed their children, he will never heal his.
Posted by: nhokkanen | January 20, 2019 at 07:12 PM
Great points by Cathy and Jonathan Rose about omissions and redirections by Hotez and mainstream media. Most MSM reporters appear to lack the intellectual curiosity to ask key missing questions, such as: Who is studying vaccine injuries, in order to treat and prevent them?
Instead we’re told again and again simply that vaccine injuries are rare. But even the presumption of rarity must not preclude swift, effective investigation — just as manufacturers of non-mandated consumer products such as food, drugs and motor vehicles must do.
Everyone in the vaccine program essentially uses children as human shields, protecting their careers when protecting health goes horribly wrong. Their denial is especially understandable — though not acceptable — when one has administered the harmful or fatal vaccine to one’s own child.
Posted by: nhokkanen | January 20, 2019 at 07:07 PM
Well-written, Cathy!
There is also this rebuttal by Alison Fujito posted by Sharyl Attkisson that may be helpful to share with those who accept "the science is settled" line:
https://sharylattkisson.com/2019/01/19/vaccine-autism-link-a-rebuttal-to-the-there-is-no-debate-narrative/
I want to suggest to Dr. Hotez that rather than asking Congress to "not waste" more money researching this concern, that he consider asking for funding for better research than the conflicted tobacco science that has been wasting our time so far. Otherwise, we're left to note, among some other patterns, the extensive lack of confidence in COI-free gold standard research among vaccine "scientists" or the industry generally.
Posted by: Jeannette Bishop | January 20, 2019 at 06:42 PM
http://icandecide.org/wp-content/uploads/whitepapers/ICAN%20Reply%20-%20December%2031%2C%202018.pdf?fbclid=IwAR2Kd_eXNGBOziOQ_TQFIwgjQbbXY5CeEVge_V6Oj7l4DyLe5Z7bUprPJKE
Great article, Cathy.
For anyone with some time, the attached link (if it works) is an 88 page response from ICAN to HHS. It is extremely well written, with loads of research, and it will be very interesting to see the response from HHS. I think this will be covered in Highwire on Thursday.
Posted by: susan welch | January 20, 2019 at 05:34 PM
Well written Cathy.
Dr. Hotez, is of course, a classic "bought off / vaccine Rock Star" who wants to someday create a new vaccine and "profit like Offit."
I would suppose he is very well paid in some manner for every anti-vax hit piece he writes. He probably understands exactly what happened to his daughter and has read about dozens of others with the same story.
Like many other issues in the nation "mocking many Americans" is the only game in town to continue to be on the receiving end of millions of dollars.
For some reason his article in "THE HILL" shows a photo with about 5ccs being injected, looks just a bit heavy. Perhaps Dr. Hotez could be the first to inject the entire "well baby visit vaccines" into himself, and become a real vaccine Rock Star.
Posted by: go Trump | January 20, 2019 at 04:50 PM
I think it would be more convincing if he was so pro vaccine and did not have an autism daughter.
Plus if his daughter did not autism he bothered to publish her vaccine records and medical records.
Hmmmm, perhaps he should do the later anyway. Let us see how her development went in correlation with her vaccines. Correlation may not mean causation, (heard that a billion times), however it sure would interesting to see how curious they are about such an event. Do they have any curiosity to see if maybe correlation does mean causation.
But then perhaps he needs the money to support his daughter. I understand, sort of. Well I don't know, I myself would explode - over everything if I tried to contain what I know about the matter.
Posted by: Benedetta | January 20, 2019 at 01:15 PM
Dr. Andrew Zimmerman was our son's very first neurologist (Johns Hopkins/Kennedy Krieger Institute's CARD) in 2003, when our son was just 4 years old. Dr. Zimmerman said he was doing research on Terbutaline at the time and was greatly concerned about its long term effects. Dr. Zimmerman, without hesitation, told us our son's Regressive Autism came about from 1) exposure to Terbultaline (the drug used by asthmatics which is routinely given to mothers experiencing premature labor and 2) the vaccines acting as a trigger which sent our son into a state of Regressive Autism. First, he told us Terbultaline is NOT even FDA approved to be given to pregnant women, yet OBs use it all the time because it does stop premature labor. Therefore there is and was no testing to see the long term outcome of its use on pregnant women. He said the Turbutaline laid the foundation for future reactions. Secondly, he said the vaccines triggered our son's Autism.
He heard our concerns because each time our son received his shots he suffered immediate convulsions IN the pediatrician's exam room on two occasions and on other occasions our son screamed, ran fevers and cried for days on end and then started to have seizures. Each time we lost a piece of him and each time our son's pediatrician NEVER reported these reactions to the CDC (VAERS) and denied that these reactions meant anything. What I don't understand is WHY Dr. Zimmerman NEVER encouraged us to report his findings to VAERS either. It is hard to read his affidavit now and wonder if he would have publicly come out in 2003 to the CDC which could have secured our son a life time of financial support. The state government now has very long waiting lists to serve these ADULTS which means we will continue to bear the financial burden for our son's care from the adverse reaction to vaccines for many, many years. What hurt us even more is our recent move to a new state which put him now at the bottom of their list. This burden should be shouldered more by the FEDERAL government. With so many of us in this predicament, how is our voices not creating a rippling effect across this world to STOP this insanity? What we are currently doing is not enough to overcome the mass media's paid suppression and the government cover-up. It's a shame.
Posted by: WarriorMom | January 20, 2019 at 12:59 PM
My comment in the New York Times
https://nyti.ms/2Hl5zb6#permid=30251980
John Stone | London, UK
This article is an ideological folly, and it is also deceptive - it is deceptive because vaccine critics are already and have always been completely outgunned in the mainstream media. If the NYT are paranoid enough to claim otherwise there is surely something else going on.
Secondly, what is currently at issue is both freedom of choice and freedom of speech, and this is a dangerous combination. It is coming that we may not either criticise these liability free products or the lobby that produces them. Nor may we refuse the products. And this is entirely unreasonable - they are being placed on a pedestal, yet there are hundreds of things that can go wrong both singly and in combination (with the certainty that all or anything will be denied in advance as in this editorial). Furthermore, the industry has hundred of more products in the pipeline, which in turn can and will (be) mandated for our children. The industry needs this debate kicked into oblivion because it cannot stand scrutiny.
There is nothing in the history of either medicine or the pharmaceutical industry which suggests that this is a safe or wise way to proceed, not (nor) is it as if all doctors or medical scientists are in agreement about it.
To want ward off serious disease is an honourable thing but that does not mean that everything done in its name is safe or beyond criticism, and if we get into a state where we think this we have a problem.
John Stone, UK Editor, Age of Autism
Posted by: John Stone | January 20, 2019 at 12:54 PM
Lettuce see the round I am clever Harry Potter glasses are meant to convince us he knows what hes talking about...mmmm
Great article Cathy thanks
Pharma For Prison
MMR RIP
Posted by: Angus Files | January 20, 2019 at 12:46 PM
Ps it is called How To Innoculate against Anti Vaxxers. Tell your friends. Post, please.
Posted by: Someone | January 20, 2019 at 11:51 AM
Readers this is urgent. Please post comments on the New York Times editorial today calling for a repeal of vaccine exemptions. There are already many comments running pro, so make your voices heard ASAP. Thanks.
Posted by: Someone | January 20, 2019 at 11:50 AM
Note what they're conspicuously not talking about. Hotez never mentions Dr. Zimmerman (Hamlet without the Prince) and the Times completely ignores the existence of both Zimmerman and Sharyl Attkisson (Hamlet without the whole cast). Amazingly, the Times, the most powerful newspaper in the world, casts itself as the underdog, hopelessly outgunned by some amateur-run websites (like this one)! The CDC, which has a huge PR apparatus, has "no loud public voice"! The Surgeon General isn't promoting vaccination. (In fact he did, with Elmo, remember?) The Gates Foundation, the medical establishment, public health agencies, big drug companies, and nearly all of the mass media have been pushing vaccination relentlessly -- but according to the Times, "just a handful of academics" are standing up for the cause. And now, because this vast propaganda effort has evidently failed, they want to recruit pro-vaccination parents. The difficulty there is that there aren't that many unconflictedly pro-vax parents. Polls have consistently shown that 70 to 90 percent of parents harbor at least some doubts about vaccine safety, even if most of them do vaccinate their own children. That's why, when state legislatures consider restricting vaccine exemptions, we can turn out hundreds and thousands of protesting parents, and the other side can't.
Posted by: Jonathan Rose | January 20, 2019 at 11:38 AM
In reference to the nytimes link and the assertion made that anti-vax propaganda has outpaced public health information.... REALLY????? Have they done any searches with any search engine lately.... the pro vax propaganda is pushed to the top and information contrary to the pro-vax narrative is pushed far to the bottom. And there is a TON of pro-vax pages and websites, I would venture to guess more than there are on the other side. There is not a shortage of pro-vax websites and information out there. There is an over abundance of information that shows the other side, and rightly so. The powers that be have now resorted to censoring the sharing and visibility of posts and gaming search engines to further hide the other side. Protecting pubic health policy does not equal protecting public health... clearly. Anyone who cannot see the decline in the health of Americans of all ages since the liability-free vaccine push has blinkers on.
Posted by: Lori C. | January 20, 2019 at 11:05 AM
Excellent article Cathy, some really good points, enjoyed reading it!
In case anyone has missed this one in the NYTimes, they are taking comments now.
How to Inoculate Against Anti-Vaxxers
https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/19/opinion/vaccines-public-health.html
Posted by: Pete | January 20, 2019 at 08:19 AM
Verify your Comment
Previewing your Comment
Posted by: |
This is only a preview. Your comment has not yet been posted.
Your comment could not be posted. Error type:
Your comment has been saved. Comments are moderated and will not appear until approved by the author. Post another comment
The letters and numbers you entered did not match the image. Please try again.
As a final step before posting your comment, enter the letters and numbers you see in the image below. This prevents automated programs from posting comments.
Having trouble reading this image? View an alternate.
Post a comment
Comments are moderated, and will not appear until the author has approved them.
Comment below or sign in with Typepad Facebook TwitterGoogle+and more...
You are currently signed in as (nobody). Sign Out
(You can use HTML tags like <b> <i> and <ul> to style your text. URLs automatically linked.)
Your Information
(Name and email address are required. Email address will not be displayed with the comment.)
Name is required to post a comment
Please enter a valid email address
Invalid URL
Please enable JavaScript if you would like to comment on this blog.
Donate
To Send a Check
Payable to Autism Age PO Box 110546 Trumbull, CT 06611
Donations are Tax Deductible, Safe & Secure.
Recent Comments
John Stone on Incognito at Agincourt: Shakespeare Accuses the King - On the Occasion of the 400th Anniversary of Shakespeare’s Death
Dead Weight on Physician, Father and Caretaker of 29 Year Old Autistic Man Found Brutally Murdered
Beleaguered Autism Mom on Physician, Father and Caretaker of 29 Year Old Autistic Man Found Brutally Murdered
Grace Green on A Ringside View of Vaccine Exemption Law Hearings in Colorado
Angus Files on Physician, Father and Caretaker of 29 Year Old Autistic Man Found Brutally Murdered
Shelley Tzorfas on Twenty Years Post Columbine: American Schools are SPED Psychiatric Wards
Grace Green on Physician, Father and Caretaker of 29 Year Old Autistic Man Found Brutally Murdered
Linda1 on A Ringside View of Vaccine Exemption Law Hearings in Colorado
David Weiner on A Ringside View of Vaccine Exemption Law Hearings in Colorado
JK ANAND on Incognito at Agincourt: Shakespeare Accuses the King - On the Occasion of the 400th Anniversary of Shakespeare’s Death
Support Our Sponsors
Vaccine-Autism Link
The One-Pager
Contributors
Dan Olmsted, Founder 2007 - 2017
Kim Rossi, Managing Editor
Mark Blaxill, Editor-At-Large
Anne McElroy Dachel, Media Editor
John Stone, UK Editor
Nancy Hokkanen, Contributing Editor
Julie Obradovic, Contributing Editor
Teresa Conrick, Contributing Editor
Katie Wright, Contributing Editor
Cathy Jameson, Contributing Editor
Natalie Palumbo, Contributing Editor
Dan Burns, Contributing Editor
Adriana Gamondes, Contributing Editor
Tim Welsh, Contributing Editor
Do You Read Me?
The Autism File Magazine
Dan's UPI Series "The Age of Autism"
The Age of Polio. Explosion.
Connect
Shop Amazon Support AofA
Books
JB Handley's How To End the Autism Epidemic
Search
Find over 6,000 archived articles since 2007
WWW
ageofautism.com
Become a Fan
Age of Autism •
Powered by Typepad
Top