Sugar Free Gum Weight Loss » iFitandHealthy.com
Sugar Free Gum Weight Loss
Can chewing a sugar-free gum help you lose weight? Sugar detox can help you lose weight, but I have never heard that a sugar-free gum is a legitimate weight loss aid. Can any sugar-free gum help you drop the pounds or do you need to use a particular brand? I guess any sugar-free gum will do, assuming you believe the claims. Personally, I am not convinced, far from it. But a sugar-free gum is a sugar-free gum, right? The ad above, for example, claims that “chewing Extra sugar-free gum can help you reduce snack cravings. So to help reach your goals, start by reaching for a stick,” the ad says.
And, as you can see, the ad also seems to suggest that chewing a sugar-free gum can help you look better in a bikini. “Here’s one piece that’ll help get you in your two-piece,” the ad says. So what do we make of this? Well, thus far we have seen the Dole Banana Diet and the Drive-Thru Diet to nowhere make similar claims. What is next? Drink corn syrup and lose weight? Let’s hope not.
Posted January 22nd, 2010 in Low Carb Foods |
Possibly related
Free Granola Bar
Free Splenda
Free Stevia
Leave a Reply
Name (required)
Mail (will not be published) (required)
Popular
Easy Weight Loss
How to Lose Fat
Sugar Detox
Healthy Diet Tips
Weight Loss Rules
Does Clen Work?
Lose 15 Pounds
Lose 10 Pounds
Lose 5 Pounds
Calorie Shifting
What is SmartLipo?
Velocity Diet
Categories
Ask Questions
Celebrities
Celebrity Pictures
Diet & Weight Loss
Diet Reviews
Exercise Equipment
Exercise Guide
Fast Food Nutrition
Fat Burner Pills
Food & Nutrition
FREE Stuff
Health & Fitness
Healthy Recipes
How To …
Kitchen Gadgets
Low Carb Foods
Low Carb Recipes
Supplements
Weight Loss Tips
RSS Feed
Recent Comments
Jim Laney on How to Tighten Loose Skin After Weight Loss: I went from 270lbs to 165lbs in little time and had lots of...
sayona on How to Lose 10 Pounds in 3 Days: I’m 16 and I’ve weight about 77 kilos everyone makes fun of me...
gje on Is Mischa Barton Fat?: Yes she is fat and meaty and fantastic! Everyone knows Mischa has been up and down in...
lisa r on Leonardo DiCaprio Weight: he’s only fat with his taste in models—lol
mathew l on Steven Seagal Weight: 220lbs are you nuts. the guy is an inch or two shorter than me yet looks bigger...
Copyright © 2006-2015 iFitAndHealthy.com - All rights reserved
Disclaimer: Information on iFitandHealthy.com website provided for educational purposes only. The information provided should not be used for diagnosing or treating a health problem or disease. If you have or suspect you may have a health problem, you should consult your health care provider. Privacy Policy