Gatwick officials seize massive haul of illicit cosmetics with cancer-causing skin lightening chemicals
Jump directly to the content
The Sun, A News UK Company
Close
Your Sun
Sign in
Editions
Scottish Sun
Irish Sun
Sun Bingo
Dream Team
News Corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services.
Follow The Sun
The Sun
The Scottish Sun
The Irish Sun
Dream Team
Sun Bingo
Hols from £9.50
Superdays
Sun Savers
Sun Gifts
News Corp
WSJ.com
New York Post
The Australian
News.com.au
Storyful
Harper Collins
Realtor.com
talkSPORT
Services
Sign Up To The Sun
About Us
Editorial Complaints
Clarifications and Corrections
News Licensing
Advertising
Contact Us
Commissioning Terms
Help Hub
Topic A-Z
Sell Your Story
Cookie Settings
TOP
Sign in
UK Edition
Scottish Sun
Irish Sun
Sun Bingo
Dream Team
Search
Home
Football
Sport
TV & Showbiz
News
Fabulous
Money
Motors
Travel
Tech
Dear Deidre
Puzzles
Vouchers
Topics A-Z
All Football
All News
UK News
World News
Brexit
Politics
Opinion
Health News
CANCER COSMETICS SEIZED
Massive haul of illicit cosmetics with cancer-causing chemicals is seized at Gatwick
The products were believed to contain banned hydroquinone
By Sara Kamouni
9th September 2016, 1:18 pm
Updated: 9th September 2016, 4:41 pm
CUSTOMS officials at Gatwick have seized a massive haul of toxic cosmetics - which could cause CANCER.
Almost 300 skin lightening products containing banned substance hydroquinone were discovered by officials after being smuggled onto a flight from Africa as hand luggage.
SWNS:South West News Service
2
Over 300 illegal skin lightening products were found after being smuggled on a flight from Africa
The products, which had estimated retail values of between £5 and £20, were seized on August 22 by West Sussex Trading Standards and UK Border Force.
Some were incorrectly labelled as "hydroquinone free", and are believed to contain the substance which is banned throughout Europe.
Related Stories
BRIT SPARKS PLANE PANIC
'Unruly' Brit arrested after British Airways flight from Gatwick forced to divert to Boston
FRESH TRAVEL HELL
Flights diverted after HOLE closes runway at Gatwick airport, causing chaos for passengers
JETS IN NEAR MISS
Planes at Gatwick came within 700ft of colliding 'when air traffic controller forgot to check screen'
SOAR POINT
Model, 30, thrown off easyJet flight at London Gatwick after having epileptic fit - even though paramedics cleared her to fly
FLIGHT FINGERED
Trainee pilot stole £11,000 worth of Michael Kors and Swarovski goods from duty free shop in Gatwick Airport
David Barling, West Sussex County Council's cabinet member for residents' services, said: "Our excellent Trading Standards team work very hard in conjunction with our partner agencies to protect our borders and consumers and prevent extremely dangerous products from entering the UK.
"These products we believe contain hydroquinone, which is a very harmful substance that could have caused significant damage to innocent consumers."
Getty Images
2
Officials at Gatwick believe the products contained hydroquinone, which is banned in Europe
Meanwhile, Peter Aston, Trading Standards team manager, added: "Hydroquinone is a bleaching agent which can remove the top layer of skin, running the risk of infection and increasing the risk of sunburn.
"It can also increase the risk of skin cancer or can cause fatal liver and kidney damage.
"We will continue to monitor this dangerous and unscrupulous trade to protect West Sussex residents."
Topics
Gatwick
UK Border Force
Most Popular
‘INCONCEIVABLE PAIN’
Demian Bichir’s heartbreak as model wife Stefanie Sherk dies at 37
Exclusive
FLIGHT VAN MAN
G4S security guard vanishes with £1MILLION from his abandoned van
Breaking
CURTAIN CLOSED
Opera star who sang around world after 2 double lung transplants dead at 35
WORTH ITS WEIGHT IN GOLD
Beauty experts go wild for £15 'no wash off, liquid gold’ fake tan
VAGI-NOPE
Putting GARLIC in your vagina to treat thrush could be deadly, doctor warns
VILE ABUSE
Evil mum 'stood guard as son, 19, boyfriend and ex-husband gang-raped girl, 4'
Packet in
What is the Snapchat "Shell On Challenge" and why is it dangerous?
OUTDATED BENEFITS
OAPs 'should lose free bus passes & TV licences' to help younger people
I GET A ROUND
Drinker who's been in 50k pubs reveals his top 50 — is your local among them?
HOOVER IT UP
Mums rave about 'seriously amazing' Shark vacuum & it's £100 off in sale
Follow The Sun
Services
Sign Up To The Sun
About Us
Editorial Complaints
Clarifications and Corrections
News Licensing
Advertising
Contact Us
Commissioning Terms
Help Hub
Topic A-Z
Sell Your Story
Cookie Settings
©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO)
Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click here.