Dr. Vora's Dental Care – Mulund » Instruction After Extraction
(+91 22) 2567 8000
(+91 22) 2567 8468
Menu ≡ ╳
About Us
Specialities
Cosmetic Dentistry
Teeth Whitening
Tooth Color Filling
Veneers
Dental Jewellery
Orthodontic Braces
Magic of Braces
Types of Braces
Braces Care
Braces Instructions
Advances In Orthodontics
Braces Emergencies
Myths & Facts
Dental Implants
Kids Dentistry
First Dental Checkup
Milk Teeth
Thumb Sucking
Preventive Dental Care
Space Maintainer
Fluoride Application
PIT and FISSURE Sealants
Five Steps to Healthy Smile
Restoring & Replacement Treatment
Replacing A Missing Tooth
Dental Crown
Tooth Sensitivity
Endodontic Treatment
Tooth Ache
Root Canal Treatment
Gums Treatment
Bad Breath
Bleeding Gums
Gum Diseases
Pyorrhoea
Surgical Treatment
Wisdom Tooth & Problems Associated
Instruction After Extraction
Consultation
Testimonials
Video Testimonials
What Other Says
Recognition
360 Clinic View
Contact Us
What to do after tooth Extraction?
BLEEDING:
When you leave the office, you will be given verbal instructions regarding the control of postoperative bleeding. A rolled up gauze pad will be placed on the extraction site and you will be asked to keep that in place by biting firmly on it for at least 1 hour. It is normal for some blood to ooze from the area of extraction If the bleeding seems to persist, a slightly moistened tea bag can be a very effective substitute for gauze. Tea contains Tannic Acid, a styptic, which may help to reduce the bleeding.
PAIN:
Some discomfort is normal after extraction. Analgesic tablets ( i.e. Combiflam, crosin etc. ) may be taken under your dentist’s direction. Take painkillers before the anesthetic effect (numbness) wears off.
SWELLING:
To prevent swelling & stop bleeding, Place an ice pack outside extraction site for 10-15 minutes or for 30-40 minutes, if necessary.
DIET:
Eat normal regular meals as soon as you are able after extraction. Cold, soft food such as ice cream or yogurt may be the most comfortable 1 hour after extraction. It is also important to drink plenty of fluids.
What not to do after tooth Extraction?
Do not apply heat to the face unless your dentist instructs you to do so, since this can increase swellin.
Avoid forceful spitting, use of straws, sucking. These things may interrupt the formation of a blood clot & the wound may start bleeding again.
Smoking, especially, after a lower molar extraction can prevent the blood clot from forming, causing discomfort and increasing healing time.
Hot liquids will tend to dissolve the blood clot that has formed in the extraction socket, so avoid them for the initial 24 hour period. Also, you should avoid alcoholic beverages for at least 24 hours.
Avoid strenuous exercise or other such activities for 24 hours after your tooth has been extracted. If you lie down, use an extra pillow so to elevate your head.
While your mouth is numb, be careful not to bite your cheek, lip or tongue.
Do not use commercial mouth rinses. They may irritate the extraction site.
Brushing & Cleaning Your Teeth
It is important to maintain good oral hygiene during the healing process. On the day of the extraction it might be best to avoid brushing the teeth directly neighboring the extraction site. The next day you can resume cleaning these teeth in a gentle manner. During the first 24 hours after the extraction don’t rinse vigorously when you clean your teeth because it might dislodge the newly formed blood clot. Do not rinse with mouthwash or a mouth rinse.
Report any unusual occurrences immediately.
If you have any questions regarding these directions, call your dentist for clarification.
Surgical Treatment
Wisdom Tooth & Problems Associated
Instruction After Extraction
Visit Us
1, Pearl Center,
At Junction of J.N Rd. & Goshala Rd.,
Opp. HDFC Bank,
Mulund (West),
Mumbai - 400 080.
Call Us :
(+91 22) 2567 8000 / 01
(+91 22) 2567 8468
© 2013 to 2016 Dr. Vora's Dental Care - All Rights Reserved. Design and Developed by Prism Ecomm Services
Home
Back to Top
Dr. Vora's Dental Care We Treat We Care, Since 1975
Comments or questions are welcome.
* indicates required field
Name:*
Email:*
Subject:*
Message:*