Pink Himalayan Salt Benefits Blood Pressure and Deficiencies | Organic Allergy Relief
These Natural Antihistamines Heal Allergies
Anthony Anti-Inflammatories and Allergies, Antihistamine Addiction, Environmental Allergies June 25, 2018
This Nutrient Heals Allergies and Enhances Your Sixth Sense
Anthony Environmental Allergies, Natural Allergy Supplements, Parasites, Remedy July 22, 2017
Real Himalayan SaltLamp Review for Allergies
Anthony Allergies in the Air, Environmental Allergies, Review July 19, 2017
Best Air Purifiers for Allergies
Anthony Allergies in the Air, Environmental Allergies July 16, 2017
Excessive Sneezing Treatment
Anthony Environmental Allergies, Natural Allergy Supplements, Probiotics, Remedy July 15, 2017
Organic Allergy Relief
Organic Allergy Relief
Navigation
Home
About Anthony
Allergy Product Reviews
Allergy Q&A
#1 Recommendation (My Allergy Cure)
The Natural Antihistamine I Use
Site Map
Home
About Anthony
Allergy Product Reviews
Allergy Q&A
#1 Recommendation (My Allergy Cure)
The Natural Antihistamine I Use
Site Map
Blog Pink Himalayan Salt Benefits Blood Pressure and Deficiencies
Pink Himalayan Salt Benefits Blood Pressure and Deficiencies
In Natural Allergy Supplements by Anthony April 17, 2017 31 Comments
Table salt is the most common and preferred of all the condiments that we use in cooking. It even holds a special place on our dinner table. However, this white table salt is very unhealthy because it has been processed heavily and bleached, stripped of its nutrients and loaded up with fillers. This type of salt is not natural and would be considered a freak of nature. Sea salt is no healthier because it contains all of the poisons that accumulate at the bottom of the oceans. REAL salt, on the other hand, is extremely healthy and contains minerals that provide energy and function to our body’s cells. Most importantly, pink Himalayan salt benefits blood pressure and common mineral deficiencies, which are a huge problem for the first world.
You can get up to 50% off edible natural salt by clicking the code on this image. You’re welcome!
Use as Much REAL Salt as You Want
“Real” salt encompasses the quality of salt in naturally mined salt crystals, Celtic salt, and Himalayan salt.
Himalayan salt is my most recommended natural product for treating allergies and many other health conditions. It’s hard for me to come up with a condition that natural salt does not treat.
Pink Himalayan salt is mined from the caves in the mountains in the Himalayas. It has been untouched by man AND nature, so it is pure and free of toxic environmental compounds that may adversely affect your body.
This salt is pink due to the nutrient mineral content inside of it. In fact, Himalayan salt contains 84 minerals that can support weight loss, balancing of hormones and the elimination of waste from cells. You can even put some of this salt in a bowl and it will improve the air quality of your room. It also makes a beautiful decoration.
What’s great about this salt is that it’s actually very healthy due to its nutrient content. Table salt only contains one mineral, sodium, which has been linked to high blood pressure, heart disease, weight gain, and disease. (1)
Mineral Deficiencies are Very Common and Likely Cause Your Health Conditions
Himalayan salt contains 84 essential minerals that will cover ALL bases when it comes to possible mineral deficiencies in your body. Even the freshest vegetables only contain up to 20 essential minerals and most of the food you eat only has a small percentage of calcium, magnesium and maybe
phosphorous. A lot of us are deficient in these already, so it would be a breath of fresh air for your body if you ate pure and natural salt the way that our ancestors evolved to consume it.
Some symptoms of mineral deficiency include:
Heart problems. Minerals are electrolytes that help the rhythm and strength of the physical electricity that pumps your heart to transport energy and nutrients to your cells.
Brain problems. Minerals make up the foundation for a lot of the neurotransmitters that help your brain function in many ways including proper and quick thought processing, pattern recognizing, awareness, good mood, quality sleep, relaxation, anxiety relief, and much more.
Waste buildup in your cells. If your body does not have a proper detoxification system, human cells have evolved to bioaccumulate excess waste in your blood, meaning it is stored in their until your body has the ability to get rid of it. Unfortunately, many people living now are stuck in a constant state of toxicity because their cells are unable to get rid of waste. This buildup creates an endless possibility for health problems from acne to cancer.
Improper digestive function. Like your heart, your intestines use muscle contractions from electricity to help push contents through. If the proper amount and variety of electrolyte are not present in your bloodstream, you will suffer from uncomfortable conditions like constipation, poor nutrient absorption, and bacterial overgrowth.
Poor immune function. Your body uses minerals as a foundation for many of the immune cells that help fight off disease. If you have a deficiency in one or more minerals, you could easily be susceptible to pathogenic infection. Dangerous and parasitic bacteria, yeast, viruses, and worms can more easily invade your body and further deplete your supply of nutrients.
Health Conditions Affect Each Other
A perspective on health can believe that all symptoms and diseases affect one another. The way your body works is like a domino effect because all your cells work together. For example, your dry skin may contribute to your insomnia, which can contribute to heart disease.
The best way to prevent disease is by supporting your foundation for health: nutrition.
Pink Himalayan Salt Benefits Blood Pressure
Table salt is sodium chloride—we all know that. But while sodium is an essential mineral, in excess it can be very deadly. The electrolytes of your body work together in a sort of balance that helps your cells function properly.
The root cause of heart problems and high blood pressure comes from the sodium-potassium channel in all of your cell membranes. If your body is too high in one of these electrolytes, you can have serious problems like cell bloating, heart rhythm problems and high or low blood pressure. (2)
The poor diets that we eat now that are filled with process and salt as a preservative that throw this electrolyte balance out of whack. The see-saw is way too heavy on the sodium side.
If we all tracked how much sodium versus potassium we get, we’d notice that we get WAY too much sodium when compared to potassium. The amounts should be the same if you want optimal health.
Even the healthiest of people will have problems getting a balance of sodium and potassium. This is because salt is added in so many foods to preserve them, restaurants add salt excessively to improve taste and pleasure quality of their foods, and then we add more on top of that because it’s on every dinner table.
Potassium is found in high amounts in pink Himalayan salt as well as other sources:
Bananas
Avocado
Spinach and other leafy greens
All vegetables
Fruits
Mushrooms
Squash
Sweet Potato
Salmon
Coconut products
Beans
These foods high in potassium, as well as natural salt, should be consumed in our daily diet to balance out the excess sodium we are very likely to get.
Potassium Deficiency
Potassium is an electrolyte that is very important for heart health. The root cause of heart disease, the number one cause of death, is an imbalance between potassium and sodium. You may recognize the symptoms of potassium deficiency because they are very common:
Heart flutter or palpitations
High or low blood pressure
Abdominal bloating
Weakness, tiredness, or cramping
Constipation
Acne or dry skin
Excessive thirst and urination
Insomnia
Mental decline
Irritability
Low energy
Numbness or tingling
Charlie horses
The best way to combat potassium deficiency is to eliminate excess sodium in your diet from table salt and processed foods.
Himalayan salt contains much more potassium than sodium so that it will adequately balance your electrolytes in a healthy way. (3)
You can consume as much Himalayan salt as you want for this reason. It tastes the same if not better than regular salt anyway!
Other Pink Himalayan Salt Benefits
The rich mineral content of Himalayan salt make it a wonder for your health. It really doesn’t come closer to the “fountain of youth” than this. When you add this natural salt to food, you can enjoy the benefits of this nutrient-dense flavor enhancer in place of unhealthy table salt, including:
Maintaining a strong heartbeat with normal blood pressure. This will help your circulatory system immensely. This salt is recommended for people with high blood pressure.
Gets rid of excess acid in your blood. Electrolytes promote proper osmosis in cells while regular table salt will cause bloating. This salt is especially important for waste removal in your brain cells.
Maintains proper insulin levels. People with diabetes will definitely benefit from this salt.
Your body will experience hydroelectric energy after consuming natural salt. A great alternative to energy drinks and coffee.
Heals nerve ending for proper communication between cells for information processing.
Helps the digestive system properly absorb nutrients and move things through.
Helps allergies and asthma by maintaining proper histamine levels and eliminating mucus that can cause many problems for your respiratory and digestive system.
Minerals provide for more rejuvenating sleep.
Helps repair arthritis and aching joints.
Minerals help relax and calm anxiety and prevents depression.
Overall, these pink Himalayan salt benefits come from the natural salt’s ability to promote proper and natural hydration to our cells. Diets high in sodium from processed food have led our bodies toward forgetting how natural health feels and it will start to decline from illness and disease. (4)
I am always here for you, so if you have a question or something to add about pink Himalayan salt benefits for blood pressure and mineral deficiencies, please let me know in the comments!
Talk to you soon,
Anthony
Pink Himalayan Salt Benefits Blood Pressure and Deficiencies was last modified: November 8th, 2018 by Anthony
Comments
July 24, 2018 Reply
Wilma Lee
Thank you Anthony for your helpful article. I have been avoiding all salt including Himalayan sea salt due to the sodium., because I have had high bp and a heart condition. I’m so happy to know that I can start using the H. Pink sea salt because I crave salt in my food. It’s not only tasty but it’s healthy and I have most all the symptoms of potassium deficiency and I look forward to feeling better and also enjoying my food more. God bless you.
July 19, 2018 Reply
Charlie
Hi Anthony I don’t eat salt plus I don’t add salt to my food 🥘 will this salt give me any benefits. I do have high blood pressure and I am diabetic with insulin can you please give me some feedback.
Thank in advance
Charlie
Author
July 22, 2018 Reply
Anthony
If you already don’t use salt, the best you could think of it is a mineral enhancer to your food. It’s got a good composition of electrolytes which may make you healthier. But especially for people who need to replace something for table salt, which is addictive.
July 17, 2018 Reply
Donna Bragg
My problem is my blood pressure runs low…just the opposite of the vast majority of people. I usually have a BP from 90/60 to as low as 84/56. I feel fatigued quite often. A relative suggested mixing Himalayan Salt with a glass of water and drinking it daily. Is this good for low blood pressure?
Author
July 22, 2018 Reply
Anthony
No, that’s not good for blood pressure. I think it’s just silly drinking salt water. It might work as a replacement for too much table salt and sodium. The pink salt has more minerals, making it a much better electrolyte mix. I usually just put a little bit on food.
June 10, 2018 Reply
Fran Ferrusi
Hi Anthony,
Thank you for your wonderful article, my mother and I found it very interesting. Can you tell me what the maximum daily consumption of Himalayan salt should be? I’m sure like everything else, everything in moderation. Also, is there a recommended minimum daily intake?
Thank you,
Fran
Author
June 24, 2018 Reply
Anthony
There really isn’t a max daily consumption for Himalayan pink salt, but your body should tell you when to stop. That’s what it usually does for most things. After a bit of salt, you’;; just know. But I’d keep it to a max of 2 tbsp per day just so you don’t chug the whole thing LOL.
May 26, 2018 Reply
Flossie Gibson
Will Himalayan salt good for for heart that is beat to fast, and nerve, or tingling in your feet, what about sore heal, sometime when i get up at night, my right heal be sore and some time is not. I starting taking Himalayan salt in my spring water, I cook with it now put on my food that I eat if I don’t cook with it. Can you tell me will this help me, in heart rhythm that is beating to fast. Anyway I am on . Please answer me if you can I will appreciate any answers that you are able to give.
Thanks
Flossie
May 1, 2018 Reply
Monika
My mom have 152 /132 bp which salt is perfect for her to reduce bp .. tell me the ration of sodium in himalayan salt n normal salt .. in percentage …nd from where it is available online site … becoz i m frm small city .. i want my mom healthy..
March 28, 2018 Reply
Joshua
Hello i was wondering does the pink salt helps managing and lowering the blood pressure down not only that i have anxiety depression and stress as well i am not taking any meds for it but my question is is it safe for me to use this salt for my food so it wont give me hypertension?
Author
April 6, 2018 Reply
Anthony
Yeah, Himalayan salt should be safe regarding blood pressure. It doesn’t have excessive amounts of sodium, so the minerals balance each other out. This is what you need for proper blood pressure function, after all.
March 23, 2018 Reply
Manju
I am having high potassium I am taking table salt for my cooking. Now I want to use himalayan pink salt . Can I use this because of high potassium I am scared of using himalayan pink salt. please advise me.
Manju
Author
March 25, 2018 Reply
Anthony
Himalayan pink salt will not affect your high potassium levels. In fact, it may even help. Actually, I am skeptical of the legitimacy of potassium level excess diagnoses from doctors. Why did he tell you that you have high potassium levels and did he do blood tests to confirm this? Sorry if I sound ignorant to you. However, natural salt will help in balancing electrolytes and minerals. They all work together to produce electricity and you need a good balance of them. Natural salt is great because it contains almost every mineral that your body requires, especially the ones that are hard to come by. I definitely wouldn’t worry about it affecting high potassium levels in the blood and I would say that natural salt is much healthier than table salt in EVERY case.
March 7, 2018 Reply
Shannon
Hi, my question is if Pink Himalayan salt help with anxiety and low blood pressure? doctors only want to seem to prescribe anti depressants when they know there are natural remedies for mineral deficiencies. Thanks!
Author
March 10, 2018 Reply
Anthony
Yes! If you replace your consumption of salt with Himalayan salt, it has a stabilizing effect on your blood. Table salt is high in just sodium, which offsets the balance of minerals. So it helps.
February 23, 2018 Reply
Susan McCabe
Hi,I’m having problems with my thyroid,an wondering if Himalayan salt pink salt will help me out with my thyroid.i am on blood pressure med lisinopril 30mg an hydrochlorothiazide 25mg is iodized salt good for you,for your thyroid.I’m totally confused on the salt.they say you need salt an you need iodized salt.please let me no what is better for my thyroid.thank you.
Author
March 5, 2018 Reply
Anthony
Yeah, it will definitely help the thyroid. Himalayan salt contains many different types of minerals that you can easily be deficient in. Thyroid problems are very common due to mineral deficiencies like iodine and magnesium. When you have a mineral imbalance, your thyroid is the first to suffer. I would avoid iodized salt because the excess sodium is a bit much. However, iodized is better than non-iodized salt.
January 16, 2018 Reply
Calm
Does Pink Himalayan Salt raise blood pressure? There is a relative that is having a hypertension crisis (blood pressure readings 232/132 highest reading forcing hospital stay) and was released 3 days later after pressure lowered to 112/79. All CAT scan, electrocardiograph, echocardiogram, lung X-ray and nuclear stress test all came back normal. We are still having high readings since relative came home. We are trying to lower the pressure. Wondering Should Pink Himalayan Salt be eliminated until we get a high blood pressure readings under control?
Author
January 26, 2018 Reply
Anthony
Hey there,
I wouldn’t think that it’s safe to say that Himalayan salt raises blood pressure because its electrolytes are balanced properly. That’s the way natural salt should be. I would say no, you don’t have to avoid Himalayan salt before your blood pressure readings and it should actually help stabilize blood pressure. If you have anxiety about it though, by all means stop taking it. However, you should definitely avoid regular table salt.
Anthony
December 14, 2017 Reply
Fathima
Hi,Is Himalayan salt good for who are suffering from type 2 diabetic and protein in urine??im in confuse what diet is good for the patient?
Author
December 22, 2017 Reply
Anthony
Hey Fathima,
If you have type 2 diabetes, then I feel that you would definitely benefit from substituting natural pink Himalayan salt in the place of regular white table salt. This is simply because your sodium consumption will be decreased, which causes the foundation of many health problems and inflammation, and your essential mineral consumption will increase. Many people are deficient in minerals now because our soils don’t provide adequate amounts to us unless it is grown organic. It seems that type 2 diabetics also benefit from a low-carb diet and that type of stuff as well, but I am more educated on the health subject of allergies. Please let me know how pink salt benefits your blood pressure!
Anthony
November 24, 2017 Reply
Sabrina Bryant
I have been on play pressure medicine For about 5 and a 1/2 years 25 mg and hydrochlorothiazide and 20 mg of lisinopril I weigh about 237lbs I recently decided to go on a holistic diet with exercise And I’m enquiring about the dosage of pink Himalayan salt there would be adequate for my condition and weight loss?
Author
December 5, 2017 Reply
Anthony
Hey Sabrina,
Thanks a lot for this question, it provides a lot of insight. I’d like to add that what I am writing about for pink Himalayan salt benefits does not substitute blood pressure medication at all. What I was trying to say is that white table salt is very bad for our health and unnatural to consume. Salt is natural for most animals to consume, but not in this form. Himalayan salt, on the other hand, contains nutrition that we can benefit from, as well as potassium that balances out sodium so that consuming this salt is not dehydrating. I am not saying that Himalayan pink salt is a medicine with a “dosage” but it is a food that can be added as a substitute to common table salt, which causes many health problems. Hopefully, this substitution will directly benefit your blood pressure for the long-term because you have eliminated the root cause of high blood pressure: excess sodium.
November 4, 2017 Reply
Linda
I recently had a fall that resulted in a spinal cord injury. I’m fine — except for the side effects, one of which is erratic blood pressure. It seems to drop to very low levels and then it can go back up to normal range. I d al with this throughout the day. Is the Himalayan pink salt a good way to help bring blood pressure numbers up and keep them up?
Author
November 7, 2017 Reply
Anthony
Hey Linda,
So is the blood pressure symptoms a result of the injury or a medication that you’ve been given to help recover? That might be some important information. In this post, I explain how Himalayan pink salt can help stabilize your electrolytes when your mineral intake is poor. First world diets often contain too much sodium, which causes high blood pressure. This would be the ideal case for Himalayan salt to help your blood pressure because it can be a healthy substitute to sodium chloride salt, which is unhealthy. In addition, it may provide other nutrients that you need. Let me know if the blood pressure is directly related to your diet or medication.
Anthony
September 27, 2017 Reply
Kirstin Preuss
So, I have been benefiting from drinking 10 oz. of warm water with 1/2 tsp of himalayan pink sea salt and the juice of a fresh squeezed lemon every morning first thing. Went to the doctor and my blood pressure was sky high. Top number around 200 and bottom number above 100. Doctor told me not to do my sea salt in my drink in the morning anymore and put me on blood pressure medicine. I have removed ALL processed foods from my diet and am eating more potassium rich foods. I am already getting allergy/sinus symptoms and want to have my morning drink with sea salt again! Does it really LOWER blood pressure? What research is there that I could pass on to my doctor? NEED HELP. Thanks!!
Author
October 5, 2017 Reply
Anthony
Hey Kirsten,
Thanks for bringing up a good point. I am saying in this writing that Himalayan salt is an excellent alternative to using regular table or sea salt, which is extremely high in only sodium. Of course, you need to consider the rest of your diet’s sodium contents. You’d be absolutely shocked at how much sodium is in the stuff Americans eat. Some people are generally more susceptible to high blood pressure. In that case, supplementing with MORE pink salt will not help significantly. It works great at providing electrolytes and minerals other than sodium. My advice would be to first ELIMINATE high sodium foods and then replace with Himalayan pink salt for nutrition. Let me know what you think about this.
Anthony
May 3, 2017 Reply
Marissa
Great product review for Himalayan salt. I must try this.
Author
May 5, 2017 Reply
Anthony
I think it’s important that people know their health status when it comes to mineral sufficiency in their diet. Mineral deficiency is much too common and can explain many of your small and even unnoticeable symptoms. It’s the first step in treating the root cause of your conditions.
Anthony
May 3, 2017 Reply
Alan
I am actually bookmarking this site because I do believe I need to try this pink Himalayan salt. I am 45 years old, overweight and probably more unhealthy than I realize. If switching from the processed salt to natural salt has long-lasting health benefits, then I am motivated to change my habits.
Thank you for this information. Your site has a nice layout and look. I like that clicking a link opens another tab so I don’t lose my place. I think you are building an authority site here.
I am taking some pointers.
Author
May 5, 2017 Reply
Anthony
Hey Alan,
Natural salt is going to be a cornerstone for changing your health for the better. Especially if you are the type of person to add salt to foods for flavor before you eat it, I’d definitely recommend considering it. Thaks a lot for the insight!
Anthony
Leave a Comment Cancel reply
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Search
Treat the Root Causes of Allergies
Hey there and welcome to my site where we can discuss the scientific research about treating the root causes of allergies. I would love to tell the story of how I healed my allergies and spread awareness about the unconventional and strange methods that I used myself to better understand allergies. Please discuss your thoughts and ideas with me, I could really use the help!
Read More...
Subscribe for Allergy Research Updates
Email address:
Leave this field empty if you're human:
Hot Topics
MSM Blocks Allergies for 12 Hours
Antihistamine Withdrawal Guide
Long Term Risks of Allergy Drugs
Natural Salt for Mineral Rebalance
Intestinal Parasites Cause Allergies
Fasting as a Body Healing Treatment
Recent Topics
Does Lactose Intolerance Get Worse? Yes, This is Why
Antihistamine Causing Constipation? Natural Quercetin is Better
Think You Have A Dog Tapeworm as a Human?
Ascaris Roundworm Parasites and Killing Them Naturally
Things That Work
Organic MSM Crystals
Natural Parasite Cleanse
Natural Salt for Mineral Rebalancing
Wool Dryer Balls
Natural Nasal Spray with Xylitol
Real Himalayan Salt Lamp
Categories
Allergies in the Air
Allergy Recipes
Anti-Inflammatories and Allergies
Antibiotics Cause Allergies
Antihistamine Addiction
Baby Allergies
Bad Habits
Best Quercetin Supplement
Best Rutin Supplement
Candida Overgrowth can Cause Allergies
Digestion and Allergies
Environmental Allergies
Food Allergy Natural Treatment
Histamine Intolerance Cure
Lactose Intolerance
Natural Allergy Relief Questions
Antihistamine Addiction Questions
Histamine Intolerance Questions
Oral Allergy Syndrome Relief Questions
Sinus Congestion Relief Questions
Soy Intolerance Relief Questions
Natural Allergy Supplements
Oral Allergy Syndrome
Parasites
Pets
Probiotics
Remedy
Review
Symptoms
Uncategorized
Water
Affiliate Disclaimer
This site uses clickable ad units and affiliate links to help pay for website upkeep and helpful content. Readers are highly respected. Please support our content and efforts by taking advantage of these links or enjoy reading regardless if you’d like. Thank you so much.
XML Sitemap
HTML Sitemap
POWERED BY THE X THEME
Your SEO optimized title
page contents
Assign a Menu