Manage and reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Manage and reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes
June 17, 2016 , Kyle
Please Share
Facebook0
Twitter0
Google+0
LinkedIn0
Pinterest0
Healthy Foods To Reduce Type 2 Diabetes
Six hints from Dr David Cavan, the UK's leading specialist on diabetes self-management author and of Reverse Your Diabetes: The Step-by-Step Strategy to Take Control of Type 2 Diabetes.
Limit yourself to two standard alcoholic drinks a day. Alcohol is high in calories and may lead to weight gain and increased risk of type 2 diabetes. Reasonable alcohol consumption is associated with decreased risk of type 2 diabetes.
Drink tea or water, coffee as opposed to fizzy drinks and fruit juice. Sugar-sweetened beverages increase the risk of type 2 diabetes including smoothies and fruit juices. Caffein may be valuable but only as unsweetened tea or coffee – not a latte or cappuccino.
Eat at least three servings of green leafy vegetables every day. These fibre, comprise vitamins and are extremely low in calories. Starchy vegetables, for example potatoes are best eaten in moderation as they can have a similar effect in leading into a rapid rise in blood glucose as sugar,. Eating greater than three pieces of fruit a day does not appear to shield from type 2 diabetes. You need to follow the best diabetic food list to balance your diet.
Bite on a piece of fruit, a handful of nuts or unsweetened yoghurt. They're low in calories, fat and sugar, as opposed to chocolate bars, biscuits and cakes which are high in sugar. Crimson and processed meats are related to increased risk of some cancers and type 2 diabetes. Meals are preferable to readymade or 'fast food' meals. Buy whole grain bread, rice and pasta. White rice and white bread are turned into glucose swiftly; excess consumption of white rice is associated with increased risk of type 2 diabetes.
Posted in: Health and Fitness , Tagged: diabetic foods, risks of diabetes, type 2 diabetes
Comments are closed.
About Me
Hi there! This is Kyle. Welcome to Still A Newspaper Man!
Search for:
Recent Posts
Factors that Affect Car Insurance Costs
Tips For Selecting A Competitive Swimwear
Individual Health Insurance Companies
About Commercial Printing Guidelines
Evolis Printer – Finest in the Trade
Categories
Arts
battery and charger
Blogs
Business and Management
caps and hats
Cars and Trucks
Computers
Diseases, Conditions and Treatments
Education
Entertainment
Environmental
fabric production
Fashion
Finance
Food and Drink
Fun Stuff
Furniture
hair Loss
Health and Fitness
Hobbies
Home and Garden
House and Home
Insurance
Interior Design
Internet
jewellery gift boxes
Jobs and Careers
Kids and Teens
Legal
Machines and Tools
Marketing and Advertising
Music
Online Business
Other
Pets
Product Reviews
Programming language
Promotion and Marketing
Real Estate
Shopping
steel and its manufacturing
steel roof
Technology and Gadgets
traffic barriers
Travel and Leisure
Uncategorized
Web Development
© Copyright 2018 - Still A Newspaper Man