The Oil Pulling Health Craze
Sign Up | Doctor Login Search
Research News
Body Odor Products
#1 Top Pick
Subscribe Now
Home
Body Odor Information
Top 5 Body Odor Treatments
Product Reviews
Blog
About Us
Contact Us
The Oil Pulling Health Craze
Oil pulling
Oil pulling is an ancient Indian method that has been followed for various scientific reasons. For instance, it helps with the whitening of teeth, strengthens the jaw, teeth and gums and aids in preventing cavities. Additionally, it can be used for detoxification of the body, cure for migraines, hangovers, allergies, sinuses and sleep issues. There are various other health benefits in relation with oil pulling or oil swishing.
How is oil pulling done?
This Ayurvedic Indian medicine involves a process in which you thoroughly gargle your mouth with one spoon of oil for 20 minutes every morning. When you spit the oil (into the trash can and not into the basin to avoid clogging of pipelines) you will notice that the oil has turned milky white in colour. This colour change indicates that the bacteria and toxins from the mouth have been absorbed by the oil. Sunflower oil or coconut oil should be ideally used. Some people recommend not to use coconut oil and to do it with sesame oil instead.
It might be a little difficult to follow for a first timer but you will eventually get accustomed to it. You could do the process for 10 to 15 minutes if needed. It is recommended to follow this four to five times in a week.
The result…?
Studies reveal that oil pulling with coconut oil helps teeth whitening and act as an anti-viral and anti- bacterial agent by acting against sinuses, preventing gingivitis and cavities, strengthening the teeth and gums and by helping in body detoxification.
A doctor mentioned that the friction of oil is basically like a soapy effect. So it does not matter what oil is used. Whatever the oil may be, the effect of reducing bacteria and plaque that cause cavities in the mouth is the same. However, since oil cannot go very deep, serious infections that lie deeper in the teeth and gums are unlikely to get cured.
By maintaining a good oral hygiene you can concentrate on curing other issues in your body. There is a higher chance of people with poor oral hygiene will suffer from problems like pneumonia, strokes and heart attacks.
Ear and sinus infections can be reduced with oil pulling since the ear and sinuses are connected to the mouth. On the other hand, sinuses and ear infections can also be caused by tooth infections. To cure the tooth infection, toothpastes containing Xylitol can be used which has shown that ear infections have reduced by 50% in children.
You may either use the toothpaste or do an oil pull to cure these infections as per your preference.
When your mouth is unhealthy, your body constantly fights against the bacteria present from entering the body. So if the mouth is healthy, your energy level is higher, your skin is clearer, you feel lighter and happier and overall your body is healthier. Oil pulling helps reduce those plaque and bacteria that cause cavities and is capable of reducing further development of cavities which are already present.
It is important to remember to never swallow the oil after gargling since the toxins that have been absorbed may enter the lungs and cause pneumonia. Also note that oil pulling does not substitute brushing. It may only be used as a substitute for a mouth wash but brushing is essential as particles may be present between teeth. Using a Waterpik is a better option as it reaches even between the teeth.
Top 5 Body Odor Treatments for 2019
TOP 5
BODY ODOR Treatments
#1
Learn More
#2
Learn More
#3
Learn More
#4
Learn More
#5
Learn More
Body & Breath Fresh
Progressive Health Clorial
Body Mint
Native Remedies HaliTonic
Hyperbiotics Pro-Dental
1 2 3 4 5
Price (1 bottle)
Price (6 bottles) Best Value $23.30
$139.80 $33.30
$199.80 $19.95
$119.70 $39.95
$239.70 $70.00
$420.00
Overall Rating 99.80% 89.90% 75.90% 74.70% 67.80%
Effectiveness
Speed of Results Extremely Fast Good Average Average Slow
Quality of Ingredients Premium Good Average Average Average
Customer Satisfaction Evaluation 99% 85.30% 76% 74.10% 65.30%
Safety Evaluation Safe for Use Safe for Use Safe for Use Safe for Use Safe for Use
Customer Service Rating
Reorder Rate Highest Good Good Average Low
Return Policy Risk Free 180 days 30 days 365 days Not available
Success Rate 99.40% 85% 75.30% 74% 65.10%
*The views and opinions expressed in this page are strictly those of the Editor. Results may vary from person to person and cannot be guaranteed.
Related Articles
TheraBreath Fresh Breath Throat Spray Review
Natural Treatments for Bad Breath
Regenerative Nutrition Chlorella Pyrenoidosa Tablets Review
The Benefits of Celery For Bad Breath
Vitabase Chlorophyll Review
What is Halitosis
Cinnamon as a Cure for Bad Breath
5 Causes of Feminine Odor
Subscribe Now!
Join with thousands who are getting EXCLUSIVE CONTENT, videos, and deals
you won't find anywhere else.
Our Top 5 Picks
Editor's Choice
Click Here
NEW ARTICLES
5 Causes of Feminine Odor
Issues with feminine odor can make you feel unclean even if...
The Oil Pulling Health Craze
Oil pulling is an ancient Indian method that has been followed...
Body Odor and Food
There are various products from all food and drink types...
Can Apple Cider Vinegar Treat Bad Breath?
One of the ancient remedies for bad breath...
Can Vitamin Deficiency Cause Body Odor?
Not getting vitamins enough can cause people give...
HOT TOPICS
1
Can Apple Cider Vinegar Treat Bad Breath?
One of the ancient remedies for bad breath...
2
Can Vitamin Deficiency Cause Body Odor?
Not getting vitamins enough can cause people give...
3
Cinnamon as a Cure for Bad Breath
Making a natural mouth wash based on cinnamon is risk free...
4
Five Vitamins That May Help Treat Bad Breath
There are a lot of temporary fixes in the market today such as...
5
New Ways to Combat Body Odor
New Ways to Combat Body Odor Foul odor coming from...
PRODUCT REVIEWS
Body & Breath Fresh Product Review
Introduction This is an in-depth review for the pr...
Body Mint Product Review
Introduction Here is a general review for Body Min...
Feelgood Health HaliTonic Review
HaliTonic is a natural, homeopathic remedy designe...
HealthAid Interfresh Capsules Review
Interfesh Capsules from HealthAid are a blend of n...
Hyperbiotics Pro-Dental Product Review
Introduction This is a review for Hyperbiotics Pro...
Native Remedies HaliTonic Product Review
Introduction This is a review of NativeRemedies Ha...
Nutri-Health FloraBright Oral Probiotics Review
Nutri-Health FloraBright is a probiotic supplement...
Odorol Review
This is an in-depth product review of Odorol, Natu...
Progressive Health Clorial Review
Avatrol claims to contain a synergistic blend of a...
Regenerative Nutrition Chlorella Pyrenoidosa Tablets Review
This 100% Chlorella supplement is meant to provide...
Research Verified Body and Breath Natural Deodorant Review
This is an in-depth product review of Research Ver...
TheraBreath Fresh Breath Throat Spray Review
TheraBreath Fresh Breath Throat Spray is an easy-t...
Vitabase Chlorophyll Review
Vitabase Chlorophyll tablets are designed to contr...
Research News
Top Reviews
#1 Top Pick
About Us
Contact Us
Copyright © 2019 Body Odor Center- All Rights Reserved.
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
*Results for individuals will vary, depending on existing health factors, lifestyle and level of fitness. The information contained on this site is intended to educate only and is in no way, a substitute for medical advice that your doctor or healthcare provider can offer, with whom you should always consult with before making any dietary changes. Information within should not be used for diagnosis, treatment or prevention of any disease. Testimonials and results contained within may not be an implication of future results. Testimonials on this site are based on the experiences of a few people and you may not have similar results. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration.