Cell Phone Radiation ⁄ Cancer Compass~An Alternate Route
Cancer Compass~An Alternate Route
Healing Cancer with Alternative Therapies
Menu
Skip to content
Breast Health
BPA and Breast Cancer
BRCA Gene Mutations
Breast Cancer: Typing and Staging
Diet and Lifestyle Suggestions
Ductal Carcinoma In Situ
Estrogen Dominance; Natural Solutions
Hormone Health
Iodine and Breast Cancer
Mammography and Breast Cancer
Over-diagnosis and Over-treatment of Breast Cancer
Parabens and Breast Cancer
Tamoxifen Alternatives; Balancing the Hormones Naturally
Thermography; A Safer Option
Triple Negative Breast Cancer~Natural Therapies
Cancer~General
Alternative vs Conventional Cancer Treatments
Cachexia~Natural Remedies
Cancer Incidence and Staging
Cancer Specific Diet and Supplement Plans
Candida and Cancer
Cellular Toxicity is the Cause of Cancer
Chemotherapy- The History Of
Corruption in Our Medical System
How a Leaky Gut Leads to Systemic Inflammation
How Natural Killer Cells Interact With Cancer Cells
Inflammation and Cancer
Metabolic Therapy
Monitoring Your Healing Progress
Natural Pain Relief
Why Chemotherapy, Radiation, and Surgery are the Only Approved Options
Why Spontaneous Remissions aren’t so Spontaneous After All
Detoxification
Castor oil packs
Cleansing the Digestive System
Coffee Enemas to Detoxify the Liver
Detoxing the Body
Hydrotherapy
Liver Supporting Therapies
Lymphatic System Cleansing
Methylation and MTHFR Mutations
Oil Pulling
Recipes to Make Your Own Natural Products
Diet/Food
Acid and Alkaline Balance
Acidic Diets and Osteoporosis
Adding More Greens into Your Diet
Apple Cider Vinegar
Cancer Fighting Foods
Canola and other Polyunsaturated Oils are Toxic
Enzymes and Enzyme Potential
Fats & Oils
Fermenting Vegetables
Foods that Heal the Gut
How to Make a Bone Broth
How to Make a Master Tonic
Hypothetical Anti-Cancer Diet, Supplement, and Detox Protocol
Juicing for Those with Cancer
Nutrient Density
Nutrition and Cancer
Smoothies~How to Make Them
Sugar and Cancer
Superfoods to Add to Your Diet
Doctors/Clinics
Block Center for Integrative Treatment
Burzynski’s Antineoplaston Therapy
Gerson Clinic
Hippocrates Health Institute
Linda Isaacs, M.D.
Living Foods Institute
Mederi Center for Natural Healing
Oasis of Healing Treatment Center
Oasis of Hope Hospital and Clinic
Optimum Health Institute
Sanoviv Medical Institute
Utopia Wellness
Tools to Locate Holistic Healthcare
Healing Testimonials
Anal Cancer, Skin Cancer, and Debilitating Pain all Healed with Cannabis Oil (Corrie Yelland)
Basal Cell Carcinoma Healed with Coconut Oil and Baking Soda
Basal Cell Carcinoma Healed with Essential Oils
Basal Cell Carcinoma Healed with Ginger and Hot Pepper Mixture (Enoch DeBus)
Basal Cell Carcinoma Removed with Black Salve
Bladder Cancer Healed with Alternative Therapies (Trevor Smith)
Bladder Cancer, Healing with Fresh Broccoli Juice (Ray Wiseman)
Brain Cancer Healed with a Macrobiotic Diet (Kevin Raymond)
Brain Cancer Healed with a Raw Vegan Diet (Megan Sherow)
Brain Cancer Healed with Alkaline Diet, Supplements, and Emotional Cleansing (Ginger Rollins)
Brain Cancer Healed with an Alkaline Diet (Josie Nunez)
Brain Cancer; Healing with a Ketogenic Diet and Apricot Kernels (Kelli O’Brien)
Brain Tumor Healed with Natural Therapies (Allison Huish)
Breast and Cervical Cancer Healed with Raw Living Foods (Brenda Cobb)
Breast Cancer Healed with a Ketogenic Diet (Elaine Cantin)
Breast Cancer Healed with Alkaline Diet and Intravenous Vitamin C (Jessica Richards)
Breast Cancer Healed with Black Salve and Essiac Tea (Di Georgiou)
Breast Cancer Healed with Black Salve and Natural Therapies (Veronique Desaulniers)
Breast Cancer Healed with Natural Therapies (Dr Lorraine Day)
Breast Cancer Healed with Surgery and Alternative Therapies (Hayley Mills)
Breast Cancer Metastasized to Spine Healed with Dr Burzynski’s Gene-Targeted Therapy (Sheila Herron)
Breast Cancer, Infiltrating Ductal Carcinoma, Healed with an Herbal Protocol (Hollie Quinn)
Breast Cancer, Inflammatory, Healed with Detoxing and Natural Therapies (Sue Ledbetter)
Breast Cancer, Invasive Ductal Adenocarcinoma Healed with Gerson Therapy (Rita)
Breast Cancer, Stage 2, Healed with Natural Therapies (Sue Macco)
Breast Cancer, Stage 3, Healed with a Raw Vegan Diet (Janette Murray-Wakelin)
Breast Cancer, Stage 4, Metastasized to Lymph, Pancreas and Lungs Healed with an Alkaline Diet (Jessica Biscardi)
Breast Cancer, Stage 4, Healed with a Low-fat Vegan Diet (Ruth Heidrich)
Breast Cancer, Stage 4, Healed with Diet and Alternative Therapies (Kathy Bero)
Breast Cancer, Stage 4, Healed with Natural Therapies (Doris Sokosh)
Breast Cancer, Triple Negative Invasive Ductal Carcinoma, Healed with a Plant-Based Diet (Kelly Binkoski)
Breast Mass with Swollen Lymph Nodes Healed with Natural Therapies (Mary Anne)
Carcinoid Cancer: Karen Dennis Stops Fighting and Starts Healing
Cervical Cancer Healed with a Raw Vegan Diet (Jane Van Benthusen)
Colon Cancer Healed with Alkaline Diet and Supplements (Allan Taylor)
Colon Cancer- Stage 3, Healed with Cannabis Oil (Lindsey Martin)
Colon Cancer, Stage 3, Healed with a Raw Vegan Diet (Chris Wark)
Colon Cancer, Stage 4, Healed with Carrot Juice (Ann Cameron)
Colon Cancer, Stage 4, Healed with Diet, Essiac and Beta Glucan (John Tanzi)
Colon Cancer, Stage 4, Healed with Surgery and Mistletoe Extract (Ivelisse Page)
Kidney Cancer, Stage 4, Healed with Herbs (Jim Gordon)
Kidney Cancer, with Metastasis to Liver and the Lungs Healed with Natural Therapies (Rita Znamirowsky)
Leukemia- Acute Myelocytic, Healed with a Macrobiotic Diet (Christina Pirello)
Leukemia, Chronic Lymphocytic, Healed with Natural Therapies (Glenn Sabin)
Liver Cancer Metastasized to the Pancreas and Kidney Healed with Black Salve (Bill Trucks)
Lung Cancer Healed Using Natural Therapies (Dr Carl O. Helvie)
Lung Cancer Healed with a Honey and Pine Needle Syrup (Ante Kresic)
Lung Cancer with Metastasis to the Liver and Spine Healed with Integrative Therapies (Donald Factor)
Lung Cancer, Stage 4, Healed with a Ketogenic Diet (Joe Mancaruso)
Lung Cancer, Stage 4, Metastasized to Liver and Pancreas Healed with a Macrobiotic Diet (Janet Vitt)
Lung Cancer, Terminal, Healed with Photodynamic Therapy (Aine Shaw)
Lymphoma of the Bone and Lymph Nodes Healed with the Kelley Protocol (Lou Dina)
Lymphoma-Stage 4 Non-Hodgkin’s, Healed with the Gerson Protocol (Joyce Forsythe)
Lymphoma, Burkitt’s, Healed with the Gonzalez Diet and Enzyme Protocol
Lymphoma, Hodgkin’s Stage 2, Healed with Natural Therapies (Cortney Campbell)
Lymphoma, Stage 3, Healed with Natural Therapies (Becky Gaw)
Lymphoma, Stage 4 Non-Hodgkin’s Healed with Laetrile (Sandi Rog)
Melanoma Healed with a Macrobiotic Diet (Marlene McKenna)
Melanoma Healed with Natural Therapies (Stacy Kneeshaw Jett)
Multiple Myeloma, Healed with Curcumin (Dieneke Ferguson)
Multiple Myeloma, Stage 4, Healed with Natural Therapies (Dr Charles Majors)
Neuroblastoma, Stage 4, Healed with Natural Therapies (Drew Woodland)
Neuroblastoma, Stage 4, Healing with Alternative Treatments (Connah Broom)
Ovarian Cancer Healed with a Macrobiotic Diet (Sanae Suzuki)
Ovarian Cancer Healed with a Raw Vegan Diet and Detoxing (Evita Ramparte)
Ovarian Cancer Healed with Surgery and Natural Therapies (Margaret Bermel)
Pancreatic Cancer Healed with a Raw Vegan Diet, Detoxing, and Laetrile (Felicity Corbin-Wheeler)
Pancreatic Cancer Healed with Gonzalez Protocol (Sarah Ann Cooper)
Pancreatic Cancer Healed with Natural Therapies (Kim Thacker)
Prostate Cancer Stage 4 Healed with the Gerson Protocol (Issa Khalaf)
Prostate Cancer- Stage 4, Healed with Alkaline Diet and Supplements (John Curry)
Prostate Cancer, Healing with Gerson Therapy (William Holman)
Prostate Cancer, Stage 4, Healed with a Ketogenic Diet (Fred Hatfield)
Prostate Cancer, Stage 4, Healed with Sodium Bicarbonate (Vernon Johnston)
Squamous Cell Carcinoma Metastasized to the Lymph Nodes Healed with Carrot Juice (Ralph Cole)
Stomach Cancer, Stage 4, Healed with Wheatgrass Juice (Danny McDonald)
Testicular Cancer Healed with Diet and Supplements (Tom Arguello)
Testicular Cancer Healed with Natural Therapies (Jeffrey Williams)
Thyroid Cancer Healed with a Raw Vegan Diet (Dr Ruby Lathon)
Thyroid Cancer Metastasized to Lymph and Lung; and Malignant Melanoma Healed With Gerson Therapy (Marcia Schaefer)
Thyroid Cancer, Metastasized to Lymph Nodes Healed with Natural Therapies (Suzy Griswold)
Uterine Cancer Healed with an Alkaline Diet and Spiritual Therapies (Bridget Dinsmore)
Uterine Cancer, Stage 4, Healed with a Raw Vegan Diet and Detox Therapies (Peg Harvey)
Uterine Cancer, Stage 4, Healed with Whole Food Nutrition (Dr Marilyn Joyce)
Herbs and Supplements
Antioxidants
Artemisinin (Wormwood)
Capsaicin Targets Cancerous Cells
Chlorophyll and Chlorella
Curcumin- Nature’s Chemotherapy
Dandelion Root for Leukemia and Other Cancers
Electrolytes; the Battery of Life
Essential Fatty Acids
Fucoidan has Many Anti-Cancer Benefits
Grape Seed Extract
Green Tea Extract
Green Tea Extract and Curcumin for Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
Herbs for Cancer
Iodine Deficiency and Cancer
Medicinal Mushrooms
Modified Citrus Pectin
Nigella Sativa (Black Seed Oil)
Supplements for Certain Situations
Vitamin B12
Vitamin C Therapy: IV vs Liposomal
Vitamin D3
Vitamins and Minerals
Zinc for Building the Immune System
Holistic Therapies
Aloe Arborescens
Bill Henderson’s Budwig Protocol
Black Salve / Bloodroot
Bob Beck Protocol
Budwig Protocol
Cannabis and CBD Oils
Cellect Nutritional Supplement
Coley’s Toxins
Curaderm for Non-melanoma Skin Cancer
Curcumin and Honey Protocol
DCA (Sodium Dichloroacetate)
DMSO & Vitamin C Protocol
Enzyme Therapy (Systemic)
Essential Oils
Essiac Tea
Gerson Therapy
Graviola and Paw Paw
Hydrazine Sulfate for Cachexia
Insulin Potentiation Therapy (Low Dose Chemotherapy)
Ketogenic Diet for Cancer
Laetrile / Vitamin B17/ /Apricot Kernels
Macrobiotic Dietary Principles
Mistletoe (Iscador) for Cancer
MSM and Liposomal Vitamin C Protocol
Nigella Sativa Oil Protocol
Pau D’ Arco
Photodynamic Therapy
Protocel
Rife Frequency Generators
Sodium Bicarbonate
Vitamin C Therapy
Wheatgrass Juice
Mind/Body/Spirit
Developing a Healing Mind-Set
Finding Inner Peace
Finding Forgiveness and Setting Yourself Free
Meditation and Visualization
The Health Benefits of Yoga
Emotional Freedom Technique
Resources
About this Website
Affiliate Disclosure
Articles and Interviews for Alternative Cancer Information
Booklist for Alternative Healing
Cytoluminator/Philippine Protocol Scam
Disclaimer
Discussion Groups
Documentaries about Alternative Health
Fundraising for Treatments
Locate Holistic Healthcare
Paying for Natural Treatments
Testimonials of Healing Cancer Naturally
Toxins
Artificial Colors, Flavors, Additives and Preservatives
Artificial Sweeteners
Cell Phone Radiation
Factory Farmed Vs Grazing Animals
Fluoride and Water Fluoridation
Genetically Modified Organisms
Hormones in Dairy Products
Microwaved Foods
Pesticides and Herbicides
Root Canals and Cancer
Sunscreen Ingredients Linked to Skin Cancer
Vaccines
Cell Phone Radiation
Can Cell Phone Radiation Cause Brain Cancer?
Researchers investigating that question have gone back and forth on this subject and it has divided the medical community and cell-phone users into two camps: those who think we shouldn’t worry so much about cell-phone radiation, and those who think that there is enough evidence to warrant following the cautionary principle. Unfortunately most Americans don’t seem to be worried.
In a recent national Consumer Reports survey of 1,000 adults, only 5 percent said they were very concerned about the radiation from cell phones, and less than half took steps to limit their exposure to it. Many respected scientists also share that same opinion. “We found no evidence of an increased risk of brain tumors or any other form of cancer” from cell-phone radiation, says John Boice Jr., Sc.D., president of the National Council on Radiation Protection & Measurements and a professor of medicine at the Vanderbilt University School of Medicine in Nashville, Tenn. The U.S. government doesn’t seem very troubled, either. The Food and Drug Administration says on its website that research generally doesn’t link cell phones to any health problem. And although the Federal Communications Commission requires manufacturers to include information in user manuals about cell-phone handling, but that is often buried in the fine print.
But not everyone feels unconcerned. In May 2015, a group of 190 independent scientists from 39 countries called on the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and our national governments to develop stricter controls on cell-phone radiation exposure. They point to growing research as well as the classification of cell-phone radiation as a possible carcinogen by the International Agency for Research on Cancer which suggested that low levels of radiation from cell phones could have potentially cancer-causing effects. “I think the overall evidence that wireless radiation might cause adverse health effects is now strong enough that it’s almost unjustifiable for government agencies and scientists not to be alerting the public to the potential hazards,” says David O. Carpenter, M.D., director of the Institute for Health and the Environment at the University at Albany in New York and one of the authors of the recent letter to the U.N. and WHO. Some countries have taken steps to protect children. For example, France, Russia, the U.K., and Zambia have either banned ads that promote the sale of a cell phone to a child, or they have issued precautions when phones are to be used by children.
The city council of Berkeley, Calif., has also acted on this issue earlier this year. In May 2015, it approved a “Right to Know” law that requires electronics retailers to notify consumers about the proper handling of cell phones. CTIA-The Wireless Association, a trade group, is trying to block that law from going into effect, as it did after San Francisco passed similar laws five years ago. Scientific seesawing like that doesn’t provide a lot of clarity or confidence for the 90 percent of American adults and roughly 80 percent of teens who reportedly have a cell phone.
What Is Cell-Phone Radiation?
Your phone sends radio frequency (or RF) waves from its antenna to nearby cell towers, and it also receives RF waves back to its antenna from the cell towers whenever you make a call, text, or use data. The frequency of a cell phone’s RF waves falls somewhere between those emitted by FM radios and those from microwave ovens. All of these are considered “non-ionizing” forms of radiation. That means that, unlike radiation from a nuclear explosion, a CT scan, or a standard X-ray, the radiation from your phone does not carry enough energy to directly break or alter your DNA, which is one way that cancer can occur. FM radios and microwaves don’t raise alarms because they aren’t held close to your head when you use them and because microwave ovens have shields that offers the consumer some protection.
A child’s skull is thinner than that of an adult’s, and every millimeter between the handset that’s emitting electromagnetic waves and the child’s brain cells can make a difference.
How Can Cell Phone Radiation Cause Cancer?
At high power levels, RF waves can heat up water molecules (this is how microwaves heat up food). Scientists used to worry about the possibility that this method of heating may also have the potential to heat human tissues since our cells are also composed of water, and therefore this might be damaging to our cells.
But most experts aren’t concerned about tissues heating caused by RF waves, but they are worried that the exposure to cell-phone radiation might still have a biological effect without raising temperature. In 2011, researchers at the National Institutes of Health revealed that low-level radiation from an activated cell phone that was held close to a human head could change the way certain brain cells functioned, even though it did not raise the body’s temperature. The study did not prove that the effect on brain cells was dangerous, only that radiation from cell phones could have a direct effect on human tissue.
RF waves from cell phones have also been shown to produce “stress” proteins in human cells. This is according to research from Martin Blank, Ph.D., a special lecturer in the department of physiology and cellular biophysics at Columbia University and another one of the concerned scientist who signed the recent letter to the WHO and U.N. “These proteins are used for protection,” Blank says. “The cell is saying that RF is bad for me and it has to do something about it.”
Also this year, a German study found that RF waves promoted the growth of brain tumors in mice, again this was at radiation levels supposedly too low to raise body temperature. The U.S. National Toxicology Program is now running an animal study of its own by exposing rats and mice to low-dose radiation. Results are expected to be released in 2016.
What Do the Studies with Cell Phones Reveal?
The research above describes lab and animal studies that looked at how cell-phone radiation might cause cancer or affect the body in other ways. But we also reviewed studies that investigated whether cell phones increased brain-cancer risk in humans. For this we focused on five large population studies, plus follow-ups to those studies that investigated that question. Together the studies included more than a million people worldwide, comparing cell-phone users with nonusers.
Though some findings were reassuring, others raised concerns. Specifically, three of the studies—one from Sweden, another from France, and a third that combined data from 13 countries—suggest a connection between heavy cell-phone use and gliomas (tumors that are usually cancerous and often deadly). One of those studies hinted at a link between cell phones and acoustic neuromas (or noncancerous tumors), and two studies hinted at meningiomas (a relatively common but usually not a deadly brain tumor). Although these findings are worrisome, none of the studies can prove that there is a connection between cell phones and brain cancer for several reasons.
Because cell-phone use in certain studies was self-reported so it may not be accurate.
Because some of the study subjects owned cell phones that were manufactured two decades ago. The way we use cell phones and the networks they’re operated on have changed since then.
Most brain cancers develop slowly, and these studies only analyzed data spanning five-20 years.
Are Newer Phones Safer?
Cell-phone designs have changed a lot since the studies described above were completed. For example, the antennas which is where most of the radiation is emitted from are no longer located at the top of the phones, but are now inside towards the bottom. As a result, the antenna may not be held against your head when you’re on the phone. That’s important because when it comes to cell-phone radiation, every milli­meter counts: The strength of exposure drops dramatically as the distance from your body increases.
Perhaps our best protection is that more people are using their cell phones to text instead of talk, and the use of headphones and earbuds are growing in popularity. On the other hand, many of us are using our cell phones much more than we used to, so our overall exposure may be greater.
Should I Stop Using My Cell Phone?
“The evidence so far doesn’t prove that cell phones cause cancer, and we definitely need more and better research,” says Michael Hansen, Ph.D., a senior scientist at Consumer Reports. “But we feel that the research does raise enough questions that taking some common-sense precautions when using your cell phone can make sense.” Specifically, Consumer Reports recommends these steps (and I added a few to this list as well):
Try to keep the phone away from your head and body. That is particularly important when the cellular signal is weak—when your phone has only one bar, for example—because phones may increase their power then to compensate.
Don’t allow children under 12 to use a cell-phone except in emergencies. Their organs are still developing and are more sensitive to the possible influence of exposure to electromagnetic fields.
Text or video call whenever possible.
Use the speaker phone on your device or a hands-free headset or earbuds which helps keep the phone away from your body.
Don’t stow your phone in your pants, shirt pocket, or bra. Instead, carry it in a bag or purse away from your body.
Avoid using a cell phone in a vehicle as your phone has an automatic increase in power when the phone is trying to pick up a new or distant signal.
Choose the phone with the lowest possible Specific Absorption Rate (SAR). This measures the quantity of radio frequency energy absorbed by your body. Classifications of the SAR values of phones from various manufacturers are available on a number of websites.
Could storing your cell phone in a bra cause breast cancer?
__________________
This is an adapted version from Consumer Reports Magazine, November 2015 issue, Can You Hear Me Now?
High Performance Earphones with Inline Universal Microphone
Related Articles
Cancer is a wake up call which needs to be addressed on multiple fronts. It is the result of an overly toxic body with an overwhelmed and collapsed immune system due to eating nutritionally depleted diets, exposure to toxins, and having poor lifestyle habits. Research an anticancer diet, adding supplements, detoxing the body, and making lifestyle changes so you can address a cancerous situation with a multifaceted approach.
Cellular toxicity is the cause of cancer
Anticancer diet and lifestyle plan
Detoxing therapies for the body
Systemic enzyme therapy
Comment with Facebook:
Print or Share
Print
Facebook
LinkedIn
Pocket
Pinterest
Tumblr
Twitter
Reddit
More
Like this:
Like Loading...
Translator
Keyword Search
Search
Subscribe to this blog
Enter Your Email
Subscribe Me
Today’s Top 10
Breast Cancer Healed with Alkaline Diet and Intravenous Vitamin C (Jessica Richards)
Breast Cancer Healed with Black Salve and Essiac Tea (Di Georgiou)
Liver Cancer Metastasized to the Pancreas and Kidney Healed with Black Salve (Bill Trucks)
Hypothetical Anti-Cancer Diet, Supplement, and Detox Protocol
Lymphatic System Cleansing
Black Salve / Bloodroot
Juicing for Those with Cancer
Sugar and Cancer
Cellular Toxicity is the Cause of Cancer
Breast Cancer, Stage 4, Healed with Natural Therapies (Doris Sokosh)
Read Testimonials
Testimonials of healing cancer naturally
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Facebook
Search
Booklist
Detox Protocols
Juicing- Get Started
Immune Support~ Supplements
Studies show that we can prevent most cases of cancer, type 2 diabetes, Alzheimer’s, and heart disease just by eating the right foods and avoiding the wrong ones. Want the latest breakthrough insights about food and health? Sign up to watch the Food Revolution Summit (free online event) beginning April 27th to learn more about how food impacts your health.
Join the 2019 Food Revolution Summit
×
Don`t copy text!
The information contained in this website is intended, and shall be deemed to be, for informational purposes only and is not intended to be a substitute for the diagnosis, treatment, or advice of a qualified licensed professional.
This website is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means to earn income by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
Copyright © 2019 · All Rights Reserved · Cancer Compass~An Alternate Route.
%d bloggers like this: