TCA Tattoo Removal at Home -- $9.95
Menu
Home
Questions
Photos
Medical References
Blog
Contact
Order Now! $9.95
Before The Advent Of Laser Tattoo Removal Doctors Recommended TCA To Radically Fade And Remove Tattoos
What is TCA?
TCA is a popular non-prescription skin peeling agent commonly used by doctors, health spas and private individuals to remove fine lines, wrinkles and acne scars on the face. TCA has twice been medically tested and proven to fade and/or remove tattoos…more »
How does TCA work?
The process behind the most popular tattoo removal methods is actually very simple. A controlled inflammation is generated on the surface of the skin above the tattoo. This inflammation causes the pigment (ink) to naturally break apart and migrate to the surface with new skin growth…more »
Does TCA hurt?
Some people say it has a mild sting, others say it doesn’t sting at all. Ladies using TCA for facial peels will occasionally use a hand-held fan to cool themselves…more »
Is TCA a tattoo removal cream?
No it is not. TCA looks and feels like water and is applied with a q-tip. Many tattoo removal creams contain Hydroquinone, which is usually the active ingredient in skin bleaching creams. Over the counter sales of skin bleaching creams containing Hydroquinone are banned in the UK, France, Australia, Japan and several other countries because Hydroquinone is known to cause cancer and a debilitating skin disease called Exogenous Ochronosis …more »
Are there risks using TCA?
How often do I apply the TCA?
How fast does it work?
How much does it cost?
Can I use TCA if I’m pregnant or breast feeding?
Is it OK to tan or workout when using TCA? Does TCA work on all colors?
How long will it take to remove my tattoo with TCA?
Can I use TCA prior to getting a cover up?
Is it harder to remove older tattoos?
Quick Facts
Medically proven affordable solution
TCA gives us a medically proven solution to tattoo removal that can be done in the privacy of our homes and at a cost affordable to most people.
TCA works like laser tattoo removal
Laser tattoo removal generates a controlled inflammation to the skin using heat. TCA tattoo removal generates a controlled inflammation to the skin using a chemical. Both work.
Significantly reduced costs
If you’re considering laser tattoo removal you can reduce the cost by up to 60% by fading your tattoo first using TCA. Fewer visits to the doctor’s office mean lower costs and less pain.
Works great on ankle bracelet tattoos
TCA may work better than lasers when removing ankle bracelet tattoos. A doctor mentioned it may have to do with the relative lack of blood flow and tissue in the ankle region.
Works great for cover-ups
TCA users regularly fade black tribal tattoos to a lighter shade of gray, giving them a much wider selection of colors for the new tattoo.
Home
Questions
Photos
Medical References
Contact
Blog
Order
Guarantee
Privacy Policy
Terms
Site Map
Copyright © InkBusters.com, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Website designed by ashwebstudio