Uv Protection And Cataracts - Tens Web Marketing
Home
Digital Marketing
Market Research
Social Media
Blogging
SEO
PPC
Traffic
Lead Generation
Reputation Management
Guest Posting
Contact Us
Internet Marketing, SEO, Paid Search and more
Market Research
Uv Protection And Cataracts
By Jeffrey Miller
April 3, 2019
Comments Off on Uv Protection And Cataracts
Being sunglasses fans, we’re interested in how the eye works and what sunglasses can do to promote eye health. According to the NHS, Cataracts affect around one in three people over the age of 65. There are many factors that can influence their development including heredity and age. Here, we look at what you can do about to help prevent them.
Understanding the basics
The eye’s lens sits between the iris and the pupil. It works by focusing light onto the retina – which sits at the back of the eye. The lens is made of protein and water and has the power to adjust the eye’s focus so we can see things like print close up and the horizon in the distance. The protein in the lens may begin to stick together and form a cloud known as a cataract. Cataracts can grow and over time and cloud more of the lens making it increasingly difficult to see clearly.
What you can do about it
According to the Eyecare Trust, diet and medication can play a role in the development of cataracts. But there’s another factor that can also make a difference: UV light. They also say that repeated exposure to damaging UV rays can encourage the formation of cataracts.
That’s where high-quality sunglasses, and even prescription sunglasses for people who have eyesight problems come in. Ultrasight™ lenses were developed exclusively for Polaroid Sunglasses and are made of nine functional elements. At the core of the lens, is the polarizing light filter. UV light absorbers are bonded to both sides of the filter. These block all harmful UVA, UVB and UVC light rays. Shock absorbing layers are then fused to both sides of the UV absorbers, making the lens light, flexible and impact resistant. A scratch resistant layer on both the outer surfaces completes the lens structure.
Companies have put a lot of research into the development of polarized lenses, and they want people to enjoy the benefits.
Uv Protection
Author’s Bio
Hey I m Jeffery Millers! Jeffery Millers Marketing’s main objective will be to provide illustrations and quality articles for entrepreneurs. We're constantly searching for new allies who are able to provide quality posts which are unique and unique. Your post you will be offered through our social networking channels and is going to be presented for the whole group to determine.
Recent Posts
Three Things You Probably Don’t Know About The Porsche Panamera
Uv Protection And Cataracts
SEO vs PPC: Which Generates More Leads?
What Are The Job Options In Brighton For A Foreigner?
Getting A Personal Loan With Credit Between 550 To 580
What Is The Use Of Local Seo?
Everyone Needs Digital Marketing And So Do You
Use Custom Banner Flags To Promote Your Business Effectively
How You Can House School Online, Educational Costs Free
Do You Like To Play The Lottery? You Can Increase Your Chances
Latest News
Tech Grads – How To Land Your First Job
How Can I Generate More Traffic For My Website?
Five Vital Tips To Sell House Fast Sunderland
Use Custom Banner Flags To Promote Your Business Effectively
Main 4 Lead Generation Trends To Watch In 2016
Achieve Your Ideal Client With PPC
5 Reasons Why You Should Outsource Your Seo
How Did Wood Pellets Come On The Top
How You Can House School Online, Educational Costs Free
Approaches To Capitalize On Hotel Online Reputation Management Strategy
What Are The Job Options In Brighton For A Foreigner?
Significance of Conducting a Market Research
Four Places to Go to When Looking for a Flooring Contractor
Can Promotors Proceed Hong Kong Online Company Registration?
The Best Of Indian Cuisine That You Can Order Anytime.
Tens Web Marketing