Genacol Caps
Main Navigation
Home
Sign In
Register
Our Website
Contact Us
Help
Our Products >> Genacol (original), 180 caps (hydrolized collagen)
/images/viewThumb.jsp.jpg
Click To Enlarge
Bovine Colagen
Revolution in the world of collagen
How Does Genacol® Work?
Genacol is a molecular-enhanced Bio-Active Collagen Complex complex formula which contains crucial structural porteins that our body requires to repair and rejuvenate itself; structural proteins not found in Glucosamine/Chondroitin. By using the complete collagen molecule in Genacol, you get 100% of the protein chain required to help restore joint mobility and reduce overall pain and joint discomfort.
What is Collagen?
Collagen is the fibrous structural protein that makes up the white fibers (collagenous fibers) of skin, tendon, bone, cartilage, and all other connective tissues. It is also found dispersed in gels of the body to provide stiffening, such as in the vitreous humour of the eye. Collagen is the natural protein that composes most of the body’s structural support and is the primary substance of connective tissue.
Collagen is part of the natural make-up of tendons, ligaments, joints, muscles, hair, skin, and vital organs. When the body’s essential supply of collagen is reduced, the body is affected. Weakness, fatigue, aches, pains, and an overall lack of performance are frequent symptoms of the problem – symptoms that increase as we get older.
Besides its many structural properties, collagen serves as the major catalyst for growth and repair of nearly all the body’s tissues.
Collagen and Aging
The body's production of collagen diminishes dramatically with aging. Collagen production begins to slow somewhat in our mid-twenties, decreasing more in our thirties and forties, then throughout our fifties and sixties, collagen production slows to a crawl.
We may first notice it on the outside of our bodies, as tiny lines and wrinkles appear. By that time, the lack of collagen production is already affecting the inside of our bodies. Collagen damage gets our attention as strains and sprains become more severe. Things we have always done, like walking, running or jumping, may suddenly seem more painful. Injuries that have never proven serious before begin to hurt a lot more. Joint pain becomes more problematic. These are all signs that a collagen supplement could be very beneficial.
Benefits of Genacol include:
•Helps the body reverse cartilage damage
•Addresses the pain associated with arthritis
•Assists in increased mobility and range of motion
•Is a safe, natural ingredient that's recommended by doctors world-wide.
Daily use of Genacol has been shown to reduce pain in joints from injury, strain or collagen deficiency related diseases such as arthritis, osteoarthritis and bursitis, and other degenerative diseases such as carpal tunnel syndrome and tendonitis.
Two conditions that show the greatest response to a collagen supplement are rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis. If you experience any of the symptoms associated with these conditions, Genacol will help. If you lack mobility in your hands, arms, shoulders, hips, knees or other joints, or if you experience joint pain or inflammation, then Genacol is for you.
There are no side effects associated with Genacol (though it is recommended children under 12, pregnant and lactating women not use Genacol or other collagen products).
Testimonials:
"I have used collagen as a supplement for 3 years. I am very happy with Genacol. It is giving me energy, improving my skin, and reducing my size. I went from a size 24 to size 12. I can't stop myself from talking about collagen. I like Genacol more, because of its purity. I also like capsules versus liquid form."
—Jewell Albaught
Cambridge, OH
"I had an ankle injury that I'd had for probably 6 months with a lot of pain. And all of a sudden, I didn't have the pain anymore. So I knew it was doing something really good. I knew it was doing repair to the ligaments and the muscles that I damaged. So I'm very happy with Genacol."
—Donna White
Houston, TX
"The collagen facial is wonderful. I can feel it plump up my skin. My skin has a tendency to be very dry. This product makes it dewy. Not oily, but it has a dewy complexion. When I used the Genacol Facial, the results were immediate. And of course upon applying makeup, it was very smooth. People noticed that my skin looked much better."
—Rhonda Reynolds
Conroe, TX
"When I started using the Genacol Facial System, I started seeing results immediately. Within about 3 days, I noticed these fine lines around my mouth were softening up. I think it's a wonderful product!"
—Ann Roher
Houston, TX
"I am a skin therapist and have been in the salon and spa business for the past 20 years. I have used a wide variety of masques on my clients but I have to say that the Genacol Collagen Facial System is by far the most unique and effective system that I have ever used. The first time I used the Genacol Collagen Facial System, I couldn't believe the results I experienced. My husband, friends, and neighbors noticed how great my skin looked after just one treatment. My skin got firm, especially around my "laugh lines." I experienced toning around my eyes, my face was more vibrant, and it helped remove the 'tired' look. It has done wonders for my skin. I feel 10 years younger! I have now incorporated the Genacol Collagen Facial System into my skin care business and my clients love it!
As a woman and a skin care professional, I wanted to tell you that this is the best collagen facial masque product I have ever used. I believe that I have found a 'Fountain of Youth' in the Genacol Collagen Facial System. Thank you!"
—Carol Knapp
Houston, TX
Item #: 1111B
Genacol (original), 180 caps (hydrolized collagen)
Be the first to write a review
Price: $33.99
Adjusted Price: $33.99
* Marked fields are required.
Size Genacol: *
Select 90 Caps (3oz) (-$28.00) 180 Caps (5oz)
# Available:
Qty: *
Reviews (0) Write a Review
No Reviews. Write a Review
Rating:*
Title:*
Comments:*
characters remaining
Shopping Cart (0)
Quick Search
Advanced Search
Our Products
All Products
Allergies & Skin Problems
Animals
Aromatherapy
Bee Products
Cardiovascular System
Cleansing
Cosmetics
Digestive System
Diabetes
Diet Supplements
Energy
Eyes, Ears, Nose, Throat
Feet problems
For Him & For Her
Herbs from PERU
Hair, Skin & Nails
Herbs Single
Immune & Respiratory System
Joints, Bones & Muscles
Magnetic Jewelry
Massage & Reflexology
Memory & Concentration
Other
Stress , Sleep & Depression
Urinary tract
Vitamins & Minerals
Vein problems, Hemorrhoids
Whole Body
Pain ( Headaches, Migraines)
Help Contact Us Terms and Conditions
These products are dietary supplements and are not intended to diagnose, treat cure or prevent any disease. Reviews are not intended as a substitute for appropriate medical care or the advice of a physician or another medical professional. Actual results may vary among users. harmonyofnature.com makes no warranty or representation, expressed or implied, as to the accuracy or validity of the information contributed by outside product review submissions, and assumes no responsibility or liability regarding the use of such information. The information and statements regarding the dietary supplements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. If you have a medical condition or disease, please talk to your health care provider. If you are currently taking a prescription medication, you should work with your health care provider before discontinuing any drug or altering any drug regimen, including augmenting your regimen with dietary supplements. Do not attempt to self-diagnose any disease or ailment based on the reviews and do not use the information contained herein for diagnosing or treating a health problem or disease. Proper medical care is critical to good health. If you have a health concern or suspect you have an undiagnosed sign or symptom, please consult a physician or health care practitioner.