My Neck Hurts From Sit-Ups | Livestrong.com
Welcome
Sign up | Log in
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
News
Stronger Women
BMI Calculator
Food
Weight Management
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Follow Us!
Livestrong
Sports and Fitness
Fitness
Ab Exercises
My Neck Hurts From Sit-Ups
Max Roman Dilthey
About the Author:
Max Roman Dilthey
Max Roman Dilthey is a science, health and culture writer currently pursuing a master's of sustainability science. Based in Massachusetts, he blogs about cycling at MaxTheCyclist.com.
View Full Profile
The sit-up is the grandfather of all ab exercises, but it might be hurting your spine. Neck pain while doing sit-ups or crunches is a good indicator that it's time to change your ab workout routine.
If your neck hurts during sit-ups, it's time to rethink your workout routine. (Image: YakobchukOlena/iStock/Getty Images)
A modified sit-up can help address your neck pain, while a few alternative exercises can get you the results you want in your core without risking your spine.
Sit-Ups and Neck Pain
It's no wonder many people experience neck and back pain when doing a sit-up — when you perform a sit-up, your spine undergoes compression, putting pressure on the discs between your vertebrae.
Over many repetitions, this compression can result in swollen or herniated discs, which can be very painful. Any pain experienced while exercising can be a warning sign that something is wrong, and the neck pain associated with the movement should not be ignored.
Sit-ups don't have to be a pain in the neck. (Image: OcusFocus/iStock/Getty Images)
Modified Sit-ups (in Moderation)
If the sit-up is a big part of your workout routine, slight modifications to the exercise can protect your neck and keep your pain at bay. You're likely performing your sit-ups in an incorrect way, which could be the root of your neck pain.
Stuart McGill, professor of spine biomechanics at the University of Waterloo in Ontario, recommends placing both hands beneath your lower back, with palms pressed into the floor, to support and cradle the spine.
Keep a soft carpet or exercise mat underneath you for more protection. Finally, when performing the sit-up, McGill recommends only lifting your head a few inches off the ground — that's enough to engage your abs.
Brad Schoenfeld, a professor of exercise science at Lehman College in the Bronx and author of "To Crunch or Not To Crunch" in Strength and Conditioning Journal calls for sit-ups in moderation. "Six or eight crunches would be plenty," said Schoenfeld in an interview with the New York Times, "and only a few times a week."
Read more: Are Sit-Ups and Crunches Bad For the Spine?
Any pain experienced while exercising can be a warning sign that something is wrong, and the neck pain associated with the movement should not be ignored.
Alternative Exercises
A plank engages more of your core muscles, making it a suitable alternative for the sit-up. Andrew Bang, DC, of the Center for Integrative Medicine at The Cleveland Clinic recommends the plank as a full replacement for the sit-up.
The plank is a better ab exercise for your neck. (Image: g-stockstudio/iStock/Getty Images)
The Plank
HOW TO DO IT: To perform a plank, start by lying flat on your stomach, and lift your entire body up in a push-up position. Keep your body in a straight line from your feet to the top of your head.
Hold the position for one minute, or as long as you can manage without shaking or letting your hips sag. Variations of the plank, such as the side plank and bird dog, can add variety to your workout and engage every muscle in your core — making you stronger overall.
Read more: No More Neck Pain
Warning
If your neck pain persists or worsens, discontinue all exercise immediately. Consult your doctor or physical therapist to make sure you've properly recovered from your injury before attempting any kind of ab exercise, including a modified sit-up.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
NY Times Well Blog: Are Crunches Worth The Effort?
Harvard Medical School: Want a Stronger Core? Skip the Sit-ups
Advanced Medical and Rehab of Miami: No Neck Pain Crunches
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
Back Pain While Doing Crunches
2
Abdominal Exercises Without Neck or Back Strain
3
Neck Muscle Pain After Crunches
4
Are Sit-Ups & Crunches Bad for the Spine?
5
Negative Effects of Poor Posture
6
How to Strengthen Your Core with Planks
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.