My Joint Renewal Review - Too Good To Be True? - Cure My Joint Pain
Cure My Joint Pain
HOME
MY #1 RECOMMENDATION
Rheumatoid/Psoriatic Arthritis
Osteoarthritis
SI Dysfunction
Knee Pain
DISCLOSURE
Arthritis / Joint Pain
4
My Joint Renewal Review – Too Good To Be True?
by Heather Pharm.D. · Published March 25, 2019 · Updated March 29, 2019
It’s time for my Joint Renewal review – because it looks like a great supplement:
different formula
concentrated ingredients (but only 2)
money back guarantee
So at first sight, Joint Renewal doesn’t look like a scam.
But is it any good in reality? Or it’s just another product that promises a lot – but does nothing?
Let’s take a closer look at each of its aspects.
Note: This review is based on my opinion + research about Joint Renewal. I’m not trying to praise/criticize this product or its company for no reason.
So Let’s Get To The Review
Full Name: Joint Renewal from NewPort Natural Health
Quantity: 30 pills/bottle (1 month supply)
Best Actual Price: $29.99 (+ $6.95 shipping)
Where You Can Find It: Amazon and the official website.
Designed For: Healing and rebuilding joints from the inside – according to the label.
Now – judging after its ingredients, it’s useful for:
joint inflammation
consequent stiffness
damaged cartilages
So basically – it’s one of those products that works for both inflammatory arthritis and cartilage problems.
My Rating: 9 out of 10 – It’s a legit product.
Worth Buying?: Yes – it’s a quality supplement overall:
great formula and high doses
decent price
many positive reviews
I haven’t tried it myself, so I can’t tell how effective it is in reality. That’s why it’s not my #1 recommendation.
But overall – I consider it a really good product.
What I Liked About It
Really good ingredients (both are trademarks)
Lots of study references on the official website
Only 1 pill per day
Pills are very easy to swallow
Many satisfied customers
Really good price (even better if you buy more bottles together)
Money back guarantee
What I Didn’t Like About It
Only 2 ingredients
You can only find customer reviews on the official website (so they could be biased)
Only available on the official website and Amazon
What Is Joint Renewal? – A Quick Overview
Well – NewPort Natural Health’s product has a unique formula:
based on only 2 ingredients
both a have better absorption than normal
So basically – that’s why it claims to be better than most supplements.
But that’s not all:
The official website mentions lots of clinical trials and studies.
There are links to every official info.
It also offers a 6 months guarantee.
In my opinion, these are all clear proofs that Joint Renewal is legit.
But in order to be sure – let’s take a closer look at every aspect of this product.
#1 – Ingredients (9 out of 10)
Joint Renewal has surely got a great formula:
contains 2 trademark ingredients
both are much better than the original form
Now – the only downside is that it contains just 2 ingredients.
But other than that, the formula looks great. I personally haven’t seen it in any other joint supplement.
1. Cavamax® W8 Curcumin Complex (500 mg)
This is a trademark form of curcumin.
There 1 thing that makes it different – according to Joint Renewal’s website:
better absorption that regular curcumin (40 times more)
Now – 500 mg isn’t a great dose of curcumin. But considering its better absorption – this dose is way better than in most supplements.
Plus – curcumin has real benefits:
decreases inflammation
keeps pain and stiffness under control
has many studies behind [1]
2. UC-II® Standardized Chicken Cartilage (40 mg)
That’s another trademark ingredient with real benefits:
improves joint fluid and lubrication
increases cartilage production
helps damaged cartilages
Basically – it’s more helpful for cartilage problems. [2]
Now – I never had amazing results with collagen and cartilage (compared to glucosamine + chondroitin).
So that’s the reason why collagen/cartilage supplements aren’t my top recommendations.
However – studies confirm their real benefits.
Conclusion
Honestly – Joint Renewal has a great formula behind:
Really powerful ingredients
High concentrations (if you analyze them closer)
Now – it’s true that there are just 2 ingredients. If there had been 4, this formula would have been amazing.
But even so, both ingredients are registered trademarks (so they can’t be weak).
So judging after its formula – Joint Renewal is surely not a scam.
#2 – How To Take It (10 out of 10)
Joint Renewal is also really good at this chapter.
Even though I haven’t tried it personally – I found enough info to rate it so high here.
1. The Pills
Fortunately, Joint Renewal doesn’t use thick and large pills (as some glucosamine supplements do – see Osteo Bi-Flex).
Here’s what you should know about these pills:
average dimensions
vegetarian and gluten free
easy to swallow
Now – if you can’t swallow pills in general, I think you can open Joint Renewal’s capsules and use the inside powder.
I haven’t tried that, but it should have the same effect.
2. The Schedule
Here’s some good news.
Joint Renewal is one of the few joint supplements I know that only requires 1 pill per day:
really comfortable
small risk for forget taking the pill
So in terms of schedule and number of pills/day – Joint Renewal seems perfect.
#3 – Results (9 out of 10)
First of all – I haven’t tried this supplement myself.
So this is one of the few reviews where I can’t speak from experience.
However – I found several customer opinions about Joint Renewal. So I will include them in this “results” section.
Note: I only included authentic reviews, not the ones based on general info.
1. Where I Found The Reviews
Now – that’s the only problem at this chapter:
there are very few reviews all over the Internet
the only ones are on Joint Renewal’s website
Amazon has no reviews either
Honestly, I usually avoid reviews from the product’s website – for one reason.
Most of the times, they’re biased – so you can only find positive reviews.
Now – Joint Renewal also has 99% positive reviews. So I can’t tell if they’re real or if they’re fake.
2. What People Say
Here are the most common opinions I found about Joint Renewal:
It reduces swelling and pain.
Works for knees, hips, hands and even shoulders.
Some people say it works really fast.
Others say it really improves flexibility.
So basically – I only found positive things about it.
Now, the product is surely a great one. But even so, I’m quite surprised that every customer was 100% satisfied.
That’s why I’m not sure if these reviews are unbiased or not.
#4 – Price (8 out of 10)
Considering that it has 2 trademark ingredients – I would have expected a higher price.
So honestly – I’m satisfied with Joint Renewal at this chapter.
1. The Exact Price
Normally, Joint Renewal costs around $30 per bottle ($29.99 – to be more exact).
Also – shipping taxes aren’t included. They are around $7.
However, the price depends on the number of bottles you get:
For one bottle – overall price is about $37 (including shipping).
If you get 2 bottles – the price per bottle is $25 (plus $7 shipping).
Lastly, 3 bottles cost $25 each – but shipping is free.
Basically – you get a discount for buying more bottles at once.
But in my opinion, it’s not a very large one.
2. Competitor’s Price
Compared to other supplements – Joint Renewal is really affordable:
costs at most $30 per bottle
is enough for one month
There are quite a few supplements with such a good price, to be honest.
So even though it’s not my #1 recommendation in terms of price – Joint Renewal is surely affordable.
There’s nothing I could criticize about its expense.
#5 – Where To Find It (7.50 out of 10)
Bad news here – you can only buy Joint Renewal from 2 places:
the official website
Amazon
Now – Amazon doesn’t offer any discount for buying more bottles at once.
That’s why I recommend Joint Renewal’s website as a first choice.
However – Amazon offers free shipping (even for 1 bottle).
So it really depends of what quantity you want to buy:
For 1 bottle, Amazon is better because it offers free shipping.
For 2 or more bottles, Joint Renewal’s website offers a discount.
#6 – Joint Renewal FAQs
Up next – I want to answer the most common questions about this supplement.
Note: I might repeat something I already mentioned before – but it’s easier to spot here.
1. How many pills per day?
Only one. Joint Renewal has a big advantage at this chapter:
you can take the pill anytime throughout the day
no need to space pills out
2. How long lasts 1 bottle?
There are 30 capsules per bottle – which is enough for 30 days.
So one bottle is a monthly supply.
Joint Renewal only has 30 days bottles, no larger size. In case you want to buy a larger quantity, you can buy several bottles together.
3. Can I take it with other drugs?
I advise you to consult your doctor first (especially if you’re on a long term treatment).
Cartilage is safe to use, but curcumin can interact with some drugs:
blog thinners
drugs that reduce stomach acid
4. Are there any side effects?
Just like in interactions – cartilage is pretty safe. So it rarely produces any side effects.
However, curcumin can cause secondary effects to some people:
kidney stones
diarrhea and nausea
stomach cramps
dizziness
Also – curcumin should be avoided in pregnancy and breastfeeding.
5. How fast should I notice an effect?
That really depends from person to person.
However – many people claim that Joint Renewal works faster than other supplements.
So I suggest you to take it for at least 1 month before you expect any changes.
#7 – Final Conclusions
Here’s how I would sum up Joint Renewal in 3 ideas.
1. Unique Formula
I don’t know any joint supplement with these ingredients.
Now – despite being just 2, I consider them really good:
both are registered trademarks
they have increased absorption rates
they don’t need high doses (as the original form)
My only complaint is that some 2-3 additional ingredients would make Joint Renewal even better.
But even so, there’s nothing I can criticize about this formula.
2. Works Pretty Well
Even though I didn’t try it myself – the reviews I found convinced me that Joint Renewal works for real:
more than 90% positive reviews
most of them looked authentic
formula is surely effective
So this supplement is surely not a scam.
How can I tell? Well – it has a money back guarantee. If it was fake, it would surely not offer that.
3. Affordable
Compared to other joint supplements, Joint Renewal has a decent price:
only $30 per bottle (+$7 shipping)
larger packs come with a discount
Now – it’s not the best supplement ever, in terms of price. So it’s not my #1 recommendation.
But it’s really affordable on a monthly basis – unlike lots of really good products.
See My #1 Recommended Supplement
For Joint Pain
My Verdict – Is Joint Renewal Worth Buying?
Short answer: In my opinion, yes. It has everything that a quality supplement needs:
Unique and powerful formula
High doses of ingredients
Decent price
What could you wish for more?
Now – I haven’t tried Joint Renewal myself, so I can’t tell if it really works as well as it claims.
The reviews I found were mostly positive, but they were all on the official website (which I don’t usually trust).
That’s why Joint Renewal isn’t my top recommendation among joint supplements.
But overall – I consider it a really good product. So it’s surely not a scam.
References:
1 – https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3535097/
2 – https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4015808/
Tags: joint renewaljoint renewal reviews
Heather Pharm.D.
Heather Tracy Foley is a Pharmacy graduate, Blogger and Author with a vast experience in health sciences. She has a particular interest in joint pain and rheumatology and spent several years studying health problems. You can find her on Pinterest or via email.
You may also like...
8
Is Omega XL A Scam? (My Personal Review)
November 16, 2018
by Heather Pharm.D. · Published November 16, 2018
2
Is Heat Good For Arthritis? (The Pros & The Cons)
August 7, 2018
by Heather Pharm.D. · Published August 7, 2018 · Last modified December 11, 2018
0
Is Glucosamine Good For Rheumatoid Arthritis? (My Personal Experiment)
November 19, 2018
by Heather Pharm.D. · Published November 19, 2018 · Last modified November 20, 2018
4 Responses
Comments4
Pingbacks0
Minnie Ann Niley says:
March 28, 2019 at 9:09 pm
Hi Heather, thanks for reviewing Joint Renewal, I’ve been looking into it for a while now, not being sure about buying it or not. I was a bit skeptical, honestly… Thanks for the details, I was looking for a review like yours. I wished I could hear your personal experience with it, though. You say the ingredients are very good and I sort of agree, but what do you think about the cartilage? Is it better than glucosamine (that’s what they say)? I would prefer to buy a supplement with glucosamine, but I also need a high concentration of herbs against inflammation. I looked at many supplements and none seems to fit my requirements, except for Joint Renewal. It doesn’t have glucosamine, but cartilage sounds close to glucosamine, and they also say it’s better. I would like to hear an opinion please.
Heather Pharm.D. says:
March 29, 2019 at 8:29 am
Hello Minnie.
First of all – I don’t consider cartilage/collagen better than glucosamine (never ever). And I say this mostly because of my personal experience:
– cartilage and collagen help my joints, but not as much as glucosamine
– glucosamine really improves my joint flexibility in 1-2 months (at least the right supplements)
– with cartilage or collagen, it doesn’t really happen – or not in the same degree (no matter what supplements I tried)
Now – I know Joint Renewal contains an improved version of cartilage. But even so, I personally don’t think it’s better than glucosamine sulfate – at least not for me.
Regarding your question, I know some supplements that contain both glucosamine (the sulfate actually, which is the good form) and anti-inflammatory herbs:
1. Joint Advantage Gold is one of my top recommendations for osteoarthritis and knee pain. It’s based on glucosamine and turmeric (which is an anti-inflammatory). Plus – it contains high doses of both.
The only downside is that it’s kind of pricey (about $50 per bottle). Also, you need to take many pills per day, if I remember well.
2. ProJoint Plus is one of my favorite supplements for osteoarthritis – and it also contains some turmeric and Boswellia (both are anti-inflammatory herbs). The problem is that these doses aren’t really high, so I don’t know if that’s enough for what you need (you didn’t mention your problem).
So I think Joint Advantage Gold would suit your needs much better.
But I also trust Joint Renewal, even if I never tried it. It just doesn’t look like a scam or a bad supplement, so I would also give it a try – who knows what happens?
I really hope my answer helps you.
Janet Olsen says:
April 15, 2019 at 5:24 pm
Hello Heather. As good as it looks, it’s not. I also thought it had great ingredients so it would work. But I had severe headaches ever since the first days. They continued until 2 days after I stopped the product. Also the producer doesn’t agree to refund me because the bottle i have is opened, even though I only used about 5-6 pills from 30. Would not recommend Joint Renewal, it’s not an honest company behind it. And it made my feel even worse than before.
Heather Pharm.D. says:
April 15, 2019 at 10:58 pm
Hi Janet, thanks for letting me know your experience with Joint Renewal.
I’m quite surprised to hear this, to be honest. I’m not surprised to hear about the headaches – because certain supplements can produce certain side effects to certain people. I also experienced some secondary effects with supplements that made wonders for others.
So it really depends.
However – I’m quite surprised to hear about the refund issues you had.
There are so many brands claiming to refund you only if you say you weren’t satisfied (you don’t even have to return the item). But most of these do the opposite in reality – ask you to return the product but only refund you for the unopened bottles.
So it happens many times, that’s why I don’t count on that money back guarantee that lots of products have. It’s simply not as good as they make it look.
So regarding that, I don’t think you will ever get your money back. But you can try insisting and maybe you’re lucky.
I don’t know what kind of arthritis/joint pain you have, but maybe these products would help you more. They’re my top recommendation for quality/price, so I think you should find something better on that list.
Thanks again for your feedback on Joint Renewal, that was really helpful.
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Hey there, I’m Heather!
I’m a pharmacist and a joint pain sufferer (having both RA and OA). I created this website to help people find relief and useful advice.
Cookie Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
About Me
Contact
Medical Disclaimer
Affiliate Disclosure
Cure My Joint Pain © 2019. All Rights Reserved.
Powered by - Designed with the Hueman theme