Jack S. Alferado
Home
Contact Us
Weight Loss
Weight Loss 2
Weight Loss 3
Weight Loss 4
6 Foods That Help You Shred Your Fat
6 Foods That Help You Shred Your Fat
Losing a considerable amount of fat requires a lot of willpower, especially when you are surrounded by delicious and fattening foods such as junk food, sweets or drinks like soda and juice. But don't worry, there are foods that you can eat which raise your metabolism which helps you to lose more fat.
Below you can find some of the best foods to boost up the metabolism and shred off the fat! But make sure to combine these foods with a healthy diet and with daily exercise. You may also include a good supplement like the African mango diet to get faster results.
1. Green tea
Green tea has a lot of antioxidants and it also fights your fat storage. According to researchers, green tea reduces the ability to absorb fat and it also improves the body's ability to use fat as an energy source. Green tea also works as a substitution for coffee!
2. Spice your food up.
Do you like hot food? No? Maybe this will change your opinion! Hot peppers contain capsaicin, which are responsible for the hot flavor. Capsaicin boosts your metabolism by increasing the body's temperature and helps you therefore to shred some fat. So next time you eat something, make sure to sprinkle some hot pepper on it!
3. Drink more cold water!
Drinking water helps us to reduce our appetite and keeps our body hydrated. According to several researches, drinking cold water makes you lose weight! This is because our body burns calories in order to warm up the water to body temperature. Also make sure to drink a glass of water before every meal, as this greatly reduces your appetite.
4. Take a Fat Burner:
Use a fat burner like quick trim pill to make sure you are burning more calories than you consume. Read some quick trim reviews to get more information about it.
5. Chew gum as often as you possibly can.
Chewing sugar free chewing gum reduces your appetite and it also boosts up your metabolism according to a study by The New England Journal of Medicine. Your body burns calories just by chewing gum. Also, the simple fact that you are chewing gives your body the feeling that you are eating, which reduces your appetite. But remember to buy sugar free chewing gum as it contains less calories than the normal type.
6. Sweeten up your foods with cinnamon!
Cinnamon is probably the best food that you can use to shred your fat storage. You can use it on pretty much anything, like for example oatmeal, protein shakes or even in soups. It burns fat by reducing cholesterol in your body and by maintaining sugar levels in your blood.
Follow the above tips and hopefully you will see results as soon as possible. Also add African Mango Plus to your diet as it is proved to have a good weight loss effect and recommended by Dr Oz on his website as a part of a challenge plan.
Read related articles about:
Burn Fat Fast
How To Slim Easy
Fast Weight Loss
Fast Fat Loss
Easy Fat Burning
Tweet
bashnini, Senbela, DK | 01114578115
This free website was made using Yola.
No HTML skills required. Build your website in minutes.
Go to www.yola.com and sign up today!
Make a free website with Yola