autism Archives ⋆ Unite or Die
Skip to content
Unite or Die
Truth Media
Menu
Tag: autism
Unanswered Questions on Vaccines and Autism
Unanswered Questions
A Review of Compensated Cases of Vaccine-Induced Brain Injury
Pace Environmental Law Review, vol. 28, no. 2, 2011
Mary Holland, Louis Conte, Robert Krakow and Lisa Colin
“This finding of autism in compensated cases of vaccine injury is significant. U.S. government spokespeople have been asserting no vaccine-autism link for more than a decade. This finding calls into question the decisions of the Court of Federal Claims in the Omnibus Autism Proceeding in 2009 and 2010 and the statement of Health and Human Services on its website that “HHS has never concluded in any case that autism was caused by vaccination.”
Using publicly available information, the investigation shows that the VICP has been compensating cases of vaccine-induced brain damage associated with autism for more than twenty years. This investigation suggests that officials at HHS, the Department of Justice and the Court of Federal Claims may have been aware of this association but failed to publicly disclose it.”
Read More: https://www.ebcala.org/unanswered-questions?fbclid=IwAR3h_cmCAOE3DxUcySUYFnqLlSljvWjjHWwhMLhudyqqlRSn8-Gti23rL-s
[Autistic syndrome (Kanner) and vaccination against smallpox (author’s transl)].
Klin Padiatr. 1976 Mar;188(2):172-80.
[Article in German]
Eggers C.
Abstract
3-4 weeks following an otherwise uncomplicated first vaccination against smallpox a boy, then aged 15 months and last seen at the age of 5 1/2 years, gradually developed a complete Kanner syndrome. The question whether vaccination and early infantile autism might be connected is being discussed. A causal relationship is considered extremely unlikely. But vaccination is recognized as having a starter function for the onset of autism.
Read More: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/944354
What is regressive autism and why does it occur? Is it the consequence of multi-systemic dysfunction affecting the elimination of heavy metals and the ability to regulate neural temperature?
N Am J Med Sci. 2009 Jul; 1(2): 28–47.
PMCID: PMC3364648
PMID: 22666668
Graham E. Ewing
There is a compelling argument that the occurrence of regressive autism is attributable to genetic and chromosomal abnormalities, arising from the overuse of vaccines, which subsequently affects the stability and function of the autonomic nervous system and physiological systems. That sense perception is linked to the autonomic nervous system and the function of the physiological systems enables us to examine the significance of autistic symptoms from a systemic perspective. Failure of the excretory system influences elimination of heavy metals and facilitates their accumulation and subsequent manifestation as neurotoxins: the long-term consequences of which would lead to neurodegeneration, cognitive and developmental problems. It may also influence regulation of neural hyperthermia. This article explores the issues and concludes that sensory dysfunction and systemic failure, manifested as autism, is the inevitable consequence arising from subtle DNA alteration and consequently from the overuse of vaccines.
Read More: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3364648/#!po=2.00000
A positive association found between autism prevalence and childhood vaccination uptake across the U.S. population.
J Toxicol Environ Health A. 2011;74(14):903-16. doi: 10.1080/15287394.2011.573736.
Delong G1.
The reason for the rapid rise of autism in the United States that began in the 1990s is a mystery. Although individuals probably have a genetic predisposition to develop autism, researchers suspect that one or more environmental triggers are also needed. One of those triggers might be the battery of vaccinations that young children receive. Using regression analysis and controlling for family income and ethnicity, the relationship between the proportion of children who received the recommended vaccines by age 2 years and the prevalence of autism (AUT) or speech or language impairment (SLI) in each U.S. state from 2001 and 2007 was determined. A positive and statistically significant relationship was found: The higher the proportion of children receiving recommended vaccinations, the higher was the prevalence of AUT or SLI. A 1% increase in vaccination was associated with an additional 680 children having AUT or SLI. Neither parental behavior nor access to care affected the results, since vaccination proportions were not significantly related (statistically) to any other disability or to the number of pediatricians in a U.S. state. The results suggest that although mercury has been removed from many vaccines, other culprits may link vaccines to autism. Further study into the relationship between vaccines and autism is warranted.
Read More: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21623535
Author Poor DickPosted on April 2, 2019 March 22, 2019 Categories Big PharmaTags autism, vaccination, VaccinesLeave a comment on Unanswered Questions on Vaccines and Autism
Vaccines and Autism
Vaccines and Autism: A Tale of Shifting Hypotheses
Stanley Plotkin Jeffrey S. Gerber Paul A. Offit
Clinical Infectious Diseases, Volume 48, Issue 4, 15 February 2009,
Published: 15 February 2009
Although child vaccination rates remain high, some parental concern persists that vaccines might cause autism. Three specific hypotheses have been proposed: (1) the combination measles-mumps-rubella vaccine causes autism by damaging the intestinal lining, which allows the entrance of encephalopathic proteins; (2) thimerosal, an ethylmercury-containing preservative in some vaccines, is toxic to the central nervous system; and (3) the simultaneous administration of multiple vaccines overwhelms or weakens the immune system. We will discuss the genesis of each of these theories and review the relevant epidemiological evidence.
Read More: https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/48/4/456/284219?fbclid=IwAR2Vp8mUDY7iF5USwUbnqasEa-idkL_gDIxFaiRPuv2OQ4kA3TCtX4a4LVs
AUTISM & ALUMINUM ADJUVANTS IN VACCINES
How Aluminum Adjuvants in Vaccines Can Cause Autism
Published: August 18, 2017
The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) asserts that vaccines and vaccine ingredients have been disproven as potential causes of autism. Statements by the CDC are generic and encompass all vaccines and vaccine ingredients. For example, the CDC states:
“Vaccines Do Not Cause Autism” “There is no link between vaccines and autism.” “…no links have been found between any vaccine ingredients and autism spectrum disorder.” (CDC website, August 2017)
These statements are not supported by available science. The CDC’s evidence supporting these statements is limited to the MMR vaccine (Taylor 2014), thimerosal preservative (Taylor 2014) and vaccine antigen exposure (DeStefano 2013).
Dr. Frank DeStefano of the CDC’s Immunization Safety Office is co-author of a paper (Glanz 2015) which states:
“To date, there have been no population-based studies specifically designed to evaluate associations between clinically meaningful outcomes and non-antigen ingredients, other than thimerosal.”
This statement applies to, among other vaccine ingredients, aluminum adjuvant. Studies of MMR vaccine cannot be used as evidence of safety for other vaccines, for example vaccines that contain aluminum adjuvant. The overly-broad, generic assertions that no vaccines and no ingredients cause autism are thus not supported by scientific evidence. In fact, the CDC statements are contradicted by a large, consistent and growing body of scientific evidence, including:
1) studies showing neurotoxic and neuroinflammatory effects (e.g. microglial activation) from dosages of aluminum adjuvants lower than or approximately equal to dosages received by infants according to the CDC vaccine schedule (Crepeaux 2017, Petrik 2007, Shaw 2013, Shaw 2009);
2) studies linking vaccines to immune activation brain injury (Zerbo 2016, Li 2015);
3) studies showing that early-life immune activation is a causal factor in autism and other neurodevelopmental disorders and mental illnesses (e.g. schizophrenia) (Meyer 2009, Deverman 2009, Estes 2016, Kneusel 2014, Careaga 2017, Meyer 2014).
The accumulating evidence indicates that vaccine-induced immune activation, and aluminum adjuvants in particular, may cause mental illnesses and neurodevelopmental disorders, including autism. In this paper, we present scientific evidence that aluminum adjuvants can cause autism and other brain injuries. Also, we explain why the studies allegedly supporting the safety of aluminum adjuvants do not show safety for adverse neurological outcomes.
Read More: https://icandecide.org/wp-content/uploads/whitepapers/ICAN-AluminumAdjuvant-Autism.pdf?fbclid=IwAR0ENRca8_Jkd0bnLWln4TXhKsGIUZAi5N3vP5W2aHAZQHuaDwLFc-k8GTg
What is regressive autism and why does it occur? Is it the consequence of multi-systemic dysfunction affecting the elimination of heavy metals and the ability to regulate neural temperature?
Graham E. Ewing
N Am J Med Sci. 2009 Jul; 1(2): 28–47.
PMCID: PMC3364648
PMID: 22666668
There is a compelling argument that the occurrence of regressive autism is attributable to genetic and chromosomal abnormalities, arising from the overuse of vaccines, which subsequently affects the stability and function of the autonomic nervous system and physiological systems. That sense perception is linked to the autonomic nervous system and the function of the physiological systems enables us to examine the significance of autistic symptoms from a systemic perspective. Failure of the excretory system influences elimination of heavy metals and facilitates their accumulation and subsequent manifestation as neurotoxins: the long-term consequences of which would lead to neurodegeneration, cognitive and developmental problems. It may also influence regulation of neural hyperthermia. This article explores the issues and concludes that sensory dysfunction and systemic failure, manifested as autism, is the inevitable consequence arising from subtle DNA alteration and consequently from the overuse of vaccines.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3364648/
Author Poor DickPosted on March 29, 2019 March 12, 2019 Categories Big PharmaTags adjuvant, aluminum adjuvant nanoparticles, autism, autonomic nervous system, infant vaccines, physiological systems, VaccinesLeave a comment on Vaccines and Autism
Vaccine Injury Risks Include Contracting the Diseases in the Vaccine
Also, Injecting formaldehyde into infant’s brains is just fine! [sarc]
I trust the medical industrial complex to take the best care of me, not for-profit, but for good… that’s why they lobbied congress to make it impossible to be sued for side effects and there has never been any efficacy or safety testing… [sarc] [sarc]
Baby dies from “meningitis” 2 days after vaccinations. Was it vaccine-induced?
Health Freedom Idaho July 12, 2018
A sweet child died. Our hearts ache for his parents and beat furiously against the media spin. This child received four month vaccinations two days prior to his death. It is so easy to blame this on some anonymous, alleged villain running around spreading meningitis into the air. The media is gleefully using this story to sell vaccines, to elicit fear, and point the finger at the unvaccinated, that is just robbing people of the truth.
Here’s the story in summary:
Healthy 4 month old child is taken to the doctor for well-baby visit.
Baby receives vaccines to protect against meningitis, pertussis, tetanus, etc.
Two days after receiving vaccines, baby dies of meningitis.
Meningitis is listed on vaccine inserts as an adverse event reported to occur after vaccination.
Medical professionals recommend vaccinating to prevent meningitis and blame the unvaccinated for the death of the child.
———————————–
“…just two days after Killy had received his 4-month-old vaccinations, Dempsey and her fiancé Gabriel Schultz were informed that their baby had most likely contracted meningitis, an inflammation of the protective membranes that cover the brain and spinal cord.”
———————————–
The CDC recommended vaccines the vaccine inserts for each of these can be found: http://www.immunize.org/fda/
The following information/package inserts list meningitis as an adverse event which has been reported after receiving the Pentacel and Pedarix vaccines. When your child is given vaccines at 4 months of age, your pediatrician will typically give one of these (in addition to other vaccines).
Pentacel [DTaP, Hib, Polio]:
https://www.vaccineshoppe.com/image.cfm?doc_id=13799&image_type=product_pdf
Pediarix [DTaP, Hep B, Polio]:
https://www.gsksource.com/pharma/content/dam/GlaxoSmithKline/US/en/Prescribing_Information/Pediarix/pdf/PEDIARIX.PDF
Read More: https://healthfreedomidaho.org/baby-dies-from-meningitis-2-days-after-vaccinations-was-it-vaccine-induced
Author Poor DickPosted on August 7, 2018 July 18, 2018 Categories Big Pharma, Eugenics & Population ControlTags autism, cancer, diabetes, ear infections, eczema, meningitis, vaccine injury, VaccinesLeave a comment on Vaccine Injury Risks Include Contracting the Diseases in the Vaccine
Search for:
Search
Unite or Die
Courteous Reader, I might in this place attempt to gain thy Favor, by declaring that I make Memes and reposts with no other View than that of the public Good.
Recent Posts
Transgender Agenda Being Pushed on Children in Schools
Google Became Evil: Altering Political Search Results, Tracking Your Every Move
Andrew Yang and the False Promises of More Government Power
Google Alters Political Search Results: Used it’s Power to Effect the 2018 Elections
Google and the Obama Administration
Police SWAT Raid Home and Take Children Because Unvaccinated Child Had a Fever
Facebook: Globalist, Oligarch Surveillance-and-Control Operation
Soros’ Involvement in Chicago Politics and the Jussie Smollett Case
Categories
Big Pharma (35)
Child Trafficking (39)
Climate Change Narrative (16)
Clintons / Bush Family / International Crime Cabal (44)
Collectivism (6)
Communism (5)
Corrupt Government (29)
Cultural Marxism (66)
Deep State (115)
Economic Collapse (57)
Election Fraud (6)
Energy Warfare 5g (11)
Eugenics & Population Control (38)
European Union (1)
False Flags (67)
Federal Reserve (15)
FISA-gate / DNC / Awan Brothers Spy Ring (42)
Geo-Engineering / Solar Radiation Managment / Cloud Seeding (22)
Global War Agenda (81)
Globalist Agenda (88)
GMO Food (10)
Great Awakening (32)
Hidden History (47)
Information War (121)
International Crime Cabal (23)
Maosim (1)
Mass Migration (46)
Mass Surveillance (38)
Organ Harvesting (9)
Police State (33)
q anon (15)
Russia Gate (63)
Social Engineering (33)
Socialism (5)
Trans-humanist Agenda (2)
U.S. Constitution (22)
Uncategorized (162)
Uranium One (5)
Vaccine Injuries (8)
Unite or Die ©2019