How Is HIV Transmitted? | HIV.gov
Skip to Main Content
Menu
HIV.GOV
Search
Search
Positive Spin
Basics Federal Response Digital Tools Events Blog
HomeHIV BasicsOverview : About HIV & AIDS : How Is HIV Transmitted?
Find Services
HIV SERVICES LOCATOR
Locator Search
Search
How Is HIV Transmitted?
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Topics
About HIV & AIDS
What Are HIV and AIDS?
How Is HIV Transmitted?
Who Is at Risk for HIV?
Symptoms of HIV
Myths persist about how HIV is transmitted. It’s important to get the facts about how HIV is passed from one person to another.
How Is HIV Transmitted?
You can get or transmit HIV only through specific activities. Most commonly, people get or transmit HIV through sexual behaviors and needle or syringe use.
Only certain body fluids—blood, semen, pre-seminal fluid, rectal fluids, vaginal fluids, and breast milk—from a person who has HIV can transmit HIV. These fluids must come in contact with a mucous membrane or damaged tissue or be directly injected into the bloodstream (from a needle or syringe) for transmission to occur. Mucous membranes are found inside the rectum, vagina, penis, and mouth.
In the United States, HIV is spread mainly by
Having anal or vaginal sex with someone who has HIV without using a condom or taking medicines to prevent or treat HIV.
For the HIV-negative partner, receptive anal sex (bottoming) is the highest-risk sexual behavior, but you can also get HIV from insertive anal sex (topping).
Either partner can get HIV through vaginal sex, though it is less risky for getting HIV than receptive anal sex.
Sharing needles or syringes, rinse water, or other equipment (works) used to prepare drugs for injection with someone who has HIV. HIV can live in a used needle up to 42 days depending on temperature and other factors.
Less commonly, HIV may be spread
From mother to child during pregnancy, birth, or breastfeeding. Although the risk can be high if a mother is living with HIV and not taking medicine, recommendations to test all pregnant women for HIV and start HIV treatment immediately have lowered the number of babies who are born with HIV.
By being stuck with an HIV-contaminated needle or other sharp object. This is a risk mainly for health care workers.
In extremely rare cases, HIV has been transmitted by
Oral sex—putting the mouth on the penis (fellatio), vagina (cunnilingus), or anus (rimming). In general, there’s little to no risk of getting HIV from oral sex. But transmission of HIV, though extremely rare, is theoretically possible if an HIV-positive man ejaculates in his partner’s mouth during oral sex. To learn more about how to lower your risk, see CDC’s Oral Sex and HIV Risk.
Receiving blood transfusions, blood products, or organ/tissue transplants that are contaminated with HIV. This was more common in the early years of HIV, but now the risk is extremely small because of rigorous testing of the US blood supply and donated organs and tissues.
Eating food that has been pre-chewed by an HIV-infected person. The contamination occurs when infected blood from a caregiver’s mouth mixes with food while chewing. The only known cases are among infants.
Being bitten by a person with HIV. Each of the very small number of documented cases has involved severe trauma with extensive tissue damage and the presence of blood. There is no risk of transmission if the skin is not broken.
Contact between broken skin, wounds, or mucous membranes and HIV-infected blood or blood-contaminated body fluids.
Deep, open-mouth kissing if both partners have sores or bleeding gums and blood from the HIV-positive partner gets into the bloodstream of the HIV-negative partner. HIV is not spread through saliva.
Can You Get HIV from Casual Contact, Using a Public Space, or from a Mosquito Bite?
No. HIV is NOT transmitted:
By hugging, shaking hands, sharing toilets, sharing dishes, or closed-mouth or “social” kissing with someone who is HIV-positive.
Through saliva, tears, or sweat that is not mixed with the blood of an HIV-positive person.
By mosquitoes, ticks or other blood-sucking insects.
Through the air.
As noted above, only certain body fluids—blood, semen, pre-seminal fluid, rectal fluids, vaginal fluids, and breast milk—from an HIV-infected person can transmit HIV. Most commonly, people get or transmit HIV through sexual behaviors and needle or syringe use. Babies can also get HIV from an HIV-positive mother during pregnancy, birth, or breastfeeding.
Learn More About HIV Transmission
For more information about HIV transmission, visit CDC’s HIV Transmission.
Also, to learn about how to protect yourself, and get information tailored to meet your needs from CDC’s HIV Risk Reduction Tool (BETA).
Content Source: HIV.gov
Date last updated: May 15, 2017
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
Next
I found this page helpful because the content on the page: (check all that apply)
Had the information I needed
Was trustworthy
Was up-to-date
Was written clearly
Other:
Next
I did not find this page helpful because the content on the page: (check all that apply)
Had too little information
Had too much information
Was confusing
Was out-of-date
Other:
Next
What can we do to improve this page?
What can we improve?
Next
We thank you for your time spent taking this survey. Your response has been recorded.
Form Approved OMB# 0990-0379 Exp. Date 9/30/2020
Additional Resources
CDC – HIV Risk Behaviors: Estimates
OWH – How HIV Is Spread
VA – How Is HIV Spread?
HIV.gov on Twitter
2 hours 51 min ago.
HIV.gov
@HIVGov
The Presidential Council on HIV/AIDS (PACHA) met last month. Catch up on what they discussed, check out slides, vid… https://t.co/kiY44WJQMk
ReplyRetweetFavorite
9 hours 23 min ago.
HIV.gov
@HIVGov
Members of the Presidential Advisory Council on AIDS were sworn in last month. Learn more about #PACHA and their ro… https://t.co/s336PO2SAF
ReplyRetweetFavorite
HIV.gov on Twitter
Search
Find HIV Testing Sites & Care Services
Connect With Us
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram
Subscribe
HIV.gov Mission & Team
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Disclaimers
Nondiscrimination Notice
Locator Widgets
Locator.HIV.gov
Positivespin.HIV.gov
Blog Archive
Freedom of Information Act
HHS.gov
Players & Viewers
HHS 508
Privacy Policy
White House
USA.gov
Español (Spanish)
繁體中文 (Chinese)
Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese)
한국어 (Korean)
Tagalog
Русский (Russian)
العربية (Arabic)
Kreyòl Ayisyen (Haitian Creole)
Français (French)
Polski (Polish)
Português (Portuguese)
Italiano (Italian)
Deutsch (German)
日本語 (Japanese)
فارسی (Farsi)
English
This is an official U.S. Government website managed by the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services and supported by the Secretary’s Minority AIDS Initiative Fund (SMAIF).
HIV Basics
Overview
About HIV & AIDS
What Are HIV and AIDS?
How Is HIV Transmitted?
Who Is at Risk for HIV?
Symptoms of HIV
Data & Trends
U.S. Statistics
Impact on Racial and Ethnic Minorities
Global Statistics
History
HIV and AIDS Timeline
Making a Difference
Supporting Someone Living with HIV
Standing Up to Stigma
Getting Involved
HIV Prevention
Using HIV Medication to Reduce Risk
HIV Treatment as Prevention
Pre-exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP)
Post-exposure Prophylaxis (PEP)
Reducing Sexual Risk
Preventing Sexual Transmission of HIV
Reducing Risk from Alcohol & Drug Use
Alcohol and HIV Risk
Substance Use and HIV Risk
Reducing Mother-to-Child Risk
Preventing Mother-to-Child Transmission of HIV
Potential Future Options
HIV Vaccines
Long-acting PrEP
Microbicides
HIV Testing
Learn About HIV Testing
Who Should Get Tested?
Where to Get Tested?
HIV Testing Overview
Understanding HIV Test Results
Just Diagnosed: What's Next?
Living with HIV
Talking About Your HIV Status
Starting HIV Care
Find a Provider
Locate an HIV Care Provider
Types of Providers
Take Charge of Your Care
Getting Ready for Your First Visit
What to Expect at Your First HIV Care Visit
Staying in HIV Care
Provider Visits and Lab Tests
Making Care Work for You
Seeing Your Health Care Provider
Lab Tests and Results
Returning to Care
HIV Treatment
HIV Treatment Overview
Taking Your HIV Medication Every Day
Tips on Taking Your HIV Medication Every Day
Paying for HIV Care and Treatment
Other Related Health Issues
Other Health Issues of Special Concern for People Living with HIV
Alcohol and Drug Use
Hepatitis B & C
Immunizations Recommended for People Living With HIV
Mental Health
Opportunistic Infections
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Smoking
Women´s Health Issues
Living Well with HIV
Taking Care Of Yourself
Aging with HIV
Employment and Health
Exercise and Physical Activity
Food Safety and Nutrition
Housing and Health
Traveling Outside the U.S.
Your Legal Rights
Civil Rights
Workplace Rights
Limits on Confidentiality
Federal Response
Ending the HIV Epidemic
Overview
HIV in America
Learn More
National HIV/AIDS Strategy
Overview
National HIV/AIDS Strategy: Updated to 2020
Developing the Next National HIV/AIDS Strategy
Strategy Implementation
Federal Implementation
Strategy in Action
Using the Strategy
Strategy History
Documents & Shareables
Federal Activities & Agencies
HIV Prevention Activities
HIV Testing Activities
HIV Care and Treatment Activities
HIV Research Activities
Activities Combating HIV Stigma and Discrimination
Policies & Issues
The Affordable Care Act and HIV/AIDS
HIV/AIDS Care Continuum
Syringe Services Programs
HIV PrEP Framework
HIV Health Improvement Affinity Group
Funding
Budget
Federal Funding for HIV/AIDS
Minority HIV/AIDS Fund
Overview
Background
Current Fund Activities
The Fund In Action
PACHA
About PACHA
Charter
Members & Staff
Subcommittees
Prior PACHA Meetings and Recommendations
Campaigns
Campaigns
Many Federal agencies have developed public awareness and education campaigns to address HIV prevention, treatment, care, and research. In this section, you’ll find a snapshot of these Federal HIV campaigns and links to help you access more information as well as campaign materials that you can use. Also included is information about campaigns related to the prevention and diagnosis of hepatitis B and C.
More on Campaigns
PEPFAR & Global AIDS
Global HIV/AIDS Overview
PEPFAR
U.S. Government Global HIV/AIDS Activities
Global HIV/AIDS Organizations
Recursos en Español
Recursos en Español
El VIH es una amenaza de salud grave para las comunidades latinas, quienes se encuentran en gran desventaja respecto de la incidencia de esta enfermedad en los Estados Unidos. Según los CDC, en el 2014 los hispanos representaron aproximadamente el 17% de la población de Estados Unidos, pero constituyeron cerca del 24% de los nuevos casos de infección (10,887). De ellos, el 86 % (9379) fue en hombres y el 14 % (1490) en mujeres.
En esta sección encontraras información sobre recursos federales en español a tu disposición. Además tienes la opción de traducir cualquier página de HIV.gov al español usando el icono .
Ver Mas Recursos
Digital Tools
Social Media
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Planning and Management
Strategy & Planning
Monitoring & Evaluation
Social Media Policies
Digital Government Strategy
Events
Awareness Days
February 7 National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day
March 10 National Women and Girls HIV/AIDS Awareness Day
March 20National Native HIV/AIDS Awareness Day
April 10 National Youth HIV & AIDS Awareness Day
April 18 National Transgender HIV Testing Day
May 18 HIV Vaccine Awareness Day
May 19 National Asian & Pacific Islander HIV/AIDS Awareness Day
June 5 HIV Long-Term Survivors Day
June 27 National HIV Testing Day
September 18 National HIV/AIDS and Aging Awareness Day
September 27 National Gay Men's HIV/AIDS Awareness Day
October 15 National Latinx AIDS Awareness Day
December 1 World AIDS Day
Event Planning Guide
Learning Opportunities
Learning Opportunities
Want to stay abreast of changes in prevention, care, treatment or research or other public health arenas that affect our collective response to the HIV epidemic? Or are you new to this field?
HIV.gov curates learning opportunities for you, and the people you serve and collaborate with.
Stay up to date with the webinars, Twitter chats, conferences and more in this section.
More Learning Opportunities
Blog