How Do Cell Phones Negatively Affect the Health of Teens? | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Parenting
Teenagers
Teens and What to Expect
How Do Cell Phones Negatively Affect the Health of Teens?
Kristen Berry
About the Author:
Kristen Berry
Based in Atlanta, Kristen Noelle has been writing since 2007. Her work has appeared in AOL News, "Mothering Magazine," "Maui News," "Christian Science Monitor," "Forsyth County News" and the "Forsyth Herald." Noelle studies comparative literature at the University of Georgia.
Cell phones are an addiction for many teens. From sleep deprivation to texting and driving, cell phones present a health hazard for teens who cannot break away from the social pressures of constant contact via cell phone. Sometimes, teens replace traditional social skills with text messages, voicemails and pressure to remain available through the cell phone at all times. This pressure can cause undue stress and anxiety for teens with a large social circle.
Teens on their smartphones. (Image: Highwaystarz-Photography/iStock/Getty Images)
Sleep
Many teens are compelled to sleep with their cell phones nearby in order to respond to calls or text messages. According to Science Daily, many youngsters develop an addiction to their cell phone and feel a group pressure to remain connected and reachable around the clock. However, sleep that is consistently interrupted results in a decreased ability to focus on daily activities, such as school work or sports. Teens often become irritable when sleep derived. A habit of turning off the cell phone before bed allows your teen to maintain a regular sleep schedule while realizing that a cell phone need not become the center of her social universe.
Texting Anxiety
Your teen may rely on texting as his primary means of communication, but doing so can be stressful. According to psychologist Suzanne Phillips, writing for PBS, texting is instantly gratifying but it's also anxiety producing. The instant connection can cause feelings of elation and self-value only to be replaced by the disappointment of no response, a delayed response or the misinterpretation of a short or seemingly curt response. Waiting for an expected text response can be stressful for a teen involved in a romantic relationship. Sending sexually inappropriate texts and photos is often damaging to a teen's reputation. Setting clear boundaries on appropriate texting and explaining that written words are open to interpretation can reduce the anxieties that often accompany regular texting.
Cell Phone Use In the Car
Teens are more likely than adults to respond to texts and calls while driving. Just picking up the cell phone to glance at a text can cost your teen his life. According to the U.S. Government Website for Distracted Driving, traffic crashes are the leading cause of death for American teens, and when it comes to distracted driving, young people are among the most likely to text and talk behind the wheel. Teens can curb the impulse to use their cell phone while driving if they turn off it off -- and leave it off until they reach their destination.
The Cancer Question
Conclusive evidence doesn't exist that cell phones cause cancer; however, research shows that cell phones do emit radio-frequency energy (electromagnetic radiation), which can be absorbed by tissues where the phone is held. According to research at the National Cancer Institute, if research ever shows conclusive evidence that cell phone use can be a risk for cancer, children may have the potential to be at greater risk than adults for developing brain cancer from cell phones. Their nervous systems are still developing and are therefore more vulnerable to factors that may cause cancer. Make your teen aware that short to moderate cell phone conversations may reduce the possible risk of cancer. For example, limit conversations to a total of 20 minutes a day and use a land line for extended conversations.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
Science Daily: Excessive Mobile Phone Use Affects Sleep In Teens, Study Finds
Public Broadcasting Services: Teens Sleeping With Their Cells Phones, a Clear and Present Danger
Official US Government Website for Distracted Driving: Distracted Driving
National Cancer Institute: Cell phones and Cancer Risk
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
How Has Texting Affected the Social Lives of Teens?
2
The Negative Effects Electronics Have on Teens
3
Sleeping Next to Your Phone Could Seriously Damage Your Health
4
10 Tech Habits That Are Damaging Your Health (and How to Deal)
5
10 Ways You May Be Shortening Your Life
6
Harmful Effects of Cell Phones on Kids
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.