Is It Safe To Drink Ginger Tea During Pregnancy?
Getting Pregnant >
How To Get Pregnant
Symptoms
Body Care
Infertility
Pregnancy>
Pregnancy Week by Week
Food
bio-oil
Second Pregnancy
Safety
Fitness
Giving Birth
Health
Post Pregnancy
Baby>
Product Reviews
Choose Gentle
Breastfeeding
Food
Development
Sleep
Health
Products
Safety
Baby Names
Browse Names
Play & Activities
Himalaya Baby Care
Baby Dove
Toddler>
Fisher Price
Development
Food
Pediasure
Sleep
Safety
Health
Behavior
Education
Play & Activities
Coloring pics
Kid>
Development
Food & Nutrition
Health & Fitness
Safety
Products
Education
Behavior
Play & Activities
Style & Beauty Care
Teens>
Development
Food & Nutrition
Health & Fitness
Safety
Products
Education
Behavior
Play & Activities
Style & Beauty Care
For You>
New Parents
Single Parenting
Adoption
Relationships
Trending
Tools>
Baby Eye Color Calculator
Online Pregnancy Test
Chinese Gender Predictor
Implantation Calculator
hCG Calculator
Period Calculator
ovulation calculator
pregnancy due date calculator
Child Height Predictor
Pregnancy Weight Gain Calculator
Breast Milk Calculator
Child Growth Percentile Calculator
Baby Cost Calculator
BMI Calculator For Kids & Teens
Contraction Calculator
Immunization Scheduler and Chart
C-Section Checklist
Online Twin Pregnancy Quiz
Numerology calculator
Child Blood Type Calculator
Nakshatra Calculator
Diaper Bag Checklist
> हिंदी
गर्भावस्था
शिशु
×
Home » Pregnancy » Food
Is It Safe To Drink Ginger Tea During Pregnancy?
Rebecca Malachi Written by Rebecca Malachi
LMU (Germany)-certified Pregnancy Nutrition and Lifestyle expert
April 03, 2019 April 3, 2019
Image: Shutterstock
Is it safe to drink ginger tea during pregnancy?
What are the benefits of ginger tea during pregnancy?
How much ginger tea you can consume when pregnant?
Best ginger tea recipes for pregnant women
Are there any side effects of ginger tea?
Morning sickness is a common symptom during the first trimester of pregnancy. Studies suggest that most women who experience it prefer herbal teas including ginger as a remedy for relief from all that nausea (1). But how safe is ginger tea during pregnancy? If safe, what are its benefits and risks? In this article, MomJunction answers all of these questions and more to clear your doubts.
Is It Safe To Drink Ginger Tea During Pregnancy?
Yes, ginger tea is safe to consume in moderate amounts. It is an excellent alternative to tea and coffee and has a great aroma, taste, and a wide range of health benefits. It is highly beneficial for managing nausea and vomiting, especially in your first trimester (2). However, it is best to limit the daily consumption to one gram of ginger (3).
Back to top
Sponsored
What Are The Benefits Of Ginger Tea During Pregnancy?
Following are the many benefits ginger tea offers for pregnant women.
1. Curbs morning sickness:
Nausea and vomiting, often called morning sickness, is common during early pregnancy. Ginger is known to ease and control this condition. Consuming the tea morning first thing after waking up and before bedtime will keep morning sickness under control (4).
2. Aids digestion:
Ginger works directly on your tummy and positively benefits digestion. Consuming a glass of ginger tea will improve and stimulate the functions of the digestive tract (5).
[ Read: Nausea And Vomiting During Pregnancy ]
3. Boosts immunity:
Ginger is packed with anti-inflammatory properties that will help promote your immune levels. Not only the tea, but other products containing ginger can also combat diseases and prevent infections (6).
4. Soothes throat:
The soothing nature of ginger tea provides quick relief to a sore throat, cough and flu symptoms, thus thwarting throat infections (7).
5. Manages blood sugar levels:
Ginger tea helps in insulin build-up and is therefore helpful for maintaining glucose levels in the body. It is an excellent remedy for gestational diabetes (8).
6. Reduces muscle fatigue:
Ginger is known to have anti-inflammatory and pain-reducing properties and aids in pregnancy-related pains and decreases inflammation (9).
7. Enhances nutrient absorption:
Ginger stimulates your body’s ability to absorb nutrients in a better way. It, therefore, helps to maintain the balance of vitamins and minerals in the body.
Back to top
How Much Ginger Tea You Can Consume When Pregnant?
You can take about two to three cups of ginger tea per day. Use up to one gram of ginger root and divide into two to three servings (10).
Back to top
Best Ginger Tea Recipes For Pregnant Women
Here are a few interesting ginger tea recipes with tasty variations for you to try.
Lemon ginger tea: Add a teaspoon of grated ginger to brewing black tea. Turn off the flame and squeeze half a lemon juice in it. Add a dash of honey and a few mint leaves to the brew. Drink hot.
Ginger green tea: Add one teaspoon of grated ginger to boiling water. Take the ginger-infused water into a cup and dip a bag of green tea. Leave for three minutes and add a dash of honey before sipping.
Ginger clove tea: Boil water, and add one teaspoon of grated ginger and three cloves to it. Add some tea dust, and boil for a couple of minutes. You can take with honey.
Chamomile ginger tea: Bring water to boil, and add a teaspoon of grated ginger. Strain the concoction, add honey and dip one tea bag of chamomile.
While ginger tea is good, too much of it can be bad.
[ Read: Iced Tea During Pregnancy ]
Back to top
Are There Any Side Effects Of Ginger Tea?
Ginger tea, when taken in recommended amounts, is safe. Too much of it can cause some harmful effects as follows.
Excessive consumption of ginger tea could lead to cardiac effects and heartburn (4).
Impacts blood clotting ability when taken with blood-thinning medicines (11). It also interacts with anesthesia. So avoid taking the tea before surgeries (12).
Ginger possesses muscle relaxant properties, and it also increases the risk of bleeding if taken with blood thinners (13) (14).
Next, we answer a few common queries related to ginger tea consumption during pregnancy.
Frequently Asked Questions
1. Does ginger tea induce labor?
No research indicates that ginger tea is helpful in inducing labor. Taking excess of it is known to cause diarrhea, which will irritate the uterus for some time. However, it will not stimulate contractions.
2. Is lemon and ginger tea safe in pregnancy?
Yes, lemon and ginger tea is safe either in combination or as separate teas in moderate amounts. These teas are known for relieving nausea and morning sickness in the early months of pregnancy.
Back to top
On a final note, ginger tea is perfectly okay to take during pregnancy. It is a blessing to your pregnancy health. You should consider having it in small amounts, and consult your doctor if you feel sick or uneasy after its consumption.
[ Read: Herbal Tea During Pregnancy ]
Did you try any other variations of ginger tea? How did you feel? Let us know in the comment section below.
References:
1. E. Ernst; Herbal medicinal products during pregnancy: are they safe; British Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology (2003)
2. Iñaki Lete & José Allué; The Effectiveness of Ginger in the Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting during Pregnancy and Chemotherapy; Integr Med Insights (2016)
3. Ginger – “Mother Nature’s 7-Up and Crackers!”; University of Wisconsin Integrative Medicine Department Of Family Medicine
4. Ginger; Herbal Safety; The University Of Texas At El Paso (2018)
5. Ann M. Bode & Zigang Dong; Chapter 7 The Amazing and Mighty Ginger; Herbal Medicine: Biomolecular and Clinical Aspects. 2nd edition (2011)
6. Nafiseh Shokri Mashhadi et al.; Anti-Oxidative and Anti-Inflammatory Effects of Ginger in Health and Physical Activity: Review of Current Evidence; Int J Prev Med (2013)
7. Oriental Medicine & Prevention: Avoid Winter Sore Throats The Chinese Way; Pacific College of Oriental Medicine
8. T Alasadi; Ginger and diabetics; Wasist University (2017)
9. Ginger; URMC
10. Antenatal Care Module: 12. Minor Disorders of Pregnancy; The Open University (2018)
11. Ginger; The Ohio State University.
12. Sukhminder Jit Singh Bajwa & Aparajita Panda; Alternative medicine and anesthesia: Implications and considerations in daily practice; Ayu (2012)
13. P S Upadhyay, B M Singh, M Kumar, HD Khanna; Effect of Ayurveda interventions in bronchial asthma and cerebral palsy; Page 52
14. Osteoarthritis; Penn State Hershey (2016)
Recommended Articles:
Green Tea In Pregnancy
Peppermint Tea During Pregnancy
Lipton Tea During Pregnancy
Dandelion Tea During Pregnancy
The following two tabs change content below.
Latest Posts
Bio
Latest posts by Rebecca Malachi (see all)
Fetal Heartbeat: Week-By-Week Chart And Methods Used To Monitor It - April 2, 2019
5 Best Tips For Breastfeeding During Pregnancy - April 2, 2019
What is an Anomaly Scan And How Is It Done? - April 2, 2019
What Teas Are Safe To Drink While Pregnant? - April 2, 2019
15 Common Pregnancy Fears And Why You Don't Have To Worry - April 2, 2019
Blighted Ovum: Causes, Symptoms And Treatment - April 1, 2019
Ectopic Pregnancy: Causes, Symptoms And Treatment - March 29, 2019
Does Nipple Stimulation Help Induce Labor? - March 28, 2019
101 Funny Pregnancy Quotes - March 27, 2019
31 Best Gifts For Pregnant Women - March 26, 2019
Rebecca Malachi
She is a Biotechnologist with a proficiency in areas of genetics, immunology, microbiology, bio-engineering, chemical engineering, medicine, pharmaceuticals to name a few. Her expertise in these fields has greatly assisted her in writing medical and life science articles. With 8+ years of work experience in writing for health and wellness, she is now a full-time contributor for Momjunction.com. She is passionate about giving research-based information to readers in need. Apart from writing, she is a foodie, loves travel, fond of gospel music and enjoys observing nature in silence. Know more about her at: linkedin.com/in/kothapalli-rebecca-35881628
Incnut Incnut Incnut
Hotpicks
10 Effective Measures To Prevent Itching During Pregnancy
How To Deal With Kids' Tantrums?
3 Types Of Rashes That Occur During Pregnancy - Symptoms & Treatments
5 Effective Ways To Stop Your Kid From Biting Nails
6 Best Ways To Prevent Cyber Bullying For Kids & Teens
Related Articles
Post Pregnancy Diet: 20 Must-have Foods For New Moms
Is It Safe To Eat Escargot During Pregnancy?
5 Reasons Why You should Take Folic Acid In Pregnancy
3 Harmful Effects Of MSG On Pregnancy
Is It Safe To Eat Star Fruit During Pregnancy?
About Us
Contact Us
Advertise with us
Doctors, Join Us
Mommy Influencer Network
Report Violation
Image Usage Policy
Privacy Policy
Editorial Policy
Disclaimer
Follow Us:
Our Sister Sites:
Copyright 2019 Mom Junction
MomJunction provides generic information on health for educational purposes only. It is not a substitute for professional health services, and cannot be used as a replacement for personalized health consultation. If you or your child has any health concerns, you should consult a healthcare professional. Please read our Disclaimer before proceeding to use our website.