What are the health benefits of Himalayan Pink Salt? | Lifestyle Tips and Hacks
Skip to content
Lifestyle Tips and Hacks
How to Get Richer and Healthier
Menu
HOME
How To Get Richer
What is an Online Business? – The question asked by Millions
Learn What is Affiliate Marketing – A Beginners Guide
What are Affiliate Programs – a guide for Affiliate Marketers
Is the Wealthy Affiliate a Scam or What? – Our personal experience
Is The Six Figure Mentors (SFM) a Scam or What? – Our personal experience
Is Affilorama a Scam or What? – Our personal experience
Should I Join Wealthy Affiliate? Yes or No…
Easy Ways to Make Money Online For Free
What is The Meaning of a Niche? – Get your answer here
I Created Our Website in 30 Seconds – How long will it take you?
Want to Change your Lifestyle – from the boring 9-5 job?
Quick Guide to Online Success – the four processes
Our Journey to Wealthy Affiliates
How To Get Healthier
What are the health benefits of Himalayan Pink Salt?
Best Oil Solution to Grow Your Eye Lashes Incredibly Long
How I Cured My Extreme Anaemia Naturally!
Home Made Mask for Acne Prone Skin
How I cured my 15 year old acne?
Quick and easy gluten free meals with Buckwheat
The BEST homemade quick & easy cleaning spray EVER!
Reviews by Us
Is the Wealthy Affiliate a Scam or What? – Our personal experience
Is The Six Figure Mentors (SFM) a Scam or What? – Our personal experience
Is Affilorama a Scam or What? – Our personal experience
Personal Review of Braun Oral-B Vitality 3D Rechargeable Electric Brush
CATEGORIES
ABOUT US
Posted on August 31, 2018 September 1, 2018 by Rani
What are the health benefits of Himalayan Pink Salt?
The Himalayan salt or the ‘pink salt’ is known to be the most beneficial and cleanest salt available on this planet today, dating from the Precambrian Age of over 4 billion years when the planet earth was first formed.
Origin of the Himalayan Salt
It comes from the Punjab region of Pakistan. This region has the richest salt fields in the world. It comes from the mines around 5,000 feet below the Himalayan mountain range and the composed of dried remnants of the original, primal sea.
The Himalayan salt can be white, pink and or red in colour indicating its mineral content. These minerals are defined as highly beneficial for human and animal health.
Nutritional Value of Himalayan salt
The Himalayan salt is over 99 percent pure, a truly unique and loaded with over 84 traces of minerals including calcium, magnesium, potassium, copper and iron.
The pink salt often used for both culinary and therapeutic purposes. It is the best alternative to processed table salt, that is commonly used.
You can use it in your cooking as a healthy alternative to the processed salt, which is not only heavily processed and stripped off the minerals, but also loaded with a good deal of health damaging chemicals such as anti-clumping agent like yellow prussiate of soda, aluminium derivate and 97.5 to 99.9% sodium chloride.
The picture below illustrates the difference between Himalayan pink salt versus the common processed table salt:
My personal experience
There are a good deal of health and beauty benefits that I actually experienced myself when I switched to Himalayan salt in 2014.
I always had some unexplained health issues. After many years of GP and hospital visits, I did not get any profound diagnosis.
I was sick of being sick!
It was time I took the matter into my own capable hands, starting from looking at everything I consumed. I started testing the foods that were making me sick but still I were not getting any clear changes to my condition.
I was eating the eliminated diet of gluten and cow milk free, high in fruit and veg (blood type A) diet. I was not eating too spicy food either which is said to irritate your “second brain” the stomach!
My Research
As usual I started researching the pros and cons of everything I was eating even the ingredients and I came to a shocking discovery about the tablet salt! The more I looked into it, the more I learnt about it’s health damaging and highly toxic processing ingredients of table salt. This made me even more determined to look into an alternative option. Then I discovered the Himalayan Pink Salt.
After the first usage I started to feel my energy level was up and I was feeling more active, focused and healthy. My breathing was much easier and clearer and I wasn’t gasping for breath as I would normally do.
Himalayan salt lamp
I then bought the Himalayan Salt lamp which enables to clear the air by evaporating the dust and allergens in the environment instead of inhaling and getting them into the lungs.
The feeling of toxin and inflammation within my body started to decrease. I later found out that the Himalayan pink salt balances your body’s PH level.
Those who know me personally also know that I always had digestive issues. Tell you what people! This salt has helped cure those problems, completely!
I could not digest anything, even the plain water used to give me acid-reflux! This salt has helped stimulate the peristalsis of the digestive organs, balanced the stomach acid, supported the production of digestive fluids in the liver and pancreas, regulated the metabolism and harmonised the acid-alkaline balance.
This balance helped aid in my natural sleep pattern, which I was lacking in due to the imbalanced system.
I also started using the Himalayan salt crystals in my bath soaks to induce the sleep even better.
Despite my heavily imbalanced system, my blood sugar level used to fluctuate badly resulting in extreme bad headaches or I would pass out if I missed a snack or was late for having my meal. I had to constantly refuel the blood sugar level.
This was a frustrating vicious cycle because if I ate, I was getting indigestion and if I didn’t eat, I was getting extreme low sugar and lethargy!
I can happily share this with you lot, that all this is a total history now. I feel vibrant, healthy inside out and full of energy! All because I introduced the magic of the Himalayan pink salt in my life.
As I started to get more nutrition in my body; my bones became stronger, I got beautiful and radiant skin, stopped getting urine infections which used to be the regular thing.
Where did I purchase the Himalayan salt and lamp from?
Click here to purchase the same brand of Himalayan salt as I did, as I have tried and tested this. As some retailers are selling them and they are not pure and genuine.
If you want to purchase the Himalayan salt lamp, then please click here to purchase the one I did, again it is the genuine and purest form of salt lamp.
Alternatively, if you live in Greater Manchester, UK, then we can supply and deliver the Himalayan pink salt directly to your door. Please ask us in the comments section below for this service.
Or email us: rani@lifestyletipsandhacks.com
Final word
I now use the Himalayan salt in my diet same as I used the ordinary table salt. I am so pleased to discover that the Himalayan salt has the key elements to optimise my health and well being by providing me with a boost of key nutrients and minerals. I am so pleased that I have made this shockingly healthy discovery, which is a companion for life.
Just in case you’re wondering what I did with the remaining table salt that I had when I replaced it with the Himalayan salt….I used it all up to melt the snow here in the UK. LOL 🙂
Please share your experience if you have used or heard of the amazing health benefits of the Himalayan salt and what are your views? We are very enthusiastic to know and learn from you. You can do this by leaving a message or question in the comments section further down.
Your buddies
Rani and Habib
Please follow and like us:
0
CategoriesGet Healthier
22 Replies to “What are the health benefits of Himalayan Pink Salt?”
Philip says:
August 31, 2018 at 6:17 pm
Hi Rani,
The Hymalian Salt sounds amazing. I want some now. Wow, 4 billion years in the making and its got healing properties and cleans your air – please tell me Rani, where can I buy some of that salt and that lamp as well? I am really interested to know this so hope to hear on this soon.
I learned a lot on this intriguing mineral and looking forward to more posts like this.
Reply
Rani says:
September 1, 2018 at 8:03 pm
Hi Philip, I’m glad to know that you found our post informative. I am enthusiastic to share all the information that I know and use which is benefitting me. Click here to purchase the Himalayan salt, which I buy from personally.
I shall be sharing more posts like this one in the very near future. Please feel free to ask anymore questions you may have.
Kind regards
Rani
Reply
Furkan says:
August 31, 2018 at 6:29 pm
I really want to improve my sleep quality. How long should I use it before the sleep? Do you have any recommendations?
Reply
Rani says:
September 1, 2018 at 8:09 pm
Hi Furkan, the recommended time to use it before sleep is 45minutes to an hour. You can also use the Himalayan salt lamp in your bedroom to induce the sleep even further. Hope this helps. Good luck
Rani
Reply
Russell says:
August 31, 2018 at 6:38 pm
Hey!
I have never even heard of this type of salt before.
It seems as though the benefits are amazing compared to regular salt. I actually don’t even use salt because it is so bad for you.
Where can I get something like this?
Russell
Reply
Rani says:
September 1, 2018 at 8:12 pm
Hey Russell, I never heard of Himalayan salt before 2014 either until I started my research and came to discover this amazing salt.
You can click here to buy the Himalayan salt.
Thanks
Rani
Reply
Matts Mom says:
August 31, 2018 at 7:00 pm
I am just curious, as it is still a salt. Does it still contain the same amount of sodium in it? I know, maybe a dumb question LOL. I see it in the store and have considered purchasing it instead of regular table salt. Now that I know the benefits, I can go ahead and make the switch!
Reply
Rani says:
September 1, 2018 at 8:15 pm
Hi Matts Mom, it has a lot less sodium than the common table salt, and I can’t recommend it enough after experiencing the benefits myself. So go and make the switch and I can assure you that you won’t regret it. Best of luck for your good health.
Rani
Reply
Lara says:
August 31, 2018 at 7:21 pm
WOW, I really enjoyed reading this post on your website dear, please keep posting such good stuff, I am very happy to land on here. I think there is lots of secrets in Punjab, Pakistan :))
Thank you for the great information.
Reply
Rani says:
September 9, 2018 at 5:43 pm
Hi Lara, I’m glad to hear you enjoyed reading our post and found it useful. We want to make sure we give our visitors a great and interesting knowledge/experience from our website. Yes, there is a lot to discover in Pakistan, many say it’s a paradise on earth. I’ll continue to share more interesting information in future posts. Take care
Rani
Reply
Lynn says:
August 31, 2018 at 7:33 pm
Very interesting and informative article. I didn’t realize that Himalayan salt was so healthy for you. I actually do use that for my cooking. And I do have a Himalayan rock salt lamp. I don’t use it like I should, but after reading how it helped you I guess I should start using it more. Is there a particular brand of salt that you would recommend? There are probably totally different brands in the U.K. than in the states.
Thanks for sharing your personal story!
Reply
Rani says:
September 9, 2018 at 5:35 pm
Thank you Lynn, I would say the more I read about the Himalayan salts amazing benefits, the more I fall in love with it. We use our salt lamps every day and its an amazing purification for your health. We ordered ours from amazon – click here to get it. Thank you for stopping by.
Rani
Reply
Montana says:
August 31, 2018 at 7:58 pm
WOW! I have just discovered Himalayan Salt Lamps, and I swear I could have one in every room! I was mostly using it for the dim light it produces in my babies nursery, but seeing all these benefits – I think I need one for my own room! Great information.
Reply
Rani says:
September 9, 2018 at 5:31 pm
Likewise Montana, we have benefitted immensely from the salt lamps and we would definitely recommend it in every room in your house. It is beneficial for all ages. Regards
Rani
Reply
Kahlua Gordin says:
August 31, 2018 at 8:47 pm
Wow,
I was really clueless to all of the wonderful benefits of the himalayan pink salt.
I can’t believe how much it has helped you and your bodies health. It makes me want to leave work right now to go and buy some myself.
I will definitely be switching to pink himalayan salt after reading your article and maybe even spoil myself with the lamp you have shown as well!
Thank you for the great info!
Cheers,
Kahlua
Reply
Rani says:
September 9, 2018 at 5:28 pm
Hi Kahlua, Thanks for the compliments and that you’ve found our article beneficial and useful enough to try it yourself. since 2014 I have been recommending the Himalayan salt to my friends and families. They all are enjoying these amazing benefits. The only regret I have is that, why haven’t I tried it earlier! Give us a shout if you need any further information regarding this. Good luck.
Rani
Reply
Debra flarhty says:
October 25, 2018 at 1:13 pm
Hi Habib and Rani, my name his Debra. I’m really interested in purchasing 2 salt lamps. I’m really impressed with your your site and will be in touch very soon. Keep up the good work.
Debra flarhty
Reply
Habib Ali says:
October 26, 2018 at 12:02 pm
Hi Debra, Thank you for your compliments regarding the website and its contents. we always thrive to offer the best advice and services that we have personally tried and tested ourselves. Salt lamp is one of them. Please click on the link here to purchase the Himalayan salt lamp. Kind Regards
Habib and Rani
Reply
Syed says:
December 18, 2018 at 3:00 pm
I didn’t know if there were any other types of salts available apart from the table salt, which I have always consumed. You’ve opened up my eyes and educated me about this super beneficial salt the Himalayan salt! Thanks!
Reply
Habib Ali says:
December 20, 2018 at 3:39 pm
There are plenty of super healthy stuff available out there and we regularly upload contents around highly beneficial super foods such as the Himalayan salt. Keep visiting our site for more useful contact to help you live Richer and Healthier.
Habib and Rani
Reply
Aurélien HENRY says:
March 28, 2019 at 4:33 pm
Damn, I knew that Himalayan salt had benefits but I really didn’t know, it would make that much of a difference. I’m going to put in all the salt shakers now. I don’t know why so many people are afraid of salt! The worst thing that can happen is a salt deficiency. Plus, I sweat a lot when I am under the bars at the gym. Salt give me a great pump so I will opt for a better choice, this Himalayan salt!
Reply
Rani says:
April 3, 2019 at 4:07 pm
Dear Aurelien, glad to know that you’ve decided to opt in for a better choice of salt – the Himalayan salt. It has many health benefits as mentioned in the article. Let us know how you got on. Good luck
Rani
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Post navigation
Previous PostPrevious Best Oil Solution to Grow Your Eye Lashes Incredibly Long
Next PostNext How I Cured My Extreme Anaemia Naturally!
Search for:
Search
Categories
Get Healthier
Get Richer
Home
Reviews by Us
Simple & Healthy Recipes
Tips
Recent Posts
How to Cure Stomach acidity / indigestion / IBS
How to organise your life and feel good?
How to Manage My Time Well
Most Effective Carrot and Ginger Juice Ever
Pineapple and Cream Dessert
Recent Comments
Rani on How to Cure Stomach acidity / indigestion / IBS
Rani on How to Cure Stomach acidity / indigestion / IBS
Rani on How to Cure Stomach acidity / indigestion / IBS
Rani on How to Cure Stomach acidity / indigestion / IBS
Rani on Things to be grateful for in life
Archives
March 2019
February 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
Legal stuff
Privacy Policy
Proudly powered by WordPress
Enjoy this blog? Please spread the word :)
https://lifestyletipsandhacks.com/what-are-the-health-benefits-of-himalayan-pink-salt">
https://lifestyletipsandhacks.com/what-are-the-health-benefits-of-himalayan-pink-salt">