This Is what Will Happen to Your Body if You Mix Baking Soda and Honey! AMAZING! - HealthRemediesforLife.com
HealthRemediesforLife.com
Health
Remedies
Home Remedies
Natural Remedies
Traditional Medicine
Weight Loss
Beauty
Recipes
Healthy Food
General
Menu
Home » Health & Cure » This Is what Will Happen to Your Body if You Mix Baking Soda and Honey! AMAZING!
This Is what Will Happen to Your Body if You Mix Baking Soda and Honey! AMAZING!
Generally its believed that cancer cells thrive on sugar. So will consider this mixture of baking soda and honey or maple syrup harmful. But now experts have questioned this assertion. Yes, cancer loves sugar! So this mixture will focus on those cells lover sugar more efficiently. cancer cells consume maple syrup or honey also have baking soda secretly transferred to them.
Sodium bicarbonate is alkaline is deadly to cancer cells. This alkalinity and pH changes shape more oxygen in cells that can tolerate. therefore, the cells are destroyed before the sugar can cause more cancer growth. Thus, for this blend of killing cancer easy all you need is.
Baking soda – 1 teaspoon
honey or maple syrup – 3 teaspoons
Method:
Mix 1 part baking soda and 3 parts maple syrup or honey.
If you want to make this mixture for one week 4 teaspoon of baking soda and 16 teaspoons of honey will suffice.
Put the mixture simmer for 5-10 minutes.
Do not refrigerate.
Use:
Consume mixing 1 teaspoon 1-3 times a day.
Eat some time after before meals, but not too close.
Also during this treatment, do not consume too much white flour or sugar.
Related
This is what will happen to your body if baking soda and mix honey! Amazing!
Related Post: How to Do Tongue Scraping to disinfect it
Their classification User Rating 0 ( 0 votes)
You May Also Like :
Share on: Facebook Google+ Pinterest Reddit Digg LinkedIn Del.icio.us
You may also like
Home remedy to naturally heal the Cold Sores.
tiny, little liquid filled wounds that usually occur around the lips, nose, chin and mouth. These are called canker sores. They occur due to viral infection.
Effective Home Remedy For Nose Bleeding 2016
Children often get nosebleeds, Their common in them. It may be due to allergies, temperature variations, etc. Watch the video to know how u can stop
DIY Home Remedies for Head Lice
Did you see your child scratching his head too lately? This could be the dreaded head lice, common in children, especially children who go to school.
Olive Oil and Honey Hair Mask Home remedy for Hair
health and long shiny hair in women considered a sign of beauty and also an essential part of the appearance general. Many women take special care
Advert & Popular Posts
The Indian Diet Plan to Lose Weight
How to Treat Acne Quickly with Green Tea
Health Benefits of Banana (Kela)
Recent Search
white bumps on the vagina lips
apple cider vinegar uses for piles boldsky malayalam
kannam kundaga exercise
badam pisin side effects in tamil
badam pisin benefits and side effects
badam pisin uses for skin
motion4oh
tamil auntykalai opathu eppadi picture
epic mycenturahealth or/mch/billing/guestpay
auntyai correct pannuvadhu eppadi
tamil auntykalai opathu eppadi vedios
unripe pineapple health benifit
kahulugan ng isda sa panaginip
vasambu for face in tamil
settlerspkb
Sitemap
Contact
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
DMCA Notice & Policy
Copyright © 2019 HealthRemediesforLife.com.
==[Click 2x to CLOSE X]==
Trending Posts!
The Indian Diet Plan to Lose Weight 100 views
How to Treat Acne Quickly with Green Tea 100 views