print 10 Myths about HIV and AIDS You Must Know – Diseases For All
News
Fashion
Gadgets
Lifestyle
Video
Homepages
Homepage – Fashion
Homepage – Blog
Homepage – Video
Homepage – Tech
Homepage – Sport
Homepage – Full Post Featured
Homepage – Infinite Scroll
Homepage – Newspaper
Homepage – Newsmag
Homepage – Magazine
Homepage – Loop
Homepage – Big Slide
Homepage – Less Images
Diseases For All
Discover The Health Great News
Blog
Forums
Contact
Purchase Theme
Blog
Forums
Contact
Purchase Theme
Uncategorized
print 10 Myths about HIV and AIDS You Must Know
June 16, 2015
Myth #1
There is no need to use a condom during sexual contact if both partners already have HIV.
Fact:
There are different strains of HIV. If a condom is not used during sexual contact, HIV-infected partners may exchange different types or strains of HIV. This can lead to re-infection, which will make the treatment of HIV infection more difficult. The new HIV strain may become more resistant to the current treatment taken, or cause the current treatment option to be ineffective.
Myth #2
Homosexual men and drug users are more likely to get infected with HIV than other people.
Fact:
In Singapore, 90% of all HIV infections occur through sexual intercourse. Out of these, 60% result from heterosexual intercourse. HIV is spread mostly through unprotected sexual contact and does not discriminate against anyone. It is not who you are but your risky behaviours which put you at risk of HIV infection. Regardless of your personality or sexuality, you will be at risk if you don’t take protective measures.
Myth #3
Getting HIV/AIDS is a death sentence.
Fact:
Although HIV/AIDS has no cure, it can be treated. There has been tremendous progress in treatment for HIV over the years. A person living with HIV/AIDS can now continue to live a strong and productive life for many years.
Myth #4
My partner tested negative for HIV. That means it is safe for us to have sex.
Fact:
An HIV test works by detecting the presence of antibodies in the body that develop when HIV infects the body. But it takes about three weeks for there to be enough antibodies for detection. In addition, to be sure that the individual is completely HIV-free, it is not enough to have one negative HIV test result – the individual would need to take another HIV test at least 3 months after the first one. He or she must also avoid any risky sexual activities in that whole period. If the second test result is negative, the individual is HIV-free and able to have sex without spreading HIV.
Myth #5
An HIV-positive person who receives antiretroviral treatment will not spread the virus.
Fact:
Antiretroviral therapy can reduce the amount of HIV in the body. However, HIV remains in the body and can be transmitted to others.
Myth #6
Faithful and loving partners do not spread HIV.
Fact:
You may think that your partner has been faithful and loving to you, and will not spread the virus. But what if your partner doesn’t know that he already has HIV? A person can be HIV-positive for years without symptoms. Besides, how sure are you about your partner’s sexual history? Also, HIV can be transmitted through non-sexual activities — such as blood transfusions and the sharing of injection needles — regardless of whether he or she has remained faithful. To be safe, use a condom during sex, and get your partner and yourself tested for HIV.
Myth #7
HIV infections can be cured by having sex with a virgin.
Fact:
There’s no cure for HIV/AIDS. However, HIV can be treated and a person who goes on treatment will be able to live a strong and productive life. By having unprotected sex with a virgin or anyone else for that matter, the person with HIV/AIDS can transmit the virus, which is irresponsible. In Singapore, it is against the law for someone with HIV/AIDS not to inform his or her partner of their risk of HIV infection.
Myth #8
HIV/AIDS cannot be transmitted during oral sex.
Fact:
Transmission of HIV occurs when there is an exchange of body fluids (such as semen, vaginal fluids, breast milk, blood or pre-ejaculatory fluids), and this is possible during oral sex when there are open wounds. These include cuts, sores or abrasions in the mouth or gums, or infections in the throat or mouth that are inflammed. There may also be abrasions or sores on the penis or vagina. It is best to avoid oral sex if you have any cuts, sores or abrasions, or if you have a sexually transmitted infection. Otherwise, it is advisable to use condoms when engaging in oral sex.
Myth #9
HIV can be spread during contact with saliva, such as through kissing or the sharing of utensils.
Fact:
HIV may be found in saliva, but it is in too small an amount to infect anyone.
Myth #10
HIV can be spread through non-sexual physical contact such as hugging, handshakes, sharing toilet seats, and from mosquito bites.
Fact:
HIV can only be transmitted through an exchange of body fluids. It cannot be spread through physical contact unless you have an open wound which comes into contact with the body fluids (semen, vaginal fluids, breast milk, blood or pre-ejaculatory fluids) of an HIV-positive person. Body fluids such as saliva, sweat and tears cannot transmit HIV. Also, as the virus cannot survive in insects, HIV cannot be transmitted through mosquito bites.
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
By admin No Comments
Related Posts
Thyroid Cancer Patients Face Increased Risk of Second Cancer
February 16, 2018
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Name *
Email *
Website
Comment
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Recent Posts
Apr 21, 2018 John Hopkins List of Foods High in Protein Plant Based Food Diet
Apr 19, 2018 1,200-Calorie, Low-Carb Diet Meal Plan Best Low Carb And Meal Plan Of 2018
Mar 21, 2018 Keto Diet for Women: How to Make It Work + Tips to Overcome Side Effects
Mar 21, 2018 The Weird History of the Keto Diet
Mar 20, 2018 Keto and Conception: What You Need to Know
Archives
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
March 2017
April 2016
March 2016
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2014
August 2013
Categories
ARTHRITIS
AUTISM
Banting
Bariatric Surgery
Bipolar
Blogs
Brain Tumor
Breast Cancer
Business
Cerebral Palsy
Cervical Cancer
Coeliac
Colon Cancer
COPD
DEPRESSION
Diabetes
Diet
ENDOMETRIOSIS
epilepsy
Fashion
Featured
FIBROMYALGIA
Gadgets
GASTRIC
GLAUCOMA
GLOBAL NEWS
Health & Fitness
IBS
Ketogenic
Ketogenic Diet
kidney
Leukemia
Lifestyle
Low Carb
Low Carb Diet
LUNG CANCER
LUPUS
Lyme
LYMPHOMA
Menopause
MIGRAINE
MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS
New Look 2015
PANCREATIC CANCER
Psoriasis
Recipes
Scoliosis
Street Fashion
Stroke
Style Hunter
thyroid
Travel
ULCERATIVE COLITIS
Uncategorized
Video
Vogue
Weight Loss
Savona Theme by Optima Themes
%d bloggers like this: