Processed Meat Increases Colorectal Cancer Risk
Search
HomeInfo
About Dr. Carney
Care Philosophy
Curriculum Vitae
PlantPure TV Interview
Health Articles
Contact Us Information
Frequently Asked Questions
Children's Health Questions
Disease Specific Questions
Exercise Questions
Men's Health Questions
Nutrition Questions
Weight Loss Questions
Women's Health Questions
News and Events Calendar
Obesity Trends Data
Recipe Sharing
Meal
Breakfast
Lunch
Snack
Cuisine
American
Type
Entree
Search Dr. Carney Site
Starch-Smart® System
Starch-Smart® System PDF
Starch-Smartish
Starch-Smart®
Starch-Smarter
Starch-Smartest
From Sun to Plant to Plate
Beans, Greens, Squash and Yams
ActsActivities
Medical Practice
AllMedPhysicians, pLLC
Medical Supervision
Dr. Carney Recommends Health Retreats
How Medical Supervision Works
Mar. 2013 at Balcones Springs
Sep. 2012 at Balcones Springs
Apr. 2012 Kalani Resort Hawaii
Sep. 2011 at Travaasa Resort
Feb. 2011 at Travaasa Resort
Sep. 2010 at Travaasa Resort
Mar. 2010 at Travaasa Resort
Public Speaking
Acne, Athletics & Academics
Cancer Survival Strategies
Overcoming Addictions
Womens Health
Handout Materials
Video Presentations
Why We Do What We Do?
Diabetes in Retreat
Best Blood Pressure Plan
Cancer Prevention & Women's Health
Perfect Health Requires Perfect Circulation
Ask the Doc!
Six DVDs Bundle
Food Coaching
Half Hour Consult
One Hour Consult
BlogPostings
Admin's Blog
Doctor's Blog
Member's Blog
Science Blog
Bloggers
Blog Categories
Blog Tags
ClubCommunity
Login
Registration
Inbox
Composer
Archives
Profile
Edit Profile
Edit Privacy
Edit Notifications
My Albums
Create Album
Groups
Create Group
Users
Followers
Events
Create Event
Videos
Create Video
All Albums
Leaderboard
DataScience
Disease Conditions
Disease Classifications
Body Systems
Body Parts
Measurable Results
Lifestyle Choices
Drug Medications
GemsSuccess
Allergy Success
Anemia Success
Autoimmune Success
Blood Pressure Success
Cancer Success
Cholesterol Success
Diabetes Success
Fatigue Success
Gastrointestinal Success
Hormonal Success
Pain Success
Weight Loss Success
Womens Health Success
HelpResources
Information
Getting Started
Books of Interest
Videos of Interest
People of Interest
Kitchen Tools
Cooking Devices
Preparation Devices
Spiritual Emphasis
Books
Participation
Online Programs
Online Forums
Live Seminars
Live-in Programs
ShopStore
Amazon Shopping Cart
Amazon Storefront
Books
Cookbooks
Lifestyle
Nutrition
Self Help
Weight Loss
Cookware
Blenders
Cutlery & Accessories
Electric Cookware
Pots & Pans
Videos
Cooking Videos
Documentaries
Lectures & Seminars
Dr. Carney Food Coaching
Half Hour Consult
One Hour Consult
Dr. Carney's Videos
Why We Do What We Do?
Diabetes in Retreat
Best Blood Pressure Plan
Cancer Prevention & Women's Health
Perfect Health Requires Perfect Circulation
Ask the Doc!
Six DVDs Bundle
TalkDiscussion
Start a Discussion
Forum Categories
Forum Tags
Loading cover... Drag cover to reposition
drcarney
Staff
Timeline
About
Friends
Albums
Videos
Audio
More
Followers
Pages
Events
Groups
Polls
Calendar
Feeds
Notes
Tasks
Blog
Comments
Discussions
DrCarney.com Blog
Categories
Tags
Authors
Calendar
Subscribe to blog
Unsubscribe from blog
Settings
Sign In
If you are new here, Register
Username
Password
Remember me
Login
Forget Username
Reset Password
Font size: &plus; –
Subscribe to this blog post Unsubscribe
Report
Print
4 minutes reading time (739 words)
Processed Meat Increases Colorectal Cancer Risk
Health Issues Condition Related
Linda Carney MD
May 31, 2017
3875 Hits
0 Comments
Colorectal cancer is a major public health burden, with 1.4 million new cases diagnosed worldwide in 2012 and over 130,000 new persons expected to develop the disease in 2017 in the United States. Many factors have been attributed as possible causes of colorectal cancer, including poor dietary choices and chemical carcinogens. Generous intake of processed meat products have been identified as part of the dietary factors that promote the development and growth of cancerous cells in the large intestine.
Evidence Against Processed Meats
Processed meats refer to red meat that has been transformed through processes, such as curing, salting, fermenting, and smoking, to improve the quality of its flavor or enhance its preservation. Some common examples of processed meat products include hot-dogs, bacon, ham, sausage, and deli meats. The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), a division of the World Health Organization (WHO) recently classified processed meats as a Group 1 carcinogen. The significance of this classification is that processed meat products are grouped together in the same category as alcohol and smoking as one of the definite causes of different forms of cancer, including colorectal cancer.
In addition to the International Agency for Research on Cancer's (IARC) classification of processed meats as a definite carcinogen, numerous research studies have also provided strong evidence on the colorectal cancer-promoting action of processed meats. The findings of a 2011 meta-analysis conducted by a team of experts at the World Cancer Research Fund (WCRF) revealed that consistent consumption of processed meats increased the risk of developing colorectal cancer by 17%. In another study, a team of researchers from the University of Toulouse, France examined the dietary data and estimated the colorectal cancer risk of a large cohort of subjects. They investigators found out that high consumers of processed meats had 20-50% higher colorectal cancer risk than rare- or non-consumers of these types of meat products.
Processed Meats Stimulate Cancerous Cells Development
Colorectal cancer is a disease that directly results from the serial accumulations of genetic alterations in the epithelial cells lining the colon and rectum. These genetic mutations are stimulated by a potent group of human carcinogens, including N-nitroso-compounds (NOCs). Humans can be exposed to high levels of NOCs by exogenous route through regular consumption of processed meats, such as grilled bacon and smoked meat, and endogenously via the conversion of heme and nitrite found in high amounts in processed meats in the gut. NOCs are alkylating agents that react with DNA and disrupt the DNA synthesis mechanism, resulting in abnormal DNA replication. The distortion of the DNA synthesis mechanism by NOCs accelerates the development and growth of cancerous cells and tumors in the colon and rectum.
Processed Meat Products Not Part of Healthy Diet
Munching a delicious piece of hot-dog, ham, bacon, sausage, or deli meat might trigger a pleasant sensation in your taste buds, but it might also stimulate the growth of cancerous cells and tumors in your colon and rectum. Of course, you do not want to be among the millions of people suffering from colorectal cancer worldwide. Processed meat products should have no place in your diet if you want to live out your full life expectancy in good health devoid of colorectal cancer. Every bite of a processed meat product you take may put you at greater risk of developing this deadly cancer.
Additional Information:
(1) Colorectal Cancer Statistics from World Cancer Research Fund International
(2) World Health Organization Says Processed Meat Causes Cancer
(3) ACS Guidelines on Nutrition and Physical Activity for Cancer Prevention
(4) Processed meat and cancer – what you need to know
(5) Red and Processed Meat and Colorectal Cancer Incidence: Meta-Analysis of Prospective Studies
(6) Processed meat and colorectal cancer: a review of epidemiologic and experimental evidence.
(7) DNA alkylation and DNA methylation: cooperating mechanisms driving the formation of colorectal adenomas and adenocarcinomas?
(8) Download American Cancer Society's Colorectal Cancer Facts & Figures 2017-2019
Scroll Down Page to Leave Comments
Need Support?
Have we got a group for you! Join, or create, a Starch-Smart® Support Group and connect with like-minded community members today.
One Hour Phone Consult with Dr. Carney
Telephone Food Coaching Sessions with Linda Carney MD
Due to demand for nutritional advice, Dr. Carney's offers Starch-Smart® System "Dietary Care Extraordinaire" Food Coaching telephone sessions. The first sessions is always one hour. Subsequent sessions can be thirty minutes or one hour:
Click Here For 60 Minute Food Coaching Session
Please Note: Food Coaching sessions are not medical appointments and are not intended to replace your own physician. No tests will be ordered and no prescriptions will be provided.
Tweet
0
Tags:
Bacon Sausage Ham Processed Meats Colorectal Cancer
Alcohol Intake Boosts Gout Risk
Breast Cancer Risk Increases with Alcohol Consumpt...
About the author
Linda Carney MD
(3910 Points)
Achievements
Dr. Carney helps patients prevent and reverse disease through balanced lifestyle changes, including implementing an anti-inflammatory, high fiber, nutrient dense plant-based, Starch-Smart diet.
Author's recent posts
More posts from author
September 7, 2018 Reduce Cancer Risk With Cruciferous Vegetables
September 6, 2018 Red Meat Increases Stroke Risk
August 30, 2018 Fruits and Vegetables Lower Chronic Disease Risk
Related Posts
Dietary intake of fiber and decreased risk of cancers of the colon and rectum: evidence from the combined analysis of 13 case-control studies.
Colorectal Cancer
Higher intake of carotenoid is associated with a lower risk of colorectal cancer in Chinese adults: a case-control study.
Colorectal Cancer
An updated review of the epidemiological evidence that cigarette smoking increases risk of colorectal cancer.
Colorectal Cancer
Cigarette smoking and colorectal cancer mortality in the cancer prevention study II.
Colorectal Cancer
Risk of colorectal cancer associated with active smoking among female teachers.
Colorectal Cancer
Three Reasons to Eat a Low-Fat Vegan Diet
Condition Related
Comments (0)
Rated 0 out of 5 based on 0 voters
Oldest First
Newest First
Most Likes
There are no comments posted here yet
Leave your comments
Posting comment as a guest. Sign up or login to your account.
Username or Email address
Password
Login to my account →
Name (Required)
Email (Required)
Background
Rate this post:
Reset Rating
Share Location
Attachments (0 / 3)
Share Your Location
Also subscribe me to this thread
Agree to	terms and condition.
Cancel
Submit Comment
Load More
Bloggers
Research Summaries
Research Team that works on the Science Health Research Summaries and other research projects.
Linda Carney MD
Dr. Carney helps patients prevent and reverse disease through balanced lifestyle changes, including implementing an anti-inflammatory, high fiber, nutrient dense plant-based, Starch-Smart diet.
Sean Carney
Sean Carney has been an Internet enthusiast since the very early 1990's and his initial interest in the Internet was as a way to disseminate good health information. Now many years later not much has changed! He still be...
Amazon Store
The Amazon storefront is here to help people find useful resources. This helps fund Dr. Carney's web activities through commissions earned. Some products may not be Dr. Carney approved due to Amazon search generated resu...
Ken Thomas
Self-taught career electronics engineer and professional student of School of Heuristic Electronics Technology. Owner and president of Electric Perfection, www.electricperfection.com producing High-End Audiophile Ampl...
Deborah
Eating a low-fat, gluten-free whole foods vegan diet since 1985.
Comments
Linda Carney MD posted a comment in Diet Linked to Heart Disease Reduction During War
Grateful for your perspective and your hyperlink, Julia. Thank you! Dr. Carney
Monday, 24 September 2018 23:55
Deborah posted a comment in Diet Linked to Heart Disease Reduction During War
Thanks for that resource Julia! Nice one! :-)
Friday, 21 September 2018 18:01
Julia N Danforth posted a comment in Diet Linked to Heart Disease Reduction During War
Wayne, The interpretation of better methods of diagnosis was considered as a possible reason for th...
Friday, 21 September 2018 16:27
Linda Carney MD posted a comment in "Die Sooner with Good Looking Numbers"
Hi Joan, The science on plant sterols is not convincing enough for me to recommend them in suppleme...
Friday, 21 September 2018 02:12
Joan M Tuttle Vargas posted a comment in "Die Sooner with Good Looking Numbers"
Dr. Carney, How do you feel about treating high cholesterol by supplementing a largely WFPB diet wit...
Tuesday, 18 September 2018 03:55
Wayne Martin posted a comment in Diet Linked to Heart Disease Reduction During War
Link to graph shows that the axis on the left is deaths per 10,000. So the drop is from 30 per 10,00...
Friday, 17 August 2018 16:51
Linda Carney MD posted a comment in Which is Better, Raw or Cooked Broccoli?
Steamed is better for overall digestion and absorption of nutrients.
Friday, 17 August 2018 01:20
Sean Carney posted a comment in Which is Better, Raw or Cooked Broccoli?
Hello Denise, So sorry for a slow response. I am going to ask my wife what she thinks about this. M...
Friday, 17 August 2018 00:18
Denise Rose posted a comment in Which is Better, Raw or Cooked Broccoli?
Dr. Carney, If we are going to cook some broccoli or other cruciferous veggie (not deepfried), I un...
Tuesday, 14 August 2018 01:21
Denise Rose posted a comment in Starch-Smart®
Ken, I totally agree with you. I probably know more junk food vegans than WFPB eaters.
Friday, 10 August 2018 23:16
Top Rated
From Survive to Thrive: Patty's Cancer Journey
Success Stories
I followed Dr. Carney's blogs online for a long time before making my first appointment. Three years earlier I had become plant based due to a breast cancer diagnosis. That was an adjustment. I f...
5 comments
Read More
Eating Chicken Promotes Male Feminization
Science Inspired
What are Phthalates? Consuming foods that contain Phthalates during pregnancy promotes genital abnormalities in male infants. Phthalates are chemical compounds that are used in a wide range of c...
0 comments
Read More
Linda Carney MD Interview by Lee Fulkerson Director of Forks Over Knives for PlantPure Summit
Admin Categories
Linda Carney MD
Dr. Carney was privileged to be interviewed by Lee Fulkerson, director of Forks Over Knives, during PlantPure Summit 2016. She was one of many excellent speakers. Her interview is embedded b...
0 comments
Read More
Mission Statement
To Promote and Encourage the Prevention and Reversal of Disease Through Personal Implementation of Practical Lifestyle Measures by Providing Starch-Smart® Health Education!
Medical Practice
AllMedPhysicians pLLC
New Patient Portal Registration
New Patient Printed Paperwork
Medical Records Authorization
Current Patient Portal Login
Patient Log Files (Excel)
Patient Log Files (PDF)
Patient Testimonials
Frequently Used
Health Articles
Getting Started
News and Events
Search DrCarney.com
Starch-Smart® System
Starch-Smart® System PDF
Frequently Asked Questions
My Videos
Perfect Health Requires Perfect Circulation
Cancer Prevention & Women's Health
Why We Do What We Do?
Best Blood Pressure Plan
Diabetes in Retreat
Ask the Doc!
Six DVDs Bundle
Site Access
Login
Register
Sitemap
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Food Coaching
Half Hour Consult
One Hour Consult
My Other Sites
AllMedPhysicians, pLLC.
Veggievore Store
Starch-Smart
Featured Columnist
This web site is provided for informational purposes only and does not contain medical advice or create a Physician/Patient relationship. Please do not use information from this site to diagnose and/or treat any sickness or disease. Changing to a whole-food, plant-based, no-oil, low-fat dietary regime may significantly reduce the need for medications. Please consult a knowledgeable Physician to help guide you through the transition.
Many opinions expressed on this site are from our Helpful Sharing Starch-Smart® Community members who do not represent Linda Carney MD, AllMedPhysicians, pLLC., All Plant Foods, LLC., or Sean Carney.
Copyright © 2013-2018
AllMedPhysicians, pLLC
& All Plant Foods, LLC
0
Edit Done
Clear
No conversations available
Start a new chat
Connect with your social accounts
Sign in with Facebook
Sign in with Twitter
Login with your account
Username:	Forget Username
Password:	Forget Password
Keep me logged in
Login
Register For An Account Today
Archive
Mark as read
Delete
Delete Conversation Cancel	Yes
All
Online Friends
Drop your files here
(angry)
8)
:)
(heart)
:3
:x
:(
;(
:P
:o
(confuse)
;)
(:|
|:)
(devil)
:$
(think)
:D
:z
(nerd)
Detecting current location ...
Send Message
Chats
Contacts
Settings