10 Great Health Centric Holiday Gift Ideas - Origin Salt
Skip to content
FREE LIMITED TIME GIFT WHEN YOU SPEND $75 OR MORE
FREE LIMITED TIME GIFT WHEN YOU SPEND $75 OR MORE
Shop
Blog
F.A.Q.
About us
Wholesale
Contact
Login
Cart / $0.00 0
No products in the cart.
0
Cart
No products in the cart.
Uncategorized
10 Great Health Centric Holiday Gift Ideas
Posted on October 25, 2017 November 15, 2017 by Origin Salt
It’s that time of the year again.
The smell of evergreen trees in the air, the cold sets in, and everyone is both a little bit happier that it’s the holidays while simultaneously freaking out because they haven’t bought their gifts yet…and Christmas is just around the corner.
By the way, you are ready….aren’t you?
Of course, you are. I’m sure you charted out a list, pre-planned, and purchased gifts for friends and family alike ages ago just like you had talked about doing last year.
…You didn’t buy your gifts yet, did you?
Don’t freak out because we’ve got you covered with some super cool and interesting Christmas gift ideas that would make anyone happy.
Each of the gifts below is original, useful, and offers awesome health benefits too. We hope you like them.
10 Great Health-Centric Holiday Gift Ideas
1. Himalayan pink salt
We had to start with the classic– Himalayan pink salt.
For those unfamiliar, Himalayan salt has several surprising and significant benefits, including increasing energy and reducing allergens.
But Himalayan pink salt isn’t just healthy for you, it tastes great as a table salt alternative and looks beautiful too.
Get a jar of our Himalayan salt here: Edible Himalayan Salt Jar
2. Organic Kombucha Starter Kit
Heard of Kombucha yet? If not, you will soon (or you have now? Yeah…).
Kombucha is quickly gaining popularity and it’s no surprise why. Being a fermented tea, Kombucha is high in a particularly powerful antioxidant called DSL (short for–deep breath– D-saccharic acid-1,4-lactone) and Vitamin C.
In addition, it has the ability to detoxify the body and protect the cells against damage, increase immune function, and reduce inflammation.
This little starter kit gives you literally everything you need to brew your first batch of this amazing wonder tea.
Get it here: The Organic Kombucha Starter Kit
3. Himalayan salt shot glasses
Yes, you heard that right. Himalayan salt shot glasses.
Seriously, you want unique? Have friends that love to drink (consciously, of course…)? This is something you can guarantee no one will have already got them this year.
The cool part about these Himalayan salt shot glasses is you don’t have to worry about mixing salt– the salt is already in the glass itself (obviously) and you can taste it when you place your mouth on it.
How cool is that?
Get it here: Himalayan Salt Shot Glasses
4. Himalayan salt night light
Yes, we’re going from shot glasses to night lights.
We thought it was a great idea too, thanks for saying so.
Seriously, though, night lights are nearly essential for parents with young children so they make great gifts for any of your friends or family who are budding parents.
But, more than just being a simple night light, this is like a night light and a Himalayan salt lamp put together, so it won’t just light up the little one’s room but also help cleanse the air, reduce allergens, and help improve sleep quality for baby among other great benefits which makes it a killer Christmas gift for parents-to-be.
Get it here: Himalayan Salt Night Light
5. Self-Watering Organic Herb Kit
Voted one of Oprah’s favorites of 2015, self-watering organic herb planters are one of those ideas everyone wishes they had thought of– but didn’t.
For those you know might be interested in getting into gardening, this is the perfect kit to get them started. You can pick organic mint, parsley, basil, and more, they’ll set it up somewhere in their home with decent lighting and barely ever have to tend to it (that means no more repeatedly killing their plants– and you get to say you’re welcome).
On top of that, the colorful jars make for great decoration, especially in the sunlight.
Get it Here: Self-Watering Organic Herb Kit
6. Himalayan salt plate
Did you think we were done with zany and original Himalayan salt-related gift ideas? Nope.
If you’re wondering, yes this is actually a plate you can eat off of. However, it’s more common than you might think within the professional cooking world.
Similar to the shot glasses earlier, this is awesome because the Himalayan salt on the plate actually serves a function– in this case, the sale soaking into what is being cooked on top of it– so it can be the perfect compliment to dishes like fish and steak (hence why high-end chefs have been seen both cooking on and serving from salt blocks like this).
For those aspiring foodies or chef friends? Check.
Get it here: Himalayan Salt Plate
7. Essential Oil Pendant
Essential oils are huge right now.
If you haven’t already heard of them, you’re bound to soon because they’ve taken off due to their several reported therapeutic health benefits (and all you have to do is smell them!).
This pendant not only gives off the scent from various essential oils that can be placed inside (and easily changed), it looks awesome too. No use bothering taking time out of your busy schedule to benefit from this powerful health remedy, just reload your pendant and be on your way.
Get it Here: Essential Oil Pendant
8. Original Himalayan Salt Lamp
We couldn’t make this list without including the original Himalayan salt lamp. But you probably saw that coming, didn’t you?
We’ve mentioned a few of the incredible health benefits already, but the thing is, the various benefits to air quality that a Himalayan salt lamp provides (among other benefits) is a big deal and it’s becoming more important by the day as air quality in cities everywhere around the globe become worse.
And that’s not to mention their ability to increase energy and improve sleep quality, both critical in a world where we’re encouraged to overwork and under sleep.
But, honestly, I’d give them as gifts just based on how dang pretty they are.
Get it here: Himalayan Salt Lamp
9. Unique Himalayan Salt Lamps
Followed us for some time? Already a Himalayan salt lamp aficionado? That’s cool, so are we, so we went out and made a bunch of super cool and totally original new Himalayan salt lamps you’ve never seen before.
Like these, which look beautiful outside on your porch or backyard for a more earthy feel:
Decorated Salt Lamp
Lantern Style Basket Lamp
Pillar Basket Lamp
And these uniquely-shaped salt lamps that offer a more modern appeal for indoors:
Pyramid Salt Lamp
Sphere Salt Lamp
Himalayan Salt Glass Lamp
10. USB salt lamp
OK, so we had to separate this last one because it’s just that awesome.
We’ve shown you a lot of amazing, original, and useful gift ideas so far and all with great health benefits. We’ve also, obviously, shown you a lot of awesome Himalayan salt lamps.
However, the USB salt lamp is like the past…and the future…combined. Head explodes.
With this USB salt lamp, you can get the incredible benefits of this 250-million-year-old mineral wherever you go (especially if you work from your computer) simply by plugging in the USB directly to your laptop.
Seriously, it’s a mobile Himalayan salt lamp. Talk about awesome?
Get it here: USB Himalayan Salt Lamp
No matter what you decide to get for your loved ones this year, we hope you have a happy, healthy, and joy-filled holiday.
Happy holidays!
This entry was posted in Uncategorized. Bookmark the permalink.
Origin Salt
Do Himalayan Salt Lamps Really Work?
7 Certain Signs Your Himalayan Salt Lamp Is A Fake
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Cart
Search your favorite items!
Search
Product Categories
Select a category Accessories Bath Himalayan Lamps Home Decor Candles Humidifiers Lamps Tapestries Kitchen Misc
We are a proud Company and strive to provide 5 star customer service at all times. If you need immediate assistance with your order, please email us at info[at]originsalt.com.
We will return a response within 24 hours
Get Coupons & Promos
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Shipping Policy
Refund Policy
F.A.Q.
Copyright 2019 © Origin Salt *Standard messaging rates may apply, check with your phone carrier's plan. Legal Disclaimer: Our Products, including label and brochures have not been evaluated by the FDA and are not approved to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent disease. Origin Salt makes no warranty as to the accuracy of any information and disclaims all warranties express or implied. The information provided is intended for educational/informational purposes only. Any liability that arises therefrom is excluded to the fullest extend allowed by law. All content on this site is based of the opinions of the content writers. We take no responsibility for the accuracy of this information.
Shop
Blog
F.A.Q.
About us
Wholesale
Contact
Login
Newsletter
Login
Username or email address *
Password *
Remember me
Lost your password?
ENTER TO WIN A GIFT CARD
ENTER NOW
$100
Subscribe and Enter to Win
your GIFT CARD NOW!
No Purchase Necessary, See Official Rules
ENTER CONTEST NOW
Thank you for ENTERING!
The DRAWING IS MONTHLY
YOU'LL BE NOTIFIED VIA EMAIL CHECK IT DAILY!
ENTER TO WIN A GIFT CARD
ENTER NOW
$100
Subscribe and Enter to Win
your GIFT CARD NOW!
No Purchase Necessary, See Official Rules
ENTER CONTEST NOW
Thank you for ENTERING!
The DRAWING IS MONTHLY
YOU'LL BE NOTIFIED VIA EMAIL CHECK IT DAILY!