On Blood Thinners? 3 Innocent Mistakes That Could Interfere With Your Medication | Autoimmune Answers: Understanding Antibody Management
Home
Search
On Blood Thinners? 3 Innocent Mistakes That Could Interfere With Your Medication
29 April 2016
Categories: Health & Medical , Blog
If you're on prescription medications to thin your blood, you may have to undergo routine blood testing to monitor your INR level. INR stands for International Normalised Ratio, and it measures your blood's ability to clot. If your level is too high, you can develop significant and serious bleeds. If it is too low, you may have a stroke or pulmonary embolism. If you take your medications as prescribed and get your blood tests without fail, your levels should stay in a therapeutic range. However, there are some things, innocent mistakes, that can affect your levels and interfere with your medication.
Eating Certain Foods
Blood thinners work by inhibiting your blood's ability to clot. They do so by interacting with the vitamin K that's in your body. If you eat too many foods that are rich in vitamin K, you may develop a low INR. You should never consume more than 60 to 80 micrograms of vitamin K per day. Foods to avoid include avocados, spinach, mayonnaise and tuna packed in oil.
Your level may also fluctuate if you make any sudden changes to your diet because these changes will influence the amount of vitamin K in your body. If you suddenly start eating a lot of vegetables or lentils, you may experience fluctuations. Being unable to eat is also a concern. You should also be careful when you're returning to a normal diet after surgery or an illness that made it difficult for you to eat.
Drinking Alcoholic Beverages
Alcohol can cause your levels to go high because it affects the way substances, like blood thinners, are metabolized in the liver. For this reason, drinking too much alcohol can make your level dangerously high. Grapefruit juice and grapefruit have similar effects, which is why they should not be consumed while taking a wide range of medications.
Taking Vitamin Supplements
Vitamin supplements, such as chamomile, garlic, ginger, ginseng and Saint John's wort among others, can interfere with your medication. Always talk to your doctor about any over-the-counter medications and supplements that you take before taking blood thinners.
As you can see, there are several innocent mistakes that can make your INR level too high. Therefore, it's very important for you to keep all of your appointments and get your blood tested regularly. Your doctor has to closely monitor you while you're on blood thinners to prevent any undesirable, and possibly serious, side effects. Contact a business, such as Gulf Shores Family Medicine, for more information.
Share
About Me
Despite the fact that autoimmune diseases have become increasingly common, the information about how to manage them has not. After being diagnosed with an autoimmune disease in mid-adulthood, I found myself confused by all of the conflicting information and the grand promises of things that would "reverse" my condition. I spent a lot of time researching what causes autoimmune diseases and the best ways to address the antibodies that cause them to flare. I've created this site to share what I've learned from both research and first-hand experience. I hope that the information here helps you understand your condition and how to deal with it to feel your best.
Search
Categories
blog health--medical
Archive
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Latest Posts
How Can You Best Prepare For LASIK? 15 March 2019
If you are considering LASIK, you likely know you …
Is Your Child's Nail-Biting Habit Ruining Their Digestion? 7 February 2019
Many children go through having an upset stomach, …
Opening A Convenience Store? Why You Need A Top Notch Inventory System 25 December 2018
Opening up a convenience store can be a very lucra …
Why An RN Staffing Site May Be Just What You Needed 19 November 2018
If you are a registered nurse (RN) or licensed pra …
What To Look For In An IV Pump For Your Clinic 9 October 2018
Even though you don't operate a full-blown hospita …
2019 © Autoimmune Answers: Understanding Antibody Management