electromagnetic fields Archives | Natural Health with Merrilyn Hope
Skip to content
Natural Health with Merrilyn Hope
Health, Alternative Medicine, Music, Political Opinion and so much more
Tag: electromagnetic fields
Restless Leg Syndrome Homeopathic Remedies
Natural Cures For Restless Leg Syndrome
While there are some good Homeopathic remedies, and other natural treatments for Restless Leg Syndrome, it is best to see your health professional if you are bothered by an on-going condition of restless legs. There may be a serious underlying cause, such as diabetes, or hypothyroidism with polyneuropathy, or iron deficiency resulting in anaemia, or varicose veins, poor circulation, or some other condition.
On the other hand, some medications which are being taken for some conditions may very well bring about the condition known as ‘Restless Leg Syndrome’. For example, H2 histamine blockers such as rantidine, known as ‘Zantac’, or cimetidine, known as ‘Tagamet’, and anti-depressants such as amitriptyline, known as ‘Elavil’, can cause restless leg syndrome. Even drugs like Warfarin, which is used in rat bat, can cause restless legs.
Herbicides and pesticides cause many disturbances of the human metabolism, including the agitation of the nervous system, which can result in restless leg syndrome: It is best to avoid using any chemical or poison unless it is absolutely necessary.
Electricity wires such as those shown above can cause restless leg syndrome. Sleeping next to an electricity meter box, or electrical wires in the wall, or having your cell phone near you, working for long periods near electrical wiring, or spending too many hours driving a car each day, can also cause the condition known as ‘restless leg syndrome’.
Too much alcohol and nicotine can cause restless leg syndrome, as can too much coffee. Alcoholics very often suffer from chronic restless leg syndrome, as well as from a general restlessness which causes them to pace about all the day. If alcohol is the problem, and you are addicted, then taking a Homeopathic remedy may not be of much help. You need to give up drinking. On the other hand, the right remedy could be conducive to your giving up the bottle.
And so you should check out your restless leg syndrome symptoms with your naturopath or homeopath, doctor, or other health professional.
However, for archival purposes, here are some natural treatments which I have found useful for improving the condition known as ‘Restless Leg Syndrome’. I have out-lined some of the common Homeopathic Remedies at the end of the list.
1. Take Exercise In A Natural Environment: I have found that whenever I have had the condition of ‘restless legs’, there has been an easy solution to the problem. More often than not, it is because I have not spent enough time ‘grounding’, or ‘earthing’ my body. And often, not enough exercise has been taken, such as walking or swimming. Not enough contact with the earth, or water, and not enough exercise, can cause restless legs.
Even before you try the homeopathic remedy which is best suited to you, it is a good idea to add some more exercise to your daily health regime, and also check out the other factors in this list, such as Electro-magnetic disturbances:
2. Electro-magnetic fields: Restless legs are usually one of the first symptoms of electro-magnetic build-up in the body. If you spend too long at a computer, on a cell-phone, or in a building where you are exposed to lots of electro-magnetic interference from electricity wires and appliances and other people’s cell-phones, and you spend too little time walking bare-feet in natural surroundings such as on the grass, then there is a very good chance that your restless leg syndrome may be a simple matter of electricity build-up.
Where your house and your bed are situated can have a bearing on restless leg syndrome. If there is a transformer at the gate, then you will have a higher radiation level about you then the house a few doors away: Living too close to power transformers and high tension wires, or cell-phone transmitters, can contribute to restless leg syndrome. If your bed is situated right next to power plugs, or light switches on the wall, then you will suffer electro-magnetic disturbances, which also will affect the energy running through your legs. Pull your bed away from meter boxes, fuse boxes, television sets, and all electrical wiring in the walls.
Solution To Disperse Electro-Magnetic Energy: Walk bare-feet on the cool, damp grass in the morning when there is still dew about. Take a swim, or a shower, or a bath.
3. Synthetic Sheets and Clothing: These can cause magnetic build-up in the body and cause your legs to be restless.
4. Colours Which Excite the Nerves, namely Red, Orange and yellow, can cause restless legs, especially if you are trying to sleep in sheets which have these stimulating colours. Choose preferably white or cream sheets, or very soft pastel shades of pink or lemon or mauve. Blue and Green are very cooling and soothing colours: Personally, I think that white or cream is best to sleep in, but you could experiment with blue and green PURE COTTON sheets to see if this helps you. You need to sleep in colours which soothe the nerves, not stimulate them, which is why you would avoid red or orange or yellow sheets.
5. To Counter-act Over-Stimulation of the Nerves, and remedy Electro-magnetic build-up in the body, whether it be from the wearing of synthetic fibres, or from the excessive use of gadgets such as computers, or cell-phones, all that is required is to walk bare-feet on the grass, or on a beach, so that the build-up of electricity is drawn into the ground.
6. Drink Plenty of Water. Water therapy, or ‘Hydro-therapy’, is another very good remedy for restless leg syndrome if the cause is electro-magnetic energy: Swimming, or taking a bath or a shower will disperse this surplus of electro-magnetic energy.
7. Magnesium Deficiency: This can cause restless legs with cramps. Not enough green vegetables in the diet can cause a magnesium deficiency. Eat more green vegetables and supplement the diet with Magnesium.
An easy remedy for magnesium deficiency is to take just a 1/4 teaspoon of epsom salts each morning in hot water. Epsom salts are very high in Magnesium.
8. Improve the Elimination of Toxins: Congested bowels can cause Restless Leg Syndrome. De-tox the body with Magnesium via the epsom salts: Just 1/4 teaspoon daily in water will help to clear toxins from the body and the intestines. Sluggish bowels and toxins in the body can be another reason why restless legs and cramps can be experienced.
Castor Oil Treatment: Another quick and effective remedy for removing toxins from the body is to take 2 tablespoons of castor oil in the morning with a cup of black coffee to follow. You might find that one dose of castor oil is enough to cure those restless legs. If you find that the castor oil helps, then repeat the dose once every week or two to help eliminate toxins and keep your blood pure. More raw salads and fruit will help also.
Some Restless Leg Syndrome Homeopathic Remedies which have proven helpful for some people are the following: NOTE – Homeopathic Remedies are often negated by coffee, and sometimes tea. Strong essential oils such as eucalyptus, or tea tree oil, clove oil, and other pungent preparations can negate the effect of a Homeopathic remedy. So it is important to avoid using these things whilst you are taking a Homeopathic remedy, otherwise you will spoil its effect.
Aconitum Napellus; This remedy is characterized by the sudden onset of symptoms. Getting chilled, and being in cold dry winds sometimes bring about the symptoms.
Arsenicum Album; This remedy is often characterized by a restlessness and deep sense of anguish which often comes on after midnight. The patient has a fear of suffocation and usually feels worse lying down. Often there is sweating with this remedy, and burning pain. The symptoms might also include pain and tightness in the chest, and a feeling of pressure about the head.
Avena Sativa; This Homeopathic remedy can be useful in giving the exhausted and nervous individual a deep, dreamless sleep.
Causticum; This remedy is often of benefit to people who have urinary troubles such as enuresis, or weak bladders which cause the involuntary passing of small amounts of urine.
Coffea; Homeopathic Coffea is a great natural sedative which may help if the patient is wide awake with no inclination to sleep. Coffea may help those who drink too much coffee: Homeopathic Coffea is derived from coffee. Of course, for the remedy to work, you need to avoid coffee for the duration of treatment with Homeopathic Coffea.
Ignatia;
Pulsatilla: This remedy is good for tearful, anxious individuals. If your restless leg syndrome is accompanied by feelings of sadness and remorse, then the Homeopathic remedy Pulsatilla may help.
Rhus Toxicodendron;
Sulphur; The Sulphur patient is restless and often sleeps in ‘cat-naps’, with frequent waking. Burning sensations often go with the Homeopathic remedy sulphur.
Zinc Metallicum.
You would use only one remedy, and use only a low potency, such as 6X, 6 C, 12X, 12C, or 30X or 30C.
Author MerrilynPosted on July 4, 2011 April 6, 2013 Categories HealthTags electrical wires, electromagnetic fields, homeopathy for restless leg syndrome, medications can cause restless leg syndromeLeave a comment on Restless Leg Syndrome Homeopathic Remedies
Cancer Risk From Cellphones And Electromagnetic Bombardment
Health Risks From Using CellPhones and Cordless Telephones
An international study into cellphones and cordless phones has shown that cell phones and cordless phones ‘are possibly carcenogenic’, says an article in New Zealand Herald, June 2nd 2011. But haven’t we heard this before?
The World Health Organization has recently met with 31 scientists. Their conclusions were that ‘radio-frequency magnetic fields from wireless phones were “possibly carcinogenic” to users’, according to the Herald article. This information was sourced via the International Agency for Research on Cancer.
The Degree of Harm of Cell-phones has conveniently been rated at a lower level 2B, which is ‘Possibly Carcinogenic”. The other items in the 2B list are: gasoline, carpentry, and pickled vegetables and coffee, of all things. These last two food items have been cleverly added to the list, I feel, to minimize the worry about cell phones. The addition of pickled vegetables and coffee to the risk-list would put the cell phone risk into a fairly harmless kind of a category: Of course, most of us drink coffee, and Sauerkraut pickled cabbage has been considered a health food for centuries.
But this is absolute nonsense to categorize cell phone risk with, say, sauerkraut and coffee. These last two are natural food items. There is nothing natural about the cell phone: ts forces are decidedly harmful and deleterious to human health, all animal life, and the general environment.
I wonder just who these WHO scientists work for, and what the driving force is behind the World Health Organization, and the International Agency for Research on Cancer. WHO is the same outfit which, about a year ago, approved scarves doused in insecticide for the purpose of keeping tea plantation workers free of mosquitoes and other mites. The unsuspecting tea workers were to wear these pesticide-soaked scarves about their necks, on their skin. All chemical insecticides are harmful to humans, just as they kill mosquitoes, as I am sure the consulting doctors of WHO are very much aware.
Most pesticides and herbicides are carcenogenic, and yet the WHO authorities approved the marketing of these pesticide scarves for the tea workers. Some chemical factory, somewhere in the world, will have gained profit from the sale of these chemical scarves to Sri Lanka, even if the WHO supplied them. (? I think it was Sri Lanka)
Is this minimizing of the effects of cell phones just another case like the cigarette smoking scam, where doctors were paid to endorse particular brands of cigarettes. Maybe – See the movie ‘Thankyou For Smoking’ with Aaron Erhardt. A very funny movie, but with the truth so obvious, it almost hurts….
Doctors in the old days when television began, were shown on American television, smoking their hearts out. “There is no evidence to show that smoking damages your health” one doctor said to the cameras, as he puffed on his fag whilst sitting at his desk in his surgery.
An increased risk of glioma, which is a type of brain cancer, was acknowledged at this WHO meeting, although it was decided that evidence was ‘considered limited’ for glioma and acoustic neuroma being related to cellphone and cordless phone usage. So what does this mean? – Effectively, that although cellphones and cordless phones were shown to increase the risk of glioma brain cancer, the authorities are choosing to ignore it.
We have all known about the cancer risk-cell phone link for some years now. What do these scientists need to establish that this is the case? There must be thousands of case studies to show that people who have used cell phones extensively over a period of time have developed cancer and other disease. I personally know several people who have had cancer of the ear as a result of using a cell phone. And yet, the WHO specialists STILL choose to ignore the evidence, whilst pretending concern.
An example of this feigned concern and innocence seems to be expressed in the statement which comes from Dr Jonathan Samet from the University of California, who is the head of the ‘International Agency for Research on Cancer’ itself. He has said: “The conclusion means that there could be some risk, and therefore we need to keep a close watch for a link between cellphones and cancer risk”. Have I a brain in my head? Is the Pope a Catholic?
It has been known, almost since cell phones were invented, that they have the propensity to cause cancer.
This article on the recent WHO research is another fob-off., suggesting that researchers are really working earnestly on the issue of cancer and cell phones……Research ‘points to cancer risk in wireless telephones’, quotes the newspaper, when actually this has been proved many years ago. Why not come right out with it and say affirmatively that “Cell Phones and Wireless Phones CAN and DO cause cancer”? – This article still leaves room for doubt, which is exactly the outcome which suits the makers and marketers of cellphones, and all those who profit from associated companies.
‘Research’ itself still benefits while there is any doubt on the issue of cancer and cell phones. Keep the doubt at the forefront of the argument, and you will continue to get funded for research. Simple.
Professor Alistair Woodward, from the Auckland University school of population health, has indicated that ‘there’s no sign of a lung cancer (and smoking) story). However, I suspect that there are similarities between cellphone research and cigarette research in that the marketers of both have kept information from the public.
Like the old cigarette scam – deny that there is any risk to health at all, for as long as you can. Then, when pressed, say that “it is possible”, so that people are not alarmed sufficiently to cause sales to cease. Keep going with this defence until finally there is no doubt that you are beaten.
Radiation causes cancer, and so do the radiations from cell phones, especially when they are constantly being put up close to the ears, eyes, and brain.
But it is not simply the device of the cell phone which is the danger to humankind. The transmitting devices which proliferate the planet now, are causing massive disturbances to our environment, as well as to all life on the planet.
Satellites are used to transmit electromagnetic waves through the air. If we could see this mish mash of invisible, but immensely destructive electromagnetic lines which are constantly zapping the air and skies about us, we would be horrified, and compelled to do something about it. But that is the thing – these electromagnetic waves are invisible, and so there is no real appreciation of the harm that they are doing, because ‘out of sight is out of mind’.
Even if you do not use a cellphone, you are at risk from the effect of cellphone radiation. Of course, if you DO use a cellphone, then you will be drawing these harmful waves to yourself, which will make you even more vulnerable than if you do not operate a cell phone or cordless phone.
These lines of electromagnetic energies are like bands of fire. They have the ability to irritate and burn, especially the eyes, ears and brain, which are particularly sensitive. They have the power to run telecommunications systems, but they also have the power to destroy human and animal life. Even if they do not cause cancer, other degenerative disease, such as multiple sclerosis, and Parkinson’s disease, or arthritis are more likely to occur when the body is exposed to radiations such as those from cellphones and other telecommunication technologies. The risk to the nervous system is huge.
In my own experience, radiations from cellphone transmitters has been incredibly damaging to my immune system. I believe that they have a definite propensity to cause depression and obesity in people, well before cancer and other degenerative disease sets in.
I believe that mankind needs to get cracking and address the issue of invisible bombardment from telecommunication systems, which includes the use of cell phones. This issue is almost as important as the need to rid the planet of all nuclear power plants and weaponry.
Note: For the record, the International Agency for Research on Cancer has stated Degrees of Hrm:
1. Causes cancer in humans (such as asbestos, tobacco smoking, ultraviolet radiation)
2A Probably Carcinogenic – Anabolic steroids, diesel engine exhaust, emissions from high temperature frying, shift-work which interferes with the body’s natural rhythms)
2B Possibly Carcinogenic: Gasoline, coffee, pickled vegetables, carpentry, wireless phones and cell phones.
3. Unclassified Cancer causers: Fluorescent lighting, tea, chromium.
Note: Radiation fallout does not show its face here as a carcinogen. Nor does alcohol, which recent studies in Australia or New Zealand have shown increases the risk of cancer. Nor do pesticides, or herbicides, many of which are proved as carcenogens.
Author MerrilynPosted on June 3, 2011 July 16, 2014 Categories HealthTags electromagnetic fields, radiation damages eyesightLeave a comment on Cancer Risk From Cellphones And Electromagnetic Bombardment
Bees Killed By Insecticide
New Pesticide is Destroying Hives
Read also: http://merrilynhope.com/colony-collapse-disorder/
About Neonicotinoid Pesticides:
In an article published just over a week ago, details of research, which proved bees are being threatened because of a new insecticide, were revealed. This research was done a year ago by the bee department of a US government research project.
Why weren’t these results made public two years ago, when the findings were made? Most likely because Bayer, the drug and chemical giant who first made the neonicotinoid class of insecticides, does not want to impair its huge profits. Somehow, they have managed to keep the new revelations under wrap – not that there is anything in these reports which anyone with a bit of commonsense could have deduced for themselves. But we always need to have the medical or scientific proof before anything is taken seriously, unfortunately.
The neonicotinoid pesticides, which are poured over soils all over the world in astronomical proportions, have produced astronomical proportions of profit for Bayer and the other firms who have jumped onto the bandwagon in manufacturing these pesticides. Without recourse to the newspaper article, I think that the profits were 350 Million POUNDS for last year, just from the sales of the neonicotinoid pesticide.
Neonicotinoid pesticides are a synthetic form of nicotine, which is deadly. We all know about the effects of nicotine on people. Nicotine affects the central nervous system, and so it is with the neonicotinoid class of pesticide: It affects the central nervous system of all insects, including bees. It affects all animal and human life as well.
Bees are especially vulnerable to pesticides being used on plants. They take it back to their hives in the pollen which they carry.
The new neonicotinoid pesticides are especially bad for bees. This class of drug gets into every part of the plant, including the pollen. Research has shown that even a microscopic amount of pesticide taken back to a hive causes the bees to become vulnerable to sickness. Neonicotinoids, and other chemicals too, cause the bees’ immune systems to be damaged, which makes them vulnerable to infection.
It is important not to use these potent chemicals in our gardens, or in commercial agriculture. Toxic pesticides are ruining the health of all life – humans, animals and bees. We need bees to ensure that plants get pollinated in order for them to reproduce. We need bees to help produce fruit and vegetables. Without bees, we will not be able to grow food.
When we, ourselves, eat foods which have been sprayed with neonicotinoids and other toxic chemicals, we ingest microscopic amounts of these chemicals into our systems. The neonicotinoids will have a deleterious effect on our nervous sytems, our immunity, and increase our chances of getting cancer. it is REALLY important to try and produce food yourself, if not, to buy organically grown food, and, for the sake of the planet and all creatures on it, to spread the knowledge to people that these insecticides are enormously damaging.
Read some of Merrilyn’s related posts on the subject of bees, mysterious viral diseases, and suchlike:
Bees Colony Collapse Disorder
Why Are NZ Kauri Trees Dying?
Can Brodifacoum Poison NZ Be Affecting Health of People And Killing Sea Gulls?
Minimum Dose In Homeopathy Proven As Effective
Author MerrilynPosted on January 29, 2011 July 2, 2013 Categories Environment, HealthTags electromagnetic fields, neonicotinoids, nicotine, nicotine affects central nervous system, pesticides, toxic chemicals1 Comment on Bees Killed By Insecticide
Iodine Heart Palpitations
Iodine Can Cause Heart Palpitations: Iodine is very necessary for good health and for the function of the thyroid gland.
Too much iodine, though, can result in heart palpitations if you use it too often or too much at a time. Heart palpitations are often a sign that you have too much of a chemical in your body, unless you are unfortunate enough to have some serious illness.
Sensitive people often get heart palpitations when they get within close proximity to any strong chemical. Even being near a quantity of homeopathic preparations, or herbal infusions, can give some people heart palpitations. Some people may be sensitive enough to experience heart palpitations by simply coming into contact with iodine. These people who are extremely sensitive will probably experience heart palpitations by getting too close to electricity power transformers or cell phones and other sources of electro magnetic energy and radiation. If you are one of these sensitive people, then it is probably best to avoid using liquid iodine.
Iodine sensitive people should not use iodine to regrow hair. Use kelp in your food instead, and eat more fish to get your daily iodine requirements. You need iodine to maintain a healthy thyroid, keep glandular functions normal, and to prevent goitre.
For Sensitive People Wishing To Regrow Hair: Drink oat straw tea to help hair growth, and have oatmeal porridge daily. These are both rich in silica, which helps hair growth. You can use oat straw tea as a rinse for your hair after washing. This combines well with using apple cider vinegar, which is a nutrient rich tonic for the hair.
Having candida, or yeast infection, can also cause heart palpitations, make you more sensitive to chemicals, and produce allergy reactions to some foods.
This is why, when using iodine to improve hair growth and treat hair loss and other conditions, we only need one or two dabs of the iodine on the scalp or the soles of the feet. Iodine is absorbed through the pores of the skin, which is why you do not need to paint iodine onto the skin every day. Once a week is probably enough for most people, especially for small children, who will only need one dab.
After two or three weeks of treatment for your hair loss, you could leave the iodine alone for a few weeks before doing another few weeks of iodine treatment.
Avoid using liquid iodine if you are having reactions to it.
Author MerrilynPosted on November 6, 2010 July 8, 2014 Categories HealthTags candida, electromagnetic fields, hair loss, iodine, iodine hair growth, regrow hairLeave a comment on Iodine Heart Palpitations
Ayurvedic Treatment for Hair Loss
Professional Ayurvedic Treatment for Hair Loss is recommended if you have an ongoing problem with hair falling out. However, there are several good ayurvedic treatments for hair loss which you can use as a preventative, and to help nourish your whole physical being, including your hair, bones, teeth and nails.
Hair loss, in Ayurvedic Medicine, is regarded as a Pitta condition. This means that more cooling foods should be eaten, and that heating foods should be restricted.
The Pitta idea is interesting, I think, because, in my experience, radiation from electromagnetic sources such as cell phone towers and the like, have caused hair loss whenever I have lived for a period of three months or so near electromagnetic disturbances. Electromagnetic energy definitely has a heating influence on the body. This is something you need to examine if you have ongoing bad health, your hair is growing thin, and you cannot fathom what the cause is.
Ayurvedic Diet for Hair Loss: Hair needs a good supply of calcium, zinc and magnesium for a start, so it is a good idea to eat more foods which supply these minerals if you want to maintain a good head of hair.
One of these such Aurvedic remedies which is high in calcium is Coconut. For treating hair loss, Coconut Oil, Coconut Milk, and the flesh of the coconut itself can all be used. Coconut is a very rich source of calcium, protein and fats, all of which benefit your hair growth.
Coconuts are a valued part of the daily diet in the South Pacific Islands, where people have marvellous heads of hair. Coconut milk is widely used in the Pacifica region as a protein and flavour enhancer for many dishes. It is also used as a baby food and as an invalid food. The oil of the coconut is used externally as a skin oil, and as a hair oil, to nourish the hair and the scalp.
Ayurvedic Medicine texts commonly recommend the use of coconut milk and flesh for helping restore hair growth:
One source recommends the inner milk of the young coconut to be drunk each day, half a cupful each day. (if you have high cholesterol, you should check with your doctor, or health professional before using cocnut milk in the diet)
Make up a coconut milk at home by blending together 1/2 cup grated coconut; 6 soaked almonds; 1 tablespoon sesame seeds; 1 cup warm water. This milk is good to drink. You can put it on your oatmeal porridge, which is also high in calcium, silica and other goodies which nourish the hair. You can massage some of this milk into the scalp at night. Leave the milk on the hair and wash out in the morning. This is a wonderful tonic for the hair: it helps regrowth and puts a great natural shine to the hair.
You can rub coconut oil into the scalp and into the soles of the feet. Leave on overnight. You absorb nutrients from the coconut oil through the soles of your feet, and these will find their way, via your bloodstream, to feed the roots of your hair. Remember to wear some old cotton or woolen socks to bed when you treat the soles of the feet with coconut oil.
Castor Oil is used in Ayurvedic Medicine to treat a variety of conditions, one of which is hair loss. Castor oil can be massaged into the scalp to help hair regrow. It is a good remedy to promote hair growth in babies and young children.
Castor oil can be rubbed onto the soles of the feet at night to improve the health of the hair. Put on those old socks so that your sheets do not get marked. Wash off the oil in the morning with soap.
Castor oil can also be taken internally to improve the condition of the hair. Taking 2 tablespoonsful in the morning on an empty stomach, twice weekly, will help your hair to regrow. This treatment will also improve your digestion, as taking castor oil internally reduces the toxins in the liver, and helps to flush out the gall bladder and the bowels.
Dairy, or Soy Milk Tonic
Drink 1 cup of your favorite milk which has been blended with 1 tsp ghee, 1 tsp sesame seeds, and 4 almonds. This is recommended for the health of the hair. You take this mixture each morning, as soon as you get up, and before you eat anything else.
Aloe Vera Juice
Taking a cup of aloe vera juice two or three times a day is another Ayurvedic remedy for hair loss. This is to be continued for 3 months.
Aloe Vera Juice can also be used externally, to massage into the hair and scalp. Leave on for 30 minutes before rinsing out.
Eat Pumpkin Seeds and Alfalfa Sprouts for Zinc nourishment. Eat a handful of sesame seeds each morning, unless you prefer to make up one of the above milk recipes with sesame. A handful of sesame seeds contains about 1200 mg of calcium. Eat plenty of the brassica family: these are cabbage, broccoli, brussels sprouts, kale – all these contain high amounts of calcium and magnesium. Eat carrots daily to provide you with Vitamin A.
You can supplement these home ayurvedic remedies with professionally applied shirobasti, which is an effective remedy for hair loss. See your ayurvedic professional about this.
A qualified ayurvedic professional can also apply nasya, which involves the application of special medicated oils into the nostrils.
Author MerrilynPosted on July 21, 2010 July 21, 2010 Categories HealthTags calcium, electromagnetic fields, electromagnetic radiation, hair growth, hair treatment, magnesium, oatmeal porridge, Pitta condition, regrow hair3 Comments on Ayurvedic Treatment for Hair Loss
Posts navigation
Page 1 Page 2 Next page
My New Book
Search this site
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
Babies Die In Samoa After Given MMR Vaccination July 2018
Bayer Agrees To Withdraw Essure Medical Device After Premiere of Netflix Documentary ‘The Bleeding Edge’, 2018
Book Feedback A Life of Natural Health
Dog Dies From Lymphoma Six Months After Eating RoundUp Spray
Food Glyphosate Levels From RoundUp Increased 500 Times Since 1994
Homeopathic Eupatorium Perfoliatum Its Uses And Sequences
Brodifacoum Pesticide Killing Birds In New Zealand
Shop-Bought Comfrey Is Ruined Medicinally, And Is Inedible
Is 1080 Responsible For Sick Cat, Dead Birds, Kaikorai Valley Dunedin
Breast Swelling Linked To Glyphosate Helped By Mustard Poultice
Recent Comments
mimsy on List Of Foods To Help Regrow Tooth Enamel
jacqui on Black Walnut For Restoring Tooth Enamel
steve bickel on Dog Dies From Lymphoma Six Months After Eating RoundUp Spray
Lavan on Breast Swelling Linked To Glyphosate Helped By Mustard Poultice
Norma on Home Made Hawthorn Remedies For Blood Pressure and Heart
Tag Cloud
alternative cancer remedies
arthritis
Calcium ascorbate
cancer
candida
castor oil
cholesterol
comfrey
constipation
depression
dr max gerson
electromagnetic fields
Environment
ginger
ginger roots
ginger tea
Gluten Free
gluten free recipes
glyphosphate
hair growth
herbal remedies
herbicides
high blood pressure
homeopathic remedies
homeopathy
immune system
intravenous vitamin C
iodine
measles mumps chicken pox
memory loss
natural remedies
obesity
osteoporosis
pesticides
roundup
round up weed killer
spiritual healing
toxic chemicals
vaccination alternatives
vaccinations
varicose veins
vitamin A
vitamin c
walter last
yoga breathing
Natural Health with Merrilyn Hope Proudly powered by WordPress