Mosquito Bite | Canton, GA | DV Pediatrics
2920 Marietta HWY, Suite 142
Canton, GA 30114
Phone: 770-704-0057
Fax: 770-704-0223
2920 Marietta HWY, Suite 142 | | Canton, GA 30114 | 770-704-0057 | Hours | Map
Office Info
Welcome to DV Pediatrics!
New Patients
About Us
Our Staff
Insurance
Hospital
Notice of Privacy Practices (HIPPA)
Practice News
Forms
Forms
Policies
Services
Emergencies
Walk-Ins
After Hours
Well Visits
Sick Visits
Appointments
Virtual Visit
Meet Us
Vicki Knight-Mathis, MD
Lynnda Campbell, CRNP
Erin Brooke Sipe, CRNP
Is Your Child Sick? TM
Illnesses and Symptoms...... Abdominal Pain - Female Abdominal Pain - Male Acne Animal or Human Bite Antibiotics: When Do They Help? Arm Injury Arm Pain Asthma Attack Athlete's Foot Back Pain Bed Bug Bite Bee or Yellow Jacket Sting Blisters Boil Bottle-Feeding (Formula) Questions Breast-Feeding Questions Breath-holding Spell Bronchiolitis-RSV Bruises and Cuts Burn Chest Pain Chickenpox Circumcision Problems Colds Constipation Cough Coughs: Meds or Home Remedies? Cracked or Dry Skin Cradle Cap Croup Crying Baby - Before 3 Months Old Crying Child - 3 Months and Older Cut, Scrape, or Bruise Diaper Rash Diarrhea Diarrhea Diseases From Travel Dizziness Drinking Fluids - Decreased Dry Skin Ear - Congestion Ear - Discharge Ear - Pulling At or Rubbing Ear - Swimmer's Ear Infection Questions Ear Injury Earache Earwax Buildup Ebola Exposure Eczema Emergency Symptoms Not to Miss Eye - Allergy Eye - Foreign Object Eye - Pus or Discharge Eye - Red Without Pus Eye Injury Eye Swelling Fainting Fever Fever - How to Take the Temperature Fever - Myths Versus Facts Fifth Disease Finger Injury Fire Ant Sting Flu Fluid Intake Decreased Food Allergy Foreskin Care Questions Frostbite Genital Injury - Female Genital Injury - Male Hair Loss Hand-Foot-And-Mouth Disease (HFMD) Hay Fever Head Injury Head Lice Headache Heat Exposure and Reactions Heat Rash Hives Human or Animal Bite Immunization Reactions Impetigo - Infected Sores Infection Exposure Questions Influenza - Seasonal Influenza Exposure Insect Bite Jaundiced Newborn Jellyfish Sting Jock Itch Leg Injury Leg Pain Lice - Head Lymph Nodes - Swollen Medicine - Refusal to Take Menstrual Cramps Menstrual Period - Missed or Late Mental Health Problems Molluscum Mosquito Bite Mosquito-Borne Diseases from Travel Motion Sickness Mouth Injury Mouth Ulcers Neck Pain or Stiffness Newborn Appearance Questions Newborn Illness - How to Recognize Newborn Rashes and Birthmarks Newborn Reflexes and Behavior Nose Allergy (Hay Fever) Nose Injury Nosebleed Penis-Scrotum Symptoms Pinworms Poison Ivy - Oak - Sumac Puncture Wound Rash or Redness - Localized Rash or Redness - Widespread Reflux (Spitting Up) Ringworm Roseola RSV-Bronchiolitis Scabies Scorpion Sting Scrape Sinus Pain or Congestion Skin Foreign Object Skin Injury Skin Lump Sliver or Splinter Sore Throat Spider Bite Spitting Up - Reflux Stomach Pain - Female Stomach Pain - Male Stools - Blood In Stools - Unusual Color Strep Throat Exposure Strep Throat Infection Sty Sunburn Suture Questions Swallowed Foreign Object Swallowed Harmless Substance Swimmer's Itch - Lakes and Oceans Tear Duct - Blocked Teething Thrush Tick Bite Toe Injury Toenail - Ingrown Tooth Injury Toothache Umbilical Cord Symptoms Urinary Tract Infection - Female Urination Pain - Female Urination Pain - Male Vaginal Bleeding Vaginal Symptoms Vomiting With Diarrhea Vomiting Without Diarrhea Warts Weakness and Fatigue Wheezing (Other Than Asthma) Wound Infection
Mosquito Bite
Is this your child's symptom?
Bites from a mosquito
Cause itchy, red bumps
Often they look like a hive
West Nile Virus (WNV) questions are also covered
Types of Reactions to Mosquito Bites
Red Bumps. In North America, mosquito bites are mainly an annoyance. They cause itchy red skin bumps. Often, the bite looks like hives (either one large one or several small ones).
When a mosquito bites, its secretions are injected into the skin. The red bumps are the body's reaction to this process.
Suspect mosquito bites if there are bites on other parts of the body. Most bites occur on exposed parts such as face and arms.
Swelling. Bites of the upper face can cause severe swelling around the eye. This can last for several days. With bites, the swelling can be pink as well as large (especially age 1-5 years).
Disease. Rarely, the mosquito can carry a serious blood-borne disease. In the US and Canada, this is mainly West Nile Virus (WNV). In Africa and South America, they also carry malaria and yellow fever.
Prevention. Insect repellents can prevent mosquito bites. Use DEET (applied to skin) and permethrin (applied to clothing).
Cause of Mosquito Bite Reaction
The skin bumps are the body's reaction to the mosquito's saliva.
While it's sucking blood, some of its secretions get mixed in.
Mosquito Life Cycle
Only female mosquitoes bite. They need a blood meal to produce eggs. The female may bite 20 times before she finds a small blood vessel. She then sips blood for 90 seconds.
Males eat flower nectar and plant juices.
170 species of mosquito are in North America.
At a far distance, they are attracted by smell (breath odors, sweat and perfumes). They can smell up to 120 feet (36 meters). At a close distance, they are attracted by body heat and movement.
Risk Factors for Increased Mosquito Bites
Warmer body temperature
Male more than female
Children more than adults
Breath odors
Sweating
Perfumed soaps and shampoos
Complications of Insect Bites
Impetigo. A local bacterial infection. Gives sores, soft scabs and pus. Caused by scratching or picking at the bites. More common in itchy bites.
Cellulitis. The bacterial infection spreads into the skin. Gives redness spreading out from the bite. The red area is painful to the touch.
Lymphangitis. The bacterial infection spreads up the lymph channels. Gives a red line that goes up the arm or leg. More serious because the infection can get into the bloodstream. (This is called sepsis.)
When to Call for Mosquito Bite
When to Call for Mosquito Bite
Call 911 Now
Life-threatening allergic reaction suspected. Symptoms include sudden onset of trouble breathing or swallowing.
Can't wake up
You think your child has a life-threatening emergency
Call Doctor or Seek Care Now
Spreading red area or streak with fever
Your child looks or acts very sick
You think your child needs to be seen, and the problem is urgent
Call Doctor Within 24 Hours
Painful spreading redness started more than 24 hours after the bite. Note: any redness starting in the first 24 hours is a reaction to the bite.
More than 48 hours since the bite and redness gets larger
Unexplained fever and recent travel outside the country to high risk area
You think your child needs to be seen, but the problem is not urgent
Call Doctor During Office Hours
Pregnant and recently traveled to or lives in a place with a Zika outbreak
Scab that looks infected (drains pus or gets bigger) not better with antibiotic ointment
Severe itching not better after 24 hours of using steroid cream
You have other questions or concerns
Self Care at Home
Normal mosquito bite
Questions about West Nile Virus
Questions about insect repellents (such as DEET)
Call 911 Now
Life-threatening allergic reaction suspected. Symptoms include sudden onset of trouble breathing or swallowing.
Can't wake up
You think your child has a life-threatening emergency
Call Doctor or Seek Care Now
Spreading red area or streak with fever
Your child looks or acts very sick
You think your child needs to be seen, and the problem is urgent
Call Doctor Within 24 Hours
Painful spreading redness started more than 24 hours after the bite. Note: any redness starting in the first 24 hours is a reaction to the bite.
More than 48 hours since the bite and redness gets larger
Unexplained fever and recent travel outside the country to high risk area
You think your child needs to be seen, but the problem is not urgent
Call Doctor During Office Hours
Pregnant and recently traveled to or lives in a place with a Zika outbreak
Scab that looks infected (drains pus or gets bigger) not better with antibiotic ointment
Severe itching not better after 24 hours of using steroid cream
You have other questions or concerns
Self Care at Home
Normal mosquito bite
Questions about West Nile Virus
Questions about insect repellents (such as DEET)
Care Advice
Treatment for Mosquito Bites
What You Should Know About Mosquito Bites:
In the United States and Canada, mosquito bites rarely carry any disease.
They cause itchy red skin bumps.
Most of the time, the bumps are less than ½ inch (12 mm) in size. In young children, they can be larger.
Some even have a small water blister in the center.
A large hive at the bite does not mean your child has an allergy.
The redness does not mean the bite is infected.
Here is some care advice that should help.
Steroid Cream for Itching:
To reduce the itching, use 1% hydrocortisone cream (such as Cortaid). No prescription is needed. Put it on 3 times a day until the itch is gone. If you don't have, use a baking soda paste until you can get some.
If neither is available, use ice in a wet washcloth for 20 minutes.
Also, you can put firm, sharp, direct, steady pressure on the bite. Do this for 10 seconds to reduce the itch. A fingernail, pen cap, or other object can be used.
Allergy Medicine for Itching:
If the bite is still itchy, try an allergy medicine (such as Benadryl). No prescription is needed.
Sometimes it helps, especially in allergic children.
Try Not to Scratch:
Cut the fingernails short.
Help your child not to scratch.
Reason: Prevent a skin infection at the bite site.
Antibiotic Ointment:
If the bite has a scab and looks infected, use an antibiotic ointment. An example is Polysporin.
No prescription is needed. Use 3 times per day. (Note: Usually infection caused by scratching bites with dirty fingers).
Cover the scab with a bandage (such as Band-Aid). This will help prevent scratching and spread.
Wash the sore and use the antibiotic ointment 3 times per day. Do this until healed.
What to Expect:
Most mosquito bites itch for 3 or 4 days.
Any pinkness or redness lasts 3 or 4 days.
The swelling may last 7 days.
Bites of the upper face can cause severe swelling around the eye. This does not hurt the vision and is harmless.
The swelling is often worse in the morning after lying down all night. It will improve after standing for a few hours.
Call Your Doctor If:
Bite looks infected (redness gets larger after 48 hours)
Bite becomes painful
You think your child needs to be seen
Your child becomes worse
West Nile Virus Questions
West Nile Virus (WNV) - What You Should Know:
WNV is a disease carried by mosquitoes. It can be spread to humans through a mosquito bite.
About 1% of mosquitoes carry WNV.
Of people who get WNV, less than 1% get the serious kind.
Here are some facts that should help.
Symptoms of WNV:
No symptoms: 80% of WNV infections.
Mild symptoms: 20% of infections. Symptoms include fever, headache, and body aches. Some have a skin rash. These symptoms last 3-6 days. They go away without any treatment. This is called WNV fever.
Serious symptoms: less than 1% (1 out of 150) of WNV infections. Symptoms are high fever, stiff neck, confusion, coma, seizures, and muscle weakness. The muscle weakness is often just on one side. The cause is infection of the brain (encephalitis) or spinal cord (viral meningitis).
Death: 10% of those who need to be in the hospital.
Child cases are most often mild. Most serious cases occur in people over age 60.
Diagnosis of WNV:
Mild symptom cases do not need to see a doctor. They do not need any special tests.
Severe symptom cases (with encephalitis or viral meningitis) need to see a doctor right away. Special tests on the blood and spinal fluid will be done to confirm WNV.
Pregnant or nursing women need to see a doctor if they have WNV symptoms.
Treatment of WNV:
No special treatment is needed after a mosquito bite.
There is no special treatment or anti-viral drug for WNV symptoms.
People with serious symptoms often need to be in the hospital. They will be given IV fluids and airway support.
There is not yet a vaccine to prevent WNV in humans.
WNV - Spread by Mosquitoes:
WNV is spread by the bite of a mosquito. The mosquito gets the virus from biting infected birds.
Even in an area where WNV occurs, less than 1% of mosquitoes carry the virus.
Spread is mosquito-to-human.
Person-to-person spread does not occur. Kissing, touching, or sharing a glass with a person who has WNV is safe.
Mothers with mosquito bites can breastfeed (CDC 2003), unless they get symptoms of WNV.
It takes 3-14 days after the mosquito bite to get WNV.
In United States and Canada, the peak summers for WNV were 2002, 2003 and 2012.
Insect Repellent Questions
Prevention Tips:
Wear long pants, a long-sleeved shirt and a hat.
Avoid being outside when the bugs are most active. Mosquitoes are most active at dawn and dusk. Limit your child's outdoor play during these times.
Get rid of any standing water. (Reason: It's where they lay their eggs.)
Keep bugs out of your home by fixing any broken screens.
Insect repellents containing DEET are very good at preventing mosquito bites. Read the label carefully.
DEET Products - Use on the Skin:
DEET is a good mosquito repellent. It also repels ticks and other bugs.
The AAP approves DEET use over 2 months old. Use 30% DEET or less. Use 30% DEET if you need 6 hours of protection. Use 10% DEET if you only need protection for 2 hours.
Don't put DEET on the hands if your child sucks their thumb or fingers. (Reason: Prevent swallowing DEET)
Warn older children who apply their own DEET to use less. A total of 3 or 4 drops can protect the whole body.
Put on exposed areas of skin. Do not use near eyes or mouth. Don't use on skin that is covered by clothing. Don't put DEET on sunburns or rashes. (Reason: DEET can be easily absorbed in these areas.)
Wash it off with soap and water when your child comes indoors.
Caution: DEET can damage clothing made of man-made fibers. It can also damage plastics (eye glasses) and leather. DEET can be used on cotton clothing.
Permethrin Product - Use on Clothing:
Products that contain permethrin (such as Duranon) work well to repel mosquitos and ticks.
Unlike DEET, these products are put on clothing instead of on the skin.
Put it on shirt cuffs, pant cuffs, shoes and hats. Can also put it on mosquito nets and sleeping bags.
Do not put permethrin on the skin. (Reason: Sweat changes it so it does not work).
Picaridin Products:
Picaridin is a repellent that is equal to 10% DEET.
It can safely be put on skin or clothing.
And remember, contact your doctor if your child develops any of the 'Call Your Doctor' symptoms.
Disclaimer: this health information is for educational purposes only. You, the reader, assume full responsibility for how you choose to use it.
Copyright 2000-2019 Schmitt Pediatric Guidelines LLC.
Female Mosquito
The photo shows a female mosquito feeding on a human host.
Visual Symptom Checker
Head or Brain
Cradle Cap
Crying Baby - Before 3 Months Old
Crying Child - 3 Months and Older
Dizziness
Fainting
Fever
Hair Loss
Head Injury
Head Lice
Headache
Heat Exposure and Reactions
Lice - Head
Mental Health Problems
Motion Sickness
Sinus Pain or Congestion
Weakness and Fatigue
close
Neck or Back
Back Pain
Lymph Nodes - Swollen
Neck Pain or Stiffness
Sore Throat
Strep Throat Exposure
Strep Throat Infection
Swallowed Foreign Object
close
Chest
Asthma Attack
Breath-holding Spell
Bronchiolitis-RSV
Chest Pain
Colds
Cough
Croup
Flu
Influenza - Seasonal
Influenza Exposure
RSV-Bronchiolitis
Swallowed Foreign Object
Wheezing (Other Than Asthma)
close
Abdomen
Abdominal Pain - Female
Abdominal Pain - Male
Constipation
Diarrhea
Diarrhea Diseases From Travel
Food Allergy
Menstrual Cramps
Menstrual Period - Missed or Late
Motion Sickness
Pinworms
Reflux (Spitting Up)
Spitting Up - Reflux
Stomach Pain - Female
Stomach Pain - Male
Stools - Blood In
Stools - Unusual Color
Swallowed Foreign Object
Swallowed Harmless Substance
Umbilical Cord Symptoms
Vomiting With Diarrhea
Vomiting Without Diarrhea
close
Genital Area / Urinary
Circumcision Problems
Foreskin Care Questions
Genital Injury - Female
Genital Injury - Male
Jock Itch
Menstrual Cramps
Menstrual Period - Missed or Late
Penis-Scrotum Symptoms
Urinary Tract Infection - Female
Urination Pain - Female
Urination Pain - Male
Vaginal Bleeding
Vaginal Symptoms
close
Arms
Arm Injury
Arm Pain
Finger Injury
Hand-Foot-And-Mouth Disease (HFMD)
Weakness and Fatigue
close
Legs
Athlete's Foot
Hand-Foot-And-Mouth Disease (HFMD)
Leg Injury
Leg Pain
Lymph Nodes - Swollen
Toe Injury
Toenail - Ingrown
Weakness and Fatigue
close
Eyes
Eye - Allergy
Eye - Foreign Object
Eye - Pus or Discharge
Eye - Red Without Pus
Eye Injury
Eye Swelling
Sty
Tear Duct - Blocked
close
Ears
Ear - Congestion
Ear - Discharge
Ear - Pulling At or Rubbing
Ear - Swimmer's
Ear Infection Questions
Ear Injury
Earache
Earwax Buildup
close
Mouth
Bottle-Feeding (Formula) Questions
Breast-Feeding Questions
Breath-holding Spell
Colds
Drinking Fluids - Decreased
Fluid Intake Decreased
Food Allergy
Hand-Foot-And-Mouth Disease (HFMD)
Medicine - Refusal to Take
Mouth Injury
Mouth Ulcers
Reflux (Spitting Up)
Sore Throat
Spitting Up - Reflux
Strep Throat Exposure
Strep Throat Infection
Swallowed Foreign Object
Swallowed Harmless Substance
Teething
Thrush
Tooth Injury
Toothache
close
Head or Brain
Neck or Back
Chest
Arms
Abdomen
Genital Area or Urinary
Legs
Eyes
Ears
Mouth
Patient Portal
Is Your Child Sick?TM
Illnesses and Symptoms...... Abdominal Pain - Female Abdominal Pain - Male Acne Animal or Human Bite Antibiotics: When Do They Help? Arm Injury Arm Pain Asthma Attack Athlete's Foot Back Pain Bed Bug Bite Bee or Yellow Jacket Sting Blisters Boil Bottle-Feeding (Formula) Questions Breast-Feeding Questions Breath-holding Spell Bronchiolitis-RSV Bruises and Cuts Burn Chest Pain Chickenpox Circumcision Problems Colds Constipation Cough Coughs: Meds or Home Remedies? Cracked or Dry Skin Cradle Cap Croup Crying Baby - Before 3 Months Old Crying Child - 3 Months and Older Cut, Scrape, or Bruise Diaper Rash Diarrhea Diarrhea Diseases From Travel Dizziness Drinking Fluids - Decreased Dry Skin Ear - Congestion Ear - Discharge Ear - Pulling At or Rubbing Ear - Swimmer's Ear Infection Questions Ear Injury Earache Earwax Buildup Ebola Exposure Eczema Emergency Symptoms Not to Miss Eye - Allergy Eye - Foreign Object Eye - Pus or Discharge Eye - Red Without Pus Eye Injury Eye Swelling Fainting Fever Fever - How to Take the Temperature Fever - Myths Versus Facts Fifth Disease Finger Injury Fire Ant Sting Flu Fluid Intake Decreased Food Allergy Foreskin Care Questions Frostbite Genital Injury - Female Genital Injury - Male Hair Loss Hand-Foot-And-Mouth Disease (HFMD) Hay Fever Head Injury Head Lice Headache Heat Exposure and Reactions Heat Rash Hives Human or Animal Bite Immunization Reactions Impetigo - Infected Sores Infection Exposure Questions Influenza - Seasonal Influenza Exposure Insect Bite Jaundiced Newborn Jellyfish Sting Jock Itch Leg Injury Leg Pain Lice - Head Lymph Nodes - Swollen Medicine - Refusal to Take Menstrual Cramps Menstrual Period - Missed or Late Mental Health Problems Molluscum Mosquito Bite Mosquito-Borne Diseases from Travel Motion Sickness Mouth Injury Mouth Ulcers Neck Pain or Stiffness Newborn Appearance Questions Newborn Illness - How to Recognize Newborn Rashes and Birthmarks Newborn Reflexes and Behavior Nose Allergy (Hay Fever) Nose Injury Nosebleed Penis-Scrotum Symptoms Pinworms Poison Ivy - Oak - Sumac Puncture Wound Rash or Redness - Localized Rash or Redness - Widespread Reflux (Spitting Up) Ringworm Roseola RSV-Bronchiolitis Scabies Scorpion Sting Scrape Sinus Pain or Congestion Skin Foreign Object Skin Injury Skin Lump Sliver or Splinter Sore Throat Spider Bite Spitting Up - Reflux Stomach Pain - Female Stomach Pain - Male Stools - Blood In Stools - Unusual Color Strep Throat Exposure Strep Throat Infection Sty Sunburn Suture Questions Swallowed Foreign Object Swallowed Harmless Substance Swimmer's Itch - Lakes and Oceans Tear Duct - Blocked Teething Thrush Tick Bite Toe Injury Toenail - Ingrown Tooth Injury Toothache Umbilical Cord Symptoms Urinary Tract Infection - Female Urination Pain - Female Urination Pain - Male Vaginal Bleeding Vaginal Symptoms Vomiting With Diarrhea Vomiting Without Diarrhea Warts Weakness and Fatigue Wheezing (Other Than Asthma) Wound Infection
Enfermedades y SÃ­ntomas... Acné Acumulación de Cera en Los Oídos Alergia alimentaria Alergias Nasales (Fiebre del Heno) Ataque de Asma Candidiasis Oral o Algodoncillo Circuncisión Problemas de la Cólicos menstruales Comezón o Irritación Vaginal Conducto Lagrimal - Bloqueado Congelación Cortadas, Rozaduras, o Moretones Costra Láctea Crup Dentición (Los Primeros Dientes) Dermatitis del Pañal Desmayos Diarrea Dolor Al Orinar - Hombres Dolor Al Orinar - Mujeres Dolor de Brazo Dolor de Cabeza Dolor de Dientes Dolor de Espalda Dolor de Garganta Dolor de Oído Dolor de Pecho Dolor de Pierna Dolor Estómago - Mujeres Dolor Estómago- Hombres Dolor o Congestión de Los Senos Paranasales (Sinusitis) Dolor o Rigidez en el Cuello Eczema El Orzuelo Enfermedad Aftosa Enfermedades del Recién Nacido: Cómo Reconocerlas Enfermedades propagadas por los mosquitos en los viajes Enfermedades que causan diarrea en los viajes Eritema infeccioso Estreñimiento Excremento - Color Inusual del Excremento - Con Sangre Exposición a la Faringitis Estreptocócica Exposición a la Gripe Exposición al Ébola Exposición y Reacciones al Calor Fiebre Fiebre - Cómo Tomar la Temperatura Fiebre - Mitos Contra Verdades Ganglio Linfático - Inflamado Gripe - Estacional Herida de Punción Hiedra, Roble O Sumante Venenoso Ictericia En El Recién Nacido Impétigo - Llagas Infectadas Infección de garganta por estreptococos (faringitis estreptocócica) Infección de las vías urinarias - Mujeres Infección de una Herida Ingestión de Sustancia No Dañina Ingestión de un Objeto Extraño Las Ampollas Lesión a los Dientes Lesión de la Nariz Lesión de la Pierna Lesión del Brazo Lesión En La Boca Lesión en la Cabeza Lesión en los Dedos de la Mano Lesión en los Dedos del Pie Lesión Genital - Hombres Lesión Genital - Mujeres Líquidos, Menos Consumo de Llanto de Niños Mayores de 3 Meses de Edad –Irritabilidad Inconsolable Llanto de Niños Menores de 3 Meses de Edad Lombrices Intestinales Los antibióticos: ¿cuándo ayudan? Mareo Mareo por Movimiento Masa o bulto en la piel Medicamentos - Negarse a Tomárselos Menstruación - Ausente o Tardío Molusco Contagioso Mordedura de Animal o de Persona Objeto Extraño En La Piel Oído - Congestión Oído - Jalones O Comezón Oído - Lesión Oído - Otitis Externa (Oído del Nadador) Oído - Supuración Ojo - Alergia Ojo - Cuerpo Extraño Ojo - Enrojecimiento - Sin Pus Ojo - Lesión Ojo - Pus o Supuración Ojos - Hinchazón Pérdida de Pelo Picadura de Araña Picadura de Garrapata Picadura de Abeja o de Véspula (Yellow Jacket) Picadura de chinches de la cama Picadura de Escorpión Picadura de hormiga roja Picadura de Insecto Picadura de Medusa Picaduras Mosquito Pie de Atleta Piel Agrietada o Seca Piojos - Cabeza Preguntas Acerca del Contacto con Infecciones Preguntas Sobre el Cuidado del Prepucio Preguntas Sobre La Alimentación Con Biberón Preguntas Sobre La Apariencia En El Recién Nacido Preguntas Sobre La Lactancia Preguntas Sobre Las Infecciones de Oído Preguntas Sobre Las Suturas Problemas de Salud Mental Prurito del nadador - Lagos y mares Quemadura Quemadura de Sol Reacciones A Las Vacunas Reflejos y Conductas de los Recién Nacidos Regurgitación - Reflujo Resfriados Retención de respiración Roséola Salpullido o Rojez - Esparcido Salpullido o Rojez - Localizado Salpullido por Color Salpullido y Marcas en el Recién Nacido Sangrado de la Nariz Sangrado Vaginal Sarna Sibilancia (Que No Sea Por Asma) Síntomas de Emergencias que No Debe Ignorar Síntomas del Cordón Umbilical Síntomas del Pene y el Escroto Tiña Tiña Crural Tos Tos y resfriados: ¿medicamentos o remedios caseros? Úlceras Bucales (Llagas Ulcerosas) Uña del pie encarnada (incrustada en la carne) Urticaria Varicela Verrugas Vómito Con Diarrea Vómito Sin Diarrea
Medicine Dosages... Acetaminophen ASDs Family Handout—Introduction to Complementary and Alternative Medicine Choosing Over-the-Counter Medicines for Your Child Cold Medicines Cough Medicines Giving Medicine to Children: Important Safety Information How Asthma Medicines Are Taken Ibuprofen Itching/Allergies Medicine and the Media: How to Make Sense of the Messages Medicines for ADHD: Questions From Teens Who Have ADHD Parent's Guide to Complementary and Integrative Medicine, A Use of Medicines in Sports (Care of the Young Athlete) Using Liquid Medicines Using Over-the-Counter Medicines with Your Child
Medical Conditions... A Guide to Children’s Dental Health Abdominal Pain, Recurrent Acne Acute Ear Infections and Your Child Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Acute Otitis Media Acute Strep Throat Addison AIDS/HIV Allergies in Children Anaphylaxis Anemia and Your Young Child: Guidelines for Parents: Adapted from Caring for Your Baby and Young Child: Birth to Age 5 Anesthesia and Your Child: Information for Parents Ankle Sprain Treatment (Care of the Young Athlete) Antibiotics and Your Child Anxiety Appendicitis Asthma Asthma and Exercise (Care of the Young Athlete) Asthma and Your Child Asthma Triggers Atopic Dermatitis (Eczema) Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder Breast Enlargement, Premature Breath-Holding Spells Bronchiolitis Bronchiolitis and Your Young Child Care of the Premature Infant Celiac Disease Chickenpox Chickenpox Immunization Chickenpox Vaccine, The Coarctation of the Aorta Colds Common Childhood Infections Congenital Hip Dysplasia Constipation Constipation and Your Child Coxsackie A16 Croup Croup and Your Young Child Croup: When Your Child Needs Hospital Care Cyclic Vomiting Syndrome (CVS) Depression Developmental Dysplasia of the Hip Diabetic Mother, Infant of Diaper Rash and Your Baby Diarrhea and Your Child Diarrhea, Vomiting, and Water Loss (Dehydration) Ear Infection Ear Infections Eating Disorders Eczema Eczema (Atopic Dermatitis) and Your Child Enlarged Lymph Nodes Erythema Multiforme Eye Problems Related to Headache Febrile Seizure Febrile Seizures Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Fever Fever and Your Child Fifth Disease Fifth Disease (Erythema Infectiosum) Flu Flu, The Food Allergies and Your Child Fragile X Syndrome Gastroenteritis, Viral Gastroesophageal Reflux Hand Foot and Mouth Hand-Foot-and-Mouth Disease Head Lice Headache Related to Eye Problems Hemangioma Hepatitis A Hepatitis A Immunization Hepatitis B Hepatitis B Immunization Hepatitis C Hib Immunization High Blood Pressure Hip Dysplasia (Developmental Dysplasia of the Hip) HIV/AIDS How to Take Your Child's Temperature Hyperactivity Hypertension Hypothyroidism Immunizations Infant of a Diabetic Mother Infectious Mononucleosis Influenza Immunization Influenza-Seasonal Inhaled and Intranasal Corticosteroids and Your Child Kawasaki Syndrome Language Development in Young Children Lead Poisoning Leukemia Lung Hypoplasia Lyme Disease Lymphadenopathy Managing Chronic Health Needs in Child Care and Schools—Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) Measles Mental Health Middle Ear Fluid and Your Child MMR Immunization Molluscum Contagiosum Mumps Obesity in Childhood Osgood-Schlatter Disease (Care of the Young Athlete) Otitis Media, Acute Parasites - Giardia Pneumococcal Conjugate Immunization Pneumonia and Your Child Polio Immunization Premature Thelarche Prematurity Prematurity, Retinopathy of Pulmonary Hypertension Pulmonary Hypertension (PPH & SPH) Retinopathy of Prematurity Rheumatic Fever, Acute Ringworm (Tinea) Roseola Rotavirus Rubella (German Measles) Safety of Blood Transfusions Scabies Seasonal Influenza (Flu) Separation Anxiety Sinusitis Sinusitis and Your Child Sleep Apnea and Your Child Smoking Speech Development in Young Children Stevens-Johnson Syndrome Strep Throat Strep Throat-Acute Strep Throat-Recurrent Stuttering and the Young Child Swine Flu Swine Flu (H1N1) FAQ Swine Flu (H1N1) Vaccine Swollen Glands Tattoos Tear Duct, Blocked Tetralogy of Fallot Thyroid Problems Tinea (ringworm infection) Tonsils and the Adenoid Toxic Shock Syndrome Toxoplasmosis Turner Syndrome Type 2 Diabetes: Tips for Healthy Living Underdeveloped Lungs Urinary Tract Infection Urinary Tract Infections in Young Children Varicella or Chickenpox Varivax Immunization Vesicoureteral Reflux Wheezing-Infant Whooping Cough (Pertussis) Wilson Disease Food Borne Illnesses
Visual Symptom CheckerWhat's Going Around?
Get Mobile App
Medical Reference
Parenting Tips
Sports
Safety
Nutrition
Growth
Special Needs
Favorite Links
Immunization Schedule
Breastfeeding
Behavior
Emergencies
Newborns
Teens
DISCLAIMER:
The information contained in these topics is not intended nor implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice, it is provided for educational purposes only. You assume full responsibility for how you choose to use this information.
Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified healthcare provider before starting any new treatment or discontinuing an existing treatment. Talk with your healthcare provider about any questions you may have regarding a medical condition. Nothing contained in these topics is intended to be used for medical diagnosis or treatment.
Not a Substitute - The information and materials on this website and RemedyConnect's content (Including but not exclusive of: Illness/Symptoms, Is Your Child Sick? Medicine Dosages, Medical Conditions) should not be used as a substitute for the care and knowledge that your physician can provide to you.
Supplement - The information and materials presented here in HouseCalls Online are meant to supplement the information that you obtain from your physician. If there is a disagreement between the information presented herein and what your physician has told you -- it is more likely that your physician is correct. He or she has the benefit of knowing your medical problems.
Limitations - You should recognize that the information and materials presented here in HouseCalls Online have the following limitations, in comparison to being examined by your own physician:
You can have a conversation with your doctor.
Your doctor can perform a physical examination and any necessary tests.
You could have an underlying medical problem that requires a physician to detect.
If you're taking medications, they could influence how you experience various symptoms.
If you think that you are having a medical emergency,
call 911 or the number for the local emergency ambulance service NOW!
And when in doubt, call your doctor NOW
or go to the closest emergency department.
By using this website, you accept the information provided herein "AS IS." Neither RemedyConnect nor the providers of the information contained herein will have any liability to you arising out of your use of the information contained herein or make any express or implied warranty regarding the accuracy, content, completeness, reliability, or efficacy of the information contained within this website.
X
Privacy Statement
RemedyConnect, Inc. has created this privacy statement in order to demonstrate our firm commitment to your privacy. The following discloses our information gathering and dissemination practices for this website: http://www.remedyconnect.com.
Acquisition of Information through PMD
We do not acquire any more information about website visitors than is required by law or is otherwise necessary to provide a high level of service efficiently and securely. Our site's registration form requires users to give us contact information (e.g., their name and e-mail address) and demographic information (e.g., children's birth months, but not birth dates). We use customer contact information from the registration form to (1) send the user pertinent medical and parenting information and (2) allow your local health provider lists of who is registering on that provider's site as a parent/guardian, staff member, doctor, or visitor. Users may opt-out of receiving future mailings; see the choice/opt-out section below.
We use your IP address to help diagnose problems with our server and to administer our Website. Your IP address is used to help identify you and to gather broad demographic information.
Demographic and profile data is also collected at our site. We may use this data to tailor the visitor's experience at our site, showing them content that we think they might be interested in, and displaying the content according to their preferences.
Our site may use order forms to allow users to request information, products, and services.
Your Doctor's Right to Privacy
We will respect your doctor's right to privacy. A doctor typically does not give his/her e-mail address to the parents/guardians of patients. We will not provide the e-mail addresses of doctor(s) in the local practice to users of their site without the doctor(s)' permission. Their site is restricted to use by whomever they wish, and they may deny access to their site to one or more prior users. In unusual cases, doctors may change their private site's access code and arrange for us to e-mail the new access code to approved users.
Cookies
We use cookies to deliver content specific to your interests and to save your doctor's access code so you don't have to re-enter it each time you visit your doctor's site on http://www.remedyconnect.com.
Links
This site contains links to other sites. RemedyConnect.com is not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of such Websites. See Disclaimers.
Disclosure to Third Parties
We will provide individually-identifiable information about website users to third parties only if we are compelled to do so by order of a duly-empowered governmental authority, we have the express permission of the visitor, or it is necessary to process transactions and provide you services from our affiliates: Live Agent Answering Service, Digital Answering Service, Medical Answering Service and Pediatric Answering Service.
Privacy and Our Business Partners
When we make our technology or services available to business partners, we will not share with them any more consumer information than is necessary, and we will make every reasonable effort to assure, by contract or otherwise, that they use our technology and services in a manner that is consistent with this Privacy Policy.
Public Forums
This site may make chat rooms, forums, message boards, and/or news groups available to its users. Please remember that any information that is disclosed in these areas becomes public information and you should exercise caution when deciding to disclose your personal information.
Security
This site has security measures in place to protect the loss, misuse and alteration of the information under our control. For further information regarding our security, please contact us at support@remedyconnect.com. If you have any concerns regarding the security of information, please do not provide any information to RemedyConnect, Inc. until you are comfortable with our security measures.
Correct/Update
You may correct or update your User Registration information at any time, by visiting the User Registration section and providing your personal password that you set at registration. If need be, please email us at support@remedyconnect.com.
Choice/Opt-Out
Our site provides users the opportunity to opt-out of receiving e-mail communications from our partners or us, except communications approved by your doctor's practice office. To so opt-out, please email us at support@remedyconnect.com. To be removed as a user, please email us at the same address. If need be, you may mail requests to us at RemedyConnect, Inc.
Contacting the Website
If you have any questions about this privacy statement, the practices of this site, or your dealings with this Website, you can contact us by email at support@remedyconnect.com or by mail at our address above.
Privacy X