Himalayan Salt Lamps – the truth behind the hype | The Body Source
Skip to content
Our Products
About
Blog
Contact us
0
Himalayan Salt Lamps – the truth behind the hype
By The Body Source
Twitter
Facebook
Himalayan Salt Lamps – the truth behind the hype
If you have been in a trendy bar or a health food store recently, you have probably seen a glowing orb in a corner or on a table. These gently glowing lamps and candle holders are a warm presence in the room, coral or peachy red in colour.
If this sounds familiar, you have seen a Himalayan Salt Lamp in action. These lamps are increasingly popular all over the world. Salt lamps are undeniably lovely to look at, but did you know that they have surprising health benefits? It is believed that they work to generate negative ions in the air. In fact, many people claim that buying a Himalayan salt lamp online is one of the healthiest moves they have made.
If you want to know more about the health benefits of Himalayan salt lamps and get beyond the hype to the real facts, read ahead.
What is a Himalayan Salt Lamp?
Real Himalayan salt lamps are hand chiselled blocks of crystal salts from the Himalayan mountain region. Their orange and pink colour is owing to their naturally high mineral concentration.
This slab of salt is hollowed out, and a light bulb is wired inside in order to produce heat and light. The heat from the bulb works to release the healthful benefits of the Himalayan salt and help them enter into the air.
Do Himalayan Salt Lamps Improve Health?
The air, no matter how dry it feels, is always full of water vapour particles. These particles carry dust, smoke, bacteria, viruses, dog and cat dancer and pollen, helping them enter into your lungs and bloodstream.
Proponents of Himalayan salt lamps believe that the salt helps to attract and neutralise the pollutants in the air. After all, salt is naturally hygroscopic (this means that it attracts water), and so this is scientifically sound. Once these contaminated water particles are attracted to the salt lamp, they remain there, preventing them from entering your body.
These are just a few of the health benefits from salt lamps:
Improve breathing by reducing allergens in the air
Fewer colds and flus
Higher levels of relaxation
A reduction in headaches and migraines
Fewer troubles falling asleep
An overall sense of wellbeing
Can a salt lamp generate negative ions?
Many people who buy a Himalayan salt lamp online do so because they want a product that generates negative ions. Negative ions are generated from many elements in nature, such as running water, lightning and other weather phenomena.
An increase in negative ions tends to make individuals feel refreshed, energised and in a better mood. It has been proven that Himalayan salt lamps do indeed generate a small amount of negative ions, and this will likely increase your wellbeing.
No matter what you are hoping to gain from your Himalayan salt lamp, you will undoubtedly appreciate its beauty, its health benefits and the calming effects it will have on you and your family.
Twitter
Facebook
You should try our...
Himalayan Salt Lamp
Cookie Policy	. Our website uses cookies. By continuing to use this site you agree to our use of cookies.	Find out more
Our Products
About
Blog
Contact us
Privacy Policy Terms & conditions Delivery & Returns
Subscribe to our newsletter and receive special offers & discounts.
© Copyright 2017 The Body Source All Rights Reserved