Cataracts Eye Care | Retina Group of Washington - Fairfax
Skip to content
Home
Experience RGW
Doctors
Locations
Patient Education
Research
Cataracts Eye Care
Annandale Cataracts
December 20, 2017 pjdhanoa
Cataracts Eye Care in Annandale
Annandale Cataracts
Cataracts are a clouding of the lens in the eye and can blur vision and cause vision loss. 20% of cataract cases are caused by too much UV exposure. Macular degeneration results from damage done to the retina and can also damage central vision. Cataracts are the leading cause of blindness in the U.S. At The Retina Group of Washington, we treat Annandale cataracts and provide support and a wealth of knowledge for those with retinal disorders. We partner with local hospitals as well, to offer you service whenever you need it and close to home.
Cataracts can happen due to dangerous UV overexposure. To help prevent Annandale cataracts, sunglasses should be worn that block out UVA and UVB radiation. This helps to protect eyes as well as the skin around the eyes. The skin around the eyes is delicate and can be susceptible to skin cancer from UV rays as well. Symptoms of cataracts are classic and common in those who are beginning to notice the first stages. Cataracts cloud the eye’s lens and cause the sufferer to see very blurry. This makes it difficult to drive, read or see things close up.
Annandale cataracts develop slowly over time and may not cause early vision changes. Over time however, vision may start to change. Surgery for cataracts has shown to be highly effective. Strong lighting and prescription eyeglasses can also help alleviate symptoms. If your eye test has shown that you suffer from cataracts, we may suggest eye surgery at our offices. Cataract eye surgery can greatly benefit those in need of it and make their lives easier and more manageable. The Retina Group is dedicated to helping those who have cataracts and other eye problems with cutting edge technology and the best in science and eye care.
The Retina Group of Washington
8505 Arlington Blvd, Suite 300
Fairfax, VA 22031-4621
(703) 698-9335
Retina Group of Washington – Fairfax
8505 Arlington Blvd, Suite 300
Fairfax, VA 22031-4621
Phone: 703.698.9335
Search for:
Recent Posts
Retina Surgeon Annandale
Retinal Exam in Fairfax
Retinal Care Annandale
Retinal Care Annandale
Pediatric Eye Doctor in Annandale
Categories
Annandale Ophthalmologist
Cataracts Eye Care
CentraSight Treatment
Complications of Cataract
Eye Care
Eye Specialist
Ophthalmologist
Ophthalmology
Ophthalmology Expert in Fairfax
Pediatric Eye Doctor
Pediatric Eye Doctor in Annandale
Pediatric Ophthalmology Services
Retina Doctor
Retina Surgeon
Retinal Care
Retinal Care Annandale
Retinal Detachment
Uncategorized
WordPress Theme by The Hosts