Short But Effective Guide - How To Prevent Mosquito Bites - Brand Is Everything
Skip to navigation Skip to content
Brand Is Everything
Love Your Brand
Menu
Home
Salon
Branding
Home Yard
Beach
About Us
Association Objectives
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms Service
Home
About Us
Association Objectives
Blog
Booked Appointments
Cart
Contact Us
Online Appointment
Privacy Policy
Profile
Terms Service
Welcome
Posted on March 12, 2017 August 13, 2018 by Brandiseverything
Short But Effective Guide – How To Prevent Mosquito Bites
Mosquitos bites are getting more and more concerning. Diseases like Zeka Virus and West Nile can easily be fatal to some portions of the population. That is one of the reasons you need to prevent mosquito bites, but how do you do it? Mosquito Squad has some tips for you below.
Wear Mosquito Repellent
One of the best things to do is wear a mosquito repellent anywhere you may go that has a healthy mosquito population, even if that involves going home. Repellant doesn’t last forever, and most brands can wash away, so make sure that you are refreshing your mosquito repellant regularly to get the most effective possible.
Consider going with a natural repellant. A lot of regular repellents contain chemicals that can harm your body, especially with regular use. Natural repellants that are properly crafted can be highly effective without causing harm to your body.
Wear The Proper Clothing
When it comes to stopping mosquitos and other pests, what you wear can make a difference. You are looking for long sleeve shirts and pants. Shorts and t-shirts do not provide optimal protection. You want the clothing to be loose but provide the proper coverage.
Most sporting goods stores and outfitters sell clothing specifically designed for active wear during the summer. These clothes are lightweight but are heavily durable and flexible. Some companies will even apply special coats to their clothes to deter mosquitos and other little fliers.
Mosquito Netting
It may be something that you have only seen in movies about foreign lands but mosquito netting can be quite effective. Masking your bed with this thin netting can help prevent mosquito bites at night. The netting prevents bugs from getting to you at night. If the netting is properly set up, it can prevent almost 100% of bug problems.
Stay Cool
Mosquitos and other bugs are most attracted to hotter bodies. By staying cool during the summer you will be a less attractive target than many other people. Avoid excess exercise, cool down in cool environments, and otherwise make efforts to exude less heat.
Category: Home Yard
Post navigation
Previous post: 3 Ways To Make A Mosquito Free Yard
Next post: Why Permed Hair Is Getting Trendier
Search for:
Recent Posts
Ludo Star Hack 2018
Brow Bars Exist And Here Is What They Can Do For You
Why Permed Hair Is Getting Trendier
Short But Effective Guide – How To Prevent Mosquito Bites
3 Ways To Make A Mosquito Free Yard
Recent Comments
AlbertWah on Ludo Star Hack 2018
Frankteape on Ludo Star Hack 2018
RobertJah on Ludo Star Hack 2018
Kevinpap on Ludo Star Hack 2018
Jameswounk on Ludo Star Hack 2018
Archives
February 2018
August 2017
March 2017
February 2017
Categories
Beach
Branding
Games
Home Yard
Salon
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
© Brand Is Everything 2019
Built with Storefront & WooCommerce.