Aspartame Dangers - Consider Your Sweetner
Detox For Life
simple changes to enhance energy and health
Home
Detox Diet Info
Detox Diets
Liver Cleanse
3 Day Detox Plan
colon detox
Detox Foot Patch
Substance Detox
Nicotine Detox
Caffeine Detox
Drug Detox
Rapid Detox
Natural Living
Healthy Eating
ANtioxidant Foods
Juicing
Raw Food Revolution
Low GI Diet
Super Foods
Alternative Therapies
Anodyne Therapy
Candida Cleanse
Constipation Relief
Natural Remedies
Home Medicine
Aloe Vera Benefits
Barley Grass
Apple Cider Vinegar
Cranberries
Acne Treatments
Stevia Extract
Green Tea Detox
Beet Juice
Herbal Teas
Anti-Aging
Weight Loss
Natural Appetite Suppressants
Cellulite Exercises
Cellulite Treatments
Diet Tips
Burn The Fat
Site Info
Detox Strategies
Your Detox Story
Health Articles
Health News
More Resources
Site Search
Terms of Use
Contact
About Us
DetoxBlog
Tell your story
[?]Subscribe To This Site
Aspartame Dangers
Read Before You Choose Your Artificial Sweetner
Getting to know about Aspartame Dangers and Side Effcets is very important. When people decide to lose weight, one of the first changes many make to their diet is to add artificial sweeteners in place of sugar.
Natural Sweetener - Stevia Extract
Read about Stevia Extract, a natural sugar substitute.
We have been told by the government that artificial sweeteners are safe, but are there hidden dangers to this additive? Let’s take a closer look at artificial sweeteners, specifically Aspartame Dangers.
What Is Aspartame?
Aspartame is made up of three components. Fifty percent is phenylalanine, forty percent is aspartic acid, and ten percent is methanol, or wood alcohol. Phenylalanine and aspartic acid are both amino acids. Amino acids are naturally found in the food we eat, specifically in the proteins.
They are the building blocks for our bodies, and help us build tissue and muscles. But, in nature, amino acids are not ingested singularly. Many types of amino acids are joined together to form protein chains, and that is what we ingest when we sit down to eat. In aspartame, Phenylalanine and aspartic acid are the only amino acids being introduced to the body. There is no protein chain, just singular amino acids. So where are the Aspartame Dangers?
Aspartame Dangers and Side Effects
It has been found that aspartic acid (when not bound into a protein chain) enters the central nervous system in high concentration and causes the neurons to begin firing rapidly. Many times, it excites the neurons so completely, that the cell dies.
High levels of aspartic acid have been found to cause headaches, mental confusion, balance problems, and even seizures. And the rest of your body fares no better. Outside the central nervous system, isolated aspartic acid has been found to accelerate diseases such as cancer, coronary artery disease and arthritis.
Fortunately, the effects are cumulative. So, if you stop ingesting isolated aspartic acid, then the continuing damage will also cease.
High levels of isolated phenylalanine can be quite dangerous as well. Research has found that excessive levels of this isolated amino acid cause a decrease in the amount of serotonin in our brains. Decreased serotonin often leads to depression and other emotional disorders.
When phenylalanine is exposed to warm temperatures, or is stored for a long time, it breaks down into diketopiperazine (DKP), which is a known carcinogen.
It is also important to note that in pregnant women, phenylalanine easily crosses the placental barrier, and in children under one, also crosses the blood-brain barrier. Infants exposed to high levels of phenylalanine during the pregnancy and later through their mother's milk, have an increased risk of birth defects and irreversible brain damage.
The third component of aspartame is methanol. Methanol is commonly known as wood alcohol. It is a colorless liquid and is both poisonous and flammable. Long-term exposure to methanol causes blindness and death.
Early symptoms of methanol poisoning include headaches, ear buzzing, dizziness, nausea, gastrointestinal problems, chills, memory lapses, and numbness in the extremities. One particularly scary aspect of methanol is that at cold temperatures it creates formaldehyde.
The EPA considers methanol a "cumulative poison", and recommends a limit of no more than 7.8mg per day. To put this in perspective, one liter of diet soda contains 56mg of methanol; over seven times the EPA stated limit. By combining several diet sodas, a couple of packages of aspartame in morning coffee, and consuming "diet" food during the day, most consumers are exposed to considerably more methanol than the 7.8mg per day limit. So do you still think apartame dangers are negligible?
Legalised Poison?
Herer's some interesting history on Aspartame and how it got approved for human consumption....
With what we know so far, you may be wondering why the FDA would approve it if it wasn't safe. Instead of giving you a straight answer, I'm going to outline just a few of the events that occurred during the FDA approval process of Aspartame.
In 1965, James Schlatter, a chemist at the G.D. Searle Company, stumbled across Aspartame while attempting to create a new ulcer drug. It was initially approved for use in dry goods on July 26, 1974. But researchers questioned the practices of the G.D. Searle Company, and the FDA put the approval on hold pending further investigation.
A task force was created to examine Aspartame dangers and side effects. The ultimate report from that task force found that there were serious deficiencies in the research done by the Searle Company.
The task force recommended that G.D. Searle face a Grand Jury for further inquiry in their testing procedures. In 1976, a second task force was created, this time finding the G.D. Searle Company guilty of faulty and fraudulent product testing, and knowingly misrepresenting product testing and findings.
Officials at the Searle Company turned to Donald Rumsfeld, who had worked with both the Nixon and Ford administrations, and elected him as chairman, hoping to smooth the way and avoid criminal prosecution. In 1977, the FDA appointed U.S. Attorney Samuel Skinner to investigate Searle's testing procedures.
After a meeting with the Searle attorneys, Samuel Skinner left the FDA and accepted a position with Searle's law firm. The FDA then appointed U.S. Attorney William Conlon to take Skinner's place. Mr. Conlon sat on the case and did nothing, until he left the FDA in 1979 and also joined Searle's law firm.
In 1981, FDA Commissioner Arthur Hayes, Jr., approved aspartame for use in dry foods and as a tabletop sweetener. At that time, three FDA scientists came forward to oppose the approval, based on their in-house studies of the additive. Hayes ignored these reports and aspartame was approved. Arthur Hayes then left the FDA and took a position as a senior medical consultant for the public relations firm for the G.D. Searle Company. Ultimately, the statue of limitations ran out on prosecuting the G.D. Searle Company for wrongdoing.
Natural Sweeteners and Sugar Substitutes
So, the question remains. Are there hidden Aspartame Dangers? Should you reconsider you use of artificial sweeteners? I'll let you decide.
If you love sweet stuff and cannot bare to give up sweetener in your tea or coffee then don't despair. There are fabulous natural sweeteners to use instead of artificial ones. Xylitol and Stevia are safe alternatives as sugar substitutes. You can read more about The benefits of Stevia Extract by clicking on the link and rest assured that you can still be healthy while satisfying your sweet tooth.
Artficial Sweeteners Can Make YouFat
Top Of Aspartame Dangers
Back to Detox Diet Guide
Detox For Life Home Page
© Copyright 2007-2015 Detox-For-Life.com Please Read Our Disclaimer and Terms of Use Most Importantly Note: The information on this website has not been approved by the FDA. Detox For Life does not intend to diagnose or treat any disease or ailment.
SBI!