Minimize Your Risk | Wellesley Cancer Prevention Project
Wellesley Cancer Prevention Project
Community, Health & Environment
Menu
Skip to content
Mission
Our Board of Directors
Alliance Partners
What We Do
How You Can Help
Donate
Community Service
Contact
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
About Cancer
Causes of Cancer
Preventing Cancer
Steps You Can Take
Screening for Cancer
Treating Cancer
Managing Cancer
Learn More
Cancer Incidence in Massachusetts
News & Events
Blog
Minimize Your Risk
Search for:
Category Archives: Minimize Your Risk
How to Lower Breast Cancer Risk
April 16, 2019 Minimize Your Risk, WCPP Blogadmin
Breast cancer is one of the most common cancers in American women. The average risk of a woman in the United States developing breast cancer sometime in her life is about 12% (American Cancer Society, 2019). This means there is a 1 in 8 chance she will develop breast cancer. This also means there is a 7 in 8 chance she will never have the disease.
Don’t smoke. Smokers have a 1/3 higher chance of developing breast cancer.
Maintain a healthy weight. As your Body Mass Index (BMI) increases, your risk of breast cancer does as well.
Exercise regularly!
Reduce alcohol consumption. Women who drink 2 or more drinks per day are 40% more likely to develop breast cancer.
Include fiber-rich vegetables, fruits and whole grains in your diet, and minimize protein foods that are rich in saturated fats (i.e. red meat).
Read more tips in this article: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/08/well/live/how-to-lower-breast-cancer-risk.html
Are Your Household Products Filled With Toxic Chemicals?
March 12, 2017 Minimize Your Risk, WCPP BlogTCoffey
Join WCPP for a special screening of STINK at the Wellesley Public Library!! Learn what is inside your household products and the potential harm they could be doing!
Toxic Chemicals in Wellesley? Come to April 5 Movie & Discussion
Join us at this important April 5, 2017 movie screening at the Wellesley Library…
The Wellesley Cancer Prevention Project (http://wcpponline.org/ ) and the Wellesley Free Library are jointly sponsoring a FREE screening and discussion of “STINK” – the award-winning documentary the chemical industry doesn’t want you to see!!
After giving his daughters new pajamas for Christmas and noticing a “foul smell” when opening the packages, father and filmmaker Jon Whelan began what The Boston Globe called “a Michael Moore-type investigation” to expose toxic chemicals in common household goods (e.g. “Axe” body spray, perfumes, shampoos, clothing, etc).
Increases in incidence of diseases like cancer, reproductive problems, obesity and diabetes, parallels the growth hidden toxic chemicals in products in our homes!
Click here to watch a video trailer for STINK The Movie.
Come watch the movie and see for yourself:
What: Free screening and discussion of “STINK” (#StinkMovie)
When: Wednesday, April 5, 2017 at 7PM
Where: Wellesley Free Library, Wakelin Room
Click here for a flyer for this event.
Please spread the word @WCCPonline to your neighbors and friends on social media:
Fragrances’ Link to Cancer Movie – Join @WCCPonline on 4-5-17 @ 7PM Wellesley Free Library for #STINKTheMovie
Hope to see you on April 5!
Eating Well for Cancer Prevention
June 13, 2016 Minimize Your Risk, WCPP Blogadmin
Christina Chiu, MS, RD, CSO, LDN, CNSC
Did you know that about one-third of cancers in this country are related to things people do (or don’t do) every day? Cancer has many causes, and some, like age and genetics, are not factors you can control. Others, such as weight, diet, and physical activity, are factors you can change.
Why does weight matter?
There is strong evidence that excess weight, especially around the mid-section of your body, is the most harmful and is linked with increased risk for certain cancers, including colon and postmenopausal breast cancer. One of the ways to figure out whether you are at a healthy weight is by knowing your body mass index (BMI). Although not it’s not a perfect tool in all cases, your BMI is a great starting point for figuring out whether you need to gain or lose weight, or keep your weight about the same. Think about asking your primary care doctor about your weight at your next annual physical.
What’s the right thing to eat?
Certain eating patterns are associated with lower cancer risk. The most important foods to focus on are whole, minimally-processed plant-based foods. This means it is important to eat a wide variety of colorful fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and legumes such as beans. These plant-based foods should be about two-thirds or more of your overall food intake. While it isn’t clear from research that any particular fruit or vegetable can decrease cancer risk, we do know from laboratory studies that plant nutrients, known as phytonutrients or phytochemicals, can influence cancer development and cell growth. Eating many different types of fruits and vegetables and other plant-based foods ensures that we get a wide range of nutrients that protect our health. Most plant-based foods contain fiber and are also low in calories. By choosing foods that are filling and satisfying without overeating calories can help us attain or achieve a healthy weight.
Is there anything I shouldn’t eat?
Alcohol drinking is clearly linked with several types of cancer, including head and neck, esophageal, liver, breast, and colorectal cancer. People who use both alcohol and tobacco have an even greater risk of developing cancer. In general, if you do drink, limit yourself to no more than one drink per day (for women) and no more than two drinks per day (for men). If you do not drink, there is no reason to start. In one study in the United Kingdom, every 10 grams of alcohol consumed per day (there’s 14 grams in a 12-ounce beer) was associated with a 12% increase in the risk of breast cancer.
According to the American Institute of Cancer Research, limiting red meat and avoiding processed meat reduces the risk of certain types of cancer, especially colorectal cancer. Red meat includes beef, lamb, and pork, while processed meats are meats that have been smoked, salted, or cured either by salt or other preservatives. Processed meats include deli meats, bacon, hot dogs, and lox. Try to keep your intake of red meat to less than 18 (cooked) ounces per week.
Dietary supplements, such as vitamins and extracts of herbs or foods, have not been shown to reduce cancer risk. In some people, taking high doses of certain vitamins can even have the opposite effect. In most cases, it is better to choose the actual whole food than the supplement (for example, including blueberries or orange slices at breakfast rather than taking a vitamin C supplement pill).
What do I do with all this information? Where do I start?
We all experience roadblocks when it comes to eating healthfully. You might now know what you should be eating, but you might not be so sure what eating healthfully looks like in your own life. You may have particular preferences about food, other health conditions that restrict what you can or cannot eat, or simply have no idea how to start. If that’s the case, it might be a good idea to ask your doctor for a referral to see a Registered Dietitian/Nutritionist (RD or RDN). RDs are trained specifically to make science-backed, personalized food recommendations that take into consideration your personal preferences, health conditions, and other specific needs. If you are a cancer survivor, it might be a good idea to meet with an RD who is a board-certified specialist in oncology nutrition (CSO). In any case, here are a few questions for you to ask yourself when you evaluate yourself and what you are eating:
 Am I eating fruits and vegetables every day?
 Am I eating a colorful mix of different fruit and vegetables?
 Are my meals at least half vegetables/fruits?
 Am I hydrating regularly throughout the day?
 How many calories am I getting from beverages?
 Can I choose water or other non-diet and non-caloric beverages more often?
 How many alcoholic beverages am I drinking each day/week?
 Am I eating because I am hungry or am I eating out of habit, emotions, or other reasons?
 How can I be more physically active throughout the day?
Christina Chiu, MS, RD, CSO, LDN, CNSC is a registered dietitian in the Vernon Cancer Center at Newton-Wellesley Hospital, where she has worked since 2008. A graduate of Cornell University and Boston University, Christina is a board-certified specialist in oncology nutrition and a board-certified nutrition support clinician. She applies her nutrition counseling expertise to help patients eat well throughout and after cancer treatment. She is particularly interested in helping patients realize that eating well for health can be realistic, achievable, and delicious all that the same time.
Posts navigation
← Older posts
Recent Posts
How to Lower Breast Cancer Risk
Psychological Stress and Cancer
A Cappella Defeating Cancer ACDC Concert – Nov. 16, 2018
Sign Up for our Prevent Newsletter!
Email address:
Leave this field empty if you're human:
NEW! Free WCPP Smart Scan for iPhone, iPad & iPod Touch
Learn healthier choices for everyday items in your shopping cart. The ONLY APP that tells you what ingredients are potentially unsafe or harmful ingredients from the supermarket to the hardware store. Scan a product barcode and go - it's easier than ever to know what is in the products you buy!
Learn More About the App
FREE Download for your iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch
Our Board of Directors
Kevin Leach
Sadanand Gite
Patrick Rafter
Christine Medico Harding
ADVISORY BOARD
Sara Frost Azzam
Cheryl Colbert
Amy Collins, M.D.
Sarah Little, Ph.D
Richard Morse
Viola Morse
Alice Shabecoff
Philip Shabecoff
Peter Solomon
Amanda Zarle
Proudly powered by WordPress
Sign-up for more updates from WCPP.