Can I Drink Grapefruit Juice With Wellbutrin? | Healthfully
x
healthfully
Search Glass
Diseases and Injuries
Family Health
Nutrition
Weight Management
Appearance
Does Pomegranate Juice Interfere With Prescription Drugs?
Can You Eat a Grapefruit With Hydrochlorothiazide?
Zoloft & Vitamin B12 Absorption
Grapefruit Juice's Effect on Codeine
Interactions of Cranberry Juice & Amoxicillin
Ritalin and Metabolism
Can I Drink Grapefruit Juice With Wellbutrin?
By Amy Liddell
Related Articles
Does Pomegranate Juice Interfere With Prescription Drugs?
Can You Eat a Grapefruit With Hydrochlorothiazide?
Zoloft & Vitamin B12 Absorption
Grapefruit Juice's Effect on Codeine
Grapefruit juice is counterindicated for patients taking many different types of medications because it interferes with breakdown of the drug in the body. Wellbutrin, also known as buproprion hydrochloride, is an anti-depressant medication used in the treatment of major depressive disorder, seasonal affective disorder and attention deficit disorder. There is no known interaction between Wellbutrin and grapefruit juice.
Drug Metabolism
Grapefruit juice decreases the levels of an important metabolic enzyme, CYP3A, in the intestine. As a result, drugs that are normally broken down by this enzyme remain active in the body for longer periods of time. This means the patient may receive a higher dose of the medication than intended. Drinking grapefruit juice while taking certain medications may cause serious side effects.
Grapefruit Juice and Medications
Grapefruit juice does not affect the metabolism of Wellbutrin but it does interact with a variety of other medications for various conditions. Grapefruit juice should not be consumed by patients taking certain calcium channel blockers, statins and immunosuppressants. It also affects some retroviral medications, anti-seizure and anti-anxiety drugs. Dozens of drugs that interact with grapefruit juice have been identified. If you enjoy grapefruit juice, always ask your doctor or pharmacist about possible interactions before beginning a new medication.
Other Interactions with Wellbutrin
Do not drink alcohol while you are taking Wellbutrin. If you typically consume alcohol, talk to your doctor before beginning the medication. Stopping your alcohol intake suddenly may contribute to the side effects of the drug, including an increased risk of seizures. Tell your doctor about any other medications you are taking, since many types of prescription and over-the-counter medicines may interact with Wellbutrin.
Side Effects
Although grapefruit juice does not cause adverse symptoms when combined with Wellbutrin, the medication does have other potentially serious side effects. Seizures may occur and are more common in patients taking other medications with Wellbutrin. Seek immediate medical attention for seizures, hallucinations, confusion, fever, chest pain, muscle pain and rapid or irregular heartbeat. Rash, hives, difficulty breathing and swelling in the face, throat or limbs may indicate an allergic reaction and require emergency medical help. Some patients experience suicidal thoughts while taking Wellbutrin. Contact your doctor immediately and seek medical care if you experience this side effect.
Video of the Day
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
References
Drugs.com: Wellbutrin
U.S. Food and Drug Administration: Grapefruit Juice and Medicine May Not Mix
About the Author
Amy Liddell has been writing on health and medicine since 2004. She is also a biomedical scientist and studies human cancer. Her articles have appeared in scientific journals, medical textbooks and on health-related consumer websites. Liddell holds a Doctor of Philosophy in biological and biomedical sciences from Harvard University.
More Related Articles
Negative Effects of St. John's Wort
Foods to Avoid With Serotonin Syndrome
Losing Weight on Bipolar Medication
Related Articles
Ritalin and Metabolism
Read More
Omeprazole 20 mg Side Effects
Read More
Get Fit!
Try our healthfully BMI and weight loss calculator!
Is Ginkgo Biloba Safe While Drinking Alcohol?
Read More
Does Grapefruit Interfere With Amlodipine?
Read More
About Us
Advertise
Contact Us
Copyright Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of the HEALTHFULLY.COM Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. The material appearing on HEALTHFULLY.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. HEALTHFULLY.COM does not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the website.