Ways to Beat the Common Cold | Healthfully
x
healthfully
Search Glass
Diseases and Injuries
Family Health
Nutrition
Weight Management
Appearance
How to Get Rid of a Cold Naturally
Will Taking a Certain Amount of Vitamin C Get Rid of a Cold?
Remedies for the Common Cold
How Long Does it Take to Develop a Cold After Exposure?
Can You Use Garlic as a Cold Remedy?
Vitamins to Stop Viruses
Ways to Beat the Common Cold
sneezing woman
Hygiene
Supplementation
Self-Care
By Karen Frazier ; Updated August 14, 2017
Related Articles
How to Get Rid of a Cold Naturally
Will Taking a Certain Amount of Vitamin C Get Rid of a Cold?
Remedies for the Common Cold
How Long Does it Take to Develop a Cold After Exposure?
Common colds come from the cold virus, which is an airborne virus that may be passed through coughing, sneezing or contact with an infected person. Signs and symptoms of the common cold range from coughing and sneezing to sore throat, watery eyes and congestion. While no cure for the common cold exists, you may minimize your chances of getting a cold and help your body fight the virus once you have it.
Hygiene
One of the most basic ways to avoid contacting the cold virus is through good hygiene. The best way to avoid getting sick or spreading illness is by washing your hands in warm, soapy water. You should always wash your hands after you’ve been around other sick people or after you’ve been places where cold viruses might be transmitted. Touching your mouth, nose or eyes after touching any surfaces where cold germs may linger should be avoided. If you have a cold, you can help stop its transmission by coughing and sneezing into your elbow and only touching surfaces after washing your hands.
Supplementation
The belief that vitamin C helps prevent and treat the common cold is popular; however, MayoClinic.com advises that after numerous studies, no significant benefits of vitamin C supplementation exist with regard to preventing colds. However, a 10 percent reduction is seen in the duration of colds when vitamin C is taken at the onset of the cold. Echinacea may help prevent or shorten the duration of colds. Zinc has performed well in studies with regard to reducing the symptoms associated with the common cold. According to a study reported in the “Journal of Infectious Disease,” treatment with zinc lozenges was associated with a reduction in the severity and duration of cold symptoms. This was most likely related to the anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties of zinc.
Self-Care
If you get a cold, it will most likely need to run its course. You can, however, treat your symptoms and make yourself more comfortable. When you have a cold, stay hydrated and get plenty of rest. Gargling with salt water will help soothe a sore throat, and keeping your room warm and moist will help soothe coughing and congestion. Try saline nasal drops to soothe nasal passages and lessen congestion.
Video of the Day
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
References
MayoClinic.com: Hand Washing: Do’s and Don’ts
MayoClinic.com: Vitamin C (Ascorbic Acid)
“The Journal of Infectious Diseases”; Duration and Severity of Symptoms and Levels of Plasma Interleukin-1 Receptor Antagonist, Soluble Tumor Necrosis Factor Receptor and Adhesion Molecules in Patients with Common Colds Treated with Zinc Acetate; Prasad AS, et al; March 2008
MayoClinic.com: Common Cold
About the Author
Karen Frazier is an author and journalist who has been writing professionally since 1987. She is a journalist and managing editor for "Paranormal Underground Magazine," as well as the wine site editor and a writer at LoveToKnow. Frazier has also written three books. She studied elementary education at Eastern Washington University.
More Related Articles
Summer Cold Remedies
What Is the Rhino Flu?
Best Way to Disinfect After Having Flu
Related Articles
Vitamins to Stop Viruses
Read More
How to Get Rid of a Bad Cold While Pregnant
Read More
Get Fit!
Try our healthfully BMI and weight loss calculator!
Echinacea Tea Benefits
Read More
What Is the Best Herbal Tea to Drink When You Have a Cold?
Read More
About Us
Advertise
Contact Us
Copyright Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of the HEALTHFULLY.COM Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. The material appearing on HEALTHFULLY.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. HEALTHFULLY.COM does not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the website.