UTIs - Question Circumcision
Welcome
Circ History
What's a Foreskin?
Reasons Some Cut
Whose Choice?
I'm Circumcised
Complications
Women and Circ
Care for the Intact
Regret/2nd chances
Restoration
Myths
Is this Legal?
Intersex
Intactivists
Testimonials
Celebrities
Circumfetish
Galleries
Videos
More Info
Books and DVDs
My Journey
Discussion Board
Question Circumcision
UTI:
Overall, urinary tract infections (UTI) are lower for males (regardless of whether they are cut) than female infants during the first six months of life.
Regardless of circumcision status, infants who present with their first UTI at 6 months (or less) are likely to have an underlying genitourinary abnormality.
In children with a normal underlying anatomy, a study found as many circumcised infants with a UTI as those who retained their foreskin.
The appropriate treatment for UTI, in males as well as females, is antibiotics, not circumcision.
According to the AAP, “Urinary tract infections are usually not life threatening and are easily treated in most cases.”.
Breastfeeding provides some measure of protection against UTI during the first six months of life.
Since the foreskin is fused to the glans at birth, this helps to keep feces and urine out of the urethra opening.
Women get them more than men and they take a simple antibiotic to cure it.
Infections are normal: eyes, ears, throats, they all can get infected yet we treat with antibiotics not amputation.
The circumcised penis is not immune to infections including sexually transmitted diseases or penile cancer.
Penile and cervical cancers, urinary tract infections and sexually transmitted diseases have nothing to do with the foreskin itself.
If you follow proper care of the intact penis you should not have infections.
In the rare case you do, antibiotics.
Circumcision and newborn utis: Winberg's solution
Cultural Bias and the Urinary Tract Infection (UTI) Circumcision Controversy
Circumcision: Is the Risk of Urinary Tract Infection Really the Pivotal Issue?
Circumstitions: Circumcision and Urinary Tract Infection
CIRP: Circumcision and urinary tract infection
How the Foreskin Protects Against UTIs
Breastfeeding and UTIs
Powered by Create your own unique website with customizable templates.
Get Started