6 Steps to Prevent Nearly Half of Colorectal Cancer Cases | American Institute for Cancer Research (AICR)
AICR'S ITHRIVE PLAN
RECIPES
CANCER HEALTH CHECK
SHOP
Donate Now
Planned Giving
Memorial Gifts
Car Donations
Home
Reduce Your Cancer Risk
Diet
How healthy is your diet?
A cancer-protective diet
Healthy recipes
Nutrition facts
Phytochemicals in your food
Red and processed meat
Sugar and cancer risk
Alcohol and cancer risk
Physical Activity
Are you active enough?
Physical activity and cancer risk
Getting started
Weight
Are you a healthy weight?
Obesity and cancer risk
Lose weight the healthy way
Weight loss, myths vs facts
Cancer Risk and Other Lifestyle Factors
Cancer Prevention
Recommendations
Other Lifestyle Factors
Hot Topics
Recommendations for Cancer Prevention
Sign up for epubs
Resources
Cancer Sites
Cancer Prevention Month
Campaign website
A 30-Day Cancer Prevention Checklist
Foods that Fight Cancer
Cancer Health Check
Our Research
Third Expert Report
Continuous Update Project
Grant Program
Grant application package
AICR Research team
AICR Research Conference
Cancer Research Update
Research Impact
AICR Progress
How our research is used
Research We Fund
Latest projects
Meet the Grantees
Marilyn Gentry Fellowship
Search by scientist/topic
Meetings Calendar
How You Can Help
Ways to Give
Become a monthly donor
Give at work
Donate your vehicle
Give while you shop
Match your gift
Partnership Opportunities
Honor/Memorial/Tribute
Give a gift in memory
Give a gift in honor
Create a tribute
Estate Planners Corner
Planned Giving Options
Get Involved
Join Team AICR
Ask the special events coordinator
Shred Cancer
Cancer Survivors
AICR’s iTHRIVE Plan
Getting Ready for Treatment
Questions about your diagnosis
Questions to ask your doctor
Finding support
During Treatment
Exercising during treatment
Dealing with treatment side effects
Foods to try during treatment
Staying Healthy After Treatment
Preventing recurrence, secondary cancers
Dealing with weight gain or loss
Healthy or Harmful
Soy
Flaxseed
Alkaline diets
Supplements
Asparagus Claims
Vegetarian and vegan
Sugar and other topics in the news
Resources for You
Take our 12 week healthy weight challenge
Cooking for health
Read the latest research
CancerResource - a handbook
Recharge: Monthly Newsletter
A Dietitian’s Cancer Story
About Us
Who We Are
History
Mission
Leadership
Global Network
What We Do
Research
Impact
Education
Resources For
Press
Health professionals
Researchers
Parents/families
Contact Us
Financial Information
Content Usage
Press
AICR Experts
Press Registration
Content Usage
WCRF/AICR
Global Network
March
For Immediate Release: March 1, 2017
AICR Contact: communications@aicr.org
6 Steps to Prevent Nearly Half of Colorectal Cancer Cases
March is Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month. AICR experts share research-based strategies to reduce the risk.
Additional Resources:
Report: Food, Nutrition Physical Activity
and the Prevention of Colorectal Cancer
Preventing Colorectal Cancer Infographic
Obesity and Cancer (infographic)
WASHINGTON, DC – Colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer in the United States. It is also one of the most preventable. Research shows that Americans can prevent tens of thousands of colorectal cancer cases every year through diet, physically activity and weight management, say experts at the American Institute of Cancer Research (AICR).
“By making a few changes in what you eat and drink, and getting at least 30 minutes of activity in every day, you have the power to significantly lower your risk of developing colorectal cancer,” says Alice Bender, MS, RDN, AICR’s Head of Nutrition Programs. “We estimate that about 63,000 cases in the United States every year wouldn't have to happen if everyone were to make these lifestyle adjustments and stay a healthy weight.”
For National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month, Bender shares six evidence-based steps to reduce your risk.
1. Stay a healthy weight and watch out for belly fat
Research now shows that excess body fat links to increased risk of colorectal cancer, along with ten other cancers. Carrying excess belly fat – regardless of weight – is a risk factor for colorectal cancer.
What To Do: Become portion-size savvy. Choose larger portions of colorful vegetables, but keep servings of calorie-packed foods like meats, cheese and nuts smaller. Limit desserts and sweets to two or three times a week in small portions.
2. Fit activity into your day
From housecleaning to running, research shows that moderate daily physical activity – of all types – reduces the risk of colon cancer. (There was insufficient evidence to make a similar conclusion regarding rectal cancer.)
What To Do: Find 10 minutes today to move, whether taking a break at work or while watching TV. Build on that over time by taking more activity breaks or extending the 10 minutes to 30 minutes.
3. Eat plenty of fiber
Eating a diet with plenty of high fiber foods lowers the risk of colorectal cancer. For every 10 grams of fiber coming from foods daily – slightly less than a cup of beans – the risk of colorectal cancer is reduced by 10 percent.
What To Do: Move to the AICR New American Plate way of eating: fill two-thirds or more of your plate with vegetables, fruits, whole grains, beans and nuts and no more than one-third with animal protein such as poultry or lean red meat.
4. Cut the red meat; avoid the processed
The report found that regularly eating high amounts of red meat and even small amounts of processed meat increases colorectal cancer risk. Even processed meats in small amounts, eaten regularly, increase the risk. Processed meats include hot dogs, bacon, sausage and deli meats.
Starting Step: Limit red meat consumption to 18 ounces per week – roughly the equivalent of five or six small cooked portions of beef, lamb or pork – and avoid processed meat. Try fresh roasted chicken breast, hummus or peanut butter for sandwiches.
5. Go moderate on the alcohol
The evidence is convincing that drinking alcohol increases colorectal cancer risk in men and it probably increases the risk in women. When it comes to cancer risk, the best advice is: If you don't drink, don't start. For people who do drink, AICR recommends limiting alcohol to no more than two standard drinks daily for men; one for women.
What To Do: Become aware of how much a standard drink is by measuring the following amounts and pouring it into your glassware: 5 ounces of wine, 12 oz. beer and 1.5 ounces of liquor.
6. Enjoy plenty of garlic
Evidence suggests that regularly including garlic in a diet reduces the risk of colorectal cancer.
What To Do: Add chopped garlic to stews, stir-fries, vegetables and roasted meats. Chop the garlic then wait 10-15 minutes before cooking in order to activate the health-promoting ingredients
***
Editor's Notes:
Along with healthy lifestyle habits, colorectal cancer screenings also are key to prevent this disease from developing.
About AICR
Our Vision: We want to live in a world where no one develops a preventable cancer.
Our Mission: The American Institute for Cancer Research champions the latest and most authoritative scientific research from around the world on cancer prevention and survival through diet, weight and physical activity, so that we can help people make informed lifestyle choices to reduce their cancer risk.
We have contributed over $108 million for innovative research conducted at universities, hospitals and research centers across the country. Find evidence-based tools and information for lowering cancer risk, including AICR’s Recommendation for Cancer Prevention, at www.aicr.org.
Questions: Ask Our Staff
Talk to us!
Our planned giving staff is
here to help you!
Ann Wrenshall Worley
Assistant Director of Planned Giving
Call Us: (800) 843-8114
Send us a note
About AICR
We fund cutting-edge research and give people practical tools and information to help them prevent — and survive — cancer.
More About AICR »
Contact
American Institute for Cancer Research
1560 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 1000, Arlington, VA 22209
P: (800) 843-8114
Fax: (202) 328-7226 | Email: aicrweb@aicr.org
Sign Up For Email
Get the latest research, strategies and news on cancer prevention and survivorship.
SIGN UP
Donate Now
Privacy Policy
Do Not Call Policy
Terms of Service
© American Institute for Cancer Research
The American Institute for Cancer Research is a nonprofit charity designated as tax-exempt under Section 501(c)3 by the Internal Revenue Service.
Donations are tax-deductible to the full extent of the law. EIN 52-1238026.