4 easily inherited cancers and preventive measures – How to be Health
Skip to content
How to be Health
Food, disease, health, fitness, lifestyle, We're focused on staying healthy.
Menu
Home
disease
bone
eyes
teeth
visceral
food
drink
life
Healthy Recipes
hair
fitness
lose weight
health
baby
skin
medical
Traditional Chinese medicine
Mental health
About and connection
disease
4 easily inherited cancers and preventive measures
Posted by howtobehealth.net on December 9, 2018 December 9, 2018
Although the current medical technology has been very advanced, but the difficulty of cancer is still not overcome, cancer is still a very frightening disease.
The more worrying problem is that cancer has a certain genetic tendency, so what should parents do for their children with cancer, and which cancers will be inherited?
4 easily inherited cancers and preventive measures
Measures to avoid cancer heredity
Physical examination.
Some tumors have a clear hereditary tendency, especially for immediate family members, so if parents have cancer patients, they should not only have regular physical examination, but also increase the frequency of physical examination.
In this way, it is possible to take measures immediately after the occurrence of physical abnormalities in order to control the disease after it is found.
Vaccination.
So far, the medical technology has made great progress, because some cancers can be prevented by related vaccines, such as cervical cancer patients can be prevented.
If the immediate family members have cervical cancer patients, then the children must be vaccinated in a timely manner.
Healthy diet.
The appearance of cancer basically also has certain connection with a person’s physical quality, if oneself resistance is relatively poor, the probability that lets cancer cell invade naturally is higher also.
If the parents have cancer, then as children must pay attention to enhance their physical quality, pay attention to nutrition balance, maintain strong enough immunity, can resist cancer.
Increase understanding.
If you have cancer in your family, be sure to increase your awareness of cancer.
You need to understand why cancer appears? How does cancer worsen? How to prevent it?
Only when you understand cancer can you fight it.
Hereditary cancer:
1. Thyroid carcinoma.
If you have thyroid cancer in your immediate family, its inheritance is very strong.
If there were more than three patients among women, children and siblings, the genetic probability of the disease would be as high as 90%.
2. Colorectal cancer.
Colorectal cancer has a very obvious genetic tendency, because colorectal cancer often starts from intestinal polyps, and familial adenomatous polyps have obvious chromosome dominant inheritance, which shows that colorectal cancer has a significant inheritance.
3. Breast cancer.
Studies have found that people who have breast cancer in their parents are three times more likely to develop it.
4. Liver cancer.
Liver cancer also has a genetic predisposition, and it has been confirmed at the genetic level that it is best to have a comprehensive liver examination, regardless of the child’s physical condition, if there are patients with liver cancer in their parents.
About Cancer Genetics
The genetic phenomenon of cancer is caused by chromosomal aberrations.
The normal human body has 46 chromosomes per cell, and various carcinogenic factors can cause chromosomal aberrations that make chromosomes different in number and shape from those in normal cells, and this chromosomal aberration is sometimes passed on to offspring. To give the next generation a chance of getting cancer.
However, people who are at risk of developing cancer do not necessarily have cancer. They are just more likely to have cancer than the average person.
The occurrence of cancer depends on internal and external causes, cancer constitution only has a certain internal cause, if coupled with external carcinogenic factors, such as radiation, smoking, and so on, cancer will occur.
Cancer genetics and probability
Cancer is indeed genetic, but there is no need to panic too much, disease (including cancer) is the result of a combination of multiple factors, including internal and external causes, internal factors refers to genetic aspects, accounting for about 30%; External causes include lifestyle accounting for about 60%, social conditions, medical conditions, and natural conditions accounting for about 10%.
Inheritance accounts for only 30% of the total, which is a relatively small proportion. More attention should be paid to external causes.
In addition, with the progress of society, especially the completion of the World Human Genome Project, early cancer screening can be achieved by means of gene testing.
Scientific Research: cure rate of 80%-95% in early stage, 20%-30% in Middle stage, and less than 10% in late stage.
Share this article:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
More
Click to print (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window)
Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Skype (Opens in new window)
Related
cancerCancer geneticsdisease
Post navigation
Previous Post The function, complement and criterion of judgment of high quality protein
Next Post Best Sleep Guide 2019 (to keep you energized)
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Search for:
Recent Posts
How to Reduce Bad cholesterol Quickly and Effectively? April 23, 2019
4 Simple methods can help you get rid of your drowsiness quickly April 22, 2019
Earthquake Survives: 5 Things You Must Prepare April 21, 2019
Hot water VS cold water: which is healthier? April 20, 2019
5 Family Natural Therapy to Promote Hair Growth April 19, 2019
7 natural ways to control hypertension (through common foods) April 18, 2019
8 Delicious Vegetables Rich in Vitamin C (Common in Families) April 16, 2019
Recent Comments
How to Reduce Bad cholesterol Quickly and Effectively? – How to be Health on Can smoking cause high blood pressure?
4 Simple methods can help you get rid of your drowsiness quickly – How to be Health on Hot water VS cold water: which is healthier?
4 Family Natural Therapy to Promote Hair Growth – How to be Health on Guide to the use of vegetable oils for the best protection of hair in 2019
7 natural ways to control hypertension (through common foods) – How to be Health on 6 Diet helps you keep your muscles healthy
7 natural ways to control hypertension (through common foods) – How to be Health on 12 advantages of cashew nuts, this is an incredible healthy food
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
Popular articles
Where is the hymen? How to tell if it is a virgin?
What is loquat? What's the benefit? Can pregnant women eat? Attention?
Mulberry：Nutrition value, benefits, food precautions, pregnant women and baby can eat?
Can pregnant women eat taro?
Can baby eat white radish?
Can women drink green tea during menstruation?
Can babies eat durian?
Can baby eat purple potato?
Can you eat watermelon during menstruation？
Can babies eat sugar cane?
Tags
baby (64) banana (17) beauty (17) blood (17) brain (21) cancer (81) Diet (266) Diet Health (258) disease (24) Drugs (21) eggs (20) exercise (30) eyes (21) Fat (30) fit (35) food (17) Food match (17) fruit (153) habit (60) hair (19) health (28) health news (62) heart (19) life (93) lifehabit (107) liver (26) longevity (22) lose weight (19) Love (28) Make love (22) marriage (20) men (45) Nutritional value (26) nutritive value (44) pregnant women (49) science (32) Sex (38) Sex life (25) sleep (69) smoking (31) United States (40) vegetable (77) Vegetables (77) Vitamin (24) women (73)
Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Dyad 2 by WordPress.com.