St. Clair Shores Dentist | Extractions
St. Clair Shores MI Dentist
25520 Little Mack Ave
St. Clair Shores, MI 48081
(586) 771-5888
Request an Appointment
Menu
Home
About Us
Meet Our Team
Office Tour
Services
General & Preventive Dentistry
Cosmetic Dentistry in St. Clair Shores
Restorative Dentistry
Technology
Patient Resources
Testimonials
Read our Reviews
Video Testimonials
Smile Gallery
Blog
Dental Minute Video Blog
Contact
Request an Appointment
Post-Op Instructions: Extractions
Dentist in St. Clair Shores
After tooth extraction, it’s important for a blood clot to form to stop the bleeding and begin the healing process. That’s why we ask you to bite on a gauze pad for 30-45 minutes after the appointment. You may have to do this several times. If bleeding still persists, biting on a moist tea bag wrapped in gauze may help control the oozing from the surgical site. Tea has an ingredient that promotes blood clotting.
After the blood clot forms, it is important not to disturb or dislodge the clot as it aids healing. Does not rinse vigorously, suck on straws, smoke, drink alcohol or brush teeth next to the extraction site for 72 hours. These activities will dislodge or dissolve the clot and retard the healing process. Limit vigorous exercise for the next 24 hours as this will increase blood pressure and may cause more bleeding from the extraction site.
Failure to comply with the above instructions will result in dislodgment of the clot and severe throbbing pain at the extraction site, since the bone is now exposed to the oral environment. After the tooth is extracted you may feel some pain and experience some swelling. An ice pack or an unopened bag of frozen peas or corn applied to the area will keep swelling to a minimum. Take pain medications as prescribed. The swelling usually subsides after 48 hours.
Use the pain medication as directed. Call the office if the medication doesn’t seem to be working. If antibiotics are prescribed, continue to take them for the indicated length of time, even if signs and symptoms of infection are gone. Drink lots of fluid and eat nutritious soft food on the day of the extraction. You can eat normally as soon as you are comfortable.
It is important to resume your normal dental routine after 24 hours. This should include brushing and flossing your teeth at least once a day. This will speed healing and help keep your mouth fresh and clean. After a few days you will feel fine and can resume your normal activities. If you have heavy bleeding, severe pain, continued swelling for 2-3 days, or a reaction to the medication, call our office immediately.
Visit Our St. Clair Dental Practice
25520 Little Mack Ave
St Clair Shores, MI 48081
Phone: (586) 771-5888
Fax: (586) 777-7319
Email: davidrenaud@att.net
The Office of Our St. Clair Shores Dentist
Please take a tour of our St. Clair Shores dental office. Dr. David Renaud, Dr. Theresa Caruana and Dr. Audra Herman are always welcoming new patients!
What we offer:
• Convenient evening & weekend hours
• $50 New patient special
• Accept most insurances
Contact us for more information or to schedule an appointment.
Convenient Office Hours
Monday: 10AM - 8PM
Tuesday: 8AM - 6PM
Wednesday: 8AM - 8PM
Thursday: 8AM - 8PM
Friday: 8AM - 4PM
Saturday: 8AM - 1PM
Sunday: Closed Except Emergencies
Contact Our Office
Tour Our St. Clair Shores Dental Office
St. Clair Shores Dentist / 25520 Little Mack St Clair Shores, MI 48081 / (586) 771-5888
Read Our St. Clair Shores Dental Blog
Dentist in St. Clair Shores, MI
Dentist Near Me | Ow! Your Guide to Canker Sores
April 18th 2019
A canker sore can make eating, drinking, and talking difficult and even painful. Maintaining your oral health by brushing and flossing may also be difficult with a sore in your mouth, but keeping up with your daily oral hygiene routine...
Read More
Dentist in St. Clair Shores | Should You Brush Right After Eating?
March 29th 2019
Dentist Near Me Enamel is the guardian of your teeth and the hardest material in the body. It’s the first defense against harmful bacteria which may lead to tooth decay. When you eat certain foods, it creates bacteria which attack...
Read More
St Clair Shores MI Dentist | Dry Mouth – Not Just a Nuisance
March 28th 2019
48081 Dentist Normal flow of saliva provides lubrication for swallowing and begins the process of digestion while you chew. Saliva also protects your teeth by neutralizing and washing away acids, sugars, and other particles left behind after eating. From time...
Read More
© St. Clair Shores Dentist | (586) 771-5888 | 25520 Little Mack St. Clair Shores, MI 48081 | Sitemap