Shoops Termite & Pest Control Chemical Suppliers
Shoop's Texas Termite & Pest Control
Since 1932
Home
About Us
Comments
Products
All Products
General Insecticides Page
Insect Light Trapps
Services
Pest Control
Termites
Pre Treatment
Sentricon
Lawn Service
Ornamental Program
West Nile Prevention
Contact Us
Job Opportunities
Avoid Mosquito Bites to Avoid Infection
When dealing with West Nile virus, prevention is your best bet. Fighting mosquito bites reduces your risk of getting this disease, along with others that mosquitoes can carry. Shoop's has created a specialized method of controling mosquitoes which we call our
" WEST NILE PREVENTION PROGRAM ".
SHOOP'S will come to your property once a month for monitoring, prevention, and eradication of any mosquito nest or breeding sites that are present or trying to develop.
Our combination of organics, systemics, larvacides, and conventional pesticides ensures that mosquitoes and other disease carrying insects will not breed or nest on your property.
Something to remember: The chance that any one person is going to become ill from a single mosquito bite remains low. The risk of severe illness and death is highest for people over 50 years old, although people of all ages can become ill.
Apply Insect Repellent Containing DEET
(Look for: N,N-diethyl-meta-toluamide ) to exposed skin when you go outdoors. Even a short time being outdoors can be long enough to get a mosquito bite.
West Nile virus
Prevention for Individuals not on Shoop's Program
Your best bet for preventing West Nile virus and other mosquito-borne illnesses is to avoid exposure to mosquitoes and eliminate mosquito-breeding sites. To help control West Nile virus:
Eliminate standing water in your yard. Mosquitoes breed in pools of standing water.
Unclog roof gutters.
Empty unused swimming pools.
Change water in birdbaths at least weekly.
Remove old tires or any unused containers that might hold water and serve as a breeding place for mosquitoes.
Watch for sick or dying birds and report them to your local health department.
To reduce your own exposure to mosquitoes:
Avoid unnecessary outdoor activity when mosquitoes are most prevalent, such as at dawn, dusk and early evening.
Wear long-sleeved shirts and long pants when you go into mosquito-infested areas.
Apply mosquito repellent with DEET to your skin and clothing. Choose the concentration based on the hours of protection you need - the higher the percentage (concentration) of the active ingredient, the longer the repellent will work. Keep in mind that chemical repellants can be toxic, and use only the amount needed for the time you'll be outdoors. Don't use DEET on the hands of young children or on infants under 2 months of age. Instead, cover your infant's stroller or playpen with mosquito netting when outside. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, oil of lemon eucalyptus, a more natural product, offers the same protection as DEET when used in similar concentrations.
A vaccine is available to protect horses from West Nile virus. No vaccine is available for humans, but work to develop a human vaccine is under way
Mosquito Info
Mosquitoes lay up to 250 eggs at a time in still water, which will hatch in 7 to 10 days. If standing water is eliminated weekly, many mosquitoes will be kept from breeding in the first place, eliminating the need to use pesticides against adult mosquitoes. This also reduces the number of mosquitoes around the house.
Call Shoop's Today 1-(888)-723-4565 or 940-767-8811