If You Take Medications, You Need to Know About Grapefruit
FIT2BU HEALTH COACHING
Home
Happy Clients
Work with me
ProCoach
My story
Blog
Contact
If You Take Medications, You Need to Know About Grapefruit
4/7/2018
Comments
Grapefruit is good for you!
It’s a vitamin C-rich citrus fruit that’s low in sugar and contains vitamin A, potassium, and fibre. It has a low glycemic index and does not spike your blood sugar when you eat it. The pink and red varieties also contain lycopene.
It’s definitely a nutritious health-promoting food.
It even had a whole weight-loss diet created around it - the “grapefruit diet!” Research has proven that grapefruit doesn’t have any magical weight loss properties, so don’t eat it just to lose weight.
But...
There is something you need to know about grapefruit if you take medications.
Grapefruit-Medication Interaction
Grapefruit enhances the effects of many medications - over 85 at last count; this is sometimes called the "grapefruit effect." Taking grapefruit (or its juice) along with certain medications - even a day apart - can increase the risk of side effects.
For example, when taken with certain blood pressure lowering medications it lowers blood pressure too much. This causes lightheadedness and other symptoms.
Another example is when taken with certain birth control pills, women have a higher risk of blood clots.
Grapefruit affects the metabolism of some of the following categories of medications:
Blood pressure
Birth control
Chemotherapy
Anti-infection
Cholesterol-lowering
Immunosuppressive and anti-rejection
Urinary tract agents
Some over-the-counter cough medication
When the medication is taken within 24-72 hours of consuming grapefruit or its juice (yes, up to three days later!), there can be an interaction and potential side effect. In fact, for half of the medications affected, the grapefruit effect can be serious. Serious effects include heart and muscle issues and kidney toxicity, just to name a few.
How does this even happen, and why is grapefruit special?
How does grapefruit interact with medications?
Grapefruit (as well as Seville oranges, limes, and pomelos) contain a compound called “furanocoumarin.” It’s this compound that inhibits (stops) an enzyme in our gut (enzyme CYP 3A4) from working properly.
When working properly, this enzyme breaks down and metabolises many compounds we ingest, including dozens of medications.
When the enzyme is inhibited, like when we’ve consumed grapefruit, this slows down the enzyme. This leads to slowing down of the rate these medications are metabolised and eliminated from the body.
If you slow down metabolism and elimination, this leads to higher than normal levels of medications in the blood - up to 137% higher! This "enhances" their effect and can cause those side effects.
When medications are prescribed at certain doses to be taken in certain time frames, this is based on the medication being metabolised normally - not way-too-slowly.
If you need to replace grapefruit or its juice in your diet, try another fruit or vegetable. Or, talk with your doctor about swapping for another medication that’s not affected by grapefruit.
Conclusion
Since one glass of grapefruit juice can affect the enzyme’s function for over 24-hours, it’s advisable to stop eating the grapefruit or drinking its juice altogether while you’re taking certain medications.
If you love eating grapefruit or drinking its juice and are taking medications, definitely speak with your doctor or pharmacist to see if this affects you. Many medications are not metabolised by this enzyme, and even if they are, this grapefruit effect may not pose a serious risk for all of those medications.
So, now that you know grapefruit's little secret go find out if you're affected.
Do you know someone who loves grapefruit or its juice, and is taking medications that have the grapefruit effect? Share this post to let them know that they should double-check with their doctor or pharmacist before enjoying this awesome fruit.
Recipe (Tangy Citrusy): Non-Grapefruit Juice
Serves 2
2 cups pineapple, peeled & chopped
1 cup cucumber, washed & chopped
1 lemon, peeled
Instructions:
Juice pineapple, cucumber and lemon.
Serve over ice & enjoy!
Tip: Top with fresh mint leaves.
Comments
Categories
All
Exercise
Exercise Timing
Fitness
Goal Setting
Healthy Eating
Hormones
Lifestyle
Menopause
Mindset
Motivation
My Personal Menopause Weight Loss Journey
Nutrition
Peri/Menopause
Recommended Reading
Stress
Weight Loss
RSS Feed
Click below to listen to a podcast episode I was interviewed for, about building resilience and my journey to being a Health Coach
Stay ahead of the pack by signing up for my weekly newsletter. Be the first to know about new blog posts, fun free challenges, and awesome specials. Click the button below to sign up. Your information safety is important to me, so please check out the Privacy Policy
Please add me
Home
Happy Clients
Work with me
ProCoach
My story
Blog
Contact