OmegaK Heart Attack Defender Review - What You Need to Know
HEALTH
Beauty
Fitness
Supplements
Search for
Health And Wellness
OmegaK Krill Oil Heart Attack Defender Review – What You Need to Know
in	Supplements	on	 October 23, 2017	 December 17, 2018	 Share	Facebook Twitter Pinterest Google+ Email
Do you know what the leading cause of death is for people in the United States?
If you said cancer or car accidents, you aren’t too far off; these two definitely make an appearance on the top 10 list.
Heart disease is actually the leading cause of death in the United States—and even worldwide.
Heart disease is the buildup of plaque in the arteries, which often leads to a heart attack or stroke.
This buildup is caused by eating foods that are high in cholesterol and saturated fat over a long period of time.
Smoking and drinking alcohol excessively can also increase risks. In fact, studies have shown that obesity is closely linked heart disease and heart disease-related deaths. In the United States, nearly 70 percent of adults are overweight or obese.
So, are YOU at risk?
Depending on your weight, your diet, and your exercise levels, you might be.
What do you do about it?
Although consuming a healthy diet is the first step in the right direction, it isn’t always easy, especially with life on the go.
However, there are some dietary supplements that have proven to help give your body what you need.
With staggering statistics related to heart disease and deaths, we have grown exceptionally “health conscious” over the last decade.
As a result, hundreds of products have hit the market all claiming to help individuals lose weight, fight off diseases, and promote heart health.
But which products are truly effective and which are just marketing gimmicks?
We reviewed hundreds of products on the market to help determine which product is the best heart attack defender, and krill oil came up.
We took a deeper look into various krill oil products to see how they work, their ingredients, and also measured and analyzed results and user feedback, and put together this complete krill oil review.
Our Top Pick for Krill Oil: Omega K Heart Attack Defender
357 Reviews
Ultra-Potent EPA And DHA From Pure Antarctic Krill.
47 x More Powerful Than Fish Oil!.
OmegaK Krill Oil – 1000 mg/dose.
Reduce High Blood Pressure.
Promotes Heart Health.
Learn More
OmegaK is manufactured by Omega K, Inc. OmegaK is a krill oil dietary supplement that comes in gel capsules.
Each capsule contains high levels of EPA and DHA, which contain essential omega fatty acids that promote heart health.
Here is a quick summary of benefits to taking OmegaK krill oil:
Reduce fat production in the body
Support liver health
Promote heart health
Reduce risks of heart attack and stroke
Rich in antioxidants and Vitamin E
Prevent inflammation
Provides sufficient amount of essential fatty acids, including EPA and DHA
Reduce high blood pressure
More beneficial than fish oil
Increase good cholesterol (HDL)
Decrease bad cholesterol (LDL)
Reduce triglycerides
What is Krill Oil?
Krill oil is derived from krill, which are small crustaceans that feed on phytoplankton and zooplankton.
Krill is a primary food source for whales, seals, penguins and fish.
In recent years, krill has become a more popular dietary supplement.
In fact, some believe that krill oil is more beneficial than fish oil as krill oil provides more essential Omega-3 fatty acids as it can absorb up to 15 times more than fish oil.
Krill Oil vs. Fish Oil
Now you understand more about what krill oil is, you may be wondering what the difference is between krill oil and fish oil.
After all, both contain the same ingredients, such as Omega-3 fatty acids, EPA, and DHA and even traces of Vitamin E.
So, does one work better than the other?
Studies have shown that krill oil is more effective in maintaining cholesterol and blood sugar levels, supporting a healthy liver, relieving PMS symptoms for women, cognitive functions and memory.
What Are Omega 3 Fatty Acids?
357 Reviews
Ultra-Potent EPA And DHA From Pure Antarctic Krill.
47 x More Powerful Than Fish Oil!.
OmegaK Krill Oil – 1000 mg/dose.
Reduce High Blood Pressure.
Promotes Heart Health.
Learn More
Many dietary supplement and health aid brands offer supplements that include omega 3 fatty acids.
Aside from consuming cooked or raw fish or shellfish, the most common source of omega 3 fatty acids is a fish oil supplement—until now.
Today, krill oil is also an available supplement that provides even more omega 3 fatty acids.
As a result, krill oil has become known for its long list of heart health benefits, including improving cardiovascular health, reducing the risk for cardiovascular disease and stroke, and also reducing blood pressure and high cholesterol.
In addition to omega fatty acids, quality fish oil and krill oil supplements typically include DHA and EPA supplements, which are known to contain high levels of natural anti-inflammatory properties.
Omega 3 fatty acids contain EPA (eicosapentaenoic acid) and DHA (docosahexaenoic acid) levels, which are commonly found in various types of fish and shellfish.
Additionally, algae plants are often rich in docosahexaenoic acid or DHA.
The best sources of omega 3 fatty acids include the following:
Salmon
Sardines
Mackerel
Herring
Tuna
White fish
Anchovies
Shellfish
Algae and algae oils (and other plant foods)
Walnuts
Flaxseed
Chia seeds
Hemp seeds
Eggs
What Are the Health Benefits of Omega 3 Fatty Acids?
Omega 3 fatty acids are also referred to as essential fatty acids, or EFAs. They are also known as polyunsaturated fatty acids.
They are considered “essential” because the human body cannot naturally produce them on its own.
Omega 3 fatty acids are also known “healthy fats” that the body uses for a variety of functions.
This is the primary reason why many individuals try to consume fish, nuts, seeds and shellfish on a regular basis.
However, fish can be expensive to purchase and prepare all the time, which is why many will often resort to taking a dietary health supplements to get sufficient Omega-3s and essential fatty acids.
Scientific and clinical studies have shown that omega-3 fatty acids provide a number of health benefits, including reducing the risk for heart disease and metabolic disease, reducing pain and inflammation, promoting joint health, improve neurological function and cognitive processes, stabilize moods and even help reduce asthma symptoms.
Furthermore, studies have also shown that people who suffer from omega-3 deficiencies can increase their risks for a number of complications, including:
Inflammation (sometimes severe)
Higher risk for heart disease
High cholesterol and high blood pressure
Digestive disorders
Allergies
Arthritis
Joint and muscle pain
Depression and other mental disorders
Poor brain development
Cognitive decline
Many studies show that omega 3 fatty acids help maintain the following:
Cardiovascular health (by lowering blood pressure, cholesterol, plaque buildup in the arteries, and the chance of having a heart attack or stroke)
Stabilizing blood sugar levels (preventing diabetes)
Reducing muscle, bone and joint pain by lowering inflammation
Helping balance cholesterol levels
Improving mood and preventing depression
Improving cognitive functions (such as with concentration and learning)
Treating symptoms in asthmatic individuals
Boosting immune system functions
Treating digestive disorders like ulcerative colitis
Preventing cancer
Reducing risks for cardiovascular disease
Improving skin health and complexion
What is OmegaK?
357 Reviews
Ultra-Potent EPA And DHA From Pure Antarctic Krill.
47 x More Powerful Than Fish Oil!.
OmegaK Krill Oil – 1000 mg/dose.
Reduce High Blood Pressure.
Promotes Heart Health.
Learn More
As mentioned briefly above, OmegaK is manufactured by Omega K, Inc. and is also referred to as the Heart Attack Defender.
This is because the ingredients in OmegaK are rich in Omega-3 fatty acids and essential nutrients that have been scientifically proven to promote general heart health.
OmegaK Heart Attack Defender also claims that the essential fatty acids are derived from phospholipids and astaxanthin, which are natural fatty acids in fish.
However, the breakdown of EPA and DHA amounts isn’t specified on the supplement label.
It’s worth mentioning that the The American Heart Association recommends at least 900 mg of DHA and EPA every day to reduce the risks for a heart attack.
Omega krill oil supposedly provides more than what is recommended.
What Makes OmegaK Better Than Standard Fish Oil?
There are a number of omega 3 fatty acid heart health supplements on the market, including regular fish oil.
Another example of a omega krill oil supplement is Omega XL.
In fact, fish oil is highly recommended by many medical professionals and health care physicians, but what makes OmegaK Heart Attack Defender better than regular fish oil supplements?
Although fish oil supplements are certainly highly effective in promoting heart health, joint health, and have even proven to help boost cognitive functions and processes, OmegaK contains high levels of krill oil, which are proven to help stabilize cholesterol levels, blood pressure levels, and reduce the risk of heart disease.
Additionally, OmegaK Heart Attack Defender is made from pure antarctic krill, which means that this supplement is manufactured from natural krill sources.
This also means that natural krill is less likely to have been exposed to chemicals and free radicals found in other parts of the ocean.
When comparing OmegaK with standard fish oil supplements or omega supplements, other products are often made with large fish.
Depending on the waters in which they are caught, these fish sources may have demonstrated higher mercury levels.
Although some mercury is healthy, consuming too much mercury or omega krill or omega fish oil products with high mercury levels can actually do the body more harm than good, so it’s important to consume these in moderation.
The Benefits of Krill Oil
357 Reviews
Ultra-Potent EPA And DHA From Pure Antarctic Krill.
47 x More Powerful Than Fish Oil!.
OmegaK Krill Oil – 1000 mg/dose.
Reduce High Blood Pressure.
Promotes Heart Health.
Learn More
Here are just a few powerful benefits of krill oil:
Support heart health – Numerous studies have shown that krill oil can significantly help promote cardiovascular health by maintaining healthy inflammatory pathways and reduce LDL cholesterol.
Support brain health – Scientific studies have proven that omega fish oil and krill oil can support brain health, improve concentration, quality of learning, improve the ability to retain information and boosting memory functions overall.
Maintain healthy cholesterol and blood sugar levels – Studies have shown that krill oil is more effective in reducing bad cholesterol levels (LDL cholesterol) than fish oil.
PMS distress – Krill oil has proven to help reduce and decrease discomfort and pain from cramps, uncomfortable fluid retention, and even frustrating mood swings as a result of PMS.
Boost immune system functions – Data shows that krill oil can support immune system health for athletes.
Studies also show that krill oil increases the production of NK cells, which are activated after a workout.
These cells help keep bacteria and viruses under control boosting the immune system.
Support healthy liver functions – Because krill oil is a great source of Omega-3 fatty acids, this can help to reduce fat in the liver by up to 60 percent.
Fish oil only reduces fat in the liver by approximately 38 percent, making krill oil the better option for a healthy liver.
Maintain a healthy complexion – Krill oil contains a number of antioxidants, which can help fight off and prevent illnesses and ailments.
Antioxidants also promote skin health.
In fact, krill oil can help individuals reduce acne breakouts, reduce the risk of inflammatory skin disorders, and improve overall complexion.
Improve joint function – One study in the American Journal of Nutrition discovered that krill oil helps to lubricate joints and reduce inflammation, which facilitates improved mobility.
What Are the OmegaK Side Effects?
Because OmegaK is made from quality krill products and natural ingredients, no harmful, dangerous or hazardous side effects have been reported to date.
However, after reviewing some customer reviews who have taken OmegaK, some common side effects and reactions involve a range of gastric issues, such as an upset stomach, nausea, gas and bloating.
These particular side effects cause more discomfort rather than serious long-term issues.
In fact, these symptoms were only temporary in most cases, and subsided after only a few days.
Most medical professionals and health care physicians will advise individuals to consume smaller amounts of krill oil at first in order to allow the body adequate time to adjust.
Smaller doses will help to avoid an upset stomach and reduce gas and bloating.
If at any point you experience severe symptoms, such as chest pain or discomfort, cold sweats or vomiting, or if the gastric issues persist longer than one to two weeks, then be sure to discuss these issues with a medical professional or seek immediate medical attention.
Additionally, if you have a known allergy to shellfish, then be sure to consult a medical professional to see if it is safe for you to take OmegaK.
Where to Buy OmegaK
357 Reviews
Ultra-Potent EPA And DHA From Pure Antarctic Krill.
47 x More Powerful Than Fish Oil!.
OmegaK Krill Oil – 1000 mg/dose.
Reduce High Blood Pressure.
Promotes Heart Health.
Learn More
OmegaK can be found and purchased online via Amazon for approximately $60 to $70.
Each bottle of OmegaK comes with 60 capsules, which is about a 30-day supply.
Omega K manufacturers recommend taking two capsules per day.
Consuming large amounts of krill oil can cause some gastric issues, as outlined above, so it is important abstain from taking more than directed.
OmegaK Review: Key Takeaways
In summary, Omega K is a relatively safe dietary supplement to consume, and it has proven to help many consumers stabilize cholesterol levels, improve cognitive processes and memory, and support heart health.
However, only 48 percent of customers with verified purchases rated OmegaK with four or five stars.
On the other hand, a number of users claimed that OmegaK did not work at all, calling it a “rip off” of other krill oil products, such as Omega XL.
Furthermore, the fact that OmegaK doesn’t specifically list out the amounts of EPA and DHA may cause many users to question the overall effectiveness and quality of the product.
In fact, 31 percent of reviewers only gave OmegaK a one-star rating.
Although customer reviews seem to be all over the place, it’s important to remember that individual results can and will vary with any product.
Some individuals may see benefits from consuming or using a particular product after only a few days whereas other may have to wait weeks to begin to see or feel results.
Every individual is unique and reacts to health supplements differently, so it’s important to keep this in mind when trying a new supplement.
We believe that the best way to see if OmegaK works for you is to give it a try.
However, it may be best to see how a generic fish oil supplement works for you first before spending $65+ dollars for a bottle of OmegaK, especially since results are not guaranteed and might even be a little “fishy”.
Conclusion: OmegaK Review
357 Reviews
Ultra-Potent EPA And DHA From Pure Antarctic Krill.
47 x More Powerful Than Fish Oil!.
OmegaK Krill Oil – 1000 mg/dose.
Reduce High Blood Pressure.
Promotes Heart Health.
Learn More
In summary, the benefits of krill oil are clear and have been studied for years.
However, the legitimacy and effectiveness of OmegaK krill oil may be in question, especially since the amounts and levels of DHA and EPA are unknown.
This may be a huge concern for some individuals, especially since there are growing concerns about the legitimacy of some dietary supplements.
It’s important for individuals to understand what they are putting in their bodies.
So, purchasing a product from a company that doesn’t hide its ingredients might be the best route.
There are a number of krill oil supplements that are high in essential omega fatty acids and that actually contain essential amounts of DHA and EPA, and that are also more cost effective than OmegaK.
However, the sources of cheaper products might not be as clear.
So, be sure to keep this in mind when making your next purchase decision.
All in all, krill oil supplements have done wonders for some people, especially those struggling with high cholesterol, high blood pressure or who have suffered from heart attacks and are at a high risk for cardiovascular disease.
Keeping your heart healthy is key to living a happy and healthy lifestyle.
Share
Tweet
Pin
0 Shares
Share This
Previous Post
← Simply Fit Board Review
Simply Fit Board Review
Next Post
Nugenix Review – The Next Gen Natural Testosterone Booster? →
Nugenix Review - The Next Gen Natural Testosterone Booster?
You May Also Like
Supplements
Omega XL Supplement Review
View Post
Supplements
Everything You Need to Know About Penetrex Cream
View Post
Supplements
[Sytropin] Natural Human Growth Hormone Spray Reviewed
View Post
Leave A Comment Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
More in Supplements
5 Best Human Growth Hormone [HGH] Supplements For Sale
Nugenix Review – The Next Gen Natural Testosterone Booster?
Omega XL Supplement Review
Flonase Reviews
Pure CBD Oil By CBD Pure – An In-Depth Review
Everything You Need to Know About Penetrex Cream
Nerve Renew Neuropathy Supplement – Our In-Depth Review
Disclaimer: The information is provided by respective product owners and while we endeavor to keep the information up to date and correct, we make no representations or warranties of any kind, express or implied, about the completeness, accuracy, reliability, suitability or availability with respect to the website or the information, products, services, or related graphics contained on the website for any purpose.
FTC Disclosure: We represent a professional research and review team, and on our page you may find affiliate links for which we could be compensated for by clicking on them. 5MinuteReviews.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com.
About
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Terms Of Service