September | 2017 | consulting companies
consulting companies
international consulting firms
Menu
Skip to content
Home
Monthly Archives: September 2017
Bodybuilding Nutrition And Balance
Many inexperienced (sometimes even experienced!) gym regulars believe that muscles grow while lifting weights. However lifting weights forms only a small fraction of the muscle building process. Muscle development takes place at night during deep sleep when the body synthesizes new cells with nutrients from our diet. Therefore nutrition forms a very important part of a bodybuilding program.
The body utilizes nutrients in food to perform daily metabolic and what’s commonly referred to as the “wear and tear processes”. With bodybuilding, additional strain is put on the body to make new muscle tissues. Therefore the nutrient requirements also shoots up to stay with the demand.
The best bodybuilding nutrition comes from a balanced intake of carbohydrates, adequate protein, vitamins, minerals, fats and large amounts of water. So if you are serious about getting lean and ripped it’s time to say goodbye to mayo burgers, colas and other synthetic foods. Adopt eating habits imbibing fruits, whole grains, milk, eggs and fresh farm products.
How much protein do you need?
Your growing muscles need amino acids to create new tissues. The amino acids are provided by protein in diet. There is a lot of debate on the exact quantity of protein required in bodybuilding. The caution to maintain is that extreme amounts of protein in the diet can cause gastric and renal complications. Recent studies have suggested that a protein intake of 1 to 1.4 grams per unit of body weight is adequate to sustain the bodybuilding process. This means that the protein requirement of a 70 kg individual should be around 70 to 98 grams. To give an estimate of the amount involved consider the following: A 100 gm chicken breast has 22 grams of protein, a glass of milk has 8 grams,an egg approximately 5 grams and a slice bread 3 grams.
A word of caution against the tide of bodybuilding supplements in markets. Many times you come across advertisements proclaiming, ‘Gain 20 pounds of muscle in 3 months flat!’. Stay clear of these money hungry advertisers. Building lean muscle takes time and effort. Making use of synthetic products which alter body’s natural mechanism would offset what should be your real purpose in bodybuilding which is to keep the body fit and healthy.
Lastly in bodybuilding it’s not, ‘the more the better’. Rather it is ‘the more precise the better’. Don’t over exert, eat balanced food and include plenty of rest. With everything good in life, patience, commitment, and balance will guarantee your success. With these tips in mind you are all set to pump iron!
This entry was posted in Uncategorized on September 27, 2017 by Charles Hawkins.
Want To Build Big Muscles? Here Is How To Gain Muscles Fast
Want to build Big Huge Muscles? Then you must Squat! The Squat will build big muscles on your entire body frame.
There are 3 types of people in this world.
First, there are those that make things happen. They calculated and know very sure what they want, then they take action and get it no matter what happens. They single mindedly pursue their ambition and they will ultimately succeed. In bodybuilding, they want to grow big and strong with big huge muscles. They SQUAT and squat and squat again. Have you ever seen anyone who is big, have huge muscles and have a well proportioned body like a Greek god who does not squat? Never.
Then there are those who watch things happen. They will savor the world around them. Then say, we will see what happens next. If it works, well we will decide if we are gonna do it.
These are the majority of the average Joes. They want to grow big muscles and be strong and muscular but are reluctant to make the effort to include the squat in their workout routine. Even if they do, they will do it haphazardly and will give up before they achieve their objectives. Then the excuses will flow. “Squats are too hard on my knees” or “Doing squat will stunt your growth” or “Squats are for my back” or “I just want a well toned body.” Excuses from sour grapes. That is why average joes just remain well… average. We will debunk those excuses later in this article.
Finally there are those that are always saying “Omigosh! What happened?” Needless to say, these people are the ones oblivious to what is happening around them. They will walk leisurely on a treadmill reading a book at the same time when others are raising their heart rates to improve endurance and burn fats.
They are the ones doing dumbbell curls after dumbbell curls when others are doing bench presses, dead lifts and squats. They are the ones who ask the champions why the champs are growing biiger muscles and getting fitter all the time whereas they are at the gym longer, more regular and yet not achieving any result. They will take note of the advises and the next time you see them, they are back to what they were doing. Reading that confounded book on the treadmill. They actually expect changes to take place by doing the same things. How is that possible? Then they will say, “Ah… but you are just lucky to have good genes!” What nonsense!
To build muscles fast and big, you must SQUAT! The squat is often touted as the king of exercise and is grouped together with the dead lift and bench press, collectively called the Big Three for power and muscle mass building.
If you want to build big muscles and enjoy a symmetrical physique, you must squat. Period.
In most gym, the squat rack is there collecting dust. Why? Because most people think that their legs will be hidden by their pants. Why bother? How dead wrong they are. Wait till you see them in their shorts or swim wear. You will see Spiderman ..er ..I mean spider legs.
Another reason why people avoid squatting exercises is because the squat work on many major muscles and is grueling work. When you perform squats correctly, you will huff and pant, wheeze, head spinning woozily, see stars, sweat profusely and your entire body will be screaming for you to stop.
Of course the exercise is brutal! You are working out about 75% of your entire muscular structure including your shoulders, traps, back, gluteus, hams, calf, abs and many other synergistic muscles in a single exercise, isn’t that supposed taxed your strength, endurance and your cardio health? Isn’t that the best exercise? Isn’t that why the results from squats will be astounding?
As an added bonus to building big muscles , you will be burning fats like crazy since the squat, given the intensity placed on your body, your metabolism zooms straight up! If your body fat ratio is high, it will help you lose body fat.
And because of the degree of difficulty, squats also force your body to release higher amounts of growth hormone , resulting in new muscle growth in all areas of your body. In addition, squats will cause a spillover effect, enabling you to gain strength in all of your other lifts. Awesome! It just befuddles me why, with all these benefits, people are avoiding squats like a bubonic plague. As for the hard gainers, squat will pack on pounds after pounds of muscle on your entire body! So hard gainers, you must squat to grow big!
If you squat with the correct form, heavy weight and sheer intensity, you will see good results in just weeks. Not just your lower body. Your entire frame will take on a different form. A total body transformation. Guaranteed!
You must know that since squats are performed with heavy weight, so correct form and techniques are critical and cannot be compromised. Anything less, you may sustain serious injury. However, when you adhere to the proper technique, you will be very safe and will enjoy all the benefits that come with the squat. Don’t cheat yourself and substitute squats with leg presses. They are of a different class!
Debunking Excuses!
It’s bad for the knees – In fact, it’s on the contrary. Just like the muscle tissue in your body strengthens when exposed to stress, the tendons, ligaments and other connective tissues in your body will also thicken in response to weightlifting. That means, it actually improve knee health when you squat. It also strengthens all the muscles around your knee and thus providing your knees with support when the muscles are strong and less stress is placed on the knees on your day to day activities. I know. I used to suffer from knee pain until I started squatting and now, my knees are in perfect health that I can even play competitive soccer. Knee problems only occur when you squat improperly like resting at the bottom of the movement or letting your knee protrude over your toes.
It’s bad for my back – For the same reasons about strengthening your tissues, squats also exercises your lower back. When done in correct form, it actually builds strong muscles on your lower back and not only correcting you from bad posture that results in a bad back, it may even give you a healthy strong back. Again, it will only hurt your back if done in poor form like bending forward or doing it with a rounded back instead of arching it during the movement.
It will give you high blood pressure and bad for the heart –
Sure, your blood pressure will rise as your heart will beat faster from the exercise. That is only temporary and not dangerous unless you already have those problems in the first place. Other than that you are actually exercising your heart and cardio vascular system to strengthen it. How can that be dangerous? Don’t most exercises elevate heart rate and increase blood flow? Then they should ban the treadmills and close all swimming pools! Do you buy that nonsense?
So, now that you know that squat is the king of bodybuilding exercises, are you the type that makes things happen or are still contend to be wondering what the heck happened?
This entry was posted in Uncategorized on September 14, 2017 by Charles Hawkins.
2 Simple Steps To Ripped Summertime Muscles
Summer is on the horizon, and the time has come to kick back and relax under the sun. It’s time for beach days, barbecues and pool parties, and for any serious weightlifter these activities also mean one thing: it’s time for the shirts to come off and to showcase that rock-solid physique they’ve been working on all year. No one wants to be walking around with a soft, smooth and flabby body, and for the next month or two, all of those serious lifters will be shifting into “get ripped” mode.
How do they usually go about this?
They lighten up the weights and perform higher reps.
This has always been a widely accepted method of “cutting down” and if you ask most trainers in the gym they’ll tell you that “heavy weights bulk up the muscle and lighter weights define the muscle”.
Do you want to know the reality behind the “light weight and high reps” method of obtaining a ripped and defined physique?
It is completely, totally and utterly DEAD WRONG.
It couldn’t be farther from the truth. In fact, there is no logical basis for this way of training whatsoever, and whoever dreamt up this downright ridiculous way of thinking has caused the vast majority of lifters to waste their time and impede their progress in the gym.
Let me clear this up once and for all: you CANNOT spot reduce. In other words, it is physically impossible to target fat loss from a specific area on your body. Performing bench presses with light resistance and high repetitions will not magically burn fat off of your chest or cause it to appear harder and more defined.
Every single time you wrap your hands around a barbell, dumbbell or cable, your goal is to stimulate as much muscle growth as you possibly can. There are no special, secret weightlifting exercises that will “define” your muscles or cause them to become more “ripped”.
Training with weights builds muscle mass, end of story.
So how exactly do you “define” a muscle?
The only way to “define” a muscle is by lowering your body fat level in order to make your muscles more visible. Body fat reduction can be achieved in two ways:
1) Modify your diet.
You should lower your overall caloric intake to around 15x your bodyweight and focus on consuming smaller meals more frequently throughout the day. This will keep your metabolism naturally raised at all times and will keep your body in a constant fat burning state. Limit your intake of saturated fats and simple sugars, and focus instead on consuming lean sources of protein and low glycemic carbohydrates. It is also very important to keep your water intake high at a level of around 0.6 ounces per pound of bodyweight.
2) Perform proper cardio workouts.
Let go of the traditional method of moderate intensity cardio in 30-45 minute durations. If you want to maximize your body’s fat burning capacity and also minimize the muscle loss that inevitably accompanies a fat burning cycle, focus on shorter cardio workouts performed at a high level of intensity. These types of workouts will shoot your resting metabolism through the roof and will allow you to burn maximum amounts of fat even when you are at rest. I recommend 3-5 high intensity cardio sessions per week, spaced at least 8 hours away from your weight workouts.
That’s all there is to it, folks. Take the notion of “light weight and higher reps” and throw it right out the window, down the street and around the corner. Following this misguided method will only cause you to lose muscle mass and strength, and will not assist you in burning fat or defining your physique.
All you need to do to mold those rock-solid muscles for the summer time is this:
1) Train with heavy weights and low repetitions to build maximum muscle mass.
2) Modify your diet and implement cardio workouts to eliminate body fat and create visibly harder and more defined muscles.
End of story.
I’ll see you at the beach!
This entry was posted in Uncategorized on September 7, 2017 by Charles Hawkins.
Abdominal Exercises For Beginning Bodybuilders
The abdomen contains the muscles that most beginners struggle with because they take a long time to develop and need a low level of body fat to be seen. The abdominal muscle group consists of three main muscles:
1. Rectus abdominis – commonly known as the abs, this is a large flat muscle wall that runs from the lower chest to the pubic bone.
2. Obliquus abdominis – commonly known as the obliques, this muscle runs diagonally along the side of the mid-section from the lower ribcage to the pubic area. The internal obliques lie underneath the external obliques.
3. Transversus abdominis – this is a thin strip of muscle that runs horizontally across the abdomen.
You can target these muscles effectively by performing the following exercises:
1. Crunches – 3 sets of 15-20 reps. This exercise will work the upper abs.
2. Pelvic tilts – 3 sets of 15-20 reps.This exercise will target the lower portion of the abdomen below the navel.
3. Side bends – 3 sets of 15-20 reps. This exercise will work the obliques.
As with all exercises you need to take care in scheduling specific body parts. To begin with you should incorporate your abdominal exercises into a program similar to the one suggested below:
Day 1: Biceps, Back, Abs
Day 2: Hamstrings, Shoulders, Abs
Day 3: Quads, Forearms, Calves
Day 4: Triceps, Chest, Abs
For the first couple of weeks complete one set but then add one set each week to a maximum of three. At the end of three months you will be ready to move on to more intensive intermediate level exercises.
This entry was posted in Uncategorized on September 2, 2017 by Charles Hawkins.
Search for:
Recent Posts
Bodybuilding Nutrition And Balance
Want To Build Big Muscles? Here Is How To Gain Muscles Fast
2 Simple Steps To Ripped Summertime Muscles
Abdominal Exercises For Beginning Bodybuilders
Changing Your Eating Habits
Archives
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
Categories
Uncategorized
3932f50bfe495e71b8769ea8bdacb4f035ede56a
Popular Articles
Medicine School
Modern Accessories
oto insurance
health industry
women health
health nutrition
acupuncture therapy
Medicine School
amazing health
electronic creation
health ways
health and fitness
creation business
summer holiday
traveling agent
insurance credit
Medicine Sports
school fitness
insurance financial
business management
baby health
health child
healthy food
mental health
health life
smart health
medicare clinic
oto insurance
health and medicare
business creation
properties insurance
beauty health
holiday travel
healthy life
dental care health
culinary trip
restaurant business
marketing
beauty garden
green house
real estate
cancer treatment
properties insurance
Aromatherapy Essentials
Personal Finance
Travel and Leisure
Vitamin and Mineral
estate investment
Advertising Marketing
Credit Counseling
International Business
Healthcare Systems
Car Auto
Foot Health
Home Health Care
Aromatherapy Essentials
medicine clinic care
cars insurance
silk raw
wise raw
zoom raw
raw boat
raw cave
raw dart
Management Review
Management Science
Management Solutions
Management World
Consulting Services
Management
Decision Economics
Managerial Finance
Managerial Planning
Managing Accounts
Benefits Plans
Managing Credit
Exports Managing
Exports and Imports
Information Systems
Managing Finance
Managing Property
Managing Logistics
General Managing
Business
Manufactured
Manufactured Service
Technology News
Manufactured Finance
Digital Business
Manufacturing News
Factory Equipment
Manufacturing Systems
Manufactured shopping
Market Research
Consulting Services
Marketing Insights
Business & Planning
Marketing Management
Marketing Science
Marketing Strategy
Living Journal
Masonry Construction
Media Business
Building Products
Business products
Commercial Aviation
Business & Economy
Business & Finance
Business & Economic
Business & Society
Business Entities
Business Finance
Health Care Food
Nutrition Focus
Health Products
Alternative Health
Healthy Eating
Healthy Heart
Hybridoma
Ice Cream
Food service
Physical Activity
Sport Nutrition
Food Biochemistry
Health Population
Natural Health
Foods Merchandising
Nutraceuticals World
Nutrition & Metabolism
Nutrition Bulletin
Organic Style
Human Nutrition
Prevention
Seafood Health
Snack Food
Clinical Nutrition
Vegetarian Baby & Child
Wine Handbook
Women"s Nutrition
Health Clinical
Organic Diet
Animal Health
Medical Clinic
Management Science
Management Solutions
Management World
Consulting Services
Decision Economics
Managerial Finance
Managerial Planning
Managing Accounts
Benefits Plans
Managing Credit
Exports Managing
Exports and Imports
Information Systems
Managing Finance
Managing Property
Managing Logistics
General Managing
Manufactured
Manufactured Service
Technology News
Manufactured Finance
Digital Business
Manufacturing News
Factory Equipment
Manufacturing Systems
Manufactured shopping
Market Research
Leisure Traveller
Travel and Tourism
Air Traffic
AirGuide Business
Airline Industry
Golf Travel & Resorts
Nutrition Focus
Health Products
Alternative Health
Healthy Eating
Healthy Heart
Hybridoma
Food service
Innovative Food
Behavioral Nutrition
Physical Activity
Food Sciences
Sport Nutrition
Italian Food
Food Biochemistry
Health Population
Nutrition
Nutrition & Dietetics
Medicinal Food
Muscle Foods
Journal of Nutrition
Nutrition Education
Tourism Trand
Tourism Challenges
Journal of Tourism
Leisure Management
Restaurant & Travel
Geographic Traveler
City Traveler
Arts & Entertainment
Shallow Water Angler
Traveller Fishing
Tourism News
Travel Agent
Travel Book
WindSurfing
World Exploring
Restaurant
Ticket sale
Trend Arts
Tourism Guide
Hotel & Tourism
Travel Companion
Agency travel
Blog at WordPress.com.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy