hydroquinone – Specktra6 Blog
Skip to content
Primary Menu
Specktra6 Blog
skincare and massage in sheboygan
Search for:
Close Menu
Home
About Ginger
Contact
hydroquinone
Why you -don’t- need hydroquinone! Hyperpigmentation part 3
Daisy Blossom Extract can lighten your age spots!
Daisy Blossom Extract helps to stop pigment issues in 3 out of the 5 steps!
In Step 1 we learned why SPF is so incredibly important, and Step 2 touched on MSH inhibitors.
Step 3:
Tyrosinase Inhibitors
“Tyrosinase is an oxidase that is the rate-limiting enzyme for controlling the production of melanin.” That sentence comes straight from Wikipedia. It’s kind of confusing. Really you just need to know that there are a LOT of ingredients that help to stop pigmentation at this juncture.
I am only going to highlight a few of them for you, but first I want to talk about perhaps the most recognizable tyrosinase inhibitor, hydroquinone.
It’s a steroid compound, so it thins collagen over time
it’s banned in the UK because it’s possibly carcinogenic
it should only be used for three months at a time, whereas other lightening agents can be used constantly
it can cause darkening in some skin
exogenous ochronosis can occur (dark blue pigment)
hypopigmentation can occur
it’s not the most effective lightening agent on the market, and rebound darkening can occur when you stop using it
As I said above, there are loads of other tyrosinase inhibitors besides hydroquinone, and a lot of them are more effective and they don’t have crazy side effects. Vitamin A, Vitamin C, Alpha Arbutin, Bearberry, Licorice, Daisy Blossom, Mulberry, Ferula Foetida Extract, Kojic Acid, and Azelaic Acid. These ingredients can be found in Specktra6’s products Brightening Cleanser, Brightening Essence, Brightening Serum, and Bearberry Moisturizer, and in a lot of Environ products.
Want to find out which products are best for your skin issues? Contact Ginger at Specktra6 today!
Advertisements
Comment
October 27, 2017 October 27, 2017 Ginger Glomski
daisy blossom extracthydroquinonehyperpigmentationingredientstyrosinase inhibitors
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy