What Kind of Tea Settles Your Stomach? | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Diseases and Conditions
Digestive Conditions
Stomach Pain
What Kind of Tea Settles Your Stomach?
Sarka-Jonae Miller
About the Author:
Sarka-Jonae Miller
Sarka-Jonae Miller has been a freelance writer and editor since 2003. She was a personal trainer for four years with certifications from AFAA and NASM. Miller also worked at 24 Hour Fitness, LA Fitness and as a mobile trainer. Her career in the fitness industry begin in 2000 as a martial arts, yoga and group exercise instructor. She graduated cum laude from Syracuse University.
View Full Profile
A hot cup of tea may be just what you need if you have an upset stomach. The herbs in some teas have a calming effect, but the reason behind your abdominal pain or nausea is important in selecting the right type of tea. Consult your doctor before trying herbal remedies to diagnosis the cause of your abdominal discomfort.
Ginger
Ginger tea may settle the stomach when taken for indigestion, nausea or abdominal gas. According to the University of Maryland Medical Center, studies indicate that ginger can decrease the symptoms of motion sickness. Ginger does not treat motion sickness as well as medications, but it could decrease vomiting. Ginger is believed to reduce nausea and vomiting in pregnant women, and possibly the time and severity of nausea in chemotherapy patients.
Peppermint
Peppermint tea is used to settle the stomach and aid digestion, and it may help improve nausea, menstrual cramps and flatulence, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center. Ingesting peppermint soothes the stomach muscles and increases bile flow, allowing your body to better digest fat and pass food through the stomach quickly. The muscle relaxation also aids abdominal gas to pass out of the body. Peppermint tea is usually safe, but is contraindicated in people with gastroesophageal reflux disease. GERD is characterized by a backup of stomach acid in the esophagus, the tube that runs from the throat to the stomach.
Chamomile
Chamomile is commonly recommended for gastrointestinal troubles, according to an article on the Reader's Digest website. Chamomile possesses anti-inflammatory, antispasmodic and carminative properties, which means it can soothe the intestinal wall. Drinking chamomile tea may relieve gas and promote relaxation, which could reduce abdominal discomfort due to anxiety and stress. Chamomile is a gentle herb and usually well tolerated, but if you are allergic or sensitive to triggers like chrysanthemums and ragweed, taking chamomile could cause allergic reactions. According to the American Cancer Society, throat swelling, rashes, trouble breathing, abdominal cramps and death are potential chamomile reactions.
Licorice
Licorice root can be used to make teas that may be beneficial for your stomach. The University of Maryland Medical Center states that licorice may help protect you from stomach ulcers when you take it with aspirin, particularly licorice that does not contain an extract called glycyrrhizin. Licorice could help prevent ulcers due to a protective effect on the cells that line your stomach, according to the New York University Langone Medical Center. Using antacids and licorice without glycyrrhizin may also help treat stomach ulcers. Peptic ulcers -- including stomach ulcers -- are known to cause abdominal pain, bloating and indigestion.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
University of Maryland Medical Center: Ginger
University of Maryland Medical Center: Peppermint
University of Maryland Medical Center: Licorice
NYU Langone Medical Center: Licorice Root -- Not Candy, But an Herbal Remedy
Reader's Digest: Stomach Soothers
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
Is Peppermint Tea Safe in Early Pregnancy?
2
The Best Herbal Tea for Nausea
3
After Meal Teas to Help With Bloating
4
The Dangers of Peppermint Herbal Tea
5
Teas for Burning Stomach Fat
6
Is Peppermint Tea Good for a Sore Throat?
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.