Himalayan Salt | Khalid Maqbool & Sons
Email us at info@saltlampfactory.com
Category Archives: Himalayan Salt
Pink Salt Lamps
Posted on March 24, 2016 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Crafted Salt Lamps, Himalayan Salt, Natural Salt Lamps	Leave a comment
Pink Salt Lamps
Himalayan salt is a term for halite (commonly known as rock salt, pink salt, Himalayan pink salt from Pakistan which is the mineral form of sodium chloride (NaCI). This mineral rich salt is mined from the second largest mine in the world, called the Khewra Salt Mines which is located in the Jhelum District, Punjab, Pakistan. It is generally mined by hand to help preserve the chemical structure It is closely located (approximately 300 km) from majestic the Himalayan Mountains which are known to contain the purest form of salt on Earth, Himalayan salt. Historically, this rare salt has been used for centuries as a trading tool. Every spring the Himalayan people would transport the salt through sloping paths, mountain edges and narrow bumpy roads to the Nepalese valleys for trade. It was an extremely important commodity as it could be traded for anything.
Have you heard of salt therapy before? Also known as halotherapy, it’s an ancient practice that involves cleansing and purifying the air, and our bodies, using large pink Himalayan salt lamps placed in a space. It’s been shown to ease anxiety, skin conditions like psoriasis and eczema, congestion, colds, sinus infections, insomnia, bronchitis and ear infections, among many other issues.
How do Himalayan Pink Salt Lamps Work?
Water vapour is always circulating in the air of any room of your house. This water vapour carries with it allergens like dust, pollen, pet dander, smoke particles, and even bacteria and viruses.
Salt is hygroscopic, meaning it attracts water molecules from the surrounding air. A large block of rock salt, like a Himalayan pink salt lamp, is especially attractive to water vapour and its pollutants.
Once attracted to the pink salt lamp, these microscopic compounds remain on the salt and not floating in the air where you can breathe them in.
As Himalayan pink salt lamps slowly become saturated with water vapour they attract from the air around them, the heat, from the lamp inside or beneath, dries them, thus continuing the hygroscopic effect for as long as the light is on.
This heat also re-releases water vapour back into the air. Importantly, any airborne contaminants attracted to the pink salt lamp remain trapped there and will not become airborne again.
The Dangers of Positive Ions
Positive ions are created by electronic devices and have been dubbed ‘electronic smog’ or ‘electronic air pollution’. As we all know, we are increasingly surrounded by all sorts of computers, large screen TVs, telephones, microwaves and other appliances we now deem necessary for our survival and entertainment.Studies have shown that your brain gets bombarded by frequencies 20 times higher than its optimal frequency, which results in all sorts of problems, including insomnia, nervousness and allergies.
In short, positive ions are very harmful to us and need to be neutralized.
Role of Negative Ions
Negative ions are actually something that we need to help balance ourselves because we are bombarded with positive ions, especially from the electronics we’re surrounded by all day long. Having more negative ions in your environment actually has beneficial biochemical effects for us.
We want to have those negative ions within our space because it helps increase certain hormones in our physical body that actually benefit us in lots of ways like Serotonin. which alleviates depression if you’re Serotonin levels are balanced. It’s also been said that a healthy balance of negative ions can:
Freshen and deodorize indoor air
Remove airborne germs and contaminants
Promote better sleep
Reduce microscopic allergens like dust, pet dander, mold and mildew
Increase blood flow and oxygen supply throughout the body
How to care your pink salt lamp?
To clean, switch pink salt lamp off and wipe with a slightly damp sponge
Leave pink salt lamp on wherever possible as the heat from the light bulb will prevent the salt lamp absorbing moisture
If pink salt lamp gets wet leave in strong sunlight for 4 to 5 hours and brush off any excess crystals
When not in use for long periods, disconnect your power cable and remove from the salt lamp, and store the salt lamp and base in a plastic bag to help prevent the salt lamp absorbing moisture
In humid conditions we recommend placing your pink salt lamp onto a small tray or dish in the rare case they may pool water
Research results:
It’s a well know fact that, through scientific and empirical research, pink salt lamps exhibit biophysical characteristics, which demonstrate a positive effect on our well-being. From a scientific view there are three natural action principles at play: ionization, the electromagnetic oscillation and the transparent-crystalline structure developing the light waves.
Crystal Salt Lamps
Posted on March 17, 2016 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Himalayan Salt, Natural Salt Lamps, USB Salt Lamps	Leave a comment
Salt Lamps
Two thousand years ago, the Himalayan mountains revealed one of their oldest deepest secrets: a 260 million year old salt crystal deposit. The salt is traditionally mined reaching the depths of 700-1100 meters. This allows for all the natural benefits of the salt with a guarantee that there is no toxic contamination. The salt negatively ionize the air counteracting detrimental positive ionization.For decades the beneficial effects of the negative ions the salt emits has been known to alleviate symptoms related to medical ailments and psychiatric disorders. The salt also minimizes the effects of radiation from electronic devises placed by a television, computer, microwave, or any electronic equipment.
Crystal salt is one of the few minerals whose atomic structure is bound electrically, not molecularly.
This characteristic of the mineral structure enables the crystal to change back and forth from crystalline to liquid state.
The gentle heat of the lamp in the salt crystal creates a higher surface temperature than the surrounding air. This attracts the water molecules in the cooler surrounding air. The natural humidity in the air condenses on the crystal’s surface. This enables the electrically bound sodium chloride mineral to split into independent (positive) sodium and (negative) chloride ions.
The air we breath consists of ions that carry either a positive or a negative electrical charge. Computers, TV sets, air conditioners and many other by- products of modern living produce positively ionized air, which is detrimental to our health. Negatively ionized air is generated by environments such as mountains, the seaside and waterfalls, and by means such as thunderstorms, gentle heat and Crystal salt Lamps.
Crystal Salt lamps produce both gentle heat and negatively-charged ions. They make it easy for you to bring the benefits of famous health spas into your own home! In addition to the proven benefits of negative ionization, many people also experience a reduction in stress due to the gentle, soothing colours
The Healing Effect of Colors on our Body and Mind
Orange – Facilitates a feeling of security and is helpful to our nervous system and our mind and activates the kidneys and bladder.
Yellow – Encourages intellectual comprehension and activates the pancreas, liver and gall bladder.
Red – Strengthens the vital life force and activates the heart and circulation.
Pink – Supports the sense of partnership and love and opens your emotional body.
White – Has a cleansing and detoxifying effect and represents the healing aspect.
Brown – Helps to find ones own balance and supports earthiness
Crystal Salt lamps work well in most conditions, however as salt is hygroscopic. Crystal salt lamps should not be used outdoors or in areas of high humidity such as bathrooms. Nor should they be placed next to water features, fish tanks, evaporation coolers etc.
If your crystal salt clamp becomes dusty, gently wipe down with a damp cloth. Don’t wash with water as this will dissolve the salt. If your lamp gets wet, switch off the power source, remove the cord and bulb and dry with a cloth. You may lightly use a scorer on excessive dirt. Then allow the crystal salt lamp to dry naturally (indoors) or by replacing the globe and cord and activating the lamp.
As with any electrical device, if you believe that water may have entered the socket, switch, or power cable, proceed with caution. Switch off the crystal salt lamp at the wall and replace the cord and globe immediately.
When not in use, consider storing your crystal salt lamp in a plastic bag to help prevent weeping or sweating.
Crystal Salt lamp globes keep best if the lamp is in a stationary position and not subject to vibration. If the globe fails often, please check that it is screwed in firmly and that it is not touching the surface of the lamp.
Take care when placing crystal salt lamps on delicate surfaces, particularly if you have a lamp with a stone base.
Crystal Salt Lamps are hand carved salt crystals from the Salt Mine in Khewra Pakistan. The warmth and natural beauty of the glow provided by these crystal salt lamps makes them a wonderful accent for any room. They provide a natural ambiance that enhances home and office, and are a perfect answer for providing Feng Shui cures for buildings that have “stuck” energy.
Crystal Salt lamps make the perfect gift. Everyone is attracted to them and people naturally feel uplifted and happier in the presence of Crystal Salt Lamps.
Crystal Salt lamps already contains minute amounts of water dispersed throughout the extremely fine crystal structure, but it is looking for more. When using a Crystal Salt Lamp this “affinity” for water can be amplified many times in potency. The heat generated by the low wattage light bulb burning inside the Crystal Salt Lamp has the effect of “turning on” the crystal, so that it attracts the water vapor in the room at an even greater amount than when unlit. With the Crystal Salt Lamp now drawing larger quantities of vapor towards itself, the vapor, and anything hitching a ride on it (such as bacteria or pollen) will momentarily condensate on the surface of the Crystal Salt Lamp. This results in a microscopic pool of water, which then immediately dissolves the salt it contacts, forming a “salt solution.”
Benefits of Crystal Salt Lamp:
Prevention of allergy symptoms and improved air quality
Increased serotonin levels to aid in healthy sleep patterns
Improved energy and mood
Decreased blood pressure
Supported immune system, respiratory function, and vascular health
reductions in rheumatism, migraine, physical and psychological disorders, mild depression
for more information please visit our websites
www.khalidmaqbool.com
www.kmsexporters.com
Salt Lamps
Posted on March 16, 2016 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Crafted Salt Lamps, Himalayan Salt, Natural Salt Lamps	Leave a comment
Salt Lamps
Have you ever noticed how mentally and physically refreshed you feel after sitting by a gashing waterfall? Or how you experience a boost in energy after spending some time at an untamed seafront? What makes you feel so good in spots of this kind is the abundance of negative ions, which get produced in some natural places.
Now, there is a way to mimic these perfect circumstances in your own home and indoor places where you spend a lot of time. Himalayan Salt lamps have the ability to chemically and physically transform a room, and have unique healing effects.
What is a Salt Lamp?
Salt lamps are hand chiseled solid blocks of ancient crystal salts like this. They have a beautiful pink color, often pinkish orange, due to the high concentration of minerals.
Inside the hollowed out middle of the salt lamp is a light bulb to generate both light and heat. This is important for their reported benefits and salt lamps won’t work properly without a heat-producing light.
Salt lamps also come in decorative baskets of crystal salt, with a light and heat source underneath that creates a soft pink glow.
How do Himalayan salt lamps work?
Salt is hygroscopic, so the Salt lamps attract water molecules from the air; this means the salt lamps trap dirt, pollen, and smoke particles which are carried in water vapor.
Once these airborne contaminants have been locked in the salt, clean water is re-released and thus it has a purifying effect on the air. Theoretically that is.
Scientists know that salt does absorb water from the air but that it quickly reaches an equilibrium state. This is the same for silica packets. Both can be revitalized by drying, which a burning and warming lamp does. So there is merit to this claim.
What’s more is that the heat from the bulb inside that warms up the lamp releases negative ions. And there are the health-boosting effects of salt itself too.
8 Health Benefits Of Himalayan Salt Lamps
It is thought that the negative ions produced by Himalayan Salt Lamps may protect against airborne germs, preventing the development of coughs, sneezes and throat irritation. Here are some of the problems that salt lamps are thought to prevent:
Respiratory complaints
Allergic reactions
Skin problems
Insomnia
Mental disorders
Migraine and headaches
Rheumatism
Disorders of the vascular system
Himalayan Salt Lamps also have a positive effect when meditating and aid relaxation while resulting in an improvement in air quality.
Salt lamps are quite pretty. They give off a warm orange glow, whose ambiance is soothing, and restful which I suppose could reduce stress and improve general emotional well being. If you wish to buy a salt lamp for their beauty and relaxation qualities, it’s probably money well spent. But please have no illusions as to their health effects. It could never possibly replace hyper tonic, or even complement your respiratory treatments. It’s also probably not a good idea to lick them.
for details please visit our websites
www.khalidmaqbool.com
www kmsexporters.com
Rock Salt Lamps
Posted on March 14, 2016 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Himalayan Salt, Natural Salt Lamps	Leave a comment
Rock Salt Lamps
Himalayan salt, named for the Himalayan mountain range, is special because of the diversity of minerals in its composition as well as its purity. In addition to being mineral-rich, this particular salt mine was covered in lava for millions of years, which actually protected from pollution and environmental changes over time. Himalayan salt comes from the time when the earth was pristine. Himalayan salt is pure, chemically free and contains no impurities from environmental pollution. The composition of the salt has one of the world’s highest elemental concentration of 84 minerals and trace elements, the same nutritional elements our bodies need to survive.
Rock salt lamps is mined in Pakistan. When you bring a rock salt lamp into your home, you are creating a natural environment just as when you introduce house plants and water features. These things, by imparting clean, fresh air into our homes, leave us feeling refreshed, renewed and rejuvenated! By purifying the air in your home with one of our many designs of rock salt lamps, you will notice improvements in your families health and well being. We take pride that each of our fair trade rock salt lamps is original with its own distinctive shape and color. Clients who regularly use our rock salt lamps have said they have realized significant improvement in the air in their home and have also noticed an enhanced sense of well-being.They love the gentle, glowing light and beauty of our Himalayan rock salt lamps and rock salt candle holders. The beautiful glow from our Rock Salt Lamps will bring a tranquil ambiance to your home. Rock Salt lamps are best placed near televisions and computers, around smokers, in offices with air-conditioning, in fact anywhere you want to restore or preserve the natural air quality.
How do Rock Salt Lamps Actually Work?
Rock Salt lamps do not generate negative ions themselves. They are “hygroscopic,” which means that they attract moisture… humidity… airborne water molecules; it is a natural property of sodium chloride. Since they do not generate the negative ions, they need a heat source (in this case, heat from an incandescent bulb) to accelerate evaporation, which does produce negative ions. In more humid regions, an unlit rock salt lamp will eventually “cry,” even creating puddles of water at its base. It is this evaporation that generates the negative ions, which are beneficial to our health.
Himalayan Rock Salt Lamp Effects
There are natural phenomena that make us feel refreshed or revitalized. You know, simple things like sitting next to a huge waterfall, or being in front of rushing waves at the waterfront. If we were able to soar through the air like birds that would probably do it too.
What about these natural locations and events gives us the good goosebumps? Negative ions.
Negative ions are produced in nature and there’s even a way to mimic them in the walls of your home
Negative ions occur more often in nature and they are often created by things like lightening storms, sunlight, waterfalls, and ocean waves. This is one of the reasons people often report feeling renewed or refreshed after a storm or at the beach.
Positive ions are often created by electronic devices like computers, TVs, microwaves, and even vacuum cleaners and can often exacerbate problems like allergies, stress and sleep trouble. Negative ions can neutralize positive ions (they bond together) and help cleanse the air.
The unique combination of salt and a light source in rock salt lamps are what cause the negative ions. The negative ions are generated during the evaporation process. Since things like airborne mold, bacteria, and allergens often carry a positive charge, they can be neutralized by negative ions.
Rock salt lamps benefits:
Some of the benefits of Himalayan Rock Salt Lamps:
Removes humidity
Reduces sinus problems
Reduces migraine, stress & allergy problems
Eliminates air borne bacteria and germs
Improves sleep, air quality and immune system
Reduces electromagnetic fields (EMFs) / radiation
. Himalayan rock salt lamps chemically and physically transform a room – not just in colour and glow, but in its healthy benefits and effects.
for details please visit our websites
www.khalidmaqbool.com
www.kmsexporters.com
Rock Salt
Posted on March 12, 2016 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Himalayan Salt, Uncategorized	Leave a comment
Rock Salt
The Himalayas – the tallest mountains in the world – span 2400 kilometers across Asia at the joining of the Indian and Eurasian tectonic plates. Where these proud peaks now stand, 250 million years ago was a primordial sea. Within that ancient body of water existed a perfect, pristine ecosystem. As the plates of the earth moved and over the ages pushed the Himalayas toward the heavens, the sea evaporated and all of its life-sustaining minerals crystallized under the heat of the sun to form what we now know as Himalayan rock salt. As you can probably gather from the name, Himalayan rock salt comes from the Himalayas, the famous mountain range that stretches across Nepal, Tibet, and Afghanistan.You probably know that Mount Everest is part of the Himalayas, but the fame of Himalayan rock salt isn’t about the majesty of the mountain peaks.The Himalayan rock salt is formed from ancient oceans more than 200 million years ago.Covered by snow and ice, and far from huge population centers, the salt found deep under the Himalayan foot hills have been protected from the human pollution throughout the years.It is now considered the purest rock salt you can find in this world, and it is hand-mined so that its purity is maintained.With its delicate pink, rose-like color, rock salt is visually distinctive and prized for its purported nutritional profile as it contains a high number of essential minerals.
Himalayan salt is also often called Himalayan rock salt. It has been compressed and formed under immense pressure for millions of years, giving them the perfect highly crystalline structure which is high in stored energy.
ROCK SALT BENEFITS:
Ease Stress, nervousness and anxiety
Reduce joint and arthritis inflammation and pain
Experience a better nights sleep and perhaps help with insomnia
Assist in helping your muscles to recover from physical exhaustion and fatigue
Strengthen your immune system
Promote relaxation, calmness and just to clear your head
Rock Salt consists of exactly the same natural elements that make up our bodies. Interestingly enough, our blood consists of the same salty ingredients as the primordial sea. Sole Water is the perfect combination of pure water and these rock salt crystals. It is this same combination that comprises the amniotic fluid we find in the womb, where new life begins.
Rock salt also used in salt therapies
Salt therapy is a drug free treatment that reproduces the natural micro climate of a salt cave by dispersing a rock salt aerosol in high concentrations in a halo chamber whose surfaces are covered with layers of rock salt. The rock salt aerosol in the room plays an important role in the relief of health problems and is a highly effective therapy for treating people with respiratory problems and skin conditions without any known side effects.
Within the salt room a microniser is used to pump a dry aerosol Himalayan rock salt aerosol into the air. As the Himalayan rock salt is inhaled, it travels through the sinuses and respiratory tract absorbing moisture, cleansing, clearing mucus, killing bacteria and reducing inflammation.Rock salt has long been known for its anti-inflammatory and anti-bacterial properties as well as helping to loosen mucus build up and phlegm, help with asthma treatment and bronchial conditions. Studies have shown that people with chronic upper respiratory conditions, seasonal allergies, sinusitis, bronchitis and skin disorders can derive significant benefits from salt therapy.
How Your Skin Benefits From Rock Salt Skin Scrubs
A buildup of dead skin cells causes a rough, dull, aged appearance. Exfoliating the top layers of dehydrated cells promotes a youthful glowing skin, as well as many other benefits. Rubbing your skin with a quality rock salt scrub allows the texture of the rock salt scrub to exfoliate and refine the skin, leaving it clean and refreshed, and rubbing away any dead skin cells that cause your skin to look dull. The rock salt grains cleanse pores unlike any soap or cleanser can, allowing your skin to breathe easier. The main benefits of using a good rock salt skin scrub include:
Exfoliating cleans the skin better than soaps or cleansers.
Removing dull, dead skin cells to reveal younger looking skin.
Thoroughly cleaning skin pores, allowing your skin to breathe easier.
Stimulating blood circulation and removing daily toxins from your skin.
Helping to regenerate new skin, which keeps your skin looking younger.
Strengthening and firming skin tissue.
Himalayan Salt Brick
Posted on March 11, 2016 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Himalayan Salt, Salt Plates, Uncategorized	Leave a comment
If you hang out in kitchen stores and food shops, you’ve probably seen Himalayan salt bricks in the form of squares, rectangles, bowls and cups. Himalayan salt brick cooking is a new way to cook, but the salt is as old as the hills. The stone is cut from boulders carved from the Salt Range of Pakistan. Although the stone has been marketed as originating in the Himalayas, the Salt Range is about 200 miles away. Despite this mislabeling, Himalayan salt is considered among the purest in the world, free from pollutants, rich in calcium, iron and some 80 trace minerals.These minerals are what give the slabs their distinctive color and appearance. They can be streaked, translucent, opaque or a combination of all three. They can be whitish, pink, deep red, amber yellow and even silvery blue. The fissures and color variations make each one distinct.
Himalayan salt is the most useful and fascinating salt in the world! We inspect and hand-select each Himalayan salt brick for color and quality. At our Salt Factory, located in Khewra, our production team cuts and grinds the salt into the useful shapes we sell online and in our stores. Each and every Himalayan product we sell has been inspected for defects and is guaranteed for quality.
Himalayan salt brick has a very stable crystal structure, which allows it to hold a temperature very well. You can chill it to use as a serving platter for sushi, or heat it over a grill or stove top to cook your veggies. Cooking on salt gives it a greatly enhanced flavor over that of a frying pan. The mineral content in the salt gives it a more nuanced flavor than table salt, and the amount of saltiness it imparts varies with the type of food (moist foods absorb more salt, fatty foods repel it, etc.). Himalayan salt is also long-lasting and naturally antibiotic, needing little more than wiping with a damp sponge after most uses.
How do I use them?
+ Use the large, thick salt bricks only for heating; if they are too thin, their cooking life will be greatly reduced due to increased risk of cracks.
+ Individual-serve-sized salt bricks are excellent for freezing and for room temperature uses such as curing.
+ Heat your completely-dry salt brick slowly on your gas stove on lowest heat for 15 minutes. Turn up heat to low-medium for a further 15 minutes. Increase heat to medium for 10 minutes. Sprinkle a few drops of water on your salt. If they sizzle, you are ready to go. If not, turn the heat up some more. It can take all the way to high heat, as long as you do this slowly.
+ For an electric stove, place a trivet between the brick and element – they should never touch. Heat in the same way as for gas stove.
+ Although you can heat your brick in the oven, any trapped moisture in the oven may cause the brick to crack or, at worst, to explode. Salt is hydroscopic, meaning it attracts water; residual water on or in your brick, or in the oven, won’t be able to escape through evaporation, like it can on a stove top or BBQ, causing the potential cracks or ruptures. Avoid the oven.
+ If your food is becoming too salty, you most likely need to increase the temperature of the salt before cooking on it. This will not only improve your food, but also preserve your salt product for longer.
How do I clean them?
Moisture in the food will pick up salt faster, while fat will repel the salt. If your food is too salty, apply a thin layer of oil to the brick. Heat slowly to reduce cracks and crevices. Please remember that salt is a natural substance and can break or change colour depending on the foods you use with them.
To clean your salt brick moisten a sponge or scouring pad and wipe clean – DO NOT USE SOAP! Himalayan salt brick has natural antimicrobial properties with no need for detergents. Keep the salt brick as dry a possible – the less water the better. Dry with a clean cloth and set on drying rack.
Please note that as natural products, no two are alike, colors vary and the sizes are approximate. For example the thickness of “2 inch” salt brick varies from 1.5″ to 2.25.
The 8 x 6 x 2+/- Himalayan salt bricks weight about 6-8 pounds. – These are the perfect size, put two together for greater cooking surface, after using then stack for easier storage. We are finding the size to be excellent, for using, serving, storing, and handling.
The 8 x 12 x 2+/- Himalayan salt bricks weigh about 14 to 16 pounds. These have a large working area and are a preferred size by many. This size salt brick is sold only in the shops. Instead, for online purchases we offered two 8 x 6 x 2 bricks. This is actually very versatile. Two Himalayan salt bricks can be set side by side for cooking.
The 6 x 6 x 1+/- and the 8 x 4 x 1+/-salt bricks are lighter and are great for the grill, just get several and put them together. They heat up quicker than the thick ones. Also, great as “starters” for people who want to explore cooking with salt bricks and just have some fun with them.
Eventually, with use, these salt bricks will thin, and eventually crack and separate due to expansion and contraction. But the good news is IT IS SALT and is totally consumable! So, never throw away the pieces … just grate them up and use as you would any salt! A great and long-lasting supply of amazing Himalayan salt!!!
Himalayan Salt bricks are relatively heavy and require special packaging and handling to prevent breakage. For this reason Himalayan salt bricks purchased online are somewhat more expensive then when purchased in our shops and carried out.
Important: Himalayan salt bricks take on a life of their own when you start using them (and sometimes even before then). While it might be nice for salt to offer all the stability of stainless steel, this is simply not the case. When heated, it will change color dramatically, and may develop fissures. Don’t get upset by the behavior of your salt brick. Salt is a complicated, wily, unpredictable substance. That is what gives it much of its charm.
for details please write us an email at
info@khalidmaqbool.com
Himalayan Crystal Salt
Posted on March 9, 2016 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Himalayan Salt, Uncategorized	Leave a comment
Within nature, the elements of harmony and balance abound. It’s our option to be within them, or without them. We believe that by taking simple steps to resonate with the way your body, mind, and spirit were designed to work, you reap huge benefits. Whether you are interested in our Himalayan Crystal Salt or any of the other fine products we carefully select for KMS brand, Khalid Maqbool & Sons makes it easy to make choices that help you live a life in tune with nature’s balance. With KMS, your body, mind, and spirit soar! We want your world to harmonize on every level, to Harmonize Completely
Where it comes from?
Our Himalayan Crystal Salt comes from the Himalayan Region of the Karakoram mountain range located 400 miles from the Hunza Valley in Pakistan.
Our salt is always stone ground. No metal ever touches the salt during grinding. All the salt is extracted by hand from the salt caves (ancient sea bed deposits). No salt from other sources is mixed with this salt. This is 100% from the Karakoram mountain range salt caves.
These salt deposits are roughly 250 million years old, meaning they were deposited long before the earth became polluted with heavy metals, pesticides and PCBs. While there is really no such thing as “organic” salt, this is probably the most pristine salt you’ll find anywhere on the planet. Eating this salt is a lot like going back in time and consuming minerals from pre-industrial Earth.
WHAT IS HIMALAYAN CRYSTAL SALT?
Himalayan Crystal Salt is more than sodium and chloride. Himalayan Crystal Salt can actually be viewed as food. When we speak of salt, we mean salt in its original form: holistic, wholesome, unaltered, natural salt, as it has crystallized in the Earth over millions of years. When we speak of ‘”table” salt that is sold in the supermarket, we refer to it as sodium chloride with additives, which is what it really is. Himalayan crystal salt contains all the elements of which the human body is comprised. From the periodic table of elements we are familiar with 94 natural elements (stable as well as unstable). Apart from inert gases, all of these elements can be found in crystal salt. Hence, crystal salt contains all natural minerals and trace elements that are found in the human body. We perceive crystal salt as being the totality of all natural elements. This may not be entirely correct according to chemistry, however we will continue to use the term crystal salt in this context. The number of the respective elements contained in the crystal salt is biophysically irrelevant to this study.
What Exactly Are The Benefits?
Some of the benefits that you can expect by consuming this salt in place of regular table salt include:
Aiding in vascular health
Supporting healthy lungs and respiratory function
Promoting a stable pH balance within the cells
Reducing the signs of aging
Promoting healthy sleep patterns
Increasing libido
Prevents muscle cramps
Increases hydration
Strengthen bones
Lowers blood pressure
Improves circulation
Detoxifying the body of heavy metals
Reasons to choose KMS SALT:
Sourced from the Himalayas
Not table salt (sodium chloride)
Sugar, fat and saturated fat free
Contain every element found in the human body
Can be used on food or in the bath
100% natural
Certified Vegan and Vegetarian
Free from gluten, dairy, GMO, soya and lactose
No added sugar, preservatives or sweeteners
FOR DETAILS PLEASE VISIT OUR WEBSITES
www.khalidmaqbool.com
www.kmsexporters.com
Himalayan Pink Salt
Posted on March 3, 2016 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Edible Grade Salt, Himalayan Salt, Uncategorized	Leave a comment
Himalayan pink salt originated in the primal seas that were present in the Himalayas millions of years ago. This was during a time when environmental pollution simply didn’t exist, guaranteeing that the salt produced today is completely pure. After mining, the salt crystals are hand selected, hand-crushed and then finely ground. Lastly the salt is hand-washed before being left to dry naturally in the sun.In a culinary setting, Himalayan Pink salt is used as a replacement for table salt and can be ground to a finer consistency in a salt mill.For centuries, Himalayan pink salt have been used as folk remedies for a variety of health issues. Stimulating circulation, lowering blood pressure and removing toxins such as heavy metals from the body are just a few of the many benefits of Himalayan pink salt.
100% Pure Mineral Salt from a pristine area deep in the Himalayan Mountain Range.
The Salt is stone ground.
Himalayan Pink Salt has a precise mesh with our body’s inner workings because it contains an almost identical set of elements to those found inside the human body, 84 of the possible 92 trace minerals, in the same proportion as naturally exists in our blood.
Himalayan pink salt can be consumed as a mineral water, dissolved in a hot bath for a healthy soak and detox, or it can be put directly on your food or used in cooking.
Our salt’s vivid pink color is a result of the trace elements in the salt, including energy-rich iron. These naturally present minerals are essential for human health
Despite what we have been led to believe, salt is equally as important to the human body as water. As long as you are drinking enough water, salt is absolutely essential for the body to generate hydroelectric energy, maintain good blood chemistry, balance the correct amount of water in our blood and cells, aid digestion and allow our nervous system and muscles to function normally.
HOW TO USE IT?
Himalayan Pink Salt certainly adds taste and flavor to our foods. At the same time, we also know that the high sodium content present in salt can lead to hypertension which, in turn, can slowly damage our cardiovascular system. If you aren’t used to eating enough, there are some easy ways you can increase your intake:
Add it to your foods and avoid processed foods or eating out, since you will consume large amounts of processed table salt. Salt to taste and don’t worry about eating too much.
Drink 1/2 tsp of quality salt in a quart of water daily to help raise your electrolyte and trace mineral levels.
Soak in a relaxing bath with added magnesium and Himalayan Pink Salt
For skin issues: Make a poultice of Himalayan pink salt and water and apply to areas with eczema or psoriasis.
Make a scrub with finely powdered Himalayan pink salt and natural oil (like coconut or olive) to use as an exfoliate in the shower.
HEALTH BENEFITS:
Improve Your Respiratory Conditions
Aside from trapping the allergens and reducing the overall air moisture levels, the Himalayan pink salt can naturally alleviate some of the most common respiratory conditions, such as asthma.
Neutralizing electromagnetic radiation
Negative ions will certainly cancel out positive ions; however, to counteract electromagnetic radiation entirely, you would need to wrap yourself in lead sheeting, not just light a lamp next to the TV.To what extent Himalayan pink salt lamps emit negative ions into the air remains to be seen. It’s not sure if they are powerful enough to neutralize electromagnetic radiation, also called ‘electro-smog’ at all.
Relieve Muscle Soreness
Himalayan pink salt is very rich in magnesium and 80 other minerals that heal muscles and soft tissues, when absorbed through the skin.
Purifying the air
It is absolutely true that the salt lamps are hygroscopic: they do suck water vapor from the air. Salt in the air has long been seen as a health booster, and sea air has been proven to help clear the airways.
Treating Acid Reflux Disease
The Himalayan pink salt can double as a natural and highly efficient antacid that keeps the stomach acid levels within the normal range.
Help you sleep better
Another popular claim is that the Himalayan pink salt lamps help you sleep better.
Lowers Blood Pressure
The reason why the Himalayan pink salt can actually be good for you is that it is absorbed directly into your blood stream in a faster and more efficient manner than conventional salt.In turn, this leads to a lower blood pressure and a healthier and improved blood flow!
for more info please visit our websites
www.khalidmaqbool.com
www.kmsexporters.com
Himalayan White Salt Lamps
Posted on March 2, 2016 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Himalayan Salt, Natural Salt Lamps	Leave a comment
Take a glimpse of how these remarkable gleaming Himalayan white salt lamps are made! Crafted from the foothills of the Himalayas, these pure and untouched salt mineral aids in cleansing the air we breathe in addition to making our homes radiate calmness and shine with glamour! Khalid Maqbool & Sons products are meticulously hand carved by artisans from large salt crystals. A hollow space is left inside the carved salt crystal which is allocated for the light bulb to be placed into. Either a light bulb or a candle is then placed inside the x salt crystal. A thorough evaluation and series of quality tests which completes the set for it to be categorized as a high quality Himalayan salt lamp.The heat from a lighted salt lamp attracts moisture. The evaporation of water through salt emits negative ions. How many negative ions a salt lamp or salt candle holder can release depends on its size and how warm a match-lit candle or electric light bulb makes it. A night-light sized salt lamp would be effective for an office cubicle. Naturally, the larger an area means a larger lamp is needed so that more more negative ions will be emitted.
Himalayan salts are said to be the purest and cleanest salts found on the planet, hand mined & shaped they maintain the natural purist form. Relish a centerpiece that glows with warmth and overflowing artistry. Each white salt lamp is a symbol of creativity and hard work. Himalayan white salt lamps are more than pieces of light alternative, these gleaming lights are one of the epitome of art that portrays how limitless creativity can be. The calming glow of Himalayan white salt lamps, together with its striking shapes, will certainly enhance the overall ambiance of any room. Himalayan white salt lamps are one of the many beautiful things nature has given us. Its discovery set up a new standard for a stunning, health-enhancing decor. The use of Himalayan Salt Lamps within the home & office is known for their calming & balancing effects.
The glow of colour and production of negative ions influences our mind and emotions in a positive way helping to relieve stress related conditions, pain, headaches, tiredness, fatigue, insomnia, nervousness, lack of concentration, rheumatism, allergies, respiratory ailments, asthma, coughs, bronchitis, chest congestion, sinus problems, snoring, sleeplessness, high blood pressure, physical and psychological disorders, mild depression etc, it has also been proven that it helps the immune system. They also increase energy levels and contribute to a better mood while inducing relaxation and well-being during stressful times. They have even been used by health practitioners in Europe, Japan or North America for their proven benefits.
The grandeur, beauty, and constructive benefits of Himalayan White Salt Lamps are irrefutably fueling a rapid growth in their popularity among countless groups and individuals. Despite the positive differences majority of Himalayan White Salt Lamps make in comparison with ordinary lamps, not all White Salt Lamps yield the same beneficial results because unfortunately, not all Himalayan White Salt Lamps are created equal.
Just like other unregulated industries, the quality and feature of each product greatly differ from one supplier to another. Several factors like the lamp’s colour, clarity, shape, and fixtures can have significant variations which mark different impact on the overall quality and price of the Himalayan White Salt Lamps.
Khalid Maqbool & Sons has been selling Himalayan White Salt Lamps for some time now and has had the exceptional opportunity to examine and meticulously scrutinize the products offered by all of the world’s major Himalayan White Salt Lamps’ wholesalers. Hence, Khalid Maqbool & Sons knows what to look for before taking any commitment in relevance with your salt lamp purchase.
Benefits
Neutralizes the air by creating negative ions
Each Lamp is hand crafted, varies in colour, and is unnique in shape ad hue
Healing White Light
Good for everything, it’s the perfect colour because it combines all colours , red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet light. The innate intelligence of the body will take whatever colour it needs. White is associated with the seventh or crown charkra
Green Light
Supports love, communication and acceptance. Green is the colour of nature. Green links with and stimulates the forth or heart chakra promoting harmony & balance.
Blue Light
Increases calmness, peace, love, inner peace and devotion. Blue links with and stimulates the fifth or throat chakra promoting open communication.
Red Light
Increases physical energy, vitality, stamina and passion. It’s a grounding colour. Red links with and stimulates the first of root charkra, at the base of the spine, resulting in greater strength
for details please visit our websites
www.khalidmaqbool.com
www.kmsexporters.com
Himalayan Coarse Salt
Posted on February 21, 2016 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Himalayan Salt	Leave a comment
Himalayan Coarse Salt is pure, hand-mined salt found naturally occurring deep inside the pristine Himalayan Mountains of northern Pakistan. Himalayan coarse salt is believed to be the purest form of salt available. This salt is known for it’s stimulating and soothing properties. We love it in salt bars for it’s exfoliating and moisturizing abilities, with the coarse size sprinkled on top for a wow factor. Color ranges from white to deep pink. Himalayan coarse salt contains an almost identical set of elements to those in our body – in the same proportions as occur in our blood. The distinctive rose pink colour is a result of the high mineral content in the salt (iron, potassium and magnesium). These are all vital for good health.
These multihued crystals range in color from sheer white to varying shades of pink and red. This is because of the assortment of elements and iron it contains. These clean crystals are “Gourmet Food Grade” and the highest quality Himalayan salt. Our Himalayan Coarse Salt does not contain any anti-caking or free flowing additives, nor does it contain any conditioners. It is just pure unrefined “raw” salt that can be used in many gourmet applications including seasoning, bringing, and baking.Health professionals, spas and individuals use Himalayan Coarse Salt to heal the body and relax the mind because of its long history of use in folk remedies to stimulate circulation, lower blood pressure and remove toxins such as heavy metals from the body.It’s also a fantastic source of iodine – an essential mineral that protects against thyroid problems.
This salt is as Mother Nature intended is brilliant for adding mineral rich flavour to your protein packed meals.These diamond-like crystals of natural Himalayan Coarse Salt contain trace minerals essential for life. Used for making Sole, a daily infusion of energy balancing elixir. A highly effective product for the normalizing of mineralization in the human body. This salt has been shown in a clinical study to be effective in helping to stabilize pH and Oxidative Stress numbers in the human body. Hydration indicators showed an average of 10‰ increase.
IN THE BATH
Thrill your cells and skin by changing ordinary Bath water into a mineral smorgasbord by adding 2-4 cups of Himalayan Coarse Salt to a bath to be absorbed transdermally [through the skin]. Naturally rich in 84 nourishing and skin-replenishing minerals, bathing with Himalayan Coarse Salt is truly a renewing and therapeutic experience for mind & body.The replenishing nutrients stimulate circulation, relax the body, detoxify and soothe sore muscles. Transdermal absorption is a most effective way of absorbing, and thus replenishing minerals our bodies may be lacking.
The health benefits of using natural Himalayan coarse salt crystals may include:
Encouraging excellent blood sugar health
Aiding in reducing the common signs of aging
Aiding vascular health
Supporting healthy respiratory function
Lowering incidence of sinus problems, and promoting over-all sinus health
Reducing cramps
Increasing bone strength
Naturally promoting healthy sleep patterns
Promotes kidney and gall bladder health when compared to common chemically-treated salt
Balances the pH level
Himalayan Coarse Salt helps to balance the body’s pH level through its alkalizing effect. Many health problems occur due to the body becoming too acidic, so using Himalayan Coarse Salt is an easy way to help to neutralize the acidity and balance the pH. We tend to be most acidic in the morning when we wake up from a night’s sleep, so taking a few teaspoons of the Sole solution first thing in the morning is a great way to alkalize at the start of the day.
Restores electrolytes & prevents cramps
Himalayan Coarse Salt replaces the electrolytes lost through perspiration. Taking the salt dissolved in some water is a great way of restoring the electrolytes in the body thereby preventing cramps.
Balances blood pressure
The regular use of Himalayan Coarse Salt in preference to ordinary sodium chloride has been found to balance blood pressure. Since the Himalayan Coarse Salt is a balanced substance and the minerals are in balanced proportion with each other, this salt can help to balance the intracellular pressure. The salt can help to break down cholesterol in the arteries.
Excellent source of minerals
Himalayan Coarse Salt contains 84 minerals, including calcium, magnesium, potassium, iron, zinc, selenium and manganese. The minerals are found in correct proportions for efficient absorption by the body. The salt mirrors the mineral content of our bodies so is a great way to restore the mineral balance.
Prevents water retention
Sodium chloride can lead to water retention as when using that form of salt, the body retains water in order to protect itself from the harsh sodium chloride. Himalayan Coarse Salt hydrates the body without leading to extra weight caused by water retention.
Reduces cravings
Since the Himalayan Coarse Salt is a whole, unrefined substance, it nourishes the body and the body can feel satisfied. This can lead to preference and enjoyment of natural and wholesome foods and cravings created by refined foods being reduced or eliminated.
for more details please visit our websites
www.kmsexporters.com
www.khalidmaqbool.com
Next Page »
Catagories
Bath Salt
Black Salt
Crafted Salt Lamps
Edible Grade Salt
Halite Salt
Himalayan Salt
Khewra Salt Mines
Lick Salt
Massage Stones
Natural Salt Lamps
Salt Inhalers
Salt Plates
Salt T-lights
Uncategorized
USB Salt Lamps
Return To Top
Copyright © 2019 Khalid Maqbool & Sons
1/20 Linkers Colony Saint John Park Cant Lahore Pakistan · Pakistan info@saltlampfactory.com
CyberChimps WordPress Themes
© Khalid Maqbool & Sons
Translate »