Autism Fears Persist Despite Evidence To The Contrary : Shots - Health News : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
NPR Shop
Open Navigation Menu
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Technology
Race & Culture
Arts & Life
Expand/collapse submenu for Arts & Life
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
Tiny Desk
All Songs Considered
Music News
Music Features
New Music
Best Music Of 2018
Shows & Podcasts
Expand/collapse submenu for Shows & Podcasts
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
How I Built This with Guy Raz
Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me!
Planet Money
Hidden Brain
More Shows & Podcasts
Search
NPR Shop
Tiny Desk
All Songs Considered
Music News
Features
New Music
About NPR
Overview
Support
Careers
Connect
Press
Ethics
Autism Fears Persist Despite Evidence To The Contrary : Shots - Health News An NPR-Thomson Reuters Health Poll finds 21 percent of Americans believe autism is linked to vaccines. Most people believe vaccines work. Among those with concerns about vaccines, uncertainty about long-term health effects is the biggest fear.
Shots
Health News From NPR
Your Health
Treatments & Tests
Health Inc.
Policy-ish
Public Health
Twitter
Worries About Autism Link Still Hang Over Vaccines
Your Health
Worries About Autism Link Still Hang Over Vaccines
Facebook
Twitter
Flipboard
Email
September 29, 20114:24 PM ET
Scott Hensley
Twitter
Enlarge this image
University of Miami pediatrician Judith L. Schaechter gives an HPV vaccination to a 13-year-old girl last week in Miami. Joe Raedle/Getty Images hide caption
toggle caption
Joe Raedle/Getty Images
University of Miami pediatrician Judith L. Schaechter gives an HPV vaccination to a 13-year-old girl last week in Miami.
Joe Raedle/Getty Images
Even before Rep. Michele Bachmann made waves by questioning the safety of vaccines against cervical cancer, there was plenty of resistance to routine immunization.
As parents fret, vaccination rates for kids have dipped. Childhood vaccination rates against measles, mumps and rubella (MMR), for instance, fell almost 3 percentage points to 90.6 percent in 2009 from the year before, according to data from private insurers.
During the first half of August, we asked people across the country for their views on vaccines in the latest NPR-Thomson Reuters Health Poll.
Autism remains a top worry, with 21 percent of respondents saying they believe autism is linked to vaccines. About 7 percent believe in a link between vaccines and diabetes.
The evidence doesn't support either of those views. The chair of an independent panel that reviewed vaccine safety and issued a clean bill of health in late August said at the time:
"The MMR vaccine does not cause autism. The MMR and the DTaP do not cause Type 1 diabetes. And the killed flu vaccine does not cause Bell's palsy, and it does not trigger episodes of asthma."
Overall, a little more than a quarter of households had concerns about the safety or value of vaccines. Among households with kids younger than 18, 30 percent had one of those concerns. People 65 and up had the fewest worries, with 19 percent expressing concern.
Most people believe vaccines work. Among those who expressed a concern about vaccines, only 4 percent said it was over a lack of effectiveness. The more common issues for those with concerns were a fear of side effects (46 percent of the group) or uncertainty about long-term health effects (47 percent).
We wondered if people's opinions about vaccines had changed in the last five years. Nearly a quarter said they had. In that group, 59 percent said their opinions had become less favorable. A little more than a third said their opinions had gotten better.
How do the results square with the scientific evidence supporting vaccine safety and effectiveness and a steady campaign by doctors and public health officials to boost confidence? "The human mind has a hard time accepting things that didn't happen versus things that could happen," Dr. Raymond Fabius, chief medical officer at Thomson Reuters, tells Shots. "Vaccines get devalued because of their great effectiveness."
Older people still remember when polio was a much bigger worry than cancer, he says. Now, in this country, many people have never seen the toll polio and other infectious diseases took before widespread vaccination.
The latest NPR-Thomson Reuters Health Poll drew responses from telephone interviews with more than 3,000 adults across the country. The margin for error is plus or minus 1.8 percentage points.
You can find the full text of the questions and the responses here. Find the results of past polls by clicking on the NPR-Thomson Reuters Poll tag below.
Related NPR Stories
Report: Vaccines Are Safe, Hazards Are Few Aug. 25, 2011
NPR-Thomson Reuters Health Poll
Vaccines
Children's Health
Facebook
Twitter
Flipboard
Email
Shots
Health News From NPR
Shots
Health News From NPR
About
Shots is the online channel for health stories from the NPR Science Desk. We report on news that can make a difference for your health and show how policy shapes our health choices. Look to Shots for the latest on research and medical treatments, as well as the business side of health. Your hosts are Scott Hensley and Carmel Wroth. You can reach the Shots team via our contact form.
Subscribe
RSS
@NPRHealth
@scotthensley
Read & Listen
Home
News
Arts & Life
Music
Podcasts
Programs
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Contact
Help
About NPR
Overview
Finances
People
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
Visit NPR
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
NPR thanks our sponsors
Become an NPR sponsor