cancer Archives Page 1 of 1 - NorthStar Nutritionals Blog
JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. For the best experience on our site, be sure to turn on Javascript in your browser.
Toggle Nav Skip to Content
Cart ( 0 )
Compare ()
Log In
Customer Service
My Account
Create Account
Compare ()
Log In
Customer Service
My Account
Create Account
United States
100% Money Back Guarantee
1-800-913-2592
Search
Search
Advanced Search
Search
Menu
All Products
Top Products
Men's Health
Antioxidants
Blood Sugar Support
Digestion
Energy
Hair Loss
Heart Health
Immune Support
Joint Support
Memory & Brain Support
Muscle Support
Pain Relief
Prostate Health
Sexual Health
Skin
Sleep Support
Stress
Urinary Health
Vision
Weight Loss
Anti-Aging
Longevity
Mood
Women's Health
Anti-Aging
Antioxidants
Beauty
Blood Sugar Support
Digestion
Energy
Hair Loss
Heart Health
Immune Support
Joint Support
Memory & Brain Support
Pain Relief
Skin
Sleep Support
Stress
Urinary Health
Vision
Weight Loss
Longevity
Mood
Shop by Health Concern
Shop by Ingredients
Blog
Account
Results you can see and feel. 100% money back guaranteed.
Home
Blog
cancer
cancer
Search
The cancer SHOCKER that’s got doctors SPOOKED
Posted by: NorthStar Nutritionals on January 28, 2019
The mainstream is running scared!
They’re NOT terrified of a new disease. They’re NOT worried about hurting patients with the side effects of their sickening meds.
And they’re certainly NOT scared of an FDA slap on the wrist.
But there’s one thing they’re absolutely terrified of… and they just admitted it out loud for perhaps the very first time.
They’re AFRAID of YOU!
You’re better informed than ever… and ready to make your own decisions about your healthcare.
A new survey reveals MILLIONS of Americans have discovered the truth about cancer.
And it’s exactly what the mainstream has COVERED UP all along.
The cat’s out of the bag
The survey commissioned by the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) finds that 40 percent of Americans believe cancer can be cured with “alternative” therapies.
More importantly, the survey also finds that patients have learned the ugly reality behind most so-called cancer “care”…
These treatments often DON’T work!
The feds have approved many of them, NOT based on any real-world measures… but on the kinds of results that can only be seen on scans.
Some new drugs, for example, can slow the growth of a tumor… which certainly SOUNDS like a winner.
But that’s literally ALL they do. They don’t extend OR improve lives!
This isn’t rare. It’s shockingly common…
A 2016 analysis of 36 cancer drugs found 31 of them FAILED to prove they helped patients live longer or better.
Then of course there are those side effects. Oh, baby, those side effects.
Maybe the cancer hasn’t killed you (yet)… but the drugs will make you feel like death while you’re on them.
And – if you make it that far – for years after, too, with long-term damage to your immune system.
Some of these drugs can even CAUSE other cancers.
In an interview with MedPage Today, the head of the ASCO called the report “frightening.”
You can bet it is… to the mainstream.
The jig is up!
Patients are awakening to the horrors of conventional treatments and learning the truth about treatments that really do work and without toxic side effects.
But the mainstream ain’t goin’ down without a fight…
And with the system firmly in the hands of those wishing to protect the conventional (not to mention obscenely profitable) status quo, things are only going to get worse.
They’ll push the feds into cracking down on natural therapies and non-conventional treatments and try to FRIGHTEN people away from them.
Don’t be scared.
If you have cancer, look for doctors versed on non-drug therapies including laetrile, Essiac, graviola, and intravenous vitamin C.
Categories: Cancer
Tags: cancer
Study links BPA to obesity in kids
Posted by: Dr. Allan Spreen, MD on September 11, 2012
Is this common chemical making your kids fat?
When does incompetence cross the line into negligence?
You don't need to look any further than the FDA's handling of the bisphenol (BPA) crisis for the answer to that question. They hurtled across that line at top speed years ago.
Make no mistake...BPA, a synthetic chemical found in consumer products ranging from aluminum cans to cash register receipts, is a threat to your health. This is a fact with a stack of research backing it up. Yet, the FDA refuses to acknowledge the danger.
Sure, after years of pressure they finally caved this year and banned the chemical from children's sippy cups and baby bottles. Too bad it was an empty gesture.
The truth is parents had wised up long ago, and were buying BPA-free products for their babies long before the ban. Since there wasn't a market for the BPA-tainted baby bottles and sippy cups anymore, most manufacturers had already stopped making them anyway.
And besides, despite its own ban the FDA still refuses to acknowledge that BPA actually poses a threat to health. In fact, they're so confident that it isn't a threat that they decided not to ban the creepy chemical in aluminum cans and other food packaging. Talk about a muddled message.
The devil is in the details
The problem with BPA is that it's a low-grade estrogen...or estrogen-mimic. Your body simply can't tell the difference between it and the "real stuff." And since you're being exposed to bits of BPA all the time, all those little bits can add up to a big problem.
Studies have shown it can wreak havoc with your metabolism and endocrine system.
In fact, research has already revealed an association between BPA and infertility, sexual dysfunction, cancer, heart disease, adult obesity, and neurological disorders. And studies linking the chemical to certain markers of sexual maturity have raised concerns about it playing a role in girls reaching puberty so much earlier these days.
(Not a threat?! Come on, are you even paying attention here FDA?!?)
Now a frightening new study has found a link between BPA and obesity in children and teens. The study, published in the Journal of the American Medical Association, used a sample of nearly 3,000 kids and teens between the ages of 6 and 19.
After reviewing the children's BPA levels the researchers found that the kids with the highest levels of urinary BPA were 2.6 times more likely to be obese than those with the lowest levels. Caucasian kids had it worst, being five times more likely to be obese when they had high BPA levels. But African-American kids still had an elevated risk, and were 1.25 times more likely to be obese when their BPA levels were elevated.
And with kids being exposed to BPA since before they're even born these days, it's easy to see why these findings are so concerning.
BPA is bad news
Now no one is suggesting that BPA is the sole cause of obesity. As I've explained before, obesity is a complex problem with no single cause. Diet (poor ones) and exercise (lack of it) of course, both, have starring roles to play in the epidemic.
But, despite huge efforts to get people moving more and eating less, our weight... and our children's weight... continues to balloon. And frankly, with all the evidence that's stacked up we'd be foolish to ignore the role that environmental factors like BPA are playing in the problem.
When you look at the long and growing list of health concerns associated with this chemical two things are clear. The first is that B-P-A spells B-A-D news for your health, and the health of your family. And the second is that the FDA has been asleep on the job when it comes to protecting us from it.
The FDA maintains that "the very low levels of human exposure to BPA through the diet" are safe. But the reality is that the average person's exposure levels are nowhere near "very low," and they certainly aren't limited to diet.
Heck, one study last year found that eating a serving of canned soup for just five days in a row can send your BPA levels skyrocketing by 1000%! And BPA is found in all kinds of other non-food related products including flooring, pipes, nail polish, compact discs, electrical appliances, and more.
The truth is, unless you move to a remote island somewhere avoiding BPA altogether is nearly impossible. But you can reduce your family's exposure by making a commitment to buying fresh foods more often. And when you must use something processed be sure to look for a BPA-free stamp on the can or package before buying it.
Categories: Miscellaneous
Tags: cancer, BPA, bisphenol-A, synthetic chemicals, obesity, overweight, kids, teens, children, food packaging, early puberty & heart disease
New reports link sodium phosphate to cancer
Posted by: Dr. Allan Spreen, MD on June 16, 2011
Over Memorial Day weekend, I stood in line for 10 minutes at my local grocery store‘s deli counter. I saw customer after customer load up on salami, honey ham, and smoked turkey for the holiday weekend. (Guess they haven‘t heard about the latest warning about processed meats and one type of deadly cancer. I‘ll tell you all about the new report in a moment.) There are probably 50 different types of lunch meat sold at my grocery store. But I‘ll only buy one. So when they finally called my number, I asked the clerk for a pound of their natural turkey. She held up a famous brand and asked if that‘s what I wanted. "This brand doesn‘t contain any preservatives or artificial ingredients, see," she said and pointed at the deli meat. Okay, I said, but I don‘t trust labels. I want to see what‘s in it. (I could hear the anxious customers grumble behind me!) She flipped the turkey breast over so I could read the ingredient list. And there you go, sure enough, it said "sodium phosphate." Sodium phosphate is not the same as sodium nitrite. That‘s true. But it does help to keep deli meat looking fresh, moist, and tender. That‘s why I consider it a preservative and won‘t ever buy meat that contains it. Here‘s why... As you can probably guess, sodium phosphate contains a lot of sodium. It actually contains much more sodium than table salt. So if you wonder why your deli meat looks moist, it‘s because they treat it with lots of salt so it will hold lots of water. But sodium phosphate also makes you retain water. This puts a strain on your kidneys. It makes them work harder. That‘s why people with kidney problems shouldn‘t eat deli meat. In fact, according to the National Institutes of Health, sodium phosphate can actually cause kidney damage. According to the NIH web site: "Sodium phosphate has caused serious kidney damage in some people. In some cases, this damage was permanent, and some people whose kidneys were damaged had to be treated with dialysis (treatment to remove waste from the blood when the kidneys are not working well). Some people developed kidney damage within a few days after their treatment, and others developed kidney damage up to several months after their treatment." But sodium phosphate isn‘t the biggest problem lurking in your lunch meat. Most lunch meat is treated with sodium nitrite as well.
Why are nitrites so bad?
Salt has been used for centuries to cure and cook meat. And sodium nitrite is just another form of salt. It helps to give processed meat an appealing pink color. It adds to the taste. And it helps to retard the growth of bacteria. But here‘s the problem... Inside your body, nitrites turn into N-nitroso compounds. We already know these compounds cause cancer in test animals. In addition, numerous studies link processed meat (high in nitrites) with cancer in humans. In 2006, Swedish researchers found that eating just one ounce of processed meat a day increases your risk of stomach cancer up to 38 percent. Plus... In 2005, U.S. researchers looked at 190,000 men and women between the ages 45 and 75. They found that volunteers who ate high amounts processed meat were 68 percent more likely to get pancreatic cancer than those who ate the least. And guess what? If you eat 1.2 ounces of processed meat a day (just a slice or two of smoked turkey), you eat "high" amounts, according to this study. But there‘s more. The evidence linking processed meat with colon cancer troubles me the most.
The processed meat connection to cancer
According to a new report by the World Cancer Research Fund/American Institute for Cancer Research, we can prevent almost half of the colon cancer cases in this country. All we have to do is make simple changes to our lifestyle. These simple changes include:
Eating more fiber-rich foods
Limiting alcohol
Staying physically active
Maintaining a healthy weight
Plus, researchers found a clear and consistent connection between the kind of meat you eat and colon cancer. Specifically, the researchers cited 24 studies linking colon cancer to processed meat. Researchers found that eating 3.5 ounces per day of processed meat increases your colon cancer risk by 36 percent (compared to those who don‘t eat processed meat). Plus, if you eat 7 ounces every day, your colon cancer risk is about 70 percent greater than those who don‘t ever eat processed meat. Now, if you like the occasional steak, here‘s good news... According to their research, eating 3.5 ounces of red meat every day raises your colon cancer risk by 17 percent higher than non-meat eaters. (Again, to put this into perspective, 3.5 ounces equates to a modest size cheeseburger or a petite filet of steak. It‘s about the size of your fist.) Plus, the more you eat, the greater your risk. However... Researchers found very little risk for men and women who eat less than 18 ounces of red meat per week. And this is exactly what I‘ve always suggested in my Guide to Good Health. Red meat is beneficial in small amounts. Eat a serving of it once or twice a week and you‘ll be fine. Just make sure it is hormone-free, antibiotic-free red meat. And remember, there is additive-free lunch meat out there. Just don‘t trust the deli counter clerk. Ask to see the list of ingredients...even if it is a holiday weekend and there‘s a long line of customers behind you. It pays to be particular. Hormel and Jennie-O both make a line of nitrite-free lunch meat. The other option is even better. Buy a whole turkey breast and roast it at home. Slice it thin and you‘ll have the most amazing turkey for sandwiches all week. Add a juicy tomato and an onion and I‘m in heaven.
Categories: Cancer
Tags: cancer, processed meat, nitrates, sodium nitrate, sodium phosphate & stomach cancer
2 key antioxidants help battle breast cancer and may stop it returning
Posted by: Dr. Allan Spreen, MD on June 9, 2011
I remember when a friend of mine got cancer, her oncologist told her to stop taking vitamins. They might protect the cancer cells and get in the way of your treatment, he warned. But that‘s a bunch of baloney. Take your vitamins, especially if you‘re battling breast cancer. A recent study found that women with breast cancer who took two key antioxidants following their diagnosis significantly cut their risk of recurrence. For this study, researchers recruited about 5,000 women with invasive breast cancer. About six months after surgery, the women answered questions about their vitamin usage. Then, the researchers followed the women over the next four years. Here‘s what they found... Unfortunately, the cancer returned in 532 of the women. But the women who took two key antioxidants during the first six months following their diagnosis slashed their recurrence risk. In fact, women who used vitamin C for more than three months had a 38 percent lower risk of recurrence. Plus, they had a 44 percent lower mortality risk (compared to those who didn‘t use the vitamin). The benefits for taking vitamin E were even greater. Researchers found that women who took vitamin E for three months or more reduced their recurrence risk by 48 percent. Plus, they reduced their mortality risk by 43 percent compared to non- vitamin takers. According to the study‘s authors: "There is a widespread concern that the use of antioxidant supplements during cancer treatment may protect tumor cells from the oxidative damage induced by cancer therapies, thereby reducing the effectiveness of treatment and increasing risk of mortality. We found no evidence that vitamin use during the first six months following diagnosis had a detrimental effect on breast cancer outcomes." That‘s putting it lightly. I‘d say a 38 to 48 percent reduction in recurrence rates is huge news! Every oncologist should give these antioxidants to their breast cancer patients. But it will never happen. Most oncologists only want to tell you about drugs. Drugs like Avastin. Avastin is mainly used to treat lung and colon cancer. But the FDA approved its use for breast cancer back in 2008 based on evidence that it could add up to five months to a woman‘s lifespan. It works by cutting off the supply of blood vessels to a tumor. But since 2008, study after study has shown that Avastin does not extend the lifespan of a woman battling metastic breast cancer. Yet oncologists, Big Pharma, and patients groups want to keep it on the market. Tragically, this may do more harm than good. The FDA will make the call about Avastin‘s sometime in June. I‘ll keep you posted. But in the meantime, if you want to keep cancer out of your life for good, keep taking your vitamin C and vitamin E.
Categories: Antioxidants, Cancer, Herbs & Supplements & Miscellaneous
Tags: cancer, vitamin C, vitamins, anti-oxidants & vitamin E
Mainstream press misses link between diabetes drug Actos and cancer
Posted by: Dr. Allan Spreen, MD on June 2, 2011
I hate to say I told you so. But every time I come down tough on drugs, it turns out they really deserve it. Take for example, the diabetes drug Actos. A few weeks back, I slammed Actos, despite new research (covered in TIME and The New York Times) that it decreases your risk of developing diabetes. Turns out, I should have come down harder on that darned drug. In fact, this week researchers published a report that found an association between Actos and a certain form of cancer. Plus, this isn‘t the first study to uncover a link between Actos and increased cancer risk. I‘ll give you all the grisly details in a moment. But first, let‘s back up a few months...
Proof that mainstream reporters eat whatever‘s fed to them
A month ago, Actos sounded like a wonder drug. Everywhere you looked the mainstream press kept repeating the same statistic...men and women with pre- diabetes who took Actos lowered their risk of developing full-blown diabetes by 72 percent. Sounds impressive, right? Actos may prevent diabetes! But remember the key flaw I told you about (and the mainstream press conveniently omitted)? The study was exceptionally small. In the end, we‘re talking talking about a total difference of 35 people! Considering that 300 million pre-diabetics live in the U.S., how could any doctor give Actos to just one of them based on such slim evidence? And here‘s the icing on the cake... Takeda Pharmaceuticals, the makers of Actos, actually conducted this shaky study. In my book, it was purely a PR scheme to boost sales. Actos‘s patent expired in January of this year. But Takeda Pharmaceuticals struck a deal to delay entry of generic versions of the drug until August 2012. Was this their last-ditch effort to boost sales before the generics hit the market? Or maybe... Was it their last-ditch effort to boost sales before something far worse hit the fan...?
Researchers link Actos to cancer
The FDA tries to keep tabs on all prescription and OTC drugs once they hit the market. So when you take a drug, even a drug like Tylenol, and have a bad reaction, you‘re supposed to report it to the FDA. Similarly, when you go to see your doctor and talk about your bad reaction to a drug, your doc should report it to the FDA. The FDA keeps track of all these "adverse reactions" -- no matter how small -- in a massive database. This is called the FDA‘s Adverse Event Reporting Program. The FDA compiles and publishes the data annually. But in the case of Actos... A group of Italian researchers analyzed all the adverse events reported to the FDA between 2004 and 2009 for 15 diabetes drugs on the market, including Actos and metformin. When they analyzed the reporting odds ratio (ROR), they found a "definite risk" linking Actos and bladder cancer. The risk of bladder cancer and the other diabetes drugs was "much weaker." The researchers aren‘t sure why Actos may increase your risk of developing bladder cancer. But they think it may have to do with certain receptor cells in your body. You see, Actos works by opening receptor cells so they will become more responsive to insulin. But this may also encourage them to turn cancerous. Now here‘s what troubles even more...
Actos may be linked to even more problems
The FDA‘s Adverse Event Reporting System isn‘t perfect. (I know. It‘s shocking, right?) You see, it‘s completely voluntary. It stands to reason there could be more cases of bladder cancer that we don‘t know about. For example, say Joe Smith from Indiana began taking Actos in 2004 for diabetes. Then, out of the blue, he got bladder cancer in 2008. Maybe his doctor never thought to connect Actos to his bladder cancer. None of this business about bladder cancer had hit the press yet. Now, let‘s say Joe is one of the lucky ones and went on to survive bladder cancer. He‘s no longer in treatment. Now we know about the cancer link. But his doctor never reported it to the FDA back in 2008 because back then, no one did. Hopefully, this new study will start to spread some awareness. Just don‘t count on the FDA to move quickly. They have known about the possible link between Actos and bladder cancer for at least a year. In fact, last year the FDA began to take a closer look at Actos after receiving early results from a long-term study by Takeda Pharmaceuticals. That study showed patients with the longest exposure (or highest cumulative dose) to Actos had in increased risk of developing bladder cancer. It will be interesting to see if TIME or The New York Times follows up on their Actos report, won‘t it? (I‘m not holding my breath. Before sending this week‘s GUIDE TO GOOD HEALTH off to my editor, I ran a quick Google search. At that point, The NYT still hadn‘t run anything about the new data linking Actos to bladder cancer. That‘s a full three days after the research hit the newswire. I‘m betting they just let it slip on by.) Well, maybe TIME Magazine will run something in its next issue. After all, the mainstream press is our last unbiased bastion of truth. (Yeah right.)
Categories: Blood Sugar Support, Cancer, Diabetes, Prescription Drugs & FDA & Urinary Health
Tags: cancer, diabetes, Actos, diabetes drugs, cancer risks & Takeda Pharmaceuticals
Is it true that vitamin C treats cancer?
Posted by: Dr. Allan Spreen, MD on January 13, 2011
An apple a day keeps the doctor away - but orange juice cures cancer At least that‘s what researchers at the National Institutes of Health are reporting. To be fair, the treatment requires way more than a few glasses of orange juice. In actuality, it requires massive doses of intravenous vitamin C.
Just how promising is the treatment? Well, Dr. Scott Greenberg of the Magaziner Center for Wellness in Cherry Hill, NJ has treated several patients successfully.
For example, one of Greenberg‘s patients was diagnosed with lung cancer that had spread to his brain, and yet another had breast cancer that could be seen protruding from her chest. Both were told their situations were grim. However, after several months both patients responded well to the vitamin C treatment, and today both are doing well and appear to be cancer free.
In fact, the breast cancer patient is past the critical five-year mark -- typically considered a full remission.
While some researchers believe the treatment works by killing the cancer cells outright, others believe it is vitamin C‘s powerful antioxidant protection at work.
Both theories are right, to a degree. You see, just like chemotherapy, vitamin C produces hydrogen peroxide in the body -- the same stuff you‘ve been using to kill germs on cuts and abrasions all your life.
Hydrogen peroxide has a powerful oxidizing effect inside the body. And while oxidation (often referred to as free radical damage) is largely considered a bad thing, the flood of oxygen that results from the breakdown of hydrogen peroxide within the body actually destroys cancer cells -- leaving healthy cells unharmed while super-charging the immune system.
However, unlike chemotherapy, side-effects are essentially non-existent. And, although the vitamin C treatment is not currently covered by insurance, the price of each treatment is only $125. Compare that to chemo and radiation therapies which can easily reach into the hundreds of thousands of dollars.
Dr. Greenberg says that the therapy can be used in conjunction with more traditional therapies. But, just as is the case with chemo and radiation, the treatment doesn‘t work for everyone. But it‘s certainly worth the effort for patients battling with cancer.
Categories: Cancer
Tags: cancer
Androgen deprivation therapy may increase the risk of colon cancer
Posted by: Dr. Allan Spreen, MD on December 9, 2010
A new study conducted by Swiss researchers found that men treated for prostate cancer might increase their risk of developing colon cancer. Fortunately, that's only a factor if you choose androgen deprivation therapy as treatment, something I've warned you against before.
Watchful waiting vs. hormone therapy
When a man is first diagnosed with prostate cancer, many times the oncologist will suggest watchful waiting. And this is a good decision. In most cases, prostate cancer grows slowly. And you're far more likely to die with prostate cancer than from it. That is, unless you follow an aggressive course of treatment called androgen deprivation therapy or ADT. It sounds technical. But it's not.
Androgens are male hormones. And testosterone is the main male androgen. Men need it for many reasons and sexual function is just one small part. In fact, testosterone is critical in regulating a man's:
Weight
Blood pressure
Blood sugar
Heart health
Mood
Mental sharpness
Muscle and bone mass
Brain function
But androgen deprivation therapy aims to reduce androgens in the male body. That's because cutting off a man's testosterone shrinks the prostate and blocks the growth of prostate cancer. There are two basic ways doctors accomplish this feat. (If your doctor suggests either one, run for the hills. I'll explain more about that in a moment.) Your first option is to have your testicles removed. This is called an orchiectomy. Clearly, this is not something that I favor in any way. And thankfully, it's not something most men choose. Your second option is to take a drug called a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist. This may sound less painful, but the result is just as bad. In fact.... The new Swiss study, published in the Journal of the National Cancer Institute, showed that both forms of androgen deprivation therapy may raise your colorectal cancer risk.
Nothing good comes from two bad choices...
For the study, Swiss scientists analyzed data on 108,000 men with prostate cancer. All of the men were older than 67 and had been diagnosed with prostate cancer between 1993 and 2002. In addition, all of the men had taken a GnRH antagonist or received an orchiectomy.
After analyzing the data, researchers found a 30 to 40 percent increase in colorectal cancer risk in these men. So by following androgen deprivation therapy, these men may have traded prostate cancer -- not likely to have killed them -- for a far more deadly form of cancer.
Now, it's true that orchiectomy is rarely used. Most men just won't go for it...and with good reason. But GnRH antagonists are often prescribed to men who don't want to go under the knife. It's important to remember, though, that these drugs don't cure prostate cancer; they just shrink the tumors.
Eligard is one kind of GnRH antagonist. And one of the worst, if you ask me. According to the drug company's own clinical trials, men who used Eligard for just two to four weeks saw testosterone levels drop to below the "castrate threshold."
This means that Eligard--in just two to four weeks--can push your testosterone so low, it's as if you've been castrated! (And, oh yes, it shrinks your prostate gland as well...because you've got no testosterone left in your body.)
Therefore, the new FDA warning should come as no surprise. Taking a GnRH antagonist may raise your risk of diabetes, heart attack, and stroke. Plus, according to the National Cancer Institute study, we can now add colon cancer to that list of possible outcomes of choosing androgen deprivation therapy.
Safer options for prostate cancer
As I said earlier, watchful waiting (or as I like to call it, "active surveillance") is often your best option. According to a 2009 study of nearly 15,000 men with prostate cancer, this tactic clearly had its benefits. In fact, in that study, 94 percent of the men who adopted active surveillance had at least a 10-year-survival rate.
According to Timothy J. Wilt, MD, this study "reinforces accumulating evidence that the vast majority of men with prostate cancer detected by PSA testing have a very good prognosis and are unlikely to die of their cancer or suffer serious medical consequences from disease spread at 10 or more years, even if not treated with surgery, radiation, or hormone therapy."
He went on to say, "This study also supports the view that many men are detected and treated who are unlikely to benefit, and thus may undergo harms that exceed benefits."
In addition, there are plenty steps you can and should take to prevent prostate cancer. First off, take a look back at previous issues of my Guide to Good Health by visiting the blog here. Then just type "prostate" into the search box.
You'll find plenty of recent articles on the topic of preventing prostate cancer. One of my favorites showed that eating nuts everyday reduced prostate tumor growth by 30 to 40 percent.
P.S. There's an excellent FREE report called 5 All-Natural Solutions for Banishing Prostate Problems for Good that I recommend every man read. Just click on the link to get your free report and learn how to create a healthy prostate without drugs or surgery.
Categories: Cancer, Prescription Drugs & FDA & Prostate Health
Tags: cancer, androgen, hormone therapy & androgen deprivation
Vitamin D and cancer: What you need to know
Posted by: Dr. Allan Spreen, MD on December 9, 2010
Over the years, I've talked a lot about vitamin D and cancer. In fact, recent estimates suggest that vitamin D protects against 22 different types of malignancies including breast, colon and prostate cancer. Well, it may be time to add another type of cancer to the list. Two months ago, researchers found that vitamin D also protects you against bladder cancer. For the vitamin D and cancer study, published in the journal Cancer Research, scientists recruited 500 men to take part in the study. Each of them were cancer-free at the beginning of the study. Researchers took blood samples of the men between 1985 and 1988 to check for levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D. This is what vitamin D converts into in the body. Then, they compared men diagnosed with bladder cancer against men who did not have the disease. They found that men with less than 25 nanomoles per liter of 25-hydroxyvitamin D were 73 percent more likely to develop bladder cancer compared to men with at least 50 nanomoles per liter. And though the study was conducted with male smokers, I'm certain they will get the same results with nonsmokers and women. You see, scientists believe vitamin D helps to flush toxins out of your bladder. It also promotes the healthy turnover of cells in the bladder. So even if you're a woman or a nonsmoker, continue taking your vitamin D every day. Go for up to 5,000 IU per day, especially if you live in the northern part of the country.
Categories: Cancer, Herbs & Supplements, Prostate Health & Urinary Health
Tags: cancer & vitamin D
More benefits of green tea – it protects your DNA
Posted by: Dr. Allan Spreen, MD on September 23, 2010
Green tea protects your DNA. That‘s now a proven scientific fact, thanks to the work of Professor Iris Benzie. And her powerful new discovery helps explain why green tea drinkers seem to avoid weight gain, depression, cancer, heart disease, and Alzheimer‘s disease.
Three reasons to drink green tea
We already knew that drinking green tea is good for you in a number of ways. First, it purifies the body by eliminating free radicals. Free radicals are those unstable molecules that cause disease and age your body. Secondly, drinking green tea promotes the healthy turnover of cells in your body. Technically, it‘s called "apoptosis." And it prompts old cells to die off so that new, healthy cells can take their place. Apoptosis also prevents cancer by blocking the uncontrolled growth and spread of damaged cells. And lastly, we now know that green tea also protects your DNA, the tiny building blocks found inside nearly every cell in your body. Many scientists compare DNA to an elaborate set of blueprints or instructions. Think of your DNA as "ground zero" for good health. It all starts in the tiniest building blocks of your cells.
So what damages your DNA?
Radiation, UV rays, toxins, chemicals, free radicals, and unhealthy diet can all -- over time -- damage your DNA. Fortunately, your body finds and repairs most damage on its own. In fact, special proteins -- I like to think of them as DNA "watch dogs" -- tirelessly scour your body looking for problems. When they find a damaged strand, they immediately tell the cell to stop dividing, so the problem won‘t pass on to the next generation of cells. And then your body goes to work repairing the DNA. This ensures that you will go on to live a long, healthy life. But sometimes the DNA cops miss a strand. And these damaged strands can cause problems down the road, such as premature aging and disease. The good news is green tea can help prevent problems from even occurring in your DNA in the first place.
Green tea protects your DNA
Iris Benzie and her team of researchers recruited 18 healthy volunteers to participate in a study examining the effects of green tea on DNA. They divided the volunteers into two groups. One group drank two cups of one percent green tea (longjing green tea or screw-shaped green tea) every day for four weeks. The other group drank water every day for four weeks. Researchers took samples of the participants‘ blood and urine before and after the month-long study. Their analysis showed that the group who drank green tea reduced their DNA damage by 20 percent. And that was after just 30 days of drinking green tea! Imagine how good your DNA would look if you drank it for one whole year or five years or 20 years! Plus...
Why stop at one cup, when three is better?
Research from earlier this year shows that drinking three cups of green tea every day may significantly increase your lifespan. This time, scientists compared the length of telomeres among green tea drinkers. (Telomeres are DNA sequences at the end of your chromosomes. They shorten as your cells replicate and age. So the longer your telomeres are, the "younger" your cells.) Scientist found that men and women who drank an average of three cups of green tea per day had a big advantage over one-cuppers. In fact, their telomeres were 4.6 kilobases longer, which translates into about five years of life. So go ahead and have that second (or third) cup of green tea today. It may just add five years to your life! Just make sure to drink the real stuff, made by you with tea bags. Don‘t fall for the sweetened kind found in bottles. These only contain a fraction of the antioxidants found in real green tea. Instead, it‘s mostly sugar and water.
Categories: Anti-Aging, Antioxidants, Cancer & Herbs & Supplements
Tags: cancer, heart disease, depression, DNA damage, green tea, weight gain, Alzheimers disease & DNA
25 cutting-edge cancer cures from around the world
Posted by: Dr. Allan Spreen, MD on April 16, 2009
I’ve been a doctor for more than 20 years and during that time, I’ve seen cancer rates hit the roof. Unfortunately, I’ve also found that the conventional methods that poison, cut, and burn the cancer cells don’t really ever heal the body. But as many of you know, I’m a serious research junkie. And over the years, it’s been my mission to find cutting-edge cures that offer cancer patients all-natural alternatives that work to get rid of the cancer and heal the body. I’ve recently compiled these powerful cures into a new book called Tomorrow’s Cancer Cures TODAY. In chapter 1, you’ll learn why cancer doesn’t really kill anybody. Sounds crazy, I know. But a new field of research that I’ve been studying shows that the real culprit for 3 out of 4 cancer deaths isn’t cancer at all…but a deadly syndrome that no one’s ever heard of. The good news is, a former U.S. Air Force doctor has found a way to naturally combat the real problem behind so many senseless cancer deaths in this country. His all-natural program has helped many end-stage cancer patients to start living again. As you’ll see, the facts speak for themselves. To get all the details about this powerful cancer breakthrough, plus many other cutting-edge cancer cures, please click on this link: https://www.web-purchases.com/640SHTOMC/E6NSK4XF/landing.html
Categories: Miscellaneous
Tags: cancer, research & all-natural program
Glorious grapes!
Posted by: Dr. Allan Spreen, MD on January 15, 2009
The other day, reading through my ‘Inbox,’ I came across an e-mail about an all-natural grape seed treatment for leukemia. The gist of the article claimed that grape seeds could kill 76 percent of diseased cells overnight. Being the skeptic that I am, I thought this sounded way too good to be true. Where did these results come from, I wondered? It had to be a fluke, concocted by some backward scientist in Slovakia. How could an all-natural remedy really kill 76 percent of leukemia cells overnight? However, after checking into the research myself, I found that the study was conducted at the University of Kentucky. (No, it wasn’t Harvard, but a big university laboratory nevertheless.) I also found that the results got published in the highly-respected, peer-reviewed medical journal Clinical Cancer Research. Okay, these little grape seeds had my attention. Now what? How do they destroy leukemia cells so quickly? First, let’s back up. I probably should explain a little bit about leukemia so you can truly appreciate how promising this study could be in the years to come for any family touched by this brutal disease. It’s the goliath of cancer Leukemia is a vicious type of cancer that attacks the lifeline of your body: your blood. Normally, blood cells start out as stem cells made in the bone marrow. Then they mature into:
White blood cells (which help fight infection)
Red blood cells (deliver oxygen to vital organs and tissues in your body)
Platelets (help form blood clots when you get a cut or injury)
In healthy individuals, blood cells have a life cycle. When this happens, the old cells get replaced by new, healthy cells that are made in the bone marrow. It’s this natural turnover that helps keep you free from disease. But in leukemia patients, this natural system has gone awry. The bone marrow begins to produce abnormal white blood cells that don’t die. Over time, the abnormal cells crowd out the healthy blood cells. As a result, diseased cells take over the blood stream. Leukemia patients can become prone to infection, grow tired easily, and become anemic. Plus, sometimes the treatment’s worse than the disease Treatment depends on the type of leukemia (there are four main types). Most mainstream routes involve some type of rigorous chemotherapy regimen, steroids, radiation, or even bone marrow transplants. The road is far from easy for a leukemia patient. That’s why a proven and effective non-toxic treatment like grape seed extract is such welcome news. What led scientists to test grape seeds? The majority of research into grape seed extract has focused on promoting heart health. But recent studies have shown that grape seeds also seem to protect you against cancer. Grape seeds contain loads of proanthocyanidin, an antioxidant thought to be 20 times more powerful than vitamin C. These antioxidants seem to neutralize roaming free radicals in your body that can cause cancer and disease. In recent lab tests, grape seed extract has been shown to work against cancers of the breast, lung, and prostate. As recently as 2006, a very promising study funded by the US National Cancer Institute showed that grape seed extract could control the spread of colon cancer in mice. Up until now, however, scientists dared not even dream that the natural extract could touch a disease as complex as leukemia. A quick end for abnormal cells In a new in vitro experiment (which means the work was conducted in test tubes with human cells, not animal cells), grape seed extract caused 76 percent of leukemia cells to literally ‘commit cell suicide.’ And, this mass drop-off (a process known as apoptosis) occurred within 24 hours. Plus, unlike chemotherapy, which kills all replicating cells (even hair cells), the grape seed extract left healthy cells alone. Send those leukemia cells packing Researchers at the University of Kentucky discovered that grape seed extract activates JNK, a protein that regulates the apoptosis pathway. So the extract literally sends the leukemia cells packing, never to be seen again. According to the study’s lead author Xianglin Shi, PhD, Professor in the Graduate Center for Toxicology at the University of Kentucky: "These results could have implications for the incorporation of agents such as grape seed extract into prevention or treatment of hematological malignancies and possibly other cancers." While this treatment has only been proven in the lab, not on human patients, the results are extremely promising. Check out your local health food store Grape seed extract is actually pretty easy to come by. And it’s cheap too. For preventative measures, I would recommend 200 mg per day (under the care of a naturopath, of course). If you’ve got leukemia and would like to add grape seed extract to your regimen, check with your doctor or hematologist first. There hasn’t been a lot of research into how grape seed interacts with other drugs or supplements you may be taking. I’d use caution and probably stick pretty close to 200 mg a day. (As a side note: In a 12-month study, rats were given 100 mg of grape seed extract and they safely tolerated that dosage. It wouldn’t be a stretch to assume 200 mg is a safe dosage for humans.) Also, buyers beware that grape seed extract is sometimes shortened to "GSE.” But that acronym is also sometimes used as an acronym for grapefruit seed extract. As research into this promising, non-toxic leukemia treatment continues, I’ll be sure to keep you updated.
Categories: Miscellaneous
Tags: cancer, leukemia, apoptosis, cancer cells, grapeseed oil, jnk & grapes
11 Item(s)
Privacy Policy
Categories
Articles by Health Concern (66)
» Adrenal (11)
» Anti-Aging (91)
» Antioxidants (45)
» Arthritis (53)
» Beauty (17)
» Blood Sugar Support (40)
» Cancer (81)
» Diabetes (57)
» Digestion (54)
» Energy (36)
» Hair Loss (32)
» Heart Health (107)
» Herbs & Supplements (190)
» Immune Support (31)
» Joint Support (88)
» Memory & Brain Support (106)
» Muscle Support (51)
» Pain & Pain Relief (131)
» Prescription Drugs & FDA (60)
» Prostate Health (27)
» Sexual Health (79)
» Skin (50)
» Sleep (32)
» Stress (22)
» Thyroid (4)
» Urinary Health (16)
» Vision (28)
» Weight Loss (35)
» Miscellaneous (508)
Articles by Ingredient (39)
» Adaptogens (1)
» Boron (1)
» Capsaicin (1)
» DMSO (1)
» Gencinia (1)
» Hyaluronic Acid (1)
» Ivy Gourd (2)
» L-arginine (1)
» Menthol (1)
» Saw Palmetto (1)
» Shilajit (1)
Articles by Product (67)
» Advanced Glucose Support (3)
» Argi-Vive III (4)
» Arthritis Relief Cream (4)
» Benvia Gold (12)
» Gluco-Sure (2)
» Lumivella (5)
» Peak Adrenal X6 (6)
» Prime Power (3)
» Prostate Defense (6)
» Restore FX (6)
» Synerflex (8)
» Soothanol (20)
Longevity (4)
Resources & Tools (6)
» Free Reports (2)
» Infographics (8)
» Videos (18)
Recent Posts
[BUSTED!] Deadly risks of new blood thinners exposed
[OUTBREAK] Measles scare PROVES the vaccine is FAILING
[OUTBREAK] Measles scare PROVES the vaccine is FAILING
[EXPOSED] Researchers are FAKING drug success stories in MAJOR scandal
Mainstream aims to INFILTRATE your next doctor appointment with MISINFORMATION
Archives
Select Month April 2019 March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 October 2018 September 2018 November 2017 November 2016 October 2016 September 2016 August 2016 July 2016 June 2016 May 2016 April 2016 March 2016 February 2016 January 2016 December 2015 November 2015 October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 January 2010 December 2009 November 2009 October 2009 September 2009 August 2009 July 2009 June 2009 May 2009 April 2009 March 2009 February 2009 January 2009 December 2008 November 2008 October 2008 September 2008 August 2008 July 2008 June 2008 May 2008 April 2008 March 2008 February 2008
Sign up for Email Updates!
Sign up for Email Updates!
Join Now!
We Respect Your Privacy
We have a strict anti-spam policy!
We know how important your privacy is to you so we guarantee that we will NEVER sell your e-mail address. Please note you can remove yourself from our list at any time. We supply a link at the bottom of each e-mail to manage your subscription to the Guide to Good Health e-letter. We also provide you with a mailing address to contact us if you have any problems.
To manage your order by mail or for any other ordering issues, write us at:
NorthStar Nutritionals
PO Box 913
Frederick, MD 21705-0913 USA
Or take a moment to fill out our customer service contact form: https://northstarnutritionals.com/contacts/
When you place an online order with us, we collect your e-mail address, land address, and sometimes telephone number. This information may be used by NewMarket Health, LLC for service, editorial, and marketing purposes. We will sometimes share your information with third-party vendors who assist us with the preparation and mailing of our editorial and marketing communications, and with order fulfillment facilities. We will also occasionally provide your land address to carefully screened partners or third-party companies for the purpose of contacting you with news about relevant products or publications. We will never rent or sell your telephone or fax number or e-mail address to any third party.
We may automatically gather general statistical information about our website and visitors, such as IP addresses, browsers, pages viewed, number of visitors, goods and services purchased, transactions completed, etc. To do this, we use action tags and cookies provided by our site analytics. The cookie itself does not contain any of your personal information, so it does not jeopardize the privacy of your activities or the security of the transactions you place at our sites; We simply log this information in order to provide a more customized experience when visiting the site.
We have implemented Google Analytics features based on Display Advertising (Google Analytics Demographics and Interest Reporting). You can opt-out of Google Analytics for Display Advertising and customize Google Display Network ads using the Ads Settings. In addition, you can use the Google Analytics Opt-Out Browser Add-on to disable tracking by Google Analytics. We will use the data provided by Google Analytics Demographics and Interest Reporting to develop the site and content around our users’ interests.
Policy against advertising our website using unsolicited email messages
We require that all e-mails promoting northstarnutritionals.com or its products are sent only to clients who have agreed to receive such messages. We prohibit any advertising of our brand and Web site using unsolicited email messages. Not complying with this policy will cause partnership termination and/or affiliate account termination. If you feel you’ve been sent unsolicited emails promoting our brand or website and would like to register a complaint, please email our abuse department. We will immediately investigate all allegations made related to unsolicited messages.
For any other questions or concerns, please call us at 800-913-2592 (outside of the US, call 443-353-4354), or fill out our customer service form.
List of cookies we collect
The table below lists the cookies we collect and what information they store.
COOKIE name
COOKIE Description
CART
The association with your shopping cart.
CATEGORY_INFO
Stores the category info on the page, that allows to display pages more quickly.
COMPARE
The items that you have in the Compare Products list.
CURRENCY
Your preferred currency
CUSTOMER
An encrypted version of your customer id with the store.
CUSTOMER_AUTH
An indicator if you are currently logged into the store.
CUSTOMER_INFO
An encrypted version of the customer group you belong to.
CUSTOMER_SEGMENT_IDS
Stores the Customer Segment ID
EXTERNAL_NO_CACHE
A flag, which indicates whether caching is disabled or not.
FRONTEND
You sesssion ID on the server.
GUEST-VIEW
Allows guests to edit their orders.
LAST_CATEGORY
The last category you visited.
LAST_PRODUCT
The most recent product you have viewed.
NEWMESSAGE
Indicates whether a new message has been received.
NO_CACHE
Indicates whether it is allowed to use cache.
PERSISTENT_SHOPPING_CART
A link to information about your cart and viewing history if you have asked the site.
POLL
The ID of any polls you have recently voted in.
POLLN
Information on what polls you have voted on.
RECENTLYCOMPARED
The items that you have recently compared.
STF
Information on products you have emailed to friends.
STORE
The store view or language you have selected.
USER_ALLOWED_SAVE_COOKIE
Indicates whether a customer allowed to use cookies.
VIEWED_PRODUCT_IDS
The products that you have recently viewed.
WISHLIST
An encrypted list of products added to your Wishlist.
WISHLIST_CNT
The number of items in your Wishlist.
Questions?
Call or click for a customer service rep.
1-800-913-2592
Contact Us
My Account
About Us
Contact Us
FAQs
Returns & Exchanges
Our Money Back Guarantee
Auto-Delivery
Terms & Conditions
Site Map
© 2000 - 2019 by NorthStar Nutritionals, 16 W. Madison St, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA
All prices are in USD.
Disclaimer: Individual results may vary. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. Remember to read all labels, check all ingredients and follow all directions before using any products.