Evaluation of ADHS Report on Health Safety of Smart Meters | Radio Frequency | Cancer
Buscar
Buscar
Cerrar sugerencias
Cargar
Iniciar sesión
Unirse
Inicio
Guardado
Bestsellers
Libros
Audiolibros
Revistas
Documentos
Partituras
74 vistas
0Votos positivos, marcar como útil
0Votos negativos, marcar como no útil
Evaluation of ADHS Report on Health Safety of Smart Meters
Cargado por redrocklass
We focused our efforts on the most obvious flaws; from ADHS' contractor's (Arizona Radiation Regulatory Association's) inexperience in measuring RF and its use of a meter unable to track smart meter pulses, questionable methodology and results, to improper ADHS' interpretation of FCC's responsibilities, impermissable use of "time averaging" for General population/Uncontrolled exposure, selecting the obsolete World Health Organization's statement regarding EMF instead of the current 2011 pronouncement when EMF was classified as a 2B Carcinogen, misjudgment that "no harm" is equivalent to "safe," failure to conduct a "study," ignoring the 6,000 plus scientific peer-reviewed studies - many on the Arizona Corporation Commission's docket, e.g., the Oregon Physicians Report, and producing a report of reports not written by qualified individuals, and ignoring use and recommendation to State policy makers to use "the precautionary principle" altogether.
Copyright: © All Rights Reserved
Download as PDF, TXT or read online from Scribd
Flag for inappropriate content
guardar
Relacionado
Información
Insertar
Compartir
Imprimir
Buscar
Títulos relacionados
Nokia Asha 501 Dual SIM UG en SG
21 Non Lethal Weapons.pdf
RESEARCH REVIEW FOR POSSIBLE RELATION BETWEEN MOBILE PHONE REDIATION AND BRAIN TUMOR
An Activist’s Journey to Raise Awareness about Electromagnetic Pollution
Tim Rifat - Mind Control Beaten
Samsung_S3500_UM_Ind_Eng_Rev.1.0_090219
Alcatel U3 - Alcatel U3 User Guide
ijerph-12-05634
06419418.pdf
Ideos
Iridium 9505A User Manual
Quantum-Q-Rad-System.pdf
iPhone 3G Important Product Information Guide
RF Coils - Stanford
Mobile Phone Health Risks Nov 2011
Wireless Induccion Magnetica
STI ED-50 Installation Manual
English
PGCPS Letter on Questions About Lead Contamination in PGCPS School Water Sources March 31, 2018
Tim Rifat - Microwave Mind Control - Microwave Weapons
Descarga
Saltar a página
Está en la página 1de 27
Buscar dentro del documento
Docket No.
E-01345A-13-0069
SEDONA SMART METER AWARENESS
www.sedonasmartmeterawareness.com
DATE:
TO:
FROM:
RE:
December 9, 2014
Arizona Corporation Commissioners
Monnie Ramsell and Nancy Baer, Co-founders, Sedona Smart Meter Awareness
Evaluation of ADHS Report on Health Safety of Smart Meters
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
Ladies and Gentlemen,
The ADHS report is a stunning example of interdisciplinary research gone wrong. As is often the
case with interdisciplinary research, experts in their own field badly misinterpret and make
erroneous assumptions about information and principles in a field foreign to them. Medical
and health researchers unfamiliar with engineering principles, measurement protocols and
metrics, make invalid measurements and draw invalid conclusions from them. On the other
hand, engineers make invalid assumptions about biological processes and their medical
outcomes, such as tissue heating.
Thousands of peer reviewed publications leave no doubt as to the biological activity of
extremely small doses of electromagnetic radiation. Yet, engineers who set safety standards
long ago supposedly to protect us did so without medical considerations and insist the only
biological effect of concern is tissue heating.
ADHS did not do a study as requested by the ACC. By coming to conclusions by reviewing
existing literature and cherry picking only those studies that claimed no association of a
particular health effect with RF, ADHS is putting all Arizonans at risk.
Reports such as these have perpetuated the cloud of misinformation that surrounds the real
facts regarding public health and safety. The ADHS study should be discarded and re-done -not by doctors or engineers, but by professional individuals who have expertise in both fields
who are able to properly integrate the information to draw valid conclusions about public
safety.
BACKGROUND: The Arizona Corporation Commission requested an independent study
Because of Arizona consumer complaints about adverse health effects caused by Smart Meters,
The Arizona Corporation Commission voted in June 2013 to request the Arizona Department of
Health Services conduct an independent study on the potential health effects of exposure to
radio frequencies emitted from Smart Meters. (See June 28, 2013 memo from Steve Olea
submitted to the Docket.) The report done by ADHS is not a study, but rather a report citing
selective research to support its conclusion that Smart Meters are not likely to harm your
health.
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
SSMA Meeting with Arizona Department of Health Services (ADHS)
In February 2014, Sedona Smart Meter Awareness and former Sedona Councilpersons Barbara
Litrell and Dan McIlroy met with ADHS regarding its study. We were told by Don Herrington
that his team did not have much experience with Radio Frequency Radiation Exposure and, in
fact, this was its first project on RF radiation. Its area of expertise is limited to toxicology and it
did not have any experience with measuring any RF emitting devices either. Mr. Herrington
also told us that it did not have the budget or the expertise to launch a full study. All ADHS
could do was to perform a review existing literature and back its conclusions by hiring Arizona
Radiation Regulatory Agency (AARA) to take field measurements. Our group even told
Commissioner Brenda Burns when we met with her a month later in March that there are
concerns that ADHS won't be doing a thorough study because of its lack of budget and
expertise. Therefore, the findings of the ADHS are not surprising given its limitations in budget
and expertise.
As noted in the ADHS report (page 2), the most important use for RF energy is in providing
telecommunications services. Smart Meters, cell phones, Wi-Fi Routers, computers and radio
and television broadcasting are just a few of the many telecommunications applications of RF
energy. Therefore, in studying Smart Meter technology and its effects it is advisable to review
studies done on other devices, including cell phones.
Not a single study proving RF Radiation safe
Not one study in the world has been able to prove that RF radiation from microwaves is
harmless to human beings. Most independent scientific studies to date (i.e., those that are not
entirely or partially financed by the wireless industry and telecoms) not only show biological
effects, but also show adverse health effects on living beings, including humans. And studies
done by the wireless industry that DO show problems are ignored or suppressed and the
researchers are defunded and maligned. A classic example of this is the industry research done
by George Carlo, Ph.D, JD, former chairman of the CTIA Wireless Technology Research Program
(WTR). Carlo spent 5 years on a $28 million research study paid for by telecoms. The research
showed biological effects and also evidence of health effects, in particular on DNA, that were
later confirmed by the large REFLEX study done by the European Community. In 1999, Carlo
wrote the following letter to the CEO of AT&T:
"Since 1993, I have headed the WTR [wireless technology research] surveillance and research
program funded by the wireless industry. The goal of WTR has always been to identify and solve
any problems concerning consumers' health that could arise from the use of these phones. This
past February, at the annual convention of the CTIA, I met with the full board of that
organization to brief them on some surprising findings from our work . . .
The rate of death from brain cancer among handheld phone users was higher than the rate of
brain cancer death among those who used non-handheld phones that were away from their
head;
The risk of acoustic neuroma, a benign tumour of the auditory nerve that is well in range of the
radiation coming from a phone's antenna, was fifty percent higher in people who reported using
2
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
cell phones for six years or more, moreover, that relationship between the amount of cell phone
use and this tumour appeared to follow a dose-response curve;
The risk of rare neuro epithelial tumors on the outside of the brain was more than doubled, a
statistically significant risk increase, in cell phone users as compared to people who did not use
cell phones;
There appeared to be some correlation between brain tumors occurring on the right side of the
head and the use of the phone on the right side of the head...
Today, I sit here extremely frustrated and concerned that appropriate steps have not been
taken by the wireless industry to protect consumers . . .
Alarmingly, indications are that some segments of the industry have ignored the scientific
findings suggesting potential health effects, have repeatedly and falsely claimed that wireless
phones are safe for all consumers including children, and have created an illusion of responsible
follow up by calling for and supporting more research."
Dr. George Carlo's Letter to AT&T Chairman & CEO," www.emf-health.com, Oct. 7, 1999
The following link will provide more information:
http://www.emf-health.com/dr-george-carlo.htm If you watch the video on this link you will
see an insider taking the industry to task.
When Carlo presented his findings to the US government, they included his estimations of
500,000 US citizens a year by 2010 contracting cancer and 25% of the population by 2014 as a
direct result of mobile phone abuse. Wirelessfacts.co.uk believes this is a gross
underestimation. Carlo and his family were threatened physically, his finances were
threatened, one of his homes was burned down and the fire brigade suspected arson. One of
the things Carlo was supposed to ratify was SAR (specific absorption rates) based on thermal
effects as a method or guideline for handset safety. This, like the ICNIRP guidelines for mobile
phone mast safety, as Carlo discovered, was completely the wrong issue to look at
http://wirelessfacts.co.uk/index.html
- Video interview with Dr George Carlo, Ph.D., (extract).
http://www.next-up.org/divers/carlo_1.php
- Alert letter from Pr. Franz Adlkofer, general coordinator European Union Study REFLEX.
http://www.next-up.org/pdf/pr_adlkofer_correspondance_reflex_icnirp.pdf
- Video interview with Pr Franz Adlkofer (extract). http://www.next-up.org/divers/carlo_3.php
The Microwave Syndrome, an effect of the Smart Meter and other wireless technology has
been documented.
http://next-up.org/pdf/MicrowaveSyndrome012007Uk.pdf
3
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
The interaction of EMF from hyper frequencies with the human bio-electromagnetic
metabolism generates the so-called microwave syndrome or hyper frequency syndrome.
Those responses are divided in 3 stages:
1. Stress reception by sensorial organs and their relating nerves.
2. Programming of the stress reaction at the cortex and the limbic system (LS) levels (tonsils,
olfactory bulb, hippocampus, septum, maxillary body ). The Cortex/LS couple is a comparative
analysis system using a data bank of memory based on experiences. Therefore the brain
compares the new situation with past experiences in order to create an adapted response.
3. Activation of the response from the organism via the tonsils and the hippocampus that act on
the hypothalamus and on the cerebral trunk reticulated formation in order to activate the
Vegetative Nervous System (VNS) and the Adrenal Gland (AG). The alarm amplitude is regulated
by the Limbic System (LS).
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
Second case, resistance phase:
After the alarm phase, if the stress element persists even at low dosage (ex: radiation from
phone masts) or becomes chronic (e.g., radiation of an addicted mobile phone user who does
not respect the body auto regulation in relation to the SAR rating of his mobile), the result is
that the hypothalamus, etc. . . . are going to assess these constant stresses and activate the
secretion of various hormones.
Unfortunately as a rule, a human being exposed to artificial radiations does not have a preestablished strategy in his cognitive repertoire to efficiently defend himself against this type of
attack. Therefore, the hypothalamus stimulation produces a stereotyped non adapted response
to this type of aggression . . . which often increases the negative impacts.
As far as the metabolism of some people is concerned, everything will go smoothly
temporarily during a period from a few days to several decades; however their health capital is
eroding really rapidly. There is a risk that pathologies such as Alzheimers disease that usually
appear when approaching the third age risk could appear earlier.
As far as the metabolism of all the people in a state of weakness (sick people, elderly), fetus,
babies, etc. . . . there is a rapid exhaustion and state of disorder of all nervous and endocrine
systems, and consequently of the immune system.
This will promote and initiate the emergence of a number of known pathologies.
The end result of this mechanism is what is called the MICROWAVE SYNDROME.
The most usual pathologies resulting from the microwave syndrome are (non exhaustive list):
Dystonic cardiovascular syndrome: bradycardia, tachycardia, hyper/hypo blood pressure, and
Atherosclerosis.
Chronic diencephalic syndrome: dizziness, sleep troubles, concentration disturbance, sensory
troubles, and loss of concentration, chronic fatigue syndrome.
Chronic asthenia syndrome: fatigue, irritability, nausea, headaches, anorexia, and depression.
Cancerous pathology: leukemia, glutathione and melanoma, breast cancer . . . (the file InVS)
Dermatologic pathology: dermatitis, dermatosis, eczema, psoriasis, and skin allergy.
Dopaminenergic pathology: Parkinson, legs without rest, loss of sensibility in 4 limbs,
tightened arms at wake-up, cramps in limbs.
Immune pathology: blood formula (high rate of lymphocytes).
Hyper Sensibility pathology: attributed beforehand to psychic disturbances!
Pre and post-native pathology: great premature (often before or around gestation age), toxic
foetopathy, miscarriage, retarded growth, biometrics, genotype modification, then puberty
modification (of which associated to BBB opening).
Procreative pathology: drastic decrease of semen (infertility).
Hypogonadism pathology: drastic decrease of libido (stimulating follicle hormone).
Brain pathology: tumors, opening of the BBB (Blood Brain Barrier), electroencephalogram
disturbances.
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
Standard pathology: visual and hearing perturbations, nose bleedings, injured corner lips, jaw
bleedings, fibromyalgy, allergy, asthma, tooth neuralgia, etc.
Psychical pathology: lack of concern, introversion, passiveness, submissiveness, depression
and mental anorexia, suicide and cerebral activity (behavior control).
Disturbances of socio-professional behavior: irritability, discomfort, and increased risk of
accident. Stress, depression, suicide.
One has to ask, why was all this information ignored in the ADHS study?
Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
ADHS, in its report tries to give the impression that the FCC is the expert on public health
protection, yet on the FCC website, it clearly states:
" The FCC's primary jurisdiction does not lie in the health and safety area, and it must
rely on other agencies and organizations for guidance in these matters."
http://transition.fcc.gov/oet/rfsafety/rf-faqs.html#Q1
So the FCC made it clear that it is NOT a health and safety protection agency.
Also from the FCC website,
"The Commission does not regulate exposure to emissions from these devices.
Protecting the public from harmful radiation emissions from these consumer products is the
responsibility of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)."
The FCC website also says,
The FCC relies on the expertise of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other
federal health, safety and environmental agencies to help determine safe levels for human
exposure to RF energy. In adopting its guidelines for RF exposure, the FCC considered opinions
from these agencies.
"The FDA, which has primary jurisdiction for investigating mobile phone safety, has
stated that it cannot rule out the possibility of risk . . ."
US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
Yet this statement appears on the FDA website
Under the law, FDA does not review the safety of radiation-emitting consumer products
such as cell phones and similar wireless devices before they can be sold, as it does with new
drugs or medical devices."
Therefore: Who is in charge of Radiation-emitting products safety?
FCC says it relies on the safety expertise of the FDA, and states it considered opinions from the
FDA in setting its safety guidelines, but the FDA officially does not review the safety of
radiation-emitting products, then where is the responsibility for assuring safety actually
domiciled?
6
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
On what basis does the FCC, a communications commission charged with regulating interstate
and international communications, not a health agency, have authority to ascertain safety and
establish safety guidelines in the first place? On what basis has the FCC assumed this
responsibility?
What public health expertise, if any, exists at the FCC and who specifically set the current
standards and what was his/her background in biology?
Research has shown that the source of scientific funding in this field influences outcomes. In
determining safety guidelines for RF emitting devices, how much does the FCC rely on the
telecom industry funded science, as opposed to independent science where there would not be
a commercial conflict of interest?
Given evidence exists showing that in certain amplitude windows a lower SAR value can result
in greater brain effects than a higher SAR value (increased neuron death and blood brain barrier
permeability, for example), suggesting some biological effects do not occur in a linear, doseresponse manner. Thus, the SAR may be a wholly inadequate measure of safety on these
grounds. Given this, and the fact that the SAR does not reflect either the non-thermal biological
effects, or the ELF effects, why is the SAR used as a measure of safety?
Here is an example of the inadequacy of the FCC guideline. The current SAR limit for cell
phones is 1.6 W/kg, but according to the AACPS (American Association For Cell Phone Safety)
letters, research in the 1990s (Tice and Hook) showed micronuclei in blood doubled when the
cells were exposed to radiation at only 1 W/kg of SAR. In light of this, why was 1.6 W/kg chosen
as the limit and not a number less than 1 W/kg? Germany has been advocating a cell phone
SAR safety level of 0.6 W/kg through its "Blue Angel" Program which grants a special eco-seal of
approval to all phones meeting the lower SAR standard.
Does this give you enough confidence that the FCC guideline is really adequate in protecting
your health? Why did the ADHS not acknowledge this?
Experts say a true biological standard for cell phone radiation exposure should be set, especially
for children, elderly and vulnerable populations, instead of relying on estimates of safety based
on a physics measure that only measures the heating effect. Is either the FCC or the FDA
working on biologically based guidelines or even studying biological effects? What scientific
experts with backgrounds in EMF effects on biology are Advisors to the FCC and FDA?
Why is the ADHS not challenging this?
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
Does FCC monitor emissions to ensure safety?
If that is not enough to raise serious red flag, here's more from the FCC's website.
"The Commission does NOT have a comprehensive, transmitter-specific database for all
of the services it regulates."
"FCC does NOT have the resources or the personnel to routinely monitor the emissions
for all of the thousands of transmitters that are subject to FCC jurisdiction."
"It should be emphasized that the FCC does NOT perform RF exposure investigations
unless there is a reasonable expectation that the FCC exposure limits may be exceeded."
Did ADHS get the idea that if they can hide behind the FCC limits, then they would not really
have to do a real study to reveal the truth?
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
Norbert Hankin, Radiation Protection Division of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency wrote In a letter to Janet Newton:
(http://www.emrpolicy.org/litigation/case_law/docs/noi_epa_response.pdf),
"I believe that it is correct to say that there is uncertainty about whether or not current
guidelines adequately treat nonthermal prolonged exposures (exposures that may continue on
an intermittent basis for many years . . . "
"The FCC's current exposure guidelines, as well as those of the Institute of Electrical
and Electronic engineers (IEEE) and the International Commission on Non-ionizing Radiation
Protection, are thermally based, and do not apply to chronic, nonthermal exposure situations.
They are believed to protect against injury that may be caused by acute exposures that result in
tissue heating or electric shock and burn. The hazard level (for frequencies generally at or
greater than 3 MHz) is based on a specific absorption dose-rate, SAR, associated with an effect
that results from an increase in body temperature. The FCC's exposure guideline is considered
protective of effects arising from a thermal mechanism but not from all possible mechanisms.
Therefore, the generalization by many that the guidelines protect human beings from harm
by any or all mechanisms is not justified."
Norbert Hankin in his above mentioned letter continued to comment,
"Federal health and safety agencies have not yet developed policies concerning possible
risk from long-term, nonthermal exposures. When developing exposure standards for other
physical agents such as toxic substances, health risk uncertainties, with emphasis given to
sensitive populations, are often considered. Incorporating information on exposure scenarios
involving repeated short duration/nonthermal exposures that my continue over very long
periods of time (years), with an exposed population that includes children, the elderly, and
people with various debilitating physical and medical conditions, could be beneficial in
delineating appropriate protective exposure guidelines."
8
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
So on what basis can ADHS say that the "FCC safety factors are then incorporated to
determine specific levels of exposure aimed to provide sufficient protection for various
segments of the population (including children, the elderly, etc.) when there is no such policy
nor is there any expertise on that commission?
From someone like Mr. Hankin, who is the expert of radiation protection stating that the FCC's
exposure guideline will not protect us from "harm by any or all mechanisms" is really a wakeup call.
Experts say a true biological standard for Radio Frequency radiation exposure should be set,
especially for children, elderly and vulnerable populations, instead of relying on estimates of
safety based on a physics measure that only measures the heating effect. Is either the FCC or
the FDA working on biologically based guidelines or even studying biological effects? What
scientific experts with backgrounds in EMF effects on biology are advisors to the FCC and the
FDA?
Why did ADHS not clarify the limitations of the FCC and the FDA which affects the outcome of
its findings?
By the way, ADHS kept using the term "standards" when referring to the FCC's guidelines.
What is the difference between the standard and guideline?
Standards: These consist of specific low level mandatory controls to ensure and control
consistency.
Guidelines: These consist of recommended, non-mandatory controls that assist the standard
when no mandatory control has been specified. These can be considered Best-Practices.
The FCC is required by the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, among other things, to
evaluate the effect of emissions from FCC-regulated transmitters on the quality of the human
environment. The official regulations document is a Report and Order. In addition, the FCC's
Office of Engineering and Technology (OET) has issued Bulletin No. 65 Evaluating Compliance
with FCC Guidelines for Human Exposure to Radiofrequency Electromagnetic Fields. This is a
guidance documentnot the regulations.
ADHS's flawed and misleading logic and assumption
ADHS' claim that there is no sufficient evidence to support a need for additional standards to
protect the public from Smart Meters is irresponsible. Even the FCC is questioning its guidelines
and has asked for public comment on their revision.
Is ADHS even aware of the fact that the FCC's guidelines are currently under review? (See FCC
Proceedings ET Docket No. 03-137 and WT Docket No. 12-357). The Commission's RF safety
guidelines are inadequate because the rules are based on physics rather than biological studies.
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
Complete text of FCC 12-152
"These proceedings allow the public to inform the FCC why it must update its RF safety
guidelines in order to comply with its proposal to amend its rules to ensure that the public is
appropriately protected from any potential adverse effects from RF exposure. For example,
FCCs current RF safety guidelines do not take into account published research on the biological
effects brought on by the ability of RF signals to communicate with living tissue."
Why did the ADHS report not mention that FCC guidelines are up for review? Would it not
have triggered the precautionary principle to be applied to protect Arizonans?
Health Risks from RF exposure:
Prolonged RF radiation exposure can
damage brain cells and DNA
cause cancer (leukemia in children and brain tumor in adults)
and adversely affect central nervous, cardiovascular, and immune systems
Studies linked electromagnetic pollution to:
decreased testosterone levels in men
miscarriages in pregnant women
birth defects in babies
Alzheimer's disease
Cataracts
depression and suicides
chronic fatigue and more
All of the above would be considered adverse health effects.
Why did ADHS cite outdated statements from the World Health Organization (WHO)?
According to World Health Organization (WHO), "Electromagnetic fields of all frequencies
represent one of the most common and fastest growing environmental influences, about which
anxiety and speculation are spreading."
The office of Technology Assessment of the Congress of United States recommends a policy of
"prudent avoidance" of man-made electromagnetic fields.
The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) - the research arm of WHO - classifies
extremely low-frequency magnetic fields as Group 2B carcinogen (considered possibly
carcinogenic to humans).
10
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
Just like APS, ADHS chose to quote the WHO statement from 2005 on EHS but selectively left
out the classification of RF as Class 2B carcinogen on May 31, 2011. Such deliberate omission
only shows ADHS' bias trying to hide the fact of known health fact of RF radiation being possibly
cancer causing.
Why did the ADHS ignore the Oregon Physicians Report?
As noted above, the FCC is currently reviewing its existing guidelines and has asked for public
comments. One of these comments was a submission by Dr. Paul Dart on the health impact of
Smart Meters titled "BIOLOGICAL AND HEALTH EFFECTS OF MICROWAVE RADIO FREQUENCY
TRANSMISSIONS - A REVIEW OF THE RESEARCH LITERATURE. This report was originally
submitted in full to Docket E-00000C-11-0328 by Barbara Litrell on January 21, 2014 and again
by Dr. Stefan Kasian on March 2, 2014 but the report did not appear in the Docket until March
26, 2014 under the title "Notice of Filing - Miscellaneous" by Brenda Burns, Commissioner,
A.C.C. (http://images.edocket.azcc.gov/docketpdf/0000152038.pdf).
The Oregon Physicians' Report on Health Effects of RF Radiation of Smart Meters: Oregon
doctors were tasked with doing the same kind of study that the ADHS was tasked with doing,
yet ADHS totally ignored the report. Why?
A group of independent physicians led by Paul Dart, M.D., Kathleen Cordes, M.D., Andrew
Elliott, N.D., James Knackstedt, M.D., Joseph Morgan, M.D., Pamela Wible, M.D. and Steven
Baker produced the most in-depth and unbiased report on the health impact of smart meters.
They raised the issues that laboratory research in animal and human subjects has shown that
"non-thermal" levels of RF exposure can alter EEG, immune function, and hormone levels
including adrenal and thyroid hormones, testosterone, prolactin, progesterone. It also states
that research shows that low levels of RF exposure can reduce melatonin levels in humans. This
can produce insomnia as well as impair the body's ability to repair damaged DNA and heal from
other effects of oxidant stress. Reduction in Melatonin can lead to increased tumor growth in a
variety of cancer types including breast cancer and prostate cancer.
The report also raised the issue that research has shown that RF exposure levels well within
current guidelines can cause DNA damage, and reduced fertility, lower sperm counts, and
sperm motility in human beings.
In addition, they found that existing scientific research offers strong evidence that the chronic
exposure of the public to microwave RF transmissions produces serious acute and chronic
health effects in a significant portion of the population with the findings summarized in the
following precepts:
11
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
Basic Precepts for Residential Exposures to RF Transmissions:
Excessive RF exposure can cause acute problems (headaches, insomnia, fatigue, vertigo,
tinnitus, other symptoms of EHS).
Excessive RF exposure can also cause chronic problems (oxidative stress, cancer, male
infertility).
Constant RF transmission is probably harmful, even at low levels, and should be
avoided.
Frequent and repetitive intermittent transmissions are also probably harmful, and
should be avoided.
Nocturnal exposures are more problematic than daytime exposures, because of RFs
potential to suppress nocturnal melatonin secretion and disturb sleep, and because
night is the time when we rest and heal from stresses (including oxidative stress).
Occasional and infrequent daytime exposures are much less likely to cause an increase
in chronic problems for the population at large.
Occasional and infrequent daytime exposures are still likely to provoke acute symptoms
in a small percentage of the population.
Our bodies are sensitive to even weak electromagnetic radiation. For example, low frequency
electromagnetic radiation can affect your body's circadian rhythms. It affects the production of
melatonin hormone, which is produced by brain's pineal gland. Melatonin is a hormone that
regulates the biological rhythms of mammals.
Research done at Battelle Pacific Northwest Labs has documented that prolonged exposure to
electromagnetic radiation causes reduced melatonin secretion. Reduction of melatonin level
threatens your health and can result in psychiatric disorders like depression, shortened
attention span and inability to sleep.
Decreased melatonin production can also increase the permeability of the "blood-brain
barrier, leaving you even more vulnerable to chemicals toxic effects.
The blood-brain barrier is a kind of safety barrier Nature has provided you to prevent
dangerous molecules from entering the brain and causing damage. When you are exposed to
chemicals that find its way inside your bodies, two protective mechanisms are utilized.
Melatonin neutralizes the free radicals (cancer-causing agents) created by the chemicals. And
the blood-brain barrier prevents chemicals from entering the brain and spinal cord.
Exposure to electromagnetic radiation breaks down the blood-brain barrier and hinders this
protective mechanism. It will also affect the permeability of cell membrane of your nerves,
blood vessels, skin, and other organs.
The intricate chromosomes DNA has also been shown to be affected by electromagnetic field.
And iron, necessary for healthy blood and is stored in brain, is highly affected by
electromagnetic radiation too.
12
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
The Oregon physicians' report notes:
"The Elster meter's transmission rate was variable. In our observations, they are
definitely transmitting several times a minute, sometimes 4 or 5 times a minute, and
occasionally in bursts of significantly higher frequency."
Why did ADHS rely on measurements taken over a 15 minute period instead of a 24 hour
period? APS said that its smart meters only transmit data 6 times a day. If that is true, the
chance of picking up the sharp spikes of higher frequency during data transmission is extremely
slim. Reading being picked up may just be the beacon signals and not the higher and longer
data signals.
The report also says,
"At 5 feet from the smart meter, the peak strength of the beacon signal coming off the
meter measured from 3800 to 11,000 W/m2. At 20 feet from the meter, the power density of
the signal ranged from 362 to 493 W/m2, with occasional bursts at higher power output.
This means that at a distance of 20 feet the power of the signal coming out of the
Elster meter was about 1OO times the power of the ambient background signal coming from
any specific direction in the residential neighborhood.
This power density of 300+ to 400+ W/m2 was greater than the signal strength of the
cell phone tower at 29th and Amazon, measured from about 200 meters away. So filling a
neighborhood with a mesh network of the Elster smart meters would be similar to placing
every house in that neighborhood closer than 200 meters from a cell phone tower, each house
constantly being pinged by the chatter of multiple beacon signals from the mesh.
This was disconcerting, since recent research has shown that people living within 500
meters of a cell phone tower have increased incidence of headache, concentration difficulties,
and sleep disorders, and also a significantly increased risk of some types of cancer. (Khurana et
al., 2010) (Levitt and Lai, 2010) (Yakymenko et al., 2011) (Altpeter et al., 2006) (Abdel-Rassoul et
al., 2007)
When you put these facts together, it is not so surprising that the installation of mesh
smart meter networks in residential neighborhoods in California last year was followed by a
surge of anecdotal evidence regarding headaches, insomnia and other health complaints. From
a medical perspective, based on a familiarity with current research on the biological effects of
RF, this was a predictable consequence of PG&Es smart meter MESH network rollout."
In Arizona, we also witnessed this surge of anecdotal evidence in the form of insomnia,
seizures, blindness, heart palpitation, chest pain and other health complaints.
13
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
Sedona Smart Meter Awareness had given this Oregon Physicians' Report to ADHS because we
shared the same concerns as these physicians and hoped that ADHS would do a real study to
confirm its findings. The response we received from AHDS was:
". . . .it appears that the report that we are producing is more limited in scope than what you are
anticipating. From the onset of the project, we have tried to provide to those inquiring, exactly
what our role in the project will be. I hope, from the ADHS perspective, we have been clear in
what our capability is, as it relates to this project. Our expertise is limited to human toxicology.
We will be limited to examining the transmission signals to see if they conform to what has been
federally approved. If the transmissions exceed/deviate from allowable federal standards, then
we will do research into literature, and consult with our CDC partners to see if there is any cause
and effect relationship that has been documented that would be detrimental to human health.
Based on your email, I didn't want anyone to have expectations beyond our capability
(limitations in expertise, funding, capacity, technological resources)."
Clearly, ADHS has no expertise, funding, capability or technological resources to do a thorough
study as requested by ACC to see if smart meters are safe.
In order to justify its report, they have chosen to ignore the lists of peer-reviewed studies on RF
exposures below the FCC's exposure guideline as shown below. These biological effects can
cause serious harm to our harmful and not as benign as ADHS tried to make us believe.
Why did ADHS ignore the Oregon Physicians Report and omit it completely from its own
report? Why did ADHA ignore the data and reports below? Why did ADHS rely on the same
tainted, industry funded and influenced reports that APS relied on? Below is a list of studies
done on effects of RF all BELOW the FCC guidelines:
Stress proteins, HSP, disrupted immune function:
- Chronic exposure to base station RF (whole-body) in humans showed increased stress
hormones; dopamine levels substantially decreased; higher levels of adrenaline and noradrenaline; dose-response seen; produced chronic physiological stress in cells even after 1.5
years Buchner, 2012;
- RFR caused significant effect on immune function in mice Fesenko, 1999;
- RFR affected function of the immune system Novoselova, 1999;
- Altered cell membranes; acetycholine-induced ion channel disruption D'Inzeo, 1988;
- RFR caused drop in NK lymphocytes (immune function decreased) Boscolo 2001;
- 20 minutes of RFR at cell tower frequencies induced cell stress response Kwee, 2001;
- RFR affected human lymphocytes - induced stress response in cells Sarimov, 2004;
- Increase in serum cortisol (a stress hormone) Mann, 1998;
- Immune system effects - elevation of PFC count (antibody producing cells) Veyret, 1991;
- Pulsed RFR affected immune function in white blood cells Stankiewicz, 2006;
- RFR caused genetic changes in human white blood cells Belyaev, 2004,
- Changes in immune function Elekes, 1996;
14
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
- Heat shock protein HSP 70 is activated by very low intensity microwave exposure in human
epithelial amnion cells Kwee, 2001
- 750 MHz continuous wave (CW) RFR exposure caused increase in heat shock protein (stress
proteins). Equivalent to what would be induced by 3 degree C. heating of tissue (but no heating
occurred) De Pomerai, 2000;
- A significant change in cell proliferation not attributable to thermal heating. RFR induces nonthermal stress proteins (960 MHz GSM) Velizarow, 1999;
- Immune system effects - elevation of PFC count (antibody-producing cells) Veyret, 1991;
- Hyperactivity caused by nitric oxide synthase inhibitor is countered by exposure to ultra-wide
band pulses (600/sec) for 30 min Seaman, 1999;
- Elevation of immune response to RFR exposure Elekes, 1996;
- Cell phone use causes nitric oxide (NO) nasal vasodilation (swelling inside nasal passage) on
side of head phone use Paredi, 2001;
- GSM cell phone exposure induced heat shock protein HSP 70 by 360% (stress response) and
phosphorylation of ELK-1 by 390% Weisbrot, 2003;
- GSM cell phone exposure of 1-hr activated heat shock protein HSP 27 (stress response) and
P38 MAPK (mutagen-activated protein kinase) that authors say facilitates brain cancer and
increased blood-brain barrier permeability, allowing toxins to cross BBB into brain Leszczynski,
2002;
- 900 MHz cell phone exposure for 1-hr significantly altered protein expression levels in 38
proteins following irradiation; activates P38 MAP kinase stress signaling pathway and leads to
changes in cell size and shape (shrinking and rounding up) and to activation of HSP 27, a stress
protein (heat shock protein) Leszczynski 2004
Brain tumors and blood-brain barrier
- RFR induced 10%-40% increase in DNA synthesis in glioma cells (brain) Stagg, 1997;
- RFR induced pathological leakage of the blood-brain barrier Persson, 1997;
- RFR increased biomarker for cell division in glioma brain tumor cells Stagg, 1997;
- Cell phone RFR caused a pathological leakage of the blood-brain barrier in 1 hour Salford;
2003;
- RFR affected genes related to cancer Ivaschuk, 1999;
- A pathological leakage in the blood-brain barrier with 915 MHz cell RF Salford, 1994;
- Changes in brain glial cells with TDMA 836.55 MHz frequency Stagg, 1997;
- 915 MHz cell phone RFR caused pathological leakage of blood-brain barrier. Worst at lower
SAR levels and worse with CW compared to Frequency of pathological changes was 35% in rats
exposed to pulsed radiation at 50% to continuous wave RFR. Effects observed at a specific
absorption (SA) of > 1.5 joules/Kg in human tissues Persson, 1997;
- Cell phone RFR induces glioma (brain cancer) cells to significantly increase thymidine uptake,
which may be indication of more cell division Salford, 2003;
- A single, 2-hr exposure to GSM cell phone radiation results in serious neuron damage (brain
cell damage) and death in cortex, hippocampus, and basal ganglia of brain- even 50+ days later
blood-brain barrier is still leaking albumin (P<.002) following only one cell phone exposure
Salford, 2003;
15
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
Cell phone RFR doubles pathological leakage of blood-brain barrier permeability at two days
(P=.002) and triples permeability at four days (P=.001) at 1800 MHz GSM cell phone radiation
Schirmacher, 2000 ;
- 900 MHz cell phone exposure caused brain cell oxidative damage by increasing levels of NO,
MDA, XO and ADA in brain cells; caused statistically significant increase in 'dark neurons' or
damaged brain cells in cortex, hippocampus and basal ganglia with a 1-hr exposure for 7
consecutive days Ilhan, 2004
Reproduction/fertility effects
- Chronic exposure to mobile phone pulsed RF significantly reduced sperm count Behari, 2006;
- Sperm head abnormalities in mice exposed for 6-months to base station level RF/MW. Sperm
head abnormalities occurred in 39% to 46% exposed mice (only 2% in controls) abnormalities
was also found to be dose dependent. The implications of the pin-head and banana-shaped
sperm head. The occurrence of sperm head observed increase occurrence of sperm head
abnormalities on the reproductive health of humans living in close proximity to GSM base
stations were discussed." Otitoloju, 2010;
- Irreversible infertility in mice after 5 generations of exposure to RFR from an 'antenna park'
Magras & Zenos, 1997;
- Significant degeneration of seminiferous epithelium in mice at 2.45 GHz, 30-40 min. Saunder,
1981;
Wi-FI level laptop exposure for 4-hr resulted in decrease in sperm viability, DNA fragmentation
with sperm samples placed in petri dishes under a laptop connected via WI-FI to the internet.
Avendano, 2012;
- RFR exposure affected kidney development in rats (in-utero exposure) Pyrpasopoulou, 2004;
- Pulsed RFR affected serum testosterone levels in mice Forgacs, 2006;
- RFR caused structural changes in cells of mouse embryos Somozy, 1991;
- A 24.3% drop in testosterone after 6 hours of CW RFR exposure Navakatikian, 1994
- A 24.6% drop in testosterone and 23.2% drop in insulin after 12 hrs of pulsed RFR exposure.
Navakatikian, 1994
Oxidative damage/ROS/DNA damage/DNA repair failure
- Super-low intensity RFR effects at MW reasonant frequencies resulted in changes in genes;
problems with chromatin conformation (DNA) Belyaev, 1997;
- Super-low intensity RFR effects at MW reasonant frequencies resulted in changes in genes;
problems with chromatin condensation (DNA) intensities comparable to base stations Belyaev,
1997;
- RFR induced double-strand DNA damage in rat brain cells Kesari, 2008;
- RFR induced DNA damage in cells Phillips, 1998;
- RFR at 900 MHz for 2-12 hours caused DNA breaks in leukemia cells Marinelli, 2004;
- RFR increased free radical production in rat cells Yurekli, 2006;
- Digital cell phone RFR at very low intensities causes DNA damage in human cells; both DNA
damage and impairment of DNA is reported Phillips, 1998;
- 900 MHz cell phone signal induces DNA breaks and early activation of p53 gene; short
exposure of - - 2-12 hours leads cells to acquire greater survival chance - linked to tumor
agressiveness. Marinelli, 2004;
16
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
- Activity of c-jun (oncogene or cancer gene) was altered in cells after 20 minutes exposure to
cell phone digital TDMA signal Ivaschuk, 1997;
- A 1-hr cell phone exposure causes chromatin condensation; impaired DNA repair mechanisms;
last 3 days (longer than stress response) the effect reaches saturation in only one hour of
exposure; electro- sensitive (ES) people have different response in formation of DNA repair foci,
compared to healthy individuals; effects depend on carrier frequency (915 MHz = 0.037 W/Kg
but 1947 MHz = 0.040 W/Kg) Belyaev, 2008;
- 900 MHz study of mice for 7 days, 12-hr per day (whole-body) resulted in significant effect on
mitochondria and genome stability Aitken, 2005;
- Increased cell death (apoptosis) and DNA fragmentation at 2.45 GHz for 35 days exposure
(chronic exposure study) Kesari, 2010;
- Increase in DNA single and double-strand DNA breaks in rat brain cells with exposure to 2450
MHz RFR Lai & Singh, 1996;
- Significant elevation in micronuclei in peripheral blood cells at 2450 MHz (8 treatments of 2-hr
each) Trosic, 2002
Cancer (other than brain), cell proliferation
- Changed growth rates in yeast cells Grundler, 1992;
- RFR decreased cell proliferation at 960 MHz GSM 217 Hz for 30-min exposure Velizarov, 1999;
- RFR caused a two-fold increase in leukemia in children Hocking, 1996;
- RFR decreased survival in children with leukemia Hocking, 2000;
- RFR associated with a doubling of leukemia in adults Dolk, 1997;
- Increased risk in radar operators of cancer; very short latency period; dose response to
exposure level of RFR reported. Richter, 2000;
- Changes in cell cycle; cell proliferation (960 MHz GSM mobile phone) Kwee, 1997;
- Lymphoma cancer rate doubled with two 1/2-hr exposures per day of cell phone radiation for
18 months (pulsed 900 MHz cell signal) Repacholi, 1997;
- Statistically significant increase in malignant tumors in rats chronically exposed to RFR Chou,
1992;
- Four-fold increase in eye cancer (uveal melanoma) in cell phone users Stang, 2001;
- RFR accelerated development of both skin and breast tumors Szmigielski, 1982
Disrupted calcium metabolism
- RFR affected calcium metabolism in heart cells Schwartz, 1990;
- RFR affected calcium concentrations in heart muscle cells Wolke, 1996;
- RFR caused calcium efflux in cells - can affect many critical cell functions Dutta, 1989;
- Intestinal epithelial cells exposed to 2.45 GHz pulsed at 16 Hz showed changes in intercellular
calcium. Somozy, 1993;
- Statistically significant change in intracellular calcium concentration in heart muscle cells
exposed to RFR (900 MHz/50 Hz modulation) Wolke, 1996
17
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
Cardiac, heart muscle, blood-pressure, vascular effects
-RFR linked to adverse neurological, cardio symptoms and cancer risk Khurana, 2010;
- Calcium ion movement in isolated frog heart tissue is increased 18% (P<.01) and by 21%
(P<.05) by weak RF field modulated at 16 Hz Schwartz, 1990;
- Significant increase in firing rate of neurons (350%) with pulsed 900 MHz cell phone radiation
exposure (but not with CW) in avian brain cells Beason, 2002;
- Cardiovascular system shows significant decrease in arterial blood pressure (hypotension)
after exposure to ultra-wide band pulses Lu, 1999
ADHS' report failed in measurements
When we met with ADHS, we specifically asked them to measure RF radiation and study its
effects from all infrastructures of the smart grid. Since collector meters or as APS referred to
them as Gateway smart meters and different levels of node smart meters being installed in our
neighborhood, these meters all have very different emission. The Gateway smart meters have
3 internal antennas and some may even have an additional external antenna mounted on the
electrical box. APS confirmed that there are 29 of these installed just in Sedona alone. Some
node smart meters can act as repeaters with more frequent transmission and longer and higher
reading. ADHS told us that its "experts" would know what to do when taking measurement and
would take our concerns into considerations. Sometimes routers may also be used in the smart
grid and all these wireless devices all emit RF radiation.
Without a thorough measurement of all parts of the mesh grid infrastructure, ADHS' report
will not be able to provide a complete picture of the radiation impact. How do we know how
much radiation we will be getting if there is a gateway smart meter installed close-by or just
on the outside wall of our office where we can be less than a foot from it during work hours?
RF Exposure is like small doses of Arsenic over time.
Let use the example of arsenic poisoning. An ACUTE FATAL DOSE of Arsenic is in the range of 220mg/kg body weight/day. Thus, a relatively healthy person who weighs 160lbs, about 72.6kg,
may die if he ingests between 0.145gm and 1.45gm of Arsenic in the form of Arsenic Trioxide,
As2O3. i.e. 0.192gm to 1.92gm of Arsenic Trioxide. (Arsenic Trioxide is probably the most
commonly available Arsenic compound). Considering the high density of the oxide, less than
1/8 of a teaspoon can be fatal. Smaller amounts may be fatal if unhealthy people, elderly or
children are exposed. The symptoms of poisoning by SMALL amounts of Arsenic are not always
distinguishable from symptoms of other afflictions. Thus, although one may think that he is
being poisoned by Arsenic, only exact analysis can reveal if the symptoms are due to Arsenic
poisoning or due to other maladies.
If a relatively healthy male is given 1/10 of the 1/8 tsp of Arsenic Trioxide, he may not die. So
being exposed to the RF radiation of just a single smart meter, a healthy male may not have
symptoms. Now what happens when he is given 1/5 of 1/8 tsp from a dozen different sources
all at once? The same question we ask is what happens if an unhealthy person, the elderly or
children are exposed to the many sources of RF radiation all at once, from WiFi, cell phone, cell
tower, wireless router, wireless laptops, wireless printers, cordless phone and base stations, a
bank of smart meters, gateway meters, baby monitors, etc. all in their own doses which are
18
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
below lethal limits? What happens if the exposure is not a one time exposure but hour after
hour, day after day and year after year? The symptoms of RF radiation are also not always
distinguishable from symptoms of other afflictions including flu, dizziness, insomnia, etc. Only
exact analysis can reveal if the symptoms are due to RF radiation and if there are biological
effects that do not have obvious symptoms or thermal effects.
If we don't have a definitive answer that Smart Meters are safe, we cannot assume that they
are safe. Unlikely to harm is not the same as safe. The only responsible option will be to
apply the precautionary principle to minimize the potential for damage.
Why is ADHS not definitively able to say Smart meters and RF are safe?
ADHS claimed that some of the studies they examined "cannot conclude that the cellular
changes necessarily lead to disease. But do such cellular changes have an impact on our
health? Smoking may not necessarily lead to disease but it surely impacts our health. ADHS
also mentioned that, "sometimes a study that suggests an exposure is associated with an
adverse health outcome is countered by another similar study that suggests there is no adverse
health outcome at that exposure level. If one study suggests that arsenic can be fatal and
another one suggests that there is no adverse health outcome, which one should an agency
such as ADHS take into consideration when public health is at stake, when there is risk of
irreversible DNA damage?
The Oregon Physicians did its homework finding evidence of potential harm from RF. In fact,
ADHS does not need to look hard when there are more than 6,000 studies pointing to harmful
health effects from RF exposure. If there is really no harmful health effect, there would not be
so many people having symptoms. Shouldnt that be the first clue for ADHS to look into what is
causing such symptoms? Shouldnt that be the first thing ADHS would do because they are a
public health agency whose duty it is to protect public health?
Does this report fulfill the ADHS mission for Arizona citizens?
The mission of ADHS says clearly, "The Arizona Department of Health Services promotes and
protects the health of Arizona's children and adults. Its mission is to set the standard for
personal and community health through direct care, science, public policy, and leadership."
Determining that Smart Meters are not likely to harm is not fulfilling its mission.
Why was the Precautionary Principle omitted in the report?
As far as Public Health policy is concerned, one should apply the Precautionary Principle when
the health of humans and the environment is at stake. It is not be necessary to wait for
scientific certainty to take protective action. First do no harm. If we wait for certainty, it can be
too late. Smoking was strongly suspected of causing lung cancer long before the link was
demonstrated conclusively. By then many smokers and people suffering from second-hand
smoke had died of lung cancer. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1446778/
19
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
In terms of protecting public health, it is wise to exercise precaution despite scientific
uncertainty. When evidence gives us good reason to believe that a technology or substance
may be harmful, we should act to prevent harm. If we always wait for scientific certainty,
people may suffer and die and many may suffer irreversible damage.
Why is ADHS ignoring this principle?
Why do we need to apply the precautionary principle with Smart Meters? People are suffering.
Symptoms reported from Smart Meters:
Sleep problems (insomnia, difficulty falling asleep, night waking, nightmares)
Stress, agitation, anxiety, irritability
Headaches, sharp pain or pressure in the head
Ringing in the ears, ear pain, high pitched ringing
Concentration, memory or learning problems
Fatigue, muscle or physical weakness
Disorientation, dizziness, or balance problems
Eye problems, including eye pain, pressure in the eyes,
Cardiac symptoms, heart palpitations, heart arrhythmias, chest pain
Leg cramps, or neuropathy
Arthritis, body pain, sharp, stabbing pains
Nausea, flu-like symptoms
Sinus problems, nose bleeds
Respiratory problems, cough, asthma
Skin rashes, facial flushing
Urinary problems
Endocrine disorders, thyroid problems, diabetes
High blood pressure
Changes in menstrual cycle
Hyperactivity or changes in childrens behavior
Seizures
Recurrence of cancer
Wireless and Smart Meters are the New Tobacco
For years the tobacco industry covered up its knowledge that smoking was harmful to health. It
was not until 1964, when he Surgeon General of the US, based on epidemiological evidence
not extensive laboratory scientific testing made the statement that smoking can cause cancer
and required labeling and regulated advertising. Following that, there were whistle blowers
within the tobacco industry that shared documents revealing that the tobacco companies knew
that its products caused harm. The studies that showed smoking is not likely to harm the
health of the public sends a red flag when we see the ADHS report that Smart Meters are not
likely to cause harm.
20
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
ADHS' lack of expertise
The lack of scientific background on radiowave radiation is very obvious when ADHS implied
that RF from Smart Meters is as safe as the RF from the sun. What is the major difference
between the two? Radiowaves emitted by the sun are mostly blocked by the Earth's
atmosphere and only the visible light spectrum can reach the earth. Radio waves on the other
hand can penetrate the Earth's atmosphere better than any other form of wavelength as
illustrated below by the courtesy of NASA.
Sunlight being the natural source of radiowaves has been in existence since the beginning of life
as we have known it. Our body is used to its presence. In fact, sunlight is the vital source of
energy for all life on this planet. Nothing will thrive without our sun. The first man-made radio
waves were created in 1888 by Heinrich Hertz. Before that, apart from light waves and the odd
lightning discharge, there were almost no radio waves in the atmosphere. The growth of radio
waves in the atmosphere in the last one and a half centuries has followed the growth of
industrial development, just like the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.
Sunlight illuminates and we can read under the sun but not radio waves. Sunlight is in the
visible spectrum so we can see it and we can avoid it by going into the shade or wearing sun
protection. Radio/microwave frequencies are not visible. We can't see or smell it and it is very
difficult to shield. Sunlight cannot penetrate shade or building, man-made radio waves can
penetrate clothing, can even penetrate concrete walls. We can tell if we are "radiated" by the
sun, but we can't tell if we are radiated by radio wave frequency (RF). We all know that
smoking is bad for our health but we can at least block out second hand smoke but you cannot
effectively block out radio waves.
21
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
FCC Guidelines for Evaluating RF Radiation Exposure Limits
The FCC Guidelines are based on setting limits for human exposure. There are two sets of
exposure limits.
Occupational/Controlled
General Population/Uncontrolled
These are Maximum Permissible Exposure (MPE) limits averaged over the body and averaged
over time. The Occupational/Controlled limits are five times higher than the General
Population/Uncontrolled limits at all frequencies above 3 MHz. The averaging period for
Occupational/Controlled exposure is six minutes for exposure to frequencies below 15 GHz. The
averaging time decreases as the frequency increases from 15 GHz to 300 GHz. It is important to
note that the FCC does not allow time averaging for General Population/Uncontrolled
exposure. The MPE limits are the same for both the electric field and the magnetic field.
Time averaging is not appropriate for General Population/Uncontrolled exposure
In the FCC OET BULLETIN 56 Fourth Edition August 1999, it states:
These situations usually only occur in workplace environments where exposure can be
monitored and controlled. For general population/uncontrolled exposures, say in a residential
neighborhood, it is seldom possible to have sufficient information or control regarding how long
people are exposed, and averaging of exposure over the designated time period (30 minutes)
is normally not appropriate. For such public exposure situations, the MPE limits normally apply
for continuous exposure."
The FCC general population/uncontrolled limits set the maximum exposure to which most
people may be subjected. General population/uncontrolled exposures apply in situations in
which the general public may be exposed, or in which persons that are exposed as a
consequence of their employment may not be fully aware of the potential for exposure or
cannot exercise control over their exposure.
Public exposure to radio frequencies is regulated and enforced in units of milliwatts per square
centimeter (mW/cm2). The general population exposure limits for the various frequency ranges
are defined in the attached FCC Limits for Maximum Permissible Exposure (MPE)
Higher exposure limits are permitted under the occupational/controlled exposure category, but
only for persons who are exposed as a consequence of their employment provided they are
fully aware of the potential for exposure, and are able to exercise control over their exposure.
General population/uncontrolled limits are five times more stringent than the levels considered
acceptable for occupational, or radio frequency trained individuals.
22
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
So according to the FCC Bulletin, time averaging is only allowed in workplace environments
and not in residential neighborhood for General Population/Uncontrolled exposure.
Therefore, Smart Meters being installed in residential neighborhoods exposing the general
population in uncontrolled exposures is not appropriate and time averaging is not permitted.
Time averaging is only appropriate when exposure is short term to ensure no one will be
accidentally cooked. Because of the cumulative effects to long-term exposure, lower dosages
still results in some biological disruption, although it may take longer to become apparent.
Henry Lai notes that rats had behavioral disruption after less than an hour of high
radiation (3.75W/kg @ 1.28 GHz). At lower power densities, it could take 7 hours a day for 14
weeks (0.7 W/kg @2.45 GHz) to see a behavioral disruption. Still smaller disruptions could be
found with 7 hours a day of 0.14 W/kg@2.45 GHz after 90 days.
What and how to measure Smart Meters?
The data from the wireless Smart Meter is sent out in short transmission bursts, which usually
last only from 12 to 120 milliseconds (ms) at a time. These transmission times are referred to as
duty cycles. A 100% duty cycle corresponds to continuous operation, e.g., 24 hours/day. A 1%
duty cycle corresponds to a transmitter operation of 1% per 24 hours, which means 14.4
minutes/day.
The most controversial question in the assessment of wireless Smart Meters is how often this
intermittent burst occurs per day? This short time sequence makes it difficult to detect and
measure the signal properly with RF instrumentation.
The difficulty most professional instruments have is that they collect the data twice per minute.
However, when the short (50-millisecond) burst occurs during the time when the instrument is
not recording, it will not be visible. Only if the measurement period and transmission burst
coincide in time will the signal be recorded. This is likely to account for the different amplitudes
detected. The instrument may measure when the signal is building up or phasing out. This
appears to be the reason for the significantly varying amplitude.
Accurate and precise measurements for the power density and duty cycles are not easily
performed even with costly professional equipment. Few instruments are able to detect the
short transmission bursts properly.
Average power density readings are misleading because they severely underrate the peak
power levels.
When conducting measurement for wireless Smart Meter, peak amplitude levels and the burst
cycle (duty cycle) should be recorded and extrapolated.
23
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
In order to obtain accurate measurement, the instrument should have a probe and a data
logger. The instrument also needs to have a high capture range of the transmission pulses.
Some instruments may clip the amplitude levels at a certain high level resulting in not being
able to measure the strength of the signal. It is crucial to use the data logging technique
because data logging is commonly used in scientific experiments and in monitoring systems
where there is the need to collect information faster than a human can possibly collect the
information, and in cases where accuracy is essential.
ARRA used the wrong tool for the job
As for the meter being used to measure RF of Smart Meter, it has to be one that was used by
the FCC or at the very least certified by the FCC for us to compare the reading. The Tenmars
meter is made in Taiwan and costs around $140 online.
The Tenmar TM-195 meter does not have any data logging capability and is also not capable of
capturing the nano-second short burst from smart meters. Its measurements will not be
deemed accurate or reliable. Here's the example:
According to the FCC MPE report for the Elster smart meter installed by APS with the FCC ID:
QZC-RX2EA4, the test result at 20cm for highest reading is 0.182 mW/cm2 or 1.82 W/m2. Since
the measurement taken by FCC is inside a chamber with a single meter, we will use the single
meter rural setting for comparison.
According to the ADHS report, the highest reading for rural single meter at one foot is 0.000163
W/m2. Compare to the Oregon Physicians' report the Elster meter at 5 feet, the measurement
is 0.0038 to 0.011 W/m2, and at 20 feet between 0.000362 to 0.000493 W/m2.
The Tenmars TM-195 managed to pick up RF radiation of 0.000129 W/m2 from an analog meter
which does not have any RF emitting capability as illustrated by the response to Question 11 in
"PG&E's response to Administrative Law Judge's October 18, 2011 ruling directing it to file
clarifying
Radio
Frequency
Information."
(http://takebackyourpower.net/wpcontent/uploads/2012/04/Smart-Meter-Health-14000-to-190000.pdf) According to ADHS, this
measurement of the analog meter (0.000129 W/m2) is almost as high as the reading of the
rural smart meter (0.000163 W/m2) which again raises further questions of its accuracy.
It doesn't seem to make any sense with those measurements in the ADHS report at all, whether
it is measuring the nano second short burst of smart meters or the non-transmitting analog
meter. And it somehow makes you really wonder about the accuracy of the measurement
ADHS is basing upon when it was so far off from what was in the FCC's report.
24
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
Measurements
SMART METER Measurement
Distance from Smart Meter
Power Density
FCC test report
20 cm
1.82W/m2
ADHS report
1 foot
0.0000043 to 0.000163 W/m2
Oregon Physicians' report
5 feet
0.0038 to 0.011 W/m2
Oregon Physicians' report
20 feet
0.000362 to 0.000493 W/m2
ANALOG METER Measurement
Power Density
ADHS report
Analog meter
0.000129 W/m2
PG&E's response to judge
Analog meter
0 W/m2
Now let's look at the specifications of this Tenmar TM-195 meter. It is supposed to function
under the conditions with ambient temperature of +23C 3C or from 68F to 79F. From July
to September, the average temperature in Phoenix is around 88F (31C) in the middle of the
night to 95F (35C) and it is not uncommon for the daytime temperature to reach over 104F
(40C). In fact, it's not uncommon to see over 100F at 9 pm. Those measurements taken
during the day will not be within the tolerance specification of the TM-195 meter to be
accurate.
We would expect any "official" test done to measure smart meters by using instruments that
carry Certification of Calibration traceable to the National Institute of Standards and
Technology or other international equivalent standard. If any one wants to file a complaint
with the FCC regarding any radiation emitting device being out of compliance, the FCC would
not even accept evidence of readings taken by any instruments other than the same probe it
used which is a professional grade used by the industry for radiation compliance.
Arizona Radiation Regulatory Agency
As stated in the ADHS report, the Arizona Radiation Regulatory Agency uses the Tenmars TM195 during routine use to ensure that industrial registrants registered to operate radio
frequency devices do not exceed the maximum permissible exposure (MPE) limits as defined in
the Arizona Administrative Code Title 12, Chapter 1, Article 14.
25
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
Arizona Cell phone towers violate safety rules in the News
CBS5 Arizona KPHO newscast aired November 10, 2014. CBS has found that many of those cell
phone towers in the Valley violate federal safety rules intended to keep people safe. Engineer
Marv Wessel, with RF Solutions, has inspected thousands of cell phone antenna sites across the
country. He said that many of the antenna sites he's seen, have emissions well over the federal
safety limits. Wessel showed CBS 5 another site, in a community near Camelback Mountain in
Phoenix, where residents and maintenance crews can walk right by the antennas and the
reading was so high that it interfered with the camera. The only thing keeping people away
from the antennas was a plastic chain and some PVC pipe.
According to Wessel, the FCC doesn't have the time or manpower to inspect these sites, or
respond to complaints. Wessel even called a phone number listed on one of the cell towers, to
say he'd be working close by and ask about any safety concerns. "As long as I wasn't working
on their equipment they didn't seem too concerned," said Wessel. "I was fine to go anywhere I
wanted on the rooftop." Read more: http://www.kpho.com/story/27348721/cell-towers-raiseconcerns-about-safety#ixzz3L98NT5ws
We need to have the readings of Smart Meters done again using the right instruments with
data logging capabilities, and by the well-trained personnel.
None of these numbers provided in the ADHS report can be considered meaningful.
Conclusions and recommendations:
As noted in the beginning of this evaluation, he ADHS report is a stunning example
of interdisciplinary research gone wrong. As is often the case with interdisciplinary research,
experts in their own field badly misinterpret and make erroneous assumptions
about information and principles in a field foreign to them. Medical and health researchers
unfamiliar with engineering principles, measurement protocols and metrics, make invalid
measurements and draw invalid conclusions from them. On the other hand, engineers make
invalid assumptions about biological processes and their medical outcomes, such as tissue
heating.
Thousands of peer-reviewed publications leave no doubt as to the biological activity of
extremely small doses of electromagnetic radiation. Yet, engineers who set safety standards
long ago supposedly to protect us did so without medical considerations and insist the only
biological effect of concern is tissue heating.
ADHS did not do a study as requested by the ACC. By coming to conclusions by reviewing
existing literature and cherry picking only those studies that claimed no association of a
particular health effect with RF, ADHS is putting all Arizonans at risk.
Sedona Smart Meter Awareness recommends the following actions:
26
Docket No. E-01345A-13-0069
1. Remove wireless Smart Meters or wire them. There are enough studies and evidence
showing the harmful health effects of RF radiation to warrant the immediate halt of
wireless Smart Meters in Arizona. Rate payers should have analog meters as the default
option. For those rate payers who opt in for a smart meter, they can have one as long as it
is hard-wired and will not transmit any RF radiation or dirty electricity that will affect any of
his neighbors. Such rate payers can pay for all additional expense for hard-wiring, shielding
and filtering and conversion of wireless Smart Meters to wired options. All infrastructures
including but not limited to routers, Gate Keepers, repeaters, should also be hard wired.
2. There should not be any additional fees for those who choose the time-proven safe and
reliable option of analog meters. The only fees allowed should just be the actual cost of
reading the meters which is 90 cents as stated in our electric bills.
3. The Commission should also ensure that all of the utilities to stock up on analog meters
for future use. All those analog meters replaced by the utilities should be kept in storage
for future placement after they have been serviced and certified.
4. If the Arizona Corporation Commission allows smart meters to be installed, it then
should buy its own Probe and do its own real independent study to find out the long-term
(not 12 months but 20 years) health effects. One highly recommended model is the
Gigahertz Solutions Model HFE-59B with data logging capability.
5. ACC should also pay for the translation of the Russian study that ADHS does not have the
money to pay and therefore chosen to ignore.
6. All future studies the Commission requests should only be done by those who have the
right expertise, experience and ability. The ADHS has demonstrated its lack of all of the
above.
7. ACC needs to require that all of the utilities who installed smart meters must put aside
monies in a secure fund for those whose health has been damaged by these wirelessly
transmitting meters.
8. The ADHS study should be discarded.
27
Intereses relacionados
Radio Frequency
Cancer
Food And Drug Administration
Federal Communications Commission
Dna Repair
Documentos similares a Evaluation of ADHS Report on Health Safety of Smart Meters
Nokia Asha 501 Dual SIM UG en SG
Cargado por
Sameer De
21 Non Lethal Weapons.pdf
Cargado por
Michael
RESEARCH REVIEW FOR POSSIBLE RELATION BETWEEN MOBILE PHONE REDIATION AND BRAIN TUMOR
Cargado por
ijitcs
An Activist’s Journey to Raise Awareness about Electromagnetic Pollution
Cargado por
Neha Kumar
Tim Rifat - Mind Control Beaten
Cargado por
Johnathon Round
Samsung_S3500_UM_Ind_Eng_Rev.1.0_090219
Cargado por
Guru Ram
Alcatel U3 - Alcatel U3 User Guide
Cargado por
oswaldomarangoni5295
ijerph-12-05634
Cargado por
Zalmi
06419418.pdf
Cargado por
vani
Ideos
Cargado por
Rick Weiss
Iridium 9505A User Manual
Cargado por
ganesh9619866360
Quantum-Q-Rad-System.pdf
Cargado por
sonnypogi
iPhone 3G Important Product Information Guide
Cargado por
dannywong999
RF Coils - Stanford
Cargado por
biastee7690
Mobile Phone Health Risks Nov 2011
Cargado por
EMFsafety
Wireless Induccion Magnetica
Cargado por
Javier De La Vega
STI ED-50 Installation Manual
Cargado por
JMAC Supply
English
Cargado por
Chloe de Ramos
PGCPS Letter on Questions About Lead Contamination in PGCPS School Water Sources March 31, 2018
Cargado por
Safe Tech For Schools
Tim Rifat - Microwave Mind Control - Microwave Weapons
Cargado por
Schweinepack
Electrosmog and Breast Cancer
Cargado por
EMFsafety
SGH-i780_UG_EU_Eng
Cargado por
akbar_kareem
Rule: Fishery conservation and management: Caribbean, Gulf, and South Atlantic fisheries&#8212; Correction
Cargado por
Justia.com
FDAnews Announces Pharmaceutical Track and Trace Virtual Conference
Cargado por
santhakumar33
Conditional and Situations
Cargado por
Oscar Andres
Color Therap2
Cargado por
nawaz
LORA-WAINWRIGHT, Anna. Fighting for Breath - Living Morally and Dying of Cancer in a Chinese Village
Cargado por
isabelladrumond
GSM Mobile Station (MS) Classes for Multislot Capability - RF Cafe.pdf
Cargado por
bharisree
Rana Altaf Ahmed
Cargado por
archana
06342593
Cargado por
RajIsac
Popular en Hypothermia
Hypotherm
Cargado por
Rodrigo Baiôco
BETTER DRIVE-Antifreeze Liquid MSDS
Cargado por
dan0410
Chemical Burns
Cargado por
Riad HaRian Sandi
Hydrogen Cyanide
Cargado por
Matt Miles
Cheuvront & Haymes (2001)
Cargado por
Callum Bromley
Newborn Care
Cargado por
Ya Mei Li
Nursing Law
Cargado por
Mark Anthony Llego
Msds Colafax 3386 (16 Section)
Cargado por
mndmatt
Msds Poly Sugamate l (New 16 Section)
Cargado por
mndmatt
Hot Springs- Pros and Cons
Cargado por
Anahi36
Health and Safety Reqiurements
Cargado por
Pranav Ghosh
HIRARC Warehouse
Cargado por
Nate James
Burns
Cargado por
kristine_mendoza_9
fundamentals of nursing questions and answer key
Cargado por
Mary Romaine Dela Pasion
Heat Production and Loss
Cargado por
Adi Adriansyah
Stable 2
Cargado por
Avyel Kram
Biomedical Sensors
Cargado por
Momentum Press
BASF Chemical Emergency Medical Guidelines - H2S
Cargado por
emilidiver
First Aid Manual
Cargado por
John Alexander Gallin
Young Living Steps to Success
Cargado por
mandybfox
2011 WREMAC Protocols
Cargado por
Cruz Verde
Endurance Hypothermia
Cargado por
Michael Gillan
Open Water
Cargado por
Sherif Soliman
4erds
Cargado por
Anrih Roi M
Thermal Stress
Cargado por
Roberto Tapia
SDS - Jotamastic 80 Std Comp B - Marine_Protective - English (Uk) - United Kingdom - 5660 - 28.06.2012
Cargado por
NPT
CHAPTER 8 UpdatedAug2012
Cargado por
Sedaka Donaldson
Vitals
Cargado por
Argie Trinidad
NurseReview.Org - The preterm infant
Cargado por
nursereview
Frostbite Hypothermia Factsheet
Cargado por
Leandro Velazquez
Menú del pie de página
Volver arriba
Acerca de
Acerca de Scribd
Prensa
Nuestro blog
¡Únase a nuestro equipo!
Contáctenos
Regístrese hoy
Invitar amigos
Obsequios
Asistencia
Ayuda / Preguntas frecuentes
Accesibilidad
Ayuda de compra
AdChoices
Editores
Legal
Términos
Privacidad
Copyright
Redes sociales
Copyright © 2019 Scribd Inc.
Buscar libros
Directorio del sitio
Idioma del sitio:
españolChange LanguageCambiar idioma