Brain-Tumor Risk « Safer Phone Zone
Safer Phone Zone
VISIT ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH TRUST
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Home
*Donate
Contributors
Resources
Study Reveals Cell Phones can Alter your Brain
April 20th, 2011
Watch the latest video at video.foxnews.com
Tags: Brain-Tumor Risk, cell phone cancer, cell phone radiation, Dr. Devra Davis, fox news, safer phone zone
Posted in Media | No Comments »
Health risks of cell phone radiation – a video by Byng Junior High
April 20th, 2011
This video was created by a Byng Junior High School 9th grade science research team as part of their award-winning 2009-10 U.S. Army E-Cybermission project addressing the human health risks of cell phone radiation.
Tags: Brain-Tumor Risk, campaign for safer cell phones, cell phone cancer, cell phone radiation, Cell Phone Safety, safer phone zone, students
Posted in Media | No Comments »
Do Cell Phones Cause Cancer? An Article by Green American
April 20th, 2011
In a recent article, the Green American asks: Do Cell Phones Cause Cancer?
The telecom industry says no, the fine print on cell phone packaging says maybe and some leading scientists say we should be very concerned.
Read on before you dismiss the warnings about cell phones. There’s real cause for concern behind the industry smokescreen.
Click here to read the whole article in PDF
Tags: Brain-Tumor Risk, cell phone cancer, cell phone radiation, safer phone zone
Posted in Voices | No Comments »
Non- Thermal Effects & Mechanisms of Interaction Between Electromagnetic Fields and Living Matter
April 20th, 2011
Globally more than four billion phones are in use, with more than half of all users believed to be children and young adults. Over the past two decades, models of the human head have been devised based on imaging studies and used to estimate the extent and rate of radiation energy absorption to the brain, the Specific Absorption Rate (SAR). IEEE and ICNIRP SAR recommendations rest solely on avoiding thermal effects on the adult male head under conditions of a six minute long call and do not take into account the long-term cell phone use, the length of calls, non-thermal biological effects, the smaller size and greater physiological vulnerability and increased absorption to the heads of children and females.
Published in the European Journal of Oncology, a study by the Ramazzini Institute: the National Institute for the Study and Control of Cancer and Environmental Diseases, Bologna, Italy 2010
Click the link below to view the full report in PDF
Ramazzini Institute – Interaction between Electromagnetic Fields and Living Matter
Tags: Brain-Tumor Risk, cell phone cancer, cell phone radiation, Cell Phone Safety, Dr. Devra Davis, research, safer phone zone
Posted in Latest Research | No Comments »
Students Test Dangers of Phone and Wi-Fi Radiation at Science Fair
April 20th, 2011
Some young scientists attending the Regional Science Fair at Trent University took on the controversial subject of Wi-Fi and Mobile Phone radiation.
Tags: Brain-Tumor Risk, cell phone cancer, cell phone radiation, Cell Phone Safety, safer phone zone, students, wi-fi danger
Posted in Media | No Comments »
Dangers of Mobile Phone Radiation: Sonya Feldhoff interviews Dr. Devra Davis
April 8th, 2011
Dr. Devra Davis discusses the dangers of Mobile Phone radiation with Sonya Feldhoff on the Australian radio program Drive.
Mobile phones have become a permanent fixture in our lives but what effect do they have on your health?
Dr. Devra Davis, a visiting professor at Harvard and author of the book Disconnect, has done studies into mobile phone radiation and how it effects a person’s brain, their cells and fertility.
After analysing the results Dr Davis never keeps her phone on her body or in her pocket and always uses a headset, hear the interview here.
Tags: Brain-Tumor Risk, campaign for safer cell phones, cell phone cancer, cell phone radiation, Cell Phone Safety, Dr. Devra Davis, safer phone zone
Posted in Media | No Comments »
Dr. Devra Davis Responds to Latest Study by Leaders of WHO
February 17th, 2011
Environmental Health Trust responds to the largest study to date on cell phone risks, published in the journal Occupational and Environmental Medicine on January 27. Dr. Devra Davis summarizes that the authors are warning people to be careful about how they use cell phones until additional research is complete. The authors of the study found that individuals who average 27 minutes of cell phone use a day have a 50% greater risk of developing malignant brain tumors on the same side of the head where they held their phones.
Read More
Tags: Brain-Tumor Risk, cell phone, cell phone cancer, Cell Phone Safety, Dr. Devra Davis, Environmental Health Trust, WHO
Posted in Latest Research | No Comments »
Links Found Between Brain Tumors and Cell Phones
January 26th, 2011
An Editorial in the BMJ Journal of Occupational & Environmental Medicine discusses the possible links between cell phones and brain-tumor risk based on multiple studies.
Read More
This editorial was published in the BMJ Journal of Occupational and Environment Medicine and can be found at http://oem.bmj.com/content/early/2010/12/15/oem.2010.061358.
Tags: Brain-Tumor Risk, cell phone, cell phone cancer, cell phone radiation
Posted in Latest Research | No Comments »
Latest Research
Exposure Limits: The underestimation of absorbed cellphone radiation, especially in children
Worldwide Cell Phone Safety Recommendations and Policies
Mobile phones and head tumours. The discrepancies in cause-effect relationships in the epidemiological studies – how do they arise?
View All Research »
Latest Tweets
Please wait while our latest tweet loads.
This website is sponsored by the Environmental Health Trust (EHT). EHT is a non-profit organization that educates individuals, health professionals and communities about controllable environmental health risks and policy changes needed to reduce those risks. For more than three decades, advising some of the world's top health agencies, EH Trust has come up with effective strategies to curb harm from hormone replacement, tobacco, radon, asbestos and pesticides.
Donate Now »
Safer Phone Zone is a web portal dedicated to providing reliable information and educational tools to the public, health professionals and policy makers regarding the dangers of prolonged cell phone use, cell phone radiation and the links between cell phones, cancer and other health problems. Safer Phone Zone is intended to be an open source forum for information based on sound scientific research by recognized authorities. Due to the open source nature of this web portal all information is provided as is without any warranties expressed or implied.
Devra Lee Davis Charitable Foundation is a Registered IRS Public Charity Doing Business As (DBA) Environmental Health Trust
© 2019 Safer Phone Zone. All Rights Reserved.