11 Amazing Health Benefits Of Ginger - Shape Bloom
Home
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
About Us
Home /
Blog
/ 11 Amazing Health Benefits Of Ginger
11 Amazing Health Benefits Of Ginger
Apart from its spicy zesty flavour, ginger is a root that has powerful health benefits. It’s a versatile root that’s easy to use, delicious, and nutritious. Ginger has the ability to relieve motion sickness, nausea, pain, loss of appetite, and better your brain function.
You can use ginger as a fresh root, powder form, lozenges, capsules, and as ginger oil. Ginger is used in cooking foods like cookies, gingerbread, tea, sweets, ginger snaps, and other delicious treats and for medicinal purposes.
Let’s delve in and see what amazing benefits this spicy root has to offer.
1. Reduce Inflammation
Although inflammation is normal, chronic inflammation and infection is a major contributing factor to diabetes, obesity, heart disease, and cancer. Ginger contains gingerol, an anti-inflammatory that helps in relieving joint pains especially for people with rheumatoid arthritis and osteoporosis. It also said to prevent blood clots because its natural acids thin you blood preventing heart attacks.
2. Clears Congestion
Ginger is incredible at fighting infection. It’s a natural expectorant by clearing congestion in your chest and persistent coughs. Ginger also helps to relax your body’s airway muscles which can contract to make it difficult for you to breathe if you have asthma or allergies. A warm cup of ginger and lemon tea will do the trick.
3. Regulate Your Blood Sugar
Frequent urination, migraines, and increased thirst are symptoms of high blood sugar which can have more serious effects like cause cell damage if left unchecked. Ginger helps to keep your blood sugar levels in check and prevent the development of heart diseases and diabetes.
4. Treat Nausea
Ginger is well known for treating seasickness, nausea, and vomiting. During the first trimester, pregnant women mostly get morning sickness which can be very uncomfortable. Taking ginger can help in reducing morning sickness.
However, it’s important that before taking ginger you consult your doctor as consumption of large amounts of ginger is said to have adverse effects on the pregnancy. Although it’s safe to eat it, some people believe it can cause a miscarriage.
5. Relieve Menstrual Pains
Ladies, ginger is your best friend when it comes to that time of the month. Ginger has pain relieving properties that will benefit you during your periods. Drinking ginger tea relieves nausea, period cramps, and headaches that may occur during your periods. Ginger is more effective than taking ibuprofen or mefenamic acid. Ginger also helps to reduce the intensity of the pain and the duration it lasts.
6. Lowers Your Cholesterol Levels
When you eat a lot of oily foods, carbs, and sugary foods it increases your cholesterol levels which have an adverse effect on your health. The food you eat can increase your bad cholesterol levels increase your risk of heart disease. High cholesterol causes build up in your blood vessels which block blood’s easy flow.
This stresses your heart and adds more pressure when pumping blood which can cause heart problems. Ginger helps to lower your bad cholesterol and triglycerides and raises your good cholesterol levels.
7. Lower Your Risk Of Cancer
Ginger contains 6-gingerol, an anti-cancer compound that is very effective in blocking the growth and development of cancer cells. Although it’s not a cure to chronic diseases, regular intake of ginger can benefit your overall health in more ways than one. Ginger is very effective in blocking the growth of cancer cells in ovarian, prostate, and pancreatic cancer.
8. Help Treat Chronic Indigestion
Chronic indigestion also known as dyspepsia has symptoms of recurring pain and discomfort in the upper of your stomach. If food stays in your stomach for a long time without emptying it, it will lead to indigestion. Ginger helps to speed up this process and empty your stomach between 12-16 minutes. Taking ginger before a meal will help to accelerate the time of emptying your stomach by a significant margin.
9. Fight Bacterial And Fungal Infections
There are so many infections from yeast infections to athlete’s foot. Some of the oral bacterial infections that cause inflammation of your gums are like gingivitis and periodontitis. Ginger cleanses your mouth giving you clean breathe and a healthier mouth. Gingerol is a substance found in ginger that prevents the growth of many types of bacteria.
It also has antifungal properties to help fight the growth of fungi. Gingerol is good in strengthening your immunity which helps to lower your risk of multiple infections.
10. Helps To Soothe Joint And Muscle Pain
After a workout session, it’s normal to experience some joint and muscle pains and soreness. This will make it difficult for you to continue exercising when your muscles are hurting. Adding ginger to your daily diet will help relieve the soreness, inflammation, muscle, and joint pains you’re experiencing. Gingerol works on your pain receptors which lessens the pain in your muscles.
However, this doesn’t happen right away, it takes around 24-48 hours to notice some pain relief. Ginger is effective in treating osteoarthritis and arthritis.
11. Improve Your Brain Function
Oxidative stress and chronic inflammation are factors that can speed up your aging process and also can cause Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s, and other age-related cognitive declines. Ginger has antioxidants and bioactive compounds that help to prevent inflammation in your brain. Ginger is also said to improve your brain function and memory and very important in maintaining the health of your brain.
If you didn’t know ginger is such a great root, now you know
Besides being a loved spice that is used in most kitchens, ginger has many more benefits apart from giving your food a delicious taste. It helps diabetics keep their blood sugar in check while helping pregnant women find relief from morning sickness. It’s a soothing agent to your aching muscles and joints after a hard workout and helps clear a congested chest.
Taking ginger regularly will help protect you from heart diseases. As an antioxidant, it will help prevent inflammation in your brain slowing down your aging process and improving your memory and cognitive functions.
Tweet
Pin
Share
+1
0 Shares
More Related Posts
9 Important Things To Consider Before Becoming A Pescatarian
7 Simple & Effective Ways To Keep Your Kidney Healthy
5 Effective Ways To Lose Weight After Pregnancy
8 Unhealthy Habits That Are Making You Fat
8 Effective Ways to Reduce Heart Diseases
0comments
Click here to add a comment
Leave a comment:
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Comment
Recent Posts
11 Amazing Health Benefits Of Ginger
9 Important Things To Consider Before Becoming A Pescatarian
7 Simple & Effective Ways To Keep Your Kidney Healthy
5 Effective Ways To Lose Weight After Pregnancy
8 Unhealthy Habits That Are Making You Fat
Latest posts
9 Important Things To Consider Before Becoming A Pescatarian
7 Simple & Effective Ways To Keep Your Kidney Healthy
5 Effective Ways To Lose Weight After Pregnancy
8 Unhealthy Habits That Are Making You Fat
8 Effective Ways to Reduce Heart Diseases
7 Reasons to Avoid Crash Diets At All Cost
Don’t Let Your Kid Get Fat
6 Natural Foods That Can Make your Skin Glow
Does Eating Close to Bedtime Make You Fat?
6 Health Benefits of Jumping Rope
Copyright 2018 by Shape Bloom.