Oncologists Won’t Tell You That Baking Soda Treats Cancer Just Because It’ll Cut Down The Profits Of Big Pharma! Array
Global Health Corner
Happiness is nothing more than good health and a bad memory.
Menu
Home Remedies
DIY Cosmetics
Healthy Food
Home and Garden
Weight Loss
To keep the body in good health is a duty... otherwise we shall not be able to keep our mind strong and clear.
Join Us Now For Free
Home
Home and Garden
What Is The Secret Cure For Cancer That Oncologist Won’t Admit?
Home and Garden
What Is The Secret Cure For Cancer That Oncologist Won’t Admit?
Admin Admin May 24, 2018
Experts have proven that baking soda may defeat even aggressive and metastasized type of cancer. Baking soda also known as sodium bicarbonate is a powder which destroys cancer cells.
However, doctors don’t want to confirm this for some selfish reasons. Moreover, people realize that chemotherapy is really harmful and it also destroys healthy cells.
A few years ago, Doctor Mark Pagel received two million dollars from NHI as a grant to examine the influence of baking soda on breast cancer. This study has proved that sodium bicarbonate increases alkalinity in the tumor cells and does not affect the healthy cells.
Another doctor Julian Whitaker even invented a Whitaker protocol. This protocol contains two tablespoons of baking soda, two cups of water and a little honey. To beat cancer, sip this mix three times a day.
Baking soda is also used to treat kidney and liver issues, diabetes and influenza and it also protects from radiation.
Baking soda is used for cooking and also for cleaning.
How can baking soda cure cancer?
A study conducted in the year 2009 showed that the injected sodium in a mice riddled with the cancer and sodium bicarbonate actually increased the pH tumor levels and reduced the spontaneous metastasis.
In order to make a formula against cancer, you need to use some molasses or maple syrup, honey and baking soda.
Doctor Marc Sircus used this to help a patient that suffered from prostate cancer. He took one glass of water and he put one tablespoon of baking soda and molasses and this combination should be drank in the next three days. The results were amazing. This patient kept on drinking the formula two times per day for ten days in a row. On the eleventh day, the severity of the cancer of the prostate lowered from 22.3 up to 0.1 point.
Actually, you may use maple syrup or honey instead of molasses. However, they need to be organic.
As you can see, nature can cure every disease. However, baking soda can do a lot against cancer; but still experts need to do more studies to make baking soda a basis to cure cancer.
Source:www.organichomeremedies.com
Share128
Tweet
Pin
+1
Share
Share
128 Shares
Share
Tweet
Email
Prev Article
Next Article
Related Articles
Planks are an incredible core exercise. Even though they’re old-fashioned, …
Here Is What Happens to Your Body When You Do Planks on a Daily Basis!
Baking soda (sodium bicarbonate) is a common household product. Throughout …
17 Surprising Uses for Baking Soda!
About The Author
Admin Admin
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Recent Posts
Eliminate Bad Coughs And Mucus From Your Lungs With This Wrapped Ginger!
The Best Sciatica Stretches that Will Help You Eliminate Hip and Lower Back Pain
Decrease Depression, Panic Attacks And Anxiety With The Help Of Jasmine Plant In Your Room!
Eliminate Ants From Your Home With The Help Of These Natural Remedies!
Dandelion Oil Recipe and Usage Tips
Recent Comments
Archives
April 2019
March 2019
February 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
Categories
DIY Cosmetics
Healthy Food
Home and Garden
Home Remedies
Uncategorized
Weight Loss
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Global Health Corner
Happiness is nothing more than good health and a bad memory.
Copyright © 2019 Global Health Corner
Privacy Policy | Terms of Service | Disclaimer | Sitemap | About us | Contact us
Ad Blocker Detected
Our website is made possible by displaying online advertisements to our visitors. Please consider supporting us by disabling your ad blocker.
Refresh