7 Drinks For Losing Weight - Beautyzoomin
Menu
Healthier Life
Exercise
Weight Loss
Woman
Travel
Elegant
Lips
Teeth
Eyes
Make up
Plastic Surgery
Skin Care
Vogue
Men Fashion
Hair
Pregnancy
Babies
Kids
Herbs
Ways
Universal
Infographics
✕
Search for:
Home
Weight Loss
7 Drinks For Losing Weight
7 Drinks For Losing Weight
Tatiana Plesco • April 21, 2017 • No Comments •
Fruits, vegetables, and whole grain foods are not the only things that help in losing weight. But, you should also focus on drinks for losing your belly fat. Yes, you need to look for drinks other than water. With drinks, not only you can remain hydrated but can also maintain your weight for longer periods. Like fruits, whole grain foods, drinks also contain proteins, vitamins, and minerals. Moreover, you can fulfill your starvation by consuming drinks. But, excess drinks definitely cause health problems and diseases. High sugar and salt content present in drinks cause these problems. However, drinks are often recommended for losing belly weight. Here are some drinks that you must consume for losing your belly fat:
Green Tea
Green tea is one of the best drinks that help in losing weight. Green tea contains vast antioxidants that help in maintaining health and fitness. Green tea is famous for its high catechin (an antioxidant) content that fights against cells and germs. By drinking green tea, you can lower/maintain cholesterol, enhance blood flow and prevent several heart-related problems. The best thing is that green tea does not contain sugar or salt. Many professionals recommend green tea for losing weight. You need to drink t least 3 cups of green tea every day.
Vegetable Juice
Many people suggest fruits juice for availing health benefits. But only a few recommend vegetable juice for losing weight and maintaining it for longer periods. According to your choice, you can select specific vegetables such as broccoli, spinach or cauliflower and can make nutritious juice. For extra health benefits, you can add herbs and spices in your juice. These vegetables contain massive anti-oxidants, nutrients, and minerals that improve the heart rate and maintain the digestive system. You should drink vegetable juice after or in between your daily meals. Just like water, you need to drink vegetable juice several times in a day.
Black Coffee
I guess you are not aware of the health benefits of drinking coffee. Caffeine not only helps in avoiding sleep but also help in losing weight. It is a great thing for suppressing or reducing the hunger. No or less hunger means no food and therefore no extra fat. Black coffee also contains some nutrients that stimulate thermogenesis, a heating product. When the body is heated, metabolism is increased. Studies have shown that higher metabolism pretty much helps in losing fat. So, you can drink black coffee for losing extra weight. But, you should consume coffee in specific amounts. By drinking coffee times and again, you can face several health problems. You should use skim milk and the little sugar and drink around 1 cup of black coffee every day.
Whey Protein
Have you heard about the whey protein? This protein is different from the protein which is present in eggs and meats. And, this protein not helps in building cells but help in losing weight. With this protein, you can lose extra weight and enhance more muscle mass. Whey protein helps in secretion of cholecystokinin, a hormone that helps in suppressing appetite. This protein also helps in regulating the blood sugar and avoiding high cholesterols. It means that you can prevent various heart-related diseases. By eating whey protein, you can avail quicker fat burning. You need to consume this protein along with fruits, vegetables, and whole grain foods. But, it is difficult to digest the whey protein. Therefore, you need to consume the decent amount of whey protein at different times.
Cold Water
Everyone knows that normal water offers various health benefits. But, only a few people know that cold water provides much more health benefits than normal water. You can burn extra fat by drinking ice cold water.
Cold water helps in burning additional 100 calories every day.
Cold water removes the excess water that contributes to extra fat
Cold water specifically helps the liver to burn fatter
Cold water not only removes the thirst but also remove the hunger
Therefore, you can protect yourself from extra foods by drinking cold water on regular basis. A recent study showed – a man lost around 20 pounds of weight in a week just by adding some cold water to his diet.
Yogurt Smoothies
Ordinary smoothies are recommended for maintaining health and fitness. But, smoothies made from yogurt are particularly suggested for losing weight. It is the calcium content present in yogurt that helps in burning calories. This calcium help in reducing the fat that the body makes every day. According to a study, people lost 60% more fat just by drinking yogurt based smoothies at regular intervals. If you want enhanced results, you should add some whey protein and fruits to your smoothie made from the Greek yogurt. In very less time, you can get a decent amount of weight by focusing on yogurt smoothies.
Skim or Fat-Free Milk
Like yogurt, milk also contains high calcium. So, you can suppress calcitriol and minimize your appetite by drinking milk. But, you need to go for skim milk that contains very less or no fat. In addition to calcium, skim milk also contains vitamin D and lean protein that helps in building muscles and toning bones. Vitamins and proteins do not offer problems like fats. You should drink skim milk in the morning and the night. If you want the extra taste, you can add chocolate powder that contains low fat. With low-fat chocolate milk, you can easily recover your body from the workout.
Summing Up
Now is the time for selecting drinks that help in losing weight. Green Tea contains an anti-oxidant called that helps in maintaining cholesterol, improving blood flow and avoiding heart-related diseases. Vegetable Juice is rich in minerals, vitamins, and nutrients that improve metabolism and maintain weight. Black coffee contains various nutrients that help in secreting thermogenesis, known for enhancing metabolism. Skim milk and yogurt based smoothies contain calcium that suppresses hunger and maintains weight. Whey Protein improves the regulation of hormone called cholecystokinin that reduces the appetite. You should consume these drinks at different times in between your regular meals.
More from my site
Amazing Ways To Improve Metabolism
Natural Weight Loss Drinks That Really Work
10 Amazing Tips For Losing Weight Even Faster
Lose Weight Without Starving Yourself
Eating Habits That Cause Problems In Losing Belly Fat
Green Tea Recipes For Weight Loss Naturally
Simple And Effective Ways To Lose Weight
The Relation Between Fluoride And The Pineal Gland
7 Healthy Snacks For Losing Weight
Faster Dietary Tips For Losing Weight
Top Four Natural Remedies For Weight Loss
Lose Weight With Green Tea
Tweet
Pin It
admin
Hi, I am Tatiana Plesco from Chicago. Love to do blogging about natural beauty, alternative healing, some fashion and fitness tips. Managed a small team developing strategies for beauty and new ideas. Earned praised for my work developing and working on-site at home. Prior to my current job I am fully focused on this blog to make it great for readers.Please join our community on social media platforms.
Related Posts
Can a Walk in the Park Change Your Health and Mind?
Tatiana Plesco • December 27, 2018 • Exercise , Healthier Life , Weight Loss
Super Health Benefits Of Beets
Tatiana Plesco • April 21, 2017 • Healthier Life , Weight Loss
Most Effective Ways To Lose Fat From Your Face
Tatiana Plesco • April 22, 2017 • Skin Care , Weight Loss
For A Flat Abdomen Your Stomach Needs Masks Try These Recipes
Tatiana Plesco • April 21, 2017 • Healthier Life , Ways , Weight Loss
Search for:
Enter your email address:
Recent Posts
Find Out The 22 Ways Sodas Shortens Our Lives
The Best Ways to Combat Oily Skin
14 Essential Qualities for a Love That Lasts
These Simple Methods Will Reverse the Aging of Skin in Only A Few Months
The 9 Most Exciting Beauty Products To Try In 2019
More Posts
Top Three Herbs And Spices For Your Heart
Natural Cures for Hair Loss and Dandruff
How Women Can Maintain A Healthy Relationship?
Is Stevia Better For Health?
Fashion Do’s and Don’ts of Fall 2017
Tricks For Staying In The Zone With Your New Years Workout
Best Foods That Rich In Calcium For Strong Bones And Teeth
10 Most Effective Low-Impact Workouts
Why Diet Sodas Are Bad?
Why Fasting Helps In Cleansing And Detoxifying The Body
How To Make Your Lips Bigger Naturally Without Makeup
The Alkaline Foods To Eat Everyday For A Perfect Health
How Getting Dirty Helps Kids To Be Healthier
Best Tips For Fashion Conscious People
Beauty and Health site that bring almost everything new for you.
Follow Us
About Us
Contribute Now
Sitemap
Contact Us
Beautyzoomin Copyright © 2019.
Powered by BeautyZoomin | Sitemap | Write for Us | The information mentioned here are strictly informational. Our site does not provide medical advice. Consult with your doctor or other healthcare providers before using any of these advises or treatments. If any problems with pictures you see please email us and we remove immediately.Site is totally free we don't make any profits.
{{{data.title}}} {{{data.content}}} {{{data.author}}}
{{{data.title}}} {{{data.content}}} {{{data.author}}}