Having THIS with your breakfast increase your risk of type 2 diabetes – Bangalore Reporter – Daily happenings in Bangalore
Sunday, April 21, 2019
Latest:
Physical activities can reduce risk of cancer
Tie-up with JD(S) in Karnataka becomes thorn in flesh for Congress
Happy Birthday James Anderson: The most successful fast bowler of this century
fabulous on the cover of this magazine
Attending office is now must for JD(S) ministers
Bangalore Reporter – Daily happenings in Bangalore
Bangalore Reporter
Bangalore City
Today
Horoscope
Panchanga
Whether Report
traffic update
BBMP
Ward Info
Know your corporator
Raise your Voice
Sports
Political Reporter
Cover story
Know your MP
Voter’s voice
Interview
POLICE REPORTER
Crime
Know your station
Public Police
Interview
Latest Releases
TECHNOLOGY TODAY
Startup reporter
Funding and support
Recruitment
Whats new
Show case
Interview
CINEMA REPORTER
New Releases
Interviews
Raising Stars
Cinema of the week
LIFE STYLE
Fashion
Events
Latest trends
Bangalore Daily
ABOUT US
Bangalorereporter.com
Weekly New Bangalore Reporter
Indian Media Federation
PUBLIC REPORTER
Let us know
RTI
ಕನ್ನಡ
Health
Having THIS with your breakfast increase your risk of type 2 diabetes
December 2, 2017 admin 0 Comments
London: A new research has found that drinking fruit juice can increase the risk of developing type 2 diabetes.
According to US scientists, fruit juice lacks fibre and contains high sugar, which may increase the risk of the condition. Read: Five important tests and check-ups for people living with diabetes
Diabetes patients should not replace high-sugar beverages with fruit juice, in an attempt to cater toward their condition, Express.co.uk reported.
“Intake of fruit juices was positively associated with the incidence of type 2 diabetes. The rapid delivery of a large sugar load, without any other components that are a part of whole fruits, may be an important mechanism by which fruit juices could contribute to the development of diabetes,” said the study carried out by the scientists from Harvard and Tulane universities. Read: Eight factors that determine if one is prone to diabetes
Eating whole fruit and leafy green vegetables, which have low energy density and are rich in fibre and micronutrients, reduce the risk of developing the condition.
Fruit juice has most of its fibre removed when being manufactured, which makes it easy to drink large quantities in one sitting.
Diabetes UK said it was a good idea to drink only one small glass of fruit juice a day.
“We know that too much of our sugar intake is coming from juices and smoothies, so it makes sense to cut down. The good news is that we are not eating enough fruit, so this is something you can eat more of,” the scientists added.
Symptoms of diabetes include having an unquenchable thirst, feeling very tired, unexplained weight loss, and blurred vision.
← Seven foods to avoid if you want to lose weight, get a flat tummy this winter
Governor sends reminder to Karnataka government on Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences vice-chancellor appointment →
You May Also Like
International Yoga Day 2018: 5 yoga asanas you must do to get rid of belly fat and support weight loss
June 21, 2018 admin 0
World Cancer Day: Understanding prostate cancer; diagnosis and treatment
February 5, 2018 admin 0
Decoded: How oral bacteria triggers gut diseases
November 16, 2017 admin 0
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Video News
Lunar Eclipse 101
The Untold Story of the 1999 Kargil
Attack Arjun
VVPAT for Karnataka elections 2018
Samsung 9
Kambala Buffalo races
BEAUTIFUL KARNATAKA
Artificial intelligence
Watch the Tulu version of 'Bombe Helutaite'
Weather
Bangalore
April 21, 2019, 2:41 am
Clear
12°C
real feel: 12°C
current pressure: 1020 mb
humidity: 58%
wind speed: 0 m/s N
wind gusts: 1 m/s
UV-Index: 0
sunrise: 6:21 am
sunset: 8:28 pm
© 2019 AccuWeather, Inc.
Forecast April 21, 2019
day
Mostly sunny
23°C
wind speed: 2 m/s E
wind gusts: 3 m/s
max. UV-Index: 5
night
Clear
10°C
wind speed: 2 m/s E
wind gusts: 3 m/s
max. UV-Index: 5
Advertisement with US