Collagen for Joint Health - Supplements in Review
Supplements in Review
Protein
Nootropic
Testosterone
Fat Loss
Pre-Workout
Vision
Sleep
More Categories…
Greens
Energy
Immune
Stress
Joints
Post-Workout
Growth Hormone
Multi
Brands
Blog
You are here: Home / Joints / Collagen for Joint Health
Collagen for Joint Health
February 19, 2017 By Abraham 2 Comments
Animal Research
e: 18pt;">Structural protein collagen may reduce joint pain and inflammation.
Collagen. By Nevit Dilmen [GFDL or CC-BY-SA-3.0], via Wikimedia Commons
As the main structural protein of connective tissue, collagen is essential for proper joint function, and may provide specific benefits such as:
Promoting overall joint health. Collagen plays a key role in the growth and strengthening of joints, tendons, and cartilage.
Improving joint disorders. Collagen may reduce inflammation and other markers of joint disorders.
Table of Contents
Overview
How Collagen Might Help With Joint Health
Osteoblast differentiation
Stabilizing serum antibodies
Enhancing bone density
Reducing inflammation and dysfunctional immune responses
Collagen Benefits & Uses for Joint Health
Hydrolyzed vs Undenatured Collagen
Research
Animal Research
Human Research
Dosage for Joint Health
Supplements in Review Says
Overview
>As the main structural protein in connective tissue, collagen is the most abundant type of protein found in humans and other mammals, accounting for 25-35% of total body protein content. Collagen constitutes nearly 2% of muscle tissue and is also integrated into bone, tendon (including skin and ligaments), cartilage, cornea, and even blood vessels.
Collagen has been categorized into over 16 different types, although about 90% of collagen in the body is either type I, II, or III. Among its 3 main types, collagen type II is the one most responsible for joint development and maintenance.
Contemporary science has utilized collagen derivatives for culinary, beauty, and medicinal reasons. In terms of joint health, collagen is popularly used to reduce joint pain and inflammation, particularly in the context of disorders such as arthritis.
A microscopic look at collagen interacting with other cells. CSIRO [CC BY 3.0], via Wikimedia Commons
How Colla
How Collagen Might Help With Joint Health
supplementation might support joint health in a variety of ways:
Osteoblas
Osteoblast differentiation
seems to aid cellular growth and regeneration in and around joints by differentiating bone cells, or osteoblasts.12
Stabilizin
Stabilizing serum antibodies
g the quantity of antibodies against itself, collagen supplements may reduce inflammation and subsequent pain.3
Enhancing
Enhancing bone density
proteins, hydrolyzed collagen supplementation is shown to increase bone density4, bone mass, and bone strength, which may improve overall joint stability.5
Reducing in
Reducing inflammation and dysfunctional immune responses
lagen in particular has adifferent course of action when it comes to the destructive consequences of elevated T-cell levels and inflammatory markers in the autoimmune condition rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Oral ingestion of low doses of collagen II seems to enable immune cells to tolerate collagen and gradually reduce (or even prevent) adverse autoimmune responses. Consumption of proper doses of UC-II seems to:
Prevent the body from destroying cells near joints, known as immunoreactivity6
Boost production of antibodies, specifically IgG2A and IgG17
Reduce inflammation by increasing the release of the cytokine IL-10, which suppresses the destructive effects of IL-178
Collagen II is a major structural component of bones. By OpenStax College [CC BY 3.0], via Wikimedia Commons
Collagen supplements are not vegan friendly. Collagen supplements are derived from animal sources, particularly cow, pig, chicken, and fish.
Collagen Benefit
Collagen Benefits & Uses for Joint Health
ically collagen II, may be a potent supplement for supporting overall joint health. It seems especially effective when it comes to recovering from joint pain and deterioration due to arthritis and similar joint complications.
Among the myriad of joint benefits it might impart, collagen looks to have concrete backing when it comes to pain reduction (including morning stiffness, stiffness following periods of rest, pain that worsens with use of the affected joint) and improved joint range of motion and function.
Hydrolyzed vs Undenatur
Hydrolyzed vs Undenatured Collagen
n supplements for joint health are hydrolyzed collagen and undenatured collagen. Their preparation differs so much that they can almost be considered two distinct supplements.
Hydrolyzed collagen yields moderate improvements in joint comfort and is praised for its high bioavailability. It is regularly taken at doses of 3 to 6 grams per day.
Undenatured collagen is most commonly offered as glycosylated undenatured type II collagen (UC-II) to people with joint pain, and more specifically for those battling rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis. Dosage is much lower at an average 0.1 mg, although amounts as low as 20 mcg and up to 1 mg have been shown to be effective.
Research
Animal
Research
>Animal research suggests that collagen may improve joint health by:
Diminishing joint pain and immobility. Dogs receiving either 1 or 10 mg of UC-II showed significant reductions in pain during limb movement and lameness after exertion, as well as increased physical activity.9 Significant pain reductions were also noted when UC-II was taken in combination with glucosamine and chondroitin.10
Improving arthritic conditions. Horses receiving either 320, 480, or 640 mg of UC-II were observed to have improved status of overall arthritic pain.11
Human Research
Human Research
pt;">Collectively, clinical studies demonstrate collagen’s capacity to reduce joint pain and swelling, improve joint mobility, and delay the onset of joint discomfort.
Undenatured type II collagen (0.1 – 1 mg) may reduce joint pain and swelling in seniors with rheumatoid arthritis
In this randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind investigation, 60 elderly patients with severe, active rheumatoid arthritis were daily given chicken type II undenatured collagen at 0.1 mg for 1 month and then 1 mg for the following 2 months. The supplementation resulted in reduced joint pain and stiffness.
The study concluded that “a decrease in the number of swollen joints and tender joints occurred in subjects fed chicken type II collagen for 3 months but not in those that received a placebo. Four patients in the collagen group had complete remission of the disease.”12
Undenatured type II collagen (40 mg) may improve knee extension and range of motion, as well as delay the onset of joint discomfort
In this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled investigation, 55 adults with mild joint discomfort were given either a placebo or 40 mg of undenatured type II collagen (UC-II) derived from chicken sternum every day for a period of 120 days. Those in the UC-II group showed statistically significant improvement in average knee extension and longer exercising stints before feeling any initial joint discomfort, 2.8 ± 0.5 min, compared to baseline, 1.4 ± 0.2 min.
The study concluded that “daily supplementation with 40 mg of UC-II was well tolerated and led to improved knee joint extension in healthy subjects. UC-II also demonstrated the potential to lengthen the period of pain free strenuous exertion and alleviate the joint pain that occasionally arises from such activities.”13
Undenatured type II collagen (40 mg) may enhance joint functioning and reduce pain in the completion of daily activities by adults with osteoarthritis
In this cohort study, 52 adults with osteoarthritis were given either UC-II, one 20 mg capsule in the morning and another in the evening, or a combination of glucosamine and chondroitin (G+C) for 90 days. UC-II treatment showed significantly better improvements than the G+C treatment in several measures of osteoarthritis, including pain and overall joint function.
The study concluded that “UC-II treated subjects showed significant enhancement in daily activities suggesting an improvement in their quality of life.”14
Hydrolyzed collagen (10 g) may improve joint comfort in adults with primary osteoarthritis
In this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, 250 adults with primary osteoarthritis of the knee were given 10 grams of collagen hydrolysate (CH) daily for 6 months resulting in significant improvements in knee comfort.
The study concluded that “there was a significant improvement in knee joint comfort as assessed by visual analogue scales to assess pain and the Womac pain subscale. Subjects with the greatest joint deterioration, and with least intake of meat protein in their habitual diets, benefited most.”15
Undenatured type II collagen (20 mcg) may reduce joint pain and swelling in adults with rheumatoid arthritis
In this randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind investigation, 247 adults with rheumatoid arthritis were given placebo or one of four doses of undenatured type II collagen (20, 100, 500, 2,500 mcg) for 24 weeks. Out of all groups, 20 mcg showed the highest response rate and the most improvement in the three sets of criteria: the American College of Rheumatology criteria for improvement in RA, the Paulus criteria, and a requirement for > or = 30% reduction in swollen and tender joint counts.
The study concluded that “the efficacy seen with the lowest [collagen] dosage is consistent with the findings of animal studies and with known mechanisms of oral tolerance in which lower doses of orally administered autoantigens preferentially induce disease-suppressing regulatory cells.”16
Chicken-derived collagen seems to be most effective. Thus far, most successful clinical studies have utilized chicken collagen extracts, whereas other sources of collagen have seen little successful research .17
Dosage for Joint Health
For joint health,
Dosage for Joint Health
ol>
Hydrolyzed collagen
Capsules, 1 – 10 grams
Powder, stirred into a drink, 6.6 grams per scoop
Undenatured type II collagen
Tablets, 20 mcg – 40 mg
Supplements in Review Says
Supplements in Review Says
3 – 6 grams for joint health.
We recommend collagen for promoting overall joint health. Collagen II supplements are one of the better candidates for reducing joint pain, discomfort, and swelling.
There are 2 viable types of collagen supplementation. Proper dosing depends heavily on the intention of supplementation. Undenatured type II collagen at about 0.1 mg seems ideal for combating joint pain, swelling, and deterioration. Hydrolyzed collagen from 3 – 6 grams seems better suited for regular use to improve joint health in otherwise healthy conditions.
Show 17 footnotes
Takeuchi Y, Nakayama K, et al. Differentiation and cell surface expression of transforming growth factor-beta receptors are regulated by interaction with matrix collagen in murine osteoblastic cells. J Biol Chem. 1996 Feb 16;271(7):3938-44. ↩
Takeuchi Y, Suzawa M, et al. Differentiation and transforming growth factor-beta receptor down-regulation by collagen-alpha2beta1 integrin interaction is mediated by focal adhesion kinase and its downstream signals in murine osteoblastic cells. J Biol Chem. 1997 Nov 14;272(46):29309-16. ↩
Gimsa U, Sieper J, et al. Type II collagen serology: a guide to clinical responsiveness to oral tolerance? Rheumatol Int. 1997;16(6):237-40. ↩
Nomura Y, Oohashi K, et al. Increase in bone mineral density through oral administration of shark gelatin to ovariectomized rats. Nutrition. 2005 Nov-Dec;21(11-12):1120-6. ↩
Takeda S, Kobayashi Y, et al. Effect of different intake levels of dietary protein and physical exercise on bone mineral density and bone strength in growing male rats. J Nutr Sci Vitaminol (Tokyo). 2012;58(4):240-6. ↩
Zhu P, Li XY, et al. Oral administration of type-II collagen peptide 250-270 suppresses specific cellular and humoral immune response in collagen-induced arthritis. Clin Immunol. 2007 Jan;122(1):75-84. ↩
Min Sy, Hwang SY, et al. Induction of IL-10-producing CD4+CD25+ T cells in animal model of collagen-induced arthritis by oral administration of type II collagen. Arthritis Res Ther. 2004;6(3):R213-9. ↩
Thome R, Fernandes LG, et al. Oral tolerance and OVA-induced tolerogenic dendritic cells reduce the severity of collagen/ovalbumin-induced arthritis in mice. Cell Immunol. 2012 Nov;280(1):113-23. ↩
Deparle LA, Gupta RC, et al. Efficacy and safety of glycosylated undenatured type-II collagen (UC-II) in therapy of arthritic dogs. J Vet Pharmacol Ther. 2005;28(4):385–90. ↩
D’Altilio M, Peal A, et al. Therapeutic efficacy and safety of undenatured type II collagen singly or in combination with glucosamine and chondroitin in arthritic dogs. Tox Mech Methods. 2007;17:189-196. ↩
Gupta RC, Bagchi D, et al. Therapeutic efficacy of undenatured type-II collagen (UC-II) in comparison to glucosamine and chondroitin in arthritic horses. J Vet Pharmacol Ther. 2009 Dec;32(6):577-84. ↩
Trenthan DE, Dynesius-Trentham RA, et al. Effects of oral administration of type II collagen on rheumatoid arthritis. Science. 1993 Sep 24;261(5129):1727-30. ↩
Lugo JP, Saiyed ZM, et al. Undenatured type II collagen (UC-II®) for joint support: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in healthy volunteers. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2013 Oct 24;10(1):48. ↩
Crowley DC, Lau FC, et al. Safety and efficacy of undenatured type II collagen in the treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee: a clinical trial. Int J Med Sci. 2009 Oct 9;6(6):312-21. ↩
Benito-Ruiz P, Camacho-Zambrano MM, et al. A randomized controlled trial on the efficacy and safety of a food ingredient, collagen hydrolysate, for improving joint comfort. International Journal of Food Science and Nutrition. 2009 Aug; 60(2):99-113. ↩
Barnett ML, Kremer JM, et al. Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis with oral type II collagen. Results of a multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Arthritis Rheum. 1998 Feb;41(2):290-7. ↩
McKown KM, Carbone LD, et al. Lack of efficacy of oral bovine type II collagen added to existing therapy in rheumatoid arthritis. Arthritis Rheum. 1999 Jun;42(6):1204-8. ↩
Filed Under: Joints
Comments
Natalie Golovin says
August 6, 2018 at 3:24 pm
Can you take both? Together or Separately I have been taking type ii 40mg Now the powder seems very popular but I thought it wasn’t efficatious to mix the 3 types in 1 supplement? Should I switch to the hydrolysate powder -stick with the type ii which also contains 5 mg of boron & 3.3 HA- or do both? I’m senior female-very active -Osteoarthritis not Rheumatoid/previous hip replacement
Gleb says
August 18, 2018 at 12:50 am
Hi Natalie, generally speaking type 2 is best for your joints because type 1 and type 3 collagen are found mostly in the skin, hair, and nails. This is also the reason why hydrolysate powders mixing all 3 (well, actually 5) are so popular – people take them to support joints, skin, nails, and hair all at once. Isolated type 2 is probably better for your joints, but if you want all of the benefits you can consider switching to hydrolysate.
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Joints Health Resources
Joint Health Supplements Guide
Joint Health Supplements List
Find us on Facebook
Supplements in Review
Recently Added in “Joints”
Black Cumin for Joint Health
Guggul for Joint Health
Tart Cherry for Joint Health
Hyaluronic Acid for Joint Health
Shark Cartilage for Joint Health
More Posts from this Category
Categories
Protein
Nootropic
Testosterone
Fat Loss
Pre-Workout
Vision
Sleep
More Categories…
Blog
Recently Added
GlycoCarn® April 26, 2019
Zanthin® April 12, 2019
Allimax® March 29, 2019
Emergen-C® March 15, 2019
Siliphos® March 1, 2019
Top Nootropic Supplements for 2019 February 15, 2019
Top Testosterone Supplements for 2019 February 1, 2019
Top Energy Supplements for 2019 January 18, 2019
Carbohydrate as a Post Workout January 4, 2019
Carbohydrate as a Pre-Workout December 21, 2018
Recent Comments
Lenka Kadlecikova on Serrazimes®
George on Vitamin B6 for Testosterone
Suzanne Smith on CBD Legality in the U.S. by State
David Harmon on Turmeric as a Nootropic
cresilda on Alpha Lipoic Acid for Blood Sugar
Jeremy on Dihydrotestosterone (DHT) — the most powerful and misunderstood male hormone?
paul r schieve on Pepzin GI®
George P DELVECCHIO on Bulbine Natalensis for Testosterone
Betty on Pepzin GI®
Iron Surplus on Soy Protein vs. Pea Protein
Copyright © 2019 · Supplements in Review · Contact Us · Disclaimer
Pin It on Pinterest
Share This
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Google+
reddit
Buffer