Does ginger help nausea? - Nutrition Action
Nutrition Action
Unbiased advice to help you eat healthfully and live longer
Menu
Skip to content
Home
About Us
Subscribe
Renew
Store
My Account
Nutrition Action Healthletter
Contact Us
FAQs
Posted on March 8, 2019 March 7, 2019
by NAH Editorial Staff
Does ginger help nausea?
Have you heard that ginger can calm an upset stomach? Here’s what the evidence says.
“There’s strong evidence that ginger can help with nausea and vomiting from motion sickness, morning sickness, and cancer chemotherapy,” says Suzanna Zick, a research associate professor in the Department of Family Medicine at the University of Michigan.
Motion sickness
Researchers sat 13 (brave) volunteers with a history of motion sickness in a large drum one at a time and spun the drum for up to 15 minutes. If the volunteers took 1,000 milligrams of ginger an hour beforehand, they had less nausea and recovered more quickly from their motion sickness than if they took a placebo.
Morning sickness
Among 99 pregnant women who were experiencing morning sickness, those who took 125 mg of ginger four times a day for four days reported less severe nausea than those who took a placebo, though the authors noted that the effect seemed to wane after the second day.
Chemotherapy
In a study of 576 cancer patients—most had breast cancer—those who took 500 mg of ginger every day for six days, starting three days prior to chemo, had less severe nausea during the first 24 hours of treatment than those who took a placebo.
“As a result of studies like this,” says Zick, “the Society for Integrative Oncology will recommend this year that cancer physicians consider using ginger to help control nausea and vomiting during chemotherapy for breast cancer.”
What to do
If you want to try ginger, Zick suggests taking 250 mg (about 1/8 tsp.) of ginger powder twice a day. (You can scoop it right out of your spice container.) More might cause gas, heartburn, or even make nausea worse. Take it with a meal if it gives you GI discomfort.
Finding a good-quality ginger supplement can be hit or miss. One in three products that consumerlab.com tested for its subscribers in 2016 contained lower levels of ginger’s active ingredients than the label promised.
What about ginger ale? “You’d have to drink a lot of it,” says Zick. Canada Dry has no more than 24 mg of ginger per 16.9 oz., according to consumerlab.com.
A good alternative: ginger tea. Grate or thinly slice a piece of ginger the size of your thumb (from knuckle to tip), and steep it in boiling water for 10 to 15 minutes.
The information in this post appeared in the June 2017 issue of Nutrition Action Healthletter.
Photos: © Jultud/fotolia.com, © aboikis/fotolia.com.
Find this article interesting and useful?
Nutrition Action Healthletter subscribers regularly get sound, timely information about staying healthy with diet and exercise, delicious recipes, and detailed analyses of the healthy and unhealthy foods in supermarkets and restaurants. If you don’t already subscribe to the world’s most popular nutrition newsletter, click here to join hundreds of thousands of fellow health-minded consumers.
Have a comment, question, or idea?
Send us an email at comments@nutritionaction.com. While we can’t respond to every email, we’ll be sure to read your message.
Posted in SupplementsTagged chemotherapy, ginger, ginger tea, morning sickness, motion sickness, nausea, supplements, vomiting
Post navigation
Prev Want to eat more plants? Try these two bowl recipes.
Next Do sugary drinks lead to weight gain?
5 Replies to “Does ginger help nausea?”
Barb says:
April 16, 2018 at 8:16 am
You never said (how) to ingest the powdered ginger. Do we just dump the powder straight in our mouth twice a day, put the powder in warm or cold water, or sprinkle it on our food or does it not matter?
Reply
Atmo Zakes says:
April 16, 2018 at 10:33 am
I have 20 years experience with using ginger for nausea of all sorts… and find that the best and cheapest form to use it is grated ( frozen works best and keeps the root from spoiling) into boiling water and made into a tea ( iced in summer) together with honey and lemon. delicious and works almost immediately and for a long time. I also like to keep some candied ginger around ( car) to eat when needed as is. I find no use for dried ginger in capsules… for all the reasons mentioned already. I suspect that the powder is too concentrated and may cause the reactions while some of the very effective essential oils get lost in the processing. As always nature knows best…
Reply
Alvin Goldman says:
April 16, 2018 at 2:51 pm
The side effects warning should include the fact that larger doses of ginger can cause severe intestinal pain in some people. Before discovering the danger of eating several slices of candied ginger a day, I was hospitalized with such severe, undiagnosed intestinal pain that morphine and intravenous feeding was required to get me through the ordeal. My error was to increase my intake of supposedly digestive soothing ginger in an effort to ease the early pains.
Reply
marg says:
April 17, 2018 at 1:52 pm
I grew up living with my grandma who was born in Canada in 1858. whenever we had an upset tummy she would make us ginger tea – 1 tsp. powdered ginger, 1 tsp sugar, in a cup of hot water.
Stir and drink when cool enough to handle.
i am 81 and still use that for an upset tummy.
Reply
Christine Canini says:
April 16, 2018 at 5:10 pm
Hello,
The research you sited here is more than 5 years old (one article from 2012, and 2 from 2003). Do you know of any newer studies on this subject?
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Healthy Tips e-newsletter
To receive our free Healthy Tips e-newsletter, click here!
While you’re at it, subscribe to Nutrition Action Healthletter for more unbiased nutrition advice.
Search
Search for:
Search
Connect & Share:
Get in Touch
Address
1220 L Street NW, Suite #300
Washington, D.C. 20005
Customer Service
+1 (866) 293-CSPI (2774)
SUBSCRIBE
PRIVACY POLICY
FAQ
CUSTOMER SERVICE
Notice: Content at this site is not intended to provide medical advice, which should be obtained from a qualified health professional. Any products evaluated or sources cited may contain information that is now outdated. Readers should check product labels to ensure any nutrient content has not changed since our review and still meets the criteria established by Nutrition Action.
© Copyright 2018 — Nutrition Action — All rights reserved. Use of any content without prior permission is strictly prohibited.
Bezel Theme by SimpleFreeThemes ⋅ Powered by WordPress