What are the Common Myths about Salt Lamp Health Benefits You Must Know? – Life Cares <% if ( total_view > 0 ) { %> <%= total_view > 1 ? "total views" : "total view" %>, <% if ( today_view > 0 ) { %> <%= today_view > 1 ? "views today" : "view today" %> no views today	No views yet
Sign in / Join
Menu
Happiness
Health
Weight Loss
Life Cares
Happiness
Health
Weight Loss
Life Cares
Prohibited Foods to Lose Weight
1 day ago
Are You Afraid of Having Dental Implants?
3 days ago
5 Meditation Things that Most Instructors Fail to Tell
April 18, 2019
Benefits of Chiropractic Treatments
April 17, 2019
Health
What are the Common Myths about Salt Lamp Health Benefits You Must Know?
by
Davidjimmy
posted on
April 10, 2019
0
Himalayan salt lamps are the interior décor accessories that are commonly used in modern society to decorate homes. There are many positions where the salt lamps can be installed in a home to make space look attractive and elegant. The Himalayan salt lamps uses on the principle of producing negatively charged ions from the surface when heated. The negative ions then attract the positively charged particles floating in the air. This way, the air is left clean without any dust or pollen particles floating around.
How Salt Lamps Work
The Himalayan salt lamps are highly hygroscopic and can help to control the humidity of a room where they are placed in. The humidity is controlled through the absorption of moisture from the air and also releasing it back as water vapor. Therefore, If you are thinking of introducing Himalayan salt lamps to your home, they will be valuable in controlling the levels of humidity in your home. There are many misconceptions about Himalayan salt lamps that are not known to people. Some of them are health benefit claims whereby people believe that it can help to cure some health complications. Some of these misconceptions have misled people to buying the Himalayan salt lamps for the wrong reasons. If you are in need of introducing a Himalayan salt lamp, you need to understand the misconceptions that are popular so that you are not trapped into buying them for the wrong reasons. This article includes a detailed account of the different popular misconceptions about the Himalayan salt lamps
Do Himalayan Salt Lamps Melt?
This is a question that has been lingering in the heads of many homeowners today. The Himalayan salt lamps are hygroscopic. They absorb moisture from the atmosphere which then accumulates at the base. When a room is too humid, and a salt lamp is installed, there is a possibility of water pools forming at the base of the salt lamp. This occurrence is normally not understood by people as the hygroscopic nature of salt lamps. Instead, people confuse the behavior to the Himalayan salt lamp melting. The Himalayan salt lamp does not melt and only accumulates water at the base due to its hygroscopic nature. The next time you have your Himalayan salt lamp forming a pool of water at its base, you should know it’s working properly and not really melting. To avoid our furniture being damaged by the salty water ensure you put something that can absorb the water at the base.
Do Himalayan Salt Lamps Cure High Blood Pressure
The Himalayan salt lamps have numerous health benefits some of which can be proven. However, curing high blood pressure is one of the questionable Himalayan salt lamp health benefits that is known to man. Scientifically, having your body being exposed to too much salt can increase the risk of getting high blood pressure. There is no direct link of how the salt interferes with the blood pressure so that it can be controlled. The negative ions that are lodged on the skin of individuals are not contributive to this theory. Also, it is not scientifically proven that the salt lamps are helpful in controlling HBP.
Does Himalayan Salt Lamp Improve the Blood Flow to the Brain?
This is a common question among homeowners who have gone out of their way to buy the Himalayan salt lamps so that they can have improved blood flow in their body. The truth is that the blood flow in the body is affected by the type of foods we eat and the environment we are exposed to. Despite many people believing that the presence of Himalayan salt lamps within a room helps to trigger hormone production within the blood, it has not been scientifically proven. Scientists recommend more than 2000 ways of improving the flow of blood in the body, but the Himalayan salt lamp is not one of the recommendations. This makes this argument a misconception. Therefore, do not buy a Himalayan salt lamp with the objective of it helping you to improve the blood flow in your body. This is not one of the popular salt lamp health benefits you should be dependent on.
Do Himalayan Salt Lamps Help you sleep?
Having irregular sleeping patterns for many days is one of the many problems people face in their daily routines. Many people have bought Himalayan salt lamps to help them sleep better at night. It is assumed that the negative ions produced by the salt lamps help to trigger production of serotonin hormone which creates relaxation and helps you sleep well. Despite it being a commonly known salt lamp health benefits, it is not scientifically proven and cannot be used as a basis for buying a salt lamp for your home.
Himalayan salt lamp health benefitsHimalayan salt lamps usesMyths about Salt Lamp Health
Davidjimmy
David has 6 years of experience in professional content writer. .He has researched upon various Business ideologies and methodologies which has enhanced his expertise and credibility in this arena.
Website: https://www.fabglassandmirror.com
Posts created: 1
Previous article What To Do In Dental Emergency?
Next article Best ways to lose weight by drinking water
You may also like
Feeling Stress? Here Are The 5 Smart Tips To Deal It
November 4, 2018
Magnesium and its Health Benefits
September 7, 2018
Benefits of Donating Plasma
February 26, 2019
There are no comments yet	No comments
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
POPULAR POSTS
Prohibited Foods to Lose... It is wise at all times and advisable to keep a health... 6 views
Are You Afraid of Having... In this post you will be learning about the alternativ... 3 views
10 Signs That You Need to... It is widely known that the human body is generally com... 1 view
The Benefits of Treating... As anyone who’s ever experienced chronic depression can... 1 view
What are the Common Myths... Himalayan salt lamps are the interior décor accessorie... 1 view
5 Health Benefits of Gree... Most of us are familiar with green tea and its benefits... 1 view
Learn How to Beat Your De... Learn why most doctors are dead wrong about Depression... 1 view
5 Meditation Things that... In 2012, there were over 18 million people or 4% of Am... 1 view
Write for Life Cares
CONTACT US
2018 © Life Cares
Back to top
Close
Happiness
Health
Weight Loss
Life Cares
Sign in / Join
Username or Email Address
Password
Remember Me
Register Forgot Password ?