marijuana addiction help: Treatment Considerations For Marijuana Addiction
Home
Wichita Drug Treatment Videos
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Sitemap
Recent Posts
Alcohol Treatment West Palm
Diabetes Types I and II Symptoms and Treatment by Drugs, Diet and Natural Supplementation
Non-Opioid Medications by Mel Pohl, MD, FASAM of Las Vegas Recovery Center
Garland TX Drug & Alcohol Rehab 469-606-4243
Drug Addiction Cartoon – Going to Rehab and Getting Help
Need Advice for Treatment,Due to Drug abuse.need Local Treatment Centers Who Treat Withdrawl Symtoms Wilm N.c.
CCC-ARTC Linkage & Coordination Issues
Cocaine Addiction?
How Do Commit Someone for Alcohol and Drug Treatment?
Report: Drugs, Prostitution at Occupy KC
Spine Treatment Springfield, Sports Medicine, Spine Doctor Watson OCI for Non-Operative Treatment
Addiction- Drug Deaths or Stories?
Mental Heath Facilitate or a Rehab Program??
Categories
Drug Addiction Help
Drug Treatment Centers Wichita
Kansas Drug Rehabs
« Drug Rehabs in Nh: Drug Rehabs – the Battle Against Addiction
I Am a 26 Homeless Man. I Am in Gaudenzia Drug Treatment Center in Baltimore,… »
Marijuana Addiction Help: Treatment Considerations for Marijuana Addiction
Published September 17, 2012
One of the easiest types of drug to obtain is marijuana. It’s no wonder that marijuana addiction is becoming more and more common. While some people believe that marijuana isn’t an addictive drug, the reality is that it is just as addictive as any other drug.
In fact, studies show that marijuana abusers exhibit the same, or similar symptoms as any other drug abuser. The fact is that many marijuana abusers simply cannot stop using, even when they wish to do so.
When marijuana addicts attempt to stop “smoking weed”, they run into the same problems as other addicts. While it might be possible for the addict to stop using the drug for a short period of time there is nearly always a relapse unless the addict follows an established marijuana addiction treatment program protocol.
Unless the addict enrolls in a marijuana addiction treatment program, marijuana addiction cannot be treated effectively.
Symptoms Of Marijuana Dependence
Marijuana users exhibit the same symptoms as users of “heavy drugs.” Among the most common is the psychological craving for the controlled substance when not using it.
The marijuana addict is haunted by constant thoughts of how to find more weed. This craving causes the addict to disregard legal constraints or even his own personal safety. When unable to obtain marijuana, the abuser will appear anxious or depressed.
Marijuana can cause some very severe negative consequences. Users routinely suffer some level of memory loss, anxiety and depression.
Withdrawal And Isolation
Even though marijuana is often labeled as a “social drug”, these symptoms often compound the problem by causing the user to withdraw from society in favor of a life of isolation. These consequences not only affect the marijuana user, but also his or her family and friends.
Effects Of Smoking Weed On The Family
One of the reasons marijuana abuse needs to be taken seriously is that it negatively impacts the marijuana user’s family, children and friends.
However, as family and friends begin to confront the user about his or her weed addiction, he or she usually withdraws further, thereby leading to a downward spiral into further isolation and depression.
Marijuana Addiction Is Not A Self Help Project
When it comes to marijuana dependency, the addict’s problem is everyone’s problem. It needs to be taken seriously. Ignoring the addict will not make the problem go away. Professional intervention is the only way to help the marijuana addict in the long term.
Fortunately, treatment for marijuana addiction is almost always successful as long as the patient, family and friends are all willing to work together with an established drug treatment center.
Charles Buxton, MSW is an author and counselor specializing in the area of marijuana addiction treatment [http://drug-treatment-center-guide.com/marijuana-addiction/]. Find out more about marijuana addiction.
Article Source:
http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Charles_Buxton
Marijuana Addiction Help – www.marijuana-addiction-help.net – Marijuana addiction is nothing to joke… get help now by clicking on the link above!
Report Faults Military's Strategies on Drug and Alcohol Abuse
Filed under: marijuana addiction help
Such prescription-drug abuse is rising faster within the military than among civilians, and is perhaps more common than the use of illegal drugs like cocaine or marijuana. Yet the military's drug-testing regimen, … The panel, while commending the …
Read more on New York Times (blog)
Phone therapy helps some with marijuana dependence
Filed under: marijuana addiction help
Gates and his colleagues wrote in the journal Addiction that there's already evidence to support in-person talk therapy for marijuana dependence. To see if that success would extend to over-the-phone treatment, they randomly assigned 160 users who'd …
Read more on Reuters
5 damaging myths about addiction
Filed under: marijuana addiction help
The addiction gene myth lulls many people into a false sense of confidence about their own drug use while paradoxically also discouraging many addicts from seeking treatment. Myth No. 2: Marijuana is a 'gateway drug'. The addiction rate for marijuana …
Read more on CNN
From Twitter:
RT @DOOBONS: CBD can help people overcome addiction! http://t.co/mPjiVTnD Consider products like @DixieCBD #mmj #mmot #pot #hemp #mariju … – by dukecitysfinest ( Christian)
From Twitter:
CBD can help people overcome addiction! http://t.co/YrHHV13Y Consider products like @DixieCBD #mmj #mmot #pot #hemp #marijuana #cannabis – by Highentology (Indica Sativa)
From Twitter:
CBD can help people overcome addiction! http://t.co/YrHHV13Y Consider products like @DixieCBD #mmj #mmot #pot #hemp #marijuana #cannabis – by Highentology (Indica Sativa)
4 Responses to Marijuana Addiction Help: Treatment Considerations for Marijuana Addiction
replymycomments says:
September 17, 2012 at 12:36 pm
weed for life, if? you dont like weed then fuck off. Don’t judge other just because you disagree with something. Let us smoke, and you can do whatever the fuck you want to do. just don’t call us stupid stoners and we wont call you ignorant brainwashed idiots.
replymycomments says:
September 17, 2012 at 1:12 pm
hahaha, this has got? to be a fucking joke. coffee is more addictive than weed. fucking idiots.
Bullsight2020 says:
September 17, 2012 at 1:43 pm
I can take it or leave it, but I’m better off if I take it. Never any signs of addiction. And that goes for the hundreds of people I know, and? have known, who take it. So, are we just all lucky? Cannabis is NOT addictive or harmful. It’s a gift from God, a miracle. You are either ignorant, or telling a lie. One thing I know for sure, is if you truly believe that it’s harmful, and addictive you’re brain-washed. If you’re lying, I’ll bet your making money from it. I call B.S.! Pharm. = EVIL.
cssdoritocss says:
September 17, 2012 at 2:14 pm
if your addicted to marijuana your a little bitch?
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Home | Contact Us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Sitemap
Copyright (c) 2019 TrueStarDomains.Net. All Rights Reserved.
Designed by TrueStar Domains.