'What I say when people ask me about autism and vaccinations' - 9Honey
News
Sport
Finance
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Watch TV
Connect with us
Search
latest
latest
Royals
Honey Loves
Nine
9Honey
Latest
'What I say when people ask me about autism and vaccinations'
By Jo Abi| 2 weeks ago
I'm often asked about the link between Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) and vaccines. I work in media, which tends to be a hotbed of rumours and innuendo at the best of times, the more terrifying the better.
I'm also an autism mum.
I have two children on the autism spectrum, aged 14 and 11.
My 14-year-old was only recently diagnosed and my 11-year-old was diagnosed when he was seven.
Jo Abi has two children with autism aged 14 and 11. (Supplied)
When US actress Jenny McCarthy appeared on The Oprah Show in 2007 and told the world she believed that her son Evan's autism was caused by a vaccination, in particular the MMR (Measles Mumps Rubella) vaccination given in Australia at 12-months and 18-months, I felt terrified.
I didn't know exactly what autism was, but I knew enough to fear it as being one of the worst things you could 'get'.
I didn't know then that autism is a born condition, with markers able to be detected in-utero.
And I didn't know enough about vaccinations to know how many millions of lives they have saved.
Related
Special needs boy's incredible plan to help sick kids
Mum of child with disabilities takes matters into her own hands
Autism Awareness Month: ‘I wish more parents would talk about how hard it is’
Autism Awareness Day: Mum's life-changing realisation about her son
So I went to my doctor and asked him about it. He assured me that there is no link between vaccinations and autism.
I vaccinated all three of my children, two of whom have autism, and their condition hasn't been caused by vaccinations. I know that because science has debunked it thoroughly and irrefutably more times than it should have had to.
But I talk to so many parents who still believe there is a link between autism and vaccinations.
Their fear is real.
Dr James best is a GP and an autism dad to Sam, 18. He has written a book called Sam's Best Shot about his life as an autism dad. He has also done extensive research into ASD and in particular its causes. He says the first thing he always says to parents who come to see him and express their fears about vaccinations is that they feel that fear because they love their child.
Dr. Best's son Sam, 18, has ASD. (Allen & Unwin)
"It's important to get that out there," he tells 9Honey.
Then he carefully explains to them the cold, hard facts.
"If you look at children who end up being diagnosed on the autism spectrum, if you look at them before they have their MMR vaccines, the autism is already there," he says.
"It's just that parents don't recognise it."
Dr. Best says the reason parents don't recognise it is because the normal developmental trajectory of a child's development is that they don't develop much in the way of social and communication skills until their second year.
"Autism becomes evident in the second year of live because of the exponential leap in a child's development that happens then," he explains.
"For parents of children with autism, all of a sudden you notice your child is doing everything differently to their peers," he continues. "That's when parents tend to think something bad has happened.
"But nothing has happened. It was always there."
He says parents who continue to believe their child's autism was caused by vaccinations tend to downplay the differences they observed in them before they turned two.
"You've got to remember that the MMR-autism link caused a real tsunami of fear which has mostly passed now," he says. "But the concern and fear was actually palpable in the early 2000s."
He says that while the comments of Jenny McCarthy on that infamous Oprah episode was a "driver" of the anti-vaxx movement, he, like most scientists and medical professionals, lays the blames squarely with Andrew Jeremy Wakefield, a discredited former British doctor who became an anti-vaccine activist when he published a research paper that claimed a link between the MMR vaccine and autism.
He has since been struck off the UK medical register for unethical behaviour, misconduct and dishonesty for the fraudulent research paper after other researchers were unable to reproduce his findings or confirm his hypothesis.
Dr. Best says the paper gained traction when it was published by reputable medical journal The Lancet in 1999.
He says this was further fuelled when then-British Prime Minister Tony Blair refused to comment publicly on whether or not he had, or planned to, vaccinate his children.
Following this, prominent British current affairs show Panorama aired a story about the link, and the fear spread around the world.
Now, here we are, 20 years later, and there are measles outbreaks happening in the developed world.
In Australia, two babies in NSW aged eight-months and 11-months have been diagnosed with measles when it was brought back from East Asia and the Pacific.
Health authorities state the infants most likely caught the disease in public places, and as they were too young to have received their MMR vaccinations, were reliant on others having had theirs.
It's terrifying to think about how bad this could become, with Dr. Best saying we haven't yet seen any deaths from measles in Australia, "but we will".
"Measles does maim and it does kill," he says. "New Zealand has an outbreak at the moment and there have been loads and loads of deaths around the world as a result of the drop in the number of people receiving the MMR vaccine.
"People forget about the millions of lives that vaccine has saved since it's invention."
So far, identified causes of autism are complex, but in layperson's terms, causes are thought to be due to a complex range of genetic factors in various combinations with possible contributions coming from the environment.
"There isn't one autism, it's a range of syndromes and features," Dr. Best says, saying that this explains the complexity surrounding research into its cause, and interventions.
Of the "very well established non-link" between autism and vaccines, Dr. Best says there is one thing we do know, and that is that the scientific rigour behind the knowledge that the MMR vaccine DOESN'T causes autism is sound.
Most parents believe him. Some, still don't.
"The epidemic of fear has passed," he says. "Now it's more about education."
"It's important that people know the research claiming autism is caused by the MMR vaccine has been debunked, and it's important that people remember the other side of the coin, which is that measles can result in brain damage, permanent disability and even death," he says.
"If we have deaths from measles in Australia - and we will - it will be a tragedy that should not have happened, completely.
"We should have our defences up."
Find out more about ASD and Autism Awareness Month (April) by visiting the Autism Awareness Australia website.
Share your story by sending an email to 9Honey@nine.com.au.
Share
Mail
Tweet
Pinterest
Money News: Aussies Hit With Unexpected Expenses- mybudget.com.au
Topics
Autism
Parenting
Children
Children S Health
Family
Homes
These are the worst real estate listing photos on the internet
Homes
How to recreate Kourtney Kardashian's 'Poosh-approved' pantry for less
Celebrity
'Game of Thrones' finally acknowledges Sansa Stark's quiet brilliance
Compare More, Find Better!
Watch The Bold Type on Stan!
Top 5 Utes!
Deposit $50 bet with $200!
Search properties in AUS
Live the life you want
Nine
Search
Search
Careers
Advertise with us
Help
Terms of use
Privacy
© 2019 Nine Digital Pty Ltd
© 2019 Nine Digital Pty Ltd