Catch the latest reports on drug prices and savings from GoodRx
FIND PRICES CANCEL
Drug Price Search
Browse By Health Conditions
Pill Identifier
Get the GoodRx Mobile App
GoodRx Savings Blog
GoodRx Discount Card
How GoodRx Works
About GoodRx
Help and FAQs
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Contact Us
How GoodRx Works
Discount Card
Help SIGN UP
Latest News
Other channels
Latest News
Savings & Tips
Medicine & Health
Community & People
Data & Insights
Company
7 Health Conditions Linked to Vitamin D Deficiency – From Diabetes to Dementia
by Megan N. Brown, PharmD, RPh on April 24, 2019
You know you need vitamin D for strong, healthy bones, but that’s not all it’s good for. Research shows that low levels of vitamin D, also known as vitamin D deficiency, are related to a host of other conditions—from heart disease to dementia. Here, we’ll discuss seven health conditions that are linked to vitamin D… Read More
Can Antidepressants and Anti-Anxiety Drugs Cause Erectile Dysfunction?
April 24, 2019
So, you’ve been seeing a therapist, and you’ve started your depression or anxiety regimen. You haven’t noticed any changes to your mental health yet, but you’ve started to experience erectile dysfunction (ED). What gives? Unfortunately, there are a slew of medications that cause ED or can make it worse. A good chunk of that list… Read More
Here’s How Depression and Anxiety Can Lead to Erectile Dysfunction
April 24, 2019
Depression and anxiety are among the most common health issues for men, affecting one in every five men in the United States. Mental health problems can affect so much of a man’s daily life and routine activities, including his sexual performance. Some researchers believe that between 13% and 20% of men with erectile dysfunction (ED)… Read More
Here’s How the New Sanofi and Cigna Insulin Savings Programs Will Work—and Who They Can Benefit
April 24, 2019
Coinciding with congressional hearings this month focused on ongoing insulin price hikes, two large healthcare companies, drug manufacturer Sanofi and insurer Cigna, have proposed saving programs to give qualifying Americans with diabetes cheaper access to insulin. Below, we outline the details of these insulin savings programs, and what they may mean for you. Sanofi Insulins… Read More
7 Surprising Benefits of Jardiance Besides Treating Type 2 Diabetes
April 22, 2019
It’s hard to keep track of all the new diabetes medications coming out, which is a good thing as innovation is driving better choices. Recently, we got the SGLT2 inhibitors, a class of medications used to treat type 2 diabetes that includes Invokana, Farxiga, and Jardiance. But one medication continues to stand out of the… Read More
Blood Pressure Drug Losartan Recalled Due to Contamination – What You Need To Know
April 19, 2019
If you are taking the popular blood pressure drug, losartan, you may have seen the news reports about contamination. Between November 2018 and April 2019, close to 300 lots of drugs containing losartan were recalled because potentially cancer-causing substances were found in the medications. So far, the recalled losartan products have come from five drug… Read More
What’s the Best Medication for Alzheimer’s Dementia?
April 16, 2019
Recent efforts to find the holy-grail cure for dementia have been rather disappointing. As far as we’ve come with medical advances, our ability to treat dementia, specifically Alzheimer’s dementia (AD), is still limited to managing the symptoms, meaning the focus is to manage behavioral changes, maintain a familiar environment to avoid disruption, and ensure safety… Read More
The Truth About Sulfa Allergies: Should You Avoid Other Drugs If You’re Allergic to Bactrim?
April 16, 2019
About 2% – 3% of the general population have had an allergic reaction to a “sulfa” antibiotic, most typically trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX), also known as Bactrim or Septra. Recommendations from pharmacists and physicians used to be to stay away from all sulfa-containing medications if you’d had allergic reactions to Bactrim—but not anymore. Here’s what’s true and… Read More
Does an Enlarged Prostate or Prostate Cancer Cause Erectile Dysfunction?
April 16, 2019
The prostate is one of those organs that go unnoticed for men until there is an issue, I feel, which is unfortunate when you think about how important it is for our sexual health. Not only does the prostate contribute a crucial element to ejaculate that helps sperm fertilize an egg during reproduction, but the… Read More
I Have Erectile Dysfunction But Can’t Take Viagra – What Now?
April 16, 2019
Although Viagra is an extremely popular medication, with more than 60 million men worldwide having used it since 1998, it’s not the answer for everyone. You may already know that if you take a nitrate medication for a heart condition, you cannot use Viagra or other erectile dysfunction (ED) drugs like Cialis and Levitra because… Read More
Erectile Dysfunction and Heart Disease: What’s the Connection?
April 16, 2019
Hundreds of thoughts run through your head when you experience erectile dysfunction (ED). You might wonder what happened, what your partner is thinking, and whether something’s wrong with you. Except, you might not stop to think: “I wonder if it’s my heart.” But there is an important connection between ED and heart disease, so let’s… Read More
Choosing the Best ADHD Medication: A Treatment Guide for Adults and Children
April 16, 2019
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) can be a big diagnosis to get. Although the diagnosis may be new, you (or a loved one) have probably been living with the symptoms for some time. ADHD can’t be cured, but there are many treatment options available. Maybe you’re ready to see if treatment can help. Or do you have… Read More
How To Save Up to 80% on Pet Medications With GoodRx
April 11, 2019
National Pet Day (April 11, 2019) is a great reminder to appreciate our pets and prioritize their health. But for many, healthcare for pets can be a financial burden, especially considering that current pet health insurance options don’t cover pre-existing conditions and often don’t cover expensive medications. Fortunately, if you need help affording your pet’s… Read More
The GoodRx List Price Index Reveals the Rising Cost of All Diabetes Treatments – Not Just Insulin
April 10, 2019
List prices for diabetes medications and supplies increased by 56% since 2014—more than double the rate of overall drug prices, according to a new analysis of list prices by the GoodRx Research team. Not surprisingly, insulin prices play a big part in this increase, growing 53% in the last five years. But less expected is… Read More
GoodRx Is Nominated as This Year’s Best Health Site. Vote and Help Us Win!
April 9, 2019
We’re thrilled to be named a finalist for the Best Health Website Webby Award! The Webbys are considered the biggest honors on the internet; these annual awards recognize the companies, projects, and people making a real impact in their fields. Vote for GoodRx in the 2019 Webby Awards! At GoodRx, our mission is to help… Read More
Drug Prices Continue To Rise Amid Talks on Capitol Hill To Rein in Costs: GoodRx Monthly Report
April 9, 2019
Lawmakers in D.C. may be working on bills to curb skyrocketing drug prices, but prices continue to move up. This March, manufacturer Gilead increased list prices for all of their drugs—including Truvada for PrEP—by practically 5%. Unfortunately, the price hikes don’t stop there. List prices for the popular drugs, Belviq, Belviq XR, and Banzel (made… Read More
20 Drugs That May be Cheaper With GoodRx Than With Insurance
April 5, 2019
If you believe the best way to pay for your prescription is with health insurance, you’re hardly alone. After all, that’s why we have insurance in the first place—we expect it to cover our healthcare expenses. So when we get to the pharmacy, we show our insurance card, fork over the copay, and move along…. Read More
High-Dose Nifedipine May Be Linked to Higher Cardiac Arrest Risk
April 3, 2019
Nifedipine (Procardia), used to treat high blood pressure and chest pain, may be linked to a higher risk of sudden cardiac arrest, researchers say. While nifedipine has been available for decades, a recent analysis showed that more than 60 mg of nifedipine daily may increase your risk for sudden cardiac arrest. On the other hand,… Read More
How To Take Cialis – 4 Tips To Get the Best Results
April 2, 2019
Viagra (sildenafil) tends to get all the attention, but its close “cousin” Cialis (tadalafil) is also an effective helper for many men who experience erectile dysfunction (ED). Cialis is a longer-acting option that some men prefer over other ED treatments. How does Cialis treat ED? Much like , relaxes the smooth muscles and arteries inside… Read More
FDA Approves Zulresso, the First Medication for Postpartum Depression
March 29, 2019
Life after having a baby can be stressful. After giving birth, you have to navigate new motherhood, exhaustion, and bodily changes. Many new mothers also encounter postpartum depression (PPD)—and adding that to the mix can be overwhelming. Postpartum depression is defined as depression suffered by a mother following childbirth, typically arising from the combination of… Read More
Taking Viagra for the First Time? – Here’s How To Get the Best Results
March 29, 2019
Believe it or not, Viagra (sildenafil) is one of the most popular drugs in the U.S. The blue, diamond-shaped pill is known for its ability to help men suffering from erectile dysfunction (ED). If you’re using Viagra for the first time, here’s how you can get the most from your experience. How does Viagra treat… Read More
Diabetes and Erectile Dysfunction – What You Need To Know
March 29, 2019
Diabetes has been on the rise in the United States and is one of the most common chronic diseases worldwide. Patients with diabetes not only have to manage their blood glucose levels to prevent long-term health problems (like kidney damage, eye damage, nerve pain, and heart problems), but they also experience issues that impact their… Read More
The Top 10 Causes of Erectile Dysfunction
March 29, 2019
Erectile dysfunction, commonly referred to as ED, is defined as the inability to attain or maintain an erection needed for sexual performance. It affects over 12 million men in the United States alone. Although erectile dysfunction can affect men of any age once they pass puberty, it is most common in men over 40 years… Read More
$10 Billion and Counting: How GoodRx Helps America Save on Healthcare
March 28, 2019
It’s hard to believe that just eight years ago, there was no simple way for Americans to comparison shop for healthcare. When it was time to fill a prescription, we stood at the pharmacy counter helpless, waiting for the pharmacist to tell us how much our medication would cost. We hoped for a reasonable price,… Read More
Does Lisinopril Cause Erectile Dysfunction?
March 28, 2019
I get this question more often than you would think. Does lisinopril cause erectile dysfunction? In sum, not really. How does lisinopril work? Lisinopril belongs to a class of drugs known as ACE (angiotensin-converting enzyme) inhibitors, which are used to treat high blood pressure and heart failure. This drug is typically one of the first-line… Read More
The Best Medication for Insomnia: Ambien, Sonata, or Lunesta?
March 26, 2019
Every evening, millions of Americans use a prescription drug to help them get to sleep and stay asleep, usually a generic version of Ambien (zolpidem), Sonata (zaleplon), or Lunesta (eszopiclone). These three medications are all so-called “z-drugs”: non-benzodiazepine drugs that induce sleep by causing a sort of hypnotic, calming effect. They’re considered safer to use… Read More
Avoid the Sun If You Take These Drugs
March 26, 2019
If you’re itching for sun and can’t wait for summer, it’s important to know beforehand that some of your medications could cause an unexpected problem. You may not be aware of this, but some prescription drugs can make you more sensitive to sunlight and cause your skin to burn more easily, a reaction known as… Read More
FDA Approves New Once-Daily Eye Drops for Glaucoma
March 26, 2019
The FDA just approved Rocklatan, a new combination medication for the treatment of open-angle glaucoma. While the brand-name eye drops will likely be expensive, Rocklatan’s approval offers another treatment option for those suffering with glaucoma. Here’s what you need to know. What is Rocklatan for? is used to reduce intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with… Read More
7 Uses for Spironolactone – From Heart Failure to Hair Loss
March 26, 2019
For a really cheap and safe medication, spironolactone has many uses. From heart health to hair growth, this popular diuretic is safe and effective. How does spironolactone work for so many conditions? is commonly known as a potassium-sparing diuretic, which means in exchange for relieving the body of sodium and water, it makes the body… Read More
9 Ways to Help Your Pharmacist Fill Your Prescription
March 26, 2019
Your pharmacist is diligently working to make sure you get the right medication, with the right dose, and with the right directions. And among healthcare professionals, we are unique due to our vast knowledge of medications, medical devices, vaccines, diseases, and much more. Help us help you by using some of the following pharmacist-friendly tips…. Read More
Belviq for Weight Loss: Is It Safe and How Well Does It Work?
March 26, 2019
When you start to think about medication for weight loss, you and your healthcare provider should be asking: Does it work? Is it safe? And for how long can I take it? Turns out, a long-term, robust study published late last year answered these questions about Belviq for you. is expensive and there’s no generic… Read More
How Much Vitamin D Do I Need To Take?
March 26, 2019
Rickets, the softening of bones in children due to a lack of vitamin D, seems like a thing of the past. And in truth, it’s almost unheard of now. But, vitamin D deficiency is still a major problem. An estimated 41% of Americans don’t get enough vitamin D, which can lead to consequences like osteoporosis,… Read More
Marinol vs. Marijuana: What’s the Difference?
March 22, 2019
Marinol, a medication that contains a compound similar to one found in marijuana, is FDA approved for chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting as well as anorexia from AIDS. But currently, there is no FDA-approved medical reason for prescribing marijuana itself. So, why is Marinol approved and not marijuana, and what are their differences? Here’s what you… Read More
5 Things You May Not Know About Omeprazole
March 22, 2019
Omeprazole (Prilosec) is a cheap, generic medication available both over the counter or with a prescription. It belongs to a class of medications known as proton-pump inhibitors (PPIs), and is one of the most popular medications in the U.S. It’s used to treat heartburn, reflux disease (GERD), and ulcers. Many people also use omeprazole to… Read More
First Liquid Levothyroxine for Hypothyroidism Now Available in Pharmacies
March 22, 2019
The first liquid levothyroxine, Tirosint-Sol, has finally made its way to pharmacies! Approved back in 2016, the new medication is now available to patients with hypothyroidism who prefer a liquid (instead of tablet) formulation. What is Tirosint-Sol? is approved to treat hypothyroidism, a condition where the thyroid gland does not produce enough thyroid hormones. Hypothyroidism… Read More
These Drugs Can Mess With Your Potassium Levels
March 22, 2019
It’s not overly dramatic to say that abnormal blood levels of potassium may kill you. Potassium imbalances like hyperkalemia (too much potassium) and hypokalemia (too little potassium) can cause serious health problems like irregular heart rhythms and cardiac arrest. Hospitalizations for these imbalances do occur. In fact, about 2% of hyperkalemia cases end in death…. Read More
Viagra, Cialis, or Levitra: Which Is Best for Erectile Dysfunction?
March 18, 2019
You’ve heard of Viagra and Cialis, possibly even Levitra. These are commonly prescribed treatments for erectile dysfunction (ED). But which one is best? And are there any differences between them? The best treatment for ED is the one that is best for you. Viagra (sildenafil) and Cialis (tadalafil) are the most commonly prescribed, and are… Read More
Helping Patients Afford Prescriptions – Tips for Pharmacy Staff From the GoodRx Patient Advocacy Team
March 18, 2019
My favorite part of working for GoodRx is hearing directly from patients about how much we’re able to help them save—and what else they can afford because of it. Working in a pharmacy, you’ve seen this struggle: patients being forced to choose between important prescriptions and basic necessities like making rent on time, buying clothes… Read More
When You Can’t Use Valsartan, Which Is Best: Losartan, Olmesartan, or Telmisartan?
March 15, 2019
One of the first types of medications we turn to for the treatment of high blood pressure is angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs). They effectively lower blood pressure, are conveniently taken once a day, and are usually available as affordable generics. But unfortunately, 2018 brought widespread recalls of valsartan, a widely prescribed ARB, due to… Read More
The 8 Most Common Prescription Drugs Suspiciously Found in Supplements
March 15, 2019
Dietary supplements often show up in news reports for having inaccurate labels or falsely claiming to cure diseases. Not only do many supplements not contain the active ingredients they say they do, but there’s an even more worrisome problem: dietary supplements that contain unapproved pharmaceutical ingredients. The FDA keeps a public list of tainted supplements,… Read More
Seeing Green in Your Urine This St. Patrick’s Day? One of These Medications Could Be the Cause
March 15, 2019
Once a year for St. Patrick’s Day, preschool teachers creep into classrooms before the kids arrive and decorate the school with shamrocks and green glitter. The best touch? Green food coloring in the toilet water, or, as the kids gleefully report, “Leprechaun pee”. It always gets me thinking, “What medications could this leprechaun be taking… Read More
10 Medications That Are Dangerous to Stop Abruptly
March 14, 2019
“Can I just stop my medication?” This question, frequently asked of primary care doctors, has a complicated answer. For starters, if you are taking a medication that is controlling an ongoing medical problem like high blood pressure, diabetes or high cholesterol, you should never stop it on your own—or your problem will return. Many patients… Read More
What Is Lyrica Used For?
March 14, 2019
Lyrica (pregabalin) is one of the most commonly prescribed drugs in the U.S. It is chemically similar to Neurontin (gabapentin), another anti-seizure medication, and is used to treat brain- and nerve-related disorders. is used to treat epilepsy, nerve pain, and fibromyalgia. In 2004, the FDA approved Lyrica for partial onset seizures in adults with epilepsy… Read More
Coming Soon: New Generic Humalog at Half the Price of the Brand
March 12, 2019
On March 4, amid uproar over high insulin prices, manufacturer Eli Lilly announced that they would be introducing a lower-priced version of their popular insulin drug, Humalog (insulin lispro). is a short-acting insulin that helps control blood sugar levels in those with diabetes type 1 or type 2. This new generic Humalog will be considered… Read More
Why This Year’s Flu Season Is Still Raging On
March 10, 2019
Historically, flu activity peaks around February each season and then quickly drops off. But not this year. According to a nationally representative sample of U.S. prescription fills for the flu treatment, Tamiflu (oseltamivir), this year’s flu season reached a peak last month—and the disease is continuing to spread. is one of four currently available influenza… Read More
Vaccinations for Pneumonia: Pneumovax 23 vs. Prevnar 13
March 9, 2019
Each year in the U.S., pneumococcal bacteria causes thousands of potentially deadly infections, such as meningitis (an infection of the brain and spinal cord covering), bloodstream infections, pneumonia, and ear infections. Fortunately, we have two vaccines that protect against these serious diseases and the complications they can cause: Pneumovax 23 and Prevnar 13. The main… Read More
Popularity of Brand-Name Asthma Inhalers Plunges With Approval of Generics: GoodRx Monthly Report
March 9, 2019
This past month, three new generic inhalers hit the market, and according to the GoodRx Index, patients are rapidly switching over to more affordable generics. The GoodRx Index also featured the following trends in the month of February: Flu season is raging on, and fills are elevated for Tamiflu and other antibiotics. Actimmune is still… Read More
The 20 Most Expensive Drugs in the U.S.A.
March 8, 2019
Another year, another round of expensive drugs. This past November, we released a list of the top 20 most expensive outpatient drugs in the U.S., but since then, things have changed, and not for the better. As it turns out, in just four months, three drugs moved up on the list after price hikes, and… Read More
Xarelto Generic Is Still Years Away: Here’s How to Save While You Wait
March 8, 2019
Xarelto is a commonly prescribed drug that helps prevent blood clots, stroke, and atrial fibrillation. The bad news? At over $500 cash price for a typical monthly supply, Xarelto is really expensive—and it isn’t expected to be available as a generic for some time. If your doctor thinks Xarelto right for you, how can you… Read More
FDA Adds Black Box Warning to Gout Drug Uloric Over Increased Risk of Death
March 8, 2019
The FDA has officially added a black box warning to gout drug Uloric. According to an in-depth review of a large clinical trial, Uloric can cause an increased risk of death, especially from heart-related causes. Although a black box warning is the most serious type of warning given by FDA for prescription drugs, this isn’t… Read More
The 10 Worst Medications for Your Kidneys
March 7, 2019
Medications that can damage the kidneys are known as “nephrotoxic medications.” These drugs can cause direct damage to the kidneys, and their use accounts for up to 25% of acute kidney injuries. For people with even mild kidney failure, you might want to think twice (or talk to your doctor) before you take these medications…. Read More
Warfarin Alternatives: Are Eliquis and Xarelto Worth the Cost?
March 7, 2019
Eliquis (apixaban) and Xarelto (rivaroxaban) are both in a new group of anticoagulant drugs called novel oral anticoagulants (NOACs) used to prevent blood clots, stroke, and embolism, especially in people with atrial fibrillation. First approved by the FDA in 2011 and 2012, respectively, Eliquis and Xarelto quickly became two of the most popular blood thinners… Read More
New Ketamine-Based Antidepressant Gets FDA Approval
March 6, 2019
Esketamine, a promising new nasal spray medication, is now FDA-approved for difficult-to-treat depression. It is the first major new antidepressant approved in decades. Some experts are concerned over the risk for misuse, but these concerns have been––for now––outweighed by the benefits of the drug: Esketamine acts fast (within hours) and improves symptoms of depression where… Read More
Which Antibiotics Are Less Likely To Cause Diarrhea From C. diff?
March 5, 2019
Clostridioides difficile (C. diff) is a type of bacteria that causes infections in the gut and severe diarrhea, often after you’ve taken antibiotics that have cleared your intestines of healthy bacteria. C. diff releases toxins that cause inflammation in the colon and can make folks feel very sick. Some antibiotics lead to C. diff much… Read More
9 Things To Know About Generic Viagra
March 5, 2019
Back in 2017, popular erectile dysfunction medication Viagra went generic, and since then, prices have dropped to as little as $4 per pill at some pharmacies. Viagra and its generic, , are two of the most popular drugs on the market today. Their popularity has led to thousands of bad jokes and hundreds of cheesy… Read More
Low on Vitamin D? Your Medications Could Be To Blame
February 28, 2019
Vitamin D, also known as the “sunshine vitamin”, seems to always be in the news. This winter, vitamin D made headlines again when a research study confirmed that vitamin D deficiency is a risk factor for severe depression. As it turns out, some medications can contribute to low vitamin D levels, which can result in… Read More
Xanax or Ativan: Which Is Better for Anxiety?
February 28, 2019
Both alprazolam (Xanax) and lorazepam (Ativan) are considered short-acting benzodiazepines and when used for the right reasons, are quite effective for anxiety. Many of you wonder if they’re the same, which works better, and which works faster for anxiety. Let’s take a look. What are they used for? Xanax (alprazolam) is used for: anxiety disorders… Read More
Heroes and Villains in the Fight Against Heartburn – Foods, Drinks, and Medications
February 27, 2019
“Doc, what can I eat or drink that won’t make my heartburn worse?” While we often hear about triggers for heartburn, it’s important to balance out that discussion with foods, drinks, and medications that are safe. It’s all about controlling the level of acidity in your gut, so let’s take a look. Foods Heroes Starchy… Read More
How To Organize Your Medicine Cabinet Like a Pro
February 26, 2019
Are your kitchen and bathroom cabinets full of medications? If so, it’s time to get organized! Keeping your medications neat and categorized helps avoid mix-ups, saves time spent hunting for the right meds, and is easier on the eyes. Below are seven easy steps to organize your medicine cabinet like a pro. 1) Gather all… Read More
FDA Warns Against Vitamins and Supplements Falsely Claiming to Prevent and Cure Alzheimer’s
February 26, 2019
According to the FDA, certain manufacturers of dietary supplements and other over-the-counter products have falsely claimed that their products can treat or prevent Alzheimer’s disease, which causes a progressive loss of brain cells that leads to memory loss. The products included in the warning have not been reviewed by the FDA and have not been… Read More
Don’t Write Off Older Insulins Just Yet: They May Work Just As Well As Newer Insulins for Type 2 Diabetes
February 26, 2019
A study published in JAMA last month suggests that older insulins may work just as well as newer insulins for patients with type 2 diabetes. Why is this important? Newer insulins tend to be more expensive, so this could be good news for the 27 million or so Americans who have type 2 diabetes—especially since… Read More
How To Treat a Burn at Home – From Choosing an Antibiotic to Treating the Pain
February 25, 2019
In the heat of the moment, it can be stressful figuring out what to do when you get burned. Remember these steps to help heal a burn and avoid making it worse. 1) Cool the wound. Cooling is the first step. Ideally, you should find a sterile gauze and soak it in a cool saline… Read More
Marie Saves 95% on Migraine Medications With GoodRx When Insurance Doesn’t Pay
February 25, 2019
Marie experienced her first migraine at 18. Take-home migraine drugs available today hadn’t been invented yet, so she would lie in bed for days, sometimes needing a shot from the doctor for the pain. When she was prescribed her first migraine medication in her thirties, she considered it a gift. Nowadays, medications like or can… Read More
How To Save on Tresiba, the Popular Ultra Long-Acting Insulin
February 25, 2019
Insulin is expensive, and popular long-acting insulin Tresiba is no exception. With a cash price of more than $700 for three 100 unit/mL pens, the insulin is unaffordable for many patients. Luckily, there are ways for you to save. Here’s what you need to know. What is Tresiba? is an insulin used to improve blood… Read More
9 Types of Medications That Can Make Falls More Likely in Older Adults
February 20, 2019
For older adults, the idea of falling can be a source of real worry, as falls make hospitalization, disability, and death more likely. In fact, in 14% of older folks living at home and 30% living in nursing facilities, a hip fracture results in death within a year. One important way to minimize the risk… Read More
Muscle Pain From Statins? – Here’s How To Avoid This Common Side Effect
February 19, 2019
Could you commit to taking a potentially life-saving medication every day even if it meant you might experience constant muscle pain or cramps? It’s a decision millions of people who take statin medications must consider. Let’s dive deeper and find out why statins can cause muscle pain and what you can do to avoid it…. Read More
Can Grapefruit Juice Interfere With My Medications?
February 19, 2019
Yes. Sadly, grapefruit juice and actual grapefruit can interfere with the way your body deals with dozens of medications—even if you don’t drink the juice and take the pills at the same time. Just having grapefruit or grapefruit juice in your body can affect how well the medications work, and the effect can last up… Read More
GoodRx Saves Emily $3,600 a Year on Seizure Medications for Her St. Bernard, Buddy
February 19, 2019
GoodRx Helps stories often start with a single tweet, like this one: Emily, who we reached out to on Twitter, is a pediatric nurse in Omaha, Nebraska. The staff at her clinic often recommends GoodRx to patients who have trouble affording medications for their children. She says, “When we get calls from parents asking about… Read More
Prior Authorizations: What You Need To Know
February 18, 2019
Have you ever walked into the pharmacy and been told that your prescription requires a prior authorization? But your doctor prescribed something for you, and you brought in your prescription, shouldn’t that be enough? What exactly is a prior authorization, and why can’t you just pick up your prescription? Here is what you need to… Read More
These 7 Medications Can Cause Puffy Legs and Ankles
February 18, 2019
Swelling in the legs caused by pooling of fluid (or edema) is a common side effect of medications. Either the medication is the primary cause of the swelling, or it’s making already swollen legs worse. If you notice that your shoes are tight or that you have puffy legs, consider when the swelling began and… Read More
10 Things You Might Not Know About Vyvanse for ADHD
February 18, 2019
Vyvanse, used to treat attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (or ADHD), is one of the most commonly prescribed brand-name drugs in the US. Whether you’re taking Vyvanse long-term or thinking about starting it, here are 10 lesser-known—but important—things you should know. 1) Vyvanse is not just approved for ADHD. Not only is Vyvanse (lisdexamfetamine) approved to treat ADHD,… Read More
Non-Opioid Options for Pain Relief – and How To Choose Depending on Your Type of Pain
February 18, 2019
Opioids like oxycodone, hydrocodone, and morphine are often believed to be the holy grail of pain relief. But, rates of opioid abuse and overdose deaths have skyrocketed in recent years, as has our knowledge of the risks of these painkillers. Opioid medications are not the only effective painkillers out there. In fact, often, they are… Read More
Levemir Can Cost As Much As $500 Per Month – Here’s How You Can Save
February 15, 2019
This may not come as a surprise, but Levemir, a popular insulin used to treat diabetes type 1 and type 2, is expensive. A 30-day supply can cost well over $500—not good. Luckily, there are some ways to save. Here’s what you need to know. What is Levemir for? is a long-acting insulin used to… Read More
Drug Recalls: 4 Steps To Take If You Have a Recalled Medication
February 13, 2019
Believe it or not, drug recalls happen nearly every week. In the last month alone, we’ve had recalls due to labelling issues, medication mix-ups, and life-threatening adverse effects. While not all recalls are dangerous, here’s how to find out if your drug is recalled and what you should do to stay safe. Drug recall classes Drug… Read More
FDA Recalls CoaguChek Test Strips Used To Monitor Patients on Warfarin
February 13, 2019
The FDA just issued a recall for CoaguChek XS PT at-home test strips, used to monitor effects of the blood thinner, warfarin, in the body. The recall is categorized as a class I recall (the most serious kind), which means that use of the test strips could lead to serious adverse health problems or even… Read More
Naproxen (Aleve) vs. Ibuprofen (Advil): Which is the Better NSAID Pain Reliever?
February 13, 2019
Naproxen (Aleve) and ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) are two of the most popular medication choices for muscle aches, joint pain, and inflammation from conditions like osteoarthritis. Like the majority of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), both are also readily available over the counter in pharmacy and retail store aisles. So, it begs the question: Which one is… Read More
The Big 8 Constipation-Causing Medications
February 12, 2019
You are all stopped up and can’t find an obvious reason. Look over your medication list and you may find the source. Constipation has many causes but medications are among the most common. First, if your stools are too hard or too small, or pooping is too difficult or infrequent, you are constipated. Officially, constipation… Read More
Amlodipine: 9 Common Myths About the Classic Blood Pressure Drug
February 12, 2019
With several blood pressure medications recently recalled due to contamination (including valsartan and losartan), patients have been asking about switching to other options, which makes this the perfect time to take a closer look at amlodipine (Norvasc), the calcium channel blocker introduced more than 35 years ago. often gets a bad rap, but as you’ll… Read More
The 10 Worst Medications for Your Liver
February 11, 2019
Medications are an important cause of liver injury—a scary thought considering that the liver is the main organ for maintaining the body’s internal environment and ridding it of chemical toxins and waste. It’s not like the kidneys or lungs where we can use a dialysis machine or mechanical ventilator if those organs fail. For liver… Read More
What’s the Best Treatment for Bacterial Vaginosis?
February 11, 2019
If you have abnormal vaginal discharge, the most likely cause is an infection called bacterial vaginosis, or BV. You can’t catch it from sex, but having BV makes you more likely to get other sexually-transmitted diseases (STDs). It can also cause some other complications if you are pregnant or about to have gynecologic surgery. Luckily,… Read More
Generics for Hepatitis C Medications Harvoni and Epclusa Now Available in Pharmacies
February 11, 2019
Hepatitis C is a viral infection that can lead to scarring of the liver and liver cancer, and is currently one of the most expensive conditions to treat. Depending on the medication prescribed and the length of treatment, it can cost patients as much as $200,000 to treat their hepatitis C. Luckily, Gilead, one of… Read More
Activated Charcoal: The Powerful Detox Ingredient You Don’t Want in Your Regular Diet
February 7, 2019
A few years ago, activated charcoal became an instant health fad after being touted as a miracle supplement and appearing in products like teeth whiteners, face masks, and detox drinks. It also quickly caught on as a food trend—though the powder doesn’t add much in the way of flavor, it’s an effective dye that turns… Read More
How To Talk to Your Doctor About Erectile Dysfunction Medications
February 7, 2019
It’s not an easy thing to bring up. Even with patients I’ve known for years, the question comes out just as I’m leaving the room at the end of the visit: “Hey Doc, one more thing… Is there something I can use like Viagra? Will that help me?” Male sexual dysfunction affects up to one… Read More
Metoprolol Tartrate vs. Metoprolol Succinate ER: Here’s How They Differ
February 7, 2019
Metoprolol and metoprolol ER, also respectively known as metoprolol tartrate and metoprolol succinate, sound nearly identical and are used to treat very similar conditions. But despite their similarities, they have different ingredients, dosing instructions and indications, so be careful not to confuse them. Here’s all you need to know about metoprolol and metoprolol ER. What… Read More
Can My Medications Interfere With My Birth Control?
February 6, 2019
Hormonal birth control is more than 95% effective at preventing unwanted pregnancies when used correctly. But, you could be taking it correctly and still be at risk of an unwanted pregnancy if you also happen to be taking medications or supplements. The following prescription drugs and dietary supplements commonly affect how well birth control works:… Read More
The Effect of Income on U.S. Prescription Fill Patterns
February 6, 2019
It’s well known that income affects health. Studies have shown that individuals in low-income areas suffer from higher rates of conditions like depression, obesity and diabetes, and have lower self-reported health than those in high-income areas. But an in-depth look of more than 50 million US prescription claims highlights the stark health disparities between wealthy… Read More
Is Your Medication Causing Hair Loss? These 11 Drugs Are Common Culprits
February 6, 2019
It’s normal to lose a bit of hair every day, but if you notice excessive hair loss or balding, the medications you are taking could be to blame. Here are 11 drugs that have been known to cause excessive hair loss as a side effect. 1) Cholesterol-lowering medications — atorvastatin and simvastatin (Lipitor) and (Zocor)… Read More
4 Things Your Pharmacist Isn’t Telling You
February 6, 2019
Dear Pharmacy Patient, We need to talk. I’ve been noticing that you sometimes don’t pick up your refills. Often times, you’re shocked at the high price of your prescriptions. Other times, you’re frustrated because you have to wait a long time in line or your prescription isn’t ready. Believe it or not, I get it…. Read More
FDA Approves First Advair Diskus Generic for Asthma and COPD
February 4, 2019
Not one, not two, but three brand-name inhalers went generic this month. Ventolin HFA (albuterol), Proair HFA (albuterol) and now Advair Diskus (fluticasone/salmeterol) all have new generics. After years of patent disputes over the blockbuster inhaler, Advair, a new generic, manufactured by Mylan, will be available in pharmacies in the coming weeks. What is Advair?… Read More
Fewer Americans Have Health Insurance, and Those Who Do Are Paying More for It
February 1, 2019
A new GoodRx survey on health insurance reveals Americans are losing out in more ways than one: The percentage of Americans without health insurance almost doubled after the 2018 Open Enrollment period, and more than a quarter of Americans say their health insurance costs have gone up since 2017. 11% of Americans now say they… Read More
Toradol: The Most Popular Drug in the NFL You Haven’t Heard of
February 1, 2019
What if we told you that one of the most popular medications used in the National Football League (NFL) is neither an opioid nor medical marijuana? In a sport rife with injury, pain relievers are considered career-saving drugs that keep the players on the field. However, there has been a long controversy over the use… Read More
GoodRx Provides Exclusive Discount To Reduce Prescription Costs for Federal Employees Affected by the Shutdown
February 1, 2019
UPDATE: As of January 25, the shutdown is over (for 3 weeks, at least). Our Shutdown Special will continue to be available to federal employees through April 15. If you are an affected employee and want to sign up for free membership to GoodRx Gold through April 15, please do so. We would be happy… Read More
Generic Evzio (Naloxone) Will Hit Pharmacies Soon
February 1, 2019
An authorized generic of Evzio (naloxone), used to treat opioid overdose, should be in pharmacies soon. Manufacturer Kaleo (who also makes the epinephrine auto injector, Auvi-Q) released generic Evzio in an effort to improve access for patients. This generic release comes months after manufacturer Kaleo was the subject of a Senate Subcommittee investigation over pricing… Read More
How To Recognize and Treat a Tooth Infection Before It Spreads
February 1, 2019
What’s the first word that comes to mind when you think of tooth pain? For me, that word is “excruciating.” Many people relate tooth pain with a wisdom tooth coming in or a serious cavity, but a tooth infection, also known as an abscessed tooth or dental abscess, can also cause extreme pain. Tooth infections… Read More
10 Medications You Shouldn’t Mix With Alcohol
January 31, 2019
“Can I drink alcohol with this medication?” This is a question doctors are asked a lot. 55% of Americans regularly take prescription medications and 30% of Americans have at least one alcoholic drink every day. While moderate alcohol intake (less than 1 drink a day) may have heart health benefits, there is a very real… Read More
Manufacturers Rang in 2019 With Higher Prices on Brand-Name Drugs – But Here’s What’s Different This Year
January 31, 2019
Every January, drug manufacturers ring in the new year by increasing the list prices of their drugs, sometimes by over 10%. But after a year of intensifying dialogue over drug prices, manufacturers were gun shy, delaying their most recent increases and setting prices lower than expected. Last year, list prices for 580 drugs increased by… Read More
What Really Works To Prevent UTIs? – Here Are the Facts
January 30, 2019
Urinary tract infection (UTI). Bladder infection. Cystitis. These terms all refer to the same condition of having an infection in your urinary system. UTIs, which are more common in women, can cause unpleasant symptoms like burning with urination, a more frequent need to urinate, and increased urinary urgency—the feeling that you need to urinate, even… Read More
FDA Approves Generic Proair HFA for Asthma
January 29, 2019
Good news! Another generic albuterol inhaler has just hit pharmacies. Manufacturer Teva just released their generic version of Proair HFA, used to treat asthma. This has been a good week for people with asthma: GlaxoSmithKline also just released their generic inhaler for , which is now in pharmacies for as little as $30 per inhaler…. Read More
How an Uninsured Family of 5 Pays for Their Medications With GoodRx
January 28, 2019
Imagine if your family’s prescriptions cost almost $1,000 per month. All out of your pocket. Jason, a father from Jackson, New Jersey, found himself in exactly that position. He has a steady job as an insurance claims investigator, but his company doesn’t provide health insurance. In the past, his wife’s career as a teacher provided… Read More
What Is the Best Treatment for Hepatitis C?
January 27, 2019
Hepatitis C is now a curable disease. After decades of being dubbed “the silent killer”, the hepatitis C virus can now be detected easily in a clinic or pharmacy near you and—in many cases—cured with new medications called DAATs (direct-acting antiviral therapies). What is hepatitis C? Hepatitis C, or hep C, is an infection of… Read More
Here’s How To Save on Proventil for Asthma While We Wait for the Generic
January 25, 2019
Proventil is a common inhaler used to treat asthma, but it’s expensive. The cash price for one inhaler is around $100, and there is no cheap generic alternative. Luckily, there are some ways for you to save. What is Proventil? Proventil (albuterol) is a short-acting beta-agonist, a class of drugs used for the quick relief… Read More
5 Things To Know About Over-the-Counter Antihistamines
January 23, 2019
Over-the-counter antihistamines can be convenient options to treat symptoms like congestion, runny nose, sneezing, itching, rashes, and hives. You know the brands. Zyrtec, Allegra, and Benadryl are some of the most popular. But did you know there are different types of antihistamines, and they can have different effects on your body? Here are some tips… Read More
FDA Approves First Generic Version of Ventolin HFA Asthma Inhaler
January 23, 2019
Finally, some good news for patients with asthma: GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) surprised us all this week, and announced that they just released a generic version of Ventolin HFA. Why is this such big news? Currently, there are few affordable options for asthmatics and many are forced to pay hundreds out of pocket for their inhalers every… Read More
Urea Cream: Why Are There Different Over-the-Counter Strengths?
January 23, 2019
Urea, a waste product that occurs when the body breaks down proteins, is naturally occurring on the skin. It’s also something we use in skin products to soften dry, rough, and scaly skin. Choosing the right urea product can be confusing as urea comes as a lotion, cream, gel, ointment, and even a liquid suspension,… Read More
Antibiotic Resistance 101: What Are Superbugs and Why Should I Care?
January 23, 2019
Around the same time Alexander Fleming discovered penicillin in 1928, he also gave us a warning: Antibiotics will not work as well as they should if they’re used too often or for the wrong illnesses. He was talking about antibiotic resistance. Since their discovery, antibiotics have saved millions of lives, but bacteria are fighting back… Read More
Here’s Why Your Pharmacist Won’t Fill Your Prescription — and What You Can Do About It
January 23, 2019
Have you ever taken a prescription to the pharmacy counter only to find out that your pharmacist won’t fill it? This scenario happens more often than you might think. From illegible handwriting to a pharmacist’s moral beliefs, you may find yourself having to jump through some hoops to get your prescription filled. Here are seven… Read More
No insurance? No problem: How Katherine saves over 90% on her GERD medication with GoodRx Gold
January 23, 2019
Katherine, residing in the countryside of southwest Florida, has multiple chronic conditions, which means she needs to take, and fill, several medications on an ongoing basis. For someone with health insurance, the typical copay for each of these medications ranges from about $15 to $90, but Katherine doesn’t have health insurance. In fact, she doesn’t… Read More
4 Unexpected Causes of Erectile Dysfunction
January 23, 2019
Erectile dysfunction (ED) is a common condition in men characterized by the inability to develop or maintain an erection. Most turn immediately to treatments, like Cialis and Viagra, when they experience ED symptoms, but few look into what may be causing their ED in the first place. Before you ask your doctor about medications, read… Read More
9 Medications That Can Interfere With Your Workout
January 21, 2019
When you start taking a new medication, it’s standard practice to think about how it might interact with other medications you’re taking, other medical conditions you may have, and even foods you eat. But did you know that some medications can also affect your exercise routine? Here’s a list of nine drug classes you should… Read More
7 Common Myths about Atorvastatin
January 21, 2019
Atorvastatin (Lipitor), one of the top 10 most commonly prescribed drugs, is great at lowering cholesterol but often gets a bad rap. Muscle pain and cramps, diarrhea, and stomach upset are adverse reactions known to occur with , and those deserve attention for sure. But, studies suggest that only around 50% of patients who receive… Read More
FDA Approves First Over-the-Counter Device To Treat Sinus Pain
January 20, 2019
We have great news for those of you suffering from allergy-related sinus pain. The FDA just approved the first over-the-counter (OTC) medical device for sinus pain, ClearUP. Here’s what you need to know about the new device. How does ClearUP work? The ClearUP device is the first of its kind, treating sinus pain through electrical… Read More
FDA Approves Generic Latuda for Schizophrenia and Bipolar Depression
January 17, 2019
After a long wait, generic Latuda (lurasidone), used to treat schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, has been approved by the FDA and should be available in pharmacies soon, according to manufacturer Lupin Pharmaceuticals. The cash price for a 30-day supply of brand-name is around $1,500. Lurasidone’s release could be a reprieve for patients struggling to afford… Read More
How To Get Birth Control Without a Doctor’s Prescription in 3 Simple Steps
January 15, 2019
More and more women across the US can now get hormonal birth control without the hassle of needing a doctor to prescribe it. Depending on the state, this means easier access to contraception methods like the pill, the patch, the ring or the shot. Washington D.C. and 10 states – California, Colorado, Hawaii, Maryland,… Read More
What Happened to $4 Generics?
January 15, 2019
For almost a decade, pharmacy chains nationwide have offered discounted generics through membership programs. When the first generic program was created by Kmart, pharmacy chains like CVS and Kroger followed suit, offering a large number of medications at a discounted rate, or even for free. The programs were classic “loss leaders,” designed to bring foot… Read More
Treating a Sore Throat: How To Choose Between Advil, Tylenol, and Aspirin for Pain Relief
January 15, 2019
Most sore throats in adults resolve on their own without prescription drugs, so at-home remedies are often the go-to here. Along with soothing throat lozenges and general hydration, an over-the-counter pain reliever like Advil, Tylenol, or aspirin can help treat the pain. These drugs all work within 1-2 hours, with effects lasting several hours, but… Read More
8 Medications and Supplements To Leave Behind in 2018
January 11, 2019
With news in 2018 about medications not working as we predicted and supplements turning out to be fads, I found myself responding to a lot of similar questions from patients. Let’s see what we can leave behind as we kick off the new year. Medications 1) Levofloxacin (Levaquin) Levofloxacin (Levaquin) is an antibiotic often prescribed… Read More
New Inhaled Parkinson’s Medication Receives FDA Approval
January 11, 2019
The FDA just approved a new drug for Parkinson’s disease, a nervous system disorder that affects movement and causes tremors, muscle stiffness, and problems with speech, walking, and writing. The current drug of choice for Parkinson’s disease is the combination medication, , but unfortunately, it comes with some limitations. Patients with Parkinson’s taking carbidopa/levodopa experience… Read More
Lauren’s High-Deductible Health Plan Meant Expensive Copays – Until She Used GoodRx
January 11, 2019
Lauren counts herself lucky—she has a steady job at a large company, and her employer provides health insurance. There’s just one catch: the only plan offered by her company has a very high deductible of $3,500. In insurance-speak, this is called a high-deductible health plan, or HDHP. Last year, 46% of Americans with employment-based insurance… Read More
Hydrochlorothiazide vs. Chlorthalidone: Which Is Better and Should I Switch?
January 11, 2019
If your blood pressure is too high, you could be at risk for heart disease, stroke, and kidney failure. Hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) is one of the most commonly prescribed generic medications to lower blood pressure and protect people from these issues, but it turns out there’s an alternative that might be more effective—chlorthalidone. (HCTZ) and are… Read More
FreeStyle Libre 10 Day vs. 14 Day – Here’s What You Need To Know
January 8, 2019
Approved in 2017, the FreeStyle Libre 10 day system rocked the diabetes world, making it easier than ever for diabetics to continuously monitor their blood sugar. However, just one year later, manufacturer Abbott released a new and improved sensor, FreeStyle Libre 14 day. With two similar continuous glucose meters on the market from the same… Read More
Dr. Sharon Answers 10 of Your Most Common Health Concerns – 2019 Edition
January 8, 2019
“Should I be worried about this?” “Is this dangerous?” As we kick off 2019, I’ve gathered a list of common health concerns voiced by my patients. Remember: Nothing replaces reaching out to your doctor who will help reassure you. But in the meantime, let’s take a look at answers to 10 of your most pressing… Read More
FDA Approves First Digital Inhaler, With an Expected Availability Date of 2020
January 7, 2019
Teva Pharmaceuticals recently announced that the FDA approved ProAir Digihaler, the first and only dry powder digital rescue inhaler used to treat asthma and COPD. While this is a big step for inhalers, Digihaler likely won’t be available for at least another year. How does ProAir Digihaler work? ProAir Digihaler is a rescue inhaler containing… Read More
Michael’s HMO Plan Was a Hassle and Didn’t Cover His Heart Medication, So He Turned to GoodRx
January 7, 2019
Living in San Francisco, I’m inundated with technology startups at every turn. I mean this in the literal sense, as the Northern Californian GoodRx office is located across the park from Dropbox, down the street from Pinterest, and smack in the middle between Airbnb and LinkedIn. I’ll often discover college friends or past acquaintances now… Read More
Do IUDs Cause Weight Gain? – Here Are the Facts
January 6, 2019
For some girls and women starting birth control, one of the first questions is, “Will I gain weight?” Weight gain can be a side effect of traditional forms of birth control like “the pill”, but what about newer contraceptives like intrauterine devices (IUDs)? Here’s the short answer: It’s possible. Let’s talk about how IUDs work,… Read More
Bruising for No Reason? It Could Be Due to These Medications
January 3, 2019
I bruise easily. Is there something wrong with me? Bruises on the legs and arms are common and rarely anything to worry about, even if you don’t remember a specific injury. But bruising on the trunk, back or face is weird, and your doctor needs to see that—especially in the absence of any trauma. Bruising,… Read More
Which Flu Vaccine Should I Get?
January 3, 2019
Fluarix. Fluzone. Flucelvax. Flublok. That’s just the beginning. Did you know there are 10 different flu vaccine options this year? If you’re feeling lost, don’t fret. Here, we’ll walk you through what to consider with each vaccine, so you can choose the best one for you. Although no prevention method will guarantee you won’t get sick,… Read More
Plan B, A to Z: Everything You Need To Know About Emergency Contraception
January 2, 2019
Emergency contraception (Plan B or the morning-after pill) has changed so much in the past few decades, it can be difficult to know where things stand. There are more options than ever before to prevent pregnancy after birth control failure or unprotected sex, and many are now available over the counter. To get you up… Read More
Here’s How To Save on Tamiflu This Flu Season
January 2, 2019
Between missed work, doctors visits and medical costs, the flu can get expensive. To shorten the duration of the flu, some folks turn to Tamiflu—but it’s not cheap. Brand-name Tamiflu can cost more than $160 for one treatment, and the generic, oseltamivir, can cost well over $100. Luckily, here are some ways you can save…. Read More
Will My Insurance Pay for GoodRx?
January 2, 2019
When you use GoodRx to pay for a prescription, you are choosing to pay without insurance. But you can ask your insurer to reimburse you or to apply your purchase against your deductible. Here’s how to apply a payment made with a GoodRx coupon to your insurance deductible. Nearly half of Americans now have high-deductible… Read More
These 7 Medications Can Prevent You From Donating Blood
January 2, 2019
New year, new goals. For many, that means giving more, and with January being National Blood Donor Month, you might want to consider donating blood to help those in need. As with any tissue or organ donation, precautions must be taken to ensure that donated blood isn’t harmful for sick patients. It surprises many folks… Read More
5 Ways To Keep Your Costs Low With a High-Deductible Health Plan
January 1, 2019
Are you trying to make sense of your high-deductible health plan (HDHP) but don’t know where to start? If you are new to having an HDHP, you’re not alone. Many employers are switching over to high-deductible health insurance plans this year, which can mean some sticker shock if your prescription isn’t covered until you meet… Read More
What Medications Should You Pack in Your Travel First Aid Kit?
December 31, 2018
Whether you’re traveling to a tropical destination or a winter wonderland, don’t let health issues throw a wrench in your plans. In addition to getting required vaccines for certain destinations, you’ll want to see your doctor or visit a travel medicine clinic for advice about packing some of the following medications, which may make your… Read More
Do You Really Need Medicine for High Blood Pressure?
December 30, 2018
You may not want to take a daily medicine for high blood pressure when you don’t feel any negative symptoms. Or, some patients who don’t like taking hypertension medications say their blood pressure “goes up and down throughout the day, so the medicine isn’t working” (even though it’s normal for blood pressure to change throughout… Read More
These 15 Medications Can Cause a False Positive on Drug Tests
December 26, 2018
We hear “false positive” as a defense from professional athletes all the time when it comes to drug screens—but unexpected results on drug tests really do happen. A urine drug screen tests for the presence of certain illegal drugs and prescription medications. Whether you’re applying for a job or playing professional sports, you could also be affected… Read More
How To Use GoodRx With Your High-Deductible Health Plan and HSA
December 26, 2018
High-deductible health plans (HDHPs), those that require members to spend a large amount before they see any help from their insurance, are becoming the norm. In 2009, about 7% of large employers in the US offered only high-deductible plans. That percentage has more than quadrupled to 39% today. But just because HDHPs are becoming the… Read More
6 Ways To Get Rid of Cough From Post-Nasal Drip
December 21, 2018
Post-nasal drip is what happens when the sinuses make so much mucus that the mucus runs down the back of your throat, and it can cause a chronic cough known as upper airway cough syndrome (UACS). If you have a cough that won’t go away, along with nasal congestion, dripping mucus in your throat, a… Read More
These Top 10 Tweets of 2018 Show Us Why GoodRx Users Are the Best
December 21, 2018
This year alone, we saved Americans $3.8 billion on their prescription medications. We also connected with our users in more ways than before by revamping the GoodRx blog, hosting events and featuring real-life stories from customers—like you! With 2018 drawing to a close, we look back at some memorable tweets that remind us why we… Read More
Use It or Lose It: 10 FSA-Eligible Expenses To Know Before Your Cash Expires
December 21, 2018
We’ll start this off by saying, “Don’t panic.” While the end of 2018 is fast approaching, and FSAs (or flexible spending accounts) do in fact have a deadline of December 31 to spend your funds, some companies offer a grace period of a few months to submit a claim. Other companies will roll a portion… Read More
2018 in Review: The Good(Rx) and the Bad in Prescription Drug Prices
December 21, 2018
2018 has been the year of drug prices. From the new ban on pharmacist gag clauses, to new proposed rules surrounding drug commercials, drug prices have been in the news and in the public eye. But despite the headlines, outrage and new policies, prices continued to climb in 2018. According to a GoodRx analysis, from… Read More
Why We All Need a Lesson on Drug Prices, Including Me
December 21, 2018
Hi, I’m Doug. I co-founded GoodRx, a company that helps more than 10 million Americans save on their prescriptions every month. While many people find drug and medical prices confusing, I don’t—because I’ve spent the last eight years studying drug prices and I’ve got a team of 120 experts and gobs of data to help… Read More
These 5 Types of Medications Can Cause Erectile Dysfunction
December 21, 2018
Did you know that medications cause one-quarter of all erectile dysfunction cases? If you have noticed issues getting and maintaining a satisfying erection, a good place to start looking is the meds you are taking. Next, ask yourself and your doctor: Do you really need to take that medication? Can you switch to another medication… Read More
Xofluza vs. Tamiflu: Which is Better for Treating the Flu?
December 20, 2018
This past October, Xofluza became the first medication approved to treat influenza in 20 years. Its once daily dosing and ability to reduce the duration of the flu make Xofluza an attractive option for many patients during flu season. But how does it compare to the popular treatment, Tamiflu? Here’s what you need to know…. Read More
Which Medications Work Best To Help Me Stop Drinking?
December 20, 2018
Interventions like group or individual therapy can be effective for alcohol abuse, but 70% of people relapse after psychosocial treatment alone. There are several medications that can be used to treat alcohol use disorder, reduce heavy drinking, and help with abstinence. Here are the fab five to get to know. 1) Naltrexone (Vivitrol) (Vivitrol) is… Read More
FDA Approves Rituxan Biosimilar, Truxima, To Treat Adult Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma
December 20, 2018
Last month, Celltrion Healthcare received FDA approval for Truxima, the first biosimilar for Rituxan, to treat non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. Truxima is the fifteenth biosimilar approved in the United States, and will be available at a reduced cost compared to the expensive reference product Rituxan. What is a biosimilar? A biosimilar is technically the “generic” version of… Read More
Gabapentin for What? – 9 Surprising Uses for Gabapentin, From Hot Flashes to Social Anxiety
December 20, 2018
Originally approved as an anti-seizure medication, gabapentin (Neurontin) is one of the most popular drugs in the country. In addition to treating seizures, gabapentin is widely used today to treat nerve pain related to diabetes, lumbar spine disc disease, and shingles. But as it turns out, this drug has many other interesting benefits. Let’s take… Read More
For daily news and savings tips, follow us on Twitter @goodrx
These popular articles are a good starting point to learn more about GoodRx and how to save money on prescription drugs.
Don&apos;t miss out on savings!
Get the best ways to save on your prescriptions delivered to your inbox.
By signing up, I agree to GoodRx's terms of service and privacy policy.
Savings & Tips
Here’s How the New Sanofi and Cigna Insulin Savings Programs Will Work—and Who They Can Benefit
April 24, 2019
Coinciding with congressional hearings this month focused on ongoing insulin price hikes, two large healthcare companies, drug manufacturer Sanofi and insurer Cigna, have proposed saving programs to give qualifying Americans with diabetes cheaper access to insulin. Below, we outline the details of these insulin savings programs, and what they may mean for you. Sanofi Insulins… Read More
Here’s How the New Sanofi and Cigna Insulin Savings Programs Will Work—and Who They Can Benefit
April 24, 2019
How To Save Up to 80% on Pet Medications With GoodRx
April 11, 2019
20 Drugs That May be Cheaper With GoodRx Than With Insurance
April 5, 2019
7 Health Conditions Linked to Vitamin D Deficiency – From Diabetes to Dementia
April 24, 2019
Can Antidepressants and Anti-Anxiety Drugs Cause Erectile Dysfunction?
April 24, 2019
Here’s How Depression and Anxiety Can Lead to Erectile Dysfunction
April 24, 2019
7 Surprising Benefits of Jardiance Besides Treating Type 2 Diabetes
April 22, 2019
Blood Pressure Drug Losartan Recalled Due to Contamination – What You Need To Know
April 19, 2019
What’s the Best Medication for Alzheimer’s Dementia?
April 16, 2019
The Truth About Sulfa Allergies: Should You Avoid Other Drugs If You’re Allergic to Bactrim?
April 16, 2019
Does an Enlarged Prostate or Prostate Cancer Cause Erectile Dysfunction?
April 16, 2019
I Have Erectile Dysfunction But Can’t Take Viagra – What Now?
April 16, 2019
Erectile Dysfunction and Heart Disease: What’s the Connection?
April 16, 2019
Choosing the Best ADHD Medication: A Treatment Guide for Adults and Children
April 16, 2019
The GoodRx List Price Index Reveals the Rising Cost of All Diabetes Treatments – Not Just Insulin
April 10, 2019
GoodRx Is Nominated as This Year’s Best Health Site. Vote and Help Us Win!
April 9, 2019
Drug Prices Continue To Rise Amid Talks on Capitol Hill To Rein in Costs: GoodRx Monthly Report
April 9, 2019
High-Dose Nifedipine May Be Linked to Higher Cardiac Arrest Risk
April 3, 2019
How To Take Cialis – 4 Tips To Get the Best Results
April 2, 2019
FDA Approves Zulresso, the First Medication for Postpartum Depression
March 29, 2019
Taking Viagra for the First Time? – Here’s How To Get the Best Results
March 29, 2019
Diabetes and Erectile Dysfunction – What You Need To Know
March 29, 2019
The Top 10 Causes of Erectile Dysfunction
March 29, 2019
$10 Billion and Counting: How GoodRx Helps America Save on Healthcare
March 28, 2019
Does Lisinopril Cause Erectile Dysfunction?
March 28, 2019
The Best Medication for Insomnia: Ambien, Sonata, or Lunesta?
March 26, 2019
Avoid the Sun If You Take These Drugs
March 26, 2019
FDA Approves New Once-Daily Eye Drops for Glaucoma
March 26, 2019
7 Uses for Spironolactone – From Heart Failure to Hair Loss
March 26, 2019
9 Ways to Help Your Pharmacist Fill Your Prescription
March 26, 2019
Belviq for Weight Loss: Is It Safe and How Well Does It Work?
March 26, 2019
How Much Vitamin D Do I Need To Take?
March 26, 2019
Marinol vs. Marijuana: What’s the Difference?
March 22, 2019
5 Things You May Not Know About Omeprazole
March 22, 2019
First Liquid Levothyroxine for Hypothyroidism Now Available in Pharmacies
March 22, 2019
These Drugs Can Mess With Your Potassium Levels
March 22, 2019
Viagra, Cialis, or Levitra: Which Is Best for Erectile Dysfunction?
March 18, 2019
Helping Patients Afford Prescriptions – Tips for Pharmacy Staff From the GoodRx Patient Advocacy Team
March 18, 2019
When You Can’t Use Valsartan, Which Is Best: Losartan, Olmesartan, or Telmisartan?
March 15, 2019
The 8 Most Common Prescription Drugs Suspiciously Found in Supplements
March 15, 2019
Seeing Green in Your Urine This St. Patrick’s Day? One of These Medications Could Be the Cause
March 15, 2019
10 Medications That Are Dangerous to Stop Abruptly
March 14, 2019
What Is Lyrica Used For?
March 14, 2019
Coming Soon: New Generic Humalog at Half the Price of the Brand
March 12, 2019
Why This Year’s Flu Season Is Still Raging On
March 10, 2019
Vaccinations for Pneumonia: Pneumovax 23 vs. Prevnar 13
March 9, 2019
Popularity of Brand-Name Asthma Inhalers Plunges With Approval of Generics: GoodRx Monthly Report
March 9, 2019
The 20 Most Expensive Drugs in the U.S.A.
March 8, 2019
Xarelto Generic Is Still Years Away: Here’s How to Save While You Wait
March 8, 2019
FDA Adds Black Box Warning to Gout Drug Uloric Over Increased Risk of Death
March 8, 2019
The 10 Worst Medications for Your Kidneys
March 7, 2019
Warfarin Alternatives: Are Eliquis and Xarelto Worth the Cost?
March 7, 2019
New Ketamine-Based Antidepressant Gets FDA Approval
March 6, 2019
Which Antibiotics Are Less Likely To Cause Diarrhea From C. diff?
March 5, 2019
9 Things To Know About Generic Viagra
March 5, 2019
Low on Vitamin D? Your Medications Could Be To Blame
February 28, 2019
Xanax or Ativan: Which Is Better for Anxiety?
February 28, 2019
Heroes and Villains in the Fight Against Heartburn – Foods, Drinks, and Medications
February 27, 2019
How To Organize Your Medicine Cabinet Like a Pro
February 26, 2019
FDA Warns Against Vitamins and Supplements Falsely Claiming to Prevent and Cure Alzheimer’s
February 26, 2019
Don’t Write Off Older Insulins Just Yet: They May Work Just As Well As Newer Insulins for Type 2 Diabetes
February 26, 2019
How To Treat a Burn at Home – From Choosing an Antibiotic to Treating the Pain
February 25, 2019
Marie Saves 95% on Migraine Medications With GoodRx When Insurance Doesn’t Pay
February 25, 2019
How To Save on Tresiba, the Popular Ultra Long-Acting Insulin
February 25, 2019
9 Types of Medications That Can Make Falls More Likely in Older Adults
February 20, 2019
Muscle Pain From Statins? – Here’s How To Avoid This Common Side Effect
February 19, 2019
Can Grapefruit Juice Interfere With My Medications?
February 19, 2019
GoodRx Saves Emily $3,600 a Year on Seizure Medications for Her St. Bernard, Buddy
February 19, 2019
Prior Authorizations: What You Need To Know
February 18, 2019
These 7 Medications Can Cause Puffy Legs and Ankles
February 18, 2019
10 Things You Might Not Know About Vyvanse for ADHD
February 18, 2019
Non-Opioid Options for Pain Relief – and How To Choose Depending on Your Type of Pain
February 18, 2019
Levemir Can Cost As Much As $500 Per Month – Here’s How You Can Save
February 15, 2019
Drug Recalls: 4 Steps To Take If You Have a Recalled Medication
February 13, 2019
FDA Recalls CoaguChek Test Strips Used To Monitor Patients on Warfarin
February 13, 2019
Naproxen (Aleve) vs. Ibuprofen (Advil): Which is the Better NSAID Pain Reliever?
February 13, 2019
The Big 8 Constipation-Causing Medications
February 12, 2019
Amlodipine: 9 Common Myths About the Classic Blood Pressure Drug
February 12, 2019
The 10 Worst Medications for Your Liver
February 11, 2019
What’s the Best Treatment for Bacterial Vaginosis?
February 11, 2019
Generics for Hepatitis C Medications Harvoni and Epclusa Now Available in Pharmacies
February 11, 2019
Activated Charcoal: The Powerful Detox Ingredient You Don’t Want in Your Regular Diet
February 7, 2019
How To Talk to Your Doctor About Erectile Dysfunction Medications
February 7, 2019
Metoprolol Tartrate vs. Metoprolol Succinate ER: Here’s How They Differ
February 7, 2019
Can My Medications Interfere With My Birth Control?
February 6, 2019
The Effect of Income on U.S. Prescription Fill Patterns
February 6, 2019
Is Your Medication Causing Hair Loss? These 11 Drugs Are Common Culprits
February 6, 2019
4 Things Your Pharmacist Isn’t Telling You
February 6, 2019
FDA Approves First Advair Diskus Generic for Asthma and COPD
February 4, 2019
Fewer Americans Have Health Insurance, and Those Who Do Are Paying More for It
February 1, 2019
Toradol: The Most Popular Drug in the NFL You Haven’t Heard of
February 1, 2019
GoodRx Provides Exclusive Discount To Reduce Prescription Costs for Federal Employees Affected by the Shutdown
February 1, 2019
Generic Evzio (Naloxone) Will Hit Pharmacies Soon
February 1, 2019
How To Recognize and Treat a Tooth Infection Before It Spreads
February 1, 2019
10 Medications You Shouldn’t Mix With Alcohol
January 31, 2019
Manufacturers Rang in 2019 With Higher Prices on Brand-Name Drugs – But Here’s What’s Different This Year
January 31, 2019
What Really Works To Prevent UTIs? – Here Are the Facts
January 30, 2019
FDA Approves Generic Proair HFA for Asthma
January 29, 2019
How an Uninsured Family of 5 Pays for Their Medications With GoodRx
January 28, 2019
What Is the Best Treatment for Hepatitis C?
January 27, 2019
Here’s How To Save on Proventil for Asthma While We Wait for the Generic
January 25, 2019
5 Things To Know About Over-the-Counter Antihistamines
January 23, 2019
FDA Approves First Generic Version of Ventolin HFA Asthma Inhaler
January 23, 2019
Urea Cream: Why Are There Different Over-the-Counter Strengths?
January 23, 2019
Antibiotic Resistance 101: What Are Superbugs and Why Should I Care?
January 23, 2019
Here’s Why Your Pharmacist Won’t Fill Your Prescription — and What You Can Do About It
January 23, 2019
No insurance? No problem: How Katherine saves over 90% on her GERD medication with GoodRx Gold
January 23, 2019
4 Unexpected Causes of Erectile Dysfunction
January 23, 2019
9 Medications That Can Interfere With Your Workout
January 21, 2019
7 Common Myths about Atorvastatin
January 21, 2019
FDA Approves First Over-the-Counter Device To Treat Sinus Pain
January 20, 2019
FDA Approves Generic Latuda for Schizophrenia and Bipolar Depression
January 17, 2019
How To Get Birth Control Without a Doctor’s Prescription in 3 Simple Steps
January 15, 2019
What Happened to $4 Generics?
January 15, 2019
Treating a Sore Throat: How To Choose Between Advil, Tylenol, and Aspirin for Pain Relief
January 15, 2019
8 Medications and Supplements To Leave Behind in 2018
January 11, 2019
New Inhaled Parkinson’s Medication Receives FDA Approval
January 11, 2019
Lauren’s High-Deductible Health Plan Meant Expensive Copays – Until She Used GoodRx
January 11, 2019
Hydrochlorothiazide vs. Chlorthalidone: Which Is Better and Should I Switch?
January 11, 2019
FreeStyle Libre 10 Day vs. 14 Day – Here’s What You Need To Know
January 8, 2019
Dr. Sharon Answers 10 of Your Most Common Health Concerns – 2019 Edition
January 8, 2019
FDA Approves First Digital Inhaler, With an Expected Availability Date of 2020
January 7, 2019
Michael’s HMO Plan Was a Hassle and Didn’t Cover His Heart Medication, So He Turned to GoodRx
January 7, 2019
Do IUDs Cause Weight Gain? – Here Are the Facts
January 6, 2019
Bruising for No Reason? It Could Be Due to These Medications
January 3, 2019
Which Flu Vaccine Should I Get?
January 3, 2019
Plan B, A to Z: Everything You Need To Know About Emergency Contraception
January 2, 2019
Here’s How To Save on Tamiflu This Flu Season
January 2, 2019
Will My Insurance Pay for GoodRx?
January 2, 2019
These 7 Medications Can Prevent You From Donating Blood
January 2, 2019
5 Ways To Keep Your Costs Low With a High-Deductible Health Plan
January 1, 2019
What Medications Should You Pack in Your Travel First Aid Kit?
December 31, 2018
Do You Really Need Medicine for High Blood Pressure?
December 30, 2018
These 15 Medications Can Cause a False Positive on Drug Tests
December 26, 2018
How To Use GoodRx With Your High-Deductible Health Plan and HSA
December 26, 2018
6 Ways To Get Rid of Cough From Post-Nasal Drip
December 21, 2018
These Top 10 Tweets of 2018 Show Us Why GoodRx Users Are the Best
December 21, 2018
Use It or Lose It: 10 FSA-Eligible Expenses To Know Before Your Cash Expires
December 21, 2018
2018 in Review: The Good(Rx) and the Bad in Prescription Drug Prices
December 21, 2018
Why We All Need a Lesson on Drug Prices, Including Me
December 21, 2018
These 5 Types of Medications Can Cause Erectile Dysfunction
December 21, 2018
Xofluza vs. Tamiflu: Which is Better for Treating the Flu?
December 20, 2018
Which Medications Work Best To Help Me Stop Drinking?
December 20, 2018
FDA Approves Rituxan Biosimilar, Truxima, To Treat Adult Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma
December 20, 2018
Gabapentin for What? – 9 Surprising Uses for Gabapentin, From Hot Flashes to Social Anxiety
December 20, 2018
Read more Savings & Tips posts
Medicine & Health
7 Health Conditions Linked to Vitamin D Deficiency – From Diabetes to Dementia
April 24, 2019
You know you need vitamin D for strong, healthy bones, but that’s not all it’s good for. Research shows that low levels of vitamin D, also known as vitamin D deficiency, are related to a host of other conditions—from heart disease to dementia. Here, we’ll discuss seven health conditions that are linked to vitamin D… Read More
7 Health Conditions Linked to Vitamin D Deficiency – From Diabetes to Dementia
April 24, 2019
Can Antidepressants and Anti-Anxiety Drugs Cause Erectile Dysfunction?
April 24, 2019
Here’s How Depression and Anxiety Can Lead to Erectile Dysfunction
April 24, 2019
Here’s How the New Sanofi and Cigna Insulin Savings Programs Will Work—and Who They Can Benefit
April 24, 2019
7 Surprising Benefits of Jardiance Besides Treating Type 2 Diabetes
April 22, 2019
Blood Pressure Drug Losartan Recalled Due to Contamination – What You Need To Know
April 19, 2019
What’s the Best Medication for Alzheimer’s Dementia?
April 16, 2019
The Truth About Sulfa Allergies: Should You Avoid Other Drugs If You’re Allergic to Bactrim?
April 16, 2019
Does an Enlarged Prostate or Prostate Cancer Cause Erectile Dysfunction?
April 16, 2019
I Have Erectile Dysfunction But Can’t Take Viagra – What Now?
April 16, 2019
Erectile Dysfunction and Heart Disease: What’s the Connection?
April 16, 2019
Choosing the Best ADHD Medication: A Treatment Guide for Adults and Children
April 16, 2019
How To Save Up to 80% on Pet Medications With GoodRx
April 11, 2019
The GoodRx List Price Index Reveals the Rising Cost of All Diabetes Treatments – Not Just Insulin
April 10, 2019
GoodRx Is Nominated as This Year’s Best Health Site. Vote and Help Us Win!
April 9, 2019
Drug Prices Continue To Rise Amid Talks on Capitol Hill To Rein in Costs: GoodRx Monthly Report
April 9, 2019
20 Drugs That May be Cheaper With GoodRx Than With Insurance
April 5, 2019
High-Dose Nifedipine May Be Linked to Higher Cardiac Arrest Risk
April 3, 2019
How To Take Cialis – 4 Tips To Get the Best Results
April 2, 2019
FDA Approves Zulresso, the First Medication for Postpartum Depression
March 29, 2019
Taking Viagra for the First Time? – Here’s How To Get the Best Results
March 29, 2019
Diabetes and Erectile Dysfunction – What You Need To Know
March 29, 2019
The Top 10 Causes of Erectile Dysfunction
March 29, 2019
$10 Billion and Counting: How GoodRx Helps America Save on Healthcare
March 28, 2019
Does Lisinopril Cause Erectile Dysfunction?
March 28, 2019
The Best Medication for Insomnia: Ambien, Sonata, or Lunesta?
March 26, 2019
Avoid the Sun If You Take These Drugs
March 26, 2019
FDA Approves New Once-Daily Eye Drops for Glaucoma
March 26, 2019
7 Uses for Spironolactone – From Heart Failure to Hair Loss
March 26, 2019
9 Ways to Help Your Pharmacist Fill Your Prescription
March 26, 2019
Belviq for Weight Loss: Is It Safe and How Well Does It Work?
March 26, 2019
How Much Vitamin D Do I Need To Take?
March 26, 2019
Marinol vs. Marijuana: What’s the Difference?
March 22, 2019
5 Things You May Not Know About Omeprazole
March 22, 2019
First Liquid Levothyroxine for Hypothyroidism Now Available in Pharmacies
March 22, 2019
These Drugs Can Mess With Your Potassium Levels
March 22, 2019
Viagra, Cialis, or Levitra: Which Is Best for Erectile Dysfunction?
March 18, 2019
Helping Patients Afford Prescriptions – Tips for Pharmacy Staff From the GoodRx Patient Advocacy Team
March 18, 2019
When You Can’t Use Valsartan, Which Is Best: Losartan, Olmesartan, or Telmisartan?
March 15, 2019
The 8 Most Common Prescription Drugs Suspiciously Found in Supplements
March 15, 2019
Seeing Green in Your Urine This St. Patrick’s Day? One of These Medications Could Be the Cause
March 15, 2019
10 Medications That Are Dangerous to Stop Abruptly
March 14, 2019
What Is Lyrica Used For?
March 14, 2019
Coming Soon: New Generic Humalog at Half the Price of the Brand
March 12, 2019
Why This Year’s Flu Season Is Still Raging On
March 10, 2019
Vaccinations for Pneumonia: Pneumovax 23 vs. Prevnar 13
March 9, 2019
Popularity of Brand-Name Asthma Inhalers Plunges With Approval of Generics: GoodRx Monthly Report
March 9, 2019
The 20 Most Expensive Drugs in the U.S.A.
March 8, 2019
Xarelto Generic Is Still Years Away: Here’s How to Save While You Wait
March 8, 2019
FDA Adds Black Box Warning to Gout Drug Uloric Over Increased Risk of Death
March 8, 2019
The 10 Worst Medications for Your Kidneys
March 7, 2019
Warfarin Alternatives: Are Eliquis and Xarelto Worth the Cost?
March 7, 2019
New Ketamine-Based Antidepressant Gets FDA Approval
March 6, 2019
Which Antibiotics Are Less Likely To Cause Diarrhea From C. diff?
March 5, 2019
9 Things To Know About Generic Viagra
March 5, 2019
Low on Vitamin D? Your Medications Could Be To Blame
February 28, 2019
Xanax or Ativan: Which Is Better for Anxiety?
February 28, 2019
Heroes and Villains in the Fight Against Heartburn – Foods, Drinks, and Medications
February 27, 2019
How To Organize Your Medicine Cabinet Like a Pro
February 26, 2019
FDA Warns Against Vitamins and Supplements Falsely Claiming to Prevent and Cure Alzheimer’s
February 26, 2019
Don’t Write Off Older Insulins Just Yet: They May Work Just As Well As Newer Insulins for Type 2 Diabetes
February 26, 2019
How To Treat a Burn at Home – From Choosing an Antibiotic to Treating the Pain
February 25, 2019
Marie Saves 95% on Migraine Medications With GoodRx When Insurance Doesn’t Pay
February 25, 2019
How To Save on Tresiba, the Popular Ultra Long-Acting Insulin
February 25, 2019
9 Types of Medications That Can Make Falls More Likely in Older Adults
February 20, 2019
Muscle Pain From Statins? – Here’s How To Avoid This Common Side Effect
February 19, 2019
Can Grapefruit Juice Interfere With My Medications?
February 19, 2019
GoodRx Saves Emily $3,600 a Year on Seizure Medications for Her St. Bernard, Buddy
February 19, 2019
Prior Authorizations: What You Need To Know
February 18, 2019
These 7 Medications Can Cause Puffy Legs and Ankles
February 18, 2019
10 Things You Might Not Know About Vyvanse for ADHD
February 18, 2019
Non-Opioid Options for Pain Relief – and How To Choose Depending on Your Type of Pain
February 18, 2019
Levemir Can Cost As Much As $500 Per Month – Here’s How You Can Save
February 15, 2019
Drug Recalls: 4 Steps To Take If You Have a Recalled Medication
February 13, 2019
FDA Recalls CoaguChek Test Strips Used To Monitor Patients on Warfarin
February 13, 2019
Naproxen (Aleve) vs. Ibuprofen (Advil): Which is the Better NSAID Pain Reliever?
February 13, 2019
The Big 8 Constipation-Causing Medications
February 12, 2019
Amlodipine: 9 Common Myths About the Classic Blood Pressure Drug
February 12, 2019
The 10 Worst Medications for Your Liver
February 11, 2019
What’s the Best Treatment for Bacterial Vaginosis?
February 11, 2019
Generics for Hepatitis C Medications Harvoni and Epclusa Now Available in Pharmacies
February 11, 2019
Activated Charcoal: The Powerful Detox Ingredient You Don’t Want in Your Regular Diet
February 7, 2019
How To Talk to Your Doctor About Erectile Dysfunction Medications
February 7, 2019
Metoprolol Tartrate vs. Metoprolol Succinate ER: Here’s How They Differ
February 7, 2019
Can My Medications Interfere With My Birth Control?
February 6, 2019
The Effect of Income on U.S. Prescription Fill Patterns
February 6, 2019
Is Your Medication Causing Hair Loss? These 11 Drugs Are Common Culprits
February 6, 2019
4 Things Your Pharmacist Isn’t Telling You
February 6, 2019
FDA Approves First Advair Diskus Generic for Asthma and COPD
February 4, 2019
Fewer Americans Have Health Insurance, and Those Who Do Are Paying More for It
February 1, 2019
Toradol: The Most Popular Drug in the NFL You Haven’t Heard of
February 1, 2019
GoodRx Provides Exclusive Discount To Reduce Prescription Costs for Federal Employees Affected by the Shutdown
February 1, 2019
Generic Evzio (Naloxone) Will Hit Pharmacies Soon
February 1, 2019
How To Recognize and Treat a Tooth Infection Before It Spreads
February 1, 2019
10 Medications You Shouldn’t Mix With Alcohol
January 31, 2019
Manufacturers Rang in 2019 With Higher Prices on Brand-Name Drugs – But Here’s What’s Different This Year
January 31, 2019
What Really Works To Prevent UTIs? – Here Are the Facts
January 30, 2019
FDA Approves Generic Proair HFA for Asthma
January 29, 2019
How an Uninsured Family of 5 Pays for Their Medications With GoodRx
January 28, 2019
What Is the Best Treatment for Hepatitis C?
January 27, 2019
Here’s How To Save on Proventil for Asthma While We Wait for the Generic
January 25, 2019
5 Things To Know About Over-the-Counter Antihistamines
January 23, 2019
FDA Approves First Generic Version of Ventolin HFA Asthma Inhaler
January 23, 2019
Urea Cream: Why Are There Different Over-the-Counter Strengths?
January 23, 2019
Antibiotic Resistance 101: What Are Superbugs and Why Should I Care?
January 23, 2019
Here’s Why Your Pharmacist Won’t Fill Your Prescription — and What You Can Do About It
January 23, 2019
No insurance? No problem: How Katherine saves over 90% on her GERD medication with GoodRx Gold
January 23, 2019
4 Unexpected Causes of Erectile Dysfunction
January 23, 2019
9 Medications That Can Interfere With Your Workout
January 21, 2019
7 Common Myths about Atorvastatin
January 21, 2019
FDA Approves First Over-the-Counter Device To Treat Sinus Pain
January 20, 2019
FDA Approves Generic Latuda for Schizophrenia and Bipolar Depression
January 17, 2019
How To Get Birth Control Without a Doctor’s Prescription in 3 Simple Steps
January 15, 2019
What Happened to $4 Generics?
January 15, 2019
Treating a Sore Throat: How To Choose Between Advil, Tylenol, and Aspirin for Pain Relief
January 15, 2019
8 Medications and Supplements To Leave Behind in 2018
January 11, 2019
New Inhaled Parkinson’s Medication Receives FDA Approval
January 11, 2019
Lauren’s High-Deductible Health Plan Meant Expensive Copays – Until She Used GoodRx
January 11, 2019
Hydrochlorothiazide vs. Chlorthalidone: Which Is Better and Should I Switch?
January 11, 2019
FreeStyle Libre 10 Day vs. 14 Day – Here’s What You Need To Know
January 8, 2019
Dr. Sharon Answers 10 of Your Most Common Health Concerns – 2019 Edition
January 8, 2019
FDA Approves First Digital Inhaler, With an Expected Availability Date of 2020
January 7, 2019
Michael’s HMO Plan Was a Hassle and Didn’t Cover His Heart Medication, So He Turned to GoodRx
January 7, 2019
Do IUDs Cause Weight Gain? – Here Are the Facts
January 6, 2019
Bruising for No Reason? It Could Be Due to These Medications
January 3, 2019
Which Flu Vaccine Should I Get?
January 3, 2019
Plan B, A to Z: Everything You Need To Know About Emergency Contraception
January 2, 2019
Here’s How To Save on Tamiflu This Flu Season
January 2, 2019
Will My Insurance Pay for GoodRx?
January 2, 2019
These 7 Medications Can Prevent You From Donating Blood
January 2, 2019
5 Ways To Keep Your Costs Low With a High-Deductible Health Plan
January 1, 2019
What Medications Should You Pack in Your Travel First Aid Kit?
December 31, 2018
Do You Really Need Medicine for High Blood Pressure?
December 30, 2018
These 15 Medications Can Cause a False Positive on Drug Tests
December 26, 2018
How To Use GoodRx With Your High-Deductible Health Plan and HSA
December 26, 2018
6 Ways To Get Rid of Cough From Post-Nasal Drip
December 21, 2018
These Top 10 Tweets of 2018 Show Us Why GoodRx Users Are the Best
December 21, 2018
Use It or Lose It: 10 FSA-Eligible Expenses To Know Before Your Cash Expires
December 21, 2018
2018 in Review: The Good(Rx) and the Bad in Prescription Drug Prices
December 21, 2018
Why We All Need a Lesson on Drug Prices, Including Me
December 21, 2018
These 5 Types of Medications Can Cause Erectile Dysfunction
December 21, 2018
Xofluza vs. Tamiflu: Which is Better for Treating the Flu?
December 20, 2018
Which Medications Work Best To Help Me Stop Drinking?
December 20, 2018
FDA Approves Rituxan Biosimilar, Truxima, To Treat Adult Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma
December 20, 2018
Gabapentin for What? – 9 Surprising Uses for Gabapentin, From Hot Flashes to Social Anxiety
December 20, 2018
Read more Medicine & Health posts
Community & People
Marie Saves 95% on Migraine Medications With GoodRx When Insurance Doesn’t Pay
February 25, 2019
Marie experienced her first migraine at 18. Take-home migraine drugs available today hadn’t been invented yet, so she would lie in bed for days, sometimes needing a shot from the doctor for the pain. When she was prescribed her first migraine medication in her thirties, she considered it a gift. Nowadays, medications like or can… Read More
Marie Saves 95% on Migraine Medications With GoodRx When Insurance Doesn’t Pay
February 25, 2019
GoodRx Saves Emily $3,600 a Year on Seizure Medications for Her St. Bernard, Buddy
February 19, 2019
How an Uninsured Family of 5 Pays for Their Medications With GoodRx
January 28, 2019
7 Health Conditions Linked to Vitamin D Deficiency – From Diabetes to Dementia
April 24, 2019
Can Antidepressants and Anti-Anxiety Drugs Cause Erectile Dysfunction?
April 24, 2019
Here’s How Depression and Anxiety Can Lead to Erectile Dysfunction
April 24, 2019
Here’s How the New Sanofi and Cigna Insulin Savings Programs Will Work—and Who They Can Benefit
April 24, 2019
7 Surprising Benefits of Jardiance Besides Treating Type 2 Diabetes
April 22, 2019
Blood Pressure Drug Losartan Recalled Due to Contamination – What You Need To Know
April 19, 2019
What’s the Best Medication for Alzheimer’s Dementia?
April 16, 2019
The Truth About Sulfa Allergies: Should You Avoid Other Drugs If You’re Allergic to Bactrim?
April 16, 2019
Does an Enlarged Prostate or Prostate Cancer Cause Erectile Dysfunction?
April 16, 2019
I Have Erectile Dysfunction But Can’t Take Viagra – What Now?
April 16, 2019
Erectile Dysfunction and Heart Disease: What’s the Connection?
April 16, 2019
Choosing the Best ADHD Medication: A Treatment Guide for Adults and Children
April 16, 2019
How To Save Up to 80% on Pet Medications With GoodRx
April 11, 2019
The GoodRx List Price Index Reveals the Rising Cost of All Diabetes Treatments – Not Just Insulin
April 10, 2019
GoodRx Is Nominated as This Year’s Best Health Site. Vote and Help Us Win!
April 9, 2019
Drug Prices Continue To Rise Amid Talks on Capitol Hill To Rein in Costs: GoodRx Monthly Report
April 9, 2019
20 Drugs That May be Cheaper With GoodRx Than With Insurance
April 5, 2019
High-Dose Nifedipine May Be Linked to Higher Cardiac Arrest Risk
April 3, 2019
How To Take Cialis – 4 Tips To Get the Best Results
April 2, 2019
FDA Approves Zulresso, the First Medication for Postpartum Depression
March 29, 2019
Taking Viagra for the First Time? – Here’s How To Get the Best Results
March 29, 2019
Diabetes and Erectile Dysfunction – What You Need To Know
March 29, 2019
The Top 10 Causes of Erectile Dysfunction
March 29, 2019
$10 Billion and Counting: How GoodRx Helps America Save on Healthcare
March 28, 2019
Does Lisinopril Cause Erectile Dysfunction?
March 28, 2019
The Best Medication for Insomnia: Ambien, Sonata, or Lunesta?
March 26, 2019
Avoid the Sun If You Take These Drugs
March 26, 2019
FDA Approves New Once-Daily Eye Drops for Glaucoma
March 26, 2019
7 Uses for Spironolactone – From Heart Failure to Hair Loss
March 26, 2019
9 Ways to Help Your Pharmacist Fill Your Prescription
March 26, 2019
Belviq for Weight Loss: Is It Safe and How Well Does It Work?
March 26, 2019
How Much Vitamin D Do I Need To Take?
March 26, 2019
Marinol vs. Marijuana: What’s the Difference?
March 22, 2019
5 Things You May Not Know About Omeprazole
March 22, 2019
First Liquid Levothyroxine for Hypothyroidism Now Available in Pharmacies
March 22, 2019
These Drugs Can Mess With Your Potassium Levels
March 22, 2019
Viagra, Cialis, or Levitra: Which Is Best for Erectile Dysfunction?
March 18, 2019
Helping Patients Afford Prescriptions – Tips for Pharmacy Staff From the GoodRx Patient Advocacy Team
March 18, 2019
When You Can’t Use Valsartan, Which Is Best: Losartan, Olmesartan, or Telmisartan?
March 15, 2019
The 8 Most Common Prescription Drugs Suspiciously Found in Supplements
March 15, 2019
Seeing Green in Your Urine This St. Patrick’s Day? One of These Medications Could Be the Cause
March 15, 2019
10 Medications That Are Dangerous to Stop Abruptly
March 14, 2019
What Is Lyrica Used For?
March 14, 2019
Coming Soon: New Generic Humalog at Half the Price of the Brand
March 12, 2019
Why This Year’s Flu Season Is Still Raging On
March 10, 2019
Vaccinations for Pneumonia: Pneumovax 23 vs. Prevnar 13
March 9, 2019
Popularity of Brand-Name Asthma Inhalers Plunges With Approval of Generics: GoodRx Monthly Report
March 9, 2019
The 20 Most Expensive Drugs in the U.S.A.
March 8, 2019
Xarelto Generic Is Still Years Away: Here’s How to Save While You Wait
March 8, 2019
FDA Adds Black Box Warning to Gout Drug Uloric Over Increased Risk of Death
March 8, 2019
The 10 Worst Medications for Your Kidneys
March 7, 2019
Warfarin Alternatives: Are Eliquis and Xarelto Worth the Cost?
March 7, 2019
New Ketamine-Based Antidepressant Gets FDA Approval
March 6, 2019
Which Antibiotics Are Less Likely To Cause Diarrhea From C. diff?
March 5, 2019
9 Things To Know About Generic Viagra
March 5, 2019
Low on Vitamin D? Your Medications Could Be To Blame
February 28, 2019
Xanax or Ativan: Which Is Better for Anxiety?
February 28, 2019
Heroes and Villains in the Fight Against Heartburn – Foods, Drinks, and Medications
February 27, 2019
How To Organize Your Medicine Cabinet Like a Pro
February 26, 2019
FDA Warns Against Vitamins and Supplements Falsely Claiming to Prevent and Cure Alzheimer’s
February 26, 2019
Don’t Write Off Older Insulins Just Yet: They May Work Just As Well As Newer Insulins for Type 2 Diabetes
February 26, 2019
How To Treat a Burn at Home – From Choosing an Antibiotic to Treating the Pain
February 25, 2019
How To Save on Tresiba, the Popular Ultra Long-Acting Insulin
February 25, 2019
9 Types of Medications That Can Make Falls More Likely in Older Adults
February 20, 2019
Muscle Pain From Statins? – Here’s How To Avoid This Common Side Effect
February 19, 2019
Can Grapefruit Juice Interfere With My Medications?
February 19, 2019
Prior Authorizations: What You Need To Know
February 18, 2019
These 7 Medications Can Cause Puffy Legs and Ankles
February 18, 2019
10 Things You Might Not Know About Vyvanse for ADHD
February 18, 2019
Non-Opioid Options for Pain Relief – and How To Choose Depending on Your Type of Pain
February 18, 2019
Levemir Can Cost As Much As $500 Per Month – Here’s How You Can Save
February 15, 2019
Drug Recalls: 4 Steps To Take If You Have a Recalled Medication
February 13, 2019
FDA Recalls CoaguChek Test Strips Used To Monitor Patients on Warfarin
February 13, 2019
Naproxen (Aleve) vs. Ibuprofen (Advil): Which is the Better NSAID Pain Reliever?
February 13, 2019
The Big 8 Constipation-Causing Medications
February 12, 2019
Amlodipine: 9 Common Myths About the Classic Blood Pressure Drug
February 12, 2019
The 10 Worst Medications for Your Liver
February 11, 2019
What’s the Best Treatment for Bacterial Vaginosis?
February 11, 2019
Generics for Hepatitis C Medications Harvoni and Epclusa Now Available in Pharmacies
February 11, 2019
Activated Charcoal: The Powerful Detox Ingredient You Don’t Want in Your Regular Diet
February 7, 2019
How To Talk to Your Doctor About Erectile Dysfunction Medications
February 7, 2019
Metoprolol Tartrate vs. Metoprolol Succinate ER: Here’s How They Differ
February 7, 2019
Can My Medications Interfere With My Birth Control?
February 6, 2019
The Effect of Income on U.S. Prescription Fill Patterns
February 6, 2019
Is Your Medication Causing Hair Loss? These 11 Drugs Are Common Culprits
February 6, 2019
4 Things Your Pharmacist Isn’t Telling You
February 6, 2019
FDA Approves First Advair Diskus Generic for Asthma and COPD
February 4, 2019
Fewer Americans Have Health Insurance, and Those Who Do Are Paying More for It
February 1, 2019
Toradol: The Most Popular Drug in the NFL You Haven’t Heard of
February 1, 2019
GoodRx Provides Exclusive Discount To Reduce Prescription Costs for Federal Employees Affected by the Shutdown
February 1, 2019
Generic Evzio (Naloxone) Will Hit Pharmacies Soon
February 1, 2019
How To Recognize and Treat a Tooth Infection Before It Spreads
February 1, 2019
10 Medications You Shouldn’t Mix With Alcohol
January 31, 2019
Manufacturers Rang in 2019 With Higher Prices on Brand-Name Drugs – But Here’s What’s Different This Year
January 31, 2019
What Really Works To Prevent UTIs? – Here Are the Facts
January 30, 2019
FDA Approves Generic Proair HFA for Asthma
January 29, 2019
What Is the Best Treatment for Hepatitis C?
January 27, 2019
Here’s How To Save on Proventil for Asthma While We Wait for the Generic
January 25, 2019
5 Things To Know About Over-the-Counter Antihistamines
January 23, 2019
FDA Approves First Generic Version of Ventolin HFA Asthma Inhaler
January 23, 2019
Urea Cream: Why Are There Different Over-the-Counter Strengths?
January 23, 2019
Antibiotic Resistance 101: What Are Superbugs and Why Should I Care?
January 23, 2019
Here’s Why Your Pharmacist Won’t Fill Your Prescription — and What You Can Do About It
January 23, 2019
No insurance? No problem: How Katherine saves over 90% on her GERD medication with GoodRx Gold
January 23, 2019
4 Unexpected Causes of Erectile Dysfunction
January 23, 2019
9 Medications That Can Interfere With Your Workout
January 21, 2019
7 Common Myths about Atorvastatin
January 21, 2019
FDA Approves First Over-the-Counter Device To Treat Sinus Pain
January 20, 2019
FDA Approves Generic Latuda for Schizophrenia and Bipolar Depression
January 17, 2019
How To Get Birth Control Without a Doctor’s Prescription in 3 Simple Steps
January 15, 2019
What Happened to $4 Generics?
January 15, 2019
Treating a Sore Throat: How To Choose Between Advil, Tylenol, and Aspirin for Pain Relief
January 15, 2019
8 Medications and Supplements To Leave Behind in 2018
January 11, 2019
New Inhaled Parkinson’s Medication Receives FDA Approval
January 11, 2019
Lauren’s High-Deductible Health Plan Meant Expensive Copays – Until She Used GoodRx
January 11, 2019
Hydrochlorothiazide vs. Chlorthalidone: Which Is Better and Should I Switch?
January 11, 2019
FreeStyle Libre 10 Day vs. 14 Day – Here’s What You Need To Know
January 8, 2019
Dr. Sharon Answers 10 of Your Most Common Health Concerns – 2019 Edition
January 8, 2019
FDA Approves First Digital Inhaler, With an Expected Availability Date of 2020
January 7, 2019
Michael’s HMO Plan Was a Hassle and Didn’t Cover His Heart Medication, So He Turned to GoodRx
January 7, 2019
Do IUDs Cause Weight Gain? – Here Are the Facts
January 6, 2019
Bruising for No Reason? It Could Be Due to These Medications
January 3, 2019
Which Flu Vaccine Should I Get?
January 3, 2019
Plan B, A to Z: Everything You Need To Know About Emergency Contraception
January 2, 2019
Here’s How To Save on Tamiflu This Flu Season
January 2, 2019
Will My Insurance Pay for GoodRx?
January 2, 2019
These 7 Medications Can Prevent You From Donating Blood
January 2, 2019
5 Ways To Keep Your Costs Low With a High-Deductible Health Plan
January 1, 2019
What Medications Should You Pack in Your Travel First Aid Kit?
December 31, 2018
Do You Really Need Medicine for High Blood Pressure?
December 30, 2018
These 15 Medications Can Cause a False Positive on Drug Tests
December 26, 2018
How To Use GoodRx With Your High-Deductible Health Plan and HSA
December 26, 2018
6 Ways To Get Rid of Cough From Post-Nasal Drip
December 21, 2018
These Top 10 Tweets of 2018 Show Us Why GoodRx Users Are the Best
December 21, 2018
Use It or Lose It: 10 FSA-Eligible Expenses To Know Before Your Cash Expires
December 21, 2018
2018 in Review: The Good(Rx) and the Bad in Prescription Drug Prices
December 21, 2018
Why We All Need a Lesson on Drug Prices, Including Me
December 21, 2018
These 5 Types of Medications Can Cause Erectile Dysfunction
December 21, 2018
Xofluza vs. Tamiflu: Which is Better for Treating the Flu?
December 20, 2018
Which Medications Work Best To Help Me Stop Drinking?
December 20, 2018
FDA Approves Rituxan Biosimilar, Truxima, To Treat Adult Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma
December 20, 2018
Gabapentin for What? – 9 Surprising Uses for Gabapentin, From Hot Flashes to Social Anxiety
December 20, 2018
Read more Community & People posts
Data & Insights
The GoodRx List Price Index Reveals the Rising Cost of All Diabetes Treatments – Not Just Insulin
April 10, 2019
List prices for diabetes medications and supplies increased by 56% since 2014—more than double the rate of overall drug prices, according to a new analysis of list prices by the GoodRx Research team. Not surprisingly, insulin prices play a big part in this increase, growing 53% in the last five years. But less expected is… Read More
The GoodRx List Price Index Reveals the Rising Cost of All Diabetes Treatments – Not Just Insulin
April 10, 2019
Drug Prices Continue To Rise Amid Talks on Capitol Hill To Rein in Costs: GoodRx Monthly Report
April 9, 2019
Why This Year’s Flu Season Is Still Raging On
March 10, 2019
7 Health Conditions Linked to Vitamin D Deficiency – From Diabetes to Dementia
April 24, 2019
Can Antidepressants and Anti-Anxiety Drugs Cause Erectile Dysfunction?
April 24, 2019
Here’s How Depression and Anxiety Can Lead to Erectile Dysfunction
April 24, 2019
Here’s How the New Sanofi and Cigna Insulin Savings Programs Will Work—and Who They Can Benefit
April 24, 2019
7 Surprising Benefits of Jardiance Besides Treating Type 2 Diabetes
April 22, 2019
Blood Pressure Drug Losartan Recalled Due to Contamination – What You Need To Know
April 19, 2019
What’s the Best Medication for Alzheimer’s Dementia?
April 16, 2019
The Truth About Sulfa Allergies: Should You Avoid Other Drugs If You’re Allergic to Bactrim?
April 16, 2019
Does an Enlarged Prostate or Prostate Cancer Cause Erectile Dysfunction?
April 16, 2019
I Have Erectile Dysfunction But Can’t Take Viagra – What Now?
April 16, 2019
Erectile Dysfunction and Heart Disease: What’s the Connection?
April 16, 2019
Choosing the Best ADHD Medication: A Treatment Guide for Adults and Children
April 16, 2019
How To Save Up to 80% on Pet Medications With GoodRx
April 11, 2019
GoodRx Is Nominated as This Year’s Best Health Site. Vote and Help Us Win!
April 9, 2019
20 Drugs That May be Cheaper With GoodRx Than With Insurance
April 5, 2019
High-Dose Nifedipine May Be Linked to Higher Cardiac Arrest Risk
April 3, 2019
How To Take Cialis – 4 Tips To Get the Best Results
April 2, 2019
FDA Approves Zulresso, the First Medication for Postpartum Depression
March 29, 2019
Taking Viagra for the First Time? – Here’s How To Get the Best Results
March 29, 2019
Diabetes and Erectile Dysfunction – What You Need To Know
March 29, 2019
The Top 10 Causes of Erectile Dysfunction
March 29, 2019
$10 Billion and Counting: How GoodRx Helps America Save on Healthcare
March 28, 2019
Does Lisinopril Cause Erectile Dysfunction?
March 28, 2019
The Best Medication for Insomnia: Ambien, Sonata, or Lunesta?
March 26, 2019
Avoid the Sun If You Take These Drugs
March 26, 2019
FDA Approves New Once-Daily Eye Drops for Glaucoma
March 26, 2019
7 Uses for Spironolactone – From Heart Failure to Hair Loss
March 26, 2019
9 Ways to Help Your Pharmacist Fill Your Prescription
March 26, 2019
Belviq for Weight Loss: Is It Safe and How Well Does It Work?
March 26, 2019
How Much Vitamin D Do I Need To Take?
March 26, 2019
Marinol vs. Marijuana: What’s the Difference?
March 22, 2019
5 Things You May Not Know About Omeprazole
March 22, 2019
First Liquid Levothyroxine for Hypothyroidism Now Available in Pharmacies
March 22, 2019
These Drugs Can Mess With Your Potassium Levels
March 22, 2019
Viagra, Cialis, or Levitra: Which Is Best for Erectile Dysfunction?
March 18, 2019
Helping Patients Afford Prescriptions – Tips for Pharmacy Staff From the GoodRx Patient Advocacy Team
March 18, 2019
When You Can’t Use Valsartan, Which Is Best: Losartan, Olmesartan, or Telmisartan?
March 15, 2019
The 8 Most Common Prescription Drugs Suspiciously Found in Supplements
March 15, 2019
Seeing Green in Your Urine This St. Patrick’s Day? One of These Medications Could Be the Cause
March 15, 2019
10 Medications That Are Dangerous to Stop Abruptly
March 14, 2019
What Is Lyrica Used For?
March 14, 2019
Coming Soon: New Generic Humalog at Half the Price of the Brand
March 12, 2019
Vaccinations for Pneumonia: Pneumovax 23 vs. Prevnar 13
March 9, 2019
Popularity of Brand-Name Asthma Inhalers Plunges With Approval of Generics: GoodRx Monthly Report
March 9, 2019
The 20 Most Expensive Drugs in the U.S.A.
March 8, 2019
Xarelto Generic Is Still Years Away: Here’s How to Save While You Wait
March 8, 2019
FDA Adds Black Box Warning to Gout Drug Uloric Over Increased Risk of Death
March 8, 2019
The 10 Worst Medications for Your Kidneys
March 7, 2019
Warfarin Alternatives: Are Eliquis and Xarelto Worth the Cost?
March 7, 2019
New Ketamine-Based Antidepressant Gets FDA Approval
March 6, 2019
Which Antibiotics Are Less Likely To Cause Diarrhea From C. diff?
March 5, 2019
9 Things To Know About Generic Viagra
March 5, 2019
Low on Vitamin D? Your Medications Could Be To Blame
February 28, 2019
Xanax or Ativan: Which Is Better for Anxiety?
February 28, 2019
Heroes and Villains in the Fight Against Heartburn – Foods, Drinks, and Medications
February 27, 2019
How To Organize Your Medicine Cabinet Like a Pro
February 26, 2019
FDA Warns Against Vitamins and Supplements Falsely Claiming to Prevent and Cure Alzheimer’s
February 26, 2019
Don’t Write Off Older Insulins Just Yet: They May Work Just As Well As Newer Insulins for Type 2 Diabetes
February 26, 2019
How To Treat a Burn at Home – From Choosing an Antibiotic to Treating the Pain
February 25, 2019
Marie Saves 95% on Migraine Medications With GoodRx When Insurance Doesn’t Pay
February 25, 2019
How To Save on Tresiba, the Popular Ultra Long-Acting Insulin
February 25, 2019
9 Types of Medications That Can Make Falls More Likely in Older Adults
February 20, 2019
Muscle Pain From Statins? – Here’s How To Avoid This Common Side Effect
February 19, 2019
Can Grapefruit Juice Interfere With My Medications?
February 19, 2019
GoodRx Saves Emily $3,600 a Year on Seizure Medications for Her St. Bernard, Buddy
February 19, 2019
Prior Authorizations: What You Need To Know
February 18, 2019
These 7 Medications Can Cause Puffy Legs and Ankles
February 18, 2019
10 Things You Might Not Know About Vyvanse for ADHD
February 18, 2019
Non-Opioid Options for Pain Relief – and How To Choose Depending on Your Type of Pain
February 18, 2019
Levemir Can Cost As Much As $500 Per Month – Here’s How You Can Save
February 15, 2019
Drug Recalls: 4 Steps To Take If You Have a Recalled Medication
February 13, 2019
FDA Recalls CoaguChek Test Strips Used To Monitor Patients on Warfarin
February 13, 2019
Naproxen (Aleve) vs. Ibuprofen (Advil): Which is the Better NSAID Pain Reliever?
February 13, 2019
The Big 8 Constipation-Causing Medications
February 12, 2019
Amlodipine: 9 Common Myths About the Classic Blood Pressure Drug
February 12, 2019
The 10 Worst Medications for Your Liver
February 11, 2019
What’s the Best Treatment for Bacterial Vaginosis?
February 11, 2019
Generics for Hepatitis C Medications Harvoni and Epclusa Now Available in Pharmacies
February 11, 2019
Activated Charcoal: The Powerful Detox Ingredient You Don’t Want in Your Regular Diet
February 7, 2019
How To Talk to Your Doctor About Erectile Dysfunction Medications
February 7, 2019
Metoprolol Tartrate vs. Metoprolol Succinate ER: Here’s How They Differ
February 7, 2019
Can My Medications Interfere With My Birth Control?
February 6, 2019
The Effect of Income on U.S. Prescription Fill Patterns
February 6, 2019
Is Your Medication Causing Hair Loss? These 11 Drugs Are Common Culprits
February 6, 2019
4 Things Your Pharmacist Isn’t Telling You
February 6, 2019
FDA Approves First Advair Diskus Generic for Asthma and COPD
February 4, 2019
Fewer Americans Have Health Insurance, and Those Who Do Are Paying More for It
February 1, 2019
Toradol: The Most Popular Drug in the NFL You Haven’t Heard of
February 1, 2019
GoodRx Provides Exclusive Discount To Reduce Prescription Costs for Federal Employees Affected by the Shutdown
February 1, 2019
Generic Evzio (Naloxone) Will Hit Pharmacies Soon
February 1, 2019
How To Recognize and Treat a Tooth Infection Before It Spreads
February 1, 2019
10 Medications You Shouldn’t Mix With Alcohol
January 31, 2019
Manufacturers Rang in 2019 With Higher Prices on Brand-Name Drugs – But Here’s What’s Different This Year
January 31, 2019
What Really Works To Prevent UTIs? – Here Are the Facts
January 30, 2019
FDA Approves Generic Proair HFA for Asthma
January 29, 2019
How an Uninsured Family of 5 Pays for Their Medications With GoodRx
January 28, 2019
What Is the Best Treatment for Hepatitis C?
January 27, 2019
Here’s How To Save on Proventil for Asthma While We Wait for the Generic
January 25, 2019
5 Things To Know About Over-the-Counter Antihistamines
January 23, 2019
FDA Approves First Generic Version of Ventolin HFA Asthma Inhaler
January 23, 2019
Urea Cream: Why Are There Different Over-the-Counter Strengths?
January 23, 2019
Antibiotic Resistance 101: What Are Superbugs and Why Should I Care?
January 23, 2019
Here’s Why Your Pharmacist Won’t Fill Your Prescription — and What You Can Do About It
January 23, 2019
No insurance? No problem: How Katherine saves over 90% on her GERD medication with GoodRx Gold
January 23, 2019
4 Unexpected Causes of Erectile Dysfunction
January 23, 2019
9 Medications That Can Interfere With Your Workout
January 21, 2019
7 Common Myths about Atorvastatin
January 21, 2019
FDA Approves First Over-the-Counter Device To Treat Sinus Pain
January 20, 2019
FDA Approves Generic Latuda for Schizophrenia and Bipolar Depression
January 17, 2019
How To Get Birth Control Without a Doctor’s Prescription in 3 Simple Steps
January 15, 2019
What Happened to $4 Generics?
January 15, 2019
Treating a Sore Throat: How To Choose Between Advil, Tylenol, and Aspirin for Pain Relief
January 15, 2019
8 Medications and Supplements To Leave Behind in 2018
January 11, 2019
New Inhaled Parkinson’s Medication Receives FDA Approval
January 11, 2019
Lauren’s High-Deductible Health Plan Meant Expensive Copays – Until She Used GoodRx
January 11, 2019
Hydrochlorothiazide vs. Chlorthalidone: Which Is Better and Should I Switch?
January 11, 2019
FreeStyle Libre 10 Day vs. 14 Day – Here’s What You Need To Know
January 8, 2019
Dr. Sharon Answers 10 of Your Most Common Health Concerns – 2019 Edition
January 8, 2019
FDA Approves First Digital Inhaler, With an Expected Availability Date of 2020
January 7, 2019
Michael’s HMO Plan Was a Hassle and Didn’t Cover His Heart Medication, So He Turned to GoodRx
January 7, 2019
Do IUDs Cause Weight Gain? – Here Are the Facts
January 6, 2019
Bruising for No Reason? It Could Be Due to These Medications
January 3, 2019
Which Flu Vaccine Should I Get?
January 3, 2019
Plan B, A to Z: Everything You Need To Know About Emergency Contraception
January 2, 2019
Here’s How To Save on Tamiflu This Flu Season
January 2, 2019
Will My Insurance Pay for GoodRx?
January 2, 2019
These 7 Medications Can Prevent You From Donating Blood
January 2, 2019
5 Ways To Keep Your Costs Low With a High-Deductible Health Plan
January 1, 2019
What Medications Should You Pack in Your Travel First Aid Kit?
December 31, 2018
Do You Really Need Medicine for High Blood Pressure?
December 30, 2018
These 15 Medications Can Cause a False Positive on Drug Tests
December 26, 2018
How To Use GoodRx With Your High-Deductible Health Plan and HSA
December 26, 2018
6 Ways To Get Rid of Cough From Post-Nasal Drip
December 21, 2018
These Top 10 Tweets of 2018 Show Us Why GoodRx Users Are the Best
December 21, 2018
Use It or Lose It: 10 FSA-Eligible Expenses To Know Before Your Cash Expires
December 21, 2018
2018 in Review: The Good(Rx) and the Bad in Prescription Drug Prices
December 21, 2018
Why We All Need a Lesson on Drug Prices, Including Me
December 21, 2018
These 5 Types of Medications Can Cause Erectile Dysfunction
December 21, 2018
Xofluza vs. Tamiflu: Which is Better for Treating the Flu?
December 20, 2018
Which Medications Work Best To Help Me Stop Drinking?
December 20, 2018
FDA Approves Rituxan Biosimilar, Truxima, To Treat Adult Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma
December 20, 2018
Gabapentin for What? – 9 Surprising Uses for Gabapentin, From Hot Flashes to Social Anxiety
December 20, 2018
Read more Data & Insights posts
Company
GoodRx Is Nominated as This Year’s Best Health Site. Vote and Help Us Win!
April 9, 2019
We’re thrilled to be named a finalist for the Best Health Website Webby Award! The Webbys are considered the biggest honors on the internet; these annual awards recognize the companies, projects, and people making a real impact in their fields. Vote for GoodRx in the 2019 Webby Awards! At GoodRx, our mission is to help… Read More
GoodRx Is Nominated as This Year’s Best Health Site. Vote and Help Us Win!
April 9, 2019
$10 Billion and Counting: How GoodRx Helps America Save on Healthcare
March 28, 2019
GoodRx Provides Exclusive Discount To Reduce Prescription Costs for Federal Employees Affected by the Shutdown
February 1, 2019
7 Health Conditions Linked to Vitamin D Deficiency – From Diabetes to Dementia
April 24, 2019
Can Antidepressants and Anti-Anxiety Drugs Cause Erectile Dysfunction?
April 24, 2019
Here’s How Depression and Anxiety Can Lead to Erectile Dysfunction
April 24, 2019
Here’s How the New Sanofi and Cigna Insulin Savings Programs Will Work—and Who They Can Benefit
April 24, 2019
7 Surprising Benefits of Jardiance Besides Treating Type 2 Diabetes
April 22, 2019
Blood Pressure Drug Losartan Recalled Due to Contamination – What You Need To Know
April 19, 2019
What’s the Best Medication for Alzheimer’s Dementia?
April 16, 2019
The Truth About Sulfa Allergies: Should You Avoid Other Drugs If You’re Allergic to Bactrim?
April 16, 2019
Does an Enlarged Prostate or Prostate Cancer Cause Erectile Dysfunction?
April 16, 2019
I Have Erectile Dysfunction But Can’t Take Viagra – What Now?
April 16, 2019
Erectile Dysfunction and Heart Disease: What’s the Connection?
April 16, 2019
Choosing the Best ADHD Medication: A Treatment Guide for Adults and Children
April 16, 2019
How To Save Up to 80% on Pet Medications With GoodRx
April 11, 2019
The GoodRx List Price Index Reveals the Rising Cost of All Diabetes Treatments – Not Just Insulin
April 10, 2019
Drug Prices Continue To Rise Amid Talks on Capitol Hill To Rein in Costs: GoodRx Monthly Report
April 9, 2019
20 Drugs That May be Cheaper With GoodRx Than With Insurance
April 5, 2019
High-Dose Nifedipine May Be Linked to Higher Cardiac Arrest Risk
April 3, 2019
How To Take Cialis – 4 Tips To Get the Best Results
April 2, 2019
FDA Approves Zulresso, the First Medication for Postpartum Depression
March 29, 2019
Taking Viagra for the First Time? – Here’s How To Get the Best Results
March 29, 2019
Diabetes and Erectile Dysfunction – What You Need To Know
March 29, 2019
The Top 10 Causes of Erectile Dysfunction
March 29, 2019
Does Lisinopril Cause Erectile Dysfunction?
March 28, 2019
The Best Medication for Insomnia: Ambien, Sonata, or Lunesta?
March 26, 2019
Avoid the Sun If You Take These Drugs
March 26, 2019
FDA Approves New Once-Daily Eye Drops for Glaucoma
March 26, 2019
7 Uses for Spironolactone – From Heart Failure to Hair Loss
March 26, 2019
9 Ways to Help Your Pharmacist Fill Your Prescription
March 26, 2019