Hey! A Mosquito Bit Me! (for Kids) - KidsHealth
[Skip to Content]
Open Search
for Parents
Parents site
Sitio para padres
General Health
Growth & Development
Infections
Diseases & Conditions
Pregnancy & Baby
Nutrition & Fitness
Emotions & Behavior
School & Family Life
First Aid & Safety
Doctors & Hospitals
Videos
Recipes
Close for Parents nav
for Kids
Kids site
Sitio para ninos
How the Body Works
Puberty & Growing Up
Staying Healthy
Staying Safe
Recipes & Cooking
Health Problems
Illnesses & Injuries
Relax & Unwind
People, Places & Things That Help
Feelings
Expert Answers Q&A
Movies & More
Close for Kids nav
for Teens
Teens site
Sitio para adolescentes
Body
Mind
Sexual Health
Food & Fitness
Diseases & Conditions
Infections
Drugs & Alcohol
School & Jobs
Sports
Expert Answers (Q&A)
Staying Safe
Videos
Close for Teens nav
For Educators
Open Search
Search KidsHealth library
Open Search Language Selector
Search Language Selector English Español
Share via Email
KidsHealth /
for Kids
/ Hey! A Mosquito Bit Me!
Hey! A Mosquito Bit Me!
A mosquito (say: mus-KEE-toe) is an insect that is found all over the world. There are thousands of different kinds of mosquitoes in many different sizes and colors.
The female mosquito needs blood from vertebrates (animals that have a spine) to lay eggs and produce more mosquitoes. She has a special part of her mouth that she uses to suck blood, and her saliva (spit) thins the blood so she can drink it. In fact, it's the mosquito's saliva that makes the bites itch!
What a Bite Looks and Feels Like
A person who gets bitten by a mosquito will notice a round pink or red bump that itches a lot.
What You Should Do
If you think you've been bitten by a mosquito, wash the bite with soap and water. Put on some calamine lotion to help stop the itching, or an adult can find an anti-itch cream at the drugstore for you. Placing an ice pack on the bite may also help. Tell an adult you've been bitten by a mosquito.
What a Doctor Will Do
It's very unusual for someone to have an allergic reaction to a mosquito bite. But if you develop an allergic reaction and feel dizzy or sick, tell an adult immediately. A doctor can treat allergic reactions with medicines.
How to Avoid Getting Bitten
The best way to avoid mosquito bites is to wear an insect repellent. Repellents that include one of these ingredients are best: 10% to 30% DEET, lemon eucalyptus, or picaridin. Ask a parent to help you apply them.
Since mosquitoes lay their eggs in water, it's also a good idea to empty out buckets, flower pots, toys, and other things in your yard that may have collected water during a rainstorm. And when it's possible, wear long-sleeved shirts and long pants to keep mosquitoes away from your skin.
More on this topic for:
Kids
Hey! A Flea Bit Me!
Hey! A Scorpion Stung Me!
Going Away to Camp
Rashes
Hey! A Louse Bit Me!
View more
About Us
Contact Us
Partners
Editorial Policy
Permissions Guidelines
Privacy Policy & Terms of Use
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Note: All information on KidsHealth® is for educational purposes only. For specific medical advice, diagnoses, and treatment, consult your doctor.
© 1995- The Nemours Foundation. All rights reserved.
Images provided by The Nemours Foundation, iStock, Getty Images, Veer, Shutterstock, and Clipart.com.