MISSION POSSIBLE WORLD HEALTH INTERNATIONAL
ASPARTAME: FSA SELLS OUT TO INDUSTRY, SAYS POISONOUS METHANOL SAFE
Dr. Betty Martini, D.Hum.
Mission Possible World Health International
9270 River Club Parkway
Duluth, Georgia 30097
Telephone: 770-242-2599
E-Mail: BettyM19@mindspring.com
Posted: 31 March 2011
From: Dr. Betty Martini, D.Hum., Bettym19@mindspring.com
To: Donna.Griffith-Sackey@foodstandards.gsi.gov.uk
Date: Mon, Mar 28, 2011 5:13 pm
Subject: Aspartame: FSA Sells out to industry, says poisonous methanol safe
Dear Donna,
This is a very good example of how far Food Standards will go to protect industry, and I'm really ashamed of FSA. I've gone over this many, many times and yet you continue to keep propaganda on methanol on your web site even when its been disproven and you've been told repeatedly. Welcome to the Twilight Zone. Maybe you would like to give us an essay on how safe cyanide and arsenic are. Yes, there is a similarity. In fact, I've heard neurosurgeon Russell Blaylock. M.D. say, "The reactions to aspartame are not allergic but toxic like arsenic and cyanide!" Why? Because aspartame is a deadly, deadly, deadly, addictive excitoneurotoxic carcinogenic, genetically engineered drug and adjuvant that damages the mitochondria or powerhouse of the el and interacts with drugs and vaccines. In a netshell it destroys the brain, the central nervous system, the immune system and the optic nerve. No true expert of aspartame will disagree. The 1000 page medical text, Aspartame Disease: An Ignored Epidemic, www.aspartameispoison.com by H. J. Roberts, M.D. goes into the different symptoms and diseases, and drug interactions, and so many horrors that aspartame causes from blindness, to sudden cardiac death, and even male sexual dysfunction destroying families.
I would like to remind you that Food Standards was set to get away from industry and when I found an article on FSA's web site stating it should get closer to industry I reminded you of that. Why do you think this happened. Could it have been because no studies were done in England when aspartame was approved by Paul Turner without anyone knowing through a business deal. Why was it done this way? Probably because if England had found out that the FDA tried to have G. D. Searle, the original manufacturer indicted for fraud, and that the FDA revoked the petition for approval, England would never have approved this chemical poison. As you know Parliament had a big blow out but never rescinded the order. The article was in the Guardian. Here it is: http://www.mpwhi.com/how_aspartame_got_approved_in_england.htm Aspartame was then rubberstamped around the world. When I lectured in New Zealand I met with Food Standards there who said, "We relied on the FDA, no studies were done in New Zealand". That's the way G. D. Searle wanted it, no studies because not even they could get aspartame to prove safe and got caught, the reason they hired Don Rumsfeld to get it on the market which he did. How he did this is discussed below, but you know of course.
From Aspartame Disease: An Ignored Epidemic by H. J. Roberts, M.D.:
The Methyl Alcohol Syndrome:
"Eye damage (retinopathy)
"Methanol causes blindness, largely due to the toxic effects of formaldehyde and formic acid on the retina. Indeed, suspicion of "wood alcohol poisoning" was raised by ophthalmologist in several patients with aspartame disease.
"Formate, a metabolite of formaldehyde, probably induces retinal damage through energy depletion because it inhibit adenosine triphosphate (ATP).
"Edema of the optic disc (Hayreh 1977) and retinal ganglion cell degeneration (Baumbach 197) occur in monkeys poisoned with methanol.
Involvement of the peripheral nerves (neuropathy)
"The symptoms include numbness, "pins and needles" sensations (paresthesias), and shooting pains. They are most likely to occur after chronic exposure. Marked improvement of carpal tunnel syndrome has occurred among patients with aspartame disease after they avoid avoided aspartame products (Chapter VI-E).
Inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitits)
"Pancreatitits was the probably basis for severe abdominal pain in some aspartme reactors (Bennett 1952) (Chapter IX-D).
Inflammation of the heart muscle (cardiomyopathy).
"A number of patients with aspartame disease complained of palpitations, rapid heart action and atypical chest pain (Chapter IX-C). Persons who smoke heavily and ingest much asaprtame are probably at greater cardiovascular risk. (Cigarette smoke also may contain methyl alcohol.).
"Monte (1984) alluded to the case of a 21 year old man who worked as a material handler in the aspartame area of a plant that packaged this product. He was exposed to a fine dust of aspartame daily for seven months. The patient developed a dilated heart, and ventricular ectoy requiring quinidine. Other complaints included visual disturbances, headache, dizziness and severe depression. At autopsy, an enlarged and dilated heart due to cardiomyopathy was found.
"The author has received reports of other persons working in a similara environment whose illnesses were attributed to inhaled aspartame. (Chapter XXVII-G).
Central Nervous System Involvement
"The cerebral effects of methanol contribute to the magnitude of neurologic and psychiatric manifestations in aspartame disease (Chapters III, V, VI and VII).
"Imaging studies of the brain in patients with methyl alcohol toxicity have revealed areas of presumed infarction (McLean 1980); Shwartz 1981). Methanol intoxication causes symmetrical necrosis and hemorrhage of the putamen.
"Marked reduction of both cerebral blood flow and cerebral blood flow and cerebral oxygen consumption have been documented during methanol poisoning.
"Observations concerning brain edema and vascular stasis after methanol exposure are also relevant to the neuropsychiatric reactions in aspartame disease.
"Edema of the brain in methanol poisoning has been found in humans and animals (Menne 1938; Bennet 1953; Erlanson 1965; Rao 1977).
"Rao et al (1977) noted significant alterations in brain water, sodium and potassium when methanol was administered to male rabbits and monkeys. Concomitant vascular stasis was evidence by colloidal carbon studies. These changes occurred in both acute and chronic studies. (With chronic administration, the concentration of blood methanol progressively increased after ethe third week, suggesting partial inhibition of methanol degradation.)
"Methanol-induced parkinsonism has been attributed to postsynaptic dysfunction, perhaps by interference with dopamine reuptake at nerve terminals. McLean et al (1980) reported two survivors of acute severe methanol intoxification who developed parkinsonism, dementia, other neurologic abnormalities including bilateral Babinski responses), and blindness due to optic atrophy.
"The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) includes methyl alcohol in Organic Solvent Neurotoxicity (Current Intelligence Bulletin Volume 48, March 31, 1987). The neuropsychiatric features of chronic toxicity from organic solvents range from a mild "organic affective syndrome" (characterized by fatigue, impaired memory, irritability, mild mood disturbances and difficulty in concentrating) to severe toxic encephalopathy with profound and generally irreversible dementia."
Dr. H. J. Roberts also discusses the fact that the methanol consumed in aspartame beverages could readily exceed 250 mg. daily, especially in hot weather or after exercise. This is 32 times the consumption limit for methanol recommended by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Methanol concentrations are likely to be higher when aspartame products have decomposed during exposure to heat or prolonged storage.
There is chapter after chapter on the deadly effects of methanol in aspartame in this medical text. Dr. Roberts in 1984 was selected as the Best Doctor in the US. He is the world expert on aspartame and has researched it for three decades. The records I have on the deadly effects of methanol in aspartame are voluminous. Dr. Roberts has donated to me his 30 years of records, and I assure you I could easily make this a 100 page article on the deadly effects of methanol in aspartame because so much is known.
That doesn't even include my records on those who perished from the methanol in aspartame such as Charles Fleming who was an aspartame addict, played basketball four times a week and used many other aspartame products. When he died of methanol poisoning his wife called the police and took 3 lie detector tests of which she passed with flying colors. Even the doctor at the hospital stated that it happened over a period of time. It also interacted with his drugs and the creatine he mixed it with. His wife was convicted and given 30 and 20 years concurrently. This innocent woman has been in a Virginia prison for 9 years. Why was she convicted? The jury said she could show no emotion. She was given Zoloft because she was a basketcase on being indicted and was using aspartame herself. Aspartame interacts with Zoloft and causes a zombie appearance.
Dr. James Bowen, biochemist and physician said:
"Only after longer aspartame usage does liver damage cause blood methanol levels to measurably rise because the liver mitochondria are so damaged that the liver no longer quickly processes either methyl or ethyl (drink) alcohol. Then the acute methanol poisoning is directly measurable from lab results, as the blood methanol level elevates. This entire sequence or "toxic axis" begins with your very first dose of aspartame. Both acute and chronic poisonings from this methanol toxic axis, and other additive and synergistic aspartame poisonings, steadily accumulate in the aspartame consumer.
"When you consume aspartame, you initiate the methanol toxic axis! In my case I lost my balance, following which, on my second day, I developed toxic cardiomyopathy, with resultant congestive heart failure, resulting in pulmonary edema. Then I who had been until that moment been a two mile per day swimmer, could not even climb a set of stairs, without stopping in the middle to get my wind back.
"With any heavy use of alcoholic drinks, traces of methyl alcohol in those beverages could cause acute methanol poisoning, but the ethanol (a methanol antidote), prevents the methanol toxic axis from developing, so the methanol merely accumulates. As the ethyl alcohol is metabolized and deleted from your blood stream, the residual methanol is metabolized and you get methanol poisoning: hangover!"
I might add that Dr. Bowen himself has Lou Gehrigs from aspartame. He started drinking it and began slurring his words from the methyl alcohol. He was sent to a mental hospital but when he was no longer given aspartame the slurring stopped and it was realized it was the methanol in aspartame poisoning him.
How many more cases of people who died from the methanol in aspartame would you like to hear about. Merry Kay is another one who died from the methanol in aspartame. She was diabetic and admitted to the hospital with acute methanol poisoning. The police were at her door in the hospital. If she had died they probably would have convicted her husband just as they convicted Diane Fleming, a sweet Sunday School teacher who helped the homeless. She woke up and let the police know it was aspartame she was using. She really wanted to live and often wrote decrying the injustice of Diane Fleming. However, she died a little over a year ago. In the end aspartame got her, the methanol has taken its toll, as methanol is known to do. Do you want to hear more about this deadly methanol FSA says is safe? It seems pointless since the world knows methanol is deadly, and all you have to do is pickup a Merck Manual.
It is obvious industry has pressured FSA to make this absurd statement. As I stated Food Standards was created to keep its distance from industry and failed.
Here is the evidence FSA was been influenced and pressure by industry!
FSA has had propaganda from industry on its web site with such absurd statements as there is more methanol in fruit and vegetables than there is in aspartame.
As Dr. Roberts points out on page 681: "The small amount of methanol in fruit juices is countered by the accompanying ethanol which tends to minimize or reduce its toxicity. (Gilger 1959).. contrasting with absent ethanol in diet drinks. Ethanol is also present in some vegetables and fruits."
Furthermore methanol in nature binds to pectin and takes it safely out of the body. The free methyl alcohol in aspartame has absolutely nothing to do with fruits and vegetables, and Donna just how many times have I told you that?!!
Further, you have been sent the propaganda the aspartame industry uses rebutted with medical references many many times. Here it is again: http://www.dorway.com/offasprt.html Yet you have never removed the propaganda all these years, even though you know its a bunch of lies and sounds like something written by Walt Disney!
You have also been seen the peer reviewed journal by Dr. Woodrow Monte: Aspartame: Methanol and the Public Health: http://dorway.com/dorwblog/doctors-speak-out/aspartame-methanol-the-public-health This has reinforced everything I have told you and sent you. Yet, again the propaganda remains on the FSA web site. I have sent this to you many times. You ignore the truth and leave lies on FSA's web site.
The Trocho Study showed the formaldehyde converted from the free methyl alcohol embalms living tissue and damages DNA. When you damage DNA you can destroy humanity. The aspartame industry got Tephly to rebut the study but finally not even Tephly wanted to damage his reputation by looking foolish and admitted he used the wrong test. Furthermore, formaldehyde was found in the tissues proving it was embalming the body. Pre-embalming is also listed in the medical text it is so well known.
The aspartame industry got so upset at being exposed they tried to assassinate Dr. Maria Alemany's character. This is their modus operandi because they can't debate because they are wrong and the history of aspartame shows they couldn't prove it safe which is why the FDA wanted them indicted for fraud. Unfortunately Searle was so powerful the defense team hired the prosecutors! I have discussed with you the Trocho Study time and time again, yet it still remains on FSA's web site with Tephly's rebuttal even though he confessed. This shows FSA wants the world to believe the lie. That's evidence of industry influence.
In the Ramazzini Study proving aspartame is a multipotential carcinogen which again makes it against the law, there was so much formaldehyde from the methanol the rats hair was yellow!!!
We have a Mission Possible Brookville, Florida. Jeanette Soto wrote the brochure, "Blinded Sight" when her husband went blind from the methanol in aspartame. He never regained his sight but finding out it was asaprtame he got off of it and his carpal tunnel syndrome disappeared even though they were told that only surgery would alleviate the symptoms. Incidentally, Dr. Weintrub when he said Eric had symptoms of wood alcohol, Jeanette said "but he doesn't drink alcohol only Diet Coke"! Pathologists at the hospital said they had seen this methanol poisoning in other deaths. Jeanette warned her father-in-law, a diabetic, Santiago Schiverria, "your son went blind on aspartame get off of it"! He was too addicted, you see the methanol is classified as a narcotic, causes chronic methanol poisoning like on the autopsy of Fleming, affects the dopamine system of the brain and causes addiction. Her father-in-law moved to Puerto Rica and when he died Jeanette went to the funeral. She said she couldn't help notice the large box of NutraSweet on the table. At the funeral home she was told it had to be a closet casket, you see the formaldehyde from the free methyl alcohol was oozing out of his skin!!! Come on Donna, tell me again how safe the methanol is in aspartame?!!! Well, it saves on embalming costs as several in funeral homes have said they no longer embalm, the bodies come in fully preserved!
This story was published in a book as told by Alex Constantine, called "To Embalm or Not to Embalm". A woman was reading it sitting in a wheelchair, hardly able to talk or walk. She had one of the largest lesions after diagnosed in an MS victim. Her name is Cori Brackett. She got off aspartame, it wasn't easy and she went through a hard time. Then one day she walked out of her wheelchair with no more symptoms of MS. Eight months later her large lesion all but disappeared. Guess what, Cori owned a film company, and her story is now known all over the world in the movie, Sweet Misery: A Poisoned World. Be sure to get your copy – cori@soundandfury.tv In the UK you can get it from info@namastepublishing.co.uk
In 1986 James Turner filed a citizens petition to ban aspartame because so many people from going blind from the free methyl alcohol and having seizures. It was taken all the way to the Supreme Court but I was told it was only stopped because of a corrupt judge. So people keep going blind and dying from the methanol in aspartame like Joyce Wilson who died in 1990. It's a horrible death from NutraSweet, she went blind and died in diapers with no memory like an Alzheimer victim (which it also is escalating), diagnosed as methanol toxicity. Come on Donna, I can introduce to her husband Richard - tell him how safe the methanol is in aspartame! She died a young woman and never lived to see her grandchildren. We walked with diabetics in her memory giving out information so they would live. Press packets and sympathy cards were given to the press covered in black lace garnished with a long stem yellow rose. A reporter at CNN was so taken with the story about Joyce he wanted to write it for TV. Then he told me, "Betty I tried, but CNN cares more about their connection with Coke then the lives of the people."
Yes, nobody seems to care about the people. A big day in coming in England as William and Kate marry next month. They no doubt will have children but what if they use aspartame. I sent you these FDA records admitting that aspartame causes birth defects: http://www.mpwhi.com/fda_admits_aspartme_causes_birth_defects.htm I also sent you this report where it was admitted by the European Environmental Assn and others that by the year 2013 no baby will be born in the Western World that doesn't have some version of autism: http://www.mpwhi.com/aspartame_causes_birth_defects.htm What if Kate uses aspartame during pregnancy? Will FSA explain to her how safe it is? If it were up to me all those at FSA who sold out to the aspartame industry would appear on TV with dunce caps. How shameful that FSA would actually stand behind a deadly poison like methanol. Pick up a Merck Manual, it will tell you how a teaspoonful can cause death. New study links strokes and heart attacks to diet drinks. Now you can have a Stroke and a Coke, and go blind too. But then we've known that for 30 years. It's just Food Standards only accepts studies from industry who has proven they couldn't get aspartame to show safety!
Below my signature is the history of aspartame and Don Rumsfeld, and more books. Excitotoxins: The Taste That Kills also tells you how deadly methanol is in aspartame by Russell Blaylock, M.D.
I hope people reading this will put it on Twitter and Facebook and anywhere it can go around the world. Your agency has now been reported.
Dr. Betty Martini, D.Hum.
Founder, Mission Possible World Health International
9270 River Club Parkway
Duluth, Georgia 30097
770-242-2599
E-Mail: BettyM19@mindspring.com
http://www.wpwhi.com
http://www.wnho.net
http://www.dorway.com
Aspartame Toxicity Center: http://www.holisticmed.com/aspartame
Aspartame Resource Guide
Aspartame medical text, Aspartame Disease: An Ignored Epidemic, http://www.sunsentpress.com by H. J. Roberts, M.D., over 1000 pages He also has other books on aspartame and just published "A Manifesto for American Medicine"
Dr. Leonard Coldwell's Detox Formula: http://www.mpwhi.com/resources-coldwell.htm His new book is "The Only Answer to Cancer".
Detox formula: "What To Do If You Have Used Aspartame" by neurosurgeon Russell Blaylock, M.D., http://www.wnho.net/wtdaspartame.htm Dr. Blaylock is author of Excitotoxins: The Taste That Kills, http://www.russellblaylockmd.com He has an excellent CD titled: "The Truth About Aspartame", http://www.atavistik.com All info is on http://www.mpwhi.com/blaylock_wellness_center.htm
Aspartame documentary: Sweet Misery: A Poisoned World, cori@soundandfury.tv
How to get aspartame out of your state: http://www.thenhf.com/press_releases/pr_24_feb_2009.html
Information on how aspartame blinds: http://www.mpwhi.com/nfb_aspartame_and_vision.htm
Safe Sweetener: Just Like Sugar, http://www.justlikesugarinc.com Can be found in places like Whole Foods. Made of chicory and orange peel, Calcium and Vitamin C. Chicory has been used for 70 years to improve the health of diabetics. Dr. Russell Blaylock wrote in his newsletter, The Blaylock Wellness Report, http://www.russellblaylockmd.com "Finally a safe sweetener".
Aspartame Warning Flyer for distribution: http://www.mpwhi.com/warning_flyer_on_aspartame.htm
The Lethal Science of Splenda: http://www.wnho.net/splenda_chlorocarbon.htm
Studies have shown that sucralose can:
Cause the thymus to shrink by as much as 40% (the thymus is your immune powerhouse - it produces T cells)
Cause enlargement of the liver and kidneys
Reduce growth rate as much as 20%
Cause enlargement of the large bowel area
Reduce the amount of good bacteria in the intestines by 50%
Increase the pH level in the intestines (a risk factor for colon cancer)
Contribute to weight gain
Cause aborted pregnancy low fetal body weight
Reduce red blood cell count
Particular warning to diabetics: Researchers found that diabetic patients using sucralose showed a statistically significant increase in glycosylated hemoglobin, a marker that is used to assess glycemic control in diabetic patients. According to the FDA, "increases in glycosolation in hemoglobin imply lessening of control of diabetes."
Here is how Splenda is made: http://www.wnho.net/chemical_processing_of_splenda.htm
Ajinomoto just announced a new name for aspartame called AminoSweet. Be warned.
Web sites: http://www.wpwhi.com, http://www.wnho.net, http://www.dorway.com
Aspartame Toxicity Center: http://www.holisticmed.com/aspartame
Also, you may be interested in the history of aspartame just reported for Prop 65:
Cynthia Oshita
Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment
Proposition 65 Implementation
P.O. Box 4010 1001 I Street, 19th floor
Sacramento, California 95812-4010
FAX (916) 323-8803
Dear Ms. Oshita:
In reading available information, I assume you want mostly how aspartame relates to cancer. Indeed it is a carcinogen, proven so by many scientific studies. Aspartame also triggers many other serious diseases which fill the 1,000+ page medical text, Aspartame Disease: An Ignored Epidemic, http://www.sunsentpress.com by H. J. Roberts, M.D.
When FDA Commissioner Dr. Von Eschenbach took office I wrote him about aspartame and cancer, mainly due to his professed intention to save cancer victims; so much of this has already been done. http://www.mpwhi.com/project_recall_aspartame.htm Later 12 toxicologists asked the FDA to ban aspartame because of the long term Ramazzini studies on large rat populations showing aspartame is "a multipotential carcinogen". http://www.cspinet.org/new/pdf/aspartame_letter_to_fda.pdf
Now I'll go back to the beginning. Aspartame was not approved by science but thru the political chicanery of Don Rumsfeld. D.C. Attorney James Turner, explains how Rumsfeld did it in the documentary Sweet Misery, a Poisoned World. Here's a clip from the movie so you can hear what he said: http://www.soundandfury.tv/pages/rumsfeld2.html
Searle's problem was they couldn't get studies to show safety. For example, in the Bressler Report: http://www.mpwhi.com/aspartame_news.htm you read where they would excise brain tumors from the rats, put them back in the study and after they died resurrected them back on paper. They even filtered out neoplasms to hide them from the FDA. Repeatedly Searle was caught in this criminal activity.
On January 10, 1977 in a 33 page letter, FDA Chief Counsel Richard Merrill recommended to the Justice Department Attorney Sam Skinner that a grand jury investigate Searle for "apparent violations of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 21 USC 331 (e), and the False Reports to the Government Act, 18 U.S.C. 1001, for "their willful and knowing failure to make reports to the Food and Drug Administration required by the Act, 21 U.S.C 355 (i) and making false statements in reports of animal studies conducted to establish the safety of aspartame." The FDA called special attention to studies investigating the effect of NutraSweet on monkeys and hamsters.
Searle was caught dead to rights, so they hired Skinner, made him a deal he couldn't refuse. So the former Justice Department prosecutor became a defender. Next at bat - U. S. Prosecutor William Conlon, promptly switched sides too. By then the statute of limitations had expired. Searle knew they couldn't win the case so they simply hired the prosecutors. The Godfather hired the District Attorneys!
Nevertheless the FDA had no intention of approving aspartame. The fraud was so great that Dr. John Olney (who with James Turner fought against approval of aspartame) told Searle to do studies in his lab so he could see that they were done honestly, with supervision. Dr. Olney believed the FDA wouldn't approve aspartame because the studies showed it produced brain damaged. What he didn't anticipate is that Searle didn't submit these findings to the FDA.
January 30, 1980 the Public Board of Inquiry revoked Searle's petition for approval declaring that they had "not been presented with proof of reasonable certainty that aspartame is safe for use as a food additive." Searle had spent $17 million on an aspartame factory and had no intention of giving up, poison or no. At this point they hired Donald Rumsfeld who said he would call in his markers and get it approved anyway. What were those markers? President Reagan had told Rumsfeld he would be nominated for vice president, but instead selected Bush number 1.
The day after Reagan took office he appointed Dr. Arthur Hull Hayes as the new FDA Commissioner, to over-rule the Board of Inquiry. Reagan knew it would take 30 days to get Hayes to the FDA, so he wrote an Executive Order making the FDA powerless to do anything about aspartame. At 3 AM that night a member of Reagan's staff called the FDA Commissioner Jere Goyan and fired him. Here is a letter from his wife who was there when the terminating call came in: http://www.mpwhi.com/letter_about_jere_goyan.pdf
Once aspartame was on the market there was outrage as consumers were diagnosed with seizures, multiple sclerosis and blindness from the free methyl alcohol releases. Senator Orrin Hatch, on Monsanto's payroll, obstructed hearings on aspartame for years, but there were 3 Congressional hearings from 1985 to l987. Hatch was on Monsanto's payroll, and kept the bill in committee that would put a moratorium on aspartame until NIH completed independent studies on the flood of aspartame problems they were seeing: seizures, blindness, headaches, sexual dysfunction, behavioral problems, especially in children, drug interactions and birth defects.
About that time Dr. James Bowen wrote FDA that "aspartame is mass poisoning of the American public and 70 countries" - today over 100. http://www.dorway.com/drbowen.txt The good doctor wrote: "For this reason, I am opposed to labeling aspartame content of food and drinks. To do so would imply that the government is taking some sort of responsible action....when the only responsible action would be to immediately take aspartame off the market, fully disclose its toxicities, offer full compensation to the injured, public and criminally prosecute anyone who participated in the fraudulent placement of aspartame on the marketplace."
How was the new FDA Commissioner, Arthur Hayes, get rewarded for over-ruling the Board of Inquiry? He was hired as a consultant to NutraSweet's PR Agency on a 10-year contract at $1,000.00 a day, and nobody's heard a peep from him since, he got lockjaw. Who ever heard of a PR guy who won't talk?
Now they began funding professional organizations ladies-of-the-evening like the American Diabetes Assn, American Dietetic Assn and numerous others to propagandize the public with touting asparshame. Of course they also threatened scientists whose studies identified the toxicity of this poison. In the UPI Investigation Dr. Wurtman was threatened if he did studies on aspartame and seizures he would lose his funding. He capitulated. Read this report on the 8 month investigation by United Press International: http://www.mpwhi.com/upi_1987_aspartame_report.pdf Dr. Wurtman, too, got a terrible case of aspartame lockjaw, but MIT still gets the money.
ILSI, the International Life Sciences Institute, was born in 1978 as a "research" front for our favorite poisoners. Its board members are from Coke, Pepsi, Searle, Monsanto and the rest of the usual suspects. If a university won't play their way the get no pay, that is to say, funding for fake "research".
Over the years many independent studies have been done. The manufacturers say 200 studies that aspartame is safe as rain. Some of those were the ones FDA found fraudulent and sought prosecution for, and others were simply bought and paid for quack studies from rubber duck labs.
Consider seizure studies by Monsanto, they bought Searle in l985: http://www.holisticmed.com/aspartame/abuse/seizures.html Seizures are listed 5 times on the FDA report of 92 symptoms that range from male sexual dysfunction to death: http://www.mpwhi.com/92_aspartame_symptoms.pdf People are having so many seizures and going blind on aspartame that the Community Nutrition Institute filed a petition to ban aspartame in l986. Again the manufacturers put in the fix to prevent it from being banned. They were so worried someone would have a seizure they actually gave people anti-seizure medication in the Rowan study.
Another impeccable study involved one-day consumption of, believe it or not: a single capsule of aspartame. Tantamount to smelling the bottle. The got it peer reviewed with their power. So when consumers complain of seizures they say "we did studies and aspartame doesn't cause seizures".
I smoked a Lucky once and I'm fine, so nicotine doesn't cause cancer!
They have all bases covered. Today front groups like Calorie Control Council, with full knowledge that aspartame causes birth defects and mental retardation actually push the poison: http://www.wnho.net/mh_aspartame_letter.htm
When 60 Minutes did a story about aspartame and brain tumors the manufactures claimed to have all these studies showing safety. Dr. Ralph Walton who was on the show decided to research who funded the studies: http://www.dorway.com/peerrev.html Note that 92% of independent peer-reviewed studies show problems aspartame causes, while those funded or controlled by industry all say it's safe. If you eliminate 6 studies the FDA, aspartame's branch office in Washington, messed with, and one pro-aspartame sponsored summary, 100% of independent scientific peer reviewed studies show aspartame problems.
As Dr. Bowen said: this is mass poisoning of the world. Aspartame destroys the brain, the optic nerve, the immune system and central nervous system. It devastates every organ of the body. Epidemic obesity, diabetes, sexual dysfunction, retinopathy and neuropathy, optic nerve destruction, convulsions and insulin reactions, MS, Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, IQ depreciation and dozens of other afflictions have been inflicted upon us by this deadly neurotoxic carcinogenic "sweetener".
According to the prestigious Ecologist, aspartame was listed with the pentagon in an inventory of prospective biochemical warfare weapons submitted to Congress. http://www.mpwhi.com/ecologist_september_2005.pdf
Studies show the horrific damage done to the body. For instance, the Trocho Study shows the formaldehyde converted from the free methyl alcohol actually embalms tissue and damages DNA. http://www.mpwhi.com/formaldehyde_from_aspartame.pdf
Here are summaries of the two aspartame studies, Ramazzini, that showed aspartame to be a multipotential carcinogen, passed down through the mother:
DR. MORANDO SOFFRITTI, lead researcher on two groundbreaking long-term aspartame studies. He was recently honored at New York's Mt Sinai School of Medicine with the Irving J Selikoff Award For his outstanding contributions to the identification of environmental and industrial carcinogens and his promotion of independent scientific research. Reviewing his two impeccable aspartame studies. Dr. Soffritti explains:
The first ERF study (2005) was conducted on 1800 Sprague-Dawley rats (100-150/per sex/per group) In order to simulate daily human intake, aspartame was added to the standard rat diet in quantities of 5000, 2500, 100, 500, 20, 4, and 0 mg/Kg of body weight. Treatment of the animals began at 8 weeks of age and continued until spontaneous death. The results show that APM causes a statistically significant, dose-related increase of lymphomas/leukemias and malignant tumors of the renal pelvis in females and malignant tumors of peripheral nerves in males. These results demonstrate for the first time that APM is a carcinogenic agent, capable of inducing malignancies at various dose levels, including those lower than the current acceptable daily intake (ADI) for humans (50 mg/kg of body weight in the US, 40 mg/kg of body weight in the EU).
The second ERF study (2007) was conducted on 400 Sprague-Dawley rats (70-95/per sex/per group). In order to simulate daily human intake, aspartame was added to the standard rat diet in quantities of 100, 20, and 0 mg/Kg of body weight. Treatment of the animals began on the 12th day of fetal life until natural death. The results of the second study show an increased incidence of lymphomas/leukemias in female rats with respect to the first study. Moreover, the study shows that when lifespan exposure to APM begins during fetal life, the age at which lymphomas/leukemias develop in females is anticipated. For the first time, a statistically significant increase in mammary cancers in females was also observed in the second study. The results of this transplacental carcinogenicity bioassay not only confirm, but also reinforce the first experimental demonstration of APMs multipotential carcinogenicity.
Over six years ago I petitioned the FDA to ban aspartame. The FDA has 180 days to answer it. They refuse, obviously because I'm using their own words, and they don't know how to get around the fact that everything is a matter of record. If it wasn't so criminal one would have to laugh at their propaganda - the idea that someone might even consider believing them. For instance, they will tell you there is just a small amount of methanol, and there is more in oranges. What they don't say is that in oranges that it is accompanied by ethanol which is the classic antidote for methanol toxicity and takes it out of your body safely. Here is a peer reviewed journal article about it. http://www.mpwhi.com/aspartame_methanol_and_public_health.pdf Methanol also binds to pectin. In aspartame there is no ethanol. Here is their basic propaganda answered with references: http://dorway.com/dorwblog/?page_id=606
A detox formula for aspartame victims endorsed by Dr. Russell Blaylock, Neurosurgeon: http://www.wnho.net.wtdaspartame.htm Available are his excellent books and a CD: "The Truth About Aspartame"
There are efforts now in states and countries to rid the planet of aspartame. It is genetically engineered. The manufacturers are get people in high places addicted. When I testified to the Senate in New Mexico, half the senators were sipping Diet Coke. Presidents Clinton and Bush were addicted. Methanol is classified as a narcotic, it causes chronic methanol poisoning. This effects the dopamine system of the brain producing addiction.
I've lectured in other countries and I can tell you people are sick and dying the world over on this poison. It would be great to see it banned from California. First of all its illegally on the market because it violates the Delaney Amendment. Here are comments from an FDA toxicologist, Dr. Adrian Gross, to Congress on 8/1/85:
Dr. Gross testified that at least one of Searle's studies "has established beyond ANY REASONABLE DOUBT that aspartame is capable of inducing brain tumors in experimental animals and that this predisposition of it is of extremely high significance. ... In view of these indications that the cancer causing potential of aspartame is a matter that had been established WAY BEYOND ANY REASONABLE DOUBT, one can ask: What is the reason for the apparent refusal by the FDA to invoke for this food additive the so-called Delaney Amendment to the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act?"
The Delaney Amendment makes it illegal to allow any residues of cancer causing chemicals in foods. In his concluding testimony Gross asked, "Given the cancer causing potential of aspartame how would the FDA justify its position that it views a certain amount of aspartame as constituting an allowable daily intake or 'safe' level of it? Is that position in effect not equivalent to setting a 'tolerance' for this food additive and thus a violation of that law? And if the FDA itself elects to violate the law, who is left to protect the health of the public?" Congressional Record SID835:131 (August 1, l985)
Here is my letter to the Assembly Committee on Health which exposes the fact that it's adulterated: http://www.mpwhi.com/letter_to_a_n_kim_california_ach.htm The adulteration means it violates interstate commerce laws.
Consumer power is winning the war against this toxin. Holland Sweetener, the largest European aspartame producer closed in 2006. Another European maker also quit. In Japan Tosh stopped making it as well. Merisant, in the USA went bankrupt for $230,000,000 in January, 2009. 47 members of Parliament signed for a ban in the UK. There is continuing effort to get banned in the Philippines. Romania banned it in the early 90's because it's carcinogenic. And now the European Food Safety Authority is doing a review.
Today no drug is safe if the consumer is using aspartame because of the interaction due to damage to the mitochondria. It's used in hospitals because of the dietitians making patients even sicker.
The Nutratanic hit the iceberg and Coke & Pepsi are in the lifeboats with new sweeteners in the works. Japan's Ajinomoto and the USA NutraSweet Co are still slapping around in the frigid waters of consumer condemnation. http://www.wnho.net/recipe_for_death.htm
If I can provide further data I'll gladly do so. There is no way to show safety on aspartame with honest, unbiased studies. Eliminate industry studies to defend its product and you'll see how deadly is this toxin. Dr. Bill Deagle said its more deadly than depleted uranium because its ubiquitous in our food.
Dr. Betty Martini, D.Hum.
Founder, Mission Possible World Health International
9270 River Club Parkway
Duluth, Georgia 30097
770-242-2599
E-Mail: BettyM19@mindspring.com
http://www.wpwhi.com
http://www.wnho.net
http://www.dorway.com
Aspartame Toxicity Center: http://www.holisticmed.com/aspartame
COT OPINION ON METHANOL SAFETY
Friday 25 March 2011
The FSA's independent Committee on Toxicity (COT) has concluded that long-term exposure to methanol consumed through food, including from aspartame, is unlikely to be harmful to health.
Methanol is generated in the body as a by-product of protein formation, and is also found in food, particularly fruit and vegetables, and from the sweetener aspartame. Some people are exposed to methanol vapour through their work.
Consumption of high levels of methanol can be toxic to the nervous system, particularly affecting the eyesight, and if enough is consumed can result in permanent blindness. The COT was asked for advice on methanol because less was known about whether effects occur from low levels of exposure over a long period of time.
The COT considered a range of evidence including information on how methanol is absorbed into body, broken down and excreted. It also considered how methanol is produced by the body, and how much could be taken up from food and drink, including from aspartame. Data on exposure in the work place was also examined.
From the conclusions of the COT opinion, the Food Standards Agency has confirmed that aspartame is not of concern at the current levels of use.
RELATED LINKS
http://cot.food.gov.uk/cotstatements/cotstatementsyrs/cotstatements2011/cot201102
----- Original Message -----
From: Food Standards Agency Info, info@food.gov.uk
To: Food Standards Agency Mailing List, info@food.gov.uk
Sent: Friday, March 25, 2011 2:00 PM
Subject: FSA News - COT opinion on methanol safety
Dear subscriber,
The following has recently been published by the Food Standards Agency
COT OPINION ON METHANOL SAFETY
The FSA's independent Committee on Toxicity (COT) has concluded that long-term exposure to methanol consumed through food, including from aspartame, is unlikely to be harmful to health. http://www.food.gov.uk/news/newsarchive/2011/mar/methanol