Tips From Other Journals - American Family Physician
Advertisement
<< Previous article
Next article >>
May 1, 2005 Issue
Tips from Other Journals
Soft Drinks Add to Weight Gain and Diabetes Risk
Am Fam Physician. 2005 May 1;71(9):1807-1808.
Soft drink consumption has increased dramatically in recent decades. The increase corresponds with the rise in obesity and diabetes in the United States. Some evidence suggests that sugar-sweetened beverages increase the risk of childhood obesity. No study has shown that these drinks increase the risk of diabetes, although this relationship is plausible not only because of the added sweeteners but also because the caramel coloring may increase insulin resistance. In this study of a cohort of young and middle-aged women, Schulze and colleagues sought to determine the impact of soft drinks on weight gain and diabetes risk.
The Nurses’ Health Study II followed a cohort of 116,671 female nurses 24 to 44 years of age when the study began by administering a questionnaire every two years. In the qualifying sample of 51,603 women, participants had completed a food frequency questionnaire that included questions on the number of nondiet and diet soft drinks, fruit drinks, and fruit juices they had consumed in the past year. Information on weight and exercise was obtained, allowing body mass index calculations and energy expenditure estimates. Finally, new diagnoses of diabetes were recorded.
The authors drew data from two time periods (1991 to 1995 and 1995 to 1999) calculating mean weight changes in participants who had reported a change in soft drink consumption during those periods. Soft drink intake within the first period was compared with intake in the second period to estimate the impact of dietary change on diabetes risk.
The health habits of women with lower soft drink consumption were healthier overall than the habits of those with higher soft drink consumption. Participants who increased their soda intake also increased their overall energy intake over the same period, with changes in the consumption of other foods accounting for only about one third of that caloric increase. The reverse pattern was true in women who decreased their soda intake. The group with consumption that increased from low to high had significantly greater weight gain and increase in body mass index than women with low intake or decreased intake. Similar weight increases were found in those with intakes of fruit punch and fruit juice. An increase in diet soft drink consumption was associated with lower weight gain compared with decreasing diet drink consumption.
Greater sugar-sweetened soft drink consumption was associated with an increasingly higher risk of acquiring diabetes, with a relative risk of 1.98 among those drinking daily soft drinks compared with those rarely drinking them. Adjustment for confounding factors, particularly body mass index and caloric intake, attenuated these results somewhat. Fruit drink and diet drink consumption increased diabetes risk, but fruit juice intake did not.
The authors speculate that the increased diabetes risk associated with sugar-sweetened drinks may be because people who drink sweetened liquids do not feel full. Therefore, the energy intake from these drinks does not prevent people from eating their usual amount of food. Short-term studies have shown that people gain weight if sodas are added to their regular diets. Given the findings of this study, it appears that drinking soft drinks is associated with increased energy intake overall, suggesting that the sodas may actually make people hungrier. The fact that fruit juices did not increase diabetes risk may be due to the lower glycemic index of these drinks as well as to the presence of nutrients.
Read the full article.
Get immediate access, anytime, anywhere.
Choose a single article, issue, or full-access subscription.
Earn up to 6 CME credits per issue.
Already a member/subscriber?
Log in >>
Purchase Access:
See My Optionsclose
Already a member or subscriber? Log in
Best Value!
Get Full Access
From $140
Subscribe
Includes:
Immediate, unlimited access to all AFP content
More than 130 CME credits per year
Access to the AFP app
Print delivery option
Access This Issue
$39.95
Includes:
Immediate access to this issue
CME credits in this issue
To see the full article, log in or purchase access.
CAROLINE WELLBERY, M.D.
Schulze MB, et al. Sugar-sweetened beverages, weight gain, and incidence of type 2 diabetes in young and middle-aged women. JAMA. August 25, 2004;292:927–34.
editor’s note: According to the surveys taken from 1977 to 1998, soft drink portion size increased during this period by 49 kcal.1,2 The National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys suggest that the rate of increase in body weight is only about 0.1448 kg per year, which calculates to an excess of 3 kcal daily. From these data, it is easy to see how sugar-sweetened drinks, which do not seem to provoke the same satiety response as other foods, could partly account for the obesity epidemic in children and adults.—c.w.
REFERENCES
1. Levitsky DA. To the editor [Reply]. Pediatr. 2004;144:556–7.
2. Nielsen SJ, Popkin BM. Patterns and trends in food portion sizes, 1977–1998. JAMA. 2003;289:450–3.
Add/view comments
Hide comments
Copyright © 2005 by the American Academy of Family Physicians.
This content is owned by the AAFP. A person viewing it online may make one printout of the material and may use that printout only for his or her personal, non-commercial reference. This material may not otherwise be downloaded, copied, printed, stored, transmitted or reproduced in any medium, whether now known or later invented, except as authorized in writing by the AAFP. Contact afpserv@aafp.org for copyright questions and/or permission requests.
PRINT
COMMENTS
ADD TO FAVORITES REMOVE FAVORITE
This page will be removed from your Favorites Links. Are you sure?
SHARE
Want to use this article elsewhere? Get Permissions
Advertisement
MOST RECENT ISSUE
Apr 15, 2019
Access the latest issue of American Family Physician
Read the Issue
Email Alerts
Don't miss a single issue. Sign up for the free AFP email table of contents.
Sign Up Now
Navigate this Article
Home / Journals / afp / Vol. 71/No. 9(May 1, 2005) / Soft Drinks Add to Weight Gain and Diabetes Risk