San Rafael Dentist, After Tooth Extraction Care, Tooth Extraction Surgery, Aftercare | Tooth Extraction Cost San Rafael
415.479.4977
Home
Our Team
Services
Patient Info
Payment Info
Contact Us
Oral Surgery
After Extraction Care
After tooth extraction, it’s important for a blood clot to form to stop the bleeding and begin the healing process. We ask you to bite on a gauze pad in the tooth extraction area for 30 minutes after the appointment. If the bleeding or oozing persists, repeat the process. After the blood clot forms, it is important not to dislodge the clot. Do not rinse vigorously, suck on straws, smoke, drink alcohol or brush teeth next to the extraction site for 72 hours. These activities will dislodge the clot. Limit vigorous exercise for the next 24 hours as this will increase blood pressure and may cause more bleeding from the extraction site.
After the tooth is extracted you may feel some pain and experience some swelling. An ice pack applied to the area 20 minutes on, 20 minutes off, will keep swelling to a minimum. Take pain medications as prescribed by Melissa E. Rinck, D.D.S.. The swelling will usually subside in about 48 hours.
Use the pain medication as directed. Call the office if the medication doesn't seem to be working. If antibiotics are prescribed, continue to take them for the indicated length of time, even if signs and symptoms of infection are gone. Drink lots of fluid and eat nutritious soft food on the day of the extraction. You can eat normally as soon as you are comfortable.
It's important to resume your normal dental routine after 24 hours. This should include brushing and flossing your teeth at least twice a day. This will speed healing and help keep your mouth fresh and clean.
After a few days you will feel fine and can resume your normal activities. If you have heavy bleeding, severe pain, continued swelling after 2-3 days, or a reaction to the medication, call our office immediately at 415 479-4977.
After the Removal of Multiple Teeth
BLEEDING. A small amount of bleeding is to be expected following the operation. If bleeding occurs, place a gauze pad directly over the bleeding socket and apply biting pressure for 30 minutes. If bleeding continues, a moist tea bag can be used for 30 minutes. If bleeding occurs, avoid hot liquids, exercise, and elevate the head. If bleeding persists, call our office immediately. Do not remove immediate denture unless the bleeding is severe. Expect some oozing around the side of the denture.
SWELLING. Use ice packs on the same side of the face of the surgical area. Apply ice 20 minutes on, 20 minutes off, during your waking hours for a maximum of 36 hours only. Ice does not have an effect after 36 hours. Call the office for further assistance.
DISCOMFORT. For mild discomfort use aspirin, Tylenol or any similar medication; two tablets every 3-4 hours. Ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) 200mg can be taken 2-3 tablets every 3-4 hours. For severe pain use the prescription given to you. If the pain does not begin to subside in 2 days, or increases after 2 days, please call our office. If an antibiotic has been prescribed, finish your prescription regardless of your symptoms.
DIET. Drink plenty of fluids. If many teeth have been extracted, the blood lost at this time needs to be replaced. Drink at least six glasses of liquid the first day. Restrict your diet to liquids and soft foods, which are comfortable for you to eat. As the wounds heal, you will be able to advance your diet.
HOME HYGIENE CARE. Do not rinse your mouth for the first post-operative day, or while there is bleeding. After the first day, use a warm salt water rinse every 4 hours and following meals to flush out particles of food and debris that may lodge in the operated area. (One half teaspoon of salt in a glass of lukewarm water.). After you have seen your dentist for denture adjustment, take out denture and rinse 3 to 4 times a day.
WEARING DENTURES. The removal of many teeth at one time is quite different than the extraction of one or two teeth. Because the bone must be shaped and smoothed prior to the insertion of a denture, the following conditions may occur, all of which are considered normal:
- The area operated on will swell reaching a maximum in two days. Swelling and discoloration around the eye may occur. The application of a moist warm towel will help eliminate the discoloration quicker. The towel should be applied continuously for as long as tolerable beginning 36 hours after surgery (remember ice packs are used for the first 36 hours only).
- A sore throat may develop. The muscles of the throat are near the extraction sites. Swelling into the throat muscles can cause pain. This is normal and should subside in 2-3 days. - If the corners of the mouth are stretched, they may dry out and crack. Your lips should be kept moist with an ointment like Vaseline. There may be a slight elevation of temperature for 24-48 hours. If temperature continues, notify our office.
If immediate dentures have been inserted, sore spots may develop. In most cases, Melissa E. Rinck, D.D.S. will see you within 24-48 hours after surgery and make the necessary adjustments to relieve those sore spots. Failure to do so may result in severe denture sores, which may prolong the healing process.
About Dr. Melissa E. Rinck
services
San Rafael Cosmetic Dentist
Cosmetic
Dentures
Implants
Implant FAQs
Gum Disease
Oral Surgery
Tooth Extraction
After Extraction Care
Orthodontic FAQs
Pediatrics
Pediatric FAQs
Periodontics
Preventive
Restorative
Topics of Interest
Office Hours
Monday:
Tuesday:
Wednesday:
Thursday:
Friday:
Saturday:
8:00 am - 6:00 pm
8:00 am - 6:00 pm
8:00 am - 6:00 pm
Closed
8:00 am - 6:00 pm
8:00 am - 1:00 pm
On Wednesdays a hygienist is available at 7:00am
Saturday appointments are available once a month
Contact Info
Phone | 415 479-4977
Fax | 415 479-5043
E-mail | Email Us
Thank You!
Name What's your name?
E-mail Valid E-mail please!
Phone Optional
Message
Request an Appointment
LEGAL DISCLAIMER. For the purpose of illustrating the possibilities of today's dental procedures, this web site may include models and/or generic before and after smile case examples. These examples do not represent a certainty of case performance for any single individual. Individual before and after results will vary. Patients should consult with their dentist before making a final decision. All patient information is private & protected by our office unless otherwise approved by the patient.
Melissa E. Rinck, D.D.S.
750 Las Gallinas Ave #215 San Rafael, CA 94903
Phone: 415 479-4977
Dental Web Site Design, Dental Patient Education, Dentist Network Online, Site Map
Back to Mobile Page
Close Window
Request An Appointment
Name What's your name?
E-mail Valid E-mail please!
Inquiring About New Patient Cleaning/Exam Tooth Pain Emergency Teeth Whitening Cosmetic Dentistry Dental Implants Sedation Dentistry Dentures Other
Phone Optional
Preferred Dates
(mm/dd format separated by commas please)
Preferred Time Of Day Anytime Morning Afternoon After 5pm If Offered
Message
Please fill out this form.
We will contact you to confirm an appointment date and time as soon as possible.
You can also call us at 415 479-4977 to request an appointment.