After Wisdom Tooth Removal Pinehurst NC
Skip to main content
Call Us Today
910 295-8088
Home
Patient Information
Introduction
Financial Policy
Scheduling
First Visit
Insurance
HIPAA Compliant
Notice of Privacy Practice
OHSA Compliant
Online Videos
Patient Registration
Procedures
Dental Implants
Bone Grafting
Jaw Bone Health
Jawbone Loss and Deterioration
About Bone Grafting
Ridge Augmentation
Sinus Lift
Nerve Repositioning
Socket Preservation
Wisdom Teeth
Facial Trauma
Jaw Surgery
Pre-Prosthetic Surgery
Oral Pathology
Platelet Rich Plasma
Impacted Canines
Meet Us
Meet Dr. John Franklin Neely
Meet Dr. Robert Kirk Johnson
Meet the Staff
Office Tour
Surgical Instructions
Before Anesthesia
Dental Implant Surgery
Wisdom Tooth Removal
Exposure of an Impacted Tooth
Extractions
Multiple Extractions
Referring Doctors
Referral Form
Study Club
Links of Interest
Contact Us
Contact Information / Office Map
After Wisdom Tooth Removal
The removal of impacted teeth is a serious surgical procedure. Post-operative care is very important. Unnecessary pain and the complications of infection and swelling can be minimized if the instructions are followed carefully.
Immediately Following Surgery
Some oozing of blood may continue for a short time after surgery. This may be controlled by maintaining pressure over surgical site by biting FIRMLY on a damp,chilled gauze sponge for 30 minutes. Lie quietly with the head elevated and repeat the above procedure every 30 minutes until active bleeding is controlled.A pinkish tinge of salvia is normal for a 24 hour period after surgery. Excessive bleeding may be controlled by first rinsing or wiping any old clots from your mouth, then placing a gauze pad over the area and biting firmly for thirty minutes. Repeat if necessary. If bleeding continues, bite on a moistened tea bag for thirty minutes. The tannic acid in the tea bag helps to form a clot by contracting bleeding vessels. To minimize further bleeding, do not become excited, sit upright, and avoid exercise. If bleeding does not subside, call for further instructions.
Vigorous mouth rinsing or touching the wound area following surgery should be avoided. This may initiate bleeding by causing the blood clot that has formed to become dislodged.
Take the prescribed pain medications as soon as you begin to feel discomfort. This will usually coincide with the local anesthetic becoming diminished.
Restrict your activities the day of surgery and resume normal activity when you feel comfortable.
Swelling
The swelling that is normally expected is usually proportional to the surgery involved. Swelling around the mouth, cheeks, eyes and sides of the face is not uncommon. This is the body’s normal reaction to surgery and eventual repair. The swelling will not become apparent until the day following surgery and will not reach its maximum until 2-3 days post-operatively. However, the swelling may be minimized by the immediate use of ice packs. Two baggies filled with ice, or ice packs should be applied to the sides of the face where surgery was performed. The ice packs should be left on continuously while you are awake. After 48 hours, ice has no beneficial effect. If swelling or jaw stiffness has persisted for several days, there is no cause for alarm. This is a normal reaction to surgery. Forty-eight hours following surgery, the application of moist heat to the sides of the face is beneficial in reducing the size of the swelling.
Pain
For moderate pain, one or two tablets of Tylenol or Extra Strength Tylenol may be taken every three to four hours or Ibuprofen, (Motrin or Advil) two-four 200 mg tablets may be taken every 3-4 hours.
For severe pain, take the tablets prescribed as directed. The prescribed pain medicine will make you groggy and will slow down your reflexes. Do not drive an automobile or work around machinery. Avoid alcoholic beverages. Pain or discomfort following surgery should subside more and more every day. If pain persists, it may require attention and you should call the office.
Diet
After general anesthetic or I.V. sedation, liquids should be initially taken. Do not use straws. Drink from a glass. The sucking motion can cause more bleeding by dislodging the blood clot. You may eat anything soft by chewing away form the surgical sites. High calorie, high protein intake is very important. Refer to the section on suggested diet instructions at the end of the brochure. Nourishment should be taken regularly. You should prevent dehydration by taking fluids regularly. Your food intake will be limited for the first few days. You should compensate for this by increasing your fluid intake. At least 5-6 glasses of liquid should be taken daily. Try not to miss a single meal. You will feel better, have more strength, less discomfort and heal faster if you continue to eat. Caution: If you suddenly sit up or stand from a lying position you may become dizzy. If you are lying down following surgery, make sure you sit for one minute before standing.
Keep the mouth clean
No rinsing of any kind should be performed until the day following surgery. The day after surgery you should begin rinsing at least 4-5 times a day especially after eating with a cup of warm water mixed with a teaspoon of salt.
Discoloration
In some cases, discoloration of the skin follows swelling. The development of black, blue, green, or yellow discoloration is due to blood spreading beneath the tissues. This is a normal post-operative occurrence, which may occur 2-3 days post-operatively. Moist heat applied to the area may speed up the removal of the discoloration.
Antibiotics
If you have been placed on antibiotics, take the tablets or liquid as directed. Antibiotics will be given to help prevent infection. Discontinue antibiotic use in the event of a rash or other unfavorable reaction. Call the office if you have any questions.
Nausea and Vomiting
In the event of nausea and/or vomiting following surgery, do not take anything by mouth for at least an hour including the prescribed medicine. You should then sip on coke, tea or ginger ale. You should sip slowly over a fifteen-minute period. When the nausea subsides you can begin taking solid foods and the prescribed medicine.
Other Complications
If numbness of the lip, chin, or tongue occurs there is no cause for alarm. As stated before surgery, this is usually temporary in nature. You should be aware that if your lip or tongue is numb, you could bite it and not feel the sensation. So be careful. Call [last_name] if you have any questions.
Slight elevation of temperature immediately following surgery is not uncommon. If the temperature persists, notify the office. Tylenol or ibuprofen should be taken to reduce the fever.
You should be careful going from the lying down position to standing. You were not able to eat or drink prior to surgery. It was also difficult to take fluids. Taking pain medications can make you dizzy. You could get light headed when you stand up suddenly. Before standing up, you should sit for one minute then get up.
Occasionally, patients may feel hard projections in the mouth with their tongue. They are not roots, they are the bony walls which supported the tooth. These projections usually smooth out spontaneously. If not, they can be removed by Drs. Neely and Johnson.
If the corners of your mouth are stretched, they may dry out and crack. Your lips should be kept moist with an ointment such as vaseline.
Sore throats and pain when swallowing are not uncommon. The muscles get swollen. The normal act of swallowing can then become painful. This will subside in 2-3 days.
Stiffness (Trimus) of the jaw muscles may cause difficulty in opening your mouth for a few days following surgery. This is a normal post-operative event which will resolve in time.
Finally
Sutures are placed the area of surgery to minimize post-operative bleeding and to help healing. Sometimes they become dislodged, this is no cause for alarm. Just remove the suture form your mouth and discard it. The sutures will be removed approximately one week after surgery. The removal of sutures requires no anesthesia or needles. It takes only a minute or so, and there is no discomfort associated with this procedure. So it’s really nothing to worry about.
The pain and swelling should subside more and more each day following surgery. If your post-operative pain or swelling worsens or unusual symptoms occur call my office for instructions.
There will be a cavity where the tooth was removed. The cavity will gradually over the next month fill in with the new tissue. In the mean time, the area should be kept clean especially after meals with salt water rinses or a toothbrush. After five days from today, use the monoject syringe that was given to you to rinse lower surgical sites . Rinse the sites after each meal and before bedtime with salt water for aleast 2 weeks this eliminate food being trapped in the wound and bad odor.
Your case is individual, no two mouths are alike. Do not accept well intended advice from friends. Discuss your problem with the persons best able to effectively help you: Drs. Neely and Johnson or your family dentist.
Brushing your teeth is okay – just be gentle at the surgical sites.
A dry socket is when the blood clot gets dislodged prematurely from the tooth socket. Symptoms of pain at the surgical site and even pain to the ear may occur 2-3 days following surgery. Call the office if this occurs.
If you are involved in regular exercise, be aware that your normal nourishment intake is reduced. Exercise may weaken you. If you get light headed, stop exercising.
Surgical Instructions
Before Anesthesia
Dental Implant Surgery
Wisdom Tooth Removal
Exposure of an Impacted Tooth
Extractions
Multiple Extractions
Wisdom Teeth
By the age of 18, the average adult has 32 teeth; 16 teeth on the top and 16 teeth on [...]
Learn More
Pinehurst Oral Surgery and Dental Implant Center
93 Aviemore Drive
Pinehurst, NC 28374
Phone: 910 295-8088
Fax: 910 295-8855
Home
Patient Information
Procedures
Meet Us
Surgical Instructions
Referring Doctors
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Sitemap
West End; Carthage; Rockingham; Sanford; Fayetteville; McCall,SC
NC
Pinehurst Oral Surgery and Dental Implant Center • Address: 93 Aviemore Drive Pinehurst NC 28374 • Phone: Pinehurst Office Phone Number 910 295-8088 • Fax: 910 295-8855
Oral Surgery Website Design by PBHS © 2019
×
PBHS
Wisdom Teeth
Wisdom Tooth Overview
Types of Impactions
Age Issues
Treatment Process
Problems and Concerns
If You Have Questions
Las Muelas del Juicio
Incrustaciones Dentales
Problemas con la Edad
Proceso de Tratamiento
Problemas y Preocupaciones
Información
Wisdom Graphic
Soft Tissue Impaction
Partial Bony Impaction
Complete Bony Impaction
Infection
Cyst Formation
Crowding
Wisdom Tooth Removal
Sinus Communication
Dry Socket
Post Op Infection
Jaw Fracture
English
Español
Patient Education Mode
Consultation Mode
© 2009 PBHS, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
PBHS phone number 800-840-5383 | www.pbhs.com