Water Of Life - Natural Health Techniques
About Us
Diet&Nutrition
Basics of Health
Techniques
Sitemap
Select Page
Water of Life
Media Reviews
A Treatise in Urine Therapy
Premarin is a hormone women take and is made of pregnant mare’s urine. Hmmm. I can’t imagine. Why drink a horse’s urine when you can drink your own? I’m just kidding—kind of.
An online mentor of mine told me once that the page on her site that got the most hits was the Urine Therapy page! Of course maybe it has to do with some disgusting YouTube links showing how animals drink their own urine (I’ll let you explore those on your own if you like), but that got me to thinking about a few of my clients over the years who shared their urine drinking stories with me.
This month’s media review is on that therapy and I’ll admit I’ve never tried this therapy although my brother Don has told me in the past, “Denice, you have to experience everything” and that’s just not so but as with all alternative treatments the public can’t ask about them or try them without first knowing about them. There are lots of books on urine therapy out there.
The title of the book on urine therapy that I read is The Water of Life: A Treatise in Urine Therapy by John W. Armstrong. Let me tell you that any book title with the word Treatise in the title is tedious reading but this book wasn’t so bad. John (not a doctor) describes how he supervised the healing of 96 different people who chose urine therapy as part of their healing process—some of them ingesting disgusting looking urine as their only healing modality after the medical system had given them up for dead.
Drinking your own urine acts to cleanse the body, free it from obstruction and rebuild vital organs damaged from disease. The kidney is an amazing organ filtering components in the urine. Did you know that your urine varies with the foods you eat, the season of the year and that you only produce ¼ to ½ of your urine volume during sleeping hours? Well, it’s true.
“The prime cause of disease is the absence of substances which should be in the body and the presence of substances which should not be in the body” John writes.
Mr. John Anderson is convinced that drinking provides the body with much needed cell salts. Actually his discussion of cell salts was really pretty good if you have any interest in learning more about that. He’s also convinced that the body’s own urine acts as a homeopathic remedy to detoxify the body and repair the lungs, pancreas, liver, brain, heart, bowels and linings of the body. He believes that drinking your own urine accomplishes what mere fasting with water or juices cannot and explains the entire process in full detail in this 136 page book.
His introduction to drinking his own urine was when he became so ill that several doctors no longer felt it useful to treat him. He had what they called in those days, consumption. Well, when you don’t have the energy to do anything you have a lot of time to think. Being a religious sort of fellow it came to him while reading Proverbs V that “Drink waters of thine own cistern” meant that we should drink our own urine to be in optimal health. So he spent the next 45 days doing just that.
John also rubbed urine onto his own body—maybe he thought he was anointing himself? Who know, but the treatment worked and he has helped heal many others with urine therapy over the years.
Some diseases he’s treated with urine therapy include: Gangrene, cancers of various kinds, Bright’s disease, leukemia, heart disease, malaria and fevers, orchitis, venereal disease, bed sores and burns, the common cold, hemorrhoids, blindness and cataracts.
He noted that arthritis and diabetes were harder to cure with urine therapy but that urine had no side effects and was the only food needed for sick people. Hmmm. No side effects? Well, I guess that’s a matter of opinion. I don’t know how many friends you’d have after you told them that you drank everything that came out of you and I don’t know too many spouses who would want to kiss a urine permeated partner very often—at least that’s what I’ve been told!
I once was brought in on an animal abuse case where the dog was left in its 4 x 8 food cyclone dog kennel for two weeks without food and water. The dog literally drank its own urine to survive. Very sad. After bathing it three times there was still a urine stench to that dog for several weeks. I’m sure that drinking volumes of your own urine would have that same affect.
Of course if your doctor tells you that you’re going to die and has given up on you this opens up the mind to alternative treatments of all kinds. In my practice I see a lot of people with open minds. Of course I know this and don’t take advantage of that.
Definitely not a book for the squeamish.
Helpful Links and references:
The Water of Life: A Treatise on Urine Therapy © 2005 by J.W. Armstrong
Your Own Perfect Medicine: The Incredible Proven Natural Miracle Cure that Medical Science Has Never Revealed! © 1996 by Martha M. Christy
Golden Fountain: The Complete Guide to Urine Therapy © 1996 by Coen van der Kroon, Volker Moritz, Merilee Dranow, and Swami Pragyamurti Saraswati
Urine Therapy: Nature’s Elixir for Good Health © 1999 by Flora Peschek-Böhmer Ph.D., Gisela Schreiber, and Flora, Ph.D Peschek-Bohmer
Urine Therapy! Confessions of A Mad Pee Drinker © 2007 by P. P. Powers
Urine-Therapy: It May Save Your Life © 1993 by Beatrice Bartnett
Schedule Your Consultation
17712~|nht~|nht-Num-1-NHT~|
Step One
Read the "What I do and How I Work" handout
17712~|nht~|nht-Asset-2-NHT~|
Step 2
Read my Bio
17712~|nht~|nht-Asset-3-NHT~|
Step 3
Email me the following:
Symptoms
Age
Nationalities
Blood Type (if available)
Location (City, State or Country)
Email Dr. Moffat
Sign up for updates!
Share
⠀
⠀
⠀
Follow Us
Facebook
Pages in this section
*Media Reviews Home Page
A Consumer’s Dictionary of Food Additives
A Week in the Zone
Are You Dressed to Kill
Better Off—Flipping the Switch
Boundaries
Chelation Therapy
Conversations with Animals
Courageous Souls
Dr. Moffat’s Book List
Fat Sick and Nearly Dead Movie Review
Favorite Books on Herbs
First Do No Harm Movie
Flax Oil Book Review
Food Additives
Food Rules An Eaters Manual Book Summary
Hello from Heaven
Hydrogen Peroxide Medical Miracle
I Am a Miracle
If Life is a Game, These are the Rules
Influence Science and Practice
Inspiration Your Ultimate Calling
Journey of Souls
Labyrinth Book Review–Walking a Sacred Path
Open Your Mind to Prosperity
Our Favorite Movies
Outsmarting the Midlife Fat Cell
Project Everlasting
Saint Ralph
Start Something That Matters
Straight from the Horse’s Mouth
Strangers Among Us
The Dog Listener
The Findhorn Garden
The Last Mimzy
The Life You Were Born to Live
The Ron Clark Story
The Secret
The Tao Jones Averages
The Touch of Healing Book Summary
The Twelve Conditions of a Miracle
The Ultimate Gift
The Unquiet Dead
The World’s Fastest Indian
Uncorked
Untwinned-Book Review
Water of Life
Disclaimer | Privacy Policy | Links | FAQs | Contact Us
© 2019 Natural Health Techniques