The Cholesterol & Exercise Connection - Baltimore Cardiologists - Woodholme Cardiovascular Associates
Translate
Please choose a language.
Choose
Top
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
410-469-4000
410-469-4074
Checkout Our Facebook Page
Twitter
Leave a Review
Baltimore Cardiologists - Woodholme Cardiovascular Associates
Home
About Us
About Us
Testimonials
Office News
Heart Healthy Recipes and Nutrition
Our Physicians
Services
Exercise Stress Test
Nuclear Stress Test
Pacemaker
PET Scans
Stents / Angioplasty
Stress Echocardiogram
Carotid Ultrasound
Cardiac Catheterization
Home Sleep Studies
Cardiac Event Monitors
TEE
Cardioversion
Cardiac Defibrillator
Echocardiogram
Device Clinic
Ablation
Watchman
CRT/Bi-V Pacing Device
Loop Recorder
Patient Info
Contact Us
Leave a Review
Pay My Bill
pay online
Rx Refills
refill my prescription
Appointments
schedule an appointment
Patient Portal
access my information
FAQ’s
have a question?
Locations
get directions here
You are here: Home / News / The Cholesterol & Exercise Connection
The Cholesterol & Exercise Connection
January 21, 2019 by admin
Most people think of exercise as a way to keep cholesterol under check and to assist with weight loss. While exercise without weight loss has little influence on total or LDL cholesterol, research indicates that aerobic exercise does seem to change the type of LDL that the body produces. Small, dense LDL is very atherogenic. People who exercise regularly produce LDL that is larger and lighter and less likely to form plaque.
HDL or good cholesterol may have antioxidant properties. It protects people from heart disease because of its role in reverse cholesterol transport. Reverse cholesterol transport is the transfer of cholesterol in LDL and VLDL to HDL, which takes the cholesterol to the liver so that it is not deposited in artery walls. Exercise affects several enzymes involved in the process to facilitate reverse cholesterol transport.
Exercise, weight loss and smoking cessation are three commonly promoted methods of increasing HDL. The amount of exercise performed by the 20% of Americans who do engage in physical activity, however, is probably insufficient to cause a significant increase in HDL. Some studies suggest that it takes a caloric expenditure of approximately 2000 calories per week to raise HDL. This would be equivalent to walking 20 miles per week or biking 60 miles per week. The advice that exercise will increase HDL, especially in the short term, can be very misleading. Many people who take up exercise, go on a low-fat diet and lose weight will actually see a lowering of HDL. This can be very discouraging unless they realize that there are other cardiovascular benefits from exercise such as a decreased risk of diabetes, lower blood pressure and less chance of irregular heartbeats. In addition, if weight is lost with exercise, the lower HDL is not as much of a concern and will usually begin to come back up after several months.
Collateral vessels can develop in hearts where arteries are blocked with plaque, creating a “natural bypass” of the artery. This is beneficial for maintaining the oxygen supply to the heart muscle. Exercise improves the ability of the heart’s blood vessels to dilate and causes more blood vessels to develop. As blood vessels dilate easier, the oxygen supply to the heart is enhanced. This increases the angina threshold in people who get chest pain with exercise so that more work can be done before the pain occurs.
Although the direct effect of exercise on the lipid profile has been overstated, the bottom line is that exercise is one of the most important things one can do for the cardiovascular system. In fact, the American Heart Association lists lack of physical activity as a major risk factor for heart disease, with equal importance to high cholesterol, cigarette smoking and high blood pressure.
By Nancy Kennedy, MS, RD.
© Food and Health Communications
Woodholme encourages a healthy diet and proper nutrition as one aspect of maintaining heart health. The nutrition information and recipes are presented for informational purposes only and are not intended to take the place of one-on-one advice from your doctor. Please follow your personal physician’s recommendations if any recipes, ingredients, or advice found here conflict with what your doctor
Filed Under: Exercise, News
Reader Interactions
Pikesville OfficeWoodholme Medical Building
Suite 535
1838 Greene Tree Rd, Pikesville, MD 21208
410-469-4000410-469-4074 Directions
Westminster OfficePhyllis Green Building
Suite 204B
826 Washington Rd, Westminster, MD 21157
410-848-0014410-469-4074 Directions
Ellicott City OfficeCrossroads Medical Building
Suite 220
4801 Dorsey Hall Drive, Ellicott City, MD 21042
410-469-4904410-469-4074 Directions
Lutherville-Timonium OfficeYork Place Building
Suite 30A
1205 York Rd, Lutherville-Timonium, MD 21093
410-469-4000410-469-4074 Directions
Latest Woodholme News
Read about our news, events, and the latest industry news from our blog. If you like what you read, please sign-up for our email updates.
Join Our Mailing List Email address:
Leave this field empty if you're human:
Can I Prevent Heart Disease by Taking Aspirin?
Many of our patients have asked us about recent studies that have come out in the medical journals … ✛
Welcome, Dr. Ambereen Quraishi
We're excited to announce that Dr. Ambereen Quraishi will soon be joining the Woodholme team, … ✛
Home
Our Physicians
Services
About Us
Patient Info
FAQ
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
HIPAA Notice of Privacy Practices
Nondiscrimination Policy & Foreign Language Assistance
Sitemap
Accessibility Help
Among the Best Cardiologists in Maryland
Copyright © 2019 · Baltimore Cardiologists - Woodholme Cardiovascular Associates· Website design by Datachieve Digital