How Healthy Is Ginger, Anyway? | Food Network Healthy Eats: Recipes, Ideas, and Food News | Food Network
f
t
p
s
i
y
Magazine
Newsletters
Saves
Recipes
Healthy
Party Food
Easter
Shop
Chopped
Worst Cooks in America
Shows
Watch Full Seasons
Recipes
Shows
Chefs
Restaurants
Videos
Sweeps
TV Schedule
Blog
Apps
Shop
Shows A-Z
Chefs A-Z
Log Out
Log In Sign Up
© 2019 Television Food Network, G.P. All rights reserved.
Home
HealthyEats
News
2017
09
HealthyEats
Healthy Eats Home
Healthy Recipes
News
Diets
Healthy Tips
Fitness & Wellness
How Healthy Is Ginger, Anyway?
Learn more about the health benefits of this versatile spice.
Pinterest
Facebook
Twitter
Email
113475809
Ginger root
Photo by: Elena Elisseeva
Elena Elisseeva
By: Amy Reiter
Ginger. Just the word can conjure the heady scent and tangy taste of the freshly prepped knobby root. Whether you slice or grate it into stir fries or sauces; drink it in ginger ale or tea; or eat it candied, baked it into cookies or in ice cream, ginger not only imbues food with its particular pungent, pepper-citrusy flavor, it also has health benefi
In Asia, India and the Middle East, ginger root has long been used as an herbal medicine as well as a spice. In China, it has, for thousands of years, been used as a digestive aid and a method of treating an upset stomach, diarrhea and nausea. In fact, in various parts of the world, it has been used to treat everything from arthritis and heart disease to headaches, the common cold and even menstrual cramps.
Today, people may use ginger for the treatment of nausea and vomiting due to motion sickness, pregnancy, from chemotherapy or following surgery. Other uses include osteoarthritis-related pain reduction – and there’s even some indication that it may lower cholesterol and help prevent blood clots.
Still, the research supporting some of these uses is ongoing.
“While ginger has long been used as a dietary supplement to help ease nausea, the beneficial effects may be limited to certain types,” Jessica Levings, MS, RD, owner of Balanced Pantry, a company that consults on food and menu labeling, tells Healthy Eats. “Contrary to personal reports, most research actually suggests taking ginger before traveling doesn’t help with motion sickness, but research does support its use in lessening pregnancy- and surgery-related nausea.”
Levings notes that studies underscoring ginger’s use as an antioxidant and anti-inflammatory agent are “limited.”
“Some clinical studies have found that ginger can suppress the growth of foodborne pathogens such as E. coli, but more research is needed to fully understand how the spice effects gastrointestinal infections and bacteria growth,” she says.
While eating fresh ginger – as a spice or a root – as part of a healthy diet is generally considered safe, taking it as a supplement may lead to mild heartburn, upset stomach or diarrhea in some people. It may interact with certain medications and, in some studies, increase the risk for bleeding or boost insulin levels, lowering blood sugar, or even exacerbate some heart conditions.
“As with any over-the-counter medication or supplement, it's important to talk with your healthcare provider before you begin taking it,” Levings advises. “This is especially true for women who are pregnant or breastfeeding.”
Bottom line: While taking ginger as a supplement won’t counteract a healthy diet and eating it in large quantity is not recommended (no more than 4g per day for adults and 1g for pregnant women is advisable, and it should never be given to children under age 2, the University of Maryland Medical Center cautions), adding it to a balanced diet – once rich in fruits, vegetables, dairy, lean meat, whole grains and a range of herbs and spices – may be healthy.
“It’s the combination of healthy eating and physical activity that improves health and well-being,” Levings says.
Here are some healthy recipes using ginger to try:
Ginger Tea
Ginger-Scallion Chicken Parchment Pack
Sauteed Chicken Breasts with Fresh Herbs and Ginger
Keep Reading
Next Up
Robin's Healthy Take: Healthier Chips
Deep-fried chips are out; healthy, baked chips are in, like Robin Miller's kale chips, maple sweet potato chips and curried potato chips.
Healthy 'Taters
Robin's healthy tater tots are baked and have zero fat and fewer calories than the classic deep-fried potato.
Healthy Snacks
Tips for making healthy choices whenever a craving strikes
Katie's Healthy Bites: Healthier Hot Dogs
Can you eat hot dogs on a healthy diet? Here are our picks for the best brands and the most filling hot dog toppings.
Robin's Healthy Take: Healthy Food Pairings
Sometimes your favorite foods taste better together. Robin Miller's salad recipes pair unusual foods together and the result is unforgettable (and delicious!).
Ginger, 3 Ways
Use ginger's signature spiciness to enhance everything from classic holiday crinkle cookies to tangy carrot switchel.
Heart-Healthy Living
Eight easy steps for better health
Healthier Cocktail Mixers
Instead of those artificial, high-sugar options, reach for these healthier cocktail mixers.
Healthy Swaps: Salads
Salads made our list of 9 Healthy Foods to Skip because they can be deceptively high in calories, especially if you pile on the toppings and dressing. But not all salads are calorie nightmares and it’s ok to indulge in some --not all -- of your favorite higher calorie ingredients. Use our tips to build a better salad.
Heart-Healthy Meals
To honor American Heart Month, our friends at Foodnetwork.com are dishing out recipes that are low in cholesterol but high in flavor. Check out their favorites -- plus, see which seven foods can help lower cholesterol and eight simple steps for better heart health.
What's Cooking
Healthy Weeknight Dinners 135 Photos
More Recipes
Healthy Newsletter
To sign up, please enable JavaScript.
Get healthy recipes and tips delivered to your inbox weekly. Privacy Policy
Sign Up
Site Map
Terms of Use
AdChoices
Privacy Policy
About
Newsroom
Advertise
Help
Contact Us
Online Closed Captioning
Discovery, Inc.
International Editions
United States
Asia
Brazil
Canada
Europe, Middle East & Africa
United Kingdom
Latin America
See all Scripps Networks Digital
Cooking Channel
GeniusKitchen.com
HGTV
DIY Network
Travel Channel
Great American Country
SpoonUniversity.com
© 2019 Television Food Network, G.P. All rights reserved.
Pinterest
Facebook
Twitter
Email