Mosquito Disease - Zika Virus, West Nile, Chikungunya, Dengue Fever
Skip to content
FacebookTwitterInstagramGoogle+Pinterest
CALL NOW
GET QUOTE
PAY NOW
HOME
OUR SERVICES
Guaranteed Spray
Tick Control
Events & Weddings
Commercial and Municipalities
SERVICE AREA
BUG CONTROL
What To Expect
Zika Virus Facts
ABOUT MOSQUITO GUY
Why Choose Us
Reviews
Promotions
FAQs
Blog
CONTACT
Bug Controlmosquitoguy2019-04-10T13:12:30+00:00
Mosquito Bites Can Make You Sick
We all know that being bitten by mosquitoes is no fun, leaving you itchy and irritated for days. But the annoyance your family suffers from mosquitoes and other biting insects can be more than inconvenient – it can be downright deadly. Insect-borne illnesses are on the rise in the United States, causing severe disease and, in some cases, much worse. The Mosquito Guy wants everyone to enjoy traveling as much as their own backyard, so read up on these mosquito-borne illnesses, where they are active, and ways you can protect yourself against them.
Zika Virus
The Zika virus is an emerging virus gaining a lot media-attention. Symptoms of the virus include fever, skin rash, and conjunctivitis and typically last less than a week. A connection between Zika in pregnant women and birth defects is currently being researched.
Visit our blog for more information and the latest news on the Zika Virus.
West Nile
First found in Uganda in 1937, WNV has spread globally. Its flu like symptoms include fever, headache, and body aches. More serious symptoms include disorientation, muscle weakness, neck stiffness and more. Eighty percent of West Nile cases will never display any symptoms.
Chikungunya
With outbreaks in Africa, Asia, and Europe, the chikungunya virus was first found in the Americas in 2013 in the Caribbean. This mosquito-borne disease causes fever, joint pain, headaches, rash and swelling. Travelers are encouraged to protect themselves against mosquito bites.
Dengue Fever
Dengue Fever, a well-known mosquito-borne disease, is the leading cause of illness and death in the tropics. Over 400 million people are infected yearly with Dengue, a virus that causes high fever, headaches, nausea, and severe body aches. Travel advisories to Central America, South America, Hawaii, and the Caribbean have been removed after a spike in cases earlier this year. However, basic mosquito prevention techniques are still encouraged.
Lyme Disease
Named after the town in Connecticut in which it was first found, Lyme disease, is the most prevalent tick-borne disease in the United States. There are nearly 30,000 cases reported by the Centers for Disease Control each year. If caught early, Lyme disease responds well to a variety of antibiotics. Unfortunately, Lyme is not the easiest disease to diagnose. The tell tale bull’s eye rash is only one of the many symptoms of Lyme, which also includes fever, fatigue and joint pain.
REQUEST A QUOTE
Your Name*
Your Email*
Your Phone*
Street Address
Town
Zip Code
How Did You Hear About Us?
OnlineMailYard SignEventEmailVehicleAdvertisingReferralNewspaperNews
×
OUR OTHER SERVICES
Guaranteed Spray
Tick Control
Events & Weddings
Commercial & Municipalities
CONTACT
300 John Rezza Drive
Attleboro Falls, MA 02763
United States
Service: (508) 695-2894
OUR SERVICES
Guaranteed Spray
Events & Weddings
Tick Control
Commercial and Municipalities
QUICK LINKS
Home
Bug Control
FAQ
About
Blog
GUARANTEED RESULTS
We are so confident in our product and services that we guarantee results. Read More
Built by Contractor Marketing Solutions | Stratedia | The Mosquito Guy | © Copyright | All Rights Reserved | Mosquito Control Company | Tick Control Company