The Health IDEA - The IDEA Publishing The Health Idea
The IDEA Publishing
HOME
Popular IDEAS
IDEAS for Your Better Business Life >
The Business Idea
The Career IDEA
The Money Idea
IDEAS for Your Better Diversions >
The Tech IDEA
The Travel IDEA
The Auto IDEA
The Outdoors IDEA
IDEAS for a Better Table >
The Food IDEA
IDEAS de Cocina Espanola
IDEAS for a Better You >
The Health IDEA
Living Well IDEAS
The Fitness IDEA
The Beauty IDEA
IDEAS for a Happier Home >
The Home Idea
The Entertaining Idea
The Parenting Idea
The Senior Living IDEA
The Pet IDEA
The Video Domain
Video IDEAS for Your Better Business Life
About
Contact
The Health IDEA
The Health IDEA
Your Best Source for the Latest Health and Wellness Info for Better Living!
The Rarest of the Rare
1/24/2019
Comments
There is little information available about epithelioid sarcoma. Patients, advocates, doctors and researchers across the United States are aiming to educate people about this ultra-rare cancer and the unmet need for an effective, tumor-specific treatment. Consider these facts about ES.
The Rarest of the Rare
What to know about a cancer you may not have heard of
(Family Features) A woman celebrating her 40th birthday, a young boy starting second grade or a college grad about to begin his career. All three could develop a rare form of cancer known as epithelioid sarcoma (ES), a form of soft-tissue sarcoma.
There is little information available about ES. Patients, advocates, doctors and researchers across the United States are aiming to educate people about this ultra-rare cancer and the unmet need for an effective, tumor-specific treatment. Consider these facts about ES:
What are Soft-Tissue Sarcomas and What is Epithelioid Sarcoma?
Soft-tissue sarcomas (STS) are a type of cancer that occur in tissue like muscle, fat, skin, nerves and blood vessels. There are more than 50 types of STS, including ES, which is a rare form that can occur under the skin in the limbs (such as the arms, hands, legs or feet) or soft tissue in other places like the abdomen. Adults in their 20s and 30s and men, in particular, are more likely to get ES, although it can affect people of all ages and genders, according to research published in the Journal of Clinical and Aesthetic Dermatology.
How Rare is Rare?
According to the American Cancer Society, a rare cancer is defined as fewer than six new diagnoses per 100,000 people per year.
ES is an ultra-rare cancer. According to available epidemiology and case reports, it is estimated about 600 people are properly diagnosed in the U.S. and Europe each year.
What are the Most Common Types of ES and How Do They Impact Diagnosis?
ES can take two forms:
Distal-type: Classic form, typically affects teenagers and young adults.
Typically forms under the skin in areas like hands, legs and feet.
Can be mistaken for another skin condition like an infected wart or a wound that won’t heal, which may delay diagnosis.
Proximal-type: Rarer form, mainly affects adults and is more aggressive.
Typically forms in central areas of the body like the abdomen.
Can be mistaken for menstrual cramps or an upset stomach, making identification and diagnosis more difficult.
Dealing with a Diagnosis?
Due to its rarity, harmless appearance in its initial stages and occurrence in young people, ES is often misdiagnosed, according to the Liddy Shriver Sarcoma Initiative. For this reason, the Sarcoma Foundation of America recommends checking often for lumps and bumps in places they shouldn’t be.
For people faced with a sarcoma diagnosis, it’s important to get a second opinion from a sarcoma specialist. These specialists have extensive knowledge of STS and can determine what form of sarcoma one may have, what stage it is and the best course of treatment. The specialist may confirm the diagnosis with a physical examination, a scan or a tissue sample (biopsy) of the area.
It’s common to feel a range of emotions after a diagnosis of ES, according to Clear View Health Partners, including:
Fear
Denial
Frustration
Anxiety
Hope that treatment will be successful
Determination to beat ES
What Treatment Options are Available?
Treatment options depend on a variety of factors, including the location of the tumor, tumor staging and whether the disease has metastasized or spread to other parts of the body.
For patients with early stage ES, many elect to have surgery to remove the tumor, which may precede or be followed by radiation therapy or chemotherapy treatment, according to the Journal of Clinical and Aesthetic Dermatology. If the cancer returns or spreads, a patient may undergo radiation therapy and chemotherapy. New treatment options are being studied through clinical research, which is why seeking a specialist in the field is important if one is faced with a diagnosis.
As with many cancers, early detection is important and can increase survival or successful treatment. Typically, the distal form of ES is associated with more favorable survival rates than the proximal form.
4 Things to Do to Address ES Today
1. Don’t ignore your bumps and lumps, see a doctor as soon as possible.
curesarcoma.org/patient-resources/sarcoma-infographic/
2. Learn more about epithelioid sarcoma and its symptoms.
mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/epithelioid-sarcoma/cdc-20392420
3. Seek a second opinion.
sarctrials.org/sarc-centers-map
4. Find support if you’re faced with a diagnosis.
sarcomaalliance.org/resources/support-groups
cancersupportcommunity.org
cancercare.org/counseling
An ES Diagnosis Journey
In the spring of 2008, Maria Voermans’ 4-year-old daughter requested an “airplane ride,” and as Voermans lifted the young girl up with her legs, she had to make an “emergency landing” because of some sudden and significant pain in her upper right thigh.
After a few months, the pain persisted. Voermans continued to jog and play sand volleyball, thinking nothing of it. At the recommendation of her primary care physician, she took some anti-inflammatories and tried to rest, which wasn’t easy to do as a single mother of two young children.
Two more months went by and her leg caused increasing problems. She could feel something in her leg, but never considered it a “lump” because it was not visible on the outside. Voermans took matters into her own hands and visited a sports medicine orthopedic specialist for further testing.
An MRI found a mass in her right leg and she was referred to one of the few musculoskeletal oncologists in Wisconsin, her home state. He ordered a biopsy, which on Voermans’ youngest daughter’s third birthday confirmed her worst fear: it was a rare form of cancer called proximal-type epithelioid sarcoma, and it was stage three. Her biggest concern was not living to experience future holidays, birthdays, graduations and other life milestones with her daughters.
Voermans underwent chemotherapy, radiation therapy and had surgery to remove the tumor. As of July 2018, Voermans reports the cancer has not returned.
Today, she’s a wellness coordinator supporting other people diagnosed with cancer who are undergoing treatment or post-treatment. She’s able to use her own cancer journey to provide empathy to others, and it’s brought satisfaction to the whole experience.
Content courtesy of Epizyme, Inc.
Photo courtesy of Getty Images (Doctor talking to man)
SOURCE:
Epizyme, Inc.
KEYWORDS
advice×
anxiety×
cancer×
cancers×
chemotherapy×
clinical trials×
Dermatolists×
dermatology×
diagnosis×
diagnostics×
disease×
family×
Family Features×
lump×
lumps×
medical research×
oncologists×
oncology×
patient×
patients×
pharmaceuticals×
psychiatry×
psychology×
radiation×
risk×
risk factors×
second opinion×
skin×
skin cancer×
skin care×
Soft-Tissue Sarcomas×
specialists×
specialty×
support×
symptom×
symptomology×
symptoms×
tips×
treatment×
treatment options×
trials×
tumor​
Comments
10 things you don't know about meningitis
6/28/2018
Jamie Schanbaum, GSK spokesperson, U.S. Para-athlete and meningitis survivor
By Jamie Schanbaum, GSK spokesperson, U.S. Para-athlete and meningitis survivor. Before I contracted bacterial meningitis in 2008, I had never heard of it. I didn’t know how it was transmitted, what the symptoms were or how to help prevent it. After spending seven months in the hospital and losing all my fingers and both legs below the knee, I learned as much as I could about meningococcal disease. Now I want others to know what I didn’t.
(BPT) - By Jamie Schanbaum, GSK spokesperson, U.S. Para-athlete and meningitis survivor
Before I contracted bacterial meningitis in 2008, I had never heard of it. I didn’t know how it was transmitted, what the symptoms were or how to help prevent it. After spending seven months in the hospital and losing all my fingers and both legs below the knee, I learned as much as I could about meningococcal disease. Now I want others to know what I didn’t.
Meningococcal meningitis, often referred to as meningitis, is an inflammation of the protective membranes, or meninges, covering the brain and spinal cord.[1]
About one in 10 people carry the bacteria, Neisseria meningitidis, that can cause meningitis. These bacteria live in the back of the nose and throat. People who have the bacteria without any signs or symptoms of the disease are called “carriers.”[2]
Meningitis is uncommon but can be fatal. About one in 10 people infected with meningococcal disease will die.[3]
About one in five meningitis survivors will suffer long-term disability, such as loss of limbs (like me), brain damage, deafness and nervous system problems.[4]
Young adults, including college students and those living in close quarters, are at increased risk for meningitis due to close contact with each other, sharing drinks or eating utensils, kissing or even just coughing.[5],[6] I was 20 years old and in my first semester at the University of Texas when I contracted meningitis. I didn’t know about this increased risk.
Early symptoms may be similar to those of a cold or the flu, but can progress quickly and can be fatal, or cause disability within 24 hours.[7],[8] Symptoms can include fever, headache and stiff neck as well as nausea, vomiting, sensitivity to light and confusion.[9] Everyone’s symptoms can be slightly different, however. For example, I had nausea and vomiting, but also felt exhausted. My hands and feet were extremely sensitive to touching cold objects, like the sink faucet and tile floors. In just 14 hours, I went from thinking I had the flu to being admitted to the hospital. My experience may not be the same as others, so it’s important to know all the possible signs and symptoms and to seek medical help quickly.
There are five different vaccine-preventable serogroups of meningitis – A, B, C, W and Y. Groups B, C and Y are the most common groups of meningitis in the U.S.[10]
There are two different types of vaccines needed to help protect against the five vaccine-preventable serogroups of meningitis.[11] It’s important to know that even if you’ve had a vaccine for serogroups A, C, W and Y, you need a different vaccine to help protect against serogroup B.[12]
Despite the availability of serogroup B meningococcal vaccination since 2014, less than 10 percent of teens and young adults have been vaccinated, even though serogroup B accounts for 30 percent of all meningitis cases in the U.S.[13],[14]
The CDC says all 11- to 12-year-olds should be vaccinated against meningitis A, C, W and Y and recommends a booster at age 16. Additionally, the CDC says teens and young adults (ages 16 through 23) also may be vaccinated against meningitis B, preferably at 16 through 18 years of age. Though vaccination may not protect all recipients, it’s the best way to help prevent the disease.[15],[16]
I consider myself to be very fortunate not only because I survived, but also because now I have an opportunity to educate others. I encourage parents of teens and young adults to talk to their child’s healthcare provider about meningitis and the two different types of vaccines needed to help protect against the disease.
[1] Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Meningitis. March 28, 2018. Available at: https://www.cdc.gov/meningitis/index.html. Page 1, Paragraph 1.
[2] Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Meningococcal Disease. Causes and Spread to Others. March 28, 2018. Available at: https://www.cdc.gov/meningococcal/about/causes-transmission.html/, Page 1, Paragraph 1.
[3] Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Meningococcal Disease: Technical and Clinical Information. June 2016. Available at: http://www.cdc.gov/meningococcal/clinical-info.html. Page 1, Paragraph 4, Lines 1-3.
[4] Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Meningococcal Disease: Technical and Clinical Information. June 2016. Available at: http://www.cdc.gov/meningococcal/clinical-info.html. Page 1, Paragraph 4, Lines 1-3.
[5] Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Meningococcal Disease. March 28, 2017. Available at: https://www.cdc.gov/meningococcal/about/causes-transmission.html. Page 1, Paragraph 3.
[6] Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Manual for the Surveillance of Vaccine-Preventable Diseases: Chapter 8: Meningococcal Disease. April 2014. Available at: https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/pubs/surv-manual/chpt08-mening.html. Page 1, Paragraphs 10-12.
[7] Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Manual for the Surveillance of Vaccine-Preventable Diseases: Chapter 8: Meningococcal Disease. April 2014. Available at: https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/pubs/surv-manual/chpt08-mening.html. Page 1, Paragraphs 10-12.
[8] Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Meningococcal Disease: Signs & Symptoms. July 2016. Available at: https://www.cdc.gov/meningococcal/about/symptoms.html. Page 1, Paragraphs 1- 2.
[9] Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Meningococcal Disease: Signs & Symptoms. July 2016. Available at: https://www.cdc.gov/meningococcal/about/symptoms.html. Page 1, Paragraphs 1- 2.
[10] Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Meningococcal Disease. Causes and Spread to Others. March 28, 2018. Available at https://www.cdc.gov/meningococcal/about/causes-transmission.html/, Page 1, Paragraph 1
[11] Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Vaccine Information Statements (VISs): Meningococcal ACWY Vaccines (MenACWY and MPSV4) VIS. March 2016. Available at: https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/hcp/vis/vis-statements/mening.html. Page 1, Paragraph 6.
[12] Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Vaccine Information Statements (VISs): Meningococcal ACWY Vaccines (MenACWY and MPSV4) VIS. March 2016. Available at: https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/hcp/vis/vis-statements/mening.html. Page 1, Paragraph 6.
[13] GSK, data on file.
[14] Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Manual for the Surveillance of Vaccine-Preventable Diseases: Chapter 8: Meningococcal Disease. April 2014. Available at: http://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/pubs/surv-manual/chpt08-mening.html. Page 1, Paragraph 3, Line 2.
[15] Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Meningococcal Vaccination. March 2018. Available at: https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/vpd/mening/index.html. Page 1, Paragraph 2.
[16] Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Meningococcal Vaccination: What Everyone Should Know. March 2018. Available at: https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/vpd/mening/public/index.html. Page 1, Paragraph 4.
KEYWORDS
bacteria ×
BPT ×
brain ×
Brandpoint Content ×
CDC ×
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ×
college ×
disease ×
fatal ×
meningitis ×
meningococcal ×
mortality ×
pharmaceuticals ×
prevention ×
symptomology ×
symptoms ×
transmission ×
treatment ×
treatment options ×
vaccination ×
vaccines
A Rare and Life-Threatening Disease with Common Symptoms: Highlighting Chronic Thromboembolic Pulmonary Hypertension (CTEPH)
12/31/2017
(BPT) - Determination. Strength. Resilience. These are just a few qualities that may characterize people around the world living with pulmonary hypertension (PH), a sometimes debilitating disease of the lungs.[1] But a particularly rare form of the disease, called chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH), is often misinterpreted by patients and doctors alike.[2],[3]
November marks PH Awareness Month, designed to shine a spotlight on the disease — and generate support for patients. On November 21, patient advocacy groups, healthcare professionals and caregivers focus specifically on CTEPH and the unique needs of this patient population.
CTEPH may be caused by blood clots that increase blood pressure in the lungs and can lead to heart failure and death if not properly treated.[2],[4]
Each year in the U.S., between 500 and 2,500 people are diagnosed with the disease.[4]
“Patients with CTEPH may face devastating symptoms and be left searching for answers and help for years,” says Steve Van Wormer, co-founder and president of phaware, one of the leading global pulmonary hypertension advocacy organizations. “CTEPH Awareness Day is an especially important opportunity to highlight this debilitating disease that many have never heard of before. We need to provide support and raise awareness in order to reduce the time it takes to receive a proper diagnosis and treatment.”
Recognizing the signs and symptoms
PH diagnosis is frequently delayed by several months or years. This is because the most common symptoms, including breathlessness, fatigue and dizziness, are also associated with many other conditions.[5] It is important to note that CTEPH, a subset of PH, is treatable and potentially curable through surgery when properly identified.[6],[7]
CTEPH also has a connection to a much more common condition, called pulmonary embolism (PE), a blood clot in your lungs. Many people don’t realize that as many as 1 out of every 25 of previously treated patients with PE that does not resolve after three months of using blood thinners could go on to develop CTEPH*.[4],[8],[9]
Spreading the word for healthcare professionals
In addition to raising awareness among potential patients, specialists who treat CTEPH, including Dr. Rajeev Saggar, executive director of advanced lung disease care at Banner — University Medical Center Phoenix and the clinical associate professor of medicine at University of Arizona College of Medicine — Phoenix, hope to increase knowledge of the disease among other clinicians.
“The goal of PH treatment is to lengthen survival time, reduce symptoms and improve quality of life for patients. Early, accurate diagnosis is increasingly important, particularly because medical care is steadily improving,” said Dr. Saggar. “It is vital that clinicians detect or rule out underlying diseases that may represent the cause of PH, including various heart and vascular diseases, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), lupus, or as is sometimes the case with CTEPH, unresolved pulmonary thromboembolism, when a clot-like mass gets stuck to the lung’s blood vessel wall and blocks blood flow.”
According to Dr. Saggar, a ventilation/perfusion (VQ) scan is the preferred and recommended screening test for CTEPH.[6] It is important for anyone diagnosed with the disease to see an experienced CTEPH practitioner who can determine candidacy for pulmonary thromboendarterectomy (PTE) surgery. Although PTE is the recommended treatment for CTEPH, not everyone is a candidate. It’s important for patients to speak with his/her doctor about options.
Despite efforts to ensure better education about the disease, its symptoms and methods of treatment, physicians like Dr. Saggar and those throughout the CTEPH community note that there is still progress to be made. That’s why November is an especially important time for the PH community to come together and raise awareness and generate additional support for research and improve care.
“Building awareness and enhancing education will help to extend and improve the lives of patients with CTEPH and all forms of PH,” says Dr. Saggar.
For more information about PH or to provide support visit http://www.phaware.global/. To learn more about CTEPH, visit www.CTEPH.com.
Dr. Saggar and phaware partnered with Bayer to help raise awareness about PH and CTEPH during PH Awareness Month. Dr. Saggar is a paid consultant to Bayer.
*Based on a study with 223 patients in which approximately 4% were diagnosed with CTEPH within 2 years of their first episode of pulmonary embolism (blood clot in the lung). CTEPH did not develop after two years in any of the remaining patients.
[1] McKenna SP et al. The Cambridge Pulmonary Hypertension Outcome Review (CAMPHOR): a measure of health-related quality of life and quality of life for patients with pulmonary hypertension. Qual Life Res. 2006;15(1):103-115.
[2] Piazza G and Goldhaber SZ. Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension. N Engl J Med. 2011:364:351-360.
[3] Pepke-Zaba et al. Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension: role of medical therapy. Eur Respir J. 2013;41:985–990.
[4] Tapson V et al. Incidence and prevalence of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension: from acute to chronic pulmonary embolism. Proc Am Thorac Soc. 2006:3:564-367.
[5] Galie et al. 2015 ESC/ERS Guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of pulmonary hypertension. Eur Heart. 2016;37:67–119.
[6] Kim et al. Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2013;62:D92-9.
[7] Rosenkranz S. Pulmonary hypertension: current diagnosis and treatment. Clin Res Cardiol. 2007;96(8):527-541.
[8] Wilkens H et al. Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH): updated recommendations of the Cologne Consensus Conference 2011. Int J Cardiol. 2011;154(suppl1):S54-S60.
[9] Pengo V et al. Incidence of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension after pulmonary embolism. N Engl J Med. 2004;350(22):2257-2264.
PP-400-US-3945
Flu facts: Top 5 things you need to know about the flu shot this year
11/6/2017
Top 5 things you need to know about the flu shot this year
(BPT) - You hear about it on the news. You see the signs in the pharmacy windows. Even your friends and co-workers are talking about it. The flu shot is a highly discussed topic, and for good reason!
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), on average, 5 to 20 percent of the U.S. population — or up to 64.6 million people — gets the flu, and tens of thousands of people are hospitalized every year because of it. Further, the flu can strike anyone, and adults aged 18-64 years old are the most likely to get ill, accounting for 60 percent of flu-related hospitalizations. This number goes up in certain areas, and some states — such as Texas, Florida and California — tend to be hit harder by the flu than others.
“Flu-related illnesses are already trending twice as high in 2017 as they were in 2016, and we are seeing an uptick in flu-related visits across the country,” said Dr. Jason Tibbels, MD, board-certified family physician and director for quality programs at Teladoc, the largest and most trusted telehealth provider in the world. “This year, officials want at least 70 percent of Americans to get a flu shot; however, fewer than 50 percent were vaccinated against the flu last season.”
How can you protect yourself and your loved ones from the annual flu outbreak? The first step is to understand the benefits and any potential risks of flu vaccination and then — if it’s right for you — go get the flu shot.
It’s also important to understand that while the vaccine is the best defense in protecting against flu, there’s still a chance that with it, you could get sick. If you do start to experience symptoms, telehealth is an on-demand, anytime, anywhere resource. This means you can access hassle-free medical care from your home during the middle of the night, from your college dorm room, while at the airport for an early morning business trip, and anywhere else you have access to a phone, a mobile app or the web. A telemedicine doctor can assess your symptoms before they worsen. Visit Teladoc.com/flu to learn more about the telehealth benefits that may be available to you to access care when and where you need it.
We asked Teladoc’s Dr. Tibbels why the flu shot is so important this year. Here are his top reasons:
1) It keeps you out of the emergency room. The flu shot reduces the risk of hospitalization due to flu by approximately 50 to 60 percent.
2) It reduces sick days. Missed time at work due to flu-related illnesses causes an additional $16.3 billion in lost earnings annually.
3) It promotes overall health. The flu vaccine is a helpful tool for people with chronic health conditions. Flu vaccination is associated with lower rates of some cardiac events among people with heart disease, and is also proven to have reduced hospitalizations among people with diabetes and chronic lung disease. Further, vaccination helps protect women during and after pregnancy, reducing the risk of flu-associated acute respiratory infection by about 50 percent. And getting vaccinated also protects the baby several months after birth.
4) If you do get sick, it may decrease the severity. The flu vaccination does not guarantee protection against the virus; people who get the shot are still at risk of getting sick. However, if you do get sick, the flu vaccination can make your illness milder. If you start to experience symptoms — whether or not you’ve had the flu vaccine — it’s important to see a doctor. Many people have 24-hour access to board-certified and licensed physicians seven days a week via telemedicine from home, work or on the road through a phone or tablet, making it easier than ever to get a diagnosis and start treatment.
5) It helps stop flu from spreading. Did you know that the flu virus can be spread to people within three feet of a sick patient when that patient coughs, sneezes or talks? Getting vaccinated doesn’t just help protect you from the flu; the flu shot is the responsible choice for protecting those around you. Vaccination is especially important for protecting more vulnerable populations, such as babies and young children, the elderly, and people with certain chronic health conditions, like cardiovascular disease and diabetes.
“When it comes to the flu, it’s not wise to take a wait-and-see approach,” said Dr. Tibbels. “Talk to a doctor! We’re available all day, every day, all through flu season and beyond.”
To learn more about Teladoc and the level of flu risk where you live, visit Teladoc.com/flu.
KEYWORDS
The Importance of Animal Antibiotics
5/29/2017
Comments
Farmers use antibiotics in farm animals for the same reason antibiotics are used in people – to treat, control and prevent disease that causes pain and suffering.
The Importance of Animal Antibiotics
Farmers use antibiotics in farm animals for the same reason antibiotics are used in people – to treat, control and prevent disease that causes pain and suffering. Keeping farm animals healthy helps improve food safety for all of us by reducing bacteria in the food supply. Learn more about the benefits of treating animals with antibiotics at animalantibiotics.org.
SOURCE:
Phibro Animal Antibiotics
Comments
10 signs you may have a bleeding disorder
12/2/2016
Comments
(BPT) - Harley Noffsinger was a typical kid who liked to play outside and stay active. When she was 7, everything changed. She got a nose bleed, but unlike most people's experiences, her bleeding wouldn't stop. It lasted 90 minutes.
Noffsinger's parents brought her to the emergency room at the nearest hospital, where she was diagnosed with von Willebrand Disease (VWD). Like most Americans, neither Harley, nor her parents, had ever heard of VWD, and had no family history of it. Still, VWD is the most common inherited bleeding disorder, affecting about 1 percent of the U.S. population, or more than 3 million people. According to the National Hemophilia Foundation (NHF), like hemophilia, VWD can prevent the blood from clotting normally. VWD can result in extended bleeding after injury, surgery or trauma, and, in severe cases, can be fatal if not treated effectively.
"Harley was fortunate that she was diagnosed so early because, according to the Centers for Disease Control, it takes an average of 16 years from the onset of bleeding symptoms for a woman to be diagnosed with VWD," said Dr. Robert Sidonio, Jr., a pediatric hematologist-oncologist at the Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center in Atlanta, Georgia. He is a consultant to NHF.
While VWD occurs equally in women and men, women are more likely to experience its symptoms because of the increased bleeding it causes during their menstrual periods, during pregnancy and after childbirth. Menstrual bleeding that lasts more than seven days is considered heavy and heavy menstrual bleeding - a period with excessively heavy flow - affects one in five American women of reproductive age, or nearly 10 million women. In fact, having a bleeding disorder can be an underlying cause of heavy menstrual bleeding. Besides VWD, women can have other bleeding disorders, such as hemophilia or rare factor deficiencies.
Over time, many women simply get used to having a heavy period. They may think it's normal because female relatives have similar experiences. However, for some women, an undiagnosed bleeding disorder may be the cause of their heavy flows and, because it's hereditary, multiple family members may also be undiagnosed.
Now age 22, Noffsinger experiences heavy periods. Before using a menstrual cup, she would have to check every 30 minutes to change her tampon or pad. "I was worried constantly that I was bleeding through," she said. "I see light pads and light tampons in stores and I get so jealous because I have to use these ginormous things."
Having heavy periods is one, but not the only symptom of a bleeding disorder, according to a new public service campaign called "Better You Know," created by NHF as part of a cooperative agreement with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to raise awareness of bleeding disorders. The centerpiece of the campaign is www.BetterYouKnow.org, a website featuring a confidential, multiple-choice online questionnaire and other tools to help you determine whether you are at risk for a bleeding disorder and the next steps you can take to seek care.
According to Dr. Sidonio, you should speak to your health care provider if you've experienced one or more of the following 10 signs and symptoms of bleeding disorders:
1. Told you are "low in iron" or have been treated for anemia.
2. Experienced heavy bleeding after surgery.
3. Experienced prolonged bleeding from the gums after a dental procedure.
4. Have heavy menstrual bleeding (having to change one pad or tampon every hour).
5. Experienced heavy bleeding after childbirth or miscarriage.
6. Have frequent nosebleeds that last longer than 10 minutes.
7. Have bleeding from cuts or injuries that lasts longer than 10 minutes.
8. Bruise easily, with bruises that are raised and larger than a quarter.
9. Have blood in your stools from bleeding in your intestines or stomach, or blood in your urine from bleeding in your kidneys or bladder.
10. Have someone in your family who has one or more of these symptoms, or a family member who has been diagnosed with a bleeding disorder such as VWD or hemophilia.
If you receive a bleeding disorder diagnosis, remember it can be managed. For Noffsinger, whose story is featured on www.BetterYouKnow.org, having VWD has not prevented her from living life fully. Her future plans include having children, travel and more. Knowing her body and what to expect with bleeding has helped Noffsinger gain confidence to live fully.
"If you don't know what's going on and you have a period that lasts for three weeks and you're freaking out and think you're dying, you're going to go to the hospital," said Noffsinger. "But if you know you're going to bleed for three weeks and it's going to go away, you can relax and have a calm state of mind about it. That's why I'm doing all I can to spread the word about BetterYouKnow.org. I want everyone to know that, if you have a bleeding disorder, your life can be better if you know about it, and seek care and treatment."
Comments
Stay safe from mosquito-borne illnesses with these simple tips
6/16/2016
(BPT) - Despite recent news that Aedes aegypti, the mosquito that can carry Zika, chikungunya and other viruses has spread to 30 states, the majority of Americans have yet to embrace basic recommendations to help reduce the mosquito population at their own homes.
That's the result of a new survey fielded by TNS Global detailing homeowners' knowledge of steps to reduce mosquitoes in their yards. According to The Mosquito Squad Fight the Bite Report, nearly three quarters of Americans (74 percent) do not plan to modify their time outside this year, yet less than half (49 percent) follow the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommendation to use mosquito repellent and just a third (36 percent) remove standing water, a simple task also recommended by the CDC, to reduce mosquito breeding.
"Unlike chikungunya and West Nile virus, Zika has been identified as a world health crisis and we must work together on personal, local and global levels to fight mosquitoes," says Scott Zide, a founder and president of Mosquito Squad, the largest and most experienced home and commercial mosquito control firm in the country. "Removal of standing water is the most essential tactic in mosquito elimination, yet homeowners aren't actively removing it, which is surprising given that mosquito concerns are so high."
According to Zide, just as surprising was the finding that 46 percent of homeowners surveyed said they did not plan to do anything different in their yards, despite recent news of Zika virus. Findings from the survey show:
* Only 36 percent of Americans turn over toys or items in their yards that contain water.
* Less than half (44 percent) throw out lawn debris, under which mosquitoes can breed.
* Just a quarter of Americans (25 percent) shake out tarps, including barbecue and fire pit covers, to remove water that accumulates.
* Less than 27 percent make sure their gutters are clean.
* More than a quarter (27 percent) walk their yard regularly to remove items that can harbor mosquitoes.
To help homeowners take control of their yard, Mosquito Squad experts urge customers to take an active role in mosquito control with the following tips:
Tip over anything that holds or collects water. A bottle cap filled with water holds enough water for mosquitoes to breed. Since mosquitoes breed in standing water, the elimination of standing water decreases a mosquito's breeding ground. Mosquito Squad technicians report that yards with bird baths, play sets with tire swings, tree houses, portable fireplaces and pits and catch basins are the biggest offenders.
Toss any yard trash including clippings, leaves and twigs. Even the smallest items can provide a haven for mosquitoes and increase the population.
Turn over items that could hold water and trash. Look for children's portable sandboxes, slides or plastic toys; underneath and around downspouts; in plant saucers, empty pots, light fixtures and dog water bowls. Eliminate these items or keep them turned over until used.
Remove tarps that can catch water. Many homeowners have tarps or covers on items residing in their outdoor spaces. If not stretched taut, they are holding water. Check tarps over firewood piles, portable fire places, recycling cans, boats, sports equipment and grills. Mosquito Squad suggests using bungee cords to secure tarps in the yard.
Take care of your home. Proper maintenance can be a deciding factor in property values and mosquito bites. Regularly clean out gutters and make sure the downspout is attached properly. Mosquito Squad recommends re-grading areas where water stands more than a few hours, and to regularly check irrigation systems to ensure that they aren't leaking and causing a breeding haven. Keep lawn height low and areas weed-free.
Team up with neighbors. Despite taking all precautions in your own home, talking with neighbors is a key component to mosquito control. Townhomes and homes with little space between lots mean that mosquitoes can breed at a neighbor's home, and affect your property.
Treat your yard and yourself. Utilize a professional mosquito elimination barrier treatment around the home and yard. Using a barrier treatment at home reduces the need for using DEET-containing bug spray on the body.
Individuals who want a more comprehensive mosquito control treatment can utilize Mosquito Squad, which uses the latest EPA-registered mosquito control barrier treatments, larvicide and all-natural substances to eliminate mosquitoes from yards and outdoor spaces. For more information, visit www.MosquitoSquad.com.
BPT ×
Brandpoint Content ×
CDC ×
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ×
children ×
children's health ×
disease ×
epidemic ×
government ×
healthy living ×
illnesses ×
living well ×
mosquito ×
mosquitoes ×
public health ×
vector ×
virus ×
water ×
wellness ×
Zika
Health Alert: Bite back against mosquitoes this season with these prevention tips
5/3/2016
(BPT) - From annoying itchy welts to serious conditions like Malaria and West Nile virus, mosquitoes have been making humans miserable and sick for thousands of years. And now, there's Zika - a mosquito-spread virus that may be linked to serious birth defects. In fact, according to the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, the diseases mosquitoes spread make them the deadliest animal on the planet.
The arrival of warm weather means it's time to step up your mosquito prevention and protection efforts in order to help protect your family. The National Pest Management Association offers some information that can help:
* The type of mosquito that transmits Zika bites during the daytime hours. Most other types of mosquitoes bite during dusk and dawn.
* Within the U.S., mosquitoes have been known to spread West Nile virus, Chikungunya, and encephalitis-causing viruses in humans, and heartworms in dogs.
* Mosquitoes spread disease when they bite one person, fly to another and bite again, spreading the infection. What many people don't realize is that the saliva from the mosquito's bite causes the red, itchy irritation that we all know so well.
The NPMA recommends some ways you can help reduce your exposure to mosquitoes:
* Eliminate breeding areas - Mosquitoes need only about a half-inch of standing water in which to lay their eggs. Get rid of any stagnant water around your home, such as flower pots, bird baths, kiddie pools and standing water in low areas of your yard.
* Use repellent - Whenever you spend time outside, protect your skin from mosquito bites by applying an insect repellent that contains at least 20 percent DEET, picaridin or oil of lemon-eucalyptus. Also, consider wearing long pants, long-sleeved shirts and closed-toe shoes.
* Be aware of the time of day - Mosquitoes are most active around dawn and dusk, although the variety that transmits Zika prefers to bite during the day. Minimize outside activity during peak biting hours, or, if you must be outside, wear long sleeves, pants and repellent to thwart mosquitoes.
* Watch what you wear - Dark colors, floral prints and sweet-smelling perfumes or colognes can attract mosquitoes to you. Wear light colors and forego perfume when spending time outside.
* Protect your house - Screens help keep mosquitoes out of your house. Be sure all windows and doors are outfitted with screens, and that all are in good shape. Repair tears to keep mosquitoes from getting inside.
* Travel wisely - Mosquito-borne diseases that may be rare in the U.S. are common in many foreign countries, so if your summer vacation will take you outside the country, check what travel advisories may be in effect in your destination. If someone gets sick upon returning home, seek medical care immediately.
Sometimes, despite your best efforts at control, mosquitoes on your property can still be a problem. A licensed pest control professional can help you manage mosquitoes. To find a professional near you, visit the NPMA's website at pestworld.org.
<<Previous
Archives
March 2019
February 2019
January 2019
November 2018
September 2018
July 2018
June 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
Interested in Publishing on The Health IDEA?
Send your query to the Publisher today!
Categories
All
Abdomen
Abdominal
Accidental Overdoses
Accuracy
Acetaminophen
Acid Reflux
Acne
Activity
Acupuncture
Addiction
Administration
Adolescent
Advice
Aerobic Exercise
AFib
Age
Aging
AIDS
Air Quality
Alcohol
Allergens
Allergies
Allergist
Allergy
Allergy Drugs
Allergy Medication
Allergy Medicine
Allergy Shots
Alternative Medicine
Alternative Therapies
Alzheimer's
Alzheimer's Disease
Amenities
American Cancer Society
American Diabetes Association
American Heart Association
American Red Cross
Analgesics
Anesthesia
Anesthesiologist
Anesthesiology
Anorexia
Antibiotics
Anxiety
Arteries
Artery
Arthritis
Assisted Living
Asthma
Atrial Fibrillation
Attitude
Author
Babies
Baby
Back
Bacteria
Bathroom
Beauty
Bed
Benefits
Birth
Birth-control
Bladder
Bleeding
Blood
Blood Clot
Blood Clots
Blood-disorders
Blood-donors
Blood Pressure
Blood-test
Blue-cross-blue-shield
Book
Bowel
Bowel Movement
Bph
BPT
Brain
Brandpoint
Brandpoint Content
Breast
Breast Cancer
Breastfeeding
Breathing
Brushing
Caesarian-section
Caffeine
Cancer
Cancer-research-institute
Cancers
Cardiac
Cardiac Health
Cardio
Cardiologist
Cardiology
Care
Careers
Caregiver
Caregiving
Caring
Cats
CDC
Cdc1281a12c03
Celebrity
Centers For Disease Control And Prevention
Centers-for-disease-control-and-prevention
Centers-for-medicare-and-medicaid-services
Certification
Check
Checkup
Check-up
Chemotherapy
Chest Pain
Child
Childbirth
Children
Childrens Health
Cholesterol
Chronic-conditions
Chronic-conditions
Chronic-illness
Chronic-pain
Chronic-pain
Circulation
Cleaning
Clinical-trial
Clinical-trials
Clinical-trialsb64bff8326
Clotting
Cms
Coding
Cognition
Cognitive
Cold
Cold-and-flu
Colds
Colitis
College
Colon
Comedian
Comedy
Communications
Complications
Conception
Constipation
Controversy
Cooking
Copd
Coping
Coping-strategies
Coronary
Costs
Cough
Coughing
Counseling
Credential
Crohn’s Disease
Csection
Culture
Dangers
Death
Deaths
Dehydration
Delivery
Dementia
Demographics
Dental
Dentistry
Depression
Dermatolists
Dermatology
Destress
Detection
Development
Diabetes
Diabetic
Diagnosis
Diagnostics
Diarrhea
Diet
Digestion
Digestive
Digestive Issues
Disease
Disinfect
Disinfecting
Disorders
Disposables
Dna
Doctor
Doctors
Dog
Dogs
Donors
Dosage
Dose-counter
Dr-james-andrews
Drugs
Drug-store
Earache
Early-detection
Ear-pain
Eating-disorders
ECG
Ed
Education
Efficacy
Ehealth
EKG
Emergency
Encephalitis
Energy
Epidemic
Epidemiology
Er
Erectile-dysfunction
Errors
Ethnicity
Exercise
Expenses
Expert
Experts
Eye Health
Eyes
Face
Families
Family
Family Features
Family-planning
Fatal
Fatality
Fatigue
Fda
Federal-government
Feet
Feline-health
Female
Fertility
Finances
Financial
Findings
First-aid
Fitness
Flu
Fluids
Flu-season
Flu Shot
Focus
Fodmap
Food
Food-and-drug-administration
Fungus
Gastroenterologist
Gastrointestinal
Genes
Gene-therapy
Genetics
Gerd
Germs
Giving
Government
Grandparents
Grocery
Gynecologist
Gynecology
Hacks
Hair
Hands
Head
Headache
Headaches
Heallth
Health
Health-care
Health-care-careers
Health-care-jobs
Health-insurance
Healthy-eating
Healthy Living
Hearing
Hearing-aids
Hearing-loss
Heart
Heart Attack
Heartbeat
Heart Disease
Heart Failure
Heart Health
Heartworm
Heat
Heath
Help
Hemophilia
Hepatitis
Hepatitis-b
Hepatitis-c
High Blood Pressure
High Cholesterol
High School
Hiv
Holidays
Holistic-therapy
Home
Home-health
Home-health
Hormonal
Hormonal Therapy
Hormones
Hormone Therapy
Hospital
Hrt
Hydration
Hygiene
Ibs
Ibsd
Illnesses
Immune-system
Immunizations
Immunotherapy
Implant
Impotence
Incontinence
Infection
Infertility
Inflammation
Influenza
Information
Inhaler
Inhalers
Injections
Injury
Innovation
Inpatient
Insects
Insomnia
Insurance
Intensive-care
Intestines
Irregular Heartbeat
Irritable Bowel Syndrome
Irritable Bowel Syndrome With Diarrhea
Isolation
Job
Jobs
Joint-health
Joints
Kid
Kidney-disease
Kidney-failure
Kids
Knee
Knees
Knowledge
Labor
Lactation
Learning
Lifehacks
Lifestyle
Lips
Lists
Living Well
Lump
Lumps
Lung-cancer
Lungs
Mail
Mail Order
Marketing
Maternal-health
Maternity
Mayo-clinic
MCI
MD Anderson
Meals
Medical
Medical Errors
Medical History
Medical Research
Medical-test
Medical-waste
Medicare
Medication
Medications
Medicine
Meditation
Melanoma
Memory
Memory Loss
Meningitis
Meningococcal
Menopause
Mens-health
Mental-health
Mentalhealthmatters
Migraine
Migraines
Mild Cognitive Impairment
Military
MIND
Ministroke
Minorities
Moisture
Mold
Mom
Moms
Money
Monitor
Monitoring
Mood
Mood-swings
Mortaility
Mortality
Mortality Rate
Mosquito
Mosquitoes
Mother
Mouth
Mrsa
Ms
Multiple-sclerosis
Multivitamin
Muscles
Myths
Nails
National Institutes Of Health
Natural
Nausea
Needles
Nerve-blocks
Neurologist
Neurology
Neuropathic-pain
Neuropathy
Nicotine
Night
Nighttime
NIH
Nocturia
Nurses
Nursing
Nursing-home
Nutrition
Obgyn
Obstetrics
Oncologists
Oncology
Online
Opiod-addiction
Opioid
Opioid-addiction
Opioid-addiction
Opioids
Opthamology
Oral-health
Otc
Outbreak
Outcomes
Outdoors
Outlook
Outpatient
Overdose
Overprescribing
Overthecounter
Ovulation
Oxygen
Pain
Pain-clinic
Pain-clinics
Pain-disorders
Pain-management
Pain-management
Pain-medication
Pain-medication
Pain-medications
Pain-medications
Pancreatic-cancer
Parent
Parenting
Patch
Patient
Patients
Pediatric
Pediatrician
Pediatrics
Perspective
Perspiration
Pet-health
Pet-owners
Pets
Pharmaceuticals
Pharmacy
Physical
Physical-therapy
Physician
Physician-anesthesiologist
Physicians
Physiology
Pink-eye
Plaque-psoriasis
Platelets
Podiatry
Policy
Postsurgery
Practice
Pregnacy-test
Pregnancy
Pregnant
Prescribing
Prescription Drugs
Prescriptions
Prevalence
Prevention
Primary Care Doctor
Probiotic
Probiotics
Procedure
Prostate
Protein
Providers
Psoriasis
Psoriatic-arthritis
Psychiatry
Psychology
Ptsd
Public-health
Pulmonary
Pulmonology
Pulse
Qualifications
Quality
Quality-of-life
Quiz
Race
Radiation
Rankings
Rare
Reading
Recipe
Recovery
Recurrence
Red-cross
Reflux
Rehab
Rehabilitation
Relationships
Relaxation
Remote
Rem-sleep
Replacement
Research
Resources
Rest
Risk
Risk Factors
Risks
Rotator-cuff
Routine
Routine-physical
Safety
Salt
Savings
Scanning
Schedule
School
Screening
Screenings
Seasonal Allergies
Seasons
Second-opinion
Selfassessment
Selfmonitoring
Self-monitoring
Senior Citizens
Seniors
Service
Services
Sex
Sexual-health
Sharps
Shopping
Shoulder
Side Effects
Side-effects
Sinus
Sinuses
Skin
Skin-cancer
Skin-care
Sleep
Sleep Apnea
Sleep-deprivation
Sleeping
Sleep-loss
Sleep-quality
Smartphone
Smokers
Smoking
Sneezing
Social-media
Sodium
Softtissue-sarcomas
Specialists
Specialty
Speech
Srping
Stomach
Strength
Stress
Stretching
Stroke
Strokes
Studies
Study
Sugar
Suicide
Summer
Sun
Sunscreen
Supplements
Support
Surgeon
Surgery
Survey
Survivability
Survival
Symptom
Symptomology
Symptoms
Tech
Technology
Teen
Teenage
Teen Health
Telemedicine
Tendons
Testing
Tests
The New England Journal Of Medicine
Therapies
Therapy
Thinking
Tia
Tips
Tobacco
Toddlers
Toes
Toothbrush
Training
Transmission
Travel
Treatment
Treatment Options
Trials
Tumor
Ulcerative Colitis
Uncontrolled Asthma
Urinary
Urinate
Urination
Urologist
Urology
Uv-rays
Vaccination
Vaccines
Vaginal-dryness
Vector
Veterans
Veterinary
Virus
Viruses
Vision
Vitamins
Volunteer
Volunteers
Walk
Walking
Warning-signs
Water
Wearables
Weather
Website
Weight
Weight-gain
Weight-loss
Wellbeing
Wellness
West-nile
Winter
Woman
Women
Women's Health
Womens Health
Workout
Workplace
Zika
RSS Feed
Proudly powered by Weebly
HOME
Popular IDEAS
IDEAS for Your Better Business Life >
The Business Idea
The Career IDEA
The Money Idea
IDEAS for Your Better Diversions >
The Tech IDEA
The Travel IDEA
The Auto IDEA
The Outdoors IDEA
IDEAS for a Better Table >
The Food IDEA
IDEAS de Cocina Espanola
IDEAS for a Better You >
The Health IDEA
Living Well IDEAS
The Fitness IDEA
The Beauty IDEA
IDEAS for a Happier Home >
The Home Idea
The Entertaining Idea
The Parenting Idea
The Senior Living IDEA
The Pet IDEA
The Video Domain
Video IDEAS for Your Better Business Life
About
Contact