Cysteamine Cream (CC): The evidence against hydroquinone and treatment of hyperpigmentation
439 Congaree Rd
Greenville, SC
(864) 735- 0739
Wellness and Skincare Clinic
Google+
More
Home.
Appointments
Appointments.
Promotions appointments
Last Minute Deals
Living Social and Groupon
FAQ
FAQ.
Cancelation Policy
inclement weather policy
how to prepare for a massage
Our Mission
About The Therapist
Skin Care
Deep Pore Facial
Vitamin C Prof_Treatment
AHA Fruits Wash
Ultrasonic
Anti-Aging Program
Hyaluronic acid facial
hydrafacial
Vitamin C facial
Collagen facial
Pro-L- 20 Corrective
Hydrolift Facial Treatment
Wrinkle Eraser
Vitamin K facial
Facial NeedleFree Mesotherap
DualAction Microdermabrasion
M-Cell Activation Treatment
Bio-lift therapy
DNA Repair Facial
Chemical Peeling
Recommended Home care
Age Reverse
Anti-aging Skins Under 45
Anti-Aging Over 45
Oncology Aesthetics
Expectant Mother
Men's Regimen
Acne/oily
Post-Peel Home Care
Rosacea
Sensitive Skin
Brightening/ Hyper-pigmented
Advanced Acne Home Care
Younger Regimen 2
Our Products
Redness/Rosacea
Arni-K Creme
Soothing Skin Relief Gel
Anti-Acne
Overnight Spot Treatment
Acne Spot Treatment
Pumpkin Clarifying
AHA Clarifier
5% BP Lotion
Anti-Aging
Ultra Firm Marine
Ultra firm eyes
Vitamin C facial
Vita C Spray
Vita-C 20 Brightening creme
Ultra Firming Neck & Chest
O2 Lift Mask
Multi-Complex Night Creme
Ultrabenefits
Ultra-Benefits Questions
AHA Marine
Ultra Benefits Eye
Hyaluronic Eye Treatment
Ultra Benefits Eyes
Wrinkle Prescription
Cleanse
Lavander Creamy Cleanser
Salicylic Face and Body Wash
5% BP face & Body Wash
Conditioning Make Up Remover
Chamomile Face and Body Wash
Serums
Nutrafill
Wri-Lax
Lipid Drops
Vita Soothe
Green Tea Antioxidant Serum
Retinol Drops
C- Stem
Exfoliate
Glycolic Gel
ResurFACE Creme
Papaya Mint and Face & Body
Toner
Dual Action Toner
Sun Protection
Daily Replenish SPF 30
Replenish SPF 36
Aromatherapy
Benefits of Aromatherapy M
Aromatherapy seminars
Hair Grow Inhibitor
Custumer Reviews
Guestbook
Profesional Site.
Job Opportunities
Blog
« Back to Blog « Older Entry | Newer Entry »
Cysteamine Cream (CC): The evidence against hydroquinone and treatment of hyperpigmentation
Posted by nancy pulido on June 10, 2015 at 12:05 AM
Cysteamine Cream (CC): The evidence against hydroquinone and treatment of hyperpigmentation
Hydroquinone is the gold standard in the treatment of hyperpigmentary disorders but there are 3. things to bear in mind:
-a concentration of 4% or more is needed to be effective.
-because of a higher concecntration, side effects such as exogenous ochronosis are a risk. Because of a lack of evidence pertaining to long term toxicology issues, the substance is banned in Europe for use as an over-the-counter (OTC) drug.
-hydroquinone is a non-natural substance which is part of the phenol molecules. It is toxic to pigment cells (melanocytes) and its effects can be irreversible.
Cysteamine is a non melanocytoxic molecule comparable in this sense to others such as arbutin and kojic acid.
It has been known for its depigmeting effect for over 5 decades and in the early 2000’s in was shown by an Australian team of researchers to exert its effect by inhibiting tyrosinase, a key enzyme involved in the early phases of melanin synthesis.
The problem which is now solved with a new technology was that the molecule was unstable and malodorous when compiled in topical preparations
1. Hydroquinone 4% was compared with Cysteamine Cream (CC). 6 subjects were treated with Hydroquinone (HQ) on one ear and CC on the other. Another 6 were treated with the vehicle alone. Frequency of application: once daily for 10 days
-a considerable depigmentation is already visible to the naked eye.
-colorimetry shows that the degree of pigmentation is lower in CC than the vehicle. There is no staistically significant difference between CC and HQ.
-biopsies of the skin show similar results when the quantity of melanin is measured (spectrophotometric analysis)
2. 10 Individuals with dark skin (phototype IV – VI of Fitzpatrick) are treated every evening for 3 weeks.
A close up picture of the skin (dermoscopy) shows uniform depigmentation
Confirmation of visual results is done with colorimetry (statistically significant: p smaller than 0.05 according to student’s test)
3. 40 subjects with melasma are treated nightly for 6 weeks.
A close up picture of the skin (dermoscopy) shows uniform depigmentation
Confirmation of visual results is done with colorimetry (statistically significant: p smaller than 0.05 according to student’s test)
Irritation is observed in 2 patients which is reveresed when the treatment is stopped.
A notice to users: because of a dilation of blood vessels, a heat sensation may be felt upon applying the product the first time.
4. Depigmentation is also seen in the 35 patients treated for post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation (same treatment regimen as “3”).
However there is no comparison with the natural spontaneously favorable evolution of post inflammatatory hyperpigmentation.
5. To conclude Cysteamine Cream is effective, safe and user-friendly and can be considered a treatment option for the treatment of hyperpigmentary skin conditions.
adapted for the online version
Hsu C. Cysteamine Cream as a new depigmenting product. 9th Asian Dermatological Congress (ADC) 13 – Hong Kong, SAR
Related posts:
Cysteamine cream as a new skin depigmenting agent
Dermatology in Asians (For Professionals)
Melasma (Chloasma) (Pregnancy Mask) Diagnostic elements, epidemiology and importance of sunprotection
Tags: chloasma, Cysteamine cream, Cysteamine crème, dépigmentation, Hydroquinone, hyperpigmentation post-inflammatoire, melasma, postinflammatory hyperpigmention, skin whitening
source: http://www.globale-dermatologie.com/en/cysteamine-creme-cc-comparaison-avc-lhydroquinone-et-traitement-de-troubles-de-lhyperpigmentation-pour-les-professionnels.html#.VXcOIWBYjbo
Categories: None
Post a Comment
Oops!
Oops, you forgot something.
Oops!
The words you entered did not match the given text. Please try again.
Name
Already a member? Sign In
Email
Message
3 Comments
Loading...
Reply Nina
4:19 PM on December 23, 2016
Dear Sir/madam, I have been suffering from sun spots and have tried different remedies. I am interested to see if this product can work for me. Can you please advise where I can buy this product, or at have a trial package. Thanks in advance for your efforts.
Kind regards, Nina
Reply Ema Watson
5:48 AM on February 2, 2017
Very informative post Nancy! 2 months before I was also having dark spots on my face and my friend who is a doctor suggest me Cysteamine Cream. I used it for 2 weeks and all my spots gone. I buy it from http://www.scientispharma.ch/product/cysteamine-cream/. You can try it.
Reply Renee Duffet
3:21 AM on August 17, 2017
First of all thanks for providing such a great information , Actually I am 23 years old and suffering from skin pigmentation problem from very long time. One of mine friend told me about the cysteamine cream and I used this cream and I am fully satisfied with this product.You can check this link for more information https://scientispharma.com/
Contact us:
We are faster and more efficient by email; send us your questions by filling out the form below.
Please be specific so we can address you question much faster and efficiently
Name
Phone Number
Email Address
Message
Send Message
Thank you for contacting us. We will get back to you as soon as possible. If you need to schedule and appointment please visit:
https://www.wellnessandskincaresc.com and select the option that best fits you from the menu.
Most questions can be answer at: https://www.wellnessandskincaresc.com/faq
Note: Our Offices, webstore, and labs will be closed on May 27 through June 8. All online orders, email and calls will be processed after June 8 2017.
Oops. An error occurred.
Click here to try again.
Upcoming Seminars
Keep in touch with us and our good promotions
Products of the month
Social Media
We highly encourage our clients to follow our Facebook page. In case of delays or closings we will be updating about it through Facebook.
Facebook
Follow @wellnessandskin
Follow @wellnessandskin
439 Congaree Road Greenville, Sc 29607