Why You Should Start Drinking Your Own Pee - The Benefits Of Urine Therapy
3052 Shares
Share
Tweet
Share
Share
Pin
Home
About Us
New? Start Here!
Show
Conditions
Autism
Auto Immune
Brain Health
Cancer
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart
Sexual Health
Skin
Sleep
Women’s Health
Diet and Detox
Ayurveda
Cleansing & Detox
Digestion
Fermentation
Herbs
Paleo
Raw Primal
Raw Vegan
Other
Dentistry
Energy Medicine
EMF Radiation
Fitness
Free For All Friday
Gardening
Liberty
Pet Health
Survival
Vaccines
Misc.
Anti Aging
Healing Modalities
In Studio Guests
Motivation & Success
Psychedelics
Survivor Stories
Archives
Resources
Shop Bio Charge
Academy
We Recommend
GET INSTANT ACCESS
to "Lessons From The Miracle Doctors" now!
Where you'll learn...
- How to naturally balance hormone levels
- About specific cleansing and detoxification programs
- How the modern medical paradigm steals your health
- About the myths of today’s plagues – diabetes, heart disease, cancer, Alzheimer’s
I am interested in (select one)...Autoimmune DiseaseCancerDetoxificationEnergyHeart DiseaseHormonesImmune SystemLiver HealthOral HealthPregnancyVision
Send It To Me!
Hey there!
My name is Justin and my mom almost died from cancer, so I started this project 5 years ago. We (my wife Kate & I) have over 528 radio shows about natural health, energy medicine, detoxification, natural healing, personal development, & spirituality with new shows each week!.Our goal is to give you the tools to heal and get healthy again! Thanks for listening! Watch the video below to learn more about our mission.
Read more
Want to Learn How to Detoxify Your Body, Lose Weight & Have More Energy?
Sign Up Below
To Begin Your Journey!
Download "Lessons
From The Miracle
Doctors" Right Now!
I am interested in (select one)...Autoimmune DiseaseCancerDetoxificationEnergyHeart DiseaseHormonesImmune SystemLiver HealthOral HealthPregnancyVision
I Want To Get Healthy!
Want Better Health?
We're going DEEP to help restore your health. Only serious people should consider. Use code EHR14 to start your free 14 day trial.
I Want Better Health
Upcoming Free Health Summits!
Fix Female Hormones Summit
The Healthy Pregnancy Summit
SIBO & Digestion Summit
Tags
Atom Bergstrom (20) Blue Light (5) Cacao (5) Cancer (23) Candida (6) Chris Kehler (5) Cleansing (8) Daniel Vitalis (8) Deserts (6) Detoxification (5) Diabetes (5) Digestion (15) Fasting (6) Fat (5) Fear (9) Feel Good Project (152) Fermentation (4) Fibroid (6) Growth (4) Habits (6) Healing (6) Heart (5) Hormones (6) Immune System (7) John Bergman (14) Juicing (5) Light (5) Meditation (7) Mercury (7) Meridian Grace (6) MMS (6) Mold (5) Mushrooms (5) PEMF (6) Recall Healing (5) Red Light (5) Skin (5) Sugar (9) Sulfur (6) Teeth (4) Ty Bollinger (6) Urine Therapy (5) Vaccines (5) Water (9) Wendy Wilson (5)
Why You Should Start Drinking Your Own Pee – The Many Benefits Of Urine Therapy
January 24, 2013
/ Blog
/ By	Justin Stellman
/ 168	COMMENTS
3052 Shares
I know that by after reading the title of this post you’re thinking how disgusting it would be to drink your own urine. But to be honest even if you’re reading to this point you’re probably slightly intrigued by the idea.
I first heard about Urophagia often referred to as AUT (auto-urine therapy or amaroli) from David Wolfe many many years ago. I think it was the way he explained it that sounded intriguing to me.
I’ve even heard of people fasting on their own urine in order to treat their cancer. I probably would do much more than just drinking my own pee if I had cancer but humans will try anything! There are many viable options for cancer these days and some include urine therapy in them.
It has been a part of the ancient yoga tradition Ayurvedic for thousands of years.
People don’t realize just how powerful it is to drink your own urine. I know it sounds gross but if you learn more about it with an open mind, I think it will really blow you away.
Want to hear a whole show about how urine therapy can help you? Click here to listen right now!
The Romans did it, the ancient Chinese cultures did it and it’s one of the most healthy substances you could ever drink. Drinking urine for medicinal purposes can be traced to societies in ancient Egypt, China, Hindu and Aztec histories. Advocates also cite a prominent verse in the Bible: “Drink water from thine own cistern and the streams of thine own well.” Proverbs 5:15
I’m not exactly sure if that verse in the Bible above is talking about drinking urine but who know?!
What’s In Urine Anyway?
Urine contains enzymes, vitamins, minerals not to mention it’s completely structured hexagonal liquid. Because it is created by your own body, it helps to re-educate your immune system as what is foreighn and what is domestic. It helps to teach your system and fine tune it to recognize pathogens and invaders. It’s similar to reading a book for the second time or watching a movie for the second time.
You catch so much more and learn so much more by reading a book all over again. It’s the same with drinking your own pee. Besides having so many life giving and essential qualities, it becomes a teacher to every cell in your body.
If you think about it everything in life is a cycle. We’ll compost using old scraps of food, manure and newspapers and feed that to organisms who biologically transmutate that into mineral rich soil. We’ll take that soil and plant plants into it. Then we’ll eat the plants and the cycle continues.
Think of urine therapy as composting for your body.
The best part is this medicine (urine) is free and I’ve even heard Dr. David Jubb talk about how you can consume your own urine even if you’re on chemotherapy! Can you imagine that?
Why Drink Your Urine?
The reason for drinking urine is pretty simple really. Scientists know that urine is just a byproduct of the filtering of blood. It’s not just excess water. When blood cells, filled with oxygen and nutrients go through the liver, the poisons and toxins get pulled out and are eliminated with a bowel movement. This filtered and cleaned blood go to the kidneys where excess nutrients get taken out of the body. Plasma ultra filtrate (Urea) contains perfect ratios of nutrients, urea, enzymes, hormones, vitamins, antibodies and minerals.
It’s also antiviral, anti-fungal and antibacterial. The reason it is this way is because it’s a byproduct of the body trying to balance sodium chloride with water. Since urea can kill bacteria and fungus and drastically lower inflammation you’ll find it in many creams and lotions for use on the skin and hair.
Ever wonder why it’s a good idea to pee on your foot if you ever get stung by a sting ray while swimming in the ocean? It’s precisely because it is antibacterial, anti-fungal and antiviral.
If you’re ever out of water and in a survival situation, drinking your own urine can be great way to survive.
Urine therapy has been used to overcome diseases such as Arthritis, Cancer, Hepatitis, Multiple Sclerosis, Eczema, Psoriasis, Diabetes, Herpes and adrenal failure. It is commonly used to combat venom from snakebites, jellyfish and beestings. Urine is the main ingredient in infertility drugs.
Also the drug Premarin is widely known to contain urea from horses.
Other Uses For Urea
You can even use a drop or two of your pee on your skin (for dry skin, candida, toenail fungus etc) and put a dab of DMSO (Dimethyl sulfoxide) right on top of it. The DMSO will drive those powerful antiviral and antifungal properties deep into the dermis of the skin and allow the healing to take place.
Urine therapy is powerful medicine and can be used in many creative ways!
It’s widely known in the medical community how great urea is for treating certain diseases. But why have we never heard about it? My opinion is that it’s very taboo in our culture to admit that you drink your own pee.
I think the main reason you haven’t heard about it is because it works and it’s 100% free. If there’s no money in something, the medical industry will avoid it like the plague and then demonize it so you won’t try it.
They have to protect their brand.
But better yet, instead of waiting until your in a survival situation or you’re dying of cancer to try it, how healthy could you become if you made it a part of your daily practice starting right now?
Why not be preemptive in terms of health? It can help regulate hormones and even has the ability to re-introduce vitamins and minerals from the foods you eat, back into your body. This is a way to make sure you’re absorbing and getting the full benefit from all the healthy foods you’re eating.
Books on urine therapy
Videos About The Power of Urine Therapy
How To Drink Your Pee
Sometimes people get grossed out by the thought of drinking it. I’ve been doing it for years and I’ve come up with a great method of not tasting it at all.
First of all the best way is to start very small. I’m talking just a drop or two in a glass of water. Try to get urine from the first time you go to the bathroom in the morning, mid stream. The first bit of urine that comes out usually contains more toxins.
Consider doing a couple drops of your first morning’s urine mid stream. If your pee is very yellow (like a dark yellow) that might mean you’re dehydrated or you’ve eaten very poor quality foods. You want the urine that you drink to be more clear when first starting out.
As you are more comfortable with drinking more of your urine, you can add a teaspoon or tablespoon of Bragg’s Apple Cider Vinegar. This stuff is so strong and powerful that you won’t taste the urine at all.
There has also been talk that taking an oil right after the urine will help release all the fat soluble vitamins from your urine. You could consume a spoonful of olive oil to accomplish this.
The vinegar is a great way to mask the flavor of urine.
The next time you go pee just realize you’re wasting nature’s most perfect medicine!
So the real question is, do you have the guts to try it?
This Book Teaches You: How To Regain Your Health!
Get Access To "Lesson's From The Miracle Doctors!" + Radio Show Updates and You'll Learn...
How to naturally balance hormone levels
About specific cleansing and detoxification programs
How the modern medical paradigm steals your health
About the myths of today’s plagues – diabetes, heart disease, cancer, Alzheimer’s
I am interested in (select one)...Autoimmune DiseaseCancerDetoxificationEnergyHeart DiseaseHormonesImmune SystemLiver HealthOral HealthPregnancyVision
Send It To Me!
Browse Our Related Posts...
18 Apr, 2019
Ep #335 – Alicia Diaz – How To Improve Digestion & Take Care Of Ourselves In All The Cycles Of Life Using Ancient Ayurvedic Principles
16 Apr, 2019
Ep # 370 – Dr. Dan Engle – Using Psychedelic Plant Medicines To Rid The Body of Physical Addictions, Spiritual Blockages & Much More!
14 Apr, 2019
EP# 180 – Dr. Stuart Nunnally – Our Dentist Talks About The Dangers of Mercury Fillings, How To Treat Root Canals, Fix Cavitations, & Prevent Tooth Decay Naturally – 11-18-2013
10 Apr, 2019
Ep# 443 – Phil Wilson – The Benefits Of Sweating, Near vs FAR Infrared Light, EMF & Creative Ways To Detox Using Sauna Therapy
Previous Post The Goji Berry Protocol by Robert von Sarbacher Next Post The Power of Cansema For Use On Topical Skin Cancers
Leave a Comment:
Name *
E-Mail *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Comment
168 comments
Add Your Reply
Name *
E-Mail *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Comment
Popular posts
Why You Should Start Drinking Your Own Pee – The Many Benefits Of Urine Therapy
Blog
Jan 24, 2013
Why I’m Giving Up Sun Warrior Protein Powder
Blog
Sep 17, 2013
How I Remineralized My Teeth
Guest Posts
Sep 17, 2013
Why You Should Love Your Parasites, Tumors & Rope Worms
Blog	Cleansing
Feb 12, 2014
Recent Posts
Ep #335 – Alicia Diaz – How To Improve Digestion & Take Care Of Ourselves In All The Cycles Of Life Using Ancient Ayurvedic Principles
Ep #260 – Dr. Norman Robillard – How To Improve Digestion Using Low Fermentation Potential Foods & Much More!
Ep # 370 – Dr. Dan Engle – Using Psychedelic Plant Medicines To Rid The Body of Physical Addictions, Spiritual Blockages & Much More!
Ep #615 – Morley Robbins Iron Toxicity, The Root Cause Protocol And How To STOP IT!
EP# 180 – Dr. Stuart Nunnally – Our Dentist Talks About The Dangers of Mercury Fillings, How To Treat Root Canals, Fix Cavitations, & Prevent Tooth Decay Naturally – 11-18-2013
Subscribe For Show Updates + Lesson From The Miracle Doctors For Free!
I am interested in (select one)...Autoimmune DiseaseCancerDetoxificationEnergyHeart DiseaseHormonesImmune SystemLiver HealthOral HealthPregnancyVision
Never Miss A Show!
Come Say Hello!
Follow @ehrshow
Copyright text 2017 by Extreme Health Radio. The information and opinions expressed herein and on the programs provide general information relating to health and are not intended to constitute advice or specific recommendations relating to any particular ailment, disease or condition. Certain claims and statistics discussed may not always be exact and the numbers or statistics quoted as factual data may deviate from facts and figures in other available scientific articles or could contain inaccuracies based on several variables including, but not limited to, timing, geography, data sources and other conditions. Listeners should check other sources to insure accuracy of information and should not individually rely on the information given here. The information and program content is not a substitute for a consultation with a qualified medical doctor. We encourage you to make an appointment with your own doctor in order to resolve any of your health concerns.	- Designed by Thrive Themes | Powered by WordPress
Do You Want to Detox, Lose Weight & Have More Energy Starting Right Now?
YES, LET'S MAKE IT HAPPEN!
NO, I'M HEALTHY ENOUGH.
x
Do You Want to Learn How to Detoxify Your Body, Lose Weight & Have More Energy?
Get Access To "Lesson's From The Miracle Doctors!" + Radio Show Updates & Join Thousands of Other Listeners In Our Community Who Have Already Improved Their Lives!
I am interested in (select one)...Autoimmune DiseaseCancerDetoxificationEnergyHeart DiseaseHormonesImmune SystemLiver HealthOral HealthPregnancyVision
I Want To Get Healthy!
x
53% Complete...
Almost there: please complete this form and click the button below to gain instant access to this FASCINATING interview with Steve Williams revealing the TRUTH about urine therapy!
Sign up to download this FREE Show!
Enter your details below for instant access...
Submit
x