Cancer and genetics: What's the connection?
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Cancer and genetics: What's the connection?
Last reviewed	 Wed 28 September 2016	 Last reviewed	Wed 28 Sep 2016
By Gareth Strachan
Reviewed by Alana Biggers, MD, MPH
Table of contents
How do genetic changes lead to cancer?
What forms of cancer are hereditary?
Genetic testing for cancer
Genes control the way cells work, and in particular how they grow and divide. When something goes wrong with one or more of the genes in a cell, changes occur that can lead to cancer.
Such changes are commonly referred to as faults or mutations. Although cancer is mainly the result of life choices and not related to family gene pools, it can also be caused by these faults or mutations.
As a result, cancer can be inherited from parents and grandparents and passed on to future generations.
How do genetic changes lead to cancer?
A higher risk of some forms of cancer can be inherited from parents and grandparents.
A cell must typically contain six or more faults to become cancerous. Such faults can cause the cell to stop functioning normally, become cancerous, and grow and divide uncontrollably.
This may happen as people get older as a result of random mistakes when a cell is dividing. Changes can also occur due to exposure to substances that can cause cancer called carcinogens. These include cigarette smoke or sunlight.
Though potentially cancerous, these gene changes don't affect all body cells, are not inherited, and cannot be passed on to children.
Cancer is such a common disease that many families have several members who have had cancer. Certain types of cancer seem to run in some families, but only a small portion of all cancers are inherited.
How is cancer risk passed on?
Faulty genes that increase the risk of cancer can be passed on from parent to child. Such genes are called inherited cancer genes. They occur when there is a mistake or a fault in the genes contained in an egg or sperm cell.
Genes that increase the risk of cancer are known as cancer susceptibility genes. Their normal job is to correct DNA damage that naturally occurs when cells divide, protecting people against cancer.
Inheriting a faulty copy of one these genes means that it is unable to repair damaged DNA in cells. As a consequence, the cells may become cancerous.
People inherit genes from both parents. If a gene fault occurs in each parent, a child has a 1 in 2 chance of inheriting it. While some children will have the faulty gene and an increased risk of developing cancer, others won't.
The state of cancer: Are we close to a cure?
Click here to learn about the latest developments in cancer treatments.
Read now
What forms of cancer are hereditary?
Cancers caused by inherited faulty genes are much less common than cancers caused by gene changes due to aging or other factors.
Most cancers develop through a combination of chance and the environment rather than inheriting a specific cancer gene. However, about 5 to 10 percent of all cancer cases occur in people who have inherited genetic mutations that raise the risk of cancer.
Mutations and syndromes that can increase the risk of cancer include:
BRCA1 and BRCA2 genetic mutations - raised risk of breast, ovarian, and prostate cancer
Cowden syndrome - raised risk of developing breast, uterine, and thyroid cancer
Familial adenomatous polyposis - raised risk of colorectal cancer, and soft tissue and brain tumors
Li-Fraumeni syndrome - raised risk of developing many different types of cancer
Lynch syndrome - raised risk of colorectal cancer, some skin cancers, and brain tumors
Multiple endocrine neoplasia - raised risk of endocrine cancers
Von Hippel-Lindau disease - raised risk of kidney and other cancers
Genetic testing for cancer
Tests are currently available for gene faults that increase the risk of breast, bowel, ovarian, womb, and prostate cancer. Tests are also available for rare gene faults that can increase the risk of kidney, skin, and thyroid cancer, and even a type of eye cancer called retinoblastoma.
Tests are available for some rare gene faults that lead to certain types of cancer.
Tests are not presently available for other types of cancer genes. Research is always being conducted, however, with tests being developed for more and more gene faults.
Predictive genetic testing refers to the type of testing done on genes that increase the risk of cancer. They do not usually give precise answers about inherited diseases. The tests will only show if there is a specific gene mutation, not whether cancer is present.
A positive result means there is a raised risk of developing cancer but does not mean that cancer is present or will develop. For example, a particular gene mutation may be found through testing, but it might not be clear if this raises the risk of cancer.
In short, the test can show what might happen, but it cannot show what will happen. A negative result does not mean there is no risk of getting cancer. The risk can change over time due to non-genetic reasons, such lifestyle choices or simply getting older.
Genetic tests may be flawed, and test results can be interpreted wrongly. Although this is not common, different labs may have different ways of interpreting changes because genetic testing is not tightly regulated.
The makers of tests often advertise and promote their tests to doctors and the public. In doing so, they can make the test sound more helpful and decisive than it actually is. This can be misleading as decisions about testing may be made on incomplete or wrong information.
Reputable genetics counselors should, however, be able to help people know what to expect from test results.
Who should get genetic testing?
Genetic tests may be flawed, and results can be interpreted incorrectly.
If a person has a strong family history of cancer and the genetic specialist thinks they could have inherited a faulty gene, they will offer that person a genetic test.
According to Cancer Research UK, the following scenarios signal what is considered to be a strong family history of cancer:
If more than two close relatives on the same side of the family have had cancer
The relatives have had the same cancer or different cancers that can be caused by the same gene fault
The cancers appeared when the relatives were below the age of 50
One relative has had a gene fault found by genetic tests
What to do if you think you may have a hereditary risk of cancer
People are advised to talk to their family doctor if they think that they may have a strong family history of cancer. Specialists will ask about their family in order to determine how many members have been diagnosed with cancer. If they think that a person has an increased risk, they will refer them to a genetics clinic for testing.
According to the American Cancer Society, the most effective ways of reducing the risk of cancer are simple things, such as:
Eating a healthy well-balanced diet
Not smoking
Exercising regularly
Keeping to a healthy weight
Staying safe in the sun
Related coverage
New drug attacks cancer-causing genes A new drug that targets cancer-causing genes may help to improve cancer survival rates. Researchers also hope that it might halt obesity-related cancers. Read now
Testicular cancer: Genetic test steps closer A genetic test that predicts testicular cancer in healthy men steps closer as scientists discover 19 more DNA markers that raise risk of disease. Read now
Scientists discover 27 genes that could halt cancer With a statistical model and an analysis of more than 2,000 tumors, researchers have discovered 27 genes that can stop tumor development. Read now
Dual attack with two existing drugs destroys lung cancer Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in the U.S. A new study finds a two-pronged approach that could significantly improve survival rates. Read now
This 'genetic switch' could help to fight cancer Scientists mobilize T cells inside tumors with a laser that remotely activates heat-sensitive gene switches to boost protein expression more than 200-fold. Read now
email email
print
share share
Cancer / Oncology
Breast Cancer Genetics Ovarian Cancer
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Wed 28 September 2016.
Visit our Cancer / Oncology category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Cancer / Oncology.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Family cancer syndromes. (2014, June 25). Retrieved from http://www.cancer.org/cancer/cancercauses/geneticsandcancer/heredity-and-cancer.
Family history and inherited cancer genes. (2015, June 1). Retrieved from www.cancerresearchuk.org/about-cancer/causes-of-cancer/inherited-cancer-genes-and-increased-cancer-risk/family-history-and-inherited-cancer-genes.
Genes and cancer. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.cancer.org/cancer/cancercauses/geneticsandcancer/genesandcancer/index.
Is cancer hereditary? (n.d.). Retrieved from www.cancersupportcommunity.org/cancer-hereditary.
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Strachan, Gareth. "Cancer and genetics: What's the connection?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 28 Sep. 2016. Web.
22 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/313159.php>
APA
Strachan, G. (2016, September 28). "Cancer and genetics: What's the connection?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/313159.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Study finds that many people diagnosed with MS do not have the condition
A new study suggests that almost 20 percent of people who receive a diagnosis for multiple sclerosis do not have the chronic disease.
Replacing red meat with plant protein reduces heart disease risk
A study of data from 36 trials suggests that eating plant-based proteins, such as nuts, instead of red meat may help reduce cardiovascular disease risk.
Increased muscle power may prolong life
A first-of-its-kind study finds that increased muscle power, rather than muscle strength, can significantly prolong life for seniors.
MS: High-strength MRI may predict disease progression
New research suggests that a powerful MRI scanner may help predict the progression of multiple sclerosis by analyzing cortical lesions on the brain.
More evidence that being active extends life
A recent study concluded that 'regardless of age, sex, or starting fitness level,' increased physical activity of any type reduces overall mortality risk.
Popular in: Cancer / Oncology
What are the early signs of tongue cancer?
What to know about cancer
What are the early signs of oral cancer?
Does nicotine cause cancer?
What are the symptoms of late stage bladder cancer?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/313159.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);