Does Cellphone Use Cause Cancer - 1411 Words | Education Index
Education Index Does Cellphone Use Cause Cancer
Does Cellphone Use Cause Cancer
1411 words 6 pages
Show More
Nowadays owning a cell phone has become a common commodity but can this seemingly harmless device be the cause of cancer? Cell phones emit radio frequency (RF) energy a type of electromagnetic energy that could be biologically damaging to the body. However some research suggests that the RF energy is a low frequency energy that is incapable of causing detrimental effects to the cells in the body. Some studies do not demonstrate a strong causal relation between RF exposure from cell phones and negative health effects. Through the evaluation of different scientific experiments this paper will explore whether or not cell phone use causes cancer.
There is evidence that suggests that RF energy can cause malignant tumors by affecting the glial …show more content…
10 In addition RF energy is not enough energy to destabilize the configurations within DNA molecules. A study published in 2008 reported that no concrete evidence supporting the relationship between energy emitted from a cell phone and the increase in tumors due to structural and functional damage in cells.11 One study tested the effects of RF radiation on the amount of chromosome abnormalities through exposing lymphocytes in human blood cells in vitro to 1.95 GHz and found no significant chromosome abnormalities.12 Another study tested the effects of 835 MHz of radiation similar to that of a mobile phone on DNA stability in vitro and found that it did not degrade the DNA in vitro.13 In summary it has been proven that cell phone use can cause cancer by causing malignant tumors to form in areas that are in close contact of a cell phone. It can also cause detrimental structural damage in the DNA of cells which can lead to formation of cancer. In addition, the radiation emitted from a cell phone can cause stress to the cells in the body which decreases the
Related
How and to what purpose does Virgil use ekphrasis in the Aeneid
3219 words | 13 pages
How and to what purpose does Virgil use ekphrasis in the Aeneid? Virgil’s use of ekphrasis in the Aeneid has attracted much attention by classical scholars; as such the coverage on this topic is extensive. This essay therefore does not aim to purport all of Virgil’s techniques and aims in regard to describing art in the Aeneid – a subject on which entire books have been written – rather the brevity of this essay necessitates an overview of the predominant theories, whilst attempting to shed light….
Show More
Pancreatic Cancer
1425 words | 6 pages
Pancreatic Cancer "Cancer of the pancreas is a genetic disease that is the fifth most common cause of death in both men and women. Pancreatic cancer affects approximately 28,000 Americans each year, or five out of 100,000 people" (Mayo Clinic, 1998). According to physicians at Johns Hopkins Medical Institute, "pancreatic cancer is the challenge of the twenty-first century." So, where exactly is the pancreas located in our bodies, and what does it do? The pancreas is a gland found behind the stomach….
Show More
Prostate Cancer
1004 words | 5 pages
Prostate Cancer Eng 101 Andrell Nash Fortis College Abstract Prostate Cancer is a disease in which there is an uncontrolled growth of cells that lines the ducts of the prostate gland. The abnormal cells can spread throughout the prostate and nearby organs, such as the seminal vesicles. If not caught early they can spread (metastasized) to other organs of the body through the lymph or blood stream. (“...Treatment...” 13) Prostate Cancer can be like a silent killer. Some may show signs and symptoms….
Show More
How Does Peter Shaffer Use Themes as Devices in Equus to Validate the Unpleasant.
1156 words | 5 pages
with in ‘Equus’ challenges our own sense of what is normal. They are as equally as shocking to Dysart, yet made justifiable by Alan Strang’s worship for Equus, the god of horses. This is why ‘Peter Shaffer’ uses ‘Equus’ as a sort of device to standardize and make the strange acceptable. He does this by introducing a sense of innocence into the character of Alan Strang. This innocence is brought out through Strang’s worship and love for Equus. By exploring the mind of Strang we are forced to question….
Show More
Stomach Cancer
960 words | 4 pages
Stomach cancer, also known as gastric cancer, is a type of cancer that develops slowly over many years. Most frequently, stomach cancer starts in the lining of the stomach otherwise knows as the mucosa, and then develops into the other layers of the stomach. There are many ways in which stomach cancer spreads. In some cases it invades near by organs or it can also travel through the bloodstream to for cancer in other organs. There are many statistics and organizations of support for stomach cancer, as….
Show More
Limiting the Use of Technology
1281 words | 6 pages
Limit The Use of Technology Over the past several years’ technology has advanced significantly. Nowadays most everything we use is done by some form of technology. Several years ago, we didn’t even have cellphones or the Internet, now we have cellphones that can access the Internet. This generation has become so dependent with technology that it is actually beginning to harm most us, not help us. So this leads us to believe one should limit his or her use of technology because it could cause addiction….
Show More
The Cellular Basis of Cancer
2324 words | 10 pages
Cancer is one of the leading causes of death worldwide as it can develop in almost any organ or tissue. Significant advances in understanding the cellular basis of cancer and the underlying biological mechanisms of tumour has been vastly improved in the recent years (Jiang et al. 1994). Cancer is a genetic disease which requires a series of mutation during mitosis to develop, its characteristics can be associated with their ability to grow and divide abnormal cells uncontrollable while in the mean….
Show More
Skin Cancer
1154 words | 5 pages
The Causes and Symptoms of Skin Cancer The Causes and symptoms of Skin Cancer While tanning beds and extreme use/exposure to UV rays are ways to get skin cancer, there are also various other ways to get it. Many don’t know that genetics and traits can actually play a huge role in developing this dangerous disease. They also don’t know that skin cancer is the most common type of cancer in the U.S. today. According to the Skin Cancer Foundation more people over the last 300 years have had skin….
Show More
Does Smoking Cause Lung Cancer
1304 words | 6 pages
more Americans die from lung cancer and other smoking related diseases than they die from aids, drug abuse, car accidents and homicide, combined. Cigarette smoking is a danger to our life and health. It is the leading known cause of lung cancer. Each year more than 30,000 people will die of lung cancer and 4 out of 5 of them will get it because of cigarette smoke. Studies have proven that there is no safe way to smoke. Tobacco contains many dangerous cancer causing chemicals that affects….
Show More
Cellphones in the Classroom
1956 words | 8 pages
(personal communication, January 24, 2012). Cell phones have many diverse uses, such as communication, a source of endless resources, and storing/organizing data. The author of “Cellphones Now Used More for Data Than for Call,” (2010) Jenna Wortham, says “I use my cell phone to make out grocery lists, record voice memos, listen to music, track my caloric intake, and update my Twitter and Facebook accounts (para.1).” Some of these uses may create distraction in a classroom setting, but with the right guide….
Show More
Popular Essays
History of Synesthesia
One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest
It Has Been Argued That the Uk Banking System Is an Oligopoly
Stomach Cancer
Capitalism: Individualism and Government
Tanglewood Stores: Measurement and Validation
Privacy Policy
Contact
Terms of Service
Copyright
Copyright © 2017 Education Index. All rights reserved.