Gelixer CollagenPep (Vanilla) Sachets Gelixer® CollagenPep™ for Healthy Joints - Nitta Gelatin India Limited
Call Us +91-9387222324 Email us info@gelixer.com Trade Enquiry Buy Now!
Menu
About Gelixer
Welcome to world of Happyknees
Contact Us
Products
Joint Health
Gelixer CollagenPep (Orange) Sachets
Gelixer CollagenPep (Vanilla) Sachets
Voice of Consumers
Science of CollagenPep
Know your Joints
Clinical Evidence
FAQs
News & Events
My Account
Login
Register
Gelixer CollagenPep (Vanilla) Sachets
For Healthy Joints
PRODUCTS
Gelixer CollagenPep (Vanilla) Sachets
Gelixer CollagenPep (Vanilla) Sachets
For Healthy Joints
IN STOCK
MRP: 622*
Quantity
Add to Cart
Gelixer® CollagenPep™ –Functional Food for Osteoarthritis
Osteoarthritis is a common form of arthritis which causes Joint Pain, Stiffness in joints and restricted movements. Gelixer® offers new life to joints with CollagenPep™ protein supplement.
Gelixer CollagenPep contains Collagen Peptide and Vitamin C. Collagen Peptide is a hydrolysed form of Collagen protein, the most abundant protein found in our body (about 25-30%).
Collagen proteins along with proteoglycans maintain the strength of cartilage in joints. The composition collagen peptide and collagen found in cartilage are almost similar. Collagen Peptide contains amino acids like Glycine, Proline and Hydroxyproline in rich quantity compared to other proteins. These amino acids act as building blocks for collagen in the body. Collagen protein is found only in mammals and there is no vegetarian source for collagen protein. Therefore vegetarians do not get collagen through their food. Gelixer CollagenPep supplements collagen protein derived from buffalo bones. The collagen proteins are separated from bones in purified form after 45-50 days process using the world class technology provided by Nitta Gelatin Inc., Japan
Vitamin C is an essential nutrient required for supporting collagen synthesis in body and it helps in healing of wounds, and for the repair and maintenance of cartilage, bones, and teeth. The body does not manufacture Vitamin C on its own, nor does it store it. It is therefore important to include plenty of Vitamin C containing foods in your daily diet.
Gelixer CollagenPep does not contain sugar and cholesterol and has no side effects
The unique formulation of Gelixer CollagenPep makes it an ideal supplement for people with osteoarthritis. Ageing, obesity, high physical work, lack of nutrition causes the wear and tear of the cartilage and leads to cartilage damage. As a result, the bones rub together causing pain, swelling, and stiffness. This condition is called Osteoarthritis. Osteoarthritis is a common condition in the elderly and it causes painful and restricted movements of the joints.
How Gelixer® CollagenPep™ works in joints?
A daily supplement of Gelixer® CollagenPep™ provides the most important amino acids (Glycine, Proline, Hydroxyproline) and Vitamin C which helps rebuild cartilage in joints (like knee, hip and elbow). Daily use of Gelixer® CollagenPep™ promotes the health of cartilage and maintains joint flexibility and mobility.
Ingredients / Contents of Gelixer CollagenPep (Vanilla) Sachets
How to Use Gelixer CollagenPep (Vanilla) Sachets?
Clinical Explanations
NutritionalInformation(Approx.Values)
For Each 10 g serving of Collagen Pep
(approx. values)
Orange Flavour)
Vanilla Flavour
Energy 37.2 Kcal 38.6 Kcal
Protein 9.3 g 9.7 g
Carbohydrate 0 g 0 g
Fat 0 g 0 g
Vitamin C 37 mg 37 mg
Introduction
Our lifestyle today exposes us to several stresses, which take their toll on the body, especially the joints. Osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis and osteoporosis are becoming more widespread in society today, which in turn lead to further psychosomatic complications.
Mechanism of Action
Collagen Peptide is a mixture of easily absorbable tri, di-peptides and amino acids. The amino acid composition of collagen peptide and that of collagen in articular cartilage are almost similar. Collagen Peptide contains Glycine, Proline and Hydroxyproline about 3 times compared to proteins from other sources. Preclinical and cell cultural studies shows that food derived collagen peptides are absorbed as di-peptides and amino acids. These peptides and amino acids stimulate chondrocytes and initiate anabolic phase of chondrocytes metabolism. This implies that peptide derivatives of collagen have a role to play in stimulating the synthesis of extracellular matrix of Chondrocytes and thereby initiate cartilage regeneration.
Clinical Study done India
There have been 18 clinical studies around the world, demonstrating the beneficial effects of collagen peptides on collagen regeneration. In India, a double blind, placebo-controlled, randomized trial was conducted to determine the effectiveness and safety of bovine bone collagen peptide as an add-on nutritional supplement in management of subjects with knee joint osteoarthritis. The trial was conducted by a medical team led by Dr.V.T.Sriraam (M.D. Pharmacology) of Auroville Healthcare.
Other Research Studies
a. Clinical Studies
Significant improvement in WOMAC score (F=12.40, p=0.0001 and VAS Score (F=12.94, p<0.0001) between group from baseline to visit 7, from one to thirteen weeks in BBCP group, which in turn resulted in improvement of overall Quality of Life ( F=15.35, p=0.0001).
As the Investigational product is a nutritional supplement it has resulted in best improvements in subjects with grade 2 Osteoarthritis.
The present study demonstrated that oral ingestion of Bovine Bone Collagen Peptide is safe and can improve joint function and quality of life in patients with knee joint Osteoarthritis.
Absorption of Collagen Peptide into Blood
Identification of food-derived collagen peptides in human blood after oral ingestion of gelatin hydrolysates. Iwai K, Hasegawa T, Taguchi Y, Morimatsu F, Sato K, Nakamura Y, Higashi A, Kido Y, Nakabo Y, Ohtsuki K. J Agric Food Chem 53:6531-6536 (2005).
Ohara, H. Matsumoto, H. Ito K. Iwai, K. Sato, K. (2007). Comparison of quantity and structures of hydroxyproline-containing peptides in human blood after oral ingestion of gelatin hydrolysates from different sources. J. Agric. Food Chem. 55(4), 1532-1535
Treatment of Osteoarthritis and Joint pain
Role of Collagen Hydrolysate in Bone and Joint Disease. Moskowiz RW. Semin Arth Rheum 30:97-99 (2000).
Fujita, T. Ohue, M. Fujii, Y. Miyauchi, A. Takagi, Y. The effect of absorbable alga calcium(AAA Ca) with collagen and other matrix components on back and joint pain and skin impedance. J. Bone Miner. Metabol., 20, 298-302l
What effects do gelatin preparations have? Therapy of osteoarthritis [in German]. Adam M. Therapiewoche. 1991;41:2456-2461.
Collagen hydrolysate supplementation improve symptoms in patients with severe osteoarthritis .Carpenter MR, Carpenter RL, McCarthy SM, Kline G, Angelopoulos TJ, Rippe JM. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2005;37(suppl):S91-S92.
On supportive therapy for osteo- and chondropathy [in German]. Krug E. Ernährun- gsheilkunde. 1979;28:1-23.
Well-nourished cartilage does not grind [in German]. Götz B. Ärztliche Praxis. 1982;34:3130-3134.
Individual arthrosis therapy is possible U. Oberschelp
Can a mixture of gelatin and L-cystine stimulate proteoglycan synthesis? [in German]. Seeligmüller K, Happel HK. Therapiewoche. 1989;39:3153-3157.
Can a mixture of gelatin and L-cystine stimulate proteoglycan synthesis? [in German]. Seeligmüller K, Happel HK. Therapiewoche. 1993
Biochemical and clinical examinations on the effects of regular applications of gelatine on degenerative damages of the motoric system [abstract]. Beuker F, Eck T, Rosenfeld J. Int J Sports Med. 1996;17(suppl 1):S67-S70.
Effects of gelatine hydrolysates in the prevention of athletic injuries. Fernández JL, Pérez OM. Archivos de Medicina del Deporte. 1998;15:277-282.
b. Pre - Clinical Studies
Oral Administration of 14C Labeled Gelatin Hydrolysate Leads to an Accumulation of Radioactivity in Cartilage of Mice (C57/BL) Steffen Oesser,1 Milan Adam, Wilfried Babel and Jurgen Seifert Surgical Research of the Department of General Surgery and Thoracic Surgery of the University of Kiel, Germany
Stimulation of type II collagen biosynthesis and secretion in bovine chondrocytes cultured with degraded collagen Steffen Oesser, Jurgen Seifert, Cell Tissue Res (2003) 311:393–399 DOI 10.1007/s00441-003-0702-8 REGULAR ARTICLE
Chondroprotective effect of the bioactive peptide prolyl-hydroxyproline in mouse articular cartilage in vitro and in vivo, S.Nakatani, H. Mano, C. Sampei, J.Shimzu, M.Wada, Published by Elsevier Ltd. on behalf of Osteoarthritis Research Society International.
Assessment of effectiveness of oral administration of collagen peptide on bone metabolism in growing and mature rats Jian Wu, Maiko Fujioka, Kiho Sugimoto,Gang Mu and Yoshiko Ishimi Division of Applied Food Research, National Institute of Health and Nutrition, 1-23-1 Toyama, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 162-8636, Japan Journal of Bone and Mineral Metabolism Volume 22, Number 6 / November, 2004
Related Products
Gelixer CollagenPep (Orange) Sachets
For Healthy Joints read more ...!!!
622.00
Add to Cart
Gelixer® CollagenPep™ For Healthy Joints
2 spoons a day keeps knee pain away !
Download Brochure
Copyrights © 2018. GELIXER, All Rights Reserved.
Website Designed & Developed by effectsworld.in