Extractions | Tootharium
Our Location
75 Orient Way, Rutherford, NJ 07070
201-460-3431
Request Appointment
Toggle navigation
Home
Our Office
Welcome
Meet Dr. Mike
Office Tour
Services
Why See A Pediatric Dentist
Preventive Dentistry
Special Needs
Gallery
Forms
Misc
Post-op Instructions
Links
Testimonials
Patient Survey
Contact Us
Extractions
After tooth extraction, it’s important for a blood clot to form to stop the bleeding and begin the healing process. Advice your child to bite on the provided gauze pad for 30-45 minutes after the appointment. You may have to do this several times. If bleeding still persists, biting on a moist tea bag wrapped in gauze may help control the oozing from the surgical site. Tea has an ingredient that promotes blood clotting.
After the blood clot forms, it is important not to disturb or dislodge the clot as it aids healing. Make sure your child does not rinse vigorously or suck on straws. Avoid hard and chewy foods and do not brush the teeth next to the extraction site for 72 hours. These activities will dislodge or dissolve the clot and retard the healing process. Limit strenuous activity for the next 24 hours as this will increase blood pressure and may cause more bleeding from the extraction site.
Failure to comply with the above instructions will result in dislodgement of the clot and severe throbbing pain at the extraction site, since the bone is now exposed to the oral environment. After the tooth is extracted your child may feel some pain and experience some swelling. An ice pack or an unopened bag of frozen peas or corn applied to the area will keep swelling to a minimum. Give pain medications as prescribed. The swelling usually subsides after 48 hours.
Use the pain medication as directed. Call the office if the medication does not seem to be working. If antibiotics are prescribed, continue to give them for the indicated length of time, even if signs and symptoms of infection are gone.
It is important to resume normal dental routine after 24 hours. This should include brushing and flossing your child’s teeth at least once a day. This will speed healing and help keep your mouth fresh and clean. After a few days your child will feel fine and can resume normal activities. If your child has heavy bleeding, severe pain, continued swelling for 2-3 days, or a reaction to the medication, call our office immediately.
Birth - 2 Years
Preschool 3-5 Years
Primary School 6-11 Years
Adolescent 12 and Up
Our Location
75 Orient Way, Rutherford, NJ 07070
Get Directions Office Tour
Our Hours
Mon: 9:00am - 6:00pm
Tue: Closed
Wed: 9:00am - 6:00pm
Thur: 9:00am - 5:00pm
Fri: 9:00am - 5:00pm (Closed in the summer)
Sat: Closed
Sun: 9:00am - 3:00pm (Closed in the summer)
Contact Us
Give us a call today!
(201) 460-3431
Follow Us
© 2019 Tootharium - All Rights Reserved
Dental Website Design by HM Fusion
Request Appointment
Appointment
Request
Please request an appointment using the form below or you may also call us at 201-460-3431.
Name *
Email Address
Phone Number
Date
Time
Message
reCAPTCHA
Come in
Get Directions