American CPR Training™ | Health News / American CPR
JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser.
You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website.
Welcome to AmericanCPR.com!
Menu Search
Account
Cart 0
Recently added item(s) ×
You have no items in your shopping cart.
Training
Instant Quote for Your Class
Client & Student Reviews
Safety Training Topics
CPR
First Aid
AED
BBP
Forklift
OSHA & Other Safety Topics
Just You? Attend a Class...
Teach
Shop
AED Products
Bandages & First Aid
CPR Products
Disaster, Survival, Preparation
First Aid Kits
First Aid Stations & Cabinets
Health/Medical Education
Miscellaneous Supplies
Safety Books, CDs, Videos
SALES & SPECIAL OFFERS!
Shop by Brand
About
The American CPR Training™ Story
The People of American CPR Training™
American CPR Training™ Clients
Blog
Contact ACT™
Free Video
Instant Training Quote
Search:
Search
My Account
My Wishlist
My Cart
Checkout
Register
Log In
Fast Order
Home /
Blog /
Health News
×
Price:
Actual Price:
Add to Cart
Our price is lower than the manufacturer's "minimum advertised price." As a result, we cannot show you the price in catalog or the product page.
You have no obligation to purchase the product once you know the price. You can simply remove the item from your cart.
Our price is lower than the manufacturer's "minimum advertised price." As a result, we cannot show you the price in catalog or the product page.
You have no obligation to purchase the product once you know the price. You can simply remove the item from your cart.
Health News
Cal Fire is Blazing New Lifesaving Trails
Cal Fire stepped up its lifesaving readiness this month, with a massive effort to deploy 186 new AEDs throughout California.
Automated External Defibrillators are a vital link in the lifesaving chain of survival – picking up the gap between pre-hospital CPR and the more advanced medical care given to victims of sudden cardiac arrest once they reach the hospital.
Cal Fire Deploys 186 Lifesaving AEDs (Automated External Defibrillators) to Crews throughout California
The men and women of the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (Cal Fire) are dedicated to the fire protection and stewardship of over 31 million acres of California's privately-owned wildlands. In addition, the Department provides varied emergency services in 36 of the State's 58 counties via contracts with local governments.
This week the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection took delivery of 93 Defibtech AEDs and placed an order for an additional 93 through an acquisition arrangement with the AED grant program.
These AEDs will be deployed to Cal Fire's 39 Conservation Camps statewide that house nearly 4,300 inmates and wards. These camps are operated in conjunction with the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation (CDCR). Through these cooperative efforts Cal Fire is authorized to operate 196 fire crews year-round. These crews are available to respond to all types of emergencies including wildfires, floods, search and rescue, and earthquakes. When not responding to emergencies, the crews are busy with conservation and community service work projects for state, federal, and local government agencies. Fire crews perform several million hours of emergency response each year, and more on work projects.
With this new lifesaving equipment, the dedicated, well-trained, emergency response forces can better respond successfully to heart attacks, drownings, and the many other types of emergencies they serve on a daily basis.
The AED grant program is a corporate sponsored buy-down grant initiative which has placed many thousands of AEDs throughout the US over the past 15 years. Working through corporate sponsorship the AED Grant project helps individuals, social and faith-based groups, as well as public and private entities obtain these Critical Lifesaving Devices at or below what an AED Distributor would pay for them, thereby empowering America toward the goal of deploying AED wherever tragedy may strike. "We could, and have in a few cases, provide 100% free AEDs," explains Amanda Jenkins of the AED Grant program, "but as a zero-profit initiative, making these lifesaving units available at or below normal Distributor cost we are able to able to help launch thousands upon thousands of these simple lifesavers to qualifying individuals, groups, and businesses – rather than just a select few." Sponsored by AED manufacturers including Defibtech, as well as safety companies such as American CPR Training™ and First-Aid-Product.com, the program is now in its 15th year with ever-greater deployments, such as this Cal Fire project, and recent large initiatives with AAA, in addition to several Public Utilities and Indian Reservations – plus thousands of smaller businesses, churches, schools, and individuals.
About the Conservation Camp Program
Camp Program Fact Sheet (186K PDF)
Emergency Crew Transport (ECT)
Crew Carrying Vehicle (CCV)
California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation (CDCR)
http://www.fire.ca.gov
About the AED Grant Program
The National AED Grant program is a corporate buy-down grant program funded by generous donations, corporate backing, and AED manufacturer sponsors. The program has changed many time since its inception from a single manufacturer program to the current program backed by AED & CPR training organizations and the AED Manufacturers themselves.
http://www.AedGrant.com
About First-Aid-Product.com
For almost a quarter century, First-Aid-Product.com has been saving lives and saving money with Wholesale Direct to the Public™ First Aid, CPR, Survival and Safety products online. As the Master Distributor for 100's of top first aid brands, and manufacturer of their own product line, First-Aid-Product.com stocks over 300,000 products and enables businesses to exceed their compliance requirements below budget and with same day shipping of the highest quality safety supplies in the industry.
http://www.First-Aid-Product.com
About American CPR Training™
American CPR Training™ was founded in 1993 to provide live, onsite CPR & First Aid Training at ½ the Time, ½ the Price, and TWICE the Fun!™ - Decades later, American CPR™ has thousands of Instructor nationwide – and spanning the globe, making lifesaving training fun and affordable for businesses that require safety training and any group interested in learning how to save lives. 1 out of every 2,000 Americans has now learned how to make their workplace or community safer through American CPR™ bystander rescue skills.
http://AmericanCPR.com
This entry was posted in Health News and tagged aed, AED Training, AED awareness, aed use, CPR. AED, aed grant, cal fire, California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, calfire on September 14, 2017 by American CPR Training Team.
How Healthy is Your Home Town?
Where you live affects your health in many ways - the climate, the air quality, even the lifestyles of those around you can influence your own habits and health...
The CDC and its partners released a website that provides first-of-its-kind, neighborhood-level health data for the 500 largest US cities. The 500 Cities project provides data on 5 risk behaviors, 13 health outcomes, and 9 prevention practices for the most common, costly, and preventable chronic diseases. Health professionals can view data by city or census tract, explore the interactive map, get map books for individual cities, and compare cities to identify emerging health problems and plan effective interventions. Learn more about the 500 Cities Project.
This entry was posted in Health News and tagged health, CDC on April 3, 2017 by American CPR Training Team.
Are you a "Sodium Smarty"?
Sodium in Your Diet? Good, bad, or indifferent - do you have any Clue how much is already in that food before you add your own?
Take the Million Hearts® quiz - it is a fun way to test what you know and to learn the (sometimes surprising) truth about sodium, as well as tips to reduce it at home and at the grocery store.
Did you know? More than 75% of the Sodium we eat comes from processed and restaurant foods, not the salt shaker!
Learn about sodium sources >
This entry was posted in Health News on March 31, 2017 by American CPR Training Team.
Nap
Mid afternoon naps are healthy! Do you often hit an afternoon wall of drowsiness?
Well, according to experts, midafternoon naps are healthy. A short catnap can be very beneficialbeneficial to your health and productivity! A nap of about twenty minutes will help you enhance your alertness and concentration, elevate your mood, and sharpen motor skills. If you are looking to be more alert upon waking, they recommend to drink a cup of coffee before your nap. This is because caffeine takes 20 to 30 minutes in order to take effect
This entry was posted in Health News on October 3, 2016 by American CPR Training Team.
CDC Updates Guidance for Travel and Testing of Pregnant Women
CDC Updates Guidance for Travel and Testing of Pregnant Women and Women of Reproductive Age for Zika Virus Infection Related to the Ongoing Investigation of Local Mosquito-borne Zika Virus Transmission in Miami-Dade County, Florida
CDC previously issued travel, testing, and other guidance related to local mosquito-borne Zika virus transmission (active Zika virus transmission) that the Florida Department of Health (FL DOH) identified in two areas of Miami-Dade County: (1) a one-square-mile area in Wynwood, and (2) a 1.5-square-mile area in Miami Beach. CDC has updated the guidance for people who live in or traveled to these areas.
FL DOH continues to investigate active Zika virus transmission in South Florida. Investigation has shown an expanded area of active transmission in Miami Beach, now measuring 4.5 square miles, which includes the original 1.5-square-mile area.
Learn More »
This entry was posted in Health News and tagged zika, CDC, HAN on September 27, 2016 by American CPR Training Team.
West Nile
We shared important concerns about Mosquitoes in a recent post, and how they deliver many diseases to humans. While at present there is a huge focus on Zika (largely because it gets good ratings so the media is all over the matter) more relevant and prevalent at present in the US is West Nile Virus. Know about West nile, and protect against it.
From the CDC:
Don’t let mosquitoes wreck your summer fun. Protect yourself and your family from mosquito bites.
Summertime means mosquitoes and West Nile virus season. An infected mosquito bite can make you or a family member sick with West Nile virus. Stay healthy this summer. Take steps to avoid mosquito bites, especially in from evening to morning when the mosquitoes that spread West Nile virus are most active.
How many people get sick with West Nile virus?
Nearly 44,000 cases of West Nile virus disease (West Nile virus) have been reported in the United States since 1999. Of those, over 20,000 people have had infections of the brain or spinal cord and more than 1,900 people have died. Many more cases of illness are not reported to CDC.
Figure 1. West Nile virus activity by state in the United States, 2016. View Map.
See detailed case counts by state for 2015[104 KB].
Figure 2. West Nile virus neurologic disease incidence reported to ArboNET by state in the United States, 2016. View Map.
What are the risks?
In 2015, 44 states and the District of Columbia in the continental United States have reported 2,175 cases of West Nile virus in people. Depending on the year, some states report more West Nile cases than others. Some areas of the United States also report cases of other viruses spread by mosquitoes, such as eastern equine encephalitis virus or La Crosse encephalitis virus.
Though anyone can get infected with West Nile virus, some people are at higher risk for infection of the brain or spinal cord. For example, people over the age of 50 are at higher risk for encephalitis (swelling of the brain).
What are the symptoms of a West Nile virus infection?
No symptoms in most people
Most people (70-80%) who become infected with West Nile virus do not have any symptoms.
Fever in some people
About 1 in 5 people who are infected will develop a fever with other symptoms such as headache, body aches, joint pains, vomiting, diarrhea, or rash. Most people with this type of West Nile virus recover completely, but feeling tired and weak can last for weeks to months.
Severe symptoms in a few people
Less than 1% of people who are infected will develop a serious neurologic illness such as encephalitis or meningitis (inflammation of the lining of the brain and spinal cord). The symptoms of neurologic illness can include headache, high fever, neck stiffness, disorientation, coma, tremors, seizures, or paralysis. See your healthcare provider if you think you have symptoms of West Nile virus.
Why risk a severe illness this summer? Take steps to avoid West Nile virus infection.
How do I protect myself from West Nile virus?
There is no vaccine to prevent West Nile virus infection.
The best way to prevent diseases spread by mosquitoes is to protect yourself and your family from mosquito bites.
Wear long-sleeved shirts and long pants.
Stay in places with air conditioning and window and door screens to keep mosquitoes outside.
Treat your clothing and gear with permethrin or buy pre-treated items.
Use Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)-registered insect repellents.
Always follow the product label instructions.
When used as directed, these insect repellents are proven safe and effective even for pregnant and breastfeeding women.
Do not use insect repellents on babies younger than 2 months old.
Do not use products containing oil of lemon eucalyptus or para-menthane-diol on children younger than 3 years old.
Mosquito netting can be used to cover babies younger than 2 months old in carriers, strollers, or cribs to protect them from mosquito bites.
Sleep under a mosquito bed net if air conditioned or screened rooms are not available or if sleeping outdoors.
If you have a baby or child:
Do not use insect repellent on babies younger than 2 months old.
Do not use products containing oil of lemon eucalyptus or para-menthane-diol on children younger than 3 years old.
Dress your child in clothing that covers arms and legs.
Cover crib, stroller, and baby carrier with mosquito netting.
Do not apply insect repellent onto a child's hands, eyes, mouth, and cut or irritated skin.
Adults: Spray insect repellent onto your hands and then apply to a child's face.
More Information
Information on West Nile virus from CDC.
Information on insect repellent use and effectiveness from the EPA.
The American Academy of Microbiology (AAM) comprehensive report published in 2013 called West Nile virus FAQ[1.58 MB]
This entry was posted in Health News and tagged mosquito, west nile virus, wnv on August 30, 2016 by American CPR Training Team.
Mosquitoes
Mosquitoes - aside from annoying, they are dangerous and carry many diseases harmful and even deadly to humans.
In and effort to help the public find reliable resources of information on Mosquito abatement, control, treatment for bites, and the like, the CDC offers a number of resources to help understand the threat and keep these bloodsuckers at bay:
Prevent Mosquito Bites
The best way to prevent Zika is to protect yourself from mosquito bites.
POTENTIAL RANGE IN US
CDC's best estimate of the potential range of Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus in the United States.
AERIAL SPRAYING
Airplanes can be used to treat very large areas with insecticides safely, quickly, and efficiently.
RESOURCES
Guidance and planning resources, mosquito information, and mosquito control resources.
INTEGRATED MOSQUITO MANAGEMENT
Uses a combination of methods to prevent and control mosquitoes that spread viruses.
FOR PROFESSIONALS
Information on surveillance and control, insecticide resistance, and disinsection.
INSECTICIDE RESISTANCE
Insecticide resistance is an overall reduction in the ability of an insecticide product to kill mosquitoes.
INSECT REPELLENT & STING RELIEF PRODUCTS
So the weather is great and you want to spend the time outside grilling and just plain lounging. Unfortunately, you live in an area where you can be eaten alive by the little critters that live outside: insects, mosquitoes etc. We have some of the top brands of insect repellent and bite relief products on the market. We want to make sure you DON'T get bit so our Ben's and Natrapel (among others) Insect replants that are all DEET free and provide up to eight hours of insect free time to enjoy. In case you did not pump on or use towelettes to put on insect repellents, those same brands also carry sting relief products in all types of delivery systems - pumps, sprays and towelettes, each having the formulated itch treatment to relieve the pain cause by swelling and itching from those critter bites.
Bug bites, though they can be small and at times are only a little bit annoying, can also become infected and painful if not treated properly. Make sure to always have some type of insect bite relief around to make sure you do not itch and scratch and make the bite become infected. You should also make sure to keep an eye on a bite that does not seem to be going away. Though you may have thought it was just an insect bite, it could end up being something a bit more serious such as a spider or tick bite. Be prepared!
This entry was posted in Uncategorized, Health News and tagged mosquito on August 22, 2016 by American CPR Training Team.
Stress
The weekend is here - relax!
Whether we admit it or note, life can be stressful. If you have a big workload or are struggling to juggle the demands of your personal and professional life, you may be more stressed than you realize. Thankfully, there are certain symptoms you can look for to help identify stress: headaches, feeling tired, back pain, nausea and frequent colds to name a few. If you are experiencing any of these unpleasant side effects of stress, maybe it's time to take a break and rest up!
This entry was posted in Health News and tagged stress on July 29, 2016 by American CPR Training Team.
Dentists
We train a lot of Dentistry practices... a lot. Many have also participated in the National AED Grant Program we help sponsor.
Here's some interesting news for Dentists from the CDC & JADA:
CDC Provides Best Practices for Appropriate Antibiotic Use in Dentistry
In an article published today in The Journal of the American Dental Association (JADA), experts from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the Organization for Safety, Asepsis and Prevention (OSAP) provide best practices for responsible antibiotic use in dentistry.
Dentists write nearly 26 million prescriptions for antibiotics each year, which amounts to 10 percent of all antibiotic prescriptions filled in outpatient pharmacies. While the extent is unknown, experts are concerned that unnecessary antibiotic prescribing occurs in dental settings. To assist throughout the entire antibiotic prescribing process, CDC and OSAP have developed a checklist to guide dentists through pretreatment, prescribing, and patient and staff education.
Patients are encouraged to use the following Do’s and Don’ts for ensuring patient safety when they or their loved ones are prescribed antibiotics at the dentist.
Today, on CDC’s Safe Healthcare Blog, Lauri Hicks, D.O., director of CDC’s Office of Antibiotic Stewardship, discusses how dentists can be sure to make the right diagnosis and prescribe the right drug, at the right dose, for the right duration.
In an effort to improve antibiotic use in dentistry, best practices were developed to guide dentists through the entire antibiotic prescribing process, including pretreatment, prescribing, and patient and staff education. Pretreatment steps involve establishing a correct diagnosis, reviewing the patient’s pertinent medical history, and considering whether
ADVENTURE MEDICAL DENTAL MEDIC - ADVENTURE MEDICAL KITS
therapeutic management of a local bacterial infection with a procedure may be more appropriate than an antibiotic. Dentists should make their prescribing decisions based on evidence-based medicine. Additionally, dentists can educate patients to take antibiotics exactly as prescribed, only if prescribed for them, and not to save unused antibiotics for future use. Lastly, dentists and staff can stay current on optimal antibiotic prescribing practices through continuing education opportunities.
Dental organizations such as the American Dental Association (ADA), among others, have committed to improving antibiotic prescribing in order to maximize patient safety and reduce antibiotic overuse and misuse, which contribute to the development and spread of
antibiotic resistance and the occurrence of adverse events, such as the sometimes deadly diarrhea caused by Clostridium difficile. These best practices will be a resource for dentists to apply when prescribing antibiotics to ensure patients are prescribed antibiotics only when the benefits outweigh the risks.
This entry was posted in Health News and tagged antibiotics, dentistry on July 26, 2016 by American CPR Training Team.
DNA
Happy birthday to the late Rosalind Franklin, the world-renowned chemist best known for her role in the discovery of the structure of DNA. Earning her Ph.D. in chemistry from Cambridge University where she specialized in X-ray diffraction, the method by which the DNA structure was identified. At King's College in London, Franklin and student made a discovery while taking photos of DNA fibers: a dry "A" form and a wet "B" form.
One photo, Photograph 51, would later become famous for identifying the "B" form of DNA and served as the basis of further DNA structure research.
This entry was posted in Health News and tagged Rosalind Franklin, DNA, photograph 51 on July 25, 2016 by American CPR Training Team.
1-10 of 32
Page:
1
2
3
4
Next
Search
Search
Recent Posts
CPR Instructors scramble to meet new AHA Requirements by January 31
It's the American CPR Training™ YEAR-END BLOWOUT
GIVE THE GIFT OF LIFE THIS HOLIDAY SEASON!
Prestan Rolls Out Major Upgrade to Professional AED Trainer!
#HappyHalloween
Recent Comments
admin@peak on New CPR Guidelines
I was reading this on Frostbite
my response on Frostbite
Gerald King on New CPR Guidelines
Jason Profit on National Preparedness
Categories
AED (Automated External Defibrillators)
AED Training
Bandages and First Aid
BBP Training
Bleeding Control
Child Safety
CPR Products
CPR Training
Disaster, Survival, Preparation
Emergency Preparedness
Fire & Burn Safety
First Aid Training
Forklift Training
Health / Medical Education
Health News
Instructors Corner
Miscellaneous Supplies
Odd Bits of News & Trivia
OSHA and Other Safety Training
Safety Books, CDs, Videos
Sales and Special Offers
Shop by Brand
Uncategorized
Archives
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
February 2018
December 2017
November 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
Meta
Entries RSS
WordPress.org
Magento
Magento WordPress Integration
Magento Extensions
Newsletter
Sign Up for Our Newsletter:
Subscribe
Company
About Us
Contact Us
Customer Service
Privacy Policy
Shipping & Returns
Quick Links
Site Map
Search Terms
Advanced Search
Account
My Account
Orders and Returns
American CPR.com | 760-944-9755 | Hours: 8AM – 5PM PT | 565 Westlake St., Suite 100 Encinitas, CA 92024
Copyright ©1993 - - American CPR - All rights reserved.
*Email Address
*Password
What's this?
Close
Checking "Remember Me" will let you access your shopping cart on this computer when you are logged out
Close
Register Forgot?
Login
Close Window
Continue shopping