This Guy Cured His Stage 4 Prostate Cancer and Decides to Share His Story - Bright Box
Now Trending:
5 Warning Signs That You...
5 Intimate Sex Positions...
These 3 man-melting phra...
11 signs that can show i...
Bright Box
Menu
Home
Fun
Health
Entertainment
Lifestyle
News
This Guy Cured His Stage 4 Prostate Cancer and Decides to Share His Story
admin | September 9, 2016 | Lifestyle, News | No Comments
Despite the warnings of his doctors that he has few more months to live, this man cured his cancer in only a few weeks!
This is a story of a brave man, Vernon Johnson, who succeeded to cure himself using only alternative medicine methods and now enjoys his life. He was diagnosed with prostate cancer in the 4th stage in 2008, and his cancer has metastasized into the bone marrow.
According to him, people all over the world “fall like flies“ as a result of cancer, and one of the causes is the rise of toxins in our environment, in the air and water. Stress is another significant impact which contributes to the increased number of cases of cancer nowadays.
As soon as Vernon got his diagnosis, his son tried to persuade him to try a method which involves a rise of the pH levels in the body, in order to alkalize it, as cancer cannot survive in such environment.
A friend recommended the use of cesium chloride, as an effective way to increase the pH values and efficiently alkalize the body. He ordered it, but it got stuck in the mail, and he never got the package.
Therefore, he started investigating other ways to raise his pH levels and found that the combination of maple syrup and baking soda provides the same effects.
And maple syrup acts like a Trojan horse that allows the baking soda to penetrate cancer cells and shock them with a sudden surge of alkalinity, oxygenate them and lead to their decomposition.
At this point, he was determined to fight the disease, before it manages to fight him.
As soon as he started with the treatment, he recorded it, and called it the last “dance with cancer”. He began consuming high alkaline foods, rich in vitamins and minerals, as well as supplements, and spent a lot of time outside, under the sun. Vernon also started practicing some breathing exercises, with the aim to help the increased oxygenation stimulated by the sudden increase in the pH levels.
He stated: “Sodium bicarbonate (baking soda) is the cheapest, safest and most effective remedy that might exist in the fight against cancer. You have nothing to lose, you can only gain.”
Additionally, the use of molasses enhanced the treatment, as it provided an improved mineral basis and nutritional support. On the other hand, conventional cancer therapies refrain from sugar, as it supports the development of cancer.
Vernon used this remedy for several weeks and then visited his doctor to do a medical examination. The tests showed that he was completely cured of the prostate and bone cancer, and he was entirely healthy!
Nowadays, he tells his story in order to help others who are in the same or similar situation.
In order to prepare this miraculous cancer cure, you should place 2 tablespoons of baking soda in a cup, add a teaspoon molasses or maple syrup, and pour some water. You can heat it in order to dissolve the baking soda quicker.
This remedy should be consumed several times a day.
Source: www.healthyfoodhouse.com
Related Posts
ATTENTION – 7 Fruits That You Should Never Mix. They Cause Death in Children…
No Comments | Nov 23, 2016
Your Bathroom Has Never Been This Clean. A Candle Is All You Need!
No Comments | Sep 27, 2016
STOP THROWING OUT YOUR TEABAGS! TRY PLANTING THEM LIKE THIS AND WATCH WHAT HAPPENS
No Comments | Oct 14, 2016
DO YOU WAKE UP EVERY NIGHT AT THE SAME TIME? THIS IS WHAT IT MEANS
No Comments | Jan 8, 2017
About The Author
admin
Add a Comment
Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment:*
Name:*
Email Address:*
Website:
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
5 Warning Signs That Your Vagina is Unhealthy
5 Intimate Sex Positions That All Couples Should Incorporate Into Their Routines
These 3 man-melting phrases will make any man fall crazy in love with you
11 signs that can show if your man is going to leave you
Top 5 behaviours that can make you more attractive
5 Ways to Make a Man Feel Really Loved.
Copyright © 2019 Bright Box.
Theme by MyThemeShop.
Terms Of Service
Privacy Policy