Gingers Health Benefits | HubPages
MORE
HubPages
Sign InJoin
ArtsAutosBooksBusinessEducationEntertainmentFamilyFashionFoodGamesGenderHealthHolidaysHomeHubPagesPersonal FinancePetsPoliticsReligionSportsTechnologyTravel
3
HubPages»
Health»
Nutrition
Gingers Health Benefits
Updated on January 27, 2019
Sharlee
more
Contact Author
Source
Where Does The Ginger Root Grow
It's well thought that ginger, the pungent, aromatic spice, is a root? However, actually, it's an underground stem, from the tropical herb plant Zingiber officinale. This herb is primarily grown in India, Jamaica, China, Sierra Leone, Nigeria, and Australia. It grows best in tropical lowland and forests, requiring hot, humid, shady conditions, with a fertile loam that will provide a good amount of nutrients. Ginger root has no actual growing season but grows throughout the year, as long as the weather conditions are stable to promote growth.
How Much Ginger Is Needed To be Beneficial?
Fresh or dried ginger root is used in cooking as well as preparing herbal remedies. A broad range of daily doses of ginger is reported, anywhere from 250 milligrams to 1 gram per day. For the treatment of nausea, the usual dose is 250 milligrams to 1 gram of powdered ginger taken with liquid several times per day. The maximum daily adult dose is usually totaled 5 grams or less per day. Again, fresh or dried is thought to give the best effects.
Source
Ginger Has A Long History For It's Potent Healing Properties
Ginger has a long history of being used to treat health problems.
History and the uses of Ginger - Throughout history famous world figures such as "Henry the VIII" revered the benefits of ginger root. Believing the root aided in preventing one from getting to the plague. This uses of ginger root have not been substantiated, but it's very apparent that throughout history ginger has been used for its powerful medicinal properties. Asian societies have always prized ginger root for its health properties. Furthermore, studies show ginger can aid in curbing nausea, and may even aid in killing cancer cells
The ancient Greeks ate ginger wrapped in bread to prevent nausea after a huge feast. For many centuries, Chinese sailors have taken ginger to avoid seasickness. A proverb from ancient India maintains that everything good can be found in ginger. Its traditional role in herbal medicine has been as a remedy for nausea, motion sickness, heartburn, vomiting, stomach cramps, and loss of appetite. Studies now show that ginger is one food sources that are high in antioxidants and is helpful in killing cancer cells.
Source
Ginger Come In Many Forms
The uses for ginger are many. You will not only find a dried ginger ground and bottled in the spice section at the grocery store but in the fresh produce department in its natural stem form. It's also widely used for its oil in spicy colognes and soaps. One of it more recognizable uses, Ginger Ale. Ginger Ale is one of the oldest and well known soft drinks. Most of us will have memories of Ginger Ale being given to us as children, for an upset stomach. Ginger is available as a dried, fresh root, tea, powder form, liquid extract, tincture, tablets or capsules, and in candied form.
Ginger Can Help With Many Health Problems
Do You suffer from motion sickness if so bring along some Ginger Ale or Ginger candy ...
Ginger has a long history as an herbal remedy for upset stomach, motion sickness, and loss of appetite. Ginger is a pungent spice for cooking but has proven to actually help with many health problems. Many controlled studies have been conducted in humans, and show ginger reduces nausea and vomiting. Most clinical studies of ginger have tested the use of this herb for nausea associated with pregnancy or following surgery. Ginger also is being used to relieve nausea and vomiting from chemotherapy. Although these studies are still ongoing.
However, there is good evidence that some people with cancer are finding that the taste or aroma of beverages and foods with ginger helps soothe their nausea that is a sometimes side effect of cancer drugs.
It appears that Ginger may interfere with blood clotting, and should only be used by cancer patients after talking about it with their doctors. This concern applies mostly to people whose clotting function is already weakened by their cancer or its treatment or to people having surgery.
A study on motion sickness did by ("The American Phytotherapy Research Laboratory") located in Salt Lake City. Results showed that ginger was compared to Dramamine, for relieving motion sickness. It was proven ginger had a significant benefit in their experiment with a controlled study. One group taking Dramamine the other ginger, the group that took the ginger withstood a spin test for 6 minutes, while the Dramamine group became nauseous within 4 1/2 minutes. So next time you fly, opt for Ginger Ale if you have a problem with motion sickness or that unsettled stomach.
Ginger And Cancer Cells - The Benefits Of Antioxidant
Can ginger help kill cancer cells?
Cancer needs blood to stay active and alive. There are ongoing studies that have good proof that Ginger can help stop the formation of blood vessels that supply cancer cells. Cells that aid in the growth of cancer tumor. Ginger root acts as a very powerful anti-inflammatory agent, as an antioxidant. It helps keep the immune system healthy and is also known to prevent blood vessel formation (angiogenesis)at the cancer cell level. This action can act to deprive the cancer cell of oxygen and nutrients, which it needs to survive in the human body.
Recommendation: Use ginger root in cooking, and steep fresh root in a cup of green tea. Steep for 15 minutes.
Lower Your Cholesterol By Including some Ginger in diet.
The properties in Ginger have shown to aid in lowering blood cholesterol. It is also is effective in thinning blood, which aids in dissolving blood clots (Study Conducted by Cornell University Medical College). Other curative benefits include: relieves menstrual cramps, decreases headache discomforts, helps to regulate blood sugar, anti-inflammatory and an antioxidant, which aid to strengthen the immune system. Ginger is also high in both calcium and iron, so, in turn, helps with strong bones, and decreases adverse discomforts of arthritis. It is claimed that Ginger increases blood flow to the extremities, so helps with cold feet, and hands.
Arthritis Pain - Ginger Is A Powerful Anti Inflammatory
Source
Studies Show Ginger Can Aids In Reducing Pain Caused By Arthritis
Ginger could be an effective treatment for arthritis, a study has shown.
A pill containing extracts of the ginger root spice has proved to be as effective as conventional painkillers in a clinical trial.
"Rheumatologist Professor Ray Altman, who led the study, believes the highly-concentrated supplement could help to reduce the pain suffered by two out of three people with arthritis."
"Altman" tested a Ginger supplement on 250 people with osteoarthritis arthritis, which is the most common form of the condition. Each was suffering from moderate to severe pain. Over a six week period, some were given a 255-milligram dose of the dietary Ginger supplement twice a day, the rest were given a placebo.
Two-thirds of those that were given the ginger supplement reported relief from pain - significantly more than those taking the placebo.
Have a sore throat or just want to ward off a cold -- Try Ginger Tea
Ginger Tea Recipe:
Ginger tea is believed to aid to improve digestion and relieve nausea. It is also used to ward off colds and helps soothe a sore throat.
Ginger tea is easy to make and tastes very good.
Ginger Tea Recipe
4 cups of water
2-inch piece of fresh ginger root
optional: honey and lemon
Peel the ginger root, slice it into thin slices. Bring the water to a boil. Once the water is at a good boil, add the ginger. Cover it and reduce to a simmer for 15-20 minutes. Strain the tea. Add honey and lemon to taste. You can also add a bit of bourbon or whiskey, to make a hot toddy. The booze also helps kill germs from a sore throat.
Note: Keep in mind that if you are making this tea to strengthen the immune system and ward off colds and flu, sweeteners are not recommended.
Ginger Intake And Safety Recommendations
How much is too much? To get the benefits of Ginger, it is recommended to include 2-4 grams daily in your diet. There are many ways to get the required beneficial dose. From gingersnap cookies to Chinese food, and let's not forget Ginger ale. You can also eat raw or blanched Ginger or brew it up in tea. The tea is great to aid in relieving menstrual cramps, and headache. To use topically, oil of ginger can be rubbed into the sore joint to provide pain relief. The ginger capsule can be purchased at your health food store if you prefer to take Ginger in pill form. Ginger is not recommended for children under 2 years of age.
The American Herbal Products Association gives fresh ginger root safety rating of 1. This rate indicates that it is safe for the general public with a wide dosage range. Side effects if taken in excessive doses may cause mild heartburn. It is recommended to consult with your doctor before using any Spice or herb.
Was this lens on Ginger helpful to you?
This was a great find!
No way. I can make my own lens better than this and earn $$ along the way!
See results
YouTube
Related
Nutrition
Ginger Health Benefits for People with Asthma, Cancer, Diabetes, and Other Conditions
by Schatzie Speaks9
Herbal Tea Remedies
Delicious Herbal Teas – Physical Benefits
by Pamela Oglesby42
Personal Health Information & Self-Help
Nutmeg, Mace and Ginger; Health Benefits and Side Effects
by Jo Alexis-Hagues54
Nutrition
The Awesome Health Benefits of Grapes
by Chuck Bluestein3
Alternative & Natural Medicine
The Many Health Benefits Of Turmeric
by Brenda Barnes119
Popular
Healthy Cooking
Diet and Depression
by Ezria Copper0
Healthy Cooking
Why Buy an Electric Vegetable Steamer for your Food?
by Cindy Lawson28
Healthy Cooking
Better Health and a Slimmer Waist With Smoothies and Science
by Levictus Marcus Saarith2
Please take a moment to sign my guestbook...
Sign in or sign up and post using a HubPages Network account.
0 of 8192 characters used
Post Comment
No HTML is allowed in comments, but URLs will be hyperlinked. Comments are not for promoting your articles or other sites.
sending
anonymous
6 years ago
Gingerbread cookies are delicious! Ginger is very helpful, nice lens you have here!:-)
attractfitness
11 years ago
I learned a lot from this lense. Now I know to include ginger as part of a healthy diet.
ank
11 years ago
Hi Shar, great lens . I really enjoyed articles on it. However , i have also created my lens check out .The aim of my lens here is to promote health and wellbeing and inspire people into being confident happy individuals.Please
Click Here.
About Us
Copyright
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Copyright © 2019 HubPages Inc. and respective owners. Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners. HubPages® is a registered Service Mark of HubPages, Inc. HubPages and Hubbers (authors) may earn revenue on this page based on affiliate relationships and advertisements with partners including Amazon, Google, and others.
Sign InJoin
Arts and Design
Autos
Books, Literature, and Writing
Business and Employment
Education and Science
Entertainment and Media
Family and Parenting
Fashion and Beauty
Food and Cooking
Games, Toys, and Hobbies
Gender and Relationships
Health
Holidays and Celebrations
Home
HubPages Tutorials and Community
Personal Finance
Pets and Animals
Politics and Social Issues
Religion and Philosophy
Sports and Recreation
Technology
Travel and Places
Blog
Help
About Us
Editorial Policy
Copyright
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Copyright © 2019 HubPages Inc. and respective owners.
working
This website uses cookies
As a user in the EEA, your approval is needed on a few things. To provide a better website experience, hubpages.com uses cookies (and other similar technologies) and may collect, process, and share personal data. Please choose which areas of our service you consent to our doing so.
Necessary
Features
Marketing
Statistics
Approve All & Submit
Approve Checked Only
For more information on managing or withdrawing consents and how we handle data, visit our Privacy Policy at: https://hubpages.com/privacy-policy#gdpr
Show Details
Necessary
HubPages Device ID This is used to identify particular browsers or devices when the access the service, and is used for security reasons.
Login This is necessary to sign in to the HubPages Service.
Google Recaptcha This is used to prevent bots and spam. (Privacy Policy)
Akismet This is used to detect comment spam. (Privacy Policy)
HubPages Google Analytics This is used to provide data on traffic to our website, all personally identifyable data is anonymized. (Privacy Policy)
HubPages Traffic Pixel This is used to collect data on traffic to articles and other pages on our site. Unless you are signed in to a HubPages account, all personally identifiable information is anonymized.
Amazon Web Services This is a cloud services platform that we used to host our service. (Privacy Policy)
Cloudflare This is a cloud CDN service that we use to efficiently deliver files required for our service to operate such as javascript, cascading style sheets, images, and videos. (Privacy Policy)
Google Hosted Libraries Javascript software libraries such as jQuery are loaded at endpoints on the googleapis.com or gstatic.com domains, for performance and efficiency reasons. (Privacy Policy)
Features
Google Custom Search This is feature allows you to search the site. (Privacy Policy)
Google Maps Some articles have Google Maps embedded in them. (Privacy Policy)
Google Charts This is used to display charts and graphs on articles and the author center. (Privacy Policy)
Google AdSense Host API This service allows you to sign up for or associate a Google AdSense account with HubPages, so that you can earn money from ads on your articles. No data is shared unless you engage with this feature. (Privacy Policy)
Google YouTube Some articles have YouTube videos embedded in them. (Privacy Policy)
Vimeo Some articles have Vimeo videos embedded in them. (Privacy Policy)
Paypal This is used for a registered author who enrolls in the HubPages Earnings program and requests to be paid via PayPal. No data is shared with Paypal unless you engage with this feature. (Privacy Policy)
Facebook Login You can use this to streamline signing up for, or signing in to your Hubpages account. No data is shared with Facebook unless you engage with this feature. (Privacy Policy)
Maven This supports the Maven widget and search functionality. (Privacy Policy)
Marketing
Google AdSense This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Google DoubleClick Google provides ad serving technology and runs an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Index Exchange This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Sovrn This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Facebook Ads This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Amazon Unified Ad Marketplace This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
AppNexus This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Openx This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Rubicon Project This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
TripleLift This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Say Media We partner with Say Media to deliver ad campaigns on our sites. (Privacy Policy)
Remarketing Pixels We may use remarketing pixels from advertising networks such as Google AdWords, Bing Ads, and Facebook in order to advertise the HubPages Service to people that have visited our sites.
Conversion Tracking Pixels We may use conversion tracking pixels from advertising networks such as Google AdWords, Bing Ads, and Facebook in order to identify when an advertisement has successfully resulted in the desired action, such as signing up for the HubPages Service or publishing an article on the HubPages Service.
Statistics
Author Google Analytics This is used to provide traffic data and reports to the authors of articles on the HubPages Service. (Privacy Policy)
Comscore ComScore is a media measurement and analytics company providing marketing data and analytics to enterprises, media and advertising agencies, and publishers. Non-consent will result in ComScore only processing obfuscated personal data. (Privacy Policy)
Amazon Tracking Pixel Some articles display amazon products as part of the Amazon Affiliate program, this pixel provides traffic statistics for those products (Privacy Policy)
{{section}}
{{title}}
by {{author}} {{comment_count}}