Proven Health Benefits of Ginger Root and Ginger Tea (Evidence Based)
Home
About Us
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Contact us
Join Our Newsletter
EBooks
Aromatherapy
Beauty
Food & Nutrition
Health
Home & Garden
News
Proven Health Benefits of Ginger Root and Ginger Tea (Including Ginger Lemon Tea Recipe)
By Jenny Hills, Nutritionist and Medical Writer Food & Nutrition
Ginger root is a delicious herb that has powerful medicinal properties. Fresh ginger root, dried ginger, and ground ginger powder all have anti-inflammatory, antimicrobial, and anti-spasmodic uses in natural medicine. You can eat raw ginger or drink ginger tea to help prevent and treat nausea, improve your cardiovascular health, and boost your brain function.
Advertisement
You can get the many health benefits of ginger root if you add fresh, minced, grated or ground ginger to your diet. You can use fresh or ground ginger to make a therapeutic ginger tea. Or, you can chew on fresh ginger to help relieve nausea. Also, adding ginger to your cooking doesn’t destroy many of its therapeutic properties.
In this article, I will look at what science says about the true health benefits of ginger. You will also find out how to make your own ginger tea at home that you can enjoy at any time of the day.
Fresh Ginger vs. Ground Ginger (Powder Form of Ginger)
To benefit from the medicinal value of ginger (botanical name is Zingiber officinale), it is important to know which the best kind of ginger to use is. The good news is that both fresh ginger and ground ginger powder have many health benefits.
Research has discovered that fresh ginger contains many anti-inflammatory properties and antioxidants called gingerols and shogaols. Gingerol compounds are more prevalent in fresh ginger. Gingerols have been linked to reducing obesity, treating diabetes, and they also have anticancer properties. (1, 2)
Drying ginger and making ginger powder changes the chemical makeup of ginger. Dehydrating ginger causes an increase in the amount of shogaols in ginger powder. Research suggests that shogaols are more potent than gingerols in treating and preventing many health conditions. (1)
Interestingly, the Journal of Chromatography B reported that the antioxidant activity of ground ginger is over 5-fold higher than fresh ginger. (3)
Studies have also shown that boiling or roasting ginger for between 2 and 6 minutes actually increases the antioxidant potential of ginger. (4) This is something I’ve already mentioned when I wrote about the benefits of cooked and dried ginger.
Both fresh ginger root and ginger powder have powerful medicinal compounds that have antioxidant properties. Some researchers say that dried ginger powder can be a more cost-effective way to get the medicinal benefits of ginger with the advantage that it doesn’t go off. (5)
So, you should not be overly concerned about the difference between using fresh or ground ginger for its health benefits.
Ginger Nutrition Facts
Ginger root is good for you because it contains vitamins and minerals as well as antioxidants.
The nutritional value of 100 g fresh, raw ginger root is the following: (6)
80 calories
17.7 g carbohydrates
1.82 g protein
2 g fiber
1.7 g sugar
16 mg calcium
43 mg magnesium
415 mg potassium
13 mg zinc
5 mg vitamin C
The book Herbal Medicine says that ginger has over 115 therapeutic compounds. Gingerols and shogaols in ginger have antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, anti-nausea, and anticancer properties. Ginger root and ground ginger can also help prevent cardiovascular disease. (1)
Benefits of Ginger and Ginger Tea
Let’s look in more detail at the many health benefits of ginger tea, consuming fresh ginger root, or taking powdered ginger capsules.
Ginger is Anti-Inflammatory and Can Help Manage Arthritis Symptoms
Reducing inflammation is an important health benefit of taking ginger root or drinking ginger tea.
6-Gingerol is one of the main anti-inflammatory components in ginger. Research has suggested that gingerol helps to inhibit substances and enzymes that cause inflammation. (7)
Advertisement
Ginger extracts can be beneficial to reduce inflammatory pain caused by osteoarthritis. One study found that people with osteoarthritis who took ginger extract experienced a reduction in inflammatory pain. When compared to the anti-inflammatory drug diclofenac, scientists noted that ginger was just as effective but had less gastrointestinal side effects like heartburn. (8)
Research into the effects of gingerol and shogaol compounds in ginger has found that consuming ginger can help relieve joint inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis. Scientists found that ginger taken orally has a similar effect to NSAIDs (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) like ibuprofen in reducing pain and inflammation. (9)
If you suffer from forms of arthritis, ginger root capsules can help to reduce your symptoms. You can also add grated ginger to your diet by adding it to salads, using in a stir-fry or adding it to hot water to make an anti inflammatory ginger tea.
Find out about other foods that can reduce inflammation and may reduce arthritis pain.
Ginger May Help Reduce Pain
The pain-relieving properties of ginger tea can also help to reduce pain, especially muscle pain after exercise.
A systematic review of 7 studies into the analgesic effect of ginger found that it can help relieve painful muscles after resistance training. Researchers found that supplementing your diet with 2 g ginger (1 tsp) per day can help to lower muscle pain when taken for at least 5 days. (10)
Other studies have found that ginger can help to reduce inflammation that is the result of cardio exercising. (10)
A review of medical studies over a 10-year period concluded that ginger helps to reduce the progression of muscle pain over a period of time. Some researchers have found that taking ginger before cardio exercising could lessen muscle pain. (11)
Ginger powder is also helpful as an anti-inflammatory, pain relieving remedy that is as effective as ibuprofen. (12)
You can also find out how to make your own pain relief ointment using essential oil to help reduce muscle pain.
Ginger Can Reduce Menstrual Cramping and Pain
The anti-spasmodic properties of ginger tea can help to relieve abdominal pain associated with menstruation (dysmenorrhea).
One randomized, controlled trial on 120 women found that ginger root powder reduced menstrual pain. The women in the trial suffered from moderate or severe period cramping. Taking 500 mg capsules of ginger root powder three times a day helped to reduce pain and abdominal aches in the first few days of their menstrual period. (13)
A systematic review of 7 studies also found that ginger powder can help to relieve menstrual cramping in the first 3 or 4 days of menstruation. These studies suggested that taking 750 mg to 2,000 mg ginger powder can help to relieve dysmenorrhea. (14)
Find out about other home remedies that are effective for period pain and abdominal cramping.
Ginger Promotes Healthy Digestion and Can Prevent Heartburn
Consuming more fresh minced ginger or drinking ginger tea can help to improve your digestion. Indigestion is often accompanied by heartburn (acid reflux) and excess gas.
One of the ways that ginger benefits your gastrointestinal system is that it helps food to pass through the digestive system easier. A study has found that taking ginger capsules can help food move through you digestive system faster. The researchers concluded that “ginger accelerates gastric emptying and stimulates antral contractions in healthy volunteers”. (15)
Studies have revealed that compounds in ginger have a beneficial effect on the gastric tract and help reduce spasms. It was suggested that chewing ginger, taking ginger candies, consuming ginger tea, or taking ginger root capsules could all have a therapeutic effect in relieving gastrointestinal upset. (16)
If you regularly suffer from heartburn, you can try one of these natural antacids for quick heartburn relief.
Ginger Helps Prevent Nausea and Vomiting
One of the most well-documented uses for ginger root or ginger tea is to prevent nausea and digestive upset.
Advertisement
The main medicinal compounds in ginger, shogaols and gingerols, help to soothe the gastrointestinal tract and help reduce symptoms of nausea and vomiting. Researchers describe ginger as having antiemetic properties and help relieve gastro-upset like abdominal cramping, nausea, and heartburn. (17)
Ginger root capsules may relieve nausea and vomiting in pregnancy
In one trial, pregnant women received 1,000 mg ginger capsules per day or a placebo pill. The women taking ginger root pills reported a reduction in feelings of nausea and vomiting. The study concluded that ginger is good for relieving nausea and sickness during pregnancy. (18)
Ginger powder capsules may reduce nausea during chemotherapy treatments
Ginger has antiemetic properties that also help treat chemotherapy-related nausea. One trial involved 576 patients. Those who took 500 mg or 1,000 mg ginger capsules per day reported a reduction in their symptoms of nausea. (19)
Did you know that ginger is just one of many natural remedies to relieve nausea?
Ginger Can Help Fight Infections
Ginger tea also has a positive effect on your immune system and can help you fight infections better.
Studies have found that gingerols and enzymes in ginger root and powder can reduce inflammation caused by viral infections. It was also found that ginger has antiviral properties. (20)
Another study found that fresh ginger was superior to ground ginger root in helping to reduce the effect of respiratory viral infections. The scientists found that hot ginger tea made from fresh ginger has antiviral properties. (21)
One study found that gingerols in ginger extracts have an antibacterial potential against various strains of bacteria. (22)
As soon as you feel you are coming down with a cold or have the flu, drink ginger tea regularly to help boost your body’s defenses.
Learn about other herbs and supplements that can boost your immune system.
Ginger Can Help Keep Your Heart Healthy and Lower Blood Pressure
Regularly drinking ginger tea is good for high blood pressure because of the flavonoids and other antioxidants it contains.
Researchers have found that ginger extracts can help lower blood pressure. They found that compounds in ginger like 6-shogaol and phenolic constituents helped to lower blood pressure and regulate heartbeat. (23)
Other studies have pointed to the fact that ginger helps to prevent many cardiovascular diseases. Ginger has an anti-hypertension effect and reduces inflammation which has an overall beneficial effect on the heart. (24)
If you need to treat hypertension, make sure that you have made these lifestyle changes to lower blood pressure.
Ginger May Lower Cholesterol Levels Naturally and Prevent Blocked Arteries
Another of the benefits of consuming more ginger tea in your diet is that it can help to reduce levels of LDL cholesterol. Chewing ginger root can also help to prevent a buildup of plaque in your arteries.
The Journal of Nutrition reported that consuming ginger extracts can help to lower LDL cholesterol – the type of “bad” cholesterol that is associated with coronary heart disease. The phenolic compounds in ginger like zingerone, shogaols, and gingerols helped to reduce LDL cholesterol levels. (25)
The above study also found that ginger benefits vascular health because it may prevent a buildup of artery plaque (atherosclerosis).
Atherosclerosis is a disease in which plaque builds up inside your arteries. It can cause narrowed arteries, angina, shortness of breath, stroke, and even a heart attack. (26)
Find out other foods that help to prevent blocked arteries.
Advertisement
Ginger Can Improve Blood Glucose Levels and Help Manage Diabetes Symptoms
Ginger extracts or ginger tea can benefit you if you suffer from diabetes because they may help to lower fasting blood glucose.
The anti-diabetic properties of ginger were shown in research published in 2017. One double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trial found that ginger supplements significantly reduced fasting blood glucose levels. Supplementing your diet with 2,000 mg of ginger root powder also reduced HbA1C markers – this is how doctors monitor long-term blood glucose levels. (27)
Other studies have concluded that taking 2,000 mg ginger powder supplement can prevent the risk of chronic complications of diabetes. (28)
Learn how to spot the warning signs of diabetes and what foods you should eat to lower your risk of type 2 diabetes.
Ginger Promotes Healthy Brain Function
Ginger tea can also protect against cognitive degenerative diseases due to its powerful antioxidant effect on the brain.
The effects of oxidative stress can negatively affect brain function. Research into the effects of the ginger extract 6-shogaol found that its anti-inflammatory potential can help prevent memory loss in patients with dementia. (29)
Other studies have shown that the antioxidants in ginger can help to increase cognitive function in humans. One trial involved middle-aged women who took ginger extract supplements for 2 months. Researchers found that ginger has a positive effect on memory and boosted working memory. (30)
It is not just ginger that helps to improve brain health, did you know about the other herbs that can improve your memory?
Ginger is Good for Liver Health
The antioxidant properties of ginger mean that consuming ginger tea has a positive effect on your liver.
For example, gingerol has shown to help remove toxins from the liver and reduce the negative effects of free radicals on liver health. (31)
It is not just in laboratory trials that ginger has proven to be good for promoting liver health.
One trial involving 50 people with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease found that taking 2,000 mg of ginger supplements per day help to negate some of the effects of liver damage. 23 of the people in the trial took the ginger supplements and at the end of 12 weeks, it was found that some of their symptoms of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease were improved. (32)
Find out how to use other foods and herbs to keep your liver healthy.
Ginger May Help You Lose Weight
Drinking ginger tea can help you lose weight and even help prevent obesity.
A systematic review of the effects of ginger on weight loss found promising results. Research found that ginger can help to inhibit intestinal fat absorption, control appetite, and increase the breakdown of fats during digestion. (33)
Another systematic review of randomized controlled trials found that increasing ginger consumption in the diet can help to reduce body weight, improve fasting blood glucose levels, and lower waist to hip ratio. (34)
Of course, ginger isn’t a wonder remedy that will in itself burn fat. However, studies suggest that using ginger as part of a wider weight-loss program could help you lose weight quicker.
Learn about specific ways that you can use ginger to get rid of unsightly belly fat.
Ginger Helps Soothe Airways and Alleviate Some Asthma Symptoms
One of the uses of ginger root or ginger tea is to help reduce inflammation and spasms in the airways. You can use fresh and dried ginger to help improve bronchial symptoms of asthma and respiratory infections.
A study from 2015 found that ginger has an anti-spasmodic effect and can help suppress airway inflammation. The researchers suggested that ginger can be used to help reduce the symptoms of respiratory allergic responses. (35)
Other research has discovered that ginger extracts can benefit people with asthma. Ginger compounds like gingerol and shogaol help to relax muscles in the airways. This could provide therapeutic relief from some symptoms of asthma. (36)
If you suffer from asthma, find out what other natural remedies can help relieve asthmatic symptoms.
Advertisement
Ginger and Ginger Extracts Have Anticancer Properties
Ginger root and ginger tea have anti cancer properties because of their powerful antioxidant compounds and anti-inflammatory properties.
Ginger contains anti-cancer compounds
A 2018 comprehensive review of the ginger extract 6-gingerol found that it has anticancer properties. Many studies point to experimental and clinical studies that have found that ginger has the potential to treat tumors and prevent the spread of malignant cancer cells. (37)
A study published in the Journal of Food and Chemical Toxicology indicates that the gingerols, paradol, and shagaols contained in ginger are anti-cancer compounds that can help to prevent cancer. (41)
Ginger extract may prevent or treat prostate cancer
The British Journal of Nutrition published the results of an American study in which ginger extract (zingiber officinale Roscoe) inhibited growth of human prostate cancer cells.
The researchers concluded: “the present study is the first report to describe identification and detailed evaluation of in vitro and in vivo anticancer activity of whole GE (ginger extract) in the therapeutic management of human prostate cancer.” (42)
Other studies have shown that 6-shogaol from dried ginger can help to treat prostate cancer. (38)
Gingerol may help treat ovarian cancer
Angiogenesis is the term that describes the start of cancer. If you can stop cancer from taking hold in the ovaries then you can effectively prevent cancer.
In a laboratory study published by BMC Complementary and Alternative Medicine, scientists proved that the active ingredients in ginger root had anti-angiogenic properties and that may stop cancer cells from growing. The study concluded that “the use of dietary agents such as ginger may have potential in the treatment and prevention of ovarian cancer.” (43)
Ginger for liver and colon cancer
In 2015 scientists presented evidence that ginger may prevent colon and liver cancer.
The scientists concluded that “a significant number of in vitro, in vivo, and epidemiological studies further provide substantial evidence that ginger and its active compounds are effective against wide variety of human diseases including GI cancer”. But they also added that more research is needed. (39)
Ginger kombucha tea for breast cancer
Ginger-based kombucha tea could be used in treating some forms of breast cancer. (40)
Although there are many promising results in using ginger as a therapeutic cancer treatment, it is still too early to say exactly how ginger can be used to treat cancer in humans.
Ginger Tea Recipe
It is extremely easy to get the benefits of ginger tea to help boost your health, relieve nausea, and prevent coronary heart disease. You can make ginger tea using fresh ginger or ginger powder.
How to make ginger tea from fresh ginger root
Chop or mince a 1-inch (2.5 cm) piece of ginger root (if you leave the skin on, wash the ginger root thoroughly).
Put in a cup and pour in boiling water.
Cover the cup with a saucer.
Leave to infuse for 5 minutes to extract the healthy compound from the ginger.
Strain into another cup.
You can optionally add a teaspoon of raw honey to taste.
Drink ginger tea 2 or 3 times a day for best results.
Remember, don’t throw the ginger slices away. You can chew the ginger slices to help improve your digestive health and get even more of the ginger benefits.
How to make ginger tea from ginger powder
Put a 1/2 to 1 teaspoon of ground ginger in a cup.
Pour over boiling water and stir well.
Add a teaspoon of raw honey to taste.
Drink 2-3 times a day to help get the benefits of ground ginger powder.
How to Include Ginger in Your Diet
There are many other ways to get the benefits of eating raw ginger if you don’t want to make ginger tea. Here are some helpful tips for using more ginger in your diet:
Put a piece of grated ginger or ginger slices into your smoothie before blending.
Add chopped ginger root to a stir-fry.
Mince ginger and add to a healthy salad dressing to spice up your salad.
Add a teaspoon of dried ginger to sauces while cooking.
How Much Ginger Should You Consume?
Ginger is so concentrated with active ingredients and it means you don’t need to use much of it to enjoy its health benefits.
As for nausea for example, ginger tea with 1-2 inches of fresh ginger in hot water may be all you need to calm the stomach.
For rheumatic arthritis pain you need even smaller amount of ginger in food or in your ginger tea each day. People who consumed larger amounts of ginger reported rapid and better relief.
How to Buy and Store Ginger?
When you buy ginger, make sure that it is stiff to the touch and has smooth skin. Young fresh (and organic) ginger doesn’t require peeling of the skin and can be grated as it is.
However ginger that was left on the shelf for a long time will have a hard skin that needs to be peeled, and it will also be more fibrous.
You can store fresh ginger in a cool dry and dark place up to three weeks when it is not peeled, or in the freezer for up to six months.
Dried ginger powder should be stored in sealed glass jar in a cool, dark and dry place. If you keep it in the refrigerator, it will extend its shelf life for up to one year.
How to Make Cleansing Ginger Lemon Tea With Many Health Benefits
Combining the benefits of both ginger and lemon is not only tasty, but a winning combination for great health (you can check out my article about the health benefits of lemon water).
This recipe is taken from my e-book The Detox Guide that teaches you about the concept of detox and how to use detox to cleanse and energize your body.
Detox Ginger Lemon Tea (makes 4 cups – 1 L)
2 inches (5 cm) ginger root
4 cups (1 L) filtered water
2 tbsp (30 ml) organic lemon juice
1-2 tsp (5 ml) whole stevia leaf or honey
Finely chop ginger root and infuse in freshly boiled water for 5 minutes. Add lemon juice, stevia or honey and stir. Serve hot or cold for a refreshing and revitalizing treat.
Ginger – Precautions
Many people can experience improvements in health by using ground ginger in food or as a dietary supplement, but it’s not the right choice for everyone.
There are certain groups of people that should avoid ginger consumption as it can interact with other medication and can worsen certain health conditions. You can read about in the related article: “Ginger Should Be Avoided By These People“.
Related articles:
How to Lose Weight and Belly Fat with Ginger (Research Based)
This Vegetable Could Fix Many Things in your Body
How to Make Anti-Inflammatory and Pain Relief Turmeric Ginger Tea
Adding ginger to your diet is also one of the 70 habits featured in my e-book 70 Powerful Habits For A Great Health which will guide you how to take positive steps to improve your wellness and overall health.
Proven Health Benefits of Ginger Root and Ginger Tea (Including Ginger Lemon Tea Recipe) was last modified: April 4th, 2019 by Jenny Hills, Nutritionist and Medical Writer
Advertisement
Advertisement
39 Responses to Proven Health Benefits of Ginger Root and Ginger Tea (Including Ginger Lemon Tea Recipe)
chris says:
January 21, 2014 at 2:45 am
I use between 5 and 7 lbs. of fresh ginger a week. I slice it up like chips and eat it that way. followed by lots of water! its so refreshing to me. I buy it at a local Asian market. the stuff in regular grocery stores is usually never very fresh. if the skin is not too bumpy or rough, I eat it with the skin on. the ginger with shiny skin turns out too bitter for me. and ‘baby ginger’ is the best! I don’t see that too often, though.
Reply
Namfukwe says:
January 24, 2014 at 2:58 am
I cut the the fresh ginger in small pieces and chew them followed with a glass of warm water.its feels great..
Reply
Sunil Badwaik says:
April 5, 2014 at 5:19 pm
I am suffering from hypothyroid for last 20 years. Recently I started using ginger daily chewing small pieces every 2 hours. All the symptoms and problems of thyroid are disappeared completely and my health become very normal. My cholesterol, renal, thyroid and diabetes profiles turns out normal. Gave me lots of energy and made me active again. Ginger is like nectar to me. I recommend everybody to start using this very cheap herbal remedy cure for everything.
Reply
liliana c says:
April 11, 2014 at 3:26 pm
hi. so do you take medication for the thyroid desides the ginger?. just wondering since i have the same problem and i dont like the meds
Reply
ron says:
May 9, 2014 at 12:56 am
It is dangerous to eat Ginger if you are taking Beta Blockers,or have certain lung conditions.seek medical advice first.
Reply
Andrew Stoy says:
January 27, 2019 at 3:09 pm
Good advice that many times gets lost with these so called miracle plants.
Reply
BS Bisht says:
May 9, 2014 at 11:25 am
I have been regular drinker of ginger’s tea. This is very powerful for stomach.
Reply
Patricia Griggs says:
June 19, 2014 at 2:25 am
I am interested in feeling better Naturally. through food, eating right. I have joint pain in my shoulders. Burning pain in my muscles neck area.
Reply
Lisa Bryant says:
July 2, 2014 at 6:58 pm
I’d like to know if taking ginger in supplement form thats organically grown & excipient-free works. Each capsule contains 1,080mg. Any advice or something you can share on this, i would appreciate any feedback.
Reply
Jenny says:
July 3, 2014 at 4:23 am
Hi Lisa, when taking ginger in a concentrated form, like supplement, there is a need to consult with a doctor first, as ginger can interfere with certain medications, such as blood clotting medications and more. I’ve seen in webMD and Maryland Medical Center that the dosage of 1000 mg is used for arthritis and nausea for example (250 mg 4 times daily), but your doctor needs to establish the right dosage for you according to your specific situation.
Reply
Lisa Bryant says:
July 6, 2014 at 12:44 pm
Thanks Jenny, for responding to question
Reply
Joanie says:
July 5, 2014 at 2:00 am
I would love to know if I can control type 2 diabetes naturally with herbs? Tired of drugs! My body does not like them anymore.
Reply
Jenny says:
July 5, 2014 at 9:27 pm
Hi Joanie, you can refer to my article about the best foods to control diabetes – but this comes as an add-on to the current treatment. It doesn’t intend to replace it.
Reply
solome says:
December 26, 2014 at 1:13 pm
hi joanie
try moringa leaf
Reply
Debby Blossey says:
August 7, 2014 at 10:42 pm
I know that Ginger is related to Tumeric. I have a Tumeric bulb in my fridge now – will that work the same way for us as Ginger does?
Reply
Jenny says:
August 8, 2014 at 3:44 am
Hi Debby, while they are from the same family and have some similarities such as antibiotic and anti-inflammatory properties, there are still differences because of the different active ingredients. Read more about turmeric in my article – https://www.healthyandnaturalworld.com/the-amazing-health-benefits-of-turmeric/ as well as here – https://www.healthyandnaturalworld.com/how-to-make-anti-inflammatory-turmeric-ginger-tea/
Reply
Inderjit Singh Matharu says:
May 29, 2015 at 12:00 am
I take one teaspoon of ginger juice daily. ….very useful to control my diabetes. ….
Reply
Suba singh khehra says:
June 28, 2015 at 11:25 am
I used it only in winter but now i will whole year Thanks for good information
Reply
Teresa Gracie says:
September 12, 2015 at 1:46 pm
Hello,
Great article, thank you. Someone mentioned that Beta-blockers and Ginger don’t go together, what do you think of this? I have been on 40 mg. Propanolol for years for Essential Tremor but now have chronic inflammation confirmed by my Neurologist. I am keen to start the ginger tea and would value your advice.
Reply
Jenny says:
September 13, 2015 at 8:27 pm
Hi Theresa, I have read that ginger may interfere with heart medications, including beta-blockers, digoxin, and other heart medications. In this case don’t take ginger without your doctor’s advice.
Reply
Judy says:
June 7, 2016 at 1:01 am
I grow up using ginger when we cook chicken,fish and beef,i used to think that it’s just something to give the food extra taste..
After reading this article,it finally made sense.you see i justturned 50 and just had my colonoscopy on may 31 2016 and the result was great.doctor said i dont have to see them again after 10 years.
It was the ginger i guess..
Reply
Samuel ojei says:
September 12, 2016 at 11:55 pm
Thanks for this lecture. Vcr informative. Buy what about tumeric? Which I call the tender brother but have other healingeffect does it have restriction as ginger?
Reply
Jenny Hills says:
September 13, 2016 at 2:55 am
You can refer to my article – Turmeric Should Be Avoided By These People
Reply
Harriett says:
May 16, 2017 at 12:58 pm
I have epilepsy. Should I ask my doctor before taking ginger root since it may not mix with my medician
Reply
Jenny Hills says:
May 16, 2017 at 8:14 pm
Yes, it’s best to get a “green light” from your doctor.
Reply
Sherrie G says:
May 23, 2018 at 7:51 pm
I take 1 teaspoon of ginger with fresh under processed local honey every day and my husband does too. He has had colon cancer before and ginger is a great addition to helping to stave off any future occurrences.
Reply
Arthur says:
March 7, 2019 at 2:51 pm
I take clopidogril/plavix is it ok to take ginger fresh or powder form.
Reply
Jenny Hills, Nutritionist and Medical Writer says:
March 7, 2019 at 9:26 pm
I saw in Rxlist website that ginger can interact with clopidogrel (Plavix). You will need to discuss it with your doctor to establish the right amount for you or if you need to avoid it altogether.
Reply
Ruth Carlson says:
April 6, 2019 at 5:43 pm
I’m taking Metoprolol (a beta blocker), Anastrizole (an estrogen blocker… I had breast cancer), and Armour (for a low-fun toning thyroid gland. Is it okay to add ginger to this mix?
Reply
Jenny Hills, Nutritionist and Medical Writer says:
April 7, 2019 at 6:20 am
I don’t know (I’m not a doctor). It’s best to consult with your doctor.
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Join Our 2 Million Fans
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement
Our Trusted Reference Sites
CDC
HSS agency charged with protecting the public health and safety.
Mayo Clinic
Trusted, award-winning medical and health information resource.
American Cancer Society
American Cancer Society is fighting cancer with research, education, patient care, and rehabilitation.
Merck Manuals
The world’s most widely-used medical guides.
U.S. News
Trusted medical directory that includes 750,000+ of America’s physicians and surgeons.
Department of Health and Human Services
The main governmental agency for protecting the health of U.S. citizens.
Medline Plus
Diseases, symptoms, injuries, and more with photographs and illustrations.
NIH
Extensive and trusted resource for medical research in the United States.
JAMA
The most widely circulated peer-reviewed medical journal in the world.
New England Journal of Medicine
Publishes new medical research findings, review articles, and editorial opinion.
PubMed Central
Free digital archive of biomedical and life sciences journal literature.
BioMed Central
Provides open access to hundreds of peer-reviewed medical journals.
At Healthy and Natural World, our mission is to empower people to take control of their own health by providing comprehensive, practical and well researched information.
Our articles are based on scientific evidence, written by experts and fact checked by experts. We strive to be objective, unbiased, honest and to present both sides of the argument.
Our articles contain scientific references which are numbered. Some of the references are clickable and some are found at the end of the article in the references section. The references are clickable and linked to peer-reviewed scientific papers or authority medical sites.
Our content does not constitute a medical consultation. If you have a medical problem you should seek advice from a doctor and other health care professional. For additional information please see our Full Disclaimer and Privacy Policy.
The entire content of this website is copyrighted and should not be copied without permission. © 2019 Healthy and Natural World
Healthy And Natural World