How Cocaine Addiction is Undermined by Cookie : Cocaine Addiction
Cocaine Addiction
Cocaine Addiction Information
Cocaine Addiction
Cocaine Drug Rehab
Cocaine Abuse
Cocaine Addiction Treatment
Cocaine Detox
Cocaine Addiction Blog
How Cocaine Addiction is Undermined by Cookie
According to a Connecticut College press release, headlined “Research Shows Oreos Are Just As Addictive As Drugs”, they came up with the conclusion that cocaine and morphine were stimulating the brain in precisely the same way that Oreos were (according to neuroscientist Joseph Schroeder). This seems like such a frivolous concept: mere cookies being compared with narcotic drugs like cocaine and morphine. However, per the people involved in running this study, the research was triggered from a curiosity for human behavior in relation to motivation for food. Lab rats were used in this study and placed in a maze with drugs on one side and Oreos on the other to see what would happen. The result? The rats favored both sides the same amount, hence this study is saying that Oreos addictiveness is equal to that of the drugs’.
The ridiculousness of these conclusions, and any comparison of these powerfully addictive substances to cookies is sort of unnerving. Furthermore, it’s a completely asinine assumption to make cookies “dangers” parallel over to the real dangers of cocaine or morphine. Taking into consideration the endless horror stories about addiction to cocaine and morphine, then looking back at statements such as “research shows Oreos are just as addictive as drugs” is mind blowing to say the least. Sure, these particular cookies are of the lower quality variety, containing probably artificial sweeteners in the ingredients and other potentially acidic forming substances in them. However there is no way their potential could measure up to the arduous and mysteriously troubling path that cocaine and morphine addicts have to go through.
Withdrawing from an addiction to a high carb and simultaneously high sugar diet doesn’t do a cocaine addiction justice. The mystique of a cocaine withdrawal comes from the reality of a severely ugly process likely with some full-blown tremors and nonstop chills along for the ride. A high carb and high sugar withdrawal comes with perhaps a mild case of irritability for a couple of afternoons in a row. Cocaine addiction can ruin a life. Sugar addiction can, well, cause someone to gain weight over a longer period of time. There’s obviously an enormous gap between either plight. Morphine, on the other hand, is an even bigger issue in terms of abuse and addiction than cocaine. A morphine withdrawal can throw one into feeling like they have a quite vile case of the flu (along with runny nose, diarrhea, nausea, dizziness, profuse sweating, shivering, restless legs, aches all over) for, depending on the severity of the addiction situation, maybe even a long time.
In conclusion, the contrast between cocaine and/or morphine to cookies (high sugary and high carb packed) is a fundamental one at that. Obviously the study’s intention, or purpose rather, was to expose how detrimental said cookies can be as well as overpowering to the better judgment of certain people particularly from communities with lower socioeconomic statuses. These conclusions are followed by explanations, however, that seem to imply that these cookies have the same kind of visceral power as the drugs. Yet, the hardcore drug type of visceral power would seem to remain disparate to say the least.
Tweet
Categories: Cocaine Abuse
Contact Us
Copyright © 2019 Cocaine Addiction - Cocaine Addiction Information.
Click to Contact us | View Site Map | View Privacy Policy