Are Vape Pens Bad for You?
Menu
Health Whoop
Home
Forum
Health
Diseases and Conditions
Food & Nutrition
Exercise & Fitness
Pregnancy
Miscellaneous
Health Conditions
Addiction
Allergy
Beauty Tips
Blood Health
Bone, Joint & Muscle
Brain & Neurology
Cancer
Children's Health
Cold & Flu
Digestive System
Diseases and Conditions
Drugs & Supplements
Ear-Nose-Throat
Endocrine System
Exercise & Fitness
Eye Health
Food & Nutrition
Headaches
Health
Infections
Kidneys & Urinary System
Men's Health
Metabolic Disorders
Oral Health
Pain Management
Pregnancy
Respiratory Diseases
Sexual Health
Skin, Hair & Nails
Undiagnosed Symptoms
Women's Health
Recent Posts
How to Lose 1kg per Week
Mucus In Urine
Cardio Before or After Weights
Non communicable Diseases List
How to Lose a Stone in a Month ?
Are Vape Pens Bad for You?
November 21, 2016 Team Health Whoop 0 Comment
Vape pens are on the top of discussion among teenagers and have been availed enormous popularity. The excitement is continuously increasing as the thrill of smoking this has found great acceptance in the society of teenage members. Vape pens are familiar as e-pens or e-cigarettes and are available in numerous forms that contain various active ingredients. This discussion concludes with the answer to a question, whether vape pens are good or bad or are Vape Pens Bad For you?
What is a Vape Pen?
The size of vape pens is generally small ranges from a shape of a pen to size of a big cigar. It is filled up with e-liquid, vegetable glycerine or propylene glycol, liquid cartridge. It is a kind of liquid nicotine mixture along with other ingredients. The total device comprises of rechargeable battery and an atomising heating unit. The process of taking vape pen is like you have to turn the atomiser on in order to heat up e-liquid and breathe in and out the water vapour accordingly.
The details of a vape pen material are what and in which ratio they are present in water vapour are composed below.
E-liquid consists of 85-95 % vegetable glycerin along with polyethene glycol and propylene glycol. Respective chemicals are the nicotine carrier and act to add the herbs to vape pen.
Moreover, 10-20 % ingredients are amalgamated in order to bring flavour to it. This flavour has different types such as oil spearmint or food-based flavours as available in candies.
In addition, vape pens are packed with 0-2.5 % nicotine with distilled water content for better dilution.
Difference between a Vape Pen and a Desktop Vaporizer?
The most evident difference between both is the portability. Vape pens can be carried everywhere. All you need to do is slip them in your pocket whereas Desktop vaporizers are not easy to carry.
Desktop vaporizers produce vapor by whip attachment or balloon. They are much more efficient as regards energy and built. Vape pens on the other hand allow you to vape anywhere on the go or at the convenience of your home. The only cons of the Vape Pens are the small chambers and restricted battery life. Also, only one person can use a Vape Pen at a time.
Are Vape Pens Bad for You?
The answer is yes. However, the effect of vape pen is much lesser than a genuine cigarette. This e-liquid cigarette comprises of nicotine and some other components that will harm you. So literally saying, vape pens are not safe too. The adverse effects of this electronic cigarette are described below on the basis of composing components.
Vegetable Glycerin (VG)
Glycerol or glycerine is used to apply in beverages, drinks, foods, personal cares, or drugs. It has been extracted from sugar and moreover, it is sugar alcohol. It has the power to absorb water content and that’s why it is applied to protect food from getting dry out. It is an anti-toxic item, though it can affect the irritation in the throat or can dry out your mouth by increasing thirst.
Propylene Glycol (PG)
Propylene Glycol has been considered as a safe ingredient and it is certified by FDA. This ingredient is popular in the industry of food manufacturers and has very common use as an adhesive in desserts and ice creams. But the main drawback is at high temperature, this chemical compound is transformed into small polymers, which is very bad for your lungs and can damage badly. Few allergic reactions and sore throats are shown after using vape pens among the users.
3.Polyethylene Glycol (PEG)
Consumption of Polyethylene Glycol in huge ratio can attack badly and causes serious harm in lungs as well. It is an anti-freezing agent that has been widely used in the sphere of the food industry.
Nicotine
The present nicotine compound in vape pens is the leading toxic component. This chemical consists of 0.5 to 3 % weight of dry tobacco. Nicotine can act as a stimulant only when it is absorbed by the body in small amount only. When the intake of nicotine touches the height of large ratio such as 75 mg to 100 mg, it can be appeared as very much poisonous and toxic. It can become the reason of high blood pressure, lightheadedness and boosted heart rate.
Can Vape Pen Really Help Me Quit Smoking?
It is a proven truth that vape pen has lesser bad effects than a cigarette. It does not mean that it is not having any adverse effects. However, many vape pen lovers try to establish the concept that vape pens can reduce or can help to quit the habit of cigarette. But this is not as strong as much and probably be not the best way to help yourself.
The quitting cigarette is not possible in a single day rather than reducing the amount of daily nicotine consumption gradually. The amount of nicotine in an e-cigarette is not mentioned as for your concern and this may lead you to get addicted to new item like vape pen. There is no rules and regulation to add a number of composed ingredients on the labels. How far is it possible, that an individual vape pen contains a maximum of 24 mg/ml nicotine?
Are vape pens better than Marijuana?
No more doubt is there, after getting a basic comparison of vape pens with cigarettes and also after discussing the adverse effects of e-cigarettes that what will be the comparison of vape pens and marijuana. In order to solve newly arisen question, you have to dive into the basic components of both products. Vape pens comprise of high nicotine level mounting huge toxin. Moreover, it does not create a deep smell in the air like cigarettes. This is why it is quite difficult to understand the concentration level of nicotine in vape pens. Many people are there who consider this as nicotine free which is totally wrong.
Furthermore, these pens contain oils or waxes. This wax houses THC (Tetrahydrocannabinol) that also exists in marijuana. Behind the psychological effect of weed or marijuana, this ingredient has a large impact. But in vape pens, it is present in a high amount and can surely create more dangerous effect than marijuana smoking. The difference is that it smells so less in the case of vape pens which makes you unable to recognize. However, the effect can be stronger in vape pens and can lead to psychotic disorders or hallucinations.
What is so fascinating about Vape Pens?
Several factors contribute to the fascination that youngsters these days have for Vape Pens. Rebellion, social acceptance and technology are the major factors. Other factors that contribute to the popularity of Vape Pens among youngsters are distraction from personal or family problems, being a part of the cool gang and the built and design of the Vape Pen. One can try several flavors and also customize the design and built of the Vape Pen according to their needs.
Post navigation
Previous page Previous post: Itchy soles of feet
Next page Next post: Breast Cyst
Tags: Vape Pen, Vape Pens
All Rights Reserved |
>