10 glorious health benefits of ginger (nature's best kept secret!) - Expert Home Tips
Categories
Cleaning Tips & Home Hacks
Health & Beauty
Family & Pets
Money-Saving Tips
Creative Crafts & Up-cycling
Food / Drink Tips & Tasty Recipes
Holiday Hacks
Cute & Funny
Reviews
Competitions
Get Our Newsletter
Expert Home Tips
EXPERTS AT MAKING YOUR LIFE EASIER
Categories
Cleaning Tips & Home Hacks
Health & Beauty
Family & Pets
Money-Saving Tips
Creative Crafts & Up-cycling
Food / Drink Tips & Tasty Recipes
Holiday Hacks
Cute & Funny
Reviews
Competitions
Get Our Newsletter
10 glorious health benefits of ginger (nature's best kept secret!)
SHARE
PIN
TWEET
EMAIL
PRINT
By Stephanie C in Food / Drink Tips & Tasty Recipes
on February 21, 2018
There are many benefits of ginger - have you discovered them yet? This oddly-shaped spice gives a unique taste to Oriental food, and tastes pretty great in a smoothie too.
There's no doubting ginger is delicious, but have you considered using ginger outside of the kitchen too? In both its raw and dry form, ginger can be highly beneficial for our health.
This everyday spice can be picked up from most local supermarkets for just a few pennies - why not start experimenting with it today?
See how ginger can help with muscle soreness, period pain, improve skin and prevent cancer in our list of health benefits below.
1. Use ginger to reduce nausea
Nature's remedy for all your health woes.
If you're suffering from nausea, particularly morning sickness, ginger could really help you to alleviate your symptoms the natural way.
This effect is thought to be attributed to specific compounds in ginger, called gingerol and shogaol. Its effectiveness has been proven in several studies, with post-surgery patients, cancer patients, and even those suffering from motion sickness all claiming to have experienced improved symptoms.
Want to relieve your nausea, FAST?
How you choose to treat nausea with ginger is entirely personal. There are many options, including taking ginger capsules or drinking in tea, which is a nice calming way to soothe a troubled stomach.
Ginger tea recipe:
Add a thumb-sized, sliced piece of ginger root to 6 cups of water, and bring to a boil. Simmer for 20 minutes, add 2 tablespoons of lemon juice and honey to taste.
2. Benefits of ginger for menstrual pain
Time to soothe that sore tummy.
Periods are bad enough, without the addition of period pain.
If you're looking for a way to make this uncomfortable time of month more bearable, why not try using a natural remedy?
We have just the thing for you...
Ginger can be extremely effective for treating period pain. A hot cup of ginger tea will not just help reduce menstrual cramps, but it will make you feel warm and comforted from the inside out.
Follow the instructions for ginger tea above to try out this natural remedy today.
Want more health benefits of ginger? Try this...
3. Ginger root can help lower blood-pressure
We all know high blood pressure is a bad thing, but why?
High blood pressure means more hard work for your heart. It also increases the strain on blood vessels, both of which can, over time, increase the chance of a heart attack or stroke.
Want to get healthy?
Keeping blood pressure low is key to ensuring a long and healthy life. One of the benefits of ginger is its ability to thin the blood, lowering blood pressure and promoting a healthy heart.
It's also low in sodium, offering a healthy way to flavour food that is heart-friendly.
We're not done yet! Check out these benefits of ginger too...
4. Ginger for sore muscles
There are so many health benefits!
Ouch! Hard session at the gym? Sat in a stiff work chair all day? Or perhaps you just slept funny.
Whatever the cause of your muscle soreness, there's no need to suffer. Especially if you have some ginger to hand.
Studies have shown that ginger can reduce muscle soreness and get you feeling yourself much quicker.
Why not whip up a healthy, ginger and garlic stir-fry and banish your muscle soreness the tasty way?
5. Benefits of ginger for those with high blood sugar
Sugar can be seriously addictive. All those sweet treats are hard to resist, and you can soon end up with high blood sugar if you don't watch your diet.
If you're looking to lower your blood sugar, ginger could be the natural remedy you need to kickstart it.
A study carried out on people with type 2 diabetes saw a significant reduction in blood sugar levels in those patients who took ginger capsules.
The mystery is...
...even the professionals don't know why or how ginger works as a treatment for high blood sugar. What they do know, however, is that it does works.
Why not give this natural remedy a go today?
6. Ginger for indigestion
Indigestion symptoms usually arise after eating or drinking and can be extremely uncomfortable.
If you're looking for natural remedies, ginger could be just the thing. It's great at easing the nasty burning sensation you feel in the upper part of your stomach.
That sounds amazing! How does it work?
Ginger has anti-inflammatory properties which can calm irritation inside the stomach lining and lessen 'gastric contractions' - which cause stomach acid to be thrown into the oesophagus.
Why not start adding ginger to some of your favourite recipes to help ease indigestion? It goes great in soups, stir-fries, salads and many other meals too.
7. Can ginger help fight infection?
Mmmm, delicious!
Ginger tea is often advised when you're feeling under the weather - but why?
If you've ever had a ginger smoothie, you'll know that it can pack quite a punch. It's not spicy, as such, but definitely has a warming effect on the body. This sensation does wonders when you're suffering from a cold.
Additionally, ginger is a great natural way of ridding the body of harmful toxins that lead to viral, fungal and bacterial infections.
Next time you're feeling poorly, skip the meds and try this all-natural remedy instead.
8. Benefits of ginger for brain function
Consider yourself a smart cookie?
You could be even smarter with the addition of ginger to your diet.
Ginger has been used for many years to improve brain function. It can have a wide variety of beneficial effects on the brain, which Be Brain Fit talks about in detail on their site.
The health benefits of ginger for brain function include improving memory, attention, focus, mood regulation, cravings sleep and much more.
9. Can ginger prevent cancer?
Believe it or not, there are some claims that ginger can be more effective than chemo for treating cancer.
This claim is based on the effects of 6-Shogaol (a component of ginger), which supposedly inhibit the production of cancerous cells.
Although more research needs to be done into the effectiveness of using this natural remedy to fight cancer, it's definitely another brilliant reason to include ginger in your diet.
Last but not least on our list of health benefits of ginger are the...
10. Beauty benefits of ginger
Time to get gorgeous!
Ginger is listed as the 13th most impressive natural antioxidant - no small feat. It contains around 40 antioxidant properties in total, making it a serious superfood for the skin.
Want to get gorgeous, glowing skin?
Mix 1 tsp of ginger with 1 tbsp of honey and 1 tsp lemon juice, and massage onto the face. Leave for 30 minutes, then rinse to reveal a positively radiant complexion.
What's your favourite health benefit of ginger? Tell us how YOU use it in the comments below.
SHARE
PIN
TWEET
EMAIL
PRINT
Stephanie C
Editor
Lover of all things fashion & foodie...I look to satisfy my tastes without obliterating my budget. Wannabe interior designer, I'm an avid cushion cover maker and charity shop hunter.
Follow me on twitter
Get this eBook FREE!
101 Tips for an Easy Life
Join the Expert Home Tips newsletter + get a free eBook full of exclusive tips
Claim my Free E-Book
2 Add your comment
Liza on April 2, 2018 at 6:12 pm
Item 10 you have a typo error is it 1tsp or 1tbsp of honey assume other is suppose to be ginger regards.
Stephanie C on April 18, 2018 at 4:29 pm
Hi Liza, Many thanks for this - all changed :)
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name
Email
Comment
Get this eBook FREE!
101 Tips for an Easy Life
Join the Expert Home Tips newsletter + get a free eBook full of exclusive tips
Claim my Free E-Book
About Us
Welcome to Expert Home Tips – a beautifully curated collection of all the best home hacks, living tips, competitions and more.
Search For Tips
Join Our Community
Recent Posts
Free Giveaway: Knock Knock Checklist Notepads
How To Get Rid Of Silverfish (13 Steps To Banish Them FOR GOOD!)
10 Simple Spring Cleaning Tips To Save You Time & Energy
Preparing For A Puppy: 13 Essential Steps That Will ACTUALLY Help
Cleaning With Baking Soda: Transform Your ENTIRE Home With One Box
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Follow us on Twitter
© Expert Home Tips 2019
© Expert Home Tips 2019