Himalayan Salt Benefits |
About Us
Contact Us
Fresco FAQ’s
Related Posts
Affiliates
Downloads
Store
My account
Checkout
Cart
You Are What You Eat
Recipes
Himalayan Salt Benefits
Share This
Not your average table salt
According to scientific research, “US Dietary Guidelines recommend a daily sodium intake 2300 mg, but evidence linking sodium intake to mortality outcomes is scant and inconsistent.” (1) The right salt in the right amount is actually very good for your health. Pink Himalayan salt contains over 84 minerals and trace elements, including calcium, magnesium, potassium, copper and iron, so it does more than just make your food taste better.
(2) With a history dating back to Earth’s creation, Himalayan salt is believed to be composed of dried remnants of the original, primal sea.
(3) Pink Himalayan salt’s color as well as its color variations are indicative of its mineral content. Himalayan crystal salt can be pink, white or red in color. As a salt, pink Himalayan salt is chemically sodium chloride (NaCl), which is defined as a “mineral substance of great importance to human and animal health.”
Many Himalayan salt companies say that Himalayan pink salt contains 84 trace minerals, but there is debate that both contain 60 minerals. Either way, it is packed full of minerals.
Top 5 Benefits of Pink Himalayan Salt
1. Improves Respiratory Problems
2. Balances Body’s pH
3. Natural Digestive Aid
4. Air Purifier
5. Better Sleep Inducer
Additional health benefits of Himalayan salt may include:
Regulation of the water levels within the body for proper overall functioning
Helping reduce common signs of aging
Encouraging healthy blood sugar levels
Promoting cellular energy creation
Reducing cramping (like leg cramps)
Improving the absorption of nutrients from foods
Aiding vascular health
Lowering the incidence of sinus problems and promoting overall sinus health
Providing circulatory support
Improving bone strength
Fostering a healthy libido
Promoting kidney and gallbladder health in comparison to chemically treated table salt
Previous Post
Beet Chips
Uncategorized
http://www.energysourcehome.com
http://www.dropyourenergybill.com
http://retro2zero.com/