Are Squats Bad For Our Knees?-Vagus Fitness - Personal Training Gym in Calgary
Why Vagus?
Our Programs
Success Stories Blog Members Area Contact US Get Started
Back
Strong, Healthy & Over 50 Healthy Bone & Joints Learn To Lift
Why Vagus? Our Programs Strong, Healthy & Over 50 Healthy Bone & Joints Learn To Lift Success StoriesBlogMembers AreaContact US
Professional Personal Trainers Located In Calgary
Get Started
Are Squats Bad For Our Knees?
Myth #1
Squats are bad for my knees...
Okay, picture this, you sit down on your chair at your dinner table to eat dinner. Just as you sit down, you quickly realize you left your delicious glass of red wine on the counter and get right back up. Well I just would like to congratulate you on performing a squat!
We do squats every day, and because this is a part of our daily routine, it is so important we learn how to do them properly so in instances like above (along with the hundreds of other times we perform them out side of the gym), we can grab that glass of wine pain free.
One of the most common statements I hear from my clients is, “I can’t squat because I have bad knees.” Whether this notion is derived from past experiences where there was pain related to the squat movement, or just fear of trying it because it looks scary, it is important to understand the benefits that the squat movement has. In fact, when done correctly squats can actually help improve knee stability, increase mobility through the hips (plus ankles) and overall strengthen the knee.
As educated professionals, we encourage our clients from all ages of the spectrum to squat. Depending on the individual, each squat is going to look a little, to a lot different, depending on the individual’s ankle mobility, hip mobility and overall preferred stance that is most comfortable, and allows them to achieve the greatest range of motion. It’s important to understand that there is no right position for the squat, it is based solely on what is most comfortable for each individual.
Myth #2:
I must cut carbs out of my diet in order to lose weight...
You want to find a diet that fits you for the rest of your life, right? Well let’s be real; are you really going to cut out donuts or pizza for the rest of your life? I say heck no, find that balance! Really, anything can be bad for you if you have too much of it, it’s all about balance and educating yourself on your own body.
Your nutrition should be fitted to your own individual lifestyle, rather than challenging a new fad diet every month (as great as some may promise that you will lose 20 pounds in 30 days. Even if so, what happens after those 30 days when you’re cranky and deprived of things you love?) In order to see consistent long-term results, the only realistic option you have, is to educate yourself and create a diet that fits to your lifestyle. You must be realistic and have a balance of all three macronutrients, INCLUDING carbohydrates.
Carbohydrates are essential for giving your body the energy it needs to push through daily activities (in fact, carbohydrates provides the body with its source of energy). Especially looking at when you add exercise into the mix; carbohydrates are critical for giving your body the energy to power through those workouts with maximum effort.
Many people look at carbohydrates as “bad” because they associate it with gaining weight, which can happen if you don’t understand how many you should be consuming on a daily basis and you are in a caloric surplus; but if you begin to educate yourself, they actually will become your biggest supporter when looking at fat loss. With anything, there is balance, and that is why we always encourage individuals to use tracking devices (MyFitnessPal or FitGenie) to help you understand your own body and measure the types of food that you are consuming so you can get a grasp if you are consuming a good amount for your own body type.
Myth #2
As long as I work out, I can eat whatever I want and still see results...
We all know the feeling of having a great workout and wanting to reward yourself with a Timmy’s donut or bag of chips, but it’s important to understand that if not done in moderation your diet can easily out-train your workout.
Like stated in Myth #2, your diet is all about a healthy balance, and in order to see the most optimum results from your workout, you need to give your body the nutrients it needs to recover and grow in the most efficient way possible. This first starts with understanding your body and the diet that works best for you and your lifestyle.
Absolutely you can indulge in that Timmy’s donut or that bag of ketchup chips without feeling guilt, but first it is about teaching yourself the right times to do so and this begins with learning your own diet. See this link for my article about getting started with weight loss.
Unsure if personal training is right for you? Sign-up for a FREE assessment by clicking the button below and get $100 FREE
Get $100 FREE
Written by Shantelle Jonassen. Shantelle is a strength coach at Vagus Fitness, specializing in strength training for 50+. She loves working with clients who are new to strength training, and supporting them on there journey to more strength, mobility, and better health! Contact Shantelle at shantelle@vagusfitness.com.
Shantelle Jonassen August 13, 2018
Facebook0 Twitter LinkedIn0 StumbleUpon Reddit Tumblr Pinterest0 0 Likes
Previous
Understanding Our Daily Energy Requirements...
Kyle Mahadeo August 13, 2018
Next
Can I get your number?
Kyle Mahadeo August 9, 2018
We Are Located in Royal Oak Park
Directions
Take Stoney Trail North to Country Hills Blvd
Head west on Country Hills Blvd
Turn right on to 112 Ave
Turn left on 85 St
Turn left into Royal Oak Park
We are on the ground floor across from Ceili"s
Vagus Fitness
1121 8650 112 Avenue Nw ,
Calgary, AB, T3R 0R5,
Canada
4032882487 info@vagusfitness.com
Hours
Mon 8am to 8pm
Tue 8am to 8pm
Wed 8am to 8pm
Thu 8am to 8pm
Fri 8am to 5pm
Sat 8am to 2pm
HomeWhy Vagus?Our ProgramsSuccess StoriesStrong Health & Over 50 TestimonialsBlogContact
© Copyright 2015. All Rights Reserved | Google+