Health And Wellness | Ev Living
Ev Living
Welcome to east valley Living
Menu
Home
Contact Us
Category: Health and Wellness
8 Lifestyle Changes To Make During Pregnancy
August 17, 2018
No Comments
Being pregnant is that time of life when you need to take care of yourself more than ever before. Your lifestyle has a direct impact on the overall health of the baby growing inside you. Pregnancy demands simple lifestyle changes for a healthy you and a healthy baby. Your body goes through a lot of changes during pregnancy. To keep up with these changes and to ensure the better health of the baby, go through these simple changes in your lifestyle.
1. Drink more water
Your body goes through massive changes during pregnancy. Drinking water can help your body cope with the demands of the changing body. Drinking enough water prevents dehydration and prevents various complications like nausea, cramps, dizziness, etc.
2. Exercise more
Get your body moving. Exercising daily can improve your stamina and help you during delivery. There are several other benefits of exercising during pregnancy like improved sleep, increased level of energy and decreased risk of delivery complications.
3. Get proper sleep
During your pregnancy, one of the things that should be on your priority list is to get proper sleep. Adequate sleep for eight to nine hours can make you feel better during the day. Do it for the sake of your baby. It is worth it.
4. Choose your food wisely
Look for nutrient-rich foods to include in your diet. A healthy diet for pregnant women should include plenty of fresh fruits and vegetables. Keep the intake of protein and complex carbohydrates higher than the intake of refined sugar. A well-balanced diet for pregnant women can give the baby a healthy start in life.
5. Educate yourself
Be prepared for the big day. Learn everything you think you should know about your pregnancy. Take courses if needed. Attend childbirth classes. Look for online resources. Learn about childcare and what to do during the post pregnancy days.
6. Make new friends
Meet other pregnant women through childbirth classes or online forums. Knowing other people who are in the same situation as you are can be a support during the phase of pregnancy. You get to know what are the best things to do during this phase and the connections you make with people can sometimes last for a lifetime.
7. Give in to your cravings (sometimes)
Cravings are considered to be an emotional thing. It is also considered as nature’s way of making you feel the need for essential nutrients for the baby. Therefore, it is fine to give in to your cravings sometimes. However, be limited in your intake of snacks and limit your portions. Stay away from unhealthy snacks and look for foods which are rich in nutrients.
8. Keep track of your weight
Putting on too much extra weight can make it difficult to lose it later. But, not gaining enough weight can increase the risk of low-weight birth. Learn to maintain the right weight during your pregnancy period and you will be on your way towards a healthy pregnancy.
Hope you found this post useful. Let us know your thoughts about it in the comment section below.
How To Practice Mindfulness
July 4, 2018
No Comments
Mindfulness is the act of being aware of your thoughts and your actions at the present moment. In this fast-paced world, most people think and act on auto-pilot. They are not aware of their actions and thoughts. While this may seem harmless to many people, there are actually negative consequences of not being mindful. In this article, you will get a glimpse at some of the best things to do for bringing mindfulness into your lives.
Follow these tips and you will become more present and mindful of your thoughts and actions.
Observe your breathing
One of the best things to do to become more mindful is to focus on your breath. The moment you start focusing on your breath, your mind frees itself from the thoughts and connects you to the present. This is one of the easiest ways to practice mindfulness.
Eat mindfully
Mindfulness can be practised in the small daily activities. Be mindful when eating your meals. When you sit down to have your meal, avoid watching the television or browsing the internet. Focus on your meal. Enjoy the smell and savour the taste of the food. You will find the food more tasty and nutritious.
Listen attentively
One of the rare qualities of people these days is the quality of being a good listener. Most people do not actually listen to others during conversations. People are too busy talking and listening to themselves that they do not even realize that they are wasting valuable time. When you listen attentively to what others have to say, you will become more aware of your own thoughts. Next time when you get into a conversation, take a pause and listen to what the other person has to say.
Meditate
Meditation is the best source for uplifting your inner peace and energy levels. It helps in getting yourself connected to your inner spirit. Practise meditation for at least 10 minutes a day and you will find yourself becoming more mindful of your thoughts, actions and the environment.
Observe your thoughts
Be the observer of your thoughts. Most people have this false belief that they are their thoughts. The simple fact that you are constantly listening to your thoughts means that you are not your thoughts. When you start observing your thoughts as they come and go, you will find yourself becoming more mindful and aware of yourself. In short, you will start living in the ‘now’.
These were some of the tips for practising mindfulness. Implement them in your daily life and you will find amazing results. Practising mindfulness can improve your mental health. Head over here, for more information on improving mental health and bringing happiness into your life.
We hope you found this post useful and informative. If you have any queries or suggestions related to this post, please drop your comments in the comment section below. We would be glad to help you out. To show your support, share this post with your friends on social media and elsewhere.
Thank you very much for reading!
Here’s How You Can Protect Your Family From Radioactive WiFi Routers
April 2, 2018
No Comments
There are different ways to build an internet network for your home. Wireless connectivity is one of the most common means of connectivity today that is growing popular very fast. One reason for preferring a wireless network over a wired one is that you can use connect your mobile devices to the network from anywhere in the house. While proper installation and configuration of the router is really important, you also need to think about the radiation that the device may cause. Radiation causes serious health problems in humans and therefore, you will have to minimize the harmful radiation and protect your family’s health.
How harmful Is The Radiation From WiFi Routers
Radiation from routers can have a serious effect on the central nervous system. The various other health loses from radiation include headaches, insomnia and fatigue. One major health hazard from overexposure to radiation is cancer.
How You Can Minimize The Radiation and Protect Your Family’s Health
There are various things that can be done to ensure the safety of your family from this harmful radiations. Here are a few:
Disconnect the WiFi router when not in use
If the internet is no in use, it is advisable to disconnect the router from the power supply. Doing this can drastically bring down the radiation exposure level from the device.
Place the WiFi router at a safe distance
While having the router at a closer distance can help in better connectivity, you will have to keep your distance as being too close to the device increases the exposure to radiation. Being close to the source signal constantly can increase the risk of getting affected by the radiation which can become the cause of various health problems. Hence, it is advisable to place the WiFi router at a safe distance from you and your family.
Adjust the transmission power of the router
To get the best signal, it is not necessary to put on the most powerful signal level. An average signal level should be enough for a home network. Make sure that the transmission power is set to average. Learn about the various settings of your WiFi router and get control over your WiFi network.
Use anti-radiation WiFi modem antenna box
Anti-radiation WiFi modem antenna box is a box that insulates the radiation from the WiFi router. It not only absorbs the radiation but converts it into heat energy. It is one of the best ways to reduce the effect of radiation from WiFi routers.
Use USB Adaptors
In case you are using a USB Wi-Fi adapter, use it on a USB extension cable. A USB extension cable will reduce your exposure by huge measures. This makes it crucial for you to consider this fact and start using USB adaptors wisely.
We hope you found this post useful and informative. If you have any queries or suggestions related to this post, please drop your comments in the comment section below. We would be glad to help you out. To show your support, share this post with your friends on Social media.
Thank you very much for reading!
Fitness Nutrition for Beginners
February 15, 2018
No Comments
Fitness nutrition is a huge topic. If you are new to the world of fitness and bodybuilding, the first thing that you have to understand is your body type. We all have different body types and our metabolisms work differently. This makes it crucial for everyone to customize their diet according to their body needs.
One of the most conventional ways of dieting is to have 5 to 6 meals a day, a couple of protein shakes in between and some vitamins. However, this kind of diet doesn’t work for everyone. Some other forms of diets include carb cycling, paleo, intermittent fasting, etc. The majority of the Indian community grows up on carbs most of which comes from rice and roti. If you are an Indian, carb cycling is the perfect diet for you. Carbs are in fact an essential component of Indian bodybuilding diet.
Let’s get started with the basics of diet and nutrition.
When you eat more calories than your body needs you are going to gain weight. If you use up more calories than you consume, then you are going to lose weight. If you stay at maintenance, which means you burn just as many calories as you eat you will stay at maintenance then. Very simple but a concept many fail to remember.
So when it comes to foods and drinks what should you eat and what should you neglect? Well, the simple ones are soda and fast food. You should completely cut out all soda. It is absolutely useless for making a strong healthy body.
Fast food is packed with saturated and trans fats (which are not good for you) and is very calorie-dense. Fast food should be completely avoided. The occasional burger is not going to kill you, but this should not be something you are having on a weekly basis nor should it be apart of your diet.
Soda is very harmful to your body. It is very calorie-dense, doesn’t add any nutritional value to your body and is dumping massive amounts of simple sugar into you. Soda cravings will be substantially reduced once you start sticking to water throughout your day. Make sure you get ample water and you are always hydrated.
An average cup of coffee has 95mg of Caffeine.
Another area where people make mistakes is coffee. Coffee may look simple, but once you dig in, all the sugar and cream which is added to it can become a calorie-dense beverage as well. Having it occasionally doesn’t really harm but you don’t want to be tweaked out on caffeine all day and become dependent on it. Drinking your coffee black is a good first step in cutting those inefficient calories down.
Make sure you focus on your meals and the preparation. They should be traditionally cooked foods. Try consuming the least amount of junk food you can and try to eat healthy natural foods. These will be processed by your body much easier. A good rule of thumb is to eat foods that can be made by hand and not processed. In order to build a solid Indian bodybuilding diet, you must first of all give up all kinds of food that are not doing any good to your body and replace them with healthier foods.
4 Tips to Health and Youth
November 16, 2017
No Comments
You will find 4 key elements which will either create illness or health in us. They are very simple but often ignored and forgotten. Let us look at the first key element.
1. Diet –
Our diet nowadays relies heavily on processed foods which don’t add to good health. In the event you eat like the majority of folks, you will possibly have way too much animal products, fat and refined foods in your diet. Here is a website where you can find healthy and tasty recipes.
Three things can happen to the food items that we take into our stomach:
a. They can be digested and assimilated as nutrients for our body use and growth;
b. They can ferment in our stomach as in the case of improper food combining e.g. undigested sugars from eating fruits on a full stomach after meal; or
c. They can putrefy, or perhaps decay and rot also in the case of improper food combining. E.g. – undigested proteins from eating chicken (protein) with potatoes (carbohydrates) in the same meal.
Fermentation and putrefaction are on the list of exogenous toxins in our body which cause illness and ageing. Exogenous toxins are actually toxins taken from outside the body, not self-generated. Examples include all junk food, alcohol and tobacco, polluted air and water, fermentation and putrefaction in the stomach from improper food combining which often happen in meat eater, and medicines and drugs.
A plant-based natural whole food diet of veggies that are fresh and fruits plus some nuts and seeds will give us the important nutrients that our body needs.
2. Exercise, rest and sleep –
Find time to work out on a regular basis and get adequate rest and sleep. Proper sleep and rest are as important as eating a nutritious diet and working out. An excellent night’s sleep helps to revive, rejuvenate and revitalize our brain and body, contributing to youthful appearance besides being energetic and in a good mood all day long.
Chronic sleep loss has been proven to contribute to other health issues. Therefore, get the right quantity and quality of sleep and do not overlook its benefits. Sleep isn’t a luxury, it’s among the main pillars of health, a necessity!3. Psychology –
Engage in constructive work and productive activity. Learn to manage our own emotion and anger. Develop the interpersonal communication skills and social skills which are vital for a prosperous life. Having good thoughts are important as the same as we’re what we eat or perhaps digest, what we believe is what we’re as the thought process of ours is an effective form of power. A lot of people don’t believe in thoughts that are positive since they don’t see value in them.
Nevertheless, other evidence and studies have shown that by having positive thoughts all the time, the life of ours will be positive and our day filled with optimism. If our thoughts are actually negative, it won’t only weaken our spirit, mind, and body but also impact the overall health of ours. Another good thing about having positive thoughts is actually it slows down ageing, making us feeling and looking younger compared to a lot of people of the age of ours; and improves our well being and health!
One of the ways to keep our thoughts constantly positive is actually to surround ourselves with constructive, happy and positive folks as these folks radiate energised and healthy aura from which we could gain.
4. Environment –
Get clean water and fresh air! Our very own home may be a source of environmental pollution. Toxic chemical gases released from new paints and new furniture are some examples. Even beauty products and personal care products such as shampoo and deodorants contain chemicals that are dangerous. Stay away from exposure to excess chemicals.
It is only when we provide the entire body of ours with all of the essential needs of health, that they are able to perform the self-healing mechanisms at their best to restore and optimise health!
The Advantages of Using a Smart Points Calculator
November 5, 2017
No Comments
Are you looking forward to getting into the perfect shape? Well, then this article is just for you. Here you can get a brief understanding about the updated version of weight watchers which is known as smart points calculator. For most people, getting into shape means hard work and sacrifice. While it is true to a certain extent, getting into shape doesn’t require you to quit on everything you love. For instance, you could still eat your favourite dishes while you are on a health-conscious diet. The only thing that you have to keep in mind is that you do not overeat anything. Excess of anything is not good. Keeping this thought in mind, you can go ahead and eat what you want without worrying about your diet.
As a part of your diet-conscious routine, you need to make sure that you eat everything in a certain proportion. Do not let your body get overdosage of food. This can lead to excess fat and lead to obesity.
If you are underweight, make sure to gain more flesh and not fat. Eat food rich in those nutrients that can add up to your muscle density. Avoid anything that increases your fat density. To keep track of the right amount of food intake, you need to use this amazing tool known as smart points calculator. With the help of this calculator, you will be able to monitor your daily intake of calories, fats, protein and sugar. When you know how much of what is more or less in your nutrition, you can increase or decrease the intake of those items in your food. Doing this will help you to reach your ideal weight. This, in turn, will help you to live a healthier life.
Staying fit is not something new. People from the ancient times lived a healthier life than us. The struggle for food kept them active and fit. However, in the modern times, there is no scarcity of food and so people do not have to toil as much to fill their stomach. In fact, there is so much food today that it has become difficult for people to control their urge to eat more and more.
Like with everything else, moderation is the factor that keeps the balance maintained. When you practice moderation in your diet, you can be assured to remain fit and healthy.
There are a lot of people today who genuinely care about their health. People have started becoming more health conscious than ever before. While it is good for those who do something to keep up their health, it is high time for those who do not really care about their health to start caring for it.
The use of this calculator can be really beneficial when you combine it with proper workout and diet. To get the best results, make sure to use it while you follow all the other instructions.
We hope you found this article useful and informative. Thank you for reading!
The Importance of Mental Fitness
November 4, 2017
No Comments
It is a well-known fact that to live a great life you must be physically fit. Being fit means to keep all diseases at bay while maintaining your overall health in a perfect state. It is no doubt that you feel much better about yourself when you remain physically fit.
Likewise, it is equally important to be mentally fit. You know that regular physical exercise improves your bodily functions but you could still suffer from depression and anxiety which can affect your life immensely. The world, as it is today, has seen these mental ailments increase to alarming proportions. It is high time for us to take this matter seriously and find ways to avoid mental illness.
Depression is an initial symptom of mental ailment. If not tackled the right way, this can lead to unwanted consequences. The only way to battle depression, anxiety, and low self-esteem is not by taking medication but by addressing the problem with mental exercise.
Initially, you must decide what you want out of life for yourself and your family. When you have done this then you must fix goals to achieve your desires. Goals give your life purpose and whether they are short or long term they give you something to work towards. No matter how silly your goals might seem to you when you set them, you must develop the aspiration and willpower to reach your goals. Keep telling yourself that this is what you are going to accomplish: it is your purpose and you will achieve it.
It might be the car of your dreams or a holiday but you should leave reminders around your house to keep you motivated about your goals. It may be a photograph or a model of the car but you have to be continually reminded of what you are working towards so that everywhere you look you will see your goals.
Changing the way you think and act cannot happen overnight. It takes a lot of hard work, fortitude and regular daily mental exercise to overcome the negativity that causes your mental disorders.
By embarking on a sensibly planned self-help programme, you are saying to yourself that you need help and are prepared to do something about it. As you continue through your programme, it could take four to six weeks before any real advancement is made or any visible changes appear. This all depends on the time and effort you are prepared to put into the programme.
However, as you progress it will not take long to realize how futile negative thoughts really are and developing a positive attitude is the only way you can progress and live the life you want for yourself and your family.
This is the significance of mental fitness!
We hope you found this article helpful and informative. Do let us know what you think about it in the comment section below. Also, feel free to ask any questions or leave your suggestions for us. We would be glad to interact with you. Thank you very much for reading!
Recent Posts
Of rainbows and sunshine
Interesting Facts About Major World Currencies
How Video Games Can Help You Socialize
The Growth Of Small Business In India
Basics To Improve Advanced Maths
Categories
Computer and Internet
Dating
Education
Finance
Gaming
General
Health and Wellness
How To
Life
Mesa
Music
Pets and animal care
Scottsdale
Social Media
tempe
Tourism
Travel
Ev Living. All Rights Reserved
Powered by WordPress