Eat for Your Eyes – Foods to Help Protect Eye Function | Wise Cicada Lifestyle
Skip to content
Menu
Home
Food
Health
News
Events
Interviews
Recipes
Shop Online
instagram
Facebook
Wise Cicada Lifestyle
The Wise Cicada Lifestyle Blog
— Food, Health —
Eat for Your Eyes – Foods to Help Protect Eye Function
March 15, 2018
Eat for Your Eyes
Much of the damage that leads to eye conditions can be linked to free-radicals, so it is prudent to maintain a diet rich in foods that are high in nutrients which nourish the eyes: antioxidant vitamins and minerals; the carotenes lutein, zeaxanthin, and lycopene; and healthy fats. The following foods are great choices for eye health.
Blueberries
Antioxidant-rich blueberries contain flavonoids known as anthocyanidins, the antioxidant compounds responsible for their bright blue colour. Studies show that blueberry extract helps improve night vision and may protect against the development of age-related macular degeneration (AMD), glaucoma, and cataracts.
Broccoli
Broccoli has high amounts of antioxidant vitamins C and E. It’s also rich in lutein, a carotenoid that concentrates in the retina, protecting it from damage and helping to prevent AMD. Broccoli and other members of the cabbage family, such as kale, Brussels sprouts, and collards, are all good sources of beta-carotene, lutein, and zeaxanthin.
Carrot
It’s not a myth, carrots really are good for your eyes. The beta-carotene in carrots provides protection against AMD (age-related macular degeneration) and the development of cataracts. Carrots also support good night vision. Their antioxidant compounds are good for the eyes and also encourage heart health.
Capsicum
Studies show that capsicums may help protect against cataracts, possibly due to their high vitamin C and beta-carotene content.
Spinach
Spinach is one of the richest dietary sources of lutein, making it important for supporting healthy eyesight and preventing AMD and cataracts.
Fish
Oily fish such as salmon and tuna are rich in omega-3 essential fatty acids (EFAs), which are helpful in fighting free-radical damage. Retinal photoreceptors (the cells that allow vision to occur) break down in the presence of light, and EFAs protect against the free radicals produced by light. Studies show that adding omega-3s to the diet helps to support healthy vision. (If eating fish is not your choice, try ‘Lifestream’ Omega3 from Algae) Cold-Water Fish
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
Related
March 15, 2018 March 15, 2018 adminFood, Health
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Post navigation
Previous Post Carnelian ‘Vitality and Abundance’ – Crystal Profile – Wise Cicada
Next Post New Artisan Vegan Cheeses from ‘Savour’ – Ethical – Local – Delicious
Search for:
Subscribe to our Blog
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address
WISE CICADA
Auckland’s much-loved organic, vegan wholefood cafe and organic grocer. An upbeat shopping/dining hub supporting your healthy, ethical lifestyle.
www.wisecicada.co.nz www.cafe.wisecicada.com
Retail / Cafe Location:
88 Broadway (Lower Level, Rear)
Newmarket
Auckland 1023
Hours:
Mon – Fri – 8am – 7pm (Cafe Serves Until 6pm)
Sat & Sun – 9am – 6pm
Meet Some of Our Fab’ Friendly Team Members
Most Sustainable Business Winner 2017
Recent Posts
50% off Final Days of Liquidation Sale – All Stock Must Go!
‘Raw Magic’ Dinner Party
Festive Gingerbread Maca Latte Recipe
Festive Raspberry & Chia Bliss Cups
‘Wise’ Catering – Organic – Vegan – Gluten Free – Refined Sugar Free
Recent Comments
admin on Wise Cicada Services Buffer Countdown’s Newmarket Closure
Sylvia on Wise Cicada Services Buffer Countdown’s Newmarket Closure
Archives
February 2019
December 2018
November 2018
August 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
Categories
Crystals
Eco-friendly DIY
Events
Food
Health
Herbs
Holistic Gift Ideas
Interviews
Lifestyle Features
Natural Skincare & Beauty
Natural Supplements
News
Recipes
Event: Thurs 24 August 6pm @ Wise Cicada
https://wisecicadalifestyle.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/emma-event.mp4
Proudly powered by WordPress | Copyright WiseCicada 2017.