Morning Sickness Relief Archives - Mommy Tea Room
Mommy Tea Room
Connecting Lovely Mommies
About Us
Tips
Product Reviews
Baby Crib
Baby Cradle
Breast Pump
Baby Stroller
Baby Swing
Baby Food Maker
Swing Sets
Contact
Nursery
Baby Bassinet
HALO Bassinest
Baby Cradle
Baby Crib
Best Baby Cribs – An All-You-Need-To-Know Guide
Baby Twin Cribs
Baby Crib Mattress
Baby Humidifier
Changing Pad
Changing Table
Kids Teepee Tent
Nursery Gliders
Swaddle Blankets
Toddler Bed
Toy Storage
Feeding
Bottles
Best Bottle for Breastfed Babies
Best Bottle for Reflux
Best Glass bottles
Baby Bottle Sterilizer
Baby Bottle Warmer
Baby Food Maker
Breast Milk Storage Bags
Formula for Gas & Reflux
Nutramigen vs Alimentum
Organic Formula
Infant Floor Seat
High Chairs
Activity & Gear
Baby Pacifier
Baby Teethers
Nasal Aspirator
Baby Gate
Baby Jumper
Baby Swing
Play Mat/Activity Gym
Non Toxic Play Mat
Baby Playpen/Playard
Baby Movement Monitor
Baby Video Monitor
Long Range Baby Monitor
Split Screen Baby Monitor
Baby Thermometer
Fetal Doppler
Sound Machine
Outdoor & Travel
Baby Carrier
Toddler Carrier
Infant & Toddler Life Jackets
Toddler Water Shoes
Baby Stroller
Best Double Strollers
Best Lightweight Strollers
Best Stroller & Car Seat Combo
Best Travel System Strollers
Best Umbrella Strollers
Booster Seat
Car Seat for Small Cars
Infant & Toddler Travel Bed
Travel Crib
Travel High Chair
Balance Bike
Bike Trailer
Bike Helmet
Child Bike Seat
Kids Tricycle
Swing Sets
5 Tips for Choosing The Best Swing Set – An Expert’s Guide
Toddler Trampoline
Rectangle Trampoline
Bathing & Diapering
Baby Bathtub
Changing Pad
Cloth Diaper
Diaper Caddy
Diaper Bag
Backpack Diaper Bags
Diaper Rash Cream
Diaper Pail
Potty Chairs
Pregnancy & Maternity
Baby Gender Predictor
Breast Pump
An Overview of Breast Pump – What You Need To Know
Best Medela Breast Pump Reviews 2019
Lactation Supplement
Maternity Shapewear
Maternity Bras
Nursing Bras
Maternity Leggings
Pregnancy Support Belt
Postpartum Girdle
Morning Sickness Relief
OTC Prenatal Vitamins
Pregnancy Pillow
How-to Series
January 15, 2019 By Mommy Tea Room 1 Comment
How To Beat Morning Sickness The Effective Way
Don't be fooled by its name, morning sickness does not happen only in the mornings - it can happen any time in a day. For those suffering really bad pregnancy nausea, it can be downright miserable, putting a damp in what's supposed to be one of the most exciting period of your life.
We've put together a guide below everything you need to know about morning sickness, including recommendations of some of the best nausea meds for pregnancy.
Quick Navigation
1. How Early Can Morning Sickness Start
2. How Long Does Morning Sickness Last
3. Best Morning Sickness Relief
​1. Pink Stork Tea: Morning Sickness Relief Tea
​2. Tummydrops Ginger
3. Three Lollies Preggie Pop Drops PLUS with B6
​4. Sea Band Acupressure Wrist Band
​5. Pink Stork: Premier Bundle for Prenatal Health & Morning Sickness Relief
4. Home Remedies For Nausea During Pregnancy
1. How Early Can Morning Sickness Start
If you're wondering how early does morning sickness start, keep in mind that no two pregnant body is the same.
For most women, it usually starts around one month after becoming pregnant, although some may experience it as early as 2-3 weeks. It does not happen to every pregnant woman, so if you're one of the lucky ones that do not experience any morning sickness symptoms, do not feel alarmed!
2. How Long Does Morning Sickness Last
In terms of how long does nausea last during pregnancy, typically, it will go away at the end of the first trimester after which women find better comfort and relief in their pregnancy journey.
In terms of how long does nausea last during pregnancy, typically, it will go away at the end of the first trimester after which women find better comfort and relief in their pregnancy journey.
There are some unlucky mothers-to-be though, where nausea can last all day with just a few moments of relief. If you happen to be one of them, read on to find out how to get rid of morning sickness with some of the best nausea cures.
3. Best Morning Sickness Relief
What can I take for nausea while pregnant? We understand, when you're pregnant, you will want to be extra cautious with what you consume.
Our recommendations below are some of the best natural remedies for pregnancy nausea that you can safely consume with reassurance.
​1. Pink Stork Tea: Morning Sickness Relief Tea
The Morning Sickness Relief Tea from Pink Stork is one of the best remedy for nausea that uses all natural ingredients suitable for pregnant women's consumption.
With ingredients like ginger and Ceylon black tea that have been proven to settle stomach, ease nausea and symptoms of hyperemesis gravidarum, this is the best thing for nausea that many women rely on as their daily relief from morning sickness.
Clinically proven to reduce colic and discomfort**, the Anti-colic baby bottle helps your baby sleep well and digest properly. Unlike other bottles, the Airflex venting system reduces air ingestion. As your baby feeds, the valve that is integrated into the nipple flexes to allow air into the bottle to prevent vacuum build up and vents the air to the back of the bottle. It keeps air in the bottle away from the baby’s tummy to help reduce gas, spit-up and burping.
Thanks to the usage of organic ingredients, this tea is safe for daily consumption. For those that suffer from all-day-sickness, you can use a few satches in a teapot to consume all day.
Apart from being a natural nausea relief for pregnant women, the Pink Stork Tea also promotes relief from cramps, constipation, diarrhoea, stress and motion sickness by relaxing the intestinal tract. All in all, it improves blood circulation and respiration and is one of the morning sickness cures that work!
Philips Avent Slow-Flow Nipples are a dual-hole extra-soft silicone nipple intended for infants older than one month, yet they can be used by breastfed babies of all ages. Working with your baby's natural feeding rhythm, the nipples let your baby control the flow, which can help reduce overeating and spit-up.
Check Out Price & Review
​2. Tummydrops Ginger
Ginger drops are another popular natural remedies for nausea during pregnancy and these ones from Tummydrops are of the best nausea relief.
Have you ever wondered why you don't get instant relief with your ginger pills/capsules or crystallised ginger/ginger candies right away, when ginger itself is a recommended ingredient by OB doctors to assist morning sickness?
This is because the former take many hours to digest before they get into your system to start working, while the latter are, well, candies which usually do not have enough of the special soothing compounds in ginger to be effective.
Clinically proven to reduce colic and discomfort**, the Anti-colic baby bottle helps your baby sleep well and digest properly. Unlike other bottles, the Airflex venting system reduces air ingestion. As your baby feeds, the valve that is integrated into the nipple flexes to allow air into the bottle to prevent vacuum build up and vents the air to the back of the bottle. It keeps air in the bottle away from the baby’s tummy to help reduce gas, spit-up and burping.
Tummydrops Ginger is different. It contains a patent-pending specialised blend of purified GMO-free gingers that are enriched in gingerol to help soothe nausea and digestive upsets. Gluten free, Kosher-certified and vegan with nothing artificial, you can be sure you are getting the best product available when it is made with the most premium ingredients in the USA.
Developed by doctors who specialise in nausea to ensure they would act fast, Tummydrops Ginger is an all natural morning sickness relief that has brown rice and dried cane syrup in its formula besides natural ginger powder. For even faster relief, try chew on them to see an extra fast effect. Definitely recommend!
Philips Avent Slow-Flow Nipples are a dual-hole extra-soft silicone nipple intended for infants older than one month, yet they can be used by breastfed babies of all ages. Working with your baby's natural feeding rhythm, the nipples let your baby control the flow, which can help reduce overeating and spit-up.
Check Out Price & Review
3. Three Lollies Preggie Pop Drops PLUS with B6
Apart from ginger, Vitamin B6 is another over the counter nausea medicine for pregnancy that experts considered as a first-line treatment for morning sickness.
The Three Lollies Preggie Pop Drops PLUS is exactly just that - comes in a pack of three containers packed with lozenges infused with nausea-relieving essential oils of sour raspberry and sour lemon, these pop drops contain a full 10 milligrams of Vitamin B6 which has been proven to relieve nausea and queasy stomach due to pregnancy.
Clinically proven to reduce colic and discomfort**, the Anti-colic baby bottle helps your baby sleep well and digest properly. Unlike other bottles, the Airflex venting system reduces air ingestion. As your baby feeds, the valve that is integrated into the nipple flexes to allow air into the bottle to prevent vacuum build up and vents the air to the back of the bottle. It keeps air in the bottle away from the baby’s tummy to help reduce gas, spit-up and burping.
Like Tummydrops Ginger, these pop drops are 100% natural with no drugs and chemicals so it's 100% safe for both mom and baby. They are also kosher certified and do not contain any artificial flavours or colours, and with each lozenge individually wrapped, they are convenient to pack in your purse, labor bag or diaper bag.
Highly recommended by doctors as a nausea medicine for pregnancy, the Three Lollies Preggie Pop Drops PLUS provides quick relief for those emergency moments. Even after delivery, should you suffer from any queasy tummy due to labor medications, this is what to take for nausea.
Philips Avent Slow-Flow Nipples are a dual-hole extra-soft silicone nipple intended for infants older than one month, yet they can be used by breastfed babies of all ages. Working with your baby's natural feeding rhythm, the nipples let your baby control the flow, which can help reduce overeating and spit-up.
Check Out Price & Review
​4. Sea Band Acupressure Wrist Band
If you're not comfortable with medicinal or mouth-consumed morning sickness cures, the Sea-Band Acupressure Wrist Band is your best remedy for nausea during pregnancy.
This acupressure wrist band has been clinically proven to relieve morning sickness by applying pressure on the Nei-Kuan acupressure point on each wrist by means of a plastic stud that work to restore balance in the body. If you do not already know, acupressure can be calming to improve your well-being overall, including calming queasiness.
With no drugs involved and no side effects, the Sea-Band Acupressure Wrist Band is suitable for pregnant women. You can experience immediate relief as soon as you put it on, and with three bands that come in one packet, you can easily switch them around. And oh, did we mention that it is washable and reusable too? You can use it even after you have delivered your baby as they work effectively for motion sickness too!
Clinically proven to reduce colic and discomfort**, the Anti-colic baby bottle helps your baby sleep well and digest properly. Unlike other bottles, the Airflex venting system reduces air ingestion. As your baby feeds, the valve that is integrated into the nipple flexes to allow air into the bottle to prevent vacuum build up and vents the air to the back of the bottle. It keeps air in the bottle away from the baby’s tummy to help reduce gas, spit-up and burping.
Philips Avent Slow-Flow Nipples are a dual-hole extra-soft silicone nipple intended for infants older than one month, yet they can be used by breastfed babies of all ages. Working with your baby's natural feeding rhythm, the nipples let your baby control the flow, which can help reduce overeating and spit-up.
Check Out Price & Review
​5. Pink Stork: Premier Bundle for Prenatal Health & Morning Sickness Relief
If you're one of the sufferers of all-day morning sickness, why not try out the Premier Bundle from Pink Stork?
This premier plan includes Pink Stork's 9 signature products that target to provide morning sickness and hyperemesis gravidarum relief and to optimise your prenatal health. It does this by attacking morning sickness from all angles through gut optimisation, magnesium supplementation, prenatal nutrition, ginger, peppermint oil and more.
Yes, the Premier Bundle includes the brand's Morning Sickness Relief Tea recommended above, and even though the whole bundle is by far the most expensive out of all the recommendations above on how to get rid of nausea during pregnancy, it is still a worthwhile package because if each product is bought individually, they will add up to cost more.
Overall, if you suffer only mild morning sickness, we wouldn't recommend this package to you but if you suffer really bad nausea, the Pink Stork Premier Bundle may just be the right solution for you.
Clinically proven to reduce colic and discomfort**, the Anti-colic baby bottle helps your baby sleep well and digest properly. Unlike other bottles, the Airflex venting system reduces air ingestion. As your baby feeds, the valve that is integrated into the nipple flexes to allow air into the bottle to prevent vacuum build up and vents the air to the back of the bottle. It keeps air in the bottle away from the baby’s tummy to help reduce gas, spit-up and burping.
Philips Avent Slow-Flow Nipples are a dual-hole extra-soft silicone nipple intended for infants older than one month, yet they can be used by breastfed babies of all ages. Working with your baby's natural feeding rhythm, the nipples let your baby control the flow, which can help reduce overeating and spit-up.
Check Out Price & Review
4. Home Remedies For Nausea During Pregnancy
For those that prefer home remedies for morning sickness, you can try the following:
1. Lemon Water
Easy and inexpensive, just squeeze a lemon into your water and drink up! Some also find sniffling a lemon a great nauseous cure.
2. Carbonated Drinks
Choose non-caffeinated ones like Sprite, Ginger Ale, 7up, Fanta and the like or alternatively, sparkling water is a good choice too for those that want to avoid too much sugar.
3. Pregnancy Nausea Relief Foods
High protein and high carb foods such as crackers and almonds are some of the best foods for morning sickness. Avoid oily and fatty as they can worsen your nausea symptoms.
4. Water
Remember to drink your H2O as it is important that you stay hydrated while pregnant. If your case of morning sickness include vomiting, the more reason you have to drink up to replenish your water balance.
5. Prenatal Vitamins
Last but not least, prenatal vitamins are also among the best cure for nausea. Regardless of whether or not you have morning sickness, they should be one of your essentials in your pregnancy journey.
Follow Us
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
Reader Favorites
Pregnancy Support Belt BLACK FRIDAY CYBER MONDAY 2018
Vimtag (FujiKam) VT-361HD IP/Network Wireless Video Baby Monitor Review
Creaker® C366 HD Monitor Review
The Best Long Range Baby Monitor of 2019
Motorola MBP33 Wireless Video Baby Monitor Review
Baby Brezza Glass One Step Baby Food Maker Review
The Baby Brezza Glass One Step Baby Food Maker is true to its name. Blending food automatically right after steaming, this all-in-one product does it all in a high-quality glass bowl without the need to transfer hot food from a steamer basket to a blender. Yes, the glass bowl is both a blender and steamer itself! […]
The Best Changing Table For Nursery – 2019 Review
Ah, changing diapers. Changing, changing and changing – this will become a staple activity in your daily life, at least for a year or so since your baby is born. Going through 10 diapers (or more!) a day is not an exaggeration (you may want to consider switching to these for economical reason), but don’t worry, […]
The Best High Chairs of 2019
Graduating from the bottle is a major milestone to celebrate – having baby sit with you at the dining table and eating together is a wonderful feeling! But here comes another challenge: messy feeding sessions. It doesn’t matter how or where you feed your baby – there’s bound to be a mess created where more food […]
Levana Jena Digital Baby Video Review
Read Customers’ R﻿e﻿viewsOnce fully charged, the Levana Jena Digital Baby Video Monitor can last up to 8 hours which means you can move about your home and tackle your daily tasks without going out of range. When there is no sound detected, the Jena will automatically switched to PEEP (Power-on/off Energy Efficient Picture) mode where […]
Pretty Chic Theme By: Pretty Darn Cute Design