Morphine | US Rehab Network
Addiction. Rehab. Freedom!
Infographics
Videos
Blog
Find a Center
ABOUT
FACTS
FACTS ON ADDICTION
FACTS ON DRUG ABUSE
FACTS ON ALCOHOL ABUSE
FACTS ON BEHAVIORAL DISORDERS
FACTS ON TREATMENT
REHABILITATION
FAQs ON REHAB
THE REHAB PROCESS
RECOVERY INFO
TYPES OF PROGRAMS
CONTACT
Call Us : 888-598-0909
Call Us : 888-598-0909
find a top private, inpatient rehab center today!
Why Wait? Over 50 Centers Nationwide!
Find a Center
Request a Confidential Call from a Rehab Specialist
Just Enter Your Phone Number and We'll Call You Back Within 5 minutes
This private line is confidential. We're here to help!
Home
Facts
Drug and alcohol abuse
Morphine
Morphinesiteadmin2015-12-17T21:43:53+00:00
Morphine
Morphine is a potent opiate narcotic pain reliever that is highly addictive. Morphine use can quickly turn into addiction when the drug is used without following doctor’s orders. A person who often uses morphine recreationally will suddenly discover he or she cannot function without it. The body becomes accustomed to opiates after two weeks of use, and after that, the craving effects of the drug cause a person to use more and more morphine.
As with other opiates, morphine slows heart rate and breathing, causes euphoria, and can lead to unconsciousness, cardiac arrest, coma, and even death.
Morphine is an opiate derived from the poppy plant. Street names for this drug include Miss Emma, Roxanol, Duramorph, M, and White Stuff. Morphine is available in tablet, syrup, suppository, or injectable solution. It can be swallowed, injected, or even smoke, depending on the form. The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) reported that more than 23 million people sought treatment for illicit drug and alcohol addiction in 2009. Opiates, like morphine, account for the largest percentage of drug-related admissions to treatment facilities (20 percent).
Effects of Morphine
Morphine affects several regions of the brain that alter perception of pleasure and pain, resulting in euphoria or a “high” when it is used. Short-term effects include drowsiness, relaxation, and nausea. Long-term use of this drug will lead to a physical dependence and tolerance, which is where a person requires more and more of a substance to achieve the desired effect. People taking opioid medicines should follow directions of medical personnel to avoid addiction and dependence.
Withdrawal Symptoms
If a person is addicted to morphine, withdrawal symptoms are likely when he or she does not have the drug. The drug cravings bypass a person’s ability to make rational decisions and choices, and overdose can occur when a person uses too much morphine. The unpleasant withdrawal sickness, also called dope sickness, involves muscle cramps, body aches, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, insomnia, depression, chills, sweats, restlessness, and irritability.
Rehabilitation (rehab) centers often use Narconon to counteract the withdrawal effects a person experiences. The center will give nutritional supplements, such as vitamin C, B complex, calcium, and magnesium. This prevents the spasms, cramps, and other bodily aches that occur with withdrawal from morphine. Withdrawal symptoms will begin as early as 6 hours after the last morphine dose when a person is using it on a regular basis.
Causes of Morphine Addiction
Genetic – Morphine addiction is heritable, and those with a first-degree relative who abuses a substance experience higher risk of opioid addiction compared to the general population.
Environmental – Depending on how a person was raised, many families are more liberal with pain medications than others. A person exposed to the environment where opioid drugs are commonplace is more likely to use this substance.
Brain structure and chemistry – Morphine affects certain pleasure chemicals of the brain by stimulating the structures to release these chemicals. Endogenous opioids are natural occurring and produced by the brain, so morphine binds to these receptor sites to produce euphoria.
Resources
http://www.samhsa.gov/csatdisasterrecovery/featuredreports/Abrupt%20Withdrawal.pdf
http://www.nhtsa.gov/people/injury/research/job185drugs/morphine.htm
http://www.drugfree.org/drug-guide/morphine
Drug and Alcohol Abuse Facts
Facts On Alcohol Abuse
Facts On Getting Sober
Facts On Drug Abuse
Facts On Drug Rehab Treatment
Facts On Addiction Therapy
Facts On Alcohol And Drug Detox
Facts On Extended Care Rehab
Facts On Interventional Services
Facts On Relapse Prevention
Find a Center
Browse States
AL
AK
AZ
AR
CA
CO
CT
DE
FL
GA
HI
ID
IL
IN
IA
KS
KY
LA
ME
MD
MA
MI
MN
MS
MO
MT
NE
NV
NH
NJ
NM
NY
NC
ND
OH
OK
OR
PA
RI
SC
SD
TN
TX
UT
VT
VA
WA
WV
WI
WY
Videos
Request Help Today and Receive FREE the Ten Secrets to a Successful Rehab Experience!
Find Help
888-598-0909
The US Rehab Network was created to provide education, resources and connections to those suffering from drug and/or alcohol abuse. Not only does this involve the individual suffering, but family and friends as well. There are usually many people affected by the addiction issue at hand.
Our Centers are Nationwide, Private, Inpatient and Cost Little to Nothing Out of Pocket!
Links
ABOUT
FACTS
REHABILITATION
CONTACT
Connect with US Rehab Network
Join our online community to learn more about addiction and treatment.
(888) 961-4298
Blog
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Find a Center
Copyright © US Rehab Network 2015
The information provided by US Rehab Network is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Individual results may vary and only your medical professional can explain all the risks and potential benefits of any treatment based on your circumstances. US Rehab Network does not recommend or endorse any specific tests, products, procedures, opinions, or other information that may be mentioned on this website. Reliance on any information provided by US Rehab Network, US Rehab Network employees, others appearing on this website at the invitation of US Rehab Network, or other visitors to the website is solely at your own risk. US Rehab Network is not responsible for the outcome of your treatment.