Family history and inherited cancer genes | Cancer Research UK
Skip to main content
Together we will beat cancer
Donate
About cancer
Cancer types
Breast cancer
Bowel cancer
Lung cancer
Prostate cancer
More...
Cancers in general
Symptoms
Screening
Tests
Treatment
Clinical trials
Causes of cancer
Smoking
Alcohol
Diet
Obesity
Sun and UV
Coping with cancer
Managing symptoms and side effects
Counselling and talking
Money and travel
Death and dying
Cancer Chat forum
Health Professionals
Cancer Statistics
Local cancer statistics
Be Clear on Cancer
NICE suspected cancer referral guidelines
More...
Get involved
Donate
Make a donation
By cancer type
Leave a legacy gift
Donate in Memory
World Cancer Day
More...
Find an event
Race for Life
Charity runs
Charity walks
Search events
Relay For Life
More...
Volunteer
Volunteer in our shops
Help at an event
Help us raise money
Volunteer in your area
More...
Do your own fundraising
Fundraising ideas
Get a fundraising pack
Return fundraising money
Fundraise by cancer type
Set up a Cancer Research UK Giving Page
More...
More...
Find a shop or superstore
Fundraise at your celebration
Campaign for us
Become a partner
Cancer Research UK Kids & Teens
Our Right Now campaign
Our research
By cancer type
Brain tumours
Skin cancer
Breast cancer
All cancer types
By cancer topic
New treatments
Cancer biology
Cancer drugs
All cancer subjects
Near you
Belfast
Cardiff
Edinburgh
All locations
By Researcher
Professor Duncan Baird
Professor Fran Balkwill
Professor Andrew Biankin
See all researchers
More...
Our achievements timeline
Our research strategy
Involving animals in research
Funding for researchers
Research opportunities
For discovery researchers
For clinical researchers
For population researchers
In drug discovery & development
In early detection & diagnosis
For students & postdocs
Our funding schemes
Career Development Fellowship
Pioneer Award
Grand Challenge
View all schemes and deadlines
Applying for funding
Start your application online
How to make a successful application
Funding committees
Successful applicant case studies
How we deliver research
Our research strategy
Our research infrastructure
Events and conferences
Our research partnerships
Facts & figures about our funding
More...
Develop your research career
Recently funded awards
Manage your research grant
Notify us of new publications
Shop
Find a shop
Volunteer in a shop
Donate goods to a shop
Our superstores
Shop online
Race for Life
Wedding favours
Cancer Care
Our eBay store
Dresses
Shoes and boots
Bags and purses
About us
What we do
We beat cancer
We fundraise
We develop policy
Our Year 2017/18
Our global role
Our organisation
Our strategy
Our Trustees
CEO and Executive Board
Annual report and accounts
How we spend your money
Current jobs
Graduates and interns
Your development
Benefits
Cancer news
Science blog
Latest press releases
Latest news reports
Search all news
More...
Contact us
Press office
Publications
Update your contact preferences
ABOUT CANCER
GET INVOLVED
NEWS & RESOURCES
FUNDING & RESEARCH
ABOUT US
You are here
Home About Cancer Causes of cancer Inherited cancer genes and increased cancer risk Family history and inherited cancer genes
Family history and inherited cancer genes
We would like your feedback, please fill in our survey
Some people have an increased risk of particular types of cancer because they have an inherited gene fault.
On this page you can read about:
How can genes cause cancer?
Inheriting faulty cancer genes
How common are cancers caused by inherited faulty genes?
A family history of cancer
What if I have a strong family history?
What if I have a known gene fault?
Faulty genes and other factors
How can genes cause cancer?
Inside almost every single cell in your body is a structure called the nucleus, which is the control centre of the cell. Inside the nucleus are 23 pairs of chromosomes made up of genes. Genes are coded messages that tell cells how to behave. They control how our bodies grow and develop. We each have about 25,000 genes.
chromosome-diagram.jpg
All cancers develop because something has gone wrong with one or more of the genes in a cell. A change in a gene is called a ‘fault’ or ‘mutation’.
Usually a cell must have 6 or more gene faults before it becomes cancerous. These faults can make a cell stop working properly. It may then become cancerous and divide and grow uncontrollably. Most gene changes happen during our lifetime but some can be inherited from a parent.
Most cancers are caused by gene faults that develop during our lifetime. They may happen as we get older due to random mistakes when a cell is dividing. Or they may happen because of something we are exposed to, such as cigarette smoke or sunlight. These things are called carcinogens. These gene changes don’t affect all body cells. They are not inherited and can't be passed on to our children. They are called acquired mutations. Cancers caused by acquired mutations are called sporadic cancers.
Inheriting faulty cancer genes
Some faulty genes that increase the risk of cancer can be passed on from parent to child. These are called inherited cancer genes. This occurs when there is a mistake or a fault in the genes in an egg or sperm cell. Then the gene fault can be passed on to children. Genes that increase the risk of cancer are called cancer susceptibility genes.
These genes would normally protect us against cancer – they correct DNA damage that naturally occurs when cells divide. Inheriting a faulty copy of one of these genes means that it cannot repair damaged DNA in cells. This means the cells may become cancerous.
We inherit genes from both our parents. If a parent has a gene fault then each child has a 1 in 2 chance (50%) of inheriting it. So some children will have the faulty gene and an increased risk of developing cancer and some children won’t.
Being born with one inherited faulty gene doesn’t mean that a person will definitely get cancer. But they have a higher risk of developing particular types of cancer than other people. They are also more likely to develop cancer at a younger age. Doctors call this having a genetic predisposition to cancer. For a cancer to develop, further gene changes (mutations) need to happen. This usually happens over many years.
How common are cancers caused by inherited faulty genes?
Cancers due to inherited faulty genes are much less common than cancers due to gene changes caused by aging or other factors. Most cancers develop because of a combination of chance and our environment, not because we have inherited a specific cancer gene.
Genetic specialists estimate that between 3 and 10 in every 100 cancers (3 to 10%) diagnosed are linked to an inherited faulty gene. But the evidence is not completely clear.
Different gene faults increase the risk of different types of cancer. Some faults increase the risk by a small amount and some increase the risk much more.
Read about inherited genes and cancer types.
A family history of cancer
In families with an inherited faulty gene there may be a pattern of specific types of cancer running in the family. Most people who have relatives with cancer will not have inherited a faulty gene. Cancer mostly occurs in older people. It is a common disease. 1 in 2 people in the UK (50%) will get cancer at some point in their lives. So, most families will include at least one person who has had cancer. Having a couple of relatives diagnosed with cancer over the age of 60 doesn’t mean there is a cancer gene running in the family.
The strength of your family history depends on:
Who in your family has had cancer
How old they were at diagnosis
The more relatives who have had the same or related types of cancer, and the younger they were at diagnosis, the stronger someone’s family history is. This means that it is more likely that the cancers are being caused by an inherited faulty gene.
This family tree shows a pattern of cancer that could be caused by an inherited faulty gene.
family-tree.jpg
You may have a strong family history if any of the following situations apply to you:
More than 2 close relatives on the same side of your family have had cancer – the same side of your family means either your father’s relatives or your mother’s relatives
The relatives have had the same type of cancer, or different cancers that can be caused by the same gene fault
The cancers developed when the family members were young, below the age of 50
One of your relatives has had a gene fault found by genetic tests
It is important to remember that cancer is most common in people over the age of 60 and is rarer in young people. So cancer in older people is less likely to be due to an inherited cancer gene.
What if I have a strong family history?
Talk to your GP if you think that you may have a strong family history of cancer. Your GP will ask you about your family and how many members have been diagnosed with cancer. If they think that you might be at increased risk they can refer you to a genetics clinic.
Read about genetic testing for cancer risk.
What if I have a known gene fault?
If you have a known gene fault, your doctor or a genetic counsellor will be able to give you an idea of how much your risk is increased compared to the general population. They may also suggest that you need regular monitoring for particular cancers or they may suggest treatment to try to reduce the risk of developing cancer.
You can find out more about the options if you have a known gene fault on our page about getting your genetic test results .
Faulty genes and other factors
Some inherited cancer genes are more likely to cause cancer than others. It depends on how big a part the gene plays in the development of that cancer. As well as a gene fault, many other factors need to be in place for a cancer to develop. Because the other factors are not always in place, the cancer may seem to skip a generation. A parent may have the gene and not develop cancer but their child who inherits the same gene does develop cancer.
We need more research to find out what these other factors are for each type of cancer. We also need to find out more about how genes work together to cause cancer so that we can reduce the risk of developing it.
Related information
Causes of cancer and reducing your risk
Genes, DNA, and cancer
Inherited genes and cancer types
Genetic testing for cancer risk
Last reviewed
3 September 2018
About Cancer
Causes of cancer
What's my cancer risk?
Can cancer be prevented?
Smoking and cancer
Alcohol and cancer
Diet and cancer
Obesity, weight and cancer
Physical activity and cancer
Sun, UV and cancer
Infections (e.g. HPV) and cancer
Hormones and cancer
Air pollution, radon gas and cancer
Cancer risks in the workplace
Cancer controversies
Inherited cancer genes and increased cancer risk
Family history and inherited cancer genes
Inherited genes and cancer types
Genetic testing for cancer risk
Getting your genetic test results
What to ask your doctor about testing for cancer genes
Where this information comes from
Age and Cancer
Children's Cancers
Thank you!
We've recently made some changes to the site, tell us what you think
Leave this field blank
Rate this page:
Select ratingGive Family history and inherited cancer genes 1/5Give Family history and inherited cancer genes 2/5Give Family history and inherited cancer genes 3/5Give Family history and inherited cancer genes 4/5Give Family history and inherited cancer genes 5/5
Currently rated: 4.2 out of 5 based on 216 votes
Find a clinical trial
Search our clinical trials database for all cancer trials and studies recruiting in the UK
Cancer Chat forum
Talk to other people affected by cancer
Nurse helpline
0808 800 4040
Questions about cancer? Call freephone or email us
NHS Healthcare website
Plain English Campaign Crystal Mark conditions
Speak to a nurse
Ask one of our nurses a question
Call 0808 800 4040
Quick links
Find local shops
Shop online
Contact us
Jobs
Follow us
About our information
Terms and conditions
Privacy
Modern Slavery Statement
Cookies
Accessibility
Sitemap
Cancer Research UK is a registered charity in England and Wales (1089464), Scotland (SC041666) and the Isle of Man (1103). A company limited by guarantee. Registered company in England and Wales (4325234) and the Isle of Man (5713F). Registered address: Angel Building, 407 St John Street, London EC1V 4AD.