Edible Grade Salt | Khalid Maqbool & Sons
Email us at info@saltlampfactory.com
Category Archives: Edible Grade Salt
Himalayan Pink Salt
Posted on March 3, 2016 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Edible Grade Salt, Himalayan Salt, Uncategorized	Leave a comment
Himalayan pink salt originated in the primal seas that were present in the Himalayas millions of years ago. This was during a time when environmental pollution simply didn’t exist, guaranteeing that the salt produced today is completely pure. After mining, the salt crystals are hand selected, hand-crushed and then finely ground. Lastly the salt is hand-washed before being left to dry naturally in the sun.In a culinary setting, Himalayan Pink salt is used as a replacement for table salt and can be ground to a finer consistency in a salt mill.For centuries, Himalayan pink salt have been used as folk remedies for a variety of health issues. Stimulating circulation, lowering blood pressure and removing toxins such as heavy metals from the body are just a few of the many benefits of Himalayan pink salt.
100% Pure Mineral Salt from a pristine area deep in the Himalayan Mountain Range.
The Salt is stone ground.
Himalayan Pink Salt has a precise mesh with our body’s inner workings because it contains an almost identical set of elements to those found inside the human body, 84 of the possible 92 trace minerals, in the same proportion as naturally exists in our blood.
Himalayan pink salt can be consumed as a mineral water, dissolved in a hot bath for a healthy soak and detox, or it can be put directly on your food or used in cooking.
Our salt’s vivid pink color is a result of the trace elements in the salt, including energy-rich iron. These naturally present minerals are essential for human health
Despite what we have been led to believe, salt is equally as important to the human body as water. As long as you are drinking enough water, salt is absolutely essential for the body to generate hydroelectric energy, maintain good blood chemistry, balance the correct amount of water in our blood and cells, aid digestion and allow our nervous system and muscles to function normally.
HOW TO USE IT?
Himalayan Pink Salt certainly adds taste and flavor to our foods. At the same time, we also know that the high sodium content present in salt can lead to hypertension which, in turn, can slowly damage our cardiovascular system. If you aren’t used to eating enough, there are some easy ways you can increase your intake:
Add it to your foods and avoid processed foods or eating out, since you will consume large amounts of processed table salt. Salt to taste and don’t worry about eating too much.
Drink 1/2 tsp of quality salt in a quart of water daily to help raise your electrolyte and trace mineral levels.
Soak in a relaxing bath with added magnesium and Himalayan Pink Salt
For skin issues: Make a poultice of Himalayan pink salt and water and apply to areas with eczema or psoriasis.
Make a scrub with finely powdered Himalayan pink salt and natural oil (like coconut or olive) to use as an exfoliate in the shower.
HEALTH BENEFITS:
Improve Your Respiratory Conditions
Aside from trapping the allergens and reducing the overall air moisture levels, the Himalayan pink salt can naturally alleviate some of the most common respiratory conditions, such as asthma.
Neutralizing electromagnetic radiation
Negative ions will certainly cancel out positive ions; however, to counteract electromagnetic radiation entirely, you would need to wrap yourself in lead sheeting, not just light a lamp next to the TV.To what extent Himalayan pink salt lamps emit negative ions into the air remains to be seen. It’s not sure if they are powerful enough to neutralize electromagnetic radiation, also called ‘electro-smog’ at all.
Relieve Muscle Soreness
Himalayan pink salt is very rich in magnesium and 80 other minerals that heal muscles and soft tissues, when absorbed through the skin.
Purifying the air
It is absolutely true that the salt lamps are hygroscopic: they do suck water vapor from the air. Salt in the air has long been seen as a health booster, and sea air has been proven to help clear the airways.
Treating Acid Reflux Disease
The Himalayan pink salt can double as a natural and highly efficient antacid that keeps the stomach acid levels within the normal range.
Help you sleep better
Another popular claim is that the Himalayan pink salt lamps help you sleep better.
Lowers Blood Pressure
The reason why the Himalayan pink salt can actually be good for you is that it is absorbed directly into your blood stream in a faster and more efficient manner than conventional salt.In turn, this leads to a lower blood pressure and a healthier and improved blood flow!
for more info please visit our websites
www.khalidmaqbool.com
www.kmsexporters.com
Edible Himalayan Salt
Posted on January 29, 2016 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Edible Grade Salt	Leave a comment
Himalayan Salt is mined about 500 meters deep inside the
Himalayas and comes from the dried up primal sea of 25-million years
ago. This Himalayan salt is as pure as it can get! Because our body consists
mainly of water and salt – it therefore makes sense to choose a high
quality consumable salt… while nurturing the body with important
minerals and trace elements.
Himalayan Salts are an affordable solution to many health
challenges. Along with a balanced diet, plenty of natural water, regular
exercise and a meditation program… Edible Salt can help you live
longer, healthier, and happier!
Most of the western world thinks of edible salt as sodium chloride — a highly refined, processed white substance that’s devoid of nutrients. Salt is so devoid of nutrients, in fact, that in the early 20th century, doctors noticed that people who ate white edible salt started to suffer chronic degenerative diseases such as goiter. This was caused by the lack of iodine in the salt.
Iodine deficiency, by the way, is the No. 1 most preventable cause of mental retardation. Eating processed salt that lacks iodine, in other words, can cause your offspring to be retarded.
Himalayan Salt is essential for life — you cannot live without it. However, most people simply don’t realize that there are enormous differences between the standard, refined edible and cooking salt most of you are accustomed to using and natural health-promoting salt.
These differences can have a major impact on your staying healthy.
If you want your body to function properly, you need holistic salt complete with all-natural elements. Today’s common edible salt has nothing in common with natural salt.
Your edible salt is actually 97.5% sodium chloride and 2.5% chemicals such as moisture absorbents, and iodine. Himalayan salt is 85% sodium chloride and 15% trace minerals.
Himalayan edible salt is a healthy and natural alternative to table salt. It is mineral rich and untouched by pollutants and impurities. Try adding this salt to a grinder! As a gift item, edible Himalayan salt is sure to appeal to men or women who love to cook.
Also known as ‘white gold’. Himalayan Salt has several health benefits that help regulate water and blood sugar in the body, besides promoting bone strength and sinus health.
The health benefits of Himalayan salt include:
Supporting thyroid and adrenal function
Aiding in overall hormone balance for men and women
Supports a healthy and fiery metabolism
Contains 84 trace minerals vital for well being
Is required to make adequate stomach acid
Khalidmaqbool.com has been providing Himalayan edible salt of the highest quality since 1992,selecting only the best, top quality Himalayan salt mined directly from the Himalayas. We guarantee that each product does exactly what it is supposed to do with select quality and superior craftsmanship! the perfect salt for you.
for more details please email us at
info@khalidmaqbool.com
Catagories
Bath Salt
Black Salt
Crafted Salt Lamps
Edible Grade Salt
Halite Salt
Himalayan Salt
Khewra Salt Mines
Lick Salt
Massage Stones
Natural Salt Lamps
Salt Inhalers
Salt Plates
Salt T-lights
Uncategorized
USB Salt Lamps
Return To Top
Copyright © 2019 Khalid Maqbool & Sons
1/20 Linkers Colony Saint John Park Cant Lahore Pakistan · Pakistan info@saltlampfactory.com
CyberChimps WordPress Themes
© Khalid Maqbool & Sons
Translate »