Marijuana Addiction Treatment in Arizona | Pinnacle Peak Recovery
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
Call Us Today 866-954-0524
Pinnacle Peak Recovery
Show Search
Search this website
Hide Search
Home
About
Careers
Accreditation & Affiliations
Scholarship Program
Services
Men’s Drug Rehab Center in Arizona
Women’s Rehab in Arizona
Substance Abuse Treatments
Alcohol Rehab
Cocaine Rehab
Crack Cocaine Rehab
Drug Rehab
Ecstasy Rehab
Hallucinogens Rehab
Heroin Rehab
Marijuana Rehab
Methamphetamine Rehab
Prescription Drug Rehab
Synthetic Marijuana Rehab
Individual Therapy
CBT: Cognitive Behavioral Therapy
DBT: Dialectical Behavior Therapy
Dual Diagnosis Treatment Center in Arizona
EMDR Therapy in Scottsdale, Arizona
Experiential Therapy in Scottsdale, Arizona
Holistic Treatment
Equine Therapy For Drug Rehab
Fitness Therapy For Addiction Treatment
Meditation For Addiction Recovery
Tai Chi for Addiction Treatment
Using Yoga For Addiction Recovery
Tours
Rehab Blog
Check Insurance
Contact Us
Marijuana Addiction Treatment In Arizona
Home / Drug and Alcohol Rehab Arizona / Substance Abuse Treatments / Marijuana Addiction Treatment In Arizona
FIND THE RIGHT TREATMENT PROGRAM TODAY!
Despite the fact that many states are currently legalizing use, many people still find themselves in desperate need of marijuana addiction rehab.
People can become addicted to a variety of substances, even those that seem harmless.
If you have found yourself in a position where you feel dependent on weed, it may be time to look into different treatment options.
Pinnacle Peak Recovery is here to help you through your rehab journey and show you the path back to a healthy and productive life.
Use this guide right now to find the treatment information you need. Click on the subjects most important to you or read the whole article:
How does someone get addicted to marijuana?
Signs and symptoms of marijuana addiction.
How does it affect your brain and body?
What treatments are available for your addiction?
Where are there rehab centers near me in Arizona?
How to find the best treatment for me?
Don’t wait- Get the help you need today.
There are many Americans who believe that marijuana is a harmless substance. In fact, according to an article in the Washington Post, it is estimated that nearly 55 million Americans consume cannabis on a regular basis. However, anyone can become addicted to weed, and the side effects can become devastating to the person who is abusing it.
How Addictive Is Marijuana?
Marijuana is a drug. Just like with any other drug or substance, it can become addictive. Any time a person begins to rely on a substance or behavior for emotional regulation, they are beginning to become addicted. Before too long, that person can begin to suffer pain from withdrawal if they do not have the particular substance they rely on. People can also exhibit emotional or behavioral issues when they no longer have access to the substance they have become addicted to.
Cannabis is the most commonly used illicit substance in the US today. Because it has become so common, many people believe that it is not possible to become addicted. However, that is not the case. Anybody has the potential to become addicted to cannabis.
According to the National Institute on Drug Abuse, 30% of people who use pot become addicted or show some level of drug abuse. It all starts the first time you use the drug. Just like with any substance, some people can use a drug and not develop any addiction at all. They can simply walk away and never use that drug again. Others begin to develop an addiction from the beginning. If you notice that you are using more often, or you are becoming reliant on weed to feel “normal,” you may be addicted.
Signs and Symptoms That You Are Addicted to Cannabis
With any addiction or substance abuse disorder, there are signs to look for. Some of these signs may be physical in appearance while many are seen in changes of behavior. Pot use can usually be detected by the following symptoms:
Physical Symptoms
Red or bloodshot eyes
Rapid heartbeat
Constant hunger
Dry mouth
Slow reaction time or poor coordination
Constant cough
Behavioral Symptoms
Decreased activity
Poor performance at school or work
Withdrawing from friends or family
Less interest in activities
Paranoia
Anxiety
If you are concerned that you or a loved one has developed a marijuana dependency, here are some of the signs you should look for:
Signs of Drug Addiction
Increased tolerance – when you need more of the drug to achieve the same high you used to feel.
Using more than intended – when you only intend to use a little bit, but then you end up using much more.
Increased time spent getting high – when you start spending more and more time each day getting high.
Reduced activities – when you spend less time doing what you used to do and more time devoted to drug-use.
Using to escape problems – when you turn to drugs to solve or escape a problem or the way you are feeling.
Dependence for relaxation or creativity – feeling as though you cannot relax, sleep, or be creative unless you are high.
Basing choices off of the ability to use – if you start to make decisions such as where you are going to go and who you will hang out with based off of whether or not you will be able to smoke weed.
Continued use despite negative consequences – if you continue to smoke pot even after it has caused you problems legally or with your friends and family.
Unable to stop – when you reach the point that you realize you cannot stop using.
If you use marijuana on a regular basis and experience physical withdrawal symptoms without it, you may be addicted. If this is the case, rest assured that Pinnacle Peak Recovery is here to help.
Research conducted by the National Institute of Health shows that only 9% of cannabis users develop a dependence on the drug. While this rate is far lower than with other widely abused drugs, dependency is still a possibility for cannabis users.
How Does Weed Affect Your Brain and Body?
Marijuana affects everyone differently. Every person’s body is built differently and therefore responds to substances in its own way. For most people, weed has a calming effect that seems to slow them down.
The active chemical in marijuana is called delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol, or more commonly referred to as THC. When it’s smoked, the THC passes through the lungs into the bloodstream which then carries the chemical to the brain. The brain is divided into numerous sections, each being responsible for different functions of the body and feelings. Some of these sections have many receptors that THC binds to, while other sections have few or none at all. The sections of the brain with the most receptors are the same sections responsible for feeling pleasure, memory, concentration, perception, and coordination.
Since the THC attaches itself to these sections most heavily, these are the items that are most affected during use. Over time, it takes more and more THC to get the same feeling or high. This is when addiction can begin to occur.
What Are the Treatments for Weed Addiction?
Despite the lower addiction rate, there are actually more people who need treatment for marijuana. This is because weed is twice as popular as any other street drug and far easier to obtain. Nowadays, many states are legalizing cannabis, which means even more people may need treatment in the future. According to SAMHSA, the number of people who entered marijuana rehab facilities in 2005 was twice as many as in 1993.
As the need for weed rehabilitation increases, so do the options available for ways to effectively treat the disease. There are now many routes you can take if you have decided to treat your chemical dependency. These include:
Inpatient treatment – This is where you reside at a facility that is treating you. There you will spend 24 hours a day, seven days a week. These facilities offer many activities for you to experience and help in your rehabilitation. When addiction has reached its highest level, this is often the best option for a successful recovery.
Partial hospitalization – This is where you live off site at a sober home and attend treatment for most of the day, usually five days per week. This is a great transition for people who are leaving inpatient treatment but aren’t quite ready to go back to life on their own.
Outpatient treatment – This is where you get to live at home or in a sober living facility but attend regular classes and meetings. This type of treatment is usually recommended for people who are stepping down from inpatient treatment, partial hospitalization treatment, or those who have strong outside support networks.
Our facilities located in Scottsdale, Arizona offer several programs for treatment for addiction to weed. In these programs you will experience many types of activities such as:
Individual counseling
Group therapy
Case management
Medication management
Support services
12-step program
Peer support
Each of the rehab activities are a critical aspect to a successful experience. We want you to recover from your addiction. That is why our recovery staff incorporates each of these aspects into the treatment you receive.
Where Is There Marijuana Addiction Treatment Near Me In Arizona?
You may think that there are many marijuana treatment centers to choose from and that one is the same as the next. However, that is not true. If you have made the brave choice of seeking a rehab for marijuana addiction, don’t you want the best possible care available?
The best marijuana rehabilitation programs to attend are run by licensed professionals with the experience needed to be effective. These programs should take each client on a case by case basis, evaluating each person’s needs, and creating a treatment plan that works for them. Additionally, they should offer a variety of different therapies and activities to ensure your success.
Pinnacle Peak Recovery is a leading marijuana addiction treatment facility in the Scottsdale, Arizona area. We offer nationally recognized, evidence-based treatment options. We also provide a comprehensive and holistic approach to overcoming your marijuana dependency. We offer care in a safe, confidential and supportive environment. If you have made the decision to seek treatment, we are ready to help you on your journey back to a healthy life.
How To Find The Best Treatment For Me
If you or a loved one have made the decision to research marijuana rehab centers, you will want to make sure you find the best treatment available. It is imperative that the program you choose offers everything you will need for a successful recovery.
At Pinnacle Peak Recovery, we offer an extensive list of care options that go well beyond primary treatment. These include extended care treatment, outpatient treatment, family programs, alumni services and relapse prevention. Your personalized treatment experience begins with one of our highly trained therapists working with you to construct a therapy program suited to your unique needs.
Our program combines medically-proven types of therapy to help you with your journey in THC recovery. We offer the latest in cutting-edge treatment options and strive to always provide our clients with the most effective options available. Our client care options include:
Access to medical detox
Physician-directed medication management
EMDR (eye movement desensitization and reprocessing)
Cognitive behavioral therapy
Mindfulness training
Trauma therapy
Anger management
Assertiveness training
Tai Chi
Gong Meditation
Yoga
Individual therapy
Group therapy
Family therapy
Equine therapy
Outdoor therapeutic adventures
12-step and non-12-step support programs
In addition to these evidence-based treatments we offer, clients learn skills that they need to live a healthy, rewarding and productive life. Some of these critical skills that clients learn include:
Relapse prevention skills
Nutrition education
Career/education development and coaching
Mindfulness training
Stress management
Don’t Wait – Call Our Marijuana Addiction Helpline
If you or a loved one is suffering from the devastating effects of marijuana chemical dependency, don’t wait any longer. Contact us right now. Trained personnel are waiting to hear from you so we can help you start your journey towards a better life.
Pinnacle Peak Recovery in Scottsdale, Arizona offers several programs for marijuana treatment and rehabilitation. If you or someone you love are ready to take your life back and stop using this drug, call our addiction helpline at 866-954-0524. You can regain control for a brighter future.
Primary Sidebar
Call Us Today for Treatment That Works!
866-954-05248
FIND MORE INFORMATION
VERIFY YOUR INSURANCE
Footer
At Pinnacle we offer drug and alcohol rehab facilities in Arizona that improve peoples lives and make healing possible. We take a comforting approach to healing those who are struggling with addiction. Our patients healing is our highest priority. Treating our patients like people has made us the best place to get the right treatment.
Rehab Facility in Arizona
Alcohol Rehab
Cocaine Rehab
Crack Cocaine Rehab
Drug Addiction Treatment
Ecstasy Addiction Treatment
Hallucinogens Rehab
Heroin/Opiates Rehab
Marijuana Rehab
Methamphetamine Treatment
Prescription Drug Rehab
Synthetic Marijuana Treatment
Drug and Alcohol Rehab Services
Men’s Drug Rehab Center
Women’s Drug Rehab Center
Individual Therapy in Scottsdale, Arizona
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy
Dialectical Behavior Therapy
Dual Diagnosis Treatment Center in Arizona
Experiential Therapy in Scottsdale, Arizona
Holistic Treatment
Support Groups Directory
Pinnacle Peak Recovery
866-954-0524
info@pinnaclepeakrecovery.com
8070 East Morgan Trail
Suite 200
Scottsdale, AZ 85258
© 2019 Pinnacle Peak Recovery, A Drug and Alcohol Rehab Center in Arizona | Privacy Policy | Sitemap