8 Remarkably Effective Natural Nausea Remedies - Fresh Body Mind
Home
Health
SUPER FOODS
RECIPES
Body
Mind
ABOUT
CONTACT US
Recent Posts
How Mushrooms Can Help Improve Athletic Performance
The Amazing Benefits of Mushrooms for Brain Health
Can Cordyceps Miltaris Mushrooms Improve Endurance?
The Fantastic Health Benefits of King Trumpet Mushrooms
Fresh Body Mind Tweets
8 Remarkably Effective Natural Nausea Remedies
May 8, 2017
/ By	Ellie
Nausea plagues everyone from time to time. Whether it’s morning sickness, food poisoning, or just an upset stomach, feeling nauseous is never fun. But luckily there are a number of natural remedies to help ease the discomfort. In this post, we’ve rounded up the best of them.
1. Turmeric Curcumin
Turmeric is great for soothing digestive distress. The active ingredient, Curcumin, has the ability to suppress stomach acid and stimulate the gallbladder. As a result, it can alleviate a number of problems including gas, bloating and indigestion. While these aren’t always directly related to nausea, they can sometimes crop up together so consider taking a dose of Turmeric Curcumin if you’re struggling with general digestive discomfort.
Read more about the health benefits of Turmeric Curcumin.
2. Ginger
Ginger is a fail safe remedy for nausea. Used for centuries to cure an upset stomach, this superfood works by promoting the secretion of various digestive enzymes that help neutralize stomach acid. Not only that, but ginger also contains phenols – compounds that help the intestine move food and toxin through the intestinal tract.
There are loads of ways to enjoy the health benefits of ginger. If you’re suffering from indigestion, you may find that sipping on a homemade ginger tea helps, or if you’re battling morning sickness, why not try some crystalized ginger?
Ginger is also great with Turmeric, why not combine the two for a natural solution to nausea that packs twice the punch?
3. Acupressure
Acupressure might sound daunting, but it’s super easy to get to grips with and surprisingly effective. Put simply, acupressure is the process of applying pressure on your body’s trigger points. For the relief of nausea, this means pressing down on your wrist for two to three minutes. So how exactly does it work? Research suggests that by activating these pressure points, your body releases neurotransmitters that block the chemicals that make you feel sick.
4. Apple cider vinegar
Is there anything apple cider vinegar can’t cure? While ACV might be the last thing you want to drink when nausea strikes, this potent vinegar may well relieve symptoms. Simply knock back one cup of filtered water mixed with one tablespoon of apple cider vinegar as soon as nausea hits. Can’t stomach the taste? Try mixing in one or two teaspoons of manuka honey.
5. Cumin seeds
Just like ginger, cumin is well known for its ability to fight off nausea. Thanks to its anaesthetic properties, just a teaspoon of cumin seeds steeped in hot water can ease sickness. Simply add honey to sweeten and sip slowly. The soothing tea should get you feeling better in no time.
6. Vitamin B6
For pregnant women plagued by morning sickness, Vitamin B6 is a lifesaver. While researchers are still puzzled as to how it works, this important vitamin has been shown to dramatically reduce nausea and vomiting experienced during pregnancy. To ease morning sickness, try taking 25mg of Vitamin B6 three times daily until your symptoms disappear.
7. Lemon
Citrus is known for its cleansing properties, but did you know it can help fight nausea too? And the remedy is simple. Just cut open a fresh lemon and inhale its fragrance every time you feel nauseous. It might seem suspiciously easy, but amazingly this remedy has been proven to work. According to a 2014 double-blind study, lemon inhalation aromatherapy significantly reduced the levels of nausea and vomiting in 100 pregnant women after only a few days.
8. A cool compress
Sometimes when you’re feeling nauseous, all you want is a cool compress and some peace and quiet. So grab an ice pack or a wet flannel and apply to the back of your neck. Now find somewhere quiet, cool and dark. If you’re suffering from anxiety-related nausea, sometimes taking some time out to breathe can ease any sickness and uneasiness.
10 Delicious Ways To Enjoy Turmeric
Immune Boosting Ginger, Lemon and Cinnamon Tea
FREE Healthy Lifestyle Hacks, FREE Recipes & Exclusive Discounts on Superfoods & Health Supplements!
SIGN UP FOR FREE!
Related Posts
20 Nov, 2018
How to Use the Apple Cider Vinegar Diet to Lose Weight: A Research-Backed Method 2019
17 Oct, 2018
Are You 100% Sure You’re Choosing The Best Chlorella Supplement Brand?
12 Apr, 2018
Could Superfood Chlorella Support Your Health During Chemotherapy?
05 Apr, 2018
Can Ashwagandha KSM-66 Help Fight Alzheimer’s?
Copyright 2018. All Rights Reserved. Fresh Body Mind | Terms Of Use | Privacy Policy | Affiliate Disclosure
The content on this site is for informational and educational purposes only. It is not intended to provide medical advice or to take the place of medical advice or treatment from a personal physician. All readers/viewers of this content are advised to consult their doctors or qualified health professionals regarding specific health questions. Neither Fresh Body Mind nor the publisher of this content takes responsibility for possible health consequences of any person or persons reading or following the information in this educational content. All viewers of this content, especially those taking prescription or over-the-counter medications, should consult their physicians before beginning any nutrition, supplement or lifestyle program.
Connect With Me:
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy