5 Important Tips On When You Can Get Pregnant - Beautyzoomin
Menu
Healthier Life
Exercise
Weight Loss
Woman
Travel
Elegant
Lips
Teeth
Eyes
Make up
Plastic Surgery
Skin Care
Vogue
Men Fashion
Hair
Pregnancy
Babies
Kids
Herbs
Ways
Universal
Infographics
✕
Search for:
Home
Pregnancy
5 Important Tips On When You Can Get Pregnant
5 Important Tips On When You Can Get Pregnant
Tatiana Plesco • April 22, 2017 • No Comments •
The question of when a woman can get pregnant has become a great concern for one who wants to get pregnant and for one who wants to avoid getting pregnant. Couples who desperately want to have a baby want to know the exact dates that a woman can be impregnated. However, although a method has been established on how to predict a woman’s fertile period, still, some errors might occur in the calculation. You want to have a baby, having sexual contact anytime is not a problem. But if you do not want o to have a baby, knowing when you can get pregnant will be helpful to you.
Here are Some Tips on When You Can Get Pregnant.
When You’re On Your Period.
Older women would usually advise their daughters and female relatives or friends that they cannot get pregnant when they are having their period. However, this has been considered a myth because the probability of getting pregnant is still present. Many women are surprised that they still get pregnant even if they engage in sex during their period. An explanation to this is that the sperm can live up to 5 days in a woman’s womb. If a woman ovulates right after her period and releases an egg, the sperm that is still alive in her womb will fertilize it, resulting in pregnancy. If you want to get pregnant, engaging in sex during your period can result in pregnancy. However, if you do not want to get pregnant, always have protection if you engage in sex during your period to avoid suffering from the consequences.
After Period.
Chance of getting pregnant after your period is still high because menstrual cycle can vary. It is possible for you to ovulate right after your period or a few days later. This means that if you have sexual contact right after your period stops, the sperm can stay alive for five days at most. Your fertile period is 12 to 16 days prior to the start of your period and five days after it ended. When you ovulate while the sperm is still alive, it can fertilize the egg and you will conceive. To be safe, you should wait up to five days after your period ends to have unprotected sexual activity. Keep these tips in your mind and if you want to conceive, you can easily have success. Likewise, you can also avoid pregnancy by taking extra care even if you think that you cannot be pregnant.
When You’re Fertile.
Women who are fertile at the time of sexual contact are most likely to get pregnant. Your fertility period is the time when you ovulate or release the egg that can be fertilized by a sperm and this can result in pregnancy. Couples who desperately want to conceive keep a close watch on the woman’s fertile period and this can be determined by keeping track of the woman’s menstrual cycle. Usually, a woman is fertile 12 to 16 days before her cycle begins and 5 days after her cycle ends. For women who want to conceive, these are the best days to have sex while for those who want to prevent pregnancy, sexual contact should be avoided during these days. Women whose menstrual cycle is not regular and do not want to conceive should always use protection even during the presumed non-fertile period because they cannot easily pinpoint the days when they are not fertile. There are also instances when spotting can be mistaken as the onset of pregnancy and this can result in the wrong number of menstrual cycle and pregnancy because what the woman thought as her safe days are actually her fertile days.
When Your Tubes Are Tied.
Women who do not want to have a baby can have a tubal ligation, which is done by a medical practitioner. The procedure involves tying the fallopian tubes, blocking them, or cutting them to prevent pregnancy. Women who think they already have the number of children they want or who have certain medical conditions that can be life-threatening once they get pregnant usually opt to undergo tubal ligation. There are also women who do not want to have children so they have their tubes removed or tied. While this is an effective way of preventing pregnancy, there is still a very small chance that a woman can get pregnant. According to medical practitioners, one out of 100 women who had their tubes tied can still conceive. The risk is high since ectopic pregnancy happens. This is a kind of pregnancy where the fetus develops outside the uterus. It can cause bleeding and usually, the fetus cannot survive. Hemorrhaging can be life-threatening to the mother and so, an ectopic pregnancy must be given the right medical attention at its early stage. One setback though is that many ectopic pregnancies are detected as late as during the 8th month of pregnancy. To be safe, women who have undergone tubal ligation should be kept aware of the symptoms of ectopic pregnancy. These are dizziness, pain in the lower part of the abdomen, light bleeding from the vagina, sharp cramps in the abdomen, and severe bleeding caused by a ruptured fallopian tube. If you experience these symptoms, visit your doctor right away.
When Breastfeeding.
Many women who breastfeed cannot get pregnant right away. This is because the hormones that make women ovulate are used to make breast milk. As long as the baby is breastfed, a woman’s menstruation stops. Some women may not have their period for more than a year. Many couples use breastfeeding as a natural family planning method. However, there are instances when even if the mother is breastfeeding, her period resume after at least three months after delivery. In this case, the mother can easily get pregnant even if she is still breastfeeding and if she wants to stop having babies, she should always protect herself during sexual contact. Valery is a {a blogger, a pediatrician, and a specialist in the field of pregnancy and parenting} at {rocketparents.com}. When she is not {work}-ing she can be found writing groovy blog posts for .
More from my site
Personal Care Tips For New Moms
How To Fight Hiccups During Early Pregnancy
Dangerous Mobile Phones During Pregnancy
Things No One Tells You When You Are Pregnant!
Timeline Of Earliest Pregnancy Symptoms
3 Steps To A Healthy Pregnancy
How To Make A Diy Home Pregnancy Test: 9 Best Home Remedies
Excellent Remedies For Swollen Feet During Pregnancy
Teen Pregnancy a Crisis
4 Best Exercises During Pregnancy
What Precautions Should You Follow During Pregnancy
Top 4 Foods That You Should Consume During Pregnancy
Tweet
Pin It
admin
Hi, I am Tatiana Plesco from Chicago. Love to do blogging about natural beauty, alternative healing, some fashion and fitness tips. Managed a small team developing strategies for beauty and new ideas. Earned praised for my work developing and working on-site at home. Prior to my current job I am fully focused on this blog to make it great for readers.Please join our community on social media platforms.
Related Posts
Succeeding During The Breastfeeding Period
Tatiana Plesco • May 23, 2018 • Healthier Life , Pregnancy
Super Home Remedies For Morning Sickness
Tatiana Plesco • April 22, 2017 • Pregnancy
Insomnia In Pregnancy
Tatiana Plesco • April 22, 2017 • Pregnancy
6 Best Diet Tips For Pregnant Women
Tatiana Plesco • April 22, 2017 • Pregnancy
Search for:
Enter your email address:
Recent Posts
Find Out The 22 Ways Sodas Shortens Our Lives
The Best Ways to Combat Oily Skin
14 Essential Qualities for a Love That Lasts
These Simple Methods Will Reverse the Aging of Skin in Only A Few Months
The 9 Most Exciting Beauty Products To Try In 2019
More Posts
How Meat Causes Cancer Meat increases the risk of cancer
Feeling of Lacking Attracts Unhappiness-Gratitude Equal Abundance
Boost Heart Health With Yoga
How to Treat Varicose Veins? Best products that Can Control The Appearance of Varicose Veins
How To Keep Your Brows Neat In Between Shapings?
Autumn/Winter Beauty Trends For Hair And Makeup
How To Enhance Female Beauty Through Fashion
7 Herbs That Will Burn Fat Without Need Exercise
Healthy Foods That Crush Your Cravings
What Causes Allergies In America?
Genetically Modified Babies Waiting Approval
Regain and Retain Your Physical Fitness With Gardening
How To Make Coconut Oil Lotion Bar Sticks For Beauty Treatment
6 Stretches For Complete Lower Back Pain Relief
Beauty and Health site that bring almost everything new for you.
Follow Us
About Us
Contribute Now
Sitemap
Contact Us
Beautyzoomin Copyright © 2019.
Powered by BeautyZoomin | Sitemap | Write for Us | The information mentioned here are strictly informational. Our site does not provide medical advice. Consult with your doctor or other healthcare providers before using any of these advises or treatments. If any problems with pictures you see please email us and we remove immediately.Site is totally free we don't make any profits.
{{{data.title}}} {{{data.content}}} {{{data.author}}}
{{{data.title}}} {{{data.content}}} {{{data.author}}}