Chronic urinary tract infection (UTI): Symptoms, treatment, and home remedies
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
How can you stop a chronic UTI?
Last reviewed	 Wed 20 June 2018	 Last reviewed	Wed 20 Jun 2018
By Lana Burgess
Reviewed by Elaine K. Luo, MD
Table of contents
Symptoms
Causes
Risk factors
Diagnosis
Medical treatment
Home remedies
Complications
Prevention
Takeaway
A chronic urinary tract infection is an ongoing or recurring infection of the urinary tract. The infection may recur because the tract gets re-infected or because treatment did not clear the infection entirely. Symptoms may stop during treatment, but they may start up again after treatment.
A chronic urinary tract infection (UTI) might also be called a persistent or recurring UTI. According to one study, a doctor will diagnose a recurring UTI (RUTI) if a person has three positive urine cultures during a 12-month period or two infections during the previous 6 months.
According to the same 2013 study, UTIs are more common in women. The report noted that around 50-60 percent of females would develop a UTI in their lifetimes, but they will not always become chronic.
The National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive Kidney Diseases state that around 1 in 4 women will have recurring UTIs.
Symptoms of a UTI
A person with a chronic UTI may experience lower stomach pain.
The symptoms of a UTI in the bladder or urethra include:
needing to urinate often or urgently
feeling the need to urinate even after emptying the bladder
feeling pain, burning, or pressure when urinating
producing urine that is bloody, cloudy, or smelly
having lower tummy pain
experiencing lower back pain
If the infection spreads to the kidneys, a person may experience:
feeling sick
throwing up
tiredness
confusion
fever
chills
Causes of a UTI
The urinary tract is divided into the upper and lower urinary tract and is composed of a series of organs and tubes that take urine out of the body:
the upper urinary tract includes the kidneys and ureters
the lower urinary tract includes the bladder, urethra, and prostate
A UTI may affect any part of the urinary tract. However, infection typically occurs when bacteria enter the urinary tract through the urethra, which is the tube carrying urine from the kidneys to the bladder.
If the infection starts in the urethra and bladder, it is usually not serious and clears up with treatment.
However, if a UTI reaches the kidneys, it can be more serious. A person with an upper urinary tract infection may need to go to the hospital for treatment.
Risk factors
Pregnancy can increase the risk of a person getting a UTI.
Females are more likely than males to get a UTI because of the position and shorter length of their urethras.
The female urethra is near the anus, which makes it easy for bacteria from the stool to get into the urethra. To prevent this, always wipe from front to back after going to the toilet.
Bacteria do not have as far to travel to infect the bladder because a female has a shorter urethra than a male. Because of this, bladder infections can happen more easily.
Having kidney stones, a weakened immune system, or being pregnant makes it more likely a person will get a UTI.
A 2014 review linked the following factors with RUTIs in otherwise healthy women:
having sex
prior history of UTI
using a diaphragm during sex
using oral contraceptives
using spermicides
hormonal changes during menopause
Some specific ways of having sex make getting a UTI more likely. If people have anal sex, it is essential they wash their genitals before engaging in other sexual activities to reduce the spread of bacteria.
Genetic factors and urinary tract abnormalities may also make getting a chronic UTI more likely.
Males rarely get UTIs. If they do, it may be because they have an enlarged prostate. An enlarged prostate may mean the bladder cannot empty fully, leaving bacteria to multiply.
What to know about kidney infections
The urinary tract includes the kidneys. Sometimes, an infection can affect the kidneys, which can be quite severe. Learn more about the symptoms and treatment options for a kidney infection here.
Read now
Diagnosis
A doctor may carry out the following tests to reach a diagnosis and understand why a UTI is recurring:
Urine culture test: This checks for bacterial cultures in urine.
Visual bladder and urethra exam: This is to check for any abnormalities.
Computed tomography (CT) scan of the urinary tract: This allows the doctor to see the urinary tract in more detail.
Medical treatment options
Doctors normally treat chronic UTIs with antibiotics. They may suggest either:
taking a low-dose, long-term course of antibiotics
taking antibiotics prescribed in advance as a preventive measure after having sex or on the first onset of symptoms
The doctor may also prescribe pain-relieving medication to ease discomfort.
Home remedies
Home remedies for a UTI include:
taking acetaminophen to relieve pain and reduce fever
placing a hot water bottle on the lower stomach to ease discomfort
drinking plenty of water to flush out the bacteria
getting plenty of rest to help the body fight the infection
avoiding sex to reduce discomfort
Drinking cranberry juice is a popular home remedy for UTIs. But there is little scientific evidence to suggest it is effective.
However, a sugar found in cranberries called D-mannose shows promise as a home remedy to treat a UTI. A 2014 study found that D-mannose powder reduced the risk of recurring UTIs and may be useful for UTI prevention. More research is needed to confirm these findings.
What are the complications?
If a bladder infection remains untreated, it can spread to the kidneys, which is more dangerous. If a person has a kidney infection, they may need treatment in the hospital.
Without proper treatment, a kidney infection may lead to permanent kidney damage.
Rarely, chronic UTIs may cause sepsis (blood poisoning) if left untreated, which may be life-threatening.
Prevention
Drinking plenty of water can help flush bacteria out of the bladder.
Some lifestyle changes may make UTIs less likely to recur. These include:
urinating before and straight after having sex
cleaning genital and anal areas before and after sex
drinking plenty of water to flush bacteria out of the bladder
finding alternatives to diaphragms or spermicide for birth control
wearing cotton underwear and loose clothing
wiping front to back after going to the toilet
avoiding scented body washes or douches
Takeaway
Chronic UTIs usually clear up with long-term antibiotics.
The doctor may prescribe antibiotics for self-directed use. Getting to know the early signs of infection will help a person take their antibiotics as soon as they are needed.
It is vital to work closely with the doctor and ask for further treatment if UTIs continue to recur.
Related coverage
Cranberries For Urinary Tract Infections - New Evidence Researchers have provided new evidence to support the use of cranberries in the prevention of UTIs, which could also limit the spread of bacteria in urinary catheters. Read now
What to know about urinary tract infections A urinary tract infection can affect the bladder, the kidneys and the tubes that link them. Usually caused by bacteria, urinary tract infections are much more common in women than men. This article looks at the different types of infection, how to prevent them, and treatment options, including home remedies. Read now
Five home remedies for UTIs A urinary tract infection, sometimes called a bladder infection, is an infection that causes discomfort and frequent urges to urinate. UTIs are usually caused by bacteria but can be linked to other conditions, such as kidney stones and diabetes. Symptoms vary but usually clear up with the help of some home remedies. Read now
All you need to know about UTIs in men Learn all about urinary tract infections in men, which are less frequent but can be more serious than UTIs in women. We look at symptoms and treatments. Read now
Everything you need to know about bladder infection Bladder infections are common and usually occur due to bacteria entering the urethra. Symptoms may include cloudy urine, pain on urinating, and an urgent need to urinate. Factors such as frequent sexual intercourse and diabetes can increase the likelihood of an infection. Find out more about bladder infections here. Read now
email email
print
share share
Urinary Tract Infection
Infectious Diseases / Bacteria / Viruses Urology / Nephrology
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Wed 20 June 2018.
Visit our Urinary Tract Infection category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Urinary Tract Infection.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Al-Badr, A., & Al-Shaikh, G. (2013, August). Recurrent urinary tract infections management in women: A review. Sultan Qaboos University Medical Journal, 13 (3), 359–367. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3749018/
Bladder infection (urinary tract infection—UTI) in adults. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/urologic-diseases/bladder-infection-uti-in-adults#i
Glover, M., Moreira, C. G., Sperandio, V., & Zimmern, P. (2014, March). Recurrent urinary tract infections in healthy and nonpregnant women. Urological Science, 25 (1), 1–8. Retrieved from https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1879522614000037
Kranjčec, B., Papeš, D., & Altarac, S. (2014, February). D-mannose powder for prophylaxis of recurrent urinary tract infections in women: A randomized clinical trial [Abstract]. World Journal of Urology, 32(1), 79–84. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23633128
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Burgess, Lana. "How can you stop a chronic UTI?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 20 Jun. 2018. Web.
26 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322185.php>
APA
Burgess, L. (2018, June 20). "How can you stop a chronic UTI?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322185.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Marijuana users less likely to be overweight, obese
New research examines the link between body mass index and cannabis use. The findings may seem counterintuitive, given that marijuana increases appetite.
Patterns of antibiotic use may predict cardiovascular risk
A large cohort study has found a link between prolonged antibiotic use in middle age and later in life and an increased cardiovascular risk.
Innovative patch may reduce muscle damage after a heart attack
An interdisciplinary team of researchers has designed a patch that can limit damage after a heart attack. The patch was successfully tested in rats.
Could invigorating the immune system prevent lung cancer?
Early immune-related molecular changes in airway tissue could potentially predict invasive lung cancer and serve as prevention targets, new study suggests.
Does your tongue have a sense of smell?
New research in mice and human cell cultures has revealed that the taste cells of humans and other mammals can also contain smell receptors.
Popular in: Urinary Tract Infection
Seven ways to treat a UTI without antibiotics
How can you stop a chronic UTI?
Treating urinary tract infections with Cipro
Can D-mannose treat a UTI?
What are the symptoms of a UTI in older adults?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322185.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);