A Quick Guide to Liposomal Vitamin C - Blog - iHerb.com
header_search header_signed-out header_signed-in header_cart sharefilled circlex circleexclamation iherbleaf
10% Loyalty Credit on Every Order! View Details
Free Shipping for orders over $20
checkoutarrow
US
EN
USD
Image Coming Soon
Added to Cart
Total:
Discount:
Together:
Quantity:
Cart Total:
Checkout
Customers Also Bought:
Share
You are now signed in!
Share the link below with your Rewards code attached, and your referrals will receive an instant discount, while you earn Rewards credit! Read More
iHerb customers: Split an extra 10% credit with others via your rewards account.
Sign in or Read More.
Continue sharing without signing in
Copy
Shorten URL
Shorten URL
Sign In
My Account
My Account
Orders
Lists
My Reviews
My Page
My Questions
My Answers
Rewards
Messages
Sign Out
Create an Account
Sign In
24/7 Help
Search History
Clear
Trending
Supplements
Herbs & Homeopathy
Bath & Personal Care
Beauty
Sports
Grocery
Baby & Kids
Pets
Home
Brands
Health Topics
Specialty Stores
New
Best Sellers
Specials
Trial Items
Gifts
Why iHerb?
Browser Upgrade Notice
As part of our ongoing efforts to improve security for our customers, your current browser version will no longer be supported for iHerb starting 7/1/2018. Upgrade your existing browser using links below.
FireFox
Chrome
Edge
Internet Explorer
Safari
Remind me later
Do not show again
iherblogo beauty2 heart-circle sports-fitness food-nutrition herbs-supplements
Beauty
Wellness
Fitness
Nutrition
Conditions
Select a Category
Beauty
Wellness
Fitness
Nutrition
Conditions
Wellness
A Quick Guide to Liposomal Vitamin C
March 6 2019
What is Liposomal Vitamin C?
Liposomal vitamin C is an advanced form designed for better absorption and utilization within the body. Liposomes are small spherical cells that are composed of an outer layer made of fatty acids known as phospholipids derived from either sunflower or soy. Liposomes also have an inner compartment composed of water and water-soluble active ingredients. The water-soluble ingredient like vitamin C is protected within the inner compartment by the liposomal structure.
The primary advantage of liposomal vitamin C is improved absorption. The ability of our intestinal cells to uptake higher dosages of vitamin C has a threshold. That is why higher dosages of vitamin C can cause excessive gas and/or diarrhea. The bioavailability of liposomal vitamin C is significantly greater than regular vitamin C, it is taken up into the body at almost double the level that of regular vitamin C. Liposomal vitamin C is often promoted as an oral alternative to getting an intravenous (IV) dosage of vitamin C.
Health Benefits of Liposomal Vitamin C
The health benefits of liposomal vitamin C mirror those of regular vitamin C. The primary function of vitamin C is the manufacture of collagen, the main protein substance of the human body. Since collagen is such an important protein for the structures that hold our body together (connective tissue, cartilage, tendons, etc.), vitamin C is vital for wound repair, healthy gums, and the prevention easy bruising.
In addition to its role in collagen metabolism, vitamin C is also critical to the antioxidant system, immune function, the manufacture of brain chemicals and hormones, and the absorption and utilization of other nutritional factors.
There have been a number of scientific investigations with liposomal vitamin C. In one interesting trial, liposomal vitamin C was shown to prevent reperfusion injury - tissue damage caused when blood supply returns to the tissue after a period of a lack of oxygen. Reperfusion injury is a concern with many heart and cardiovascular procedures and occurs after a heart attack or stroke. Intravenous vitamin C also prevents to prevent reperfusion injury, vitamin C is given intravenously, but since liposomal vitamin C has such a high absorption rate, it is an oral alternative.
In the study, on 4 separate randomly ordered occasions, 11 men and women were administered an oral placebo, or 4 g of vitamin C via oral, oral liposomal, or intravenous delivery. The data indicate that oral delivery of 4 g of vitamin C encapsulated in liposomes produces circulating concentrations of vitamin C that are greater than regular vitamin C, but less than IV administration. Yet, the protection from ischemia–reperfusion-mediated oxidative stress is similar to the protection provided by intravenous administration.
One of the primary uses of high IV doses of vitamin C is in improving the quality of life in cancer patients. Since liposomal vitamin C has higher bioavailability, it may be a great alternative to IV administration.
Another popular use of liposomal vitamin C is the common cold. It has been over 40 years since Linus Pauling wrote the book, Vitamin C and the Common Cold. Dr. Pauling based his opinion on several studies that showed vitamin C was very effective in reducing the severity of symptoms, as well as the duration of the common cold. There are now over 30 clinical trials involving 11,350 study participants designed to judge the effectiveness of vitamin C in the prevention or treatment of the common cold. While the results from individual studies may be mixed, when the results from higher quality studies are pooled researchers have concluded that vitamin C can be quite beneficial in reducing the risk of developing a cold. This conclusion especially applies to individuals in high-stress situations.
Sunflower Derived Phospholipid
The best carrier for liposomal vitamin C is phosphatidylcholine (PC), a key component of lecithin. PC helps to hold the liposomes together. Ideal ranges should be between 250-500 mg of PC per dose in a liposomal vitamin C formula. The PC has its own set of health benefits. The most common sources of the PC are soy lecithin and sunflower lecithin. Sunflower may be the best choice as it removes the GMO issue and also produces a more stable liposome. If soy lecithin is used it should be from a non-GMO source.
Liposomal Quality
In order to produce the results, the liposome must be manufactured properly. The correct size should be between 100 to 400 nanometers in size and the liposome be quality tested at an FDA regulated facility to for quality control.
Homemade Liposomal Products
There is a lot of promotion on the Internet to make your own vitamin C. However, the process of basically just mixing vitamin C powder, vodka, lecithin, and water in a blender and whip it up to make a liposomal mixture is not going to produce the necessary quality of liposome to be an effective carrier for vitamin C.
Dosage
The RDI for vitamin C is 90 mg/day in adult men and 75mg/day in adult women with a suggested upper limit of 2,000 mg/day. Liposomal vitamin C, due to its enhanced absorption is suitable for daily use as well as for specific indications.
Safety and Side Effects
In general, the same concerns with regular vitamin C also apply to liposomal vitamin C. Both are very well tolerated, but liposomal vitamin C will not lead to gas, bloating or diarrhea even at higher dosages. Dosages of vitamin C greater than 2,000 mg are associated with a higher risk for kidney stones.
This article was written by Dr. Michael Murray, one of the world’s leading authorities on natural medicine. For the past thirty-five years, Dr. Murray has been compiling a massive database of original scientific studies from medical literature. He has personally collected over 65,000 articles from the scientific literature, which provide strong evidence on the effectiveness of diet, vitamins, minerals, herbs and other natural measures in the maintenance of health and the treatment of disease. It is from this constantly expanding database that Dr. Murray provides the answers on health and healing on DoctorMurray.com. Visit Dr. Murray's iHerb Page here.
Previous Article
Paleo Salad Dressings to Spice Up Lunchtime
Next Article
4 Steps to Better Gut Health
Shop this article
Share this Article
Related Articles
View All
Wellness
4 Steps to Better Gut Health
April 19 2019
You know the importance of what you eat and how it impacts the rest of your body.
Wellness
The Best Herbs to Help with Stress
April 8 2019
Stress affects us all every day when we’re dealing with the challenges of work, family or illness, and even at times of excitement, like when starting a new job or planning a wedding.
Wellness
Melatonin – Not Just for Sleep
April 4 2019
The neurohormone Melatonin is best known as a gentle, natural sleep aid. Unlike many prescription sleeping pills, melatonin is not addicting and does not cause withdrawal symptoms.
Search
Categories
Browse our blog posts by category:
Select a Category Beauty Wellness Fitness Nutrition Conditions
Share
Disclaimer
This blog is not intended to provide diagnosis, treatment or medical advice. Content provided on this blog is for informational purposes only. Please consult with a physician or other healthcare professional regarding any medical or health related diagnosis or treatment options. Information on this blog should not be considered as a substitute for advice from a healthcare professional. The claims made about specific products throughout this blog are not approved to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent disease.
Shop this article
Give & Get 10%
Learn more
ABOUT iHERB
About Us
Press Releases
We Give Back
Rewards Program
Affiliate Program
Careers
Brand Contacts
iHERB RESOURCES
iHerb Blog
Community
Healthy Links
Customer Service
Contact Us
Shipping Information
Wholesale
Suggest a Product
MOBILE APPS
CONNECT WITH US
Ask a Question
Find answers from our knowledge base.
Get Help Now »
iHerb.com © Copyright 1997-2019 iHerb Inc. All rights reserved. iHerb® is a registered trademark of iHerb, Inc. Trusted Brands. Healthy Rewards. and the iHerb.com Trusted Brands. Healthy Rewards. Logo are trademarks of iHerb, Inc. *Disclaimer: Statements made, or products sold through this website, have not been evaluated by the United States Food and Drug Administration. They are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. Read More »
Privacy Policy Terms of Use Your California Privacy Rights Supply Chains Act