This Is The Way Himalayan Salt Lamps Are Relieving People’s Stress, Anxiety and Migraines - Sign 4 Light
Sign 4 Light
Gallery
Pages
Home
Spirituality
Relationship
Health
Other
Categories
Home
spirituality
This Is The Way Himalayan Salt Lamps Are Relieving People’s Stress, Anxiety and Migraines
Tuesday, August 23, 2016
This Is The Way Himalayan Salt Lamps Are Relieving People’s Stress, Anxiety and Migraines
By Sign 4 Light 11:32 AM No comments:
Millions of years ago there was a shallow sea located where northern Pakistan lies. Over time it slowly evaporated and left behind tons of crystallized sea salt that is now buried deep below the mineral rich Salt Range mountains. This is where the majority of the worlds Himalayan pink sea salt is found and mined.
The natural underground formation of the beds led to over 84 trace minerals being added to the salt. These include copper, calcium, iron, sulfates, zinc, magnesium and more, making it the most mineral dense type of salt in the world. While the salt mines have been active for hundreds of years, the immense health benefits of Himalayan salt have only recently started to become widely recognized. One such positive impact the salt rocks can provide is relief from anxiety, which happens to be the most common type of mental health issue in America. So if you are among the millions of people who suffer from an anxiety disorder, a Himalayan salt lamp can really help you out!
Lamps made from the salt can do wonders for both your health and home because of their natural air cleaning ability. Salt lamps generate and give off negative ions, which are essentially oxygen ions with an extra electron attached to them. Negative ions are naturally found outdoors in nature, especially near rivers and waterfalls or other sources of fresh flowing water, and they’re good for us. It’s believed that when we breathe them in they react with our bodies and produce positive effects. As such, when people report feeling happier, more clear headed, and refreshed around those bodies of water it’s attributed to the increase in negative ions they’re exposed to and taking in!
Another awesome ability negative ions have is they can bond together with positive ions and by doing so, they neutralize them. This is beneficial to us because positive ions do not have a positive effect on the human body. Positive ions are created and emitted by electronic devices, such as TVs and microwaves. They are harmful and unhealthy for us and while many people are minimally affected by them, others experience allergies, headaches, stress, and sleep issues from them.
By having a salt lamp in your home you can reduce the presence of positive ions in the air while increasing the amount of negative ions. They cut down greatly on the harmful, silent, and unseen effects electronics have on us that are all too often overlooked. There you have it, salt lamps are the easiest way to make the air you breathe cleaner and they instantly create a more relaxing environment. Here’s some additional health benefits people report experiencing after using the lamps, they include help with;
- headaches, migraines
- stress, stress-related disorders
– allergies, sinus issues, colds
- arthritis, rheumatism
– respiratory problems, asthma
- insomnia
To get the greatest healing power from salt lamps several of them should be placed throughout your home and close to electronic devices. One single lamp will have a positive calming effect but it won’t be strong enough to greatly impact your health, having several is the way to go. Check out the video for more information and give salt lamps a try. Your body, mind, and overall health will be better off and all you have to do is switch some lights on!
Please SHARE This With Family and Friends
source:http://www.awakeningpeople.com
Like us →
Facebook
Twitter
Google
More
Pinterest Linkedin Digg This Reddit StumbleU Delicious
About Sign 4 Light
Author Description here.. Nulla sagittis convallis. Curabitur consequat. Quisque metus enim, venenatis fermentum, mollis in, porta et, nibh. Duis vulputate elit in elit. Mauris dictum libero id justo.
Subscribe to this Blog via Email :
Newer Post Older Post
Fact Rider
Popular Posts
29 Unmistakable Signs That You’re A Healer
DEAR EMPATHS: 4 TYPES OF NARCISSISTS YOU MAY BE ATTRACTING
17 Survival Tips For Empaths And Highly Sensitive People
Advertisement
Powered by Blogger.
About Me
Sign 4 Light
View my complete profile
Categories 2
health
Other
spirituality
Labels
health
Other
spirituality
Flickr Widget
Most Recent
Facebook
Comments
© Copyright 2015 Sign 4 Light. Designed by Bloggertheme9 | Distributed By Gooyaabi Templates . Powered by Blogger.