Let’s Talk About Squats – Eldred Personal Training
Skip to content
Eldred Personal Training
With 10+ Years of Lifting and Track & Field Experience, We Make Knowledgeable Lifting and Track Programs For Every Individual
Menu
Home
Contact
Blog
Referral Program
Let’s Talk About Squats
November 14, 2018 November 14, 2018 Taylor Eldred
Squats. Every top athlete does some variation of these just about every block/phase/stage of their athletic careers. With there literally being dozens and dozens of different variations of them as well. Now obviously not everyone is going to be able to do a back squat or front squat with no prior knowledge of how to do them. There should be some sort of track that you would follow such as
1. Body weight box squats
2. Lower body weight box squats
3. Box squats with a bar
4. Goblet box squats
5. Goblet squats
6. Front squats
7. Back squats to parallel
8. Deep back squats
9. Overhead squats
10. Pistol squats
Some kind of order like this where you are working on mobility before attempting the more technical lifts is optimal.
Now it’s not to say from the list you have to exactly go from 1-2-3etc., but you can progress like 1-4-6-8 or something like that. Not everyone progresses super fast and some do.
Let’s get to the main point of this. Other than clean and jerks and snatches, in my opinion, there is no greater lift for building athletic performance, strength, or health in general than the squat. You may hear things like “squats are bad for your knees/back” or whatever, but that couldn’t be further from the truth. In fact squats help actually build strength around these areas, and around everywhere in the body. Going from your quads, hamstrings, glutes, lower back, upper back, and just your core all around there is no greater lift.
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Published by Taylor Eldred
View all posts by Taylor Eldred
Post navigation
Previous postThoughts on High School Strength Training
Next postWhen to Learn Olympic Lifts
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Search for:
Blog at WordPress.com.
%d bloggers like this: