Camu Camu Powder - Acai Powder, Guarana Extract, Guarana Powder, Guarana Seeds, Guarana Syrup, Herbs Extracts, Super Foods
Home
About Us
Products
Factory
Videos
Contact Us
About Us
Products
Factory
Videos
Contact Us
Camu Camu Powder
Camu Camu (Myrciaria dubia H. B. K. (McVough))
(Send us by e-mail/form the quantity your interest, destination airport and as soon we will revert you with our best price)
PRODUCTS:
1 – Camu Camu Powder 4:1 (Camu Camu Dry Extract 4:1) (spray dried)
Packing: 25kg net polypropylene bags into fiber barrel
Family: Myrtaceae
Genus: Myrciaria
Species: dubia
Synonyms: Eugenia divaricata, E. grandiglandulosa, Marliera macedoi, Myrciaria caurenisis, M. divarticata, M. lanceolata, M. obscura, M. paraensis, M. phillyraeoides, M. riedeliana, M. spruceana, Psidium dubium
Ethnic names: Camu-camu, Rumberry
Myrciaria dubia, commonly known as camu camu, camucamu, cacari, or camocamo, is a small (about 3-5 m), bushy riverside tree from the Amazon rainforest in Peru and Brazil, which bears a red/purple cherry-like fruit. It is a close relative of the jaboticaba (Myrciaria cauliflora) and the guavaberry or rumberry (Myrciaria floribunda). The extraordinarily high vitamin C content (on the order of 2–3% of fresh weight) is the most important property of the fruit, which has been exploited in positioning camu camu on international markets.
Camu camu is a shrub that grows in swampy or flooded areas of the Amazon rain forests of Peru, Brazil, Venezuela, and Colombia. The fruit and leaves are used as a medicine.
Camu camu is used for viral infections including herpes, cold sores, shingles, and the common cold. It is also used for eye conditions including cataracts and glaucoma. Other uses include treatment of asthma, “hardening of the arteries” (atherosclerosis), chronic fatigue syndrome, depression, gum disease (gingivitis), headaches, and osteoarthritis.
Some people use camu camu to increase energy and maintain healthy gums, eyes, and skin; and as an antioxidant and immune system stimulant.
How does it work?
Camu camu fruit contains many nutrients including vitamin C, beta-carotene, fatty acids, protein, and others. It also contains other chemicals that might have an effect on the body.
Uses:
Arthritis
Asthma
Cold sores
Common colds
Depression
Cataracts
Glaucoma
Chronic fatigue syndrome
Gum disease (gingivitis)
Headaches
Herpes
Shingles
There's a lot of attention focused on superfoods these days. People are interested in foods that can give them high-density nutrition, protect them from chronic disease, and even help reverse disease. One of the best (but little-known) superfoods is actually a superfruit, and like many superfruits, it comes from the rainforest regions of our planet. This one in particular comes from Peru; it's one of the most nutrient-dense foods and offers considerable disease-prevention benefits. It contains high-density nutrition. This superfruit is called camu camu, or the camu berry.
The camu berry is best known for its unusually high vitamin C content. Vitamin C, as you may know, has many uses for preventing chronic disease. Natural (not synthetic) vitamin C is an antioxidant that prevents free radical damage to the DNA of the cells throughout your body, which helps in the prevention of cancer and heart disease (among other health problems). Vitamin C also prevents colds and even the flu. It is a huge immune system booster and an all-around power-packed vitamin -- but only in its full-spectrum natural form.
There's no food on the planet with a higher concentration of vitamin C than the camu berry. How high a concentration? Consider this: oranges are generally known for their high vitamin C content. However, oranges often only have around 1,000 ppm of vitamin C. Sometimes they can have as high as 3,000 or 4,000, but that's unusual, especially given the way they are commercially grown today. The camu berry can have concentrations as high as 50,000 ppm or about 2 g of vitamin C per 100 g of fruit. That means that the camu berry provides 50 times more vitamin C than an orange (on an ounce-for-ounce basis).
Sources: Webmed, wikipedia.org
Camu Camu Powder 4:1
© 2019 Acai Powder, Guarana Extract, Guarana Powder, Guarana Seeds, Guarana Syrup, Herbs Extracts, Super Foods | Sitemap