Marijuana - Heartquest Addiction Wellness Centre
Home
Services
Counselling
Drug and Alcohol Testing
Substance Abuse Medical Monitoring
USA Court and SAP Services
Intervention Services
Workplace Drug and Alcohol Training
About Us
History
Biographies
Client List and Testimonials
What's New - BLOG
F.A.Q.
Links
Privacy
Contact Us
Marijuana
Think marijuana is harmless.
Click on the link ~ The Nature of Things: The Downside of Addiction.
Young people need to pay attention as this substance gains acceptance in society (notice all the dispensaries springing up everywhere!!)
Who Gets Addicted To Weed?
Marijuana is the most common drug of abuse in the U.S. Why do people smoke weed? Well, for lots of reasons. In fact, 60% of all illegal drug abuse occurs with marijuana and about 1 in 12 people who smoke weed may become dependent on it. The risk of addiction goes up to about 1 in 6 among people who start smoking weed when they are adolescents, and 25-50% of daily users. According to one study, teenagers who exhibit antisocial problems and use marijuana can quickly become addicted to it.
Are You Addicted To Weed? How To Find Help!
There are currently no medications used to treat marijuana addiction but several cannabinoid antagonists that are in development. For example, cannabidiol, THC and lofexidine are currently under clinical trial to test how they affect withdrawal symptoms and whether or not they can help prevent relapse. So at the moment, marijuana addiction treatment programs focus on counseling such as contingency management (CM), motivational enhancement therapy (MET), cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT), and combinations of those approaches. There are also a number of programs designed especially to help individuals who abuse marijuana. Finally, support groups have been found to help treat addiction to marijuana.
If you or anyone you know is struggling with marijuana use, click here or call Cory directly at: 604.818.1771.
Blog Posts
Addiction Counselling
Addiction in Vancouver
Addiction Services - Surrey BC
Alcohol Consumption
Cocaine Addiction
Deepening your Recovery through Spirituality
Expert Counselling
ICADC Credentials
Intervention Services
Marijuana
Private Substance Abuse Counselling
Quitting Drinking
Recovery Coaching
Substance Abuse in Vancouver
The Nature of Addiction
Our Staff
Cory Wint
Antonio Guzman
Jodi Takhar
Find a Meeting
Contact Us
Cory Wint
Telephone: 604 818 1771
Email
Creative Consultant - Wingtip Creative Media
Office Location
View Larger Map