Mecholestrol - Mecholestrol.com
Home
Privacy
Sitemap
How To Lower Blood Pressure and Cholesterol By Losing Weight
High bloodpressure (Hypertension) and a high cholesterol level in the blood are both risk factors of cardiovascular disease, strokes and many other serious diseases. Cholesterol can build up in the arteries causing narrowing of the arteries and high blood pressure causes a strain on the blood vessels of the vascular system which can damage and narrow them too. Narrowing of the arteries reduces blood flow to vital organs like the heart and brain and also clots can form. If this happens we can suffer a heart attack or stroke. Being overweight increases our blood pressure and increases our cholesterol levels. It is important we know how to lower blood pressure and cholesterol by losing weight to protect our health.
So, do you know how to lower blood pressure and cholesterol by losing weight?
To lower your blood pressure and cholesterol levels you need to change your lifestyle. Ways to lose weight and increase exercise:-
Join a gym – Get assessed by a personal trainer in a gym who can devise a program of exercise specifically for your needs.
Start an exercise regime of your own – Aerobic exercise is important in reducing blood pressure, reducing cholesterol and shifting a few pounds. Aerobic exercise is exercise that exercises the cardiovascular system – the heart and lungs. Walk briskly or jog, cycle, do aerobics, skipping, kick boxing and roller blading. Do aerobic exercise at least 3 times a week for at least 20-30 minutes. Some doctors now recommend exercising 5 times a week for good health.
Reduce calorie intake – Eat lower calorie foods, cut down on treats like junk food and biscuits, choose lower calorie alternatives to your normal food.
Eat more fruit and vegetables – Eat at least five portions of fruit and vegetables a day.
Other tips on how to lower blood pressure and cholesterol by losing weight:-
Reduce your intake of saturated fat and trans fat which raise cholesterol levels and blood pressure. Saturated fat can be found in meat and dairy foods such as cheese and butter. Trans fat can be found in commercially processed foods such as biscuits and cakes, and also foods containing coconut and palm oils. Use polyunsaturated or mono unsaturated fats instead like olive oils and polyunsaturated margarines. Change to low fat or fat free milk or use cholesterol lowering milks which contain plant sterols known to reduce cholesterol levels.
Change your cooking methods. Instead of frying or deep fat frying in fat you should grill, steam or microwave food.
The above information tells you how to lower blood pressure and cholesterol by losing weight. Eat foods that contain good nutrition and exercise regularly to keep healthy.
Read More
Is Milk Good For A Person With High cholestrol
There has been much talk recently about whether milk is good for people with high cholestrol. Some are blaming the widespread use of homogenised milk for the rise in cholestrol levels and increase in heart disease which seem to have happened since homogenised milk became the most common milk stocked in supermarkets. People are searching for answers to questions such as “Is milk good for a person with high cholestrol?”and “Is homegenised milk good for us?”
What is homogenisation?
For your information, homogenisation is a process in which milk is forced through very fine filters at high speed to break up the fat or cream in the milk. The fat is broken up into minute fat globules which mix in with the milk. This process results in milk that is smooth and which doesn’t have a layer of cream on top.
Does homogenised milk cause an increase in our cholestrol levels? Is milk good for a person with high cholestrol or not?
Dr Kurt Oster, a cardiologist in the US, started researching milk and its effect on cholestrol in the 1960s. He found that the fat in milk contained a substance called Xanthene Oxidose. In normal milk both the fat and Xanthene Oxidose are digested by the body and either used for nutrients or excreted. However, Dr Oster found that the fat and Xanthene Oxidose particles in homogenised milk were so small that they could pass through the intestine walls into the bloodstream. Xanthene Oxidose from cow’s milk fat can attack the tissue in the artery walls causing legions. As these legions heal they can harden into calcified plaque which then narrows the arteries and cholestrol is able to stick to the plaque which narrows the arteries even more. Narrowing of the arteries is called atherosclerosis and is a major cause of heart disease.
So, is milk good for a person with high cholestrol?
Whole milk, especially homogenised whole milk, is not good for a person with high cholestrol as it contains saturated fat which can raise cholestrol levels and the substance Xanthene Oxidose. It is best to drink fat-free (skimmed) milk which is lower in saturated fat but still has the goodness of calcium, Vitamin D and other valuable nutrients. It is also possible to buy cholestrol lowering milks which are fat-free and contain plant sterols which lower cholestrol. Soya milk is also known to lower cholestrol. Research has shown that drinking three glasses of soya milk a day can significantly lower your cholestrol. Soya milk can be used wherever you would use normal milk – in drinks, on your cereal and in cooking.
The question should not be “Is milk good for a person with high cholestrol?” but instead “What milk is good for a person with high cholestrol?”.
Read More
Diets for High cholestrol
If a blood test has shown that you have high cholestrol, the first thing you need to do is to change your lifestyle. High cholestrol causes atherosclerosis, narrowing of the arteries, which in turn leads to heart disease. Research has shown that by making simple changes to our daily life we can cut our heart disease risks by 80%.
So what changes do we need to make:-
Changing to a healthier diet which is lower calorie, low in saturated fats and higher in fibre. Such diets for high cholestrol can have a dramatic effect on cholestrol levels.
Lose weight – weightloss significantly reduces our risks.
Start exercising – aerobic or cardiovascular exercise can be effective in lowering cholestrol levels.
Take supplements – Vitamin B3 (Niacin)can increase HDL or “good” cholestrol levels, Omega 3 fatty acids increase HDL (good cholestrol) levels and reduce LDL (bad cholestrol) levels, Antioxidants vitamins A, C and E protect against damage from free radicals.
Stop smoking – smoking is a free radical which can increase the oxidation of cholestrol and lead to it depositing in the arteries.
Consume wheat grass and oat products.
People who have been diagnosed with high cholestrol, or who have a family history of high cholestrol levels, should follow diets for high cholestrol.
How to change your diet for high cholestrol
Eating a high fat diet is definitely one cause of high cholestrol but not all fats are bad. Some fat in the diet is vital because our body needs it for energy and for cell building. It is the type of fat that matters when we are considering the best diets for high cholestrol.
Saturated fats and trans fats are the fats that are known to elevate cholestrol levels.
Saturated fats are found in whole fat milk, butter, cheese and fatty meats.
Trans fats (also known as hydrogenated or partially hydrogenated fats) are found in commercially produced cakes, cookies and pastries as well as fast food.
However, there are good fats. Mono unsaturated and polyunsaturated fats can actually be good for our hearts and cholestrol.
Mono unsaturated fats are found in avocados, some oils like rapeseed and olive oil, and some nuts.
Polyunsaturated fats are found in oily fish such as salmon and sardines, some spreads and health drinks.
So, how can we reduce our intake of bad fats and increase our intake of good fats and follow diets for high cholestrol?
The trick is to simply replace saturated or trans fats with good fats. Here are some tricks and tips:-
Instead of using butter use a polyunsaturated spread or be Mediterranean and drizzle olive oil on your bread – delicious.
Cook with olive oil
Use lean meat or trim the white fat off cuts of meat
Replace whole fat milk with half fat milk or fat free milk.
Look at food labels for saturated fat and hydrogenated fat and buy low fat versions instead.
Cut down on fast food and processed food.
Replace cakes and cookies with fruit or vegetable snacks.
Grill, microwave, steam or poach food instead of frying it.
Eat oily fish once or twice a week (replacing your normal meat) to get essential Omega 3 fatty acids
Other changes we need to make when considering diets for high cholestrol are to increase our intake of fibre by eating wholegrain foods, pulses and fruit and vegetables.
Tips for increasing fibre:-
Replace some of the usual meat you eat with pulses in casseroles or soups
Replace white bread, pasta and rice with wholegrain/wholemeal versions
Replace your normal snacks for fruit and vegetable snacks which are also low calorie
Add fruit to breakfast cereals, add salad to your sandwiches, make smoothies, add more vegetables to casseroles and sauces, make vegetable soups, slice vegetables and serve with low fat dips, serve fruit as dessert.
As you can see these are simple changes we can make to our diets to make them suitable diets for high cholestrol. These changes can lower cholestrol levels without the need for further treatment, they are worth trying.
Search on the Internet for low fat recipes or buy yourself a low fat or low calorie recipe book to give you some inspiration.
Read More
Cholestrol Medication
In this article we will discuss the different cholestrol medication available for the treatment of high cholestrol levels.
It is important that high cholestrol is treated because it causes many problems including coronary heart disease, thrombosis and strokes. Lowering your cholestrol is especially important if you have other risk factors for heart disease like high bloodpressure.
How cholestrol medication works
cholestrol medication can be split into two main types:
Those medications that reduce the amount of cholestrol produced by the liver
Those medications that reduce the amount of cholestrol which is absorbed into the body from the food that we eat.
Types of cholestrol medication
Niacin
This vitamin, when taken in high doses, reduces bad cholestrol and triglyceride levels while also increasing good cholestrol levels. Niacin, the generic name, is prescribed by your doctor as Nicolar or Niaspan. It can have minor side effects such as skin flushing, itching or tingling, and also headaches. You must tell your doctor if you experience these side effects.
Bile-acid Sequestrants or Resins
These work by binding bile, which is made from cholestrol, in the intestines to stop it being reabsorbed into the bloodstream. Common brand names are Questran (generic name cholestyramine), Questran Light, Colestid (generic name Colestipol) and Welchol.
Common side effects of resins are gas, constipation and an upset stomach.
Statins or HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors
This type of cholestrol medication works by blocking the production of cholestrol in the liver. They have been shown to be very effective in lowering cholestrol and reducing the risk of heart disease. Statins include Atorvastatin (prescribed as Lipitor),Simvastatin (prescribed as Zocor), Fluvastatin (Lescol), Pravastatin (Pravachol), Lovastatin (Mevacor)and rosuvastatin (Crestor).
Minor side effects of statins are upset stomach, gas, constipation, abdominal pain and headaches. They have also been known to cause joint and muscle pain in some cases. In very rare cases they have caused damage to the liver.
Fibrates
Fibrates (ciprofibrate, bezafibrate, fenofibrate and gemfibrozil)work by reducing the triglyceride level in the body while increasing the level of HDL or good cholestrol. Fibrates are normally prescribed for people who cannot tolerate statin medications or in patients with type 2 diabetes.
Minor side effects can be an upset stomach, anaemia, possible gallstone production, temporary blurred vision or dizziness and muscle aching. If the patient is on Warfarin the blood thinning effect may be increased.
Zetia (generic name ezetimibe)
This cholestrol medication reduces the amount of cholestrol which is absorbed from food. It is often prescribed along with statin medications to maximise the results. It has been shown to lower total cholestrol and bad LDL cholestrol while increasing the level of good HDL cholestrol.
Its side effects include nausea, fever, muscle pain, upset stomach, joint pain, headaches and possible liver damage.
Your doctor will be able to advise you what cholestrol medication is best for you. Remember that you still need to make changes to your lifestyle and keep up these changes even if you are on medication. It is the combination of lifestyle and medication that have the best effect on lowering cholestrol.
Regular checks
If you are on any type of cholestrol medication, it is vitally important that you have your cholestrol level checked regularly. At these appointments you can also discuss your medication and any side effects you are suffering from.
Read More
Low cholestrol Diet
If you have had a blood test which shows that you have a high level of cholestrol, you will need to make changes to your lifestyle. There are two main changes that you can make:-
Exercise regularly – Plan to do aerobic exercise for 20-30 minutes at least 3 times a week. Aerobic or cardiovascular exercise really gets your heart and lungs working. Examples of aerobic exercise are jogging, walking, cycling and aerobics. Check with your doctor before you start an exercise regime.
Change your present diet to a healthy, low fat, low cholestrol diet. The benefits of low cholestrol diets are that they not only reduce cholestrol but they also help us to lose weight, have a healthy heart, reduce blood pressure and give us lots more health benefits.
It is important that you make these changes because high cholestrol leads to heart disease.
What is a low cholestrol diet?
To follow a low cholestrol diet you need to:-
Cut down on your intake of saturated fat, such as fast food, fatty meat and full fat dairy products, and trans fat or hydrogenated fat which is found in processed food. Check food labels.
Replace saturated fat with mono unsaturated fats or polyunsaturated fats. For example replace butter with a polyunsaturated spread.
Grill, microwave, steam or poach foods instead of frying. If you need to fry something then use olive oil which is mono unsaturated or fry with a little water.
Replace some of your usual meat with oily fish like salmon, mackerel, sardines or trout, which are high in Omega 3 fatty acids, or with soya which is known to reduce cholestrol.
Make eating more fibre part of your plans, especially soluble fibre which is found in oats and fruit and vegetables.
Replace white bread, pasta and rice with wholemeal or wholegrain versions.
perhaps add products that are actually designed to lower your cholestrol to your shopping list. You can buy spreads and drinks containing plant sterols and stanols which prevent the absorption of cholestrol in the body.
Eat 5 a day – eat five portions of fruit and vegetables a day. They are important for their fibre content and some, like carrots, apples and prunes, contain pectin which lowers cholestrol.
Eat plenty of garlic. Garlic has many health benefits including lowering blood pressure and cholestrol. If you do not like the taste, or you are worried about your breath smelling, you can purchase garlic tablets.
Drink wheat grass juice – studies have shown that this super food lowers cholestrol levels.
It is not hard to make these changes and you will easily be able to adapt your favourite recipes to use low cholestrol foods or go and buy some low fat or low cholestrol recipe books. It is worth following a low cholestrol diet as this alone may lower your cholestrol without the need for medication.
Read More
PREVIOUS 1 … 35 36 37 38 39 NEXT
Menu
Getting Older? Tips For Making The Most Of It!
Growing Older Getting You Down? Tips For A Fulfilling Life
Natural Remedies For Signs And Symptoms Of Getting Older Are Easier Than You Think
If You’re Getting Older, It’s Time To Get Wiser
Maturity, Wisdom And Enthusiasm Add Up To Growing Old Gracefully
You Don’t Have To Give In To Getting Older
The Getting Older Process: What Everyone Should Know About Growing Older
Tips For Making Growing Older Much More Interesting
Awesome Advice For Staying Youthful And Healthy
Tips That Will Help You With Aging Questions
The Best Tips For Aging In Today’s Society
Helpful Tips For Anyone With An Aging Family Member
Simple Tips On How To Stay Young
Ways To Prevent The Aging Process Naturally
Getting Older Tips That Can Keep You Looking Young
Try These Great Tips To Age Gracefully
Aging And You: Tips And Advice To Look Younger
Don’t Let Aging Make You Feel Older!
Natural Ways To Slow The Growing Older Process
Keep Getting Better: Simple Tips For Aging Gracefully
Home
Privacy
Sitemap
Powered by mecholestrol.com