Pregnancy Tests - What Do You Do Next?
Your Life yourlifenow.co.za
Contraception
Methods
Short Acting
Contraceptive Patch
The Pill
Contraceptive Injection
Male Condom
Diaphragm
Contraceptive Ring
Female Condom
Sponge
Cervical Cap
Spermicides
Long Acting Reversible
Contraceptive Implant
Intrauterine Device - IUD
Intrauterine System - IUS
Other Methods
Withdrawal Method
Sterilization
Emergency Contraceptives
Fertility Awareness
Explore all methods
Compare all methods
Find the right method
Your
Body
Your
Questions
Contraception
Facts
Search
Search
Language
Select a country
International
Brazil
China
Latin America
Norway
Pakistan
Poland
Slovenia
South Africa
Sweden
For parents,
teachers etc.
Your Life yourlifenow.co.za
Menu
PREGNANCY
Pregnancy, the miracle of life, it’s an amazing thing, when you’re ready for it. Being a parent is a big deal, a very big deal, and it changes your life completely, that’s why it is something that should only be done when you’re really ready to take that step. Read the information and points below and find out the best way to protect, prepare and inform yourself.
Share Print Mail
General
Contraception
Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs)
Pregnancy
FINDING OUT
Pregnancy tests work by detecting a hormone in your urine
Most pregnancy tests will work the first day of a missed period
Tests that are done earlier than this may not be accurate
If you don’t have regular periods, the earliest to do a test is 4 weeks (28 days) from the last time that you had unprotected sex. Nothing is perfect so always double check if you’re pregnant with your doctor
Periods can be late for all sorts of reasons, don’t panic or make any rash decisions
THE DETAILS
Am I pregnant?
Pregnancy tests work by detecting hormones in your urine that only appear when you’re pregnant. Most tests are accurate the day after your period is late, but not everyone’s periods run like clockwork and in this case taking a test 4 weeks after unprotected sex is also fine. The best time to take the test is in the morning when urine is more concentrated and gives the test more chance of detecting the hormones, if they are there that is.
What if it’s positive?
If it’s positive, the simple answer is that you’re pregnant. Tests aren’t always 100% right though, so even if it does say positive, you should always follow this up with a visit to your healthcare provider to make sure and for further advice on what to do next.
What if it’s negative?
Tests these days are extremely accurate so after a negative result it’s unlikely that you are pregnant, but if missing your period still has you worried speak to your healthcare provider about it. Periods can be late for more reasons than pregnancy such as stress, change in diet or another health issue, so speak to a provider just in case.
OOPS, I DIDN’T MEAN TO GET PREGNANT
Everyone reacts differently to the news they are pregnant, but whatever you do don’t panic!
Deciding what to do next is an enormous decision and you shouldn’t go through this alone, speak to your partner, friends, family and healthcare provider
Accept support and advice but don’t be pressured into anything you don’t want to do, you will regret it
WHAT DO NO NEXT?
You’re pregnant. Now this news will either make you delighted and excited for the future, or terrified of it, but don’t be, you have a few options open to you. You can choose to:
continue with the pregnancy and keep the baby
end the pregnancy by having an abortion
continue with the pregnancy and have the baby adopted
It is important to take time to make the decision that’s right for you, but it’s also important not to delay making your decision. Don’t let anyone else pressure you into doing something you don’t want to do. The decision is yours. Stay calm, speak to your healthcare provider, your partner, family, and friends and make sure the decision you make is what you really want. Your healthcare provider is there for you at every stage of every decision so whatever you choose, stay informed, stay healthy and stay safe.
Keeping the Baby
If you decide to continue with the pregnancy you need to start your antenatal care (care during pregnancy), whether you are planning to keep the baby or to have it adopted. As part of your antenatal care, the healthcare provider will talk to you about: healthy eating and exercise, taking folic acid, stopping smoking, cutting out on alcohol, stopping recreational drug use, whether any medicines you are taking are unsafe during pregnancy, getting advice and tests for sexually transmitted infections.
You may be worried that you won’t be able to cope with looking after a baby. Your partner, family and friends can be a great support, and enable you to have some time to yourself. Your healthcare provider can offer advice and support, and put you in touch with local groups where you can meet other new mums and get the support you need.
Abortion
Legal abortion is a safe way of ending a pregnancy. This is a decision you may make because you do not want to be pregnant and have a baby at this time. However, requirements for an abortion to be legal, differ from country to country. Therefore, if you think about an abortion, contact your healthcare provider as soon as possible in order to not miss any deadlines. In many countries the deadline is until around the first 12 weeks of pregnancy, afterwards only upon a medical indication.
Any woman who has an abortion, whatever age she is, has a right for that information to remain confidential. This means that information cannot be shared with anyone else without your agreement. If you have any worries about confidentiality discuss this with the healthcare provider you speak to about your abortion. It is important not to delay making your decision.
In-clinic procedures are safer and easier the earlier it is done in pregnancy. The majority of abortions are carried out before 13 weeks of pregnancy, and most others are carried out before the 20th week. Having an abortion will not usually affect your chances of becoming pregnant and having normal pregnancies in future. The risk of problems occurring during an abortion is low, but there are risks with any medical procedure and there are more likely to be problems if an abortion is carried out unsafely or later in a pregnancy. In rare cases, serious complications may be fatal and harm your body emotionally and physically e.g. mental depression, damage to the cervix, womb or other organs, or excessive bleeding.
A woman can experience many different feelings after an abortion. Some women feel sad and upset immediately after an abortion but the majority don’t experience long-term psychological problems. However, make sure that you talk to your healthcare provider about effective forms of contraception which can protect you before pregnancy proactively and are less harmful.
Adoption
Adoption could be a choice for you if you do not want to bring up the baby yourself but you do not want an abortion. Adoption is a way of giving the baby new parents who will bring them up as their own. You will continue with the pregnancy and give birth, but you won’t look after the baby, and you won’t have legal rights or responsibilities regarding the child once the adoption is complete. Adoption is a formal process organized by adoption agencies and local authorities, and made legal by the courts. Once an adoption is made legal the decision is final and cannot be reversed.
HOW TO STAY NOT PREGNANT
Visit your healthcare provider and speak to them about reliable methods of contraception that would suit you
Take our Questionnaire and do some research before you visit your healthcare provider
PROTECT YOURSELF
Whether you’ve had a close call or you just want to take extra precautions against pregnancy, the best thing to do is educate yourself. Learn what contraception methods are available then learn to talk openly about sex and contraception. The more you know, the more you can talk about it confidently the more chance you have of getting the answers you need and not finding yourself in any situations you don’t want to be in. This website is a great place to start but make sure you don’t make any big decisions without speaking to your doctor or healthcare provider.
DON’T MYTH WITH ME!
Can I use an IUS if I haven’t already had children?
Of course you can. You shouldn’t get an Intrauterine System (IUS) if you’re trying to get pregnant, otherwise it’s a suitable form of contraception for anybody to consider using.
Will taking the pill make me gain weight?
Taking the pill does not have a noticeable long-term effect on body weight. Some women experience small changes in weight after starting the pill, but this is not proven in clinical studies looking at its long-term effect on body weight. If you're concerned talk to your healthcare provider about your options.
Do I need to use contraception if I’m breastfeeding?
Breastfeeding can prevent pregnancy for up to six months if periods have not resumed and the baby is solely breastfed frequently day and night. This doesn’t make pregnancy impossible though and as soon as any one of this criteria is not met, you can become pregnant again.
Will being on the pill for a long time affect my fertility later on in life?
It’s actually possible to get pregnant as soon as you stop taking the pill so no, taking the pill long-term will not affect your fertility.
Can I get pregnant if I’m on my period?
Expert opinion says yes, you can get pregnant while menstruating. The fact that there are a number of stages of a period and that sperm can survive inside a woman`s uterus for up to five days means you should always protect yourself if you don’t want to get pregnant.
Can the IUS move about inside me and cause problems?
The Intrauterine System (IUS) is an effective method that is inserted by a well-trained healthcare provider and it stays in place for up to 3 or 5 years. The risk of uterine perforation
is rare (i.e. <1/1000).
Can I get pregnant if I don’t have an orgasm?
The pleasure of sex isn’t connected to the science of sex at all. If you have sex without contraception you can get pregnant, whether you enjoy it or not.
Can taking hormonal contraceptives make me infertile?
Hormonal contraception does not cause infertility. It may take a bit of time for your body to return to a state where you can become pregnant again but this is only temporary. Fertility returns to healthy women to its previous level no matter how long you have taken a hormonal contraceptive method.
Can I reuse a condom?
No, condoms are not coffee cups that you can rinse out and reuse. They might look ok, but they are made of very thin material that deteriorates with use and can split if used more than once. Also the spermicide inside which helps to stop sperm will have gone,
so use a new one each time.
Is emergency contraception 100% effective?
No contraceptive is 100% effective. It is most effective when taken as soon as possible after unprotected sex, ideally up to 12 hours after, if it’s taken more than 24 hours later, it’s already much less effective. The more prepared you are before sex, the less likely you’ll be to need emergency contraception at all.
Do I need to give my body a break from taking oral contraceptives?
From a medical point of view, there is absolutely no reason to make a pill break if you tolerate it well. The only reason to take a break from taking the pill is that you want to get pregnant. Other than that, you can stay on your chosen method of contraception for as long as you want.
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
Should women not use hormonal contraceptives when they’re breastfeeding?
Hormonal methods are a definite option while you are breastfeeding, but not all of them are appropriate: products containing estrogens should not be used because this hormone can have an effect on milk production. Progestin on the other hand, is an option - especially those with "local" effects such as hormonal intrauterine systems (IUS). The volume and composition of breast milk are not affected. Three-monthly injections, progestin-only pills and hormonal implants are other contraceptive options for women who are breastfeeding. Ask your doctor or healthcare provider for further information.
What are the first symptoms of pregnancy?
Missing a period is usually the first signal of a new pregnancy, although women with irregular periods may not initially recognize a missed period as pregnancy. During this time, many women experience a need to urinate frequently, extreme fatigue, nausea and/or vomiting, and increased breast tenderness. All of these symptoms can be normal. Most over-the-counter pregnancy tests are sensitive 9-12 days after conception, and they are readily available at most drug stores. Performing these tests early helps to allay confusion and guesswork. A serum pregnancy test (performed in a provider's office or laboratory facility) can detect pregnancy 10 days after conception.
Is cramping during pregnancy normal?
Early in pregnancy, uterine cramping can indicate normal changes of pregnancy initiated by hormonal changes; later in pregnancy, it can indicate a growing uterus. Cramping that is different from previous pregnancies, worsening cramping, or cramping associated with any vaginal bleeding may be a sign of ectopic pregnancy, threatened abortion, or missed abortion.
Other physical effects that are normal during pregnancy, and not necessarily signs of disease, include nausea, vomiting, increase in abdominal girth, changes in bowel habits, increased urinary frequency, palpitations or more rapid heartbeat, upheaving of the chest (particularly with breathing), heart murmurs, swelling of the ankles, and shortness of breath.
How can stretch marks be prevented?
Unfortunately, striae (stretch marks) cannot be prevented. The degree to which a woman experiences stretch marks is determined genetically. Stretch marks usually occur when weight is lost or gained quickly. Using creams and gels rarely make a difference. Fortunately, stria fades with time and marks become silvery white, but they do not tan.
When will the uterus return to normal size?
The uterus returns to pre-pregnancy size after approximately 6 weeks. This is accomplished through a process called involution. During this process, the uterus has contractions that women may be able to feel, especially with breastfeeding.
Why do pregnant women feel tired?
Fatigue in early pregnancy is very normal. Many changes are occurring as the new pregnancy develops, and women experience this as fatigue and an increased need for sleep. Lower blood pressure level, lower blood sugar levels, hormonal changes due to the soporific effects of progesterone, metabolic changes, and the physiologic anemia of pregnancy all contribute to fatigue. Women should check with their health care provider to determine if an additional work up, prenatal vitamin changes, and/or supplemental iron would be beneficial.
You can't get pregnant while breastfeeding, can you?
There is still a very widespread misconception (that has already provided many a baby with a little brother or sister) that women can't get pregnant while breastfeeding. Breastfeeding does actually have an inhibitory effect on fertility/ovulation. But it is only possible with hindsight for a nursing mother to know for sure whether or not she has ovulated, i.e. when she has her first period.
And once solids are introduced (when you start to give your baby other foods in addition to breast milk), there is an increased likelihood of you starting to ovulate again, with a return to fertility. If you don't wish to take any risks, then you should also use contraception while breastfeeding. Your gynecologist will tell you which methods of contraception are appropriate for you.
VIEW MORE
LEARN HOW TO TALK ABOUT IT TO:
Your HCP
Your healthcare provider knows the subject better than anyone; get the right answers for you
Your Parents
They know you better than anyone, and they’ve been through it too
Your Partner
You’re in this together, and not just in the bedroom, be honest
LEARN HOW
Contraception Methods
Short Acting Methods
The Pill
Male Condom
Female Condom
Contraceptive Injection
Contraceptive Patch
Contraceptive Ring
Diaphragm
Sponge
Cervical Cap
Spermicides
Long Acting Reversible Methods
Intrauterine Systems - IUS
Intrauterine Device - IUD
Contraceptive Implant
Other Methods
Withdrawal Method
Fertility Awareness
Sterilization
Emergency Contraceptives
Compare Methods
Which Contraception is right for me?
Your Body
Your Questions
Contraception Facts
For Parents, Teachers, etc
International Brazil China Latin America Norway Pakistan Poland Slovenia South Africa Sweden
Share
Mail
Back to top
SUPPORTED BY
A coalition of local and global partners with an interest in sexual and reproductive health
SPONSORED BY
© 2018, Bayer (Pty) Ltd. This website is intended to provide information to a local audience within South Africa.
All pictures used in this website show models only.
L.ZA.MKT.09.2018.2875
Last modified: September, 2018.
Imprint
Conditions of Use
Privacy Statement
Sitemap
Contact Us
SHARE THIS
Please select out of the following:
Facebook
Twitter
Google Plus
You are now leaving the YOURLIFENOW.CO.ZA. The content of the website you are visiting is not controlled by the YOURLIFENOW.CO.ZA team. The link is being offered for your convenience and should not be viewed as an endorsement of the content, product or services offered here.
SHARE VIA E-MAIL
To share this link with someone, please fill out the following:
Your Name
Your e-mail
Recipient's e-mail
Your message
Captcha*
SEND
Oldbrowser
It looks like you’re using Internet Explorer 8.
Some of this website’s features might not work correctly on older browsers. If possible, please view this site in a more recent version of Internet Explorer or in another browser such as Firefox or Google Chrome.
Thank you and enjoy YOURLIFENOW.CO.ZA
OK
You are leaving the
YOURLIFENOW.CO.ZA website
You are now leaving the YOURLIFENOW.CO.ZA. The content of the website you are visiting is not controlled by the YOURLIFENOW.CO.ZA team. The link is being offered for your convenience and should not be viewed as an endorsement of the content, product or services offered here.
Stay on YOURLIFENOW.CO.ZA Continue to external website
Contraception Methods
Explore all methods
Compare all methods
Find the right method
Select a method The Pill Contraceptive Patch Contraceptive Ring Male Condom Female Condom Diaphragm Cervical Cap Sponge Spermicides Injectable Contraceptives Contraceptive Implant Intrauterine System Intrauterine Device Withdrawal method Fertility Awareness Sterilization Emergency Contraceptives
Your Body
Your Questions
Sex Talk
For Doctor, Parents etc.
Search
International Brazil China Latin America Norway Pakistan Poland Slovenia South Africa Sweden