::URINE THERAPY::
Enquiry Count 1526 Community Count 2706
Are you practising Urine Therapy?
Visitors 488531
Home
Benefits of Urine Therapy
Urine is a Universal Medicine
Ancient reference of U.T
About us
Method of treatment
Doctors and Scientists moral support
Case history of cancer patients
Case history of other ailments
Testimonials
Benefits of healthy diet
Urine Therapy is Ancient Yoga Practice
Contact Us/Enquiry form
Videos
Photo Gallery
Buy Books (English, Hindi, Tamil, Kannada)
BOOKS AVAILABLE IN
BOOK STORES
"NATURAL BENEFITS OF
URINE THERAPY" Books Available for Sale on the following Book Stores
Ganesh Phalak
Anand Book Depot
Jamner Road,
Bhusawal - 425201
Jalgaon District, Maharashtra
ganeshphalak74@gmail.com
Mob: +91 94227 78222
Shri Bijan Pati
BIDYASHREE
U/7, Sahitya Bhawan,
Janpath, Unit - 3,
Bhubaneswar - 751001
bidyashreebooks@gmail.com
Mob: +91 99370 17070
Raina Chowdhary
PICCADILLY Book Stall
Shop # 64 Shankar Market,
Con. Circus, NEW DELHI – 110001
piccadilly_bookstall@yahoo.co.in
Mob: +91 098737 67612
Phone: +9180 2341 3993,
+91 88260 84328
Manish Vaswani
Manish Plastic,
Near Puj Panchayat Hall,
ULHASNAGAR – 421004.
govedas@icloud.com
Mob: +91 98810 08000
Attention: Book Distributors / Stores
Buy Books on "Natural Benefits of Urine Therapy" Direct from Publisher: NOTION PRESS, Chennai Avail Dealers DISCOUNT with FREE Shipping In English, Hindi, Tamil and Kannada and SELL it to your Customers
More details contact -
JAGDISH R. BHURANI
Mob : +91 093428 72578
Recent Testimonials
Newspaper Articles
Recent Testimonials
Testimonials
HIV/AIDS, CANCER
Juices and Light Balanced Diet is "Healthy Diet." It is the Natural source of essential minerals, Proteins, rich Vitamins and important Antioxidants compounds.
Read more...
About Us
In the year 1990 I was admitted in the Hospital for Osteoarthritis and severe weakness in my bones. I got affected with the disease due to the withdrawal and side effects of "Steroids" tablets which I was consuming from a long time for the Eczema in my left foot. In spite of staying for three weeks in the Hospital I could not recover and had difficulty in standing and walking.
One of my well wisher advised me to adopt the Urine Therapy and suggested me some books: -
1) Water of Life: - by Armstrong.
2) Miracles of Urine Therapy: - by Dr. C.P. Mithal, M.D.
I went through the above books and started Urine Therapy. I used to massage my body with urine twice a day and also used to drink my own urine. I achieved and gained benefits gradually, regained my stamina and recovered fully within a period of 30 days and was totally cured from Eczema.
My wife DROPATI BHURANI was suffering from Diabetes and Nervous problem. Due to the severe nervous problem sometimes she would become very weak and could not get up from bed. At that time she used to feel numbness and weakness in her fingers and was unable to hold a pen or a spoon in her hand.
After one hour of Body Massage with her Urine she used to feel energy in her body and would get up by herself from the bed and would hold the pen and write on the paper. She used to drink her own Urine every day to keep her hale and healthy. She had adopted this treatment and use to discuss on this subject with others in cheerful manner. She had given me the inspiration to take keen interest on "Urine Therapy."
I along with my wife had attended the First All India Conference of Urine Therapy held in GOA in the year 1993. Thereafter I have been advising and providing my Free Social Service to the persons suffering from Chronic Diseases from the year 1993.
I had first prepared my Article on the "Benefits of Urine Therapy" in July 2006 containing 2 pages and distributed copies to the persons who were suffering from Chronic Disease. I used to explain them the proper Method, Technique, Mode of Treatment and the necessary Diet. Whoever have gone through my Article and adopted the proper Method of treatment have achieved and gained great benefits from Urine Therapy.
Sri ANGALA PARAMESHWARI MATHA, Chennai has bestowed her Blessings on me and GOD has enlightened me with his Divine Power to Gain proper Knowledge on the Benefits from Urine Therapy.
With Practical experience and keen interest I have studied, Investigated and Researched the proper Method and Technique to achieve the Maximum Benefits from Urine Therapy which can be followed by every-one including young children. Persons who adopt and practice Urine Therapy willingly and in cheerful manner can gain this Divine knowledge and they can become their own Doctor with practical experience.
I have presented "Case history of some Patients." suffering from various diseases where in the Doctors had given away their hopes to stop the deterioration of their health and could not cure their disease. All the patients who have been referred there in have achieved great benefits and relieved from their pain and sufferings.
Urine is the "SERUM" By-Product of Blood Filtration or watery part of the Blood and not waste filtration. Urine Therapy is the Most Effective Natural Remedy which does not have any side effects. It has the invaluable source of nourishment and healing power. Consuming own Urine regularly is the "Secret of Longevity and exuberant health" the most valuable and beneficial for health, which is capable of curing host of diseases.
Our Urine (Auto Urine) contains multiple Natural Proteins. The clean and the white color Urine (like water) do not contain any smell and can be obtained from our body by maintaining a proper and healthy diet. The color and taste of the Urine depends upon the persons what they eat & drink.
People are not aware of the method to collect white color Urine (color less like water) which does not contain any smell which can be consumed very easily by every-one including young children. They also do not know the proper diet and juices which can be taken along with Urine Therapy so that they can continue the treatment for longer period and achieve proper benefits without any problem.
Persons affected with Chronic Disease who adopts "Urine Therapy" can undergo medical test regularly. They can be under the supervision of Doctor who can observe the gradual progress of their health.
TOP^
About Us | Benefits of U.T | Urine is a Universal Medicine | Ancient Reference of U.T | Doctors and Scientists moral support | Testimonial & Reports Of Cancer Patients | Method of Treatment | Case history of patients | Healthy diet
copy right © 2017 J.Bhurani all rights reserved Web design by SME