Can an enlarged prostate cause a urinary tract infection (UTI) in men?

Type search term to search the site
Search
Our story
Alfred Vogel
Our philosophy
Our brand
His life
Get health advice
Popular topics
Get fit without going to the gym
What stops sugar cravings?
Can you get dizzy from a lack of sleep
Ask a health advisor
Discover our products
Browse & Buy
Where to buy locally
Popular this week
Digestisan oral drops
Molkosan
Milk Thistle
Eye drops
Hayfever? Try Pollinosan
Eat healthy
Healthy recipes
Ingredients
Vitamins & minerals
Food blogs
Could a low histamine diet improve your allergy symptoms?
Low carb or low fat diets, which is best?
All food blogs
FREE Souper Soups e-book
Get active
Ready to get active?
Running
Cycling
Workouts
Get active blogs
Watch all exercise videos
Customer support
Blog
Shop online
Basket
Menu 
Basket
home > health > enlarged prostate > can an enlarged prostate cause UTI bladder infection in men
Can an enlarged prostate cause UTIs?
And what to do if you think you have a bladder infection
Rate this page
We know that UTIs, or simply bladder infections, are common in women, but could an enlarged prostate (BPH) contribute to similar infections in men? Today I’m discussing the extent to which this is a risk, and what to do if you think you have a bladder infection.
Dr. Jen Tan
Men's Health Expert
@AVogelUK
Ask Dr. Jen Tan
24 August 2017
How does an enlarged prostate affect the bladder?
As the prostate begins to swell it can start to affect different parts of the urinary system. It can begin to tighten around the urethra, making it harder for urine to flow through the narrow tube. It can also start to press on the underside of the bladder and can even reduce the amount of space available in the bladder.
Due to the narrowing of the urethra, some of the common symptoms of an enlarged prostate include a difficulty starting urination, and a weak stream or poor flow when you do start. You may also find that your bladder doesn’t quite feel empty afterwards. In serious cases, the urethra can become completely blocked, causing urinary retention.
As a result of the prostate pushing on the bladder, you’ll probably also find that you need to urinate more often, and that the urge to urinate can come quickly and suddenly.
Can BPH cause bladder infections in men?
In some cases, it is plausible that an enlarged prostate could cause a UTI, depending on the symptoms you’re experiencing and their severity.
Urinary infections are generally caused when stagnant urine sits in the bladder for too long, as this gives bacteria time to multiply. If your main symptoms are frequent and urgent urination then this is less likely to be a problem as your bladder is being regularly emptied.
However, if your symptoms are usually things like difficulty starting urination or difficulty fully emptying the bladder then this could become a problem, as these symptoms could cause urine to sit in the bladder for too long.
In some cases, men try to reduce their intake of water in an attempt to reduce the frequency with which they’re going to the bathroom, but this can actually make things much worse! Not only will the acidic urine irritate your bladder and potentially worsen symptoms, but concentrated urine also provides an ideal breeding ground for bacteria.
If you experience a total inability to empty the bladder, you must go to the hospital where they can empty your bladder using a catheter.
What are the symptoms of a UTI?
The problem here is that the symptoms of a UTI are often very similar to the symptoms of BPH – frequent urination, urgent urination and pain/discomfort while urinating.
However, there are a few indications of a UTI that differ from those of an enlarged prostate. Look out for unpleasant-smelling urine, cloudy urine and a burning sensation when urinating. Take a look at our cystitis symptoms pages for a better idea.
What is the difference between prostatitis and a UTI?
This is another situation where symptoms are very similar.
Where cystitis is the inflammation of the bladder, prostatitis is simply the inflammation of the prostate gland. And, like cystitis, the most common cause of this is an infection.
Interestingly, the source of this infection is often a UTI, as the bacteria from the bladder can make their way into the prostate. So, where an enlarged prostate can cause UTIs, prostatitis can be a result of a UTI, and they symptoms of all three can overlap. You can see how they can easily get mixed up!
Prostatitis can have very similar symptoms to both UTIs and an enlarged prostate, including pain when urinating, frequent and urgent urination, using the toilet during the night and difficulty starting. However, a few key differences are that it can also cause general pain in the pelvic area, can affect sexual function and can occur in men of all ages. It’s particularly common in men aged between 20 and 40.
What to do if you think you have a UTI
The first thing you should really do is go to your GP so they can double check that this change in symptoms is definitely a bladder infection. If you haven’t been diagnosed with an enlarged prostate yet, then it is vital that you go to the GP, because if BPH isn’t causing your infection then it is important to make sure there is no underlying problem such as diabetes.
The doctor may prescribe you antibiotics to help shift the infection, particularly if it is severe. However, there are also a few ways to treat a UTI at home:
Drink plenty of water. This will help to flush the bacteria out of the bladder and will make urination less painful.
Reduce sugar intake. Bacteria love sugar, so starve them by reducing your sugar intake!
Try cranberries. Cranberries are commonly used to ease UTI symptoms, as they are thought to prevent bacteria from sticking to the bladder walls, making it easier to flush them out. However, cranberries can be incredibly bitter, so most cranberry juices are full of sugar. Instead I‘d recommend our own Cranberry Complex, which contains fresh cranberry as well as other bladder-friendly herbs like horseradish and golden rod. You could also try Biotta’s Cranberry Juice, which is sweetened with agave nectar and birch leaf infusion.
Top up on vitamin C. This vitamin is famous for supporting the immune system, so it can help your immune cells fight off the infection.
Interestingly, implementing these small changes long-term can also help to prevent a UTI from occurring in the first place.
Can treating your enlarged prostate help?
If your UTI is indeed the result of an enlarged prostate, then taking steps to treat this condition may help to prevent further infections.
The traditional herbal treatment for an enlarged prostate is Saw Palmetto, which you can find in our Prostasan capsules. This remedy is used to reduce the symptoms of your enlarged prostate.
Aside from Prostasan, you should also reduce your intake of inflammatory foods – red meat, dairy, sugar, processed foods and alcohol – and fill up on lots of fresh vegetables, fruit, complex carbohydrates, nuts and seeds. Pumpkin seeds have been found to be particularly effective in helping BPH symptoms, so give these a go! I love them toasted in the oven with a sprinkle of paprika.
Where to buy Prostasan Saw Palmetto capsules locally
Looking for relieve from the urinary symptoms of an enlarged prostate? Then look no further than Prostasan Saw Palmetto capsules.
To find local independent stores in your area that sell Prostasan Saw Palmetto capsules, simply type your postcode below.
No shoptitle available
TEST
Search for your nearest store in the UK by inserting your post code below
Search
No shoptitle available
A.Vogel herbal remedies are available from many retail outlets throughout the UK as well as online. The search above gives you the independently owned stores stocking our products.
Our most popular products are also available from other high street outlets such as Boots and Holland & Barrett.
Prostasan® – Saw Palmetto capsules for enlarged prostate
30 caps
£ 19.99
find your local stockist
Treatment for men with an enlarged prostate (BPH). Also in 90 capsules - £34.25.
More info
 Let's talk more about enlarged prostate
Enlarged prostateThe prostate glandCauses
Symptoms
An introduction to enlarged prostate symptomsFrequent and urgent urinationNeeding to pee at nightPoor flowUrinary retention
Treatment choices
5 helpful drinks for an enlarged prostateAn introduction to enlarged prostate treatmentNatural remedies: Saw PalmettoDietExerciseNew research praises non-invasive enlarged prostate treatment
BPHDoctor info packI think I have an enlarged prostateProstate problemsProstate symptom checkerWhat is prostatitis?What men are saying
Explore more from our enlarged prostate expert Dr. Jen Tan
Can an enlarged prostate cause urinary tract infections in men?Helping the man in your lifeIs BPH costing you sleep?Stop procrastinating over your prostateWhat every man should know about his prostateThe problem with cold medicines and BPHStress and its impact on BPH symptomsWhy does Prostasan come out on top?
What's being asked
Hi, I had a blood test a few weeks ago to check for prostate cancer, which came back as negative. Would this test tell me if I had an enlarged prostate?
No, blood tests are not part of the diagnosis for an enlarged prostate.
Read more >
I have an enlarged prostate. I take Saw Palmetto with other ingredients including zinc etc. Any other ideas please?
Zinc is a good supplement to take, as it is thought to benefit the prostate gland generally. You ...
Read more >
I have an enlarged prostate and have had a biopsy. All is ok but is there a herbal or other type of product I can take to reduce the size of my prostate?
If you have a diagnosis of enlarged prostate then you can take Prostasan Saw Palmetto capsules to ...
Read more >
Suspect you have enlarged prostate?
Take our test and let us explain what your symptoms could mean.
Check now
Here's what I recommend
As the A. Vogel Men’s Health expert, I recommend Prostasan® Saw Palmetto capsules to help relieve symptoms arising from enlarged prostate.
Learn more
Did you know?
BPH is a very common problem that increases the older men get, and around half of all men have an enlarged prostate by the age of 50. At the age of 80, this has risen to 80%
What you need to know about BPH
Supporting a healthier happier you
Get active
Eat healthy
Alfred Vogel's guide to leading a healthy and happy life
Nature is just about the best thing we’ve got!
Discover the story of Alfred Vogel
Healthy & nutritious dinner ideas
Cauliflower Curry
Avocado & Grapefruit Salad
Get new recipes in your inbox every week. Sign up now
I have read and agree to A.Vogel’s Privacy Policy
Health
Healthy recipes
Coughs
Flu
Common cold advice
Food
Introduction to food
Healthy recipes
Ingredients
Vitamins & minerals
Food blogs
About us
Email A.Vogel
Call us - 0845 608 5858
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Disclaimer
Follow us
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Disclaimer
I agree We use cookies to give you the best online experience. Please let us know if you agree to all of these cookies. Further information
Cranberry juice for female health – how can it help?