pork | Health Topics | NutritionFacts.org
<# if ( data._snippetResult['content'] ) { #> {{{ data._snippetResult['content'].value }}} <# } #>
{{{ data._highlightResult.name.value }}}
NutritionFacts.org
Search
Search
EN
ES
Register
Sign In
Video Library
Introductory Videos Latest Video Random Video All Videos Browse Videos by Topic Live Q&A's
Podcast
How Not to Die
How Not to Die How Not to Die Cookbook Daily Dozen Challenge
About
About NutritionFacts.org Meet the Team Frequently Asked Questions
Donate
Donate Volunteer Our Supporters Donor Rewards and Recognition
Subscribe
E-Mail Subscriptions Volunteer Newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram Pinterest YouTube Vimeo
EN
ES
Register
Sign In
122 videos
Pork
Topic summary contributed by volunteer(s): Johanna
Smithfield, the largest pork producer in the world, launched “Deli for the Cure,” which donates money to cancer research for every pound sold of the type of meat that, according to the World Cancer Research Fund’s cancer report, causes the most cancer. Cured meats such as bacon and ham contain carcinogenic nitrosamine from nitrite additives and should be avoided. Nitrosamines are been found in the smell of frying bacon. Total meat intake (including pork) appears to increase the risk for several cancers including multiple myeloma, kidney cancer, breast cancer, colon cancer, lung cancer, and pancreatic cancer.
A case report linked excessive pork consumption to a penis tumor caused by HPV, which can cause cancerous anal and genital warts. Pork consumption has also been linked to liver failure, due to hepatitis E (which is now known to be zoonotic). Pigs appear to be reservoirs of the virus. Chronic headaches, as well as symptoms of depression, have been linked to pork tapeworms. Pork tapeworms can take up residence the human brain, and in fact are the most common cause of adult onset epilepsy.
Pork is a source of saturated fat as well as cholesterol. Saturated fat has been linked to lower rates of breast cancer survival. Eliminating pork from the diet can also help prevent kidney stones, gestational diabetes, and Alzheimer’s disease.
Consumption of fecal bacteria from pigs is less of a problem than with chickens because normally pig’s skin is not consumed, and it is the skin that may be most contaminated. Arsenic has been fed intentionally to pigs (85 tons of arsenic compounds fed to pigs every year) and consequently may contaminate pork. Arachidonic acid is found in pork, among other meats, and appears to negatively affect mood. Pork has been found to contain PCBs. Retail pork samples have been found to be contaminated with staph bacteria (only turkey was found to be infected at higher rates than pork), C. difficile, MRSA and Yersinia.
Image Credit: Pixabay. This image has been modified.
All Videos for Pork
What About Kosher & Organic Chicken?
Comparing contamination rates for antibiotic-resistant E. coli and ExPEC bacteria that cause urinary tract infections
How the Dairy Industry Designs Misleading Studies
How the meat and dairy industries design studies showing their products have neutral or even beneficial effects on cholesterol and inflammation.
Urinary Tract Infections from Eating Chicken
Can UTI-causing ExPEC E. coli bacteria be transferred human-to-human from those who eat chicken?
Is Organic Meat Less Carcinogenic?
Researchers tested 76 samples of different kinds of meat, both organic and conventional, for 33 different carcinogens.
Carcinogens in Meat
Eight preparation methods to reduce exposure to carcinogens in cooked meat.
Do Chia Seeds Help with Belly Fat?
The secret to the benefits of chia seeds may be that you have to grind them up.
How to Lower Heavy Metal Levels with Diet
What dietary change can simultaneously help detoxify mercury, lead, and cadmium from the body?
How to Reduce Cholesterol Oxidation
Chicken, fish, and egg powder in processed foods present greater risk from cholesterol oxidation byproducts, but there are things you can do to reduce exposure.
Does Chocolate Cause Acne?
What are the effects of dairy products, sugar, and chocolate on pimple formation?
Avocados Lower Small Dense LDL Cholesterol
What are the effects of oatmeal, walnuts, extra virgin olive oil, and avocados on LDL cholesterol size?
Is Nutritional Yeast Healthy for Everyone?
Those with certain autoimmune diseases such as Crohn’s disease should probably not eat nutritional yeast.
Banning Trans Fat in Processed Foods but Not Animal Fat
After the trans fat oil ban, the only major sources of trans fat remaining will be from meat and dairy.
Posts navigation
Older Videos
English
Spanish
Nutrition Videos
Browse Topics
Latest Videos
How Not to Die
Foods for Dreaded Diseases
Foods for Disabling Diseases
Foods for Common Diseases
Foods for Killer Diseases
Blog and Resources
Dr. Greger's Medical Nutrition Blog
Evidence-Based Eating Guide
Nutrition FAQs
Optimum Nutrition Recommendations
Get the Books
How Not to Die
The How Not to Die Cookbook
Get the App
Daily Dozen iOS
Daily Dozen Android
Daily Dozen Challenge
Support Us
Donate
Our Supporters
Donor Rewards & Recognition
Get Involved
Volunteer Opportunities
Internship Opportunities
Employment Opportunities
Open Source Initiative
Submit a Testimonial
Get Social
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Instagram
YouTube
Vimeo
NutritionFacts.org in China
Subscribe
E-Mail Subscriptions
Volunteer Newsletter
Video RSS Feed
Blog RSS Feed
Help
About NutritionFacts.org
Help Center
FAQ
Copyright Guidelines
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Get in Touch
Contact Us
Press
Speaking Inquiries
Interview Inquiries
We our volunteers!	Apply Now!
Pin It on Pinterest