Does Exercise Lower Cholesterol?
Important Safety Information
Approved Uses
Prescribing Information
For US Consumers
REGISTER >
Search
Go
CRESTOR® (rosuvastatin calcium) Logo
Navigation
Home
Considering CRESTOR
How CRESTOR May Help
How CRESTOR Works
Is CRESTOR Right for Me?
Taking CRESTOR
Ask for Your CRESTOR
Identifying Your Medication
How to Take CRESTOR
CRESTOR FAQs
Side Effects of CRESTOR
High Cholesterol and Plaque Buildup
What Is Cholesterol?
LDL Cholesterol
HDL Cholesterol
Cholesterol Test
Understanding Cholesterol Levels
Plaque Buildup in the Arteries
Cholesterol and Your Health
Low Cholesterol Diet
Foods Low in Cholesterol
Exercise and Cholesterol
Savings and Resources
Savings Offers
Contact Us
Exercise and Cholesterol
Exercise is an important part of any plan to lower cholesterol
Many people ask the question: “Does exercise lower cholesterol?” The answer is YES. When you’re trying to lose weight and are working on reaching your cholesterol goal, getting regular exercise can make a big difference.
You may already know that being overweight or obese can increase your cholesterol levels, but there are a number of other important health benefits that come from staying active, including helping to:
Prevent and control high blood pressure
Keep cholesterol levels healthy
Prevent and control diabetes
Increasing your activity level doesn’t have to be difficult. And it doesn’t have to be all at once either. Instead of long sessions of activity, you can spread it out over the course of your day. For example, you might start out with a 10-minute walk in the morning and a 10-minute walk in the evening.
Make the commitment and get the health benefits of exercise
Getting enough exercise isn’t as hard as you might think. Getting some form of exercise, even for as little as 150 minutes spread out over the week, can make a big difference. Always be sure to talk to your doctor before beginning any exercise program.
Aerobic exercise means any activity that increases your heart rate. Some good examples of aerobic exercise include the following:
Walking fast
Swimming
Riding a bike
Playing tennis
Pushing a lawn mower
Talk to your doctor about healthy exercise strategies for you
Be sure to talk to your doctor before starting any exercise program. He or she can help identify a simple and effective program that works best for you.
For more information, visit the American Council on Exercise. This organization supports exercise and provides ways to get and stay fit. And, it provides helpful educational materials about exercise and fitness.
Next: Find out about how you can save on your CRESTOR prescription >
*LIKE* CRESTOR on FACEBOOK
We are sharing savings offers, tips, and insights with our fans.
Join us on Facebook
On Facebook?
We are sharing savings offers, tips, and insights with our fans.
Join us on Facebook
Interested in CRESTOR® (rosuvastatin calcium) savings?
Learn more about several ways to save on your prescription.
Start saving
Interested in savings on CRESTOR?
Learn more about several ways to save on your prescription.
Start saving
Save with CRESTOR $3 Savings Card powered by AZhelps*
Register for the savings offer today, and if eligible add your digital savings card to your mobile wallet so you have it with you
Find out more
Save with CRESTOR $3 Savings Card powered by AZhelps*
Register for the savings offer today, and if eligible add your digital savings card to your mobile wallet so you have it with you
Find out more
Cholesterol and Your Health
A healthy lifestyle may help lower your cholesterol.
Learn more
Want to stay in the know?
Register to receive helpful tips and information.
Sign up now
Is CRESTOR right for you?
Talk to your doctor to find out if CRESTOR is right for you.
Learn more
On Facebook?
We are sharing deals, tips, and insights with our fans.
Join us on Facebook
Eligible patients can get the CRESTOR $3 Card. Pay as low as $3* every time you fill, for as long as you’re prescribed CRESTOR.*
*Subject to eligibility. Restrictions apply. Click here for details
Start saving
Need answers to FAQs?
Get answers to common questions about CRESTOR.
Click here
Fewer than one-third of adults (29.5%) with high LDL cholesterol has the condition under control.
Getting “bad” LDL to a healthy level is important.
Find out why
73.5 million adults (31.7%) in the United States have high “bad” LDL cholesterol.
Don’t put off getting your cholesterol checked.
Read more
Curious about the benefits of CRESTOR?
Find out more about how CRESTOR may help.
Learn more
How does CRESTOR work?
Find out more about how CRESTOR reduces high cholesterol.
Learn more
What does CRESTOR do?
Find out more about how CRESTOR may help.
Learn more
Important Safety Information About CRESTOR Tablets
CRESTOR is not right for everyone. Do not take CRESTOR if you are nursing, pregnant or may become pregnant; have liver problems; or have had an allergic reaction to CRESTOR
Your doctor should do blood tests to check your liver before starting treatment... read more and if you have symptoms of liver problems while taking CRESTOR
CRESTOR is not right for everyone. Do not take CRESTOR if you are nursing, pregnant or may become pregnant; have liver problems; or have had an allergic reaction... read more to CRESTOR
Your doctor should do blood tests to check your liver before starting treatment and if you have symptoms of liver problems while taking CRESTOR
Call your doctor right away if you:
Have unexplained muscle pain or weakness, especially with fever
Have muscle problems that do not go away even after your doctor told you to stop taking CRESTOR
Feel unusually tired
Have loss of appetite, upper belly pain, dark urine, or yellowing of skin or eyes.
These could be signs of rare but serious side effects
Elevated blood sugar levels have been reported with statins, including CRESTOR
Side effects: The most common side effects may include headache, muscle aches, abdominal pain, weakness, and nausea. Memory loss and confusion have also been reported with statins, including CRESTOR
Tell your doctor and pharmacist about other medicines you are taking
Talk to your doctor about prescription CRESTOR.
Approved Uses for CRESTOR
When diet and exercise alone aren't enough to lower cholesterol, adding CRESTOR can help.
In adults, CRESTOR is prescribed along with diet to lower high cholesterol and to slow plaque buildup in arteries as part of a treatment plan to lower cholesterol to goal.
Prescribing Information with Patient Information (PDF - 152k)
You may report side effects related to AstraZeneca products by clicking here.
Back To Top
You are leaving this site
The site you are about to visit is maintained by a third party who is solely responsible for its contents.
AstraZeneca provides this link as a service to Web site visitors. AstraZeneca is not responsible for the privacy policy of any third-party Web sites. We encourage you to read the privacy policy of every Web site you visit.
Click Cancel to return or OK to continue.
OKCancel
BACK TO TOP
IMPORTANT SAFETY INFORMATION
Eligibility
Savings Card Eligibility and Terms of Use
*Patient Eligibility for Savings Card:
You may be eligible for this offer if you are insured by commercial insurance and your insurance does not cover the full cost of your prescription, or you are not insured and are responsible for the cost of your prescriptions.
Patients who are enrolled in a state or federally funded prescription insurance program are not eligible for this offer. This includes patients enrolled in Medicare Part D, Medicaid, Medigap, Veterans Affairs (VA), Department of Defense (DOD) programs or TriCare, and patients who are Medicare eligible and enrolled in an employer-sponsored group waiver health plan or government-subsidized prescription drug benefit program for retirees. If you are enrolled in a state or federally funded prescription insurance program, you may not use this Savings Card even if you elect to be processed as an uninsured (cash-paying) patient.
This offer is not insurance and is restricted to residents of the United States and Puerto Rico, and patients over 18 years of age. This offer is valid for retail prescriptions only.
Terms of Use: Eligible commercially insured patients with a valid prescription for CRESTOR® (rosuvastatin calcium) Tablets who present this Savings Card at participating pharmacies will pay $3 for a 30-, 60-, or 90-day supply, subject to a maximum savings of $130 per 30-day supply, $260 per 60-day supply, or $390 per 90-day supply. Eligible cash-paying patients will receive up to $130 in savings on out-of-pocket costs per 30-day supply. Offer good for 12 uses; each 30-day supply counts as 1 use. This offer is good for a 30-day supply, 60-day supply, or 90-day supply, and expires 14 months from the date of first use. Other restrictions may apply. Patient is responsible for applicable taxes, if any. If you have any questions regarding this offer, please call 1-855-687-21511-855-687-2151.
Nontransferable, limited to one per person, cannot be combined with any other offer. Void for residents in California and Massachusetts and where prohibited by law, taxed, or restricted. Patients, pharmacists, and prescribers cannot seek reimbursement from health insurance or any third party for any part of the benefit received by the patient through this offer. AstraZeneca reserves the right to rescind, revoke, or amend this offer, eligibility, and terms of use at any time without notice. This offer is not conditioned on any past, present, or future purchase, including refills. Offer must be presented along with a valid prescription for CRESTOR at the time of purchase.
BY USING THIS CARD, YOU AND YOUR PHARMACIST UNDERSTAND AND AGREE TO COMPLY WITH THESE ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS AND TERMS OF USE.
Program managed by ConnectiveRx, on behalf of AstraZeneca.
Mail Order Eligibility
*Patient Eligibility for Mail-order Rebate: You may be eligible for this offer if you are insured by commercial insurance and your insurance does not cover the full cost of your prescription, or you are not insured and are responsible for the cost of your prescriptions.
Patients who are enrolled in a state or federally funded prescription insurance program are not eligible for this offer. This includes patients enrolled in Medicare Part D, Medicaid, Medigap, Veterans Affairs (VA), Department of Defense (DOD) programs or TriCare, and patients who are Medicare eligible and enrolled in an employer-sponsored group waiver health plan or government-subsidized prescription drug benefit program for retirees. If you are enrolled in a state or federally funded prescription insurance program, you may not use this rebate form even if you elect to be processed as an uninsured (cash-paying) patient.
This offer is not insurance and is restricted to residents of the United States and Puerto Rico, and patients over 18 years of age. This offer is valid for prescription purchased through a mail-order pharmacy.
Terms of Use: Eligible commercially insured patients with a valid prescription for CRESTOR® (rosuvastatin calcium) Tablets will pay $3 for a 30-, 60-, or 90-day supply, subject to a maximum savings of $130 per 30-day supply, $260 per 60-day supply, or $390 per 90-day supply. Eligible cash-paying patients will receive up to $130 in savings on out-of-pocket costs per 30-day supply. Offer good for 12 uses; each 30-day supply counts as 1 use. This offer is good for a 30-day supply, 60-day supply, or 90-day supply, and expires 14 months from the date of first use. Other restrictions may apply. Patient is responsible for applicable taxes, if any. If you have any questions regarding this offer, please call 1-855-687-21511-855-687-2151.
Nontransferable, limited to one per person, cannot be combined with any other offer. Void for residents in California and Massachusetts and where prohibited by law, taxed, or restricted. Patients, pharmacists, and prescribers cannot seek reimbursement from health insurance or any third party for any part of the benefit received by the patient through this offer. AstraZeneca reserves the right to rescind, revoke, or amend this offer, eligibility, and terms of use at any time without notice. This offer is not conditioned on any past, present, or future purchase, including refills. A valid prescription for CRESTOR must be presented at the time of purchase.
BY USING THIS REBATE FORM, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE TO COMPLY WITH THESE ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS AND TERMS OF USE.
Program managed by ConnectiveRx, on behalf of AstraZeneca.
E-mail This Page
If you would like to send this page, just complete the form below and click SHARE. The recipient will receive an e-mail with a direct URL link to this page, along with a notification that you requested to send it.
Your Name:
Your E-mail:
Recipient's E-mail(s): Add up to 5 e-mails separated by commas.
Your e-mail address and that of your recipient will be used for transmission of this e-mail only and will not be stored or used for any other purpose.
Share Formulary Results
Are you sure you want to close?
Yes, I'm sure No, go back
Thank you for sharing
Thank you. Your e-mail has been sent.
Share with more colleagues
Close
This site is intended for US consumers only.
The information on this Web site should not take the place of talking with your doctor or health care professional. If you have any questions about your condition, or if you would like more information about CRESTOR, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. Only you and your health care professional can decide if CRESTOR is right for you.
Savings Resources
Contact Us
Site Map
Privacy Notice
Cookie Notice
Legal Statement
AZ US Corporate Site
FlagThis product information is intended for US Health Care Professionals only.
CRESTOR is licensed from SHIONOGI & CO, LTD, Osaka, Japan.
CRESTOR is a registered trademark of the AstraZeneca group of companies.
©2018 AstraZeneca. All rights reserved.
US-8859; US-20515; US-21394 Last Updated 7/18