Total Life Care Total Life Care
create an
account
my patient
page
appointment
requests
prescription
renewal
health
forms
ask a
doctor
Our Providers
Our Staff
Our Location
FAQ
Home
Fish Oil
Fish Oil and omega 3
fatty acids<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" />
Many people are encouraged by their physicians to take fish oil, but often do not understand why. Fish oil, sometimes referred to as omega 3 fatty acids, is very beneficial to your health for numerous reasons.
Fish oil benefits include:
Improved heart health including decreased arrhythmias, decreased triglyceride levels, decreased plaque buildup on the arteries, an increase in HDL (good) cholesterol levels, and a slight decrease in blood pressure
Decreased risk of cardiovascular events including heart attacks and strokes
Reduction in inflammation
Improved blood vessel functioning and decreased resting heart rate
Fish oil is beneficial not only to those with a history of cardiovascular problems, but also for anyone who is trying to prevent cardiovascular problems. Combined with a heart healthy diet, including whole grains, fruits, vegetables, and fish, fish oil can improve your heart health.
The recommended daily dose is usually 1000-2000mg per day. This amount is sometimes increased when taking supplements that contain less of the active ingredients EPA and DHA. Look for a higher concentration of EPA and DHA in your supplement, or talk with your physician about a supplement that is right for you.
Always check with your physician before starting any new supplements. Fish oil can enhance the effects of any blood thinning medication, including Aspirin, Coumadin, and Plavix. If you are interested in taking Fish oil and are on a blood thinner, consult your physician for proper dosing guidelines.
Associated URL: http://www.mayoclinic.com/health/fish-oil/NS_patient-fishoil
Printable View
Powered by Medfusion. Total Life Care . © Medfusion, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
Medfusion