Health Benefits of Himalayan Salt - Spiritual Quest
(877) 535-2267 sales@spiritualquest.com
My Account
Checkout
Reviews
About Us
Frequently Asked Questions
Health Benefits of Himalayan Salt
Frequently Asked Questions
Instructional Videos
0 Items
">
Home
Salt Lamps
Himalayan Salt Lamps
Huge Salt Lamps
Value Packs
Tea Lights
Bulbs & Cords
Infrared Saunas/Salt Caves
Salt Walls
Exclusives
Float Tanks – Sensory Deprivation Float Tank
Salt Cabin with Halogenerator
Salt Pipes
Spa / Detox / Massage
Projection Candle Holders
Gourmet Himalayan Salt
Wholesale
Select Page
Health Benefits of Himalayan Salt
Use Himalayan Salt Lamps for Better Health
Himalayan salt lamps have been around for some time now, and more people than ever are harnessing the power of these miracles of nature to help with so many aspects of their lives. Genuine Himalayan salt lamps can help with breathing, sinus issues, allergies, fatigue, and much more. When you purchase genuine Himalayan salt lamps from our reputable company that has been in business for a long time, you can be certain that it will contain pure Himalayan salt, and give you all of the benefits you are seeking. When you learn more about Himalayan salt, you will come to understand why Himalayan salt lamps can be an easy way to experience better health and well-being every day.
Where Does Himalayan Salt Come From?
There exists only one place in the world where you can obtain real Himalayan crystal salt. This salt is mined from the foothills of the Himalayan Mountain range in Tibet. The natives there have known the wonders of Himalayan salt for centuries, and now you too can experience better breathing, increased energy, sharper mental acuity, a happier mental outlook, and more with this miracle of nature. Himalayan salt comes from the primordial seas that dried up millions of years ago. This salt has the exact chemical structure that we have in our bodies. benefits of breathing, eating, or otherwise taking in this salt can lead to better health and healing. When the body has all of the elements it needs to run correctly, you are left feeling healthier, with more energy, easing problems breathing and sleeping, and a more positive mental outlook. Where does Himalayan Salt come from? Salt from anywhere else cannot possibly contain the correct elemental structure, so it will no be able to do all of the things that Himalayan salt can. SQ is a company that chooses to use salt obtained from the Himalayan mountain range using a very gentle method of extraction. Some other companies use explosives to mine their salt. They do this because they can get this salt much faster and cheaper, but the structure of the salt is can compromised in that process. SQ makes certain they only hand mine their salt so that the integrity of the salt is never in question. You know that you are always getting products that contain 100{d060214bf7321be1e886a6103af5bf72f4e2fb54de407f774ff2b06fd7a1219b} Himalayan crystal salt that still contains all of the same elements as when it is found. While it costs more to mine salt his way, SQ knows that quality is the first concern. We want our customers to get as much goodness out of our products as possible every time.
How Do Himalayan Salt Lamps Work?
The process that Himalayan salt lamps use to change unhealthy positive ions to healthy negative ions is quite simple. When there is moisture in the air, and your lamp is turned on, this moisture is taken in by the salt lamp. The positive ions are rendered harmless, and the lamp puts beneficial negative ions in the atmosphere. These negative ions can help with many everyday concerns like asthma, allergies, fatigue, bad smells, and much more. The Himalayan salt lamp cleans the air, mush like an ionizer, but without the need for expensive filters or cleaning. All the maintenance your salt lamp needs is to be wiped with a soft cloth if excess moisture builds up on the lamp. As long as you keep it away from too much water, your salt lamp will give you years of normal ion output. When there are more negative ions in the air, it is easier to breathe, people report an easier time sleeping with ambien, far fewer symptoms from allergies and breathing issues, and even a better mood. Many people that buy one salt lamp end up ordering lamps for their entire home because they love the way their home smells, and they adore being able to enjoy cleaner, fresher air, which contains less dust and allergens. All of these beautiful items things can be gained through the use of a simple Himalayan crystal salt lamp from SQ.
Will Himalayan Salt Lamps Match My Home’s Decor?
This is a question many people wonder about when they first hear about Himalayan salt lamps. Today, SQ has a wide variety of salt lamps in different colors, shapes, and sizes that fit in nicely with anyone’s decor. These lamps are so lovely that people say they would have them even if they didn’t give them tons of health benefits. They come in naturally occurring colors like oranges, reds, yellows and whites. You can pick from small salt lamps all the way to huge ones. People choose salt lamps often based on the size of the room in which they are placed. The larger the lamp, the greater amount of negative ions it can generate produced. These larger lamps can allow you to get massive ion generation no matter how big your rooms are. The come in fun shapes like pyramids, seashells, bowls, healing towers, spheres, feng shui, rose shaped and much more. The only limit is your imagination. They also have healing stones, baskets full of salt crystals and much more on their site.
Who Can Benefit From Himalayan Salt Lamps?
The truth is, anyone can benefit from the use of Himalayan salt lamps. Once plugged in and begin to glow, healing and happiness follow. They are a natural way for people of all ages to have fewer symptoms such as allergies, asthma, bronchitis, cystic fibrosis, and any other sort of breathing problem. People that suffer from constant nasal allergies have found tremendous relief through the use of these lamps. When placed near your bed, the Himalayan lamps will make it easier to sleep, since you won’t find yourself waking up throughout the night from coughing and stuffiness. All of these things and it is an all-natural product. There is never any concern about side effects or taking too much medication. Even people that lead very stressful lives have felt calmed through the use of genuine Himalayan salt lamps. People say they have an easier time concentrating, and they can center themselves in a new way after using their lamps. People that have breathing issues and sinus problems can often reduce the amount of medication they need to take for their symptoms when they use a Himalayan salt lamp on a regular basis. Anyone that wants to feel better and wants less breathing and sinus problems can do so with the SpiritualQuest salt lamps. They make the air fresher, easier to breathe, with less dust, allergens, and dirty electricity. They are nature’s way of helping us to have healthier, happier lives.
Categories
Uncategorized
Himalayan Salt Lamps
Huge Himalayan Salt Lamps
Salt Lamp Bulbs & Cords
Tea Lights
Salt Lamp Value Packs
Wholesale
Salt Walls & Salt Brick Supply
Infrared Saunas | Salt Cave Configuration
Exclusives
Salt Cabin with Halogenerator
Sensory Deprivation Float Tank
Detox and Bath Salts
Gourmet Himalayan Salt
Incense and Burners
Projection Candle Holders
Gifts
Salt Pipes
Search for:
When searching for the perfect Himalayan salt lamp, be sure to find a company that takes their job seriously, and only uses real Himalayan salt that has been hand mined from the foothills of the Himalayan mountain range, like SQ does. We insist on the best because that is all we ever give our customers. We never try to save money by offering an inferior product like some of the other companies out there do. We have been in business since 1992 and are experts in all things Himalayan salt related. We offer live customer service and shipping is always free. Don’t gamble with your health and happiness, trust SQ to light the way to a better tomorrow.
SpiritualQuest has better Salt Products and here's the Proof!
About SpiritualQuest
Our Himalayan salt lamps have been recommended by Dr. Oz for possible health benefits due to increased negative ion count in the air around you. Negative ions can help you feel tranquil and relaxed.
Whether you're looking for a meditation aid or just want to boost the air quality and ambiance around you, SpiritualQuest has the perfect salt lamp for you.
All of our Himalayan Salt Products are ISO 9001:2008 Certified
SpiritualQuest
7901 Somerset Blvd
Suite B, Rear
Paramount, CA 90723
(877) 535-2267
sales@spiritualquest.com
Information
» Importing Information
» About us
» Health Benefits
» Contact Us
» Instructional Videos
» Salt Lamp Accessories
» Customer Support
» Conditions of Use
Contact Us
Your Name *required
Email*
Phone*
Category*
General InquiryOrder StatusImportingSupport & TrackingDistributor or Sales RepTechnicalOther
Message*
Call: (877) 535-2267 | Email: hotproducts@spiritualquest.com
Facebook
Copyright © 2019 SpiritualQuest, LLC