8 Impressive Benefits of Ginger | Busy Mum
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
FEATURED IN
Get Started Now
Home
About
BLOG
Programs
14 Day Challenge
8 Week VIP PROGRAM
Virtual Gym
Book
Results
Contact
Shop
FAQ
Login
8 Impressive Benefits of Ginger
Posted by busymum_admin - March 15, 2018
« Previous Post Next Post »
Share
Pin
Tweet
+1
Share
0 Shares
Intensely flavorful and aromatic, ginger is one of the most popular dietary condiments in the world. Its complex flavor profile can elevate any dish and beverage, from teas and smoothies to curries and cakes.
However, this pantry staple can be more versatile than we think. Regular consumption of ginger is be associated with a myriad of health benefits, ranging from relieving morning sickness to even reducing cholesterol levels.
Ginger’s health benefits are largely associated with their high antioxidant levels and anti-inflammatory properties.
So how exactly can eating more ginger help us? Keep reading to find out what this nutritional powerhouse has to offer:
1. Alleviates morning sickness
Ginger has a longstanding history of easing stomach and gut problems. In traditional herbal medicine, ginger is a common ingredient used to support digestion and gut health, and aid in the release of intestinal gas.
It’s no wonder that ginger has been proven to also provide relief from nausea and morning sickness. According to research, just taking one gram of ginger every day can help abate vomiting and nausea among pregnant women.
Ginger can also be used to reduce nausea and stomach upset during chemotherapy or following surgery. Studies also show that taking ginger can help relieve symptoms of motion sickness, such as nausea, cold sweats and vomiting.
Furthermore, ginger inhibits the growth of H. pylori, a type of bad bacteria in the gut that can lead to ulcers in the stomach lining or the upper region of the small intestine.
2. Reduces risk of diabetes
Research shows that certain active compounds in ginger may help improve insulin levels and overall metabolism, thereby reducing risk of diabetes.
However, adding extra ginger to sugar-laden baked treats isn’t going to do your health any favors. Instead, we recommend using raw ginger in smoothies, herbal teas and soups.
3. Metabolism booster
Ginger can have a thermogenic effect in the body, allowing the body to burn more fat and thus, boost its overall metabolism.
According to research, the thermogenesis that results from ginger can amp your metabolism by 5% and elevate fat burn by up to 16%! In addition, a review published in the Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences shows that ginger may protect your body against the effects of metabolic syndrome – which includes weight gain.
4. Anti-inflammatory properties
Ginger is rich in phytonutrients, which are antioxidant-like compounds that help reduce cellular damage. Ginger can help prevent inflammation by inhibiting cell signaling activity.
5. Enhances glow
Ginger contains a compound called gingerol that reduces inflammation and switches off compounds that cause pain in the body. Because of its anti-inflammatory properties, regular consumption of ginger can also help calm redness and irritation of the skin.
According to one study, eating a combination of ginger and curcumin (found in turmeric) can help improve the appearance and function of the skin dramatically, while also helping it heal at a faster rate.
6. Lowers cholesterol levels
According to a 2008 study conducted with 85 people with high cholesterol levels, taking just 3 grams of ginger every day resulted in noteworthy declines in their cholesterol markers, which included cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and triglycerides.
7. Natural period pain reliever
Women suffering from monthly period cramps, rejoice! Studies show not only does ginger have the greatest effect on menstrual pain, it also helps other vexing symptoms, such as nausea and stomach issues.
8. Flu remedy
Ginger has been used to fight infections and illnesses for centuries. It has a soothing effect in the body, which reduces emergency symptom responses when the cells in your body get damaged.
Trust us, this is what you want. While your white blood cells work on defending the body against nasty microbes, active compounds in ginger act like barriers against increasing levels of prostaglandins – chemicals that cause headaches, cramps and fever.
Join our next 8 Week VIP Busy Mum Program – Take hold of your results now
For more Nutrition tips click here.
« Previous Post Next Post »
Primary Sidebar
GET YOUR
FREE
14 DAY‘BUSY MUM’
WORKOUT
ONLY 12 MINUTES PER DAY
NO EQUIPMENT REQUIRED
GET STARTED NOW
JOIN OUR
8 WEEK‘BUSY MUM’
VIP
PROGRAM
& BE THE BEST VERSION OF
YOURSELF
GET STARTED NOW
JOIN OUR
VIRTUAL GYM
PROGRAM
Embark on this fitness journey with a community of like-minded Mums with daily support and coaching to get the results you deserve.
GET STARTED NOW
Popular Posts
How to Get Rid of Stomach Overhang
How To Measure Your Goals
How to LOSE 2 dress sizes in 8 weeks
"10kg gone in 8 Weeks, never felt so good after kids. This program is a game changer"
Sarah M.
"10kg gone in 8 Weeks, never felt so good after kids. This program is a game changer"
Sarah M.
GET YOUR FREE 14 DAY ‘BUSY MUM’ WORKOUTS
ONLY 12 MINUTES PER DAY - NO EQUIPMENT REQUIRED
GET STARTED NOW
Footer
Home
About
BLOGS
Results
Contact
Shop
FAQ
Facebook
Google+
Instagram
Twitter
YouTube
©BusyMumFitness. All Rights Reserved | Terms and Conditions | Privacy Policy | Who designed this website?
❯
X
GET YOUR
FREE
14 DAY‘BUSY MUM’
WORKOUTS
ONLY 12 MINUTES PER DAY
NO EQUIPMENT REQUIRED
First Name *
Email *
Phone Number
Submit
We will only send you awesome stuff!
X