The Dangers of Mosquito Bites and The Zika Virus - Knockout Mosquito
Skip to content
Home
Mosquito Misting Systems
Mosquito Fogging
Mosquito Trap
Blog
Free Estimate
The Dangers of Mosquito Bites and The Zika Virus
The Dangers of Mosquito Bites and The Zika Virus
Traveling, and taking a family vacation, always seems like a great idea, especially when you are going overseas to experience beautiful beaches and new adventures. That is, until you come across mosquitoes and they start to bite you. This can turn into a dangerous situation, since getting a mosquito bite can actually make you extremely sick.
Mosquitoes are not only annoying, as they tend to bite at all times and all places, but they also can carry harmful diseases with them, such as the Zika virus, Dengue, and Chikungunya. Getting a mosquito bite is no longer an issue of being itchy, now you need to worry about the dangers that it may have on the health of you and your family.
The Zika Virus can cause a fever, rash, joint pain, and pink eye. These symptoms can last for anywhere from several days, to weeks. It has been reported many people who become infested by the Zika virus end up hospitalized. Although death due to the Zika virus is rare, it is important to remain protected when you are outdoors at all times, especially if you are traveling overseas.
Not only can the Zika virus make you extremely sick, if you are trying to conceive a baby or are pregnant, it can cause birth defects to your unborn child. For this reason, doctors recommend that women who are pregnant do not travel to any areas that have reported an outbreak of Zika. If a pregnant woman must travel to an area that has reported a Zika outbreak, it is recommended that she follows all her doctor’s recommendations, and avoid mosquitoes as much as possible.
Although we are all well aware of the dangers a mosquito bite can now have, we still want to be able to enjoy the outdoors, and travel with our families. Staying protected is, and should always be the main priority. The only way to remain protected from getting attacked by mosquitoes is by using a mosquito repellent at all times while outdoors.
That is when Mosquito Control Charleston SC will come in handy. We have created a mist that will keep those pesky bugs as well as many others away from you and your outdoor exterior at home. Mosquito misting in Charleston SC is one of the best ways to ensure you can enjoy your backyard all summer long without having to worry about getting any mosquito bites from mosquitoes that are infected with the Zika virus.
Misting your backyard with a mosquito repellent creates a barrier between your home and the virus infested mosquitoes. It is not toxic for you or the plants you have in your backyard. It is a very fine mist that keeps mosquitoes away for good, all summer long. This will give you the peace of mind you need to enjoy the great outdoors with your family.
If you are traveling overseas we recommend you take appropriate measures, and travel with mosquito repellent even if you have not seen or heard of any Zika virus outbreaks. You should always be prepared to keep mosquitoes away.
By Knockout Mosquito|2016-11-29T15:06:49+00:00November 29th, 2016|
Share This Post
FacebookTwitterLinkedIn
Related Posts
Avoiding And Treating Mosquito Bites
Get Social
Contact Us
1123 Pinefield Dr Charleston, SC 29492
Phone: 843-270-1729
Email: info@knockoutmosquito.com
Sitemap
About
Contact
Home
Mosquito Control Blog
Mosquito Fogging
Mosquito Misting Systems
Mosquito Trap
Pest Control
Warranty
Copyright © Knockout Mosquito | All Rights Reserved | Developed by DigitalCoast Marketing LLC
FacebookTwitterLinkedInInstagramPinterestGoogle+