20 Uses for Coconut Oil - Coconuts & Kettlebells
Mindset
Health
Fitness
Workouts
Recipes
Natural Skincare
About
Meet Noelle
Meet the Team
Nutritional Therapy Coaching
Contact
Start Here
Resources
Podcast
The Book
Select Page
20 Everyday Uses for Coconut Oil
Share1.1K
Pin280
Tweet26
Email
Share
1.4K Shares
Coconut oil is a superfood that has been shown to have amazing benefits for the body – both inside and out.
In fact, there are many uses for coconut oil (twenty, to be exact) that I do on a daily basis, all of which you can find listed below.
I will warn you, once you start exploring the many uses for coconut oil, it’s hard to stop. You’ll start carrying it everywhere with you, and continually try to use it in place of other things. (Just a heads up, it’s not a good substitute for hair gel, or cold hard cash. You can take my word for it.)
I recommend using unrefined, 100% organic coconut oil that is cold-pressed. I personally use Nutiva Coconut Oil in my own home because it’s a reputable brand and has a beautiful aroma. You can purchase coconut oil in bulk which makes it extremely affordable and cost-effective. Don’t worry – you’ll go through it fast!
20 Uses for Coconut Oil
Food
1. Cooking. Because coconut oil is completely saturated, it’s a very stable fat that can be used for all medium and high heat cooking like pan frying or baking. Unlike most polyunsaturated vegetable oils, it isn’t prone to damage or oxidation. It also gives a light, satiating flavor to vegetables, meats, eggs. If you want roast or grill with coconut oil and you’re in a climate with an ambient temperature below 76 degrees Farienheit (coconut oil’s melting point), simply pre-heat the coconut oil to make it a liquid before combining with your food.
2. By the Spoonful. Coconut oil has a delicious flavor that provides a tasty boost of energy when needed (it works great as a 3:00PM pick me up!) It also helps turn “off” hunger cues that may lead to overeating.
2. As a Butter Substitute. Coconut oil can be used on top of sweet potatoes, corn on the cob, and on a variety of treats like grain-free breads, pancakes and muffins.
4. For Baking. You can use coconut oil in pie crusts and any baked goods recipes. Simply replace the vegetable oil for coconut oil (again – pre “melt” the coconut oil if needed!), and your recipes will come out super-duper delish.
5. Creating a Non-stick Surface. Use coconut oil to coat baking sheets, glass dishes, pans, and even for seasoning cast iron cookware! Since using coconut oil, my cast iron pan has come out beautiful and non-stick!
6. As a Dressing. Coconut oil blended with other oils can be used to make a yummy salad dressing. Check out my favorite coconut oil salad dressing recipe!
7. In Coffee and Tea. Use a tablespoon of coconut oil in coffee or tea to make a creamy, tasty drink with loads of stable energy. See recipe here!
8. Homemade Magic Shell. Coconut oil and raw cacoa powder is quite an extraordinary pair. Check out my Homemade Magic Shell recipe to make your own! You can pour it over frozen fruits or your favorite coconut ice cream. (Yeah, this one’s my favorite!)
Skin & Hair
9. Moisturizer. Coconut oil is an incredible moisturizer for the body and face. It helps restore moisture to the skin, and it’s great for conditions like acne, eczema, athlete’s foot, and more because it’s antifungal and antiviral. Use a small amount as a little goes a long way! (Note: Be sure to test it out on a small spot your skin first before slathering all over!)
10. Face Cleanser. Most facial cleansers have harsh chemicals in them that irritate and dry-out the skin. They also frequently have have toxins that are xenoestrogens, which act like estrogen in the body and can affect fertility, weight loss, and cause breast cancer.[1][2][3][4] You can use coconut oil to clean your face at night using a method called the oil cleansing method. It’s super easy, refreshing, and it’s completely cleared up my skin. In fact, I no longer need moisturizer on my skin after I clean my face at night. Want to try it out? Check out my post on How to Clean Your Face With Coconut Oil. (And bonus! When doing so, I recommend following up with my DIY Apple Cider Vinegar Facial Toner.)
11. Make-up Remover. Lightly massage coconut oil on to your face, and use a warm washcloth (or Norwex cloth) to wipe off your make up. Comes off so easy!
12. Deodorant: Coconut oil is great for making lightly scented deodorants that are moisturizing and aluminum-free. Simply use a homemade recipe that includes baking soda (drying agent) and essentials oils like tea tree oil or lavender oil for a lovely scent! Personally, since I travel a lot, I leave it to my favorite deodorant company, Stinkbug Naturals to make my deodorant. Mr. Coconuts and I both love it. We find ours at Whole Foods for around $6.
13. Shaving Lotion: Get a close shave, and moisturize at the same time! For ladies – simply rub on your legs before getting in the shower.
14. Scar/Stretch Mark Reducer. Coconut oil is made up of medium-chain fatty acids, which makes it a cocktail of antioxidants, vitamin E, and gives it antimicrobial properties. Coconut oil is a moisturizing powerhouse that absorbs quickly and gets way deeper into pores over other conventional moisturizers.5 Many women have found FAST results when using coconut oil to reduce scars and stretch-marks, and have reported tightened skin and reduced redness. A simple google search will produce some awesome testimonials!
15. Cuts and Scrapes: Coconut oil is antiviral and antifungal. In my house, I use it as a replacement for Neosporine for cuts and scrapes (although Mr. Coconuts still won’t let his treasured tube go.) It adds moisture, promotes healing, reduces the appearance of scars and protects against further damage. Mix it with a little tea tree oil for additional anti-inflammatory benefits.
16. Massage Oil. No explanation needed. Use as much as you want, for as long as you want!
17. Lube. Yeah, I went there. Coconut oil is the absolutely BEST lubricant you’ll find. It’s soft, has a nice scent, and doesn’t dry out or get “sticky” with friction. Best yet – you aren’t putting a bunch of random carcinogenic chemicals up in your special parts. (Note: no solid scientific research has shown that it does or does not work with latex condoms… so if you don’t want babies, use another natural lubricant with condoms.)
18. Hair & Scalp Repair. Coconut oil is a powerful deep conditioner that can be used to heal scalp issues like dandruff or damaged/frizzy hair. Simply apply on “dead ends” at night for an over-night conditioner, or massage deeply into scalp and leave in for at least 20 minutes before rinsing. Make sure to only use a small amount and expect to shampoo/rinse multiple times to get it out.
Household Uses
19. Toothpaste: Most conventional toothpastes contain sodium lauryl sulfates – a caustic detergent which helps remove grease. You’ll find it laundry detergents and cleaners. It is toxic to the human body and therefore should not be swallowed. Um, hello… then why is it in toothpaste and body care products that are applied to the skin? Liberation: Make your own! Coconut oil is an awesome base for your own toothpaste creations. Check out my Homemade Toothpaste Recipe to make your own!
20. Furniture Polish: You can actually use coconut oil and a little bit of lemon juice to polish furniture in the house! Use only a small amount – and make sure to “test” a small spot first to make sure it meets your expectations.
Do you have any other uses for coconut oil? Did I miss anything? Share below!
Keepin’ it human,
Share1.1K
Pin280
Tweet26
Email
Share
1.4K Shares
FIND NATURAL SKIN CARE CONFUSING?
Get access to my step-by-step video tutorial, which shows you exactly how to clean your face with coconut oil and use other products like toners, moisturizers, and exfoliators in your routine!
SEND IT TO ME!
To access the video, please check your inbox (or spam folder!), and confirm you're not a robot! Then, I will send you the video immediately!
There will be no spam, ever. We respect your privacy and time like it's our own.
21 Comments
Sally	on February 23, 2014 at 11:49 AM
What are your thoughts on oil-pulling?
Reply
Noelle	on February 23, 2014 at 3:15 PM
Hi Sally!
While I haven’t done it personally – oil-pulling seems to work for many people to improve oral health. There are studies that show it can reduce plaque, prevent gum disease and even remove harmful bacteria – reducing tooth decay and infections. The idea is similar to that of the oil cleansing method (which I use as my facial cleansing routine) in that “like dissolves like” – the oil pulls and attracts the plaque and toxins from the mouth. Experts like Dr. Bruce Fife recommend doing it for at least 20 minutes to see the benefits. I highly recommend trying it out with coconut oil as it’s antimicrobial. Let me know how it goes!
Lacey Crenshaw	on May 20, 2014 at 12:21 PM
Oil pulling is amazing! I’ve been doing it religiously for 6 months and have healed 4 cavities! My acne has also cleared up a lot, just from oil pulling.
Just wanted to share!
Noelle	on May 20, 2014 at 3:15 PM
Lacey – that’s fantastic! I find that truly amazing about the cavities. Thanks for sharing.
sarah roy	on August 21, 2015 at 11:30 AM
how do you do oil pulling. I would love to heal my cavitity
Noelle	on August 21, 2015 at 11:31 AM
Check out this article! 🙂
Adam Finan	on June 18, 2014 at 1:43 PM
Hi Noelle,
You have a really cool blog here! Thanks for these tips – especially the toothpaste one. I will try it out.. I found you page by someone using your images but they were not giving linklove on Facebook.. watermarking the images works 🙂
Reply
Noelle	on June 18, 2014 at 4:33 PM
Adam,
Well hello! You have an awesome blog yourself! Thanks for checking out the site. The toothpaste is a pretty cool “switch” to make – my husband and I now love it. Glad the watermark worked! HA! 🙂
Lauren	on October 23, 2014 at 12:14 AM
Use #21 Massage onto a baby’s scalp to loosen “cradle cap”, then wash hair and use a soft baby brush and comb to lift and comb out the flakes
Reply
Noelle	on October 23, 2014 at 7:37 AM
Ohh, good one Lauren. Thanks!
yongabi	on April 17, 2015 at 12:02 PM
nice to hear about coconut oil which i never know. I will give a try, but my problem is, i do not know my skin type.If i want to apply my foundation, sunscreen what should i do first?
Reply
Noelle	on April 17, 2015 at 1:47 PM
I’m sorry, Mary. I don’t really understand your question. Could you clarify for me what your question is about?
Beth	on July 17, 2015 at 10:54 PM
Use #22: use coconut oil instead of traditional diaper rash products. Keeps my baby diaper rash free and yeast infection free!
Reply
Noelle	on July 18, 2015 at 7:28 AM
Awesome idea! 🙂 I’m sure I’ll be putting that one to use in the future!
swatiSwati	on August 6, 2015 at 6:09 PM
Use #23: Take some Coconut Oil in a glass jar. Add in a few camphor tablets and let them dissolve. Use this to relieve yourself of any itchy skin problems!
Reply
Ninasphere	on October 26, 2015 at 3:34 PM
I have a long-haired angora cat who’s getting older and doesn’t clean herself that well anymore, so she gets awful, thick mats in her hair. I tried scissors (dangerous), cat-mat razors (didn’t work), combs (ditto), even one of those little plastic letter openers with a razor in it (not even close). Guess what worked? I read online about drenching the mats in olive or coconut oil (making sure the area’s really soaked with the oil), so I used olive oil on her left side and coconut on her right, and put towels down where she would by laying, so grease didn’t get all over everything. And believe it or not, 4-5 days later, every single mat had fallen out—I started finding them all over the house! Both types of oil worked equally well, so I think you could go either way. And i didn’t have to have all her fur shaved off! Amazing.
Reply
Cameron	on March 27, 2016 at 11:55 AM
Coconut oil can be used as an alternative to harsh sunscreens. Ive read it has an spf in the range of 7-10, depending on the source for the info.
Reply
Molly	on September 21, 2016 at 9:19 PM
I’ve also found that coconut oil can be used as a very light mascara. It saturates your eyelashes and makes them look darker and thicker. I apply it with a Q tip.
(Also, I found your blog and started using coconut oil as a facial cleanser a few months ago. My skin feels and looks amazing! I told other people about it as well, and have heard very positive results, so thank you!)
Reply
Noelle	on September 22, 2016 at 8:22 AM
Hi Molly! Thanks for letting me know. So glad it’s helped! 🙂
lisa stefany	on May 11, 2017 at 10:43 AM
soOo, my coco-oily goddess, considering you linked to their recipe, do you “approve” of the bulletproof brand “brain octane oil,” even though it’s stripped of C12 lauric acid?
https://www.bulletproof.com/brain-octane-oil-3oz
ZERO C12
Not just coconut or MCT oil – Brain Octane is made with only C8 MCTs, which metabolize more efficiently into ketone energy than more common oils with C10 and C12 (Lauric Acid) MCTs. Your body cannot store ketones from Brain Octane as fat; the body discharges any unused energy.
Reply
Noelle	on May 11, 2017 at 4:23 PM
Hi Lisa! Sure! I think it probably has a purpose, although I personally don’t use it, nor is it a replacement for coconut oil. 🙂
Submit a Comment Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
GET MY FREE HOME WORKOUT GUIDE
Download my FREE 47-Page Home Workout Guide, which has two weeks of do-anywhere style workouts!
SEND IT TO ME!
It's on its way! Check your inbox to confirm your email.
About
Terms of Use
Full Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Affiliate Disclosure
Comment Policy
Contact
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Copyright © 2013 – 2019 Coconuts & Kettlebells®. All Rights Reserved.
FIND NATURAL SKIN CARE CONFUSING?
Get access to my step-by-step video tutorial, which shows you how to clean your face with coconut oil and use other products like toners, moisturizers, and exfoliators in your routine!
SEND IT TO ME!
To access the video, please check your inbox (or spam folder!), and confirm you're not a robot! Then, I will send you the video immediately!