What to Know About Urinary Tract Infections | HealthCentral
Conditions & Topics
Ask A Question
Chronic Life
News
Subscribe
Share Your Story
Icon - Search
https://www.healthcentral.com/article/what-to-know-about-urinary-tract-infections
Urinary Health
Symptoms
What to Know About Urinary Tract Infections
Berkeley Wellness
Aug 22, 2016
Medically Reviewed
By John Edward Swartzberg, M.D.
If you’re a woman, chances are you’ve had at least one urinary tract infection (UTI) in your lifetime. UTIs are one of the most common infections, responsible for more than 7 million doctor visits a year in the U.S. They occur most often in young sexually active women, but recur more frequently again after menopause. Men get them, too, though much less often.
Most UTIs are caused by bacteria (usually E. coli) that make their way through the urethra—the tube that carries urine out of the body—into the bladder, where they multiply. This may result in a bladder infection called cystitis. Infrequently, bacteria migrate from the bladder to the kidneys, which can lead to a kidney infection (pyelonephritis), a more serious problem. In men, bacteria can also get into the prostate, causing prostatitis.
The signs of cystitis are a frequent and urgent need to urinate, accompanied by pain and burning. Your urine may be cloudy, even slightly tinged with blood. You may also have some lower abdominal pain and not feel well overall. Fever is rarely associated with cystitis, but is typical with pyelonephritis and prostatitis.
Are you at risk?
Frequent intercourse, use of a diaphragm and/or spermicide, obesity, incontinence (urinary and fecal), pregnancy, or a bladder that doesn’t fully empty can all contribute to UTIs in women. You may be more susceptible if your mother had UTIs. If you’ve had several episodes, recurrences are likely.
The increased risk in postmenopausal women is probably due to reduced estrogen, which has an effect on the quantity and types of bacteria living in the vagina and the area around the urethral opening. Compared to premenopausal women, older women tend to have lower levels of Lactobacillus, in particular. These “good” bacteria lower the pH of the vagina, making it less hospitable to E. coli and other “bad” bacteria, and thus help prevent their spread to the urinary tract.
Risk factors for men include having unprotected vaginal intercourse with a partner who has a UTI or unprotected anal sex. Men don’t get nearly as many UTIs as women, perhaps because of the greater distance between the opening of the urethra and the anus. Plus, the urethra is much longer in men (making it harder for bacteria to migrate), and prostatic fluid has antibacterial properties. In older men, UTIs are often associated with enlargement of the prostate. People who have catheters placed in their urethras are very vulnerable to infections. Kidney or bladder stones and anatomical abnormalities also increase risk in both men and women.
Testing: A home advantage?
A simple dipstick urinalysis at the doctor’s office can help diagnose a UTI; the urine may also be cultured to see which specific organism is responsible for the infection and thus determine which antibiotic should be used to treat it. Urinary analgesics, such as phenazopyridine (Pyridium), can provide some immediate relief of symptoms but do not treat the infection.
There are also home tests, available over the counter at drugstores. According to a paper in the British Medical Journal in 2010, self-diagnosis of cystitis by women with recurrent infections can be safe, convenient, and accurate. The kits are inexpensive and easy—all you do is urinate on the strip and wait for the color change. Look for brands that check for both nitrite (produced by infectious bacteria) and white blood cells (present when there is an infection) in urine. Your doctor may be able to prescribe treatment without your having to go to the office, based on home test results or your history of UTIs.
However, if home test results are negative and you still have symptoms, you need to see your doctor. The test can produce false-negative results—or something else may be causing the symptoms, such as a vaginal infection or a sexually transmitted disease, which needs treatment. And if your symptoms continue after treatment, the bacteria causing the UTI may be resistant to the prescribed antibiotic, so you would also need to see your doctor.
Can you prevent them?
There are no proven ways to keep UTIs at bay, but several things are commonly recommended, including drinking plenty of fluids and not delaying urinating. Women are also advised to wipe from front to back to prevent bacteria from entering the urethra, and to cleanse their genital area before and after sex. If you frequently get UTIs and use a diaphragm and/or spermicide, consider switching to another form of birth control.
For women who are especially prone to infections, doctors may prescribe a single dose of an antibiotic to use after intercourse or a continuous course of low-dose antibiotics for several months—though a 2011 study published in the Archives of Internal Medicine found that daily use of these drugs increased antibiotic resistance. Vaginal estrogen may also be an option for postmenopausal women with recurrent UTIs.
Berkeley Wellness
Tags:Symptoms, Diagnosis, Treatment
AboutContactWrite For Us
FOLLOW US:
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Sign Up
© 2019 Remedy Health Media, LLC ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Remedy Health Media SitesPrivacy PolicyTerms of UseSecurity PolicyAdvertising PolicyAdvertise With Us
Healthcentral