Trying to Conceive while Breastfeeding | Natural Parents Network
Natural Parents Network
About
Advertise
Archives
Blogroll
Contact
Contribute
What Is NP?
Trying to Conceive while Breastfeeding
Written by NPN Mentors on April 6th, 2012
Edited by Cynthia at The Hippie Housewife
Ask an NP Mentor, Breastfeeding, Feeding With Love, Fertility, Preparing for Parenting
24
Email
0
0
An NPN reader asks our natural parenting mentors:
I am the mother of a breastfed six month old. We would like to conceive another baby as soon as possible, and I have heard of other breastfeeding mothers becoming pregnant. Do you have any suggestions?
Here’s what our natural parenting mentors had to say:
Jennifer: Hi Amanda! I need to disclose that I am in no way, shape or form a medical professional. This information is based on conversations with other mothers trying to conceive and learning what worked for them.
First and foremost, you need to make sure that your body is as healthy as possible. Most doctors and professionals suggest waiting two years between pregnancies so your body has ample time to recover and restore all of the nutrients that the previous pregnancy depleted from it. Since you are wanting to become pregnant prior to the two year marker, you need to be eating lots of healthy fats (see this blog post for more info on fats) and eating a very balanced diet. You need your body to be strong. You also need to be at a healthy weight. If you are too thin, you may have a more difficult time conceiving.
Now for some tips and tricks. According to my La Leche League leader, if you have not gotten your period back yet, or if you have and are trying to conceive, you will have a greater chance of success if you have a six hour period between the hours of 9:00pm and 6:00am (with midnight to 6am being the optimal window) where you are not breastfeeding. So far, this has sealed the deal for everyone in my local LLL group. When everything else was failing, this worked, so you might want to give it some consideration. I have not yet had a six hour rest period from breastfeeding and have not gotten my period back yet, so I personally think that there is some merit to this.
Once your period has returned you will want to check your basal body temperature and cervical mucus regularly to determine your most fertile days (or use an ovulation predictor kit). You and your partner will want to take advantage of this time at least once daily. The best sexual position for trying to conceive is with the woman on the bottom. It may also be helpful for you to lay on your back after intercourse with your knees to your chest for fifteen minutes.
Try using a Softcup. Several of my friends swear by these. Softcups are inserted and placed close to the cervix after intercourse to help hold semen close to the cervix.
The following supplements are known to help increase fertility:
• Fermented Cod Liver Oil: This will keep your entire body strong. It is highly recommended for fertility, breastfeeding, and pregnancy.
• Vitamin C: This helps to make blood vessel walls stronger, fight infections, and speed the healing of wounds. In addition, Vitamin C is thought to increase the amount of water in your cervical mucus, which will help cervical mucus to be more plentiful. This, in turn, will help you to be able to conceive.
• Nitric Oxide: This can help your blood vessels to dilate. This allows blood to flow more freely to your reproductive organs. In addition, there is some evidence to suggest that Nitric Oxide can also help to increase your cervical mucus.
• Lactobacilli: This is a kind of bacteria that is an important part of your overall health. They help to keep the vaginal environment less acidic and more hospitable to sperm.
• Grapeseed Extract: The most nutritious part of a grape is the seed. In this case, grapeseed works especially well with Vitamin C to increase its effectiveness. This is also a wonderful antioxidant that can help your overall health.
• Evening Primrose Oil: This herb is used for the purpose of helping to make your cervical mucus more plentiful. It is an essential fatty acid, and it also has some anti-inflammatory properties.
Vitamin B6, Chasteberry, Flaxseed Oil, and CoEnzyme Q10 are also known to be effective.
There are also a lot of supplement combos and teas in health food stores or online that claim to increase fertility. Before taking any supplement, check with your doctor to make sure it is safe to take while breastfeeding and to determine the correct dosage.
I hope that this information helps! Good luck to you, mama.
Sheryl: Hi Amanda! It is definitely possible to become pregnant while breastfeeding. Before you can become pregnant, your body has to return to a fertile state. This can happen at any point in time and varies greatly from mother to mother. It depends on a baby’s nursing patterns and how sensitive a mother’s body is to hormones involved with breastfeeding.
If you want to become pregnant, there are some things you can do. A mother is more likely to return to fertility when a baby’s nursing frequency and/or duration is reduced. A return to fertility is more likely to happen when the change to your nursing pattern is abrupt – for example, if your baby starts eating a lot of solids and nursing much less, or if your baby nightweans and sleeps through the night.
You mention that your current baby is six months old. Some mothers find that their milk supply drastically reduces or completely dries up during pregnancy. If you become pregnant before your baby is a year old you will likely have to supplement with formula, so this is something to consider.
For more information, check out the Kellymom.com page on Breastfeeding and Fertility. Good luck!
Melissa: Congratulations on your plans to try and conceive another baby! I know of several women who have become pregnant while breastfeeding, including myself, although it is rare with a six-month-old nursling. I think the main reason that it is uncommon to hear of women becoming pregnant six months after the birth of their previous child is that most families prefer more generous spacing between babies. However, not everyone wishes to space their children more widely for a variety of reasons, and getting pregnant while nursing is possible!
The answer to your question is dependant on several variables. If your menstrual cycle has returned since the birth of your child, it is safe to assume that getting pregnant again will not be challenging, although breastfeeding does affect fertility even with the return of ovulation and menstruation. If your cycle has not returned, or has returned but is sporadic and unpredictable, trying to conceive can be more of a challenge. According to Dr. Sears, “when menstrual periods return, the first one is often anovulatory, meaning that it is not preceded by ovulation (the release of an egg), and thus you could not have gotten pregnant before this first period. However, about 5 percent of women do ovulate before having their first period, and the longer you have gone without having periods, the more likely this is to happen. Thus it’s possible to become pregnant while breastfeeding, even if you are not menstruating.”
La Leche League published an article “Boosting Fertility While Breastfeeding,” which addresses the issue of trying to conceive while nursing. One of the responders states that, while menstruation may make fertilization possible, “the luteal phase must last at least 10 days to allow a fertilized egg to implant.” It is this phase which can be affected by breastfeeding even if a woman’s cycles have returned.
Cutting back on night nursing is a common method to try and improve one’s chances to conceive. Depending upon your sleeping arrangements and your six month old’s personality, this may or may not be an option for you. Babies who co-sleep, which is an arrangement encouraged by attachment parents and natural parenting advocates, could be harder to night wean if they are not yet ready. An alternative is to replace daytime nursings with solid foods. At six months of age your baby is just beginning to be physiologically ready for solid food, and many babies this age are learning about and playing with food more than they are ingesting it! The goal, if fertility is being affected by breastfeeding, is simply to cut back on the amount of time your baby spends at the breast. This often happens naturally around six months of age, so you may find that your baby doesn’t need any encouragement to reduce the amount of time spent nursing. It appears from the research that it is not the total volume of milk removed but rather the amount of time spent suckling which affects prolactin levels and, therefore, fertility cycles. Six month old babies still need a fairly high volume of breastmilk to meet their nutritional needs, so anything which encourages more efficient nursing is best. For example, try to nurse with fewer distractions so your baby will settle and nurse quickly rather than pop on and off for a more extended period of time. Assure a deep latch each time for more efficient milk removal. Try using breast compression while nursing to maximize efficiency of milk removal and shorten overall suckling time (see Dr. Jack Newman’s tutorial on breast compression for further information).
Charting your ovulation cycles can be very helpful, and several resources have been cited as helpful for learning more about fertility and tuning in to your body’s cycles. In particular, the La Leche League article states: “Toni Weschler’s Taking Charge of Your Fertility is a comprehensive guide to many aspects of fertility and includes a positive and encouraging chapter on breastfeeding and fertility. Fertility, Cycles, and Nutrition by Marilyn Shannon explores how food choices and combinations can increase or decrease a woman’s ability to become pregnant with a supportive stance concerning breastfeeding. Your Fertility Signals: Using Them to Achieve or Avoid Pregnancy by Merryl Winstein provides basic fertility information and also discusses fertility concerns while breastfeeding. Nikky Wesson’s Enhancing Fertility Naturally: Holistic Therapies for a Successful Pregnancy takes the basics one step further by incorporating information on acupuncture, aromatherapy, and relaxation as it relates to fertility. Of course, the classic book, Breastfeeding and Natural Child Spacing by Sheila Kippley, continues to be a valuable resource for a clear understanding of the impact of breastfeeding on fertility.”
It can be a delicate balance, maintaining a breastfeeding relationship and trying to conceive. Each family will work out a system that works best for them. Keep in mind that pregnancy can often affect milk supply. The placenta produces hormones that suppress lactation, so if your nursling is as young as six months, supplemental feedings may be necessary if your milk supply drops. It is possible to continue breastfeeding throughout pregnancy and to tandem nurse both children after your second baby is born, and some women experience no drop in milk supply while pregnant. Keep in mind that a drop is a possibility. Human Milk For Human Babies is a good resource for human milk sharing in both the U.S.A. and Canada if you are concerned about your milk supply after you experience success with trying to conceive! Other good resources include Kellymom and Dr. Sears’ Breastfeeding & Fertility.
Above all, be patient! Trying to conceive can take time. Best of luck!
Categories
Ask an NP Mentor, Breastfeeding, Feeding With Love, Fertility, Preparing for Parenting
Previous Post
A Language Lesson for Infertility
Next Post
Giveaway: Super Skivvies Try It Pack – $54 ARV {5.5, WORLDWIDE} CLOSED
24 Responses to Trying to Conceive while Breastfeeding
Lauren Hobo_Mama
April 6, 2012 at 1:14 pm
Great answers! I know when you feel that drive to TTC, waiting can be so agonizing. Here’s hoping the timing works out the best way possible for the ask-er and her family.
Having breastfed through a pregnancy, though, I think I’ll wait awhile before we try again. 🙂
cyndie kphatz2011
April 6, 2012 at 3:46 pm
wow, i could have asked that question. mine is an 8 month old though. we are wanting number 2, but i also dont want to stop nursing. we co-sleep so we nurse all night, so i think we are not going to be successful for a while. i love the bond with my son and dont want to change it!
Chrissy
March 3, 2015 at 10:18 pm
I’m right there with you… I want another one as soon as possible (I’m 39 yrs. old), but we co-sleep and my son and I are enjoying the bond we share very much, don’t want to give that up any sooner than needed.
Amy
April 11, 2012 at 10:18 am
Thanks for this article…and the nursing tank giveaway!
Denise
January 24, 2014 at 10:29 am
Could breastfeeding still affect fertility if nursing isn’t frequent? My husband & I have been TTC for 8 months, and I am nursing our 2yr old (she’ll be 2 in 2 weeks!). We’ve cut nursing down to just bed time (naps & at night), but she’ll often stay latched on for most of the night. I’m REALLY hoping baby #2 can come about without having to stop breastfeeding altogether.
Dionna codenamemama
January 24, 2014 at 10:59 am
Denise – I’d highly recommend picking up a copy of Adventures in Tandem Nursing by Hilary Flowers. She talks about breastfeeding and fertility. I can say with assurance that LAM does not work as a family planning method unless the child is *exclusively* breastfeeding. You might also want to read http://codenamemama.com/2013/01/28/reducing-nighttime-breastfeeding-without-night-weaning/
Denise
February 14, 2014 at 3:54 pm
Well, whatever we changed worked! Now I get to enjoy nursing my 2 year old (hopefully) through my pregnancy! 🙂
T
February 14, 2014 at 3:20 am
So glad you’re not a health professional!! Your advice is opposite of my OB who specializes in fertility and natural family planning. 6 months is the ideal time to start trying and even more optimal than 2 years. AND there are NO certain positions that aid in that..
Aynot
March 1, 2014 at 6:59 pm
My husband and I are trying to conceive baby #2. We have a 13 month old daughter and I am still breast feeding her several times a day and at bedtime. My cycles returned when she was 9 months old, but have been less often than usual. They used to be 30-32 days, now they are more variable and wider spaced like 34-37 days. I love my breast feeding relationship with my daughter and don’t want to give that up, but we also want to conceive again since we are older and want children relatively close together. We haven’t had problems conceiving in the past, we concieved the first only after a month (although he died at birth) and my daughter was concieved after 4 months. I prefer to not wean my daughter but also want to conceive relatively soon. Any suggestions?
A
April 8, 2014 at 3:57 pm
I was breastfeeding my baby day and night and I got my period back 8 weeks after I delivered, and I conceived when she was 3 months old. Babies are going to be a year apart. I hadn’t given her even one ounce of formula or anything aside from breastmilk. I think that very single woman’s body is different, but when I think about it, maybe because I pumped and fed sometimes that contributed to earlier fertility? Either way, anyone wanting to become pregnant early should know that the majority of woman have a major decrease in milk while pregnant, and that was extremely upsetting to me that I wasn’t able to fully nurse my other baby after I conceived. That is why many nursing mothers try to space the kids as it was really hard in me to start giving supplements, and was annoying to have to have the baby get used to bottles (takes a while), and it mixed up her sleeping and it is hard. I think that is something important to know before conceiving again.
MeMeP
July 11, 2014 at 11:04 am
I EBF my oldest and got my period 8 weeks after her birth. but I also pumped bottles for her. when she was 3 months old I became pregnant with my 2nd oldest. maintained an OVERSUPPLY throughout the pregnancy. never had to use formula. my milk never switched back to colostrum before the birth of my 2nd daughter either which I was told it should. When they were 3 and 4 I had my 6 month old. I got my period back at 8 weeks with him. never pump. have been having unprotected sex since February and now its July. why am I not pregnant yet? so confused. when I had my son I had my period march 29 which meant 2 weeks after is April 12. so I had sex that day and ban first try. and my oldest was conceives the night I lost my virginity so I know I am fertile. what gives?
MaeAnn Fuentes
August 25, 2014 at 5:37 am
I am just a poor girl from the Philippines. My Mum and Dad are farmers who got married when she was 16 and he was 18. They had 16 kids. in 16 years, no twins., just 1 baby every year. i am the number 6. We are all born in June and July. My mum breast fed us all as we had no money for milk or anything else.
So it is possible. At least for my family.
Michelle
January 31, 2015 at 9:14 pm
I’m trying to get pregnant my daughter is 3 months old how do I get pregnant during this time if I frequently breastfeed?
aiza autida_aiza
February 14, 2015 at 4:25 pm
I have 7 months old baby boy now, my milk has drop when his around 6 and half months old, can be possible that im pregnant even though my period didn’t come yet???
tasmia tasmia badat
May 1, 2015 at 9:12 am
My twins are 1year old both are still breastfeeding. And I just found out I’m 8weeks pregnant we are happy my oldest is 5years girl my twins are 1 also girls now waiting for doctor to confirm if we are having twins again but this pregnancy feels real good no morning sickness yet
sabrina dolci
July 18, 2015 at 2:46 am
Congratulations! That is super exciting! Are you having a singleton or twins again?
naiyra
May 4, 2015 at 2:13 pm
Breastfeeding my 6 month old baby and want to conceive again. What should I do. I became 35 this July . Please help if anyone can suggest. …
Rasod
July 21, 2015 at 9:24 pm
I weaned my daughter when she was 3weeks and she was 2months 3weeks when I had unprotected sex. My menstrual circle isn’t back yet and I think that I’m pregnant again, how possible is that? Stressed!
Dionna codenamemama
July 23, 2015 at 6:45 am
Very possible. The benefits of lactational amenorreah only work if you’re still exclusively breastfeeding. If you are not pregnant and want to continue nursing, there are ways to reestablish lactation. Check out http://kellymom.com/bf/got-milk/relactation/ and http://theleakyboob.com/2011/12/your-guide-to-relactation/
Peace to you, whatever you find out and decide!
Jennifer
October 14, 2015 at 10:44 am
I have a 15 month old son… My husband and I want another baby. He is not EBF he eats regular meals and only Bf to go to bed and first thing when he wakes up. I had one period over 2 months ago but nothing since, I’m not pregnant. And have returned to having zero cervical mucus. Using ovulation strips and nothing- no positives in ovulation. Trying to not get discouraged but I’m 32 and would like a couple more kids. We had no trouble conceiving our son so I’m not sure what is going on…. ???? I feel like something is wrong with me.
autumn Garcia-Hernandez
October 22, 2015 at 5:17 pm
My aon is 4 months old and he is ebf but i am wanting another child asap!! Im wanting my children close in age but it took 1.5 yrs to pregnant with him. I have not started my menstrual yet. Someone help plz!
luna
November 18, 2015 at 6:39 pm
i am currently bf my soon to be 5 month old son. have had periods in random times. he is not exclusively breast fed but does feed often. we co sleep as well. been having un protected sex and wanting another baby asap. any suggestions?
zhell angelica
March 14, 2016 at 12:52 am
do hepavax-gene while breastfeeding trhe mother is effects the baby?
Anthonia
March 28, 2016 at 8:13 am
Am breastfeeding my 7 months Old ,my period came 2 weeks after her birth,i dont breadfeed at night ,since last 2 months i hv tried to concieve baby#2 but couldn’t loss help
Our Sponsors
Main Categories
Activism
Balance
Consistent Care
Ecological Responsibility
Family Safety
Featured
Feeding With Love
Gentle Discipline
Healthy Living
Holistic Health
Natural Learning
Nurturing Touch
Parenting Philosophies
Practical Home Help
Preparing for Parenting
Responding With Sensitivity
Safe Sleep
What is Natural Parenting?
“NP” is based on a desire to live and parent responsively & consciously. Read more on our Resource Pages - here are a few:
NPN Facebook FAQ: Many parents reach out on our Facebook community to ask about common NP topics. This page links to each of the FAQs and their resources.
Ensure safe sleep: parents take steps to make sleep safe both physically and emotionally (info on bed sharing, co-sleeping, responsive nighttime parenting, and no CIO)
Holistic Health Practices: Parents research medical choices re: health care (circumcision, vaccinations, medical interventions, etc.), and may choose to use alternative/natural healthcare.
Connect with the Natural Parenting Community
Natural Parents Network is a thriving community of parents like you! If you like what you're reading on NPN, connect with us by:
Following Natural Parents Network on Facebook
Tweeting with NatParNet on Twitter
Asking our mentor panel a natural parenting question
Get to know some of our fabulous NPN Volunteers!
Kat from Heart and Wisdom Birth is one of our wonderful volunteers. With lots of heart and a love of fun, Kat puts her loving and supportive personality to work as a doula and parent coach in New Brunswick, Canada. Be sure to look her up if you're nearby!
Megan from The Boho Mama is one of our fantastic authors. When she's not writing for NPN you can find her at her blog the Pacific Northwest, parenting twin girls, being AP and mama-hood in general. You'll also find her gorgeous handmade ring slings on Etsy - visit Boho Mama for the link!
Vidya from VidyaSury helps spread the word about NPN as one of our Social Media volunteers. When she's not stumbling our posts she's working from home as a freelance author / blogger. Being mother to a teenage son, learning languages and a sunny personality are all part of Vidya's life in Southern India. Stop by her blog(s) for smiles and inspiration!
Popular Posts
You've seen our recent posts, now read some of our most popular articles:
Five Benefits to Cosleeping Past Infancy
A Dad’s Opinion on Breastfeeding
How Old is Too Old to Breastfeed?
Hair Brushing Is a Safety Issue
Making the Switch to Reusable Menstrual Products
© 2010 - 2019 - Natural Parents Network - Please contact us concerning reusing or reprinting content.