"False balanced" reporting of autism-vaccine manufactroversy
Skip to content
Skeptical Raptor
Stalking pseudoscience in the internet jungle
Menu
About Skeptical Raptor
About this blog
Privacy Policy
Vaccine search engine
Logical fallacies
Appeal to antiquity or tradition – logical fallacies
Appeal to popular belief – logical fallacies
Appeal to consequences – logical fallacies
Appeal to nature – logical fallacies
Appeal to novelty – logical fallacies
Argumentum ad hominem – logical fallacies
Argument from authority or false authority – logical fallacies
Argument from fallacy – logical fallacies
Argument from ignorance – logical fallacies
Bandwagon fallacy – logical fallacies
Cherry picking or quote mining – logical fallacies
Confirmation bias – logical fallacies
Fallacy of composition – logical fallacies
Fallacy of division – logical fallacies
False equivalence and false balance – logical fallacies
False dichotomy – logical fallacies
Fundamental attribution error – logical fallacies
Galileo gambit – logical fallacies
Gambler’s fallacy – logical fallacies
Genetic fallacy – logical fallacies
Gish gallop – logical fallacies
Naturalistic fallacy – logical fallacies
Godwin’s Law
The Nirvana fallacy – logical fallacies
Non sequitur – logical fallacies
Poisoning the well – logical fallacies
Post hoc ergo propter hoc – the cause and effect logical fallacy
Precautionary principle – logical fallacies
Red herring logical fallacies
Shill gambit – logical fallacies
Slippery slope fallacy – logical fallacies
Special pleading – logical fallacies
Strawman argument – logical fallacies
Site map
Posted on 2013/06/05 2013/06/05 by The Original Skeptical Raptor
“False balanced” reporting of autism-vaccine manufactroversy
In the real world of science-based medicine, the link between autism and vaccines (particularly, the MMR vaccine for measles, mumps and rubella) has been thoroughly debunked, quashed, and discredited. In the delusional world of the vaccine denialists, the link between autism and vaccines is based on Mr. Andy Wakefield‘s paper alleging a connection between MMR and autism that has been retracted by the Lancet medical journal.
Then why is there even a debate about this manufactroversy (a manufactured or invented controversy)? Well, researchers actually examined this false controversy in a recently published article, by Graham Dixon and Christopher Clarke of Cornell University, in Health Education Research. They investigated how the news media and journalists try to “falsely balance” their reporting about the debunked link between vaccines and autism. The journalists create this false balance, “despite a strong medical and scientific consensus backed by rigorous epidemiological studies indicating no link between autism and vaccines.” Dixon and Clarke also state that “research suggests that journalists in the United Kingdom and United States often report this controversy by presenting claims both for and against a link in a relatively ‘balanced’ fashion. In some cases, so-called ‘falsely balanced’ reporting fails to mention which claim is supported by a scientific consensus.” An overwhelming scientific consensus, by the way.
In their study, 320 undergraduate students, randomly selected from a broad background of education, were recruited to read recent (within the past year of the study) news stories about the vaccine-autism “controversy.” Immediately afterwards, “participants answered a questionnaire assessing their evaluation of how their respective article presented the autism–vaccine link (the manipulation check); how certain they are about vaccine safety and how certain they think scientists are about vaccine safety and intention to vaccinate oneself and their future children.”
Each participant was asked to read one article of four different types:
No-link (presenting only the perspective that vaccines do not cause autism),
Link (presenting only the perspective that vaccines could cause autism),
Falsely balanced’ (presenting both perspectives without mention that a scientific/ medical consensus rejects a link),
Control’ (non-health-related article).
To prevent any of the subjects from attempting to manipulate the results, they also had to identify which of the four types articles that they had read.
So what did Dixon and Clarke find? First, they found that subjects who read the falsely balanced article were less certain that vaccines are safe than participants in the no-link and the control groups. However, they were more certain about vaccine safety than those who read the “link” article.
In a post hoc comparison test (a statistical measurement that consists of looking at the data—after the experiment has concluded—for patterns), the authors discovered that the “falsely balanced” readers reported that scientists were “less certain” of vaccine safety than were the readers in the “no-link” group.
Dixon and Clarke made some interesting points in the article’s discussion:
This study suggests that falsely balanced reporting of an alleged autism–vaccine link heightens readers’ uncertainty regarding vaccine safety and lowers their intention to vaccinate their future children. Whereas similar research has found that one-sided, anti-vaccine-only website messages lower individuals’ vaccine intentions our results suggest that two-sided news messages with claims both for/against an autism–vaccine link can have a similar effect.
The authors then conclude that “results suggest that balancing conflicting views of the autism–vaccine controversy may lead readers to erroneously infer the state of expert knowledge regarding vaccine safety and negatively impact vaccine intentions.” In other words, manufacturing a controversy, where there is no controversy, does a great disservice to readers who are looking for information about vaccines.
In case there is a concern about the evidence that thoroughly dismisses any link between vaccines and autism, here it is:
The Cochrane Reviews state that MMR vaccine does not cause autism.
There is no scientific or medical controversy about this conclusion.
Medical and scientific experts agree.
It lead to a public health crisis based on a fraud.
Well constructed epidemiological studies also showed no link between MMR vaccine and autism in Denmark, England, Japan, Japan, Japan, Poland, and the United States.
Despite claims that Wakefield’s findings were reproduced, not one single peer-reviewed paper ever supported the Wakefield’s claims.
Numerous studies actually invalidate his claim.
The Autism Omnibus trials has rejected all three test cases and subsequent appeals claiming that vaccines cause autism.
In October 2004, a meta review, financed by the European Union, was published in the October 2004 edition of Vaccine and assessed the evidence given in 120 other studies and considered unintended effects of the MMR vaccine. The authors concluded that “exposure to MMR is unlikely to be associated with Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, autism or aseptic meningitis.”
In February 2005, a study compared autism in Japan before and after the 1993 withdrawal of the MMR vaccine and concluded that “MMR vaccination is most unlikely to be a main cause of ASD, that it cannot explain the rise over time in the incidence of ASD (autism spectrum disorder), and that withdrawal of MMR in countries where it is still being used cannot be expected to lead to a reduction in the incidence of ASD.”
In October 2005, the Cochrane Library published a review of 31 scientific studies, and concluded that, “Exposure to MMR was unlikely to be associated with Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, autism or aseptic meningitis.”
A 2007 review of independent studies, performed after the publication of Wakefield’s fraudulent article, found that evidence did not support a causal association between vaccines and autism.
A 2009 review of studies on links between vaccines and autism concludes that “twenty epidemiologic studies have shown that neither thimerosal nor MMR vaccine causes autism. These studies have been performed in several countries by many different investigators who have employed a multitude of epidemiologic and statistical methods.” They also stated that the large size of these studies would have identified even minor correlations, and even then nothing was found.
If you want to find real, peer-reviewed, published in high impact journal, evidence supporting a link between vaccines and autism, here you go:
Vaccines Save Lives
Visit the Science-based Vaccine Search Engine.
Key citations
Betsch C, Renkewitz F, Betsch T, Ulshöfer C. The influence of vaccine-critical websites on perceiving vaccination risks. J Health Psychol. 2010 Apr;15(3):446-55. PubMed PMID: 20348365.
Dixon G, Clarke C. The effect of falsely balanced reporting of the autism-vaccine controversy on vaccine safety perceptions and behavioral intentions. Health Educ Res. 2012 Nov 27. [Epub ahead of print] PubMed PMID: 23193194.
Retraction–Ileal-lymphoid-nodular hyperplasia, non-specific colitis, and pervasive developmental disorder in children. Lancet. 2010 Feb 6;375(9713):445. PubMed PMID: 20137807.
Related
The Original Skeptical Raptor
Chief Executive Officer at SkepticalRaptor
Lifetime lover of science, especially biomedical research. Spent years in academics, business development, research, and traveling the world shilling for Big Pharma. I love sports, mostly college basketball and football, hockey, and baseball. I enjoy great food and intelligent conversation. And a delicious morning coffee!
CategoriesAndrew Wakefield, Autism, Infectious disease, Science journalism, Vaccines TagsChristopher Clarke, Cornell University, Graham Dixon, Lancet, manufactroversy, MMR, post hoc fallacy, stopavn, vaccination, vaxfax
Post navigation
Previous PostPrevious New Mexico removes fake religious objections from vaccine exemptions
Next PostNext Drug can block heroin addiction! Scientists didn’t actually say that.
Subscribe to Skeptical Raptor via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 21,426 other subscribers
Email Address
Subscribe
Recent Posts
New York vaccine mandate – judge rejects anti-vaxxer challenge 2019/04/22
Vaccines cause autism debate – it only exists in the minds of vaccine deniers 2019/04/22
Vaccines and Judaism – anti-vaxxer activists misusing religion 2019/04/21
New measles myth from vaccine denier Sherri Tenpenny – not a disease 2019/04/18
Pro-vaccine commentary from Dorit Rubinstein Reiss – anti-vaxxers whine 2019/04/15
Argument by Vaccine Package Inserts – they’re not infallible 2019/04/11
Mandatory measles vaccinations in New York City– anti-vaccine lies begin 2019/04/10
Anti-vaccine arguments that don’t convince pro-science humans 2019/04/08
Search for Articles
Custom Search
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Privacy Policy	Proudly powered by WordPress