Am I at risk? Please answer. - Forum on Safe Sex and HIV Prevention -- TheBody.com
Advertisement
Ask the Experts About
Safe Sex and HIV PreventionSafe Sex and HIV Prevention
Rollover images to visit our other forums!
0
Email
Glossary
Ask the Experts > Forum on Safe Sex and HIV Prevention > Q & A
Am I at risk? Please answer.
Jun 23, 2014
Dear Sir/Madam,
I am really worried about an insident that happened. Before two weeks I had a dance with a striper and she had really a lot of sweat. So after finishing my dance I noticed that I had a small paper cut in my finger from earlier this day. I found a lot of sites which support that there is a small quantity of the virus in sweat but my question is what is this sweat inserted in an open score? My finger was in touch the whole time with her sweat.Also what will be the danger if my finger also touched some of her vaginal fluids that might be in her clothes? I would not be so concerned, but yesterday (after two weeks from the incident) I had some light fever and night sweat.Please help me.
Response from Ms. Southall
Hi You cannot get HIV through a massage or visiting a strip club. You also cannot get HIV from touching an inanimate object. Transmission of HIV from a contaminated surface would require massive exposure to blood or other infected liquid for a prolonged period of time. There is no way to acquire HIV from a lap dance. HIV can not be transmitted through clothing. See HIV101 [link] for more info on how HIV is and is not transmitted.
HIV transmission can only occur when there is a direct and prolonged exposure to body fluids, semen, vaginal fluid, blood or mother to child through breast feeding. This most commonly occurs through unprotected vaginal or anal sex and sharing of needles. Casual contact, sharing utensils, drinking after someone, etc are not way for HIV transmission to occur. If you go to this link HIV101 it will take you to our page that talks about the ways in which HIV is and is not transmitted.
Be well and stay safe, Shannon
HIV transmission on Breast bite
Body to body massage
0
Email
Glossary
Get Email Notifications When This Forum Updates or Subscribe With RSS
Advertisement
Can AIDS Be Transmitted Through Tattoo?
Can You Get HIV From Sex Toys?
Frottage Risks
HIV Infection Risk Licking Vagina
Is Genital Rubbing Safe?
Touching Feces Risks
View More >>
Q&A TERMS OF USE
This forum is designed for educational purposes only, and experts are not rendering medical, mental health, legal or other professional advice or services. If you have or suspect you may have a medical, mental health, legal or other problem that requires advice, consult your own caregiver, attorney or other qualified professional.
Experts appearing on this page are independent and are solely responsible for editing and fact-checking their material. Neither TheBody.com nor any advertiser is the publisher or speaker of posted visitors' questions or the experts' material.
Review our complete terms of use and copyright notice.
Quiz: Are You at Risk for HIV?
Stop Googling and Go Get Tested
Read More About HIV Transmission
HIV Prevention: The Basics
FAQs About HIV Risks
Read More About HIV Transmission
Stopping the Spread of HIV
Browse Forums:
<-- Select --> Aging Choosing Your Meds En Español In Italiano Facial Wasting Hepatitis Coinfection Managing Side Effects Mental Health Nutrition/Exercise Safe Sex Spiritual Support Substance Use Understanding Labs Workplace/Insurance
My Health Tracker -- ENDING APRIL 2019
Medication and Health Reminders
Assess Your Risk for HIV
Follow Us: Facebook, Twitter, RSS
Advertisement
© 2019 Remedy Health Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved
TheBody: About TheBody | Contact TheBody | Site Policies | Content Providers | Advertise With Us | Site Map
Remedy Health Media: About Remedy Health Media | Contact Remedy Health Media | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
TheBody is a service of Remedy Health Media, 461 Fifth Avenue, 14th Floor, New York, NY 10017. TheBody and its logos are trademarks of Remedy Health Media, LLC, and its subsidiaries, which owns the copyright of TheBody's homepage, topic pages, page designs and HTML code. General Disclaimer: TheBody is designed for educational purposes only and is not engaged in rendering medical advice or professional services. The information provided through TheBody should not be used for diagnosing or treating a health problem or a disease. It is not a substitute for professional care. If you have or suspect you may have a health problem, consult your health care provider.