Urinary tract infection (UTI) in men: Symptoms, causes, and treatment
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
All you need to know about UTIs in men
Last reviewed	 Sat 10 February 2018	 Last reviewed	Sat 10 Feb 2018
By Joana Cavaco Silva
Reviewed by Daniel Murrell, MD
Table of contents
Symptoms
Causes
Diagnosis
Treatment
Home remedies
Prevention
Outlook
A urinary tract infection is an infection caused by bacteria in any part of the urinary system, which is made up of the kidneys, ureters, bladder, or urethra.
Most urinary tract infections (UTIs) affect the bladder and the urethra, which is the tube that drains urine from the bladder to outside the body.
Although a UTI is one of the most common infections in women, it is rare in men. UTIs are estimated to affect around 3 percent of men worldwide each year. This means that most men will have never had a UTI, especially if they are young.
When a UTI develops in men, it is usually considered complicated and more likely to spread to the kidneys and upper urinary tract. Some cases may even require surgery. We learn more about this condition, including its symptoms and treatment options, in this article.
Symptoms
A frequent urge to urinate is one of the symptoms of a UTI.
Men with UTIs may have no signs or symptoms of the infection. However, when symptoms do occur, they can include:
pain during urination
frequent urge to urinate
inability to start urinating
a slow urine stream or urine leakage
a sudden need to urinate
the release of only small amounts of urine at a time
blood in urine
pain in the central lower part of the abdomen
cloudy urine with a strong odor
Men with complicated UTIs can also experience one or more of the following symptoms:
fever
chills
nausea
vomiting
back pain
These symptoms are signs that the disease has spread to the kidneys or the upper urinary tract. An infection that has spread here is a more serious problem that requires prompt treatment.
Causes and risk factors
UTIs are caused by bacteria. Older men have a higher risk of having a UTI, especially if they are after the age of 50. Most cases in older men are caused by the bacterium known as Escherichia coli, which is naturally present in the body.
Cases similar to UTIs in younger men are typically caused by sexually transmitted infections (STIs).
A UTI develops when the bacterium gets into the urinary tract through the urethra and starts multiplying.
As men have longer urethras than women, they are less prone to UTIs because bacteria need to travel a longer distance to reach the bladder.
UTIs are four times more common in women than in men.
A person's risk of developing a UTI increases if they have:
diabetes
kidney stones
an enlarged prostate
an abnormal narrowing of the urethra
an inability to voluntarily control urination
an inability to empty the bladder completely
not drunk enough liquids
not been circumcised
a past diagnosis of a UTI
urinary tract abnormalities that prevent urine from leaving the body normally or cause urine to back up in the urethra
had anal intercourse, which can expose the urethra to bacteria
a health condition or taking medication that suppresses the immune system
had a procedure involving instrumentation on the urinary tract
Examples of these procedures include the insertion of a tube to drain the bladder, or a small camera, known as a cystoscopy, to examine the bladder and urethra.
Can men get UTIs from women?
Men can get UTIs from women during sex, by getting the bacteria from a woman with the infection. However, this is unlikely.
Typically, the infection arises from bacteria that are already present in the man's body.
Diagnosis
A physician may carry out a urine dipstick test to identify a UTI.
A doctor can diagnose a UTI by carrying out a physical examination, taking a medical history, and through laboratory tests.
Physical examination
The doctor may perform a physical examination that includes:
checking the vital signs
checking the abdomen, bladder area, sides, and back for pain or swelling
examining the genitals
Medical history
The doctor may ask if the person has had other UTIs in the past, or a family history of UTIs.
They may also question the person about their symptoms.
Laboratory tests
Laboratory tests are required to diagnose the infection as the symptoms of a UTI can be common to other diseases.
A urine sample is usually needed to look for the presence of pus and the bacteria causing the infection.
Men may be asked to give a urine sample. A man will need to start the urine stream to clean the urethra, and then collect a midstream sample in a cup. As bacteria multiply quickly at room temperature, this urine sample is either sent to the laboratory immediately or kept refrigerated until later.
The doctor may also ask for a urine test strip, also known as a urine dipstick test. This is a quick test in which a plastic or paper ribbon is dipped into the urine sample and then removed. If the person has a UTI, the ribbon will turn a particular color.
To obtain the best results for this test, the doctor will probably request that a person does it first thing in the morning.
Other medical exams
For people with a history of kidney stones, diabetes, polycystic kidneys, or tuberculosis, the doctor may also require imaging exams.
Five home remedies for UTIs
Learn more about some remedies that can help relieve UTIs at home, including diet tips and clothing.
Read now
Treatment
UTIs in men are usually complicated and require treatment.
The goal of treatment is to prevent the infection from spreading to the kidneys or the upper urinary tract.
The type of treatment used depends on the cause of the infection. Treatment plans usually include antibiotic medications to kill the bacteria and drugs to reduce the person's symptoms, including those of pain and burning while urinating.
The duration of treatment can vary between 3 days and 6 weeks, depending on complicating factors, though a minimum of 7 days is usually warranted.
Prescription medications
Medication prescribed by a doctor may include:
antibiotics, such as nitrofurantoin (Macrobid), fluoroquinolones, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (Bactrim), fosfomycin, or aminoglycosides
medications to reduce the fever
medications to reduce or eliminate pain, including urinary analgesics such as phenazopyridine
Those with more complicated infections may require surgery. This can involve either draining areas of the urinary tract that are causing the infection, or removing inflamed areas of tissue.
Home remedies
In addition to treatment from doctors, the following home remedies may help with treating an infection:
Drinking plenty of liquids, especially water. This is important to stimulate urination and flush the bacteria from the body.
Drinking cranberry juice. Although it is not scientifically proven that cranberry juice is effective against UTIs, it contains substances that make it difficult for bacteria to stay in the urinary tract, helping to flush it out. Cranberry juice is available for purchase online.
Prevention
Not drinking sufficient liquids raises the risk of a urinary tract infection.
Men can take a series of actions to reduce the risk of getting a UTI, such as:
emptying the bladder often
drinking plenty of liquids, especially water
carefully cleaning the area under the foreskin after showering if not circumcised
carefully cleaning the genitals before and after sex, to remove bacteria
cleaning from front to back when toileting
wearing condoms during sex. Condoms are available for purchase online.
urinating after sex, to remove any bacteria that might have been passed during intercourse
Outlook
UTIs are rare in adult men. This is mainly due to the longer length of the male urethra, and because the antibacterial properties of prostatic fluid prevent bacteria from growing. The incidence of the infection increases with age.
The clinical symptoms of UTIs in men are similar to women and include painful, urgent, and frequent urination.
UTIs in men are usually complicated and warrant at least 7 days of antibiotic treatment to prevent complications.
We picked linked items based on the quality of products, and list the pros and cons of each to help you determine which will work best for you. We partner with some of the companies that sell these products, which means Healthline UK and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link(s) above.
Related coverage
Everything you need to know about bladder infection Bladder infections are common and usually occur due to bacteria entering the urethra. Symptoms may include cloudy urine, pain on urinating, and an urgent need to urinate. Factors such as frequent sexual intercourse and diabetes can increase the likelihood of an infection. Find out more about bladder infections here. Read now
Everything you need to know about cystits Cystitis is an infection of the urinary tract that is caused by bacteria. Anyone can develop cystitis, although it is more common in women. Symptoms include frequent urination, a burning sensation when urinating, and sometimes traces of blood. A range of treatments is available, including antibiotics and home remedies. Read now
What do leukocytes in the urine mean? Leukocytes are white blood cells that help protect people from infection. They are not usually present in the urine, so when they are present, it can indicate an infection. Learn about the diagnosis and treatment of an infection, and what happens if a pregnant person has leukocytes in their urine. Read now
What to know about urinary tract infections A urinary tract infection can affect the bladder, the kidneys and the tubes that link them. Usually caused by bacteria, urinary tract infections are much more common in women than men. This article looks at the different types of infection, how to prevent them, and treatment options, including home remedies. Read now
Urosepsis: What to know about UTI complications Urosepsis is a term used to describe a type of sepsis that is limited to the urinary tract. It is a complication often caused by urinary tract infections. Read now
email email
print
share share
Urinary Tract Infection
Infectious Diseases / Bacteria / Viruses Men's Health Urology / Nephrology
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Sat 10 February 2018.
Visit our Urinary Tract Infection category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Urinary Tract Infection.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Bono, M. J., & Reygaert, W. C. (2017, December 12). Urinary tract infection. StatPearls. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK470195/
Cortes-Penfield, N. W., Trautner, B. W., & Jump, R. L. P. (2017, December). Urinary tract infection and asymptomatic bacteriuria in older adults [Abstract]. Infectious Disease Clinics of North America, 31(4), 673–688. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29079155
Geerlings, S. E. (2016, October). Clinical presentations and epidemiology of urinary tract infections [Abstract]. Microbiology Spectrum, 4(5). Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27780014
Gupta, K., Grigoryan, L., & Trautner, B. (2017, October 3). Urinary tract Infection [Abstract]. Annals of Internal Medicine, 167(7), ITC49–ITC64. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=10.7326%2FAITC201710030
Hisano, M., Bruschini, H., Nicodemo, A. C., & Srougi, M. (2012, June). Cranberries and lower urinary tract prevention. Clinics, 67(6), 661–667. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3370320/
Jhang, J.-F., & Kuo, H.-C. (2017, July-September). Recent advances in recurrent urinary tract infection from pathogenesis and biomarkers to prevention. Tzu Chi Medical Journal, 29(3), 131–137. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5615991/
Majeed, A., Alarfaj, S., Darouiche, R., & Mohajer, M. (2017, March). An update on emerging therapies for urinary tract infections [Abstract]. Expert Opinion on Emerging Drugs, 22(1), 53–62. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28253831
Masereijan, N. N., Wager, C. G., Giovannucci, E. L., Curto, T. M., McVary, K. T., & McKinlay, J. B. (2013, June 15). Intake of caffeinated, carbonated, or citrus beverage types and development of lower urinary tract symptoms in men and women. American Journal of Epidemiology, 177(12), 1399–1410. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3676152/
Sabih, A., & Leslie, S. W. (2017, June 27). Urinary tract infections, complicated. StatPearls. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK436013/
Seminerio, J. L., Aggarwal, G., & Sweetser, S. (2011, June). 26-year-old man with recurrent urinary tract infections. Mayo Clinic Proceedings, 86(6), 557–560. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3104916/
Yamamoto, S., Ishikawa, K., Hayami, H., Nakamura, T., Miyairi, I., Hoshino, T., … Arakawa. S. (2017, November). JAID/JSC guidelines for clinical management of infectious disease 2015: Urinary tract infection/male genital infection. Journal of Infection and Chemotherapy, 23(11), 733–751. Retrieved from http://www.jiac-j.com/article/S1341-321X(17)30029-6/fulltext
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Silva, Joana Cavaco. "All you need to know about UTIs in men." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 10 Feb. 2018. Web.
22 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/320872.php>
APA
Silva, J. (2018, February 10). "All you need to know about UTIs in men." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/320872.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Study finds that many people diagnosed with MS do not have the condition
A new study suggests that almost 20 percent of people who receive a diagnosis for multiple sclerosis do not have the chronic disease.
Replacing red meat with plant protein reduces heart disease risk
A study of data from 36 trials suggests that eating plant-based proteins, such as nuts, instead of red meat may help reduce cardiovascular disease risk.
Increased muscle power may prolong life
A first-of-its-kind study finds that increased muscle power, rather than muscle strength, can significantly prolong life for seniors.
MS: High-strength MRI may predict disease progression
New research suggests that a powerful MRI scanner may help predict the progression of multiple sclerosis by analyzing cortical lesions on the brain.
More evidence that being active extends life
A recent study concluded that 'regardless of age, sex, or starting fitness level,' increased physical activity of any type reduces overall mortality risk.
Popular in: Urinary Tract Infection
Seven ways to treat a UTI without antibiotics
How can you stop a chronic UTI?
Treating urinary tract infections with Cipro
Can D-mannose treat a UTI?
What are the symptoms of a UTI in older adults?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/320872.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);