Can the radiation from WiFi be dangerous? - Shockpedia
News
Business
Career
Life
Tech
Geopolitics
World
Can the radiation from WiFi be dangerous?
Tech
Lily Ordineav
Sep 16, 2018
WiFi, or Wireless Fidelity, has become one of the most important developments of the 21st Century. No one can live without WiFi these days. However, despite all the benefits it offers us, people do worry about the effects WiFi can have on our health.
Harmful health effects of WiFi
WiFi radiation, although a long wavelength and non-ionizing form of radiation, can potentially have a negative impact on your health. While many studies show that the negative effects of WiFi are negligible, there are still some health concerns to look out for.
Cellular degeneration in the brain
The radiation from WiFi can possibly lead to the death of brain cells, which leads to low cognitive performance and slow cognitive function. This cellular degeneration isn’t limited to the brain alone. It’s been observed that cells exposed to high levels of WiFi radiation die very quickly irrespective of where in the body they are.
Interference with sleep cycles
The electromagnetic waves emitted by WiFi signals could potentially affect the way the brain produces certain sleep-inducing chemicals. This results in insomnia and can as a result affect the motor skills and cognition of the individual.
Disruption in protein synthesis in the body
Proteins are responsible for building the muscles and tissues in the body. However, the increased radiation from WiFi can lead to low protein synthesis and poor tissue and organ growth and development. When this happens, the body tends to lose its ability to naturally heal damaged tissues and muscles.
Infertility
The heat produced by the radiation emitted by the WiFi has the potential to cause infertility in men. WiFi radiation may also cause infertility in women, with the radiation reducing the quality and longevity of the eggs.
Increases vulnerability to cardiovascular diseases
The electromagnetic frequencies emitted by the WiFi routers may bring about a physical change in the pace of your heart beats, increasing its speed dramatically. This physical change is similar to the change in heart beat when the body is under intense stress and it may result in heart attack or stroke.
May cause cancer
Although rare, some people guess that WiFi electromagnetic radiation can lead to the formation of tumors in the body. If malignant, this can cause cancer.
How do you remain safe from WiFi radiation?
A WiFi signal has a very low intensity, and thus does not bring with it a high chance of health effects. However, in high doses, it does have the potential to be extremely harmful to the human body. The good news is that WiFi radiation only affects you if you are physically close to the router. Experts believe we can reduce our vulnerability to WiFi-induced illnesses by staying out of the radiation zone.
Ideally, a distance of 40 feet between you and the WiFi router is recommended to protect yourself from these electromagnetic radiations. Medical professionals also recommend that you switch off your WiFi routers at night before going to bed, to reduce the risk to your health.
Copyright © 2019 Shockpedia
Get to Know Us
Privacy Policy
DMCA Policy
Terms of Service
Contact
About
Top Topics
World
Business
Shocking
Inspiring
News
Business
Career
Life
Tech
Geopolitics
World
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.AgreeLearn more