Plant-based diet for hemorrhoids – Botanical online
Skip to content
Buscar
Plants Magazine
Medicinal plants
Medicinal plants list
Plants components
Medicinal plants importance
History of medicinal plants
Plant preparations
Special Tea
Special Sage
Special Chamomille
Special Parsley
Special Rosemary
Special: Stevia
Health
Natural medicine
Home remedies
Phytotherapy
Natural remedies
Special Cholesterol
Special Obesity
Special Pain
Special Depression
Remedies for cold
Food
Natural food
Vegetarian recipes
Mediterranean diet
Nutrition for children
Vitamins
Minerals
Food rich in iron
Special apples
Special strawberry
Special lemon
Special pear
Pomegranate properties
Gardering
Gardening tips
Scientific nouns of plants
Cultivation calendars
Growing vegetables
Cactus
Roses
Cultivation of sweet potatoes
Botany
Alkaloids
Close-up photography
Botanical significance places
Study of plants
Plant families
Plant activities
Contest of montly flower
Plant animations
Extraordinary plants
Glossary
Flower Contest
Flower contest
Do you know which flower is?
Useful
Bibliography
Home › Diet › Plant-based diet for hemorrhoids
Plant-based diet for hemorrhoids
Hemorrhoids diet
Characteristics of hemorrhoids
Remedies for hemorrhoids
Prevention of hemorrhoids
Heart attack natural treatment
Contents
1 Nutrition for piles
2 DIET FOR HEMORRHOIDS
2.1 What should you eat when you have hemorrhoids?
2.2 SUGGESTED FOODS IN THE HEMORRHOIDS DIET
2.3 Importance of fiber in hemorrhoids diet
2.4 Recommended foods for hemorroids
2.5 NON SUITABLE FOODS FOR HEMORRHOIDS DIET
2.6 Water intake in hemorrhoid diet?
Nutrition for piles
DIET FOR HEMORRHOIDS
What should you eat when you have hemorrhoids?
Food is very important when you have hemorrhoids. Proper nutrition is essential to prevent hemorrhoids or stop hemorrhoids deterioration.
An unsuitable diet can also be responsible for hemorrhoids being more painful. Nutrition is one of the precipitating factors and, in addition, it affects constipation which is another cause that triggers piles.
SUGGESTED FOODS IN THE HEMORRHOIDS DIET
Among the most important foods for the diet of hemorrhoids we will include the following:
Importance of fiber in hemorrhoids diet
Fiber is needed to prevent constipation. High-fiber foods increase intestinal peristalsis and promote the expulsion of stool, which, at the same time, becomes much softer so it does not damage the walls of anus and veins of this area.
Moreover, by means of facilitating evacuation, fiber can avoid exerting excessive force to expel feces, so anus veins do not get so much stressed. Fiber prevents and avoids the worsening of hemorrhoids by making stools softer and hasten defecation
Recommended foods for hemorroids
Foods high in fiber include the following:
– Whole grains: Whole grains (rice, corn, oats, wheat, etc.) contain very much fiber. It is interesting to eat whole grains to promote the elimination of feces. Among them oats is the one which contains more soluble fiber, hence it is advisable to take this food in the form of flakes, especially at breakfast.
Eating whole bread is another way to ingest this component. When preparing pasta dishes (noodles, spaghetti, pizza, ravioli, etc.).it is better to cook them with whole pasta.
The inclusion of supplemental bran in the diet can also help prevent or improve hemorrhoids.
Oats are high in soluble and unsoluble fiber
– Legumes: Legumes (lentils, beans, broad beans, peas, chickpeas, soybeans, etc.) are foods rich in fiber. Among them some deserve to be especially nominated such as chickpeas, beans, lentils and soybeans (One cup of beans contains 13 grams of fiber) (One cup of lentils contains 7.,9 grams of fiber) (One cup of broad beans about 7.3 g., and a cup soybean about 6 grams)
Legumes or pulses are high in proteins, fiber and minerals
– Fruits: Although the fiber content of fruits does not reach that of cereals or legumes, fruits are foods that contain plenty of fiber. Especially rich in fiber are oranges, apples, figs, strawberries, kiwis, bananas, pears,, figs, grapes. Nuts also contain a lot of fiber (Walnuts, almonds, hazelnuts, etc)
Apples contain pectin, a type of soluble fiber
– Vegetables: They are very rich in fiber. Among them we can especially mention carrots, artichokes, potatoes or spinachs,
Carrots are rich in fiber and vitamin A
NON SUITABLE FOODS FOR HEMORRHOIDS DIET
We will considered the following foods to avoid or eat with caution in the diet of hemorrhoids:
– Refined Cereals: Refining of these foods removes most of the fiber, so that the intake of white rice, white bread or refined pasta is not advised in the diet of the person suffering from hemorrhoids. One should also avoid products made with white flour such as biscuits, cakes, etc.
– Refined sugars: Besides predisposing to obesity, refined sugars are very low in fiber. They favor constipation, so they are not suitable for the person with hemorrhoids. Cakes, candy or sweets in general containing such sugars should also be avoided.
– Spicy food: Hot peppers can exacerbate the pain or itching of hemorrhoids. You should not take spicy mustard, pepper or other spicy sauces when suffering from hemorrhoids. Instead, we can use herbs to flavor meals.
– Salted foods or food containing too much salt: Salt in excess harm hemorrhoids. Salty preserved foods are not adequate for people with hemorrhoids. Thus, they should minimize the consumption of olives, salted sardines, anchovies, etc. or other foods rich in salt.
– Alcohol and coffee for hemorrhoids? For their vasoconstrictor properties alcohol and coffee are not suitable. Smoking tobacco must also be rejected, because it also constrains blood vessels.
Water intake in hemorrhoid diet?
One should drink at least a couple of liters of water a day in the diet of hemorrhoids. Water helps soften the stool and facilitates defecation.
* Related information: Carambola or star-fruit to stop bleeding hemorrhoids
More information about hemorrhoids natural treatments.
Written by Elisenda Carballido Dietitian nutritionist. Postgraduate in Phytotherapy and master in Nutrition and Metabolism.
Tags:
Diet
Article updated on: 28 March, 2019
Other interesting articles
This material is for informational purposes only. In case of doubt, consult the doctor.
"Botanical" is not responsible for damages caused by self-medication.
The Magazine
Suscribe
More sections
Mediterranean diet
Losing weigth
Cellulite creams
Herbal teas
Winter fruits
Anemia
Pregnancy
©1999-2019 Botanical-Online SL - All rights reserved
Contact us
Our team
Terms of use
How to quote articles
This site uses cookies. The cookies of this website are used to personalise the content and the advertisements, for offering social functions and for analysing the web traffic. Furthermore, we share information about the use of this website with our partners of social media, advertising and web analysis. You agree to our use of cookies when browsing this site. | More information
Ok
Botanical-online is an informative page that describes, among other topics, the traditional uses of plants from a therapeutic point of view. Their descriptions do not replace professional advice. Botanical-online is not responsible for self-medication and recommends consulting with the physician.
Ok