Post - Lifestyle Medicine
Home
Fitness & Exercise
Diet & Nutrition
Research
Shakes & Recipes
Nutrition Science
Hygiene
Youtube Channel
About Us
Contact Us
Categories
Diet
Exercise
Food
Hygiene
Metabolism
Mineral
Nutrition Research
Nutrition Science
Recipe
Rehab
Research
Supplement
Testosterone
Vitamin
Workouts
Lifestyle Medicine Fitness, Exercise, Nutrition, Diet
May 18
May 18 The Health Benefits of Ginger
john kiel
Food, Supplement
Ginger is one of the most commonly used spices in the world and has a well documented history as an herbal supplement for medicinal purposes. Ginger is the common name for the root of Zingiber officinale.
Watch: https://youtu.be/y4A8oT2Vxb8
Historical uses for ginger include nausea, headaches and migraines, blood pressure, influenza, and colds (although it’s not necessarily helpful for all of those). The most commonly consumed part of ginger is the rhizome, or the vertical portion of the root. I’m going to go over all the potential health benefits that have evidence and research to back it up.
Ginger Supplement Options: http://amzn.to/2pVQq5S
Appetite
A pilot study published in 2012 (Metabolism, Mansour et al.) found that 2g of ginger taken with a meal can reduce the sensation of hunger and subsequent caloric intake. However, I could not find a study that specifically looked at using ginger as a weight loss supplement.
Cognition
Various studies have associated ginger consumption with improvements in word recognition, working memory, reaction times, and spatial memory.
Blood Sugar
Ginger can promote the release of insulin into the bloodstream. It’s effect on blood sugar and in the management of diabetes in humans is not well understood.
Obesity
2g of ginger taken alongside a meal can increase the caloric expenditure for the next 6 hours following the meal. This appears to occur via the thermic effect of food which increases the metabolic rate.
Arthritis
A study published in 2001 (Arthritis and Rheumatology, Altman et al) concluded “A highly purified and standardized ginger extract had a statistically significant effect on reducing symptoms of osteoarthritis of the knee. This effect was moderate. “
Nausea
Ginger is a well documented treatment for nausea, motion sickness and sea sickness. It’s also may be effective in treating morning sickness during pregnancy according to the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology. A 2014 meta analysis found it improved nausea but did not decrease the frequency of vomiting. Dosage in that study was 1-1.5g per 24 hours. The role of ginger in treating nausea secondary to chemotherapy is not as clear, although a preliminary study suggests it may help.
Flatulence
Has been used to treat flatulence and gas.
Testosterone
Ginger appears to be effective at increasing testosterone in rodents. The mechanism through which this occurs is not well understood. One study of supplementation in infertile men demonstrated a 17% improvement in testosterone levels.
Colon Cancer
Mice research conducted at the University of Minnesota suggest that ginger supplementation may reduce the risk of developing colon cancer. It may have anti-tumor properties but more research is required to make any recommendations regarding cancer at this time.
There are many diseases or issues that you’ll read or hear people talk about that suggest ginger is an effective supplement for treating or preventing that disease. Unfortunately, there simply is not evidence to support all of it The following is a list of problems for which I could not find a study showing it was an effective treatment:
Alcohol hangover
High cholesterol
Migraine Headache
Muscle pain after exercise
Colds
Influenza
Other Information
Safety and toxicity: Most common side effects are gastrointestinal at the 1-2g range
No reported adverse events in pregnancy.
Dosage: 1-2g for nausea, 1g typical for most other uses
john kiel
Food, Supplement
ginger
Facebook0 Twitter LinkedIn0 StumbleUpon Reddit Tumblr Pinterest0 0 Likes
john kiel
john kiel
Latest Article
Featured
Jan 10, 2019
What is the Relationship Between Carbohydrate Intake and Death?
Jan 10, 2019
Jan 10, 2019
Follow Us
Featured
What is the Relationship Between Carbohydrate Intake and Death?
Can Caffeine Improve Quadriceps Performance After Eccentric Exercises?
Does Foam Rolling Improve Athletic Performance?
Can A Healthier Diet Prevent Loss of Brain Tissue?
Which is Better for Muscle Strength and Size, Protein in the Morning or at Night?
Does An Alkaline Diet Improve Sprint Performance?
The Health Benefits of Avocados
Does Eating a Dozen Eggs a Week Increase Your Risk of Heart Disease?
The Health Benefits of Corn (Maize)
Cable Workout: Back Circuit
May 19 Does Glucosamine Help Treat Arthritis?
May 18 13 Ways To Successfully Lower Your Salt Intake
Related Posts
Mar 21
Mar 21 The Health Benefits of Turmeric
Mar 28
Mar 28 The Health Benefits of Capsaicin
May 10
May 10 The Health Benefits of Caffeine (Coffee, Tea)
Lifestyle Medicine
Follow Us
Contact Us
About Us
Powered by Squarespace