Water and how it improves your life, improves your mind. #atoz
Skip to content
Follow Us
Facebook
Linkedin
Twitter
Google+
Pinterest
RSS Feed
Home
About
About Me
About this site
Blog
Contact Me
Rise and Soar
Shirley Corder offers inspiration and encouragement in the face of cancer.
Diagnosis
Cancer
Oh Lord! It’s Cancer!
Facing a Diagnosis
The Big ‘C’ Has A Name
Fear of Giants
Helping my husband Face My Cancer
Time is Running Out
Surgery
Do you have a teddy bear?
Lion With a Squint
Radiotherapy
the Challenge of Radiotherapy
Radiotherapy and Fatigue
Visualisation for a Christian
Power in Praise
Chemotherapy
Abandoned by God
Is Life Getting You Down?
The Beginnings of a Journal
Letters to God
Who’s in Control
Power of the Mind
Enjoying the Break
True Encouragement
Emotions
The Emotional Roller Coaster of Cancer
Are You Fighting Depression?
Depression is Not a Dirty Word by Dawn Stratton
How Can I Cope with this Fear?
What Can I Do About My Anger?
The Real Reasons for Anger
The High Peak of Hope
I Don’t Believe It!
I Feel So Lonely
When Anxiety Goes Too Far
Future?
I Was In His Plan
When Should I Visit?
What Does Death Mean to You?
How Can we Help Our Bodies Fight Cancer?
Killer Cells Hunting Down Cancer
Celebrate Life
Two Wolves Fight for Supremacy
Reduce Your Risk of Cancer
God’s Medicine Box
Making Sense of Cancer
Savour the Flavour
Early Morning Boost for your Immune System
What’s Good About Cancer?
Moving On in the Fight Against Cancer
Resources
Strength Renewed (The book)
The Dream Gains a Name
Strength Renewed (Book)
Juicing 101
Early Morning Boost for your Immune System
Do I Need a Juicer or Blender?
God’s Medicine Box
Power of the Mind
Journal
Inspiration
Closer Walk – Weekly Devotional Message
Time is Running Out
Friends (Series – Every Tuesday)
When Your Friend Has Cancer
Not Necessarily a Death Sentence!
Oh Lord! It’s Cancer!
My friend has Cancer. What Can I Say?
What Your Friend Wishes You Knew
Why is My Friend So Sad?
Let’s Laugh Together
Cancer’s not Contagious!
Living in Victory: When Cancer Seems Out of Control
Practical Suggestions: How to help your friend.
The Be-Attitudes of Visiting
Friends contd
A Lesson from Godfather
Handle with Care!
My Friend’s a Christian, but She’s Afraid
Your Friend has Cancer? Take Care!
Don’t cry for me Argentina–or whoever you are.
When You Don’t Agree With the Treatment
Attitude of Gratitude
Coping with Anger
How to Encourage Family Members or Friends who have Cancer
Devotions
Two Wolves Fight for Supremacy
Candles in the Dark
It’s Not the Messenger that Counts – devotion
Testimonies
Laughter – the Best Medicine by Debbie Nolen
Bad Hair Days by Kathryn Lay
Meet Karen Ingalls, Author
Cancer from a Mom’s Perspective. by Shann de Smidt (S.Africa)
Laughter – the Best Medicine by Debbie Nolen
Lessons of a Mother by Pauline Baird Jones
Letter from Jonny Imerman by Jonny Imerman
Life Begins With Cancer by Carolyn Howard-Johnson
Plans to Prosper by Cheryl Kroch
Relationship in Crisis by Jane Lebak
When God Puts You in the Sidecar by Marcia Lee Laycock
Living in Victory: When Cancer Seems Out of Control
Elizabeth Jolley Shares Her Journey with IBC
Double Mastectomy instead of a Vacation
In the Valley
Mammogram: Yes or No?
The Diagnosis No-one Ever Wants to Hear
No Easy Way to Share the News
An Unhappy Misunderstanding
Getting Out the News
Preparing for War
Battle Commences
Love, Flowers and Squiffles
Visitors Galore
A Day of Tests
Welcome Home!
Computer Game, Love Box and More.
Dealing with the Cancer Roller Coaster
Getting Back on the Beam!
Operation Mobilization
Strategies for World War III
Deciding on an oncologist
Decisions about Chemotherapy and Radiotherapy
World War III Weapons
What Is Cancer?
Looking at Statistics about Cancer
Everyone Knows How to Fight Cancer
What Cancer Cannot Do
Blog
A to Z Challenge
2018: Improve Your Life, Improve Your Mind
2017: Build a Better Blog
2015: Out of Africa
Posted in A to Z • Blog • Improve your Life
Water and how to make sure it improves your life, improves your mind
April 26, 2018 By Shirley CorderComments:19 Comments
This entry is part 24 in the series Improve Your Life, Improve Your Mind
And so we’re into the countdown to the end of the 2018 A to Z Blogging Challenge Drinking water, and we’ve come to W. Today we’re looking at the topic, W for Water. How much water should we drink? Is it possible to drink too much? What are the pros of drinking water? And what are the cons? And yes, believe it or not, there are cons.
Have you ever thought of the fact that water is the only drink on the planet where we are told how much we should drink? Interesting, and that alone should tell us a good deal about its importance.
Read on to find out how to benefit most from this extremely useful drink as well as how to avoid the dangers.
Makes you feel good:
The feel-good drink with no side-effects! Read here and please RT. Thanks. Click To Tweet
Relieves tiredness: When there is not enough fluid in your body, your blood volume drops and your heart has to pump harder and faster to get sufficient oxygen to brain.
Lifts your emotions: According to research, even mild dehydration has a negative effect on your mood and your ability to think clearly. Is your brain foggy in the early morning? Drink some more water!
Improves bad breath: By keeping your mouth moist and washed out, water removes food particles and dilutes any left-over bacteria which cause halitosis (bad breath).
Gives you a healthier skin: By improving the blood flow to your capillaries, water moisturizes your skin tissue, improves its elasticity, and decreases your wrinkles!
Regulates your temperature: By allowing your body to sweat more, it also helps to lubricate your muscles and joints. This cuts down on cramps.
Reduces hangovers: Alcohol is a diuretic which makes you pass urine more frequently. This leads to dehydration which is the main cause of the slamming headache the morning after. So two ways to stop suffering from hangover headaches:
1. Drink more water (both with the alcohol and after).
2. Don’t drink alcohol.
Improves your health:
Flushes out toxins: Water flushes out the body through urine and sweat. This assists your kidneys to get rid of the extra mineral salts and other excess material that cause kidney stones.
Alleviates headaches: I heard something interesting on a DVD just the other day. The lecturer said, “When you get a headache, the first thing you reach for is an aspirin.” (Not me. I go for Paracetamol, but same principal.) He continued, “Why? Does your body suffer from a deficit of Aspirin?”
His point of course is what I’ve been emphasizing through this series. Don’t just accept symptoms as normal. Find out why they’re happening. And it just could be that when you swallow Aspirin or Paracetamol and the headache goes, it’s not the drug that’s cured the headache. It’s the water you used to flush it down! One of the first signs of dehydration is a headache! So next time you have a headache, swallow a glass of water!
If you drink an aspirin with a glass of water, which cures your headache? The aspirin or the water? Read here. Click To Tweet
Assists your liver: The liver is the main organ responsible for detoxifying your body. But to do its job it needs plenty water to keep cleaning out all that harmful junk you have taken in that your body doesn’t need. So keep a bottle of water next to you throughout the day.
Reduces high blood pressure: For the same reason above, as your heart pumps harder so your blood pressure goes up. If you are prone to hypertension (high BP) drink plenty water.
Fights constipation: If you have too little fluid in your system, your body pulls it from your stools, making them hard and difficult to pass.
Helps to fight flu or even a bad cold by flushing out the toxins. Go one step further and drink it hot with a dash of fresh lemon juice.
Fight off some types of cancer. Even if this is only some types, I reckon that alone is a good reason to up your water consumption, right?
Need to lose weight?
You got it. Drink more water!
The perfect weight-loss drink! No calories. No sugar. Read here and please RT! Thanks. Click To Tweet
Drink a glass of water a few minutes before sitting down to a meal. It will decrease your appetite, giving you a sense of fullness.
Water helps your body burn fat and eliminate fat cells.
It is the perfect diet drink. It contains no sugar! No sugar, no calories! It’s not a low-calorie drink. It has no calories.
The water you drink helps break down the carbohydrates you’ve eaten as well as flushing out your body.
Drinking water is good, but there are a few dangers to be aware of. Read about them here. It could save your life. Click To Tweet
Now for the warnings:
And yes, there are a few. A very few.
Over hydration: Drinking water in excessive amounts, say during a marathon or when doing a long spell of exercise, can be dangerous, although it is really highly unlikely. Don’t drink more than a liter of water an hour!
Too much water means the kidneys can’t cope and so the excess water enters the body cells and causes them to swell. This can lead to seizures and even death. One woman is on record as having died after drinking four liters in an hour. So if you haven’t reached your quota for the day, don’t try to do it all in one go!
Drinking to much water can lead to over-sweating, which is unpleasant and amazingly can even cause symptoms of dehydration.
Insomnia can be caused by having to get up to the toilet too often during the night. Experts suggest you stop ingesting fluids three hours before lights out.
Dehydration on diuretics. Many people with high blood pressure are put on diuretics to make them pass more urine. Their logic is often they have to therefore drink less. The opposite is true. They must still drink plenty to replace the water they are losing through frequent urination.
Final Advice:
So how much water should you drink? There are formulas to work this out, but the general opinion is approximately eight glasses of water a day for an average sized person is sufficient.
How to keep track?
Keep a chart.
A four-liter container filled in the morning will help you see how you’re doing.
Get a fitbit to help you keep up to date.
Have a great day, and keep that water flowing!
Please click here:
Tagged A to Z 2018 • blogging challenge • improve your brain improve your brain • Improve your life • Improve your mind • water Permalink
Post navigation
Understanding your Goal to Improve your life, Improve your Mind Xerosis and how to Improve your Life, Improve your Mind #atoz
19 comments on “Water and how to make sure it improves your life, improves your mind”
Pingback: It's Over for Another Year: A to Z 2018 - Reflections of the Challenge #atoz
Pingback: A to Z 2018 Blogging Challenge: Improve your Life, Improve your Mind.
Pradeep says:
April 30, 2018 at 5:36 pm
Lots of important and interesting points in your post.
The trick is to keep drinking small amounts of water through the day. That will keep your hydrated while not putting pressure on our organs like kidney.
Enjoyed reading your posts, through the month. Looking forward to your future posts as well.
Log in to Reply
Shirley Corder says:
May 1, 2018 at 7:43 am
Thanks for your support during the month, Pradeep. Let’s keep in touch! Log in to Reply
Seema Misra says:
April 29, 2018 at 9:09 am
Water, Water everywhere 😀
Nicely researched article. I drink lots and lots of water 🙂 So enjoyed reading about all its benefits.
Seema, participant in #AtoZchallenge, Artist, Writer, Wanderer, and Dreamer.
Yearning for a Boat Ride on Chilika Lake – Panthanivas, Satpada
Log in to Reply
Shirley Corder says:
April 30, 2018 at 8:31 am
Thanks for your support this month, Seema! Zip-a-dee-do-dah! We’ve survived! Last day of A to Z Challenge. Come and sing along with me!
Log in to Reply
Pingback: Xerosis and how to Improve your life, Improve your Mind #atoz - Rise and Soar
Tamara says:
April 26, 2018 at 4:45 pm
I think drinking enough water is one of the health activities I don’t have trouble doing.
The only “con” that came to mind was “you have to get up to pee a) a lot, and b) during the night, so I was not surprised when you mentioned it.
No more water 3 hours before going to bed? That’s pretty hard for me! Not sure was was first anyway, insomnia or thirst?
https://thethreegerbers.blogspot.ch/2018/04/w-is-for-washington-dc.html
Log in to Reply
Shirley Corder says:
April 26, 2018 at 4:55 pm
LOL! Agreed Tamara. I can’t go that long without a drink either. In fact I take a mug of tea to bed with me. So much for taking your own advice! And yes, I do need to get up in the middle of the night.
Log in to Reply
Sue from Sizzling Towards 60 & Beyond says:
April 26, 2018 at 12:25 pm
GReat info Shirley and most people don’t drink enough water. I like that you also mentioned that we can overdo it. We have not had any alcohol for 8 weeks and replaced with water plus of course I drink water when exercising. The colour of you urine tells you when you are dehydrated. Nearly at the end of the challenge Shirley.
Log in to Reply
Shirley Corder says:
April 26, 2018 at 4:58 pm
Yes, I found it interesting the risk for marathon runners etc of overdoing it. And yes, we’re nearly there! I’ll be glad when it’s over but the joke is my book is over too. I’ve just completed working through the proof I received in the middle of my BP drama, so tomorrow I will sit and read the pdf version at a sitting to be sure nothing’s fallen off the wagon, and then send it into the publisher. Then that’s it – for better or for worse! This has been quite a month! But it’s been rewarding too.
Log in to Reply
Megan says:
April 26, 2018 at 12:04 pm
I usually go for about a gallon a day. It varies depending on exercise, etc. But the “annoying” side effect is constant potty breaks. I guess there’s a downside to everything…
Log in to Reply
Shirley Corder says:
April 26, 2018 at 5:20 pm
That’s quite a bit, Megan but as long as you’re exercising too it should be okay. Just take care!
Log in to Reply
Leanne | www.crestingthehill.com.au says:
April 26, 2018 at 11:39 am
A friend once told me that if you’re starting to wilt (ie: headachy etc) then think of yourself as a flower – you water a wilting flower, so water yourself. It makes a lot of sense.
Leanne | http://www.crestingthehill.com.au
W for When You Lose
Log in to Reply
Shirley Corder says:
April 26, 2018 at 5:20 pm
Good analogy! Thanks, I’ll remember that!
Log in to Reply
Alice Gerard says:
April 26, 2018 at 9:45 am
Interesting post. You would never think that consuming too much water can be harmful, but, apparently, too much of a good thing is always just… too much.
Log in to Reply
Shirley Corder says:
April 26, 2018 at 5:22 pm
You’re right, Alice. It’s not something you expect to overdose on, is it?
Log in to Reply
Anshu Bhojnagarwala says:
April 26, 2018 at 9:26 am
Shirely, a very useful post. Adding my two cents here – I read this somewhere that drinking 10-12 mandatory glasses of water is a marketing gimmick. If we eat more raw than our requirement of water goes down. I am eating raw till lunch, so my consumption of water has gone down, as raw makes you less thirsty. Also, one point, we should always sit down and drink water, as it doesn’t affect the knee and ankle joints as much. Furthermore, we should drink warm water with lemon juice after meals to assist in digestion.
Log in to Reply
Shirley Corder says:
April 26, 2018 at 5:24 pm
HI Anshu. Yes, I think 10-12 glasses is too much. I’ve never heard of the “raw” topic before. That’s interesting. I can’t quite see why sitting down would make a difference to the knee and ankle, but then I don’t normally drink standing up anyway! 🙂
Log in to Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
You must be logged in to post a comment.
Search
Disclaimer
NOTE: Most posts on this website are in British English.
Please follow & like :)
Follow
https://riseandsoar.com/water
Disclosure
Please note that some posts and pages may contain affiliate links. For further information, please read this page.
Time
Current Time in South Africa:
11:08:34 AM
Closer Walk
Click this link to receive a weekly brief inspirational message in your Inbox.
Meditations for Your Journey through Cancer
Archives
Archives Select Month May 2018 (4) April 2018 (24) March 2018 (1) February 2018 (4) January 2018 (1) November 2017 (1) August 2017 (1) July 2017 (3) June 2017 (8) May 2017 (9) September 2016 (3) August 2016 (1) July 2016 (2) June 2016 (7) May 2016 (3) April 2016 (1) March 2016 (2) February 2016 (4) January 2016 (4) December 2015 (4) November 2015 (4) October 2015 (4) September 2015 (5) August 2015 (1) November 2014 (1) August 2014 (3) June 2014 (1) May 2014 (1) March 2014 (3) August 2013 (1) July 2013 (1) June 2013 (1) April 2013 (1) March 2013 (1) February 2013 (2) December 2012 (1) October 2012 (3) August 2012 (1) July 2012 (2) June 2012 (4) May 2012 (5) April 2012 (5) March 2012 (5) February 2012 (2) January 2012 (1) November 2011 (5) October 2011 (1) September 2011 (2) August 2011 (3) July 2011 (2) June 2011 (4) May 2011 (4) January 2011 (1) November 2010 (1) October 2010 (1) August 2010 (12) July 2010 (2) August 2009 (1) July 2009 (3) April 2009 (4) March 2009 (1) December 2007 (1) January 2005 (1) August 2004 (1) June 2004 (1) August 2003 (1) January 2003 (1) October 2002 (1)
Write to Inspire
This site by the same author offers encouragement & inspiration to all who love the written word, whether as writers, wannabe writers or readers.
Recent Posts
Knowledge is key to a Healthy Life
Is Variety Really the Spice of Life?
It’s Over for Another Year! A to Z 2018 Reflections.
A to Z 2018 Blogging Challenge List of Series
Zip-a-dee-deo-dah! Let’s Improve your Life, Improve your Mind #atoz
Reset 6 September 2015
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Affiliate Status Disclosure
© 2019 Rise and Soar
Powered By WordPress | Voyage Theme
TOP