What Increases HDL & Lowers LDL? | Healthy Eating | SF Gate
SFGate
Healthy Eating
by Demand Media
News
Sports
Business
A&E
Food
Living
Travel
Columns
More
Less
Cars
Jobs
Real Estate
Find&Save
Skip to main content.
Healthy Eating
Diet
Cholesterol
by Leaf Group
Healthy Eating
Diet
Cholesterol
What Increases HDL & Lowers LDL?
Written by Lindsay Boyers; Updated December 02, 2018
What Increases HDL & Lowers LDL?
Related Articles
1 Raise Good Cholesteral
2 What Does a Low LDL Mean?
3 Bring Up HDL
4 What LDL Levels Reverse Plaque Deposits in the Arteries?
Cholesterol has been put on trial, but the waxy lipid is not all bad. While it is true that high LDL, or low-density lipoprotein, increases your risk of developing heart disease, HDL, or high-density lipoprotein, decreases your risk and protects the health of your arteries. This is why LDL and HDL are referred to as "bad cholesterol" and "good cholesterol," respectively. The goal is to keep your LDL levels low and your HDL levels high.
Lose Weight
Being overweight is a significant risk factor for high LDL levels and low HDL levels. If you are overweight, losing 5 to 10 percent of your body weight can significantly reduce LDL levels. For every 6 pounds you lose, you can also raise your HDL levels by 1 milligram per deciliter, according to MayoClinic.com.
Exercise
Exercise not only promotes weight loss, it directly improves your cholesterol levels by increasing HDL and decreasing LDL. In fact, regular exercise can help improve your cholesterol levels whether you are overweight or not. Within two months of beginning a regular exercise routine, you can increase HDL levels by 5 percent, according to MayoClinic.com. As an added bonus, regular exercise can help improve your blood pressure and triglyceride levels. Engage in brisk activity, such as walking, swimming or biking, five days a week. The goal is to increase your heart rate.
Watch Your Fats
When it comes to LDL cholesterol, your diet is often the biggest culprit. Saturated fats significantly raise your LDL levels, while trans fats not only increase LDL levels, but lower HDL levels as well. Limit your saturated fat intake to less than 7 percent of calories by avoiding meat, eggs and full-fat dairy products. Limit trans fat intake to less than 1 percent of calories by limiting processed foods, commercially baked items and margarines. Avoiding these fats can help balance out your LDL to HDL ratio. Unsaturated fats, which are found in nuts, seeds, vegetable oils and fish, can also help improve HDL’s anti-inflammatory abilities, according to MayoClinic.com.
Medication
If lifestyle changes are not enough to increase HDL and lower LDL to optimal levels, your doctor may prescribe a medication or a combination of medications to help you out. Statins -- the most common cholesterol medication -- can lower LDL levels by 10 to 55 percent and raise HDL levels by 5 to 10 percent. Nicotinic acid, or niacin, can lower LDL levels by 10 to 20 percent and raise HDL levels by 15 to 35 percent. Medications are not meant to be a substitution for a healthy lifestyle, but rather a complement to one. If your doctor recommends medication, follow his instructions closely.
References (5)
MayoClinic.com: HDL Cholesterol: How to Boost Your 'Good' Cholesterol
MayoClinic.com: Top 5 Lifestyle Changes to Reduce Cholesterol
U.S. News Health: Lowering LDL Cholesterol
CNN.com: What Should We Eat to Improve HDL, LDL, Triglycerides?
Cleveland Clinic: High Cholesterol
About the Author
Lindsay Boyers has a Bachelor of Science in nutrition from Framingham State College and a certificate in holistic nutrition from the American College of Healthcare Sciences. She is also a licensed aesthetician with advanced training in skincare and makeup. She plans to continue on with her education, complete a master's degree program in nutrition and, ultimately, become a registered dietitian.
bibliography-icon icon for annotation tool Cite this Article
Choose Citation Style
MLA
APA
Chicago (B)
Boyers, Lindsay. "What Increases HDL & Lowers LDL?" Healthy Eating | SF Gate, http://healthyeating.sfgate.com/increases-hdl-lowers-ldl-8537.html. 02 December 2018.
Boyers, Lindsay. (2018, December 02). What Increases HDL & Lowers LDL? Healthy Eating | SF Gate. Retrieved from http://healthyeating.sfgate.com/increases-hdl-lowers-ldl-8537.html
Boyers, Lindsay. "What Increases HDL & Lowers LDL?" last modified December 02, 2018. http://healthyeating.sfgate.com/increases-hdl-lowers-ldl-8537.html
Copy Citation
Note: Depending on which text editor you're pasting into, you might have to add the italics to the site name.
Related Articles
What Is a Normal Cholesterol Count?
Does Walking Elevate the HDL Level?
The Normal LDL Count
Reduce LDL Naturally
What Does High LDL & High HDL Mean?
What Decreases LDL?
More Articles
Cholesterol & Triglycerides
Most Effective Way to Lower LDL
Know Your HDL and LDL Facts
Can Increasing HDL Clear Artery Plaque?
Increase HDL Levels
Can Cashews Make You Have High Cholesterol?
Return to top ➡
About
Contact
Connect
Subscribe
Privacy Notice Your California Privacy Rights Interest Based Ads Terms of Use Our Company The Press: Guide to Wine Country Green State: Cannabis Culture Careers Advertising
Customer Service Newsroom Contacts
Sign up for Email Alerts Facebook Twitter Pinterest Google Instagram
SFChronicle.com App e-edition The Chronicle Archives Subscription Offers Store Subscriber Services
Copyright 2018 Hearst Newspapers, LLC