Javascript is not enabled.
Javascript must be enabled to use this site. Please enable Javascript in your browser and try again.
The New American Diet: Easy, Healthy Way to Lose Weight
Skip to content
Get a newer and safer vehicle while saving money! Check out the AARP auto buying program.
Menu
Now Reading:
Join Today, Save 25% JOIN NOW
Membership My Account
Just $16 a Year RENEW NOW
Just $16 a Year RENEW NOW
Join Today, Save 25% JOIN NOW
Rewards for Good
Logout
Search
Food
Diets & Nutrition
Diets & Nutrition
Entertaining
Diets & Nutrition
Discounts
Share with facebook
Share with twitter
Share with linkedin
Share using email
Print
The New American Diet
The absolutely most sensible way to lose weight (honest)
by John Whyte, M.D., AARP The Magazine | Comments: 0
Adam Voorhes
The AARP New American Diet plan emphasizes healthy, whole foods over unhealthy, processed ones.
En español | Anna is 55, a mother of three, and a new patient of mine who has struggled with her weight for the past 30 years. She's tried just about every imaginable diet — high carb, low carb, high protein, low fat. She may lose a few pounds, but then she resumes her old eating patterns and the weight returns, often with an extra pound or two thrown in.
Subscribe to the AARP Health Newsletter
Sound familiar? About 70 percent of the over-50 population in America is overweight, with about a third classified as obese. Health complications from obesity cost the United States $190 billion in medical expenses each year. Obesity also shortens lives: An Oxford University study found that an obese person's life span is three to 10 years shorter than that of someone of average weight, about the same loss of life associated with smoking.
So why don't Anna and her fellow overweight Americans just resolve to lose weight? As we all know, it's a little more complicated than that. And fair or not, it gets even more difficult after age 50, because of a slowing metabolism, a loss in muscle mass and a decline in hormones, all of which cause your body to store and retain fat more easily.
So what's a midlife dieter to do? That's where the AARP New American Diet comes in. Seventeen years ago, AARP teamed up with the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to study the effects of dietary and lifestyle choices on the incidence of cancer and other diseases among half a million people ages 50 or older.
Over the past few years the study has provided a wealth of information about what we should and should not eat to live a long, healthy life. In short, we know how certain foods affect our bodies, so we can adjust our diet accordingly to stay healthy and lose weight.
Charlie is fairly typical of my patients: He doesn't always make the connection between what he eats and his overall health. On a recent visit we reviewed his diabetes medications, and I said we could take him off the drugs if he lost some weight. His response: "Dr. Whyte, I've been overweight for 20 years, and I've only had diabetes for two years. You're the first person to tell me my diabetes is related to my weight."
Well, I've got news for you. More than 80 percent of all cases of type 2 diabetes are related to weight. One out of every three cancer deaths is linked to excess body weight, poor nutrition or physical inactivity. Moreover, your risk of dying prematurely increases even if you're just 10 pounds overweight.
Anna and Charlie both needed to lose substantial amounts of weight, but rather than put them on a strict eating regimen, I invited them to try the AARP New American Diet. Instead of focusing on calorie counting or eliminating one food group or another, this plan emphasizes healthy, whole foods over unhealthy, processed ones.
New American Diet 7-Day Meal Plan
Get recipes for a week of healthy dinners and daily meal plans that will help you lose weight and gain energy.
I've outlined the basic principles of the diet below — follow these guidelines for just two weeks and you'll not only lose weight; you'll feel more energetic.
Have breakfast every day
Eating a healthy, nutrient-dense breakfast — one that includes protein, whole grains and fruit — will help keep your insulin level steady all morning and prevent you from overeating later on. The National Weight Control Registry, a study of nearly 4,000 dieters who have lost weight and kept it off for up to six years, found that those who ate breakfast daily lost more weight and kept the weight off longer than those who didn't eat upon rising. Two good choices: an egg sandwich with strawberries, or whole-grain cereal with low-fat milk and a banana.
Drink more water
Most of us don't realize how many calories we consume through sodas, juices, alcoholic drinks and other beverages. So I'd like you to try an experiment: Drink nothing except water and coffee for two weeks and just watch the pounds melt away. This includes diet soda. Research shows that diet sodas may increase the body's cravings for sugar-sweetened, high-calorie foods.
Get fishy
Fish is a crucial component of the AARP New American Diet. It has the good omega-3 fatty acids that you need for brain health, is low in calories and contains important nutrients. The omega-3s in fish may also lower your risk of getting certain cancers and may improve some inflammatory conditions, such as rheumatoid arthritis, the AARP-NIH study finds. Conversely, eating red and processed meats (think hot dogs and sausages) increases that risk, so eat fewer of them.
Fill up on fruits and veggies
Some fad diets foolishly discourage eating fruit, but the AARP-NIH study clearly shows that incorporating fruits and vegetables into your daily diet will help you live longer. Consuming these antioxidant-rich foods can also result in weight loss even when you're not trying to drop pounds, researchers at Penn State found.
Embrace whole grains
Whole grains are a major source of not only vitamins and minerals but also fiber, and the AARP-NIH study shows they have extraordinary health benefits as well. Regularly consuming whole grains — whole wheat bread, whole wheat pasta and brown rice — can cut your risk of heart disease, respiratory illness and some cancers, including colon and breast cancers. Plus, whole grains can help you lose weight, specifically belly fat that's linked to diabetes, hypertension and heart disease.
12 Weight-Loss Tips
Lose weight quickly with tips from The New American Diet. Watch this slideshow.
Include low-fat dairy foods
Dairy foods are a rich source of calcium and vitamin D: Fully 30 percent of women over 50 are deficient in this bone-building vitamin. Plus, consuming low-fat dairy products can lead to weight loss. A study in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition found that those with the highest daily low-fat dairy intake lost 38 percent more weight than those with the lowest.
Be wary of 'diet' foods
I can't tell you how many patients have actually gained weight on foods labeled as "low fat" or "fat free." Often such products are loaded with sugar, to make up for the taste lost when the fat is removed. Since many "diet" foods are also highly processed, you end up getting fewer nutrients and lots of empty calories. Instead of diet fare, then, eat a small helping of a higher-fat food periodically.
Don't eat out for two weeks
Dining away from home is fraught with potential problems; you don't always know how the food is cooked, and you tend to eat larger portions than you should. Some experts estimate that restaurant portions can be three times larger than a "normal" serving size. So what is a healthy portion? Fruits and vegetables should be the size of your fist; meat should be no bigger than a deck of cards; fish should be the size of a checkbook.
Discounts for AARP Members — Save on restaurants, groceries, movies, concerts and more.
Inspect food labels
Women who regularly read food labels are, on average, nine pounds lighter than those who don't do this, research from the U.S. National Health Interview Study found. You don't need a calculator; just scan labels for calories and other nutrients. Some brands of yogurt, for instance, have as much sugar as a candy bar. If one brand has 12 grams of sugar and another has 20, the choice is obvious.
Snack often
I told you the AARP New American Diet would be fun. The key is smart snacking. Data show that people who snack twice a day lose more weight than those who eat three large meals. One snack should be between breakfast and lunch; the other, between lunch and dinner. (No eating after 8 p.m.) Snacking helps keep insulin levels fairly constant, which can prevent hunger and overeating at lunch and dinner. Great healthy snacks include a handful of nuts, baby carrots and hummus, or a piece of fruit.
Chew gum
Yes, chewing gum can help keep the weight off. And for a reason you may not have realized: Chewing gum releases hormones that signal your brain that you're full. This activity also helps if you're a "nibbler" — someone who tends to sample food while cooking or watching TV. You should always chew sugar-free gum; the sugared kind promotes tooth decay.
By following the principles of the AARP New American Diet, Anna lost 10 pounds the first month and 20 pounds within six months. Charlie lost 15 pounds and dropped his diabetes medications. "I finally found a diet that works for me," Anna told me recently. "The best part is, it's not really even a diet. It's just a new way of thinking about food."
John Whyte, M.D., is the author of AARP New American Diet: Lose Weight, Live Longer.
You May Also Like
10 top superfoods
Want to drop pounds fast? Try these tactics
Join AARP Today — Savings, resources and news for your well-being
Go to the AARP home page for latest news on food and nutrition
Join the Discussion
| 0 | Add Yours
Please leave your comment below.
You must be logged in to leave a comment.
AARP Membership
Discounts & Benefits
See All
Silver Cuisine™ by bistroMD
Members save 25% on their first healthy meal delivery order of 99+.
Denny's
Members save 15% all day, every day at participating locations.
sweetFrog
Members save 15% on in-store purchases of frozen yogurt, treats and apparel.
Join or Renew Today!
AARP members receive exclusive member benefits & affect social change.
GO TO THIS ARTICLE
AARP is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization that empowers people to choose how they live as they age.
About AARP
AARP Press Center
Careers at AARP
Membership
Contact Us
En Español
AARP 樂齡會
Veterans Resources
My Community Page
Help
Membership
Join
Renew
Member Benefits
Print Your Card
Update Your Info
Cancel
Member Benefits
Member Benefits
Download PDF of Benefits
AARP Auto Buying Program
Hot Deals
Disrupt Aging
Home
What We're About
Join Us
Stories
Book
AARP Foundation
Donate
Housing
Hunger
Income
Isolation
Legal Advocacy
Planned Giving
Information For You
AARP In Your State
AARP In Your City
Driver Safety
Government Watch
Tax Aide
Where AARP Stands
Fighting For Your Health
The Essentials
Politics Essentials
Health Essentials
Money Essentials
Relationships Essentials
Retirement Essentials
Style Essentials
Work Essentials
For Professionals
AARP International
Advertise with AARP
Community Leaders/Livable Communities
National Retired Teachers Association
Public Policy Institute
Press Center
Public Policy
Research
Communities
Asian Community
Black Community
Health & Wellness
Conditions & Treatments
Healthy Living
Health Insurance
Health Essentials
Affordable Care Act (ACA)
Social Security & Medicare
Medicare Resource Center
Medicare Q&A
Social Security Benefits Calculator
Social Security News
Social Security Q&A
Family Caregiving
Local Resources and Solutions
Long-Term Care Calculator
Caregiving Q&A
Work & Jobs
Job Searching Tips
AARP Job Board
Working at 50+
Career Change
Start a Business
AARP Resume Advisor℠
Take Action
Be an E-Advocate
Create the Good
Donate
Experience Corps
AARP Events
Tools
Volunteer
Chapter Locator
Have Fun
Entertainment
Games
Quizzes
Sweepstakes
Travel
Read, Watch, Listen
Mobile Apps
AARP Bookstore
AARP Bulletin
AARP The Magazine
Blog
Events
Music
Podcasts
TV
Videos
Sitemap
RSS
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Copyright Information
Ad Choices
Logout
Home
Member Benefits
Health & Wellness
Restaurants
Entertainment
Advocacy
Shopping & Groceries
Travel
Community
Home & Family
Caregiving
Work & Jobs
Insurance
Finances
Auto Services
Magazines & Resources
(EN ESPAÑOL)
Health
Medicare Resource Center
Health Insurance
Conditions & Treatments
Hearing Center
Eye Center
Healthy Living
Drugs & Supplements
Brain Health
Dementia
Staying Sharp
Health & Wellness Benefits
Family Caregiving
Basics
Care at Home
Medical
Financial & Legal
Caregiver Life Balance
Local Resources
Stories
Work & Jobs
Job Search
Job Board
Working at 50+
Career Change
Small Business
Unemployment
For Employers
Scams & Fraud
Retirement
Savings & Planning
Planning for Retirement
Social Security
Travel
Travel Tips
Vacation Ideas
Destinations
Travel Benefits
Money
Living on a Budget
Managing Debt
Saving & Investing
Taxes
Retirement Planning
Finance Benefits
Home & Family
Dating
Family & Friends
Sex & Intimacy
Your Home
Personal Technology
Caregiving
AARP Voices
Home & Family Benefits
Entertainment
Movies for Grownups
TV for Grownups
Celebrities
Music
Beauty & Style
Books
Entertainment Benefits
Politics & Society
Advocacy
Government & Elections
Events & History
Government Watch
Auto
Car Buying
Driver Safety
Maintenance & Safety
Trends & Lifestyle
Auto Benefits
Videos
Podcasts
Games
Solitaire
Arcade
Card
Strategy
Word
Sports
Members Only
Brain Games
Food
AARP In Your State
AARP In Your City
AARP Foundation
AARP Bulletin
AARP The Magazine
AARP EN ESPAÑOL
AARP 樂齡會
Privacy Policy
Leaving AARP.org Website
Cancel
You are leaving AARP.org and going to the website of our trusted provider. The provider’s terms, conditions and policies apply. Please return to AARP.org to learn more about other benefits.
Got it! Please don't show me this again for 90 days.
Cancel Continue
Thank You
Close
Your email address is now confirmed.
Manage your email preferences and tell us which topics interest you so that we can prioritize the information you receive.
Explore all that AARP has to offer.
Continue
Leaving AARP.org Website
Cancel
Got it! Please don't show me this again for 90 days.
Cancel Continue
Offer Details
Disclosures
Thank you for your interest
in volunteering!
Close
In the next 24 hours, you will receive an email to confirm your subscription to receive emails related to AARP volunteering. Once you confirm that subscription, you will regularly receive communications related to AARP volunteering. In the meantime, please feel free to search for ways to make a difference in your community at www.aarp.org/volunteer
Close