Loose Fat: 7 Best Ways to Use Lemon To Lose Weight Fast
Loose Fat
Monday, 5 December 2016
7 Best Ways to Use Lemon To Lose Weight Fast
Lemon is a natural powerhouse of nutrients and one of the best foods for weight loss.It has been scientifically proved that lemon does help in the burning of body fat.The powerful vitamin C and dietary fibre contained in a lemon, boost body’s immune system, physical repair and helps you get the ideal body shape.A well-known short saying that “A lemon a day keeps all the fat away”. It’s true that consuming fresh lemon juice every day can help you lose stubborn fat deposits on your belly, hips, buttocks and thighs.
The cleansing and detoxifying properties of lemon discard pollutants, toxins and chemicals from the body and gives you a fat-free body.
In this article, you will find few amazing ways to use lemon to lose weight fast.
7 Amazing Ways to Use Lemon To Lose Weight Fast
1.One-Day Detox Miracle Lemon Diet
If you want to lose weight quickly, then go on a one-day lemon diet.Lemon is an effective bile thinner and liver detoxifier.The high concentration of vitamin C in lemon breaks down the unsaturated fats from the body and also eliminates the bad cholesterol.Add the juice of one and a half lemons and 1 tsp of pepper powder to a litre of water.Drink a cup of this lemon water throughout the day.During this lemon diet just consume only fresh fruits, salads and filtered water.
2.Dress up Your Salad with Lemon Juice to Burn More Fat
Want to add some flavor and nutrients to your salads without adding calories and fats? Fresh lemons work great.Daily have a bowl full of salads containing sprouts, cabbage, cucumber, onion and tomatoes dress up with one full of lemon juice, 1 tsp of chopped garlic and green chilli and some black salt.It helps reduce hunger pangs, limits your calorie intake and thus helps in weight loss.
3.Fat Flush Morning Drink
Lemon is an instant way to help flush toxins in the liver and lose weight.The concoction of lemon juice and honey is an easy way to energize your body, clear toxins out and to encourage the body for maximum fat burning.Just add a tsp of honey and 1/2 freshly squeezed lemon juice to a glass of warm water.Stir well and drink it.You must drink this water every morning on an empty stomach for detoxification and fat loss.
4.Herbal Slimming Lemon Tea for Weight Loss
Losing weight can be a challenging task, especially for obese people.But not to worry.This herbal slimming lemon tea can help you shed few pounds without putting any extra effort.This lemon tea has natural powers to control blood sugar levels, reduce LDL (bad) cholesterol and burn body fat.To prepare this lemon tea, just mix 2 tbsp of lemon juice, 1/2 tsp of ginger powder to a cup of hot green tea and enjoy.You can add 1/2 tsp of maple syrup or honey for sweetness.Drink this twice in a day for fast weight loss.
5.Lemon Infusion for Flat Belly
Excess belly fat bothering you? Then here is a mind-blowing solution.
Ingredients
1 Lemon (sliced)
1 Cucumber (peeled and sliced)
1.5 litres of Filtered Water
1 tbsp of Grated Ginger
Combine all the ingredients in a large pitcher, lightly mash together and stir well.Let the ingredients infuse overnight.Filter and drink this water throughout the day.This infused lemon drink enhances your body’s immune system, improves digestion and help you lose belly fat fast.
6.Sweet and Sour Lemon-Orange Smoothie for Obesity
Lemon-Orange smoothie is a delicious and nutritious way to lose weight fast.Lemon and orange both are loaded with vitamin C, antioxidants, pectin and bioflavonoids that give an instant boost to your immune system, prevents fatigue, lowers cholesterol and helps you lose weight quickly.
Ingredients you Need
Juice of 1 Lemon
2 Cups of Orange juice
1/2 cup of fresh Mint Leaves
1 tsp of Black Salt
1 tsp of Maple Syrup or Honey (optional)
Few Crushed Ice
Blend all these ingredients until smooth.Place the crushed ice cubes in a glass, pour the smoothie and serve immediately.Have this smoothie as an evening snack.
7.Lemon Diet Soup to Shed Pounds Fast
This is a great diet soup for those who want to shed few kilos in a week.It fights cholesterol, provides vitamin C to the body, raises the temperature of your body resulting in an increased calorie burn.
Heat 1/2 tsp of oil, add 1 tsp of chopped garlic, 1/2 tsp of chopped ginger, 1 tsp of chopped green chilli and medium-sized finely chopped onions.Fry until golden brown.Add 3 cups of fresh vegetable stock and boil on a low flame until the stock is reduced to half.Remove from heat, add 3 tbsp of lemon juice and salt to taste.Serve in a soup bowl and season it with some finely chopped parsley and some pepper.You must have this soup for breakfast to lose weight in a week.
Posted by rogie at 02:45
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: bellydietone, drinks
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
About Me
rogie
View my complete profile
Blog Archive
▼ 2016 (46)
▼ December (40)
How to Lose Belly Fat- 5 Minute Abs
How to Lose Belly Fat- 5 Minute Abs
how to lose belly fat in 1 week_2
Effective & quick way to lose belly fat- 10 min ab...
Workouts to Lose Belly Fat for Women at Home FAST
Simple Exercises to Reduce Belly Fat Fast - Home R...
Exercises to lose belly fat - Best two exercises t...
Five Belly Fat Exercises For Beginners
Top Diet Plan to Lose Weight 10 Kgs in a Month
7 Best Ways to Use Lemon To Lose Weight Fast
5 Exercises To Reduce Belly Fat
How to Lose Belly Fat in 1 Week
7 Minutes Home Ab Workouts - How To Get Rid Of Bel...
Lose More Belly Fat Fast With Just 2 Exercises
Intense Abs Workout Routine - 10 Mins Flat Stomach...
4-Minute Full Body Workout - Fitness With Namrata ...
---7 Exercises For A Flat Stomach At Home - Fitnes...
7 Minutes Flat Stomach Exercise - Lose Stubborn Be...
10 Minutes Belly Fat Workout - How To Lose Stomach...
12 Minute Flat Belly Exercises - How To Lose Stubb...
How To Lose Belly Fat in 1 Week - Best Ab Workout ...
Weight-Loss Drink #7: Kerala Juice
Weight-Loss Drink #6: Aloe Vera Juice
Weight-Loss Drink #5: Amla Juice
Weight-Loss Drink #4: Chai
Weight-Loss Drink #3: Ginger Tea
Weight-Loss Drink #2: Golden Milk
Weight-Loss Drink #1: Mango Lassi
Lose 8 Pounds of Belly Fat in 3 Days With This Dri...
9 Powerful Foods to Get Slim Body with Home Remedi...
Exercise ball crunch
Vertical leg crunch
Reverse crunch
Bicycling
The bicycle exercise
Elliptical trainer
Running or walking:
10 Tips to Lose Stomach Fat Fast
5 Amazing Detox Drinks for Extreme Weight Loss
10 Weight Loss Tips to Make Things Easier (and Fas...
► November (6)
Simple theme. Powered by Blogger.