Stereotypes regarding leg training | ABC weight loss
Home
The ranking of the best thermogenic fat burners
ABC weight loss
Fat burners reviews – ABC weight loss
Home
The ranking of the best thermogenic fat burners
Stereotypes regarding leg training
Squats are multi-joint exercises that have a lot of advantages. Unfortunately, they are quite reluctant to choose by the exercisers. There are many reasons. Squats are demanding exercises, and there are many nonsense beliefs about leg training. The practitioners assume that “you can not see the legs, so why bother to do them.” Leg training is the basis and should be included in the plan of every person who trains – regardless of whether they are recreational or professional. Squats must be!
Squats destroy your knees
It is believed that squats destroy knees. I agree, but only in part; improperly performed squats will damage your knees just like squeezing on a straight bench destroys the shoulder hoop. Nobody cares about that anymore. A squat made correctly will not destroy your knees – it will not make them hurt. Properly performed squats will allow you to build muscles that will protect our knees
Half-squat and quarter-squat make the intensity and weight rest on the front parts of the body, i.e. on my knees. This causes the patellar to have a very high tension, which can adversely affect the anatomy of the knee joint. Descent to a full squat makes all the tension evenly distributed, allowing you to maintain full knee safety.
I do not do legs because I run
“I do not do legs because I run” – this is another sentence, which is only an excuse to do sit-ups. Many people say that they do not need large legs in running sports. They also say that large legs will limit them. It’s true, they do not need legs like bodybuilders, but running legs should be done.
Running, playing football or playing basketball exposes us to a variety of injuries, such as twisting the knee, rupture of the ligament, etc. Building the muscle mass of the legs is crucial because these muscles stabilize all ligaments, minimizing the risk of injury. Stronger legs are a stronger shot, a certain set of players and a further jump. At the moment, there are no professional runners among those who would not have had leg training in their plan.
I wear pants, so I can not see my legs
Many people assume that if they wear pants for most of the year, they do not have to “make legs”. Nothing more wrong. Leg training causes an increase in the level of growth hormone and testosterone ejection, which translates into an increase in the whole body.
The second issue concerns aesthetics. Strong and strong legs look good with properly developed top. Legs, like a stable foundation, are important not only because of aesthetics, but also because of the avoidance of muscular disproportions.
Exercises with high loads are dangerous
Exercise on heavy weights is always associated with some danger, but it results mainly from improperly performed exercises and lack of belaying or self-insurance.
A properly performed exercise not only does not harm us, it will improve our strength parameters and allow our muscles to grow. The higher the load, the more response of our body. However, it is worth remembering that the belaying and the ability to escape (in the case of doing squats) are crucial and without them you should not start the exercise.
Squats destroy the back
Squats can have a negative effect on our back only when they are erroneously performed, the exerciser has poor stabilization or suffers from a condition that prevents him from training in the axial load of the body.
When we have problems with stabilization, we should first work on strengthening it. However, this is not a reason to give up squats. By choosing a lower weight and gradual progression, the stability of our body will strengthen, and this will allow us to do harder work. Technology is the most important!
Leg exercises are not for me
You can not move anything without it. You also need to have motivation to train your legs. Many people are looking for excuses in genetic predispositions that allegedly do not allow them to carry the weights they would like.
This is no excuse. Each person trains hard to achieve success. The same applies to leg training. Training is hard and requires a lot of self-denial, but it brings a lot of benefits. After several such trainings, the body produces endorphins, which are responsible for great mood.
Deep squat? What is it, it is not!
Most people are looking for an excuse again and he explains that he does not do squats because he is not able to make a move that is very low. They are not able to, because they have not trained in this way. Only regular exercises allow you to master the technique.
A full squat brings with it a number of benefits such as an increase in the level of growth hormone, greater involvement of motor units and satisfaction. Such squats allow you to maintain healthy knees and great shape. Do not be afraid of squats – you should start doing them!
Stereotypes about leg training – a summary
Squats are one of the best and at the same time the hardest leg exercises. Many people overcome monotony in their trainings, just doing squats.
Increased levels of growth hormone, activation of more than 200 muscles, a greater number of calories burned, shapely buttocks in women – these are just one of the many benefits of such training. Strong legs are a strong body. Training is hard but worth the price.
Posted on: November 15, 2018
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Search for:
Pages
Body composition analysis
Dieting consistent with the blood group
The most important principles of safe dieting
The ranking of the best thermogenic fat burners
What to eat after a workout?
© 2016 ABCweightloss