HIV Transmission Risk | Better2Know
FAQs Blog Patient Login
Call Us +44 (0)207 099 0955
Better2Know
Contact Better2Know
+44 (0)207 099 0955
Lines are open 24/7. Click to call.
Home
Corporate Information
Vision & Mission
History
Our Board
Services
Publications
Education & Training
Partners
Quality Policy
Vacancies
STI Info
Chlamydia Testing
Gonorrhoea Testing
Herpes Testing
HIV (AIDS)
HPV & Genital Warts
Cervical Cancer
Hepatitis A Testing
Hepatitis B Testing
Hepatitis C Testing
Syphilis Testing
Mycoplasma Testing
Ureaplasma Testing
Gardnerella Testing
Trichomonas Testing
Vaccines
Vitamin D Testing
Zika Testing
HIV
Instant HIV Testing
10 Day HIV DNA PCR Testing
HIV 5th Generation
28 Day HIV DUO Testing
90 Day HIV Antibody Testing
HIV Certificate
HIV Testing - FAQs
HIV Symptoms
HIV Consent
HIV Consent Video
HIV Transmission
HIV Transmission
Home / HIV / HIV Transmission
How is HIV transmitted?
Bodily fluids
The body fluids that can transmit HIV are:
Blood
Semen and pre-seminal fluid (pre-cum)
Vaginal secretions
Breast milk
The body fluids that cannot transmit HIV are:
Saliva
Urine
Tears
Sweat
Faeces
The virus can be transmitted from one person to another sexually (such as through unprotected sex) or non-sexually (such as through sharing needles).
Sexual Transmission
Vaginal Sex
Anal Sex
Oral Sex
If an infected man has unprotected (no condom) vaginal sex with a woman, he can pass on the virus to her through the lining of the cervix, uterus and womb. If she has any cuts or sores (which may not be visible) then the risk of transmission is higher as it makes it easier for the virus to get into the bloodstream. If an infected woman has unprotected sex with a man, she can transmit the virus to him through either a sore or cut on his penis, his urethra or the inside of his foreskin.
Anal sex is riskier than vaginal sex, as the membrane (lining) of the anus is thinner and more delicate than the vagina and therefore more prone to tearing. For both vaginal and anal sex, the receptive partner ("the bottom") is at a higher risk of contracting any STI, than the giving partner.
Oral sex is considered very low risk for contracting and transmitting HIV. This is because saliva has enzymes which break down the virus and because the lining of the mouth is tougher than the vagina or anus. There is a hypothetical risk of transmission if sexual fluids come into contact with sores or ulcers in the mouth or if blood from the mouth comes into contact with any genital sores. This risk is considered extremely small.
The risk of getting the virus through sex is increased if there is any blood present (such as during a woman's period or due to any cuts) or if any partner has another STI or STIs.
Non-Sexual Transmission
Sharing needles
Mother to child
Blood transfusions and products
Healthcare workers
Tattoos or piercings
Sharing needles is a very high risk activity for many blood borne diseases as needles are an efficient way for one person's blood to enter another person's blood stream.
Mothers can transmit many STIs to their newborns either during pregnancy, during delivery or by breastfeeding. There are drugs which can reduce the risk of transmission of these STIs significantly if a mother knows her status early enough in the pregnancy.
It is extremely rare to contract the virus through a blood transfusion carried out in a developed country these days, as all blood donations are routinely screened. However, in countries where blood supplies are not routinely screened, blood transfusion poses a high risk for transmission.
Healthcare workers can become infected with the virus through a needle prick or by coming into contact with infected blood. However, the risk is low and the number of documented cases is very small.
If tattoo equipment has been used on someone with the virus and has not been properly sterilized afterwards, there is a risk of transmission.
HIV
Instant HIV Testing
10 Day HIV DNA PCR Testing
HIV 5th Generation
28 Day HIV DUO Testing
90 Day HIV Antibody Testing
HIV Certificate
HIV Testing - FAQs
HIV Symptoms
HIV Consent
HIV Consent Video
HIV Transmission
Here to Help
STI Info
Contact Us
About Better2Know
Company Information
Terms & Conditions
Confidentiality Policy
Privacy Policy
Site Map
Our Medical Director
Dr. Catherine Beech
M.B. Ch.B. OBE.
Better2Know is Proud to Support
Trusted by Our Customers
(2293)
Excellent
87%
Great
6%
Very Good
4%
Good
2%
Poor
1%
Better2Know
Better2Know Ltd is certified to the International Quality Standard ISO 9001:2015.
Copyright © 2019 Better2Know Ltd. All rights reserved.