HIV and AIDS (for Teens) - Primary Children's Hospital
[Skip to Content]
For Parents
Home
Parents Home
Allergy Center
A to Z Dictionary
Asthma Center
Cerebral Palsy Center
Cancer Center
Flu Center
Diabetes Center
Heart Health
Food Allergy Center
Preventing Premature Birth
Homework Help Center
Pregnancy & Newborn Center
Play & Learn Center
Nutrition & Fitness Center
Summer Safety
Sports Medicine Center
First Aid & Safety
Doctors & Hospitals
Growth & Development
Diseases & Conditions
Emotions & Behavior
General Health
Infections
Q&A
School & Family Life
Recipes
Videos
Para Padres
For Kids
Home
Kids Home
Asthma Center
Cancer Center
Diabetes Center
Heart Center
Homework Center
Nutrition & Fitness Center
Relax & Unwind Center
Stay Safe Center
Feelings
Health Problems
Health Problems of Grown-Ups
How the Body Works
Illnesses & Injuries
Kids' Medical Dictionary
Movies & More
Getting Help
Personal Questions
Puberty & Growing Up
Q&A
Recipes & Cooking
Staying Healthy
Videos
My Body
Staying Safe
Para Niños
For Teens
Home
Teens Home
Asthma Center
Be Your Best Self Center
Cancer Center
Concussion Center
Diabetes Center
Flu Center
Homework Help Center
Managing Your Medical Care
Managing Your Weight
Nutrition & Fitness Center
Stress & Coping Center
Sports Center
Diseases & Conditions
Drugs & Alcohol
Infections
Personal Stories
Expert Answers (Q&A)
Recipes
School & Work
Sexual Health
Safety & First Aid
Videos
Your Body
Your Mind
Para Adolescentes
Teens
Search KidsHealth library
HIV and AIDS
HIV also can pass from mother to child during pregnancy, childbirth, or breastfeeding.
HIV is NOT spread through:
pee, poop, spit, throw-up, or sweat (as long as no blood is present)
coughing or sneezing
holding hands
sharing eating utensils or drinking glasses
What Are the Signs & Symptoms of HIV and AIDS?
When first infected with HIV, a person may have:
fever
swollen glands
painful ulcers in the mouth or around the anus or penis
headache
rash
muscle and joint pain
These symptoms go away in a few weeks. In the first few years after infection, someone with HIV may have mild symptoms, like swollen glands.
Because the symptoms of HIV can be mild at first, some people might not know they're infected. They can spread HIV to others without even knowing it.
After a few years, other symptoms start, including:
diarrhea
weight loss
increased number of infections
infections that are more severe than is typical
Without treatment, HIV can lead to a very weakened immune system and progress to AIDS. Illnesses that happen in AIDS are called "AIDS-defining conditions."
AIDS-defining conditions include:
very fast and severe weight loss (called wasting syndrome)
a lung infection called pneumocystis pneumonia
Kaposi sarcoma (a type of skin cancer)
lymphoma (cancer in immune system cells)
What Causes HIV and AIDS?
HIV destroys CD4 cells (also called T cells). CD4 cells are part of the immune system. They fight germs and help prevent some kinds of cancers.
How Is HIV Diagnosed?
Health care providers usually diagnose HIV through blood tests. Someone who has HIV is said to be "HIV positive."
Tests also are available without a prescription at the drugstore. You can do the test at home.
How Is AIDS Diagnosed?
HIV is diagnosed as AIDS when someone:
has fewer than 200 CD4 cells
or
develops an AIDS-defining condition
How Are HIV and AIDS Treated?
Medicines can help people with HIV stay healthy. They can also prevent HIV from progressing to AIDS.
Health care providers prescribe a combination of different medicines for people with HIV and AIDS. They must be taken exactly as prescribed or they won't work. These medicines:
help keep the number of CD4 cells high
reduce the viral load of HIV (how much HIV is in the body)
Regular blood tests will check the number of CD4 cells in the body (called the CD4 cell count) and the viral load.
If an HIV-positive person's CD4 count gets low, doctors prescribe daily antibiotics. This prevents pneumocystis pneumonia, which happens in people with weakened immune systems.
Can HIV Be Prevented?
To reduce the risk of getting HIV, people who are sexually active should:
use a condom every time they have sex (including vaginal, oral, or anal sex)
get tested for HIV and make sure all partners do too
reduce their number of sexual partners
get tested and treated for STDs (sexually transmitted diseases); having an STD increases the risk of HIV infection
consider taking a medicine every day (called PrEP or pre-exposure prophylaxis) if they are at very high risk of getting infected (for example, if they are in a sexual relationship with someone with HIV)
For everyone:
Do not inject drugs or share any kind of needle.
Do not share razors or other personal objects that may touch blood.
Do not touch anyone else's blood from a cut or sore.
Looking Ahead
Treatment has improved greatly for people with HIV. By taking medicines and getting regular medical care, HIV-positive people can live long and healthy lives.
People with HIV need a medical care team for the best treatment and support.
If you or someone you know has HIV or AIDS it is important to:
goes to all doctor visits
takes all medicines exactly as directed
goes for all follow-up blood tests
understands what HIV/AIDS is and how it spreads
is physically active, gets enough sleep, and eats well
Reviewed by: Krishna Wood White, MD, MPH
Date reviewed: October 2018
for Teens
MORE ON THIS TOPIC
How to Get Tested for HIV
How Do People Get AIDS?
My Friend Has HIV. How Can I Help?
Can You Get HIV From Having Sex With Someone Who Has AIDS?
Talking to Your Partner About Condoms
STDs (Sexually Transmitted Diseases)
5 Myths About STDs
Print
Send to a Friend
Editorial Policy
Privacy Policy & Terms of Use
Copyright
Note: All information is for educational purposes only. For specific medical advice, diagnoses, and treatment, consult your doctor.
© 1995- KidsHealth® All rights reserved.
Images provided by The Nemours Foundation, iStock, Getty Images, Veer, Shutterstock, and Clipart.com.
© Intermountain Healthcare
Intermountain Healthcare
SelectHealth
Primary Children's Doctors
Contact Us