Sharp Pain on the Inside of My Knee when Squatting | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Diseases and Conditions
Joint, Ligament and Tendon Conditions
Knee Pain
Sharp Pain on the Inside of My Knee when Squatting
Erin Carson
Many people include squats in their regular exercise routines to strengthen and tone their legs, hips, thighs and buttocks. Although squats can be a helpful part of your exercise routine, doing them incorrectly or with bad form can potentially result in a variety of knee injuries. Since many knee injuries have similar symptoms, consult your doctor if you experience knee pain or discomfort to determine appropriate treatment.
Man holding his knee in pain (Image: shakzu/iStock/Getty Images)
Patellar Tracking Disorder
Patella tracking disorder happens when your kneecap, or patella, moves out of place when your leg bends or straightens. This can cause discomfort or pain when you squat, go down stairs, sit for a long time or stand up after sitting. A patella tracking disorder can also cause popping or grinding when you bend or straighten your leg and a sensation that your knee cannot support your body’s weight. You can often treat mild patellar tracking problems at home by taking a break from squatting and other activities that cause knee pain. Ice the knee area and take over-the-counter pain medications. Ask your doctor for exercise recommendations that can help stretch and strengthen your knees and legs.
Meniscus Tear
A meniscus tear can cause sharp pain along your inner knee when you twist or squat. A meniscus tear occurs when you compress or twist your knee joint, which can then pinch the meniscus – or knee cartilage – and rip it. Symptoms vary according to the severity of the tear and might include fluid on the knee, stiffness, and catching or locking of the knee area. Although you can often relieve the pain caused by this injury with ice, wrap, motion and anti-inflammatory medications, you might need surgery to repair the tear. Check it with your doctor.
Knee Sprains
Movements or activities that cause quick or sudden twisting of the knees, such as running, squatting, jumping and landing or changing direction suddenly, can stretch or tear the ligaments in your knees. The ligaments help support your knees by keeping the joints and bones lined up, which enables you to twist, walk and turn. In addition to knee pain, sprains might also cause bruising or swelling in the knee area when the injured ligament bleeds into the knee joint. Treatment involves controlling the pain and swelling through rest, ice, compression and elevation, then doing gentle exercises to help your knees heal.
Prevention/Solution
Include regular strengthening and stretching exercises in your workout routine to minimize your risk of knee injuries. Start your exercise program slowly and build its intensity as your stamina and strength improve. Replace your exercise shoes before the padding wears out to minimize the strain on your knees and legs. Maintain a healthy weight – obesity or excess weight can increase your chances of knee injuries.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
Peace Health: Patellar Tracking Disorder: Exercises
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
My Knees Pop When I Squat
2
MCL Injury & Walking
3
Sharp Knee Pain on an Up Incline Followed by an Ache in the Thigh & Lower Leg
4
Pain in My Leg When Climbing Steps or Crossing My Legs
5
Safe Exercises for Someone With Patellar Tendonitis
6
Can Walking Help with Meniscus Knee Problems?
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.