5 Superfoods to keep the Heart Young- Natural Health Care | Sharangdhar
Search
My Account
Sharangdhar Healthline +91 703 001 4646 (9am to 7pm)
Product was added to your cart
Menu
Home
About Us
Our Products
Store
Our Services
We Care
Blog
Contact Us
Sharangdhar Healthline
5 Superfoods to keep Your Heart Young
June 22, 2018 SharangdharHealth Tips
Heart, a pumping organ, right at the middle in our body is the most precious. Do you know that the only organ which works 24/7 is often neglected when it comes to health? It is very important to take care of our heart with utmost care with these superfoods.
Check out the 5 superfoods that will keep our heart young forever.
5. Green Tea
Green tea is loaded with antioxidants called polyphenols and catechins, which can prevent cell damage and protect you from heart disease. Tea drinkers have fewer major heart events like heart attack and stroke, compared with people who don’t drink tea. The most abundant catechin in green tea, epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), improves heart health and also metabolism.
Green tea, more than any other tea, is good for the heart. To get the most benefit from this superfood, it’s best to drink tea from tea leaves that do not have any other ingredients added to them.
If your doctor has told you to limit caffeine due to a heart condition, you should look for caffeine-free green tea to reduce your intake of the stimulant.
4. Berries
Blueberries, strawberries, mulberries and acai berries are all superfood thanks to their flavonoids, which can lower blood pressure and dilate blood vessels, helping with circulation. Strawberries and blueberries also contain high levels of a compound that can help widen the arteries and prevent plaque build-up.
Also, citrus fruits, such as oranges and grapefruit, contain a lot of vitamin C, which can lower your risk of heart disease. The flavonoids in oranges, grapefruits, and their juices reduce clotting and lower risk of ischemic stroke in women.
Be aware that grapefruit can interfere with multiple medications, including cholesterol-lowering drugs, anti-arrhythmic medication, and blood pressure drugs.
3. Nuts
The healthy fats found in nuts put them high on the list of foods that are good for your heart. Almonds, walnuts, cashews, and pistachio are among the superfoods that contain omega-3 fatty acids, which have been shown to potentially prevent dangerous heart rhythms and reduce the risk of developing blood clots. Therefore, adding nuts to your diet can lower your blood levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol — the “bad” cholesterol — to help prevent heart disease.
Try eating 1 ounce of nuts per day in place of a sugary snack.
2. Fish
Fatty fish, such as salmon, lake trout, sardines, anchovies, and herring, are a great source of omega-3 fatty acids, which may help control high blood pressure, reduce irregular heartbeats like atrial fibrillation, and decrease your risk of stroke and heart failure. Eating just one to two servings of fish per week can lower your risk of dying from heart disease.
Some people who don’t get enough omega-3s in their diet take fish oil supplements.
1. Garlic
Garlic is one of most healthy foods on the planet. Our ancestors have known this for an eternity. It contains Allicin, a compound to thank for garlic’s medicinal properties. Allicin contains sulfur which is critical for cellular detoxification and chemical removal. It is absorbed well then quickly metabolized to benefit the cardiovascular system and the rest of the body.
CARDIOVASCULAR BENEFITS INCLUDE:
Reduces artery plaque formation.
Lowers blood pressure. Many studies confirm that systolic blood pressure drops by 10% on average in those who use garlic.
Decreases LDL particles.
Decreases LDL oxidation. This is the “holy grail” when it comes to damaged lipid and heart risk. I test all my patients for ox-LDL.
Lowers triglycerides.
Inhibits platelet aggregation.
Increases fibrinolytic activity as garlic acts as a natural clot buster.
Lowers blood sugar.
Anti-cancer. Lowers prostate cancer risk by 23%. Lowers lung cancer risk by 44%. Almost 1000 studies on garlic and cancer.
Anti-microbial.
Just add these superfoods to your daily diet and keep your Heart healthy.
Harshal Gajbhe Sharangdhar
Do share this if you care for your friends, family and loved ones.
Search for:
Search
Product categories
Ayurveda for Chronic problem
Ayurveda for Hair Care
Ayurveda for Obesity
Ayurveda for Skin Care
Ayurveda for Women's Health
General Wellness Tonics
Green tea
Popular Products
Talk to Us
Healthline
+91 95 95 100 500
Email Us
info@sharangdhar.com
Chat Online
10 AM to 6 PM ( Sunday closed )
Talk to Us
Healthline
+91 703 001 4646
Email Us
info@sharangdhar.com
Chat Online
10 AM to 6 PM
( Sunday closed )
FEATURED LINKS
Home
Ayurveda Story
Careers
We Care
Media
Services
Terms & Conditions
CONTACT INFO
Phone: +91 703 001 3636
Fax: 020 – 24332391
Email: info@sharangdhar.com
JOIN OUR MAILING LIST
FOLLOW US
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Menu