June | 2011 | Elie House Road Neighbourhood එලිහවුස් පාර අසල්වැසියෝ
Elie House Road Neighbourhood එලිහවුස් පාර අසල්වැසියෝ
Skip to content
Home
About
Monthly Archives: June 2011
“The first step should be limiting the use of cellphones by children.”
Posted on June 5, 2011 | Leave a comment
Cellphone Radiation May Cause Cancer, Advisory Panel Says – New York Times
the first statement from the W.H.O. saying we should be careful with exposure to this kind of radiation
By TARA PARKER-POPE and FELICITY BARRINGER
A World Health Organization panel has concluded that cellphones are “possibly carcinogenic,’’ putting the popular devices in the same category as certain dry cleaning chemicals and pesticides, as a potential threat to human health.
The finding, from the agency’s International Agency for Research on Cancer, adds to concerns among a small but growing group of experts about the health effects of low levels of radiation emitted by cellphones. The panel, which consisted of 31 scientists from 14 countries, was led by Dr. Jonathan M. Samet, a physician and epidemiologist at the University of Southern California and a member of President Obama’s National Cancer Advisory Board.
The group didn’t conduct any new research but reviewed numerous existing studies that focused on the health effects of radio frequency magnetic fields, which are emitted by cellphones. During a news conference, Dr. Samet said the panel’s decision to classify cellphones as “possibly carcinogenic” was based largely on epidemiological data showing an increased risk among heavy cellphone users of a rare type of brain tumor called a glioma. Continue reading →
Advertisements
Leave a comment
Posted in cancer, cell phone
Tagged cancer, cell phone
‘it is time that the industry shows cell phones might not cause cancer’ – CNN
Posted on June 5, 2011 | Leave a comment
ALI VELSHI – YOUR MONEY – CNN
Aired June 4, 2011 – 13:00 ET
As you probably heard, the world health organization has added cell phones to the list of substances that are possibly carcinogenic, meaning they might cause cancer.
The wireless association, which represents the cell phone industry is dismissing the report saying the classification is based on, quote, “limited evidence and no research.” OK, cell phone companies, if you know enough to dismiss the finding, what evidence do you have about the long-term effect of cell phone use?
Because if you’re sitting on a report that proves conclusively that cell phones don’t cause brain cancer, release it. Save us all a lot of worrying. If you aren’t, as I suspect, why don’t you get out in front of this issue. It may be good business to do independent research and put this pesky question to rest. Some people are already comparing cell phone companies to tobacco companies.
You know, the very first study linking smoking and lung cancer was down back in 1939. Other reports followed, but it wasn’t until the late 1990s that tobacco companies actually began admitting that smoking causes cancer. Continue reading →
Leave a comment
Posted in cancer, cell phones, Telecommunications Regulatory Commission
Tagged cancer, cell phone, cell phone industry
Cellphones ‘possibly carcinogenic,’ WHO says – Washington Post
Posted on June 5, 2011 | Leave a comment
users might consider common-sense precautions such as texting more instead of talking and using a headset to keep the phone farther from the head to minimize exposure.
By Rob Stein, Published: May 31
An international panel of experts has weighed in on the controversy about cellphone safety — and come to a conclusion that falls far short of recommending that consumers put down the devices, although it may make them more anxious.
Cellphones are “possibly carcinogenic” to humans, according to the panel organized by the World Health Organization. But an exhaustive, eight-day review of hundreds of studies concluded that the existing evidence is insufficient to know for sure. And because cellphones are so popular, further research is urgently needed, the experts said.
“Possibly carcinogenic” is the WHO’s third-highest rating, falling below “carcinogenic” and “probably carcinogenic” but above “not classifiable” and “probably not carcinogenic.” Other substances that the group has categorized as “possibly carcinogenic” include talcum powder, which has been possibly linked to ovarian cancer, and low-frequency magnetic fields, which are emitted by power lines and appliances and have been possibly associated with childhood leukemia. Continue reading →
Leave a comment
Posted in cancer, cell phone, cell phone technology, cell phone towers, cell phones, Cellphone Radiation, communication towers, electromagnetic waves, EMF exposure, emission, Health Risks, Microwave Field Measurement, natural enviorenment, phone industry, radiation, RF/microwave radiation, tele towers, Telecommunications Regulatory Commission, TRC, Wireless Fidelity, wireless phone
Tagged පරිසර දූෂණය, brain tumour, cancer, cell phone, cell phone antennae bases, cell phone technology, cell phone towers, chronic electromagnetic field exposure, health hazard, mobile telephone transmission towers, natural enviorement, phone industry, radiation, Telecommunications Regulatory Commission, TRC, Wi-Fi, wireless phone, Wireless technology
Dr. Magda Havas
Dr. Magda Havas is Associate Professor of Environmental & Resource Studies at Trent University where she teaches and does research on the biological effects of environmental contaminants. Dr. Havas received her Ph.D. from the University of Toronto, completed Post-Doctoral research at Cornell University, and taught at the University of Toronto before going to Trent University in Peterborough, Canada. Visit Dr. Magda Havas' web page see herehere
Physicians for Social Responsibility
see here
Protecting Our Children from Wireless Technology
see here Protecting Our Children from Wireless Technology
brain tumour cancer cell phone cell phone antennae bases Cellphone Radiation cell phones cell phone technology cell phone towers chronic electromagnetic field exposure communication towers Dialog electromagnetic waves EMF exposure emission Health Risks micfrowave ovens Microwave Field Measurement natural enviorenment phone industry radiation RF/microwave radiation Telecommunications Regulatory Commission The INTERPHONE Brain Tumor Study TRC Uncategorized Wi-Fi Wireless Fidelity wireless phone ඩයලොග් පරිසර දූෂණය
Physicians and Scientists for Responsible Application of Science and Technology
Mobile phone safety The real truth about the hazards, told by independent scientists In a language everybody can understand see here Physicians and Scientists for Responsible Application of Science and Technology
e-mail us at
elie.house.road@gmail.com
How Antennas can affect the health of your loved ones
Pl. visit here
Electromagnetic Frequencies
to read a variety of news, views and opinions about how the EF or the Electromagenetic Frequencies related to "Celluar" Relay Antennas, as to how they can severely affect the health of human They will affect the children most as they will be exposed to these over a longer period. After reading these and many other experts opinions available on the Web and elsewhere which we ignore because we have allowed the Industry to influence our notions of standards, would you still agree with the Industry that "one more antenna in a residential negigbourhood won't do mcuh harm"?
a view that challenges the recieved wisdom
Pl. visit here to read expert opinion on the use of cell phones, and the impact of RF of antennas etc. that goes agaisnt the received wisdom.
Bioinitiative Report
"The effects of long term exposure to wireless technologies including emissions from cell phones and otehr personal devices, and from whole body exposure to RF transmissions from cell towers and antennas is not simply no known yet with certainty.
However, the body of evidence at hand suggests that bio effects and health impacts can do occur at exquisitely low exposure levels: levels that can be thousand times below public safety limits." p. 20.
The Canadian Initiative to stop Wireless, Electric, and Electromagnetic Pollution
weepnews www.weepinitiative.org/index.html
Email Subscription
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 6 other followers
Sign me up!
Search for:
Archives
November 2012
February 2012
June 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
December 2008
Blogroll
WordPress.com
WordPress.org
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com
Advertisements
Blog at WordPress.com.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy