Natural Arthritis Pain Relief
Natural Arthritis Pain Relief
Natural arthritis pain relief therapies are sought by millions of persons who suffer from the occasional to chronic nagging joint ache usually associated with aging. It is not uncommon to find those in their late thirties and forties to have occasional joint ache, especially when the weather changes, but most mild arthritis begins in the late forties. Arthritis may be more prone to be in those who played heavily in sports when they were younger, but no one is exempt from Mr. Arthur Itis. The natural pain relief industry booms with hundreds of millions of dollars in business conducted each year; the problem is knowing which ones really work. Let's begin with one that doesn't, WD-40. That's right, the stuff we use for lubricating doors and hinges has actually been ingested with the thought that if the lubricant unstuck a squeaky office chair then the stuff surely ought to lubricate a knee joint. Uhhhh, that's a big don't do that.
The problem is that there are all kinds of promises and homespun cures offered on the Internet, brought to us by grandma and her cabinet full of secret remedies that she only gave to her favorite family members and friends. There is also the idea that the medical community doesn't want naturopathic remedies to work because the natural stuff would cut down on its profit margin. Natural arthritis pain relief are buzzwords that can play on the hearts of those who have found not other respite from chronic joint pain caused by inflammation. The only way a person can really dispel the myths from the truth of natural arthritis pain relief is to do one's own research and investigation, remembering that not everything one reads on the Internet is true. Since natural ache and soreness relief products are often unregulated, any kind of claim can be made so buyer beware.
Acupuncture is one of the procedures that seems to have some promise for mild ache and soreness relief. The suggested treatment is a daily needle under the kneecap. The Chinese have used acupuncture for thousands of years and a number of members of the medical community have begun to look at this natural arthritis pain relief therapy as at least a viable if not legitimate way to get drug free relief. There will always be skepticism regarding this kind of therapy, but when every conventional medical procedure and therapy fails, acupuncture might be one of the more legitimate natural arthritis pain relief therapies. This therapy is often looked upon as an even more viable therapy for fibromyalgia. It is not a cure, but a response to pain.
Many over the counter or natural remedies for chronic point inflammation include glucosamine and chondroitin. These supplements, taken in pill form, are the two molecules that are actually found in the joint cartilage. The idea behind taking them is that if there are more of these substances in the system, there is more of a chance for joints to heal themselves. There is no medical research that shows that these two supplements actually increase the repair ability of the body. However, when compared to the test group taking a placebo, those taking these two supplements did appear to have more pain relief. There is enough anecdotal evidence to at least suggest the supplements are of some value in natural arthritis pain relief.
One of the biggest common ingredients in organic soreness and ache relief therapies is MSM, which stands for methylsulfonylmethane that is a common remedy for arthritis in horses. This substance is sold daily in pet stores across the country and is sold as a supplement for drug-free arthritis soreness relief in health food stores. This substance is natural, found in such foods as seafood, cow's milk, meat and fruits and vegetables. Since one of its ingredients, sulfur, is thought to strengthen collagen, so it is used as an additional ingredient with glucosamine and chondroitin, or it may be available on its own. The proponents of MSM say the substance is a food, not a medicine or drug. Claims of its ache and soreness relieving ability for joint inflammation are anecdotal. Chronic aches and pains can put a person into a dark place, but the Christian has a place to go: "God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble." (Psalm 46; 1)
Hyaluronic acid is a component of synovial fluid and is found in the vitreous humor of the human eye, the lubricating fluid of joints and in subcutaneous tissue where it functions as a cementing agent. There have been few if any studies that reveal substantial proof that this supplement has any natural arthritis pain relief effectiveness. However, if a person has osteoarthritis, a less severe form of joint inflammation, there may be some benefit to having hyaluronic acid injected into the inflamed knee area as opposed to taking the substance in pill form. Not everyone however responds to this method of treatment.
The bottom line of all this discussion on natural arthritis pain relief is this: the more desperate the person is to find a pain remedy, the more likely that person will be susceptible to wildly controversial claims about a natural pain relief treatment. The claims of a miracle cure need to be taken with at least some form of skepticism. But if the product has been shown to have no adverse side effects, there is nothing lost by trying it for a limited amount of time. The best advice is to talk to one's own physician, knowing that there probably will be a modicum of skepticism. If a person can find an MD who is also naturopathic in approach, that might be a good resource person to consult.
Natural Arthritis Cures
Natural arthritis treatments continue to come under the scrutiny of doctors and medical health professionals that claim there is little diet can do to positively effect this disease or manage pain caused by joint inflammation. But, believers tell quite a different story. There are hundreds of remedies and products that are consumed yearly by those suffering from one or more of the 100 different varieties today. Books and recipes with natural cures for arthritis sell well and are making the industry a profitable one. But, when the facts are investigated and the bottom dollar of profit set aside, there truly are benefits to developing this disease, or any other disease, from a natural perspective.
Perhaps the fuss surrounding this and other medical conditions has something to do with the fact that alternative medical treatments continue to gain in popularity as more and more side effects or long term damage is done by potent prescription drugs or foreign chemicals that are put into the body. More people than ever seek alternative procedures or natural arthritis treatments for their aches and pains, trying to find the least invasive treatment plan possible.
This can range from vitamin supplements to hypnosis. Also included in the natural cures for this arena are: acupuncture, biofeedback, and massage therapies. This article will discuss diet and supplements that have helped those who have one or more forms with pain and stiffness. It should be noted, however, that some supplements can interfere with prescription drug therapies and some ingredients can cause additional problems when taken with certain prescription drugs. Before embarking on any arthritic regimen, speak with a doctor about any risks involved and be clear about any supplements taken. Organic or natural products are supposed to help the body, but never hurt it. As with anything, guidelines are good to know and imperative to follow when using any new product.
It should also be said that dietary supplements are not overseen or approved by the National Food and Drug Administration, here in the U.S. The manufacturers are responsible for ensuring that their products meet safety standards expected by their customers and consumers. Dietary supplements are made to add vitamins or healthy sources of nutrients to diets lacking the variety that naturally gives the body the nutrients it needs to perform to maximum possibilities. New and exciting natural arthritis treatments include vitamin C in the form of oranges or orange juice and greet teas. There has been research with each that proves some improvement for sufferers. In other countries such as China, India, and Japan, green tea is thought to be a health agent with the power to prevent or cure certain illnesses. Seemingly, rheumatoid arthritis in these countries exists at a much lower rate than in the United States or other countries in the world. Countries that consumer more green tea, have less diagnosis. There are also studies in mice that show improvement in swelling and inflammation, when given green teas.
Drinking at least one glass of freshly squeezed orange juice every day can help with some symptoms. Natural cures for arthritis, or at least a pain management system seems to be in certain forms of fruits and vegetables. Fruits and vegetables that contain Beta-cryptoxanthin are not only contributors to healthy bones and skin, but are thought to help with the immune system which is directly involved with Rheumatoid arthritis. Apricots, Cantaloupe, Grapefruit, Butternut squash, carrots, pumpkin, and sweet potatoes are among the yellow or orange fruits and vegetables that are rich in -Vitamin A and Beta-cryptoxanthin, some of the natural arthritis treatments.
Getting a healthy diet and plenty of exercise will help the body fight against illness and various diseases. A healthy diet and exercise are not harmful, unless a doctor specifically warns against certain exercises and foods. Certain types of this disease are not curable, and other forms can be life-long challenges as well. But, when we give the body the nutrients it needs to perform at its best, we are doing ourselves a great favor! Taking care of the bodies God graciously gave each person is a way to glorify what He has done for us and creates a better self-image that will enable most people to perform as better Christians.
Studies have also showed that those who carry extra weight are more at risk. Extra weight can wear and tear on the joints and surrounding ligaments. Weight loss can be considered one of the natural cures for arthritis, as the joints effected get relief when there is less weight and stress placed upon them daily. There might be natural cures for arthritis that meets with the body's needs for healing. Again, be sure and check with a doctor before taking large doses of any supplement, or when using a program with prescription arthritic drugs.
For more information: https://www.christianet.com/arthritis
Copyright© 2017 ChristiaNet®. All Rights Reserved.