Coffee Time: Baking Soda And Lemon: A Miraculous Combination
Coffee Time
HOME
BEAUTY & FASHION
DIET & FITNESS
HEALTH
RECIPES
FAMILY
CAREER
ENTERTAINMENT
Sunday, July 31, 2016
Baking Soda And Lemon: A Miraculous Combination
Lemon juice and baking soda can kill cancer cells. Cancer patients are advised to have 2 tsps of organic lemon juice with 1/2 tsp of baking soda on an empty stomach. Lemon is a proven anti-carcinogen, anti-depressant, works against cysts, tumors and internal parasites. Where as baking soda helps normalize body pH level, which prevents cancer from spreading.
Studies have shown that baking soda and lemon juice could be a miraculous combination as it has the potential to kill the cancer cells. One of the largest manufacturers of drugs, states that after 20 laboratory tests conducted since 1970 they have proved that: Lemon cures cancer as it destroys carcinogenic cells in 12 types of cancers. Lemon prevents the spread of carcinogenic cells and has 10,000 times stronger effect then drugs like Adriamycin, chemotherapy and narcotic products.
Baking Soda and Lemon Juice Can Cure Cancer
Recent studies have shown that consuming citrus fruits, specifically lemons have prevented and in some cases cured cancer. And by adding baking soda you will normalize the pH of the body which does not allow the cancer to continue to spread. Since Chemotherapy has horrible side effects the worst being that it destroys healthy cells. Baking soda and lemon, on the other hand only kills the cancer cells.
Patients should drink two teaspoons of lemon juice with half a teaspoon of baking soda. Consume the drink before breakfast on an empty stomach for better effect. Please make sure to use organic lemons. Organic lemons are 100 times more effective than a lemon grown with chemical fertilizers and sprayed with chemicals. Lemon has already been proven to have strong anti – carcinogenic properties. In addition to this there are many other useful properties. It also has a strong effect on cysts and tumors.
Posted by coffetimeforus at 4:57 AM
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: HEALTH
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Translate
Search This Blog
Follow by Email
Total Pageviews
Blog Archive
► 2019 (3)
► February (3)
► 2017 (114)
► September (1)
► August (1)
► July (1)
► June (9)
► May (14)
► April (13)
► March (32)
► February (22)
► January (21)
▼ 2016 (236)
► December (13)
► November (15)
► October (7)
► September (9)
► August (15)
▼ July (22)
Baking Soda And Lemon: A Miraculous Combination
31 -Jul -16 Coffee Quote
Weekend Projects Under $20
Oreo Stuffed Peppermint Cookies
27 -Jul -16 Coffee Quote
Color of Your Urine Says About Your Health
Healthy Breakfasts for Busy Mornings
Best Chocolate Chip Cookies
Full List Of Illegal Cancer-Causing Shampoos
19 -Jul -16 Coffee Quote
The Most Effective Way To Make The White Clothes W...
Blood Sugar–Lowering Foods
Hand Massage
Butt Lift Workout
Model Ana Beatriz Barros weds Egyptian tycoon Kari...
Football Darts
10 -Jul -16 Coffee Quote
HEARTBREAKING News For AC/DC Fans
Garlic Health Benefits
05 -Jul -16 Coffee Quote
How Smoking Affects The Way You Look
Pair Up and Slim Down: The Couple Workout
► June (20)
► May (13)
► April (19)
► March (67)
► February (36)
Popular Posts
Love Quotes for Valentine’s Day
~ Love surrounds us like light. We are warmed by the charm of our devotion. ~ Its does sounds funny, but yes, if a kiss could t...
Home Remedies for Sore, Cracked and Stinky Feet
Cracked heels and blackened feet can happen to anyone. Normally, the shoes that you wear, particularly during the hot and dry summer mont...
Laundry Basket Turned Into Strawberry Planter
Turn your laundry basket into a strawberry planter. Check your local thrift or dollar store if you don't have an old basket a...
Creative Ideas and Tutorials
It's Sunday and you have nothing to do, now you can use your extra free time to do something creative. Here are some inter...
Jennifer Lopez rocks six outfits in 24 hours
Jennifer Lopez continues the promotional tour for the series "Shades of Blue", which means a new stage of fashion marathon. ...
Watermark theme. Powered by Blogger.