Ginger: Effective Nausea Relief for Thousands of Years - Nausea Help
Home
Morning Sickness
Motion Sickness
Nausea Articles
Pregnancy Sickness
Ginger: Effective Nausea Relief for Thousands of Years
Filed Under Nausea Remedies | No comments
2012
Sep 14
Every once in a while, you find a natural remedy that has been used by so many people for so long that there is little doubt regarding its effectiveness. Perhaps the best example is using ginger for nausea.
Ginger is a naturally occurring plant which has been cultivated for over 2,000 years. It is primarily grown in Asia, though it is also grown in the Caribbean and Africa. It can be grown effectively in most subtropical climates. It has been used to treat nausea for at least 2,000 years. Most of us have probably been given ginger (in the form of ginger ale) for nausea at some point in our lives. Like most home remedies that are passed from generation to generation, there is a good reason why we continue to give our kids ginger ale for nausea-because it works.
While ginger has been used to treat nausea in traditional medicine and home remedies for many years, modern medical scientists have been slow to officially recognize its benefits. Some have suggested the nausea relief is actually a placebo effect. Recent peer reviewed studies, however, have shown that ginger has a considerably greater effect than a placebo on nausea related to:
Sea sickness
Morning sickness (during pregnancy)
Chemotherapy-induced nausea
The study did not consider all causes of nausea. Still, it’s reasonable to assume that ginger is likely more beneficial than a placebo for nausea induced by other causes such as motion sickness, upset stomach, and influenza.
Ginger can be taken in a wide variety of forms. Ginger root is readily available. In the right climate (subtropical), it can even be grown at home. Ground ginger root can be used as a seasoning in food. Other common forms of ginger include:
Ginger ale
Ginger lozenges
Ginger capsules
Unlike most medications, taking ginger doesn’t cause negative side effects. In fact, nutritionists, herbalists, and other proponents of traditional medicine suggest that it has a number of additional health benefits. These include:
Reducing inflammation
Reducing joint pain
Strengthening the immune system
Relieving diarrhea
Relieving colic (in babies)
Ginger can be taken instead of, or in tandem with, nausea medications. It is a natural substance and is not known to have any side effects or negative reactions with medications.
Related Posts
Peppermint for Nausea
Most Common Herbal Cures for Sea Sickness
7 Home Remedies for Nausea
Acupressure for Nausea
Sovrn
About this Post: Permalink | Trackback | | Print This Article
Recent Posts
What Really Causes Motion Sickness?
Natural Home Remedies for Nausea
Can Nausea Be a Symptom of Heart Attack?
7 Ways to Treat Nausea at Home
4 Natural Remedies for Nausea
Nausea Products
Acupressure Bands
Candy for Nausea
Ginger for Nausea Relief
Morning Sickness Remedies
Categories
Featured Articles
Morning Sickness
Motion Sickness
Nausea Articles
Nausea Remedies
Other Digestive Problems
Pregnancy Sickness
Home
Nausea Articles
Motion Sickness
Pregnancy Sickness
Morning Sickness
Nausea Help. All Rights Reserved.
Custom Wordpress