Breathtaking MRI of Mother and Baby Depicts a Bond Deeper Than Flesh
Navigation
Home
About
Blog
Shop
Contact Us
Search
Home
About
Blog
Shop
Contact Us
Search
Blog Breathtaking MRI of Mother and Baby Depicts a Bond Deeper Than Flesh
Breathtaking MRI of Mother and Baby Depicts a Bond Deeper Than Flesh
May 16, 2018
Rachel Kiser
Blogger | Mom of Two
How many of us have pictures (or hundreds of pictures) of us snuggling our little ones? And pictures of our parents snuggling us, and so on and so forth? Probably all of us, I would venture.
But how many of us have pictures of us snuggling our little ones… from the inside?
Rebecca Saxe
Rebecca Saxe is a professor of neuroscience at MIT and a mother: and she does. Saxe had an MRI done of her holding her two-month-old son, Percy, and the results are stirring up lots of feelings in the parenting world.
Inside of a 3 Tesla magnetic resonance imaging scanner that was modified to fit both mama and baby, Saxe waited until Percy was fast asleep on her chest to get the images taken (Don’t worry, MRI doesn’t use radiation and there are no known harmful effects!). Even the slightest movement can blur an MRI, and each MRI takes minutes to complete. Planting a kiss on her baby’s head and waiting, she produced some of the most unique and beautiful images of a mother’s love that we’ve ever seen.
“What’s captivating about that image is the relationship that it depicts,” Saxe told TODAY. She goes on to explain that, after her first child was born, she spent hours laying with him inside of the machine, hoping to track the development of his rapidly growing and changing brain. “It felt like my experience of being his mother and my experience of being a neuroscientist got suddenly and deeply intertwined,” she explained.
So, when she decided to modify the machine so she and Percy, her second child, could hop in together, she wanted to share the images with the public. While some people found them slightly grotesque, according to Saxe herself, “others were drawn to the way that the two figures, with their clothes and hair and faces invisible, became universal, and could be any human mother and child, at any time or place in history.”
We have to agree. The contrast of Saxe’s fully developed brain with her infant’s thinner and more fragile skull is meaningful, in that it highlights the mother’s protective care for her defenseless, but quickly growing, little one. Saxe even points out to Smithsonian that some people were drawn to, “the way that the two figures, with their clothes and hair and faces invisible, became universal, and could be any human mother and child, at any time or place in history.” Wow.
We applaud this mother for excelling at parenting and her very important work- and the way she seamlessly blended the two in this meaningful photo.
About Rachel Kiser
Rachel is a wife and mother living in Raleigh, North Carolina. She’s a fan of good coffee, wearer of gray t-shirts, and is constantly starting books she will never finish. Her family is her joy, and she loves to engage with other moms and dads on matters of parenting. Her blog posts have also been featured on the Today Show Parenting Blog and Scary Mommy.
View all posts by Rachel Kiser here.
Other Posts You Might Like
Dwayne ‘The Rock’ Johnson Feeds His Girlfriend While She Breastfeeds Daughter
Grieving Mother Creates the Empty Photo Project to Show the Reality of Child Loss
Stranger Helps Mother of Two Soothe Her Crying Babies While They Finish Shopping
98-Year-Old Mom Moves Into Nursing Home To Care For 80-Year-Old Son “Because You Never Stop Being A Mum”
Tags:inspiration, parenting, Rachel Kiser
5 Comments on “Breathtaking MRI of Mother and Baby Depicts a Bond Deeper Than Flesh”
Reply
Maritza Baez
05.26.2018 at 11:11 am
i wonder if they did a functional mri if different part sof the brain would light up
Reply
Nikki
05.24.2018 at 9:50 pm
Wow! Beautiful.
Reply
Carole D
05.17.2018 at 8:22 pm
That is quite interesting to look at both brain!
Reply
Lynsi
05.17.2018 at 1:26 pm
How awesome that she could intertwine her 2 joys, her work and her precious baby ! I find this very interesting and intriguing
Reply
kathy downey
05.16.2018 at 10:18 am
Parenting is an amazing thing we parents do,it’s such a rewarding job!
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Connect on Social Media
Products We Love
Subscribe to Our Mom Knows Best Newsletter
We'll never spam you! We'll email two or three times a month about giveaways, cool new products, & parenting news!
I am (select all that apply):
Parent or Grandparent
Recent Posts
GIVEAWAY: Mother’s Day Bundle! April 15, 2019
Teenager Trades Xbox and Yard Work and Buys Car for His Mother April 10, 2019
Weekly Roundup: Award-Winning Family Friendly Products! 3/23 – 4/6 April 9, 2019
Interview with Joseph Cassis, Author of Squire With Fire- A Happy Dragon Tale April 8, 2019
How to Help Children Set Saving Goals April 5, 2019
As Seen On…
Submit a Blog Post
Are you interested in submitting a blog post for publication? We accept submissions here.
Posts by Category
Posts by Category Select Category ADHD Adoption Autism Award-Winners Breastfeeding Bullying Career Cooking with Mom’s Choice Divorce DIY Education Environment Exercise Expert Tips Family Fun Family Hardships Friendship Giveaways Healthy Living Holidays House and Home In the Classroom Inspiration Interviews Manners Marriage Parenting Pregnancy Safety Screen Time Social Media Travel Weekly Roundup
© Mom’s Choice LLC | Privacy Policy | Legal Notices | Media | Evaluator Application | WP | MCAS | CRM
Type and Press “enter” to Search