Bladder Cancer - Natural Remedies to Support Treatment - Earth Clinic®
Menu
Skip to right header navigation
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to secondary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
World's Largest Collection of Natural Cures
Home
Old Version
Shop
About
Who We Are
What People Say
Our Books
Help Us
Search
Close
Search Earth Clinic
Archive Site (Old Version)
Shop
Contact Us
Ailments
Remedies
Pets
Latest Posts
Help Us
Ted’s Remedies
About
Videos
Terms of Service
Returns
Shop
Remedies
All Remedies
Ted’s Remedies
Supplements
Herbs
Beauty Remedies
Children’s Remedies
Articles
World
Green
Ailments
Pets
Latest Posts
Contact Us
You are here: Home / Ailments / Bladder Cancer – Natural Remedies to Support Treatment
Bladder Cancer – Natural Remedies to Support Treatment
September 26, 2018 // by Earth Clinic Creative Team// 35 Comments
Any type of cancer can cause significant symptoms and concern; however, bladder cancer is one of the most often overlooked types of cancer despite its aggressive symptoms. If you suspect you may have a bladder issue, your first course of action should be to see a doctor. But, natural remedies, such as baking soda, blackstrap molasses, and lemon, are important treatment supports.
What Is Bladder Cancer?
Bladder cancer is a fairly common condition that involves your bladder, or the organ in your pelvic region that contains urine. The condition generally begins in the cells that line the bladder and may spread to other parts of your system.
While it is often unclear what causes bladder cancer, several related factors have been identified. Some of the primary suspects for causing cancer include smoking, parasitic infection, radiation, and chemical exposure. In any case, some factor causes the cells in your bladder to grow and divide abnormally. This abnormal growth leads to the development of a tumor or mass of abnormal cells.
What Are the Warning Signs for Bladder Cancer?
A number of symptoms serve as warming signs that you may be developing bladder cancer. Some of the most common symptoms include blood in your urine, urine that appears dark brown or yellow or bright red in color, frequent urination, painful urination, back pain, and pelvic pain.
How is Bladder Cancer Treated Conventionally?
Conventional treatment for bladder cancer varies depending on the severity of your condition, which is why it is so important to see a doctor. In early stages, bladder cancer can be treated via surgery to remove the tumor, parts of the bladder, or your entire bladder. Additionally, immune-stimulating bacterial treatments as well as synthetic immune system proteins are often used to trigger the body’s disease-fighting response.
Are There Any Effective Natural Remedies?
Natural remedies are effective supports and go hand-in-hand with traditional medical treatment to treat bladder cancer safely and effectively. Some of the best natural remedies include baking soda, blackstrap molasses, and lemon. However, you may also benefit from a treatment known as the Budwig Diet; this is a treatment plan that focuses on feeding your body electron-rich foods to eradicate cancer cells.
1. Baking Soda
Cancer cells thrive in an acidic environment, so one of the key components to treating cancer is to adjust your body’s pH. You can effectively influence your pH positively by taking 2 teaspoons of baking soda diluted in 8 ounces of water daily. You can also use 2 tablespoons of baking soda in a tubful of bath water to enhance your treatment even more.
2. Blackstrap Molasses
Blackstrap molasses also helps to balance your body’s pH level. You can effectively adopt this treatment by taking 1-2 tablespoons of the syrup by mouth daily. The molasses also contains a number of important nutrients that will boost your immune system.
3. Lemon
Lemon contains a potent amount of vitamin C – one of the most effective alternative cancer treatments. Drinking lemon water daily and simply adding lemon juice to any variety of the dishes you eat is an effective way to boost your vitamin C intake and gain beneficial antioxidant effects.
4. Budwig Diet
Johanna Budwig, a German biochemist, used a special blend of cottage cheese and flax seed oil to treat cancer. The blend must be freshly prepared and a good diet free of processed foods, sugars, and hydrogenated oils must accompany the cottage cheese and flax mixture.
To prepare the mixture:
In a tall container place 1/4 cup of low fat organic cottage cheese.
Add 2 tablespoons of cold pressed flax seed. This must be stored in the refrigerator between uses.
Use an immersion blender to thoroughly blend the mixture together.
You may add 1 tablespoon of freshly ground flax seed to the mixture or some fresh organic fruit.
Do not add other herbs or ingredients to the mix.
The mix should be taken twice a day, though at first a smaller amount should be tried to make sure it suits you.
The mixture should be consumed fresh.
Cancer treatment often supports a holistic approach. Continue reading below for more suggestions from our readers.
Average rating is: 4.7
Add New Post
Reader Interactions
Add a Post Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published.
Comment
Name
Email
Location
Rate it: 5 4 3 2 1 0
* Earth Clinic, LLC Terms of Service agreement
* Earth Clinic, LLC Online Privacy Statement
* I am age 13 or older
By clicking "Post Comment" you agree to the terms of the Earth Clinic LLC service agreement and the privacy policy statement, and that you are 13 or older.
Don't subscribeAllReplies to my comments Notify me of follow-up comments to my post via e-mail. Note: you can also receive notifications to this thread without commenting.
Reviews From Our Readers
Baking Soda and Lemon Juice
Naturalwoman57 from Usa
November 24, 2016 at 12:15 pm
My hubby was diagnosed with bladder cancer in 2008. He has had four surgeries to remove tumors which includes putting chemo in the bladder. He refuses to have additional chemo and has been in remission for a little over three years.
He takes 1 teaspoon of baking soda in 8 ounces of water with fresh squeezed lemon (organic) juice twice a day for five consecutive days each month. A healthy alkaline diet and taking supplements are also important to staying cancer free.
Reply to Naturalwoman57
Glen from Pueblo, Co
May 19, 2017 at 7:29 pm
Curious, Nature Woman's husband. Baking soda and lemon. How is he now? I had big, invasive, high grade tumor removed. Definitely interested in obtaining good results!
Reply to Glen
Teresa from Bangalore, India
June 3, 2017 at 12:19 pm
Hello… could you please let us know, 1 teaspoon baking with 2 teaspoon lemon juice should be taken before dinner or after dinner….thanks
Reply to Teresa
Baldev from Maharashtra
June 4, 2017 at 6:38 pm
Hi Teresa,
Half a tea spoon of sodium bi carbonate / baking soda with one lemon juice squeezed in and half a glass of water after thirty to forty min. of the meal should be taken. One can take twice a day. But if one wants to take it before the meal, then two hours before the meal.
One should also introduce flax seed and flax seed oil in the diet.
Good luck, Baldev
Reply to Baldev
Pat from Lubbock, Tx
June 30, 2017 at 11:02 am
Have a friend recently diagnosed with bladder cancer. Has this mixture been shown to work as a preventative and/or remedy in lieu of chemo or other medical treatments?
Thank you,
Pat
Reply to Pat
Naturalwoman57 from Usa
July 10, 2017 at 4:32 pm
Hi Glen from Pueblo, CO. I apologize for the delay in this response. My husband is still in remission. It is important to keep the body alkaline by eating fruits & vegetables (raw), in smoothies as well as including them in cooked meals. In addition we limit dairy, sugar & gluten & drink a lot of purified water.
Reply to Naturalwoman57
Naturalwoman57 from Usa
July 10, 2017 at 4:33 pm
Hi Pat in Lubbock, TX. In my husband's case I believe that getting injections (with cortisone) in his back may have contributed to the cancer. I can't prove it but since he stopped getting the injections and started the baking soda he has not had anymore tumors. In addition limiting dairy, gluten, sugar, eating raw fruits & vegetables, cooking meals that include vegetables & drinking lots of purified water (good quality water) are important for good health & wellness.
Reply to Naturalwoman57
Robert Henry from Ten Mile, Tn
July 10, 2017 at 10:04 pm
NATURAL WOMAN,,,,,,,,, suggest you research two things…….. ozonated water and bladder ozone insufflation. You will be out about $3500.
======ORH=====
Reply to Robert
Naturalwoman57 from Usa
February 26, 2018 at 12:14 pm
Update –
On 11-29-17 hubby had his yearly checkup, no tumors found. Two days later we received a call stating that cancer cells were found in his urine & Doctor wanted to do another test. Hubby told him that he needed two weeks to try some things before having another test. Went in 12-15 for test but told it would take about a week for results. After a few calls we finally received wonderful news 1-5-18 that the cancer cells could not be found. The reason for the delay in the results was that they ran the tests several times because everyone was puzzled as to how cancer cells that were there were now gone in just a couple of weeks.
In addition to the baking soda drink, I added green smoothies to my husband's diet which included carrots, kale, apples & other fruit to make it taste better. I made the asparagus for cancer from this site and the miracle drink for cancer, which is the juice of one beet root, one carrot, and one apple.
Reply to Naturalwoman57
Bladder Cancer Remedies
Helen from United Kingdom
February 5, 2015 at 11:23 am
Hi, can anyone advise me please, my mum is following the regimen for bladder cancer from earth clinic. She has started having a weekly bladder chemo treatment. She is measuring her urine alkininty with ph sticks. It has been 6.5, it has now gone to 8! Do we need to adjust the earth clinic treatments? or will it be because of the mitamicin she received yesterday? This is direct into her bladder. Any advice please? Thanks.
Reply to Helen
Juice Therapy
Ron from Florida, US
January 11, 2015 at 7:40 pm
In 1948 bladder cancer was terminal. Jay Kordich traveled to New York to see a docotor named Max Gershin and was given juice therapy. Mr Kordich is still alive today and in his ninties. I think it should be against the law for medicine to hide this cure because it is not a drug or surgery. It requires no doctors at all. Juice apples and carrots every day will work and I proved it with one of my relatives that had bladder cancer. He longer has it and is totaly free of the cancer. Just go to you tube and see the videos by Jay Kordich, its a fact and a fact that is costing people life and money to feed a medical system that ignores this simple cure.
Reply to Ron
Ted's Remedies
Candance from Nebraska
September 18, 2013 at 1:58 pm
I had a scare this spring after a appendicitis attack. |They discovered blood in my urine and thought I might have bladder cancer so they scheduled a procedure to scope the bladder. This kind of shocked me as I have been eating an organic diet for over 10 years. I have always been pretty extreme when it comes to what I put in my body.
I decided to put off the procedure for a month and try Ted's remedy for bladder cancer. My reasoning was IF they did find something I did not want them cutting into it and taking the risk of spreading. And if they did find something I knew I would not follow their protocol for treatment anyway.
Took a bit of doing to find all the ingredients. Finally found the tannic acid at a wine making supply store. :o)
I did the regiment every hour for 4 hours twice a day. I also added in Astaxanthin after reading about other people success with it.
And ate and drank a diet that would lower my body PH.
After doing this for little over a week. I finally went in and let them do the procedure. They found nothing. :o)
EC: You will find more information about Ted's recommendations for bladder cancer on this page.
Reply to Candance
Kewpie from California
September 21, 2016 at 6:31 pm
I had a similar situation…all the signs of bladder cancer with no other explanation such as UTI, kidney stones, etc. Had an ultrasound and nothing was found. So they scheduled a scope and I was worried and I was in a lot of pain for months. Like you I wanted to cure it before something was found and they pressured me into their treatments. In an effort to cure myself, I put off the scope twice, extending my self treatment to 5 or 6 months. I already knew about Gerson and had seen a youtube video of Jay Kordich who cured his bladder cancer with carrot juice and granny smith apples. Googling bladder cancer and carrot juice led me to more information from a woman who describes her treatment by juicing 5 lbs of carrots a day. A man tried it as well and claimed it cured his bladder cancer. And when I looked further into it I learned there is an anti-cancer substance called farinicol found only in carrots. So thats what I did – I drank 5 lbs of carrot juice a day, cut out all other sugars, and took a teaspoon of baking soda in water in the morning. My skin turned orange, especially my hands. Having 2 young children I was very worried and didn't share with anyone what I feared. Drinking the carrot juice became somewhat addictive as my bladder would stop hurting when I drank it. After a while I was feeling better and not having much pain. I finally went in for the scope. When I got there they gave me a urinalysis and I became immediately hopeful when no microscopic blood was detected. This had not happened on the prior 6 urinalysis in the past year. The scope itself was painful but lucky for me it showed I was clear. I can't prove it, but I think I cured myself. The only alternate diagnosis I can come up with is Interstitial cystitis ( I am a medical provider.) I have not continued drinking the carrot juice regularly. Fortunately, I haven't had symptoms since but if I think I am getting any symptoms I will drink carrot juice again.
Reply to Kewpie
Bladder Cancer Remedies
Danni from Olympia, Wa
August 11, 2013 at 4:57 pm
I just had a bladder exam in which my doctor indicated I have a tumor. He has scheduled me for CT scan in a couple of weeks. But I am scared and want to do something now. I've heard that alternative treatments have been successful in treating many types of cancer. Is there any treament or suggestions you could offer me? I appreciate your help and thank you for providing this site.
Reply to Danni
Gavin from Northland, New Zealand
August 11, 2013 at 7:47 pm
If you google "bladder cancer and lemon juice" You will find that a similar man diagnosed got it to disappear within three weeks using lemon juice.
Reply to Gavin
Mike Giller from Denver, Colorado
August 12, 2013 at 8:42 am
Danni: Eating regular food causes cancer. This does not provide all the bioctive nutrients the cells require. The components eventually mutate. You can watch raw food for cancer videos for inspiration. There are several people who survived stage 3 and 4. You can watch raw food videos for instructions. Here you are going to have to make an important decision I cannot make for you. Cancer cells eat glucose. Fructose stimulates the cancer to reproduce. The sugar in fruits is half glucose and half fructose. Starch from potatoes and grains is all glucose. The reason many people who eat raw food survive is because the nutrients kill the cancer faster than they grow and reproduce. Instead of eating fruits you can take coconut oil. The mitochondria can easily burn this for fuel. The cancer does not eat coconut oil. You can also take raw superfoods. They are eaiser and less expensive than buying raw produce every day. You want to get all the oils, proteins, vitamins, minerals, and phytonutrients in their bioactive form to simultaneously nourish the cells, detox the poisons, kill the cancer, repair the tissues, and repopulate the gut with beneficial microbes. The mitochondria is going to need a lot of fuel to provide the energy to accomplish that goal.
Reply to Mike
Gina from Florida
March 31, 2016 at 3:37 pm
Best Information I have read so far. Pure Truth!
Reply to Gina
Tom from San Antonio
May 9, 2016 at 11:16 pm
Try essiac tea.
Reply to Tom
Baking Soda, Blackstrap Molasses, Astaxanthin
Grapes from USA
May 22, 2013 at 10:02 am
Hi. For the third time in a year, my husband found himself with bladder tumors. The first time, he was told they were pre-cancerous. The second time: “developing cancer tumors”. This time, the scan, which he was seeing too, showed one of them to be much, much worse–round with a lot of white looking bubbles. There were three in all. We were concerned.
The pre-surgery physician said they were low-grade cancer.
He was scheduled for surgery in three 1/2 weeks. I immediately put him on:
1) one teaspoon baking soda with one teaspoon molasses in water–twice a day. STIR WELL. It’s recommended to heat it to make sure it’s mixed well, though my husband didn’t. I already knew that this helped one guy get rid of his high PSA, and saw a lot of other testimonies on the net.
2) 20 mg Astaxanthin–this is a powerful anti-oxidant, and is that which makes lobsters red. I had this gut feeling it also might help since I’ve read about a connection between inflammation and tumors!
Surgery was today…. And to the amazement of the surgeon, they were completely GONE. I wasn’t amazed and all I could do was laugh.
I later asked the surgeon innocently (since allopathic doctors tend to yawn about alternative treatments): what do you think caused them to disappear? He said “they may have been inflammation, since inflammation and cancer look the same. ” When I asked how could that just disappear, he was clueless.
Were they cancer or where they inflammation? All I know is that when you read scholary articles, inflammation has long been associated with the development of cancer. They can be one and the same!!
So did the baking soda or the astaxanthin do this?? I don’t know if it was one or both. BUT IT APPEARS TO HAVE WORKED.
I will keep him on baking soda (probaby without the molasses and a little less but twice a day) and astaxathin. I’ll report how it goes as time goes by.
Inflammation and cancer (and MANY more on the net): http://jnci.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2013/03/22/jnci.djt087
http://www.sciencemag.org/content/339/6117/286.abstract
Astaxanthin (and many more on the net): http://www.nutraingredients-usa.com/Suppliers2/Astaxanthin-Still-red-hot-or-cooling-off-The-Dr-Oz-effect-two-years-on
Reply to Grapes
Anon from Anon
May 22, 2013 at 11:35 am
Great news and great information, thankyou x
Reply to Anon
Grapes from Usa
October 13, 2013 at 2:29 pm
UPDATE: his bladder cancer came back. Our mistake was not maintaining keeping him alkaline by using pH strips, and not being more strict with what he eats and drinks. We are starting the protocol all over again, and this time, we will be practising a better lifestyle. He will be drinking a veggie drink every day, no soda, limited coffee. He will keep track of his pH levels every day. We are looking into using Frankencense Oil, which studies have shown to reverse bladder cancer. He will be trying this next: http://www.phkillscancer.com/cancer/natural-gentle-cancer-protocol-dropped-into-my-lap-lemon-sea-salt-oxygen-no-baking-soda-or-ph-paper
Reply to Grapes
Fan from Australia
April 19, 2015 at 9:55 pm
How is it going with the baking soda treatment? I am kind of in the same boat and would like to know if your husband has had continued success.
Reply to Fan
Khaja from Andhra Pradesh
February 25, 2016 at 9:04 am
Same problem have my father hope that God's grace I saw this review helpful for me
Reply to Khaja
Darrin from Western Australia
April 7, 2016 at 4:51 pm
I tried this with my 82 yr old father. He had surgery booked for today & the surgeon for some reason decided to go in with the camera 1st to access the cancer. He called a colleague over to look & said they can't see the cancers that were there before! They couldn't explain it! My Dad hated the molasses & baking soda mix tho, so gave up on that bit very quickly. He did, however, consume a bottle of the astaxanthin a couple of weeks ago. (About a 10 day course) Extremely good day!
Reply to Darrin
Jaymi from Kansas City, Usa
September 21, 2016 at 5:04 pm
Hi Darrin – how's it going with your dad? My 78yo dad just had surgery & is about to start Chemo – which I don't like. I doubt I'll be able to convince him not to do it but I could hopefully get him on a regime of supplements if others are finding they work. Has he had more check-ups? Has he stayed on the regime?
Reply to Jaymi
Jessica from Miami
October 26, 2016 at 6:06 pm
Hi! I find your experience useful. My father was diagnosed about 6 months ago & after they removed a small tumor from the bladder it has returned. Did you have any luck with the Frankencense oil? Any other suggestions. Theres so much information on the internet I do not know where to begin. I am starting with changing his eating habits and making him juices. I read about the lemon water and baking soda. I am going to buy the Budwig Diet book also…
Reply to Jessica
Budwig Diet
Lloyd from Torremolinos, Malaga, Spain
April 3, 2009 at 12:00 am
I personally visited Dr. Johanna Budwig in Germany in the year 2000. She passed away in 2003 at the age of 95 from a fall. Dr. Budwig was nominated 7 times for the Nobel Prize Dr.Budwig had over a 90% success rate with this protocol with all kinds of cancer patients over a 50 year period. Dr. Budwig worked with many patients who were terminally ill and some who had only hours to live. Dr. Budwig explained in her books that her healing plan works on improving the cells of the body. It doesn't matter where the cancer cells are located or what name if given to your cancer because the Budwig program gives cells what is needed in order for them to normalize in their functioning process. Her approach successfully treated the cause of all types of cancer, such as breast cancer, lung cancer, brain cancer, prostate cancer, Bone cancer, Carcinoma, bladder cancer, cervical cancer, esophageal cancer, stomach cancer, Leukemia, Hodgkin's disease, skin cancer, etc., and other common serious illnesses such as such as Arthritis, Asthma, Fibromyalgia, Diabetes, Blood Pressure, Multiple sclerosis, Heart Disease, Psoriasis, Eczema, Acne, and so on. She used a unique formula of cold pressed flaxseed oil and low fat cottage cheese with a little honey.
Lloyd from Southern Spain
EC: You will find the Budwig Diet Protocol on this page.
Reply to Lloyd
Marty Of East End Long Island from Sag Harbor, New York, Usa
July 6, 2012 at 8:56 pm
I would much appreciate any information on these alternative treatments (Budwig Diet and to earlier cures). I have a bad case of bladder cancer and can’t risk conventional treatments because I have also Behcet’s Disease (a BCG might destroy the lining).
Any information is appreciated. Thank you, Marty of East End Long Island
Reply to Marty
Gavin from Manganui, Northland, New Zealand
July 7, 2012 at 9:48 am
Sorry to hear about your problem. I came across a blog about a guy who had bladder cancer, he was due to have an operation on the bladder in two weeks. Then his friend told him about the Lemon juice cure he heard about. The guy tried it, for the two weeks before the surgery. During the pre op. scan the surgeon could find no sign of cancer, so that was an end to it. If you do a Google Lemon juice and bladder cancer im sure you’ll find it.
Reply to Gavin
Heather from Leicester
July 7, 2012 at 10:02 am
Hi Marty, my dad passed from this cancer 2 years ago very quickly so you have my sympathy. I can tell you what I have observed – dont do conventional treatment for this. My dad was a former athlete, still very fit drank no alcohol and ate everything in moderation. I would say follow teds advice and eat no sugar/ no carbs and measure your glucose levels 1 hour after eating. No foreign travel/ plane journeys as like ted said it does seem to aggravate this type of cancer. There is a lady in England called Mary Archer (who is married to a infamous English politician and author called Geffory archer) and she had this cancer and managed to have a bladder transplant and is fit and well now- so you may be able to google this and find out something useful. Good Luck and best wishes for your recovery, Heather x
Reply to Heather
Mt from Ottawa, On Canada
July 14, 2012 at 10:36 pm
Small Flowered Willow-herb
The tea is an infusion of one heaped tsp per 1/4 litre of boiling water for 1/2 minute. Only two cups a day are taken, 1 cup in the morning on an empty stomach, 1 cup in the evening, half an hour before the meal.
In Maria Treben’s book “Health through God’s Pharmacy” you can read about her experience on the Small Flowered Willow-herb.
Reply to Mt
Ria from Little Falls
August 27, 2013 at 11:05 pm
Please send me the information you have as my dearest friend in about a week and a half is going to have her bladder removed because they are telling her there is nothing else they can do. I can not imagine it being so hopeless that this is the only option. Thank you.
Reply to Ria
Mt from Ottawa, Ontario
August 28, 2013 at 10:18 pm
Ria, I am not sure if your question is about the Small Flowered Wilow but here is an extract of Maria Treben's book:
Here is a general treatment for removing tumors:
A warm poultice of Horse tail applied above the tumor in the morning and afternoon each time for 2 hours. At noon apply Swedish Bitter as a compress.
Drink 1 cup of Horse tail infusion 1/2 hour before breakfast and 1 cup 1/2 hour before supper. Also drink an infusion of Calendula, Yarrow and Stinging Nettle (ratio is 300g- 100g- 100g in 1. 5 liter of water). To each cup of this infusion you should add 3 to 6 drops of Wood Sorrel juice.
Reply to Mt
Lee Smith from North Carolina
January 30, 2018 at 8:05 pm
Saw your older post and we are going through bladder cancer now. Would like to know how you are.
Reply to Lee
Lemon Water
Cathy Colorado from Mason, WV
May 7, 2008 at 12:00 am
[]…try drinking lemon water for the initial pain and then later it will get rid of it. Make the lemon water as strong as possible, say 4 wedges squeezed into a glass of water making it tart. NO SUGAR!! I told a friend about this and she said when her father had bladder cancer he was told by the doctor to use this for pain. If you drink the juice of 1 lemon in an 8oz glass of water when you first get up with no food or coffee for 30 minutes there after, you can dissolve gallstones. It takes about a year consistently. You also need to take some digestive enzymes to aide in digestion. Then also take some Red Rice Yeast and CoQ10 to bring down cholesterol, which causes gall stones. Tumeric can be used for getting rid of melonomas ans this is substantiated by science on the Texas Anderson College Cancer Research Center site. I have used it and it has stopped the growth of some facial and arm skin cancers with amazing results. I wonder if you could make a paste of it and put it on the cancers… Hmmmm?
Reply to Cathy
Primary Sidebar
Add New Post
Facebook
Google+
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
Returns
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Medical Disclaimer
About Us
Site Footer
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
YouTube
The information on this website has not been evaluated by the FDA and is not intended to diagnose, treat, prevent, or cure any disease.
By accessing or using this website, you agree to abide by the Medical Disclaimer, Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Affiliate Disclosure.
Content may not be reproduced in any form.
COPYRIGHT ©2019 EARTH CLINIC. ALL RIGHT RESERVED.
This site uses cookies to ensure we can provide the best experience for you on our website. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. For details, please read our Privacy Policy.OkPrivacy policy