An Ode to Full Depth squats — CrossFit Train 97333
Home
About Us
WOD/Blog
Personal Training
Today's Class Schedule
What is CrossFit
Getting Started
Success Stories
Class Sign Up for Members
Corvallis Fit Kids/Iron Beaver Weightlifting
Contact Us
Home
About Us
WOD/Blog
Personal Training
Today's Class Schedule
What is CrossFit
Getting Started
Success Stories
Class Sign Up for Members
Corvallis Fit Kids/Iron Beaver Weightlifting
Contact Us
An Ode to Full Depth squats
November 3, 2015
by Derek Eason
Fall Apparel
PRE-ORDER ONLY
Hoodies $45
T-shirts $25
Cash or Check to Derek Eason, LLC
Due by November 6th!!!
WOD: 11/4/15
Tabata "Bottom to Bottom" Squat
Run 1 mile
*Score is least number of reps and mile time.
https://www.crossfit.com/mt-archive2/007335.html#/comments
Rhi possibly closing her eyes on a heavy Overhead Squat, not exactly recommended in the 23 points of performance below! :)
"Why squat?
The squat is essential to you well-being. The squat can both greatly improve your athleticism and keep your hips, back, and knees sound and functioning in your senior years.
Not only is the squat not detrimental to the knees it is remarkably rehabilitative of cranky, damaged, or delicate knees. In fact, if you do not squat, your knees are not healthy regardless of how free of pain or discomfort you are. This is equally true of the hip and back."
I ran across http://library.crossfit.com/free/pdf/CFJ_SquatClinic_Dec02.pdf this article from the CrossFit Journal and it got me thinking about squatting. Ok, that's a lie. I pretty much always think about squatting. But it did get me thinking about how all of you squat.
At first I was hesitant to squat below parallel because I had always thought it was bad for your knees (and having had three knee surgeries I wasn't keen on doing anything that would be bad for them). I noticed a HUGE improvement in my knee function and arthritis pain after only a few months in CrossFit, apparently I just needed to squat below parallel instead of shying away from my knees natural full range of motion.
I loved this quote from the article,
"...we have heard trainers and health care providers suggest that the knee should not be bent past 90 degrees. It's entertaining to ask proponents of this view to sit on the ground with their legs out in front of them and then to stand without bending the legs more than 90 degrees. It can't be done without some grotesque bit of contrived movement. The truth is that getting up off the floor involves a force on at least one knee that is substantially greater than the squat."
Want to know what else is wonderful about the full-depth air squat? It's incredibly challenging to do well. Many of us don't squat well. I challenge you to read through the following steps, do you do all 23 steps every time you squat? You should!
1. Start with the feet about shoulder width apart and slightly toed out.
2. Keep your head up looking slightly above parallel.
3. Don’t look down at all; ground is in peripheral vision only.
4. Accentuate the normal arch of the lumbar curve and then pull the excess arch out with the abs.
5. Keep the midsection very tight.
6. Send your butt back and down.
7. Your knees track over the line of the foot.
8. Don’t let the knees roll inside the foot.
9. Keep as much pressure on the heels as possible.
10. Stay off of the balls of the feet.
11. Delay the knees forward travel as much as possible.
12. Lift your arms out and up as you descend.
13. Keep your torso elongated.
14. Send hands as far away from your butt as possible.
15. In profile, the ear does not move forward during the squat, it travels straight down.
16. Don't let the squat just sink, but pull yourself down with your hip flexors.
17. Don’t let the lumbar curve surrender as you settle in to the bottom.
18. Stop when the fold of the hip is below the knee – break parallel with the thigh.
19. Squeeze glutes and hamstrings and rise without any leaning forward or shifting of balance.
20. Return on the exact same path as you descended.
21. Use every bit of musculature you can; there is no part of the body uninvolved.
22. On rising, without moving the feet, exert pressure to the outside of your feet as though you were trying to separate the ground beneath you.
23. At the top of the stroke stand as tall as you possibly can.
Written by Cassie Finer, via the CrossFit Journal
Newer
Older
Top
Our Location
1780 SW 3rd St, Suite B & C Corvallis, OR 97333
(541) 270-2973
And just like that, the week is over. New week = new opportunities. Swing by CrossFit Train 97333 this week to start it off right! #crossfittrain97333
Are you as ready for this week as Kay was for the open?! If yes (or no!) we’d love to see you at CrossFit Train 97333 either way! #crossfittrain97333
The Spring Apparel Pre-Order is Here! All Items are PRE-ORDER ONLY. There may not be any extras ordered, so if you want these items you have got to order them now! Orders are due by Sunday April 14th. https://squareup.com/store/crossfit-train-97333 Link to the Online Store in our Bio #crossfittrain97333
🌟Sneak Preview🌟 Full Apparel Line and Pre-order coming very soon! #crossfittrain97333 #apparel
Swinging into this week like... #crossfittrain97333 #19.4
Who else is this excited to get back to the gym after Spring Break!? 😁😆😅😂🤣 #crossfittrain97333
Tomorrow is Monday, the start of a new week, new goals, and challenges. Come try a free drop in on Thursday! No matter what class you decide to drop in on, our coaches will be there ready to help you get into the groove of things! 5am, 6am, 7am, 9am, 30:30pm, 4:30pm: 5:30pm, or 6:30! Prerequisites: a positive attitude and ready to learn! #crossfittrain97333
The Open, as usual, bringing everyone deep into that pain cave! 19.4 was no joke, but at #crossfittrain97333 you will always have the support you need to strengthen yourself not only physically, but mentally too. #TheOpen#NineteenPointFour
Snow day? You mean snow days off? 3:30pm does. ❄️ #deadliftday #crossfittrain97333
Coach Tanna got her first ring muscle up today! 💪🏼 What new skills are you working on? #crossfittrain97333 #firstmuscleup #crossfitcoach