Is Wifi, safe: How to Reduce WiFi Effects: Simple Steps – Home Health Beauty Tips
Contact Us
Disclaimer
MenuHome Health Care Center	-Fitness -Super Healthy Food -Health Benefits Beauty Care Center	-Hair Care -SkinCare -Face Packs Body Care Center	-Eye Care Tips -Face Care Tips -Oral Care Tips All People	-Men -Women -Old Age People Health Care Tips -Kids Health Care Style Relationship
Home
Health Care Center
Fitness
Super Healthy Food
Health Benefits
Beauty Care Center
Hair Care
SkinCare
Face Packs
Body Care Center
Eye Care Tips
Face Care Tips
Oral Care Tips
All People
Men
Women
Old Age People Health Care Tips
Kids Health Care
Style
Relationship
Home / Health Care Center / Is Wifi, safe: How to Reduce WiFi Effects: Simple Steps
Is Wifi, safe: How to Reduce WiFi Effects: Simple Steps
By Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta on January 8, 2017
Tweet
Pin It
Technology has made our life simple. One of such technology is WiFi. Being wireless WiFi prevents the hassle that cables use to create. We can do anything now remotely, for example, turning on the TV. A house WiFi is considered so smart.
Is Wifi, safe: How to reduce WiFi effects: simple steps
But technology, on one hand, is a boon, but on the other hand, it is a misfortune. WiFi exposes us to levels of unprecedented electromagnetic radiation that is emitted by wireless signals all the time.
Now a big question arises is WiFi safe.
This topic is less controversial. There are two extreme opinions related to WiFi. One theory says that such level of rays emitted by WiFi is completely safe. The other theory says that WiFi is killing us slowly.
So, what’s the truth? For this let us get into the details of WiFi effects.
There is no immediate diagnosable illness caused due to WiFi. This is the biggest reason, we ignore the ill effects of it at all. However, Slowly WiFi interferes with the function of the body functions and may result in diseases for example cancer or neurodegenerative disorders on long-term exposure.
According to the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), The radiations of wireless have been put under class 2B. This means it can be a possible carcinogen, but the evidence is limited. Actually, cancer is a complex disease that progress over decades, thus it is not clear whether direct exposure to wireless radiation is a cause or not.
wireless radiation
The Lancet article outlines the statement of IARC where studies conducted on humans shows that WiFi and cell phones used by humans for a few years were not found to be harmful. But studies on, rodent showed that WiFi effects on animals throughout the life causes cancer and also worsen the prognosis.
One more study conducted on some Canadian family noticed brain fogs and a headache in the children. This suggests that WiFi is not healthy.
On looking over the above studies one thing is clear that although, there not much evidence to answer the question, Is WiFi safe for human? But we can not deny ill effects of WiFi entirely.
So why not cautiously use WiFi and reduce the risk of possible health problems at least we have complete knowledge of WiFi effects.
In the case of children and fetuses, more precaution should be taken. Their body is soft and is much more endangered to radiations in comparison to the adults.
There are many products that are sold on the market claiming to protect inutero babies from WiFi effects. Some example of these products is belly armor blanket and belly-shielding band. These products are to be used by the pregnant mothers.
Ways to Lessen the WiFi Effects
The best you can do to reduce the possible WiFi effects is to reduce the use of WiFi if possible.
Ways to Lessen the WiFi Effects
Better turn WiFi off before you sleep. The reason behind is that the signals of WiFi possibly may interfere with the sleep pattern. So better switch it off before sleeping. This will cut off 34 percent of the exposure. Many people have reported that after they have started switching off WiFi before going to bed they fall to sleep quickly. Also in the morning they feel refreshed and their body rests deeply.
Turn off your internet when not in use- According to many experts switching off your Wifi and the internet in the daytime when not in use will also reduce WiFi effects to a great extent.
Stop browsing internet at least half hour before sleeping- If you have a habit of browsing the internet mindlessly before sleeping. Stop it at once. This will not only save you from the ill effects of the WiFi radiations, but will also improve your relationship with your spouse and other family members as you will be able to spend more time with him/her.
Turn Devices on Airplane Mode while sleeping, travelling in an airplane and when not in use.
If possible, hard wire your connections.
Use a Dirty Electricity Filter. This will reduce Electromagnetic Radiation
Try earthing. It will equalize the negative ions liberated.
Pregnant and lactating mothers even children should minimize the use of WiFi.
Prevention is always better than cure. So why not reduce the harmful WiFi effects and prevent any possible health issues.
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta: Professionally a homeopathic doctor and a dietician Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta is passionate about writing health and parenting blogs. She believes in holistic approach towards health and well being.
Related ItemsHealthcare TipssafeWifiWiFi Effectswirelesswireless WiFi
Tweet
Pin It
← Previous Story Anal Fissures: Symptoms, Cause, Treatment and Home Remedies
Next Story → Insomnia-Definition, Facts, Symptoms, Causes, Risk Factors, Treatment and Home Remedies
You may also like...
What is a Strep Throat: Causes, Symptoms, Treatment and Home Remedies
Insomnia-Definition, Facts, Symptoms, Causes, Risk Factors, Treatment and Home Remedies
How to Get Rid of Intestinal Parasites: Symptoms and Home Remedies
You must be logged in to post a comment	Login
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
You must be logged in to post a comment.
Search
Recent Posts
What are Red Moles? Home Remedies To Get Rid Of Red Moles
Try These Summer Foods To Lose Weight Faster And Naturally
Half Boat Pose For Burning Belly Fat and Stay Healthy
Tonsil Stones: Causes, Symptoms and Home Remedies
Popular
Latest
Comments
Divya Sharma | May 17, 2016
10 Handy Ways That Will Remove Deep Blackheads Instantly!
Divya Sharma | May 16, 2016
Know How To Get Rid Of Abdominal Hair Naturally!
HHB | May 2, 2016
8 Foods That Acts Like Natural Viagra
HHB | March 12, 2016
Natural Summer Skin Care Tips that will Handle Skin Effectively
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | April 20, 2019
What are Red Moles? Home Remedies To Get Rid Of Red Moles
HHB | June 20, 2014
Homemade masks for All types of Scalps
HHB | June 21, 2014
Amazing Benefits of Curry Leaves for Your Hair
HHB | June 24, 2014
Best Beauty products Every woman must have
HHB | June 24, 2014
Simple solutions for Itchy Scalp
Divya Sharma | May 17, 2016
10 Handy Ways That Will Remove Deep Blackheads Instantly!
Divya Sharma | May 16, 2016
Know How To Get Rid Of Abdominal Hair Naturally!
HHB | May 2, 2016
8 Foods That Acts Like Natural Viagra
HHB | March 12, 2016
Natural Summer Skin Care Tips that will Handle Skin Effectively
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | April 20, 2019
What are Red Moles? Home Remedies To Get Rid Of Red Moles
Divya Sharma | April 19, 2019
Try These Summer Foods To Lose Weight Faster And Naturally
Divya Sharma | April 18, 2019
Half Boat Pose For Burning Belly Fat and Stay Healthy
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | April 17, 2019
Tonsil Stones: Causes, Symptoms and Home Remedies
Divya Sharma | April 16, 2019
Hair Care And Benefits Of Using Reetha Or Soapnut On Regular Basis
Natural Homemade Face Packs
6 Useful Homemade Packs That You Must Try To Get Rid Of Tanned Skin
Divya Sharma | March 20, 2019
Useful Homemade Packs More and exposure to the sun in any given season gives a tanned skin that takes away the charm of your face. Especially in summers you... Read More
Divya Sharma | March 13, 2019
7 Amazing Potato Face Packs Will Give You A Beautiful Skin
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | January 23, 2019
All About Charcoal Peel Off Mask
Divya Sharma | October 22, 2018
Easy Ayurvedic Glow Packs For The Festive Season
Divya Sharma | October 5, 2018
Amazing Skin Masks To Make Your Skin More Beautiful And Healthy
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | July 17, 2018
Aloe Vera Face Pack for Healthy and Glowing Skin
Divya Sharma | July 6, 2018
Here Are Some Superb Turmeric Masks For Super Glowing And Healthy Skin
Divya Sharma | June 19, 2018
Homemade Anti-Aging Masks That You Must Try!
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | February 12, 2018
5 Simple Homemade Fruit Face Masks for Oily Skin
Advertisement
Eye Care Remedies
Home Remedies To Treat Dryness Around The Eyes
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | September 3, 2018
How To Treat Dryness Around The Eyes Dryness around the eyes makes you look older.The skin of your face is very sensitive, and skin around the eyes is even... Read More
Divya Sharma | July 20, 2018
Home Remedies Will Tackle Your Under-Eye Wrinkles
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | June 9, 2018
A Complete Guide to LASIK Eye Surgery: Benefits, Disadvantages
Divya Sharma | April 29, 2018
This Is How You Can Get Rid Of Eye Floaters
Divya Sharma | March 26, 2018
10 Effective Ways Of Using Honey For Your Eyes
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | August 1, 2017
5 Home Remedies to Get Rid of Black Eye Fast
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | July 5, 2017
6 Home Remedies for Stye on Upper Eyelid
HHB | November 18, 2015
How to Maintain Healthy Eyes During Winter?
Recent Videos
Watch Latest Video: Home Remedies to Prevent Excessive Hair Loss
For More Videos & Subscribe:
Subscribe
Beauty Care Remedies
What are Red Moles? Home Remedies To Get Rid Of Red Moles
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | April 20, 2019
What are Red Moles Moles are pigmented cells. Usually, they are small, circular, raised and brown or black coloured but they may be red coloured. Moles are also called... Read More
Divya Sharma | April 16, 2019
Hair Care And Benefits Of Using Reetha Or Soapnut On Regular Basis
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | April 11, 2019
Benefits of Coconut Oil For Face & Skin – How To Use Coconut Oil
Divya Sharma | April 9, 2019
6 Amazing Herbal Beauty Recipes For Your Glowing Skin
Divya Sharma | March 20, 2019
6 Useful Homemade Packs That You Must Try To Get Rid Of Tanned Skin
Divya Sharma | March 19, 2019
7 Amazing Ingredients Will Give Your Smooth And Straight Hair
Divya Sharma | March 14, 2019
7 Simple Ways Will Give You Silky And Long Hair In No Time
Divya Sharma | March 13, 2019
7 Amazing Potato Face Packs Will Give You A Beautiful Skin
Divya Sharma | March 4, 2019
Eat These Vegetables Regularly And Grow Your Hair Long And Strong
Divya Sharma | March 2, 2019
5 Ways to Use Rose Water for Beautiful Skin
Dr. Reena Prajapat | February 27, 2019
Are you Ignoring your Scalp Psoriasis for Simple Dandruff
Fitness
Half Boat Pose For Burning Belly Fat and Stay Healthy
Divya Sharma | April 18, 2019
For Burning Belly Fat You Must Do Half Boat Pose To Stay Healthy Burning belly fat is quite a task for each one of us and this takes in... Read More
Divya Sharma | February 11, 2019
Amazing Teas Will Help You In Losing Weight And Belly Fat
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | January 29, 2019
How To Get A Dream Healthy And A Fit Body
Dr. Reena Prajapat | October 9, 2018
7 Yoga Poses (Asanas) for Hypothyroidism
Divya Sharma | October 4, 2018
9 Stretches Will Give You An Amazing Flexibility In The Body
Dr. Reena Prajapat | September 17, 2018
Home Remedies to Reduce Tummy Fat After Delivery
Divya Sharma | September 11, 2018
Natural Ways To Increase Height And Look Smart
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | September 6, 2018
Top Fat Burning Foods
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | September 4, 2018
10 Natural Ways to Gain Weight
People Care
9 The Top Natural Tips For Enhancing Your Breasts!
Divya Sharma | April 11, 2019
Here Are The Top Natural Tips For Enhancing Your Breasts! Many women run after fuller breasts and take up medicines or go under the knife to enhance their breasts.... Read More
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | February 4, 2019
Home Remedies For Heavy Periods
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | January 2, 2019
Natural Ways To Promote Vaginal Birth Recovery
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | November 16, 2018
Preeclampsia: Symptoms, Causes And Management
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | November 1, 2018
Learn About Cholestasis Of Pregnancy
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | October 23, 2018
Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | October 16, 2018
High Estrogen In Females: Causes, Symptoms And Management
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | October 15, 2018
Atrophic Vaginitis: Causes, Symptoms And Treatment
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | October 11, 2018
Know What Your Cervical Mucus Hints
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | October 8, 2018
Know If Brown Period Blood Is Normal
Dr. Ritu Kumari Gupta | October 4, 2018
Light Periods: Causes, Symptoms And Home Remedies
Facebook
Follow Us on Google+
Random Posts
Premature Ejaculation in Men: Symptoms, Causes and Management with Home Remedies
Simple Tips To Overcome Barriers
Natural Home Remedies To Treat Bacterial Vaginosis
Benefits Eating Sprouts
Amazing Benefits of Cabbage for Skin and Health
FOLLOW US ON PINTEREST
Follow Home Health Beauty's board Home Health Beauty Tips on Pinterest.
Copyright © 2019. Home Health, Beauty Tips. The listed articles on the homehealthbeauty are intended for informational and general education purposes only. homehealthbeauty does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
Contact Us
Disclaimer