Can you get pregnant on birth control?
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Is it possible to get pregnant while on birth control?
Last reviewed	 Wed 29 August 2018	 Last reviewed	Wed 29 Aug 2018
By Jenna Fletcher
Reviewed by Valinda Riggins Nwadike
Table of contents
Birth control effectiveness
Early signs and symptoms of pregnancy
Other causes of pregnancy signs
Pregnancy test
When to see a doctor
Takeaway
There are many types of birth control available. However, abstinence is the only birth control method that is 100 percent effective. All other forms of birth control can fail occasionally. When birth control fails, it is possible to become pregnant.
Not all birth control methods are equally effective, meaning that some have higher failure rates than others. In this article, learn about the effectiveness of each type of birth control, as well as what to do if you suspect that you are pregnant.
Birth control effectiveness
Different types of birth control have varying levels of effectiveness and fail for different reasons. Birth control options include:
Hormonal methods
Hormonal birth control is 91 percent effective with typical use.
Hormonal methods of birth control work by releasing either a synthetic form of progesterone called progestin or a mixture of progestin and synthetic estrogen. Hormonal birth control prevents pregnancy by:
stopping ovulation
thinning the lining of the uterus, which makes it difficult for an embryo to implant
thickening the cervical mucus, making it hard for sperm to enter the uterus
When hormonal birth control fails, this tends to be due to one of the following reasons:
failing to take the pill, get the next injection, or change the patch or ring on time
taking antibiotics
forgetting to take a pill
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the birth control injection tends to be the most effective form of hormonal birth control. Birth control pills, patches, and rings are about 91 percent effective with typical use.
Intrauterine devices
An intrauterine device (IUD) is a T-shaped device that a doctor inserts into the base of the uterus.
Hormonal IUDs emit hormones to prevent pregnancy, while copper IUDs change the way that sperm swim. Both types of IUD also block sperm from entering the uterus.
According to the Association of Reproductive Health Professionals (ARHP), hormonal IUDs are more than 99 percent effective for up to 3 or 5 years, depending on the brand. The ARHP also state that the copper IUD is more than 99 percent effective for up to 12 years.
Hormonal IUDs can take up to a week to begin releasing hormones, so they are more likely to fail during the first week after placement.
Additionally, both hormonal and copper IUDs can become displaced and fall out of the cervix, making pregnancy possible on rare occasions.
Barrier methods
Barrier methods of birth control work by physically blocking sperm from reaching the egg. These methods include:
male condoms
female condoms
diaphragms
spermicides
a sponge
The effectiveness of barrier methods vary. According to the CDC, barrier methods are 12–28 percent effective at preventing pregnancy. Diaphragms and male condoms are the most effective of these methods, while spermicide is the least likely to prevent pregnancy.
Barrier methods usually fail due to user error. In some cases, a person may not use a barrier method early enough, allowing sperm to enter the vagina.
Both types of condom may break or tear, and a diaphragm or sponge can sometimes slip out of place. Each of these incidents can allow sperm to get through and reach the egg.
What are the early signs of pregnancy?
Learn about the early signs of pregnancy and when to see a doctor.
Read now
Natural methods
Natural methods of birth control do not rely on a pill or device to prevent pregnancy. Most natural birth control methods require careful planning and the strict cooperation of both partners.
Natural methods of birth control include:
Withdrawal, which is withdrawing the penis before ejaculation occurs.
Fertility-awareness methods, where a woman tracks her menstrual cycle and temperature to identify when she is fertile and infertile.
Lactation amenorrhea, which is when a woman is infertile while breastfeeding and may not need to use contraception.
Natural methods of birth control have a very high failure rate. According to the CDC, withdrawal has a 22 percent failure rate, while fertility awareness methods fail 24 percent of the time.
According to Planned Parenthood, the lactational amenorrhea method (LAM) may be up to 98 percent effective if the following apply:
the baby is younger than 6 months
the woman breastfeeds the baby at least every 4–6 hours
the baby receives only breast milk and no formula
the woman has not yet had a postpartum period
All natural methods of birth control rely heavily on body awareness. Some women may make errors in calculating when they are fertile or may not meet the criteria to make LAM an effective birth control method.
It is important to note that the withdrawal method often fails because the pre-ejaculatory fluid can contain sperm.
Early signs and symptoms of pregnancy
A backache may be a sign of pregnancy.
Women who get pregnant while using birth control may notice the following signs and symptoms:
a missed period
implantation spotting or bleeding
tenderness or other changes in the breasts
fatigue
nausea and food aversions
backaches
headaches
a frequent need to urinate
mood swings
Other causes of pregnancy signs
Pregnancy is just one cause of the signs and symptoms above. Similar signs and symptoms can occur as a result of other conditions, including:
premenstrual syndrome (PMS)
perimenopause
a urinary tract infection (UTI)
hormonal imbalances
breastfeeding
weight gain
a change in birth control pill or method
food poisoning
gastrointestinal problems
stress
lack of sleep
the common cold
Taking a pregnancy test
Home pregnancy tests are available at drugstores and online.
A home pregnancy test can help confirm whether or not a woman is pregnant. Taking a pregnancy test is a quick and painless method of verifying a pregnancy.
Pregnancy tests are available at drugstores, some grocery stores, and online. It is essential to follow the instructions on the packaging.
Pregnancy tests look for the presence of a hormone called human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), which indicates that a woman is pregnant.
When to see a doctor
Women should speak to a doctor as soon as possible if they suspect that they are pregnant or have had a positive result on a pregnancy test while on birth control.
Conversely, if a woman misses a period and gets a negative pregnancy test result, she should also seek medical advice unless she is taking a form of birth control that prevents regular periods.
Although they are rare, false negatives are possible. There may be other underlying conditions causing missed periods or other pregnancy symptoms.
Takeaway
The only method of birth control that is 100 percent effective is abstaining from sexual intercourse.
Some methods of birth control are more reliable than others, so anyone who is concerned about their risk of pregnancy should speak with a doctor.
We picked linked items based on the quality of products, and list the pros and cons of each to help you determine which will work best for you. We partner with some of the companies that sell these products, which means Healthline UK and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link(s) above.
Related coverage
Birth control: What is the best option? There are so many types of birth control available that a person may be confused and mystified about the way birth control alternatives work and affect the body. In this article, we explain how the most common ones work and how effective they are. You can also find out about how they may affect the way you feel. Read now
Can you get pregnant right after stopping the pill? The pill prevents pregnancy, but what happens when you stop using it? This article looks at how soon you can become pregnant after stopping the pill. Find out more about how the pill works, what research says about stopping, and who is most likely to conceive as soon as they stop taking the pill. Read now
What to do if you've lost a birth control pill People often lose birth control pills in their handbags or down the drain. Losing a pill is not usually a problem. A person should call their doctor for advice and a replacement pack while continuing to use their regular pack. However, the best advice varies, depending on the type of birth control. Learn more here. Read now
What types of birth control are there? Birth control is used to prevent pregnancy. Find out about the different means available, how they work, and how effective they are. Read now
What to know about cramps on birth control Doctors often prescribe birth control to help reduce cramps, so are cramps on birth control normal? Pelvic pain may be common as the body adjusts to hormonal medications, but these symptoms should lessen over time. In this article, learn about which birth control methods can cause cramps and how to relieve symptoms. Read now
email email
print
share share
Birth Control / Contraception
Pregnancy / Obstetrics Women's Health / Gynecology
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Wed 29 August 2018.
Visit our Birth Control / Contraception category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Birth Control / Contraception.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Barrier methods of birth control: Spermicide, condom, sponge, diaphragm, and cervical cap. (2018, March). Retrieved from https://www.acog.org/Patients/FAQs/Barrier-Methods-of-Birth-Control-Spermicide-Condom-Sponge-Diaphragm-and-Cervical-Cap
Breastfeeding. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.plannedparenthood.org/learn/birth-control/breastfeeding
Copper T IUD [Fact sheet]. (2009, December). Retrieved from http://www.arhp.org/Publications-and-Resources/Patient-Resources/Fact-Sheets/Copper-T-IUD
Effectiveness of family planning methods. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/reproductivehealth/contraception/unintendedpregnancy/pdf/Contraceptive_methods_508.pdf
Hormonal IUD [Fact Sheet]. (2013, April). Retrieved from http://www.arhp.org/Publications-and-Resources/Patient-Resources/Fact-Sheets/Hormonal-IUD
Pregnancy symptoms — Early signs of pregnancy. (2018, June 29). Retrieved from http://americanpregnancy.org/getting-pregnant/early-pregnancy-symptoms/
Pregnancy symptom alternatives. (2018, May 28). Retrieved from http://americanpregnancy.org/getting-pregnant/pregnancy-symptom-alternatives/
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Fletcher, Jenna. "Is it possible to get pregnant while on birth control?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 29 Aug. 2018. Web.
24 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322902.php>
APA
Fletcher, J. (2018, August 29). "Is it possible to get pregnant while on birth control?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322902.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Using small molecules to regenerate heart tissue
New research in mice uses gene-regulating molecules called microRNAs to repair heart tissue after an adverse cardiovascular event such as a heart attack.
Can a blood pressure drug protect the brain from Parkinson's?
At blood levels that are typical in humans, an approved high blood pressure drug was able to clear toxic proteins of Parkinson's disease from mouse brains.
Cancer: Highly personalized therapy can improve outcomes
A new test-of-concept study suggests that using personalized combination therapy could improve the outcome for people with stubborn metastatic cancer.
Plant-based diet cuts heart failure risk by over 40 percent
New research examines how five major dietary patterns may affect the risk of developing heart failure among people without heart disease.
Study identifies a hormone that may hinder weight loss
A recent mouse study uncovers a new hormonal player in the body's metabolic response to weight loss. It appears to have a similar role to leptin.
Popular in: Birth Control / Contraception
Can a person get pregnant while taking the pill?
How to find the right condom size
Is it possible to get pregnant while on birth control?
What are the side effects of an IUD?
How to stop spotting on the pill
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322902.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);