420livedoctorsonline
(747) 999-0855
420LiveDoctorsOnline
(747) 999-0855
Home
Pricing
HEALTH A-Z & NEWS
FAQ
CONTACT US
Emotional Support
Patient Verification
IS MEDICAL MARIJUANA ADDICTIVE?
Interestingly, the number of people that type in adective and addictive (proper spelling) is approximately the same, which, perhaps is a sign of emminent apocalypse.
Is marijuana addictive? The answer is yes. Are you shocked?
The consensus average of marijuana of several scientific studies is that about 1 out of 20 people get addicted to weed. While this statistic may disturb some people, marijuana is much less addictive than sugar, fried food, alcohol, coffee, and of course the scourge of the planet, opiates. In addition, marijuana consumers are less obese, less prone to suicide and never get a hangover from weed. While sugar, junk food, alcohol and drugs take millions upon millions of lives.
The key point to addictions is, are they harmful? A person that is addicted to sugar and is 100lbs overweight, there is no question. On the other hand, addiction to your children or wife is normal and a non-issue. The question is your addiction harmful? When it comes to medical marijuana, time and again the answer is a profound no. AIDS ,Cancer, Pain, Epilepsy patients will attest to the god sent that marijuana is, and how they escaped the pharmaceutical hell they typically were in.
At the end of the day, on the outside chance you become addicted to medical marijuana, provided you're taking the right type and in the right amount to treat your conditions and symptoms, your addiction could be called rather, a good habit.
Call Us at ​(747) 999-0855
Follow us on
Home
PRICING
HEALTH A-Z & NEWS
FAQ
Contact Us
PATIENT VERIFICATION
BECOME A PARTNER
LOCATIONS
TERMS
PRIVACY
© 2017 420livedoctorsonline. All rights reserved.
Designed & Developed by DigitalVertex
CALIFORNIA | COUNTIES SERVED
Alhambra , Anaheim , Antioch , Bakersfield , Berkeley , Buena Park , Burbank , Carlsbad , Carson , Chico , Chino , Chula Vista , Citrus Heights , Clovis , Compton , Concord , Corona , Costa Mesa , Daly City , Downey , El Cajon , El Monte , Elk Grove , Escondido , Fairfield , Fontana , Fremont , Fresno , Fullerton , Garden Grove , Glendale , Hawthorne , Hayward , Hemet , Hesperia , Huntington Beach , Indio , Inglewood , Irvine , Jurupa Valley , La Mesa , Lake forest , Lakewood , Lancaster , Livermore , Long Beach , Los Angeles , Menifee , Merced , Mission Viejo , Modesto , Moreno Valley , Murrieta , Newport Beach , Norwalk , Oakland , Oceanside , Ontario , Orange , Oxnard , Palmdale , Pasadena , Pomona , Rancho Cucamonga , Redding , Redwood City , Rialto , Richmond , Riverside , Roseville , Sacramento , Salinas , San Bernardino , San Diego , San Francisco , San Jose , San Leandro , San Marcos , San Mateo , Santa Ana , Santa Barbara , Santa Clara , Santa Clarita , Santa Cruz , Santa Maria , Santa Monica , Santa Rosa , Simi Valley , South Gate , Stockton , Sunnyvale , Temecula , Thousand Oaks , Torrance , Tracy , Vacaville , Vallejo , Ventura , Victorville , Visalia , Vista , West Covina , Westminster , Whittier .