Block the Buzzing, Bites, and Bumps :: By :: Article :: Super Doctors
Home
About
Selection Process
Articles
Contact
For Physicians
Browse Listings
More articles >>
Block the Buzzing, Bites, and Bumps
National Institutes of Health (NIH)
April 19, 2016
Summer can be a bummer if outdoor fun is interrupted by the irritating buzz of mosquitoes. Their bites not only create itchy red bumps on your skin; they also carry the risk of disease. NIH-funded scientists are working to find better ways to diagnose, treat, and prevent mosquito-borne illnesses. And we can all take simple steps to avoid getting bit by those blood-sucking insects.
Most mosquito bites are relatively harmless. The itchy bumps often last for just a day or 2 after a mosquito has punctured your skin. But if the mosquito is carrying certain germs, like viruses or parasites, these pathogens might enter your blood during the bite and make you sick.
The diseases spread by mosquito bites can be serious. Some experts call mosquitoes the world’s most deadly animal. Mosquito-related illnesses kill about 725,000 people worldwide each year. By comparison, snakes kill about 50,000; tapeworms about 2,000; and sharks only about 10 people per year across the globe.
Most mosquito-related deaths and illnesses occur outside the U.S., mainly in Africa. “But we’ve always had a variety of mosquito-borne pathogens in the U.S. as well,” says Dr. Thomas W. Scott, an expert on insect-borne diseases at the University of California, Davis. “Right now, I’d say West Nile virus is the biggest problem in the continental United States.”
West Nile tends to be a seasonal epidemic in the U.S. It flares up in late spring or early summer and continues into the fall. In 2015, more than 2,000 cases of West Nile disease arose nationwide, and the virus was blamed for nearly 120 deaths.
Most people with West Nile infections have no symptoms. Roughly 1 in 5 infected people have relatively mild symptoms, such as fever, headache, or nausea. West Nile can become serious or even deadly for about 1 in 150 infected people.
Another virus, called dengue, is one of the most common causes of mosquito-borne disease worldwide. A dengue outbreak in Hawaii has affected hundreds of people since late 2015.
No medications are available to treat the many viral diseases transmitted by mosquitoes. But current drugs can treat and prevent malaria, which is caused by a tiny mosquito-borne parasite and not a virus.
A few mosquito-borne illnesses, such as yellow fever and Japanese encephalitis, are preventable by vaccination. But vaccines are not yet available to protect against most mosquito-related diseases, including malaria and West Nile virus.
NIH scientists are working to develop and test potential new vaccines for dengue and West Nile viruses. An experimental dengue vaccine that showed promise in a small clinical trial is now being evaluated in a larger population in Brazil.
Zika is another mosquito-borne virus that’s spreading throughout Central and South America. Because the dengue and West Nile viruses are closely related to the Zika virus, NIH researchers plan to create an experimental Zika vaccine by using methods similar to those used for the other vaccines. Small clinical trials may begin soon, but years of testing will be needed to fully evaluate potential Zika vaccines.
While preventive vaccines are still in development, Scott says, “There are things we can do right now to help protect against mosquito-borne disease.” See the Wise Choices box for mosquito-blocking tips.
What is Super Doctors?
Super Doctors identifies top doctors as selected by their peers and the independent research of MSP Communications.
Super Doctors is published online and also in print as a special advertising section in leading newspapers and city and regional magazines.
Click here for more details
Browse Super Doctors
Browse Medical Specialties
Allergy & Immunology
Anesthesiology
Cardiology
Dermatology
Emergency Medicine
Endocrinology
More ...
Browse
Locations
California -- Los Angeles
California -- San Diego
Florida
Kansas City, Kansas
Kansas City
New York -- Metro
Texas
More ...
Update, Participate & Nominate at my.superdoctors.com
Home | About | Selection Process | Advertising | Contact | Physician FAQ | Advanced Search | Browse Listings
© 2019 Super Doctors ®, MSP Communications. All rights reserved.
Disclaimer: Information in this Web site is not medical advice, nor is Super Doctors a physician referral service. We strive to maintain a high degree of accuracy in the information provided, but make no claim, promise or guarantee about the accuracy, or adequacy of the information contained in, or linked to superdoctors.com or its associated Web sites. Selecting a physician is an important decision; it should not be based solely on advertising or listings. Super Doctors is the name of a publication. It is not a title or moniker conferred upon individuals. No representation is made that the quality of the medical services provided by the physicians listed in this Web site will be greater than that of other licensed physicians and past results do not guarantee future success. Super Doctors is an independent publisher that has developed its own selection methodology; itis not affiliated with any federal, state or regulatory body. Self-designated practice specialties listed in Super Doctors do not imply "recognition" or "endorsement" of any field of medical practice, nor does it imply certification by a Member Medical Specialty Board of the American Board of Medical Specialties (ABMS), or that the physician has been trained or has special competence to practice the specialty. Use of this site is subject to additional Terms and Conditions.