Whole fruits may reduce the need for Januvia among diabetes patients
Login | Register -
Shopping Cart
Toll-Free Tel : 1-877-278-5387
Toll-Free Fax: 1-877-278-5359
Toll-Free Fax: 1-877-703-3038
How to Order Prescriptions Refill Prescription Prescription RX Online Customer Service About Us Health Blog
We're Just like Your Local Pharmacy
Except with Better Prices!
Find Your Medication
How To Order
1. Search for your medication.
2. Select your medication and add it to the shopping cart.
3. Pay online using our secure checkout.
Need Help? Click Here
1-877-278-5387
Download Our
Order Forms
Whole fruits may reduce need for Januvia
Those suffering from Type 2 diabetes can take Januvia to help increase insulin production within their bodies.
Those suffering from Type 2 diabetes can take Januvia to help increase insulin production within their bodies. This helps to better regulate blood sugar levels, especially following a meal. Additionally, when taking this Canadian drug, patients will also help lower the amount of sugar made by the liver. When used alone, Januvia works only if an individual's blood sugar levels are high. But there are a number of things that individuals can do to lower their risk for Type 2 diabetes in the first place.
Whole fruits
Based on research conducted at the Harvard School of Public Health, eating whole fruits may help lower the risk of developing Type 2 diabetes. It's well known that fruits are good for us, but what's meant by the term "whole" fruit? Well, this means enjoying an apple, handful of grapes or bunch of blueberries rather than a glass of fruit juice. In fact, the study showed an increased risk for diabetes when participants consumed large amounts of fruit juices, which are generally full of unneeded sugar.
"While fruits are recommended as a measure for diabetes prevention, previous studies have found mixed results for total fruit consumption," senior author Qi Sun explained in a statement. "Our findings provide novel evidence suggesting that certain fruits may be especially beneficial for lowering diabetes risks."
The study also uncovered that fruit glycemic index did not deter its usefulness in diabetes prevention. Even foods that are high on the chart, meaning that they are more quickly transformed into glucose, were still beneficial. This is unlike fruit juices, which have extremely high glycemic indexes - but are digested extremely fast. Still, fruits low on the chart are great options, including cherries, grapefruits, prunes, pears, plums, strawberries, bananas and mangos.
"Our data further endorse current recommendations on increasing whole fruits, but not fruit juice, as a measure for diabetes prevention," Isao Maraki, lead author on the study, said in a statement. "And our novel findings may help refine this recommendation to facilitate diabetes prevention."
Currently, researchers are unsure why whole fruits have such a beneficial effect on reducing risk of diabetes. It could be due to the fiber content, number of antioxidants or something different altogether. So, those why buy Januvia online may also want to up their whole fruit intake to help their bodies better regulate glucose levels.
Canadian Pharmacy Meds Home
|
How to Order Prescriptions Online
|
RX Pharmacy
|
Contact Us
|
FAQ
|
Policies
|
Site Map
Copyright © 2004 - 2014 by CanadianPharmacyMeds.com | All rights reserved