Natural Cold and Flu Remedies: Vitamins and Supplements for Colds and the Flu
Skip to main content
Check Your Symptoms
Find A Doctor
Find Lowest Drug Prices
Health
A-Z Health A-Z
Health A-Z
Common Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart Disease
Lung Disease
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders
View All
Resources
Symptom Checker
Expert Blogs and Interviews
Podcasts
Message Boards
Questions & Answers
Insurance Guide
Find a Doctor
Featured Topics
Slideshow Get Help for Migraine Relief
Slideshow Things That Can Hurt Your Joints
Drugs &
Supplements Drugs & Supplements
Drugs & Supplements
Find & Review
Drugs
Supplements
Tools
Manage Your Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Interactions
Drug Basics & Safety
Commonly Abused Drugs
Taking Meds When Pregnant
Featured Topics
Slideshow Vitamins You Need as You Age
Slideshow Supplements for Better Digestion
Living
Healthy Living Healthy
Living Healthy
Diet, Food & Fitness
Diet & Weight Management
Weight Loss & Obesity
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise
Beauty & Balance
Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care
Living Well
Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Teens
Fit Kids
Featured Topics
Slideshow Which Food Has More Saturated Fat?
Quiz Do You Know the Benefits of Walking?
Family &
Pregnancy Family & Pregnancy
Family & Pregnancy
All About Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
View All
Parenting Guide
Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids
View All
Pet Care Essentials
Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs
View All
Featured Topics
Expert Blog Dangers After Childbirth -- What to Watch For
Quiz Tips for Success ... Things Every Teen Should Know
News &
Experts News & Experts
News & Experts
Health News
2019 Measles Outbreak: What You Should Know
Too Much Vitamin D: A Cautionary Tale
Is a New Remedy for Body Odor on the Horizon?
FDA Bans Sales of All Vaginal Mesh Products
More Kids Having 'Tommy John' Surgery
Experts & Community
Message Boards
Expert Blogs
News Center
Featured Topics
WebMD Investigates Why Can't We Sleep?
Newsletters Sign Up to Receive Our Free Newsletters
Mobile Apps
Subscriptions
Sign In
Subscribe
My Profile
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Health A-Z Home
News
Reference
Slideshows
Quizzes
Videos
Questions & Answers
Message Boards
WebMDRx Savings Card
Top 12 Topics
CBD Oil
Alkaline Diet
Autism
Crohn's vs. Colitis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Mood Swings
Blood Clots
Causes of Heart Palpitations
Types of Crohn's Disease
Breast Cancer Screening
Headache Location: What It Says
Psoriatic Arthritis Complications
A to Z Guides
Feature Stories
Natural Cold and Flu Remedies
Americans are turning to cold and flu supplements in greater numbers.
By R. Morgan Griffin
From the WebMD Archives
This year, people in the U.S. will come down with about 50 million cases of flu and about a billion colds. Although the misery of cold and flu season might be inevitable, one thing is changing: where we look for relief.
Research indicates that many of us are turning away from the over-the-counter medicines we grew up with and toward natural cold and flu remedies, like vitamin C, zinc, echinacea, and others.
Last year, we spent more than $1.5 billion on supplements to boost immunity and help ward off colds and the flu.
The market for these supplements appears to be growing more than twice as fast as the market for over-the-counter cold and flu drugs.
Experts aren't surprised. "From a conventional medical standpoint, there's just not much that's effective for cold and flu," says David C. Leopold, MD, director of integrative medical education at the Scripps Center for Integrative Medicine in San Diego. "People are trying to find something else that will work."
The incentive may be particularly strong now, given recent FDA reports about the ineffectiveness -- and even risks -- of over-the-counter cold and flu treatments in children.
But do alternative treatments offer the relief that pharmaceutical companies can't? There's growing evidence to suggest that some might -- at least to a modest degree. WebMD turned to the experts to get the details.
Natural Cold and Flu Remedies: How Good Is the Evidence?
First things first: cold and flu viruses are not the same thing. Although colds are a drag, flu is much worse.
The symptoms of flu are more severe; they include fever and body aches along with congestion.
Flu can be dangerous, too; flu kills more than 30,000 people a year.
But because there's some overlap in symptoms, treatments are often lumped together.
How well do natural cold and flu remedies work? Paul M. Coates, PhD, director of the Office of Dietary Supplements at the National Institutes of Health, says that possible benefits appear to be small. But that's a good thing, in a way.
"If a supplement has a big, positive effect, then we worry about an equally powerful negative effect," Coates tells WebMD. Experts agree that popular natural cold and flu remedies seem to be safe for the average person. That's important when dealing with unproven treatments. As long as there's little risk in trying a supplement, the evidence of a benefit doesn't need to be quite so strong.
Continued
Which Natural Cold and Flu Remedies Should You Consider?
To help guide you, here's a rundown of the most notable cold and flu supplements, according to the experts. Note that some have been studied with colds and others with flu.
Vitamin C for Colds
Vitamin C has been long used as a treatment for the common cold, but you might be surprised at how conflicted the evidence is. Although it seems to boost some aspects of the immune system, studies do not show that vitamin C -- at least in doses of 1 gram per day -- helps prevent colds in most people, though it may be helpful in preventing colds in people who are exposed to cold weather or who undergo extreme exercise.
As a treatment, the evidence is somewhat better. Some studies show that vitamin C can reduce the duration of a cold by as much as 24 to 36 hours. However, other studies show that even very high doses -- 3 grams a day -- have no effect.
Keep in mind that the high doses of vitamin C sometimes recommended for cold and flu can upset the stomach and even cause diarrhea in some people. Leopold is particularly wary of using high doses of vitamin C in children.
Echinacea for Colds
Once again, the evidence is mixed. Although some studies do not show that echinacea works as a treatment, others show it can reduce the length and severity of colds by 10% to 30%.
Despite the confusion, many experts are fairly sure that echinacea can help treat colds. Leopold points out that some of the conflicting study results may stem from researchers testing different species of echinacea. So far, the best evidence supports taking echinacea purpurea, which may also work better for adults than for children.
Can echinacea also help prevent you from catching cold or flu viruses? Most studies say no.
Echinacea does have some mild risks. If you have allergies to ragweed or certain flowers in the daisy family, don't take echinacea before talking to your doctor. It may also not be safe for people with certain diseases that affect immunity, such as autoimmune conditions like rheumatoid arthritis and lupus, Leopold says.
Continued
Zinc for Colds
Zinc lozenges have become a popular treatment for the common cold. Forms of zinc available on the market include zinc acetate, zinc citrate, zinc gluconate, zinc picolinate, and zinc sulfate.
Taking zinc, either as a syrup or lozenge, through the first few days of a cold may shorten the misery of an upper respiratory infection, the latest research shows. The research -- a review of 15 past studies on the subject -- also found that zinc appeared to prevent colds in people who used it over the course of about five months.
Other studies show no benefit, which may be partly due to the different formulations of zinc.
Some experts suggest that zinc should not be taken for long periods of time. If it is, it may induce a copper deficiency in the body.
Can zinc also help prevent colds or the flu? So far, there isn't good evidence to support zinc lozenges for cold or flu prevention.
Elderberry for the Flu
There's some promising evidence that elderberry might help treat the flu, Leopold says. Elderberry appears to boost the production of some immune cells and may also help block a virus's ability to spread. One study shows that taking 4 tablespoons a day for three days of a specific formulation of elderberry extract -- Sambucol -- appears to shorten the symptoms of flu by 56%. It also seems to reduce some flu symptoms, like fever. However, the study was small and the full implications aren't clear.
Garlic for Colds and Immunity
Like a number of other supplements, garlic seems to stimulate the immune system. Garlic may also help fight viruses. Also, there is some preliminary evidence that garlic may lower the risk of catching a cold. Garlic works best when consumed raw, either crushed, diced, or minced. Overcooking garlic may destroy important medicinal compounds and the enzymes necessary for it to be effective.
However, more research needs to be done. Note: Garlic may be dangerous in people taking blood thinners.
Ginseng for Cold and Flu
Although commonly used as a mild stimulant, the different ginseng species may also boost the immune system and help prevent or treat cold and flu. One species, panax ginseng, may also increase the protection offered by the flu vaccine.
Coates singles out a specific blend of North American ginseng sold as Cold fX. Preliminary results suggest that Cold fX, when taken for several months during flu season, seems to lower the risk of contracting either cold or flu. One study looked at Cold fx as a treatment, and found that it reduced the duration and severity of symptoms. "The jury's still out, but the evidence is promising," says Coates.
Continued
Andrographis for Colds and Immunity
"Andrographis is called 'Indian echinacea,'" says Evangeline Lausier, MD, assistant clinical professor at Duke Integrative Medicine in Durham, N.C. "It seems to stimulate the immune system." Studies of andrographis show that it appears to improve cold symptoms significantly, at least when started within three days of the onset. There's also some early evidence that it may reduce the chances of catching a cold, at least when taken for several months beforehand. Most studies have used a specific product called Kan Jang, which combines andrographis with Siberian ginseng (eleutherococcus senticosus).
Combination Supplements for Colds and Flu
Many alternative medicines packaged for cold and flu are combinations of some of the herbs and vitamins listed above -- typically echinacea, zinc, high doses of vitamin C, and other ingredients. Although there's no particular reason to think that combination cold and flu products are more dangerous, they're much less likely to have been studied than the individual ingredients that they contain. You might be better off choosing the specific supplements in the dosages you want.
These aren't the only supplements sold as natural cold and flu remedies. Others include astragalus, goldenseal, kiwi, boneset, and homeopathic oscillococcinium. However, so far, there's not enough evidence to say whether they help with cold or flu.
Natural Cold and Flu Remedies: What Are the Risks?
Experts say that natural cold and flu remedies seem fairly safe -- at least when taken in normal doses by healthy adults. The fact that you'd probably only use them for a few days when you're sick adds to their safety.
"The risks of potentially toxic effects from herbs are almost always related to long-term use," says Paul R. Thomas, EdD, RD, scientific consultant for the Office of Dietary Supplements at the National Institutes of Health.
There are some exceptions. Talk to your doctor before taking any herb, supplement, or vitamin if:
You are pregnant
You have a medical condition
You take medicines or other supplements, which may interact to cause problems
Make sure you purchase brands of supplements that bear a USP or NF seal on the label. The USP and NF seals indicate the supplements have undergone quality-control testing. ConsumerLab.com can also be consulted to make sure the product is legitimate.
Also, don't rely on supplements when you truly need medical care.
"I think the biggest risk is when the symptoms don't subside but people just keep trying to treat themselves with supplements instead of seeing a doctor," Leopold tells WebMD. Self-treatment is especially risky when it comes to the flu. Influenza can be dangerous, especially to those who are very young, older, or sick.
Continued
Natural Cold and Flu Remedies in Children
Are natural cold and flu remedies safe for kids? It's a question many parents are asking, particularly in light of the risks of cold and cough medicines for children.
Leopold believes that using supplements in children can be a reasonable option -- provided you always check with a pediatrician or family doctor first. Keep in mind that most alternative supplements have never been studied in children specifically. So we can't be certain that a treatment that is effective and safe in adults will work the same way in kids.
Always err on the side of caution. "When a child is really sick, you don't want to waste time messing with herbal stuff," says Lausier. "You need to get them to a pediatrician."
Cold and Flu: Other Natural Treatments
Natural remedies for colds and flu go well beyond herbs and supplements. Good lifestyle and hygiene habits are proven to reduce your risk of getting sick.
Eat healthy foods. Get regular exercise. Learn to manage stress. Those are among the best natural ways to prevent colds and flu, says Leopold.
Cover your mouth when you cough. Make sure to cough into your sleeve instead of your hand, Lausier says. You'll reduce the odds of passing your germs on to someone else.
Wash your hands. Washing with soap for the time it takes to sing two rounds of “Happy Birthday” -- or rubbing your hands with an alcohol-based gel with enough gel to rub hands together for 30 seconds -- remains one of the best ways of protecting yourself from cold and flu germs.
Don't Forget to Get the Flu Vaccine
Nowadays, an annual flu vaccine is recommended for most children and adults. It's highly effective and contrary to what you may have heard, the flu vaccine cannot give you the flu. It can save you and your family a lot of misery.
WebMD Feature Reviewed by David Kiefer, MD on December 29, 2010
Sources
SOURCES:
Singh, M. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, 2011.
Paul M. Coates, PhD, director, Office of Dietary Supplements, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Md.
Evangeline Lausier, MD, assistant clinical professor, Duke Integrative Medicine, Durham, N.C.
David C. Leopold, MD, director of integrative medical education, Scripps Center for Integrative Medicine, San Diego.
Natural Medicines Comprehensive Database web site: "Natural Medicines in the Clinical Management of Cold and Flu."
Natural Standard web site: "Common Cold" and "Influenza."
Nutrition Business Journal.
Paul R. Thomas, EdD, RD, scientific consultant, Office of Dietary Supplements, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Md.
WebMD Medical Reference: "Kids Cold Medicines: New Guidelines."
WebMD Feature: "Cough Medicine: Should You or Shouldn't You?"
© 2008 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.
Pagination
Top Picks
Manage Your Migraine
What to Eat Before Your Workout
Treating RA With Biologics
Best Treatments for Allergies
MS and Depression: How Are They Linked?
Your Guide to Understanding Medicare
further reading
Slideshow: Natural Cold and Flu Remedies
Echinacea for the Common Cold
Does Echinacea Work?
Is There a Natural Way to Treat the Flu?
How to Short-Circuit a Cold -- Maybe
Natural Cold Remedies: What to Know
Prescription Drugs for Heartburn and Reflux
Echinacea Topics
Today on WebMD
Risky Mistakes Pet Owners Make
Some of these might surprise you.
Depressed, Guilty Feelings After Eating?
Symptoms of binge eating disorder.
Psoriasis Home Remedies
14 tips to ditch the itch.
Quit Smoking
Get your personalized plan.
Recommended for You
Slideshow
Multiple Sclerosis Symptoms
Slideshow
10 Secrets to a Sparkling Smile
Slideshow
7 Ways You're Wrecking Your Liver
Slideshow
Symptoms of ADHD in Children
Slideshow
Type 2 Diabetes: Early Warning Signs
Slideshow
What Is Schizophrenia?
Slideshow
Fungal Infections: What You Should Know
Slideshow
11 Surprising Superfoods for Your Bones
Tools & Resources
Foods That Help Enhance Your Brainpower
Breast Cancer Signs & Symptoms
Constipated? Avoid These Foods
Lung Cancer Risks: Myths and Facts
Causes of Erectile Dysfunction
Tips for Living Better With Migraine
Health Solutions
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Precision Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Specialized Gynecologic Oncologists
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Heal Dry, Cracked Skin
More from WebMD
How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?
Live Better With MS Assessment
What Is Endometriosis?
Getting Pregnant Over 35
How Does Chemo Work?
Stuck Inside? Snow Day Activities
Beat Crohn's Flares
Ways to Prevent Migraines
Managing Diabetes at Work
Routine Checkups You Shouldn't Miss
Avoid Allergy Triggers
Treating Advanced Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer
Test Your MS Care Routine
What's New in Psoriasis Research
Where Breast Cancer Spreads
Visit WebMD on Facebook
Visit WebMD on Twitter
Visit WebMD on Pinterest
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.