Dr. Gabe Mirkin on Health, Fitness and Nutrition. | Fruit Juice Increases Risk for Diabetes
Home
Fitness
Nutrition
Health
Women's Health
Men's Health
Diabetes
Heart Health
Joints, Bones & Muscles
Other Diseases & Conditions
Diana's Healthful Recipes
Deaths of Famous People
Weekly-eZine
Home
Fitness
Nutrition
Health
◉ Women's Health
◉ Men's Health
◉ Diabetes
◉ Heart Health
◉ Joints, Bones & Muscles
◉ Other Diseases & Conditions
◉ Diana's Healthful Recipes
◉ Deaths of Famous People
Weekly-eZine
Subscribe to Dr. Mirkin's free FITNESS & HEALTH NEWSLETTER
Fruit Juice Increases Risk for Diabetes
Drinking two glasses of grape juice (500cc) per day for three months increased insulin resistance and waist circumference in overweight participants (The Lancet Diabetes and Endocrinology, Feb 2014). These are markers of a person becoming diabetic. There is no difference between fruit juice and CocaCola in raising blood sugar and increasing diabetes risk.
As a person goes from being healthy to becoming diabetic, he or she:
• gains weight,
• which causes fat to be deposited in the liver
• which prevents him from responding to insulin (insulin resistance)
• which raises blood sugar levels
• which causes sugar to stick to the outer surface membranes of all cells.
• which damages every cell in your body.
A glass of apple juice contains the same amount of calories (110) and sugar (26 g) as a glass of cola. An apple contains only 50 calories and is also loaded with healthful fiber. Eating WHOLE fruit is healthful for diabetics and everyone else. Fruit JUICES are no better than soft drinks.
March 2nd, 2014
| Share this Report!
Email this Report
Email
Recent
Fitness for Cancer Patients and Survivors
April 19th, 2019
Earl Thomas Conley and Cerebral Atrophy
April 16th, 2019
Rheumatoid Arthritis and Colon Bacteria
April 14th, 2019
Fiber, a True Superfood
April 14th, 2019
Jack Lemmon, American Icon
April 14th, 2019
High Blood Pressure and Colon Bacteria
April 7th, 2019
The Good Food Book
FREE - You can read The Good Food Book on your computer. It will help you to lose weight, lower cholesterol or high blood pressure, control diabetes, or just eat more healthfully.
Read more
Find us on Facebook
About the Author: Gabe Mirkin, MD
Sports medicine doctor, fitness guru and long-time radio host Gabe Mirkin, M.D., brings you news and tips for your healthful lifestyle. A practicing physician for more than 50 years and a radio talk show host for 25 years, Dr. Mirkin is a graduate of Harvard University and Baylor University College of Medicine. He is board-certified in four specialties: Sports Medicine, Allergy and Immunology, Pediatrics and Pediatric Immunology. The Dr. Mirkin Show, his call-in show on fitness and health, was syndicated in more than 120 cities. Read More
Home
Fitness
Nutrition
Women’s Health
Men’s Health
Diabetes
Heart Health
Joints & Bones
More Health Reports
Recipes
Online Radio Show
eZine
Histories & Mysteries
DrMirkin Recommends
About Dr. Mirkin
The Good Food Book
Archive
Site Map
Copyright 2016 Drmirkin | All Rights Reserved | Powered by Xindesigns