Benefits of Carrot
Home
The Health Blog
Fitness
Nutrition
Bodybuilding
Curative Juices
Fruits & Vegetables
CANCER
Diabetes
Diabetic Diet
Heart Health
Men's Health
Current Health Articles
Human Cloning
Aromatherapy
Pregnancy
Contact Us
Sign Up
ADVERTISING
Site Map
Privacy Policy
[?]Subscribe To This Site
BENEFITS OF CARROT
Benefits of carrots and its medicinal uses are mainly because of beta-carotene. Beta-carotene may ward off cancers of the stomach, cervix, uterus, and the oral cavity, and it helps prevent heart disease due to its antioxidant abilities.
Nutrition is the cornerstone of good health. As we go through life, there are so many illnesses that could have been prevented with better nutrition. This has been proven beyond any shadow of doubt over the past few years.
HEALTH BENEFITS –
1.	CANCER PREVENTION –
Carrot contains good amount of anti-cancer nutrient, beta-carotene. To get maximum benefits of carrot, you should make use of it daily in each meal. The National Cancer Institute is studying the carrots for its protective effects. Carrot juice has anti-carcinogen properties. Thus, it helps prevent cancer. It is also believed to have cancer-curing properties.
Research has proven that getting the proper level of antioxidants into our bloodstream will reduce the risk of cancer. Consumption of carrots increases the level of key antioxidants in the bloodstream.
Beta-carotene consumption has been linked to reduced risk of several cancers, notably lung cancer. British researchers discovered that increasing beta-carotene consumption from 1.7 to 2.7 milligrams a day reduced lung cancer risk more than 40 percent. The average carrot contains about three milligrams of Beta-carotene.
In a study, researchers found that eating fiber rich carrots reduce the risk of colon cancer by as much as 24 percent. Another study shows that women who ate raw carrots were 5 to 8 times less likely to develop breast cancer than women who did not eat carrots.
2.	ROLE IN STROKE –
A carrot a day reduces stroke risk by 68 percent. Recent research results from Harvard University suggest that people who eat more than five carrots a week are much less likely to suffer a stroke than those who eat only one carrot a month.
Many studies have shown that it has good effect on brain. Studies conducted on stroke patients revealed that those with highest levels of Beta carotene have the best survival rate.
3.	PREVENTION OF HEART DISEASE –
Benefits of carrot incorporates heart health. It helps the people with heart problem. It is believed that carrot may reduce risk of heart disease.
High cholesterol is a major risk factor for heart disease. Since regular consumption of carrots reduces cholesterol level it is good to prevent heart related problems. Root vegetables can reduce the chances of having a heart attack. Pharmacological Research found that those who ate more carrots had one third the risk of heart attack as compared with those who ate fewer carrots.
One of carrots' fat-fighting features is their fiber content, half of which is the soluble fiber calcium pectate. Soluble fiber may help lower blood-cholesterol levels by binding with and eliminating bile acids, triggering cholesterol to be drawn out of the bloodstream to make more bile acids.
A study was conducted to find out therapeutic value of carrots. It revealed that cholesterol level reduces by 11 percent if seven ounces of raw carrots a day is taken for thee weeks.
4.	EYE HEALTH –
Benefits of carrot includes eye health also. Carrots are excellent for the eyes. It is a good source of vitamin A. They contain high amount of beta carotene. Beta-carotene present here is a precursor of vitamin A. Body converts this beta-carotene into vitamin A. Carrots has few rivals when it comes to beta-carotene. A mere half-cup serving of cooked carrots contains four times the RDA (recommended daily allowance) of vitamin A in the form of protective beta-carotene. One unit of beta-carotene gives two units of vitamin A, and is good for eyesight. This conversion is done by the liver and it is stored in our body. Deficiency of vitamin A causes some difficulty seeing in dim light. Since carrot is rich in vitamin A it is good for improving eyesight.
It helps in the prevention of macular degeneration. Macular degeneration is a common eye disease of elderly. It impairs the macula. Researches found that people who ate the recommended amount of Beta-carotene had a 40% lower risk compared with those who consumed less beta-carotene.
Its juice strengthens the eyes and keeps the mucus membranes of all cavities of the body in healthy condition.
5.	ORAL HEALTH –
Benefits of carrot shows that - chewing a carrot immediately after food kills all the harmful germs in the mouth. It cleans the teeth, removes the food particles from cavities and checks bleeding of the gums and tooth decay.
6.	SKIN HEALTH –
They are also good for the skin. Its juice keeps the mucus membranes of all cavities of the body in healthy condition. It is beneficial in the treatment of dry and rough skin.
7.	ACID – BASE BALANCE –
Carrot is rich in alkaline elements which purify and revitalize the blood. It nourishes the entire system and helps in the maintenance of acid-alkaline balance in the body.
8.	DIABETES –
Benefits of carrot includes control of diabetes. Carrot is good for blood sugar regulation because of the presence of carotenoids in them. Carotenoids inversely affect insulin resistance and thus lower blood sugar.
9.DIARRHEA - Carrot soup is a home remedy for diarrhea because it calms the bowel and slows down bacterial development. This is an effective natural remedy.
This soup gives sodium, potassium, phosphorus, calcium, sulfur and magnesium essential to check diarrhea. Besides, it is a good source of pectin and coats the intestine to allay inflammation. It checks growth of harmful bacteria and prevents vomiting. It is especially useful for children.
Cook half kilogram of carrot in 150 ml of water until it becomes soft. Then drain the water and add little salt to taste. Half cup soup should be given every half an hour.
10.	WORM INFESTATION –
Carrots are useful in the removal of worms from children. An infusion of carrot has long been used as a folk remedy for thread worms.
A small cup of juice or two medium sized carrots taken in the morning for at least a week clears the thread worm.
11.	GASTROINTESTINAL HEALTH –
Benefits of carrot extends to gastrointestinal health also. Regular use of carrot prevents formation of gastric ulcer and other digestive disorders.
Its juice is an effective remedy in diseases like intestinal colic, colitis, appendicitis, peptic ulcer and dyspepsia.
12.	EFFECT ON KIDNEYS –
Carrot has a beneficial influence on kidneys and dropsy, and prevents the brick – dust sediment sometimes found in the urine.
13.	JAUNDICE –
A decoction of carrot is useful in jaundice.
•	CARROT SEEDS –
Seeds are used as aphrodisiac and nerve tonic. Intake of seeds is avoided during pregnancy as it can cause abortion.
•	CARROT LEAVES –
Carrot leaves contain vitamin E-rich oil. In some areas they are used in the making of soup.
OTHER GENERAL BENEFITS OF CARROT–
1. Fresh juice will relieve you from stress, fatigue and will cleanse and energizes the body.
2. Eating carrots will encourage healthy skin, hair, bones, eyesight and will also cleanse the body.
3. Raw or grated form can be used for wounds, cuts and inflammation.
4. They are energizing and antiseptic.
Previous Page - Carrot Nutrition
This Form cannot be submitted until the missing
fields (labelled below in red) have been filled in
Send Questions or Feedback
Please note that all fields followed by an asterisk must be filled in.
First Name*
E-Mail Address*
Return to HOME
Return to Vegetables from Benefits of Carrot
New! Comments
Have your say about what you just read! Leave me a comment in the box below.
Copyright © 2010-2016 health-galaxy.com All rights reserved.
Most Popular Articles
Cancer Fighting Foods
Anti Aging Juice
Curative Juice for Epilepsy
Aromatherapy during Pregnancy
Benefits of Physical Fitness
Juice for Weight Loss
Timing of Protein Intake
Healthy Vegetable juices
Andropause - Male Menopause?
Keep Your Heart Healthy
5 Components of Physical Fitness
Special Diet for Diabetics
Banana Nutritional Value
How Nutrition Affects Your Pregnancy ?
Sign up and get the
Monthly Diet Plan Newsletter
It's absolutely free!
Enter your E-mail Address
Enter your First Name (optional)
Then
Don't worry — your e-mail address is totally secure.
I promise to use it only to send you Diet Plans.
Recently Added Articles
Nutritional Benefits of Carrot
Organnic Foods
Figs Health Benefit
Aromatherapy for Cellulite
Prostate Cancer Risk
Heart Rate Monitoring while Exercising
How to choose Healthy Drinks?
Read More....
Health Articles and News Blog....