Trying to Conceive While Breastfeeding with Period | ConceiveEasy.com
How it Works
Try it Free
Magazine
Reviews
Help
Cart
How it Works
Try it Free
Magazine
Reviews
Help
Trying to conceive?
Get pregnant fast!
Try it Free
Trying to Conceive While Breastfeeding with Period
by Alyssia Granger
The Ultimate Guides
How To Get Pregnant Tips
Fertility Pills
Twins & Multiples
Fertility & Trying To Conceive
Fertility Vitamins & Herbs
TTC a Specific Gender
TTC After 35
Fertility Drugs & Treatments
Infertility & Fertility Problems
TTC After Birth Control
Ovulation
Male Fertility
The information provided by our expert should not constitute a diagnosis of your condition. Always consult a medical practitioner or healthcare provider for a formal diagnosis. By making use of this content, you agree that ConceiveEasy and the expert assume no liability.
Breastfeeding can be something that makes it more difficult to conceive. The reason for this is because breast milk production increases the amount of prolactin that is in the body. This hormone has been shown to be a natural birth control item. However, there are ways that women can become pregnant when they are breastfeeding. Claim Your 20 Free Pregnancy Tests – Click Here
The most important thing is to determine whether you are ovulating. While this is usually apparent when the woman has a period, this doesn’t actually mean that ovulation is occurring. Instead of relying on their period to track their cycle, it is best for women to track their ovulation cycle with an ovulation predictor kit or a basal thermometer instead. You can also use an online ovulation calculator to try to estimate your ovulation days. A basal thermometer is also an effective way to track your ovulation.
For women who are struggling to ovulate while they are breastfeeding, supplementing with formula a few times per day can help. This can help lower the amount of prolactin that is in the body and make it easier for her to ovulate.
One thing to keep in mind is that breastfeeding is not something that will keep a woman from becoming pregnant for the entire time that she is breastfeeding. Usually, after a few months the woman’s body will return to normal and ovulation will begin again. At this point, she should be able to conceive again even while she is breastfeeding.
Alyssia Granger | ConceiveEasy
Alyssia is mom to 2 giggley twin girls, Sophia and Emma, and son Hunter. She's a Southern girl, passionate about photography, travel and her husband Josh.
Must Read Articles
Crowdfunding to Pay for Fertility Treatments?
Good News! Overweight Better Than Under for Fertility
Scary Truth Behind BPA, Infertility, and Miscarriage
Can Acupuncture Boost Your Fertility?
7 Ways to Know If You Are Fertile
What Medicines Can I Take While Pregnant?
When Should You Freeze Your Eggs?
Is a Midwife Safer For Your Childbirth Outcome?
Help
How it works
Usage
Ingredients
Returns/Exchanges
Contact us
Education
Getting pregnant tips
How to use an OPK
Tips to conceive a boy
Tips to conceive a girl
Company
About Us
Our promise
Magazine
Reviews
Need assistance?
We’re available by phone (1-800-6-TTCKIT) and by chat
Monday - Friday, 9am to 5pm EST
Call FAQ Chat Email
facebook
pinterest
instagram
youtube
©
2019 ConceiveEasy, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of use & Privacy Policy