WIFI & Your Health Archives - BioElectric Shield WIFI & Your Health Archives - BioElectric Shield
Search
toggle menu
Call for Support: +1 541-201-8878
Will my order arrive in time?
Shop Now View Cart
EMF, HSP & YOUR HEALTH
EMF Dangers
ADD/ADHD & Autism
Children
5G, Smart Meters, Cell & WiFi
ElectroSensitivity
Highly Sensitive People
Health vs Stress
Take the Quiz
About
How it Works
Overview
3 Laws of Physics...
Buyer's Guide
FAQ
Photo Analysis
Research & Testing
Customer Reviews
International
Upgrade Shield
Products
My Account
Customer Login
Support
Affiliate Login
Blog
BioElectric Shield
EMF and Personal Energy Protection
Menu
Skip to content
Category Archives: WIFI & Your Health
Complete Body Protection from EMF and other dangerous frequencies – EMF Series #13
Leave a reply
If you block cell phone radiation are you protecting your body?
Our answer has to be, it depends!
Individual products like Aulterra and Aegis spray products do an excellent job handling the localized EMF radiation that comes from carrying or speaking on your cell phone. However, EMF radiation comes from many more sources than just your cell phone. WiFi allows the signal to get to your phone and the phone protection products are not stopping the WiFi radiation in the atmosphere from affecting your body!
What’s the difference between cell phone protection and protecting your body?
Continue reading →
See the EMF Protection Energy Guide
This entry was posted in Cell Phones, EMF Dangers, Energy Protection, WIFI & Your Health on December 12, 2018 by Virginia.
Smart Meter & 5G Protection Products – Smart Meter/5G Series #7
Leave a reply
WHAT ARE SMART METERS? ARE THERE HEALTH RISKS?
Utility companies are replacing electric, gas and water analog meters with Smart Meters. They are part of a Smart Grid, which is a wireless network that will be used in homes, offices and our environment. Smart Meters are being installed across most of the United States. The World Health Organization has classified RF (Radio Frequency), used in wireless communication, as a 2B carcinogen, the same as lead and DDT!
Military studies have shown than pulsed radiation can produce health issues such as memory loss, tinnitus and seizures.
Continue reading →
See the EMF Protection Energy Guide
This entry was posted in ES - Electrosensitivity, Smartmeter / 5G, WIFI & Your Health on October 29, 2018 by Virginia.
How Foxes Prove Electrosensitivity is Real-EMF Series#10
Leave a reply
What do Foxes and Electromagnetic Hypersensitivity Have in Common?
What Foxes Can Tell us about Electromagnetic Fields
Imagine acres of frozen white, and suddenly a fox diving headlong into a blanket of snow. Hidden under the 3 feet of snow, a field mouse snuggles warm and cozy, safe and protected. Unless the fox is diving using the magnetic compass that all animals use for navigation. It turns out that the red fox is most successful in hunting when using the earth’s magnetic field.
Researchers recorded 592 jumps, and found that when the fox used the North-South axis, jumping from the north, they were successful in 3 out6 of 4 jumps! When they pointed in any other direction, they came up with no mouse in their mouth more than 80% of the time.
Continue reading →
See the EMF Protection Energy Guide
This entry was posted in EMF Dangers, ES - Electrosensitivity, WIFI & Your Health and tagged 5g, electromagnetic fields, Electromagnetic Hypersensitivity, electrosensitivity, EMF and animals magnetic sense, emf sensitive, EMf sensitivity, radiation, WiFi on October 18, 2018 by Virginia.
Get EMF Radiation Protection for Your iPad Tablet
Leave a reply
Get EMF Radiation Protection from Your iPad Tablet
Did you know that microwave radiation is coming out of that tablet or iPad aimed straight for you if you have no EMF radiation protection? If you’re holding it in your lap, the radiation goes down into the pelvic area. What’s the harm in that? Continue reading →
See the EMF Protection Energy Guide
This entry was posted in Children, ES - Electrosensitivity, WIFI & Your Health on September 21, 2018 by Virginia.
WiFi Exposure Contributing Factor in MANY Neurological Conditions
Leave a reply
Constant exposure to WiFi radiation and the ever-increasing electromagnetic fields shown to unleash retroviruses and is a contributing factor in MANY neurological conditions – Lyme, ADD, Autism, Leaky Gut, Chronic Fatigue – and more….
In a stunning new 11-minute video, Dietrich Klinghardt, MD, shares the latest research of the causes of several common diseases. There are chronic neurological diseases that seem to be proliferating in our society today. In children, you see ADD/ADHD, autism, learning and behavioral problems. In adults, it’s ALS, Lyme, Chronic Fatigue, Alzheimer’s, Multiple Sclerosis, Parkinson’s, Autism, Epstein-Barr, Fibromyalgia, food allergies and leaky gut. Continue reading →
See the EMF Protection Energy Guide
This entry was posted in Cell Phones, EMF Dangers, ES - Electrosensitivity, WIFI & Your Health and tagged add/adhd, ALS, autism, autism and electromagnetic radiation, cancer, CFS, chronic fatigue, cistus tea, electromagnetic radiation and Lyme disease, emf, environmental toxins, fibromyalgia, healthy gut, herpes, immune system, leaky gut syndrome, leukemia, lyme and electromagnetic radiation, mediterranean rock rose, microbiomes, MS, Multiple Sclerosis, neurological disease, Parkinson's, retrovirus, WiFi, wifi radiation on August 29, 2018 by Virginia.
Why You Should Opt-Out from a Smart Meter #4 Smart Meter Series
Leave a reply
Smart Meters Crash Appliances, Catch Fire and Explode and May Endanger your Health.
Smart meters are dangerous – they can catch fire and explode and worse yet, may present serious health issues. or mysterious symptoms and heart arrhythmia.
In a recent article from the Activist Post, very valuable information has been released to the public. It turns out that problems with Smart Meters are being reported all over this country! Smart Meters were first installed by PG & E. in 2010 in Northern California. Cordless phones, crib monitors, patio speakers and wireless headsets were emitting static, pops and crackles. Imagine your baby attempting to sleep with all that racket.
Consumers complained these new Smart Meters were interfering with wireless microphones, security systems, remotely controlled garage doors and motion detectors. So much for home security. Huge increases in their electric bill accompanied all these other problems. Did PG & E respond? Continue reading →
See the EMF Protection Energy Guide
This entry was posted in EMF Dangers, ES - Electrosensitivity, Smartmeter / 5G, WIFI & Your Health and tagged analog meter, smart meters, WiFi on July 27, 2018 by Virginia.
Are you living with Anxiety Depression Sleeplessness Exhaustion or Brain fog? What’s going on?
Leave a reply
What do Anxiety, Depression, Sleeplessness, Exhaustion, Brain fog have in Common?
If you are battling any or even all of the above issues, you’re not alone. It seems that everyone I talk to these days is complaining about most of these issues. In fact, the actual statistics are alarming.
Studies report that high levels of people have been diagnosed with:
Anxiety 18%
Chronic Sleep issues 18%
Depression 7% in one study, 20-30% in others
Fatigue & exhaustion – various reports put that number between 20-75% of people.
That’s last is a pretty startling number. I also found it worrisome that the statistics given vary so greatly.
What’s going on? Continue reading →
See the EMF Protection Energy Guide
This entry was posted in Anxiety / Clarity / Stress, EMF Dangers, WIFI & Your Health and tagged anxiety, anxiety triggers, appliances, cell phone, chronic sleep issues, depression, exhaustion, fatigue, fear, negativity, nutrition, overwoek, smart meter, stress, stress management, tablet, technology, WiFi on July 20, 2018 by [email protected].
WiFi Emergency Services Phones Music in your car can cause you Worrisome Health Safety Issues – WiFi & Health Series #9
Leave a reply
Worrisome Health & Safety Issues in your car from WiFi Emergency Services & Phones & Music !
Do you have an Emergency Button or Handsfree phone service in your car?
Do you get tired when you are driving? It may not just be the long hours on the road or the hypnotizing effect of driving, it may be that you have a WiFi hotspot in your car.
The Latest and Greatest? Car Technologies
If you have purchased a car anytime in the last few years, it probably comes with some version of emergency assistance if you push an emergency button. Take a look and see if it’s in your car (it’s using on the mirror or dash). If so you have a smart car. It’s also a smart car if you can answer your phone or connect to music using hands-free Bluetooth technology. What this means is that you have you have a WiFi hotspot in your car. Wonderful, or is it?
Woman Gets Sick Driving after 3000-mile road trip
Continue reading →
See the EMF Protection Energy Guide
This entry was posted in EMF Dangers, WIFI & Your Health and tagged BlueTooth, cell phone, cell tower, driving, electromagnetic radiation, emf, handsfree phone, hybrids, onstar, smart car, travel, WiFi on July 6, 2018 by Virginia.
Quick Guide to EMF and Personal Energy Protection – EMF Series#6
Leave a reply
Are you wondering exactly what to buy to protect yourself from the EMF – electromagnetic frequency radiation – which comes from many sources: WiFi, cellular phones, computers, laptops, monitors, Smart Meters, Cell towers, appliances and all electronics. You may even be sensitive to other people’s energy, moods, and negativity. We recommend the full-body protection BioElectric Shield. The BioElectric Shield balances your energy field and deflects and neutralizes EMF and other people’s energy, allowing you to be at your best. Continue reading →
See the EMF Protection Energy Guide
This entry was posted in Cell Phones, EMF Dangers, Energy Protection, ES - Electrosensitivity, WIFI & Your Health and tagged aegis radiation emf shield paint additive, auto shield, pet Shield, pregnancy protection, room Shield, satic whole home emf protection, stetzer filter on March 15, 2018 by [email protected].
Stop Smart Meters and 5G Networks from Coming to Your Neighborhood-Smart Meter Series #5
Leave a reply
Stop Smart Meters and 5G Networks from Coming to Your Neighborhood
At the moment, there are 4 bills in California which will strip ordinary citizens of the right to restrict the type of telecommunications equipment they can install in your neighborhood – in fact – right in front of your house. Try to imagine mini-cell-towers hanging 20 feet from your 2nd floor bedroom window. Why should you care what California is doing? California is the first place all kinds of new technology is installed. If they can get it installed there, it gets installed in the rest of the country over a period of months or years.
Living Organisms Can Not Tolerate the Proposed Pulsed Microwave Technology
Studies show that wildlife, bees, trees and insects are already being affected by WiFi. People are also affected by wireless technology. Continue reading →
See the EMF Protection Energy Guide
This entry was posted in EMF Dangers, Smartmeter / 5G, WIFI & Your Health and tagged 5g, 5G network, bioinitiative, smart meter, smart meters, smartmeter, take back your power, WiFi, wired technology on March 9, 2018 by Virginia.
Post navigation
← Older posts
See the EMF Protection
Energy Guide
Search for:
Categories
ADD/ADHD/Focus
Anxiety/Clarity/Stress
Cell Phones
Children
EMF Dangers
ES – Electrosensitivity
HSP – Highly Sensitive
Smart Meters / 5G
WIFI & Your Health
Archives
April 2019
March 2019
February 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
Please follow & like us :)
Follow
https://www.bioelectricshield.com/blog//category/laptops
Proudly powered by WordPress
Enjoy this blog? Please spread the word :)
Follow
https://www.bioelectricshield.com/blog//category/laptops
Energy Protection
Protect your body
Shield your electronics
Reduce EMF in your home
Get Protection Now
Testimonials
Increased focus
Renewed Energy
Less Stressed and Happier
Product Reviews
Free Photo Analysis
Submit your photo for a free, personalized recommendation for your best energy protection.
Free Recommendation
Top
Home
Company
The Physics Explained
Our Story and Mission
EMF Protection Products
Cell Phone EMF Blockers
Auto or Room EMF Shielding
Recharge / Upgrade / Exchange
Our Guarantee
Shipping
Affiliate Program
Affiliate Login
Get a Free Subscription to EMF Safety Tips and Receive a Coupon Code for 15% Off Your First Order (Check your Email to Get the Code!)
First
Last
E-mail
I give consent to use this information to send additional emails and communication as described in your Privacy Policy *
Questions:
541-201-8878 or
866-567-8909
© BioElectric Shield 2019
Customer Support
Privacy Policy Statement
Site Map
JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi.