Baking Soda Aids in Cure of Cancer
Slideshare uses cookies to improve functionality and performance, and to provide you with relevant advertising. If you continue browsing the site, you agree to the use of cookies on this website. See our User Agreement and Privacy Policy.
Slideshare uses cookies to improve functionality and performance, and to provide you with relevant advertising. If you continue browsing the site, you agree to the use of cookies on this website. See our Privacy Policy and User Agreement for details.
SlideShare Explore Search You
Upload
Login
Signup
Submit Search
Home
Explore
Presentation Courses
PowerPoint Courses
by LinkedIn Learning
Successfully reported this slideshow.
We use your LinkedIn profile and activity data to personalize ads and to show you more relevant ads. You can change your ad preferences anytime.
Baking Soda Aids in Cure of Cancer
Upcoming SlideShare
Loading in …5
×
1
1 of 1
Like this document? Why not share!
Share
Email
The AI Rush by Jean-Baptiste Dumont 1140624 views
AI and Machine Learning Demystified... by Carol Smith 3648519 views
10 facts about jobs in the future by Pew Research Cent... 676617 views
2017 holiday survey: An annual anal... by Deloitte United S... 1091625 views
Harry Surden - Artificial Intellige... by Harry Surden 638186 views
Inside Google's Numbers in 2017 by Rand Fishkin 1220211 views
Share SlideShare
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Embed
Size (px)
Start on
Show related SlideShares at end
WordPress Shortcode
Link
Baking Soda Aids in Cure of Cancer
26 views
Share
Like
Download
...
thekeystocancer
Follow
Published on Apr 2, 2019
Cancer is one among the diseases which have high risk of losing lives. The top researchers have shared their work and theories publicly on thekeystocancer.com. Accordingly, baking soda and cancer go hand in hand for natural healing.
...
Published in: Healthcare
0 Comments
0 Likes
Statistics
Notes
Full Name
Comment goes here.
12 hours ago Delete Reply Block
Are you sure you want to Yes No
Your message goes here
Post
Be the first to comment
Be the first to like this
No Downloads
Views
Total views
26
On SlideShare
0
From Embeds
0
Number of Embeds
2
Actions
Shares
0
Downloads
0
Comments
0
Likes
0
Embeds 0
No embeds
No notes for slide
Baking Soda Aids in Cure of Cancer
1. Baking Soda Aids in Cure of Cancer Cancer is one among the diseases which have high risk of losing lives. It generally possesses very less early stage symptoms and on diagnosis, it creates a negative impact on the patient; making the situation more adverse. Although it is claimed that there is no disease without a cure, so, the researchers have contributed towards various methods to help cure cancer. The top researchers have shared their work and theories publicly on thekeystocancer.com. Accordingly, baking soda and cancer go hand in hand for natural healing. Cancer cells mostly proliferate in acidic environment of the body. Whereas, baking soda is highly alkaline. The concept behind the intake of baking soda and cancer is to reduce the acidity.The acidification or acidosis content of tissues in body is the home to cancerous cells; it may lead to the growth of tumors. Metabolic abnormalities like anaerobic glycolysis are an emblem for cancer, resulting in producing lactates from glucose and sugars present in the body. The contributors of keystocancer.com have stated that the consumption of baking soda will increase the pH level of tumor from being 5.5 and aid in reducing the rate of formation of metastases and also, reduce the chance of cancer to stretch towards liver. Studies have suggested that neutralizing the pH level of tumor acid will eventually reduce its growth without the risk of modifying the pH levels of healthy neighboring tissues and blood. One can use baking soda as a cure to cancer by adding soda to water along with lemon or honey for taste. Besides baking soda for cancer, alkaline diet also effectively contributes towards a normal Ph range of the body. The content on thekeystocancer.com suggests that the healing methods are to be performed under medical advice and also addressed as a cure beside the medical treatment prescribed by the doctor.
Recommended
PowerPoint 2016: Shortcuts
Online Course - LinkedIn Learning
PowerPoint Tips Weekly
Online Course - LinkedIn Learning
Teaching Techniques: Classroom Management
Online Course - LinkedIn Learning
Gerson Diet Therapy for Cancer and Its Effectiveness
thekeystocancer
Searching Relative Relations between B17 and Cancer?
thekeystocancer
Holistic Approach To Cancer: What Is It and How Does It Help?
thekeystocancer
Alternative Treatment for Breast Cancer and Pancreatic Cancer
thekeystocancer
Use of Coffee Enema and Selenium in Cancer Treatment & Prevention
thekeystocancer
Vitamin B17 and its Cancer Fighting Properties
thekeystocancer
Is Holistic Approach to Cancer Effective? Does It Cure A Disease?
thekeystocancer
English
Español
Português
Français
Deutsch
About
Dev & API
Blog
Terms
Privacy
Copyright
Support
LinkedIn Corporation © 2019
×
Share Clipboard
×
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Link
Public clipboards featuring this slide
×
No public clipboards found for this slide
Select another clipboard
×
Looks like you’ve clipped this slide to already.
Create a clipboard
You just clipped your first slide!
Clipping is a handy way to collect important slides you want to go back to later. Now customize the name of a clipboard to store your clips.
Name*
Description
Visibility
Others can see my Clipboard
Cancel
Save