Stay Away From WiFi – The Silent Killer That Kills Us Slowly | How To Instructions
How To Instructions
Discover & share coolest do-it-yourself crafts for home improvement, interior design, and home decor.
Facebook Twitter Google+
Show Navigation Hide Navigation
Stay Away From WiFi – The Silent Killer That Kills Us Slowly
admin How to DIY instructions
>> More DIY Ideas <<
WiFi, a.k.a wireless fidelity, or WLAN (Wireless Local Area Network), is a wireless network in which electronic devices can connect to each other without the use of cables. WiFi works by using Gigahertz radio frequencies to send signals between devices. WiFi is a great invention in modern society. Nowadays WiFi is found everywhere. The mobiles phones, wireless internet benefit mostly from it.
However, the radio radiation from WiFi does have some health concerns. A recent study from International Agency for Research on Cancer (IRIC) suggests WiFi exposure more dangerous to kids than we might think..
WiFi: a silent killer that kills us slowly
For our WiFi to work at home for our phones and tablets, there need to be a router, which emits WiFi signals. Long-term exposure to the WiFi signal, especially close to the router, can cause damage to our body. We ignore this fact as we are not aware of it. Given time, these radio radiation harm our health. A study conducted by the British Health Agency has shown that radio radiation from routers hinder the growth of plants and animals.
Consequences of WiFi exposure:
chronic fatigue
pain in the ears
lack of concentration
frequent headaches
sleeping issues
Nowadays we can not live without modern technology. But we need to understand the consequences of the technologies we are using and learn how to protect ourselves from its harmful effects. Here are some advice on how to use a router safer or at least reduce the harmful impact, especially on our next generation.
How to protect children from WiFi radio radiation:
Disconnect Wi-Fi before bedtime
Turn off Wi-Fi when it is not used
Replace wireless phones with cable phones if you can
keep wireless router away from kitchen, bedroom, or living room
﻿
>> More DIY Ideas <<
>> Low Cost Craft Supplies <<
Get New Posts Right To Your Inbox!
Get captivating new Tutorials, just like this one, delivered right to your inbox each day. Just sign up and we will send you the best new tutorials as they come in. Your email address will NEVER been spammed, sold, or shared. You are welcome to unsubscribe at any time with the link in the email.
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Type what you are looking for and search here:
Home
About Us
Privacy Policy
Contact
© 2019 How To Instructions.org
Tweet
Buffer
Share on Tumblr