Home Remedies for Weight Loss in 2 Weeks: Top 15 (ACTUALLY WORKS)
Weightloss
Healthy Food
Body Care
Hair Care
Fitness Product Reviews
Search
Home
About Us
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
ShapingYouNow
Weightloss
Healthy Food
Body Care
Hair Care
Fitness Product Reviews
Home Weightloss Home Remedies for Weight Loss in 2 Weeks: Top 15 (ACTUALLY WORKS)
Weightloss
Home Remedies for Weight Loss in 2 Weeks: Top 15 (ACTUALLY WORKS)
By
AASIF ASLAM
-
September 3, 2018
1051
12
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Pinterest
WhatsApp
Sharing is Caring
Well, suffering from belly fat & weight gain can be extremely devastating and can be intense mood spoilers. Hence, to let you lose belly fat, this post has got for you some of the best home remedies for weight loss in 2 weeks
Yes, I know “YOU” are a victim of weight issues which you been fighting for some time. Hence, this time, you will get your answers as soon as we unwrap each of the weight loss home remedies. Also, people might be asking ‘How to lose weight at home fast?’ Well, we have got answers for each of your important questions.
So, what are my expectations from you? Just one thing. Go through this amazing piece of article and read every single home remedies to lose weight.
Contents You Will Get to Read:
Top 15 remedies for weight loss in 2 weeks
Best Foods For Weight Loss
Prevention Tips To help in Weight Loss
Top 15 Home remedies for weight loss in 2 weeks
1. Apple Cider Vinegar
credits: healthline
What You Need
2 teaspoons of Apple Cider Vinegar
1 Glass of Water
What You will need to do
First of all, you will need raw apple cider vinegar and one glass of water
Mix the entire mixture into a glass of water and stir it well.
Drink the Mixture as and when you get time.
How often must you drink?
More probably, you can drink the apple cider vinegar earlier in the morning or even before meals will be fine.
Real benefits of Apple Cider Vinegar
I guess you must have heard people use apple cider vinegar to lose weight. Well, in reality, it does the exact same thing.
Acetic is a compound present in Apple Cider Vinegar which helps in weight loss to some serious extent
According to a study in Bioscience, Biochemistry, and Biotechnology, mice who were given a dose of acetic acid didn’t gain much body fat.
Thus, apple cider vinegar weight loss has a pretty solid connection with each other. And, you would follow the above home remedy to lose weight, quicker way.
2. Lemon Water
What You Need
Half A Lemon
A glass of Water
What you need to do
At first, squeeze the lemon juice into a glass of water.
Mix the entire mixture pretty well.
Drink it by adding a pinch of black pepper
How often must you drink?
You can drink around 2 glasses of Lemon Water right on an empty stomach in the morning.
Real benefits of Lemon Juice
Wondering about one of the best home remedies for weight loss in 2 weeks, take a look at the lemon water. Lemon Juice comes with acetic properties which are proven to lose belly fat in a quicker way.
In addition, it boosts the entire bodily metabolism which burns more calories than usual. All in all, lemon juices serves brilliant natural weight loss therapies, you must try, for sure.
3. Green Tea to Lose Belly Fat
credits: healthline
What you need
Some Good amount of Green Tea
A cup of Water
What you will need to do
Take green tea and mix it in a cup of water (lukewarm).
Mix the entire mixture properly until green tea leaves dissolve properly
Drink the mixture and lose belly fat, with more surety.
How often must you drink?
Daily drinking 2 to 3 cups of Green tea is more than enough to lose weight faster.
Real benefits of Green Tea
In the list of home remedies for weight loss in 2 weeks, Green tea has to be in the top 3.
Why?
Green tea acts as an antioxidant which truly is a natural fat burner. In addition, the caffeine which is present in green tea works as a stimulant to lose weight faster.
Other than this, there is a whole range of antioxidants present in green tea which boosts mechanism and ultimately helps to lose weight at home.
4. Honey & Lemon Water
What you need
1 to 2 teaspoon of Organic honey
Lemon Juice (Fresh)
A glass of water
What you will need to do
Take a glass of water and mix Honey, Lemon Juice in it
Stir the mixture well until honey becomes soluble.
Drink it and go one step closer to your weight loss goals
How often must you drink?
You can drink the Honey & Lemon Juice every day or even alternate day will be just fine.
Real Benefits of Honey & Lemon Juice
First of all, Honey contains natural vitamins, amino acids, and minerals which works to boost up your metabolism. In addition, it even prevents obesity and helps lose belly fat.
On the other hand, Lemons are known for their acetic properties which results in faster weight loss, with time.
Hence, honey and lemon water are one of the best home remedies for weight loss in 2 weeks. Again, you must try yourself to know the real difference, in your eyes.
5. Papaya Eating
What you need
One Ripe Papaya
What you need to do
Well, you know what to do. Just cut off the papaya and eat it at any time of your day.
Real benefits of Papaya
Papaya is the powerhouse of Vitamin C which does contain traces of essential vitamins and minerals.
Further, it is also a great source of soluble dietary fibre which helps in easing the bowel movement, decreases constipation and results in weight loss.
Altogether, Papaya is said to be one of the best home remedies for weight loss.
6. Ginger Tea
credits: draxe
What you need
Tea (Regular homemade Tea)
Ginger (Small Pieces)
What you will need to do
First, prepare the tea as you want and keep it at the boiling point.
Secondly, add small pieces of ginger into the tea and let it further boil for few minutes.
Remove your Ginger tea into a teacup, drink it and find an answer to,” How to lose weight fast naturally”.
How often must you drink?
Here, you can drink the Ginger Tea at least 2 to 3 times a day for faster weight loss and burn belly fat. Further, drinking it before your meals can be a healthy option to promote weight loss.
Real benefits of Ginger Tea
Ginger is probably one of the best home remedies for weight loss in 2 weeks which is there in your kitchen.
In addition, a perfect ginger tea acts as a thermogenic agent which does the following things:
Increases Body Temperature
Activates Metabolism
Enhances the Digestion Process to burn belly fat
7. Tomato
credits: medium
What you need
Tomatoes (Probably Fresh)
What you need to do
Eat it raw or you can semi-cook it and then eat with other healthy foods
How often must you eat?
Every alternate day, you can skip your breakfast and can eat 2 tomatoes to help lose weight, the fastest way.
Real benefits of Tomatoes
Tomatoes are rich in antioxidants, minerals, and every essential vitamin. Further, it contains vitamin A, C, K in abundance and even comes with magnesium, choline and folate type minerals.
Talking about one of the best home remedies for weight loss in 2 weeks, eating tomatoes every day can do wonders. It helps in boosting the metabolism, keeps the stomach and even reduces constipation to a massive extent.
8. Black Pepper
What you need
A Teaspoon of Black Pepper Powder
What you will need to do
Add a teaspoon of grounded black pepper to your salad, tea or any healthy dish.
How often must you eat?
Here, you can include black pepper in almost every dish of yours to lose weight naturally and quickly.
Real benefits of Black Pepper
Black Pepper comes with an amazing compound known as piperine which gives a kind of pungent flavour to it.
How does piperine help lose belly fat?
By nature, Piperine comes with fat reduction and lipid-lowering activities which help in faster weight loss. Other than this, it even keeps the stomach clean and helps in the overall digestion process.
9. Parsley Juice
What you need
A cup of parsley leaves
Half a lemon
½ Cup of Water
Honey (Optional)
What will you need to do?
Wash off the parsley leaves and blend it until it becomes a paste
After the blending process, add lemon juice and honey.
Drink the entire parsley juice on an empty stomach to achieve weight loss goals.
How often you must drink
You can drink parsley juice once each morning for around 6 days, take a break of 10 days and continue the same.
Real benefits of Parsley Juice
Parsley juice is a powerhouse of Vitamin C which helps to curb down your hunger and eventually, results in weight loss.
In addition, it even aids in fat oxidation which makes it, one of the best home remedies for weight loss in 2 weeks.
Can’t-Miss: Food for Hair Growth: Top 20 Food for Growth of Hair 2019 (Actually Works)
10. Cranberry Juice
What you need
Some fresh cranberries
What you will need to do
Put the cranberries into a blender and blend it until a semi-thick mixture is formed
Remove the entire juice into a glass, garnish it and drink to achieve your weight loss goals, the quick way.
How often must you drink?
If possible, you can drink the cranberries juice 2 to 3 times a day. More preferably, you can drink it before your meal to make your stomach feel healthy and full.
Real benefits of Cranberries
First of all, cranberries are pretty low in calories which are a good substitute for all your heavy juices.
Further, it is a good source of antioxidants which help to remove antioxidants which promotes weight gain.
Finally, it helps in boosting the metabolism and by this, results in weight loss in two weeks.
11. Curry Leaves
What you need
8 to 9 Curry Leaves
What you will need to do
Wash-off the curry leaves
Consume the curry leaves every morning and make sure to eat it on an empty stomach.
How often must you eat?
You can eat curry leaves daily to promote weight loss naturally and quickly in 2 weeks.
Real benefits of Curry Leaves
Curry leaves help in reducing the cholesterol levels which helps you to lose weight naturally. In addition, it also helps in digestion by reducing constipation and works as the best home remedies for weight loss in 2 weeks
12. Aloe Vera Juice
What you need
A cup of fresh aloe vera juice
What you will need to do
Just consume a cup of fresh aloe vera juice (Make sure it doesn’t contain any sweetener)
How often must you drink?
You can drink the aloe vera juice once or twice a day to lose belly fat and the overall fat percentage.
Real benefits of Aloe Vera Juice
Aloe Vera juice acts as a great metabolism booster which helps in reducing the overall body weight.
In addition, it also reduces the inflammatory responses in your body which promotes weight loss, to some very good extent.
13. Cinnamon
What you need
Half a teaspoon of Cinnamon Powder
1 glass of lukewarm water
½ a Lemon
Honey (Organic)
What you will need to do
At first, add one 1 to 2 teaspoons of cinnamon powder to a glass of lukewarm water.
Add the entire lemon juice to the cinnamon powder mixture and mix it well.
Add honey to the mixture, consume it and lose weight fast
How often must you drink?
You can drink this juice once in a day to gain fruitful weight loss results
Real benefits of Cinnamon Powder
For ages, Cinnamon powder has been used to fight obesity and reduce weight fast.
In addition, it also helps to increase metabolic activities, prevents heart disease risks and eliminates diabetes.
Can’t-Miss: How to Lose Weight Fast For Men & Women: The Scientific Way
14. Garlic
credits: organicfacts
What you need
1 to 2 Teaspoons of chopped garlic
What you need to do
Add a fair amount of 1 to 2 teaspoons of chopped garlic to all your dishes.
In either case, you can even chew the garlic raw, if you can suffice the garlic’s strange flavour.
How often must you do?
For better weight loss results, you must either eat garlic with dishes or eat raw garlic twice or thrice a day.
Real benefits of Garlic
Garlic comes with natural anti-obesity properties which help to lose weight naturally at a quicker pace.
Finally, it has got an amazing ability to boost the body’s thermogenesis which makes you get a step closer in losing weight.
Can’t-Miss: Lose Belly Fat Fast: Top 15 Effective Tips, The Fastest Way(Proven Methods)
15. Coconut Oil
What you need
A tablespoon of Virgin Coconut Oil
What you will need to do
Firstly, you can consume one tablespoon of Virgin Coconut oil without any additional dish.
Either way, you can add virgin coconut oil as a seasoning in your favorite dishes, salads, and other drinks.
How often must you do?
You can consume the coconut virgin oil 2 to 3 times a day for reaping benefits from weight loss.
Real benefits of Coconut Virgin Oil
First of all, virgin coconut oil contains traces of medium-chain fatty acid which makes this oil, a good solution for weight loss.
Other than this, the coconut oil helps to boost the metabolism which in turn helps to lose weight naturally.
Can’t-Miss: Weight Loss Tips: Top 10 Proven Tips to Lose Weight Faster (2019)
Best Foods For Weight Loss
Fishes
Lean Meat
Green Leafy Vegetables
Milk (Non-Fat)
Dry Fruits & Nuts
Fruits
Prevention Tips to Help in Weight Loss
Include strength training in your workout to reduce fat and increase muscles.
Exercise on a daily basis and lose weight naturally and effectively.
Perform Yoga on a daily basis.
Maintain a proper protein, carb and fibre ratio in your diet.
Don’t ever skip your breakfast and eat healthier.
Have frequent smaller meals during your daytime.
Consume More Protein and less amount of Carbohydrate.
Drink Lots of Water.
Wrapping Things Up: Home remedies for weight loss in 2 weeks
In any case, if you want to lose weight naturally & fast, you have to follow each of the above home remedies to lose weight. And, then see which one works the very best for you.
To be honest, if you really want to lose weight, consistency is the sole key. Hence, stay away from junk foods and eat healthier dishes.
After which, the above home remedies for weight loss in 2 weeks can do wonders for you in no time.
Now, I hope you have gained some useful knowledge from the article and it’s your turn. Head down towards the comment section and let me know answers to the following questions:
Which of the above remedy will you try first?
Do you have any other remedy (If yes, let me know in the comment section)
Either way, you can comment below and I will be more than happy to help you lose weight naturally.
Finally, share this article of the best home remedies for weight loss in 2 weeks with the needy. And, make this world healthier from the inside and outside.
Can’t-Miss:
Top 10 Hair Growth Remedies to Grow Hair, The Natural Way
Get Rid of Blackheads Instantly (Fastest Methods Which Actually Work)
ON GOLD STANDARD Whey Protein in-depth Review 2018
Weight Loss Drinks: Top 15 Drinks Which Helps Lose Weight Fast
Hair Growth Products (TOP 5) Which Actually Works 2018
How to Remove Dark Circles for Men & Women: The Scientific Way
Importance of Water: Water Drinking Tips ( Top Secret Timings to Drink Water)
Sharing is Caring
TAGS
apple cider vinegar to lose weight
apple cider vinegar uses
apple cider vinegar weight loss
belly fat
home remedies for weight loss in 2 weeks
lose belly fat
lose weight at home
natural weight loss
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Pinterest
WhatsApp
Previous articleHow to Get Rid of Blackheads Instantly (Fastest Methods Which Actually Work)
Next articleSpirulina For Weight Loss: Lose Weight Fast & And Make Yourself Fit
AASIF ASLAM
https://shapingyounow.com/
Hello Folks. Myself Aasif Aslam, a Fitness Freak and Health Expert. I Love to Motivate People every single minute of my life.Every time I come up with a new article, there is a series of Hard work which can make you look Lean, Energetic and Live a Healthy Life.I Hope you benefit to some extent from my Health Articles, “That’s All That I Want”. Thanks.
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
Weightloss
How to Lose Weight in College: Top Diet & Workout Tips (Proven Methods)
Weightloss
How to Lose 2 Pounds a Week: Discover Best Remedies, Exercises & Diet Tips
Body Care
How to Lose Cheek Fat: Best Exercises for Cheek Fat and Diet Tips 2019
12 COMMENTS
Weight Loss Drinks: Top 15 Drinks Which Helps Lose Weight Fast September 6, 2018 at 3:40 pm
[…] Can’t-Miss: Home Remedies for Weight Loss in 2 Weeks: Top 15 (ACTUALLY WORKS) […]
Reply
Pathan Juned September 11, 2018 at 3:06 pm
Good Article Asif … Keep it up Bro…
Reply
AASIF ASLAM September 22, 2018 at 12:07 pm
Thanks Juned
Reply
http://healthideas.in/ September 16, 2018 at 7:48 pm
Highly energetic blog, I loved that bit. Will there be
a part 2?
Reply
Spirulina For Weight Loss: Lose Weight Fast & And Make Yourself Fit September 20, 2018 at 12:48 pm
[…] Can’t-Miss: Home Remedies for Weight Loss in 2 Weeks: Top 15 (ACTUALLY WORKS) […]
Reply
www.nutrichoice4u.com September 28, 2018 at 6:14 pm
Hi there, just became alert to your blog through Google,
and found that it’s truly informative. I am gonna watch out for brussels.
I’ll be grateful if you continue this in future.
Lots of people will be benefited from your writing.
Cheers!
Reply
Weight Loss Foods: Top 15 Foods To Help You Lose Weight, The Fastest Way October 28, 2018 at 10:05 am
[…] Home Remedies for Weight Loss in 2 Weeks: Top 15 (ACTUALLY WORKS) […]
Reply
Top 8 Remedies to lose weight at home (Actually Works) November 27, 2018 at 8:34 am
[…] Home Remedies for Weight Loss in 2 Weeks: Top 15 (ACTUALLY WORKS) […]
Reply
Lose Belly Fat Fast: Top 15 Effective Tips , The Fastest Way(Proven Methods) November 28, 2018 at 1:34 pm
[…] Home Remedies for Weight Loss in 2 Weeks: Top 15 (ACTUALLY WORKS) […]
Reply
Healthbates February 11, 2019 at 6:44 pm
Great Article Very usefull… Keep it up
Reply
AASIF ASLAM February 18, 2019 at 6:30 am
Thanks. Healthbates
Reply
Cold Sore vs Pimple: Proven Difference, Causes, Remedies and Treatments March 11, 2019 at 1:27 pm
[…] Home Remedies for Weight Loss in 2 Weeks: Top 15 (ACTUALLY WORKS) […]
Reply
LEAVE A REPLY Cancel reply
Please enter your comment!
Please enter your name here
You have entered an incorrect email address!
Please enter your email address here
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Current [email protected] *
Leave this field empty
LIKE US
3,999FansLike
1,870FollowersFollow
999FollowersFollow
Top Posts
Home Remedies for Weight Loss in 2 Weeks: Top 15 (ACTUALLY WORKS)
Best Green Tea For Weight Loss (TOP 8) Best Brands of 2018-2019
Get Rid of Blackheads Instantly (Fastest Methods Which Actually Work)
Latest Posts
Weightloss
How to Lose Weight in College: Top Diet & Workout Tips...
Ishmeet Kaur - April 19, 2019
0
Indeed College and stress go side by side and in order to find an answer to 'How to lose weight in college', you might...
Low Calorie Meals: Top 23 Secret Meals to Keep You Healthy...
Healthy Food April 14, 2019
How to Lose 2 Pounds a Week: Discover Best Remedies, Exercises...
Weightloss April 6, 2019
How to Lose Cheek Fat: Best Exercises for Cheek Fat and...
Body Care March 19, 2019
Jowls: Discover the Causes, Facial Exercises for Jowls And Remedies 2019
Body Care March 17, 2019
Follow us on Instagram @shapingyounow
About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
POPULAR POSTS
Home Remedies for Weight Loss in 2 Weeks: Top 15 (ACTUALLY...
Weightloss September 3, 2018
Weight Loss Tips: Top 10 Proven Tips to Lose Weight Faster...
Weightloss February 8, 2019
Best Green Tea For Weight Loss (TOP 8) Best Brands of...
Weightloss December 3, 2018
POPULAR CATEGORY
Weightloss19
Body Care16
Hair Care4
Fitness Product Reviews1
Healthy Food1
© Copyright 2018-ShapingYouNow. All Rights Reserved
MORE STORIES
Weightloss
Weight Loss Foods: Top 15 Foods To Help You Lose Weight,...
AASIF ASLAM - October 28, 2018
1
Edit with Live CSS
Save
Write CSS OR LESS and hit save. CTRL + SPACE for auto-complete.