Baking Soda And Lemon: A Miraculous Combination
MaxDiaries
Home
Science/Knowledge
Life/Health
Spirituality
Video
News
Go
Home » Health » Videos » Baking Soda And Lemon: A Miraculous Combination
Share on Facebook ()
Share on Twitter
Baking Soda And Lemon: A Miraculous Combination
#Health #Videos
Curejoy Expert Dipti Mothay Explains:
Studies have shown that baking soda and lemon juice could be a miraculous combination as it has the potential to kill the cancer cells. One of the largest manufacturers of drugs, states that after 20 laboratory tests conducted since 1970 they have proved that: Lemon cures cancer as it destroys carcinogenic cells in 12 types of cancers. Lemon prevents the spread of carcinogenic cells and has 10,000 times stronger effect then drugs like Adriamycin, chemotherapy and narcotic products.
Benefits of Baking Soda and Lemon:Baking Soda and Lemon Juice Can Cure Cancer:
Recent studies have shown that consuming citrus fruits, specifically lemons have prevented and in some cases cured cancer. And by adding baking soda you will normalize the pH of the body which does not allow the cancer to continue to spread. Since Chemotherapy has horrible side effects the worst being that it destroys healthy cells. Baking soda and lemon, on the other hand only kills the cancer cells.
Patients should drink two teaspoons of lemon juice with half a teaspoon of baking soda. Consume the drink before breakfast on an empty stomach for better effect. Please make sure to use organic lemons. Organic lemons are 100 times more effective than a lemon grown with chemical fertilizers and sprayed with chemicals. Lemon has already been proven to have strong anti – carcinogenic properties. In addition to this there are many other useful properties. It also has a strong effect on cysts and tumors.
Strong Antimicrobial Effect:
Lemon has a very strong antimicrobial effect with a very broad spectrum of activity against bacterial and fungal infections. Lemon is effective against internal parasites and worms, it regulates blood pressure and is a powerful antidepressant, reduces stress and nerve crises.
source
Share to Facebook ()
tweet
Google Plus
Newer Post
Older Post
Week Popular Posts
Drinking Water On Empty Stomach
It is popular in Japan today to drink water immediately after waking up every morning. Furthermore, scientific tests have proven its valu...
Do Not Ignore This! This May Be the Hidden Reason of Your Lower Back Pain
The pilonidal cyst appears due to an excessive and continuous pressure on the sacrococcygeal area. It is formed along the tailbone, near th...
BEST HOME REMEDIES TO PREVENT SAGGY BREASTS AND KEEP THEM PERFECTLY PERKY – FOREVER!
Every woman desires perfectly shaped breasts. Unfortunately, this desire is not possible in most cases because breast sagging is a process ...
Japan’s Greatest Swordsman Reveals 21 Rules Of Life Just Before His Death, And They Are Brilliant
Life, as everyone knows, is anything but easy! Everyone goes through phases in which everything seems useless and you don’t really ...
10 SURPRISING SECRETS YOUR TONGUE CAN REVEAL ABOUT YOUR HEALTH
Tongue can give us very important information about the overall health of the entire organism. Chinese medicine has been studying the healt...
Get more stories like this In your inbox!
OK
Health truth Videos news life story spirituality SCIENCE-TECH love
Disclaimer | Contact Us
@ 2018 MaxDiaries