» American Cancer Society
Hot dogs better than chicken?
Posted by Mike Furci (04/25/2011 @ 9:55 am)
Many people when shopping for a convenient ready to eat meat at the grocery store would choose rotisserie chicken over hot dogs or pepperoni, but as it turns out in a new study, they’d be wrong. Surprisingly, according to a new study, hot dogs and similar meats like pepperoni and deli meats are relatively free from carcinogenic compounds, and rotisserie chicken would be the riskier option.
The carcinogens in question are heterocyclic amines (HCAs), which are compounds found in meat that has been fried, grilled or cooked at high temperatures. Diets high in HCAs from meat increase people’s risk of stomach, breast and colon cancers, according to the National Cancer Institute.
Researchers from Kansas State University tested the HCA levels of eight popular ready-to-eat meat products: beef hot dogs, beef-pork-turkey hot dogs, deli roast beef, deli ham, deli turkey, fully cooked bacon, pepperoni and rotisserie chicken.
Pepperoni had the lowest levels of HCAs; hot dogs and deli meat came in second. Overall, these products were low in HCAs, researchers said, while cooked bacon and rotisserie chicken meat had the highest levels. However, rotisserie chicken skin had the highest levels of HCAs overall.
But, before you go purchase pepperoni, consider that its low HCA levels may have to do with processing, which is in itself a health hazard. According to a KSU statement.
Remember, You cannot judge the danger of a food by its HCA content alone, which is based on the manner in which its been cooked. You also have to evaluate all those added ingredients, such as preservatives, flavoring, and food colors. Hot dogs, deli meats and bacon are notorious for their nitrite content, so even though they might be low in HCA’s, they are far from healthful.
Read and Discuss »
Posted in: Anti-Aging, Cancer, Diets, Food preparation, Foods products, Medical Issues for Men, Nutrition, Xternal Fitness, Xternal Furci
Tags: American Cancer Society, boarshead deli meats, breast cancer, canc, Cancer, Cancer and pH evels, Cancer cures, cancer free societies, cancer prevention, cancer research, Cancer treatment, colon cancer, deli meats, Headlines, kent state university, kent state university shooting, prostate cancer, Types of cancer
Tweet
Beers to your health
Posted by Mike Furci (01/27/2010 @ 9:28 am)
Researchers are always looking for the magic bullet to kill cancer, and now they may have found it in a surprising place, a glass of beer! (Who knew?) It turns out that hops, which is the flavor component of beer, contains a cancer-fighting compound called xanthohumol.
Xanthohumol turns out to be toxic to several kinds of human cancer, including prostate, ovarian, breast, and colon. Further, it inhibits enzymes that can activate the development of cancer, and also helps detoxify carcinogens. It even seems to slow down tumor growth in the early stages. Scientists are trying to produce hops that contain even more xanthohumol, and the Germans are racing to develop a “health” beer.
Beers that provide the most benefits contain the most hops, and include strong brews such as ale, stout, and porter. In general, the darker the beer, the better. For those who can’t stand beer, herbal supplements made from hops contain the highest concentrations of beneficial elements.
NewsMax.com Health Alerts
Read and Discuss »
Posted in: Anti-Aging, Cancer, Medical Issues for Men, Prostate health, Xternal Fitness, Xternal Furci
Tags: alternative cancer treatments, American Cancer Society, bear in beer cooler, beer, beer belly, beer brewing acceories, beer can airplane instructions, beer can chicken, beer can chicken in the oven, beer drinking games, beer koozies, beer of the month club, beer pong, Cancer, Cancer cures, cancer prevention, Cancer treatment, green beer, Healing Cancer, irish beer, prostate cancer, Types of cancer
Tweet
Reduce your risk of cancer
Posted by Mike Furci (10/19/2009 @ 11:41 pm)
Did you know if you want to reduce your risk of cancer, you should join a study. Promoters of vegetarianism have been singing the praises of a report on two studies in the British Journal of Cancer. The report notes two prospective studies, the Epic-Oxford cohort and the Oxford Vegetarian study, examining cancer incidence among vegetarians. The report studied 61566 British men and women, comprising 32403 meat eaters, 8562 non-meat eaters who ate fish and 20601 vegetarians. The average follow-up was 12.2 years. Vegetarians had less bladder, stomach and blood cancer than meat and fish eaters. However vegetarians had higher rates of colon, rectal and cervical cancers. These numbers as with many studies are deceiving.
According to this report the chance of a meat eater developing bladder cancer is 1 in 518; for vegetarians it was 1 in 1677; for fish eaters it was 1 in 1400. Even though the report shows meat eaters are over three times more likely to develop bladder cancer, it?s still only a .19% chance. Your chance of developing cervical cancer if you?re a meat eater was 1 in 1982; for fish eaters it?s 1 in 890; for vegetarians it?s 1 in 948. Judging by this report, a vegetarian female is twice as likely to develop cervical cancer compared to her meat eating amigo, but still only a .10% chance. The play on numbers in this report is inexcusable but all too common.
The differences in the various cancer rates between the 3 groups overall were insignificant; however the fish eaters were found to have the largest reduced cancer risk. Curiously, which you don?t see reported in mainstream sources, there was no difference found in all cause mortality between the diet groups. However, all the diet groups had a 50% less reduced risk of all cause mortality compared to the general population. Hmmmm.
In another analysis of two studies, the Oxford Vegetarian Study and the Health Food Shoppers Study, researchers compared the mortality of vegetarians and non-vegetarians. Mortality rates were 52% and 59% of the general population respectively. However, strangely unreported by vegetarians, there was no difference in mortality rates between vegetarians and non-vegetarians in either study. Researchers concluded that the benefits found in the subjects of both studies compared to the general population may be attributed to non-dietary factors.
Read and Discuss »
Posted in: Anti-Aging, Cancer, Diets, Foods products, Medical Issues for Men, Men's Health and Wellness, Nutrition
Tags: American Cancer Society, American Vegetarian Society, become vegetarian, bladder cancer, breast cancer, Cancer, cancer causes and symptoms, cancer research, cancer risk by state, cancer statistics, colon cancer, colon cancer warning signs, diet, disadvantages of being vegetarian, Headlines, ovarian cancer, prostate cancer, the Epic-Oxford cohort, the Health Food Shoppers Study, the Oxford Vegetarian study, vegetarian diet, vegetarian food
Tweet
Vitamin D just gets better.
Posted by Mike Furci (11/22/2007 @ 12:04 am)
Vitamin D3, which is technically a prehormone, has a whole host of benefits. This invaluable substance has a role in preventing or treating the following:
Cancer: It is now accepted that Vitamin D3 reduces the risk of seventeen types of cancer.
Multiple Sclerosis: It has been well demonstrated that the risk of MS increases rapidly the further away people live from the equator. The American Academy of Neurology has identified a lack of vitamin D as a predictable indicator in incidence of the deadly disease.
Diabetes
Heart Disease
Hyperparathyroidism
Hypertension
Mental illness
Osteoarthritis
Osteopourosis
Muscle weakness
Periodontal disease
Ulcerative colitis
Inflammatory bowel disease
The study authors established a strong link between vitamin D3 levels and telomere (protects the ends of chromosomes) length. They found that after taking into account the age of the subjects, women with higher vitamin D3 levels were more likely to have longer telomeres.
This meant that the telomeres in the subjects with high vitamin D3 levels were five years younger than the telomeres in the subjects with low vitamin D3 levels.
The researchers believe that the results demonstrate for the first time that people who have higher levels of vitamin D3 may age more slowly than people with lower levels of vitamin D3. (Vitamin Research Breaking News Nov. 20, 2007)
As with most nutrients in our food supply vitamin D has also almost completely vanished due to over-processing and bad farming. Supplements are your best bet, but make sure you’re using D3 (cholecalciferol).
Read and Discuss »
Posted in: Anti-Aging, Cancer, Heart disease, Men's Health and Wellness, Nutrition, Supplements, Vitamin D, Vitamins/Minerals
Tags: alternative cancer treatments, American Cancer Society, benefits of vitamin d, Cancer, cancer and vitamin D, cancer causes and symptoms, cancer prevention, cancer research, cancer risk by state, Cancer treatment, causes of vitamin d deficiency, foods with vitamin d, health benefits of vitamin D, low vitamin d, low vitamin d level, normal vitamin d level, sources of vitamin d, symptoms of low vitamin d, symptoms of vitamin d deficiency, Vitamin D, vitamin d 3, Vitamin D benefits, vitamin d deficiency, vitamin d deficiency symptoms, vitamin d dosage, vitamin d facts, vitamin d levels, Vitamin D side effects, vitamin d sources, what causes cancer, what causes vitamin d deficiency, what happens when your vitamin d levels are low
Tweet
Related Posts
Vitamin D pumps you up
Daily consumption for optimum health
Did you know…
Vitamin D anticancer research project
Benefits of Vitamin D
CATEGORIES
Anti-Aging
Equipment and Gear
Exercise
Food
Lifestyle
Nutrition
Weight Training
Wellness
FEATURED CONTENT
Hook up tonight!
Don't waste your time dating when you can cut straight to the chase. Check out the world's best online hookup sites with millions of people looking for one thing. What are you waiting for?
Fitness Models
Bullz-Eye.com interviews well-known fitness models to get their insights on training methods and nutrition.
App of the Week
Every Sunday, we feature a new app. Some are fun and some will make you more productive, so check back for great ways to enhance your smartphone.
BodyBuilding.com
NSCA
Medscape.com
Weston A. Price Foundation
Mercola.com
T-Nation
General fitness
General training
Workout programs
Endurance
Running
Swimming
Bodybuilding
Power lifting
Specific workouts
Abs
Arms
Back
Chest
Legs
Neck
Privacy Policy
with tips, comments or questions.
Fitness for Guys
Cholesterol
Diets
Food preparation
Foods products
Vitamins/Minerals
Fatty acids
Testosterone boosters
Creatine
Glutamine
Ephedra
Fat burners
Medical Issues
for Men
Sexual Health
Hormone replacement
Heart disease
Prostate health
Hair loss
Book Reviews
Sports Health
and Fitness
Anti-Aging
Interviews
Magazine Hype
Cool quotes