How to Lower Cholesterol | Plenty Of Health
Plenty Of Health
News:
Enjoy the Advantages of a Vegetarian Diet
Lung Cancer Symptoms
Recipe of black bean quesadillas
How to Lower Cholesterol
Protein Shakes – Useful Info
Facts and Myths about the Vegan Diet
Successful Tips On How To Get Pregnant
Low Cholesterol Diet for Better Health
Stomach cancer – Causes, Symptoms and Treatment
The Benefits Of The Lemonade Diet
Healthy Diets Help to Lower Triglyceride Levels to Advantage
LDL Cholesterol – Useful Info
Vital Information On The Pros And Cons Of The Liquid Diet
Reasons Why You Should Buy Phen375
Diarrhea Treatment – Vital Information
How to Stop Snoring – Tips
Liver Cancer – Causes, Symptoms and Treatment
Merits and Demerits of the 1200 Calorie Diet
Foods to Eat or Avoid for People with Cystic Fibrosis
Introducing the No Carb Diet
Early Detection of Colon Cancer Can Increase Survival Rate
Learning to Deal with the HCG Diet Dangers
How To Combat Breast Cancer Effectively
Snoring
Recipe of baked macaroni
Recipe of Apple berry cobbler
Pros And Cons Of The Cabbage Soup Diet
Just How Effective is the Special K Diet in Successful Weight Loss?
What Should Constitute a Typical Diabetic Diet?
Following a Regime Is the Best Way to Lose Weight
Cosmetic Surgical Procedure for Breast reduction
Types of Acne Treatment and How to Follow Instructions Carefully
The Pros and Cons of the 17 Day Diet Weight Loss Program
Excess Proteins Will Not Help To Boost a Bodybuilding Diet
What Constitutes the Ideal Weight Loss Plan for Long-term Sustainable Weight Loss?
Bladder Cancer – Causes, Symptoms and Treatment
Dermatomyositis – Useful Info
Cholesterol Lowering Foods – Get To Know Them Now
Alternative Medicine – Useful Info
HDL Cholesterol – Useful Info
Choose The Right Detox Diet For Your Requirements
What a Low Carb Diet Entails and How to Survive on It Comfortably
Esophageal Cancer – Causes, Symptoms and Treatment
The Various Types of Supplements That Contain Creatine
Cardiovascular Disease – Useful Info
The Benefits of Opting for Alkaline foods
Take The Most Of Natural Anti Aging Therapy
How to Get the Most out of your Bench Press
The Importance of Maintaining Levels of Vitamin D
What is Cancer?
Cardiovascular System – Components
Where and How to Buy Genuine Clenbuterol
Pertinent Information on Eczema Atopic Dermatitis
How Effective Is The Baby Food Diet For Adults?
Effective and Natural Treatment for Removal of Kidney Stones
Is There A Permanent Cure For Vitiligo?
How to Create the Perfect Low Cholesterol Diet Plan
Sources and Uses of High Protein Foods
Is the Blood Type Diet as effective as many have been led to believe?
Discussion On The Techniques Used For Weight Lifting
Overview of the Highly Touted Grapefruit Diet Pill
Hormonal Acne and its Effects on Adults and Teenagers
The Extraordinary Benefits Of The Paleo Diet Plan
Vitamin K – Useful Info
An Overview on the Factors involved for Breast Augmentation Surgery
Ways to Understand the Gluten Free Diet
Consider Using Natural Bodybuilding Supplements Over Synthetic Products
An in depth and Comprehensive Summary of Acute Pancreatitis
The Effective Working of the HCG Diet Plan
Anti stress Techniques for Children
The Benefits of Using Aromatherapy oils
Natural Methods For Effective Body Cleanse
How Effective Is The 3 Day Diet Plan?
Vitamin B – Vital Information
Thyroid Cancer – Useful Info
Mediterranean Diet – What You Need to Know
Perform The Right Type Of Exercises And Learn How To Lose Belly Fat
Vitamin A – All You Need To Know
Pancreatic Cancer – Useful Info
The Importance of taking Antioxidants for Proper Functioning of our Bodies
Important Information on Alcohol Poisoning Symptoms
The Useful Aspects Of Dermabrasion
Factors To Consider Before Going In For Breast Implants
How Effective Is The French Dukan Diet?
The Effects of High Blood Sugar Levels
Causes and Cures for Adult Acne
Important Precautions to Note When You Are on Abilify Oral Medication
Learning to Overcome Anorexia Nervosa with Supportive Therapies
How to Use Electronic cigarettes to Advantage
Dealing With Eating Disorders – The Most Effective Methods For Treatment
Understanding How The HCG Diet Works
Risks Of Breast cancer Can Be Kept At Bay With A Good Diet Plan
Weight Loss Programs Help You Lose Weight Fast
Combating Anti cellulite with effective methods
Nice Homemade Applesauce Recipe
How Proper Stretching Exercises Pay the Way to Better Tomorrows
How to Have a Better Week without Diet Busting Food
Introduction to Pancreatitis – Signs, Symptoms, Diagnosis and Treatment
Facts Regarding the Various Treatments Available for Acne Scars
Benefits of the Human Growth Hormone and how you can undo Aging
A Stitch in Time Saves Nine – Learn to Guard against Low Blood Sugar Symptoms
Widen Your Knowledge Of The Types Of Allergy Medicine Available
Comprehensive Skin Solutions Offered By Revitol
The Wondrous Benefits of Aromatherapy
Widespread Myths about Baby Acne and How to Treat It
Learn How To Cope With Acai Berry Scams
The Risks Of Alcohol Poisoning
Relaxing with the Reflexology Massage
Understanding the Alzheimer’s Disease
The Alkaline Diet Plan Works to Strike the Right Balance
Overall Management and Treatment of Parkinsonism
Recognize Asthma symptoms and Get Immediate Treatment
Natural remedies for acne scars treatment and prevention
How to Cope with Stress and Get Permanent Stress Relief
Dealing with ADHD child problems
Velvet Chicken with Baby Bok Choy
Skillet Granola-Apple Crisp Recipe
Garlicky Grilled Chicken, Portobello, and Radicchio Salad Recipe
Common Infant Skin Problems – Baby acne
Causes and Treatment of Chronic Pancreatitis
Notable Side Effects of the Supplementary Human Growth Hormone
Hair Removal Price
FAQ about Meniscus Tears
How to Overcome and Control Panic Attacks
Harnessing the Power of Static Stretches
Reasons for Blood Sugar being Detrimental to Health
What is Parkinsonism? Causes, Symptoms, and Diagnosis
The Best and Highly Recommended Vegetarian Foods
Low Blood Sugar
10 Health Benefits of Regular Exercise
Antidepressant Might Help Ease Hot Flashes
Notable Benefits of stretching Exercises
How A Penis Changes In Size, Appearance, And Sexual Function As A Man Ages
A Typical Vegetarian Diet for Successful Natural Weight Loss
The Most FAQs on Meniscus Surgery
Overview of Dental Caries – Causes, Prevention and Treatment of Dental Caries
How to Overcome Panic Attacks – Overview of Panic Disorder
How to Correct your Hormonal Imbalance Safely and Naturally
Types of Vegetarian Diets Available Today
Is Dynamic Stretching better than Static Stretching?
Introduction to the world of Electronic Cigarettes
The Major Constituents of an effective Natural Beauty Cream
Ideas of the Healthiest Guilt-free Snacks you can enjoy anytime
An Overview of Dental Implants
Free Weight Loss Tips for Guaranteed Success
Just How Serious Is Pancreatic Cancer?
The Symptoms of High Blood Sugar
Best Walking Speed for Weight Loss
An In-depth Understanding of the Meniscus in the Human Body
Do You Know What’s Lurking On Your Toothbrush?
The Best and Most Practical Weight Loss Techniques and Tips
Knee Pain
How to Get Tinnitus Relief
The various reasons for taking Nadolol
The Right Methods of Performing Stretches and Splits
Home Kits Can Help Keep Cholesterol Levels In Check
Laser Hair Remover
The Most Effective Formula to Treat Hyperpigmentation – the Meladerm Formula
Feed Your Face: Beauty in a Jar
A Week of Simple Menus to Start Your Ultimate Weight-Loss Plan
Hair Removal Cream
Does Diet Play A Role in Enlarged prostate
How Yoga Can Relieve Back Pain
Overview of the Oral Herpes Condition
The Simplest Most Effective Weight Loss Tips known to Man
The Truth about MSG (monosodium glutamate) Allergies
Collagen Injections
Uses of Dental Crowns
10 Forgotten Winter Fruits and Veggies
Improve Skin Texture
Hyaluronic Acid
6 Signs Stress Is Causing Your Insomnia
Understanding the Efficacy and Use of the Dental Dam
The Wonders of Virgin Coconut Oil
High-Protein Diet
Hair Removal
Sunless Tanning
What Can You Make With Polenta
Pull up Bar Training
Soy Allergies
Weight Loss Tips For Men
Crohn’s Disease
Tighten Your Butt in Just Four Weeks
How to Generate Effective Insurance Leads
The 9 Most Fattening Foods of winter
What Causes Adult Acne?
The Truth about Omega-3
Myths about Aging and Beauty
Fad Diets for Quick Weight Loss
Is there a Way out of Erectile Dysfunction?
How to Treat Canker Sores
Bulimia
The Allergy Anaphylaxis
Abortion Doesn’t Harm Mental Health Study
A Basic Skin Care Routine
Laser treatments for acne
How to check Leukoplakia in the early stages
10 Ways to Boost Your Metabolism
Pork Allergy
Understanding the Universal Health Care System
Foods to Help You Feel Better
Golden Rules To Follow When Going In For Penis Enlargement
How to Dress Slim
Say No to Yoyo Dieting
Can Viagra Be Used For Other Purposes?
Big Breakfast Means You Need to Cut Calories the Rest of the Day
Which Vegetables Are Best Out Of the Freezer
Gluten Allergy
Health Insurance and Divorce Explained
Keep Your Breasts Healthy: Beautiful Décolletage in Your 30s, 40s, and 50s
5 Benefits Of Regular Physical Activity
Effective Home Remedies for Oral Thrush
How to Find a Gym
Vitamin E and Fatty Acids May Ease PMS
Tips when Shopping for the Perfect Health Insurance Plan for your Family
Which Vegetables Are Best Out Of the Freezer
Make the Most of Your Metabolism
Overcoming Gum Disease
Overview of Dental Health and Pericoronitis
Dehydration Overview
Milk Allergies and Lactose Intolerance
Top Five Reasons Why you Must Wash your Face Every Night
Foods That Make You Sweaty and Smelly
Types of Health Insurance Plans
Understanding Exercise Addiction
Low Testosterone
How to Shave your Leg Hair
Myths and Facts About Cavities
Effective treatment for Teeth Grinding
Useful Weight Loss Tips for Kids Who Are Obese
What are the Majors Causes of Acne
Weight Loss For Teens
What is Cellulites
Understanding How Dental Plaque Occurs
The Different Stages of Prostate Cancer
5 Healthy Weight Loss Tips
Women – Can’t Orgasm? How to Have an Orgasm
How Teeth Change With Age
The Best Treatment Approach for Fibromyalgia
Thyroid Problems Demystified
Overview of the Dry Mouth Syndrome
Taking the Right Precautions can Avoid the Onset of Mouth Cancer
Ensure a Daily Regime of Proper Cleaning to Prevent Tooth Decay
Tackling a rare problem of Gynaecomastia (Man Boobs)
Understanding and Learning to Cope with Male Menopause Symptoms
Women: Top Five Masturbation Facts You Didn’t Know
The Alarming Truths about Erectile Dysfunction
Combating Hair Loss Effectively and Reversing the Damage
Diagnosis and Treatment of an Enlarged Prostate
Understanding Yeast Infections in Relation to Vaginal Discharge
Overview of Systemic Lupus Erythematosus
5 Things Men Didn’t Know About Masturbation
How to Prevent and Treat Vaginal Yeast Infections
Could Optifast be the Light at the End of the Tunnel for Obese People?
Why You Need Dental Insurance
Understanding the Health Benefits and Nutritional Value of Green Tea
A Review of the South Beach Diet
Introduction to the Hip Hop Abs
The Basic Dental Care for Sustainable Dental Health
Tweet
28 Jun
How to Lower Cholesterol
Posted by: Georgi
Do you want to discover how to lower Cholesterol without too much stress? Just read on to find out. In the first place, you need to know that cholesterol is of two types, the good one and the bad one. The good one is known as HDL cholesterol while the bad one is LDL cholesterol. Your body needs high levels of the HDL type for sound health while the LDL cholesterol ought to be lowered for sound health. If the level of the bad cholesterol is high, you’re likely to suffer heart diseases and other ugly health conditions.
How to Lower Cholesterol the bad type shouldn’t be a herculean task. You can succeed in the process if you follow the tips discussed below.
•	Take Healthy Cholesterol Lowering diets
This is actually where the journey begins. You have to be eating foods that are known for lowering the level of the bad cholesterol. You need to be eating oatmeal, beans, soybeans and some other food items. They are usually very rich in soluble fiber which actually lowers the level of the bad cholesterol. You also need to be taking fish products rich in omega-3 fatty acids. Among them include salmon, mackerel sardine and so on. You need to be taking nuts such as almond and walnuts. They are rich in polyunsaturated fatty acids which lowers the level of bad cholesterol. You need to be taking olive oil products since they contain effective antioxidants that help in lowering bad cholesterol level. Other food items that lower the level of bad cholesterol include brown rice, apple, cinnamon, Garlic, grapes and so on. Such foods when taken properly and regularly can easily help a lot in lowering the level of the LDL or bad cholesterol in your system. They can as well increase the level of the HDL cholesterol for sound health.
•	Engage in Regular Physical exercises
When thinking of how to lower Cholesterol, you must never sidetrack physical activities. Almost all kinds of physical exercises are very good for lowering the level of the bad cholesterol. Aerobic exercises are known to be the best form of such exercises that can be help. You need to engage in the physical exercises at least 20 to 30 minutes on daily basis. You can engage in daily running, jogging or walking. You can also engage in your regular favorite sport activity. Apart from lowering the level of the LDL or bad cholesterol, such physical exercises can as well raise the level of your HDL cholesterol for better health.
•	Watch Your Weight
When learning how to lower Cholesterol, you must pay attention to your weight per time. Obesity can easily decrease the level of the good or HDL cholesterol while increasing the level of the bad type. You need to make sure; you’re losing pounds on daily basis if you’re obese. There is several weight loss programs that can help you slim down. There are also several weight loss pills and supplements that can help you lose some pounds. Daily physical exercises can as well help you to lose weight. You need to engage in them in order to lower the level of the LDL cholesterol.
•	Avoid Sugary and Fast Food at all costs
Several kinds of sugary and fast foods products contain lost of substances that can increase the level of the bad cholesterol when you take them. In most cases, such fast foods can make you get addicted to them. You need to avoid them at all cost in order to be free from dangers they pose to your body system. Desist from visiting fast food joints where such sugary food items are sold.
•	Desist from Taking Alcoholic Drinks
Several kinds of alcoholic products are made with substances that increase the level of bad cholesterol. You need to quit drinking such drinks and replace them with juice and malted drinks which are very rich in minerals and vitamins
•	Cut your Caffeine intake
Caffeine has the propensity of increasing the level of the bad cholesterol. It’s usually seen in some coffee teas and beverages. You have to avoid it at all costs.
•	Drink Plenty Water Daily
Water helps a lot in cleaning your system of toxins and also lowers the bad cholesterol level. You have to be taking enough water on daily basis. Make sure the water is clean and drinkable to avoid loading your body system with germs.
•	Quit Smoking
Tobacco smoking is very dangerous to life. You’ve heard it over and over again that tobacco smokers are liable to die young. This is very true. Nicotine and other substances used in manufacturing cigarettes usually lead to lung cancer and other kinds of cancers. They also cause untold damages to your cardiovascular system. They damage your blood vessels and articles. This can lead to stroke and other terminal disease. The smoking habit also raises the level of the bad cholesterol in your bloodstream. Taking solace in electronic cigarette will never help. They also contain several harmful substances that can endanger your health. You have to quit smoking at all cost. This may not be easy initially but if you’re determined, there are several actions you need to take in order to quit the ugly habit.
•	Manage Stress and Depression
If you’re stressed up or depressed, the level of the LDL cholesterol is sure to rise. You need to engage in physical and mental exercises to relieve stress and depression. Always make sure you discover the root cause of the stress or depression and do your best to tackle that headlong.
•	Go for Low Carbs
If you take high carbohydrate diets regularly, the level of your HDL or the good cholesterol may be lowered while the bad one rises up. You need to cut down on the intake of high carbs and replace them with low carbs. You need to take fruits, vegetables or protein products that are known to have low carbs. They help a lot in lowering the level of the bad Cholesterol in your system.
•	Cut down on Saturated Fat and trans fat Products
Diets or food rich in saturated fat and trans fat have the propensity of increasing the level of bad cholesterol. Among such foods include red meats, pies, cakes, pastries, biscuits and so on. You have to minimize your intake of them or avoid them completely.
The above tips when duly engage will help you a lot in learning how to lower Cholesterol. When you practice them, you’re sure to lower the level of your LDL or bad cholesterol while you also increase the level of the HDL, the good cholesterol.
There are several side effects you stand to avoid when you learn how to lower Cholesterol. You’ll get to avoid irritability and tiredness at all times. Your body will always be fresh and strong. You’ll avoid body weakness and muscle pain. The chances of memory loss will be minimized when you lower the level of the bad cholesterol. You’ll also be free from cardiovascular diseases, kidney damage and liver diseases.
In any case, there are always the right steps to take when learning how to lower Cholesterol. Knowledge of the right approaches to take is very vital. You need to watch your body all the time. Anytime you begin to notice unusual symptoms in your system, there’s every reason for you to run to your doctor. In most cases, your doctor may decide to run a cholesterol level test in order to determine the level of the good and bad cholesterols in your body system. When the levels are properly decoded, you’ll be given the right direction to follow in correcting the system.
There’s always the need to exercise caution when taking cholesterol lowering foods. You need to know the right amount to take per time or else, you stand the risk of endangering your life. It’s necessary you consult a dietician to help you out in organizing the right diets to take. When engaging in physical exercises, you need to avoid the strenuous activities. You can get wounded a great deal if you exercise without caution.
With these tips discussed above, you must have learnt how to lower Cholesterol. If you’re confused at any time, make sure you go for proper counseling at the hands of a good medical doctor in order to secure the needed direction.
Category: Diets And Eating, Health No Comments Read more
Post Your Comment
Name
E-mail
Website
Comments
Categories
[+]Beauty
Skin Problems & Treatments
[+]Dental Health
Dental Insurance
Oral Health
Diets And Eating
Fitness
[—]Health
Allergies
Diseases & Conditions
Health Food
Health Insurance
Healthy Recipes
Men’s Health
Mental Health
Supplements
Weight Loss
Women’s Health
Sponsored Ads
Recent Posts
Enjoy the Advantages of a Vegetarian Diet
Lung Cancer Symptoms
Recipe of black bean quesadillas
How to Lower Cholesterol
Protein Shakes – Useful Info
Pages
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Support Wikipedia
Terms of Use
Copyright © 2011 Plenty Of Health.com