Morphine Addiction | The Recovery Village
Contact Us
Insurance
Admissions
Teen Addiction
Search
352.771.2700 Recovery Is Possible
Drug Addiction
Drug Addiction Overview
Commonly Abused Drugs
Alcohol
Cocaine
Heroin
Marijuana
Meth
Xanax
Stimulants
Adderall
Amphetamines
Bath Salts
Crack
Ecstasy, MDMA
Spice, K2
Opioid/Opiates
Codeine
Fentanyl
OxyContin
Hydrocodone
Dilaudid
Lortab
Kratom
Morphine
Oxycodone
Vicodin
Benzodiazepines
Ativan
Klonopin
Valium
Librium
Prescription Drugs
Percocet
Methadone
Ambien
Tramadol
Suboxone
Subutex
Narcan
Ultram
Fioricet
Trazodone
Drug Index
Ayahuasca
CBD (Cannabidiol)
Kava
Peyote
Dealing With the Issues of a High-Functioning Alcoholic
Can You Become Addicted to Heroin the First Time?
Drug Abuse Hotline
Alcohol Hotline
Need help? Call us today. 352.771.2700
Mental Health
Anxiety Disorders
Anxiety
Generalized Anxiety
Panic Disorder
Social Anxiety
Personality Disorders
Antisocial PD
Borderline PD
Dissociative Identity Disorder
Histrionic PD
Schizoid PD
Stress Related Disorders
Adjustment Disorder
PTSD
Eating Disorders
Anorexia
Binge Eating
Bulimia
Restrictive Food Intake
Depression & Mood Disorders
Bipolar Disorder
Depression
Major Depressive Disorder
Postpartum Depression
Obsessive Compulsive Disorders
Body Dysmorphia
Gender Dysphoria
Impulse Control Disorder
OCD
Other Mental Health Issues
ADHD/ADD
Phobias
Psychosis
Schizophrenia
Sleep Disorders
Common Co-Occurring Disorders
Process Addictions
Anxiety and Substance Abuse
Borderline PD and Drug Abuse
Depression and Drug Abuse
Panic Disorder and Drug Abuse
PTSD and Substance Abuse
Schizophrenia and Drug Abuse
Mental Health First Aid
Need help? Call us today. 352.771.2700
Addiction Treatment
Drug Addiction Treatment
Alcoholism Treatment
Medical Detox
Medication-Assisted Treatment
Inpatient Rehab
Partial Hospitalization
Intensive Outpatient
Outpatient Rehab
Aftercare
Dual Diagnosis
Understanding Treatment
Our Treatment Philosophy
Drug Rehab
Drug Detox
Intervention
Friends & Family Portal
Treatment Therapies
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy
Dialectical Behavioral Therapy
Individual/Group Therapy
Intensive Therapy
Substance Abuse Treatment Centers and Rehab
Substance Abuse Counseling
Mental Health/Dual Diagnosis
Treatments for Anxiety
Bipolar Treatments
Treatments for Schizophrenia
Depression Treatments
PTSD Treatments
10 Tips to Help Family Members of Those Struggling With Addiction Cope
10 Signs You Need To Seek Professional Help
Heroin Hotline
Marijuana Hotline
Need help? Call us today. 352.771.2700
Our Rehab Centers
Locations Overview
Nationwide Adult Rehab Centers
The Recovery Village Umatilla (FL)
Orlando Recovery Center (FL)
The Recovery Village at Palmer Lake (CO)
The Recovery Village Columbus (OH)
The Recovery Village Ridgefield (WA)
Specialty Rehab Centers
Next Generation Village (FL)
IAFF Recovery Center (MD)
Aftercare
Next Step Village (FL)
Treatment By State
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
Resources
Sobriety Calculator
Friends and Family
Teen Addiction
College Students
LGBTQ+ Addiction
Active Duty Military
Military Veterans
Fitness & Nutrition
Spiritual Resources
Domestic Violence
Lawyers
Caregiver Resources
Cancer Patients
Elderly
Recovery Blog
Inside Addiction
Insurance
Contact Us
Admissions
Search
Don't wait another day. Help is a phone call away. 352.771.2700
close What To Expect
Seeking addiction treatment can feel overwhelming. We know the struggle, which is why we're uniquely qualified to help.
Your call is confidential, and there's no pressure to commit to treatment until you're ready. As a voluntary facility, we're here to help you heal -- on your terms. Our sole focus is getting you back to the healthy, sober life you deserve, and we are ready and waiting to answer your questions or concerns.
352.771.2700
Recovery Is Possible
Home Morphine Addiction
Share6
Tweet
+1
Share
6 Shares
Morphine Addiction & Abuse
By The Recovery Village
Editor Megan Hull
Reviewer Nathan Jakowski
Updated on02/13/19
Morphine Addiction Hotline
24/7, Toll-Free, Confidential
844-207-6576
Commercial production of morphine started in the 19th century when it was introduced as a moderate to severe pain reliever. Initially, it gained a reputation as a useful tool in treatment opium addiction, but later turned out to be even more addictive than opium. Since then, morphine has gained a notorious reputation as one of the most commonly abused prescription drugs, with widespread addiction across the United States.
Table of Contents
1. What Is Morphine?
2. History of Morphine
3. What Does Morphine Look Like?
4. Morphine Street and Brand Names
5. Proper Dosage Amounts
6. Is Morphine Addictive?
7. Morphine Addiction Statistics
Collapse table of contents
What Is Morphine?
Morphine is an opiate compound derived from the opium poppy plant. Morphine is one of the most powerful narcotic opioids derived from the opium poppy plant. It is the golden standard for pain killers, and it works by blocking pain sensations and calming the central nervous system, slowing blood pressure, heart rate, and respiration to give a sense of pleasure and calm. Morphine borrows its name from Morpheus, the Greek God of dreams, mainly because it gives the user a euphoric feeling often described as a dreamlike sensation.
Morphine is a federally designated schedule II drug and it’s prescribed for pain that requires daily, around-the-clock treatment, including cancer-related pain and post-surgery pain. However, this substance runs a high risk of morphine addiction and abuse because it’s relatively easy to access and it gives a feeling of euphoria.
History of Morphine
Ever since humans discovered the medicinal and recreational effects of the opium poppy plant, they have used it extensively across the centuries, especially in Asia where the plant is native. During the industrialization age, many Asians took advantage of the improved transportation network and migrated to America, bringing with them opium which was so common in their countries. Abuse and usage of opium as a pain reliever continued, and addiction rose to shocking levels in the 18th and 19th centuries.
A solution was thus urgently needed to mitigate the addictive effects of opium, while maintaining its positive medicinal properties. Between 1805 and 1816, a pharmacist assistant named Friedrich Wilhelm Serturner managed to isolate a yellowish-white crystalline compound from crude opium. After testing very small doses of the compound on himself, he discovered that it had the effects of pain relief and euphoria. He named this compound morphine after the Greek god of dreams, Morpheus.
By the mid 19th century, morphine was commercially produced and highly praised as a miracle drug that doctors could prescribe to injured soldiers during the American Civil War. It was effective in its job, but after the war, it was discovered that veterans who had used morphine had developed morphine addiction.
The drug was also gaining traction as an alternative to opium in pain relief and as a substitute for opium to treat opium addiction. The perfection of the first hypodermic needle in 1853 provided a new way of introducing morphine directly into the bloodstream. Due to the refined form of the drug, morphine proved to be 10 times more effective in comparison to opium in relieving pain. However, one major problem arose. Its addictive properties also turned out to be exponentially enhanced, posing a new challenge that needed to be mitigated: morphine addiction.
Morphine sulfate tablets were thus developed and introduced to address the risk of dependence observed among individuals who needed morphine for pain relief. These tablets released morphine into the body in smaller doses at a time and were seen as a solution to the stubborn stain of morphine addiction and dependence. Today, morphine sulfate tablets are prescribed for the management of pain which is severe enough to require an opioid analgesic, but for which alternative treatments are inadequate.
What Does Morphine Look Like?
Morphine is, by nature, a crystalline compound. In its medical application though, it has taken various forms and states depending on the pharmaceutical company that has manufactured it and the mode of administration.
Morphine sulfate pills are manufactured in different shapes, sizes and colors. Some tablets are round in shape, while others take an oval/elliptical shape. There are also capsule-shaped morphine sulfate tablets. The color and shape notwithstanding, one common feature of all morphine sulfate tablets is that they must indicate their dosage content in milligrams on the face of the tablet.
Morphine Street and Brand Names
Morphine goes by a varied number of names, both in terms of brand names and slang names applied in the streets. Some of the common brand names under which morphine is produced and marketed are:
Roxanol
Kadian ER
Morphine Sulfate ER
MS Contin
Morphabond
Embeda
In the streets, it is impossible to list all the names that are used in reference to a drug. However, some of the names that are commonly used in reference to morphine include:
Monkey
Dreamer
White Stuff
Aunti Em
Aunti
Morph
Drone
TNT
Tango and Cash
Dance Fever
Murder 8
Goodfella
Speak to a Morphine Intake Coordinator now.
352.771.2700What to expect when I call?
Seeking addiction treatment can feel overwhelming. We know the struggle, which is why we're uniquely qualified to help.
Your call is confidential, and there's no pressure to commit to treatment until you're ready. As a voluntary facility, we're here to help you heal -- on your terms. Our sole focus is getting you back to the healthy, sober life you deserve, and we are ready and waiting to answer your questions or concerns 24/7.
Speak with an Intake Coordination Specialist now.352.771.2700
Proper Dosage Amounts
Just like every other prescriptive drug, there are some recommended dosage amounts while taking morphine. However, these recommendations can vary from one individual to the other depending on the purpose of the administration of morphine. Initial administration of immediate-release morphine sulfate should be in the dosage range of 15 mg to 30 mg for every four hours as needed for pain. Care should be taken to avoid overdosing, as an overdose of morphine can have devastating effects or even turn fatal. Morphine sulfate still carries a high risk of developing reliance, dependence or even morphine addiction. Federally designated as a Schedule II drug, care should be taken when administering the drug, with strict monitoring to ensure that an individual is weaned off the drug gradually at the first sign of morphine addiction or dependence.
Is Morphine Addictive?
“Is morphine addictive?” is a commonly asked question regarding this substance. Yes, morphine addiction is certainly a possibility. Morphine is categorized as a Schedule II substance under the by the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) under the Department of Justice. A Schedule II substance is defined by the DEA as; “…..drugs with a high potential for abuse, with use potentially leading to severe psychological or physical dependence.” For this reason, morphine should be taken strictly under prescription. Even then, close supervision by a medical doctor is required as the risk of developing dependence is still present. The risk of developing morphine addiction and dependence is so high that it does not require prolonged use. Morphine addiction can develop within the first few times of taking the drug in any form.
Morphine Addiction Statistics
According to statistics available on the Addiction Center Website, which is also backed up by data availed by the Global Information Network About Drugs (GINAD), in the recent past, more than half of the accidental deaths in the U.S. have been caused by morphine and heroin. More than 10 percent of the U.S. population admitted to having used morphine within their lifetime. The number of people who struggled with morphine addiction and were admitted to hospital emergency rooms increased by one 106 percent between 2004 and 2008. With the situation being that dire a few years ago, it is sad that all indicators point to even greater numbers in morphine addiction in the current times.
NEXT:Signs, Symptoms & Side Effects
Morphine Addiction
NEXT:Signs, Symptoms & Side Effects
Withdrawal & Detox
Morphine Addiction Treatment & Rehab
Have more questions about Morphine abuse?
Q.
How Long Does Morphine Stay in Your System?
Q.
How Do I Know If Someone Is On Morphine?
Q.
Is Morphine an Opiate?
Q.
How Long Does 30-mg Morphine Stay in Your System?
Read the most frequently asked questions
See also
Morphine Hotline
Morphine Overdose
IV Morphine Dose for Pain
Morphine Medicine Side Effects
Morphine Pill Dosage and High
See more topics
What is National Take Back Day?
April 19, 2019
Search
Speak to a Morphine Intake Coordinator now.
352.771.2700What to expect when I call?
Seeking addiction treatment can feel overwhelming. We know the struggle, which is why we're uniquely qualified to help.
Your call is confidential, and there's no pressure to commit to treatment until you're ready. As a voluntary facility, we're here to help you heal -- on your terms. Our sole focus is getting you back to the healthy, sober life you deserve, and we are ready and waiting to answer your questions or concerns 24/7.
Speak with an Intake Coordination Specialist now.352.771.2700
Morphine Addiction
4.5 (90%) 2 votes
Share6
Tweet
+1
Share
6 Shares
Latest Related Posts:
Morphine Abuse: Signs, Symptoms & Side Effects
Morphine Addiction Treatment & Rehab
Morphine Withdrawal & Detox
Morphine Addiction Related Topics
Morphine Addiction FAQ
How Do I Know If Someone Is On Morphine?
Morphine Hotline
Morphine Overdose
Ready to start? We're here for you.
352.771.2700
The Recovery Village
633 Umatilla Blvd. Umatilla, FL 32784
(352) 771-2700
About Us
About
Our Team
Philosophy
Careers
Get Started
Admissions
Insurance
Locations
Contact Us
Legal
Notice Of Privacy Practices
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
© The Recovery Village at Umatilla All Rights Reserved.