Wholesale Naringin Pomelo Peel Extract Powder,Grape Fruit Extract Naringin, Naringine/naringoside98% Manufacturers China - Organic, Natural, Halal, Kosher, Premix Extract - Cnlab Nutrition
Home
About Us
Products
Standard Herbal Extract
Herbal Powder
Monomer
News
Knowledge
Contact Us
Feedback
Product Center Categories
Naringin Pomelo Peel Extract Powder,Grape Fruit Extract Naringin, Naringine/naringoside98%
Product Details
Product Name ：
Naringin Pomelo Peel Extract powder,Grape Fruit Extract naringin, Naringine/naringoside98%
Botanical Source:
Grapefruit
Specification:
naringoside98%
Appearance :
White to Light Yellow Powder
Mesh size :
80mesh
Test Method:
HPLC
Part of Used :
Fruit
Grapefruit Extract exerts a variety of pharmacological effects such as antioxidant activity, blood lipid lowering, anticancer activity, and inhibition of selected drug-metabolizing cytochrome P450 enzymes, including CYP3A4 and CYP1A2, which may result in drug-drug interactions in vivo.
Ingestion of grapefruit extract and related flavonoids can also affect the intestinal absorption of certain drugs, leading to either an increase or decrease in circulating drug levels. To avoid interference with drug absorption and metabolism, the consumption of citrus (esp. Grapefruit) and other juices with medications is contraindicated.
Grapefruit Extract, followed by rutin, was the most potent flavonoid inhibitor of VEGF release, which causes angiogenesis, out of 21 flavonoids. When grapefruit extract is treated with potassium hydroxide or another strong base, and then catalytically hydrogenated, it becomes a naringin dihydrochalcone, a compound roughly 300-1800 times sweeter than sugar at threshold concentrations.
Studies have shown that grapefruit extract interferes with enzymatic activity in the intestines and, thus, with the breakdown of certain drugs, resulting in higher blood levels of the drug. A number of drugs that are known to be affected by the naringin in grapefruit include calcium channel blockers, estrogen, sedatives, medications for high blood pressure, allergies, AIDS, and cholesterol-lowering drugs.
1.Grapefruit Extract is the component of the medicine which curse diabetes.
2.Grapefruit Extract can reduce Blood fat and liver fat, and also has the function of sedation.
3.Grapefruit Extract uses the better solubility of naringin in water is an advantage.
4.Grapefruit Extract is related to other flavanones known to have therapeutic action in influencing capillary permeability.
1.Applied in food field, various foods are using it as the raw materials.
2.Applied in cosmetic field, it can be used for nourish the skin.
3.Applied in pharmaceutical field, it is made into tablet or capsule, which is often used for eat less and coughing much sputum.
Item
Specification
Result
Assay
Naringin>98%
99.38%
Appearance
White to Light Yellow Powder
conforms
Odor
Characteristic
conforms
Taste
Characteristic
conforms
Particle Size
NLT 100% Through 80 mesh
conforms
Loss on Drying
<2.0%
0.46%
Heavy metals
Total Heavy Metals
≤10ppm
conforms
Arsenic
≤2ppm
conforms
Lead
≤2ppm
conforms
Microbiological Tests
Total Plate Count
≤1000cfu/g
conforms
Total Yeast & Mold
≤100cfu/g
conforms
E.Coli
Negative
Negative
Salmonella
Negative
Negative
1. Any inquiries will be replied within 12 hours.
2. Dedication to quality, supply & service.
3. Strictly on selecting raw materials.
4. OEM/ODM Available.
5. Reasonable & competitive price, fast lead time.
6. Sample is available for your evaluation & Formulation development.
7. Faster delivery: Sample order in stock and 3-7 days for bulk production.
8. We have strong cooperation with DHL, TNT, UPS, FEDEX, EMS.
Or you also can choose your own shipping forwarder.
9. After-Sale Service:
1)International Authorized Third-Party Test For The Products You Demand.
2)60 Days Warranty of quality of goods.
•We are GMP of USA
•We are your eyes and brain in China We know both western and east culture, like a bridge to help you
•We are experienced in this business for many years
•You are welcome to have a plant tour
•We guarantee what you get is exactly you ordered
•Bring quality Chinese ingredients to customers the worldwide has been CN Lab Nutrition’s life passion
•We remain committed to being that strong bridge between a changing China and the changing needs of our customers.
With rich experience, Cn Lab Nutrition is one of the leading organic naringin pomelo peel extract powder,grape fruit extract naringin, naringine/naringoside98% manufacturers in China. And we have premix extractblending powder which can also be used for supplement. Welcome to wholesale the pure natural products with reasonable price with us.
Feedback
&COPY;Cnlab Nutrition, Asian Group