Sarkartraining: Does coffee help to lose weight
Pages
About
Blog
Articles and links
Kettlebell Trainer Certification Course
Contact
Testimonials
LinkWithin
Does coffee help to lose weight
Aah! Nothing like a good cup of warm coffee on a sleepy morning when you are struggling to keep your eyes open. For many that first cup of coffee will signal their brain that the day has begun, and there is no more time to sleep. That first cup will be followed by many more cups during the day, as staying alert and staying awake starts to become a great battle. So for many of us coffee is like a drug that helps to keep us alert, awake and get work done in a day. Besides this does that cup of coffee offer any other benefit? According to some it does, it is said that coffee can actually help you to lose weight and get slimmer. So is it really true or just a myth?
First of all a high sugar cup of coffee will NOT help in fat loss in anyway, infact the sugar will probably add to your body fat. Secondly do not expect that a daily 3000 calorie intake of junk like ice cream, donuts, fried food, etc can be negated by a few cups of coffee. Yes, even 20 cups of coffee a day will not help in fat loss if you overeat during the day. But what about someone who is eating well, and exercising too?
First here are 2 reasons why drinking coffee might help:
It can act as a mild appetite suppressant- for some people drinking coffee can help keep huger at bay for some period of time after drinking it
Water loss- for some people caffeine can act as a diuretic. This means that it can help to reduce the amount of water weight by increasing urine amount. However this is not a permanent weight loss
Here are 2 reasons how coffee can harm you:
Can increase stress levels- caffeine can cause insomnia, increased adrenaline production. This may mean that you end up eating more as you feel stressed out, thus leading to weight gain
Can add calories- many of us are used to drinking coffee with milk and added sugar. While milk is not so much of an issue, the added sugar is! Some make the coffee with TOO much sugar, and all this can actually lead to weight gain
In the end I will have to say that there is no evidence to show that drinking a lot of coffee makes any significant change in a person’s weight. Sure, if something like 0.45 pounds in 4 months is enough, then its works great, however real, significant and measurable changes in bodyweight directly due to an increased coffee intake have never been proven. A simple example can be that of those who work in the corporate world. Often for those in the corporate world, coffee seems to be a great source of survival. Some are known to drink 15 or more cups, every single day. So are those in the corporate world fitter and slimmer than athletes, I don’t think so.
Do all corporate coffee addicts look slim?
In the end I will conclude by saying that if you want to lose weight, then focus on regular exercise, good diet, and keeping stress levels low. As far as coffee is concerned, a cup or two in the morning is ok, but don’t overdo it. Too much coffee in the long run has been seen to increase stress levels, blood pressure, and cause other health problems. A limited consumption on the other hand can offer some benefits, but significantly increased weight loss is not one of them.
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook
Labels: Fat loss , Nutrition
Newer Post Older Post Home
Receive the latest posts from Sarkartraining in your inbox by signing up. Your email will remain secure and you will never be spammed:
Delivered by FeedBurner
Follow by Email
Enter your email and subscribe:
Delivered by FeedBurner
Join Sarkartraining on Facebook
Follow @sarkartraining
Subscribe to watch latest Youtube videos
Followers
Categories
Ask Arnav
Bodyweight training
Exercises
Fat loss
Interviews
Kettlebell training
Miscellaneous
Motivation
Muscle building
Nutrition
Recipes
Recovery
Strength training
Popular Posts
Avoid these 3 common mistakes made with 5x5 training
One of the best things that has happened with the growth of the internet, in the world of weight training is that, we learn a lot more ...
Tom Platz solution for big legs
The muscular development of Tom Platz's legs were way ahead of his times! Yes, he is known to most bodybuilding and strength train...
The power of heavy dumbbell training
Recently I had the PLEASURE of watching a classic dumbbell training video created by Brooks Kubik called "The lost art of dum...
30 best muscle building foods
To have extra large muscles you need extra large nutrition. Make no mistake about it, eating 2 mini meals a day will not equal to big musc...
How to get a 300 warrior body
Time to wake up the warrior within you They say that there is a warrior hiding in every man. It is only a matter of time o...
10 reasons why you must lift weights to lose fat
Oh boy, dont some women just love to get on a treadmill and walk while watching "Desperate housewives", just like those "alw...
7 best exercises for building strength and muscle
Too many trainees spend way too much time chopping and changing the exercises that they perform to get bigger and stronger. While variet...
Get better strength and mass gains with abbreviated training routines
If I could go back to my early years of training and could change one thing, then I would definitely cut down on the volume of my t...
Power talk with Steve Cotter
Steve Cotter, well what can I say about him that has not been said already? In the strength and conditioning world or frankly speaking in ...
How to do T rotations
If you are looking to work your arms and core in one move, then T rotations is a great exercise that you can do. It is an exercise that I h...