The Link Between Vaccines and Autism | Owlcation
MORE
Owlcation
Sign InJoin
Owlcation»
STEM»
Medical Science
The Link Between Vaccines and Autism
Updated on June 13, 2018
Hope Parsons
more
Contact Author
Over the last few years, there has been debate over whether or not vaccines cause ASD, more commonly known as autism. Most arguments state that autism is an illness or disease, when in fact it's a developmental disability.
So what exactly is autism? According to the Autism Society, autism is a developmental disability. Symptoms of autism in children include lack or delay in speaking, consistent use of motor mannerisms and/or language, little to no eye contact, zero to no interest in relationships, fixation on specific or singular objects, and lack of spontaneity like make-believe play.
Though the specific causes of ASD are unknown, it is believed that the risk of a child developing autism can be increased by genetic and environmental influences. According to autismspeaks.org, the genetic mutations associated with autism can be found in those who aren't affected by it, as well as most people not being affected by environmental risks that may influence autism in others.
Autism appears to run in families, though the parents of those affected may not be afflicted with it. In most situations, one or both of the parents may carry the genes that influence autism, but they likely don't have autism themselves. There are also times when the gene arises or develops spontaneously in the early development of a fetus, as well as in the sperm and/or egg that created the embryo.
Environmental risks that increase the chance of autism include advanced age in one of the parents, complications with pregnancy and/or birth, and back to back pregnancies. An environmental risk that decreases the chance of autism is prenatal vitamins that contain folic acid, which are taken before and during pregnancy.
Now here's the real question – are vaccines linked to autism? Well, the short answer is no. According to autismspeaks.org, autism can be diagnosed in children as young as 18 months old, while 23 out of 42 vaccines are given around or after 18 months of age, meaning these vaccines are the majority. That said, most vaccines aren't given to children before autism is detectable.
According to the CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) there is no link between vaccines and autism. Thimerosal, an ingredient in vaccines, is a mercury-based preservative that is commonly used to prevent contamination in vaccines. This ingredient has been heavily studied and all research shows that it in fact does not cause autism. Since 2003, the CDC has conducted nine separate studies that have shown that there is no link between autism and vaccines that contain thimerosal, as well as MMR vaccine (measles, mumps, and rubella.)
In order to reduce exposure to mercury in children, thimerosal has been removed or reduced to trace amounts in most vaccines, excluding some flu vaccines. This was done in 1999 and 2001, though more recently it has been discovered that thimerosal isn't harmful. The only vaccines that currently contain thimerosal are flu vaccines that are in multi-dose vials. There is, however, the option to choose thimerosal free flu vaccines for children.
In conclusion, there have been countless studies done on the link between ASD and vaccines, and none have shown that vaccines make a difference in a child's risk to develop autism.
Sources:
Vaccines Do Not Cause Autism Concerns | Vaccine Safety | CDC
Studies have shown there is no link between autism and any vaccine or vaccine ingredient.
Recommended and Minimum Ages and Intervals Between Doses of Routinely Recommended Vaccines.
What Is Autism? | | Autism Speaks
This page describes autism spectrum disorders.
What causes autism? | | Autism Speaks
The following information is not meant to prevent, diagnose or treat autism and should not take the place of personal consultation, as appropriate, with a qualified healthcare professional. One of the most common questions asked after a diagnosis of
What is Autism? - Autism Society
Autism spectrum disorder is a complex developmental disability. Autism is defined by a certain set of behaviors. There is no known single cause of autism.
Questions & Answers
Questions must be on-topic, written with proper grammar usage, and understandable to a wide audience.
Related
Psychology
Is Thinking About Our Own Death Healthy or Morbid?
by John Paul Quester2
Literature
The Link Between the Baltimore Ravens and Edgar Allan Poe
by jwmurph3
Psychology
Psychology Basics: Development
by Jessie Watson6
Popular
Medical Science
The Urinary System: Nephron & Urine Formation
by Edmund Custers28
Medical Science
Belladonna or Deadly Nightshade Dangers and Atropine Uses
by Linda Crampton22
Medical Science
Hydrochloric Acid in the Stomach and Digestive Problems
by Linda Crampton59
Comments
Sign in or sign up and post using a HubPages Network account.
0 of 8192 characters used
Post Comment
No HTML is allowed in comments, but URLs will be hyperlinked. Comments are not for promoting your articles or other sites.
sending
No comments yet.
About Us
Editorial Policy
Copyright
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Advertising
Copyright © 2019 HubPages Inc. and respective owners. Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners. HubPages® is a registered Service Mark of HubPages, Inc. HubPages and Hubbers (authors) may earn revenue on this page based on affiliate relationships and advertisements with partners including Amazon, Google, and others.
Sign InJoin
STEM
Genetics & Evolution
Math
Zoology
Entomology
Chemistry
Electrical Engineering
Geology
Medical Science
Marine Biology
Computer Science
Botany
Mycology
Climatology & Meteorology
Physics
Astronomy
Microbiology
Ecology
Paleontology
Show All Categories
Connect with us
About Us
Editorial Policy
Copyright
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Advertising
Copyright © 2019 HubPages Inc. and respective owners.
working
This website uses cookies
As a user in the EEA, your approval is needed on a few things. To provide a better website experience, owlcation.com uses cookies (and other similar technologies) and may collect, process, and share personal data. Please choose which areas of our service you consent to our doing so.
Necessary
Features
Marketing
Statistics
Approve All & Submit
Approve Checked Only
For more information on managing or withdrawing consents and how we handle data, visit our Privacy Policy at: https://owlcation.com/privacy-policy#gdpr
Show Details
Necessary
HubPages Device ID This is used to identify particular browsers or devices when the access the service, and is used for security reasons.
Login This is necessary to sign in to the HubPages Service.
Google Recaptcha This is used to prevent bots and spam. (Privacy Policy)
Akismet This is used to detect comment spam. (Privacy Policy)
HubPages Google Analytics This is used to provide data on traffic to our website, all personally identifyable data is anonymized. (Privacy Policy)
HubPages Traffic Pixel This is used to collect data on traffic to articles and other pages on our site. Unless you are signed in to a HubPages account, all personally identifiable information is anonymized.
Amazon Web Services This is a cloud services platform that we used to host our service. (Privacy Policy)
Cloudflare This is a cloud CDN service that we use to efficiently deliver files required for our service to operate such as javascript, cascading style sheets, images, and videos. (Privacy Policy)
Google Hosted Libraries Javascript software libraries such as jQuery are loaded at endpoints on the googleapis.com or gstatic.com domains, for performance and efficiency reasons. (Privacy Policy)
Features
Google Custom Search This is feature allows you to search the site. (Privacy Policy)
Google Maps Some articles have Google Maps embedded in them. (Privacy Policy)
Google Charts This is used to display charts and graphs on articles and the author center. (Privacy Policy)
Google AdSense Host API This service allows you to sign up for or associate a Google AdSense account with HubPages, so that you can earn money from ads on your articles. No data is shared unless you engage with this feature. (Privacy Policy)
Google YouTube Some articles have YouTube videos embedded in them. (Privacy Policy)
Vimeo Some articles have Vimeo videos embedded in them. (Privacy Policy)
Paypal This is used for a registered author who enrolls in the HubPages Earnings program and requests to be paid via PayPal. No data is shared with Paypal unless you engage with this feature. (Privacy Policy)
Facebook Login You can use this to streamline signing up for, or signing in to your Hubpages account. No data is shared with Facebook unless you engage with this feature. (Privacy Policy)
Maven This supports the Maven widget and search functionality. (Privacy Policy)
Marketing
Google AdSense This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Google DoubleClick Google provides ad serving technology and runs an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Index Exchange This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Sovrn This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Facebook Ads This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Amazon Unified Ad Marketplace This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
AppNexus This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Openx This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Rubicon Project This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
TripleLift This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Say Media We partner with Say Media to deliver ad campaigns on our sites. (Privacy Policy)
Remarketing Pixels We may use remarketing pixels from advertising networks such as Google AdWords, Bing Ads, and Facebook in order to advertise the HubPages Service to people that have visited our sites.
Conversion Tracking Pixels We may use conversion tracking pixels from advertising networks such as Google AdWords, Bing Ads, and Facebook in order to identify when an advertisement has successfully resulted in the desired action, such as signing up for the HubPages Service or publishing an article on the HubPages Service.
Statistics
Author Google Analytics This is used to provide traffic data and reports to the authors of articles on the HubPages Service. (Privacy Policy)
Comscore ComScore is a media measurement and analytics company providing marketing data and analytics to enterprises, media and advertising agencies, and publishers. Non-consent will result in ComScore only processing obfuscated personal data. (Privacy Policy)
Amazon Tracking Pixel Some articles display amazon products as part of the Amazon Affiliate program, this pixel provides traffic statistics for those products (Privacy Policy)
{{section}}
{{title}}
by {{author}} {{comment_count}}