Himalayan Glow Crystal Salt Lamps - Choozurmobile :: Amazing Gadgets Online
What's New
Gifts for Men
Gifts for Women
Under $20
Categories
Gadgets
Geeks
Under $50
Under $100
Submit
Himalayan Glow Crystal Salt Lamps
Himalayan Salt Lamps are made from large pieces of pure Himalayan Crystal Salt that is hand carved and they offer a warm, cozy, orange glow when lit and help increase indoor air quality by releasing a small amount of negative ions creating a soothing and calming ambiance.
Himalayan Crystal Salt Lamps are an attractive light source that may offer the benefits of color therapy, by cleaning the air, alleviating allergies and make a great healthy night light for kids.
A lot of research claims for Himalayan pink salt lamps, a popular type of negative ion generator which help in purifying air to preventing cancer. Most of the Japanese gadget industry prefer ionizing devices which are said to boost health by releasing negatively charged particles into the air.
Health fears from incidents such as SARS pandemic and the Fukushima nuclear disaster have led to a boom in the usage of negative-ion-generating devices to purify the air.
Do Himalayan salt lamps truly have healing benefits?
Negative ion generator sounds sophisticated, but researchers know the true effects of it. Is the information on internet trustworthy?
Attributed Himalayan salt lamp health benefits
Natural living proponents and other fans of Himalayan pinksalt lamps claim that the negative salt ions released by heating certainly boosts blood flow, improve sleep, increase levels of serotonin in the brain, and calm allergy or asthma symptoms.
These negative ions are said to neutralize electromagnetic radiation from household electronics, and even prevent the build-up of static electricity.
But how much of this is true? How do Himalayan salt lamps work?
Salt is hygroscopic so it attracts water molecules from the air and traps dirt, pollen, and smoke particles which are carried in water vapor.
Once these airborne contaminants have been locked in the salt, clean water is re-released and thus it has a purifying effect on the air.
Scientists know that salt does absorb water from the air but that it quickly reaches an equilibrium state. This is the same for silica packets. Both can be revitalized by drying, which a burning and warming lamp does.
Lamp radiates a warm, amber glow and produces a calming atmosphere creating a sense of peace and relaxation. Its a perfect gift choice for your loving ones on special occasions.
Newer Post Older Post Home
Comment with Facebook
Follow by Email
Browse Similar Products
What's Interesting
Virtual Reality (VR) Vs Augmented - Which is Your Favorite Device?
Smartphones have changed the world completely and there is an urge for experiencing a virtual world after it made tremendous strides in r...
No more post found.
Choozurmobile :: Amazing Gadgets Online Theme Daddy