8 Carrot Juice Benefits for Your Eyes, Skin, and More
Newsletter
8 Benefits of Carrot Juice
Medically reviewed by Natalie Butler, RD, LD on May 11, 2017 — Written by Valencia Higuera
Metabolism
Vision
Skin
Immune system
Cancer risk
Cholesterol
Pregnancy
Brain function
Side effects
Takeaway
Overview
Carrots are an excellent source of vitamins, nutrients, and fiber. But you don’t have to eat carrots to receive these nutritional benefits. Drinking carrot juice is an easy way to add carrots to your diet. Here are eight reasons why you should add carrot juice to your diet.
1. Increased metabolism
Since carrot juice is filling and low in calories, substituting this juice and ditching sodas and other sugary beverages can help you drop pounds faster.
Carrot juice also increases bile secretion, which can increase metabolism — the rate at which your body converts energy into food. Bile is a fluid that breaks down fat. According to from 2006, an increase in bile flow revved up the metabolism and increased weight loss in lab rats. It could produce a similar outcome in humans.
2. Stronger vision
It’s often said that eating carrots is good for your eyes. It turns out there’s truth behind this claim. Carrot juice is a good source of beta-carotene, a type of vitamin A, which is one of the most powerful antioxidants.
Vitamin A helps protect the surface of the eye and contributes to strong vision. Drinking carrot juice can ward off various eye disorders, such as macular degeneration, cataracts, and blindness. Carrots also contain lutein, which is an antioxidant that protects the eye from damaging light. A 1994 found that lutein was linked to a reduced risk for macular degeneration, an eye disorder that causes vision loss.
Keep reading: The 7 best foods for healthy eyes »
3. Improved skin disorders
If you have a history of skin problems, such as rashes or psoriasis, adding carrot juice to your diet may improve the appearance of your skin. Carrots contain vitamin C, which has healing properties. It helps skin recover faster from external wounds and trauma. Beta-carotene in carrots also reduces skin inflammation, which speeds the healing process.
Read more: The 4 best vitamins for your skin »
4. Boosted immune system
A cold or the flu can stick around for one or two weeks, making it difficult (or impossible) to go to work or school. To strengthen your immune system and help your body fight off infections, add carrot juice to your daily diet and maintain your physical health.
Carrots contain antioxidants, which help your body fight free radicals, cell damage, and inflammation. Vitamin C in carrot juice also provides an immune system boost, helping you get through cold and flu season.
Boost your immune system with these 15 foods »
5. Reduced cancer risk
Cancer develops when abnormal cells form and multiply uncontrollably. Since antioxidants help stop cell damage, carrot juice may offer protection against various types of cancers.
In , carrot juice extract used for 72 hours in the treatment of leukemia cells and non-tumor control cells induced cell death and stopped the progression of the disease. This suggests that carrots may contain effective bioactive chemicals for treating leukemia. Another of younger men found that a diet rich in beta-carotene may offer protection against prostate cancer.
6. Lowered cholesterol
If you’re having trouble controlling your cholesterol, or if you want to control your cholesterol without medication, consider adding carrot juice to your diet. As an excellent source of potassium, carrot juice can help you maintain a healthy cholesterol level. Lower cholesterol levels reduce your risk of heart disease and stroke. Talk to your doctor before stopping any prescription medications.
Keep reading: The recommended cholesterol levels by age »
7. Healthier pregnancy
Drinking carrot juice is also beneficial during and after pregnancy because it’s full of calcium, folate, potassium, magnesium, and of course vitamin A. Calcium helps your fetus develop strong bones and cartilage, while folate prevents birth defects. According to the American College of Obstetrician and Gynecologists (ACOG), pregnant and breastfeeding women need 1,000 milligrams of calcium per day.
Vitamin C and vitamin A in carrot juice also act as powerful antioxidants in pregnancy. These vitamins protect both mother and fetus from free radicals, and give both an immune system boost that lower the risk of infections.
8. Strengthened brain function
Beta-carotene in carrot juice may also improve cognitive function and reduce the risk of age-related memory problems and dementia. Oxidative stress is linked to brain cell damage and occurs when brain and nerve cells can’t regenerate. This weakens nerve signaling and reduces cognitive function. However, beta-carotene in carrots may strengthen brain function and improve memory. In , workers who were exposed to lead were treated with 10 milligrams of beta-carotene over a 12-week period. The study found that after treatment, the group receiving beta-carotene had less oxidative stress.
Potential side effects of carrot juice
While carrot juice has nutritional and health benefits, it’s important to drink in moderation. Fruit or vegetable juices contain little to no fiber, therefore they provide limited satiety and no bulk to the colon. Also, excessive intake of beta-carotene can potentially change the coloring of your skin. It’s this vitamin that gives carrot its orange color. If you eat or drink too many carrots or carrot juice, your skin may temporarily develop a slight yellowish or orange tint.
The takeaway
The benefits of carrots can’t be overstated. If you prefer to cook or eat raw carrots, you’ll benefit from more satiety from the fiber, which is ideal for weight management. But juicing your carrots may provide a bigger nutritional punch, plus it’s easier to absorb nutrients and antioxidants from juice. According to Stanford Health Care, it takes about five carrots to produce one cup of carrot juice.
From boosting your immune system to helping you hit your weight-loss goals, carrot juice can improve your physical and mental health.
Medically reviewed by Natalie Butler, RD, LD on May 11, 2017 — Written by Valencia Higuera
related stories
Are Purple Carrots Healthier? Nutrition, Benefits, and Uses
The No BS Guide to Good, Healthy Carbs
10 Exercises to Tone Every Inch of Your Body
8 Reasons Your Friends (and Twitter) Should Never Replace Therapy
Your Anxiety Loves Sugar. Eat These 3 Things Instead.
READ THIS NEXT
Are Purple Carrots Healthier? Nutrition, Benefits, and Uses
Written by Jillian Kubala, MS, RD
Purple carrots are eye-catching, and you may wonder whether they're healthier than other varieties. This article reviews the benefits of purple…
READ MORE
The No BS Guide to Good, Healthy Carbs
Medically reviewed by Katherine Marengo LDN, RD
What makes a carb good and what makes it bad? Turns out carbs alone can't be faulted for any weight issues - it's the combination of how and what you…
READ MORE
10 Exercises to Tone Every Inch of Your Body
Medically reviewed by Daniel Bubnis, MS, NASM-CPT, NASE Level II-CSS
From barre to TRX, there's a lot of ways to work out. But if you're someone who wants to keep it simple and effective, then this workout routine is…
READ MORE
8 Reasons Your Friends (and Twitter) Should Never Replace Therapy
Medically reviewed by Timothy J. Legg, PhD, CRNP
Approximately 1 in 6 U.S. adults experiences mental health issues each year. So chances are, you may benefit at some point in your life from talking…
READ MORE
Your Anxiety Loves Sugar. Eat These 3 Things Instead.
Medically reviewed by Daniel Bubnis, MS, NASM-CPT, NASE Level II-CSS
From worsening anxiety to making depression more likely, sugar is seriously harmful to your mental health. Even trying to cut back on the sweet stuff…
READ MORE
Infrared Saunas: Your Questions Answered
Infrared saunas promise a number of health benefits, from weight loss and decreased stress levels to improved circulation and even better skin. But…
READ MORE
The Fuel-Good, Keto-Happy Shopping List for Beginners
Medically reviewed by Natalie Olsen, RD, LD, ACSM EP-C
Our simple ketogenic shopping list is based off delicious recipes that'll launch your keto journey beyond the first week. It keeps to the basics, so…
READ MORE
7 Everyday Tonics that Help Your Body Adjust to Stress and Anxiety
Medically reviewed by Natalie Olsen, RD, LD, ACSM EP-C
On top of getting your daily dose of regular exercise, there's ways that a simple tonic could reduce your stress and anxiety, or that afternoon…
READ MORE
Myth vs. Reality: What Does a Panic Attack Feel Like?
Medically reviewed by Timothy J. Legg, PhD, CRNP
There are many misconceptions about what panic attacks look and feel like. Understanding panic attacks and learning how best to support yourself and…
READ MORE
16 Cross-Generational, Home Remedies Mothers Swear By
Every family has a secret remedy that's been passed down through generations. Whether it's vapor rub for colds or grilled onions for headaches…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 121107 Client Version: 478d73e1dd9c5e778a40d69f42568223020523ba Build Number: 26877