Home Care Instructions - Highline Family Dentistry
Call Us: (303) 794-6800 | info@highlinefamilydentistry.com
Menu
Home
Information
Introduction
New Patient Forms
First Visit
Scheduling
Financial Policy
Insurance
Infection Control
Home Instructions
Our Reviews
Treatments
Restorative Dentistry
Tooth Fillings
Dental Sealants
Dentures
Bridges
Dental Implants
Crowns
Cosmetic
Bonding
Inlays and Onlays
Porcelain Veneers
Teeth Whitening
Dental Health
Oral Hygiene
Child Dentistry
Dental Dictionary
Dental Specialties
Periodontal Maintenance
Meet Us
Dr. Amy Becker, DDS
Our Staff
Contact
Home Care Instructions
Home » Patient Information » Home Care Instructions
After Cosmetic Reconstruction
It takes a little bit of time to adjust to your new bite after a filling, crown, implant restoration or dental bridge. It can take a few days before your brain will recognize the new dental material mouth. The new position of your teeth and their thickness is often only different by half a millimeter. The occlusion of your teeth should be better than before your treatment. If you continue to detect any high spots or problems with your bite, call our office at (303) 794-6800 so we can schedule an adjustment appointment.
It is normal to experience some cold sensitivity after a filling, crown, implant restoration or dental bridge. Just like other parts of your body, teeth need some time to heal after removal of tooth structure.Interment sensitive is normal for a few days after your appointment. If it has been a few year since your last dental cleaning, your gums may be sore for a few days. Warm salt water rinses (a teaspoon of salt in a cup of warm water) three times a day will reduce pain and swelling. For most dental patients Ibuprofen (Motrin) every 3-4 hours work well and should ease any discomfort.
Have you been missing a tooth for a long time? It is possible that your speech could be affected for a day or two. Patients quickly adapt to new dental work and begins speaking normally. Some patients notice increased salivation, this is normal and typically resolve in a few days.
Daily brushing and flossing are a must to keep your new dental work clean and free of debris. If you have a temporary crown or bridge, flossing techniques need to be modified so you do not floss off your temporary crown or bridge. Please ask one of our dental team members for flossing instructions. Light cured resin composite filling harden in 30 to 45 seconds and can be flossed that night if your gums are not irritated.Daily plaque removal is critical for the long-term success of your new teeth, as well as regular dental cleaning at our office.
Some foods can chip, crack, or damage a natural tooth can do the same to porcelain veneers, porcelain crowns and bridges. Dental porcelain is stronger than natural teeth but not strong enough to hold up to metal, bone fragments, or rock chips that can accidentally end up in your food. Your new teeth need the same or better care than your old teeth when maximizing longevity. Avoiding hard foods like un popped popcorn, beer nuts, olive pits, peanut brittle, ice, hard candies, fingernails, and even pencils will lessen your chances of fracturing a natural tooth as well as a porcelain crown.
A custom fit mouth guard is a great way to protect your teeth If you play in sports like hockey, racket ball, or school sports like football and soccer. Please let our dental team know so we can make a custom mouth guard. Many cracked teeth are a result of grinding your teeth. If you grind your teeth at night, a night guard will help protect your teeth.
After Composite Fillings (white fillings)
Your teeth, cheek, lips and tongue will be numb for one to two hours after your dental filling appointment. Avoid any hot drinks, chewing, or hard foods until the numbness has worn off. While your teeth and mouth are numb, it is very easy to bite or burn your tongue and cheek.
It is normal to experience cold and pressure sensitivity after your dental filling treatment. Injection sites may also be sore. Ibuprofen (Motrin), work well to alleviate light pain and tenderness. If pressure sensitivity persists beyond a few days, and if you are having hot sensitivity call dental our office in Littleton Colorado at (303) 794-6800.
You may chew with your composite fillings as soon as the anesthetic completely wears off, since they are fully set when you leave the office.
If your bite feels uneven, if you have persistent pain, or if you have any other questions or concerns, please call our office at (303) 794-6800.
After Crown and Bridge Appointments
Crowns and bridges usually take two or three appointments to complete. In the first visit, the teeth are prepared and molds of the mouth are taken. Temporary crowns or bridges are placed to protect the teeth while the custom restoration is being made. Since the teeth will be anesthetized, the tongue, lips and roof of the mouth may be numb. Please refrain from eating and drinking hot beverages until the numbness is completely worn off.
Occasionally a temporary crown may come off because of sticky foods like candy or soft bread.. Call us at (303) 794-6800 if this happens. Many times the temporary crown just needs to be cemented and this procedure is included with the free for the new crown or bridge.It is important for the temporary crown or bridge to cover the tooth that is being worked on. It helps to prevent teeth from possibly moving and compromising the fit of your final dental work.
While you are wearing your temporary teeth, avoid eating, soft white bread, hard bread crusts, sticky foods (gum), hard foods like nuts and popcorn when possible. For the first day or two chew on the opposite side of your mouth if you have minor sensitively. It is important to brush normally, but floss carefully. Don’t pull up on the floss against the margin of the temporary crown or bridge. This will loosen the temporary cement holding your dental work in your mouth. Please pull the floss out from the side of the temporary crown.
It is normal to experience some temperature and pressure sensitivity after a filling, crown prep, or dental bridge work. The sensitivity to cold and pressure should ease a few days and may feel great right after the placement of the final restoration. Mild pain medications like Ibuprofen works well for minor dental issues.
If your new crown feels high, if it feels uneven, or if your sensitivity to hot, cold or pressure increases over time, give our dental office a call for a follow up exam. If you have any other questions or concerns, please call our office at (303) 794-6800.
After Tooth Extraction
Our dental team take great care when you as a patient need a tooth extracted. Please inform our dental team if you are currently taking any medication that thins your blood or could increase bleeding. Its important for a blood clot to form to stop the bleeding and begin the healing process after the extraction procedure is complete. Biting on gauze for 20-35 minutes after the toothAfter tooth extraction is important for a blood clot to form. This helps to stop the bleeding and starts the healing process. Putting light pressure using gauze or a tea bag helps to stop bleeding some case you may need to do this several times.
After the blood clot forms, it is important not to disturb or dislodge the clot as it aids healing. Do not rinse vigorously, suck on straws, smoke, drink alcohol or brush teeth next to the extraction site for 72 hours. These activities will dislodge or dissolve the clot and retard the healing process. Limit vigorous exercise for the next 24 hours as this will increase blood pressure and may cause more bleeding from the extraction site.
Please do not disturb the blood clot after the tooth is extracted. It is normal to feel some pain and experience swelling. An ice pack or an unopened bag of frozen peas or corn applied to the area will keep swelling to a minimum. Ask Dr. Becker if you require pain medications. The swelling generally subsides after 48 hours.
If antibiotics are prescribed,you must complete the prescription even if signs and symptoms of infection are gone. May unforeseen issues can arise if you stop taking your antibiotics.Drink lots of fluid and eat nutritious soft food on the day of the extraction to help jump start or body in the healing process. It is recommended to eat a soft diet the following day after an extraction. Please do not smoke or suck liquids through a straw, this could cause the blood clot to be come dislodged and bleed.
It is important to continue your normal dental routine after 24 hours. This should include brushing and flossing your teeth at least once a day. This will speed healing and help keep your mouth fresh and clean.
After a few days you will feel fine and can resume your normal activities. If you have heavy bleeding, severe pain, continued swelling for 2-3 days, or a reaction to the medication, call our office immediately at (303) 794-6800.
Highline Family Dentistry
Address: 2 West Dry Creek Circle, Suite 125, Littleton, CO, 80120
Tel:(303) 794-6800
Fax:(303) 794-1148
Email:info@highlinefamilydentistry.com
Web:Highline Family Dentistry
Hours:
Monday: 8 am – 5 pm
Tuesday: 8 am – 5 pm
Wednesday: 9 am – 5 pm
Thursday: 8 am – 5 pm
Friday: Closed
Weekends: Closed
Request Appointment
Connect & Get Social
Highline Family Dentistry
2 West Dry Creek Circle, Suite 125, Littleton, CO, 80120
(303) 794-6800
(303) 794-1148
info@highlinefamilydentistry.com
Highline Family Dentistry
Patient Resources
Home
Blog
New Patient Forms
Contact Us
Practice Hours
Monday: 8 am - 5 pm
Tuesday: 8 am - 5 pm
Wednesday: 9 am - 5 pm
Thursday: 8 am - 5 pm
Friday: Closed
Weekends: Closed
Connect with Us
Request Appointment
Copyright © 2018 Highline Family Dentistry, PC
Home
Contact
Sitemap
Disclaimer
Back to Top