Sure fire methods for how to get rid of mosquito bites fast – Get Rid Of Flying Pests
bug remedies
bugs info
bug effects curing
✕
Sure fire methods for how to get rid of mosquito bites fast
bug remedies
Daniel Jeffrey December 24, 2017
A sure way to have a delightful day cramped is the nasty mosquito bite. The mosquito bite won’t kill you or make you really sick. Well, unless the nasty little perpetrator has West Nile Virus. But unless there’s reason to assume that, we can proceed with the annoying fact of the itch that won’t let up. What’s to be done?
There are a variety of home remedies that have proven the test of time. Probably none work for everyone, but equally as likely there’s probably (at least one) that’s right for you. So let’s look at some of them.
A popular solution is the baking soda mixed with water approach. Mix enough water to make a thickish paste and apply to the offending area. It will cool it down and perhaps even reduce the swelling. If you’ve really been feasted on by the critters you could pour a whole bunch into a warm bath and soak it out. Sounds luxuriant – well except for the baking soda part, I guess.
Another potential bathing solution is to pour some vinegar into the bath and soak. I’m guessing you shouldn’t mix in both together though. Who knows what happens when you mix baking soda with vinegar? Vinegar can also be topically applied.
And while you’re looking for solutions in the kitchen, how about some honey? Apparently the nectar of the bees has anti-inflammatory and antibacterial properties that can really bring down the mosquito bites. Some people report that lemon juice is helpful, as well. And if you’re hunting down the honey and lemon, might as well make some tea, too, right? Tea bags can be quite good at reducing the swelling. It’s something about the tannins. I suspect herbal teas aren’t doing to do the trick. But, if that’s all you’ve got, give it a try.
Some essential oils are also helpful. Again, this can be a pretty personal thing, but if nothing else is working or its all you have, give either Tea tree oil or lavender a shot
My favorite is Aloe Vera gel. This is the gel from the succulent plant of the same name, a member of the Xanthorrhoeaceae family. For thousands of years there has been claims made for its medicinal benefits. I don’t pretend to know anything about any of that, but it sure works for all kinds of skin irritation. That I can tell you for sure. This stuff is great. Incidentally, it works like nothing else for relief of sun burn (that’s your bonus tip for today), but it also works great for bites. You’ll come across plenty of products that have Aloe Vera as an ingredient. Some are better than others, but I strongly recommend the pure Aloe Vera gel. It is expensive, but an investment more than well worth the money. In the summer, keep it stuck away inconspicuously in the back of the fridge so when you do need it, its nice and cool and soothing when applied.
And of course let us not forget, everyone’s go-to remedy, the good old ice compress. What doesn’t it sooth? Just wrap some ice in a piece of paper towel and apply it to the bite. It will reduce both the itch and the swelling of your mosquito bites. And once you’re done with it, hey, why not make that ice tea?
Hope these tips on how to get rid of mosquito bites fast do the trick for you and allow you to keep enjoying that delightful day – without the annoyance of those tiny little beasts.
Author: Daniel Jeffrey
Previous Article
Light Traps for Stink Bugs
Next Article
Mosquito Patch – Advanced Mosquito Protection
Leave a Comment
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Solve : *
6 − 5 =
Latest Posts
How to Prevent Bed Bugs
Bug Spray for Stink Bugs
Tips on How to Get Rid of Stink Bugs
About me
Daniel Jeffrey
Hello. I’m a professional pest controller. This is my blog where I share experience and give advices regards bed bugs remedies.
Popular
How to Prevent Bed Bugs
If you want to learn how to prevent bed bugs from invad...
Bug Spray for Stink Bugs
The stink bugs are usually present in the gardens but t...
Tips on How to Get Rid of Stink Bugs
Does your home have a funny smell? Then chances are you...
How to Get Rid of Moths
While most moths are essentially harmless in nature, th...
How To Get Rid of Fruit Flies in the Kitchen
Fruit flies get their name from their attraction to fru...
Bed Bugs Rash
Bed bugs rash can be very bad looking on your skin. Act...
Avoiding Bed Bugs While Traveling
Here is some advice on avoiding bed bugs while travelin...
How to Get Rid of Wolf Spiders
Wolf spiders are creepy little buggers. They’ve got big...
Bed Bug Removal
Bed bug removal is the first thing to consider if you h...
Are Bed Bug Bites Contagious?
Are bed bug bites contagious? The answer is – no. Bed b...
2019 © Get Rid Of Flying Pests