Natural Remedies for Morning Sickness (that work fast!) - Birth Eat Love
Healthy lifestyles for motherhood and beyond
Pinterest
Facebook
Instagram
Toggle navigation
Healthy Pregnancy
Postpartum
Healthy Eating
About
Shop
Contact
Natural Remedies for Morning Sickness (that work fast!)
April 10, 2018 April 11, 2019 LisaG
Thanks for stopping by! Are you looking to get healthier in 2019? Check out one of my favorite resources! This is going to be a game changer for you!. Healthy eating can be easy! Take a Look!
Sharing is caring!
Share
Pin
963shares
Looking for quick and easy morning sickness remedies that actually work to relieve early pregnancy symptoms? There are natural remedies for morning sickness that you can try. You don’t have to keep suffering through all day morning sickness. These tips on how to stop morning sickness in early pregnancy can help.
Morning sickness is very common in early pregnancy and can cause loss of appetite, headaches, nausea, and vomiting. You may even experience morning sickness all day. Many pregnant women even have morning sickness at night! However, if you are in your first trimester, this is totally normal!
Morning sickness feels somewhat like getting the flu, if you have never experienced it before. Body aches, nausea and vomiting are the most common complaints in early pregnancy. You may even feel like you have food poisoning.
The good thing is that usually morning sickness ends on its own around 12 weeks of pregnancy.
But the truth is, you don’t have to suffer through morning sickness! There are a few things you can do right now to naturally relieve the nausea and vomiting of pregnancy.
{Disclosure: This post may contain affiliate or referral links. Read our full disclosure here.}
How to Stop Morning Sickness in Early Pregnancy
After suffering through morning sickness with my first 3 pregnancies, I knew when I got pregnant with my 4th that I would have to do something different.
How could I take care of 3 kids and my daily responsibilities while having morning sickness all day? I was determined to figure out a way to thrive and feel my best during the first trimester and take care of everything on my plate too.
I searched google and my favorite natural health websites until I came up with a plan of action. What I share with you below is the morning sickness remedies that worked for me to relieve morning sickness symptoms.
I am going to tell you, I was honestly surprised at how well these natural remedies for morning sickness worked to relieve nausea. I went from barely able to get up in the morning and struggling with feelings of nausea all day, to feeling energetic and relatively normal (considering that I was growing a tiny human).
The best part – I was able to keep up with my 3 kids for the most part, rather than being miserable all the time.
Ready for morning sickness relief tips that work?
Disclaimer: The content shared in this post and on this site is meant for informational purposes only and should not replace medical advice. Please seek the advice of your care giver when making decisions regarding your pregnancy.
Watch the video for a quick overview of the tips below.
Morning Sickness Tip #1 – Investigate gut health
Did you know that the health of your gut can impact not only your overall health but that of your growing baby too? I didn’t know anything about this until my 4th pregnancy, but there is a growing base of research showing the link between a mother’s gut health and her baby and how that can impact future health.
Adding in foods that support a healthy gut during pregnancy is beneficial for both you and baby and it’s my #1 tip for getting morning sickness relief. Fermented foods like yogurt, saurkraut, kefir, kombucha and kimchi can help to boost your gut flora. Taking a prenatal vitamin that contain probiotics like this one is also a good way to boost your gut health.
I personally found sipping ginger flavored kombucha amazing for settling my stomach when I had morning sickness! Kombucha contains vitamins b6, b2 and b1, which are shown to help with morning sickness (source).
Tips for drinking kombucha during pregnancy:
Start with small amounts (especially if you haven’t had it before)
Drink it about 1 hr to 30 mins before meals
Read this post from Mama Natural on the benefits and risks of drinking kombucha during pregnancy
Also, I found yogurt and sauerkraut foods that I could eat during the 1st trimester. I would eat the plain, full -fat yogurt topped with fresh berries, chia, hemp and flax seeds in the morning and in the evening before going to bed. I would eat about ¼ cup of sauerkraut with lunch and dinner.
Are you eating any of these?? I find boosting gut flora stimulates your appetite, or at least relieves the morning sickness for periods, so that you can eat, even if it is just small amounts.
Morning Sickness Tip #2 – Get an Eating Strategy
While you may have no appetite, you have to eat a little something to sustain yourself. A good rule is to never go with an empty stomach. Having an empty stomach can actually worsen nausea.
This is a good time to start thinking about what to eat during pregnancy and when to eat.
Figuring out what to eat during pregnancy was one of my biggest challenges the first few times. Once you learn a few basic principles of nourishing your pregnant body it becomes much easier!
Try these foods that are good for Morning Sickness Relief:
Eat a handful of nuts (almonds) in the morning before you get out of bed.
Then try to get (force) yourself to eat breakfast. My favorites that helped me overcome my morning (all the time!) sickness :
Oatmeal + fresh ginger + cinnamon + a mashed banana + a big spoonful (or 2) of coconut oil
Gluten free bagel + lots of (full fat) cream cheese + smoked salmon (lox) + either sliced avocado or sliced tomato
Fried egg + either white rice or quinoa + chopped tomato drizzled with olive oil, sea salt and pepper
Related – 7 Healthy Pregnancy Breakfast Ideas
The key here is to get carbs + fats + protein in the morning. Once you get that first meal down its easier the rest of the day.
Then make sure you carry a snack for mid morning and mid afternoon –
Trail mix
Apples or carrots + peanut butter or hummus
Lara bars
Related – Amazingly Healthy Snacks for Pregnancy
Make sure to sign up for the Birth Eat Love email list below so that you can get a free PDF with 17 of the best foods to eat during pregnancy to nourish your body and baby!
Morning Sickness Tip #3 – Magnesium
Magnesium plays a large role in how we feel during pregnancy. I highly recommend taking Epsom salt baths. It’s relaxing, actually lowers your blood pressure, and also is a good source of magnesium. This helped me tremendously. If you are unable to eat, try adding Epsom salt to your bath for a few days and see if it helps. If you aren’t a bath person there are lotions like this one that you can use.
Morning Sickness Tip #4 – Ginger
Ginger is your best friend in early pregnancy. Start your day with ginger tea with fresh lemon juice and honey. Ginger is great for treating nausea. It soothes the stomach and reduces inflammation. Its is one of the best teas for morning sickness relief.
Eat fresh ginger in baked goods, in oatmeal, mixed in soups and dinner recipes. Ginger tummy drops like these are also really great to relieve nausea associated with morning sickness.
Morning Sickness Tip #5 – Drink herbal tea
Herbal tea not only can help settle your stomach, but it can also help you stay hydrated and provide much needed nourishment. Sip pregnancy tea like this one I love or nettle tea throughout the 1st trimester to help relieve morning sickness naturally.
What is the best tea for morning sickness?
Ginger tea
Peppermint tea
Pregnancy Tea – this is a tea blend of beneficial herbs for pregnancy
Nettle leaf tea
These teas are caffeine free, pregnancy safe teas that can help reduce the feeling of nausea during pregnancy.
Read my post on the best herbal teas for pregnancy and postpartum here for more ideas on harnessing the power of herbs during pregnancy.
Related: Red Raspberry Leaf Pregnancy Iced Tea Recipe
Morning Sickness Tip #6 – Try to stay positive –
I know that may sound silly, but its really helps. An affirmation I love for early pregnancy is “This may be hard, but I can do it!” Reassure yourself constantly. This is just a phase and it will pass. You are strong enough and can do this whole pregnancy, motherhood thing.
Remember this is a natural part of pregnancy and you will overcome it and be stronger for it. Need some inspiration? Check out my Pinterest Board with 1000+ birth and pregnancy affirmations!
These are just a few simple morning sickness remedies and tips that you can try to relieve morning sickness naturally during pregnancy.
Tried everything and still suffering with morning sickness? Struggling with Hyperemesis Gravidarum? Check out these books for a holistic approach.
Read the full review of Real Food for Pregnancy Here!
More Healthy Pregnancy Resources from Birth Eat Love
The Nourishing Your Pregnant Body Series
How to start a healthy pregnancy routine – so that you can not just survive pregnancy, but thrive.
Amazingly Healthy Snacks for Pregnancy to Try Right Now
Healthy Pregnancy Dinner Recipes (Superfood Edition)
Found these tips helpful? Save this post for later! Click the Pinterest button to see additional images to pin!
If you try any of these tips and they work for you, please comment below! What worked to relieve your morning sickness? We would love to hear about your success with relieving morning sickness!
Healthy Pregnancy Made Easy!
A 1-page PDF with 17 Ways to Nourish Your Pregnant Body. Learn what to eat daily, a few times a week, and for a energy boost, so that you can feel your best during pregnancy!
Success! Now check your email to confirm your subscription.
There was an error submitting your subscription. Please try again.
First Name
Email Address
We use this field to detect spam bots. If you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer.
I'd like to receive the free email course.
Yes Please!
We won't send you spam. Unsubscribe at any time. Powered by ConvertKit
Healthy Pregnancy advice, first time mom, morning sickness, pregnancy, pregnancy diet, pregnancy tips. permalink.
Post navigation
Amazingly Healthy Snacks for Pregnancy to Try Right Now
3 Must Know Tips Before Making Freezer Meals for Postpartum
5 thoughts on “Natural Remedies for Morning Sickness (that work fast!)”
Angela Cameron says:
February 5, 2018 at 10:27 am
I’m SO grateful for “No to morning sickness tea”. I wish I had found it with my two other pregnancies. I have had terrible morning/all day sickness, and this kick it pretty effectively. I have not thrown up or nauseous once since I started using the tea.﻿
Reply
LisaG says:
February 7, 2018 at 8:10 pm
Thanks for your comment! I’m so glad that you found a natural remedy that worked for you Angela! That tea contains peppermint which is also very good for morning sickness!
Reply
LisaG says:
February 7, 2018 at 8:11 pm
Secrets Of Tea No to Morning Sickness Tea – http://amzn.to/2GUx47n
Reply
Aubree says:
March 2, 2018 at 9:50 pm
I have LOVED this post! It was very different from all of the other morning sickness posts I’ve read. I’m currently struggling with chasing 2 kids while pregnant with my third, so I’m really excited to try out these tips. Thanks!
Reply
LisaG says:
March 3, 2018 at 7:33 am
Thank you so much Aubree! I hope some of the tips help! Keep reassuring yourself, it’s hard being pregnant and have little ones, but you can do it! Best wishes!
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Birth Eat Love is dedicated to helping moms prepare for pregnancy, postpartum and mom life. Lisa is a Mom of 4 that has spent the past 12 years researching and testing the best foods for pregnancy and breastfeeding. Here you will find her top tips and resources to make it EASIER to juggle mom life and healthy eating. She is the author of the ebook Healing Freezer Meals for Postpartum and Breastfeeding.
Learn More
Popular
Recent
Amazingly Healthy Snacks for Pregnancy to Try Right Now Mar 17, 2018
7 Healthy Pregnancy Breakfast Ideas Sep 28, 2018
Raspberry Leaf Tea for Pregnancy – Does It Really Work??? Mar 29, 2019
The Water Birth Story of Baby Violet Dec 19, 2016
The REAL reason Moms need meal planning Mar 10, 2018
11 Common Pregnancy Diet Mistakes (And How to Avoid Them!) Apr 7, 2019
Raspberry Leaf Tea for Pregnancy – Does It Really Work??? Mar 29, 2019
15 Healthy Pregnancy Drinks (that are yummy and actually good for you) Mar 21, 2019
The Ultimate List of Food for Pregnancy and Breastfeeding Mar 17, 2019
Best Foods To Eat After Birth For A Strong Postpartum Recovery Feb 27, 2019
Bethany Dykman on Top Real Food Pregnancy Diet Questions Answered
So much valuable and helpful information in this interview (...)
LisaG on Raspberry Leaf Tea for Pregnancy – Does It Really Work???
Thanks for sharing Regan! I find it interesting that it (...)
Regan on Raspberry Leaf Tea for Pregnancy – Does It Really Work???
I drank RRL nearly everyday for the entire pregnancy. I had (...)
LisaG on 5 Surprising Foods to Avoid for Successful Breastfeeding
Thanks for your comment Sidney! I am sure there are lots of (...)
Sidney Poole on 5 Surprising Foods to Avoid for Successful Breastfeeding
I’m sure you are right about these foods, but that cuts (...)
Looking for Something…
Search for:
Pregnant? Start Here!
Amazon Affiliate Disclosure
Birth Eat Love is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com.
Home
About Me
Freezer Meals Ebook
Disclosure Policy
Privacy Policy
Birth Eat Love. All rights reserved. Unite Theme powered by WordPress.
963shares