First Case of AIDS-like Virus in a Wild Chimpanzee - Scientific American
Skip to main content
Subscribe
Menu
Scientific American
Cart 0
Sign In
Email *: Password *: Forgot password?
Login
Not yet registered?
|Stay Informed
Search
Subscribe
Close
Search
Close
Advanced Search
The Sciences
Mind
Health
Tech
Sustainability
Education
Video
Podcasts
Blogs
Publications
Subscribe
Current Issue
Cart0
Sign In
Stay Informed
Share
Latest
Health
First Case of AIDS-like Virus in a Wild Chimpanzee
By Sarah Graham on January 18, 2002
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Reddit
Share on LinkedIn
Share via
Print
Advertisement
Image COURTESY OF IAN C. GILBY
One of the many daunting questions facing researchers studying the AIDS virus is where, exactly, it came from. The prevailing theory suggests that it arose from a related diseasesimian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)that jumped from chimpanzees to humans. To date, however, only a few captive animals have tested positive for the virus, puzzling scientists looking for a natural reservoir of SIV in the wild. Now a new report published in Science describes the first case of SIV discovered in a wild chimpanzee, providing further clues as to where the origins of AIDS may lie.
Using a non-invasive test for SIV that detects the virus from antibodies present in urine and feces, Mario Santiago of the University of Alabama at Birmingham and colleagues tested 58 wild chimpanzees in Ivory Coast, Uganda and Tanzania. One animal, a healthy 23-year-old male in Tanzania, tested positive. "To find this virus for the first time in the wild opens a window of opportunity to begin to study the natural transmissibility of these types of viruses in their natural host," study co-author George Shaw explains. Moreover, the discovery of this animal, he says, is "one of the many pieces required to absolutely, definitely prove and ultimately understand how it is the chimp got the virus from something, carried it for a long period of time, and then transmitted it to humans."
The infected chimp resides in Gombe Stream National Park, a refuge made famous by primatologist Jane Goodall. Because Goodall and colleagues have studied him for nearly 20 years, the scientists can analyze all his previous mates and offspring to elucidate how the SIV virus propagates in the wild. "From such studies could come clues to why the disease is benign in chimpanzees but virulent in humans," Shaw says. According to the report, the prevalence of SIV infection among wild chimps is "surprisingly low" and additional field studies are required to better understand its epidemiology.
Analysis of the SIV strain the chimp carries found it different from all previously known strains of both SIV or HIV-1, the virus that causes AIDS. Because of this divergence, the scientists conclude that chimpanzees from the same subspecies (Pan troglodytes schweinfurthii), which reside in East Africa, did not pass the virus to humans. Instead, Shaw says, the finding provides support for the popular theory that chimpanzees from west central Africa, the subspecies Pan troglodytes troglodytes, transmitted it. The next step, he notes, will be to study wild chimps in west Africa for further clues to the circumstances and reasons behind the ascent of AIDS.
ABOUT THE AUTHOR(S)
Sarah Graham
Recent Articles
Young Universe Home to 'Big Baby' Galaxy, Astronomers Report
Protein Gives Bald Mice Luxurious Locks
Watching World Series Causes Drop In Hospital Visits
Read This Next
The Sciences
DEATH OF A VACCINE?
July 1, 1999 — Carol Ezzell
The Sciences
Why Haven't We Found an AIDS Vaccine?
February 1, 2001 — Nancy Padian
Health
Controversial AIDS Theory Suffers Fatal Blow
April 27, 2001 — Kate Wong
Advertisement
Newsletter
Get smart. Sign up for our email newsletter.
Sign Up
Expertise. Insights. Illumination.
Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners.
Subscribe Now!
Follow us
instagram
soundcloud
youtube
twitter
facebook
rss
Scientific american arabic
العربية
Store
About
Press Room
FAQs
Contact Us
Site Map
Advertise
SA Custom Media
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Use of Cookies
International Editions
Scientific American is part of Springer Nature, which owns or has commercial relations with thousands of scientific publications (many of them can be found at www.springernature.com/us). Scientific American maintains a strict policy of editorial independence in reporting developments in science to our readers.
© 2019 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc.
All Rights Reserved.
Scroll To Top
Deep Dives in Science -- Subscribe to our Collector's Editions Today
Learn More
You have free articles left.
Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.
See subscription options
Already a subscriber? Sign in.
You have no free articles left.
Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.
Sign In
See Subscription Options