10 Reasons To Have A Himalayan Salt Lamp In Every Room Of Your Home
Menu
Alternative Medicine
Diet & Weight Loss
Fitness
Health
Lifestyle
Natural Recipes
Natural Remedies & Cures
We all like sweets but we like ourself more! Healthy food will give you that sexy wealthy look
Join Us Now For Free
Home
Health
Himalayan Salt Lamps and Their Incredible Health Benefits
Health
Himalayan Salt Lamps and Their Incredible Health Benefits
Alternative Health Universe April 11, 2019
173
SHARES
ShareTweet
What Are Himalayan Salt Lamps?
Himalayan salt lamps are all the rage right now, and you most likely have heard a lot about them. However, do you really know what they are? Himalayan salt lamps are a source of clean and fresh air in your home. As such, they have countless benefits for our health.
How Do They Work?
Let’s talk some chemistry. All matter in nature including the human body is made of molecules. Molecules are made of atoms, while atoms are made of three different particles – electrons, neutrons, and protons. These electrons orbit molecules like planets do around stars. From time to time, an electron might fly off, leaving a positively-charged ion which needs to fill the void left by the electron. In order to do this, it must borrow steal an electron from another molecule. Not all materials lose electrons in the same way – some lose them more frequently than others.
Now that you know more about molecules and atoms, you’ll have an easier time understanding how Himalayan salt lamps work. They are essentially natural ionizers that can change the electrical charge of the air in your home. By attracting water particles that later evaporate off the lamps themselves, they produce negative ions that have numerous health benefits.
Here are the top health benefits of Himalayan salt lamps:
They Can Help Treat Allergy Symptoms
Himalayan salt lamps are said to clear the air of different pollutants including dust, pet dander, and mold. Put a lamp or two in your living room and bedroom to clean the air in your home and reduce the exposure to pollutants that might be behind your allergies.
You should notice the difference in a week or two.
They Clean and Deodorize the Air
The biggest benefit of Himalayan salt lamps is the fact that they clean and deodorize the air in your home. Put one in your living room and it’ll remove pollutants, cigarette smoke, and other contaminants from the air thanks to its hygroscopic properties.
Never heard the term? Don’t worry – most people haven’t. Hygroscopy is the process of attracting molecules from the surrounding area then absorbing them and other foreign particles into the salt crystal.
By heating the water up, it evaporates back into the air without the pollutants, which are now locked in the crystal itself.
They Help You Breathe Better
The hygroscopic properties of Himalayan salt lamps will clean the air in your home and ease coughing and other respiratory problems. When the now clean water evaporates back in the air, it boosts the cilial activity in your lungs, helping you breathe easier.
Eliminate Electromagnetic Radiation
Tech devices we constantly use nowadays emit a lot of electromagnetic radiation which is much more harmful than you think. EM radiation may be invisible, but that doesn’t make it any less harmful. Removing it from your home can be tricky unless you have a Himalayan salt lamp.
Thanks to their ability to emit negative ions, Himalayan salt lamps can neutralize electromagnetic radiation and reduce its harmful effects.
They Boost Your Energy Levels
You’re probably wondering “How the hell can Himalayan salt lamps boost my energy levels?!” Well, we did mention they release negative ions into the air, right? Positively charged ions sap our bodies of energy, while negative ones recharge our batteries.
So, put a Himalayan salt lamp in your home and you’ll feel much better in a while.
Improve Your Sleep
If you’re suffering from insomnia and nothing seems to help, you’ll be pleased to know that Himalayan salt lamps can. The positive ions floating in the air in our homes zap our oxygen and blood supply to the brain, resulting in irregular sleeping patterns. A Himalayan salt lamp can fix this by neutralizing the effects of positive ions and improving your sleep.
So, put one in your bedroom and you should notice the effects immediately.
They Improve Your Focus and Mood
Himalayan salt lamps are one of the best ways to improve your mood and relax in stressful times. The negative ions they release will reduce your stress and boost the supply of blood and oxygen to the brain, making you feel better immediately.
They Neutralize Static Electricity
Although not exactly a health benefit on its own, the lamps can reduce static electricity in the air which can be a real pain in the a** sometimes. It can mess with your hair and make it impossible to clean dust. Thanks to Himalayan salt lamps, you don’t have to worry about it anymore.
Excellent Environmentally-Friendly Light Source
Himalayan salt lamps usually use low-wattage bulbs that consume almost no energy. Put one in your home and you get a great environmentally-friendly light source.
Treat Seasonal Affective Disorder
The soft, natural light emitted by the lamps resembles the warm sunshine in spring, which can work wonders against seasonal affective disorder. With a Himalayan salt lamp in your living room, you can finally defeat the lethargy that often affects you during the change of seasons.
Share
Pinterest
Tweet
Stumble
Email
Linkedin
Google+
Prev Article
Next Article
Related Articles
Do you know what Helicobacter Pylori is? H. Pylori is …
Here’s How To Destroy H. Pylori, The Bacterium Responsible For Bloating And Heartburn!
Excess weight gain is a serious aesthetical and health problem …
Here’s How To Remove All The Toxins Stored In Your Fat Cells!
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Popular Posts
We Bet You Didn’t Know These Banana …
April 24, 2019 0
Actor Morgan Freeman Creates A Bee Sanctuary …
March 27, 2019 0
A Revolutionary Discovery – We Can Finally …
April 1, 2019 0
France is the First EU Country to …
April 1, 2019 0
14 Of The Most Surprising Uses Of …
April 3, 2019 0
Recent Comments
Denise on Put This Amazing Remedy Under Your Tongue Before Bed And Sleep As A Baby !
Sondra on Put This Amazing Remedy Under Your Tongue Before Bed And Sleep As A Baby !
Dolores Peluso on Half A Cup Of This Remedy Every Morning Will Treat Anxiety, Depression, Bone Pain And Diabetes!
Mary on Use CBD Oil Against Inflammation, Anxiety, Pain Etc. And Gain These Amazing Benefits!
Customeressay on Feeling Heavier Than You Are? Here’s How To Lose Your Water Weight!
Archives
Archives Select Month April 2019 March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 December 2018 November 2018 June 2018 May 2018 April 2018 March 2018 February 2018 January 2018 December 2017 November 2017 October 2017 September 2017 August 2017 July 2017
Alternative Health Universe
Get the daily dose Health!
Copyright © 2019 Alternative Health Universe
Home | Privacy Policy | Terms And Conditions | Sitemap | Disclaimer | Contact us
Ad Blocker Detected
Our website is made possible by displaying online advertisements to our visitors. Please consider supporting us by disabling your ad blocker.
Refresh