Chef Jeenas food recipes: Benefits of Himalayan Pink Salt
skip to main | skip to sidebar
Friday, 8 May 2009
Benefits of Himalayan Pink Salt
I always thought that I was being really healthy by buying 'sea salt' from the shops to use in my cooking - that is, until I researched about salt and the human body.
I found that not only are a lot of these so called 'sea salts' bad for your body but that also the best salt to use, in my opinion, is a natural pink crystal salt from the Himalayas.
What is Himalayan Crystal Salt?
Himalayan pink salts are the most natural, cleanest and most pure salts found on the face of the earth. The salts are a fossilized sea salt that have been dried by the sun over millions of years from a time when there was no man made pollution on the planet.
Himalayan crystal salts are pink in colour unlike the normal standard table or 'sea salt', this is because the minerals in the salts have not been removed by the refining process.
Picture of Himalayan salt rocks.
What makes Himalayan Salt healthier than Table Salt?
Himalayan salts contain a massive 84 minerals and trace elements such as copper, potassium, magnesium, calcium and iron to name only a few - the pink colour in the salt is due to the Iron content within the salt.
Himalayan salts helps eliminate toxins from the body, helps circulation, and helps to balance the body's PH levels (acid/alkaline balance ), keeps the nervous system working correctly and keeps your muscles in tact as well as relaxing muscles.
The tiny mineral particles in the Himalayan sea salt are metabolised easily inside your body to help the human cells function correctly.
It is not only health and culinary reasons that people like to use this sea salt, people also like to bath in these salts and use them for therapeutic purposes.
Pictures of salts (Himalayan on the left - Refined sea salt on the right)
Table salt and sea salt
As you are aware doctors and health experts will say that too much salt is bad for your health and advise people to lower their salt intake.
This is true with any salt even the most natural cleanest salt on earth can be bad for you if it is consumed to excess. But why are refined salts so much more unhealthier than unrefined natural salts such as the Himalayan?
Pictures of refined sea salt.
Refined salts are just sodium chloride, standard table salt and even most varieties of sea and rock salt have the minerals removed from the salt because they are refined.
The minerals are classed as impurities and are stripped from the salt which leaves the salt with no mineral content and just a high amount of sodium chloride. This is extremely unhealthy for the body as high amounts of it cannot be excreted from the body and cause all kinds of health problems as it can store in the body (bones and organs).
Sodium chloride needs the other trace minerals in the correct amounts for it to function correctly in your body.
We all need salt to live as our body's are made up of water and salt it is very important. But do you really want to put a refined salt that has been heated up to a massive 1200F and had every nutrient stripped from it into your body?
One of the differences between a natural salt such as Himalayan salt crystals and refined salts such as table salt or other so called 'sea salts' is of the moisture content of the salt.
When you sprinkle refined table salt onto your food you may notice that the little round grains sprinkle easily onto your food, you may also notice that if you pinch some of this salt between your fingers you can feel the little round grains that are all separated from one another and easily sprinkle straight from your fingers onto your food. None of the table salt would remain on your fingers would it? Who wants salty fingers anyway right?
Pictures of Refined Sea Salt...
See how I can barley pinch the salt as the free flowing grains of refined salt fall straight from my fingers.
There is no trace of refined salt left on my fingers because the sea salt has been treated with chemicals and heat.
See how the refined sea salt sprinkles each little round grain from off the spoon like sand.
Now lets compare the difference....
Pictures of Himalayan Pink Sea Salt...
Himalayan salts are not tiny little balls of highly treated sodium chloride - it is a moisture and mineral rich salt see how it clumps together in my fingers.
Now see how the Himalayan pink sea salt sticks to my fingers because of the moisture within the salt.
Himalayan salts do not lightly fall from my fingers like refined salt grains even when rubbing my fingers together.
See how the Himalayan sea salt sits on the spoon as I turn the spoon onto its side, this is due to the moisture inside the natural sea salt.
Rather than little round grains of dry salt sprinkling off the spoon like the refined salt, the Himalayan salt slides and drops off the spoon in one clump.
The same about moisture can be said for some other natural sea salts such as Celtic sea salt and Atlantic sea salt which are also unrefined.
Pictures of Atlantic sea salt which is also natural.
See the moisture within the Atlantic sea salt.
How Do People Use Himalayan Pink Salts?
You can use Himalayan salts just as you would any other salt to season food. Some people find that less salt is actually needed because the taste is so good.
People also use Himalayan salts in bath water or to help in nasal irrigation and cleansing the sinuses.
Picture of Himalayan sea salt.
Sole...
There is also a method of using salt and water together which is called Sole (so-lay).
Sole is a water and salt solution that is identical to not only the ocean but our tears and blood too. By taking 1 teaspoon of this sole liquid a day it is thought to help eliminate different health problems and help to body function correctly.
How Sole is Prepared Using Himalayan Rock Salts
Place some salt crystals into a glass jar or container and fill up with pure water.
After a 24 hour period check the glass jar to see if the salts have fully dissolved. If the salts in the jar have dissolved add some more salt.
The salt crystals will sit at the bottom of the jar when the water can no longer dissolve anymore salt. Now it is a full 26% solution and is ready to use as sole.
It is only when the salt crystals sit at the bottom of the jar that the sole is ready. This is the exact same percentage of salt - water ratio as the ocean and as yours tears.
The correct way of taking sole is to take 1 teaspoon in the morning before breakfast.
People can feel that they have more energy and sleep a lot better by including sole or using Himalayan salts for culinary uses.
Always consult your doctor before making changes to your diet especially if you suffer from any illnesses.
Picture of Himalayan rock salts.
Salt Clinics?
There are places in the world where there are salt clinics based inside salt mines where people with congestive disorders go to be cured.
The salt mines help to clear out their bronchial tubes and sinuses because it is an 'negative ion eviroment' - salt is also naturally anti-bacterial.
Who could imagine that being inside a huge salt filled cave could be so good for your breathing over the air we breathe outside.
There are even clinics which mimic the inside of the salt mines to help people with restiportry deseases. This is because the real salt mines have been so sucessful in helping relieve symptoms for thousands of people.
Pictures of Himalayan salts.
Salt and Water
Remember that you need to drink fresh water everyday to balance your salt intake. Just the same if you drink a lot of water but do not consume enough salt this is not good for your health either as you need a balance of both salt and water for good health.
Using natural sea salts like the Himalayan pink salt can not only help to keep your body healthy but by not using refined salts you could lower your risk of getting many health problems.
Do remember that if you take salt in excess it will be bad for your health no matter how natural it is, so do not take large amounts of salts just because it is natural or else it defeats the whole object - which is to keep you healthy.
Remember that there is a reason why doctors tell you to lower your salt intake - because sodium chloride is extremely bad for your health. Real salt however is essential for your body to function correctly - ask your doctor - without salt our bodies will not work.
We cannot help every single tiny amount of salt we eat because most people do buy food with salt already in there whether it be a loaf of bread, tin of beans or the odd treat while we are out of the house. But when it comes to adding salt to your food and cooking you should be aware of the difference between natural and refined salts so that you can make a well informed decision.
Read the labels of the salts in your local shops and see which salt is the healthiest for you. You could be amazed at the difference,remember you do not need as much natural salts in cooking as the flavour is so good.
If you enjoyed reading this post then keep logging on as I am updating my food blog soon with a post about the importance of drinking water.
Posted by Chef Jeena at 07:59
Labels: health benefits of salt, himalayan pink salt, natural salt, rock salts, salt nutrition
27 comments:
Dawn said...
no kidding! I had no idea it had that many minerals in it.
gee, thanks for that post, I know I appreciate it.
8 May 2009 at 21:01
Parita said...
Wow thats such useful information about himalayan sea salt...thanks jeena for posting this :)
8 May 2009 at 21:11
Pooja said...
Wow that was great info Jeena. I never knew the difference or I should say never cared to research too..this has really opened my eyes! Thanks a ton for sharing :)
9 May 2009 at 00:26
A_and_N said...
This is really interesting, valuable information. Thanks!
9 May 2009 at 01:53
Ann said...
This is an amazing info, Thanks! Where do I get Himalayan salt in US? and when u refer sea salt do u mean Kosher salt?
9 May 2009 at 02:00
Seena said...
Got much information, Jeena. though we don't look for the brands, we get such moist salt.. :)
9 May 2009 at 07:10
Jeena said...
Thank you for your comments everyone. :-)
Ann, next time you buy your salt have a look on the packaging and it should tell you how natural or refined it is.
In the UK when foods are 'Kosher' the food just has a little symbol on it to say it is kosher. Here we don't get salt that is referred to as just 'kosher'.
Thanks.
9 May 2009 at 07:43
Happy cook said...
I use them too something which i leanrned from my MIL, but have to say it is expensive, the himalayan salt here.
9 May 2009 at 09:45
Ramya Vijaykumar said...
Wow Jeena, perfect write up... Until about a yr ago I never knew that pink salt from Himalayas are good, I watched a show about salt and the varieties and I was so shocked to see that there were slabs of salt on which meat was cooked... You have added more info, thanx for sharing!!!
9 May 2009 at 10:31
Yasmeen said...
Awesome info. on salts.Wish we just had more natural salts sold in stores.
9 May 2009 at 11:45
Gita's Kitchen said...
Great post Jeena, thanks for all the wonderful information, this one is an eye-opener :)
9 May 2009 at 15:08
Anonymous said...
Hi from the westcoast! Thank you for your info on H. salts. You answered a lot of questions for me - have often seen these salts in my grocery store - now I know all about them! I will definately be buying these salts.
Thanks again,
Ina Gawne
Westcoast, B.C.
10 May 2009 at 15:31
ARUNA said...
thanks for a wonderful post and an awesome information.......that's a lottt of research Jeena!!!Very interesting and valuable!
10 May 2009 at 15:51
lissie said...
enjoyed reading your post...nice information. beautiful pictures of the Himalayan salt!
10 May 2009 at 17:45
Jeena said...
Thanks everyone fo rthe great feedback.
Hi Ina from the westcoast. :-)
10 May 2009 at 18:01
Madhumathi said...
Thats a very informative post,Jeena.
Love the pictures too.Thanks!
10 May 2009 at 18:53
Pam said...
What an informative post...I learned a lot - thanks!
10 May 2009 at 19:06
Anita said...
Great info about the differences between the salts, thanks! I think the Himalayan Pink salt is such a gorgeous colour :)
11 May 2009 at 11:41
Anonymous said...
Such a great post Jeenas :). I will look for Himalayan salts in health shop.
(Nellie :))
12 May 2009 at 10:41
Bharti said...
Interesting post Jeena. Never heard of this salt before.
14 May 2009 at 02:43
Madu said...
thanks jeena you have shared really important information..I had no idea about this.. Keep it up. I really admire it. your recipes too.
2 October 2009 at 19:35
Anonymous said...
Great info, thank you. I was hoping to find a site that can explain the benefits of this salt easily and clearly so I can tell more people about it.
2 July 2010 at 18:28
haydfoodie said...
The sole solution can also be used in the water bottle that many of us carry in our day to day routine. By adding just a small amount of solution without over powering the quantity in taste you end up with a high quality water simalar to saline which one would be given for dehighdration but drinkable.This can be absorbed by the body faster than any other form of water.Which makes it a great recharge for the active sport minded person
11 August 2010 at 06:45
Anonymous said...
I get the H salt at Trader Joes, it comes with a built in grinder and very inexpensive. Thank you for the info
17 August 2010 at 19:48
Sarah said...
Thanks for the info! I found a recipe calling for "Hawaiian sea salt" and heard someone found it at Trader Joe's. They didn't have that, but they did have Himalayan Pink Salt that comes in a grinder. I'm looking forward to trying it, especially after reading about its health benefits.
It wasn't expensive at Trader Joe's. It was less than $2.
24 August 2010 at 05:43
Hip hop scholar said...
Thanks for the info geena
4 October 2010 at 22:07
christie NG said...
well, after reading your posts, now I know more info with the Himalayan Pink Salt I'vw just bought. Thanks Jeena for this useful and interesting facts.
22 March 2011 at 06:32
Post a Comment
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Home
About us
Google Chef
Cake Recipes 1
Cake Recipes 2
Chicken Recipes Index
Curry Recipes 1
Curry Recipes 2
Cookie/Biscuit Recipes Index
Eggless/Egg Free Index
Family Food Recipes Index
Fish Recipes Index
Gluten Free/Celiac Index 1
Gluten Free/Celiac Index 2
Gluten Free/Celiac Index 3
Lamb & Beef Recipes Index
Meat Alternatives Index
Other Food Recipes Index
Pasta/ Rice/ Noodle Recipe Index
Pastry and Bread Recipe Index
Saturday Kitchen Recipes Index
Soup and Stew Recipes Index
Vegan Recipes Index 1
Vegan Recipes Index 2
Vegan Recipes Index 3
Vegan Recipes Index 4
Vegan Recipes Index 5
Vegetarian Recipes Index
Vegetarian Recipes Index 2
5 a Day Recipes Index 1
5 a Day Recipes Index 2
5 a Day Recipes Index 3
Video Food Recipes Index
Nutrition pages
How to make Butter Chicken
How to make a Chicken Curry
How to make Onion Bhajis
How to make Vegetarian Curry
How to make a Vegetable stir fry
How to make a Vegan Bakewell
Aduki Bean Curry
Bean Sprout/ Buckwheat Dosa
Butter Bean Hummus
Caramelized Onion Hummus
Chickpea Hummus
Chickpea Patties
Curried Peas and Beans
Double Bean Dinner
Easy Bean Burgers
Hummus
Lebanese Style Vegetarian Kebab
Mung Bean Shepherds Pie
Mung Bean Sprout Dosa
Paprika and Red Pepper Hummus
Parippu Dhal Curry
Red Lentil Flan
Soy Bean Stew
Spicy Chickpea Patties
Split Pea Curry
Thick Spicy Mixed Pea Curry
Vegetarian Burgers/Patties
Vegetarian Chilli Con Carni
Vegetarian Kofta Curry
Vegetarian Seekh Kebabs
Vegetarian Shepherds Pie
Baked Onion Bhajee
Caramelized Onions
Cheesy Mashed Potatoes
Cucumber Yogurt
Curried Mushrooms and Potatoes
Curry Pasty
Egg Curry
Fennel Stir Fry
Green Pepper Relish
Hash Brown
Kale Stir Fry
Low Fat Oven Chips
Moroccon zucchini Sauce
Onion Bhaji's
Perfect Mashed Potato
Roasted Vegetables
Spiced Vegetable Couscous
Spicy Egg Curry
Spicy Mushrooms
Sweet Tomato and Carrot Cannelloni
Tofu Curry
Vegetable Curry
Vegetable Hotpot with Dumplings
Vegetable Soya Rice
Vegetable Stir Fry
Vegetarian Bolognese Sauce
Vegetarian Stuffed Peppers
Veggie Curry
White and Sweet Potato Chips
Aromatic Rice
Beef and Spinach Rice
Beef Rigatoni
Cauliflower Cheese
Chicken Biryani
Easy Salmon Pasta
How to cook Basmati Rice
Lamb Spaghetti
Mushroom Pea Rice
Pasta Special
Quick Vegetable Pasta
Sausage Extravaganza
Smoked Tofu Vegetarian Pasta
Spaghetti Bolognese
Spiced Lamb and Vegetable Pasta
Spicy Bean Noodles
Spicy Lamb Pasta
Spicy One Pot Beef Rice
Twisty Pasta Delight
Vegetable Lasagne
Vegetable Noodle Surprise
Vegetable Pasta with Coley
Vegetarian Cannelloni
Zucchini Spiral Surprise
Aromatic Chicken Special
Baked Salmon
Beef Rice
Beef Spinach Keema
Biryani Chicken
Chicken Cauliflower Stew
Chicken Curry
Chicken Korma
Chicken Madras
Chicken Masala Curry
Chickpeas and Minted Lamb
Coconut Chicken Curry
Coconut Fish Grill
Coconut Lemon Chicken Kebab
Cottage Pie
Curried Panned Coley and Leeks
Fish and Chips
Fish Mexicana
Garlic Chicken Kebabs
Kerala Chicken Curry
Lamb and Mint Meatballs
Lamb and Mushroom Keema
Lamb and Spinach Curry
Lamb Couscous
Lamb Curry
Lamb Keema
Lamb Keema Bulgar Wheat
Lamb Seekh Kebab
Lamb Spaghetti
Lamb Tikka Kebab
Marinated Lamb Kebab
Moroccan Chicken
One Pot Beef Rice
One Pot Lambs Liver
Oven Baked Chicken Thighs
Restaurant Chicken Curry
Salmon of the Day
Salmon with Bulgarwheat Salad
Spicy Beef with English Veg
Spicy Lamb Pasta
Spicy Lamb with Buckwheat
Stewed Chicken Super
Stuffed Spinach with Lamb
Brown Bread Dough
Brown Knot Bread
Buckwheat & Mung Bean Dosa
Cheshire Pie
Flat Garlic Bread
Garlic Bread Rolls
Healthy Pizza
Healthy Rye Pizza
Lamb and Vegetable Pie
Mushroom & Broccoli Quiche
Perfect Pasty Pastry
Pistachio Nut Pastry
Plain White Bread Dough
Red Lentil Vegetable Flan
Rye Bread Dough
Summer Pizza
Vegetable Curry Pasty
White Spelt Pastry
Wholewheat Nan Bread
Butternut Squash Soup
Carrot and Coriander Soup
Cauliflower and Chicken Stew
Chunky Mediterranean Soup
Parsnip Soup
Stewed Chicken Super
Almond Crumble
Apricot Almond Danish Pastry
Banana Pancakes
Battenburg Cake
Best Bread and Butter Pudding
Best Cookie Recipe Ever
Blueberry and Apple Cake and Pudding
Brown Rice Biscuits
Cardamon and Coconut Cake
Chewy Flapjacks
Chocolate Cake
Chocolate cake health bar
Chocolate Cheesecake
Chocolate Peanut Butter Biscuits
Chocolate Rum Truffles
Christmas Cake
Cinnamon Swirl Biscuits
Coconut Almond Layer Cake
Coconut Ice
Coconut Infused Madeira Cake
Coconut Mountains
Coconut Sponge Cake
Easy Egg Custard
Fruit and Oat Cookies
Ginger Cake
Jeenas Healthy Biscuits
Lemon Curd
Mango and Coconut Cake
Marzipan
Mince Pies
Perfect Sponge Cake
Pineapple Cake
Pistachio Nut Biscuits
Praline Sugared Almonds
Prune Pudding with Almond
Raspberry Cheese Cake
Rhubarb Crumble
Russian Slice
Short Bread Recipe
Smartie Cookies
Strawberry Gateau
Strawberry Tart
Stuffed Fruit Bread
Sweet Iced Bread
Tea Bread
Toffee Sauce
Vanilla & Chocolate Short Cake
Vanilla and Chocolate Cheesecake
White Choc Chip Coconut Cookies
10 Reasons to Eat Buckwheat
Benefits of Himalayan Salt
Health Benefits of Kalonji Seeds
Health Benefits of Omega 3 and 6
Health Benefits of Prunes
Health Benefits of Spices
Health Benefits of Vitamin C
Cooking with Herbs
Ghormeh Sabzi
Homemade Curry Powder
Homemade Ras el Hanout
Pink Himalayan Sea Salt
Xanthan Gum
Xylitol
A Gluten Free Recipe Index
An Eggless Recipe Index
Apple and Blackcurrant Pudding (Eggless, Fat Free)
Apricot Honey Nut Cookies (Gluten Free)
Bakewell Slice (Egg, Wheat, Dairy Free)
Beef Rigatoni (Dairy Free)
Carrot Cake (Dairy free, Eggless)
Chocolate Fudge (Sugar/Dairy/Egg/Wheat/Gluten Free)
Christmas Cake (Gluten,Dairy,Egg Free)
Coconut Almond Cake (Gluten Free)
Coconut Ice (Dairy, Egg, Wheat, Gluten Free)
Confectioners Custard (Gluten, Dairy, Egg, Sugar Free)
Custard Sponge Cake (Gluten, Dairy, Egg, Sugar Free)
Easy Salmon Pasta (Gluten/Egg/Dairy/Sugar/Wheat Free)
Fish and Chips (Dairy Free)
Fruit and Oatbran Cookies (Dairy Free/Eggless/Egg Free)
Garibaldi Biscuits Recipe (Gluten/Wheat/Dairy/Egg Free)
How to make Gluten Free Pastry
Jam Tarts (Gluten/ Wheat/ Egg Free)
Lamb and Vegetable Pie (Gluten/Egg/Wheat/Dairy/Sugar Free)
Mango and Coconut Cake (Gluten/Wheat/Egg free)
Marzipan (Gluten/Wheat/Egg Free)
Onion Bhajis (Gluten free,Dairy free, Eggless, Sugar free)
Parkin Cake (Eggless and Fat Free)
Peach Cream Cake (Wheat, Egg, Dairy, Gluten Free)
Pineapple Cake (Wheat, Egg Free, Eggless)
Quick Vegetable Pasta (Dairy free)
Red Lentil Flan
Strawberry Tart Recipe (Gluten/Dairy/Egg/Wheat Free)
Stuffed Peppers (Gluten free, Dairy free, Sugar free)
Sweet Pastry Recipe (Gluten/Dairy/Wheat/Egg Free)
Swiss Roll ( Dairy, Egg, Sugar Free)
Thick Vanilla Cream (Dairy, Egg, Gluten, Sugar Free)
Vegan Chocolate Chip Cookies (Gluten, Wheat, Egg, Free)
Vegan Lasagne Recipe (Gluten, Dairy, Egg Free)
Vegan Mushroom Pie Recip (Gluten, Wheat, Egg, Dairy Free)
Vegan Shortcrust Pastry (Dairy, Egg, Wheat Free)
Vegan Sponge Cake Recipe (Wheat, Gluten, Egg Free)
Vegan Whipped Cream ( Wheat, Gluten, Egg Free)
Vegetarian Bolognese Sauce (Sugar free, Dairy and Gluten free)
Vegetarian Seekh Kebabs (Gluten,Dairy,Wheat, Egg, Sugar free)
Vegetarian Shephards Pie (Dairy free, Gluten Free, Sugar free, Eggless)
Vegetarian Stir Fry (Gluten free, Dairy free, Sugar free, Egg free)
White Choc Chip Coconut Cookies (Eggless/Egg Free)
Food related pages
Food Recipe Blog Links
Subscribe to Jeenas kitchen
Posts
Atom
Posts
Comments
Atom
Comments
teeth whitening uk
teeth whitening
teeth whitening gel