Safely Remove Skin Tags - Help Skin Tags
Help Skin Tags
Get rid of skin tags safely.
Home
Forums
Advice
Treatments
News
Videos
Find A Doctor
Medical Disclaimer
Safely Remove Skin Tags
Skin tags are a very common skin condition that affects hundreds of thousands of people every day. Thankfully they are benign and harmless but none the less, a nuisance. Safely removing skin tags is our specialty. Our team of skin experts has compiled all the information you will need in one place to remove your skin tag and put your mind at ease.
Read on to learning more about skin tags and how to remove them.
What is a skin tag
Skin tags are soft pieces of hanging skin. They are usually connected to the underlying skin by a small and thin stalk called a peduncle. They are painless, benign growths on the skin that are common for both men and women, especially over the age of 40.
Other medical terms used to describe skin tags are cutaneous papilloma, soft fibroma, acrochordon and fibroepithelial polyp. Some people refer to them as skin tabs although the most commonly used term is “skin tag”.
Skin tags are the result of clusters of blood vessels and collagen that get trapped inside thicker layers of skin. You will generally find them in skin folds or creases where skin rubbing against skin may cause a skin tag to form.
Skin tags are not unique to humans and can also develop on dogs and cats.
How to identify a skin tag
Skin tags have a pretty unique appearance and can usually be identified simply by observation. Unlike moles or other skin growths, these tags hang off the skin by a thin stalk. They are usually the same color as your skin or maybe a bit darker, depending on where it is and the blood supply to it. There is usually no need for lab testing. However, we believe that knowing the reason for their growth is advised, especially considering their prevalence in those with diabetes.
What causes skin tags
There is no one single cause of skin tags. Some people may inherit the gene and they tend to have an increased susceptibility. They also commonly occur during times of hormone elevations or imbalances, which is why they are commonly seen during pregnancy.
Diabetes is probably one of the more known causes of skin tags. A recent study shows the presence of multiple skin tags related to insulin resistance, high triglycerides, and a high BMI.
Skin tags may form on any part of the body. Although they are commonly found in places where the skin rubs against itself or an item of jewelry or clothing. Wearing tight clothes and repetitive friction is a common cause and even more so among people who are overweight.
Where do skin tags form
Most skin tags are found to develop in areas where the skin folds. Prevalence is higher among older people and those who are overweight. However, there is no fixed area for a skin tag to occur. They can appear almost anywhere on the body. But there are certain areas where they develop more frequently than others due to the friction in those areas. These include –
Face – Eyelids and the eyelash lines are one of the more common areas that skin tags are found.
Neck – Skin tags in this area are common among overweight people who have more folds in the neck area and people who wear jewelry often or high collared shirts causing constant friction.
Groin Area –Tight fitting clothes result in the development of skin tags in the groin area. Active people may also find that the friction caused by movement, may cause some skin tags here. They are often mistaken for ingrown hairs but if the bump is more raised, then it is possibly a skin tag.
Under breasts – Pregnant women have an increased possibility of developing skin tags under their breasts. This is due to the hormone fluctuation together with rapid breast growth. The general rubbing of bras in the area can also lead to skin tags developing.
People with Crohn’s disease may find skin tags around their anus, commonly referred to as perianal skin tags.
Other common areas you may notice a skin tag include the armpits, upper areas of the chest, genitals and around the elbow where the skin tends to fold or rub more often.
Young children may develop them on their upper eyelids due to excessive rubbing of their eyes. Active teens may notice skin tags under their arms, from the friction of the continuous movement.
Are skin tags contagious?
For a skin condition to be contagious, there has to be an identifiable cause such as a virus or parasite. Since skin tags are not a result of any virus, they are not considered contagious
However, many times people confuse skin tags with warts, which result from the Human Papillomavirus (HPV). Warts contain high-risk HPV which is contagious. Some skin tags have shown traces of low-risk HPV, but this was found in less than half the skin tags studied, which means it is not the cause of skin tags.
People often think they are contagious because they may develop multiple skin tags in a certain area, and they think the skin tags are “spreading” but these are all new skin tags and not caused by previous skin tags or any contagion.
Do skin tags come off on their own?
Some people are of the opinion that it falls off naturally, but we are sorry to say it is nothing more than a myth. Except in the case of skin tags that form during pregnancy. Skin tags which form during pregnancy usually fall off on their own after giving birth without requiring any removal techniques, but this isn’t always the case. Unless the tag has been twisted or pulled, the chances of it falling off on its own are slim.
There is also a popular misconception that losing weight can help remove skin tags. You might benefit health-wise from the weight loss but it won’t actually cause a skin tag to disappear. Losing weight, however, does help you prevent new skin tags forming.
If you are looking to remove your skin tag, here are a number of natural remedies and over the counter medicinal options available if you would like to avoid paying high doctor’s fees.
How to remove a skin tag
Since skin tags are painless and harmless there is no need to rush off to the doctor’s office to get it removed. There are several removal options to safely remove skin tags in the comfort of your home.
While there are certain medical methods to remove skin tags like cauterization, ligation, excision, and cryosurgery, you can safely remove them with products you already have in your kitchen or medicine cabinet. Some of the simple and commonly used home remedies include:
Tagband
Tea Tree Oil – The antifungal and antiviral properties of this product makes it one of the safest removal techniques for skin tags.
Apple Cider Vinegar – When applied to the affected area, its acidic property breaks down the tissue in the surrounding skin, causing the skin tag to fall off.
Garlic – When crushed garlic is applied over a skin tag it gradually shrinks it and falls off.
Banana Peel – Placing banana peels daily over a skin tag can cause it to dry out and eventually fall off.
Mirco Tagbands – This is an easy to apply elastic band, that gets tied around the base of the skin tag. It cuts off the blood supply, causing the skin tag to easily fall off.
Skin Tag Removal Creams – There is a range of over the counter creams you can buy to apply to your skin tag to safely remove them at home.
Does removing a skin tag leave scars?
The possibility of a skin tag leaving scars on the skin after being removed is dependent on the location of the tag, the size of it and the removal method chosen. The larger the skin tag and the thicker the stalk, the greater the possibility of scarring.
Moreover, removing the skin tag just by pulling or chopping it off increases the risk of scarring. If going the surgical route, there is a possibility of a minor scar but it should gradually fade away, especially if proper post-operative care is taken.
Will my skin tag come back after being removed?
Once a skin tag has been removed it does not grow back. However new one may develop in the same spot or in the surrounding area. A skin tag has nerve cells but does not have any roots which is why they don’t regrow once removed. Since skin tags have a tendency of developing in friction-prone areas they tend to form in the surrounding area repeatedly. This may create the illusion that it is the same one growing back. However, it is really a new skin tag forming.
Account
Register
Log in
Recent Articles
How to Get Rid of Skin Tags Under Armpits
Skin Tags on Dogs Cheat Sheet – Infographic
Bleeding Skin Tags
Vaginal Skin Tags
Anal Skin Tags
Acrochordon: Symptoms, Characteristics, Causes and Treatment
How Big Can Skin Tags Grow
What are Skin Tags
What is The Cost of Removing Skin Tags
Skin Tags on the Lips
How to Remove Skin Tags Fast
Removing Skin Tags with Nail Polish
What Causes Skin Tags on the Neck
How to Remove Large Skin Tags
How Long Does it Take for a Skin Tag to Fall Off
How to Remove Skin Tags on the Neck
Armpit Skin Tags
Itchy Skin Tags
Skin Tag Removal Aftercare
Do Skin Tags Grow Back
About Us
Contact Us
© 2018 HelpSkinTags.com. All contents copyright reserved.
Help Skin Tags
Home
Forums
Advice
Treatments
News
Videos
Find A Doctor
Medical Disclaimer