Can You Drink Too Much Water? | Welcome To The Long Course Weekend
Toggle navigation
Enter Now
LCW Wales
LCW Mallorca
LCW Jervis Bay
LCW Holland
News
Nutrition
Training
Video
Shop
Contact Us
Can You Drink Too Much Water?
Did you think drinking too much water was even possible?
That’s not surprising in a world that tells us water is king. But did you know that the whole “8 glasses a day” thing is a myth? And did you know that you can be drinking too much water AND doing some major damage if you drink too much?
When I design my healthy eating and exercise plans for my clients I always advocate drinking 2-3 liters of water a day, but that obviously depends on the person’s size and how much exercise they do.
Do you carry around a water bottle to drink throughout the day?
Do you pee frequently, including during the night?
Is your pee clear as the day is long?
Do you think that’s a good thing?
If you said “yes” to any of the above questions, chances are you may be drinking too much water.
But obviously water is good. It’s essential, even. So please don’t take this as a “water is bad” post. Water is good… if it’s in the right amount. And it can be bad if it’s not. Rapid intake of too much water floods the inside of cells when sodium is depleted. This sodium depletion, called hypernatremia, can rupture the cells, either from extra pressure on the cells from without, or from pressure within flooded cells. As cells rupture in various parts of the body, certain symptoms emerge, and usually quickly.
So what are the symptoms? Well, things like vomiting, headaches, confusion and disorientation. If things progress this can lead to more serious things like seizures and coma. Death. Of course these are extreme situations of water intoxication. Generally speaking, we hit the danger zone when we drink too much water and take in more than what our kidneys can process in an hour. And for someone with extremely healthy kidneys that is about 30 oz. of water in an hour (please don’t drink that much!). Drinking too much water in rapid succession can prove fatal and should definitely be avoided.
Like most health conscious folks I was diligent with my water intake. I carried a water bottle with me almost everywhere. I always had a tall glass next to me as I worked at the computer.
Drinking too much water can lead to:
Decreased metabolism
Decreased mental clarity
Headaches
Insomnia
Cold hands/feet
Decreased emotional well being
So how much water should you drink? Well that’s not an easy question to answer. So many factors affect our needs from what we eat to the weather. Obviously there are times when more water is appropriate, like after/before intense exercise or if you are in extreme heat. In other words: If you body is losing water (like sweating), then replenishing those fluids is essential. But unless you are an extreme athlete or spend a lot of time in a hot climates you probably need less than what you’ve been previously told.
The problem with over-hydration is that a symptom of drinking too much is dry mouth and excessive thirst. So there may be a period of “challenging your body’s signals” while it gets back to a more balanced state.
So my top tips this week are:
Water is good for you, but not too much
It depends on your lifestyle and how much you exercise
It also depends on how much caffeine and alcohol you consume. These dehydrate you.
If you have any of the above symptoms you may be drinking too much water
For more information on my healthy eating and exercise plans, contact me at nonevans.com
Facebook Posts
The Long Course Weekend
23 hours ago
Here are some Safety Tips from Welsh Cycling
bit.ly/2Iq6x5P ... See MoreSee Less
Road safety tips for members
britishcycling.org.uk
At British Cycling we want our members to enjoy cycling safely, so we have asked our experts in our cycle training team to put together ten useful tips to help you along the way.
View on Facebook
·Share
The Long Course Weekend
3 days ago
Diving into the Easter Weekend like... ... See MoreSee Less
Photo
View on Facebook
·Share
The Long Course Weekend
4 days ago
With the nice weather coming in this weekend, we know everyone will get out on their bike training. Welsh Cycling have put together so tops on how to ride safetly on the road...
bit.ly/2ZjnJiD ... See MoreSee Less
How to ride safely on the road - Ridesmart
britishcycling.org.uk
Effective communication and consideration will help keep you safe while out riding on open roads with our Ridesmart guide.
View on Facebook
·Share
View on Facebook
Twitter Feed
@LCWWales March 1, 2019
We are proud to announce that the Wales Sportive, taking place on the 6th of July will have comprehensive road clos… twitter.com/i/web/status/1…
@LCWWales February 25, 2019
Don’t miss out on your entry, thewalesswim.com #walesswim #motivationalmonday #100entriesleft instagram.com/p/BuTg2V4lS50/…
@LCWWales February 14, 2019
#tbt #throwbackthursday to #lcwmallorca 2018 and as it’s #valentines we through we would share the love ♥️😍😘 instagram.com/p/Bt3M2etFUFn/…
Other Long Course Weekend Events
Long Course Weekend Jervis Bay
Long Course Weekend Holland
Long Course Weekend Wales
The Wales Swim
The Wales Sportive
The Wales Full & Half Marathon
Long Course Weekend Mallorca
Get In Touch With Us
Long Course Weekend
Coastal House
Narberth Road
Haverfordwest
Pembrokeshire
SA61 2XG
01437 765777
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
another tremendous. website