Study: Chewing Gum No Good for Weight Loss - The Atlantic
Skip to content The Atlantic
Popular
Latest
Sections
Sections
Politics
Culture
Technology
Ideas
Science
Books
Family
Business
Global
Health
Education
Letters
The Masthead
Photo
Podcasts
The Atlantic Crossword
Video
Events
Writers
Projects
Magazine
Magazine
Current issue
All issues
Manage subscription
Give a Gift
Subscribe
More Categories
More
Create account Your account
Sign in Sign out
Newsletters
The Atlantic Crossword
iOS App
Life Timeline
Events
Books
Shop
Help Center
View all
Subscribe
Search
Search
Quick Links
James Fallows
Megan Garber
David Frum
Adam Serwer
Manage subscription
Search The Atlantic
Quick Links
James Fallows
Megan Garber
David Frum
Adam Serwer
Manage subscription
Health
Study: Chewing Gum No Good for Weight Loss
Did you think it was? Well, enough people do that it warranted a study. Participants who chewed minty gum before eating didn't consume fewer calories; but they did eat a lot less fruit.
Lindsay Abrams
Mar 25, 2013
mahalie/Flickr
As sugar-free gum contains next to no calories, and chewing it precludes one's ability to simultaneously eat food, and maybe it even burns calories (11 per hour, says the Internet), it could seem like a perfect, minty-fresh tool for losing weight. Some research has even suggested that it might act as an appetite suppressant.
Hearing Music as Beautiful Is a Learned Trait
Facebook May Improve Memory
It's Harder to Tune Out Cell Phone Talkers Than Regular Human Conversations
Unfortunately, a study out of Ohio State University found that once such people spit out their gum, they go on to eat just as much as people who don't chew. In the long run, not only does it seem unlikely that chewing gum is an effective tool in losing weight, but it also may lead to nutritional deficiencies.
In the study, people were instructed to chew either NutraTrim Weight Loss Gum ("boosts metabolism and helps to curb food cravings") or Eclipse gum before snacks and meals for a week, and to keep track of everything they ate. Their food diaries revealed that, compared to non-gum chewers, they ate fewer, but larger, meals. Not only did they end up eating about the same number of calories as non-chewers, their meals were less nutritious.
The reason they ate less healthfully may be partially explained by a second experiment, in which 44 participants played a game in which wins were rewarded with either mandarin oranges and grapes or, for others, potato chips and M&Ms. Participants who had chewed Wrigley's Spearmint gum beforehand were less likely than those who chewed nothing at all to keep competing for the fruit. This decreased motivation, the researchers believe, occurred because the menthol in the gum messes with the taste buds to make fruits and vegetables taste bitter. Those who chewed Juicy Fruit didn't see this effect, but all of the gum chewers also reported feeling hungrier afterwards than the non-chewers.
Let's try not to be too disappointed in gum, though. It's still a good alternative to smoking, accessory for impersonations, and beloved breath-freshener. Just, best enjoyed after fruit.
"Acute and chronic effects of gum chewing on food reinforcement and energy intake" is published in Eating Behaviors.
We want to hear what you think about this article. Submit a letter to the editor or write to letters@theatlantic.com.
Lindsay Abrams is a former editorial fellow at The Atlantic.
Twitter
About
Our History
Staff
Careers
Shop
Contact
Help Center
Contact Us
Send a News Tip
Advertise
Press
Podcasts
Radio Atlantic
Crazy/Genius
The Atlantic Interview
Audio Articles
Subscription
Purchase
Give a Gift
Manage Subscription
Download iOS App
Newsletters
Follow
Privacy Policy
Advertising Guidelines
Terms Conditions
Responsible Disclosure
U.S. Edition
World Edition
Site Map
TheAtlantic.com Copyright (c) 2019 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved.
The Atlantic