Menthol chewing gums, not so cool after all! - The Wellness Corner
This website uses cookies. If you use the site further, you agree to our use of cookies. Ok, I agree
Sign in
1938 Menthol-chewing-gums-not-so-cool-after-all
Others
Menthol chewing gums, not so cool after all!
7 Months ago
2K
4.0
Truworth Wellness
What is your reason to chew gum? Is it to lose weight, beat bad breath, to overcome your sweet craving or just chew on it when you are sitting idle?? I have seen people who never get bored of chewing gums! If you are one of those, then you'll be surprised to know these facts.
Did you know that chewing gum can increase your food craving? The chemical ‘menthol' which gives the minty flavor to chewing gums plays a vital role in changing eating behaviors. Some studies have found it to increase cravings for salty chips, sugary drinks and candies.
According to a new study, the minty fresh flavor makes fruits and vegetables taste bitter, further reducing your appetite for "healthy food". Nutrition studies from Ohio State University also suggest that it is the same chemical change which makes your orange juice taste bitter immediately after you brush your teeth.
There are also conflicting results on chewing gums supporting weight loss, because they increase craving for junk food!
Researchers suggest that menthol in the mint interferes with nutrients in fruits and vegetables, manipulate flavors, and create a bitter taste and turn you off from healthy food!
So beware! Chewing gums have the potential to divert you from a healthy food routine!
Copyright 2019 Truworth Health Technologies Pvt. Ltd.
Support
Terms of Use & Privacy policy
Enter your email
address to get started!
Looks like you've been here before.
Enter your password to login
Forgot password?
Request OTP
Send Reset Email
Enter your registered mobile number to generate a
One-Time Password
Back to Login
Enter your new password.
New Password:
Confirm New Password:
A One-Time Password has been sent to your registered mobile number.
Enter the 6-digit OTP here
Didn't received OTP ? Request for new otp in
Didn't received OTP yet? Resend OTP
Redirecting you shortly...