Feeling a Little Salty?? - The Keyes Ingredients
Home
My Story
Videos
The Keyes Ingredients Kitchen Tips
Recipes
Michelle’s Blog
Resources
Members
Member Login
Graduates
Cookbook
Select Page
Feeling a Little Salty??
by Michelle | Feb 10, 2017 | Michelle's Dish | 0 comments
We LOVE flavor at The Keyes Ingredients HQ. One of the most effective ways to add flavor to any dish is with seasonings and salt is one that is among the most active on our taste buds. It can take a dish from drab to fab with minimal effort.
“But Michelle!! Isn’t salt bad for us? Won’t it increase my risk for heart attacks and strokes?”
Salt, just like anything else, is done best in moderation and with high quality ingredients. We recommend that you stick with Pink Himalayan Salt.
Pink Himalayan Salt is very different from table salt that involves a great deal of unnatural interference. Table salt is very heavily processed, eliminating its minerals. Commercial table salt is typically 97.5 percent to 99.9 percent sodium chloride. The rest is made up of “assorted chemicals” including anti-caking agents. THIS is where the problem come in with blood pressure. Meanwhile, a high-quality unrefined salt like Pink Himalayan Salt is only about 87 percent sodium chloride. The other 13 % is made up of approximately 80 minerals that are removed from traditional table salt by the refining process (including bleaching the salt to the white color you see in those shakers. Bleach…in your food)
What are the benefits of Pink Himalayan Salt?
It aids in balancing your body’s PH. The minerals found exclusively in Pink Himalayan Salt help to create a positive acid to alkaline ratio in your body allowing it to build a healthy immune system and fight off any invaders as effectively as possible.
Pink Himalayan Salt helps to aid in digestion. It aids in peristalsis of the digestive organs, balancing the stomach acid, supporting the production of digestive fluids in the liver and pancreas and regulating the metabolism.
Getting the right amount of sodium in you diet is also proven to help aid in getting a good nights sleep.
All of these benefits don’t give you the go ahead to empty the entire shaker on your dinner plate though. With anything, moderation is key and there are problems that come with excess. So tonight, when you’re making dinner for your family, live a little and add some pink to your potato!
Our current series of five blogs is on simple solutions to change over your pantry. Switching your salt is the first and easiest change you can make. Check back in for our next blog on changing your oil.
About
Latest Posts
Follow Me
Michelle
Founder at The Keyes Ingredients
I'm a stay at home mom raising two wonderful kids, and it's my goal to educate people that there is more to food than meets the eye.
Follow Me
Latest posts by Michelle (see all)
Are you due for an Oil Change? - April 27, 2017
Feeling a Little Salty?? - February 10, 2017
Juicing Better - January 27, 2017
Related
Want more blogs like this?
Join our newsletter and never miss a blog agan.
SUBSCRIBE!
You have Successfully Subscribed!
we will never share your e-mail with anyone.
Like what you're seeing? Leave a response below. We'd love to hear from you! Cancel reply
Search for:
‘LIKE’ us on FaceBook
‘LIKE’ us on FaceBook
Recent Posts
Are you due for an Oil Change?
Feeling a Little Salty??
Juicing Better
Let’s Do Lunch!
Thankful
Categories
Categories Select Category Current Post Episodes Keyes to Dining Out Michelle’s Dish Salad
About Michelle
Hi there! Thanks for visiting my website! I'm a stay at home mom raising two wonderful kids, and it's my goal to educate people that there is more to food than meets the eye.
More from Michelle
Are you due for an Oil Change?
Feeling a Little Salty??
Juicing Better
Let’s Do Lunch!
Thankful
Join Our Mailing List
Email Address:
Facebook
Twitter
© 2018 The Keyes Ingredients