Sunglasses | Optique, opticians in Battersea in London
Skip to main content
Optique, opticians in Battersea in London
Optique, opticians in Battersea in London
Optiqur Battersea Header1
drop down menu
Home
About us
Eye Care
Optomap Eye Examination
Eye Tests
Children's Eyecare
Computers and Eyes
Maintaining Good Eyesight
Spectacles
Frames
Lenses
Sunglasses
Sports & Safety Eyeware
Contact Lenses
Contact Lenses
Types of Contact Lenses
Benefits of Contact Lenses
Children & Contact Lenses
Eye Conditions
Myopia - Short Sightedness
Hyperopia - Long Sightedness
Conjunctivitis
Cataracts
Blepheritis
Diabetes
Dry Eyes
Glaucoma
Macular Degeneration
Flashes & Floaters
Astigmatism
Presbyopia
Contact us
You are here
Home » Spectacles
Search form
Search
Navigation
Home
About Us
Eye Care
• Optomap Eye Examination
• Eye Tests
• Children's Eyecare
• Computers & Eyes
• Maintaining Good Eyesight
Spectacles
• Frames
• Lenses
• Sunglasses
• Sports & Safety Eyecare
Contact Lenses
• Contact Lenses
• Types of Contact Lenses
• Benefits of Contact Lenses
• Children & Contact Lenses
Eye Conditions
• Myopia
• Hyperopia
• Conjunctivitis
• Cataracts
• Blepheritis
• Diabetes
• Dry Eyes
• Glaucoma
• Mucular Degeneration
• Flashers & Floaters
• Astigmatism
• Presbyopia
Contact Us
Sunglasses
Optique, opticians in Battersea in London believe that too much exposure to the sun’s ultraviolet (UV) rays can contribute to the development of cataracts and age-related macular degeneration. It is essential you wear Sunglasses with UV protection level of UV400. At Optique, opticians in Battersea, London, you will find a wide variety of the designer brands of sunglasses.
Come along and see our latest collection of sunglasses. If you don’t find the pair suitable for you, Optique will source sunglasses to meet your requirements.
Optique can also cater for prescription sunglasses for those who already wear glasses.
Children and the Sun
Parents generally do not think of buying sunglasses for their children. However, it is very important to protect your child’s eyes from an early age as their eyes are still developing. Make sure your child’s sunglasses have 100% UV protection and carry the British Standard (BS EN 1836:2005) or CE mark. You can also protect your child’s eyes by making sure they wear a hat with a brim or a sun visor in bright sunlight.
Buying Sunglasses
Research has shown that almost 80 per cent of under-25s put fashion and price before safety standards when choosing sunglasses. When buying sunglasses, make sure they have a UV protection at a safe level of UV400.
Sunbeds
Sun beds have been linked to skin cancer, so they are best avoided. If you do use a sun bed, always make sure you wear eye protection while tanning. The skin on eye lids is very thin and delicate so it is vital to protect eye lids from ultraviolet (UV) rays. Lack of protection could lead to benign eye growths called pterygium and repeated exposure to UV may cause long-term damage which could affect your sight – see cataract and macular degeneration.
It is essential to wear protective eyewear when your eyes are exposed to the sunbeds.
To view our Sunglasses range, visit Optique, opticians in Battersea, London at 276 Battersea Park Road, Battersea, London, SW11 3BS. Tel: 020 72282754
The information on this site is for Educational Purposes Only and is not designed to diagnose, treat, prevent or cure any health conditions.
Copyright Notice
Privacy Notice
Terms and Conditions
Website Disclaimer