Natural Mosquito Repellent & Other Ways to Not Get Bit | My Life Abundant
Home
About
Work with Me!
Media Kit
Contact
Disclosure
Privacy Policy
Printables
Shop
Blogging Resources
Facebook
Google+
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
My Life Abundant
sharing my passions
Blog
Crafts & DIY
Christmas Crafts
Mothers Day
Gardening
List Ideas
Farmhouse Ideas
Food Ideas
Frugal Ideas
Holiday Ideas
Organize Ideas
Seasonal Ideas
Travel Ideas
Our Travels
Recipes
Appetizers
Beverages
Breads & Muffins
Breakfast
Casserole
Dessert
Instant Pot
Meat
Pasta
Salad
Sandwiches
Skillet
Slow Cooker
Soup
Natural Mosquito Repellent & Other Ways to Not Get Bit
This post may have links where I am an affiliate. Click HERE for my disclosure statement.
Summertime is here and what will ruin any fun day outside? The mosquito. They make us itch, irritate us and can spread disease. There are ways to naturally repel mosquitoes, plants which repel mosquitos and ways to avoid getting bit.
Why should you bother with mosquito control?
From the Florida Department of Health – Mosquito-borne diseases found in Florida include West Nile virus disease, Eastern equine encephalitis, and St. Louis encephalitis. Many other mosquito-borne diseases are found in different parts of the world and can be brought back to Florida if infected people or animals are bitten by mosquitoes while in Florida. Some examples of these diseases include chikungunya fever, dengue fever, malaria, yellow fever, and Rift Valley fever.
Mosquitos spread diseases in all states and in other countries. There are ways to naturally repel them and deter them from your yard so you can enjoy being outside during the warmer months.
What Attracts Mosquitoes?
Only the female mosquito bites, because they need our blood to develop and lay eggs. Males drink flower nectar.
Here are several different reasons why mosquitoes may bite you and not the person next to you:
You talk too much – Mosquitoes are attracted to Carbon Dioxide, those who exhale (talk/breathe) more than others attract more mosquitoes.
Blood type O – Those with type O blood attract more biting insects than those with A, B, or AB Blood.
Dark Clothes – Wearing dark clothes causes you to stand out against the horizon and mosquitoes like this.
Sweating –People who sweat or with higher body temperatures send signals to mosquitoes to come and enjoy.
Mosquitoes Love Their Beer – For some unknown reasons, mosquitoes will be attracted to those who like their beer.
I am a talker, have type O blood and sweat a lot when I’m out in the summertime. That answers a lot of questions about why they seem to be attracted to me.
How to Get Rid of Mosquitos Naturally
There are several ways to help deter and keep the population down in your yard and surrounding areas. Just following these few steps will really make a difference.
Removing and Treating Standing Water
Get rid of the standing water, and you get rid of the mosquito eggs. Water standing still for 4 or more days will help support the mosquitoes life cycle.
Treat water with mosquito dunks. Mosquito dunks slowly release BTI in water. BTI is toxic for mosquitoes but non-toxic to all other wildlife, pets, fish, and humans.
Remove any objects around your yard that may collect water, such as buckets or small pools or toys with openings that hold water
Use a rain barrel with screens over the holes where the water goes in. Read about how I set up my rain barrel.
Use a solar pump in your fountains to keep the water moving all the time. No electricity required and works really well in my fountain.
Replace any standing water in pools or bird baths often.
Provide Mosquito Eating Animals
Invite animals which eat mosquitoes to your yard to help control mosquitoes:
Bats
Frogs
Fish
Birds
Set up a Bat House in the backyard and watch them devour mosquitoes nightly. Fish in fish ponds love to eat mosquitoes and adding a few frog houses near the pond will help out too. My favorite way to control mosquitoes is with the Purple Martin. Set up a Martin home for them and you will love sitting out and listening to the very distinctive call they have. They don’t mind humans being around them and they aren’t messy. Since they are big bug eaters, you don’t have to worry about feeding them.
Avoid Going Out at Peek Feeding Times
The most common mosquito feeds at dawn and dusk and a few hours into the night. There are some aggressive species which feed all day. By avoiding these times, you will less likely be bitten.
Use Mosquito Repelling Plants
Several herbs and some flowers have been known to repel mosquitoes and other biting insects. Herbs make a great addition to any yard and garden and can also be used in everyday cooking.
List of plants to use as natural mosquito repellents:
Citronella (lemon balm, lemon grass, lemon verbena)
Geranium
Eucalyptus
Rosemary
Basil
Anise
Mint
Lavender
Cedar
Tansy
Cloves
Marigolds
Catnip
Wormwood
I put geraniums and marigolds in large pots at my front and back door. They last all summer, look beautiful and keep the skeeters away from the door and patio.
Use Natural Mosquito Repellant Spray
Use a DEET free spray with natural ingredients or make your own spray from essential oils. After reading some mosquito sprays precautions with DEET, I would rather make my own or use a spray that DEET free.
Homemade Bug Spray
Ingredients:
30 drops geranium essential oil
30 drops citronella essential oil
20 drops lemon eucalyptus essential oil
20 drops lavender essential oil
10 drops rosemary essential oil
1 tbsp rubbing alcohol
½ cup natural witch hazel
½ cup water
Instructions:
Place essential oils in a glass spray bottle. Add in alcohol and witch hazel. Shake well to combine.
Add ½ tsp vegetable glycerin to help everything stay combined. Not required.
Add water and shake again. Shake well before each use as the oils and water will naturally separate some over time.
Spray where needed when outdoors.
Following these simple steps will give you a much more pleasant day outside when its warm.
Other Saving Ideas:
Enjoy,
Tammy
* * * *
Tammy
I’m just a country girl loving my geeky life with my wonderful husband, always taking pictures, getting my hands dirty in the garden, being crafty, exploring with travels and enjoying all this on a budget. But above all, living my faith as a child of God!
Read more about me and check out my media kit. Our Privacy Policy
By Tammy
« Wonderful Wednesday Blog Hop #183
Monday Moments with Dorm Ideas »
Comments
Alli Smith says
August 9, 2018 at 11:59 am
Mosquitos are such pesky little things. Maybe I talk too much because it seems they always bite me and never bite my husband. I have lots of Rosemary and mint growing in containers on my porch to repel those little pests. I need to make that homemade bug spray!
Tasheena says
August 9, 2018 at 12:09 pm
The mosquitos are really bad in my area towards the start of summer. I have to give this recipe a try and keep a bottle on hand.
Candy says
August 9, 2018 at 12:14 pm
Mosquitoes really seem to like me. Now I know why. Wonderful information much of which I wasn’t aware of. Bye bye mosquito.
Jeanette says
August 9, 2018 at 1:18 pm
I am blood type O! UGH No wonder I get so many bites! LOL! I will be trying ANY and all repellants you mention here. I am sick of getting bit!
Amber Myers says
August 9, 2018 at 4:08 pm
I’ll have to try this out for sure. I get bit by mosquitoes all the time and I hate it!
valmg @ Mom Knows It All says
August 9, 2018 at 5:01 pm
I hate mosquito bites, I rarely feel them until after they’ve happened and then they itch like crazy. I just recently heard that people with type O blood got bit more.
Karen Morse says
August 9, 2018 at 10:44 pm
It’s definitely important to make sure you have ways to protect yourself and your family against mosquito bites. I love that this is all natural! You know exactly what’s in it. No harmful chemicals included.
Pam says
August 9, 2018 at 11:02 pm
I had no idea that mosquitos were more attracted to type O blood. That explains so much for me.
catherine shane says
August 9, 2018 at 11:33 pm
wow this would be a great tips and must be shared .. thanks for this awareness very usefull specially this rainy season..
catherine shane says
August 10, 2018 at 12:12 am
this will so great and very helpful and i aware now for the plants that help as repellant.. thanks for this tips such a awesome ..
Carol Cassara says
August 10, 2018 at 6:22 am
I really like DIY products because they’re safer for us. I think this one is a keeper. Also, thanks for raising awareness on this. We have to protect ourselves from mosquitoes as they can be really harmful.
Chubskulit Rose says
August 10, 2018 at 11:24 am
I have type O blood too and mosquitoes just love sucking on my blood! My daughter has an allergic reaction to mosquito bites so we are always cautious.
Glamamom says
August 10, 2018 at 2:15 pm
I am a magnet for mosquitoes! I had no idea that Type O blood was more susceptible and sure enough, that’s my blood type. Also a talker lol. We actually have bats so our yard is pretty clear but I’m going to try your homemade repellent recipe.
Terri Beavers says
August 10, 2018 at 4:56 pm
I can’t thank you enough for this post, it’s exactly what I’ve been looking for. My granddaughter breaks out in welts if she gets stunk (she is allergic to everything) by mosquitos. I have to try other alternatives most of the time because she’s also allergic to many repellants.
Tammy says
August 11, 2018 at 7:58 am
Hi Terri. I had to start making my own repellant because the one I bought in the store would break me out too. The homemade version works well for me.
Peter says
August 10, 2018 at 10:32 pm
This would explain a lot for my girl ava too. She gets eaten almost instantly. Gotta feel sorry for her
Heather says
August 10, 2018 at 11:59 pm
I had no idea different blood types attract mosquitos. I am on that highly attractive list and it absolutely makes sense, mosquitos love me. These are great tips!
Terri Steffes says
August 11, 2018 at 12:37 am
I’m the quiet one, I don’t drink beer, I’m a B- blood type. I get 15-20 bites a night when i one else gets any. I can’t stan it any more!!
Vyjay Rao says
August 11, 2018 at 1:18 am
Mosquitoes are a menace all over the world. They are also dangerous as they spread dangerous diseases. It was very interesting to read about why mosquitoes bite certain persons more. Natural means are always best to fight the mosquito menace.
Charlotte says
August 15, 2018 at 7:47 am
I am so going to try making the homemade spray, I’m fed up with smelling of deet! I live in the country, and get bitten alive by these pesky mozzies. Thank you for sharing this, can’t wait to try it out
Donna Reidland says
August 15, 2018 at 6:47 pm
I’m always fighting these little critters. Thanks for the helpful suggestions.
Hello & Welcome!
I'm just a country girl loving my geeky life with my wonderful husband, always taking pictures, getting my hands dirty in the garden, being crafty, exploring with travels and enjoying all this on a budget. But above all, living my faith as a child of God!
Read More...
Looking for Something?
Signup for our latest news
Our Most Popular Posts
Sponsors
dealspotr.com
Looking for Spring Inspiration?
Copyright © 2019 Privacy Policy | Design By: Restored 316 | All Rights Reserved
Would You Love to See More?
Subscribe to Our Newsletter & Never Miss A Recipe, Craft, Garden Tip or Giveaway!
Your information will *never* be shared or sold to a 3rd party. Privacy Policy