Can Homemade Booze Kill You? You Betcha | Booze News
Booze News
I work until beer o’clock.
— Stephen King
Home
BoozeNews
Beer
Wine
Spirits
Industry
Events
Shop
BoozeBlog
Can Homemade Booze Kill You? You Betcha
on 14/03/13 at 1:07 pm
Booze News
79 people died in Libya from homemade booze
Seventy-nine Libyans have died this week from drinking homemade spirits in the conservative North African country where alcohol is illegal. Libyan officials suspect that the homemade liquor contained methanol, and said many of those who survived drinking it were blinded, according to the Associated Press.
Methanol Poisoning
Methanol poisoning is infrequent in the U.S., but it can be deadly if it’s not treated, said Dr. Donna Seger, the executive director of the Tennessee Poison Center and a professor at Vanderbilt University. She said she only sees methanol poisonings a few times a year, and that it’s often not from drinking homemade liquor, but rather because children can get into things like windshield wiper fluid, antifreeze and paint thinner.
“It’s not something you see really frequently,” Seger said.
Methanol is metabolized in the liver and the retinas, which explains why people who drink it can go blind, she said.
There are two antidotes to methanol poisoning: fomepizole, which was approved by the FDA within the last 15 years, and ethanol, which is the kind of alcohol found in safe-to-drink liquors, Seger said. Before fomepizole was available, it was necessary to treat methanol poisoning patients with intravenous drips of ethanol, which, yes, would get them drunk.
“There’s nothing worse than a drunk 2-year-old,” said Seger, remembering a two-year-old who had to be treated for methanol poisoning before fomepizole was available.
What about homebrewed beer?
FULL STORY
Logging In...
Profile cancel
Sign in with Twitter Sign in with Facebook
or
Comment
Name
Email Not published
Website
See those little squares? please click FB, like us.
“a woman walks into a bar…”
Bourbon Lovers!
Get a domain for $0.99! For Realz!
$0.99 .COM Domains! Hurry, offer ends soon
How to Open A Beer With A Piece of Paper
FIND IT ON AMAZON
Home Brewing. Gotta try it!
Events Calendar
View Upcoming Events
THE BEATLES!!!!!
Home
About
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Event Calendar
Sitemap
Blogroll
© Copyright Booze News. All Rights Reserved.
Design by: KR Media & Designs
Back to Top