What Are the Benefits of Raw Ginger Juice? | Live Well - Jillian Michaels
Skip to main content.
Home
The App
Meal Plans
Workouts
Transformations
Community
Podcast
Blog
Loading ...
What Are the Benefits of Raw Ginger Juice?
by Joanne Marie
About Joanne Marie
Joanne Marie began writing professionally in 1981. Her work has appeared in health, medical and scientific publications such as Endocrinology and Journal of Cell Biology. She has also published in hobbyist offerings such as The Hobstarand The Bagpiper. Marie is a certified master gardener and has a Ph.D. in anatomy from Temple University School of Medicine.
X
Related Articles
Ginger Root & Inflammation
The Health Benefits of Spearmint Tea
Herbal Tea for Nausea
What Are the Benefits of Licorice Tea?
The Health Benefits of Cinnamon Tea
Grapefruit Seed Extract Benefits & Dosage
Ginger is a familiar spice made from the underground stem, or rhizome, of the Zingiber officinale plant. Ginger juice, prepared from pieces of fresh ginger rhizome, has a number of medicinal properties that make it potentially useful to calm an upset stomach, as an anti-inflammatory agent and to lessen your risk for cancer. Talk to your doctor about ginger juice before adding it to your regular regimen.
Loading...
Ginger Juice
Ginger in its various forms has been part of herbal medicine in Asian and Arabic cultures for thousands of years. Fresh ginger juice contains a number of natural compounds with medicinal qualities, including several chemicals responsible for ginger's pungent flavor. These natural chemicals, called oleoresins, include gingerol, shogaol, zingerone and several volatile oils, which are responsible for many of its medicinal properties.
Gastrointesintal Benefits
Compounds in ginger juice reduce nausea and vomiting caused by motion sickness, pregnancy or following treatment with chemotherapy medications. Several clinical research studies support the usefulness of ginger in preventing nausea and general stomach upset. In a study published in the "Critical Reviews in Food Science and Nutrition" in 2013, the authors reviewed several studies and concluded that ginger is helpful in preventing nausea and vomiting. Ginger might also help with nausea associated with chemotherapy, but the review points out that the evidence is mixed.
Inflammation
Ginger juice may also help reduce inflammation caused by colitis, arthritis and other conditions. A number of research studies support use of ginger to relieve pain resulting from inflammation. In one of these, published in "Arthritis and Rheumatism" in 2001, human subjects with knee arthritis took either ginger or a placebo for six weeks. The group that consumed ginger experienced a significant reduction in knee pain compared to subjects who took the placebo. An additional study, published the "Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine" in 2013, found that ginger can relieve the side effects of medication taken for osteoarthritis.
Cancer
Ginger juice may also reduce your risk of developing cancer or help improve the outcome if you already have the disease. Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center summarizes the findings of several research studies that suggest compounds in ginger inhibit growth in the laboratory of cultured ovarian, colon and stomach cancer cells. These results are promising, although clinical trials with ginger and human subjects are still needed.
Recommendations
You can prepare ginger juice from fresh ginger roots by peeling several root segments, grating them into fine pieces and pressing the pieces through cheesecloth, allowing the juice to drain into a container. Alternatively, put fresh ginger pieces through an automatic juicer. Add a small amount of ginger juice to honey or another juice, such as carrot or orange, to make the pungent taste more palatable. Consult your doctor to decide whether ginger juice might be helpful for your condition.
Loading...
References (6)
University of Maryland Medical Center: Ginger
Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center: Ginger
Drugs.com: Ginger
Arthritis and Rheumatism: Effects of a Ginger Extract on Knee Pain in Patients with Osteoarthritis
Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine: Influence of a Specific Ginger Combination on Gastropathy Conditions in Patients with Osteoarthritis of the Knee or Hip.
Critical Reviews in Food Science and Nutrition: Ginger in the Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting: A Review.
DON'T MISS
Ginger Root & Inflammation
The Health Benefits of Spearmint Tea
Herbal Tea for Nausea
Photo Credits:
Blue Jean Images/Digital Vision/Getty Images
This article reflects the views of the writer and does not necessarily reflect the views of Jillian Michaels or JillianMichaels.com.
Live Well »
Diet & Nutrition »
What Are the Benefits of Raw Ginger Juice?
Loading...
Loading ...
Loading ...
Popular Articles
Garlic & Kidney Function
Ginger Tea for Acne
Health Benefits of Cardamom Tea
What Are the Health Benefits of Ginger, Lemon, & Honey Tea?
Loading ...
Loading ...
More Articles
What Does Ginger Do for the Body?
Health Benefits of Celery Seeds
Are Pineapples Good for Digestion?
Turmeric for Digestion
What Is Cinnamon Tea Good for?
Stay Connected
Customer Support
We're here to help!
Find answers to your questions in our help section or contact our customer service team, who are available Monday-Friday 9AM - 5PM EST.
Get Help
Jillian's Story
The App
Meal Plans
Workouts
Community
Podcast
Press
Terms
Privacy
Returns
Disclaimer
Advertising
Business Inquiries
Help
Help with the Old Website
JillianMichaels.com Copyright © 2016 EM Digital LLC, a subsidiary of Empowered Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.