Light It Up Blue 2019 – Behavior Science Dissemination
Skip to content
Behavior Science Dissemination
Menu
Home
Team
Blogs
Symbolic Language and Thought
The Rational Addict
Connecting the Dots
Behaviorally Educated
Under the Dome
Verbal Behavior Matters
Upcoming Events
Contact Us
Sign-in
New Account
Recover Password
My Account
Light It Up Blue 2019
Posted on April 2, 2019 April 1, 2019 by Corina Jimenez-Gomez
Today, April 2nd, is World Autism Awareness Day. Many will wear blue and #LightItUpBlue will be trending on social media. How will you shine a light on autism?
For me, today seems like the perfect day to share information on a topic that has been quite controversial — whether childhood vaccines cause autism (they don’t, by the way).
A study published in the late ’90s linked the MMR vaccine to autism. Despite the scientific flaws of this study and the reported findings being disproven in subsequent and more rigorous studies, results of this study were widely disseminated. As a result, many parents withheld childhood vaccines in an attempt to decrease the chance of their children developing autism. It is important to acknowledge, this can be a sensitive topic. Parents do what they think is best for the overall health of their children based on the information available. But sometimes these important health decisions are based in anecdotal evidence or flawed studies, or pseudoscience.
Unfortunately, decreases in vaccinations have not been linked to decreases in cases of autism. If anything, the number of autism cases has increased from 1 in 68 to 1 in 59. Despite many reports of the lack of link between MMR vaccine and autism, the damage from that original study continues to ripple. There have been several outbreaks of preventable diseases linked to the decreased number of children vaccinated, which poses a public health risk for all.
A recent large-scale study on this topic concluded “that MMR vaccination does not increase the risk for autism, does not trigger autism in susceptible children, and is not associated with clustering of autism cases after vaccination.” Will this put parents’ concerns to rest?
By erroneously focusing on the MMR vaccine as the cause of autism, the general public may not be aware of fascinating advances into our understanding of the biological underpinnings of the condition or the great strides made in the area of applied behavior analysis to improve the lives of individuals with autism. Let’s make this the focus of #AutismAwarenessMonth
What can you do? Share evidence-based information on the development and treatment of autism. As I mentioned last April 2nd, the CDC has many useful resources on their website disseminating basic facts about autism, screening tools for caregivers of young children, and information about treatment options.
Disseminate the value of applied behavior analysis in helping individuals with autism. Feel free to share information from this blog on social media in support of #AutismAwarenessMonth and #LightItUpBlue.
Follow the TABS lab on Facebook.
Posted in Connecting the DotsTagged applied behavior analysis, autism, dissemination, vaccines
Subscribe to Blog
Get notified when new articles are published on the blog by subscribing to the site.
Name
Email*
Search for:
Upcoming Events
Recent Posts
Taking a Lesson from our Students in Activism & Advocacy
Light It Up Blue 2019
Researching PEAK in field of autism: Jordan Belisle’s personal experience
Jarring Jargon or Tender Terms?
Drugs Don’t Cause Addiction
Archives
April 2019
March 2019
February 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
Shortcuts
Photo Credits
Visit ABAI
Contact Us
ABAI
550 W. Centre Avenue
Portage, MI 49024
mail@abainternational.org
(269) 492-9310
Copyright © 2019 Behavior Science Dissemination – OnePress theme by FameThemes