Grapefruit: Beware of dangerous medication interactions - Mayo Clinic
Skip to main navigation
Skip to main content
This content does not have an English version.
This content does not have an Arabic version.
Search
Request an Appointment
Find a Doctor
Find a Job
Give Now
Log in to Patient Account
English
Español
Português
العربية
中文
Twitter
Facebook
Pinterest
YouTube
English
Español
Português
العربية
中文
Menu
Search
All Mayo Clinic Topics
Patient Care & Health Info
Overview
Healthy Lifestyle
Symptoms A-Z
Diseases & Conditions A-Z
Tests & Procedures A-Z
Drugs & Supplements A-Z
Appointments
Patient & Visitor Guide
Billing & Insurance
Patient Online Services
Quality CareFind out why Mayo Clinic is the right place for your health care. Make an appointment.
Departments & Centers
Overview
Doctors & Medical Staff
Medical Departments & Centers
International Services
Research Centers & Programs
About Mayo Clinic
Contact Us
Meet the StaffFind a directory of doctors and departments at all Mayo Clinic campuses. Visit now.
Research
Overview
Explore Research Labs
Find Clinical Trials
Research Faculty
Postdoctoral Fellowships
Discovery's Edge Magazine
Search Publications
Training Grant Programs
Research and Clinical TrialsSee how Mayo Clinic research and clinical trials advance the science of medicine and improve patient care. Explore now.
Education
Overview
Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and Science
Mayo Clinic Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences
Mayo Clinic Alix School of Medicine
Mayo Clinic School of Continuous Professional Development
Mayo Clinic School of Graduate Medical Education
Mayo Clinic School of Health Sciences
Alumni Center
Visit Our SchoolsEducators at Mayo Clinic train tomorrow’s leaders to deliver compassionate, high-value, safe patient care. Choose a degree.
For Medical Professionals
Overview
Provider Relations
Referring Physician Portal
AskMayoExpert
Video Center
Publications
Continuing Medical Education
Mayo Clinic Laboratories
Professional ServicesExplore Mayo Clinic's many resources and see jobs available for medical professionals. Get updates.
Products & Services
Overview
Health Books
Healthy Living Program
International Advisory Services
Sports Medicine
Licensable Content
Mayo Clinic Health Letter
Mayo Clinic Laboratories
Mayo Clinic Voice Apps
Medical Products and Stores
Giving to Mayo Clinic
Overview
Give Now
Philanthropy in Action
Frequently Asked Questions
Contact Us to Give
Philanthropy at Mayo ClinicYour support accelerates powerful innovations in patient care, research and education. Give today.
Appointments at Mayo Clinic
Mayo Clinic offers appointments in Arizona, Florida and Minnesota and at Mayo Clinic Health System locations.
Request Appointment
Healthy Lifestyle
Consumer health
Sections
Basics
Consumer health basics
Integrative medicine
Medications
In-Depth
Expert Answers
Expert Blog
Multimedia
Resources
News From Mayo Clinic
What's New
Products and services
Free E-newsletter
Subscribe to Housecall
Our general interest e-newsletter keeps you up to date on a wide variety of health topics.
Sign up now
I like to drink grapefruit juice but hear that it can interfere with some prescription medications. Is that true?
Answer From Katherine Zeratsky, R.D., L.D.
Yes. Grapefruit and certain other citrus fruits, such as Seville oranges, can interfere with several kinds of prescription medications.
Don't take these interactions lightly. Some can cause potentially dangerous health problems. If you take prescription medication, ask your doctor or pharmacist whether your medication interacts with grapefruit or other citrus products.
You may need to eliminate grapefruit products from your diet. Simply taking your medication and grapefruit product at different times doesn't stop the interaction. Alternatively, you can ask your doctor if there's a comparable medication you can take that doesn't interact with grapefruit.
Problems arise because chemicals in the fruit can interfere with the enzymes that break down (metabolize) the medication in your digestive system. As a result, the medication may stay in your body for too short or too long a time. A medication that's broken down too quickly won't have time to work. On the other hand, a medication that stays in the body too long may build up to potentially dangerous levels.
The list of medications that can interact with grapefruit includes commonly prescribed medications that:
Fight infection
Reduce cholesterol
Treat high blood pressure
Treat heart problems
Prevent organ rejection
Treat anxiety
Control seizures
Minimize motion sickness
Treat erectile dysfunction
Replace hormones
Reduce cough
Control pain
Another potential problem is that some foods and drinks may contain grapefruit but don't say so in the name or on the ingredients list. For example, numerous citrus-flavored soft drinks contain grapefruit juice or grapefruit extract.
Play it safe with prescription drugs. Always ask your doctor or pharmacist when you get a new prescription if it interacts with any foods or other medicines. If the answer is yes, ask whether you need to eliminate that food from your diet.
With
Katherine Zeratsky, R.D., L.D.
Compassionate use
Kidney donation: Are there long-term risks?
Share
Tweet
Nov. 21, 2018
References
Grapefruit. Natural Medicines. https://naturalmedicines.therapeuticresearch.com. Accessed Oct. 19, 2018.
Temple NJ, et al., eds. Drug interactions with food and beverages. In: Nutrition Guide for Physicians and Related Healthcare Professionals. 2nd ed. Cham, Switzerland: Springer International Publishing AG; 2017.
Zeratsky KA (expert opinion). Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn. Oct. 2018.
Grapefruit juice and medicine may not mix. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. http://www.fda.gov/ForConsumers/ConsumerUpdates/ucm292276.htm. Accessed Oct. 24, 2018.
Auten AA, et al. Hidden source of grapefruit in beverages: Potential interaction with immunosuppressant medications. Hospital Pharmacy. 2013;48:489.
See more Expert Answers
Products and Services
Mayo Clinic GeneGuide™
The Mayo Clinic Diet Online
Book: The Mayo Clinic Diet
Newsletter: Mayo Clinic Health Letter
See also
Antibiotic use in agriculture
Antibiotics and alcohol
Antibiotics: Are you misusing them?
Antibiotics: Not a magic bullet
Aspirin allergy
Bioidentical hormones: Are they safer?
Disposal of unused pain medications
How to use opioids safely
Medication errors
Mild depression: Are antidepressants effective?
NSAIDs: Do they increase my risk of heart attack and stroke?
Opioid use during pregnancy
Exercise and opioids
Opioids and other drugs: What to watch for
Pain Medication Safety
Precision medicine
Self-care approaches to treating pain
Taking meds? Hold the grapefruit juice
Tapering off opioids: When and how
Treating pain: When is an opioid the right choice?
Web savvy: Choose health sites with care
What are opioids and why are they dangerous?
What's your antibiotics IQ?
Show MoreShow Less
Advertisement
Mayo Clinic does not endorse companies or products. Advertising revenue supports our not-for-profit mission.
Advertising & Sponsorship
Policy
Opportunities
Ad Choices
Mayo Clinic Marketplace
Check out these best-sellers and special offers on books and newsletters from Mayo Clinic.
The Mayo Clinic Diet Combo
4 simple steps to a joy-filled life
Live stronger, longer and healthier
Stop osteoporosis in its tracks
FREE TRIAL — Mayo Clinic Health Letter
Other Topics in Patient Care & Health Info
Healthy Lifestyle
Symptoms A-Z
Diseases & Conditions A-Z
Tests & Procedures A-Z
Drugs & Supplements A-Z
Appointments
Patient & Visitor Guide
Billing & Insurance
Patient Online Services
.
FAQ-20057918
Healthy Lifestyle
Consumer health
Expert Answers
Grapefruit Beware of dangerous medication interactions
Mayo Clinic Footer
Request Appointment
Give Now
Contact Us
About Mayo Clinic
Employees
Site Map
About This Site
Legal Conditions and Terms
Any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy linked below.
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Notice of Privacy Practices
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Manage Cookies
Reprint Permissions
A single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only. "Mayo," "Mayo Clinic," "MayoClinic.org," "Mayo Clinic Healthy Living," and the triple-shield Mayo Clinic logo are trademarks of Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research.
HON
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here.
© 1998-2019 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research (MFMER). All rights reserved.