Why You Need to Stop Carrying Your Mobile Phone in Your Pocket or Bra - Nigerian Infopedia
About us
Contact us
Advertise With Us
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Information
Business
Travel
Companies
Jobs
News
Sports
Blogpedia
Entertainment
Music/Lyrics
Events
Techpedia
Education
Health
Single&Married
Q&A
More
Opinion
Why You Need to Stop Carrying Your Mobile Phone in Your Pocket or Bra
Chizoba
1 Comment
Share9
Tweet
Share
9 Shares
Dangers of Carrying Mobile Phones in Pockets and Bras
If you’re a man and you carry your mobile phone in your pants pocket, or a woman who tucks her phone into her bra or bra strap… chances are you aren’t aware of the damage this practice may be causing. You’re not going to hear about it from the cell phone companies who are resisting mounting evidence about the dangers of mobile phone radiation.
Read on for some of the major areas of health concerns (including cancer!) and what cell phone studies have uncovered thus far…
Cell Phones and Infertility/Decreased Sperm Counts
Another recent study has demonstrated that cell phones are no friends of testes, the male reproductive organs in which sperm is made. It was shown that when cell phones were in talk mode and located in close proximity to the testes, sperm cells were damaged. The study is alarming because of two key problems…
First, damaged sperm can lead to birth defects and higher incidences of various disabilities, as is the case in a greater than average number of children of older fathers. Second, the scenario tested in the study is a common one. Males who chat using hands free headsets often leave their mobile phones resting in their pockets − in perfect range to cause the testes harm.
Ashok Agarwal, who led the study and is the Director of the Center for Reproductive Medicine at the Cleveland Clinic, states, “We believe that these devices are used because we consider them very safe, but it could cause harmful effects due to the proximity of the phones and the exposure that they are causing to the gonads.”
The study consisted of semen samples taken from 32 men who exhibited similar sperm health. The samples were kept at constant temperature and other similar conditions, while being split into a control group and a test group. The test group was placed for an hour within 2.5 cm of a cell phone in talk mode, at 850 MHz, which is perhaps the most common frequency.
ALSO READ Health Benefits of Dates: Top 12
The transmissions led to an apparent increase in oxidative stress, with free radicals and oxidants being created at a higher then normal rate and antioxidants being broken down. Agarwal says this stress equates to damaged sperm. Other factors which can cause it include environmental pollutants or infections in the urinary genital tract, he adds.
Mobile Phone Radiation and Cancer
Perhaps the greatest area of concern when it comes to cell phone use and health is cancer. Mobile phone radiation has been linked to various forms of cancer. Evidence is mounting that prolonged exposure to radiation from cell phones carried on the body can lead to breast and other cancers − at earlier ages than ever.
The World Health Organization has classified mobile phones, and any wireless devices that use microwaves to communicate, as a group 2B risk − which means that they are “possibly carcinogenic to humans.” Many believe that the evidence is already strong enough to classify mobile phones as definite cancer causers. They point to the increased incidence of cancer in areas of the body closest to where cell phones are carried and used. For example, testicular cancer in men occurring more frequently in the testes closest to where cell phones are carried.
A pile of research has confirmed that non-ionizing communications radiation in the radio-frequency (RF) microwave spectrum has the same effect on human health as ionizing gamma wave radiation from nuclear reactions. It has been known for about 15 years that microwaves from cell phones and tower transmitters cause damage in human blood cells which results in nuclei splintering off into micronuclei fragments.
An industry study showed that human blood exposure to cell phone radiation had a 300% increase in genetic damage in the form of micronuclei. This suggests a health threat much greater than that of smoking or asbestos exposure. The development of micronuclei is a pre-cancerous condition that can quickly develop into full blown cancer.
ALSO READ Tips On How To Build Big Arms For Newbies (Muscle)
Research studies have also reported that adults who have used mobile phones for at least ten years experience an increase in brain cancer, salivary gland cancer, and even rare eye cancers on the side of the head where the cell phone was predominantly held.
Carrying Your Cell Phone in Your Bra is a Bad Idea
A recent study completed at Breastlink in California has revealed a strong connection between cell phones placed in the bra and the development of breast cancer in young women. The research team noted that, in the absence of family history or genetic predisposition, breast cancer occurring in women under the age of 40 is uncommon.
The researchers examined the cases of four women, with ages from 21 to 39, who developed multi-focal invasive breast cancer. They focussed on the possible association of these cases with the radiation from electromagnetic field exposures from cellular phones. Each of the women regularly carried her smart phone directly against her breasts tucked into her brassiere for up to ten hours a day, and had been doing so for several years.
Each woman developed tumors in the areas of the breasts immediately underlying the phones. Notably, the women had no family history of breast cancer, tested negative for the BRCA1 and BRACA 2 genes associated with breast cancer development, and had no other known breast cancer risks.
A review of their breast images showed clustering of multiple tumor foci in the breast directly under the area of phone contact. The pathology reports of all four women revealed striking similarity:
All tumors were hormone-positive
All tumors were low-intermediate grade
All tumors showed an extensive intraductal component
All tumors revealed almost identical form and structure, and specific structural features
Breast surgeon Dr. John West told TV station KTVU that “young breasts in the early evolution are more sensitive to changes that might lead to cancer.” Dr. West and others have also pointed out that men too are getting breast cancer by carrying cell phones in their shirt pockets.
ALSO READ 8 Early Warning Signs of Lung Cancer You Should Not Ignore
Measures to Help Minimize Cell Phone Health Risks
A good rule of thumb when it comes to cell phones: distance is your friend. In other words, the farther you keep a cell phone from your body, both when carrying it and when talking on it, the better. In other words, do not keep cell phones in your pockets, clipped to your belt, or stuffed into your bra. Likewise, do not keep a cell phone turned on and close by when sleeping.
Here are the five measures adapted from the Environmental Working Group (EWG) for safer cell phone use:
1. Use a headset or speaker instead of holding the phone up to your ear
2. When in use, hold phone away from your body − The amount of radiation absorbed by your head and body decreases dramatically with even a small distance. Don’t put the phone in your pocket or clip it to your belt, even when using your headset.
3. Text more and talk less − Phones emit less radiation when sending text rather than voice communications.
4. Call when the signal is strong − Fewer signal bars mean the phone must try harder to broadcast its signal. Research shows that radiation exposure increases dramatically when cell phone signals are weak.
5. Don’t store your phone in your pocket (or under your pillow) − When a phone is on and not in use, it still sends out an intermittent signal to connect with nearby cell phone towers, which means mobile phone radiation exposure is still happening.
Loading...
Share9
Tweet
Share
9 Shares
Related Posts
9 Types of Women Nigerian Men Love to Marry
Why Men Would Always Cheat
When has FRSC officers started carrying gun?
Fundamental Human Rights In Nigeria: The list
Richest Igbo Men in Nigeria: Top 10 (2019)
Best Health Insurance Companies in Nigeria: Top 10
Why You Should Advertise Your Business on Nigerian Infopedia, Click For More Information
← Previous Post
Next Post →
1 Comment
Add a Comment
Fidelis
"> at
Noted
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Please enable javascript in order to be allowed to comment
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
You Will Love These Posts
Ronald Koeman Biography, Salary and Net Worth (2017)
Things You Don’t Know About Ramsey Nouah’s Background
Linda Ikeji Age: How Old She Is
Top 5 Weird Looking Buildings In The World With Pictures
Claudio Ranieri Salary, Biography & Net Worth (2019)
Lionel Messi Current Salary In Naira (2019)
Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Biography: All There Is To Know About Him
Reverend King Biography, Trial & Latest News on Pastor Chukwuemeka Ezeugo
How To Stream The 2017 Europa League Final For Free On YouTube
Wizkid’s House and Cars (with Pictures)
Pepsi Football Academy In Nigeria: How To Join Easily (2019)
Lionel Messi new salary per week 2019: See Correct Details
Official List of FC Barcelona Players Salaries 2019 (Updated)
How Traditional Marriages in Nigeria is Done In Different Parts of The Country
Top 10 Richest Gospel Musicians in Nigeria & Net Worth
Health & Relationship
How To Avoid Mistakes Made By Newly Weds
7 Habits that are causing your boobs to sag
BEAUTY: 5 AMAZING THINGS YOU CAN DO WITH A BANANA PEEL
Legal Grounds For Divorce in Nigeria
Medical Benefits Of Pineapple
Do You Want To Quit Smoking? This Tips Will Show You How
For Men: Watch that lump on your testicles
Things Your Nails Reveal About Your Health
Waste Management in Nigeria: Ways to Combat Waste in Nigeria
Nigerian Spices: Nutritional & Therapeutic Benefits
Smoking in Nigeria: Things You Should Know
Easy Way On How to Cure Hemorrhoids Permanently
The Harmful Effects of Excessive Deodorant Spray
Gonorrhoea Becoming Untreatable: World Health Organisation
How To Take Care of Menstrual Pain (Self Care)
Search Any Keyword Here
Search for:
Nigeria Infopedia © 2015-2019
error: Content Protected