Skin lightening with hydroquinone – WHITERskin
Skip to content
WHITERskin
Safe & effective skin lightening
Menu
The Basics
Melanocytes determine skin color
How the skin darkens under sunlight — UVA versus UVB rays
List of skin whitening ingredients showing safety and efficacy
Dermal versus epidermal hyperpigmentation: How deep does the melanin go?
Black skin, white skin, Asian skin — what’s the difference?
Smoking and darker skin
How light can your skin get?
Scientists still can’t figure out why humans got lighter
Europeans were dark-skinned until 8,000 years ago
Culture & Society
History lesson — lead, mercury and leeches were used to whiten complexions in the 1400s
New York Times — Where beauty means bleached skin
New York Times — Colorism is the new racism
What It’s Like to Be Discriminated Against by People of Your Own Race
Bleaching in some parts of Africa is nothing less than a way of life
Japan: Despite their blemished reputation, demand for skin whiteners remains solid
India’s Snow White syndrome refuses to fade
Safe Methods
Cheap and effective — How to make your own Vitamin C serum
How ingesting extra Vitamin C can lighten skin
Rice Powder — an Asian skin whitening secret
How to heal your skin from deep, chemical damage due to harmful creams
Unsafe Methods
List of toxic creams, lotions and soaps that contain mercury
Mercury absorption and symptoms
The dangers of skin lightening with corticosteroid creams
The dangers of skin bleaching with monobenzone
The dangers of skin lightening with hydroquinone
Deceptive labeling in skin lightening creams
Beware dishonest user reviews and comments
Videos
News
Posted on 23 August 2009 25 September 2017 by Hessa
Skin lightening with hydroquinone
Some skin lightening ingredients work extremely well in the short-term but when used over a longer period of time, actually damages our skin. Hydroquinone is one of them.
What is hydroquinone?
Hydroquinone is a widely used skin lightening ingredient found in over-the-counter, cosmetic and prescription products. Hydroquinone is usually combined with other ingredients (such as alpha hydroxy acids and tretinoin) to increase its penetration and effectiveness.
Hydroquinone works to lighten skin by inhibiting tyrosinase, which is responsible for catalyzing melanin production (it prevents the conversion of dopa to melanin). Hydroquinone has also been shown to be toxic to melanocytes, the cells in our skin that produces pigment or melanin.
Safety and effectiveness of hydroquinone (2%, 4%, and higher)
The application of 2% hydroquinone will cause some lightening in both normal skin and hyperpigmented skin. While low 2% concentrations of hydroquinone appear to be safe, you should not use it for more than 6 months.
At higher concentrations of 4% and above, hydroquinone appears to be more effective in lightening skin. A 5% concentration of hydroquinone will reduce tyrosinase activity by 50%.
However, these higher concentrations also raises the risk of irritation and may actually cause or worsen hyperpigmentation. Prolonged and continuous use may cause paradoxical hyperpigmentation or permanently damage skin through exogenous ochronosis.
No matter what the concentration, hydroquinone creams can only produce a partial change in skin color at the most. They are also more effective for treating light spots than dark ones. On darker spots, hydroquinone can produce about a 50% improvement at best.
Hydroquinone is banned in many countries and highly regulated in others
There have been many concerns about the toxicity of hydroquinone, and its potential ability to mutate cells. Hydroquinone has been banned in Europe and Japan, and is highly regulated in Asia. The sale of over-the-counter skin bleaching creams containing hydroquinone was banned in South Africa in 1992.
In the US, 2% hydroquinone can be bought over-the-counter, while higher 4% concentrations require a doctor’s prescription. In Canada, 2% or 4% hydroquinone can be bought without a prescription.
Skin lightening creams containing dangerous levels of hydroquinone
Product name
Brand Hydroquinone
concentrations
Other information
Maxi White S1 Lightening Cream Gel – strong formula Labo Farmax 9%
Body Clear Cream – Lightening Body Cream Picos-ci 2.6%
Skin light, Super Lightening Body Lotion Rodis 5% Lotion smells of cocoa butter
An ad for Ultra Nadinola bleaching cream, which contains hydroquinone. Printed in Ebony magazine, October 1964. Click to enlarge.
An ad for Ultra Bleach and Glow, a bleaching cream which also contains hydroquinone. Printed in Ebony magazine, September 1970. Click to enlarge.
Related Posts
Melanocytes determine skin color
Your natural skin color is determined from birth. Over time however, many things…
Video: Skin lightening creams seized in the UK
Toxic skin lightening creams containing damaging ingredients were seized in east London. View video here. Steve…
Black skin, white skin, Asian skin - what's the difference?
Surprisingly (or not), it's more than just melanin that separates a black person from a white…
CategoriesDangerous Skin Lightening TagsOriginal Articles
Post navigation
Previous PostPrevious Bleaching in some parts of Africa is nothing less than a way of life
Next PostNext How taking extra Vitamin C lightens skin
30 Replies to “Skin lightening with hydroquinone”
John says:
14 October 2009 at 3:31 pm
You should go deeper about the hydroquinine. It seems to me that most of the info is contradictory.
But, in my very particular case, i would like to know where it is appropiate to use.
I’m a spaniard of Celtic decent.I live in latin america, and the sun is quite…hot.I’m all white, but, some parts of my face,noose forehead in example, are radically darker (morethan my tanned arms!) than say, my neck (This happened right after i applied a anti-acne cream, danm, it felt hot and burn my face badly in those spots, i had it still applied when i went to the street). I still need to go to a dermatologist, but asking this there would be kinda embarrasing…
Also, a consults section would be cool, since this is more like a cosmetic-like thing than medical.
Reply
Hessa says:
15 October 2009 at 6:09 am
Hi John, yes the information on hydroquinone can be quite contradictory (and confusing). If you’re worried about your skin’s reaction to hydroquinone, it’s best to do a test patch on your arm first.
I can’t be 100% sure of course, but based on your description of what happened (a burning sensation after applying the acne cream), it sounds like what you have could be post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation. This is quite common, but immediate sun exposure after skin damage can make the spots darker and more stubborn.
Most cases of post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation will resolve on their own given enough time (up to several months). And since you’re white (with Type II/III skin?), the odds are good that your spots will fade over time. I would suggest using a good zinc oxide sunscreen everyday to help things along.
Reply
Ann says:
1 May 2015 at 3:37 am
Hydro quinine is not banned in Europe or Asia, it is a myth. Hydro quinine can be found in coffee, blueberries and many other foods that are consumed in a daily basis. When applied topically, it is metabolized out of the sustem within 24 hours. Hydro quinine does not cause cancer, another myth!!!
Reply
John says:
14 October 2009 at 3:33 pm
And you say, a 50% improvement at best. 50% improvement on previous tone? that’s not a mild improvement, i believe!
Reply
getsome says:
1 June 2010 at 6:23 pm
how did you figure out how much hydroquinone is in those products listed above?? where did the data come from??? POOF PLEASE!
Reply
Ria says:
4 December 2011 at 12:08 am
You have to key the product name in your search browser, and also the word ingredients. This will give you a list of ingredients along with the percentage as well. I hope this is helpful. For example, Nadinola extra strength has 3% hydroquine and black & white product has only 2% of the skin bleaching ingredient.
Reply
Kim says:
4 August 2010 at 7:33 pm
Where can you buy labo farmax, i couldnt find. Please email me if you know and thanks.
Reply
Steph says:
9 August 2010 at 10:54 am
I used a 7% doctor prescribed hydroquinone for a couple weeks, maybe 3. Doctor said to stop after a couple months, but I’ve been told 2 weeks. Since then I use it off and on. not more than once or twice every 3 months. I can’t say whether it made an improvement or not, I just have darker skin on my face from too much sun exposure, while the rest of my body has already returned to lighter color. I will probably use it again this winter, more regularly.I have found your site very helpful. Made my own vitamin c serum 🙂
For anyone interested in 7% hydroquinone, I did buy extras since I thought I would need a lot more, so if you are interested, please contact me (robolegojupiter@gmail.com) It has to be kept refrigerated and apparently has no expiration date. I bought it one year ago.
Reply
Hessa says:
10 August 2010 at 4:35 am
Hi Steph, thanks for your comment. I’m always happy to hear that this site is helpful 🙂
Reply
Asmah says:
4 December 2015 at 7:07 pm
Yes I Wil take them
Reply
Tee says:
7 December 2015 at 5:10 am
Hi,
Hope you are doing good, Saw your comment on whiteskin. Just going on a limp here. Would like to ask if you still have any more of the 7% as your commenT was in August, i have come up with some dark spots that have refused to leave and i know this product is very safe. Kindly let me know if you still have any left.
Reply
balaraj says:
29 February 2016 at 3:58 pm
Tell the above 7% hydroquinone cream brands to glow my skin
Reply
carmen says:
14 March 2017 at 3:16 pm
Can I buy it from u
Reply
Steph says:
9 August 2010 at 10:56 am
****By extras, I meant I only bought 2 more. Not selling wholesale or fakes, etc. The names of the place/physician I went to is on the bottle.
Reply
Arya says:
19 August 2010 at 8:54 am
hi
I am a caucasian male leaving for 3 years in singapore now, here the sun is extremely hot, my head from neck above has become much darker than the other parts, I have used sun block creams (40) and have avoided sun for a year now but no improvements is observed, is it permanent or it will go by time?
tnx
Reply
allicesa says:
28 October 2010 at 3:31 pm
I’ve been using a cream called fair and white and it kinda of lightens me up but not really and what makes me upset is that i’m trying to look for a cream that will even my arms and legs back to my really lighgt complexion i already have.
Reply
Sita says:
8 March 2011 at 4:22 am
Hi
Thank you for the information, I am looking to purchase a skin lightening product, I am Indian, is there a product that is safe and results orientated that you can recommend?
looking fwd to your response.
Reply
valerie says:
8 August 2011 at 2:24 pm
hello,thnx for your page,i have found very interesting information. i was wondering for how long i can use a hydroquinone treatment,. well my mom is mexican and shes not as white but shes tanned skin, so we moved to Colorado where is usually very cold, and comin from mexico where its usually very hot,and she started gettin this black spots on her face,then on her neck and finally on her arms, but she got it after exposing herself to the sun in Denver CO and it started itching,and she scratched and then those black spots came up. so i was wondering if you reccomnd any treatment and for how long she shud use it and how much she should apply every night or so. this was like 2 years ago and they keep gettin darkk,it doesnt look good.. help please 🙂 will appreciate it
Reply
ennydaniels says:
15 October 2011 at 10:25 pm
hi, i am a Nigerian, and fair but not too light, i need a cream to use or what to do to have a fair and pimples free skin, cos i have pimples on my face. just give me the name of the cream and a natural beauty routine to follow for a glowing skin. thanks
Regards
Reply
muteehat says:
8 November 2011 at 12:46 am
how safe is topiclear, it contains 2% HQ
Reply
Munequita says:
8 December 2011 at 5:15 pm
Hi
I use the maxi white s1 cream and gel
It doesnt mention that it has hydroquinone in the ingredients section.
I believe that it does but i want to know how do you know it attains 9% hydroquinone?
Did u reasearch
I would like to know in order to stop using it.
Regards
Reply
Hessa says:
8 December 2011 at 6:40 pm
This article was written in 2010. That said, formulations can always change. It’s best to do your own checks and ask questions to the manufacturer directly.
Reply
Sweety says:
11 January 2012 at 4:30 am
Hi Hessa,
My Dermalogist prescribed me to use DEPIDERM cream for skin lightning(Pigmentation). Could you pls suggest me how effective this cream is & is it containing Mercury or hydroquinine.
Thanks in advance.
Reply
meli says:
22 December 2011 at 3:36 am
hi, i’ve been using HQ 4% Prescribed by my docter for 8 mnths now. I had mild to severe acne scars, and by using this i have recieved instant changes in 4-6 week. i have continued using this to get better results, but when i stop using for like about 3-4 days, i see m scars comming up and darkening of face.so i went to my doctor and he changed it to salycylic acid 15% ointment – used this for 1 week and saw more scaring. well i know that it takes around 3 months for SA to work, iam continuing with HQ. Ijust want to know what is the maximum amount of time to use HQ- as said earlier i’ve used for 8 mnths.. when can i stop using.. to avoid high potential risks tat may occur later. thank you for this site
Reply
Clueless says:
11 January 2012 at 1:12 pm
8 months is too long dude… you are in trouble!
Reply
anisha says:
30 August 2013 at 6:30 am
hi,m from india,my face and neck colour is too dark compare to my body so would you please suggest how to overcome wid it within a month
Reply
teekay says:
5 January 2015 at 6:29 pm
hi …I hv Black acne scars on my legs en buttocks en thighs.
I am a 33yrs old South African Black Guy.
I am desperate to remove them…pls help me with an Effective Cream or Method?
I cant even wear Shorts…its so Embarrassing???
Reply
yasmin says:
28 January 2015 at 3:45 am
hi,i havea medium complextion and i started using hydroquinone for about 3 months ago..i thought of stopping it and start taking vitamin c capsules or the serum (in your site).i stopped hydroquinone for about a week and my skin looked pale and damaged.for how long should i wait to take those vitamin c pills?
Reply
Hessa says:
28 January 2015 at 4:49 am
Hi yasmin
You can take Vitamin C anytime and ideally everyday, there’s no need to wait.
If Vitamic C doesn’t work, you can also try using a deep healing oil like castor or coconut oil.
How to heal your skin from deep, chemical damage due to harmful creams
Reply
Ranvir says:
5 September 2017 at 8:06 am
hii…i hv very oily skin n i hv got pimples scars blackheads all over my face.i tried many creams but not even one suits me…my face skin is very dark as compare to my body skin.Can i use hydroquinone 4% on my face with oily skin……..i m from India n can anyone suggest me where to find this cream n how much it cost?
with regards
Ranvir
Reply
Leave a Reply to Sita Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
How to support this site
If you use an adblocker, please consider whitelisting this site (or if you use Firefox, please consider disabling tracking protection). Just allowing the ads to load on your browser means a lot to me. Thank you!
iherb.com discount code
Use code NUR428 at checkout or simply click this link for a 10% discount on your 1st order or a 5% discount if you’re a returning customer.
If you use this code, you would also be helping me, and I am very thankful for that.
Search for:
Search
Latest comments
Arshi 4 April 2019 at 6:46 pm on How to heal your skin from deep, chemical damage due to harmful creamsHi my face was burn I am using retino a hidroqunon trenion cream givin me Dr I use cream my face burn and black please help me what can I use my face very sensitive I use anything my face is burn become dark black please what can
Imela_b 20 March 2019 at 8:24 am on How to heal your skin from deep, chemical damage due to harmful creamsUse African black soap to bath, and apply carrot oil, avocado oil, olive oil, or coconut oil on your skin daily. Your skin will return to normal.
andre 17 March 2019 at 7:19 pm on Skin bleaching with monobenzoneeu quero
Ziya 3 March 2019 at 2:22 pm on How to heal your skin from deep, chemical damage due to harmful creamsHii even m facing the same problem now 😪 I know how it feels to see such bad reverse in skin.... btw... how's your skin now and what did u use to get rid of it....plzz help me too....
Thushini jayasekara 16 February 2019 at 11:31 am on Mercury is a dangerous skin lightening ingredientBioaqua is the best❤️ experienced
Sarah 10 February 2019 at 5:12 pm on How to heal your skin from deep, chemical damage due to harmful creamsPls help me I really need help, I have been using carro white cream for over 4 years now, tho am a type that changed lightening cream very well, is good in my body but whenever I stop the carro white cream I will become very darker than
Charlene 6 February 2019 at 7:33 pm on Rice Powder: an Asian skin whitening secretYou may be so smart but you are not being very kind. So what good does it do? A fifteen year old has much yet to learn, so it is their right to ask questions. A comment like yours does not encourage, but discouraged instead. So, if no
﻿
Affiliates : Simple & Natural Health | Contact/Enquiries
This site contains copyrighted material and its entire contents are protected by copyright as a collective work and/or compilation under U.S. copyright laws, international conventions and other copyright laws. The author reserves all rights.
No text may be copied, reproduced, republished, uploaded, posted, transmitted, or distributed in any way without the author's express written consent.