One Statin Caused Memory Loss in Study, Another Did Not: Why the Difference?
SeniorJournal.com - Daily News for Senior Citizens
FRONT PAGE • Aging • Health • Alzheimer's - Mental • Nutrition • Medicare & Medicaid • Politics • Fitness • Social Security • Alerts • Sex Health • Features • Retirement • Elder Care >Search >Senior Links
[NavBar.htm]
Senior Journal: Today's News and Information for Senior Citizens & Baby Boomers
More Senior Citizen News and Information Than Any Other Source - SeniorJournal.com
Need Great Lawyer – Medical, Nursing Home Injuries - Pd.Adv.
• Go to more on Health & Medicine or More Senior News from SeniorJournal.com on the Front Page
Follow on and
E-mail this page to a friend!
Health & Medicine for Senior Citizens
One Statin Caused Memory Loss in Study, Another Did Not: Why the Difference?
Lack of effect of Lipitor certainly suggests that some types of statin may be more likely to cause cognitive impairment than others
Sept. 25, 2013 - New research from the United Kingdom looked at whether two commonly prescribed statin medicines, used to lower low-density lipoprotein (LDL) or ‘bad cholesterol’ levels in the blood, can adversely affect cognitive function. The study found that Pravachol caused memory impairment in rats, while Lipitor did not.
Between six and seven million people in the UK take statins daily and the findings follow anecdotal evidence of people reporting that they feel that their newly prescribed statin is affecting their memory. Last year, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) insisted that all manufacturers list in their side effects that statins might affect cognitive function.
The study, led by scientists at the University of Bristol and published in the journal PLOS ONE, tested two commonly prescribed statins - pravastatin and atorvostatin(atorvastatin in U.S.) - in rat learning and memory models. The findings show that while no adverse cognitive effects were observed in rat performance for simple learning and memory tasks for atorvostatin, pravastatin impaired their performance.
Rats were treated daily with pravastatin (brand name - Pravachol) or atorvastatin (brand name - Lipitor) for 18 days. The rodents were tested in a simple learning task before, during and after treatment, where they had to learn where to find a food reward.
Related Archive Stories
Statins Take Another Hit, Large Study Says They Increase Cataract Risk
Seems to be little doubt statins are effective protecting the heart but there is a growing list of damaging and dangerous side effects
Sept. 23, 2013
Read the latest news
> Health & Medicine
> Today's Headlines
On the last day of treatment and following one week withdrawal, the rats were also tested in a task which measures their ability to recognise a previously encountered object (recognition memory).
The study’s findings showed that pravastatin tended to impair learning over the last few days of treatment although this effect was fully reversed once treatment ceased. However, in the novel object discrimination task, pravastatin impaired object recognition memory. No effects were observed for atorvostatin in either task.
The results suggest that chronic treatment with pravastatin impairs working and recognition memory in rodents. The reversibility of the effects on stopping treatment is similar to what has been observed in patients, but the lack of effect of atorvostatin suggests that some types of statin may be more likely to cause cognitive impairment than others.
Neil Marrion, Professor of Neuroscience at Bristol’s School of Physiology and Pharmacology in the Faculty of Medical and Veterinary Sciences and the study’s lead author, said: “This finding is novel and likely reflects both the anecdotal reports and FDA advice. What is most interesting is that it is not a feature of all statins. However, in order to better understand the relationship between statin treatment and cognitive function, further studies are needed.”
Further information:
The paper ‘Chronic Pravastatin but Not Atorvastatin Treatment Impairs Cognitive Function in Two Rodent Models of Learning and Memory’ by Stuart SA, Robertson JD, Marrion NV, Robinson ESJ is published in PLOS ONE : e75467. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0075467 http://www.plosone.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0075467
What are statins used for?
Statins are medicines that are prescribed to help protect healthy, but high-risk, people from heart disease and to prevent repeated problems in people who have already had a heart attack, a stroke or peripheral artery disease.
How do statins work?
The cells in our body make a fatty substance called cholesterol. The liver makes the cholesterol mostly from the saturated fats in the food we eat. Cholesterol plays a vital role in how every cell works, throughout the body, and the body uses cholesterol to make other vital chemicals. However, having too much cholesterol in the blood can increase your risk of getting heart and circulatory disease. Statins reduce the amount of cholesterol produced by cells all over our body. This forces them to get their supply by removing it from the bloodstream. So this lowers the blood cholesterol level.
Source: British Heart Foundation
► More about Pravastatin (Pravachol) at MedlinePlus
► More about Atorvastatin (Lipitor) at MedlinePlus
Source:
Commonly Prescribed Statin Linked to Memory Impairment, Study in Rats Suggestsoked at whether two commonly prescribed statin medicines, used to lower low-density lipoprotein (LDL) or 'bad cholesterol' levels in the blood, can adversely affect cognitive function has found that one of the drugs tested caused memory impairment in rats.
> Medical Malpractice,
> Nursing Home Abuse,
> Personal Injury
Our Experienced Lawyers Can Help
"We win because we care, we prepare and we have no fear," Beth Janicek, board certified personal injury attorney
Free Consultation on your case.
Call Now Toll Free
1-877-795-3425
or Send Email
More at our Website
Search for more about this topic on SeniorJournal.com
Web SeniorJournal.com
Keep up with the latest news for senior citizens, baby boomers
Please enable JavaScript and reload this page.
Click to More Senior News on the Front Page
Copyright: SeniorJournal.com
Published by New Tech Media - www.NewTechMedia.com
Other New Tech Media sites include CaroleSutherland.com, BethJanicek.com, SASeniors.com, DrugDanger.com, etc.