Natural Way To Lower Cholesterol Levels
1 Minute RecipePakistani RecipesRiwaiti Mithaiyan Recipes Added in CookBook,View & Save | Sign In My Page Advertising
Home
Recipes
Video Recipes
Urdu Recipes اردو
Blog
Photo
Chef
Restaurant
TV
Life Tips
Design
SHOP
Recipes Article Chefs Restaurants Totkay Photos Ask KF
Home
Article
Health and Fitness
Natural Way To Lower Cholesterol Levels
Natural Way To Lower Cholesterol Levels
A common misconception about cholesterol is that it is bad. This isn’t true as the body requires cholesterol, so that cells, hormones, and nerves function properly. The bad thing is when cholesterol builds up in the walls of the arteries (plaque) and this decreases blood flow in the important areas of the body. Long-term accumulation of plaque hikes up the risk of stroke and heart attack.
Cholesterol should be kept in equilibrium, but most of our diets consist of refined carbohydrates and hydrogenated fats, which lead to imbalance and high risk of chronic diseases. If your total cholesterol is 200 to 239 mg/dL (borderline high) or at least 240 mg/dL (high), it is important to take the necessary steps to reduce cholesterol. Here are easy ways to help you decrease your cholesterol levels naturally and quickly:
1. Eat the right foods.
The following can help reduce your low density lipoproteins (LDL) or bad cholesterol, while increasing high density lipoproteins (HDL) or the good cholesterol:
Omega 3s
Foods rich in soluble fiber
Olive oil
Herbs like turmeric, basil, and rosemary
Garlic and onions
2. Avoid some foods.
Some foods and drinks raise cholesterol, including:
Alcohol
Refined carbs and sugar
Caffeine
Hydrogenated fats like vegetable oils
Trans fats
3. Exercise regularly.
You can lower your cholesterol levels rapidly by simply exercising. The best exercises are weight and burst training. Both of which can help boost the human growth hormone or HIGH, which can lead to lower LDL cholesterol and increased HDL cholesterol.
4. Use essential oils.
There are essential oils that are great for lowering cholesterol levels. One is lavender essential oil, which can help reduce emotional stress – a common cause of high cholesterol. Rosemary oil is also helpful in reducing cholesterol due to its antioxidant properties and is also supportive to the cardiovascular system. Cypress oil is also used to lowering cholesterol and can help in improving circulation.
5. Stop smoking.
For those who are smoking, it’s time to stop. The benefits don’t end at improving your HDL cholesterol levels. With just 20 minutes of stopping your bad habit, both the heart rate and blood pressure decrease. In just one year, your heart disease risk decreases up to 50% compared to smokers. In 15 years, your heart disease risk is equivalent to that of someone who never smoked.
Sometimes, lifestyle changes are not enough. You should listen to what your doctor tells you, particularly when it comes to taking your medications. It is important, however, to continue eating well and exercising to take your progress even further.
In some people, cholesterol levels in the blood become too high. This is called high cholesterol or hyperlipidemia. High levels of LDL cholesterol (so-called "bad" cholesterol) are considered a major risk factor for heart disease and stroke. There are several foods which are not just part of a healthy diet; they actively help to lower your cholesterol too. Try to eat some of these every day. The more you add to your diet, the more they will lower your cholesterol naturally, especially if you cut down on saturated fat as well. Try switching some of your usual meat, dairy products and deserts, such as milk, yoghurt and custard, to soya alternatives to help you lower your cholesterol level.
zoom effect
By Aqib Shahzad In Health and Fitness 0 Comments 550 Views 15 Feb 2019
Related Post
Ganjpan sy bachao ka Asan Ilaj
Home Remedy For White Hair In Urdu
5 Delicious (& Healthy) Low Calorie Snacks
5 Benefits of Orange Juice for Your Health
Previous Article
10 Surprising Things You May Not Know About Pregnancy
Next Article
Achar Khane Ke Fayde
Comments/Ask Question
Comments on Natural Way To Lower Cholesterol Levels
Name
City
Load More Comments
Read Blog about Natural Way To Lower Cholesterol Levels and health & fitness, step by step recipes, Beauty & skin care and other related topics with sample homemade solution. Here is variety of health benefits, home-based natural remedies. Find (Natural Way To Lower Cholesterol Levels) and how to utilize other natural ingredients to cure diseases, easy recipes, and other information related to food from KFoods.
Categories
Health and Fitness632
Step By Step Recipes381
Tips and Totkay150
Beauty and Skin Care148
News34
Events in Pakistan25
Chef Interviews12
Archive
April 2019 23
March 2019 31
February 2019 21
January 2019 29
December 2018 40
November 2018 6
October 2018 29
September 2018 15
August 2018 18
July 2018 20
June 2018 28
May 2018 9
April 2018 1
Recent Posts
Cherries are Good to Improve Sleep
Tue 23 Apr, 2019 In Health and Fitness
Jari Botian Aur Hasil Hony Wale Fawaid
Tue 23 Apr, 2019 In Health and Fitness
Dantoon Ke Hifazat Ghareelo Nuskhy Beh Aazmain
Tue 23 Apr, 2019 In Health and Fitness
Khajoor Behtareen Ghiza Magar Kiyun?
Tue 23 Apr, 2019 In Health and Fitness
Kitchen Safety & Cleaning Tips
Sun 21 Apr, 2019 In Health and Fitness
Recent Comments
Tarbooz ka Sharbat Recipe
delighted i found it! Tarboz ka sharbat is veryy refreshing and just awesome to have in ramzan.
Sehar - Karachi
Sehri Special Recipes for Summer Ramadan
Love the kehva part. will try these recipes this ramadan insha'Allah
Amna - Karachi
How to Make Bihari Keema Recipe
Love to make Bihari Keema especially in the Ramadan to make the Sehri moment more exciting. My w...
amina - khi
Chicken Wonton Recipe
Well, Wonton is all common side item which I mostly eat in the Wedding, last Ramadan I tried it ...
urooj - khi
Al Baik Chicken Recipe
Certainly, this chicken lives up to its name, it definitely IS crispy! It took about 10-15 minut...
Humera - Karachi
Kfoods.com
Home About Us Contact Us Advertising Ramadan Iftar RecipesPakistani Recipes Easy Recipes Best 100 Recipes Cooking Courses Top 10 Mehndi Designs Shaadi Halls Grocery Price List GlossaryToday Chicken Rate In Karachi Mehandi Designs Ramadan Timings Prayer TimesPakora Recipe in UrduChutney Recipes in UrduHath Paon So Jana Ki WajaAqwal e ZareenAvocado In Urdu Gulab Jamun Banane Ka Tarikastudent biryani
© All Rights Reseverd by Kfoods.com