Natural Cures For Prostate Cancer - Baking Soda Lies!
Natural Cures For Prostate Cancer... Baking Soda/Molasses Treatment:
Stunning secrets revealed about one of the strongest natural cures for prostate cancer in existence.
The truth is the baking soda remedy is an absolute "no brainer" treatment for advanced (stage 4) prostate cancer that you simply must consider using...
Article by Troy Sawyer (Certified Holistic Nutritionist, Health & Wellness Coach/Specialist)
Updated April 26, 2019 -- This post contains affiliate links
Jim Kelmun is considered by many in the natural health field to be a legend.
Not only did he completely cure himself of advanced prostate cancer using this powerful remedy - and help many others to successfully treat their own cancers - he has also defied constant threats from the medical profession calling on him to stop his so called “quackery” or risk being charged with practising medicine without a licence and being thrown in jail!
Personally, I love this guy. He's willing to stand up to all of this ridiculous bullying and thuggery because he believes wholeheartedly in what he’s doing and knows without a shadow of a doubt his cure works.
The "Bomb" of Natural Prostate Remedies...
The great thing about this treatment is not only is it astoundingly effective (it starts to work quickly), the preparation is dead easy (you can begin right now if you have the ingredients in your pantry), and the cost is very cheap.
So here’s what to do…
Simply mix up thoroughly 1 teaspoon of baking soda with 1½ to 2 teaspoons of grade B maple syrup, black-strap molasses or Manuka honey on a desert spoon or table spoon. Take on an empty stomach with one large glass of clean filtered water (first thing in the morning and last thing at night are best). Do this twice a day for the first week then increase to three times a day thereafter. Continue to follow this regimen for 4-6 weeks before resting. You may then repeat the protocol once again after a 4 week rest period.
In addition to this, it's extremely important that you do not do any physical activity (not even walking if you can help it) for at least 40 minutes after taking your baking soda/maple syrup mixture. This prevents the body from using the sugars in the maple syrup for energy. Also, you must eliminate all sugars from your diet so they don’t interfere with this treatment. You want the glucose in the maple syrup, black strap molasses or Manuka honey to be taken in by the cancer cells (along with the baking soda) rather than having the baking soda combining with other "wasted" sugars, and in turn, not reaching the cancerous cells.
Baking Soda/Molasses Prostate Cancer Treatment Explained Further...
Another guy who also managed to completely cure himself of advanced prostate cancer (stage 4) was Vernon Johnston. This guy was given up for dead by doctors and the medical profession, but he managed to beat the disease by doing nothing else except use the baking soda cancer treatment. His story is even more remarkable than Jim's because Vernon's cancer had also spread to his bones. Once this occurs, it's usually a death sentence from this point on!
So we recommend you take the time to watch this short video on how Vernon makes his baking soda/molasses mix to boost his pH level. It does vary slightly from our recommendation, but results will still be the same...
Go from natural cures for prostate cancer - baking soda therapy - to more natural treatments for prostate cancer
Go to "natural cancer cures" section
Go to life-saving natural cures and natural remedies home page
Home
Dedication
What's new?
Healing stories
Ask a question?
Breaking news!
Expert interviews
Natural cures and remedies...
Acid reflux
Acne
ADD & ADHD
Age spots
Allergies
Anxiety
Arthritis
Asthma
Bone spurs
Breast cancer
Bursitis
Cancer cures
Canker sores
Cellulite
Cold & Flu
Cold sores
Constipation
Cystic acne
Dandruff
Dementia/Alzheimer's
Depression
Diabetes
Diarrhea
Erectile dysfunct
Gas/Flatulence
Gout
Grey hair
Headache/Migraine
Hemorrhoids
Herpes
High bloodpressure
High cholesterol
Hot flashes
Hypothyroidism
IBS
Kidney stones
Multiple sclerosis
Osteoporosis
Parkinson's
Pink eye
Prostate cancer
Psoriasis
Receding gums
Rosacea
Shingles
Sinus infection
Toenail fungus
Upset stomach
UTI
Weight loss
Yeast infection
Youthful skin
Miscellaneous
About us
Contact us
Work From Home
Page Likes
Recent Articles...
How to Get Rid of a Yeast Infection at Home Fast!
Apr 25, 19 09:00 AM
Here's one of the most potent home remedies for yeast infections and thrush you'll ever come across, along with other highly effective natural treatments for candida that work spectacularly well...
Read More
3 Natural Cures for Parkinson's Disease That Work...
Apr 24, 19 03:14 AM
QUESTION: My dad has Parkinson's disease. Are there any natural remedies or treatments for this horrible disorder? Please help. ANSWER: Hi Joe, and
Read More
If this page was helpful, please take a quick moment to share with friends...
Social media drives a lot of traffic to this website so a big "thank you"!!!
Return to Top of Page
Yes, We Value Your Comments and Opinions...
Ask a question or have your say on what you've just read by leaving us a comment in the box below...
By accessing or using any page on life-saving-naturalcures-and-naturalremedies.com, you agree that you have read, understood, and will abide by our Disclaimer, Privacy Policy and Affiliate Disclosure. This website is for general knowledge and educational purposes only. The information provided is NOT intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease or health condition nor is it implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice. This information has not been evaluated or approved by the U.S. FDA. Please read our Disclaimer here for more information.
Life-saving-naturalcures-and-naturalremedies.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn advertising fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites. Please read our Affiliate Disclosure for more information.
© Copyright 2010-2019 life-saving-naturalcures-and-naturalremedies.com. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copying content from this website without our expressed written consent is Plagiarism and NOT fair use as outlined in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998. We legally pursue all copyright infringements.