The Magic Of Baking Soda- Baking Powder Uses In daily Life
Facebook
Twitter
Google
RSS
HOME
FASHION
HAIR & BEAUTY
MAKE-UP
NAIL ART
SKIN CARE
LATEST TRENDS
SUMMER TRENDS
WINTER TRENDS
CELEBRITY NEWS
LATEST EVENTS
MOVIE REVIEWS
TV Review
VIDEOS
Select Page
The Magic Of Baking Soda | FamousFashionTrend
by Fashion Reporter | Sep 29, 2017 | HAIR & BEAUTY, SKIN CARE | 0 comments
Baking Soda Uses In Daily Life
The wonder of Sodium Bicarbonate AKA Baking Soda is known to all of us. But if you don’t, it is a powdery salty substance with an alkaline taste. It has so many uses that we think it would be really had to list them all. It was first introduced to the world in the 1800s. Later it was brought to Europe and then finally to the USA. Since then we have been using and complimenting Baking Soda for its countless uses. Here we are going to share some of them.
Sting of a Bee
If you ever have been stung with a bee, you know how painful it is. You might not be allergic to them but the stinging still makes you uncomfortable and agony. All you have to do is get rid of the pain is put a mixture of Baking Soda and water on it. This would shatter the venom effect and relief you from the pain.
Get Rid of Body Odor
Baking Soda has characteristics of both, an acid and a base. Hence, it reacts with substances which either of these properties. This can control the pH level of substances and make them less acidic. So, this means that you don’t have to use chemically pron deodorants or perfumes. Sodium bicarbonate helps you produce a natural body odor neutralizers. For this, you would need Shea Butter, Arrowroot Powder along with Baking Soda and some good smelling essential oil of your choice.
Treats Cancer
Baking Soda could be life saving for the people suffering from cancer, especially digestive tract cancer. This can also treat throat, colon, intestines as well as rectum cancer. Some of you might already know that cancer self can exist in an alkaline habitat. This means that by raising the alkaline level in your body can kill cancerous cells.
We advise people that weigh around 170 pounds to take 4-6 teaspoons of Baking Soda for general detoxification. But in case you want to maintain the normal pH level of your body you can take around 1 to 2 teaspoons of it every day. A person’s pH is about 7.4 but you have to maintain a pH level of 8.5 to kill the cancerous cells. One has to keep following this routine till his tumor shrinks. After achieving that you can reduce it the normal level to get a pH of 7.4
Oral Health
You can brighten and lighten your teeth using Baking Soda. All you have to do is put some of it on your toothpaste. And just brush your teeth. You have to do it for 2 minutes and only once per day. A teeth whitening mixture can be made by taking some turmeric root, 3 tablespoons of extra virgin coconut oil along with 2 tablespoons of Baking Soda. We recommended to use this concoction only once every day. This is because the excess of it can destroy the natural enamel of the teeth.
Treats Acid Reflux, Heart Burn and Stomach Ache
Along with its so many other benefits, it also cures acid reflux, heartburn and stomach ache. This happens because it neutralizes the acidic components. In order to make it work take half teaspoon of Baking Soda and dissolve it in half a glass of water. Take this after every 2 hours. It is not recommended to take more then 7 half tablespoons in 24 hours. This lowers down to 3 teaspoons if you are above 60.
Sunburn Cure
To treat blisters from a bad sunburn, use Baking Soda. It can relieve the burning and itchy skin. This happens because it has antiseptic properties which dry out blisters. Take two tablespoons of Baking Soda and cold water. Take a wash-cloth and dip into it. Squeeze the cloth to get rid of excessive fluid. Put it on the infected region and leave it there for 5 to 10 minutes.Repeat that process 2 to 3 times every day to experience relief.
You can also take a bath with Baking Soda. All you have to do is fill your bathtub with water and add 1/2 cup of Baking Soda in it. Mix it well and get into the tub. Sit there for at least 10 minutes. Dry your body. Until you lose all your sunburn.
Remove Splinters
Take embedded glass shard to make this work. Wash and dry the affected region. If you tried to force it out it can go deeper. Make a mixture of 1/4 teaspoons of Baking Soda, water. Apply it on the splinter. Cover the wound. Let it stay there for few hours. This will make the skin swell. As a result, it would push the splinter outwards. You would be able to see the splinter after that. Remove it a pair of tweezers.
Tweet
Spread the love
1
1
Share
Submit a Comment Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Adsense
Tweets by famousfashionre
Recent Posts
Beauty Predictions We Have For 2018
4 Fashion Trends to Go Big In 2018
Chris Zylka – Fun Facts About Fiancé of Paris Hilton
New TV Shows: Ground Breaking Shows to Keep You Hooked in 2018
4 Outfits Not to Wear as a Christmas Party Attire
LEGAL
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
FEATURES
FASHION
CELEBRITY NEWS
LATEST EVENTS
LATEST TRENDS
MOVIE REVIEWS
VIDEOS
COMPANY
About Us
Contact Us
Adsense
Facebook
Twitter
Google
RSS
© 2017 Famous Fashion Trends. All rights reserved.