Old man has been drinking his own piss for the past 23 years, claims it cures all illnesses – Shanghaiist
ABOUT
ADVERTISE
SUPPORT
CONTACT
WORK
Friday, April 26, 2019
8 °c
Shanghai
7 ° Sat
6 ° Sun
6 ° Mon
5 ° Tue
5 ° Wed
9 ° Thu
NEWS
Pro-democracy leaders in Hong Kong sentenced to prison over 2014 Umbrella Movement
WATCH: “Kung fu master” demonstrates the “ancient art” of spraying water out of your eye
Xi Jinping writes letter to American high school students, tells them his job is “very tiring”
Arrest warrant issued for CCTV reporter Kong Linlin after she fails to show up for court date
Facing China’s wrath, Leica distances itself from new Tank Man commercial
Woman goes viral after showing off her 1.8-meter-long hair that she hasn’t cut for 15 years
HK star Sammi Cheng forgives husband Andy Hui for cheating on her with younger actress
Foxconn boss Terry Gou runs for Taiwan president after receiving encouragement from sea goddess
Donald Trump says Xi Jinping likes being called “king”
Guangzhou hospitals offer to pay 500 yuan for your poop
Former Interpol president expelled from Communist Party for corruption
Missing Chinese student found safe days after being kidnapped in Canada
Tourist in “kimono” scuffles with guards after being barred from Wuhan University cherry blossoms
Bohemian Rhapsody gets released in China, just without any of the gay stuff
Google says it does not allow VPN ads in China
China strikes back yet again with annual report on US human rights violations
China grounds Boeing 737 MAX jets after 8 citizens reported dead in Ethiopian Airlines crash
Top Chinese official says foreigners aren’t allowed to travel freely in Tibet because of the altitude
Huawei strikes back, sues US over government ban on its equipment
WATCH: China’s new Two Sessions rap is impressively incomprehensible
L!FE
FOOD
GALLERY
VIDEO
China opens Mars simulation base in Gobi Desert
WATCH: Postal worker bumps into a wild giant panda on his way to work
WATCH: China’s sperm collecting machine has gone viral yet again
Electrical workers take “power nap” on tower 50 meters above the ground
WATCH: When you only come to China for a year to teach ESL
WATCH: Dude gets sprayed in the face with fire extinguisher for smoking near gas station
WATCH: Wooden bridge collapses at Jiangsu scenic spot, dropping swaying tourists into the water
WATCH: What it looks like when you blow up a frozen river
WATCH: Heroic deliveryman saves suicidal woman threatening to jump off bridge
Two children dead after dust devil rips through Henan fairground
WATCH: How to welcome Americans to China
WATCH: Tom Hiddleston makes you breakfast in unsettling new Chinese commercial for Centrum
WATCH: Wild elephant wanders around Yunnan town in search of a girlfriend
47 dead following massive explosion at Jiangsu chemical factory
New transparent suspended “sky train” unveiled in Chengdu
Italian farmer plows giant portrait of Xi Jinping into cornfield to welcome him to Italy
WATCH: Mamahuhu presents “the ayi from work diet”
WATCH: Are women with freckles considered unattractive in China?
WATCH: China is developing too fast
Scammer grandpa caught on camera running into parked car, pretending to be injured
TICKETS
FAQ
★ DONATE
No Result
View All Result
No Result
View All Result
No Result
View All Result
Old man has been drinking his own piss for the past 23 years, claims it cures all illnesses
by Kenneth Tan
May 5, 2018
in News
The Department of Policies, Laws and Regulations has just released a long list of a total of 748 associations that earn money through welcoming new members. Included on that list is the China Urine Therapy Association, leading many to wonder, just the heck does that group do?
Well, some people try to become more healthy simply through regular exercise and eating healthy. Others in China try out different kinds of bizarre traditional Chinese therapies that are sure to weird you out — including urine therapy.
“It’s been 23 years. I’ve been drinking urine since I was 48. Urine can cure all illnesses, like back problems, emphysema and farsightedness,” one old man from Chengdu, who is a chief managing director of the China Urine Therapy Association, told a Chengdu Economic Daily reporter. He confesses that he is obsessed with drinking urine. After his daughter had gotten wind of his obsession, she nearly broke off all contact with him.
Here’s his unique health regimen:
1)He wakes up around 5 to 6 a.m. every day.
2)He pours water and puts a kilo of monk fruit into a porcelain jar the night before and he drinks it the next morning.
3)He only chugs down his own urine after 5 p.m.
“I drink 500 to 1,000 ml of urine five to six times a day,” he said. After tasting his own pee, he says that it tastes a little sour because he drinks too little water.
When asked why he started urine therapy, he explains that a urine therapy campaign came to his neighborhood in 1993. He bought a book on the subject for 7.8 yuan and began reading. After reading over it thoroughly three times, he started drinking his own pee. He claims that after drinking urine for just three months, he no longer needed to wear glasses when playing mahjong.
Even though the old man claims that urine therapy has made him healthier than he has ever been, it has not actually been officially proven to be medically effective or beneficial. Wang Xiaodong, a doctor at the Chengdu First People’s Hospital said that he wouldn’t advocate urine therapy to patients because urine consists of human waste which is not beneficial to health at all. He emphasized that despite certain advantages of drinking urine written about in ancient books, there’s no concrete evidence to prove whether those advantages are valid or not.
Another expert from West China Hospital added that there are some chemicals, like urokinase which are good for health, but they aren’t easy to extract it from the urine.
The old man is not the only one that claims that urine therapy is good for health. Back in 2014, a member of the China Urine Therapy Association, who was diagnosed with hyperthyroidism, made the news by insisting that he had been cured by urine therapy. Though, he seemed to deliberately exclude one little fact: he had been taking anti-hyperthyroidism medicine.
Drinking urine might seem a bit extreme to most, but not everyone thinks so. Last year, an intrepid British reporter for MailOnline sipped his own piss. Bravo!
Bottoms up!
By Katie Ngai
[Images via 365qilu.com]
[AD] Make a purchase on BottlesXO and gain the chance to win an iPhone or a trip to Tuscany!
Share this:
Pocket
Telegram
Print
© 2005-2018 Shanghaiist - China in bite-sized portions!
Navigate Site
About
Advertise
Be a Patron
Join the Community
List Your Event
Be a Venue Partner
Submit a Gallery
Work with us
Privacy & Terms
Contact
Follow Us
No Result
View All Result
NEWS
L!FE
FOOD
GALLERY
VIDEO
TICKETS
FAQ
★ DONATE
© 2005-2018 Shanghaiist - China in bite-sized portions!