5 Foods That Can Cause Cancer
Skip to content
Services
Hair
Nails
Facial
Body Scrub
Massage
Manscaping
Packages
Book Now
Gift Card
Memberships
About Us
ZION SPA
Reviews
Staff
Careers
Contact Us
Services
Hair
Nails
Facial
Body Scrub
Massage
Manscaping
Packages
Book Now
Gift Card
Memberships
About Us
ZION SPA
Reviews
Staff
Careers
Contact Us
5 Foods That Can Cause Cancer
5 Foods That Can Cause Cancer. The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), a part of the World Health Organization (WHO), has come out definitively with a report on cancer-causing processed meats, stating that such meats definitely can cause colorectal cancer. They have also stated that red meat in general “probably” causes cancers such as colon, pancreatic and prostate cancer.
Given that obesity is a risk factor for a number of different cancers, it is helpful to do all you can to decrease your risk.
Below are five foods to avoid, based on the recent report.
Judy Unger/Illustration Works/Getty Images
1. Hot Dogs
According to the IARC press release, “Processed meat refers to meat that has been transformed through salting, curing, fermentation, smoking, or other processes to enhance flavor or improve preservation.”
Hot dogs are listed as one example of processed meat that can cause cancer. Specifically, the IARC classified processed meat as “carcinogenic [cancer-causing] to humans, based on sufficient evidence in humans that consumption of processed meat causes colorectal cancer.”
According to the IARC, a little over the equivalent of one hot dog per day is enough to increase the risk of colorectal cancer by 18%.
Juanmonino/E+/Getty Images
2. Beef Jerky
Beef jerky also falls in to processed meat group and was listed as a specific example in the IARC press release as a processed meat that can cause cancer.
The IARC press release regarding the recent findings stated that IARC experts “considered more than 800 studies that investigated associations of more than a dozen types of cancer with the consumption of red meat or processed meat in many countries and populations with diverse diets.”
The IARC Working Group found that “the most influential evidence came from largeprospective cohort studies conducted over the past 20 years.”
dm909/Moment/Getty Images
3. Sausage
Sausage is another kind of processed meat that was given as an example in the IARC press release as being cancer-causing.
The IARC has stated that “each 50 gram portion of processed meat eaten daily increases the risk of colorectal cancer by 18%.”
The IARC further noted that “the consumption of meat varies greatly between countries, with from a few percent up to 100% of people eating red meat, depending on the country, and somewhat lower proportions eating processed meat.”
Cultura RM/Diana Miller/Getty Images
4. Ham
Ham is a processed meat that is not only carcinogenic due to its processed nature, but has also been linked to high blood pressure and other cardiovascular diseases because of its very high sodium content.
Other processed deli meats, such as pastrami, salami, pepperoni, and the like, present the same cancer-causing risk.
Tetra Images/Getty Images
5. Corned Beef
Corned beef was also one of the examples listed by the IARC as a processed meat linked to colorectal cancer.
The IARC further noted that “most processed meats contain pork or beef, but processed meats may also contain other red meats, poultry … or meat byproducts such as blood.”
Other examples of processed mat listed in the IARC press release included canned meat and meat-based preparations and sauces.
http://obesity.about.com/od/Related-Disorders/tp/5-Foods-That-Can-Cause-Cancer.htm?utm_source=zergnet&utm_medium=tcg&utm_campaign=zergnet-test-863743
Post navigation
The 6 Best Ways to Groom Your Facial HairIs there Life after Divorce?
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment *
Name *
Email *
Website
Zion Spa
4.3
Kyle Lewis
20:52 30 Jul 18
Amazing experience! great atmosphere, very relaxing and the glass of wine was a great touch. highly recommend
Beth Skillman
05:48 21 Jul 18
My hubby loved the fathers day package i hof him.
ashfaque chowdhury
23:53 10 Apr 18
Very poor technique. I am more sure now than when I went to the spa. First and last time. The price doesn't warrant the service.
Greg Reyna
19:49 25 Sep 17
great massage, great therapist. Only complaint is the management keeps it too cold. You start to freeze half way through the massage. I asked to turn the A/C off or at least raise the thermostat. Took a chunk of time off my massage time. But eventually they finally made the adjustment.
j man
22:08 06 Jul 17
I'm very late getting this posted. Everyone I encountered at Zion was very friendly. It was a very quiet, laid back facility. My massage was with Hector. He was the best. He asked questions that allowed him to zero in on specific spots. I was so relaxed when he got through with me!!
Next Reviews
Home
advice
5 Foods That Can Cause Cancer
Zion Spa wants you to look and feel Ah-MAN- zing. Book your appointment today over the phone or online. We can literally have you look and feel like a “new man” in no time!
(972) 897 1530 (972) 635 8763
Monday to Saturday: 10am to 8pm Sunday: Members only
13500 Midway Road #212 Farmers Branch, TX 75244
info@zionspa.com
© 2017 ZION SPA LLC All rights reserved.