ED Medications and High Blood Pressure - What is the Relationship? - Green planet
Search for:
Contact us
Privacy Policy
Search for:
Green planet
Home
Privacy Policy
Contact us
August 10, 2018
ED Medications and High Blood Pressure – What is the Relationship?
Posted by By Johnathan Perez
Posted in Cialis Soft Tabs
Patients suffering from erectile dysfunction are often instructed about NOT taking blood pressure medicines alongside impotence treatments, may they be brand name or generic. This is simple – erectile dysfunction medicines classified as phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor drugs (PDE5i drugs) like Sildenafil Citrate, Vardenafil HCl, and Tadalafil, have the same blood pressure relieving effect as the anti-hypertension treatments.
Because phosphodiesterase inhibitor drugs are known for their vasodilation-inducing effect and also for fostering smooth muscle relaxation, one of the slight side effects of erectile dysfunction products include hypotension. This mechanism of PDE5 inhibitor drugs also makes them suitable and effective for pulmonary arterial hypertension relief in patients suffering from the rare disease.
Apart from barring patients from using hypertension medicines, some patients with chronic hypotension and uncontrolled hypertension are restricted from using erectile dysfunction treatments, regardless of brand, unless their doctors deem that the benefits of using PDE5 inhibitor treatments outweigh the potential harm.
Although PDE5 inhibitor treatments can cause slight hypotension in the users, medicines such as Viagra, Cialis, and Levitra are not high blood pressure treatments. First of all, these drugs are not meant for treating chronic hypertension and most of them, like Viagra and Levitra, are only meant for an on-demand use. More importantly, it is nowhere near economical to use PDE5i drugs for hypertension management because these medicines are too expensive. Patients are better off using dedicated anti-hypertension treatments for their chronic blood pressure relief.
Are there high-pressure medications that cause Erectile Dysfunction (ED)? Read on for more details on this and other relevant aspects of this subject.
Cialis for Male Impotence
More commonly known as impotence, erectile dysfunction is simply defined as the lack of ability to achieve a firm or long lasting erection for penetrative sex. It is common among hypertensive men—and it is because high blood pressure contributes significantly to erectile dysfunction. The good news, however, is that most of the cases can be treated effectively with the right medication.
Can High Blood Pressure Affect Erectile Dysfunction?
High blood pressure is well known for its association with Erectile Dysfunction in some men. The very first step in managing ED, therefore, is to manage one’s blood pressure. This can be done naturally through lifestyle change in some people. Others, on the other hand, have to make do with pills and other high blood pressure medications.
Some high-pressure drugs cause ED in some men. A good proportion of men on such drugs discontinue their doses prematurely to try and get their sexual function back on the right track.
The following high-pressure drugs are known to cause ED in some men:
Diuretics or water pills
Beta-blockers
These are basically the first line drugs that doctors would normally prescribe for hypertensive patients. For those affected, it is proper to tell your doctor so that a switch of medication or a combination of the same is done before much damage is done.
Blood Pressure Meds that Don’t Cause ED
It is worth noting that not all high-pressure drugs cause ED as a side effect. Such medications are often the second line drugs for hypertensive patients. They include the following:
Alpha blockers
Calcium channel blockers
ARBs
ACE inhibitors
These drugs are used to manage blood pressure and they have not been reported to cause ED as a side effect. Some like the alpha blockers have even been shown to improve sexual function in some men.
Low Blood Pressure and Erectile Dysfunction
Erectile dysfunction is treatable with the right medications. The normal first-line drugs that are often prescribed by doctors are the PDE5 inhibitor drugs. These drugs cause instantaneous erections upon arousal of users. The most common ones are:
Viagra – One of the Popular Brand Name Erectile Dysfunction Treatments
These ED medications cause long-lasting hard erections. However, they do not increase sexual desire in the user.
When making an over the counter purchase with no prescription, you should consider the drug’s action time. This relates to the duration of time the medicine will be active in your body. This is important because some of them are spontaneous actors while others take much longer. Viagra, for instance, takes effect after a quarter hour or half hour and lasts up to two hours. Others like Cialis takes effect after a half hour or a whole hour and lasts up to 36 hours. The choice of a particular medication is dependent on one’s sexual habits.
Conclusion
ED medications and blood pressure are closely related. It is important to take your blood pressure medication cautiously. The same should apply to ED medication because the treatment regimen for either condition has side effects that cause the other.
Patients should be well-aware of the correlation of erectile dysfunction medicines and blood pressure before taking any drug for impotence relief. As a general rule, medicines for blood pressure and any PDE5 inhibitor drug (Viagra, Cialis, Levitra, and their generic counterparts) should be taken separately or as advised by the doctor. Since PDE5 inhibitor drugs like the famed ED medications are notorious for causing low blood pressure, patients should advertently avoid taking their blood pressure meds and ED meds to prevent negative outcomes.
Overall, medicines for impotence relief are safe and effective to use – even the generic ones from online pharmacies – as long as the men taking the medicines are aware of the proper ways to take the product. Brand name meds such as Viagra, Cialis, and Levitra still rule the market for impotence treatment, but for patients seeking more affordable treatment, generic products are the next best options. Online drugstores have the best prices for generic alternatives to the iconic impotence meds, and stores like the ones included on our roster of TOP Online Vendors have great prices for these generic medicines.
Categories: Cialis Soft Tabs
Next post Are Cialis Soft Gel Caps More Effective Than The Pills? Previous post Caverta 100 mg: Cheap Generic Impotence Treatment for Adventurous Buyers
Related Posts
Are Cialis Soft Gel Caps More Effective Than The Pills?
Facing Facts: Does Generic Viagra Work?
Power Pill 100: An ED Drug That Fills Males With Sexual Power
Sildenafil Sandoz Vs Viagra: Which One Works Better?
Categories
Canada Drug Center
Canadadrugs.com Reviews
Canadian Pharmacy
Canadian Pharmacy Review
Cialis Soft Tabs
Reputable Canadian Online Pharmacies
Uncategorized