CANSA Do Cell Phones Cause Cancer? | CANSA - The Cancer Association of South Africa | CANSA – The Cancer Association of South Africa
DONATE FIND YOUR CARE CENTRE OR CARE HOME
0800 22 66 22
Home
Reduce My Cancer Risk
Back
Reduce My Cancer Risk
Overview
Get Screened - Early Detection
Avoid Tobacco
Women's Health
Men's Health
Children & Youth
Lead a Balanced Lifestyle
Be SunSmart
Avoid Carcinogens
Make Smart Product Choices
Cancer's Touched My Life - What Now?
Back
Cancer's Touched My Life - What Now?
Overview
I May Have Cancer
I Have Cancer
My Child and Cancer
My Life Beyond Cancer
CANSA Care & Support
Back
CANSA Care & Support
Overview
Helping You Cope With Treatment
Care Homes
Counselling & Support Groups
TLC for Children & Teens
Screening Services
Get in Touch with your Care Centre
Toll-Free Info Service
Online Support Resources
Cancer Facts & Research
Back
Cancer Facts & Research
Overview
About Cancer
CANSA Fact Sheets & Position Statements
Statistics
Types of Cancer
Myths
International Cancer Research
CANSA Research - Striving to reduce cancer risk
Coping with Cancer
CANSA's Seal of Recognition
Get Involved
Back
Get Involved
Overview
Become a CANSA Volunteer
Take Part in Events
Make a Personal Donation
Raise Funds Online
Shop to Support CANSA
Partner with CANSA
Become a Member of CANSA
Work for CANSA
Events
About CANSA
Work for CANSA
Get in Touch
Find Your Care Centre
Find Your Care Home
The responsibility rests with patients to contact CANSA for assistance. Read more...
Cancer Myths
Home Cancer Myths
CANSA Do Cell Phones Cause Cancer?
Background:
Because cell phones are held near the head when in use, the main concern has been whether they might cause or contribute to tumours in this area, including:
Malignant (cancerous) brain tumours such as gliomas
Non-cancerous tumours of the brain such as meningiomas
Non-cancerous tumours of the nerve connecting the brain to the ear (acoustic neuromas)
Non-cancerous tumours of the salivary glands
CANSA Research Department Responds:
Verdict:
The jury is out at this stage – research is ongoing and must be closely monitored.
Conclusion:
We take the issue of environmental links to cancer very seriously and we welcome new research into this important topic. Researchers over the years have not been able to find conclusive evidence linking cell phones to cancer. At this stage there is no cause for alarm for South Africans using cell phones. We encourage continued research on this topic and we will continue to monitor the situation.
In order to prove that the use of cell phones can cause cancer, many thousands of cell phone users would need to be studied over many years. Such studies are now in progress in many countries and it is expected that definitive results will be forthcoming in the near future.
However, just because there is no definite evidence at this stage, does not mean that there is no potential danger.
CANSA’s Advice in the Interim:
We acknowledge the importance of cellphones in daily life, especially in emergencies and recommend the following precautions:
Limit the number and duration of calls
Use text messages when possible
Switch sides of the head when the call is long
Use hands-free kits or speaker phone mode to keep the phone at a distance from the head
Instruct children and teenagers to limit calls to emergencies only as they are more vulnerable to electro-magnetic radiation
Further Reading & Information:
CANSA Position Statement Exposure to Radiofrequency Magnetic Fields
30 Studies looking at possible links between cell phone use and tumours – Source: American Cancer Society
Children more at risk
Latest Findings on Brain Cancer (Research Results)
WHO (IARC) classifies radiofrequency electromagnetic fields as possibly carcinogenic.
Queries CANSA
For more information please contact Alice Victor, CANSA Science & Resource Centre Manager – email: avictor@cansa.org.za or alternately, call our Toll Free Call Centre on 0800 22 66 22 or email us at info@cansa.org.za
6 Apr 2017 | Published under: Cancer Myths
« BACK
Leave a Comment
Click here to cancel reply.
Name (required)
Email (required)
Website
Your Comment
Please note: Comment moderation is enabled and may delay your comment from showing. There is no need to resubmit your comment.
Comments will be made public, should they be approved.
Do you have a question?
Ask CANSA
Related Posts
Was Measles Responsible for Curing a Cancer Patient?
Get the Truth about Cancer – World Cancer Day (4 Feb)
Die Waarheid oor Kanker op Wêreld Kankerdag 4 Februarie 2014
Letter to Corporates – World Cancer Day 4 Feb 2014
Myth 4 – I Don’t Have the Right to Cancer Care
Myth 3 – There is Nothing I Can Do About Cancer
Myth 2 – There are No Signs or Symptoms of Cancer
Myth 1 – We Don’t Need to Talk About Cancer
Mite 4 – Ek beskik nie oor die reg tot kankersorg nie
Mite 2 – Daar bestaan geen tekens of simptome wat op kanker dui nie
» See All
0800 22 6622
072 197 9305 English and Afrikaans
071 867 3530 Xhosa, Zulu, Sotho and Siswati
info@cansa.org.za
About Us | Get in Touch
Find Your Care Centre
Stay in Touch
Subscribe to Our Newsletter
Infographics
2019 The Cancer Association of South Africa.
All Rights Reserved. Terms & Conditions | PAIA
Website by AO Design