Himalayan Sea Salt: Misunderstandings & Health Risks
Search
MENUMENU
Evidence
Foods
Why Celery Juice Has No Health Benefits, No Matter What Instagram Says
Does Arugula or Its Supplements Have Health Benefits? Science Responds
Does Eating Apricot Seeds or Vitamin B17 Have Health Benefits? Analyzing The Research
Does Essiac Tea Or Its Capsules Have Health Benefits? The Research Examined
Does Citron Fruit Have Proven Benefits? Full Review Of The Evidence
Supplements
Do MCT Oils Have Proven Benefits? 42 Studies Reviewed
Do Green Coffee Beans Have Proven Benefits? The Research Examined
Do Ashwagandha Supplements Have Benefits? 1000 Studies Reviewed
The Science of Probiotics As of 2019: How Strong Is The Evidence?
Does Caralluma Fimbriata Have Proven Benefits? The Research Reviewed
Treatments
The Treatments for Osteoporosis, According To Evidence
Top Treatments For Fibromyalgia According To Research
Best Treatments For Kidney Stones According To Evidence
Does Geranium Oil Have Health Benefits? Full Review Of The Evidence
Does Epsom Salt Have Health Benefits? The Research Examined
Practices
Does Cognitive Behavioral Therapy Work? A Review of The Research
ASMR: Is There Science Behind This “Tingly” YouTube Phenomenon?
Does Cabbage Soup Diet Work? A Review of The Research
Does Practising Gratitude Have Health Benefits? A Review of The Research
Do Saunas Have Health Benefits? 20 Research Papers Examined
Devices
Do Humidifiers Have Health Benefits? The Research Examined
Are Air Purifiers Helpful? The Research Reviewed
Does Long Term Cell Phone Use Really Increased Brain Cancer Risk By 300%?
Do Foam Rollers Actually Work? A Review of the Evidence
Will A “Squatty Potty” Help You Poop Better? The Evidence Reviewed
Conditions
Best Treatments For Alzheimer’s Disease According To Evidence
The Top Treatments For Gonorrhea According To Evidence
Reviews
Food Processors
Veggie Bullet Spiralizer & Food Processor Review: A 3-in-1 Food Processor
What Are The Best Food Processors For Baby Food In 2018?
The Definitive Top 5 Best Food Processors of 2018 Ranked On Versatility, Value & Longevity
Cuisinart prep 7 Cup Food Processor Review: Is It Worth It?
Breville BFP800XL Review: Does It Beat Every Other Food Processor?
Blenders
The Best Immersion Blenders of 2018
Nutribullet Pro 900 Blender Review: A Simple Yet Powerful Blender
Nutribullet Rx Blender Review: A Blender With Heating Function
Magic Bullet Blender Review
What Are The Best Quiet Blenders On The Market In 2018?
Air Fryers
The Best Air Fryers of 2018
Nuwave 3-qt. Digital Air Fryer Review: A Budget Air Fryer With Digital Control
Bella Air Fryer Review: An Affordable Air Fryer Below $100
Della XL Air Fryer Review: A Humble Air Fryer w/ Manual Dials & Large Basket
Emeril 3.75-Quart Smart Fryer Pro Review : Read Before You Buy
Juicers
What are the Best Citrus Juicers In 2019?
What Are The Best Juicers for Beginners in 2018?
What Are The Best Juicers for Greens (Leafy or Not) in 2018?
The Best Centrifugal Juicers of 2018
End Your Research: These Are The 5 Best Masticating Juicers of 2018
Air Purifiers
The Best Air Purifiers of 2018
Germguardian AC5250PT Air Purifier Review - For Homes With Pets
Winix Wac9500 Air Purifier Review - Comprehensive Air Purifying
Rabbit Air Minusa2 Air Purifier Review - An Effective Air Purifier
What Are The Best Air Purifiers for Allergies and Asthma in 2018?
Press
About Us
Contact Us
Evidence
Practices
Himalayan Sea Salt: Misunderstandings, Health Risks, Dangers?
Dr Merry FRCPI PhD February 7, 2016
Last Updated: 21 August 2018
This article cites 6 scientific papers and reviews 7 popular claims.
15 SECOND SUMMARY: Himalayan sea salt is a coarse pink salt that is believed to afford a wide range of health benefits.
There is no science at all behind these claims. Himalayan sea salt is a great example of why bloggers need to be careful when posting information relating to health in order to make sure that they follow the Hippocratic Oath of ‘Doing No Harm’.
Table of Contents
1 The Patient Who Mistook Himalayan Sea Salt For BP Lowering Medication
2 What’s Actually IN Himalayan Salt?
3 Does Himalayan sea salt reduce BP?
4 Does Himalayan sea salt strengthen bones?
5 Does Himalayan sea salt improve circulation?
6 Does Himalayan sea salt reduce acid reflux?
7 Is Himalayan sea salt healthier than table salt?
8 What About Himalayan Salt Lamps?
9 Are They Good For Asthma?
10 Are Himalayan Salt Lamps Safe?
11 The Randomised Control Trial
12 The Blogger’s Responsibility
The Patient Who Mistook Himalayan Sea Salt For BP Lowering Medication
I keep a beautiful pink Himalayan sea salt lamp on my desk at work. I love the way the light diffuses through the salt spreading a nice orange-pink glow. It also vaguely reminds me of vacation time by the sea.
Last week I found myself in an awkward situation because of the lamp. A patient noticed the lamp and misinterpreted the fact that I had a lamp on my desk as evidence that I was a raving fan of Himalayan sea salt. She then began to wax lyrical about Himalayan sea salt.
This lady uses pink Himalayan sea salt on a daily basis for a long list of cures. She cooks with it and says that the meat is very tender and tasty. She drops Himalayan sea salt crystals into her bath for detoxification. She also takes Himalayan sea salt on a daily basis to boost her metabolism and strengthen her bones.
Worryingly since she discovered Himalayan sea salt she had stopped her blood pressure tablets because she had read that Himalayan sea salt is very effective at lowering blood pressure. I was not aware of any research but my first impression was that it seemed counterintuitive to me that a salt based compound would lower blood pressure.
Image Source
I found myself feeling very uncomfortable. Yes I have a cute Himalayan sea salt lamp but that does not mean anything more than that. As Freud said ‘sometimes a cigar is just a cigar’ and I would say that ‘sometimes a Himalayan sea salt lamp is just a sea salt lamp’.
Having said that, I have to admit that I am careful not to have other things in the clinic room that might be misinterpreted by a patient. As an example I don’t write with branded freebie pens from drug companies. Equally I don’t keep any unhealthy food but to be honest I don’t eat or drink unhealthy things so this is not a big deal. Maybe I need to retire the lamp now to a less public place!
The lady had interpreted an online blog as saying that taking Himalayan sea salt would lower her blood pressure. She had stopped her BP tablets and was adding extra Himalayan sea salt to her diet. Prior to finding the blog on sea salt she had been taking her medications and her BP was controlled. Not surprisingly her BP was not controlled on this visit.
I told her that I had no idea about the science behind Himalayan sea salt and that she needed to restart her regular BP medications and stop taking sea salt. I promised to remain open-minded and do a little research into Himalayan sea salt and let her know what I found out.
What’s Actually IN Himalayan Salt?
Some blogs have referred to spectral analysis of Himalayan salt and the famous claim about it containing 84 trace minerals and elements. The problem is that the spectral analysis was done in-house by a distributor of the salt and as such is not a reliable source of information for us.
Claims about the health benefits (or the toxicity) of HSS components must be tempered unless someone comes up with a credible spectral analysis of it.
Does Himalayan sea salt reduce BP?
I looked in every academic resource I could think of and found no reports of Himalayan sea salt lowering blood pressure. I could not even find a single case report of an anti-hypertensive effect of Himalayan sea salt. I contacted nutrition mastermind groups that I am part of but came up with nothing. Experts that I spoke to said ‘It is not even biologically plausible that Himalayan sea salt would lower blood pressure. Salt raises BP’
Bottom Line: There is no evidence that Himalayan sea salt lowers blood pressure and it is biologically implausible that it would have an anti-hypertensive effect.
Does Himalayan sea salt strengthen bones?
There is nothing to be found in the scientific literature to support the use of Himalayan sea salt for strengthening bones. I cast a wide net and looked for individual reports of people who found it helpful.
All I found were random blogs which listed bone support as one of the many benefits of Himalayan sea salt but the claims were not referenced.
Bottom Line: The role of Himalayan sea salt in bone density seems to be an urban (or bloggers) myth!.
Does Himalayan sea salt improve circulation?
Again I couldn’t find anything credible on Himalayan sea salt as a way to boost circulation. Many people with circulation issues have high BP too so we need to be super careful about making unfounded claims regarding this condition.
Bottom Line: The role of Himalayan sea salt in improving circulation seems to be another urban (or bloggers) myth!
Does Himalayan sea salt reduce acid reflux?
There are 20,000 online posts for studies relating to the treatment of acid reflux. Guess how many mention Himalayan sea salt? None!
Bottom Line: Not one of the 20,000 studies on treating acid reflux mention Himalayan sea salt!
Is Himalayan sea salt healthier than table salt?
There are two interesting posts online by practising MDs who have felt the need to write about the risks of Himalayan sea salt. The two posts are almost identical in content. They say that Himalayan sea salt is believed to be healthier than commercial sea salt.[1-2]
However on closer analysis we can see that the key issue in terms of salt health is the sodium content. The sodium content is identical between Himalayan sea salt and commercial salt. This is exactly where my patient ran into trouble.
Image Source
Assuming that ‘natural’ is healthier does not always work out. What matters is the amount of salt. Sure go for Himalayan sea salt if you like the color or coarse texture but you still need to take it in moderation.
Bottom Line: Himalayan sea salt has the same sodium content as commercial salt and needs to be taken in moderation if at all.
What About Himalayan Salt Lamps?
The lamps consist of a large hollowed out piece of Himalayan sea salt with a light bulb inside.
Having a pink Himalayan sea salt lamp is almost a status symbol which says ‘the owner of this lamp is eco friendly and green’. But do they do anything else?
Himalayan sea salt lamps are promoted for their health effects. The promotional blurb that goes with the lamp goes as follows:
The salt in the lamp attracts water and dust from the air. The heat from the lamp then warms up the salt which allows evaporation of the water but keeps the dust and other micro-particles attached to the salt. The lamp is believed to attract cations from the air and release anions.
It is really hard to believe that there is any biological plausibility behind any of this. At best, it sounds like new age mumbo-jumbo to me where you take anything negative and transmute it “back into the light”. At worst, it sounds like a huge one-way dust magnet sitting in your roorm
In any case, all of this is supposed to be good for our health and especially for asthmatics.
But is there any proof?
Are They Good For Asthma?
Put simply: There is not a shred of evidence that Himalayan salt lamps can help people with asthma. Nothing, nada.
I did come across something that sounded a little similar in the medical literature and so checked that out in order to be really open-minded.
Speleotherapy is a treatment for asthma which is used mostly in Eastern Europe. Speleotherapy involves spending time in a subterranean environment. This can either be for a short visit or for a longer stay as there are even wards in some of the speleotherapy caves in Europe. It is believed that the mixture of the salt, radiation, humidity, air pressure or the underground environment somehow helps asthma.
A group of UK based researchers did a really extensive review on speleotherapy (Beamion).They even contacted speleotherapy centers to try to get a comprehensive understanding of this treatment. They published their findings as part of a Cochrane review and concluded that there was no scientific basis for speleotherapy either.
A small pilot study which is about to be published does show some benefit for salt chamber or halotherapy for children with mild asthma (Bar-Yoseph). Just to be clear, this study used haloegenerators to emulate the conditions of salt chambers. With great respect to the Himalayan sea salt lamp, I have to say that we cannot extrapolate the pilot results from haologenerators to a hunk of Himalayan sea salt lit by a 100 watt bulb.
Are Himalayan Salt Lamps Safe?
This is a very reasonable question. Is it safe to have a piece of wet salt so close to an electric source? Is it safe and hygienic to have a trap for dust and microparticles sitting on a desk?
If the lamps really do function as dust magnets, then how do you clean the lamp? What is the lifespan of a lamp? How do you safely dispose of the lamp once it past its expiry date?Great questions to which there are no good answers. There is nothing in the published literature on the safety (or lack thereof) of these lamps.
This is where it is difficult for people like us who want to make sound decisions which are evidence based. There is nothing to help us know if salt lamps are safe. Common sense would suggest that the lamps probably don’t do anything useful that would make them worth the hassle.
The Randomised Control Trial
Medicine only recommends treatments that are proven to work and which have an acceptable safety profile. The gold standard for any intervention to be accepted into medical care is the randomized controlled trial. Here is how a randomized control trial works:
People who have a particular medical condition are enrolled into a study. They are fully informed about the study and give their permission to participate in the study. Patients are then randomly allocated into two groups. The idea behind the randomization is to make sure that there is no bias which could affect the results of the study.
One half of the patients usually get the intervention of interest and the other half get a placebo or dummy treatment. Neither the doctor nor the patients know which patients get active treatment or placebo.The patients are followed up and the outcomes of the two groups are compared. If the treatment group do better than the placebo group then the treatment is deemed to be effective.
The treatment is rejected if the treatment group does worse or does the same as the placebo group.
There are no randomized controlled trials looking at Himalayan sea salt for BP which means that we cannot and should not recommend it to people.
The Blogger’s Responsibility
The internet has completely changed the way people get their health information. It is terrible to see patients like this lady doing badly because they believe some misinformation that is posted online. We all need to be really responsible for any information that we post online. We even need to be responsible when re-tweeting , re-pinning or sharing on Facebook.
Not only should the information be accurate, it also needs to be unambiguous. It needs to be clear to people across a wide range of literacy and educational backgrounds. It needs to be updated as new information emerges. We also should post disclaimers saying that the health information posted online should not replace regular medical advice.
I checked out the blog that this lady had read and found it confusing myself. I wonder if the blogger meant that sea salt was better than table salt for BP control as opposed to recommending taking sea salt as a medicine but it was not clear. Like many health related blogs I found no disclaimer which just adds insult to injury. Even bloggers should be held accountable to the Hippocratic principle of ‘Above all else, do no harm’.
Luckily my patient is doing fine and my little Himalayan sea salt lamp is back in my home.
Conclusion: There are no studies on Himalayan sea salt which means that we cannot and should not recommend it. We need to be really careful when discussing any treatment to make sure that we separate out folk cures from bona fide evidence based interventions. The internet has given us a new generation of Dr Bloggers who should take this privilege and responsibility seriously.
References
http://www.abc.net.au/health/talkinghealth/factbuster/stories/2010/11/23/3073792.htm
http://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy-lifestyle/nutrition-and-healthy-eating/expert-answers/sea-salt/faq-20058512
Beamon S, Falkenbach A, Fainburg G, Linde K. Speleotherapy for asthma.
Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2000;(2):CD001741. Review. Update in: Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2001;(2):CD001741.
Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2001;(2):CD001741. Review.Bar-Yoseph R, Kugelman N, Livnat G, Gur M, Hakim F, Nir V, Bentur L.Halotherapy as asthma treatment in children: A randomized, controlled, prospective pilot study.
Pediatr Pulmonol. 2016 Oct 10. doi: 10.1002/ppul.23621. [Epub ahead of print]PMID: 27723955
Let Us Bust Pseudoscience For You
When you subscribe to our newsletter, we'll update you twice a month on new health claims we've disproven or validated. You'll love it, even if it makes your aunty with the healing crystals hate you.
Subscribe
You have Successfully Subscribed!
Read Next: Oil Pulling: Are The Benefits Proven By Research?
@
Treatments
Bee Venom Therapy Is Not A Safe Alternative Health Treatment
Devices
Do Foam Rollers Actually Work? A Review of the Evidence
A
Are You An Academic With Experience In This Topic?
Contact Us Here and We’ll Publish Your Contribution
By Dr Merry FRCPI PhD
Infectious diseases physician. MB BCh BAO BA FRCPI MSc PhD.
This post does not represent the opinions of either my employers nor the academic institutions with which I am affiliated.
Medical Disclaimer: HealthyButSmart.com is dedicated to accurately representing the current scientific consensus on matters of health, however nothing you read here should replace personal consultation with a licensed medical professional.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: Verify here.
Popular Posts
Does Ligandrol (LGD 4033) Work? Full Review Of The Evidence
Himalayan Sea Salt: Misunderstandings, Health Risks, Dangers?
Does D Aspartic Acid Do Anything? The Research Reviewed
Do Foam Rollers Actually Work? A Review of the Evidence
Red Light Therapy: Does Research Show Any Benefits?
Recent posts
Do MCT Oils Have Proven Benefits? 42 Studies Reviewed
Why Celery Juice Has No Health Benefits, No Matter What Instagram Says
Does Arugula or Its Supplements Have Health Benefits? Science Responds
Do Green Coffee Beans Have Proven Benefits? The Research Examined
Does Eating Apricot Seeds or Vitamin B17 Have Health Benefits? Analyzing The Research
Medical Disclaimer: The information on this website has not been evaluated by the FDA and should not be used or relied upon for the purposes of diagnosing, treating, curing, or preventing any disease. You should consult a medical professional prior to making any health decisions or using any product featured on this website.
Amazon Disclosure: HealthybutSmart is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
Foods
Supplements
Treatments
Practices
Devices
Conditions
Food Processors
Blenders
Air Fryers
Juicers
Air Purifiers
Contact
About us
Authors
Popular Evidence
Do Foam Rollers Work?
Is Kombucha Good For You?
Are You Eating Too Much Phosphoric Acid?
Do Natural Laxatives Do Anything?
Does Inositol Work?
Popular Reviews
Vitamix Ascent A2300
Vitamix Ascent A3500
T-Fal Actifry Review
Cozyna Air Fryer Review
Winix 5500-2 Review
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Copyright Policy
Affiliate Disclosure
Scholarship
Copyright 2015-2019 All rights reserved. Healthy But Smart is a registered trademark of Healthy But Smart Pty Ltd, registration number 5559889.