HIV/AIDS | Living a Healthy Lifestyle
Positive Dating
Top Stories
Browse by Condition
HIV/AIDS
Genital Herpes
Hepatitis B
HPV
Chlamydia
Gonorrhea
Trichomoniasis
Syphillis
Pelvic Inflammatory Disease
Browse by Symptom(s)
Abdominal Pain
Bleeding during Intercourse
Blisters
Dark Urine
Diarrhea
Discharge
Fatigue
Fever
Flaky Skin
Flu-like Symptoms
Frequent Urination
Genital Itching/Discomfort
Genital Swelling
Genital Warts
Headaches
More...
Weekly Newsletter
Stay Informed, Stay in Touch, Get Involved.
HIV/AIDS Lifestyle
Sign up for Our Newsletter
Home
STD Health
Genital Herpes
Symptoms
Research
Testing
Treatment
Pictures
Dating
Lifestyle
Pregnancy
Transmission
HIV/AIDS
Support
Symptoms
Treatments
Lifestyle
Transmission
Research
Pregnancy
Dating
Hepatitis B
Symptoms
Testing
Treatments
Transmission
Lifestyle
Dating
Pregnancy
Research
Common STDs
Chlamydia
HPV
Gonorrhea
Syphilis
Trichomoniasis
All Symptoms
Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
News
Dating with Genital Herpes
Foursquare releases STD Test Badge
Genital Herpes News
Genital Herpes: The Truth Revealed
Hepatitis News
HIV/AIDS News
HPV Facts
I’ve Got a Rash: My Genital Herpes Scare
inSpot
Oral Cancers Linked to HPV On the Rise
Practice like a Porn Star to Prevent STDs
STD Research
STD Statistics
STD Support
Transmission
HIV is transmitted from person to person via bodily fluids because the virus is present in varying concentrations in the blood, semen, vaginal fluid, and breast milk.
It can be spread by sexual contact with an infected person, by sharing needles/syringes with someone who is infected, or, less commonly, through transfusions with infected blood. HIV infection through blood transfusion is extremely rare in countries where blood is screened for HIV antibodies.
Environment
HIV does not survive well in the environment outside of the body. According to studies performed by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), drying HIV reduces the amount of viral particles by 90-99% within several hours.
The virus also cannot reproduce when it is outside of the body. Therefore, it is highly unlikely that the disease can be transmitted through contact with the environment, such as public toilet seats.
Kissing
Casual contact through closed-mouth or “social” kissing does not put an individual at risk for HIV. However, there is the potential for blood contact with open-mouth kissing. The risk for acquiring the virus from open-mouth kissing is low, and the CDC has only investigated one case in which HIV transmission may have been caused by blood contact during open-mouth kissing. The CDC recommends that individuals avoid open-mouth kissing with an infected person.
Biting
There have been medical reports that found that HIV transmission resulted after a human bite. Severe trauma and extensive tissue tearing were reported in each of these cases. However, biting is not a common way of transmitting the disease.
Saliva, tears, and sweat
Very low amounts of HIV have been found in the saliva and tears of some AIDS patients. However, a small amount of HIV in body fluid does not necessarily mean that the fluid can transmit the virus. Contact with saliva, tears, or sweat has not been shown to result in transmission of HIV.
Insects
According to numerous studies, there is no evidence to suggest that HIV has been transmitted through insects, even in areas such as Africa, that have high numbers of AIDS patients and mosquito populations. HIV can only live for a short time inside an insect and does not reproduce inside insects.
Treatment
Currently, there is no cure for HIV/AIDS. Patients may receive a combination of anti-HIV drugs called antiretrovirals. These drugs interfere with the virus’s ability to multiply, which subsequently boosts the immune system. HIV patients typically receive a combination of antiretroviral drugs, called “highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART)”, because a single patient may have several different strains (types) of the virus circulating in the blood.
The combination of HIV/AIDS drugs also helps prevent mutations from occurring. The different strains of the virus may respond differently to specific types of drugs.
HAART is a combination of at least three drugs from at least two different classes.
Read More about HIV/AIDS Treament Options
Many new HIV drugs are under investigation. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration is expected to approve a CCR5 receptor antagonist, called maraviroc (Celsentri®), and an integrase inhibitor, called raltegravir (Isentress®), in late 2007.
Alternative Treatments
Alternative treatments, from Chiropractic therapy to regimented dietary supplement plans, have been shown to produce positive results, as well. SafePositive.com provides an extensive library of such treatments, and endorses exploring these alternative solutions with a licensed physician.
Read more about HIV/AIDS Natural Treatments
Lifestyle
Dating
Selected References
AIDS.org. www.aids.org. Accessed March 29, 2009.
American Foundation for AIDS Research (amfAR). www.amfar.org. Accessed March 29, 2009.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). www.cdc.gov. Accessed March 29, 2009.
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation. www.pedaids.org. Accessed March 29, 2009.
Halperin DT, Steiner MJ, Cassell MM, et al. The time has come for common ground on preventing sexual transmission of HIV. Lancet. 2004 Nov 27-Dec 3;364(9449):1913-5.
Loutfy MR, Antoniou T, Shen S, et al. Virologic and immunologic impact and durability of enfuvirtide-based antiretroviral therapy in HIV-infected treatment-experienced patients in a clinical setting. HIV Clin Trials. 2007 Jan-Feb;8(1):36-44.
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAD). www.niaid.nih.gov. Accessed March 29, 2009.
Natural Standard: The Authority on Integrative Medicine. www.naturalstandard.com. Copyright © 2009. Accessed March 29, 2009.
Rigopoulos D, Gregoriou S, Paparizos V, et al. AIDS in pregnancy, part II: Treatment in the era of highly active antiretroviral therapy and management of obstetric, anesthetic, and pediatric issues. Skinmed. 2007 Mar-Apr;6(2):79-84.
The Body: The Complete HIV/AIDS Resource. www.thebody.com. Accessed March 29, 2009.
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). www.fda.gov. Accessed March 29, 2009.
Vrouenraets SM, Wit FW, van Tongeren J, et al. Efavirenz: a review. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2007 Apr;8(6):851-71.
Sitemap
STD Testing Centers
Confidentiality Guarantee
STD Research and Awareness
Diagnostic
Get Help
Partnerships
SafePositive.com
About SafePositive.com
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Partner with SafePositive.com
Copyright 2010
Safe Positive
All Rights Reserved
privacy policy
terms and conditions