Home Remedies
Home
Our Mission
Contact Information
Follow Us On Facebook
Gut Health Project
A Healthy Life Starts In Your Gut!
Digestive System
Digestive System Articles
Digestive Disorders
Digestive Disorders Articles
Bowel Obstruction
Irritable Bowel Syndrome – IBS
Leaky Gut Syndrome
Probiotics
Clean Eating
Clean Eating Articles
Detox and Cleanse
Cleanse
Cleanse Articles
Health Tips
Weight Loss
Holistic Medicine
Home Remedies
Recipes
Are You At Risk Of Developing Gut Disease? Find Out Today With Our FREE Health Assessment.
24,338People have completed the Gut Health Assessment.
Don't get left behind! Click HERE to take the assessment.
Health Tips, Home Remedies, Latest Gut Health Articles
The Wonderful World of Oil Pulling
By Gut Health Project | October 15, 2016
35shares
12Facebook
7Twitter
16Pinterest
From squeaky hinges to your best bathroom buddy, coconut oil has a wide array of uses for everyone. It can be used as a substitute for your lotion, moisturizer, or hair conditioner. It can be used to get that old sticky gum in your hair. It can also be used to make your ordinary dishes taste even better.
One of the many uses of coconut oil is oil pulling. It is an oral detoxification process that pulls bacteria and other toxins from the mouth and creates a clean antiseptic environment. This process aids the flow of dental liquid needed to fight cavities and diseases.
Oil pulling is done simply by swishing a tablespoon of oil in your mouth, just like mouth wash, only for a longer period of time. Studies show that this reduces gingivitis-induced plaque and bacteria that causes tooth decay after only 10 days. Although, this should not be considered a substitute for other oral health regimens.
Reasons You Should Try Coconut Oil Pulling
Cures tooth decay
Kills bad breath
Prevents heart disease
Reduces inflammation
Whitens teeth
Soothes throat dryness
Prevents cavities
Heals cracked lips
Boosts the immune system
Improves acne
Strengthens gums and jaw
The best ingredient for oil pulling is coconut oil. Why? It is because it contains Lauric acid that is proven to be anti-inflammatory and antimicrobial. It fights gingivitis and other oral conditions.
Coconut oil is also known to do the following:
Reduce cellulite, wrinkles, and age spots
Moisturize skin
Increase HDL
Lower HDL
Burn fat
Balance hormones
Kill candida
Improve digestion
Balance blood sugar
Improve energy
Prevent and improve Alzheimer’s
Coconut oil pulling has been practiced for generations. This was very common in India and was used mainly in Ayurvedic medicine, one of the world’s oldest holistic healing system. Some practitioners believe that the section of the tongue is connected to different organs, like the kidneys, lungs, and liver.
How-to Guide
One can easily start with just 5 minutes a day. Swishing for 20 minutes a day is a long time. The longer one pulls, the more chances of bacteria being pulled out. There are 3 things one should remember:
1. Don’t work too hard.
2. Don’t swallow.
3. Don’t skip brushing and flossing.
Sources
http://www.webmd.com/oral-health/features/oil-pulling
https://draxe.com/oil-pulling-coconut-oil/https://draxe.com/oil-pulling-coconut-oil/
https://cocotreasure.com/coconut-oil-lip-balm/
http://www.healthable.org/organic-coconut-oil-its-health-perks-and-uses/
Author Bio
Author Name: Nadine Escudero
Nadine is a wandering writer and blogger. She loves traveling and exploring new places, and finding hole-in-the-wall dining places. As a wannabe cook, she loves discovering new recipes and ingredients, like the versatile coconut oil (and yes, she uses it on just about anything and everything). On lazy days, Nadine is spending time at the beach with her fur-babies, Pepe, and Pido.
Detox and Cleanse, Digestive System, Health Tips, Home Remedies, Infographic, Latest Gut Health Articles
Improve Your Digestive Issues With Bentonite Clay
By Melissa Gundersen | May 5, 2016
297shares
268Facebook
1Twitter
28Pinterest
It may sound strange at first, but did you know eating clay could actually be really good for your health? It’s especially beneficial for digestive health. Bentonite clay, which is made from volcanic ash, is one of the best healing clays out there. It’s loaded with beneficial vitamins and minerals such as copper, magnesium, calcium, iron, potassium, and more. In total, this popular clay contains around 70 trace minerals. While all of these nutrients benefit the body, that’s not the main reason it’s considered a “healing clay.”
Think back to grade school science class for a minute. Do you remember learning that opposites attract? Well, bentonite clay has a strong negative charge. For that reason, it acts as a magnet for positively charged toxins, bacteria, pesticides, pathogens, and healthy metals. Once bentonite clay is moistened, it immediately binds to nearby toxins. According to researchers, this is great for flushing out potentially harmful substances in the gut (AKA digestive tract).
When consumed, bentonite clay and the toxins it binds to move through the intestines. Eventually, they are both eliminated from the body. Researchers say it has shown to be promising in relieving nausea, acid reflux, and diarrhea. It’s also been known to help heal Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) and Leaky Gut Syndrome.
Additionally, by removing harmful toxins and bad bacteria in your intestines, you are allowing your gut’s good bacteria to flourish. If you’ve read any of our other articles then you know what a large role good bacteria (AKA probiotics) play in keeping us healthy.
How To Use Bentonite Clay For Digestive Relief
To reap the digestive benefits of bentonite clay it must be taken internally. First, buy a food-grade clay that is a greenish-tan color and soft to the touch. Then, add one teaspoon to an eight-ounce glass of water or freshly squeezed juice. Before you gulp down your drink, make sure the clay is completely dissolved. Whatever you do, don’t stir the clay with a metal spoon or allow it to touch anything metal. If it does, it will be stripped of its detoxing abilities. So instead, use a plastic spoon.
Warning
While bentonite clay is beneficial for digestive health, one of the main side effects is constipation. That’s because the clay pulls water from the colon as it passes through the intestines. For this reason, it’s important to drink a lot of water when consuming bentonite clay.
Before taking bentonite clay internally we recommend consulting with your doctor.
Gut Health Project recommends Perfect Biotics to ensure a healthy gut. Add this probiotic to your daily routine!
Also, add Perfect Flush as a cleanse and detox.
Functional Medicine, Health Tips, Home Remedies, Latest Gut Health Articles, Probiotics
The Season For Sneezing: The #1 Best Way To Boost Your Immune System
By Melissa Gundersen | December 10, 2015
22shares
10Facebook
0Twitter
12Pinterest
It’s official … it’s the season for sneezin’. You know what I’m talking about. It’s that time of year when everyone seems to sneeze uncontrollably as they reach for the tissues in their purse and wipe their red, runny noses. It could be a common cold or maybe the flu. One thing is for sure, though, you don’t want any part of it!
The only thing you have to rely on is your immune system. If only you could talk to your body and tell it to pull out a shield to protect you from all those germs.
Your Gut Is A Shield… Well Sort Of
Did you know your gut and immune system are very closely linked? In fact, approximately 80% of your immune system is located in your gut! So if you want to stay clear of illness, you need to keep your gut in tip-top shape.
In order to keep your gut healthy, you need to balance out your gut flora. When in balance, your gut should house approximately 80% good bacteria and 20% bad bacteria.
Too Many Bad Guys?
When bad bacteria takes over, your immune system weakens. You will become more susceptible to illness, digestive issues, skin rashes, breakouts, weight fluctuation and mood swings.
An overload of bad bacteria could lead to leaky gut syndrome and autoimmune disease.
Find Out The Other Benefits Of Probiotics!
Plus, Why You Should Start Taking A Daily Supplement ASAP:
Click Here To Learn More Before It’s Too Late:
3 Ways To Boost Good Bacteria
Chances are your gut is overloaded with bad bacteria, which means you are going to need to make some lifestyle changes.
1) First things first, you need to clean up your diet. Sugar, unhealthy fats, gluten and GMOs kill off good bacteria and feed bad bacteria in the gut. The best thing you can do for your health is to eliminate processed foods and the 8 following ingredients. Instead, adopt a clean diet.
2) High stress levels can also contribute to poor gut health. Between work, kids, grandkids and husbands, it’s nearly impossible to eliminate all stress. However, there are a few things you can do to naturally de-stress:
3) Finally, get in your daily dose of probiotics! This is crucial to improving your gut health and immune system. Probiotics are live, beneficial bacteria. So by taking a daily probiotic supplement, you are literally replenishing your gut with exactly what needs.
Not All Probiotics Are Created Equal
If you currently take probiotics, you may feel a sense of security. You think you’re reaping all of their benefits. However, not all probiotics are created equal. In fact, research suggests up to 80% of the probiotics you take never reach your intestine, where they can benefit your health.
The main reason probiotic supplements fail is because they’re weak. Typically capsules and tablets can’t protect the sensitive cultures from harsh stomach acids. That’s why The Gut Health Project recommends Probiotic America.
Click here to find out more about Probiotic America!
Health Tips, Holistic Medicine, Home Remedies, Latest Gut Health Articles
Food Is Medicine: 21 Ways Apple Cider Vinegar Can Change Your Life
By Melissa Gundersen | November 18, 2015
18.6Kshares
638Facebook
61Twitter
17.9KPinterest
Apple cider vinegar (or ACV for short) is known as a superfood with incredible healing properties!
For centuries, people have been using vinegar as a natural remedy to fight off infections, treat fevers and improve digestion. Nowadays, the acidic liquid that many enjoy on salads is used for just about anything and everything.
Along with improving health, many men and women use ACV for beauty reasons. Did you know it can be used as a natural hair conditioner? How about soothing a sunburn?
Some people even ditch chemical-laden cleaning products and use ACV to wash their windows and countertops.
Note: Add an all-natural cleanse and detox formula to your daily routine, too!
So what makes ACV so powerful? Well, it’s loaded with antioxidants, vitamins, minerals and enzymes! There’s a catch, though. Not all apple cider vinegar is created equal. If you want to reap the greatest benefits, there are a few things you’ll want to look for when picking out the perfect bottle. I’ll tell you what those things are in just a minute. But first, let’s take a look at 21 healing benefits of apple cider vinegar.
The Health Benefits
Beauty and “Other” Benefits
How To Pick Out The Perfect Apple Cider Vinegar
When you’re walking down the aisles of your grocery store in search of the perfect bottle of apple cider vinegar, don’t judge a book by its cover. Rather than looking for crystal clear vinegar, you’ll want to choose one that looks murky. Organic, unfiltered, unprocessed vinegar has a cloudy look to it.
When you look through the murky vinegar, you’ll even notice a cobweb-like substance floating in it. This is actually desired. It’s called the “mother,” which means it still contains the beneficial compounds (including probiotics).
Functional Medicine, Health Tips, Home Remedies
Aloe Vera Gel: 7 Ways This Super Plant Improves Digestion
By Melissa Gundersen | November 16, 2015
955shares
836Facebook
11Twitter
108Pinterest
Aloe vera …. you’ve heard of the plant before. Chances are you’ve even rubbed its famous gel on your skin to get rid of painful sunburns after a trip to the beach. But if you think that’s all aloe vera is good for, think again.
Ingesting the clear gel from the inside of an aloe vera leaf can have a major impact on your digestive tract. We’ll get to how in just a minute. But first, let’s take a look at the nutritional benefits.
Aloe vera contains key vitamins, minerals, enzymes and amino acids that are vital for our bodies to function properly.
7 Ways Aloe Vera Benefits Digestion
1) Anti-Inflammatory Properties
People who suffer from digestive issues often experience inflammation in the digestive tract. Since we know inflammation is the root cause of many illnesses, it’s important to incorporate anti-inflammatory foods into our diets. Drinking aloe vera juice has been shown to fight inflammation, soothe and relax the GI tract.
2) Helps Heal Leaky Gut
Aloe vera gel can help heal the lining of a damaged intestinal tract, healing and/or preventing leaky gut syndrome. This is crucial because when a person’s gut lining is damaged, toxins can enter the bloodstream. This can lead to system-wide inflammation and initiate an immune response in the body.
3) Relieves Constipation
Aloe vera is considered a laxative-acting food. The gel-filled plant increases intestinal water content, stimulates mucus secretion and contains enzymes that help the body break down food.
4) Promotes Regular Bowel Movements
Again, aloe vera contains enzymes that help the body break down food. Then the plant’s soothing effects help to easily move that food through the intestines, encouraging regular bowel movements.
5) Detoxification
Along with its rich nutrient content, aloe vera has antibacterial and anti-viral properties. For this reason, aloe vera helps rid the body of harmful toxins and food buildup.
Learn the dangers of toxic buildup by clicking here.
6) Encourages Good Gut Bacteria
If you’ve spent any time clicking around our Gut Health Project website, you know the importance of good gut bacteria (AKA probiotics). You also know in order for probiotics to flourish, they need to feed off prebiotics. Well, aloe vera is considered a prebiotic!
Learn more about the importance of prebiotics here.
7) Fights Heartburn
Drinking 1/2 a cup of aloe vera juice before eating a meal has been shown to help reduce acid reflux.
Aloe Juice Recipe
While aloe vera is available in a few forms (juice, pills and powders), one of the best ways to consume it is by drinking aloe vera juice.
*It’s important to note that you cannot go into a grocery store and pick up a bottle of aloe vera sunburn relief gel and drink it! Those products are loaded with chemicals and are toxic if ingested.
There are a number of companies that sell aloe vera juice, which you can buy at a health food store or online. You can also make it yourself, just purchase an edible aloe plant and follow this basic recipe (article continues below):
Warning
Aloe vera should not be ingested in high doses because it can cause stomach cramps and diarrhea.
Do not consume aloe vera if you’re pregnant and/or breastfeeding. There are reports of aloe vera causing miscarriage and birth defects.
If you’re on any medications, consult with your doctor before drinking aloe vera juice.
1
2
Next Page »
I Love Eating Organic
Gut Health Project recommends Perfect Biotics to ensure a healthy gut. Add this probiotic to your daily routine!
Also, take Perfect Flush to eliminate waste and toxins.
A Healthy Life Begins in Your Gut!
Copyright © 2016 - Present GutHealthProject™
Digestive System
Digestive Disorders
Functional Medicine
Clean Eating
Cleanse
Health Tips
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Contact Information
© Copyright 2019 Gut Health Project