Marialy Pacheco - General Health & Weight Loss Clinic
Marialy Pacheco
General Health & Weight Loss Clinic
Menu
Skip to content
Home
About
Contact
Dental Health
Weight Loss
The Importance Of Dental Checkups To Your Health
August 24, 2018 August 24, 2018 Marialy Pacheco
Dental checkups are not something that most people look forward to, yet they know of the importance of such visits. For most people, a visit to the dentist is when they have dental problems, and that is why they wonder what the point of the regular dental checkups is and fail to plan for it accordingly.
While there is the matter of time and cost when at the dentist’s, the routine visits are essential for the following reasons:
Dealing With Tartar, Plaque, and Cavities
The primary agenda with dental checkup visits is to have our teeth and mouth examined; it is all about your dental health. The appointments are recommended even if you diligently brush and floss your teeth daily. Such practices help prevent most of the oral health issues, but the dental exams will confirm that all is well.
Even when brushing, flossing, and using mouthwash are recommended, you still need to go for a thorough dental cleaning. The dentist will remove tartar, plaque, and cavities to give you a bright smile.
Treating Gum Disease
The buildup of tartar, plaque, and cavities lead to dental issues that range from aching teeth to gum disease. The dentist will also address issues such as tooth decay, gingivitis, and periodontitis and other dental health problems. Failure to have these issues treated can result in complications that go beyond your oral health leading to other problems such as heart disease.
Finding Hidden Problems With X-Rays
The dentist may also do an x-ray exam during the routine dental checkup visits to check for any diseases or complications that may be beneath the surfaces of the mouth. Impacted teeth are an excellent example of issues that can be diagnosed using an x-ray. Another example is damage to the jawbone, cysts, inflammations, tumors, and bone decay.
Addressing The Effects Of Bad Habits
Some habits are not healthy, and people will indulge them knowing or not knowing that they can affect their dental and overall health. For instance, smoking, drinking red wine, and some beverages will stain the teeth and increase the risk of developing issues such as gum disease or oral cancer.
Moreover, other habits such as grinding the teeth, chewing ice, clenching the jaw, brushing too hard and biting the nails can cause damages. The dentist can note the effects of such habits and offer the most suitable solutions that help restore your oral health.
Oral Cancer Detection
The dentist is in a position to discover or diagnose possible oral cancer and recommend immediate treated. If not diagnosed and treated early, oral cancer can progress quickly and become a life threatening condition that is complicated to treat.
The dentist can recognize cancer when it is in its early stages. The dentist can conduct exams using specialized light inside the mouth to check for signs of dead tissue or ulcers. The procedure is painless and takes very little time.
Do yourself a big favor and get regular dental checkups every six months or one a year at the very least.
Skinny Coffee Review – Does It Work?
December 31, 2016 Marialy Pacheco
Many people are intrigued by the thought of being able to lose weight just by drinking one of the most popular beverages in the world. But does it actually work? We invite you to watch the above video and judge the results for yourself. On top of losing weight, you can also start your own home coffee business if you are interested. Details are outlined on the website. Either way, enjoy your free sample of this product to see for yourself if it actually works!
Health Benefits of Coffee
December 28, 2016 December 28, 2016 Marialy Pacheco
Consumed for more than five centuries, coffee has become one of the undisputed global staple foods. A grain of coffee is packed with many beneficial nutrients. Coffee is rich in antioxidants, minerals, and vitamins; including, but not limited to, potassium, magnesium, calcium and iron, amino acids, lipids, sugars, Vitamin B, and chlorogenic acids. Like anything else, excessive consumption of coffee has its risks. The ideal consumption amount, as pointed out by nutritionists and health professionals, is up to four cups a day.
Healthy Effects of Coffee Consumption
Coffee and Cancer – Caffeine inhibits cell proliferation, which protects against numerous types of cancer.
Coffee and Pancreas – A group of researchers at the Kaiser Permanente Medical Research Center in the United States, led by Dr. C. Morton, found a small protective effect of coffee against pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas) in 129,000 individuals who consumed alcohol. Coffee consumption reduced the incidence of pancreatitis by up to 25%.
Coffee and Cognition – Daily and moderate coffee consumption helps to improve mood and cognitive performance. In many cases, drinking coffee can also help relieve a headache, increase concentration levels and memory. Coffee consumption reduces the risk of developing dementia by about 65%. Much of the cognitive benefits of coffee are owed to caffeine, a powerful neurostimulant. Yet contrary to popular belief, coffee contains only 1 to 2.5% of caffeine. The importance of caffeine consumption as a preventive measure against neurological diseases such as Parkinson’s disease and Alzheimer’s is well-documented.
Coffee and Depression – Consuming three to four cups of coffee reduces the incidence of depression and suicide in the population, according to a US study of 128,934 people over a 10-year period.
Coffee and Smoking – Studies show that when smokers drink at least four 50ml cups of coffee a day, the number of cigarettes smoked falls by half.
Coffee and Alcohol – Daily consumption of 4 50ml cups of coffee prevents the negative effects of 40g of alcohol on the human brain.
Coffee and Sex – Studies in the US show that interest in sex and sexual activity is greater among people who drink coffee every day.
Coffee and Diabetes – In an investigation conducted at the prestigious Harvard Medical School, where more than 193 thousand people were observed, it was concluded that those who drank coffee regularly had a lower risk of developing type 2 diabetes than those who didn’t drink coffee. Even people who drink it decaffeinated are more likely to develop diabetes than those who drink normal coffee.
Coffee and Cholesterol – A cup of coffee contains about 1g of soluble fiber, which means that its consumption helps to keep cholesterol levels low.
Coffee and Heart – Some studies suggest that coffee may contribute to a decreased risk of heart disease. The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition contains a study which reveals that healthy people, at the age of 65 and older, who drank four or more cups of coffee a day, were 53% less likely to develop heart disease.
Coffee and Blood Sugar – Coffee contains magnesium, which allows the body’s cells to become more sensitive to insulin. Increased insulin sensitivity means it helps to keep blood glucose and energy levels healthy and balanced.
Coffee and Aging – Coffee is rich in antioxidants. Antioxidants are responsible for many health benefits, including delaying the aging process and increasing life expectancy. In addition, the anti-inflammatory power of antioxidants is extremely effective, which is crucial in the fight against heart disease, diabetes, and many other diseases.
Coffee and Weight Loss – In addition to being a natural diuretic, coffee can be an ally in the fight against being overweight. Low in calories, coffee speeds up metabolism, which in turn helps burn fat and unwanted calories.
Coffee and Asthma – Several studies have pointed to the fact that moderate coffee consumption is effective in controlling asthma. Most existing medications for the treatment of asthma contain high doses of caffeine.
Coffee and Teeth – The compound trigonelline, which gives coffee its aroma and bitter taste, has antibacterial and anti-adhesive properties that prevent against the formation of dental caries.
Coffee and Lungs – Coffee also has a decongestant effect and is extremely effective in fighting colds, as it relieves bronchial tubes and accelerates recovery.
Coffee and Physical Endurance – Caffeine is a powerful ally in terms of endurance and athletic performance, whether it is a high-profile athlete or a regular practitioner of some kind of physical activity. Additionally, coffee can reduce muscle pain by up to 48%.
How to Lose Belly Fat Naturally
December 19, 2016 December 19, 2016 Marialy Pacheco
Struggling with belly fat can be such a distressing experience. Aside from giving you an unsightly appearance, this will also cause you to suffer from some unwanted health problems. A lot of diseases can be linked to obesity, so you have to make sure that you immediately look for effective solutions as soon as you notice your bulging belly. Losing belly fat can help you look more presentable and will lead you towards living a healthier life. If you do not want to take diet pills and supplements to reduce your weight because you fear the potential negative side effects, then the following natural weight loss solutions can work correctly for you:
1. Perform regular exercises. The most efficient exercise for fat loss is the aerobic exercise. If you decide to perform regular activities, then you have to bear in mind that there is no specific exercise which targets a part of your body. But you have an assurance that once you start to lose weight, you will be on your way towards completely eliminating belly fat. It is also a good ideal for you to include calorie burning exercises combined with resistance training. You can do these exercises with the help of free weights, resistance bands, and exercise machines.
2. Control your diet. This is considered to be one of the most efficient ways to lose belly fat. It is important for you to start reducing your calorie consumption. Create a diet plan which is filled with healthy foods such as fruits, vegetables, whole grain foods, low-fat foods and lean meat. You should also take note of the fact that a diet plan which is rich in whole grain can positively change the glucose and insulin response of your body. You can then expect your diet plan to help you in speeding up the fat burning process. It is also advisable for you to consume foods that have a high level of mono-saturated fat. This is capable of preventing the accumulation of fat.
3. Drink a substantial amount of water. Water helps you in getting rid of belly fat and in reducing your weight significantly because it is capable of flushing out unwanted toxins and wastes from your body. These toxic substances and wastes are often the major causes of weight gain. Aside from flushing these substances out, drinking enough water on a daily basis can also keep your body fully hydrated. This is extremely useful in achieving your aim of getting a healthier body and a flatter stomach.
4. Get enough sleep. This is one of the most effective how to lose belly fat solutions because it is capable of improving your metabolism. Studies also reveal that an insufficient amount of sleep negatively affects the process of metabolizing carbohydrates within your body. Inadequate sleep may also cause you to suffer from glucose intolerance, slowed metabolism and increased hunger. If you do not get the required amount of sleep, then there is also a great possibility that you will feel too tired to perform your regular exercises. Because of this, it is advisable for you to get at least 6-8 hours of sleep to improve your metabolism and to increase the level of your energy.
Search for:
Categories
Dental Health
Health
Weight Loss
Recent Posts
The Importance Of Dental Checkups To Your Health
Skinny Coffee Review – Does It Work?
Health Benefits of Coffee
How to Lose Belly Fat Naturally
Tags
Coffee Dental Checkups Dental Health Dentist Free Coffee Sample Health Home Coffee Business lose belly fat naturally Weight Loss
April 2019
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Aug
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30
Articles From The Web
Medical News Today: Study finds that many people diagnosed with MS do not have the condition April 22, 2019
Medical News Today: Replacing red meat with plant protein reduces heart disease risk April 22, 2019
Medical News Today: Increased muscle power may prolong life April 21, 2019
Recent Posts
The Importance Of Dental Checkups To Your Health
Skinny Coffee Review – Does It Work?
Health Benefits of Coffee
How to Lose Belly Fat Naturally
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service