Is there a chance I could be pregnant if my boyfriend took off the condom across the room? #314/15 | Managing Contraception
Home
Our Store
Q&A
IUD
Oral Contraception
Injections/Implants
Contraception
Emergency Contraception
Pregnancy
Barrier Methods
Sterilization
Menses
Miscellaneous
Newsletters
About Us
Contact Us
Select Page
Is there a chance I could be pregnant if my boyfriend took off the condom across the room? #314/15
Mar 22, 2015 | Barrier Methods |
Q I had sex and we used a condom. I know that it was put on right. The condom had not expired and there weren’t any holes in it. My boyfriend took off the condom across the room, but the only thing I can think of is he didn’t hold on to the condom at the base when he withdrew. I’m a week late for my period and want to know if there is any way that I could be pregnant?
A:
From what you describe, pregnancy would be unlikely. You and your boyfriend appear to have used the condom very well.
By now you should know very clearly whether or not this one act of intercourse caused pregnancy. Did you become pregnant from that one act of intercourse using a condom?
Below is additional information about becoming pregnant:
“Can I be pregnant?”
The answer to this for almost any sexually active woman in her reproductive years is: YES!
A woman can become pregnant even if she has taken her pills correctly.
A woman can become pregnant if she had had intercourse while still on her period – even if she uses emergency contraceptive pills.
A woman can become pregnant using Depo-Provera injections
A woman can become pregnant after having had tubal sterilization.
A woman can become pregnant after her husband/partner has had a vasectomy.
A young teenager can become pregnant before she has her first period.
A fully breastfeeding woman can ovulate and become pregnant in the first 6 postpartum months even if she has not had a menstrual period
You get the point! Reproductive age women who have
penis-in-vagina intercourse can become pregnant.
Robert A. Hatcher MD, MPH
Emeritus Professor of Gynecology and Obstetrics
Emory University School of Medicine
Atlanta, GA
To learn more about the advantages and disadvantages of condoms, go to: www.managingcontraception.com. You can order all of these books listed below from our website or by calling 404-875-5001.
Key Words: condom, intercourse, period, late, pregnant, expired, withdrew, emergency contraceptive pills, Depo-Provera injections, perfectly, tubal sterilization, vasectomy, breastfeeding, menstrual period, reproductive age, penis-in-vagina
Current Books:
Contraceptive Technology 20th edition
Managing Contraception 2015-2016 edition
Choices 2014 edition
Search for:
Categories
Barrier Methods (88)
Contraception (232)
Dr. Bob Hatcher (145)
Emergency Contraception (161)
Injections/Implants (343)
IUD (545)
Menses (65)
Miscellaneous (84)
Newsletter (141)
Oral Contraception (536)
Pregnancy (96)
Sexually Transmitted Infection (15)
Sterilization (63)
Uncategorized (5)
DISCLAIMER
Suggestions, recommendations, questions, comments, data from the literature, interpretation of laboratory tests and other information provided on this site are for informational purposes only and are not intended to be relied upon as advice from or implied to be a substitute for the professional advice of a physician, nurse practitioner, nurse midwife, counselor or other healthcare professional. Always seek the advice of your clinician or other professional for any questions you may have regarding your health, medical condition, method of birth control and other family planning or personal/social issues. Periodic references to costs of birth control methods on this website are estimates only and your actual cost for any specific method of birth control may be more or less than the stated amount. Emory University School of Medicine, Bridging the Gap Foundation, and Bridging the Gap Communications Inc are not responsible for any damage or loss you may incur as a result of your use of or reliance on any material or information provided through this website.
Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress