ASPARTAME the sweet killer - Jaap's Notes on Life . . . More or Less | Jaap's Notes on Life . . . More or Less
About
About jaaps.com
Jaap About Jaap
Others About Jaap
The name ‘ Jaap ‘
Web Sites
My Own Web Sites
Web Sites made for Others
Contact Jaap
Photo
Mavis Kitchen 2013 calendar
Shares
Coffee is LOVE.
Jacob’s Footography
Fun
Mayday Emergency
Walk of a lifetime
Cats
Migraine
Russian Advertising not so Puny
No Bullshit About Christmas
Sweet Poison – Aspartame
Sweet Poison [MUST READ]
ASPARTAME the sweet killer
Intentional Poisoning: Aspartame
Books
Books of interest
ASPARTAME the sweet killer
Aspartame: Poisoning From Sweetener Can Lead to Coma, Death
The Not-So-Sweet Sweetener
Aspartame consists of three components: the amino acids phenylalanine and aspartic acid, and methanol (aka methyl alcohol or wood alcohol.) Methanol is known to be poisonous, even in small amounts. When the temperature of aspartame exceeds 86 degrees F, the methanol in the aspartame is converted to formaldehyde (embalming fluid), and then to formic acid (ant sting poison), which in turn causes metabolic acidosis that attacks your central nervous system and every organ of your body.
Formaldehyde is grouped in the same class of poisons as the very deadly cyanide and arsenic. The only difference is… Formaldehyde kills quietly, and it takes longer. And, in the process of killing people, it causes all kinds of neurological problems. There are 92 documented symptoms of Aspartame poisoning leading to coma and death. The majority of these symptoms are neurological, because Aspartame attacks and destroys the nervous system.
Disorders associated with methanol include blindness, brain swelling, and inflammation of the pancreas and heart muscle. Although the FDA states that exposure to methanol through aspartame consumption is not of “sufficient quantity to be of toxicological concern,” the cumulative effects of high doses of aspartame are unknown.
The symptoms of Aspartame poisoning are known to mimic Multiple Sclerosis, Lupus, and also Fibromyalgia (spasms, shooting pains, numbness in your legs, cramps, vertigo, dizziness, joint pain.) There have been a significant number of reports of other ill effects as a result of aspartame consumption, including: headaches, mood swings, changes to vision, nausea and diarrhea, sleep disorders, memory loss and confusion, and even convulsions. Aspartame appears to be especially dangerous to children, and potentially deadly for diabetics.
Aspartame poisoning is often misdiagnosed as retinopathy in diabetics. Some known effects of Aspartame on diabetic patients are: acute memory loss, confusion, severe vision loss, uncontrollable blood sugar, coma, and death.
Doctors at the Conference of the American College of Physicians admitted that they did not know the cause of the epidemic of MS and Lupus; however, scientists claim that the phenylalanine in the Aspartame breaks down the seizure threshold and depletes Serotonin, which causes manic depression, seizures, panic attacks, rage, and violence. There is also increasing evidence that links Aspartame to the escalating cases of Alzheimer’s disease, especially in younger adults. In addition, it has also been linked to brain tumors.
Aspartame is especially prevalent in diet foods, and can be found in the following products:
Instant breakfasts
Breath mints
Cereals
Sugar-free chewing gum
Cocoa mixes
Coffee & tea beverages (especially “instant” varieties)
Frozen desserts
Gelatin desserts
Juice beverages
Laxatives
Milk drinks
Multivitamins
Nonprescription pharmaceuticals
Shake mixes
Soft drinks ( all diet varieties)
Artificial sweeteners (Nutrasweet, Equal, Spoonful, and others)
Topping mixes
Wine coolers
Yogurt
More bad news about Aspartame:
While aspartame is marketed as a diet product, it is hardly such. In fact, it will cause you to gain weight because it makes you crave carbohydrates. Weight gain, however, is the least of aspartame’s harm. Aspartame is a toxic chemical that changes the brain’s chemistry. It can and does cause severe seizures. This chemical changes the dopamine level in the brain, and it is particularly deadly for anyone suffering from Parkinson’s disease.
How serious is this Aspartame poisoning?
A mother who had a child on NutraSweet was told to get her child off the product. The child was having grand mal seizures every day. The mother spoke to her doctor, who called the ADA, who told the doctor not to take the child off the NutraSweet. They are still trying to convince the mother that the Aspartame is not causing the seizures. Every time you take a grand mal seizure victim off of Aspartame, the seizures stop.
Here is the major problem: Congressional hearings were held when Aspartame was originally approved for use in 100 different products. Since that initial hearing, there have been two more hearings to try to ban this product, but to no avail. The drug and chemical lobbies have very deep pockets. As a result, this list of 100 has now expanded to now over 5,000 products containing this chemical, and the patent has expired. Also, Aspartame is now available in over 90 countries around the world.
There is a bit of hope: Stevia, a sweet herb which helps in the metabolism of sugar, and which is proving to be ideal for diabetics, has now been approved as a dietary supplement by the FDA. For years, the FDA had outlawed this sweet food because of their loyalty to Monsanto (creator of Aspartame.) I assure you that Monsanto knows exactly how deadly their product is. They simply don’t care. They fund the American Diabetes Association, the American Dietetic Association, Congress, and the Conference of the American College of Physicians. They have the contacts, funds, and the power to keep their product on the market. As sad of a truth as it is: Public health means nothing to these people. It’s all about making money. Senator Howard Hetzenbaum wrote a bill that would have warned all pregnant mothers and children of the dangers of Aspartame. The bill would also have instituted independent studies on the problems existing in the population (seizures, changes in brain chemistry, changes in neurological and behavioral symptoms). It was killed by the powerful drug and chemical lobbies, letting loose the hounds of disease and death.
Unfortunately, we don’t have the power to ban Aspartame. But we do have the power to spread the word, and save others from the harmful effects of this poison. Tell your friends, family, and everyone you know to stay away from Aspartame. Reading food labels doesn’t mean you’re crazy – it means you care! And what is so freaking crazy about that??
Published by Jennifer Lanier
Jennifer Lanier has been a professional health researcher and writer on the web since 2002. She has published work on several health sites and written e-books on alternative cancer cures and natural hormone… View profile