Health coach drinks two cups of URINE every day | | Express Digest
News, Culture & Society
Home
Magazine
Advertise with us
Express Informer - news & magazine Contact Us Follow Us on Facebook
Browse Categories Business (1,277) Entertainment (21) Health (11,886) Magazine (3,259) News (167,604) Science & Technology (2,388) ShowBiz & TV (888) Sports (3,988) Travel (372)
Business
Entertainment
Health
Science & Technology
ShowBiz & TV
Sports
Health coach drinks two cups of URINE every day
Share Tweet Pin it Google+ Email WhatsApp
ExpressDigest
7 months ago / 75 Views
A woman drinks two cups of her own urine every day after the bizarre habit ‘cured’ severe swelling in her eye caused by a mosquito bite.
Faith Canter, 39, who is originally from Aberdeen, was bitten on the eye shortly after she moved to Castelo Branco, Portugal, last June. Woken up by the sharp pain of the bite, Ms Canter immediately had a huge lump covering her right eye.
The health and wellness coach, who has always suffered extreme reactions to mosquito bites, tried everything from steroid creams to anti-histamine tablets to alleviate her swelling, but nothing worked.
After initially thinking urine therapy was ‘crazy’, a desperate Ms Canter eventually gave in and drank half a cup of her own liquid waste.
Within four hours the swelling in her eye had completely disappeared, with Ms Canter now swearing on two glasses of urine every day to prevent bites and boost her overall health.
Scientists have previously said there is no evidence drinking urine has any benefit, adding those who do so ‘make a mockery of themselves’.
Faith Canter drinks two cups of her own urine every day after the bizarre habit ‘cured’ severe swelling in her eye caused by a mosquito bite. Pictured after the ordeal, Ms Cancer claims drinking your own liquid waste ‘allows the body to recognise poisons, threats, intruders etc’
Ms Canter was bitten on her right eye shortly after she moved from Aberdeen to Castelo Branco, Portugal, in June 2018. Woken up by the sharp pain of the bite, Ms Canter immediately had a huge lump covering her right eye. She had suffered extreme bite reactions in the past
Desperate, Ms Canter drank half a cup of urine after the ‘crazy’ act was recommended by a friend. She claims her swelling went down within four hours rather than the usual seven-to-10 days. Ms Canter was so impressed she now makes drinking her urine part of her daily routine
Speaking of the ordeal, Ms Canter said: ‘I was bitten in the night and woke up and couldn’t open my eye at all and when I felt it, it was swollen up and I could feel pressure from the swelling.
‘So, I picked up my phone to use the camera on it to see what was wrong. I could just about make out or feel a bite in amongst the swelling and knew straight away it was a mosquito bite.
‘It felt so uncomfortable, painful, a lot of pressure, itchy, sore and disorientating. I’ve had many reactions like this over the years and I had heard mosquitos in the night too.’
Ms Canter is pictured four hours after she drank her urine, with the swelling nearly gone
Ms Canter, a health and wellness coach, claims her healthy lifestyle means her urine has very little taste, which makes it more appetising. She aims to live a ‘toxic-free’ lifestyle after previously trying ‘toxic’ medical treatments like steroid creams to ease her bites
A week before being bitten on the eye, Ms Canter was also bitten on her knee and applied urine directly to the area.
She said: ‘It went away within three days rather than the seven-to-10 days it usually took. After the swelling went down I actually found three bites, so no wonder it was so swollen and sore.’
Ms Canter knew that, based on her previous bites, in could take almost two weeks for the swelling on her eye to go down. Desperate, she decided to give urine therapy a go.
She said: ‘To start with, it felt a little disgusting, but I was feeling so bad by then that this very quickly passed by.
‘It didn’t taste at all bad (I am very healthy, which apparently helps with the taste), and it was over within a few seconds.
‘I didn’t notice anything for about four hours. We had to go out that day, so I put a pair of sunglasses on and went into town.
‘While we were driving back I suddenly realised I could see out of my eye again, so I took the glasses off, looked in the mirror in the car and realised the swelling was almost completely gone.
‘I was shocked and amazed and of course very, very happy. By the following morning I couldn’t even tell I’d been bitten at all. No itch, swelling or discomfort at all.’
Also taken four hours after she drank her urine, Ms Canter’s swelling continued to go down
Now drinking urine every day, Ms Canter insists she is bitten less and her bites are less severe
Now drinking two cups of urine a day, Ms Canter insist this has reduced both the number and severity of her bites.
She said: ‘[Urine therapy] apparently creates an amazing feedback mechanism in the body, allowing the body to recognise poisons, threats, intruders etc much quicker and addressing them as such.
‘It’s apparently amazing for all sorts of bites, stings, intolerances and allergies for this reason. Over the years of suffering like this I have tried every single toxic, medical treatment to deter them and treat the bites once they have bitten me.
‘None of this ever worked. Then I become toxic-free a few years ago and I tried every single non-toxic treatment from everywhere I travelled to all over the world too – from garlic and B vitamins to Shamanic oils and essential oil sprays.
‘I have continued to drink some of my urine every morning since and now I’m being bitten far less than ever before and when I am bitten now they never swell or itch, they are just tiny little pin pricks now.’
Urine therapy was made popular by the British naturopath John W. Armstrong in the early 20th century. He was inspired by his family’s practice of using urine to treat minor stings and toothaches.
Some followers of urine therapy even believe it dates back to Biblical times.
Despite Ms Canter’s enthusiasm for the ‘treatment’, no independent research has been done on the practice, with kidney specialists even warning consuming too much can lead to a build-up of toxic waste similar to kidney failure.
Professor Henry Woo, a urological surgeon at the University of Sydney, previously said: ‘There is absolutely no scientific evidence to suggest that urine therapy has any therapeutic value.
‘Those who drink their own urine do nothing more than make a mockery of themselves.’
Read more at DailyMail.co.uk
Categories
Tags
Health
Related Articles
Author
Comments are closed.
MexicanRoutes.com is the most complete online travel guide.
LATEST NEWS
Turkish opposition leader is attacked at funeral of soldier
Written by ExpressDigest
Trump attends Easter service with Melania and Tiffany
by ExpressDigest
Sir Michael Gambon, 78, ‘withdraws from Sky One’s Breeders after struggling to remember his lines’
by ExpressDigest
Exposed by photos on her lost mobile phone: ISIS bride who ‘recruited dozens of British women’
by ExpressDigest
Schiff says Democrats MAY take up impeachment against Trump
by ExpressDigest
Gorilla squeezes through a zoo’s electric fence and bangs on visitors’ window ‘to say hello’
by ExpressDigest
Devout Muslim Waleed Aly says Israel Folau will be sacked after declaring gay people will go to hell
by ExpressDigest
Pictured: Brooklyn murder suspect who left pregnant woman dead and girlfriend fighting for her life
by ExpressDigest
Gary Neville rages over Manchester United’s performance in Champions League defeat by Barcelona
by ExpressDigest
Traveller is arrested, thrown in a hellish Thai jail for picking up a lost mobile phone
by ExpressDigest
Turkish opposition leader is attacked at funeral of soldier
Written by ExpressDigest
Recent News
Turkish opposition leader is attacked at funeral of soldier
Trump attends Easter service with Melania and Tiffany
Sir Michael Gambon, 78, ‘withdraws from Sky One’s Breeders after struggling to remember his lines’
Express Digest
Turkish opposition leader is attacked at funeral of soldier April 21, 2019
Trump attends Easter service with Melania and Tiffany April 21, 2019
Sir Michael Gambon, 78, ‘withdraws from Sky One’s Breeders after struggling to remember his lines’ April 21, 2019
Turkish opposition leader is attacked at funeral of soldier
Written by ExpressDigest
ExpressDigest 2016-2018
News, Culture & Society