Five easy Tricks To Lose Belly Fat Without Exercise - News Nation
x
India
Results
Elections 2019
Photos
Videos
World
Sports
World Cup 2019
Entertainment
Business
Technology
Cities
Lifestyle
Cricket
Auto
LIVE TV
Latest
Elections 2019
Results
India
World
Sports
World Cup 2019
Cricket
IPL 2019
Tennis
Football
Other
Entertainment
Bollywood News
Hollywood News
Movie Reviews
Exclusive Interview
Upcoming Movies
Television News
Bigg Boss
Regional Cinema
Music
Crime
Education
Board Exams
Entrance Exams
Exams Result News
University and College
Jobs
More News
Videos
Photos
हिंदी
MENU
Business
Cities
Lifestyle
Science
Auto
Technology
Cricket
×
You are at:
Home
Lifestyle
Health And Fitness
Five easy Tricks To Lose Belly Fat Without Exercise
Five easy Tricks To Lose Belly Fat Without Exercise
New Delhi, News Nation Bureau | Updated : 02 September 2018, 05:07 PM
Five easy Tricks To Lose Belly Fat Without Exercise (Photo:Facebook)
To lose belly fat is an ordeal most people struggle with. Being overweight or obese is one of the rapidly growing health concerns in the modern world. While not everyone may suffer from being morbidly obese, a lot of people, both men and women often express their concern about their increasing waistline.
Here’s five cheat sheet to bid goodbye to the muffin top!
Make probiotics supplements your best friend: The microbiome in the stomach is too less credited for the work they do. Hence, supplementing them with the right beneficial types of bacteria is very important. Food such as garlic, chocolate, green bananas help boost gut bacteria. It will help in digestion, de-bloating, leave you feeling happier while flattening the tummy in the process. What’s better than eating and losing weight
Spit out the gum: Chewing gums prevent mindless-eating is often accepted. However, the other ugly side of chewing gum is belly bloating. Instead of deviating from the craving you are having, small amount of air is being swallowed every time you chew a gum which causes your waist line to increase upto three inches. In fact, the artificial sweeteners used in chewing gum have been shown to increase your appetite for junk food. Chewing gum could hence be increasing your waistline in two ways.
Bear the beer: Boozy bubbles in the beer are often the major cause of belly bloat. And it is not just the carbonation you should be worried about. Alcohol has often proven to be the overgrowth of bad bacteria in your stomach. It hence, leads to gas formation, not to mention all the empty calories that are going straight to that one place you are conscious about- your waistline!
Keep the sweets locked up: Sugary treats might be delicious but not so good for the tummy. Not only sugar adds additional calories to your waistline, extra sugar leads to insulin resistance. This leads to the extra fats getting stored on the waist area rapidly bloating your tummy by feeding the bad bacteria in your gut, leading to extra gas.
Sleep more: The lack of sleep takes a toll on your health more than you know. And the result of sleep deprivation becomes most visibly on your waistlines. Losing sleep can make you gain weight and even worse, that weight is more likely to go straight to your tummy. To maintain a flat stomach, follow your circadian rhythm which means you sleep and wake up around the same time as the sun.
Also Read | Health benefits of cherries
Following these steps religiously can help you lose weight more easily and keeping it off!
First Published: Sunday, September 02, 2018 03:49 PM
Related Tags:
Belly Fat ,
Exercise ,
Overweight ,
Obese ,
Weight Gain ,
For all the latest Lifestyle News Download the News Nation App available on Android and iOS.
LIVE TV VIdeos Photos
Top Videos
How is Sadhvi Pragya exacerbating things for herself, watch here
Elections 2019: Mood of voters in Mumbai South Lok Sabha seat
4 Baje Khabar: Curfew declared in Sri Lanka after serial blasts
Voter Kahe Pukar Ke: What's on the mind of Madhepura voters
Eighth explosion in Sri Lanka, a suicide blast, kills three more
Photo Gallery
Sri Lanka Blasts in pictures: Deaths, destruction, mourning as multiple explosions ruin Easter Sunday
Revisiting Aishwarya Rai and Abhishek Bachchan's love story on their 12th marriage anniversary
Happy Birthday Arshad Warsi: Best performances of the versatile actor
HISTORIC: Mayawati, Mulayam Singh Yadav share stage after 24 years in Mainpuri
Terms of Use
Career
Complaint Redressal
Contact Us
Feedback
Sitemap
© 2018 News Nation. All rights reserved.
DOWNLOAD APP