Marietta GA Cannabis Use Disorder/Addiction Therapy - Thriveworks Marietta GA Cannabis Use Disorder/Addiction Therapy - Thriveworks
Counseling
Find a Counselor
Online Counseling
Subscribe
About
TW In the News
Blogs
Counseling News
Private Practice Blog
Contact
Employment
Book A Counselor!
Select Page
Marietta
Individuals
Addiction Counseling
Alcoholism Therapy
Anger Counseling
Anxiety Therapy
Bipolar Disorder Therapy
Borderline Personality Disorder Counseling
Cannabis Use Disorder Therapy
Career Counseling
Child Therapy
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy
Counseling for African-Americans
Dependent Personality Disorder Therapy
Depression Counseling
Domestic Violence Counseling
Eating Disorder Therapy
Anorexia and Bulimia Counseling
Binge Eating Disorder
Emotional Abuse Counseling
Gambling Addiction Counseling
Goal Setting Help
Grief Counseling
Increased Help Happiness
Insomnia Counseling
Internet Addiction Counseling
LGBTQ Counseling
Life Coaching
Loneliness and Social Isolation Counseling
Panic Disorder Therapy
Personality Disorders
Postpartum Depression Counseling
Self-Harm Counseling
Sex Therapy
Sexual Assault Counseling
Stress Therapy
Psychiatry
Therapy for Men
Video Game Addiction Counseling
Weight Management Therapy
Workaholism Therapy
Relationships
Blended Family Counseling
Codependency Counseling
Couples Counseling
Divorce Recovery
Family Therapy
Infidelity Counseling
Marriage Counseling
Premarital Counseling
Our Counselors
Our Office
404-439-9981
Cannabis Use Disorder—Treatment and Therapy in Marietta, GA
Weed. Pot. Ganja. Skun. Hashish. Bhang. There are many words people use for cannabis, and just as many opinions about when, where, how, and even whether people should use it. Amidst all the opinions and controversy, there’s also a lot of misinformation. Have you heard this about marijuana?
You cannot get addicted to marijuana.
How about this?
There are no physical effects from detoxing from marijuana.
The reality is that around 30 percent of cannabis users become addicted, and the percentage may be higher for people who use it daily. Furthermore, many people report symptoms of detox, including insomnia, nightmares, headaches, digestive problems, sweats, and tremors. In fact, the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5) has recognized cannabis addiction, labeling it Cannabis Use Disorder.
Many people have found themselves using weed more often than they ever intended to use it and are having trouble quitting. Can you relate? If you are trying to quit, but are finding it more difficult than you anticipated, therapy may be a good option.
Thriveworks Marietta offers treatment for Cannabis Use Disorder that has helped many people through the detox process and equipped them for life without weed.
Cannabis—Weed—Pot
Cannabis is a plant that contains Delta-9-TetraHydrocannabinol (THC), a compound that affects people’s minds. In large doses, it also causes hallucinations. When in the blood stream, THC causes the brain-body connection to slow.
Many people use weed in legal and safe ways. But many people also struggle with addiction. Similar to alcohol, not all cannabis use is harmful or even addictive.
When does use cross into Cannabis Use Disorder?
DSM-5 defines Cannabis Use Disorder (CUD) as using weed regularly for at least one year and experiencing impaired functioning and increased disruptions in life that is manifested through at least two of these symptoms:
Ineffective attempts to stop or curb use.
Increasing the frequency of weed use.
Dedicating substantial time to pot use—obtaining it, ingesting it, and recovering from its use.
Craving cannabis, including having intense dreams, vivid images, strong smells, and/or obsessive thoughts about it.
Experiencing harm from weed use but continuing to partake. The harm may be personally, professionally, or relationally.
Allowing one’s job, hygiene, school, family, or friends to suffer because of pot use.
Mixing risky behavior and pot use such as driving a car while high.
Ingesting more cannabis to feel similar psychoactive or hallucinogenic effects.
Feeling withdrawal symptoms when attempting to quit marijuana.
DSM-5 gives a scale for CUD, depending upon the number of symptoms displayed:
Mild CUD occurs when an individual displays up to three symptoms.
Moderate CUD occurs when an individual displays four to five symptoms.
Severe CUD occurs when an individual displays six or more symptoms.
Risk Factors for Cannabis Use Disorder
According to DSM-5, these factors may increase a person’s risk of CUD:
Chemical dependency within the family.
Low socio-economic status.
A Conduct Disorder or Antisocial Personality Disorder.
History of tobacco use.
Background of abuse.
Unstable family circumstances.
Low school performance.
Family members who use cannabis.
Easy to access to weed.
Living in a culture that is more drug tolerant.
Treatment for CUD
Treatment for CUD is often effective with the right support systems in place, but sometimes the greatest obstacle to overcome is taking the first step to acknowledge the problem. False information, a tolerant culture, and self-deception about its effects can blind people to the harm cannabis may be causing in their lives. If you could relate to the list of symptoms for CUD, then it may be time to seek out help.
When people are ready to treat their CUD, there are many options available. Some people may be able to quit on their own with the support of their family and friends, but many find it difficult to quit without more structure.
THC, the psychoactive chemical in cannabis, is stored in the body’s fat cells, and can take a long time to flush from the body’s system. Because of the way cannabis is stored and because it can take time to cleanse the body of it, it is normal for people to run into challenges as they curb or quit cannabis.
Professional treatment that involves Cognitive Behavior Therapy has helped many people overcome the challenges of treating CUD. Cognitive Behavior Therapy seeks to treat the root causes of CUD, challenging false or negative belief structures and replacing them with true and positive ones. Therapy may come in the form of individual counseling or support groups. A therapist familiar with treating CUD can help people determine the treatment that may benefit them the most.
Appointments at Thriveworks Marietta, GA
If you feel like it’s time to quit or curb your cannabis use, Thriveworks Marietta has experienced therapists waiting to help. Our office has helped many people find treatment for CUD that works for them.
We care about our clients and have made scheduling an appointment for treatment as simple as possible:
Evening and weekend appointments are available.
There are no waitlists.
Many people see their therapist within 24 hours of calling.
Is it time to get started? Call today.
Leave Us a Review
We love to hear about how we’re doing!
Review Us
Say "Hello" to a Better You
Schedule your first appointment today
Book A Counselor!
People Love Our Providers!
★★★★★
Thriveworks helped me realize that I do believe people can change. I’m not the person I was three months ago, broken and fearful. I’m healthy and happy and for the first time being kind to myself. Thank you for giving me my life back.
- Anonymous Thriveworks Client
People Love Our Providers!
★★★★★
Thriveworks helped me realize that I do believe people can change. I’m not the person I was three months ago, broken and fearful. I’m healthy and happy and for the first time being kind to myself. Thank you for giving me my life back.
- Anonymous Thriveworks Client
See fewer reviews
Thriveworks Counseling
Schedule your first appointment with a Thriveworks Counselor or Life Coach!
1355 Terrell Mill Rd. Bld. 1460, Suite 205
Marietta , GA 30067
Mon-Fri:8AM-9PM
Sat-Sun:8AM-5PM
(404) 439-9981
Contact Us
Leave us a review
Home » Marietta, GA Counseling and Coaching » Marietta GA Cannabis Use Disorder/Addiction Therapy
Arizona
Tucson
Arkansas
Conway
Maumelle
Colorado
Aurora
Colorado Springs
Littleton
Westminster
Delaware
Dover
Wilmington
Georgia
Alpharetta
Atlanta
Cumming
Decatur
Kennesaw
Marietta
McDonough
Peachtree City
Massachusetts
Amherst
Cambridge (Central Square)
Cambridge (Harvard Square)
Franklin
Newton
Stoughton
Waltham
Westborough
Maryland
Germantown
Michigan
Birmingham
Grand Rapids
Kalamazoo
Nevada
Las Vegas
New Jersey
Cherry Hill
New York
Buffalo
North Carolina
Charlotte
Charlotte (South)
Durham
Raleigh
Pennsylvania
Allentown
Bethlehem
Media
Philadephia (Center City)
Philadelphia (JFK Blvd.)
Philadelphia (Walnut St.)
Reading
Willow Grove
South Carolina
Columbia
Greenville
Mt. Pleasant
Rock Hill
Tennessee
Bristol
Knoxville
Johnson City
Texas
North Austin
SW Austin (Manchaca Rd.)
SW Austin (Bee Caves Rd.)
Bastrop
Cedar Park
Georgetown
Pflugerville
Round Rock
Virginia
Alexandria
Blacksburg
Charlottesville
Chesapeake
Chesterfield
Fredericksburg
Hanover
Lynchburg
Manassas
McLean
Midlothian
Newport News
Richmond
Roanoke
Short Pump
Sterling
Virginia Beach
See All Locations
Hide Locations
We believe that everyone can benefit from counseling or coaching with a skilled and caring professional.
Let's keep in touch!*
General Interest, News and Self-Help
Tips and Info for Providers in Practice
*
Quick Links
Find A Counselor
About Us
Discussion Board
Credentialing
Counseling Jobs
Private Practice
Franchise
How can we help you?
All Topics…
Beginning Therapy
Breakups
Child Therapy
Couples
Depression
Grief
Loneliness
Parenting
PTSD
Self-Care
Self-Improvement
Suicide Awareness
Facebook
Twitter
Google
RSS
© 2018 Thriveworks Counseling | Privacy Policy & Terms of Use