Wow, it’s HOT! What now? – The DaisyPeel.com Online Classroom
LOGIN
Courses
Free Resources
Podcasts
Training in 10-Minutes
Contact Us
Home →
Posts by Daisy
→Wow, it’s HOT! What now?
0
Wow, it’s HOT! What now?
Written by guest blogger and student Diana Dickinson – you can visit her blog, which she posts on regularly, HERE.
Every agility competitor I know worries about getting dehydrated when it's hot. We spend all day at a trial, and it gets hot in the sun, or in the arena, and we drink lots of water and encourage our dogs to drink lots of water. Some of us look for salty foods to replace the salt as we sweat. After getting muscle cramps that woke me up during the night after a long weekend's trialing a few year's back, I decided I needed to better understand my body's needs.
Like so many things about agility, it turns out it's not that simple. Drinking water is good, but drinking too much water is bad, and drinking too little water is bad. Both problems can cause muscle cramps, too. Replacing electrolytes (salts) lost through sweat is good, but too much is bad and too little is bad. Balance turns out to be key. Based on everything I've read, drinking too much plain water without also consuming some electrolytes can lead to problems—just like drinking too little water.
Want to read the rest of this article? This content is free, but you'll need to sign up to access it first! Once you've signed up, you'll receive an email with your login credentials, and you can log in and return to this page to view! If you're already a student and know your password you can log in immediately 🙂
Daisy Peel
3 years ago
Categories ↓
Free Resources
Posts by Daisy
Tags ↓
diana dickinson
electrolytes
heat
hydration
water
Search The Classroom
LOGIN
Courses
Free Resources
Podcasts
Training in 10-Minutes
Contact Us
Student Login
Email:
Password:
Remember
Forgot Password
POLICIES
GDPR Privacy Policy
Privacy Policy
Refund Policy
Terms and Conditions
Contact Us
Use this form to contact Daisy or another instructor with support or questions.
Copyright 2018 Daisy Creative LLC
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.Ok, got it!