Not So Simplex: The Complicated World of Herpes | Not So Simplex: The Complicated World of Herpes – Frontiers
Home
About Us
Executive Board
Editors
Writers
Illustrators
Articles
Editorials
Environment
Global
Media
Narrative
Policy
Public Health
Research
Sociocultural Perspectives
St. Louis
Announcements
Get involved!
A Message from the Founders
Not So Simplex: The Complicated World of Herpes
Urvi Sinha
Editorials, Public Health, Sociocultural Perspectives, St. Louis
December 9, 2016
Illustration by Mimi Shang
Herpes, a common sexually transmitted diseases, is incurable and can be tough to prevent. The virus can be transmitted through vaginal, oral and anal sex, through open sores on the genitals and the mouth, and through skin-to-skin contact. Despite its high prevalence, many people don’t understand the symptoms of herpes or how it can be transmitted. Fortunately, herpes is not life-threatening and most people don’t show any symptoms—but this also means that herpes is usually transmitted by people who don’t even know that they have the disease.
All of this can sound scary, and if you’re like the average WUSTL student, you probably aren’t totally sure of what herpes is or what the symptoms are. There are two types of herpes, oral and genital.The virus HSV-1 usually causes oral herpes but can also cause genital herpes, and the closely related virus HSV-2 causes most cases of genital herpes. Over half of Americans have oral herpes, which can sometimes manifest as cold sores around the mouth. Around 15 percent of Americans have genital herpes, which can cause sores in the genital area. Sores usually look like ulcers, but can resemble pimples or ingrown hairs. Since the disease is often asymptomatic and its symptoms can be misleading when they present, it is difficult for students to gauge the risk of herpes.
In a survey of 63 Washington University in St. Louis (WUSTL) students, only 19 percent of students said they were confident that they could understand and recognize herpes symptoms. Of those surveyed, the students that were sexually active had a slightly higher level of confidence at 24 percent. The survey also revealed that many students were confused about oral herpes. Though having a cold sore or blister around the mouth is a symptom of oral herpes, 42 percent of students reported that they did not have oral herpes despite getting cold sores around the mouth. Oral herpes can cause genital herpes if transmitted through oral sex, so it’s worrisome that students are unaware that their cold sores are caused by the herpes virus.
Asia Brown, a graduate student who leads Student Health Services’ Peer Sexual Health Educator team, says that herpes is an issue for WUSTL students. Though HSV-2 infection is uncommon in the WUSTL student population, HSV-1 is prevalent, and Brown says many students present to Student Health with genital herpes that they have acquired through oral sex with someone who has oral herpes.
The disease may be asymptomatic in many cases, but Brown says that should not stop students from taking steps to prevent it. The best way to minimize the risk of HSV-1 genital infection, according to Brown, is by using condoms and dental dams during oral sex. For students who suspect they have genital herpes, the fact that it is a chronic illness should not discourage them from seeking treatment. As Brown points out, symptoms and viral load can be managed with treatment, so contacting a healthcare provider is important for your health as well as the health of your sexual partners.
Post Views: 96,308
Tagged: cold sores, herpes, sexually transmitted diseases, STDs, testing
About Urvi Sinha
Urvi is a sophomore from Pineville, NC. She can be reached at urvisinha@go.wustl.edu
You may also like...
Prescriptions for a Diseased Pharmaceutical Industry
December 9, 2017
Reproductive Health in the Time of Trump
March 29, 2017
Resolving to Resolve: Mental Health Appointment Wait Times on Campus
December 9, 2016
'Not So Simplex: The Complicated World of Herpes' has 1 comment
June 22, 2018 @ 10:20 pm Linda
Is there cure for herpes?
Reply
Would you like to share your thoughts?
Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published.
Search
Search for:
Articles
Announcements
Editorials
Environment
Global
Media
Narrative
Policy
Public Health
Research
Sociocultural Perspectives
St. Louis
Bulletin
Archives
Archives Select Month April 2019 February 2019 December 2018 October 2018 May 2018 April 2018 December 2017 May 2017 March 2017 December 2016 October 2016 April 2016 March 2016 December 2015 November 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 November 2014 October 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014
Tags
awareness bacteria bioethics biology cancer children death Disparities drugs education environment food football genetics GMO government gun violence health health care inequality infectious disease medicine mental health microbiome neuroscience Nobel Prize pharmaceuticals policy psychology public health reproductive health research resistance social media sports St. Louis STL surgery therapy transplant treatment vaccines water women WUSTL
Facebook
Upcoming Events
Recent Comments
Charles Hatcher on The Possibility of Eye Transplantation
fisherschiro on Back to Back: How Chiropractic Stands Today
Linda on Not So Simplex: The Complicated World of Herpes
Sheikh adil on The Possibility of Eye Transplantation
Chris Morris on The Possibility of Eye Transplantation
Mmmapula on The Possibility of Eye Transplantation
geet on Is Organic Food Really Better?
Own Abbas on The First Human Head Transplant
Clay Dauphin on Don’t Scratch That! The Evolution of Itch
Richard on CRISPR-Cas9: Harbinger of Human Gene Editing and Its Ethical Turmoil
Images are for demo purposes only and are properties of their respective owners. Old Paper by ThunderThemes.net