Baking Soda Molasses for Cancer Prevention » Reach Unlimited
HOME
ABOUT US
CONTACT US
ARCHIVE
REACH OUT
PARTNERS
IMAGINARIUM
eBIZ PAGE
Home » Health & Healing » Baking Soda Molasses for Cancer Prevention
View the
Digital
Edition
click here
past issues
Curious Mind
Muscle Machines
Building Block
Unravelling Mysteries
Cutting Edge
Tech Buzz
Amazing Philippines
Arts and Culture
Health & Healing
Green-Minded
Pigeon Talk
Gamefowl Circuit
Creature Feature
On Higher Ground
Meaningful Life
How It Works
Pharma Care
Gameplay
Sports Plus
Within Reach
Special Feature
Memory Angel Romances
Baking Soda Molasses for Cancer Prevention
September 1, 2016 Health & Healing
Baking Soda & Molasses
For prevention and cure, baking soda
treatments may become a cheap
alternative to exorbitant and useless
cancer chemo.
Clinical trials on the use of oral baking soda (sodium bicarbonate) for breast cancer treatments are about to start! Sodium bicarbonate or baking soda is that same stuff that can save a person’s life in the emergency room in a heartbeat from poison. Oncologists and pharmaceutical companies debunk all sodium bicarbonate cancer treatment claims because it is cheaper and has already been used effectively by reknown cancer treatment doctors.
Baking Soda and PH Medicine
The pH of our tissues and body fluids is crucial because certain pathogens thrive in the body when our pH state is out of whack. If the body's pH is around 7.35-7.45, the better the body's resistance to infection and stress--including coping and recovering from viral illnesses like colds and influenza.
The onset of cancer and other degenerative organ diseases which occur when the body is in a prolonged state of acidic pH. The use of sodium bicarbonate gives us a jump-start toward increased alkalinity in our body to keep it from being susceptible to cancer and other ailments.
Conversely when the human body becomes too alkaline from too much bicarbonate in the blood, the body functions are also impaired and severe bodily disfunction can caus health problems. Keeping a safe alakaline state is the ideal. Diet regimens heavy on ginger, watermelon, radish, and garlic help the body maintain a safe alkaline level. Baking soda can provide a person with a treatment option to get his body's pH level back to normal alkaline levels and help assist one in treating cancer.
Vernon Johnston Cancer Treatment:
One enterprising individual who was diagnosed with stage IV aggressive prostate cancer, Vernon Johnston claims that he gave up chemo in favor of using a baking soda molasses treatment as a natural cure and the therapy for his cancer.
About 3 years ago, Vernon reportedly died. Although the cause of death has not been confirmed to be cancer yet as of this writing. We will confirm Johnston's cause of death once we have foolproof evidence and not a pass-me-down note from anyone trying to cover up his cancer treatment as a viable possibility. We don't think anyone like Vernon who got his treatment in 2009 would live until 2012 or 2013 relying on just chemotherapy alone. His baking soda cancer treatment may have delayed the inevitable or he may have died of other causes and NOT cancer. Again, we will confirm his cause of death once we get foolproof evidence. There are many vested interests who would not like people to have easy access to a ready cancer cure.
Remember when health practitioners said eggs were bad for you and carbo-loading was good for active people? It turns out that eggs are very good for you and carbo-loading is a very dangerous diet regimen for any active lifestyle.
"It is very important for those of us who have done or are doing this [baking soda cancer cure] that we focus on an Alkaline Diet. At the very least, for those of us who are recovering I suggest a diet of at least 80% Alkaline and 20% Acidic..." --Vernon Johnston
Products to Get:
Buy Arm & Hammer Baking Soda OR Bob's Red Mill Aluminum Free Baking Soda.
Buy Black Strap molasses OR Organic Maple syrup, Grade B.
Buy pH test strips; strips don't run and are easy to use. Litmus paper may also be used along with the strips.
Buy a good brand of potassium.
Daily Regimen:
Mix 1 teaspoon baking soda & 1 teaspoon molasses/syrup in 1 cup water. (May be warmed in a pan for dissolving, but this isn't required; room temperature is fine. If you heat it, heat on low. Heat the water and baking soda together, turn off heat, and then add the molasses or syrup. Don't use a microwave!)
Drink this solution once a day for 5 days. (Always drink the solution 2 hours before or after a meal.) Test your pH often; both your saliva and your urine.
(The pH must be brought to the normal/alkaline level which is 7.2 - 7.5. This level should cause cancer cells to go dormant; and a level of 8.0 - 8.5 should kill them; and so it is advisable to bring your pH level to 8.0 - 8.5 for 4 to 5 days ONLY, and then lower again to normal.)
On day 6, mix 2 teaspoons baking soda & 2 teaspoons molasses/syrup in 1 cup water; drink twice a day. Continue this formula through day 7.
(You may begin to feel a little nauseous or queasy, and your stool may become yellowish. This is expected. Something good is happening in your body - something bad to the cancer. Also, your lips may tingle and you may get Oxygen Euphoria and even a slight headache. This is expected and may eventually lessen.)
On day 8, drink the mixture 3 times a day through day 11.
(You may get some diarrhea and feel a little weak. This is expected. But taking potassium daily while on this BAKING SODA CURE should lessen your loss of energy. You should take a high dosage of potassium daily with this cure. On day 9 or 10 of this dosage, you may get night sweats. This is expected.
Proof of efficacy:
What you are doing right now is getting your pH to 8.0 - 8.5 and (more or less) holding that for a few days. If you feel the side effects are too strong, you may always go back to taking the mixture twice a day, and when the symptoms lessen, go back to 3 times a day. Experimentation is fine - listen to your body; it will tell you when to back off.)
On day 12, if you believe you're cured, you can stop taking the BAKING SODA CURE. But if you think you ever need a "tune-up" for cancer at any time, repeat all the above steps.
If you're cancer free, it is advisable to use 2 teaspoons baking soda and only one teaspoon molasses/syrup in 1 cup of water once or twice daily for 7 days: i.e., if you're only trying to raise your pH to the alkaline range of 7.2 - 7.5.
health and healing, homeopathic remedies, cancer cure for prostate, baking soda protocol, black strap molasses and baking soda, cancer cure, body acidity cancer, alkaline fix
Feedback
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus
Copyright © 2013-2019 DynamicMind Publishing Inc. All rights reserved.
Site Information
About Reach Unlimited
Contact Us
Archive
Reach Out
Partners
eBiz Page
Imaginarium Comics
Disclaimer
Categories
Curious Mind
Muscle Machines
Building Block
Unravelling Mysteries
Cutting Edge
Tech Buzz
Amazing Philippines
Arts and Culture
Health & Healing
Green-Minded
Pigeon Talk
Gamefowl Circuit
Creature Feature
On Higher Ground
Meaningful Life
How It Works
Pharma Care
Gameplay
Sports Plus
Within Reach
Special Feature
Memory Angel Romances
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter