Cancer Cure - New Horizons Unlimited
New Horizons Unlimited
Menu
Skip to content
Home
Workshops
Health
Resources
Testimonials
Links
About Us
Cancer Cure
Cancer specialists know for a long while that fungi is always present in cancer. They say; when area is affected by cancer, cells are weakened and fungi moves in. Dr.Simoncini states exactly the opposite; fungi invades the healthy cells first and that causes cancer.
Dr.Tullio Simoncini, out of Rome,Italy, has a 90% cancer cure rate.
Due to bone cancers and several forms of leukemia a 100% cure rate is not achieved. He clearly states that all cancers are fungi.
Ordinary Sodium Bicarbonate (baking soda, without anti-caking aluminum additive) just happens to be the most powerful poison to any fungus. Sodium Bicarbonate is so simple that fungi cannot adapt to it and become resistant.
Here is Dr.Simoncini: ”I have treated hundreds of patients. Most of them had extremely advancedcancer, especially after having been subjected to conventional therapies. Many of them made a complete recovery and are still alive and well years after the treatment. In the cases of cancers caught early (lumps smaller than 3cm, with minimal incidence of metastasis) 90% of patients have made a recovery.
The basic concept of my therapy is the administration of a solution with a high content of sodium bicarbonate directly onto tumors. These are susceptible to regression only if one destroys the fungal colonies. It was the ongoing search for ever more effective techniques to allow me to get as close as possible to the inner tissues that led me to the idea of selective arteriography (visualisation using instruments on specific arteries) and positioning an arterial port-a-cath (devices joining the catheter). These methods make it possible to place a small catheter directly into the artery that nourishes the tumor, and administer high doses of sodium bicarbonate to the deepest recesses of the tumor This very low-risk intervention creates no more pain than an intravenous injection and allows patients to be treated at home, although under constant medical supervision.”
Sodium bicarbonate is safe, extremely inexpensive and unstoppably effective when it comes to cancer tissues. It’s a powerful chemical, most potent poison to cancer cells, for it hits the cancer cells with a shock wave of alkalinity, which allows much more oxygen into the cancer cells than they can tolerate. Cancer cells cannot survive in the presence of high levels of oxygen. Sodium bicarbonate is, for all intent and purposes, an instant killer of tumors. Full treatment often takes only days.
The best substance to eliminate skin cancer is iodine tincture . For skin cancer, a 7% iodine tincture should be spread on the affected area, 20-30 times once a day, with the aim of producing a number of layers of crusts. After this treatment, the cancer will be gone and stay away forever. All skins cancers are always caused by Candida fungus which has adapted itself to metabolizing the most proteinaceous constituents of the epidermis and that can, therefore, only rarely be treated with sodium bicarbonate solutions. The treatment to choose for epithileomas, basaliomas, and melanomas is iodine solution at seven per cent, as it is capable of precipitating the proteins of the body of the fungus and destroying them completely in a short time. If the lesions are fairly small, they must be painted with the solution 10-20-30 times twice a day for five days and then once for another ten days so that they become verydark. When the eschar (scab) is formed and it is higher than the epidermic plane( skin surface), it is necessary to continue to paint under and above it even if at first this causes a sharp pain.
This very same operation must be repeated for the second eschar that is formed. At this point, the lesion may be considered destroyed, because after the third cycle it is possible to reach the center of the neoplasia(abnormal proliferation of cells, pre-cancer), where the colonies try to resist to the last.
In the presence of a tumor of large dimensions it is necessary to perform a cycle of subcutaneous infiltrations with sodium bicarbonate at five per cent solution under the lesion for the purpose of liberating the tissue from the possible invasion of the deep planes and of the basal lamina before performing the treatment with iodine solution. If this is not done, we risk the fungus, once destroyed at a superficial level, defending itself by trespassing into those levels where a conclusive action of the iodine solution is impossible.
In cases where the tumor has invaded a cutaneous-mucous transitional zone such as the anus, eyelids, vagina, or mouth, it is necessary to perform a preliminary treatment of the mucous area with bicarbonate and then, after the elimination of the colonies existing there, proceed to treat the cutis with iodine solution.
It is appropriate to highlight that the same type of therapy is also to be applied to psoriasis and to the known fungi afflictions.
In fact, the difference between coetaneous mycosis, psoriasis, and tumors consists only of a variation of aggressiveness and thus of depth of rooting, since the causal agent is always the same: a fungus.
Also see: P.D.Q.Herbal Skin Cream
Dr.Tullio Simoncini email t.simoncini@alice.it (If anyone is having trouble reaching Dr. Simoncini, please feel free to contact …. headburg@yahoo.com )
Here is Dr. Simoncini web site www.cancerfungus.com
Please study all the material in detail and view all videos. Access… Dr. Tullio Simoncini Cancer Therapy With Sodium Bicarbonate – Cancer Fungus and Candida.
“Cancer Is a Fungus”- book by Dr.Tullio Simoncini
Tullio Simoncini M.D. with Doug Kaufmann, Host of Know the Cause
Other links: Doug Kaufmann and Dr. Tullio Simoncini discuss a case of severe melanoma
Tullio Simoncini’s Italian website: www.curenaturalicancro.org
Dr. Tullio Simoncini Successfully Treats Prostate Adenocarcinoma Cancer with Sodium Bicarbonate.
Dr. Tullio Simoncini Successfully Treats Prostate Carcinoma Cancer with Sodium Bicarbonate.
The Fungus, Yeast, Mould Connection to Cancer.
Dr. Tullio Simoncini’s natural cancer therapy with sodium bicarbonate – cancer and fungus.
See Dr. Simoncini speak at a conference about treating colon cancer and lung cancer with sodium bicarbonate. The sound is weak and an English translator is speaking over Dr. Simoncini, so turn the volume up.
YouTube – 1- Sodium bicarbonate, a natural way to treat the cancer.
YouTube – 2- Sodium bicarbonate, a natural way to treat the cancer.
YouTube – 3- Sodium bicarbonate, a natural way to treat the cancer.
Fungus Causing Cancer — A Novel Approach to the Most Common Form of Death.
Lung Cancer Patient is Alive and Well 20 Years after Sodium Bicarbonate Treatment by Dr. Simoncini.
Candida International: Is Cancer Caused by the Candida Fungus?
A must read interview with Dr. Tullio Simoncini, Rome, Italy, exposes the heavy handed tactics used by medical authorities against alternative medical treatments.
Cancer therapy with sodium bicarbonate by Dr. Simoncini – 75% of the physician refuse chemotherapy on themselves.
Cancer is a Fungus – Know The Cause – Alternative Cancer Treatments.
What is Sodium Bicarbonate?
50+ Terrific Uses of Baking Soda
Testimonials
It was in the middle of January that I came across your information that cancer is a fungus and baking soda would destroy the fungus.
My husband has had several skin cancers. One on his left back was the a bit smaller than the size of a quarter (about 2m) and about 1/4 inch thick. We tried using baking soda and water but it was very hard. (He also took the baking soda internally.) At the end of the first week he put the soda in glycerin and it was much more flexible for a longer amount of time. This mixture was put on a band-aid and put on the sore. After 6 weeks it is incredible how it has healed. I have taken regular photographs of how it has healed. I want to thank you for your work because it has certainly made a difference. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
“Dr.Simoncini, some years ago 5 sisters died of cancer except one. A home type doctor asked her if her diet was different than her four sisters. She said no, but she did have a habit of sipping maple syrup AND baking soda\’for many years! He decide that as came across terminal patients that were slated to die he would give them 3 parts maple syrup and 1 part baking soda after it was heated on low for 5 minutes as per that cancer surviving sister! Over 250 people have survived for at least 15 years! He has spectacular results with his home formula.” -Dr. H. D.
I have had hot flashes and lots of sweating for several years, I used sodium bicarb ONCE and it cut the sweats off by 80%, I continued using it–completely stopped in 3 days!!! Incredible!!! – Lauren – USA
This is Vicky. E., your patient (anal cancer) who came to Rome for treatment in September 2007. I am very healthy, thanks to you, and I want to thank you again for curing me of my cancer. You are my hero!!! And I thank God every day for the work that you do to help so many people to be cancer-free. – V. E.
THANK YOU, THANK YOU, THANK YOU. I have had what I thought was a nasal infection for several years and have tried every kind of substance to clear it up, only to get worse. For the past few months I have been using a saline solution mixed with xylitol (1 tea. ea. sea salt and xyiltol) which did a good job of cleaning out the nasal passage momentarily and making it quite evident I had a neoplasm approximately 1\” up the left nasal passage, starting to cause vertigo. After hearing of your work I added sodium bicarbonate to the saline/xylitol solution and sprayed it at least 10 times a day. Immediately I felt the s. bicarbonate contact the growth, around day 5 the solution aggravated the growth and the day after the growth collapsed, now the 10th day and there is complete regression, no discharge and breathing free. AMAZING. I hope the Lord continues to encourage you to bear fruit ahead of the medical establishment. – D. v. V. – USA<
Also see all video testimonials on provided links.
Disclaimer: This information is presented for your education only. For any medical advice please seek a qualified medical practitioner of you choice.
Sub-pages
Diabetes
Liver and Gallbladder Cleanse
Maple Syrup/Baking Soda Trojan Horse
Cancer Cure
P.D.Q. Herbal Skin Cream
Water Cure
The Amazing Schweitzer Formula
Hormone Mimickers
12 Points on Enzymes
12 Points on Minerals
12 Points on Mature Green Papaya
12 Points on Oxygen Therapy
Aspartame
Fluoride
48 Scientifically Proven Facts About Mercury & Dental Amalgam
Products Beneficial to Inflammatory Disorders
Dental Hygiene
Psyllium
Honey-Baking Soda –Lemon Trojan Horse
Does amazing Herb Kill 98% Of Cancer Cells?
Candida yeast – fungi infection
Acid Reflux ( and lump in the throat)
arok16@shaw.ca
Phone - (780)-466-4206
Hit Counter by technology news
Log in