Plavix and Grapefruit (Clopidogrel) - Drugsdb.com
Recommend this site on Google
Home
Prescription Drugs
OTC Drugs
Supplements and Herbs
Food
Blog
Home > Prescription Drugs > Plavix > Plavix and Grapefruit
Plavix and Grapefruit
by Carol Parker on May 30, 2012
Tweet
There are no known adverse reactions between Plavix (Clopidogrel) and eating grapefruit, or drinking grapefruit juice. Furthermore, there is no sufficient evidence that illustrates grapefruit juice, or the fruit itself would interfere with the effectiveness of Plavix. In fact, some medical professionals recommend having a glass of grapefruit juice even while taking this medication, simply because of the health benefits that are gained from this fruit; and of course because of the fact that no study carried out as yet has shown harmful effects from the mixture.
Reasons for Concern
It is understandable that there are concerns about grapfruit by those taking taking Plavix. This is because grapefruit and few other citrus fruits have a known tendency to interfere with the body’s digestive processes; and therefore the ability of the body to break medication down as well. Grapefruit can create a situation to where the medication might stay in your system longer and thus increase the potency of certain medications. Some medications when combined with grapefruit actually have the potential of creating some very serious repercussions, specifically heart related medications. However, as was stated previously, there is no known adverse reaction with Plavix and grapefruit of any kind. While you can’t take heart arrhythmia drugs such as amiodarone, and other cholesterol lowering drugs (such as Simvastatin, Lipitor and Lovastatin) with grapefruit, you can feel safe having it with Plavix.
It is however, recommended to only take Plavix (Clopidogrel) with a glass of water.
Plavix & Other Prescribed Drugs
One of the main reasons that patients on Plavix need to be certain it is okay to consume grapefruit and grapefruit products is not only because of the interaction of these two, but because healthcare providers normally have these patients on other forms of heart medications and blood pressure medications too. So, to be safe, it is wise to look into what interactions might take place with one of these other medications, even though theoretically it is fine to have Plavix and grapefruit products. It might not be okay to have it with another drug you are currently taking.
It is simply logical to check out your other prescriptions before you consume grapefruit products. So, the recommendation here is to evaluate whether or not it is safe for you to have grapefruit while you’re taking some of your other prescription drugs. While this takes time, it is better to be safe than sorry, because some drugs do have potential harmful effects when mixed with grapefruit juice, grapefruit seeds, or any other form of grapefruit.
Previous: Plavix and Alcohol
Back to Top
Plavix Overview
Plavix Side Effects
Plavix Dosage
Plavix Drug Interactions
Plavix During Pregnancy & Breastfeeding
Plavix and Alcohol
Plavix and Grapefruit
We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here.
Copyright © 2011-2019 Drugsdb.com. All rights reserved.
Information appearing on Drugsdb.com is of a general nature and is not intended to diagnose or treat any health condition. It is compiled from sources such as the U.S National Library of Medicine and FDA Approved Product Labels.
About this site · Contact Us · Privacy Policy
Follow Us
Google+
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest