Best Tips For Lowering Cholesterol
Home
About Me
Contact Me
Privacy Policy
Health n Fitness Care Healthcare And Fitness Information You Trust
Search for:
Health care
Health tips
Fitness tips
Fitness Regime
Women health
Skin care
Pregnancy
Hair care
Home Fitness tips Best Tips For Lowering Cholesterol
Best Tips For Lowering Cholesterol
Posted on May 20, 2011 by Ravi Kochhar — 4 Comments ↓
High cholesterol is a growing problem in America as obesity rates continue to rise. Having high cholesterol is dangerous because it clogs the arteries which can eventually cause heart problems. There are two types of cholesterol: LDL (bad) and HDL (good). HDL cholesterol levels should be higher than LDL because they provide energy to your cells and pick up excess cholesterol in your blood, essentially decreasing levels of bad cholesterol. As people age, cholesterol levels tend to be harder to decrease, which is why it’s important to display a healthy lifestyle early. Even if you are young, fit and healthy doesn’t mean your cholesterol can’t be high. After turning 20, one should get their cholesterol checked every five years. If their total cholesterol is 200 mg/dl or more or if they are over 45, they should get it checked more often. People who have low HDL cholesterol or other risk factors such as heart disease in their family history should also get it checked often.
Tips For Lowering Cholesterol
Eat The Right Food:
The first step in controlling cholesterol levels is learning what foods are causing your cholesterol to be high. All foods from animals contain cholesterol. This includes meat, dairy products and fish. Foods with high amounts of saturated fat should be avoided. To replace those foods, eat foods that contain high amounts of fiber. Foods that contain 3 grams of fiber or more are considered high fiber foods. Fiber aids in lowering cholesterol and keeping the stomach full, which can be beneficial if one is looking to lose weight as well. Some high fiber foods include oatmeal or anything made with whole grain, fruits and vegetables. You may also want to consider a fiber supplement. Foods with omega-3 fatty acids should also be incorporated into the diet. This is because they help to reduce blood pressure and risk of developing blood clots. Omega-3 fatty acids are found in several fish such as: salmon, halibut and herring. Ground flaxseed and canola oil are also good sources of healthy fats. Nuts like walnuts and almonds contain polyunsaturated fat that also aid in keeping blood vessels healthy. A handful a day in place of an unhealthy, fatty food will help reduce your cholesterol.
Exercise Regularly:
Exercising is another action an individual can take to lower cholesterol. Not only does it help with weight loss, it stimulates enzymes in your blood that transfer LDL cholesterol to the liver which breaks it down and rids it from the body. It has also been proven that exercising increases the size of proteins that carry cholesterol throughout the body, meaning they can pick up more and won’t be absorbed into blood vessels. 30 minutes of exercise a day along with a healthy diet should do the trick.
Medication:
If changing your diet and exercising do not help to lower your cholesterol, your doctor may suggest medication. High cholesterol is a dangerous problem to have and you should take all the precautions possible to keep it at a healthy level. People with heart problems and high cholesterol should definitely take advantage of medication for it could end up saving their life.
Discussion:
High cholesterol is a serious problem. Hope the above tips guide you on ‘how to lower cholesterol’. If you have to share any other tip on the subject please do so in the comments below.
If you like this post and want to have top health tips, fitness tips, health care tips and fitness regime tips, you can subscribe to FREE Health n Fitness Care feed via EMAIL to get instant updates on health and fitness information.
About
Latest Posts
Find Me On -
Ravi Kochhar
I write on issues related to various health conditions and fitness here on my blog. My endeavour is to bring out the most authentic and trusted information on the subject for the readers. You may catch up with me at Twitter, Facebook and Google+
Find Me On -
Latest posts by Ravi Kochhar (see all)
How Kushal, A Foodie Lost 30 kgs – A True Story
How To Control Diabetes Without Medication
6 Ways To Strengthen Immune System Fast
About Ravi Kochhar
I write on issues related to various health conditions and fitness here on my blog. My endeavour is to bring out the most authentic and trusted information on the subject for the readers. You may catch up with me at Twitter, Facebook and Google+
‹ What Are The Symptoms, Causes And Treatment For Kidney Stones?
Self Massage And Its Health Benefits ›
Posted in Fitness tips, Health care, Health tips	Tagged with: bad cholesterol, diet, exercise, food, good cholesterol, Health, Lowering cholesterol, nutrition
4 comments on “Best Tips For Lowering Cholesterol”
payment protection insurance says:
May 31, 2011 at 3:08 PM
The first thing you have to do is to reduce the amount of red meat in your daily alimentation. You will replace it with white meat and fish which have a low fat level. Eat more foods that have lots of fiber such as vegetables, fruits and whole grains. Eat a fish dish at least once a week.
Reply
RJS KOCHHAR says:
June 3, 2011 at 2:02 AM
Thanks for adding your suggestions.
Reply
convert to mpg says:
December 6, 2011 at 11:21 AM
Try to stay away from fried foods. Pull out the grill and start eating healthy again.Ensure that the activity you choose is something you enjoy and you will keep up for the rest of your life.
Reply
micro scooter says:
March 13, 2012 at 6:59 PM
Main thing you have to do is to decrease the amount of red meat in your daily consumption. You will remove it with white meat and fish which have a low fat level.
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail
Name *
E-mail *
Website
you MUST enable javascript to be able to comment
Current [email protected] *
Leave this field empty
Custom Search
Get Free Healthcare Updates
Enter your email address:
Recent Posts
How Kushal, A Foodie Lost 30 kgs – A True Story
How To Control Diabetes Without Medication
6 Ways To Strengthen Immune System Fast
Ten Reasons Behind Child Behaviour Problems
Warning Signs Of Diabetes And Tips To Deal With Them
Guidelines For Breast Cancer Treatment
What Is a Heart Attack? Know The Symptoms Of Heart Attack
What Is Gestational Diabetes? How Do You Get Gestational Diabetes?
Effects Of Moving Exercises On Your Daily Life
Effects Of Diabetes On The Body
Join Us On Google+
Health n Fitness Careon
Recent Comments
Praveen Verma on Physiotherapy Can Treat More Than You Think
Suraj Kumar on Cosmetic Surgery And Its Health Benefits
Steven O'Dell on 5 Healthiest Drinks To Boost Your Health And Energy Levels
Sohail Akhtar on Cosmetic Surgery And Its Health Benefits
Sohail Akhtar on Cosmetic Surgery And Its Health Benefits
priteeka on Tips To Cure Cracked Heels
bola thomas on Prunes During Pregnancy: Prunes Are Rich In Nutrients And Good For Pregnancy
Clay Ogg on Treating Gum Disease With Antibiotics
We Are On Facebook
Find Me On Google+
Home
About Me
Contact Me
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
© 2019 Health n Fitness Care
Scroll To Top	↑
Health n Fitness Care powered by WordPress