Catalyst: The Truth About Vitamins - ABC TV Science
Skip to Navigation | Skip to Content
ABC Home
Open Sites menu
ABC Home
News
iview
TV
Radio
Kids
Shop
More
Search
Catalyst Home
Tuesdays 8:30pm, ABC
Navigation
Home
Episodes
By Date
By Topic
A to Z
Video
Ancient Worlds
Being Human
Energy & Transport
Environment & Nature
Health & Medical
Innovation & Technology
Space & Astronomy
About
Contact
STORY ARCHIVE
The Truth About Vitamins
(24/03/2005)
Comments
Popping vitamins is a billion dollar industry. Australians alone spend $800 million dollars on complementary medicines every year.
Nearly all of us have taken vitamins, but you could be getting too much of a good thing. In fact, what you think is good for you could actually be seriously bad for your health.
In this half hour documentary, we name the vitamin pill medical trials have shown weakens bones in men and women...and may even fuel deadly cancer.
Could the vitamin revolution that's saved so many be turning against us?
TRANSCRIPT
Narration: Maddie Walford is thirty-three and leads an active life. She eats well, and exercises regularly. And to make sure she stays healthy she's convinced that she needs to take three special pills every day.
Maddie Walford: I'm definitely a pill-popper...
There have been so many jokes going on about, sort of, me in the office, because I line up my vitamin jars every morning and take all the pills.
There have been jokes about me rattling when I walk. Some of my family members just think I'm a complete maniac.
Maddie Walford: I hope my vitamins will protect me from any form of cancer. Premature ageing. Keep my eyesight, hearing, all my faculties intact as well.
Narration:But do vitamins really have such remarkable powers? Vitamins are nothing more than chemicals that occur naturally in food. Our bodies cannot produce them themselves, and nearly a century ago scientists discovered just how vital they were for our health.
Catherine Collins: Vitamins are essential for a healthy body, we can't exist without them.
Narration: They found that a whole host of diseases weren't caused by infections from viruses or bacteria, but simply by the lack of these vitamins.
Catherine Collins: It's very rewarding when a person comes in with a medical condition, or clinical condition, and we can identify that as a vitamin deficiency, treat them with vitamins and see them get better.
Narration: Just by making sure people ate the right vitamins, a whole string of what became known as deficiency diseases could be eradicated. Vitamin A, found in dairy products, liver and fish, prevents blindness and growth deformities. Vitamin C, from oranges and other citrus fruit, has all but ended scurvy. And vitamin D, found in fish, means children need no longer grow up with rickets.
Narration: Today, most of us take for granted a life free from the diseases caused by vitamin deficiency. Doctors now believe that a balanced diet, with a mix of fruits, vegetables, grains and fats, can give you the tiny amounts of vitamins needed to keep you in good health, they have called it the recommended daily allowance. Only in special cases, such as pregnancy, do doctors normally recommend taking higher doses of vitamins.
Catherine Collins: There are times when extra vitamin supplements are useful, for example, folic acid is important in preventing birth defects in babies, so it's very important for women considering pregnancy to take a folic acid supplement, before they're pregnant, and for the first twelve weeks of pregnancy.
Narration: But forty years ago, someone came along who would transform the world's perception of vitamins. Someone so powerful that he would take them out of the hospital and the doctor's practice and into millions of homes and high streets. Linus Pauling was a scientific superstar.
Linus Pauling: For example if we consider a helium atom with the nuclear atom.
Stephen Lawson: As Albert Einstein remarked, Linus Pauling was a genius.
Narration: He was so brilliant that he is the only man to win two individual Nobel Prizes, once for chemistry and once for peace.
Linus Pauling: As a chemist, I have a background of knowledge that permits me to appreciate the new ideas, but I also like very much having new ideas myself.
Narration: And in the late 1960s, the great man had a huge idea. Pauling became convinced that vitamins could not only prevent deficiency diseases, they could do something far, far bigger. He believed they had the power to prevent diseases that had nothing to do with deficiency at all, diseases which threatened every one of us, like cancer. Heart disease. They could even delay ageing. The key, according to Pauling, was to take them in huge doses.
Stephen Lawson: It was a very revolutionary idea because at the time most conventional scientists and nutritionists were interested in vitamins with respect to their associated deficiency diseases, and not achieving optimal health by increasing the intake of vitamins.
Narration: When Pauling took his message to the world, the public loved it.
The message was simple. If the amount of vitamin C required to stave off scurvy was ten milligrams, and could be found in a slice of orange, then thousands of times more, the equivalent of over one hundred oranges, and more than two hundred and fifty times the recommended daily allowance was even better. Because that could prevent you from catching the most irritating of diseases, the common cold.
Linus Pauling: The proper intake of vitamin C helps keep one from catching colds.
Narration: But does vitamin C really prevent the common cold as Linus Pauling believed?
On America's west coast is Oregon State University. It is home to the Linus Pauling Institute, which was founded to continue his research in to vitamins.
Narration: Professor Balz Frei is one of the world's leading experts on vitamin C. He has studied the evidence from clinical trials involving thousands of volunteers from across the world, designed to investigate Pauling's claim that large doses of vitamin C fights the common cold.
Proffessor Balz Frei: I think there is a role for vitamin C in shortening the duration of the symptoms of the common cold, by about twenty per cent. And ameliorating the symptoms, so you're not as sick as without taking vitamin C supplements, and I think he was right with that.
Narration: But then Professor Frei examined Pauling's central claim, the idea that first sparked the vitamin revolution.
Linus Pauling: The proper intake of vitamin C helps keep one from catching colds.
Narration: And for this claim, that huge doses of vitamin C can prevent you catching colds in the first place, the results are very different.
Proffessor Balz Frei: I've looked at the evidence that vitamin C can prevent the common cold, but for the general population there is really no evidence from scientific studies that vitamin C can lower the incidence of the common cold, or prevent it in the first place. So taking vitamin C supplements is not going to help prevent the common cold.
Narration: In other words, the director of the very institute set up to pursue Linus Pauling's work, now believes that the great man was wrong. Taking large doses of vitamin C does not prevent you from catching the common cold.
Of course, there are other reasons why people decide to take vitamin C supplements. It's one of a special group of vitamins called antioxidants. Vitamins of such power, the believers ascribe to them properties that are truly remarkable.
Patrick Holford is the author of more than twenty books, promoting the use of supplements for good health.
Patrick Holford: I believe they can protect your brain, your body, your arteries, and not only slow down the ageing process but keep you free of diseases, from heart disease, cancer, Alzheimer's, all the tragedies of twenty first century living.
Narration: These huge claims are all because of how antioxidants work on something in our body called free radicals. Free radicals are unstable molecules that exist in our cells. They attack other nearby molecules, stealing an electron and with it an atom to become stable again. When the attacked molecule loses that atom, it becomes a free radical itself, beginning a chain reaction. Normally the body can handle these free radicals, but if there are too many, cells can be damaged with devastating consequences.
Professor Jeffrey Blumberg: Free radical damage is associated with a number of diseases, like heart disease and cancer, and macular degeneration, but we also think that free radical damage to cells and tissues is a fundamental part of the ageing process itself, why we grow old. It's in part due to the activity of free radicals.
Narration: But antioxidants, in particular vitamins A, C and E, mop up the free radicals and stop them from attacking our cells.
Many large studies have shown that people who eat a diet rich in antioxidants, live longer, healthier lives.
In vegetables there is a chemical called beta-carotene, which your body converts in to vitamin A. It is found in carrots and leafy green vegetables. And it's seen to have an extraordinary health benefit. Studies have shown that people who eat a diet rich in beta-carotene are much less likely to develop lung cancer. And this seemed to offer a genuine breakthrough. Demetrius Albanes is one of the leading cancer experts in America. He hoped that beta-carotene pills could be a simple way to fight one of our biggest killers. So he and his colleagues organised a study to confirm that high dose pills really could save millions of lives.
Demitrius Albanes: We were thoroughly expecting to see a reduction in lung cancer incidents. We designed the study actually to be able to detect at least a twenty five per cent reduction and I would say many of us at the time would have estimated we might observe a twenty five to fifty per cent reduction in lung cancer.
Narration: Fifteen thousand people were given high dose beta-carotene pills, each one containing the equivalent of six carrots. To have the best chance of seeing whether the pills really could prevent lung cancer, they were given to people most likely to develop it, smokers. For eight years a team of safety experts monitored the volunteer's health. And it seemed that everything was progressing normally. But then, just before the trial was due to end, they called a surprise meeting.
Demitrius Albanes: The key investigators were called in to the committee,
They informed us that we in fact had a small increase in lung cancer in the beta-carotene group.
Narration: It seemed that beta-carotene pills, which every one had hoped would prevent lung cancer, were having the exact opposite effect.
It was a devastating result. The people taking the pill had shown an eighteen per cent increase in lung cancer.
...eighteen months later the news about beta-carotene got even worse. Another similar study was stopped two years early.
Contributor: An interim analysis showed that there was a twenty eight per cent increase in the number of lung cancers in those taking the intervention.
Narration: Scientists still do not fully understand why beta-carotene appears so beneficial in food but seemed to have such a devastating effect on smokers when taken in a high dose pill. But because of these studies, in 2003 safety experts in the UK advise smokers not to take beta-carotene supplements. And advised everyone to limit their daily intake from high dose pills.
These studies were a salutary lesson that vitamin supplements were not just some harmless natural remedy. In high doses they could have unexpected and dangerous consequences.
Professor Jeffrey Blumberg: When the results of the adverse effects of beta-carotene were confirmed in later studies, we began to understand that high doses in certain populations and under certain circumstances really could be harmful. I think we learned a great lesson.
Narration: So great is the fear that large doses of some vitamins can be dangerous, that some scientists are now sounding the alert about another common form of vitamin A. It's called retinol. Maddie Walford is one of the many people who take this type of vitamin A supplement every day. She takes a high strength pill containing nearly three times the recommended daily allowance.
Maddie Walford: The reason I take a high strength vitamin, to be honest I'm not quite sure, but I thought it was probably because it had more potency. And would therefore, therefore be you know worth the money.
Today, the safe level of vitamin A consumption is the subject of fierce debate. Patrick Halford recommends people take 2500 micrograms, that's over three times the recommended daily allowance, because he is convinced that it will lead to better health.
Patrick Holford: Vitamin A is absolutely essential for every single cell in the body. It helps to protect your DNA, it helps to keep your skin healthy, it helps to protect your body cells from infection. So it's an essential vitamin, you need it every day.
Narration: But in recent years evidence has emerged that suggests even this amount could be harmful. And everyone needs to think carefully about the amount of vitamin A they consume. Sweden is a prosperous country, where people live long and healthy lives. But surprisingly it has one of the world's highest rates of a debilitating disease, osteoporosis. It most often affects women over fifty. And its crippling condition gradually thins and weakens your bones, increasing the risk of fracture. But for years it has been a mystery why the disease is so common.
Professor Melhus: When we look at known risk factors for osteoporosis, such as age, smoking, physical activity, they can partly explain why it's so common with osteoporosis and bone fractures in Sweden, but that can not explain everything. And then, even more surprising, is that we have a diet rich in calcium, which should protect our bones.
Narration: So Professor Melhus began to look for another explanation. And there was something in particular about the Swedish diet that made him suspicious. It was exceptionally high in vitamin A.
Professor Melhus: We eat dairy products, oily fish, such as herring and salmon, we consume cod liver oil, vitamin supplements, all which contain high levels of vitamin A, and on top of that we are the only European country which fortifies low fat dairy products with vitamin A.
Narration: This triggered an alarm for Professor Melhus. Because there was evidence that huge doses of vitamin A damaged animal bones.
Professor Melhus: Since we knew about these harmful effects of vitamin A on animal bones, we wanted to see if this also could be occurring in humans.
Narration: So Professor Melhus launched his own investigation. From a database of sixty six thousand women aged over forty, he looked for cases of bone fracture. He then checked the diet of these women to see if their vitamin A intake was particularly high. And the results seemed to confirm his suspicions.
Professor Melhus: When I saw the results from our study I was really surprised, although I knew the experiments done in animals, it was hard to accept the fact that vitamin A, a vitamin, had negative effects on bone in humans.
Narration: Professor Melhus then went further. He did a series of bone scans to work out what level of vitamin A was linked to weaker bones. His results suggested that long term consumption of even relatively small quantities of vitamin A were having a dramatic effect.
Professor Melhus: What we saw was that a vitamin intake above 1.5 milligrams per day, which is approximately twice the recommended daily intake, there was a reduction in bone density about ten per cent, and the risk of hip fracture had doubled.
Narration: If Professor Melhus was right then the implications were staggering. An intake of 1.5 milligrams per day is a level that can be reached from food alone. And it will be exceeded by taking just a single capsule of some high strength vitamin A supplements. So, tablets that people take every day to improve their health might actually be slowly, silently, weakening their bones. For Professor Melhus, the implication is clear.
Professor Melhus: Based on our research I think people should continue to eat a healthy, normal balanced diet. But since supplements containing high levels of vitamin A may have adverse effects, I cannot recommend people to take them routinely.
Narration: Professor Melhus has now done another study that suggests the same risk also applies to men. And since his original work, studies from America have supported his findings, but there has been some other research which has not found the same link.
Patrick Holford: The evidence linking osteoporosis with, with relatively small amounts of vitamin A consumption, I'm not convinced by it. There are, there are studies that show no such link, and it simply doesn't make sense, because we're talking about levels that we could easily eat and have eaten for millions of years.
Narration: But some scientists see the research very differently. Professor Andrew Renwick is a clinical pharmacologist at Southampton University, and one of Britain's leading experts on vitamin safety.
Professor Andrew Renwick: I am concerned, although the, the evidence is not totally consistent, there have now been a number of studies showing a link, and I'm convinced that a high intake of vitamin A will give an increase risk of bone fracture.
Narration: In 2003, the safety committee Professor Renwick was part of reported that they could not yet define a safe maximum intake of vitamin A. But they did sound a warning.
Professor Andrew Renwick: We evaluated all the data, and concluded that an intake of more than fifteen hundred micrograms per day, of vitamin A, could be inappropriate. Primarily because of an increased risk of bone fracture.
Maddie Walford has been taking a pill containing over two thousand micrograms of vitamin A for more than a year. We asked Catherine Collins, chief dietician of St George's Hospital in London, to analyse her diet and advise her what to do.
Catherine Collins: What you can see from our dietary analysis is that you've actually got a very healthy diet. When we look at your vitamin A level, we can see that you're getting the full amount of vitamin A you need in your diet, from your small amount of animal source and the rest of the fruits and vegetables that you eat.
Maddie Walford: Right.
Catherine Collins: What is of concern is the fact that you're taking a very high dose supplement of vitamin A.
Maddie Walford: Oh right.
Catherine Collins: And at this level there is a potential risk of you developing osteoporosis and fracture risk with long term usage.
Maddie Walford: Right. Do you think that with the amount of vitamin I've been taking for the length of time I've been taking it I will have done myself any, any physical damage?
Catherine Collins: If you've only been taking this for a year or so it's probably fine. But it's not a supplement we'd recommend you take long term. It certainly is associated with an increase fracture risk.
Maddie Walford: I was very surprised about the link between osteoporosis and vitamin A and risk of fracture, because I'd never associated vitamin A with osteoporosis. It's definitely changed my mind about taking that, I'm actually going to be stopping it as of today, because it clearly doesn't do any good for me personally, and it might do more harm than good.
Narration: Vitamins without doubt are vital to our health. And it remains possible that high dose vitamin supplements will one day be proven to protect against illnesses like heart disease and cancer. But so far, definitive evidence for these claims remains largely elusive. And as we discover more about some vitamins, it is increasingly clear that in large doses they can have unexpected, and sometimes dangerous consequences. Until we understand more about these powerful chemicals, most doctors would advise everybody to seek advice before joining the high dose vitamin revolution.
Topics: Health
Producer: Produced by the BBC’s Horizon
Related Info
BBC - The Truth About Vitamins
^ top
YOUR COMMENTS
Comments for this story are closed. No new comments can be added.
dizziedes - 31 Aug 2011 3:04:33pm
Just a quick tip. Most people don't know .vitamins are useless with minerals.
OTHER HEALTH STORIES
'Lazarus' (Epaulette) Shark
“Don’t Die Young” Episode 1 – “Kidneys”
“Don’t Die Young” Episode 2 – “Lungs”
“Don’t Die Young” Episode 3 – “Heart”
“Don’t Die Young” Episode 4 – “Eyes”
“Don’t Die Young” Episode 5 – “Skin”
“Don’t Die Young” Episode 6 – “Brain”
22 years of the Bionic Ear
3D Virus
A Weighty Issue
Addicted To Ice
Addiction
Addiction Vaccines – Can science win the war on drug addiction?
ADHD Alternatives
Alcohol
Alien Control
Allergy Clinic: A Catalyst Special
Allergy Vaccine
Alzheimer's
Alzheimer's - Can we prevent it?
Ancient Teeth
Anorexia Gene
Anti-oxidant supplements
Antibiotic Resistance
Antiviral Abalone
AQIS
Arsenic Toenails
Artificial Sweeteners
Asbestos Cancer
Associate Professor Liz Harry
Asthma
Asthma - an alternative treatment
Awake In Surgery
Baby Talk
Bad Blood
Bad is Good
Barefoot Running
Baroness and the Brain
Battery powered homes
Battle of the Sexes - Part 1
Battle of the Sexes - Part 2
Beating Diabetes
Becoming Superhuman Part 1
Becoming Superhuman Part 2
Beef Antibiotics
Better Allergy Testing
Bi-Polar Disorder – The right diagnosis?
Big FAT Lie
Bike Rage
Bionic Eye
Bionic Revolution
Bird Flu Surveillance
Bird Flu Vaccine
Blade Runners
Blast Trauma
Blindness
Blog: My six week ketogenic diet experiment
Blood Pump
Blue Tongue
Body Clock
Body Hits: Against The Clock
Body Hits: Body Beautiful
Body Hits: Detox Devils
Body Hits: Face Value
Body Hits: Nasty Niffs
Body Hits: Natural Highs
Body Hits: On The Lash
Body Hits: Sensory Overload
Body Hits: Snack Attack
Body Hits: Sports Junkies
Body Identity
Bone Scaffold
Botox for Migraines
Bowel Cancer
Brain Chaos – BAR Monitor
Brain Freeze: Inside the minds of Parkinson's sufferers
Brain man
Brain Overload
Brain stimulation
Brain Switch
Brain Trauma
Caffeine Challenge
CANCER CLUSTERS
Cancer Vaccine
Cardiac Death
Cardiac implants
CAV lab
Charles Watson & George Paxinos
Cheating Chooks
Cheating Sleep
Child Crash Safety
Chiropractors
Chloe's Story
Choice
Circumcision
Clever Cancer
Clonidine
Cloning Frank
CMT Disease
Colostrum
Coma - Part 1
Coma - Part 2
Coma - Part 3
Comfort Food
Complex Pain
Computer Game Addiction
Concussed
Condoms
Cord Blood
Corneal Stem Cells
Cosmetic Psychology
Crab Glue
Cyberchondria
Danger Zones
Decoding The Risks
Deep Brain Stimulation
Deer Cartilage
Delivering Medicines
Dementia
Dendrimers
Dengue Fever
Dengue Fever
Dengue Mozzie
Devil in the Detail
Diabetes Spray
Diagnosing Depression
Dietary Supplements
Dirty Little Secrets
DNA Doctor
Don't Die Young : Bones
Don't Die Young : The whole body
Doping to Win
Dr Hala Raghib
Dr Norman Swan’s Cholesterol Check
Dr. Francesco Pomati - 2007 Eureka People’s Choice nominee
Ear, Nose and Throat
Early Menarche
Eat Fat Get Thin
Eating Insects
Eggs on ice
Elixir of Life
Emotional Brain Pt 1
Emotional Brain Pt 2
Emotional Intelligence
Energy Drinks
Eureka Prizes People's Choice Award finalists: Part 1
Eureka Prizes: Rehab Hand
Excercise Pill
Exercise and Cancer
Exercise is Medicine
Exercise overdose
Exoskeleton
Eyes - windows to your health
Fab Fibre
Face Blindness
Falling Down: The Science Behind Staying Upright
Fantastic Journey
Fat & Fit
Fear
Feeding Australia: A sustainable future
Feeding Australia: Foods of tomorrow
Female Sex Drive
Fembots (Robots)
Fertility Decade
Fit in 6 Minutes a week
Flying Pigs
Food Coma
Fountain of Youth?
Frog Glue
Fun Fertility
Fun Fertility
Fundamentals with Bernie Hobbs: Burn baby burn!
Gambling
Gene Editing Made Simple
Gene Silencing
Gene Therapy
Genetic ID
Genius Brains
Genius of Junk (DNA)
Germ Theory
GHB
Gluten: A Gut Feeling
Golden Bullet
Gonorrhoea
Grim Reaper Walk
Grumpy Old Men
Gut Reaction Pt 2-Encore screening
Gut Revolution: A Catalyst special - Part 1
Gut Revolution: A Catalyst special - Part 2
Gut Revolution: Victoria's Story
Hair Regrowth
Heart Cells
Heart Exercise
Heart Pump
Heart Valve
Heartbeat: The Miracle Inside You
Heat Stress
Hendra Virus
Herbal Mirage
High Speed Impact: The Hidden Toll
HIV Cure
Homeopathy Part 1
Homeopathy Part 2
Honey Cure
Hook Worms
How to Exercise Better
HPV Vaccine
Human Probiotic Infusion
Human Sub
Hypnosis
Imaginary friends
Improving The Odds Of IVF
In Search of a Safe Cigarette
Indoor air
Information Overload
Insomnia Cure
Interrupted Sleep: The dangers of restricted sleep
Intersex
IQ
It’s A Twin Thing
IVF Defects
Joggobot
Kawasaki Disease
Ketamine
Kids on Prozac
Killer Flu
Lab Burger
Lactic Acid
Laser Danger
LemonAIDS
Life Enhancing Drugs
Light Pollution
Live Long Die Young
Locusts Help Our Understanding Of Human Obesity
Lord Robert Winston - Sperm
Lord Robert Winston - Stem Cells
Love Trap
Low Carb Diet Fat or Fiction
Low GI Diet
Magic Lab
Magnetic Brain
Malaria
Male Pill
Map Test
Marijuana & Schizophrenia
Marijuana Madness
Medical Miracles - Pt 1: Piggy Bank
Medical Miracles - Pt 2: Body Shop
Medical Miracles - Pt 3: Send in the Clones
Medical Miracles - Pt 4: Genetics Wrongs to Rights
Medicinal Cannabis
Medicinal Cannabis
Meditation
Mediterranean Diet
Meet Associate Professor Alex Barratt
Meet Dale Bailey
Meet forensic anatomist, Meiya Sutisno
Meet Nobel Laureate Peter Doherty
Meet Phil Hansbro – the bloke in the soggy hat
Meet Toxicologist Geoff Isbister
Meeting Graeme Clark
Meeting Ian Frazer
Meeting Megan Fabbro
Meeting Professor John Aitken
Meeting Sir Gustav Nossal
MEG Stuttering
Melioidosis
Memorable moments: Dr Maryanne Demasi
Memory
Memory Booster
Memory Challenge
Memory Matters
Meningitis - The Search For A Cure
Mental Illness Diagnosis
Michelle Gerke Aids The Pain
Microbots – The Future of Robotic Medicine
Military Fit
Mobile Phone Risks
Molecular Bypass
Monkey Malaria
MS Cure?
MS Doctor
Multiple Organ Failure
Music on the Brain
Myopia
Mystery of the Flesh Eaters
Nanopatch
Natural HRT - magic bullet or clever con?
Nature Play
Nerve Trail
Neurological Gait Keepers
Noah's Hope
Nun’s Plight
Oestrogen Men
Omega 3
Omega 3 Inmates
Organ Bioprinting
Organ Bioprinting
Our Chemical Lives
Outreach
Oxytocin
Pain Clinic: Part 1
Pain Clinic: Part 2
Pain Clinic: Part 3
Pain of Rejection
People's Choice Awards
Perfect Embryo
Petrol Brain
Planes,Trains and Autism
Polypharmacy: The dangers of mixing too many medications
Positive Thinking
Possible Cure For Type 1 Diabetes
Powering The Mind
Predicting Alzheimer's
Premenstrual Syndrome
Profile: Dr Alex Veldman
Proof of ID
Prostate cancer screening
Prostate cancer treatment
Proteomics - Part 1
Proteomics - Part 2
Proteomics - Part 3
Racism
Radiation Fallout
Random Drug Tests
Red Leaves
Regrowing the Thymus gland
Rethinking the Brain
Rewiring Spinal Nerve Damage
Ring Finger
Robotic Heart Surgery
Rotavirus
Salt
Sax Appeal
Schizophrenia Update
School of Hard Knocks
Science Behind TV Viewing
Science in Profile: Prof Thomas Borody
Science of Kissing
Seeing is believing – the grey between black and white
Shulgin (Ecstasy)
Sick Buildings
Sitting is Deadly
Sitting is Deadly
Skating on the Edge: Why are young men such reckless risk-takers?
Skin Clinic: A Catalyst Special
Skin Deep
Skin Deep
Skin Deep
Sleep Matters
Sleeping with baby
Sleeping with pain - breaking the vicious cycle
Smart Arm
Smart Drugs
Smell - Our Most Underestimated Sense
Smell and Schizophrenia
Smell Doctor
Smile Test
Spatial Processing Disorder
Sperm – the seeds of the next generation
Sperm Tolerance
Staying Up Late
Stem Cell Ethics
Stem Cell Promise
Stem Cells
Stem Cells in the Brain
Stem Cells Repair
Stentrode
Stress and Cancer
Stroke Recovery
Sun Damage
Sun Damage
Suspect Line Up
Synaesthesia
Synthetic Skin
Tamiflu
Taming the Problem Child
Tattoos
Technoviticulture
Teen Alcohol
Teen Brain
Teenage Acne
Terrorist Trauma
Testosterone : Are You Man Enough
The A to Z of Therapeutic Cloning
The Atkins Diet Part One
The Atkins Diet Part Two
The Cost of Living
The Death Zone
The Decade of the Brain
The Extreme Sports Brain
The Female Reproductive Organs
The Future Of GM Foods
The Future of Sex
The Immune System
The life saving qualities of Vampire Bats
The Liver
The Male Reproductive Organs
The Man Who Saved a Million Brains
The Mindfulness Experiment
The New Science of Wisdom
The Perfect Australian Dummy
The Science of Dating: “How to Catch a Mate”
The Science of Happiness
The Science of Raising Children: Pt 1
The Science of Raising Children: Pt 2
The Science of Raising Children: Pt 3
The Stomach & Intestines
The Time of Our Lives (Part 1)
The Time of Our Lives (Part 2)
The Trouble with Sex
The trouble with tests
The Truth About Vitamins
The Tuberculosis Resurgence
The Winning Edge
Theory of Mind
Thin Blood
Thinking Cap
Thunderstorm Asthma
Tick allergy
Tick Allergy
To Catch a Liar
To Drug, or Not To Drug...
Tomatoes fight Asthma
Too Much Medicine
Top 5 brain power boosters
Torture
Toxic Crops
Toxic Sugar?
Toxic Ticks
Transcendental Meditation: Hocus-pocus or healthy practice?
Transplant Hope
Trauma Yoga
Triple P
Trust
Undernourished
Unforgettable memories
Universal flu vaccine
Virtual Clinic
Virtual Reality (VR) Psychosis
Virus
Virus Busters
Virus Hunters
Vitamin D
Vitamin D and Cancer
Water Fluoridation
Weak at the Knees
West Nile Virus
What Is A Stem Cell?
When Pain Persists
Where Does Fat Go?
White Tail Spiders
Why Am I Still Fat?
Why We Buy – the science of shopping
Wi-Fried? Catalyst Responds
Wi-Fried? Correction
Wings of Wonder
Women's Libido
Wonders of the Brain - Part 1 "Brain Man"
Wonders of the Brain - Part 2 "Brain Man"
Wonders of the Brain - Part 3 "The Man who Slept for 19 years"
Wonders of the Brain - Part 4 "The Man who Slept for 19 years"
Workplace Stress – stopping the juggernaut
Xenotransplantation
Zebra Fish - give hope to muscular dystrophy sufferers
Zoonosis
>> Browse by Topics
Subscribe to the ABC's weekly Science newsletter Email address:
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Contact the ABC
© 2019 ABC