Baking Soda: True Enemy of the Pharmaceutical Industry - The Science Of Eating
Helping The World Lose Weight, One Muffin Top At A Time!
Food Combining
Asian Dishes
Appetizers
Breakfast Recipes
Cereal
Casseroles
Dessert Recipes
No Bake
Dinner Recipes
Drinks
Powerade
Smoothies
Faux Fast Food
Fruit
German Dishes
Gluten Free
Herbs
Holiday Dishes
Indian DIshes
Irish Dishes
Italian Dishes
Low Carb
Lunch Recipes
Sandwiches
Meatless
Vegan Recipes
Vegetarian
Mexican Dishes
Polish Dishes
Side Dishes
Salad
Sauces
Soups
Spicy
Snacks
Nuts
Sweets
Clean Eating 101
Calories, Fat, Carbs & Protein Per Day
All About Burning Calories
Benefits Of Foods
Superfoods
Healthy Ingredient Substitutions
9 Best Healthy Alternatives To Artificial Sweeteners
Stop Drinking Cow’s Milk
Carbohydrates
Carbohydrates & Fiber
Dangers Of Refined Carbs
Benefits Of Quinoa
Benefits Of Couscous
Healthiest Potatoes
Use Whole Grain Carbs
Vegetables
Best Leafy Green Vegetables
Benefits Of Chlorella
Benefits Of Moringa
Benefits Of Spirulina
Seaweed & Kelp
Proteins
Benefits Of Kefir
Benefits Of Probiotics
Benefits Of Yogurt
Benefits Of Omega-3 Eggs
Healthiest Cheeses
Learning About Tofu
Soy & Breast Cancer
Leanest Red Meats
Omega-3 Fatty Acids
Fats
Butter Vs. Margarine
Understanding Cholesterol
Fruits
Tips & Tricks
Alcohol Consumption
Effects Of Alcohol On The Body
Food Prep Ideas
Snacks
Supplements
How Soda Impacts The Body
Kitchen Cheat Sheet
Dangers Of Teflon Cookware
How To Freeze & Store Soup
How to Poach Eggs
Oral Care
Sex
Tips To Boost A Workout Routine
Best Foods For Runners & Workout Fanatics
How To Gain Weight
How To Get Rid Of Cellulite
Travel Tips
Vitamin Guide
Warnings
What Your Poop Says About You
Workout Tips
Ab/Core Workouts
Love Handle Workout
Cardio Workouts
Full Body Workouts
Leg & Glute Workouts
Inner Thigh Workouts
Upper Body Workouts
Stability Ball Exercises
Tips To Boost A Workout Routine
Active Rest Days
Burn Fat Lifting Weights
The 3 Body Types Explained
Holistic Cleaning Tips
Alternative Medicine
Dangerous Foods
Food Ingredients To Avoid
Facts About Sugar
Symptoms Of Toxemia
Foods To Help Health Issues
Foods That Fight Cancer
Earache Cures
Eating With Hashimoto’s Disease
Natural Antibiotics
Supplements
Health News
Wellness
Home Remedies
Essential Oils
Healthy Pets
Motivation & Inspiration
Happiness
Transformations
Baking Soda: True Enemy of the Pharmaceutical Industry
The benefits of baking soda are extensive and quite impressive. It used to be common knowledge that baking soda could easily cure a common cold, as well as assist in numerous other ailments. What happened to all that information? Additionally, I have come across people who have swore it to rid their cancer and then I came across this following written piece that was quite intriguing…
“When taken orally with water, especially water with high magnesium content, and when used transdermally in medicinal baths, sodium bicarbonate becomes a first-line medicinal for the treatment of cancer, kidney disease, diabetes, influenza and even the common cold. And importantly, it is also a powerful buffer against radiation exposure, so everyone should be up to speed on its use.”
Below is an article written from the wonderful book ‘Sodium Bicarbonate – Rich Man’s Poor Man’s Cancer Treatment – Second Edition’ by Mark Sircus, AC., OMD. I felt it was a good idea to share this information so please be sure to check it out -with an open mind of course. It is understandable how this can seem fa fetched but there are a number of well known natural cancer treatments that are working today that mainstream medicine refuses to talk about.
Benefits of Baking Soda Vs. The Pharmaceutical Industry
There are many reasons to use baking soda but one overall reason is that sodium bicarbonate is a natural substance that will not harm us, our children or the environment because is it not a chemical compound that effects nature in any kind of negative
sense. Baking soda is actually a compound that is found throughout nature, in the ocean, in the soil, in our foods, and in our bodies. Baking soda is a neutralizer of many other compounds, which makes it extremely helpful as a medicine in the age of toxicity, which we are all presently passing through.
Life-threatening asthma in children is often resistant to treatment with bronchodilators and systemic corticosteroids. Recent research suggests that administering sodium bicarbonate—an ingredient commonly found in kitchens—in intravenous (IV) form can significantly improve pH and PCO2 in children with life-threatening asthma. Sodium bicarbonate can save the day when nothing else can. The only other substance we can say the same is with magnesium chloride, which when injected will save a person during cardiac arrest and pull one out of a stroke if given soon enough.
There has been work going on at the University of Arizona, using bicarbonate (baking soda) as a potential treatment for cancer. Robert J. Gillies and his colleagues have demonstrated that pre-treatment of mice with sodium bicarbonate results in the alkalinization of the area around tumors. (Raghunand 2003) This type of treatment has been found to “enhance the anti-tumor activity” of other anticancer drugs. This is very similar to the recently published research of injecting O2 directly into tumors where such direct administration of Oxygen also facilitated the action of chemotherapy.
This year these same researchers reported that bicarbonate increases tumor pH (i.e., make it more alkaline) and also inhibits spontaneous metastases (Robey 2009). They showed that oral sodium bicarbonate increased the pH of tumors and also reduced the formation of spontaneous metastases in mice with breast cancer. It also reduced the rate of lymph node involvement.
When it comes to sodium bicarbonate it is an open and shut case. It is already in wide use and has been for decades, even by oncologists who do not want their patients dropping dead too quickly because of the tremendous toxicity of their treatments. Sodium bicarbonate is used routinely to keep the toxicity of chemotherapy agents and radiation from killing people or from destroying their kidneys. In relation to bicarbonate, millions of people in the world either consume bicarbonate ions in drinking water or have been treated clinically with bicarbonate in hospitals, medical centers, or emergency. Sodium bicarbonate helps to save countless lives every day.
Dr. Boris Veysman specialist in emergency medicine at the Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Jersey describes one emergency room experience: “The emergency department is always noisy, but today the triage nurse is yelling “not breathing,” as she runs toward us pushing a wheelchair. A pale, thin woman is slumped over and looking gray. Without concrete proof of a “Do Not Resuscitate” order, there’s no hesitation. Click, klang, and the patient has a tube down her throat within seconds. I do the chest compressions. On the monitor, she is flat-lining — no heartbeat. I synchronize my words with the compressions and call out for an external pacemaker. Pumping … thinking: Cardiac standstill … after walking in … with cancer … on chemo. This resuscitation isn’t by the book. “Get two amps of bicarbonate,” I say to the intern. The jugular line takes seconds, and I flush it with sodium bicarbonate. This probably will correct the blood’s extreme acidity, which I suspect is driving up the potassium. The external pacemaker finally arrives. Potent electric shocks at 80 beats per minute begin to stimulate her heart. The vitals stabilize.
Baking soda (sodium bicarbonate) lives up to the image on the Arm and Hammers box, it is the ultimate heavy weight work horse medicine that every healthcare professional and parent should be knowledgeable about and routinely using. When combined with other strong but basic natural substances like magnesium chloride and iodine one has at ones fingertips a trinity of medical super heroes ready to perform scientific medical miracles in a single bound.
We are talking about serious medicine when we talk about sodium bicarbonate. Earlier and more frequent use of sodium bicarbonate is associated with higher early resuscitability rates and with better long-term neurological outcomes in emergency units. Sodium bicarbonate is very beneficial during CPR.
Bicarbonate is present in all body fluids and organs and plays a major role in the acid-base balances in the human body.
Bicarbonate deficiency is the most unrecognized medical condition on earth even though it is extraordinarily common. Problems from acid pH levels (relative deficiency in bicarbonate ions) take a large toll from human physiology and the more acid a person gets the larger the problem for cell physiology. Every biochemical reaction is pH sensitive with enzymes being especially sensitive. Our diet plays an important role in maintaining appropriate pH levels in the body.
Most modern diets give rise to unhealthy acidic pH conditions. An imbalanced pH will interrupt cellular activities and functions to extreme levels as ph drops further. Excessive acidic pH leads to cellular deterioration which eventually brings on serious health problems such as cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, osteoporosis and heartburn. The fact that the biological life functions best in a non-acidic (alkaline) environment speaks miles about the usefulness and extensive health benefits of baking soda.
“I have used intravenous sodium bicarbonate therapy mostly as a naturopathic treatment for patients who consistently react to allergens or that have chemical sensitivities. This is a great therapy during the Vancouver allergy seasons of spring and fall. The alkalinizing sodium bicarbonate IV can often immediately stop an allergic reaction, or asthmatic attack, since such reactions cannot persist in an alkaline environment. Some of my patients also get benefit from taking an alkalinizing drink every night to reduce their chemical sensitivity symptoms,” writes Dr Eric Chan. “All of my Vancouver and Richmond patients have tolerated this therapy markedly well.”
“Uniformly, in ill patients, increasing the alkaline buffer of the tissues makes patients feel better. As mentioned above, this is particularly true in chemically sensitive patients, and can actually be a “cure” in the sense that we are increasing the body’s ability to react in a healthy way to noxious stimuli. If I use the intravenous sodium bicarbonate in such patients, it is usually given twice a week for a period of 4-5 weeks. Sodium bicarbonate is a very effective way of directly improving celllular health by making the tissue more alkaline,” concludes Dr. Chan.
Sodium bicarbonate is the time honored method to ‘speed up’ the return of the body’s bicarbonate levels to normal. Bicarbonate is inorganic, very alkaline and like other mineral type substances supports an extensive list of biological functions. Sodium bicarbonate happens to be one of our most useful medicines because bicarbonate physiology is fundamental to life and health. So helpful and elementary it’s even instrumental in helping sperm swim up and enter the cervical canal.
It is not possible to be a fully educated medical professional without coming up to speed on vital medical information about sodium bicarbonate. This book is full of contributions from universities, hospitals and clinicians who have for decades been researching and using sodium bicarbonate for many medical applications. Baking soda is an essential medicine, which no emergency room or intensive care ward would be caught without. This book represents a full medical review that combs through all corners of the medical universe to lay bare the full knowledge and scope of sodium bicarbonates use in medicine.
Everything I know about bicarbonate you should know and when you do, you will know more than anyone else who has not taken the time or has had the interest to fully research the subject or read this book. It’s an experience to know much more about such a basic vital substance than your doctors. Take the journey and sail through bicarbonate seas. Read and learn and then begin to think of what is the medical truth about sodium bicarbonate as a treatment for cancer.
This book also gives the keys to understanding that vast fraud and the intended rip off of labeling Carbon Dioxide (CO2) a poisonous gas. In these pages you will find the truth about CO2 because it is a great part of the secret about sodium bicarbonate (baking soda), which turns to CO2 in the stomach when mixed with water. As we shall see sodium bicarbonate, CO2 and Oxygen (O2) are all tied together. All three are essential for biological existence on planet earth. CO2 is no more of a poison than water.
Sodium bicarbonate (Baking Soda) is probably one of the most useful substances in the world; no wonder the pharmaceutical companies don’t want doctors or anyone else to know much about it. Sodium Bicarbonate is an important medicine – of the safest kind – and it is essential when treating cancer, kidney and other diseases.”
Source: Dr Sircus
Previous articleVitamin B17 Greatest Cancer Cover-up in History?
Next articleGinger Selectively Kills Breast Cancer Cells
You may also like
7 Testosterone-Boosting Foods
How Papaya Fruit Can Help Cure Heartburn And Indigestion
Indigo Rose Tomato: A New Superfood?
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Free Email Updates
Sign up to get Exclusive recipes and eating news Directly to your Inbox-FREE!
Home Remedies
10 Superfoods for Stress Relief
Sleep Deprivation: Symptoms & Natural Remedies
Top 10 Remedies for Sore Muscles and Joints
Home Remedies for Ringworm – 6 Natural Ringworm Treatments
Raw Honey Works Better Than Drugs for Herpes!
Dangerous Foods
STUDY: Juices Have Hazardous Amounts of Heavy Metals
FDA Finds Glyphosate in Food Samples in The First-Ever Test for the Herbicide
Five Things Monsanto Doesn’t Want You to Know About GMOs
BPA: Dangerous Even at Low-Level Exposure! Here’s What You Need to Know
Eaten Any Antifreeze Lately? Why You Need To Watch For Propylene Glycol In Your Food
Weed Killer Found in Popular Beers + Wines
Dangers of Genetically Modified Corn: New 90-Day Rat Study Destroys Corporate GMO Propaganda
The Healthiest and Unhealthiest Creamers for Your Coffee
After Reading This You Might Never Eat Commercially Made Ice Cream Again (It’s not what you think)
Experts Warn of Pink Death: Chemicals Used to Make These Meats Boost Cancer Risks
The Toxic Truth About Baby Carrots & Why You Should Stop Eating Them
Walmart, Costco, Kroger, Publix + Albertson’s Receive Failing Grades for Selling Meats Loaded with Antibiotics
The Creator of GMO Potatoes Reveals The Dangerous Truth – Exclusive Interview
The #1 Hidden Health Hazard At The Prepared Food Bar
All That Glitters Is Not Food: FDA Warns to Watch Out for Non-Edible Glitters
Stop Using Canola Oil Immediately! 6 Canola Oil Dangers
Weedkiller Found in Wide Range of Breakfast Foods
12 Fruits and Veggies You Should Avoid (If Buying Non-Organic)
Is MiO Bad For You? Buyer Beware!
This Ingredient is More Toxic to Humans than High Fructose Corn Syrup, and COMMON in U.S. Foods + Beverages
Latest Comments
1	izyl	Top 10 Home Remedies for Acne
I just wanted to make sure this didn't fall through the cracks. Here is the link to the high-quality infographic I mentioned: https://www.nourissentials.com/blogs/news/best-retinol-serum If you would like to share this…
2	izyl	How To Make A Superfood Spirulina Face Mask For Blemish Free Skin
Hi, I was looking for some information on skincare and came across your post: HOW TO MAKE A SUPERFOOD SPIRULINA FACE MASK FOR BLEMISH FREE SKIN It's really nice! I…
3	izyl	Top 10 Home Remedies for Acne
Hi, I was looking for some information on skincare and came across your post: TOP 10 HOME REMEDIES FOR ACNE It's really nice! I especially liked how you mentioned our…
Beauty Tips
Biotin: A Guide To Side Effects, Benefits For Hair & More
10 Natural Ways To Get Rid Of Smelly Hair
The #1 Weird Way to Remineralize Teeth and Heal Cavities
What Is Microneedling? 5 Benefits of Collagen Induction Therapy
What gray hair says about your health
My Favorite Products
Is Cassava the Next Corn? It Has a lot of Potential, says Plant Snacks!
Healthier Easter Candy Alternatives
Everyone Is Totally Obsessed With This Healthy Bread—But Does It Live Up To The Hype?
I Tried an Air Fryer — Here’s What I Learned + Thought of It
Best Essential Oils and Their Benefits
What Are The Healthiest Non-Dairy Milks To Drink?
What Are Liquid Aminos and Should I Use Them?
GoodBelly Probiotic Juice Drinks
7 Ways to Use Banza Pasta
14 Interesting Uses of TENS Units + How To Use One & Side Effects
3 Speeds Cordless Stir Crazy Stick Blender Mixer Automatic Stirrer
12 Natural & Eco-Friendly Cleaning Products
Benefits of Foods
7 Testosterone-Boosting Foods
How Papaya Fruit Can Help Cure Heartburn And Indigestion
Indigo Rose Tomato: A New Superfood?
Health Benefits of Chives – Cancer Prevention and More!
8 Reasons to Eat Collard Greens: From Reduced Glaucoma Risk to Better Skin!
Disclaimer
This site is designed for educational purposes only and is not engaged in rendering medical advice, legal advice or professional services. If you feel that you have a medical problem, you should seek the advice of your Physician or health care Practitioner. DISCLOSURE: In order for me to support this website, I may receive monetary compensation or other types of remuneration for my endorsement, recommendation, testimonial and/or link to any products or services from this website. Full Disclaimer
More Stories
How To Make A 3 Ingredient Anti-Aging Eye Cream In 1 Minute
by Natural Living Ideas Not enough sleep, allergies and stress will give you tired looking eyes. The skin around your eyes is delicate and needs…
Recent Comments
izyl on Top 10 Home Remedies for Acne
izyl on How To Make A Superfood Spirulina Face Mask For Blemish Free Skin
izyl on Top 10 Home Remedies for Acne
Latest Posts
Alternate Medicine, Benefits Of Foods, Sex, Tips & Tricks, Wellness 7 Testosterone-Boosting Foods
Dangerous Foods, Fruit, Warnings, Wellness STUDY: Juices Have Hazardous Amounts of Heavy Metals
Favorite Products, Snacks Is Cassava the Next Corn? It Has a lot of Potential, says Plant Snacks!
Alternate Medicine, Benefits Of Foods, Fruit, Gluten Free, Wellness How Papaya Fruit Can Help Cure Heartburn And Indigestion
Find Us
Find a recipe
© 2018 The Science Of Eating.
Back to top