safer phone zone « Safer Phone Zone
Safer Phone Zone
VISIT ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH TRUST
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Home
*Donate
Contributors
Resources
World Health Organization (WHO) agrees with our very own MUCKRAKER
May 31st, 2011
Time, CNN and Fox News have all picked up on the WHO’s recent announcement that cell phones may be linked to cancer. Although the language is a bit soft, the beginnings of change are starting and the evidence is mounting.
Take some precautions when it comes to your cell phone. Especially if your children use them. The mass experiment being run on the human race is starting to have some casualties.
You can read the entire WHO report here…
http://www.iarc.fr/en/media-centre/pr/2011/pdfs/pr208_E.pdf
http://www.time.com/time/health/article/0,8599,2076149,00.html
Tags: cell phone cancer, Cell Phone Safety, cell phones cancer, Dr. Devra Davis, Environmental Health Trust, safer phone zone
Posted in Media | No Comments »
Study Reveals Cell Phones can Alter your Brain
April 20th, 2011
Watch the latest video at video.foxnews.com
Tags: Brain-Tumor Risk, cell phone cancer, cell phone radiation, Dr. Devra Davis, fox news, safer phone zone
Posted in Media | No Comments »
Health risks of cell phone radiation – a video by Byng Junior High
April 20th, 2011
This video was created by a Byng Junior High School 9th grade science research team as part of their award-winning 2009-10 U.S. Army E-Cybermission project addressing the human health risks of cell phone radiation.
Tags: Brain-Tumor Risk, campaign for safer cell phones, cell phone cancer, cell phone radiation, Cell Phone Safety, safer phone zone, students
Posted in Media | No Comments »
Do Cell Phones Cause Cancer? An Article by Green American
April 20th, 2011
In a recent article, the Green American asks: Do Cell Phones Cause Cancer?
The telecom industry says no, the fine print on cell phone packaging says maybe and some leading scientists say we should be very concerned.
Read on before you dismiss the warnings about cell phones. There’s real cause for concern behind the industry smokescreen.
Click here to read the whole article in PDF
Tags: Brain-Tumor Risk, cell phone cancer, cell phone radiation, safer phone zone
Posted in Voices | No Comments »
Non- Thermal Effects & Mechanisms of Interaction Between Electromagnetic Fields and Living Matter
April 20th, 2011
Globally more than four billion phones are in use, with more than half of all users believed to be children and young adults. Over the past two decades, models of the human head have been devised based on imaging studies and used to estimate the extent and rate of radiation energy absorption to the brain, the Specific Absorption Rate (SAR). IEEE and ICNIRP SAR recommendations rest solely on avoiding thermal effects on the adult male head under conditions of a six minute long call and do not take into account the long-term cell phone use, the length of calls, non-thermal biological effects, the smaller size and greater physiological vulnerability and increased absorption to the heads of children and females.
Published in the European Journal of Oncology, a study by the Ramazzini Institute: the National Institute for the Study and Control of Cancer and Environmental Diseases, Bologna, Italy 2010
Click the link below to view the full report in PDF
Ramazzini Institute – Interaction between Electromagnetic Fields and Living Matter
Tags: Brain-Tumor Risk, cell phone cancer, cell phone radiation, Cell Phone Safety, Dr. Devra Davis, research, safer phone zone
Posted in Latest Research | No Comments »
Students Test Dangers of Phone and Wi-Fi Radiation at Science Fair
April 20th, 2011
Some young scientists attending the Regional Science Fair at Trent University took on the controversial subject of Wi-Fi and Mobile Phone radiation.
Tags: Brain-Tumor Risk, cell phone cancer, cell phone radiation, Cell Phone Safety, safer phone zone, students, wi-fi danger
Posted in Media | No Comments »
Companies Committed to Safer Cell Phone Use
April 20th, 2011
Below are companies, to date, who are committed to protecting employee health and agree to:
Promote cell phone safety by distributing Environmental Health Trust information
Provide headsets to all employees who use phones for business
Sponsor Environmental Health Trust
Create their own programs to promote cell phone safety
Sustainable Mobile | info at sustainablemobile.com | +358-29-123 0899 | sustainablemobile.com
Knobe’s Radio Shack | chris at knobes.com | 307-734-8801 | knobes.com
Blue Spruce Cleaners | bluespucecleaners.com
Diana Joy AlterEgo | 307-690-3589
Dutton | A member of Penguin Group (USA) Inc | us.penguingroup.com
Dynamic Custom Homes | dchjk.com
Elevated Grounds Coffee Shop | elevatedgroundscoffeehouse.com
Horizon Pictures | 307-733-2994
Jackson Pediatrics | jacksonpediatrics.net
Jackson Whole Grocer | jacksonwholegrocer.com
JH Weekly | planetjh.com
Lotus Cafe | tetonlotuscafe.com
Mayor’s Office of Jackson Hole
Pamela Stockton Interiors | pamelastocktoninteriors.com
Roadrunner Apothecary
Sunlight Design | 307-690-6696 | sunlightstudio.com
Teton Literacy Program | tetonliteracy.com
Teton Science Schools | tetonscience.org
Teton Wellness Institute | tetonwellness.org
Thal Glass Studio | thalglass.com
Togwotee Lodge | togwoteelodge.com
Tags: campaign for safer cell phones, cell phone, cell phone cancer, cell phone radiation, Cell Phone Safety, safer phone zone
Posted in Information | 2 Comments »
What effect do Mobile Phones have on your health?
April 19th, 2011
saferphones EHT
Mobile phones have become a permanent fixture in our lives but what effect do they have on your health?http://dld.bz/WG4U
Tags: campaign for safer cell phones, cell phone cancer, cell phone radiation, Cell Phone Safety, Dr. Devra Davis, Environmental Health Trust, safer phone zone
Posted in Voices | No Comments »
April 8-11 2011: Total Health 11 in Toronto
April 8th, 2011
Dr. Devra Davis will be speaking on the topic of “The Truth About Cell Phone Radiation” at Total Health 11 in Toronto Canada.
The conference is April 8-11 2011
Get more information here.
Tags: cell phone cancer, cell phone radiation, Cell Phone Safety, Dr. Devra Davis, safer phone zone
Posted in Events | No Comments »
Dangers of Mobile Phone Radiation: Sonya Feldhoff interviews Dr. Devra Davis
April 8th, 2011
Dr. Devra Davis discusses the dangers of Mobile Phone radiation with Sonya Feldhoff on the Australian radio program Drive.
Mobile phones have become a permanent fixture in our lives but what effect do they have on your health?
Dr. Devra Davis, a visiting professor at Harvard and author of the book Disconnect, has done studies into mobile phone radiation and how it effects a person’s brain, their cells and fertility.
After analysing the results Dr Davis never keeps her phone on her body or in her pocket and always uses a headset, hear the interview here.
Tags: Brain-Tumor Risk, campaign for safer cell phones, cell phone cancer, cell phone radiation, Cell Phone Safety, Dr. Devra Davis, safer phone zone
Posted in Media | No Comments »
Latest Research
Exposure Limits: The underestimation of absorbed cellphone radiation, especially in children
Worldwide Cell Phone Safety Recommendations and Policies
Mobile phones and head tumours. The discrepancies in cause-effect relationships in the epidemiological studies – how do they arise?
View All Research »
Latest Tweets
Please wait while our latest tweet loads.
This website is sponsored by the Environmental Health Trust (EHT). EHT is a non-profit organization that educates individuals, health professionals and communities about controllable environmental health risks and policy changes needed to reduce those risks. For more than three decades, advising some of the world's top health agencies, EH Trust has come up with effective strategies to curb harm from hormone replacement, tobacco, radon, asbestos and pesticides.
Donate Now »
Safer Phone Zone is a web portal dedicated to providing reliable information and educational tools to the public, health professionals and policy makers regarding the dangers of prolonged cell phone use, cell phone radiation and the links between cell phones, cancer and other health problems. Safer Phone Zone is intended to be an open source forum for information based on sound scientific research by recognized authorities. Due to the open source nature of this web portal all information is provided as is without any warranties expressed or implied.
Devra Lee Davis Charitable Foundation is a Registered IRS Public Charity Doing Business As (DBA) Environmental Health Trust
© 2019 Safer Phone Zone. All Rights Reserved.