Chewing Gum: Fact and Fiction
Patient Login
Menu
Home
About Us
Meet Dr. Hosseini
Meet the Team
What Sets Us Apart
Our Blog
New Patients
Dental FAQs
Office Visits
Financial Information
Patient Forms
Testimonials
General Dentistry
Preventive Care
Gum Disease
Extractions
Fillings
Oral Cancer Screening
Componeers™
Snoring Prevention
Nightguards
Sleep Apnea
Cosmetic Dentistry
Pediatric Dentistry
Treatments
Bonding
Bridges
Crowns
Implants
Dentures
Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery
Full-Mouth Reconstruction
Teeth Whitening
Endodontic Retreatment
Periodontal Treatments
Invisalign®
Invisalign® Info
Invisalign Teen® Info
Invisalign® Costs
Invisalign® FAQs
Invisalign® Testimonials
Invisalign® Videos
Invisalign® Before & After
Contact Us
Hackensack Office
Appointment Request
Refer a Friend
Refer a Patient
Chewing Gum: Fact and Fiction
Share Article:
Search Blog:
Search
When to Replace Fillings What kind of toothbrush and toothpaste should my child use?
Remember all the things your parents would tell you when you were growing up to scare you away from doing something? Like how lying might make your nose grow, misbehaving meant you wouldn’t get money from the tooth fairy, and swallowed chewing gum would build up in your stomach and stay there for years?
Maybe that last one stayed with you well beyond your teens, and occurred to you every time you accidentally (or purposely) swallowed a piece of gum. We don’t blame you. It’s a scary thought.
But is it true?
We hate to take the fun out of parental discipline, but swallowing a piece of chewing gum is pretty much like swallowing any other piece of food. It will move right through your digestive system with no danger of getting stuck for months, let alone seven years.
This doesn’t mean you should start swallowing all your gum from now on, but if it happens accidentally now and then, there’s no need to panic.
Another common gum myth is that sugar-free gum can help you lose weight. Although it is preferable to choose sugar-free gum over the extra-sweet variety, no studies have show that sugar-free gum will help you lose weight.
If you pop a piece of gum in your mouth after dinner to avoid dessert, it could help you avoid eating a few extra calories every day. But the consumption of sugar-free gum without any other effort will not help you shed pounds.
If you really enjoy chewing gum, we strongly encourage you to select sugarless gum, because it lowers your risk for cavities. Many brands of sugarless gum contain xylitol, a natural sweetener that can, in fact, help fight bacteria that cause cavities and rinse away plaque.
So if you can’t kick the gum habit altogether, sugar-free is definitely the way to go!
If you have any questions about chewing gum, feel free to contact Dr. Zahra Hosseini at our Hackensack, NJ office.
Tags:
Posted on January 30th, 2019
Posted in Uncategorized
Testimonials
“I am very happy to have Dr Hosseini as my dentist. She and her staff are very professional and also very friendly. There have been times when I was nervous about a procedure and Dr Hosseini was there for me to ease my nervousness. I was impressed with how she handled my situation and glad to know that she is so caring and professional.” - Stacy K.
“Dr. Hosseini and her staff went above and beyond to help me with a dental issue no other doctor could resolve. Her professional manner and knowledge all in all was an excellent experience and I recommend her without any hesitation to those in need of quality, honest, and caring dental work.” - Edward S.
“Dr. Hosseini and her entire staff are wonderful. She is warm, friendly, professional and takes the time to get to know her patients on a personal level. And she remembers everything! She explains procedures thoroughly so the patient is relaxed and knows just exactly what to expect. The staff is superb and there is never a wait time. I would highly recommend her services!” - Debbie A.
Read More
Review Us!
(201) 212-4860
810 Main St,
Hackensack, NJ 07601
Back to Top
Website Powered by Sesame 24-7™| Site Map