la classified, The Classified: automobiles in
la classified, The Classified
A classified Excellent blogs relevent to bags, handbags, wallets, purses, cheap leather purses,jobs, classifieds, ad posting, work at home, outlet, glasses, jersey and much more
Thursday, November 1, 2012
automobiles in
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to Facebook
1. The chemical combination of oxyhydrogen is completely different from water.
2. It exists in vapor form only at room temperature.
To reduce the fuel needed in cars, use of oxyhydrogen with normal fuel is an alternate method. Alternate methods reduce 50 percent of car energy costs. You need to be open to any alternate methods, as they can save fuel.
The rising cost of fuel has forced the automotive industry to look into alternate sources to save fuel. Water is the best method to save fuel. Cars running on water uses water as a key source of fuel. Scientists believe that energy from water is the best substitute for automobiles.
Combination of biomass and coal is Methanol. Methanol is also made of natural fuel, as it is cheaper. Methanol is poisonous and harmful to the skin. Methanol contains only one chemical, whereas gasoline contains many chemicals. The fire that breaks out due to Methanol is not viewable in bright sunlight. These are some of the disadvantages of Methanol. Experts say Methanol is good for fuel cell cars. Finally, Ethanol is also an alternate method to save fuel.
He did his research and development work at Kirkridge, a major Protestant retreat center in Bangor, ME. Influenced by leaders in the human potential movement, including the folks at Esalen and in humanistic psychology, Gerry reached a turning point in his work when he worked with primal therapy techniques. “My first wife drowned after seventeen years of marriage. We had three little children. As a religious person, I did the best I could with that tragedy. It wasn’t until I got into primal scream work that I was able to release my anger. That changed everything for me Ray Ban Sunglass On Sale.”
Next, running a car on water gives excellent results. It is a user-friendly method to use. You can switch between both vehicle fuel and water. The energy created makes the car run smoothly and efficiently. This alternate method helps the car in saving 80 percent of fuel on heat, pollution and vibration.
The key component in this technology is water. The combination of oxygen and hydrogen produces water. Combination of oxygen and hydrogen is oxyhydrogen. Disadvantages of oxyhydrogen are:
Gerry Jud, now 83, is one of the true pioneers in the sexuality and spirituality movement. After getting a Ph.D at Yale, he started his career as a pastor in New Haven, CT. “I became interested in the question of why Oakley Sunglasses, in religious groups, the level of intimacy is exquisitely limited. People who get started in the field of a religious path soon level off. The journey comes to a halt. This troubled me as a church person, and so I began to study a way in which intimacy could be found among such people who are seeking a spiritual life, and how it could be sustained.””My vision is for every human being to be aware that their spirituality and sexuality is who you are, not something you get.
Another alternate method is the use of methanol. There is no need to separate hydrogen from methanol, as fuel cell vehicles turn hydrogen and oxygen into electricity.
The chemical produced through water is used as fuel in automobiles. The process to extract fuel from water is Electrolysis. Several industries are making use of this process to weld metal and glass. This process has become very popular because of its efficiency. When you mix oxyhydrogen with normal gasoline, it provides more energy and increases mileage. To run vehicles, you need a combination of water and vehicle fuel.
Here, hydrogen has to be stored in its liquid form. Liquid hydrogen is very cold. The electricity generated from battery powers the motor of your vehicle. Fuel cells combine oxygen in the air with hydrogen to produce electricity.
Process Involved:
Its uses are:
Another substitute to save fuel is Zero emission gas. Fuel emission vehicles are produced by filling them with pure hydrogen. This substitute fuel saving method is used to power electric equipment.
Types Of Alternate Methods And Its Uses:
Drive water is another alternate method to save fuel Discount Oakley Sunglasses. It uses car battery to separate water into a vapory form called HHO that is hydrogen in two parts and oxygen in one. Engines running on this fuel alternative method power themselves.
1. It works on both gas and diesel powered cars.
2. More fuel efficiency.
3. It works on plain tap water
Related articles:
· less scarring
· a major Protestant retreat center in Bangor
· one at a time
Posted by jainaaum at 9:20:00 PM
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
stat
Total Pageviews
Blog Archive
► 2014 (1)
► January (1)
► 2013 (189)
► February (65)
► January (124)
▼ 2012 (517)
▼ November (316)
louie wallet
bailey button ugg boots very chic louis vuitton
premium outlet
outlet de coach
shoe shop
plane crash at
cross body purses
garage sale times
on sale clothes
clutch bags
ladies handbags
handbags for cheap
sheepskin boots
garage sale
at garage sales
at garage sales
how to garage sale
outlet coach factory
a garage sale
trendy handbags
louie vitton
outlet malls
building a corporation
bag shop
to become famous
beats monster beats
create will
bus to buy
how do i get information on a person
computer eye glasses
how to make stained glass window
glasses for men
post fence
recycled glass counter tops
about jesus
how do you bbq
zenni optical
iphone service
eye exam
how to create will
glasses lenses
eyeglasses with lenses
glasses frames
autoglass replacement
cheap glasses
Optometrist
they can be quite elegant. Finding a unique
Do you pay a lot of money to do your hobby
almost any kind of product. So
After the initial preparations by the technicians
or even specialty glass such as arched
our presence automatically liberates others
that means many doorstep ‘s flat
tooth paste
Immediately after you perform this
verify location surely set it to use
should not extremely hot 1
white is regarded as hot regarding who the winner
homes for sale by
jewelry making how to
glass for window
glass glasses, beer mug, beer glass,
how do i blog
how to create a website
frames for glasses
door handles
car & truck
face lift surgery
frames for glasses
holiday to
at bank account
Air Jordan Outlet However
easy recipes
back pain
bathroom tiles
cake dish
basket ball ball
wives on
glasses
party supplies
wedding venues
what is adhd
what is acne
mobile to phone
chickenrecipes
steam room
pet stores
how do i get a website
bags
how do i make money
car port
what is natural gas
a colour purple
phones you
how do you mind map
curtains
patio furniture
teflon
lasvegas
boxing gloves
► October (201)
About Me
jainaaum
View my complete profile
728 X 90 Ad slot
jainaaum . Powered by Blogger.