The Best Diet for Colorectal Cancer | G & L Surgical | Dr Ganesh
+65 9088-8313
+65 8218-7799
enquiry@glsurgical.com.sg
CONTACT US
MAKE AN APPOINTMENT
+65 9088-8313 | +65 8218-7799 |
enquiry@glsurgical.com.sg | CONTACT US |
MAKE AN APPOINTMENT
Menu
About Us
Our Philosophy
CEO Message
Our Doctor
Our Team
Clinic Hours
+
Conditions & Diseases
Surgeries & Procedures
Weight Loss Procedure
Why Weight Loss Procedure
Introducing Bariatric Surgery
Calculate Your BMI
Endoscopic Intragastric Balloon Insertion
Laparoscopic Sleeve Gastrectomy
Laparoscopic Gastric Banding
Laparoscopic Roux En Y Gastric Bypass
+
Media Articles
Blog
HomeblogNutrition and Colorectal Cancer: The Best Diet to Lower Your Risks
Nutrition and Colorectal Cancer: The Best Diet to Lower Your Risks
Posted on 12 Feb 2018
/ 0 Comment
/ glsurgical
Nutrition and Colorectal Cancer: The Best Diet to Lower Your Risks
Share
Tweet
Share
Pin
Numerous scientific studies point to a connection between a healthy diet and prevention of colon cancer. As colorectal cancer is the fourth most common cancer worldwide, it is essential to know which foods can help reduce your risk of developing this dangerous disease. Our team at G & L Surgical Clinic, leading experts for colon cancer surgery in Singapore, strive to promote public awareness of effective ways to protect yourself from needing treatment for colon cancer.
Here is a list of 7 foods to include in your daily diet:
1. Dairy Products
A high consumption of dairy foods, especially milk, has been linked to a lower risk of colorectal cancer. According to a 10-year study that finished in 2009, people who eat or drink the highest quantity of calcium are about 20% less likely to develop colorectal cancer. Also, it doesn’t appear to make any difference if people obtain their calcium from dairy supplements or food.
2. The Power of Produce
A large portion of what you eat should consist of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains – probably due to their rich folate content (a B vitamin). In particular, cruciferous vegetables, such as cauliflower, broccoli, cabbage, and kale, appear to have the strongest preventative effects.
3. Magnesium
Studies have shown that every 100-milligram increase in dietary magnesium is connected to a 12% reduced risk of colon cancer, particularly in people over 55 and in those who are overweight or obese. If you’re wondering where to find magnesium, you can locate it in fish, peanuts, spinach, and beans.
4. High-Fibre Foods
In general, fibre helps to prevent constipation and keep your intestinal system running smoothly. Some extensive research studies found that regularly eating large quantities of fibre is protective against colorectal cancer. To increase your fibre intake, choose brown rice and whole-wheat bread instead of white options.
5. Drink Coffee
Beyond aromatic flavour and the pick-me-up effects of caffeine, here is one more reason to enjoy sipping coffee throughout the day. People who drink a minimum of four cups of coffee per day are 15% less likely to be diagnosed with colorectal cancer. While decaffeinated coffee seems to cause the same outcome, be aware that tea does not.
6. Fatty Fish
Preliminary scientific studies suggest that omega-3 fatty acids from fish may lower the risk of colon cancer; however, more research is needed.
7. Season with Garlic
A great deal of evidence suggests that a diet filled with garlic diminishes the risk of colon cancer. To maximise garlic’s health-promoting components, chop the cloves and then wait at least 10 minutes before cooking.Hazardous Foods to AvoidAlong with eating the right nutrients, there are also specific foods that you should avoid.
High alcohol consumption is associated strongly with colon cancer, particularly in people with a genetic history of the disease in their family. Our medical specialists in colon cancer treatment warn patients not to exceed two drinks a day for men, one for women.
Limit red meat and processed meats to approximately five or six small portions per week. Consuming processed meats, such as bacon, sausage, hot dogs and deli meats, is regarded as more dangerous than red meat.
Steer clear of starchy foods and highly processed grains, especially if they are high in added fat and sugar.
Colorectal cancer is not inevitable and the connection between what you eat and lowering your risk of colon cancer is clear. Contact us at G & L Surgical Clinic for more information about colon cancer treatment and surgery in Singapore.
blog
Give a Reply Cancel reply
CONTACT US NOW
Recent Posts
Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month
What is Metabolic Syndrome?
Is Type 2 Diabetes Reversible?
BARIATRIC SURGERY – HOW AND WHY IT WORKS
We set you thinking TODAY – Obese, diabetic teen turns to surgery to lose weight
Business Hours
Monday - Friday 9:00 am - 6:00 pm
Saturday 9:00 am -1:00 pm
Your gastrointestinal tract.
Your wellness. Your life. Take charge.
Our Services
ENDOSCOPY
ADVANCED LAPOROSCOPY
CANCER SURGERY
ANORECTAL SURGERY
EMERGENCY SURGERY
BARIATRIC SURGERY
QUICK LINKS
HOME
ABOUT US
CONDITIONS & DISEASES
SURGERIES & PROCEDURES
WEIGHT LOSS PROCEDURE
MEDIA ARTICLE
BLOG
Contact Us
38 Irrawaddy Road,
#05-23 Mount Elizabeth Novena Specialist Centre
@ Mount Elizabeth Novena Hospital
Singapore 329563
Tel : 6255 1234
Fax : 6255 1638
Follow us on :
Subscribe
Copyright © G & L Surgical Pte Ltd 2017. All Rights Reserved