Oncologists Don’t Like Baking Soda Cancer Treatment Because It’s Too Effective and Too Cheap
MaxDiaries
Home
Science/Knowledge
Life/Health
Spirituality
Video
News
Go
Home » cancer » Health » Oncologists Don’t Like Baking Soda Cancer Treatment Because It’s Too Effective and Too Cheap
Share on Facebook ()
Share on Twitter
Oncologists Don’t Like Baking Soda Cancer Treatment Because It’s Too Effective and Too Cheap
#cancer #Health
Cancer has become the biggest health threat to us, so its diagnosis is immediately understood as “game over”.
However, many people are not aware of the fact that there are other options to treat this disease besides chemotherapy and other conventional methods.
Chemotherapy involves the use of chemical substances (in most cases, medications) to relieve the healing process of most cancer illnesses. It may be intended to treat the diseases or just to soothe the symptoms.
It has its advantages and disadvantages, but unfortunately, the latter are numerous. Its adverse effects include diarrhea, hair loss, constipation, nausea, and vomiting, and it has serious consequences on the physical, mental, psychosocial and emotional state.
In most cases, patients need to stay at the hospital during the treatment, s it also changes the love of the individual.
Yet, chemotherapy is not the only option. Radiation is another common cancer treatment. Numerous experts suggest a surgery if the affected cells are located in a specific body part.
However, the medicine is advancing over time, so nowadays, new treatments are also offered, such as immunotherapy, Photodynamic Therapy, Stem Cell Transplantation, Targeted Therapy, and a lot more.
However, we cannot be sure of the eventual effects of these treatments until they are proven to cure cancer.
Until then, it is best to rely on an older, completely natural, chemical- free method- using baking soda. The journal Cancer research published a study in 2009 which confirmed that the use of sodium bicarbonate can successfully stop cancer.
The study authors injected it into mice, and determined the way in which it stopped the growth and spread of cancer tumors. Namely, it raised the pH levels of the organ that was affected by the disease. It managed to reduce the spontaneous metastases in mice induced with breast cancer.
Moreover, researchers found that it raised the pH levels outside the cells, meaning that baking soda makes the microenvironment unconducive for the growth of the tumor, but does not interfere with cellular metabolism.
In order to use the beneficial effects of baking soda in the treatment of cancer at home, you need to use it in combination with maple syrup, molasses or honey.
Dr. Sircus in his book, documented the effects of the combination of baking soda and blackstrap molasses in the case of one patient, in the treatment of prostate cancer that had metastasized to his bones.
This patient mixed a teaspoon of baking soda with a teaspoon of molasses in a cup of water and consumed it the first day. He repeated this for three more days, after which the pH level of his saliva was 7.0 and his urine results read 7.5.
These results stimulated him to continue with the treatment, but this time, he took the solution twice daily. Until the tenth day, he took 2 teaspoons of baking soda and 2 tablespoons of molasses twice daily.
This increased the pH levels to 8.5, and the only side effects he experienced were night sweat and headaches.
The next day, the results of the medicals tests he made, including a bone scan, showed that his PSA (prostate-specific antigen, the protein used to determine the severity of prostate enlargement and prostate cancer) level was reduced from 22.3 at the point of diagnosis to 0.1.
Another way to use baking soda in the treatment of cancer is to mix 90 teaspoons of maple syrup with 30 teaspoons of baking soda.
Initially, heat the maple syrup until it becomes less viscous, add the baking soda, and stir for 5 minutes until it is completely dissolved. This preparation is enough for a 10-day treatment. Take 5-7 tablespoons daily.
If you take baking soda to treat imbalance, note that its side-effects include heart issues, edema, and blood pressure changes.
source
Share to Facebook ()
tweet
Google Plus
Newer Post
Older Post
Week Popular Posts
Drinking Water On Empty Stomach
It is popular in Japan today to drink water immediately after waking up every morning. Furthermore, scientific tests have proven its valu...
Do Not Ignore This! This May Be the Hidden Reason of Your Lower Back Pain
The pilonidal cyst appears due to an excessive and continuous pressure on the sacrococcygeal area. It is formed along the tailbone, near th...
BEST HOME REMEDIES TO PREVENT SAGGY BREASTS AND KEEP THEM PERFECTLY PERKY – FOREVER!
Every woman desires perfectly shaped breasts. Unfortunately, this desire is not possible in most cases because breast sagging is a process ...
Here’s Why You Have Foot Pain All The Time and How To Relief It Quickly!
The causes of foot pain may be various: gout, plantar fasciitis, heel spurs, tendonitis, fractures, neuropathy or Morton’s neuroma. Be...
10 SURPRISING SECRETS YOUR TONGUE CAN REVEAL ABOUT YOUR HEALTH
Tongue can give us very important information about the overall health of the entire organism. Chinese medicine has been studying the healt...
Get more stories like this In your inbox!
OK
Health truth Videos news life story spirituality SCIENCE-TECH love
Disclaimer | Contact Us
@ 2018 MaxDiaries