Drinking urine: Can it help? | Express World News
Breaking News
Elbow injury forces Anderson to skip clay season
Jamie Lynn Spears Defends Sister Britney Against Trolls Amid Mental Health Treatment
U.S. sues Rochester drug distributor over suspicious opioid orders
China to announce rules soon to regulate commercial rocket industry
Indian Crypto Talk Show Makes its Debut
U.S. Threatens To Veto UN Resolution Aimed At Supporting Survivors Of Rape During War
Philadelphia Phillies’ Jake Arrieta chides teammate Bryce Harper after ejection
Samsung Galaxy Fold phone could be cautionary tale for Huawei, others
Snooker: Amateur Cahill shocks O’Sullivan in first round of world championship
Teen has 33-pound cyst removed from abdomen after complaints of pain
Home
World News
Sports
Business & Investing
Entertainment
Lifestyle
Life & Health
Science & Technology
New York
☰
69°
Sunny
Feels like: 69°F
Wind: 3mph WSW
Humidity: 49%
Pressure: 29.96"Hg
UV index: 7
TueWedThu
72/58°F
68/49°F
63/53°F
Detailed forecast ▸
Recent Posts
Elbow injury forces Anderson to skip clay season
Jamie Lynn Spears Defends Sister Britney Against Trolls Amid Mental Health Treatment
U.S. sues Rochester drug distributor over suspicious opioid orders
China to announce rules soon to regulate commercial rocket industry
Indian Crypto Talk Show Makes its Debut
Life & Health
Staff - February 10, 2019
Drinking urine: Can it help?
Drinking urine: Can it help?
Urine therapy is making a comeback from its centuries-old origins, but many professionals say its secret to good health is exaggerated.
Urine therapy is making a comeback from its centuries-old origins. And yes, the therapy does involve using your own urine to drink or apply topically for healing purposes.
But many medical professionals say it’s not the secret to good health that advocates are claiming.
WOMAN SEEKS ‘DR. PIMPLE POPPER’S’ HELP REMOVING ‘HORN’ ON HEAD
According to one case study published in the Journal of Clinical and Aesthetic Dermatology, urine therapy has been used in the past by ancient Greeks and Egyptians. Currently, the practice is popular in Asia, South America and the Middle East as a “wonder therapy” for conditions like acne or even cancer.
However, experts are skeptical since the therapy doesn’t have much research to back it up. According to the study above, drinking urine or applying it topically can have harmful effects. When left outside the body, the urine can quickly attract harmful bacteria, the authors state.
In their case study, a 16-year-old boy had attempted topical urine therapy for acne after receiving pressure from his mother to do so. The technique worked for a while but eventually inflamed it further after the boy tried using stored urine for convenience.
Doctors confirmed that his skin had amounts of bacteria well above normal skin flora. They then started him on a prescription treatment regimen that healed the inflammation within a few months.
LA CITY HALL MAY REMOVE CARPETS AMID DOWNTOWN TYPHUS OUTBREAK
Though a little bizarre, this type of alternative treatment is not uncommon. Urine therapy may arise out of the idea that urine is initially sterile when leaving the body. Many people, including doctors, believe the urine lacks harmful bacteria at this stage.
However, a more recent study on 41 patients with overactive bladder disorder has revealed otherwise. The study was published in the Journal of Microbiology.
Researchers examined urine samples of all patients plus 24 controls, using a more extensive testing protocol than normal. Upon testing, the researchers found 85 different bacterial species, including Streptococcus and Staphylococcus.
They also found bacteria present in 80 percent of the samples, even though standard testing measures suggested over 90 percent were “no growth” specimens.
The authors aimed to prove that these bacteria exist in the urinary tract so that future research may be conducted on whether overactive bladder disorder is bacteria-related.
However, the research can be applied to multiple situations. Based on this study, people who drink or apply urine to their skin may be re-introducing harmful bacteria into the body, compromising health.
In addition, the acne case study mentions that urine is a waste product that the body means to eliminate. Reusing that waste seems “contrary to good health,” states the JCAD study. However, the authors also point out that manufactured urea is used in some medications, including prescription dermatology drugs.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Even the U.S. Army Field Manual advises against drinking urine for survival purposes. That’s because urine contains harmful toxins and salt in concentrated amounts.
Because these waste products are highly concentrated, they could place undue stress on the liver and kidneys. Both organs would have to re-filter the concentrated toxins out of the body, straining them unnecessarily.
In addition, the field manual states that the body needs extra water to process fluids such as seawater that have higher salt concentration. Drinking these fluids can actually lead to dehydration.
The bottom line? Urine therapy may not be the wonder cure people want it to be. There just isn’t enough information to prove its efficacy.
However, what little research there is suggests the therapy could actually be dangerous. Besides, there are far more pleasant ways to maintain good health than drinking urine or putting it on your skin.
Share This Story
← ‘The Favourite’ rules BAFTAs with most wins, ‘Roma’ takes top prize NFL notebook: Rams CB Robey-Coleman fined for Super Bowl hit →
Related Posts
Comments are closed.
Special Reports
How To Generate income Through Your Ecommerce Website
Answers To Men’s Sexual Health Questions
News Video
Categories
Categories Select Category Business & Investing Entertainment Life & Health Lifestyle Science & Technology Special Report Sports World News
News on Facebook
Recent Posts
Elbow injury forces Anderson to skip clay season
April 23, 2019 Comments Off on Elbow injury forces Anderson to skip clay season
Jamie Lynn Spears Defends Sister Britney Against Trolls Amid Mental Health Treatment
April 23, 2019 Comments Off on Jamie Lynn Spears Defends Sister Britney Against Trolls Amid Mental Health Treatment
U.S. sues Rochester drug distributor over suspicious opioid orders
April 23, 2019 Comments Off on U.S. sues Rochester drug distributor over suspicious opioid orders
China to announce rules soon to regulate commercial rocket industry
April 23, 2019 Comments Off on China to announce rules soon to regulate commercial rocket industry
Categories
Business & Investing
Entertainment
Life & Health
Lifestyle
Science & Technology
Special Report
Sports
World News
Popular Posts
Combined Messages From China On Korean Peace Talks Chinese P…
May 16, 2018 Comments Off on Combined Messages From China On Korean Peace Talks Chinese P…
Gov. Cuomo reveals more cash for ‘holistic method’ to elimin…
May 16, 2018 Comments Off on Gov. Cuomo reveals more cash for ‘holistic method’ to elimin…
Hamas authorities: 50 of the 62 Palestinians eliminated in t…
May 16, 2018 Comments Off on Hamas authorities: 50 of the 62 Palestinians eliminated in t…
Reflections from Minnesota Dem: Why ‘d we trouble with self-…
May 16, 2018 Comments Off on Reflections from Minnesota Dem: Why ‘d we trouble with self-…
© 2016-2018 Express World News | Privacy | Contact | Site Map