Drip, Drop, Dead: The Truth about Morphine Abuse
Blog
Drug & Alcohol Rehab Center For Young Adults & Teens | Sober College
Become a Certified Counselor
866.615.3276
MENUMENU
COUNSELOR TRAINING
About Our Counselor Training Programs
In-Class Hybrid
Online
Self-Paced
Prevention Specialist Training
IC&RC Test Prep
WHY CHOOSE US?
TUITION
LOCATIONS
Los Angeles, CA
Find a Program Near Me
Counseling Requirements by State
Education Provider Affiliations
CURRENT STUDENTS
GET STARTED
Speak With Someone
Apply
Meet Our Team
Interested in Becoming an Instructor?
Sober Stories
Addiction Treatment, Recovery & Living Sober
Topics
Addiction Studies
Counseling
Drugs & Addiction
Family & Relationships
News
Recovery
Resources
Sober Living
Strange Addictions
Teen Drug Abuse
Drip, Drop, Dead: The Truth about Morphine Abuse
November 18, 2015 by Bob Leave a Comment
Category: Drugs & Addiction
Morphine is an opiate painkiller used to treat moderate to severe pain.
It is a prescription drug that is sold under several brand names including Kadian, Avinza, and Roxanol. The drug works by acting on the Central Nervous System (CNS) to decrease painful sensations. When taken as prescribed, morphine is incredibly effective at helping patients feel more comfortable, but it has the potential for misuse, abuse, and addiction. Even those who take it as prescribed may struggle with proper use. Over time, morphine has the ability to cause users to feel dependent on the drug in order to feel “normal,” and once this develops, it can be difficult to stop use entirely.
Morphine has found its way to the streets and is most commonly known as morf, mister blue, and dreamer. As an opiate, morphine is incredibly addictive both physically and psychologically. Over time, a person using morphine will begin to develop tolerances that make them unresponsive to its effects. In order to achieve the same outcome, users must then take more of the drug. This in turn also leads to psychological addiction, in which a person becomes fixated on the drug and its effects, causing them to compulsively seek it out. Even when taken as prescribed, long-term use of morphine can lead to the development of addiction. Those who are taking the drug for legitimate medical reasons can be at risk for developing dependencies to morphine.
Signs & Symptoms of Morphine Abuse
While other opiates are more commonly abused than morphine, the drug is still sought by users who wish to satisfy cravings. Opiates can cause a number of effects on a user both physically and psychologically. Even those who use morphine for medical treatment but do not abuse it will experience symptoms of physical dependency. The following are common signs and symptoms of morphine abuse:
Difficulty urinating
Constipation
Drowsiness
Fainting spells
Rashes
Bluish tint to skin
Compromised breathing
Drowsiness
Uncontrollable twitching
Kidney failure
Morphine abuse can cause a number of short-term and long-term effects. These include:
Blurred vision
Nausea
Itching
Decreased appetite
Weakness
Dry mouth
Irregular heartbeat
Slowed breathing
Depression
Mood swings
Anxiety
Restlessness
Emotional instability
In addition, morphine abuse will take a toll on personal relationships. Morphine addiction can cause an individual to isolate themselves from friends and family, avoiding social gatherings and other activities they once enjoyed. Addiction inevitably damages relationships, either because of the way in which the drug causes the user to interact with others, or due to the behaviors, it encourages—such as stealing—in order to support the habit.
Withdrawing from morphine can be incredibly uncomfortable, making users less likely to quit using on their own. The body becomes dependent on morphine in order to feel “normal,” and without it, the person will experience a variety of symptoms that range in severity. Withdrawal symptoms are largely dependent on the amount of time a person has used the drug, the amount they have used, and their overall health. Withdrawal can also vary in length and is best managed through a treatment center that is equipped to make the process as comfortable as possible while preventing or addressing any complications that may arise. Withdrawal symptoms include:
Depression
Agitation
Fever
Excessive sweating
Chills
Headaches
Vomiting
Disorientation
Muscle aches
Rapid heart rate
High blood pressure
Vomiting
Diarrhea
Treating Morphine Addiction
Click here to learn more about our prescription drug abuse treatment program and why it works.
Opiate addiction is one of the most difficult forms of addiction to overcome, but it is possible with the assistance of a treatment facility. The most effective way to address morphine addiction is through a long-term rehab program that addresses all stages of recovery. From withdrawal and detox to therapy and long-term rehabilitation, recovery programs can help an individual abstain from substance abuse and focus on overcoming their addiction with a clear mind, free from all mood and mind-altering effects.
Once an individual has made it through withdrawal, it is important to identify and address any of the influences that have led to addiction. Loss of loved ones, personal experiences, the influence of co-occurring mental health disorders, or spending time around enabling peers and environments are all common contributors to the development of addiction. Treatment programs are able to help individuals identify what has led them to the point of substance abuse and develop healthy behaviors and coping mechanisms that support sobriety. Due to the nature of opiate addiction, a short-term rehab program may help users overcome initial withdrawal, but it will not help them build a foundation to support long-term sobriety. The development of life skills that help individuals make healthy choices and avoid negative influences is crucial to long-term sobriety. Combining this with a balanced diet, regular exercise, and therapeutic activities can help a person develop a positive outlook and the desire to stay sober.
Sources:
http://www.narconon.org/drug-abuse/morphine-signs-symptoms.html
http://www.narconon.org/drug-abuse/morphine-effects.html
http://drugabuse.com/library/morphine-abuse/
http://www.everydayhealth.com/drugs/morphine
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
More Like This
Biofeedback Therapy for Substance Use Disorders
November 18, 2014
Adderall Abuse in College
November 1, 2016
How Can Seasonal Affective Disorder Affect Drug Addicts?
September 10, 2015
Most Addictive Pills: Painkillers & Other Prescription Drugs
May 29, 2018
Can Drinking in Moderation Ever Really Work?
March 16, 2016
Like what you're reading?
Join our mailing list and receive 1-4 emails per month with BIGGEST news content.
Leave this field empty if you're human:
Contact Us
Call us 24 hours a day, 7 days a week at:
888-261-6116
Or, send us a message:
How did you hear about us?: *---OnlineReferral - Educational ConsultantReferral - InterventionistReferral - OPReferral - ProgramReferral - TherapistWOM - AlumniWOM - Family MemberWOM - Friend/CoworkerWOM - SC ParentTelevisionConferenceDrive ByMagazineRadioReadmissionOther
Substance Abuse Counseling Information
How to Become CADC
CADC Job Opportunities
Contact Us
Apply
Current Students
For More Information Contact
Admissions
Phone: 866.615.3276
Email: addictionstudies@sobercollege.com
Sober College School of Addiction Studies
Business Mailing Address
P.O. Box 350
North Hollywood, CA 91603
United States
Contact Us Anytime
How did you hear about us?: *My Current EmployerSober College EmployeeCurrent/Previous StudentOnlineWord of Mouth - Friend/Family MemberConferenceCCAPP WebsiteFacebookBanner AdvertisementKeys to RecoveryOther
Best Form of Contact: *EmailPhone
Best Time to Contact: *MorningAfternoonEvening
×
Sign up now
Copyright © 2019 sobercollege.com
Terms of UseOnline Privacy PolicyNotice of Privacy Practices