Urine Infection in Men | Healthcare-Online
Healthcare-Online
Health Information, Just for Your Health.
Home
Exercise & Fitness
Digestive System
Beauty Tips
Pain Management
Drugs
Home >
Infections >
Urine Infection in Men
Urine Infection in Men
Urinary tract infections are very common in women, but men can also get them. The risk for urine infection in men goes up with their age. Statistics show that 1 in 5 women will have at least one urinary tract infection.Urine infection in men accounts for only 20%of diagnosed urinary tract infections. They tend to be rarer in younger men, but men over fifty are at higher risk.
Types and Causes of Urine Infection in Men
Urinary tract infections are most often bacterial. When the bacteria from your bowel spread to the urinary region of the body, it can travel upward and cause an infection. Urine is just the right temperature and setting for bacteria to grow and thrive. A urinary tract infection is commonly called a “UTI,” and has two different types:
Lower Urinary Tract Infection – Bacteria gets into the opening of the urethra and moves into the bladder. It may also be called a “bladder infection.”
Upper Urinary Tract Infection – The infection moves into the kidneys and is also called a “kidney infection.” Kidney infections can have severe complications such askidney damage, blood infection “sepsis,” and kidney failure.
Risk Factors of Urine Infection in Men
Even though the risk of urinary tract infection in men is low, there are factors that can increase the risk such as:
Compromised Immune System
If you have a long-term illness like diabetes, cancer, AIDS, or auto-immune disorder you may be at higher risk for urinary tract infections. If the urinary is exposed to bacteria, your body may not be able to fight off infection.
UTI In Your Partner
If your partner has a urinary tract infection, it may be possible for it to be transmitted during sex. If your partner has an infection, use a condom to protect yourself.
Uncircumcised Penis
If you are not circumcised, the skin fold at the top of the penis may trap bacteria and they can easily move up the urethra.
Blockage
Men with kidney and bladder stones are at higher risk for urinary tract infections. This is because stones keep the urine from flowing as it should to help flush out the bacteria.
Enlarged Prostate
The prostate gland can push on the urethra when enlarged and reduce the flow of urine.
Urinary Tract Issues
Surgery or disorders that alter the urinary tract can cause more frequent UTI’s in men.
Symptoms of Urine Infection in Men
For most men, there may be little or no symptoms of UTI. This is because the urinary tract is higher up than in women. It is important to see your doctor if you have any of the following symptoms:
Urine leakage or dribbling
Feeling like you need to urinate urgently
Waking up to urinate during the night
Pain with urination
Pain in the abdomen
Burning with urination
The urine has a foul odor
When to Seek Immediate Medical Help
A kidney infection can spread throughout the body or damage the kidneys quickly. The following signs are a medical emergency and you should get to your nearest emergency room or call 911 if you experience:
Fever
Chills
Vomiting
Little or no urination
Pain in the mid to lower back
Pain in the side
Feeling disoriented
How Is Urine Infection in Men Treated?
Urine infections in men are treated the same way they are in women. The doctor will take a urine sample and send it off for culture in the lab. Once the results are received, the doctor will most likely do the following:
Prescribe Antibiotics – Bacterial infections in the urinary tract are treated with a full-course of antibiotics. Even if you start to feel better, you need to take the entire prescription until it is gone. They range from 7 to 10 day courses. The doctor may choose to wait until the urine culture comes back to see what antibiotic is best.
Urinary Pain Medications – There are special medications that decrease spasms in the bladder. They help to reduce burning and bladder pain when you have to go to the bathroom. These medications can also reduce urinary urgency or feeling like you need to go all the time. Pyridium is one of these and turns your urine red to orange in color.
How Can Urine Infection in Men Be Prevented?
The most important point is that if you have the symptoms of urinary tract infection; go to the doctor right away. Urinary tract infections can quickly spread to the kidneys and bloodstream and become very serious. To reduce the chances of getting a UTI, take the following steps:
Do not hold your urine for long periods of time. Go to the bathroom as soon as you feel like you need to go. Make sure you have emptied your bladder completely.
Increase your fluid intake. Even if you feel like you have to use the restroom more, this is a good thing that helps flush out bacteria from the bladder and urinary tract. Drink the right liquids and try to stay away from sugary drinks that feed bacteria. Increased fluids also help prevent kidney and bladder stones that can block urine flow.
Keep the area near your urethral opening clean and dry. If you are uncircumcised, the area under your foreskin needs to be cleaned and dried daily.
Wash your genital area after sexual intercourse. If your partner has a UTI, this will help wash away and transferred bacteria.
Use a condom during sexual intercourse. This is the best way to protect yourself from getting anything from your partner.
If you are diabetic, make sure to keep your sugar under good control. Bacteria need sugar to grow and thrive.
Treat any prostate problems to prevent the prostate from swelling and blocking the urethra.
Same Category:
How to Use Apple Cider Vinegar to Treat Shingles
Tetanus Symptoms
Top 10 Essential Oils for Sinus
What Is Tetanus?
Diseases Caused by Viruses
Hand Fungus: What Is It and How Is It Treated?
Home Remedies for Yeast Infection
7 Reasons Why Your Right Side of Face Hurts
Categories:
Exercise & Fitness
Digestive System
Beauty Tips
Pain Management
Drugs
Food & Nutrition
Pregnancy
Women's Health
Ear, Nose &Throat
Addiction
Relationships
Cancer
Tests and Procedures
Immune system
Respiratory System
Orthopedics
Sleep Disorders
Pet
Eye Health
Kidneys & Urinary System
Metabolic Problems
genetics
Miscellaneous
Men's Health
Bone, Joint & Muscle
Oral Health
Endocrine System
Allergy
Brain & Nerves
Cold, Flue & Cough
Mental Health
Infections
Blood & Heart
Injuries & Poisoning
Skin, Hair & Nails
Children's Health
Related Tags:
urine infection
urinary tract infections
Home
CopyRight © WWW.HEALTHCARE-ONLINE.ORG. Last Updated 26 April, 2019.