Double chin: Causes and treatment
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
How to get rid of a double chin?
Last reviewed	 Wed 28 June 2017	 Last reviewed	Wed 28 Jun 2017
By Jon Johnson
Reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, APRN
Table of contents
Causes
Exercises
Treatments
Seeing a double chin in the mirror may be a sign of weight gain or obesity, but that is not always the case.
There are many exercises that target the fat under the chin and neck. There are also other treatments that can be used to support these activities.
Causes
A double chin can be caused by a number of factors, including age, diet, and genetics.
A double chin is caused by an extra layer of fat that develops beneath the chin.
A few different factors combine in the body to create a double chin. Understanding these factors may help with understanding ways to get rid of the double chin itself.
Age
The skin can start to lose its elasticity as the body ages, which can lead to the appearance of extra or saggy skin that may contribute to a double chin.
Diet and weight
While weight gain is not always the cause of a double chin, it can contribute to it. A diet high in calories, processed foods, and unhealthful fats may influence weight gain and a double chin as well.
Genetics
Genes may play a role in people developing a double chin. Anyone with a family history of skin with little elasticity or double chins might be more likely to develop one themselves.
Posture
Poor posture can weaken the muscles of the neck and chin. This may contribute to a double chin over time, as the surrounding skin loses its elasticity when the muscles are not used.
Exercises
There are many simple exercises for a double chin.
While there is little scientific research on the effect of these exercises, they target the muscles of the neck and face. Working these muscles could help burn fat in these areas, and may be a crucial part of getting rid of a double chin.
Around the world (warm up)
As with any exercise routine, it is important to warm up the muscles to avoid injury. To warm up the neck, gently rotate the head forward and down and then back and up using a clockwise, circular motion. After a few rotations, reverse the direction.
The same circular motion is used to stretch the jaw. Gently extend the jaw left, then forward, then right, and then back, holding each position for a second or two. Now the muscles are warmed and ready for exercise.
Whistle at the ceiling
This exercise is great for strengthening the muscles and giving the neck a break during time spent at the desk. Sit with a straight back and relaxed shoulders.
Tilt the head back to look at the ceiling. From this position, close the lips into the position used while whistling. The lips should be relaxed but held tight enough to feel a contraction on both sides of the neck.
Hold this position for 10 to 20 seconds depending on the comfort level of the individual. Ten repetitions of this exercise are usually enough for one sitting.
Kiss the sky
In this exercise, try to get the lips as far from the face as possible.
This exercise is similar to the previous one, with a few differences.
Stand straight and tall with the arms and shoulders loose and relaxed. Tilt the head back to look at the ceiling. Pucker the lips and try to kiss the sky, extending them as far away from the face as possible.
When done correctly, the muscles throughout the neck and chin should feel flexed but comfortable. Hold this position for 5 to 20 seconds and then relax. Repeat 10 to 15 times per set.
The ball squeeze
Keeping an exercise tool on hand is an excellent way to help some people remember to do their exercises.
For neck exercises, it may help to keep a ball somewhere near the desk, bed, or in a place where a person will do the exercises. The size of the ball can range from 5 to 10 inches based on personal comfort and should be easy to squeeze.
The ball squeeze is done best from a seated position with a straight back and relaxed shoulders.
Place the ball under the chin. Use the chin to push down against the ball in a steady, firm motion. This can be repeated 10 to 30 times during each sitting.
The pouting stretch
Another effective way to target the muscles in the chin and neck is to do a pouting stretch.
Standing or seated, stick the bottom lip out as far as possible to form a pouting face. Hold the position for 3 seconds. With the lip still in full pout, use the muscles of the neck to tilt the chin towards the chest without moving the upper back.
Hold this position for 3 seconds. Relax the muscles and start again. Repeat 10 to 20 times or until the neck feels the workout.
Gum chewing
Chewing gum may not seem like much, but it may be useful for people looking to get rid of a double chin in multiple ways.
A study posted to the journal Appetite found that individuals who chew gum after a meal may feel more satisfied with what they have eaten. This makes them less likely to reach for additional snacks. Chewing gum can help people who are losing weight to reduce the number of calories in their diet.
Chewing gum is a minor workout for the muscles of the face, especially the jaw. Regular gum chewing may contribute to an overall loss of fat in the chin though it probably will not do much by itself.
The lion's yawn
This exercise should mirror a lion's yawn, with the tongue extending as far as possible.
The point of this exercise is to open the mouth wide while sticking the tongue out as far as possible, much like a yawning lion.
It can be a great exercise to strengthen many muscles in the chin, neck, and face.
Sit or stand with a relaxed posture. Open the mouth as wide as possible while extending the tongue out as far as it will go.
When done correctly, the muscles of the neck, chin, and jaw should tighten.
Push the tongue out for 10 seconds and relax. Repeat this process 10 times and move on to another exercise.
Treatments
In addition to exercises, people often turn to additional treatments for their double chin as well.
Face masks
Many face masks are available that can help tighten the skin and reduce the appearance of a double chin.
Glycerin masks and coffee or green tea masks may help support the efforts of exercises. A daily mask of egg whites, honey, and lemon juice also provides a reduction in fat around the chin for some people.
Diet
A natural diet may help reduce the appearance of a double chin, especially if it is caused by weight gain. Reducing the number of calories consumed each day helps some people.
Drinking plenty of water removes more fat from the body. A study posted to the journal Obesity found that people who drank water before meals lost more weight than those who did not.
Water and water-rich foods, such as melons and cucumbers may also help remove more toxins from the body.
Surgery
Some people opt for invasive procedures to fix a double chin. There are three main procedures for treating a double chin:
Mesotherapy: Mesotherapy involves injecting compounds into the chin that dissolve fat. The process can take up to 6 months and may require over 100 injections in some people. If done incorrectly, it may cause nerve damage.
Liposculpting: Liposculpture treats a double chin by removing the fat through suction or with a laser. Liposcultping will not create more elasticity in the skin; it will only remove fat.
Kybella: This drug is approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA). A single treatment involves up to 50 injections of the drug into the fat tissue. A person may have up to six individual treatments, which they must have monthly.
These options may cause side effects such as swelling, bruising, or pain. The double chin may still come back if the lifestyle does not change to maintain it.
If you want to buy any of the face mask treatments mentioned in this article then they are available online.
Shop for Glycerin masks
Shop for coffee masks
Shop for green tea masks
We picked linked items based on the quality of products, and list the pros and cons of each to help you determine which will work best for you. We partner with some of the companies that sell these products, which means Healthline UK and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link(s) above.
Related coverage
How to lose subcutaneous fat: All you need to know Subcutaneous fat is the fat that is visible just under the skin. Causes include eating more food than is needed and not exercising enough. It can also result from diabetes. Lifestyle changes can help reduce the amounts of subcutaneous fat. Find out more about this and other types of fat, and the effects on health. Read now
How to get rid of laugh lines with exercises Laughter lines are a common sign of ageing. While some people attempt treatments and procedures, there are natural ways to keep laughter lines at bay. Read now
How many calories should I eat a day? A calorie is an amount of energy that a particular food provides. Consuming more calories than needed will result in weight gain, consuming too few will result in weight loss. How many calories a person should eat each day depends on a variety of factors, such as age, size, sex, activity levels, and general health. Read now
What is a healthy weight? To find their ideal weight, an individual must look at a number of factors, including gender and activity level. Learn how to find your healthy weight. Read now
How can I lose weight? Losing weight effectively and keeping it down involves a number of factors, including being physically active, eating the right types of foods and getting enough sleep. An individual's age, height, and activity levels can affect factors such as the number of calories needed. Find out more about how to lose weight. Read now
email email
print
share share
Cosmetic Medicine / Plastic Surgery
Genetics Obesity / Weight Loss / Fitness Seniors / Aging
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Wed 28 June 2017.
Visit our Cosmetic Medicine / Plastic Surgery category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Cosmetic Medicine / Plastic Surgery.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Dennis, E. A., Dengo, A. L., Comber, D. L., Flack, K. D., Savla, J., Davy, K. P., & Davy, B. M. (2009, August 6). Water consumption increases weight loss during a hypocaloric diet intervention in middle-aged and older adults. Obesity, 18(2), 300-307. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2859815/
FDA. (2015, April 29). FDA approves treatment for fat below the chin [News release]. Retrieved from https://www.fda.gov/newsevents/newsroom/pressannouncements/ucm444978.htm
Hetherington, M. M., & Regan, M. F. (2011, October). Effects of chewing gum on short-term appetite regulation in moderately restrained eaters [Abstract]. Appetite, 57(2), 475-82. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21718732
Konda, D., & Thappa, D. M. (2012, December 14). Mesotherapy: What is new? Indian Journal of Dermatology, Venereology, and Leprology, 79(1), 127-134. Retrieved from http://www.ijdvl.com/article.asp?issn=0378-6323;year=2013;volume=79;issue=1;spage=127;epage=134;aulast=Konda
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Johnson, Jon. "How to get rid of a double chin?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 28 Jun. 2017. Web.
24 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/318131.php>
APA
Johnson, J. (2017, June 28). "How to get rid of a double chin?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/318131.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Study reveals how general anesthetics affect the brain
For the first time, scientists have shown that general anesthetics activate the same small group of cells in the brain as that which induces sleep.
Ginkgo seeds may help keep skin blemish-free, but there's a catch
Ginkgo seed extracts can fight bacteria that harm the skin, but researchers are still a long way from developing them into safe products.
How ketamine can change the brain to fight depression
New research in mice pinpoints some of the key mechanisms that ketamine triggers in the brain to fight the symptoms and characteristics of depression.
Using small molecules to regenerate heart tissue
New research in mice uses gene-regulating molecules called microRNAs to repair heart tissue after an adverse cardiovascular event such as a heart attack.
Can a blood pressure drug protect the brain from Parkinson's?
At blood levels that are typical in humans, an approved high blood pressure drug was able to clear toxic proteins of Parkinson's disease from mouse brains.
Popular in: Cosmetic Medicine / Plastic Surgery
How do I stop my hair from being dry?
What are the side effects of laser hair removal?
Does CoolSculpting work?
Can you use Botox under your eyes?
How long does laser hair removal last?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/318131.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);