Real Facts on Urinary Tract Infections
Skip to main content
Search This Blog
oblishblot
Real Facts on Urinary Tract Infections
Get link
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Email
Other Apps
August 06, 2017
It’s a common misconception that a urinary tract infection (UTI) automatically equals a bladder infection. In reality, a UTI can develop in any part of the urinary tract, including the urethra, bladder, ureters, or kidneys.
The villain in this scenario is bacteria. When a UTI is diagnosed and treated properly, most people won’t have complications.
How can you make sure this happens to you?
Symptoms
The Urology Care Foundation – which is the official foundation of the American Urological Association (AUA) – describes a UTI as the lining of the bladder and urethra becoming red and irritated just like your throat does during a cold. This can result in pain in the belly and pelvic area, and may make you feel like urinating more frequently. Sometimes trying to urinate isn’t successful, as only a few drops are released and/or there’s burning. Incontinence can occur, and the urine can smell bad or look cloudy.
Women tend to get more bladder infections than men, according to the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK). At least 40 to 60 percent of women will get a UTI in their lifetime, and most of those infections are bladder infections. Additionally, one in four women will be likely to have a recurrence.
We can blame our anatomy for making us more likely to get bladder infections. We have a shorter urethra, which means bacteria have a shorter distance to travel. Men’s urethras are at least 10 cm while ours is only 4 cm. The opening to the urethra is also closer to the rectum in women, and that’s where bacteria live.
Presdisposed
Some people tend to get these infections more than others. It can be a matter of the bacteria itself, so if someone is colonized with bacteria that has a receptor that binds tightly to the bladder mucosa, UTIs become more common, says Dr. Lisa Hawes, a urologist who specializes in women’s urologic care and is a consultant for the AUA on female pelvic health. She says incomplete emptying as well as constipation also increases the risk.
Post-menopausal women often get UTIs because of the change in vaginal flora coupled with the loss of hormones – in other words, less estrogen, says Dr. Hawes. New birth control pills – which cause a change in hormone levels – can also result in a UTI.
Other anatomical reasons for being plagued with UTIs are possible (stones, prolapse, incontinence), says Dr. Aisha Taylor, urologist in the Department of Urology at Magee-Womens Hospital and assistant professor of female urology at the University of Pittsburgh. A specialist can address these causes. Genetic risks are still being studied.
The NIDDK says you’re more likely to develop a bladder infection if you:
Are sexually active
Have gone through menopause
Use certain types of birth control, like diaphragms or spermicide
Have trouble emptying your bladder completely
Have a problem in your urinary tract that blocks or obstructs the normal flow of urine (kidney stone)
Have diabetes or problems with your body’s immune system
Recently used a urinary catheter
Had a UTI in the past.
Minimizing re/occurrence
If infections in the lower urinary tract (like bladder infections) aren’t treated, they can lead to kidney infections. A bladder infection during pregnancy is more likely to become a kidney infection, which is why pregnant women are routinely tested for bacteria in the urine.
People often talk about avoiding tight underwear or clothing because they can lead to UTIs. This is another common misconception, as this has never been proven. What does help, however, is the following, according to Dr. Hawes and Dr. Taylor:
Drinking lots of fluid (especially water)
Voiding regularly without holding too long
Avoiding constipation (sometimes Miralax is needed)
Voiding within 30 minutes after intercourse
Dietary cranberry supplementation
Treatment
The most likely treatment is antibiotics, but it depends on the diagnosis. The NIDDK says that researchers are studying ways to treat or prevent bladder infections without antibiotics, because the bacteria that cause these infections can become stronger and harder to fight when antibiotics are taken repeatedly. Alternate approaches can include probiotics, vaginal estrogen, and “watchful waiting.”
Recent research led by Dr. Stefan Heytens from the University of Ghent, Belgium, published in Clinical Microbiology and Infection has found that the majority of women who had UTI symptoms probably did have a bacterial infection, even when nothing was detected through standard urine testing. A more sensitive test was able to pick this up. The consequence is that testing might be unnecessary for women with symptoms of an uncomplicated UTI. It’s not yet determined whether all women with these symptoms would benefit from antibiotics.
Dr. Hawes has seen this data and says there’s a company she knows of that advertises a urine test they claim is better than a culture, similar to the test in the study. She’s used it before, but has found many glaring inconsistencies in the results. “Although there may be something to this concept, the tests available at this time are not helpful in my opinion,” she says. “Perhaps the test will be better refined with time.”
Dr. Taylor wasn’t surprised by the study either, but says the finding doesn’t contradict her approach. “We treat symptoms and await culture results (OTC medication or prescription strength medication),” she says. “By the time culture results are back, women feel better with this approach.” She looks forward to more sensitive tests to aid in UTI diagnoses.
In the meantime, evidence shows that treating the symptoms of frequency, urgency, and painful urination with a urinary analgesic and waiting for culture data to be available has the same microbiologic outcomes as treating with just antibiotics, says Dr. Taylor. “In fact, this strategy addresses patients’ symptoms sooner and better than antibiotics alone,” she adds.
Often missed with patients is a chronic nonbacterial cystitis, which can be misdiagnosed as a UTI and treated as such, says Dr. Hawes. They have UTI symptoms with a negative culture. This inflammation of the bladder can be improved with proper treatment, not antibiotics. “The take-home message here is that if you feel like you have a UTI and you seek treatment, ask the treating physician to send a culture!” says Dr. Hawes. “This ensures a bacteria is present [if it is in fact a UTI, and] an antibiotic is necessary.”
Fitness/Wellness Women's Health
Get link
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Email
Other Apps
Comments
Post a Comment
Popular posts from this blog
Understanding the Symptoms of Mesothelioma
March 13, 2018
Mesothelioma Cancer What is Mesothelioma? Mesothelioma is a serious malignant tumor that affects the torso of the human body. There is a strong link between mesothelioma and contact with asbestos particles via breathing or swallowing. There are three common forms of mesothelioma: 1. Pleural Mesothelioma is the most common form of Mesothelioma. It starts in the chest cavity (after breathing the particles) before spreading to other areas. 2. Peritoneal Mesothelioma starts in the abdomen (after swallowing the particles) and accounts for about 10-20% of Mesothelioma patients. 3. Pericardial Mesothelioma is the rarest form of Mesothelioma.
It starts in the cavity that surrounds the heart. Mesothelioma is difficult to diagnose early on because the symptoms are often mistaken for those of other, less serious ailments. To make matters worse, it often takes many years for the symptoms to show up after the contact with asbestos takes place. Individuals with a history of extended asbestos exposu…
Read more
Mesothelioma Cancer and Asbestos
December 10, 2017
Mesothelioma is a form of cancer which occurs in thin membranes (called the mesothelium) lining the chest, lungs, abdomen and sometimes the heart. Although quite rare, mesothelioma symptoms strike more than 200 people each year in the United States. The majority of mesothelioma cases are directly linked to asbestos exposure. Because of the long latency period of mesothelioma, the average age of patients is between 50 and 70 years. Mesothelioma affects men most due to the high exposure of asbestos in industrial typed jobs. Mesothelioma symptoms include respiratory problems, shortness of breath, continual cough and pneumonia. Other mesothelioma symptoms include weight loss, abdominal problems and swelling. In some mesothelioma patients, the mesothelioma symptoms are quite muted, making it hard for mesothelioma doctors to diagnose.
Mesothelioma doctors specialize in the study, research, and treatments of Mesothelioma cancers. Mesothelioma (or the cancer of the mesothelium) is a disease i…
Read more
Mesothelioma Diagnosis: Understand the Diagnostic Process
December 10, 2017
MESOTHELIOMA DIAGNOSIS
Doctors use a variety of tests to diagnose mesothelioma, including imaging scans, blood tests, biomarkers, and biopsies. Early detection is the best way to improve your chances of survival. If you have been diagnosed with mesothelioma, connect with a specialist who can help you create a personalized treatment plan.
UNDERSTANDING YOUR MESOTHELIOMA DIAGNOSIS If you or a loved one has been diagnosed with mesothelioma, you may have many questions running through your head:
How did I get this terrible disease? Should I get a second opinion? What does this diagnosis mean for me, my family, and others that I care about? Could I have been misdiagnosed? How will I be able to pay for treatments? These and similar questions are perfectly natural. The best way to get information about your specific situation is to connect with a mesothelioma doctor who can answer your questions.
How Mesothelioma Is Diagnosed In most cases, cancer specialists will approach a mesothelioma diagnosis by f…
Read more
Powered by Blogger
Theme images by Michael Elkan
Archive
March 20181
December 20174
August 201745
Labels
Finding Treatment
Fitness/Wellness
Legal Options
Men's Health
Mesothelioma
Mesothelioma Law Firm
Nutrition
Symptoms
Women's Health
Report Abuse