Diet Program
Bibilically-Backed Diet
Get Started Meal Plan
Recipes
Why Eat Raw?
Scientific Research
Food Education
About Us
Buy now
Do Carrots Really “Make Your Eyes Shine”? Carrot Juice Benefits, Myths & More
Resource Center
Education
Health Tips
News
Healing Stories
Videos
Webinars
How many of us heard our parents say “Eat your carrots, eat your carrots, eat your carrots,” and now it’s one of those phrases that forever plays out in our heads at mealtimes? As pressing as those words may be, they’re not without merit. Carrots are a superfood and they do “make your eyes shine,” but not in the way most people think.
As one of the most popular root vegetables worldwide, carrots offer a lot of nutritional benefits, especially when eaten raw and even more so in juice form. Carrots and carrot juice benefits range from nourishing the structures that enable vision to improving cholesterol levels and helping with weight loss. Keep reading to uncover the myths surrounding this hearty vegetable and the very real nutritional benefits carrots and carrot juice have to offer.
How Do Carrots Nourish the Eyes?
Along with other essential nutrients, carrots contain ample amounts of beta-carotene, a pigment material that accounts for their orange color. The human body uses beta-carotene to make vitamin A. As far as eye health goes, vitamin A enables the eyes to convert light into a signal that’s sent to the brain. This signal allows the eyes to see under conditions of low light.
Although greens vegetables are the main source of the yellow pigment lutein, carrots also contain lutein, another essential nutrient for maintaining eye health. Lutein has antioxidant properties that help keep the central part of the retina from deteriorating. Also known as the macula, this area of the retina keeps your vision clear and free of distortions or blurriness. In effect, lutein increases the thickness of the macula and prevents it from deteriorating. Carrot and carrot juice benefits for the eyes stem from their high levels of beta-carotene and lutein.
Myths
“Eating lots of carrots will help you see better.”
While eating lots of carrots will help support healthy vision, doing so won’t eliminate the need for glasses or contacts if you already need them. Carrot and carrot juice benefits support the physical structures that enable vision, and that’s it. Eating carrots won’t improve your vision. On the other hand, if you have a vitamin A deficiency (which is a rarity in the Western world) eating more carrots may help you see better. The same goes in cases of severe alcoholism, as well as in cases where the body is unable to properly absorb vitamin A.
“Eating carrots is the best food to eat to keep your eyes healthy.”
Carrots may well be a healthy source of beta-carotene and vitamin A, but other types of vegetables also offer high amounts of these nutrients. In fact, some vegetables, such as kale, spinach, and even sweet potatoes, deliver higher amounts of vitamin A than the body can convert from carrots. These vegetables are also good sources of vitamin E and C, both of which support healthy eyes.
“Eating carrots in raw form, without dips or sides, delivers the most nutritional value.”
Vitamin A is a fat-soluble material. This means eating a healthy fat along with carrots helps the body fully absorb the vitamin A it produces from beta-carotene. Guacamole and almond butter are two healthy fats that pair nicely with raw carrot sticks.
“Only foods containing high levels of beta-carotene can support healthy vision.”
Like any other area of the body, the eyes require a balanced mix of different nutrients to function at their very best. In this respect, a balanced diet that incorporates the full spectrum of essential nutrients, high fiber, and omega 3 fatty acids can support the different structures and systems that contribute to healthy sight. Examples of these types of foods include blueberries, fish oil, walnuts, flax seeds, and any fruit or vegetable high in vitamins E and C.
Carrots vs Carrot Juice: Which One Packs the Biggest Nutritional Punch?
Juicing, in general, offers an easy way to boost the nutritional value of fruits and vegetables, carrots included. Since it takes a minimum of three to four carrots to make a single serving of carrot juice, you’re getting three to four times the nutritional value than “crunching” through one or two single carrots. Carrot juice benefits run the gamut, supporting many vital systems throughout the body, including:
Helps flush toxins from the body
Boosts your immune system health
Lowers your cancer risk
Supports stable blood sugar and cholesterol levels
Helps remove plaque from your arteries while supporting healthy blood circulation
New Generation CarrotJuiceMax – An Organic Superfood
As with most products on the shelf, not all carrot juice products are created equal. Our New Generation CarrotJuiceMax offers a rich source of beta-carotene along with a healthy balance of vitamins, minerals, and enzymes.
In addition, our organic formula uses a proprietary dehydration process that’s designed to protect these vital nutrients. Whether mixed with water or a fruit or vegetable juice combo, New Generation CarrotJuiceMax delivers a sweet, wholesome taste without the use of preservatives or artificial ingredients.
If you’re wanting to support your eye health for years to come, Hallelujah Diet’s New Generation CarrotJuiceMax is the way to go!
You May Also Like:
Plant-Based Diet May Reduce Risk of Prostate Cancer, Study Finds
A new study points to the notion that consuming a clean food diet is one of the best ways to reduce the risk of prostate cancer among men.
Read More
Product Spotlight: The Perfect Cleanse
When it comes to ridding the body of accumulated toxins and waste materials, juice cleanses are the way to go.
Read More
3 Ways to Keep Your Vitamin D Levels Up
Could you be one of the overwhelming numbers of Americans who are deficient in vitamin D? In fact, other than
Read More
email
facebook
twitter
pinterest
Comments
Jamie March 15, 2019
Great article! I loooove carrots. Anyone interested in this stuff should definitely check out the book Everyday Roots. It teaches you how to replace all the toxic chemicals in your life with healthy organic alternatives. Its completely changed my life and how I feel everyday! 🙂
Heres a great review of everday roots: http://reggiesreview.weebly.com/everyday-roots-review.html
Keep up the great content!
Reply
Connie March 16, 2019
From this article, I learn that carrot juice can help improve eyesight, help with weight loss, and improve cholesterol level.
Carrot and carrot juice benefits for the eyes come from their high levels of beta-carotene and lutein.The body uses beta-carotene (the orange color) to make Vitamin A, which helps the eyes to see in low light. Carrots also contain lutein ( the same a green vegetables do).
The macula, (part of the retina) keeps your vision clear and free of distortions or blurriness. Lutein increases the thickness of the macula and prevents it from deteriorating.
Carrots and other vegetables such as kale, spinach, and even sweet potatoes, deliver high amounts of vitamin A to the body. Healthy fats like guacamole and almond butter can help my body absorb the Vitamin A.
Reply
Angela M Solomon March 18, 2019
What a great article on carrot juice! This is such imformative information and so important for us to read and utilize. Our eyes are something to not take for granted.
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
60-day money back guarantee
The Hallelujah Diet®, BarleyMax®, Hallelujah Diet™ and Fall In Love With Food Again™ are trademarks. Used under license. © 2019 Hallelujah Diet. All Rights Reserved.
Contact
Affiliate Program
Wholesale
Become a Health Minister
Want to get in touch?
United States 1-800-915-WELL (9355)
Canada 866-478-2224
Local & International 704-481-1700
Find us online
Disclaimer: Nothing contained on this Site is intended to provide health care advice. Should you have any health care-related questions, please call or see your physician or other health care provider. Consult your physician or healthcare provider before beginning the Hallelujah Diet as you would any other weight loss or weight maintenance program. Individual results may vary. Testimonials appearing on this website are received in various forms via a variety of submission methods. The testimonials reflect the real life experiences of individuals who used our products and/or services. However, individual results may vary. We do not claim, nor should the reader assume, that any individual experience recounted is typical or representative of what any other consumer might experience. Testimonials are not necessarily representative of what anyone else using our products and/or services may experience.
Diet Program
Bibilically-Backed Diet
Get Started Meal Plan
Recipes
Why Eat Raw?
Scientific Research
Food Education
About Us
Diet Program
Bibilically-Backed Diet
Get Started Meal Plan
Recipes
Why Eat Raw?
Scientific Research
Food Education
About Us
Buy now