Fish oil and cholesterol reduction | iHealth Directory
Search
Grab our RSS Feed
Home
About
Site Map
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Cardiovascular Disorders
Health Supplements
Digestive Health
Skin Care
Cancer Research
Healthy Eating
Neurological Disorders
More
Fish oil and cholesterol reduction
Thanks to modern research, we know that cholesterol has a negative and a positive side. The bad stuff is called LDL, while the good is called HDL. The goal is to have a low LDL level and a high HDL level.
If you’ve ever had a blood test in which you’ve tested high for LDL and low in HDL, then you probably received a lecture from your doctor about the important of a healthy diet and improving your cardiovascular health. Since cholesterol acts as a clogging device within your arteries, it makes sense to try and eliminate or at least reduce its effect in your body. This is especially important if you have had a family history of heart disease, which includes heart attack or stroke. In the past, most people didn’t worry about cholesterol because it wasn’t something that was understood. However, now that we understand the link between our diet and our cholesterol levels, it has become much more important to nip this problem in the bud before it becomes serious.
There are many foods that cause high cholesterol, and often having high cholesterol goes hand in hand with having high blood pressure, which is sort of a double whammy for your heart. If this is the case with you, then you definitely need to make immediate changes to prevent a serious condition from developing. Even if you don’t have a problem now, adjusting your diet to make sure you don’t develop one is crucial.
Fatty foods, fried foods, and foods high in oils are known to be dangerous to your health, so it makes sense to avoid them whenever possible. Implementing a diet high in fruits, vegetables, fiber, and vitamin enriched foods can help you not only stay healthy, but improve your energy levels and immune response. Eating too much red meat and fried foods can have the opposite effect.
Also, research has shown a link between fish oil and cholesterol levels. Fish oil contains a generous portion of Omega 3 Fatty Acids, which are proven to reduce bad cholesterol and improve good cholesterol. Although you can get a healthy portion of Omega 3’s in other foods, fish oil is probably the most efficient way to do so.
There are many different types of fish oil, such as salmon, cod, and even shark, but some of the most effective supplements are those made from salmon. Salmon has a high antioxidant content, high Omega 3 content, and is also beneficial for energy levels. Although I hesitate to call it a “super food,” I would not have a problem recommending fish oil supplements to people looking to improve their overall health.
You can find fish oil supplements almost anywhere these days, but the best place to buy it is online, where you can usually get a great deal for buying in bulk. I like to shop locally for a brand that looks promising and then buy it online, where I can usually save 20-30%.
If you have a heart condition, high cholesterol, or high blood pressure, I highly recommend adding a fish oil supplement to your regimen. The improvement might take time, although in some cases people can see results within a matter of weeks. You can never be too careful with your health, especially when it comes to the health of your heart. Since it appears that fish oil and cholesterol levels go hand and hand, there isn’t any reason not to make sure you are doing your part to maintain a healthy heart and circulatory system. You might not need it now, but you’ll thank yourself down the road.
[quote|tags=fish oil]
Last updated on Jun 2nd, 2010 and filed under Health Supplements. Both comments and pings are currently closed.
Comments are closed
Related Information
Fish oil and cholesterol
Fish oil supplements
Good cholesterol food
Salmon oil
Cholesterol lowering diet
Fish oil capsules
Cholesterol test kits
All material on this website is provided for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended to serve as medical advices or instructions. Read our Disclaimer
Copyright 2008-2019 iHealth Directory