Genetic testing - Macmillan Cancer Support
Close
Find information, articles and activities relevant to you.
I've just been diagnosed
I'm having treatment
I've finished treatment
Older people
Teens and young adults
Children's cancer
Someone I know has cancer
I'm looking after someone with cancer
Cancer and other conditions
Cancer and pregnancy
Home
How can we help you today?
Online Community
Online Community
Login My Macmillan
Create Account
Create Account
Information and support
Get involved
In your area
About us
Search
Search
Go
Donate
Cancer type: General information
Cancer type search
Submit
Back
<
>
General information
Anal cancer
Bile duct cancer (cholangiocarcinoma)
Bladder cancer
Blood cancers
Bone cancer
Bone cancer, secondary
Bowel cancer
Brain tumours
Brain tumours, secondary
Breast cancer
Breast cancer, secondary
Cancer of unknown primary (CUP)
Cervical cancer
Children's cancer
Colon and rectal (colorectal)
Eye cancer (ocular melanoma)
Fallopian tube cancer
Gall bladder cancer
Head and neck cancers
Kaposi's sarcoma
Kidney cancer (renal cancer)
Larynx cancer
Leukaemia
Liver cancer, primary
Liver cancer, secondary
Lung cancer
Lung cancer, secondary
Lymph node cancer, secondary
Lymphoma
Melanoma
Mesothelioma
Multiple endocrine neoplasia 1 (MEN1)
Multiple endocrine neoplasia 2 (MEN2)
Myeloma
Neuroendocrine tumours (NETs)
Oesophageal (gullet) cancer
Ovarian cancer
Pancreatic cancer
Parathyroid gland tumours
Penis cancer
Peritoneal cancer, primary
Prostate cancer
Pseudomyxoma peritonei (PMP)
Skin cancer (non-melanoma)
Soft tissue sarcomas
Spinal cord tumours
Stomach cancer
Testicular cancer
Thymus cancer (thymoma & thymic carcinoma)
Thyroid cancer
Trachea (windpipe) cancer
Uterus
Vagina cancer
Vulva cancer
Womb (endometrial) cancer
Not found what you're looking for?
If you're struggling to find what you need, call our Support line on 0808 808 0000 (Monday to Friday, 9am-8pm)
More ways to contact us
Understanding
Understanding overview
What is cancer?
Cancer and cell types
Signs and symptoms of cancer
Getting diagnosed
How is cancer treated?
Why do cancers come back?
Diagnosing
Diagnosing overview
How cancers are diagnosed
Causes and risk factors
Organising
Organising overview
Your finances
Benefits and other financial support
Practical issues before and after treatment
Work and cancer
Travel and holidays
Planning for the future with advanced cancer
Make money one less worry
Treating
Treating overview
Decisions about treatment
Surgery
Chemotherapy
Radiotherapy
Hormonal therapies
Targeted therapies
Stem cell and bone marrow transplants
Supportive and other treatments
Clinical trials
Life after cancer treatment
Coping
Coping overview
Getting support
Your emotions
Maintaining a healthy lifestyle
Side effects and symptoms
Changes to appearance and body image
Relationships and sex
Talking about cancer
Advanced cancer
At the end of life
Complementary therapies
Resources
Resources overview
Publications
Other languages and formats
Cancer information videos
Research and evidence
Stories
Tools and toolkits
Information for teachers and schools
Training
Other sources of support
More
Home ›
Information and support ›
Diagnosing ›
Causes and risk factors ›
Genetic conditions and inherited cancers ›
Genetic testing
Genetic testing
Need to talk? 0808 808 00 00 7 days a week, 8am-8pm Call us free*
Genetic testing is usually offered to the person in your family with cancer. If a cancer gene is found, other family members can choose to be tested. Children aren’t usually tested.
Genetic testing is done in two stages:
Step 1 Mutation search – The laboratory look for the cancer gene using a blood sample from the person who has cancer.
Step 2 Predictive testing – If a mutation is found at stage 1, other family members will be tested.
If a cancer gene mutation is found, this means you have an increased risk of getting a specific cancer. You might want to tell other family members so they can get tested. Having a faulty gene isn’t your fault and there is lots of support available for you and your family.
If a cancer gene mutation isn’t found, this is called no mutation detected (NMD). This can happen even if there is a strong family history.
Sometimes testing finds a mutated gene that has not been clearly linked with cancer risk. This is called a variant of uncertain significance. Because it’s unclear whether the mutation caused the cancers in your family, predictive testing isn’t offered.
Reviewed: 31 Aug 2015 Next review: 2018
How we write our information and the sources we use
Show more
Who is offered genetic testing?
Genetic testing in children
Genetic testing – a two-step process
If a cancer gene mutation is found
If a cancer gene mutation is not found
If the result is uncertain
Who is offered genetic testing?
Usually a person in the family who has had cancer has the test first. If a cancer gene is found, other members of the family can choose to have a test.
Sometimes, no living relative with cancer can be tested. In this case you may be offered a genetic test. But only if your family history strongly suggests there could be a cancer gene in your family.
If you have a family history of cancer, and have Ashkenazi Jewish or Polish ancestry, you may also be able to have a genetic test without a relative who has had cancer being tested first.
Back to contents
Genetic testing in children
Most cancer genes don’t cause cancers in children. Because of this children aren’t usually tested. Once they become adults they can make their own decisions about testing.
There are some exceptions to this. The main one is familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP). The FAP gene can cause growths in the bowel (polyps) from the age of 13. Because of this, young people with FAP usually have bowel screening from the age of 12.
Other rare conditions where children are tested for inherited gene mutations include:
Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 (MEN2) which can cause medullary thyroid cancer in young children.
Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) which can cause non-cancerous growths in the body in childhood as well as cancer in the kidney in young adults.
Li Fraumeni syndrome which increases the risk of cancer in childhood.
We have more information about MEN2.
Back to contents
Genetic testing – a two-step process
Genetic testing is usually done in two stages. These are the mutation search and predictive testing.
Step 1 – mutation search
First, the laboratory looks for the cancer gene that may run in your family. They do this on a blood sample from a member of your family who has had cancer. Doctors call this the mutation search. It usually takes up to about eight weeks for the results to be available.
Results of a mutation search may:
find a cancer gene mutation
not find a cancer gene mutation
find a gene mutation that isn’t known to cause cancer.
Step 2 – predictive testing
If the mutation search finds a cancer gene mutation, you and other family members can have a genetic test. Doctors call this predictive testing.
Predictive testing is faster than mutation searching. This is because the laboratory knows which gene change to look for and where to find it.
Back to contents
If a cancer gene mutation is found
This means you have inherited a cancer gene. This gene increases your risk of getting a specific cancer. Doctors sometimes call this a positive test result.
Other members of the family
If you have an inherited cancer gene, you may wish to tell family members so they can decide whether to have genetic counselling and predictive testing. This can identify who in your family has an increased risk of getting cancer and who doesn’t.
Medical test results are always confidential. Because of this, no one but you can tell relatives about your results.
Your genetics specialist may give you a letter you can give to family members. It will help explain the results and what it may mean for them. Their GP can refer them to their nearest genetics clinic or family cancer centre.
Family members who find they have not inherited the gene mutation in the family have a much lower risk of getting cancer. But it doesn’t mean they definitely won’t get cancer. They still have the same risk of getting cancer as people in general.
They won’t need extra screening or risk-reducing treatments. But they should still consider taking part in national screening programmes for the general population when invited to do so.
Your feelings
Talking about a cancer gene in the family can be difficult. People often worry about when and what to tell their children if they find out they have an inherited cancer gene.
It’s important to remember that having a cancer gene mutation isn’t your fault. No one is to blame for the genes they inherit or pass on.
Families sometimes have feelings of guilt, blame or responsibility. But, the genes we inherit and pass on is down to chance. We are no more responsible for inheriting a cancer gene than we are for our eye colour.
Your genetics specialist can help you talk through your feelings. You can call our cancer support specialists on 0808 808 00 00.
Back to contents
I have been to see a genetics consultant and he recommended that my daughters be screened from their late 20s, which I am happy with.
Olivia
If a cancer gene mutation is not found
If the mutation search does not find a cancer gene mutation, doctors call this no mutation detected or NMD.
Genetic testing does not always find a cancer gene in the family even if there is a strong family history.
There are several possible reasons for a test not showing a gene mutation:
There is a gene mutation in the family but it is in a gene that doctors have not yet identified.
There are several ‘low-risk’ genes in the family. These, in combination with environmental factors, can still increase the risk of cancer.
The cancers in the family are not due to an inherited cancer gene. The cancers have happened by chance or for other reasons we don’t understand.
Your feelings
You may have mixed feelings if you are told the test has not found a cancer gene mutation in your family.
You may feel relieved that a gene mutation, which greatly increases the risk of cancer, hasn’t been found. But this result also means that you can’t know for certain if cancer is an inherited problem in your family. And it’s not possible for you to find out your individual risk of cancer.
Your doctor and genetics specialist may still consider you at increased risk of cancer based on your family history. There are ways of managing a high risk of cancer. You may be offered screening and some people are also offered risk-reducing treatments. But deciding about having risk-reducing treatment can be more difficult when you don’t have definite information about your risk.
You may decide to make certain changes to your lifestyle to improve your general health. This may include giving up smoking, eating a healthy diet and being more physically active.
Back to contents
If the result is uncertain
Sometimes a genetic test finds a mutation in a gene. But the mutation has not been clearly linked with increased cancer risk. Doctors call this a variant of uncertain significance (VUS).This means it is unclear whether the gene mutation is the cause of the cancers in your family.
Because of this, the genetics specialist cannot offer predictive testing to other people in your family. But they may ask for samples from them to try to get more information. These extra tests may help them to decide if the gene mutation (VUS) is the reason for a family history of cancer.
You may also be asked to keep in contact with the genetics clinic. This is in case they discover more about the particular mutation found in your gene in future.
Back to contents
Back to Genetic conditions and inherited cancers (11)
You might also be interested in
Booklets and advice about genetics
Related
Information can help if you're worried about cancer in your family. Find out about risk, genetic testing and what you can do.
be.Macmillan
Talk about genetic testing
Related
It can be difficult to decide whether to go for tests about cancer and genes. We're here to help you talk about it.
Talking to us
Organise your own event
Get involved
Bring your great fundraising idea to life with our inspiration, guidance and advice about organising an event. You, and Team Macmillan, can change lives.
Organise your own event
In your area
Local area
What's happening near you? Find out about support groups, where to get information and how to get involved with Macmillan where you are.
In your area
Latest from the Online Community
Blog post
Mental health and coping with your emotions
Read about ways in which our Community users managed their emotions following their diagnosis. They talk about yoga, meditation and counselling.
Featured group
Emotional issues
Cancer can be emotionally draining, but sharing your feelings can help you and others in your situation. Talk about it here.
Latest posts in Emotional issues
Connerf1234 replied to Wife in hospital with blood cancer
Hi Anthony just came along your post, how are things going ? M husband was also diagnosed high risk MDS October 2018.
In Emotional issues
Aimee_es joined the group Emotional issues.
greg777 replied to Emotions
Hi TP69, Welcome to the forum although I’m sorry to read about what is currently happening for you. I would say what you are feeling...
In Emotional issues
Safe payments by:
Donate
About this site
Cookies
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Accessibility
Sitemap
Make a donation
Leave feedback
Macmillan sites
be.Macmillan
Community
Macmillan Shop
Learn Zone
Careers
Right there with you
We’re here to provide physical, financial and emotional support. So whatever cancer throws your way, we’re right there with you. Contact us.
Follow us
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Watch us on Youtube
Follow us on Pinterest
© Macmillan Cancer Support 2019
© Macmillan Cancer Support, registered charity in England and Wales (261017), Scotland (SC039907) and the Isle of Man (604). Also operating in Northern Ireland. A company limited by guarantee, registered in England and Wales company number 2400969. Isle of Man company number 4694F. Registered office: 89 Albert Embankment, London SE1 7UQ. VAT no: 668265007
Share
Click for previous items
Macmillan Cancer Support Facebook share
Macmillan Cancer Support Twitter share
Pinterest
Print this page
Export this page as a PDF
Bookmark this page
Click for next items
Top
Top
Thanks
We rely on a number of sources to gather evidence for our information. If you’d like further information on the sources we use, please feel free to contact us on: bookletfeedback@macmillan.org.uk
All our information is reviewed by cancer or other relevant professionals to ensure that it’s accurate and reflects the best evidence available. We thank all those people who have provided expert review for the information on this page.
Our information is also reviewed by people affected by cancer to ensure it is as relevant and accessible as possible. Thank you to all those people who reviewed what you're reading and have helped our information to develop.
You could help us too when you join our Cancer Voices Network – find out more at: http://www.macmillan.org.uk/cancervoices
Reviewed: 31 Aug 2015 Next review: 2018
How we write our information and the sources we use
Need to talk? Call us free* 0808 808 00 00 7 days a week, 8am-8pm
© Macmillan Cancer Support 2019
© Macmillan Cancer Support, registered charity in England and Wales (261017), Scotland (SC039907) and the Isle of Man (604). Also operating in Northern Ireland. A company limited by guarantee, registered in England and Wales company number 2400969. Isle of Man company number 4694F. Registered office: 89 Albert Embankment, London SE1 7UQ. VAT no: 668265007
We make every effort to ensure that the information we provide is accurate and up-to-date but it should not be relied upon as a substitute for specialist professional advice tailored to your situation. So far as is permitted by law, Macmillan does not accept liability in relation to the use of any information contained in this publication or third party information or websites included or referred to in it.
<% if (results.length !== 0) { if (parentNodes > 0) { %>
Top matches
<% if (childNodes > 0 || grandChildNodes > 0) { %>
More cancer types:
<% if (item.depthLevel > 1 && !item.isSynonymMatch) { %>
<% if (synonymNodes > 0) { %>
See also
()
We're sorry, we don't have any matches for that.
Browse all cancer types
Search the whole site for
Not found what you're looking for?
If you're struggling to find what you need, call our Support line on 0808 808 0000 (Monday to Friday, 9am-8pm)
More ways to contact us
<% if (item.brands.length > 0) { %> ( ® , )
<% if (item.brands.length > 0) { %> ( ® , )
® (brand name for )
<% if (item.brands.length > 0) { %> ( ® , ) (also known as )
No matches
(also known as )
No matches
Can't find what you were looking for?
Browse A-Z list