Is too much water bad for you? – Cape Canaveral Vacation Rentals
Skip to content
Cape Canaveral Vacation Rentals
Best Vacation ever
Primary Menu
Is too much water bad for you?
Posted on August 23, 2018 September 26, 2018 by admin
These days, we hear people mention the 8×8 rule more and more frequently. We don’t only hear it on TV or at the hospital, but also in the park, at the supermarket or even at the gas station. Everyone seems to understand that drinking eight 8-ounce glasses per day is a must if you would like to stay healthy.
Do our bodies actually need that certain quantity of water everyday? Or it’s just an innovation whose goal is to make us more cautious to what we drink?
Well, scientists have finally come to a steadier decision: It doesn’t matter how much water you consume every day, provided that your body is properly hydrated and you don’t feel the need to drink more.
And after all, there is no reason to question this, we all know that the human body can make us aware of our deficiencies. Don’t we feel the need to consume when our stomach is empty? Or don’t we start shivering when we’re cold?
There’s no point filling our body up with water if there’s no need for it. There’s actually a large reason why we should not.
It is a known fact that too little water may result in dehydration, and dehydration can easily kill you. But have you ever thought that too much water can also have the very same effect?
In everybody’s body, there’s a certain equilibrium between the electrolytes (the minerals from the blood along with the fluid that carries the electric charge) and water. Once this equilibrium is destroyed, that individual’s life might be in a real danger.
Physicians call this health dilemma”hyponatremia”, but it’s widely called”water poisoning”. It might sound funny, but it’s a very severe condition that, if not treated correctly and rapidly, may lead to renal failure and afterwards, death.
How does this happen? Well, when the amount of water from our body gets considerably higher than normal, the quantity of electrolytes will become too low for it, therefore an imbalance between these 2 would be inevitable.
And once that imbalance arises, the person will start to experience muscular cramps, dizziness, nausea and even convulsions. If these aren’t treated, they can rapidly lead to death.
Is it something we should try to prevent as much as we can?
Well, fortunately for us, it’s pretty tough to play tricks on a set of healthy kidneys, even by mistake.
This means that water intoxications are not as common in average people as they are in professional athletes.
Another study, published in the 2006 British Journal of Sports Magazine, states that physical exercises are frequently associated with hyponatremia due to the excessive water consumption.
But these examples aren’t something we should worry about too much, as they’re pretty rare instances in average men and women. The main thing is to consume a proper quantity of water after physical exercise or attempt, without exaggerating.
So, now you’re probably wondering”Okay, too much water isn’t good whatsoever?” , but can drinking a lot of water really kill you?
Yes, it can, in theory. But just like I said before, it is not really the case to worry, because you could not normally drink so much water that would cause water intoxication. Your body would show you clear signs and would make you stop.
But be careful how much water you have after a high work and make sure you don’t drink a much higher quantity than you feel your body needs. As long as you respect this, you’ll not ever have to ask yourself if drinking a lot of water can kill you. Check out medical marijuana doctors in florida for more
Post navigation
Need More Energy
Eat More Fiber
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Search for:
Recent Posts
Back Issues
How Cognitive Distortions Harm Us
Security Camera
Fro-yo
Choosing a Bong
Recent Comments
Archives
February 2019
October 2018
August 2018
Categories
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: xinxin by Fernando Villamor Jr..