Baking soda to cure cancer - medicclub.info
Articles about medicine
Medic Club
Search information
Home
Company
Services
Testimonials
Download
FAQ
Contact Us
Categories
Cancer-2
The Baking Soda Cancer Treatment in Tempe, AZ | Dr. Tullio Simoncini
Dr. Huber’s intravenous nutrient cancer treatment
Dr. Tullio Simoncini is a medical doctor in Italy who has done more than anyone to explore the uses of the baking soda cancer treatment (sodium bicarbonate) as an alkaline therapy against cancer. It is known that cancer creates and favors an acid environment and because of this,Dr.Simoncini and others have used baking soda as an alkaline therapeutic agent.
The way that acidity seems to protect cancer is not fully understood. It seems that cytotoxic T-cells, which may attack cancer cells under normal conditions, are inactivated in an acid extracellular fluid.[1] Also, the type of acidity that cancer produces, i.e., lactic acid, stimulates vascular endothelial growth factor and angiogenesis.[2] This is like a highway project, which enables a tumor to build the blood vessels that it needs to bring the nutrients for it to survive. So the tumor creates an environment in which it can then exist comfortably.
Baking Soda’s Alkalinity Fights Cancer’s Acidity
At a pH of about 10, sodium bicarbonate is an antidote to this acidity. It can be used clinically in sterile, intravenous form. This is a liquid, sterile baking soda. The baking soda cancer treatment (sodium bicarbodate or NaHCO3) is well-tolerated, even with frequent repeated dosing.
We will often recommend that some of our cancer patients take ¼ to ½ teaspoonful in water orally a few times per day as an adjunct to our therapies. This is not suitable for everybody, and may have repercussions in various organ systems if taken to excess. We are not advising anyone to do this unless they have been a patient at our clinic, and we recommend it to specific individuals. Also, there is risk of aluminum contamination with some available brands of baking soda, so one must be cautious with this.
An important part of ourintravenous therapies against canceris sterile, pure, intravenous baking soda. This is one of numerous anti-cancer nutrients that we use in our intravenous infusions.
A Concurrence BetweenCancer And Candida
Earlier researchers have found a concurrence betweencancer and candida . In Dr. Simoncini’s book,Cancer is a Fungus [3] he notes some similarities between the two. Primarily, both are intractable diseases, each very hard to get rid of. Dr. Simoncini notes that each forms a solid mass of low penetrability,
unlike the dispersed forms of bacterial and viral infections in the body or body fluids. Dr. Simoncini notes the problem of surface area in addressing these infections. Whereas bacterial and viral infections are dispersed in the solutions of bodily compartments, and likewise, antibiotics and other anti-microbials dispersed in the same solutions have access to each microbe.
A solid mass on the other hand, is approached by one of two routes: either the most superficial layer of the outer surface, or by way of any blood vessels that course through it.
In the case of a neoplasm, the approach of approximating the most superficial layer has the effect of challenging the survival of the cancer only enough to induce the genetic changes that make the tumor more resilient to further assault by the same or similar agents.
Therefore, a productive route to the core of the cancer, a more threatening assault on its survival, is by way of the bloodstream which is why IV’s are utilized for the baking soda cancer treatment.
Is Cancer A Fungus?
As for whether cancer is fundamentally a kind of fungus, the jury is still out. However, it is useful to know that not only does sodium bicarbonate(baking soda)disrupt the comfortable environment of tumors, but it also has anti-fungal effect.[4]
For the cancer patient, baking soda or sodium bicarbonate byintravenous infusion , is given by a practitioner who is knowledgeable and experienced in this area, has been helpful to provide an environment that is unwelcoming to cancer. Therefore we hope that this will become a more commonly accepted practice in cancer treatment. If you are interested in learning more about our cancer treatments, please give us a call or set up an appointment at our Tempe, Arizona office you can reach us at 480-839-2800.
Have any questions or comments? Let us know in the comments section below!
See the Results of Our Treatments from the Beginning of Our Clinic
[1] Fischer, Karin, et al. “Inhibitory effect of tumor cell–derived lactic acid on human T cells.” Blood 109.9 (2007): 3812-3819
[2] Beckert, Stefan, et al. “Lactate stimulates endothelial cell migration.” Wound repair and regeneration 14.3 (2006): 321-324.
[3] Simoncini, Tullio. Cancer is a Fungus: A Revolution in Tumor Therapy. 2nd ed., Edizione Lamte. 2007.
Category: Cancer-2
Similar articles:
Imaging of esophageal cancer
Slideshow: Precancerous Skin Lesions and Skin Cancer
Pancreatic Cancer: Types, Symptoms, Signs, Stages & Causes
6 Common Cancers - Lung Cancer
Chemoprevention of Skin Cancer Program Project
E-mail: business365.info@mail.ru