5 Marijuana Facts That Will Make you Think
News
Culture
Business
Giveaways
Join Us
Connect with us
Weed Brief | Cannabis News, Reviews and Cannabis Community
5 Marijuana Facts That Will Make you Think
News
Download The Free CBD Super-Guide and Learn How CBD Can Start Helping You Today!
Nature’s pharmacy: How cannabis combats allergies
Mike Tyson: Heavyweight champion, pigeon trainer & cannabis entrepreneur?
Pilot Loses License After Unknowingly Eating Marijuana Edible
“Read my charges in Rastafarian” Man Caught In Possession Demands
Culture
Download The Free CBD Super-Guide and Learn How CBD Can Start Helping You Today!
What’s the Best CBD Dosage?
RICO Marijuana Lawsuits: What you Should Know
How to Talk to Your Elderly Parents About Medical Marijuana
The Side Effects of Spice (synthetic weed)?
Business
Mike Tyson: Heavyweight champion, pigeon trainer & cannabis entrepreneur?
How To Sell Weed Legally Without a Marijuana License
RICO Marijuana Lawsuits: What you Should Know
Legal Guide to the Business of Weed
How to Finance a Marijuana Business
Giveaways
Join Us
News
5 Marijuana Facts That Will Make you Think
Published
9 months ago
on
July 23, 2018
By
David N.
Share
Tweet
According to the DEA, weed is getting stronger, why? My guess is human interference, what do you think?
In 2016, after looking at 39,000 samples of illegal weed. Researchers found that there was an increase in sinsemilla samples; sinsemilla is a variety of weed that has very high levels of THC. The study concluded:
“There is a shift in the production of illicit cannabis plant material from regular marijuana to sinsemilla, this increase in potency poses higher risk of cannabis use, particularly among adolescents.”
Here is a quick fact, 17% of teenagers who start smoking weed today will become addicted, why? The answer to that is very simple; they have easy access to high THC strains of weed and nowadays, most people think that low THC weed is low quality.
The thing is. Weed is not an addictive drug neither is it a gateway drug. However, high-potency strains of marijuana are not safe especially for young adults and teenagers, why?
Fact #1: High Potency Weed is Bad for You
After studying the brains of 20 pot smokers and 20 nonsmokers in 2014, researchers from Harvard University found that people who smoke marijuana recreationally had notable brain abnormalities. The study also found that “the more marijuana users reported consuming, the greater the abnormalities in the nucleus accumbens and amygdila.” The shape and density of both of these regions also differed between marijuana users and nonusers.
According to Hans Breiter (one of the researchers):
“This study raises a strong challenge to the idea that casual marijuana use isn’t associated with bad consequences”
Another study that looked into the effect of ‘skunk’ compared to ‘regular’ pot, done by the Institute of psychology at King’s College in London found that. Skunk or high potency weed users had more damage to corpus callosum or white matter, which is the part of the brain that carries signals between the brain’s left and right sides.
This may lead to increased risk of psychosis and mental illness.
Dr. Paola Dazzan (led the study) said. “We found that frequent use of high potency cannabis significantly affects the structure of white matter fibers in the brain, whether you have psychosis or not”
“This reflects a sliding scale where the more cannabis you smoke and the higher the potency, the higher the damage will be” Paola Dazzan.
Fact #2: The Term “Marijuana” Has Racist Origins
Back in 1994, John Ehrlichman (former Nixon domestic policy chief) said:
“You understand what I’m saying? We knew we couldn’t make it illegal to be either against the war or black, but by getting the public to associate the hippies with marijuana and blacks with heroin. And then criminalizing both heavily, we could disrupt those communities.” He added “we could arrest their leaders. Raid their homes, break up their meetings, and vilify them night after night on the evening news. Did we know we were lying about the drugs? Of course, we did.”
During the great depression, the word “marijuana” was used to evoke fear and hatred of foreigners. The funny thing is, it all started with one man. Harry Jacob Anslinger.
This is what Anslinger actually said in testimony before Congress:
“Marijuana is the most violence-causing drug in the history of mankind” he then added “most marijuana smokers are negroes, Hispanics, Filipinos, and entertainers. Their satanic music, jazz and swing, result from marijuana usage.”
Fact #3: It is Impossible for Marijuana to Kill you
Alcohol is responsible for 88,000 deaths each year, tobacco kills more than 480,000 in the United States alone, cannabis, on the other hand, is responsible for zero deaths worldwide each year, why is that?
When you smoke or ingest cannabis, the plant’s chemicals ride your nervous system to the brain and latch onto cannabinoid receptors. Cannabinoid receptors influence memory, pleasure, coordination and many other functions. That’s why you get high. The reason why it’s impossible for marijuana to kill you is. Cannabinoid receptors are not found in areas that control breathing, meaning, lethal overdoses can’t happen.
But remember, THC impairs your judgment and slows down your reaction time, thus, you might do something stupid while high and die.
Fact 4: The U.S Constitution was Written on Hemp Paper
Thomas Jefferson, one of the founding fathers once said: “hemp is the first necessity to the wealth and protection of the country”.
In 1916, all settlers in Jamestown (colony) were required by law to grow Indian hemp. In Massachusetts, mandatory hemp cultivation laws were passed in 1631 and Connecticut passed the same laws in 1632. That meant that refusing to grow hemp in America was once illegal. On top of all that, the U.S constitution was written on hemp paper.
Fact #5: Marijuana can Make or Break Your Financial Future
If you start using weed at a very young age, there is a higher probability of getting addicted. Being addicted to weed will affect your education and it will affect your social life.
Fact, Daily cannabis use will have stronger effects on a developing brain than it did 20 years ago, why? The answer is up there, weed is getting stronger. If you smoke cannabis daily, it will affect your school work, job, and relationships.
Here is the thing, today, without an education, finding any type of job is not easy. If you are young and you are a marijuana user, it is important to learn how to balance your school life and weed. The truth is. If you don’t learn how to do that, you will join the long list of people who say things like “weed ruined my life”.
What do you know about weed that we don’t? Tell us in the comment section.
Related Topics:featuredmarijuanamedical marijuana
Up Next
Where to buy Cheap Weed in California
Don't Miss
5 Stupid Ways You May Die While High This Weekend
You may like
How To Sell Weed Legally Without a Marijuana License
“Read my charges in Rastafarian” Man Caught In Possession Demands
“We should be even more concerned about youth access to marijuana” FDA Chief
Click to comment
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Newsletter
Latest
Popular
Galleries
Culture4 months ago
Download The Free CBD Super-Guide and Learn How CBD Can Start Helping You Today!
Health6 months ago
7 Tips On Giving Your Dog CBD
Health6 months ago
Does Weed Make You Hallucinate?
Health6 months ago
Nature’s pharmacy: How cannabis combats allergies
Business6 months ago
Mike Tyson: Heavyweight champion, pigeon trainer & cannabis entrepreneur?
Culture1 year ago
10 Signs Your Child is Smoking Weed
Culture1 year ago
Are You A Stoner? Take Our Quiz!
Culture1 year ago
Weed Brief is Giving Away Three PAX Era Vaporizers!
News1 year ago
5 Unique Marijuana Products to Try in 2018
Culture1 year ago
Five Weed Related New Years Resolutions
Advertise
Weed Brief Giveaways
Join The Tribe
Copyright © 2018 Weed Brief. Designed by Expansive Agency.