Home - Skin Tags Removal Help
TRENDING:
Verruca Plantaris
Skin Tags Causes And Treatment
What Causes Skin Tags?
Removal Guide
Reviews
Select Page
Home
Don’t Let Those Imperfections Stop You From Living Your Life.
In the modern world, where first impressions decide the fate of your personal and professional advancements in life, everybody wants a face and skin that will stun those around them. A small obstacle like a skin tag can make you feel conscious and insecure about your own self.
It is everyone’s wish to look and feel the best among all the people around them. Due to the high beauty standards, it is very much important to keep yourself updated with your personality and your Intelligence. Looking perfect has become one of the basic needs in the society.
You wouldn’t want even a small thing to come between you and your goal to look perfect. Skin tags are one of those things which even though are very tiny, can make you feel anxious. One feels anxious when there is something always hindering in their mind which needs to be mended as soon as possible. People feel conscious because these skin tags look very ugly and every person around you can notice them. It is always better to get away from these imperfections so that you lead a pretty confident and carefree life. Skin tags are harmless inflammations caused due to the continuous friction between skin onto the skin. Although there has not been any specific reason why skin tags occur it has been observed that these tags are usually found near the neck and the armpit region.
Tag-free Skin Is Possible Now!
What Is A Skin Tag?
Skin tags are nothing but, a harmless benign outgrowth of the skin. They are also called as ‘Acrochordons‘ which is a small flesh that sticks out of the skin. These tags are attached to a small stalk kind of thing which is called a ‘Peduncle’. They are predominantly made out of loose collagen fibers and even with blood vessels. Usually, skin tags are small, soft fleshy colored that hangs off the skin.
These tags are usually found in areas where there are folds, such as the neck area, armpits, around the groin area and even under the breasts. They are also present in the regions where there is a lot of rubbing against the skin. It is a rare possibility but these tags are also found on the eyelid and under the buttock folds. These tags are not usually painful unless there is any kind of friction produced from any outside force. Daily movement in these regions can cause friction on the skin which leads to irritation. Most skin tags vary in length up to 2-5mm in diameter, although it may even reach up to 5 cm in some cases.
Why Skin Tags Occur?
Skin tags are harmless nodes which do not cause any pain or discomfort until an external force is applied to it. Moreover, these tags are made of loose collagen fibers and blood vessels around your skin. Collagen is a type of protein found in the skin. It provides your skin with a specific structure and helps in strengthening your bones. Although there is no specific cause for the production of skin tags, some factors might increase the occurrence such as pregnancy, the friction of skin against the skin, family history etc.
People with obesity, diabetes, and people above the age of 60 are most likely to develop a skin tag. Pregnancy can be one of the major cause of skin tags. Mainly due to the hormonal changes which occur in a woman’s body during pregnancy. For diabetic patients, a skin tag is mostly related to ‘Hyperinsulinemia’. This is a condition when there is an excess amount of insulin in the blood than usual.
Symptoms Of Getting A Skin Tag?
Skin tags appear as an outgrowth, it looks like a small bump coming out of the skin. It has a stalking kind of a thing which is called ‘peduncle’. After some time when it grows a little bit, it turns into a fleshy colored. This will look like a blister which will get wider as it goes farther away from the skin. It is usually painless and benign, although it can hurt a little if a lot of friction occurs between the tag and the skin leading to slight irritation as well.
Click Here To Get Rid Of Tags Naturally
Is Skin Tag Contagious?
There is no way through which these tags can pass from one human being to another. It is a common misconception that by touching these tags one will get them, but it does not work that way. People often tend to confuse skin tags with warts. Skin tags are totally different from warts, as warts are usually caused by a virus called as HPV, which is a highly contagious virus.
Differences Between A Skin Tag And A Wart?
Many people misunderstand a skin tag to be a wart or vice versa. So here is an exemplified version about how a skin tag is different from a wart:
Basically, a skin tag is a soft outgrowth which is usually painless. This has a fleshy color and does not cause any harm to the body. It is located mainly in areas where you have folds such as on the neck, groin area, under the buttock fold, over the eyelids etc. Normally, skin tags are produced due to the friction or rubbing of skin against the skin but, they are completely harmless and do not have any harmful effects on the body.
On the other hand, a wart looks very similar to a skin tag but it is totally different. They lie deep inside the skin and when touched it is harder than a skin tag. It looks smooth from the top but they are very scaly. Warts are formed because of a virus. This virus is called as the HPV virus. Unlike skin tags, these warts are contagious and can spread through touch. This means that when a person having warts comes in contact with another person, it is possible for the latter to get warts. The treatment for this disease is pretty much painful. Some of the ways warts can be treated are freezing and burning those cells which contain this virus.
Do Skin Tags Have The Risk Of Being Cancerous?
Skin tags are basically an outgrowth which is painless. They occur due to constant rubbing and friction of skin against skin. Usually, skin tags are harmless in nature. They are not malignant and do not have any risk of being cancerous. Sometimes skin tags are misunderstood to be warts, because of their similarities in color and shape but these are very different from each other.
Their size can vary but if any irritation is felt over a skin tag, it is always better to get it checked by a dermatologist. Although these skin tags do not cause any issue it is always good to be on the safer side. If your skin tags tend to change its color, size or it starts to get itchy, then you should definitely consult a doctor.
As skin tags do not cause any trouble, most of the people do not bother to treat them, though there are many ways in which one can get rid of a skin tag. Many health experts and doctors recommend getting your skin checked at least once a month for safety.
Click Here To Eliminate Your Tags Without Scars
Skin Tag Removal Help: Is It Safe?
Although these skin tags do not cause any harm to your body it is better to get them removed as they might make you feel conscious. The process of skin tag removal help is safe if it is done by a professional. This can be relatively safe if you attempt it at your home. When you remove these skin tags at home, it is necessary to make sure that you clean all the instruments thoroughly. Make sure that the area is cleaned properly so as to prevent yourself from any kind of infection.
Do Skin Tags Grow Back?
A lot of people have this misconception that after removing one skin tag it will lead to the formation of more skin tags which is not true as skin tags are not related or contagious. Skin tags can grow back but not because you removed another, it can come back because of the continuous rubbing of the skin. If at all after removing one skin tag you get another one, it does not mean that this skin tag was related to the previous one.
Surgical Ways To Remove Skin Tags:
Cryotherapy: In layman’s language this method is also called “cold therapy”. This is a treatment which includes the use of freezing or using lesser temperatures. It is a method in which a person’s body is exposed to extremely low temperatures for a few minutes. Usually, cryotherapy takes place with the use of liquid nitrogen or argon gas to destroy any extra tissue. Hence this process helps in freezing the skin tags which will eventually turn it numb. After it turns numb, the blood circulation in the area stops. Then it eventually dries off and falls in the form of dead tissue. The affected area heals in 4-5 days with no scars or marks left. After the surgery is completed there are chances for the formation of blisters, if so it will break in some time. Use a clean cloth to dry that spot.
Ligation: You can use a thread well to get rid of these skin tags. Firstly clean that region with some antiseptic or alcohol, cut a piece of the thread or floss and do clean it with alcohol before using. Loop the thread around the tag and pull it closer as much as it is possible. Due to the force exerted around the tag the blood supply is restricted which leads to its withering. After some days the tag will fall off, apply any antiseptic liquid to clean that area. Use some ointment so that it heals completely, you can use a bandage as well to cover it.
Tag Removal Cream: Apply these creams directly on the tag after cleaning it once. It will take a maximum of four weeks for the tag to fall off. A lot of tag removal creams are available in the market lately.
Cauterization Or Electrosurgery: Often people use this method to get rid of tags. This method involves the burning of the skin at a very high temperature. A wire is used mostly to remove the tag. It takes a day or two to totally heal that area.
Home Remedies To Get Rid Of Skin Tags.
Following are some of the ways in which you can remove your skin tags with the help of natural ingredients available in the kitchen.
Iodine: It is considered that iodine can help one to get rid of a skin tag. Use some coconut oil or vaseline across and onto the tag. Dip a cotton ball or a q-tip in iodine and pat it across the tag and cover it with a bandage till the iodine is dried up. Repeat it regularly till the tag falls off.
Tea Tree Oil: This oil is considered to have many medicinal properties and known for treating many different types of skin diseases. Apply 2-3 drops of this oil on a cotton ball and keep it on the tag covered with a bandage. Follow this procedure at least twice a day to get the best results. It is not recommended to use tea tree oil if the tag is located near the eye or even on the eyelids. Repeat this procedure daily to get the best results.
Oregano Oil: This oil contains anti-inflammatory, antifungal and antiseptic properties and it is well known for its medicinal use. It helps in getting rid of the skin tag easily in a month. Use 2-3 drops of coconut oil and 3 drops of oregano oil together and apply it on the tag. Repeat it twice a day and do not forget to use this with a substitute oil. It is not recommended to use this oil near the eye area.
Garlic: Garlic is the most easily accessible medicinal compound in the market. It is known for its antibacterial and antifungal properties. Crush 2-3 cloves of garlic and apply it directly or in a thin cloth onto the tag and cover it overnight. The next morning rinse the area with water. Continue this procedure until the tag falls off.
Make Your Skin Smooth Again, Click Here
Reviews Given On Skin Tag Removal Help By Commoners.
Mark Royster:
I have used some home remedies to get rid of my skin tags and they have been very helpful to me. The ingredient that I used was Garlic, I crushed two cloves of garlic and used a light cloth and kept on my tag. It took three weeks for the tag to totally vanish. No marks or scars were left behind which is why I liked this remedy a lot. I had the tag on my neck which made me feel very anxious but that it is gone now and I feel a lot better.
Sebastian Nicholls:
I had five skin tags in total on my body, of which the one which caught people’s attention was the one on my eyelid. It was very ugly. There were times when I used to feel very conscious about it, especially when people looked at me. I wanted to consult a doctor but I was scared to get it removed by cutting which is why I decided to use this skin tag removal cream. All I had to do was to keep the tag covered with something so that the cream does not go off. I used to apply this cream twice in a day, once in the morning and one before sleep. In a week I started seeing results and in two weeks my skin tags were totally gone.
Bianca Cleggett:
It makes me very anxious when I found any imperfections in the mirror, which is why looking at my skin tag present on my neck always irritated me. I had a medium sized skin tag on my neck. It was very ugly to watch it as it was visible to anyone who approached me. I used iodine in the required area twice a day and used a cotton ball to cover it. It took me four weeks to see the tag fall off. The best thing about this home remedy is that it is painless and hassle-free. One of the best things to be taken into consideration is to make sure you do not get any kind of infection. Continuous cleaning should be done with some alcohol or antiseptic so that it does not get infected.
Samantha James:
I had a skin tag on my eyelid which was very disturbing for me, as it totally took all of the attention. People often asked me about it and advised me on remedies. I felt insecure about my whole appearance and wanted to get rid of it. Then I tried using some home remedies but only one came to my rescue that is the tea tree oil. I applied this oil every night before sleeping and kept in covered. It took three weeks for the tags to fall off. Now I feel more confident than before.
Reviews By Experts On Skin Tag Removal:
According to the experts, Skin tags are basically an outgrowth which is developed due to the continuous friction caused by rubbing of the skin against the skin. It usually occurs in areas with a lot of folds such as near the neck portion, around the groin, armpits and sometimes even on the eyelids. They are not harmful in any way and do not cause any pain.
The best way to get rids of these tags is to get it operated as it will be the safest way through which you can remove it. It is usually misunderstood that surgeries can be very expensive and hence people avoid it for a long time. But surgeries for skin tags are cost-effective and do not have much risk in it. Cauterization is one of the best ways to get rid of these skin tags as it does not leave any scars or marks behind it. Cryotherapy can also be used in order to remove skin tags as it helps in removing it by freezing the tags until the blood flow stops and the tag goes numb.
Also, there are some of the home remedies which help in getting rid of skin tags such as using iodine, tea tree oil which can be used and with time you will see their results.
Click Here To Get The Best Skin Tags Removal Solution
FAQs
Does cryotherapy cause any side effects?
Basically, cryotherapy is a method in which the skin is frozen first with the help of liquid nitrogen. This procedure is done in order to restrict the blood flow. It numbs the whole area which helps in reducing pain but due to freezing it in extremely low temperatures, it can cause some impact on the tissue around it. If the skin is exposed to these freezing temperatures for too long then it can lead to frostbite which can damage your skin. Hence it is always recommended to use cryotherapy method in sessions and each session should not exceed more than five minutes.
Do skin tag grow over time?
No, skin tags can vary in size from 2-5 cm. They do not actually grow but they can just increase a little in size. Usually, they remain of the same size. In some rare cases, skin tags might grow slowly on time. When the skin tags are larger, the doctor numbs that area before starting with the procedure. Even if the tag grows a little it does not cause any pain.
Is it fine if I want to remove my skin tags at home?
It is always recommended to consult a doctor in order to remove skin tags. If in case you want it to be removed at home itself you should do it with proper knowledge of it. There are some home remedies available which will help you in getting rid of these tags. But first and foremost, it is very important to clean the tag, and the instrument you use for it properly. Garlic, tea tree oil, iodine are some of the ways you can remove skin tags at home. Make sure you follow the correct procedure and clean the area thoroughly.
Summary
Reviewer
Linda Richardson - skintagsremovalhelp.com
Review Date
2019-01-19
Reviewed Item
Skin Tags Removal Help
Author Rating
5
Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress