Exercise and cholesterol. Exercise lower cholesterol.
Home
Home
What's New
Cholesterol Tips
Lowering Cholesterol
Lowering Cholesterol
Cholesterol supplements
Cholesterol Levels
Cholesterol Info
Cholesterol Diet & Foods
Cholesterol and Foods
Cholesterol and Diet
Cholesterol & Fats
Cholesterol Recipes
HDL LDL Cholesterol
Cholesterol Heart
Cholesterol Drugs
Cholesterol Drugs
Drugs Dangers & Effects
Zocor Drug
Lipitor side Effects
Triglycerides
Triglycerides
Contact Us
Contact Details
Exercise and cholesterol
Exercise and cholesterol - Step by step instructions of an easy and enjoyable exercise plan, without putting aside special time, without going to the gym.
Now, you already know why you need to exercise and what is the importance of exercise. So, lets not bother much with it. How many times have you heard that it is important to exercise and then go Yada, Yada. Who bothers with it? Will do it when I have time.
Most probably, the reason that only 10 percent of Americans adults exercise at least 3 times a week, is that you are not told how to exercise. If you're a non-exerciser you know you need to exercise but you don't.
Just before explaining some benefits of exercising and how to exercise, do not feel intimidated. You don't have to join a gym or take aerobic classes.
Find the Secrets to Lowering Cholesterol - Click here to Get A Free Copy of "Cholesterol Lowering Secrets" Report.
Exercise and cholesterol Benefits.
Now, there's one thing about exercise. It not only helps in cholesterol and heart disease, but it reduces the risk of death from all diseases. In a study reported in theJournal of the American Medical Association in 1989, 13,000 men and women were studied for eight years. The conclusion!?
The data showed that an unfit man could reduce his risk of death from all diseases by nearly 37 percent by becoming fit, and an unfit woman could reduce her risk by about 48 percent.
And in another study by the Centers for Disease control in 1989, revealed that people who do not exercise have twice the risk of developing heart disease as those who do.
How can exercise lower cholesterol, is by burning up fat in your body. And cholesterol is just a type of fat in your body. So through exercise, by burning fat, you reduce your cholesterol. In his book Dr. James M. Rippes Complete Book of Fitness Walking, Dr. James Rippe indicated that walking, which is a form of exercise lower cholesterol.
And for your spousal relationship, another study at the University of California showed that healthy men aged 35 to 65 who started a regular exercise program hugged and kissed their wives more often and had more sexual intercourse and more orgasms (not bad to have) than those who did not exercise.
Exercise and cholesterol What exercise?
Straight to the point. Over a lifetime, walking is the best possible means of reducing the risk of cardiovascular disease, of which cholesterol is the major culprit.
And you know what? Mile for mile, walking is actually the best fat burner. Walking four miles burns more fat than running the same distance in less time. And don't forget that cholesterol is just a type of fat.
Exercise and cholesterol Where and when to walk?
Your walking exercise can be very unstructured, quite easy and satisfy your body’s need for exercise to lower cholesterol.
Your goal should be to build up to a 30-45 minute easy walk three or four times a week, at your own pace.
For example, you can leave early enough for work in the morning and park your car one mile away or less from your office and walk the rest of the way. That walk, coupled with the return walk at the end of the day, will fulfill your daily exercise need, and make you feel invigorated when you arrive at work.
Or you can incorporate your work during your lunch, especially during winter, when extreme cold in the morning and evening might keep you indoors.
In addition, whenever you can, walk upstairs instead of taking an elevator. Stair climbing is an excellent workout that also helps keep your legs in shape.
Exercise and cholesterol Step by step hints
Wear the proper footwear.
Now, bear in mind that for walking your shoes need to be firmer, unlike running shoes that need to be softer. So, get a pair of shoes that are firm.
Take it easy.
Do not push it. Start slowly and build up strength. Perhaps the first week or two, or the first month, you may not even go for the 30 minutes or walk only twice a week. Remember that you are not racing and you do not have to prove anything to anyone. Take it easy first.
Do not eat before exercising.
It is best if there is no food in your stomach when you are exercising. Digesting demands energy and detracts from your ability to exercise well. The exception is fruit, since it requires very little energy to digest.
Drink water.
Dehydration can be a real problem in any form of exercise. Drink water, not soft drinks, Gatorade or any of the other fluids that contain chemical substances. Drink a glass of water before you walk and after you finish your walk.
Stretch your body.
Stretching is an excellent habit to practice while walking or after your walk. Stretching should be performed only after your muscles have warmed up and should never go to the point of causing pain.Last, but not least. With walking or any other form of exercise, consistency is the key.
Do it at a pace that suits you and does not put pressure on you. If you start slowly and then engage gradually, walking will become part of your life, just as putting clothes on in the morning.
Make walking a part of your life and you will never regret it.For best results, you might want to consider that together with exercise and walking, you use nutritional supplements, which are clinically proven to lower cholesterol.
Apart from exercise and cholesterol, you might want to learn how you can use supplements to lower cholesterol. To learn that, click here.
Explore More...
5 Foods That lower your Cholesterol Numbers
Top 7 Side Effects of Lipitor
New! Comments
Ask A question Or Leave a comment in the box below.
Vitamins And Minerals
Gugul-Lipid
Cayenne Benefits
Garlic lowers cholesterol?
Niacin (vitamin B12)
Phytosterols reduce cholesterol absorption
Vitamin C and Cholesterol
Policosanol
Daily intake of calcium that should be used to lower cholesterol?
Fish oil Supplements
Flax seed oil lower cholesterol.
Red Yeast Rice &Cholesterol
Ask A question Or Leave a comment
Are Your Cholesterol Levels Unbalanced?
New Feature!
Find Us On Facebook
Lipitor Side Effects
Zocor Side Effects
Ask a Question? Or Find the Answer Here
High Cholesterol Foods
Cholesterol & Supplements
Cholesterol Levels & Numbers
How to Lower Cholesterol Naturally?
Cholesterol Drugs & Their Side Effects
Cholesterol & Heart
Contact - Disclaimer - Privacy Policy - SiteMap - Testimonials - FAQ's