Fish and Cholesterol - What's the Connection?
LoweringCholesterolResources
Your Guide to Reducing High Cholesterol Naturally
Home
Foods
Diets
Supplements
Medication
Contact
Main Menu
Home
Diet for Lowering Cholesterol
Heart Healthy Recipes
Cholesterol Supplements
Ways to Lower Cholesterol
Dieting
Sample Diets for Lowering Cholesterol
High Fiber Diet
Coffee Diet
South Beach Diet
Heart Healthy Foods
Cholesterol Lowering Foods
Superfoods
Foods that Help Lower Cholesterol
Cholesterol Reducing Foods
Foods to Lower Cholesterol
Health Benefits of Fish
Foods to Avoid High Cholesterol
Fish and Cholesterol
Flax Seed and Cholesterol
Foods Good for Lowering Cholesterol
Foods That Lower Cholesterol
Healthy Snack Foods
How To Lower Cholesterol
Ways to Lower Cholesterol
Tips for Lowering Cholesterol
Exercise and Cholesterol
How to Naturally Lower Cholesterol
Medication
Cholesterol Lowering Medicine
Niacin Benefits
Statin Side Effects
Supplements
Cholesterol Lowering Supplements
Cholesterol Supplements
Fish Oil and Cholesterol
Flax Seed Benefits
Natural Products to Lower Cholesterol
Omega 3 Benefits
Red Rice Yeast
Additional Articles
What is Cholesterol
Benefits of Psyllium Husk
Causes of High Cholesterol
Causes of High Triglycerides
Cholesterol Ratios
Cholesterol Research
Cholesterol Screening
Cholesterol Tests
Choosing a Multivitamin
Effects of Nutritional Supplements
High Cholesterol Foods
High Cholesterol Symptoms
Normal Cholesterol Levels
Plant Sterols
Soluble Fiber
Wise Words
"Men are disturbed, not by the things that happen, but by their opinion of the things that happen."
- Epictetus
Fish and Cholesterol
Will Eating Fish Lower Your Cholesterol?
If you enjoy fish, as I do, then the fish and cholesterol lowering connection will interest you.
Yes, the oils found in fish will help improve your cholesterol readings. However, this is a bit of a misnomer.
Rather than lowering your total cholesterol, eating fish is more likely to balance out your cholesterol by lowering triglyceride levels. Many studies have been conducted which have shown the effectiveness of fish oil for bringing down triglycerides.
Fish and Dieting
I believe that everyone, whether or not they have high cholesterol should incorporate fish into their diet. Fish contains high levels of the nutrients that help us feel better and support mental health, both of which are very important when dieting.
The South Beach Diet is a great diet because of its emphasis on fish. It includes many wonderful recipes for fish that make it easy to stick with.
A Broad Based Approach
It is important to realize however, that fish or fish oil supplements are not a cure all for high cholesterol.
Because of the many benefits of fish oil, everyone can improve their health by taking fish oil supplements.
You can learn more about fish oil benefits at www.omega-3-supplement-review.com/
If you are serious about lowering your cholesterol, you will need to take a broader approach. An approach that includes increasing fiber consumption, decreased saturated fat consumption, and a more active lifestyle are necessary for bringing down those cholesterol levels.
Increasing your consumption of fish or taking fish oil supplements is only step number one and is by far the easiest step.
The most effective thing you can do to lower your cholesterol is to increase your consumption of fiber. Visit our page on superfoods to learn more about what fruits and vegetables can do for lowering your cholesterol.
You will find that the combination of fish oil and increased fiber intake will help bring those cholesterol readings in line.
Remember, the connection between fish and cholesterol lowering is misunderstood by most people. However, this type of broad based approach has been proven over and over again.
Click here to learn about a new product that effectively reduces cholesterol levels naturally
More than fish and cholesterol on the home page
© 2011 M H Resources | Design by styleshout
Home | Disclaimer | Privacy Policy