Anti-Science Quotable: Pretty much everyone at the GOP debate #vaccines | CauseScience
CauseScience
Science interest, advocacy, and explanation
Menu
Skip to content
Home
About CauseScience
Ask CauseScience a Question
Contact CauseScience
CauseScience Links
Follow CauseScience via Email
Follow
Search CauseScience
Search for:
Archives
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
Anti-Science Quotable: Pretty much everyone at the GOP debate #vaccines
Unfortunately, the “issue” of vaccines was brought up in the most recent GOP debate on CNN, and as one would suspect, the candidates performed poorly in regards to this subject.
First of all, here at CauseScience, we have posted NUMEROUS times trying to dispel any beliefs that parents should not vaccinate their children. Vaccines work and they are not linked to autism. period.
Second of all, I think journalist Ana Marie Cox from HuffPosts “so That Happened” podcast says it best, “CNN was irresponsible to even bring that up. If you even talk about the vaccine debate you give it credence.” Nailed it.
So what exactly happened at the debate? The Donald has been criticized for his adamant stance that vaccines cause autism, and so debate moderator Jake Tapper asked the other doctors on the debate panel if there was any validity to this. Obviously, we know Trump’s stance is just plain wrong, but I’d like to point out anti-quotable responses from the DOCTORS on the panel: Ben Carson and Rand Paul.
“We have extremely well-documented proof that there’s no autism associated with vaccination, but it is true that we are probably giving way too many in too short a period of time. I think a lot of pediatricians now recognize that and are cutting down on the number and the proximity in which those are done.” ~Ben Carson
“I’m for vaccines, but I’m also for freedom. Even if the science doesn’t say bunching them up is a problem, I ought to be able to spread my vaccines out a little bit, at the very least.” ~Rand Paul
“Vaccines are very important. Certain ones. The ones that would prevent death or crippling. There are others, there are a multitude of vaccines which probably don’t fit in that category, and there should be some discretion in those cases…” ~Ben Carson
At LEAST these doctors agree vaccines are important and not linked to autism. HOWEVER, the timing of vaccines and adhering to a vaccination schedule is INCREDIBLY important. In the New York Times, Dr. Paul Offit, a pediatrician specializing inin infectious diseases at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia explained, “When you delay vaccines, you increase the period of time in which you are susceptible to those diseases. We are seeing the effects of that. The outbreak we saw this year in Southern California was among parents who had chosen to delay or withheld vaccines for their children.”
Furthermore, WHAT are the “multitude” of other vaccines in which discretion should be used? That’s just not right. I’m sure more issues like these will arise as the election season warms up, but its disheartening to see candidates so eager to appeal to their base that they will completely ignore facts and scientific data (I guess that’s not surprising for politics). Importantly, in this situation, it’s irresponsible for these doctors to make such blatantly false statements regarding vaccines.
Advertisements
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
Email
LinkedIn
Tumblr
Pinterest
Reddit
More
Pocket
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
September 18, 2015 by psgurel	Categories: politics, Science, vaccine	| Tags: Ben Carson, CNN, GOP debate, Rand Paul | 1 Comment
Post navigation
← Happy #NationalCheeseburgerDay
Not up for debate: The science behind vaccines →
One thought on “Anti-Science Quotable: Pretty much everyone at the GOP debate #vaccines”
Pingback: Not up for debate: The science behind vaccines | CauseScience
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Follow CauseScience on Twitter
My Tweets
Blog at WordPress.com.
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: