diet Archives - Awesci - Science Everyday
Skip to content
Menu and widgets
Home
Categories
Biology
Chemistry
Computing
Earth
Engineering
Interviews
Mathematics
Medicine
Neuroscience
Physics
Psychology
Social Sciences
Space
Tutorials
Wisdom
About
FAQ
Subscribe
Uncopyright
Submit an Article
Random Article
Search for:
What’s hot?
Child Birth or Getting Kicked in the Balls
Crocodiles Do Not Die
Cassowary - The Most Dangerous Bird on Earth
Do Not Paint Your Walls Pink
An Incredibly Simple Way to Kill A Tree
Plants Can Grow Within Human Bodies
Mountain Dew vs. Coke - Which One is Worse
Harmless Flour is an Incredibly Explosive Substance
The Tarahumara People Can Run for 400 Miles Non-Stop
Titin Protein - The Longest Word in English
Join AweSci on Facebook
Join AweSci on Facebook
Tag: diet
Practical, Impractical and Bizarre Ways to Lose Weight
By Anupum Pant
Here are some impractical, practical and bizarre ways to lose weight scientifically:
1. Practical – Switch to Smaller Plates [Study]
While it may sound like switching plates won’t help your diet, it actually greatly affects the way you see, and consume food. In the long run it helps you lose weight effortlessly.
If you don’t believe me, I suggest you look at the following common optical illusion – Tell me which one of the circle that is filled with black color, is larger?
You know the answer. Although they don’t look equal to our not-so-smart brain, both of the circles are really equal in size. But what does that tell you?
Moral: Think of the black circle as food. Put it in a larger plate and you think it is less food, and you don’t mind adding little more food to it. Whereas, if you use smaller plates, the amount food looks like it is a lot already. As a result, if you own only small plates, you won’t add more food. Who am I to tell you that little changes give big results.
It has been proven by scientists that using smaller standard plates will reduce your consumption by around 20% every time. 20% is not less!
Note: Similarly, if you want to drink less, you could try replacing your short and stout glasses with taller glasses. This technique is based on another optical illusion known as the T-Illusion – which says that we tend to over-estimate the length of objects placed vertically. See it for yourself. [link]
Other Good Ways: In fact, before moving on to the bad ways, you must know that there are several good ways to lose weight without even trying hard. For instance:
Drinking good amounts of cold water can help to some extent.
Or, you could try making it a rule to turn away and use stairs, every single time you come across an escalator.
When you are travelling in a bus, make it a rule to always get down one stop before your destination.
An apple before breakfast everyday can help you lose weight by making you feel full due to its fiber content. – [Source]
Just place a mirror in your kitchen or your refrigerator door. Yes, that helps. How? See this – [Video]
2. Bizarre – Excessive Gum Chewing? [Study]
Wait! Before you try this, let me tell you, this is one of those impractical / bizarre ways to experience severe weight loss I was talking about in the first line of this post. Since excess of anything isn’t good – backed by the fact that in ancient China people committed suicide by eating a pound of salt – chewing excess gum probably isn’t a good way to lose weight. I mention it just for the sake of information.
Sugar-free chewing gums contain Sorbitol – a laxative. Chewing these in excessive amounts – about 15+ a day – can cause serious weight loss and chronic diarrhea.
You’ll end up in the hospital if you try this.
3. Impractical – Don’t get Married. [Study]
Although deciding to remain single all your life is not so impractical for everybody, you could consider it socially impractical (at least in orthodox Indian societies).
Yes, studies prove that Married men were 25% more likely to be overweight or obese than single men or men in committed relationship (i.e. dating or engaged). – Thanks to UsefulScience.org
Now, go and subscribe the budding 59 Seconds channel on YouTube and buy the book. That is what I am doing…
Related articles
Table Settings
A Healthy Weight
Gelli plate as …. stamp?
TAD 2014 – Day 13
Share the Knowledge
Tweet
Posted on February 14, 2014 February 15, 2014 Categories MedicineTags Avebury, diet, fitness, food, Health, latestpost, Leandra Medine, loss, Marc Jacobs, medicine, New Year's resolution, plan, Programs, science, scientific, Shopping, study, Supplements, Support Groups, weight, weight loss, youtube1 Comment on Practical, Impractical and Bizarre Ways to Lose Weight
Myths on Facebook – Negative Calorie Foods
By Anupum Pant
I have never felt the necessity to pay attention to diet related news/facts till date (now I do).
So, never in my life had I read the phrase “negative calorie foods”, until yesterday, when a friend posted the following “WTF fact” on Facebook:
Celery has negative calories! It takes more calories to eat a piece of celery than the celery has in it.
BS! I cried, and like with everything I read on the internet, I was skeptical about this too. Hence, I decided to investigate. Here is what I found out.
Negative Calories in theory
Theoretically, it is indeed possible for edible items to be negative calorie foods. It works this way.
The body takes more calories to process a negative calorie food item than it (the food item) provides to the body. That basically means that you can sit all day, eat celery, fill your tummy and still keep losing weight. Sounds too good to be true. Exactly!
A Myth
It has been proved once and again that the number of calories your body burns while processing food is tiny when compared with the calories in that food item. So, scientists haven’t yet found a truly “negative calorie” food item.
For instance, a stalk of celery provides 6 calories to the body, but the body expends only half of a single calorie digesting it. That is +five and half calories. As expected, It isn’t negative. In fact, none of the foods advertised have been conclusively proved as actually negative calorie foods. Except one, which again, isn’t really food.
Ice cold water is the only known negative calorie thing you can ingest. It needs more amount of calories to get processed in the body than it give the body. Most of this energy expended by the body goes into warming up the ice-cold water.
Celery is still good
However, that doesn’t mean celery is not a healthy food item. When compared to other greasy things you could ingest, celery of course is a good alternative (if you are looking to eat healthy). In terms of calorie intake, you’ll be doing great by eating a lot of celery to fill your stomach. But, positive calories mean that you’ll not lose weight unless you get moving. No wonder, virtually every dietitian has a load of celery mentioned in his/her diet plan.
Also, note that, while it is a good food, it isn’t something you could survive on. If you are thinking of trying an only-celery diet, you should know that you’ll be depriving your body of several necessary nutrients by trying that. Consult an informed nutritionist before trying a diet plan.
Finding an informed Nutritionist
To confirm if it is a good nutritionist you are talking to, you could probably test them by innocently inquiring if celery is a negative calorie food item or not. If he/she LOLs and tells you that it is a myth, it would be a good idea to go to them for diet plans.
Related articles
Starving Your Body Is Not The Solution For Weight Loss
Can Eating Certain Foods Help You to Lose Weight?
Healthy Carbs
5 Foods That Will Help Your Diet
Share the Knowledge
Tweet
Posted on December 27, 2013 December 27, 2013 Categories MedicineTags Calorie, calories, celery, diet, Facebook, food, Health, intake, item, latestpost, myth, negative, Negative calorie food, nutrition, plan, planning, science, scientific, weight lossLeave a comment on Myths on Facebook – Negative Calorie Foods
A Few Things About Sloths Everybody Should Know
by Anupum Pant
A few days back, on 20th October, Sloth Day was celebrated all around the world. You’d be thinking, what is so good about these strange animals, that makes people have a special day around them. Well, in that case, you need to read this.
What are these creatures?
Sloths are slow animals that make even cows look extremely active. They are so slow that they are almost stationary and algae grows on their hair. Most of their life is spent on trees hanging upside down. They hang on trees to protect themselves from the predators on the ground. Their bodies are so well engineered to stay inverted that the hair on their bodies, is oriented in the opposite direction – growing from stomach to back (This helps them to stay dry by draining water easily). Even dead sloths have been know to retain their grip and remain suspended after death. They come down only around once a week to excrete. They eat, sleep, travel, find partners, mate, give birth and even raise young ones in the canopies.
Although sloths might seem gross, creepy and unseemly, they really aren’t that bad. Sloths are sweet looking [1] [2] [3] animals (especially their babies, they are adorable) who can also swim efficiently and move wisely. We can definitely learn a lot from them.
Their diet is unbelievable
Sloths eat only leaves throughout their lives. They chew leaves slowly like cows to extract whatever nutrients they can. Sloth intestines are also adapted to extract the maximum out of their poor quality food, they are unusually long. They often like to shift to a different kind of leaf after a day or two. This balances their nutrient intake. Humans couldn’t possibly survive on a leafy salad diet for a very long time.
To save energy, sloths drop the temperature of their bodies at night. Even their bodies have more bones than muscles to prevent wastage of energy through muscular movement. After the Orangutan they are the most energy efficient animals.
Other facts about them
Sloths have blunt teeth to chew leaves properly, have large claws to hang on to branches and inverted fur orientation (as also mentioned before). Another interesting thing about them is that they have remained physically un-evolved for a long time because they don’t really have to compete with anyone else for their diet.
Mutualisms
This is where the awesomeness of Sloths come in. Sloths are home to a several kinds of other organism (tiny ones living in their fur). These organism depend on sloths (hosts) for various things and in turn provide an advantage to their hosts. This is called mutualism.
Algae + Sloth – Algae, for instance, uses the long grooves on sloth hair to grow with a secure footing. As a rent for this safe apartment, the algae gives them [sloths] a nice shade of green color to camouflage on trees. This and their still bodies make them virtually impossible to spot with the naked eye. The camouflage protects them from eagles.
Bacteria + Sloth – Apart from the several other bacteria which live inside a sloth to digest the leafy diet, two kinds of Cyanobacteria live on sloth furs too. These bacteria also give sloths a nice gray hue which helps them in the same ways as above.
The Sloth Moth – The Pyralidae Moth also live on Sloths. These feed on the algae which grows on the fur. In return for the good food, moths give them nothing. Yes, nothing. This is called Commensalism.
Others – Similarly, various other organisms like flies, mites and three types of beetles are often found living in a Sloth. Up to 900 beetles have been found on a single Sloth!
There is so much more to write about these amazing little creatures who provide for so many other creatures too. I’ll keep it for the second part that I’ll write some other day. So the next time you see a Sloth crossing the road, carefully pick it up by holding its mid body and gently place it on a tree. Remember to use a glove/cloth.
Share the Knowledge
Tweet
Posted on October 25, 2013 November 8, 2013 Categories BiologyTags 20th, about, amazing, animals, celebrated, celebration, commensalism, cute, diet, facts, learn, little, mutualisms, october, science, sloth day, sloths1 Comment on A Few Things About Sloths Everybody Should Know
Proudly powered by WordPress