10 Ways to Lose Weight for Lazy People
Free Health Tips
Home
Fitness Tips
Health Tips
Skin Care
Yoga
Weight Loss
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
HomeWeight Loss10 Ways to Lose Weight for Lazy People
10 Ways to Lose Weight for Lazy People
Cine Doctor January 10, 2019
Losing weight is no easy feat.
It’s hard to get up every single day, go to the gym, or follow restrictive diets. Some people don’t have time but many of us are just lazy when it comes to physical fitness and health.
We all want to do something for our body be it losing weight fast or just being fit. But the lazy person inside us (we all have one) doesn’t want us to do what is necessary for that. And for most people, they are unable to defeat the lazy person inside them.
But, don’t get demoralized!
Let the lazy person win the short-term game and focus on long-term game by slowly changing your body and losing pounds. Even for the laziest people on earth, there are tips and tricks that can help them to lose weight.
Even though they are lazy ways, they do require minimal effort from your side and if you can’t even do the bare minimum then it will be very hard for you to lose weight.
1. Cut The Sugar
Do you know for most people looking to lose weight what got them to where they are at the first place? Carbs.
And sugar is nothing but carbs, empty calories.
Now some of you might not consume raw sugar but that doesn’t matter. Because every food you love to eat be it colas, sodas, packed juices or any junk food is full of sugar. According to the American Heart Association, a can of soda contains 132.5 calories just from added sugar. So, your soda is not just a fizzy liquid it’s a huge source of carbs.
Carbs are so evil good that we train our body into thinking that it needs carbs for energy. It’s why you grab that can of soda or eat that cookie.
On top of that, sugary items are made so easy for us to grab with vending machines and packaging. You never have to worry about making them. That’s not all, eating sugar makes your body crave more sugar and you don’t even realize that you’re just flying through that candy. Piece after piece goes down.
Next thing, you end up consuming more carbs than our body can burn off so it ends up getting converted into fat.
Now, Sugar can stay in your diet as it’s not realistic to cut down sugar completely from your diet. But if you want to see a change in your body, you must put a limit on your sugar intake.
If you want that piece of cake, go eat it. But stop at one piece, don’t end up taking in two more pieces. Moderation is the key.
Slowly take away the amount of sugar you take in and eventually you’ll reach a point where you may not even realize you don’t need to have that piece of candy in your everyday life.
If you are serious about cutting sugar and want to see some substantial results then I recommend you check out this 3- Day Detox Diet plan.
2. Don’t Drink Calories
What’s better than a can of soda in summer heat or even when you are thirsty, right?
But these sodas are bad for your body and are one of the worst ways to gain weight. Even packed fruit juices are not good for your body as they are loaded with sugars.
Yeah, they taste good like every other thing loaded with sugars which fills your body with a ton of calories making you fat.
The best thirst quenching drink for the body is still plain old Water which contains zero calories. In fact, drinking water can be really helpful to you in losing weight. How?
Well, it’s 100% calorie free so you are no longer drinking calories. Plus, water aids in digestion so it helps burn more calories and even suppress appetite if consumed before meals.
You can even fall back on flavor-infused water if you don’t like to drink plain water. A fruit-infusing water bottle definitely comes handy if you like to drink fruit infused water.
3. Eat On Smaller Plates
It’s all about psychology.
Ever happened with you that you eat a plate full of food and your stomach feels like it’s trying to punch its way out of your body. All because of eating on a large plate. How?
When you take a small portion on a large plate, your mind sends a signal that you are depriving yourself and you automatically put more food than needed to be full because of the empty space on the plate. Add to that our bad habit of needing to finish everything on the plate because it’s the fact we hate to waste money so it only makes sense to eat all of the food. All this results in overeating.
Using smaller plates does two things:
Provides you with smaller portions of food thereby controlling how much you eat.
Tricks your brain into giving yourself a high five for finishing your food and can make you think you’re fuller than you are.
Eating on small plates helps with portion control which plays a major role when it comes to losing weight the lazy way.
Now you might have read or heard that as long as you eat the right things you can eat as much as you want. That is mostly true, but you can’t expect to eat 10,000 calories a day and not gain weight!
4. Brush Your Teeth
Brush your teeth right after dinner instead at bedtime. Immediately go brushing after a meal, don’t wait for dessert.
How does this help?
The reasoning behind this is that nobody likes the taste of food after they brush their teeth. Even if you do, you wouldn’t want to mess up your freshly brushed teeth and ruin that perfect mouth with food.
You might be an irresistible snacker in the evening but this tiny lifestyle change will help you avoid that dessert or snack after a meal.
5. Start Chewing Gum
This tip is one of the best but controversial too. As there are a lot of gums out there that are loaded with sugars and are terrible for you.
Chewing gum is an amazing way to control your appetite. Most of the times we eat because we are bored not because we are hungry. Chewing gum helps in reducing such cravings that lead to excessive snacking.
Plus, there are tons of sugar-free gum options. Some of my favorites are
Orbit
Eclipse
Dentyne Ice
Trident
6. Stop Drinking Alcohol
Alcohol and weight loss generally don’t go hand in hand.
No matter how your body processes alcohol but it’s effect are the same for everyone. Alcohol makes your body to store fat and does not help with any fat loss.
So, the calories you consume from alcohol can sabotage your attempts at weight loss. On top of that, alcohol drops our inhibition and willpower. And you end up saying “screw it, I can burn this burger later!”. End result = more calories in your system = weight gain.
That being said, moderation is key everywhere but the problem with Alcohol is we often drink more than a single serving of alcohol without even knowing it. So, staying away from it while losing weight is indeed a good idea.
7. Slow It Down
Ever heard the saying’ “Slow and steady wins the race”.
It’s true for eating if you want to lose weight. The faster you eat the faster you gain weight. Food is meant to be savored.
Make a habit to savor your food, slow yourself down and enjoy what you are eating. The benefit, you are more likely to eat less food. How?
Eating slower tricks your body into thinking that it is getting fuller faster. It takes your brain about 20 minutes to register if you are full or not so eating slower is good for you. If you want to know more about this check out How to Know When Your Stomach Is Full & to Stop Eating?
Eating a meal this way involves focusing on the meal and nothing else. So, this means your PC, tablet, laptop, phone etc. will have to wait until you are done.
8. Start Smart
Breakfast is one of the most important meals of the day. Eating a healthy breakfast not only quickstarts your day but also stop you from snacking before lunch as your tummy stays full. I try not to avoid breakfast whenever possible.
It’s a good habit to begin lunch and dinner with a broth-based soup or veggie-rich salad. This will fill you up with a high volume of low-calorie food thereby displacing some of the foods you’ll eat next- which are usually higher in calories.
You can also eat some healthy fat (around 60-70cals) like a few slices of avocado or even a handful of nuts 10 minutes before each meal. This helps activate ghrelin, a hormone that helps your body know that you’re full and prevents you from overeating.
9. Eat Fat-Burning Snacks
For those who find it hard to quit snacking, replace your high-calorie fat-gainer snacks with fat-burning snacks.
So, prepare some healthy snacks and munch on them whenever you feel the urge to snack. Stay away from all the pre-packaged snacks no matter how healthy they claim to be.
10. Get Plenty of Sleep
Sleep is your body’s best friend and is important for pretty much every one of your physical systems.
According to a research from the University of Colorado, cravings for junk and fries food skyrockets if you are sleep deprived.
Sleep deprivation affects almost every process of the body. It also increases the level of the hunger hormone called ghrelin and decreases levels of the fullness hormone called leptin.
This leads to overeating and weight gain. Preventing your body from getting its sleep means preventing it from doing what’s best.
So get your sleep!
Tags:
Weight Loss
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Newer
Older
You may like these posts
Post a Comment
0 Comments
Trending
Cardiac Diet - Lose 10lbs in 3 days
April 12, 2018
10 Signs You Have a Thyroid Problem and 10 Ways to Deal With It
March 14, 2019
Simple Home Remedy to Remove Toenail Fungus
December 16, 2017
TOP 10 HOME REMEDIES TO REMOVE SKIN TAGS NATURALLY
August 15, 2018
What Happens If You Drink Pineapple Water On An Empty Stomach
December 10, 2018
Juicing for Weight Loss?
December 09, 2017
LOSE 30 LBS WITH THIS 7-DAY SUGAR DETOX MENU PLAN
October 16, 2018
Cardiac Diet - LOSE 15 LBS IN 5 DAYS
January 07, 2019
30 Day Thigh Slimming Challenge [VIDEO INSIDE]
January 22, 2019
7 Best and Fast Ways to Lose your Weight
December 16, 2017
Labels
beauty tips
fitness tips
food and recipes
Health Tips
home remedies
skin care
Weight Loss
yoga
Pages
Home
about us
Disclaimer
contact us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Tags
beauty tips 26
fitness tips 83
food and recipes 8
health 11
Health Tips 257
home remedies 179
Weight Loss 128
yoga 10
Popular Posts
Cardiac Diet - Lose 10lbs in 3 days
April 12, 2018
10 Signs You Have a Thyroid Problem and 10 Ways to Deal With It
March 14, 2019
Simple Home Remedy to Remove Toenail Fungus
December 16, 2017
TOP 10 HOME REMEDIES TO REMOVE SKIN TAGS NATURALLY
August 15, 2018
Menu Footer Widget
Home
About
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Copyright © Free Health Tips