Honesty Is the Best Policy
HOME
ABOUT
OUR TEAM
GIVING BACK
DIVISIONS
METHODS
LATEST
NEWS & MEDIA
CONTACT US
CAREERS
The JConnelly Blog
Honesty Is the Best Policy
Categories
Financial (138)
Technology (128)
Food & Beverage (118)
Public Relations (111)
Content Marketing (89)
Crisis (57)
Strategic Counsel (39)
Personal and Executive Brands (34)
Digital Marketing (33)
CSR (20)
Video Marketing (12)
Luxury (5)
Highly Regulated (1)
Subscribe to Email Updates
Popular Stories
Where Do You Go to Get Your Reputation Back? Jul 07, 2016
How to Follow Up Without Being Annoying Jul 06, 2017
15 Ways Communications Has Changed in the Past 15 Years Apr 05, 2018
Marketing's New Role in Financial Services Mar 14, 2017
How to Apologize When Faced With a Crisis Jun 19, 2018
Categories | Subscribe | Populars
Written by Ray Hennessey
on September 13, 2016
Contrary to the cliché, you should always let facts get in the way of your good story.
Companies, and startups in particular, are engaging more in real storytelling to support their products and services. Content marketing and direct communication to company customers and shareholders are letting brands themselves directly get messages and stories across, without needing the third-party validation of media.
But, without the fact-checking of media, stories run the risk of tilting toward mythology, with embellishment replacing authenticity, fiction masquerading as fact.
Truth is, there is power in truth. As tempting as it might be to ignore positive, but nonetheless incorrect, mythology relating to your company, in the end, it serves no one to be dishonest about any fact around your business.
Believe it or not, a lot of what we think we know about history isn’t really true. George Washington didn’t chop down a cherry tree and say he couldn’t lie about it. Humphrey Bogart never said, “Play it again, Sam” in Casablanca. Thomas Edison didn’t invent the light bulb.
The same is true about business, and particularly true in the technology sector. Take Apple. You know those stories about Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak starting the company in Jobs’ garage in Los Altos, Calif.? Didn’t happen, according to no less a source than Wozniak himself. “There were hardly ever more than two people in the garage,” he told Bloomberg in 2014. “Mostly they were sitting around kind of doing nothing productive.”
And yet Jobs’ garage is so much a part of the mythology, the building was designated a historic site by the City of Los Altos.
And then there’s eBay, which, according to popular legend, was started by Pierre Omidyar after his girlfriend lamented she couldn’t find an easy way to collect Pez dispensers. Not true. Actually, Omidyar wanted to find an efficient marketplace to buy and sell goods, and started not by finding Pez dispensers to buy but rather broken laser pointers to sell as his proof point.
The stories are all great, and, in truth, most corporate myths seem harmless on the surface. What’s wrong, after all, with a little white lie?
A lot. A lie is a lie, no matter what the color, and when you perpetuate something that isn’t true, you break the bond your brand has with its customers or shareholders. Scott Thompson is a fantastic executive, and would have likely have been a great CEO at Yahoo, but he was forced to step down from that role in 2012 because he lied about getting a degree in computer science. It wasn’t as if Thompson didn’t graduate college – he had an accounting degree – but he felt he needed to boost his credibility with the tech crowd. Yet, that bit of dishonesty was enough to shake the trust the Yahoo board had placed in him.
You will never go wrong being honest. Yes, being honest is hard, and sometimes it’s inconvenient. But you can never tell a better story than the truth. In fact, any message you create – about the idea that sparked your company, the experiences of your executive team and your customers’ experiences – needs to be rooted in honesty and authenticity.
In fact, busting a myth or two publicly can give you some positive attention. For years, there was a myth that using spray oil WD-40 on lures helps catch bigger fish because a major part of the product’s secret ingredient is fish oil. Not only is that myth not true, it’s dangerous, since it involves dumping petroleum distillates into rivers and streams. So WD-40, on its website, debunks that myth (as well as others, like the oil cures arthritis). The result? WD-40 positions itself as a company that values the truth (and the environment).
After all, if you can tell the truth in a fish story, you’ve earned a reputation for honesty.
Subscribe to Email Updates
Topics: Content Marketing Technology Financial
Let Us Know What You Thought about this Post.
Put your Comment Below.
You may also like:
Content Marketing Financial
How Financial Firms can use SEO in their Marketing Content
Many financial firms gain new clients through referrals, which is a great way to drum up business. However, it’s not the...
Content Marketing
3 Simple Reasons Why Every Marketing Team Needs an SEO Partner
At its core, search engine optimization (SEO) is simply a way to get more people to see the content on a website. Yet th...
Content Marketing
How to Choose the Right Influencers for Your Campaign
Influencer marketing is all about building relationships with mutual benefits. Brands can partner with influencers who h...
Get all News Updates to your inbox.
Easy email reminders who count on the weekly recap.
Subscribe to our newsletter to receive updates
Careers
Terms
Privacy Policy
© 2019 All Rights Reserved