What Causes Thyroid Cancer?
Skip to Content
Menu Search
Cancer Helpline 800.227.2345
double-chat-bubble Live Chat
Latest News
English
Español
More Languages
Donate
Donate
Cancer A-Z
Stay Healthy
Treatment & Support
Our Research
Get Involved
Our Partners
About Us
News
English Español More Languages
Donate
double-chat-bubble
Live Chat
Cancer Helpline
800.227.2345
Phone
Search
Search
En Español
CategoryCancer A-Z
Causes, Risk Factors, and Prevention
Thyroid Cancer Risk Factors
What Causes Thyroid Cancer?
Can Thyroid Cancer Be Prevented?
Thyroid Cancer
Causes, Risk Factors, and Prevention
What Causes Thyroid Cancer?
Thyroid cancer is linked with a number of inherited conditions (described in Thyroid cancer risk factors), but the exact cause of most thyroid cancers is not yet known.
Certain changes in a person’s DNA can cause thyroid cells to become cancerous. DNA is the chemical in each of our cells that makes up our genes – the instructions for how our cells function. We usually look like our parents because they are the source of our DNA. But DNA affects more than just how we look. It also can influence our risk for developing certain diseases, including some kinds of cancer.
Some genes contain instructions for controlling when our cells grow and divide into new cells or when they die.
Certain genes that help cells grow and divide or make them live longer than they should are called oncogenes.
Genes that slow down cell division or make cells die at the right time are called tumor suppressor genes.
Cancers can be caused by DNA changes that turn on oncogenes or turn off tumor suppressor genes.
People get 2 copies of each gene – one from each parent. We can inherit damaged DNA from one or both parents. Most cancers, though, are not caused by inherited gene changes. In these cases, the genes change during a person’s life. They may occur when a cell’s DNA is damaged by something in the environment, like radiation, or they may just be random events that sometime happen inside a cell, without an outside cause.
Papillary thyroid cancer
Several DNA mutations (changes) have been found in papillary thyroid cancer. Many of these cancers have changes in specific parts of the RET gene. The altered form of this gene, known as the PTC oncogene, is found in about 10% to 30% of papillary thyroid cancers overall, and in a larger percentage of these cancers in children and/or linked with radiation exposure. These RET mutations usually are acquired during a person’s lifetime rather than being inherited. They are found only in cancer cells and are not passed on to the person’s children.
Many papillary thyroid cancers have a mutated BRAF gene. The BRAF mutation is less common in thyroid cancers in children and in cancers thought to develop because of exposure to radiation. Cancers with BRAF changes tend to grow and spread to other parts of the body more quickly.
Both BRAF and RET/PTC changes are thought to make cells grow and divide. It is extremely rare for papillary cancers to have changes in both the BRAF and RET/PTC genes. Some doctors now advise testing thyroid biopsy samples for these gene mutations, as they can help diagnose cancer and may also affect the patient’s outlook (see Tests for thyroid cancer).
Changes in other genes have also been linked to papillary thyroid cancer, including those in the NTRK1 gene.
Follicular thyroid cancer
Acquired changes in the RAS oncogene as well as changes in the PAX8–PPAR-γ rearrangement have a role in causing some follicular thyroid cancers.
Anaplastic thyroid cancer
These cancers tend to have some of the mutations described above and often have changes in the TP53 tumor suppressor gene.
Medullary thyroid cancer
People who have medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) have mutations in different parts of the RET gene than people with papillary carcinoma. Nearly all patients with the inherited form of MTC and about 1 of every 10 with the sporadic (non-inherited) form of MTC have a mutation in the RET gene. Most patients with sporadic MTC have gene mutations only in their cancer cells. People with familial MTC and MEN 2 inherit the RET mutation from a parent. These mutations are in every cell inthe body and can be detected by DNA tests.
Written by
References
The American Cancer Society medical and editorial content team
Our team is made up of doctors and oncology certified nurses with deep knowledge of cancer care as well as journalists, editors, and translators with extensive experience in medical writing.
Davidge-Pitts CJ and Thompson GB. Chapter 82: Thyroid Tumors. In: DeVita VT, Lawrence TS, Rosenberg SA, eds. DeVita, Hellman, and Rosenberg’s Cancer: Principles and Practice of Oncology. 10th ed. Philadelphia, Pa: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; 2015.
Malchoff CD. Oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes in thyroid nodules and nonmedullary thyroid cancer. https://www.uptodate.com/contents/oncogenes-and-tumor-suppressor-genes-in-thyroid-nodules-and-nonmedullary-thyroid-cancer. UpToDate website. Updated Aug 9, 2017. Accessed February 20, 2019.
National Cancer Institute. Physician Data Query (PDQ). Thyroid Cancer Treatment. 02/06/2019. Accessed at https://www.cancer.gov/types/thyroid/hp/thyroid-treatment-pdq#_313_toc. on February 20, 2019.
Schneider DF, Mazeh H, Lubner SJ, Jaume JC, and Chen H. Chapter 71: Cancer of the Endocrine System. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Dorshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. Abeloff’s Clinical Oncology. 5th ed. Philadelphia, Pa. Elsevier: 2014.
See all references for Thyroid Cancer
Last Medical Review: March 14, 2019 Last Revised: March 14, 2019
American Cancer Society medical information is copyrighted material. For reprint requests, please see our Content Usage Policy.
Causes, Risk Factors, and Prevention
Thyroid Cancer Risk Factors
What Causes Thyroid Cancer?
Can Thyroid Cancer Be Prevented?
More In Thyroid Cancer
About Thyroid Cancer
Causes, Risk Factors, and Prevention
Early Detection, Diagnosis, and Staging
Treatment
After Treatment
BackTo Top
Imagine a world free from cancer. Help make it a reality.
DONATE
Cancer Information
Cancer Prevention & Detection
Cancer Basics
Signs & Symptoms of Cancer
Treatments & Side Effects
Cancer Facts & Statistics
News and Stories
Glossary
For Health Care Professionals
Programs & Services
Breast Cancer Support
TLC Hair Loss & Mastectomy Products
Hope Lodge® Lodging
Rides To Treatment
Online Support Communities
ACS FUNDRAISERS
Making Strides Against Breast Cancer Walks
Relay For Life Events
College Relay For Life
Coaches vs. Cancer
Galas, Balls & Parties
Ways to Give
Memorial Giving
Planned Giving
Leadership Giving
Donate a Car
About ACS
Contact Us
Local Offices
Employment
Information for Suppliers
Report Fraud or Abuse
Global Health
ACS CAN
Sign Up for Email
Policies
Our Volunteers
More ACS Sites
Bookstore
Shop
Cancer Atlas
Press Room
Cancer Statistics Center
Volunteer Learning Center
Follow Us
Twitter Facebook Instagram
Cancer Information, Answers, and Hope. Available Every Minute of Every Day.
800.227.2345
Live Chat
Follow Us
Twitter Facebook Instagram
help
site map
privacy policy - 2018
accessibility
terms of use
state fundraising notices
Site Comments
© 2019 American Cancer Society, Inc. All rights reserved. The American Cancer Society is a qualified 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization. Cancer.org is provided courtesy of the Leo and Gloria Rosen family.
Close
*
Close
Image of
Previous Next
Close
Close
Select A Hope Lodge