Do Not Be Fooled By Pink Himalayan Sea Salt! | The Breast Cancer Site Blog
Proper BCS greatergood_ctg_leaderboardlg
Menu
Blog	The Breast Cancer Site Blog
About Breast Cancer
Stories of Hope
Treatment
Ways to Help
Supporters
Survivors
Kids
Men
News
Shop to Help Women
Pink Ribbon
Best Sellers
Jewelry
GreaterGood Sites
Fund Alzheimer’s Research
Help Feed the Hungry
Fund Diabetes Research
Protect Wild Habitat
Food & Care for Animals
Meals for Veterans
Autism Therapy & Research
Books for Children
Do Not Be Fooled By Pink Himalayan Sea Salt!
Will Stefanski
By Will Stefanski
Proper BCS greatergood_ctg_belowtitle
Pink Himalayan sea salt. It’s something that we’re seeing more and more in stores, on TV, in recipes. But is all the hype around pink salt actually justified? Does it, in fact, hold up to claims that it can help regulate sleep patterns, balance pH levels, and even “strengthen bones?” We are suspicious of anything that claims to be revolutionary in terms of our health. So we decided to do some investigating and were shocked at what we found!
Is Himalayan Pink Sea Salt Better For You?
The answer is complicated and it all depends on the question you’re asking… Pink salt is not bad for you, but it’s also not as good as it claims to be. Here are 3 things you should consider before buying some of the “pink stuff.”
3. Iodine
One claim made those who believe in the power of pink salt is that, because it is unrefined, it is not as harmful as other salts. This is a complicated claim to make. On the one hand, pink salt is stone ground, which means that it is not refined with any chemicals. But iodized salt, what most of us have on our tables at home, has chemicals in it for a reason (i.e. iodine). Iodine is important to the health of your thyroid, which aids in hormone production. Pregnant women should be particularly aware of their iodine levels because iodine deficiency during pregnancy affects the developing brain of the fetus.
Iodine is an important part of your diet and the salt that is found in most foods is not iodized. According to WebMD, Americans get 1/3 less iodine than we used to. making it important that we do not fear iodine.
Iodine can be a huge boon to your health!
2. Minerals
Another one of the big claims that endorsers of Himalayan salt make is that pink salt contains 84 different minerals and elements that are found in the human body. This is true; Himalayan salt does contain minerals and elements, but they are found in trace amounts. Based on findings from a spectral analysis, these amounts are extremely small and do not affect health in any significant way. Some of these elements are actually radioactive (e.g. polonium and uranium)!
Don’t worry, these quantities aren’t nearly high enough to do any damage, but these elements are as existent as other many of the other substances present in pink salt. So, do not be tricked into thinking that these 84 minerals make pink salt better for you.
They’re there, they’re just not doing anything!
1. Healthy Alternative
It is easy to fall into the trap of thinking that Himalayan salt is a good alternative to iodized salt, but that is just not the case. The verdict on salt is still out. Studies have been done that conclude that salt is bad for you, while other studies say that it’s not. Some of these studies were, in fact, sponsored by salt companies. Overuse of salt can be bad for you in many ways, the major claim being that it affects hypertension. But this seems to be more of a concern for the elderly than for a lot of us.
Daniel W. Jones, MD, a hypertension expert, says that “everyone hopes to become old, and as we get older, we become sensitive to salt. It makes sense to start early enough to affect your health.” Especially as we grow old, switching out one salt for another is not the solution, but monitoring salt intake is.
There is no clear cut answer as to the healthiness of pink salt.
What we do know is that claims stating that pink salt is better for you are mostly hokum and hype. Claims like this should be backed up by facts and medical studies. As more information on pink salt is collected, more questions will arise. But until then, we’ve got your back!
Let us know what you think! Have you tried pink salt?
Share on Facebook
Woman Suffers Severe Eye Pain And Swelling, Finds Out She Has 4 Live Bees Inside Her Eyelid: Click “Next” below!
Next
Will Stefanski is a left-handed bibliophile who now owns a cherry-red Schwinn Traveler III. On summer afternoons you can almost see his vermilion shadow passing you at great speeds.
Proper greatergood_ctg_belowcontent
Ora Player
Proper BCS greatergood_ctg_footboard
Sign up for news and offers!
Let us keep you informed and we’ll give you a FREE gift (you get to choose!).
We’ll give extra funding toward mammograms for women in need if you’re a first-time subscriber to our family of websites!
Enter email address
Subscribe
I approve storage of my email by GreaterGood
Visit The Breast Cancer Site
to fund mammograms.
It’s FREE!
Proper BCS greatergood_ctg_r1lg
Woman Suffers Severe Eye Pain And Swelling, Finds Out She Has 4 Live Bees Inside Her Eyelid
24-Year-Old Woman with Terminal Breast Cancer Dreams of Fairytale Wedding with Fiancé
Marshall University Study Finds That Walnuts Suppress Breast Cancer Growth And Alter Genes
Proper BCS greatergood_ctg_r2lg
Facebook
Proper BCS greatergood_ctg_r3lg
About the Blog
On Facebook
About Us
Privacy
Mission & Values
Results & Accountability
Press & Media Inquiries
Contact Us
About GreaterGood
Advertise with Us
Click to Give – FREE
The Alzheimer’s Site
The Autism Site
The Animal Rescue Site
The Breast Cancer Site
The Diabetes Site
GreaterGood
The Hunger Site
The Literacy Site
The Rainforest Site
The Veterans Site
Signature Programs
Rescue Bank
Shelter Challenge
Shop Where It Matters
Shop for Pink Ribbon
Shop to Help Women Around the World
Shop to Help People, Pets, & Planet
Shop to Provide Toys for Children in Need
Shop to Support Alzheimers Research
Shop to Support Autism Research
Shop to Help Rescued Animals
Shop to Support Diabetes Research
Shop to Support Fair Trade
Shop to Support Education & Literacy
Shop to Support Wildlife & the Environment
Shop to Support Veterans
Shop to Help Hungry Pets in Need
© 2000–2019 The Breast Cancer Site Blog and GreaterGood. All rights reserved. Owned and operated by CharityUSA.com, LLC. Funds are paid by GreaterGood.org to benefiting organizations as a grant.
Proper BCS greatergood_ctg_sticky_1
Proper BCS greatergood_ctg_oop
Please support the Breast Cancer Site by adding us to your ad blocker’s whitelist. Ads help fund our mission to end Breast Cancer. Thank you!