3 Exercises That Can Help You Squat Without Knee Pain | STACK
Toggle navigation
Log In Join
Partner Sites Fox Sports YardBarker Eastbay Footlocker Yahoo! Sports
Training
Build Muscle
Conditioning
Flexibility
Get Faster
Skills
Sports Injuries
Strength Training
STACK Fitness
Nutrition
Eat Healthy
Hydration
Meals & Recipes
Supplements
Gear
Electronic Fitness Bands
Energy Drinks & Protein Bars
Exercise Apparel
Exercise Equipment
Kinesio Tapes
Lifestyle
Running Gear
Workout Tools
Sports
Football
Basketball Training
Yoga
Baseball
Hockey
More
Swimming
Soccer
Track & Field
Cross Country
Resources
Airline Tickets
Coaches and Trainers
STACK Conditioning
News
Partner Offers
STACK Fitness
Recruiting
Sport Injury Treatment
STACK 4W
Sports Hotel Discounts
Log In
Join
Search STACK
Search
Search
Home // Training // Strength Training
3 Exercises That Can Help You Squat Without Knee Pain
If your knees hurt when you Squat, don't blame the exercise.
Updated: January 17, 2019
0 Shares Share on Facebook Share on Twitter
"Squats are the devil."
"They hurt my knees."
"I can't do Lunges or Squats."
Read More >>
"Squats are the devil."
"They hurt my knees."
"I can't do Lunges or Squats."
"My knees can't take squats or jumping."
These phrases have become incredibly common to strength coaches and fitness professionals. The exercise's reputation has gotten notoriously worse over the years, and I hear it on a weekly basis from the new members and athletes who come into Over-Achieve Fitness.
They take a look at a workout and immediately cringe at the sight of any knee-dominant exercises. But who's to say that the movement itself is truly the culprit behind your knee pain?
Quite often, I believe there are other things to blame. One is bad form. Another is that areas of your body are comparatively weak. It's not that Squats are the devil—it's that you either don't know to perform them correctly or are performing variations too advanced for your current training level.
Let's break down some of the biggest reasons Squats can lead to knee pain.
One is that you're simply not setting yourself up properly. Most often, this means that your ankles, hips and shoulders are not properly aligned. There are a lot of ways to botch the set-up for a squat. You may be allowing your feet to overpronate, causing your knees to collapse inwards. You may be allowing your shoulders to come too far forward over your knees, creating unnecessary stress. There's no one right way to set up for a Squat, but a shoddy setup will doom you from the start. This guide offers an outline on How to Do Back Squats the Right Way.
Then there's the very real chance you're not activating the correct prime movers and synergists in your Squats and squat-centric exercises. If your glutes aren't functioning properly, that's going to an issue. Being weak in the posterior chain can wreak havoc on your posture and make the front of your body overwork to compensate, leading to larger amounts of knee stress. Here's how to tell if your glutes might be "dead," and how you can go about reviving them.
You could also have weak ankles and/or limited range of motion, which, like weak and inactive glutes, is much more common than you might believe. Poor ankle mobility can cause a ripple of issues all throughout the body. Know what the next joint above the ankle is? That's right, the knee. This simple test can help you see if your ankle mobility might be causing issues.
Worrying about having to "squat low" can be another problem. Perhaps this is something plaguing your own mind, or it's something you're being told by a misguided trainer or friend. This is something many fitness professionals get wrong during programming in that they believe a "good Squat" is one that reaches parallel. Different body types and structures as well as mobility of each individual will affect their depth. A good Squat is never one that causes pain.
Don't continue squatting if you find it's bringing you pain. Take a step back, analyze your situation, and try to assess some underlying causes of that pain. Because the movement pattern of the Squat itself, in the abstract, is not the issue.
More often than not, you can get a large amount of relief by first releasing tight areas surrounding/supporting your knees and then strengthening your glutes and hamstrings or improving mobility of your hips and ankles. Common contributors to knee pain can be related to IT band syndrome, weak or tight quads, or weak glutes.
The last thing you should do is abandon posterior chain training all together. With that in mind, below are some great exercises you can try as you work your way toward pain-free squatting. These moves target many of the problem areas that could be hampering your squat pattern.
1. RFE Kettlebell Band-Resisted Hinge
This exercise is a killer combo for building quad strength while firing the hamstrings. Attach the band right above the knee while elevating your back leg onto a bench. The key point is to focus on keeping a strong posture and hinging your hips back as you would if you were performing a Romanian Deadlift. The band acts as a counter to stabilize and strengthen the knee. A good way to program this would be as a primer for 3-4 sets of 6-8 reps per leg.
2. Sliding Body Curls
These are one of my favorite exercises because they really work the hamstrings and are very easy on the low back and knees. They are a knee-flexion based exercise where the glutes must stay engaged, making them similar to Glute Ham Raises, but these are easily done with minimal equipment. You cannot see it here, but I've got three sliders placed underneath the plate that's below my torso. 3-4 sets of 6-8 reps will work great for this!
3. Slider Leg Curls
These are an easier variation of the Sliding Body Curl. The goal is to maintain a strong glute contraction throughout the exercise and to "hold the bridge," as I like to cue my clients. They can be great for primer work or as a supplemental exercise to a posterior chain-focused session. Shoot for 3-4 sets of 6-8 reps.
Don't let knee pain be an excuse for missing workouts and avoiding activity. Just be mindful of why they're actually bothering you, decide what you are able to achieve without pain, and make a plan to help avoid pain in the future! You can learn more about knee pain and how to correct it in my total knee recovery guide.
Photo Credit: LightFieldStudios/iStock
READ MORE:
Standard Front Squats Too Painful? Try This Comfortable, Pain-Free Variation
2 Mobility Drills That Will Get Rid of Hip Pain During Squats
The Best Squat Variations for People With Back Issues
Topics: SQUAT | LOWER BODY | KNEE INJURIES | KNEE JOINT
Mike Over - Mike Over is the owner of Over-Achieve Fitness in Chambersburg, PA, where he works with and trains thousands of athletes and everyday fitness enthusiasts to reach their full potential within our 12,000 square foot facility and turf field. He was a former collegiate soccer player at Virginia Wesleya
Become a Contributing Expert
Become a Better Athlete
Join STACK and gain instant FREE access to resources that have helped millions of people jump higher, run faster, get stronger, eat smarter and play better.
JOIN STACK
Instant access to FREE resources that have helped millions of people jump higher, run faster, get stronger, eat smarter and play better.
ONE-TAP SUBSCRIBE
Most Popular
Are Bang Energy Drinks Healthy?
Legendary Basketball Coach Muffet McGraw: Parents Today Don't Want to Give Their Child a Chance to Fail
Feed the Beasts: Nutrition Strategies That Power Duke Basketball
Why the 2,000-Meter Row May Be the Most Killer Fitness Test Ever Created
The Message You Send to Your Kid When You Complain About Their Coach
How I Stumbled Upon the Ultimate, Science-Backed Bedtime Snack for Better Sleep and More Muscle
How America Killed Play—and What We Can Do to Bring it Back
Are Bai Drinks Actually Healthy?
5 Rear Delt Exercises for Strong and Durable Shoulders
Stanley Morgan Jr. Shattered Records and Changed the Culture at Nebraska
See More
More About Strength Training
Why Traditional Grip Training Can Sabotage Baseball Player's Elbows
Post-Activation Potentiation: How This Unique Training Trick Can Help You
Spotting a Snake Oil Salesman: 4 Telltale Signs of a Terrible Trainer
This Training Technique Will Lift Your Depth Jumps to the Next Level
How You Can Create Your Own Reverse Hyper 'Machine' in Any Gym
Taking a Short Rest After Every Rep May Be a Smarter Way to Strength Train
Are You Ready to Barbell Overhead Press? Here's How to Tell
Why the 2,000-Meter Row May Be the Most Killer Fitness Test Ever Created
More Cool Stuff You'll Like
Should Athletes Do the Hack Squat?
Why You Should Do Good Mornings to Strengthen Your Glutes, Hamstrings and Lower Back
Exercise of the Week: Resisted Lateral Squat
Front Squat 101: How to Master The Move in 5 Minutes
Combine the Best Lower-Body Exercises for an Intense Leg Workout
3 Ways to Eliminate Knee Pain When Squatting
Exercise of the Week: Hanging Leg Raise
How to Throw Harder: 4 Exercises to Gas Up Your Fastball
SURVIVING SEALFIT: What Happened When a Regular Guy Tried to Train Like a Navy SEAL
Practice This Winter With Indoor Baseball Fielding Drills
Hip Flexor Strengthening Exercises for Sprint and Jump Performance
Use These 3 Grips to Throw a Changeup They Can't Hit
More About Strength Training
5 Reasons Your Push-Ups Are Probably Garbage (and How to Fix Them)
Why Bands Are the Most Underrated Training Tool in Existence
THROWBACK: At 38 Years Old, Drew Brees Believes His Best Football is Still Ahead of Him
Why Young Athletes Should Use Loaded Carries—and 3 Safe Ways To Do So
Study Reveals Best Type of Exercise to Develop Acceleration—And You're Probably Not Doing It
More About Squat
Why Bands Are the Most Underrated Training Tool in Existence
Todd Durkin, Trainer Behind NFL MVPs and Olympic Gold Medalists, Reveals His 9 Top Training Tips
Why Every Athlete Should Train Single-Leg Jumps
How Assisted Jumps Make You a Better Athlete (and Why You Don't Need Bands to Perform Them)
How I Was Finally Able to Get Shredded Without Losing My Strength
STACK Resources
STACK Fitness
STACK Conditioning
Coaches & Trainers
STACK 4W
News
STACK Partners
Fox Sports
YardBarker
Eastbay
Foot Locker
Men's Fitness
Yahoo! Sports
Stack Sports
CaptainU
Goalline
Krossover
League Lineup
Pointstreak
STACK
About STACK
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
STACK Experts
Advertising
Contribute
Follow STACK
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram
Pinterest
RSS