Does Coffee Help You Lose Weight?
Does Coffee Help You Lose Weight?
Related Links
Coffee and High Blood Pressure -Is There a Connection?
Foods That Lower Cholesterol
Coffee Fights Cancer
Does Drinking Coffee Affect Diabetes?
A Simple Diet for Life
Chocolate-Top 10 Health Benefits
VLDL-The Other Cholesterol
Amaranth-Ancient Grain Lowers Cholesterol
My Heart Attack- Personal Stories from Survivors
Burning Mouth Syndrome -Causes and Cures
Are Diet Sodas Bad for Your Health?
Foods That Reduce Blood Pressure
BloodPressure -What It Means
Waist Size Matters
Bowel Movements Indicate Your Overall Health
Snoring Linked to Stroke
My Heart Attack-Personal Stories from Survivors
How Much Salt Is In My Food?
How Much Sugar Is In My Food?
May 4, 2010
By Katrina Devine, Contributing Columnist
Do you feel guilty every time you reach for the coffee pot?
Are you thinking about giving it up for good? Well, think
twice as some research suggests that coffee can help you
lose weight. How does coffee help you lose weight?
Coffee Stops Your Body From Producing Fat and Converting
Sugar
The first way that coffee can help us lose weight is by
stopping our bodies from producing fat.
A joint study between the University of Gueplh, Ontario and
the University of Copenhagen, Denmark published in 2005,
found that the equivalent of 2 to 3 cups of coffee per day
can inhibit the body’s uptake of glucose which eventually
gets turned to fat in the body. This is one of the reasons
that coffee is one of the beverages included in a diabetic
meal plan.
The study found that coffee --actually the compound
caffeine -- affects the central nervous system and changes
how our bodies work. Caffeine affects the involunatry
muscles of our bodies, such as the muscles that keep our
heart pumping and our intestines moving.
Coffee also helps to lower cholesterol. A 2010 study
conducted by the University of Tromso, Norway found that
drink-filtered coffee can lower cholesterol. It is thought that
the coffee helps the body break up LDL (bad) cholesterol.
Coffee Speeds Up Your Metabolism
Another way that coffee can help with weight loss is its
ability to make our exercise sessions more productive.
Coffee increases your metabolism.
The first study relating to the positive effects of coffee for
physical performance was led by David Costill working at Ball
State University, Indiana in 1978. The study found that
coffee improved the performance of athletes. The way that
the body metabolized the carbohydrates already in the body
was affected by the coffee. The better metabolism of the
carbohydrates led to a better performance.
However, a study conducted in 1989 by McMaster University,
Ontario found that it was only habitual coffee drinkers that
would feel the effect of increased metabolism.
A study lead by NA Elliman of the Psychology Institute,
School of Life and Health Sciences, Aston University,
Birmingham, UK, published in 2010, found that the effect of
coffee could also be a mental one. The study had two
groups- one were given decaffeinated coffee and the other
regular. The performance of the decaffeinated group was
always poor but the caffeinated group only performed better
when they were told their drink was caffeinated. When they
thought the drink was decaffeinated they performed as
poorly as the decaffeinated group.
Coffee May Help Europeans to Stay Slim
Research also suggests that if we enjoy our coffee like the
French we can aid our weight loss. There is mounting
evidence that coffee helps to keep Europeans thin.
A joint study between Athens University Medical School,
Greece and the Imperial College, London published in 2010
found that eating more slowly may be the reason that
Europeans such as the French and Italians tend to be
slimmer.
If you had the luck to walk through Parisian streets you will
know that the so-called ‘café-culture’ is not a myth. The
French love to stop and have a coffee in a café , be it alone
or with a friend. It is rare to see people rushing through the
streets grasping onto their cardboard cups frantically sipping
while trying to get to their destination. As the above
mentioned study suggests, enjoying your coffee might be
key to its benefits.
But off course there has to a warning when dealing with a
substance that essentially changes how your body works.
According to a 1989 study conducted at Duke University
Medical Center, Durham, coffee, if ingested through-out the
day affects, the heart rate and also blood pressure. There is
a cumulative effect that even habitual coffee drinkers cannot
avoid. It suggests that these people may be at higher risk of
cardiovascular disease.
Therefore you don’t have to feel as guilty about your coffee
habit but there may be healthier ways to lose weight.
One thing to note is that in all the studies the amount of
coffee was significant. Too much coffee had a detrimental
effect on physical performance. Therefore having 3 to 4 cups
of coffee per day is the recommended amount.
The most important thing is to drink the right kind of coffee.
A cup of black coffee contains no calories and no fat. But a
cup of coffee with milk or whipped cream, or caramel, or
chocolate or any of the other delicious options will contain
the fat and calories from those additions. Drinking 3 lattes a
day will not help you lose weight but will help you put it on.
So, the key to making coffee an asset and not a liability to
your diet is moderation. Keep it plain. Basically, if you enjoy
a nice slow cup of coffee 3 or 4 times a day you can aid your
weight loss and not only shed pounds but shed the guilt of a
coffee habit.
You're just getting started. Learn more about the
relationship between your diet and your risk for other
diseases and conditions: Does Drinking Coffee Affect
Diabetes? / Ideal Breakfast for Diabetics /
Foods That Lower Cholesterol / Foods That Keep Blood
Sugar Lower / Ideal Diet to Reduce Fibroid Tumors / Pelvic
Cancer-Symptoms and Treatments /How to Lose Weight
After Menopause/Best Breakfast to Fight Arthritis/ Health
Dangers of Milk / Lose Weight by Lowering Thermostat /
Lose Belly Fat After the Baby/ Foods That Shrink Your
Waist/ Drinking Cold Water Burns Calories / Six Pack Abs-A
Guided Tour /Top 10 Foods That Fight Anemia / How Much
Is Too Much Salt? /Sugar-The Disease Connection / Are Diet
Sodas Bad for Your Health? / Ideal Breakfast for Diabetics /
Ideal Breakfast for Arthritis /Healing Foods Links / Foods
That Shrink Your Waist / Foods That Lower Cholesterol/
VLDL-The Other Cholesterol/ Foods That Reduce Blood
Pressure
Index of Articles on
This Site
Snoring Linked to
Stroke
How to Stop Bad Breath
BRAIN HEALTH
DIETS AND FITNESS
HOW MUCH IS TOO MUCH
SALT
HOW MUCH SALT IS IN MY
FOOD
SALT CONTENT OF COMMON
FOODS
150,000 DIE FROM EXCESS
SALT
I HAVE HIGH BLOOD
PRESSURE!
FOODS THAT LOWER YOUR
BLOOD PRESSURE
QUINOA-THE NEW
SUPERFOOD
INFLAMMATION INSIDE
THE BODY
FAT--IT'S ALIVE!
WHY WE GO SOFT IN THE
MIDDLE
WHY EUROPEANS ARE
THINNER
>VEGETARIAN RECIPES
MY HEART ATTACK
CANCER SURVIVORS
MONEY AND BUDGET
RESOURCES
AMERICAN HEART
ASSOCIATION
LINKS AND RESOURCES
Home > Healing Foods >
Cholesterol > Here
COLLECTIVE
WIZDOM.COM
Healthy Body, Healthy Mind, Healthy Life
Custom Search
Coffee can give you a boost but can it help you lose weight?
About Us
Register
Privacy Policy
Editorial Policy
Meet Our Medical and Fitness Experts
Contact Us
Disclaimer : All information on www.collectivewizdom.com is for educational purposes only. It is not a substitute for professional medical advice. For
specific medical advice, diagnoses, and treatment, please consult your doctor.
(c) copyright collectivewizdom.com 2007 -2014 and all prior years. All rights reserved
Collectivewizdom,LLC is located at 340 S Lemon Ave #2707 Walnut, CA 91789
Subscribe in a reader