Foods that Are Good for the Eyes - Monterey, CA
Home
Blog
Locations
Contact
About Us
Our Services
General Eye Care
Cataract
Retinal Care
Monterey County Eye AssociatesDr. Eric Del Piero & Dr. Leland Rosenblum
Home
Blog
Locations
Contact
(831) 375-2020
About Us
Our Services
General Eye Care
Cataract
Retinal Care
Home»
Blog»
Foods that Are Good for the Eyes
Nov 16
Foods that Are Good for the Eyes
Foods that Are Good for the Eyes - Monterey, CA
Posted on November 16, 2015 — by Eric Del Piero
The doctors at Monterey County Eye Associates encourage habits that will be beneficial to overall eye health. A vital part of this is high quality, routine eye care, such as regular eye exams. Eye care is important to eye health maintenance, as well as the early detection and treatment of any eye problems that may develop. Additionally, these eye care appointments provide patients with helpful tips and information in regards to habits that can be practiced at home in order to support good eye health. For instance there are many foods that are good for the eyes, and these can benefit our Monterey, CA patients in a number of ways. Below we discuss some of the foods (we’re not just talking carrots) that have been shown to enhance the health and function of the eyes.
Kale and Spinach
Kale and spinach, along with other leafy greens, such as collards, turnip greens, and romaine lettuce, are rich in two nutrients that are important to eye health: lutein and zeaxanthin. These nutrients are so beneficial to the eyes because they have been shown to reduce the risk of macular degeneration and cataracts, two common eye problems. Eat just one cup of cooked spinach or kale and you’ll be getting more than 20 milligrams of these beneficial nutrients.
Orange Juice
Orange juice and citrus fruits offer a healthy serving of vitamin C. In fact, one cup of orange juice delivers around 124 milligrams of this nutrient. Most people try to take in vitamin C because of its immune-boosting properties, but it can also be beneficial to the eyes. Vitamin C has proven to be helpful in minimizing the risk of macular degeneration and cataracts.
Nuts and Seeds
Another vitamin that is essential to eye health is vitamin E. Vitamin E protects eye cells from free radicals and can slow down the progression of cataracts and age-related macular degeneration. To get a good serving of vitamin E, patients should consider snacking on sunflower seeds, peanut butter, hazelnuts, almonds, or wheat germ.
Fish
Fish is rich in fatty acids, which benefit the body in a number of ways, one of which is aiding eye health. These fatty acids help with visual development and retinal function, and some studies suggest, may also help in the prevention of dry eyes. Fish that are especially rich in these fatty acids include salmon, tuna, and anchovies.
Oysters and Shellfish
Oysters and shellfish are two types of seafood that can benefit the eyes, not because they are rich in fatty acids, but because they are high in zinc. A diet lacking in zinc may lead to poor night vision or cataracts. If seafood is not your thing, there is also plenty of zinc in liver, red meat, poultry, milk, and beans.
Carrots
The old adage about carrots being good for the eyes is true. Carrots are beneficial to the eyes because they provide patients with a source of beta-carotene. Beta-carotene is converted by the body into vitamin A, a nutrient that encourages eye health and can improve night vision.
Schedule an Appointment
A diet rich in nutrients and vitamins can be beneficial to eye health, but nothing can replace the benefits of quality eye care. If you are looking for an experienced eye doctor to help in the general care of eye health and vision, you will find what you need at Monterey County Eye Associates. Schedule an appointment at your earliest convenience to learn more about our services.
Tagged with: Eye Exams Eye Care
Popular Tags
Astigmatism
Cataract Surgery
Cataracts
Contact Lenses
Custom Lasik
Diabetic Retinopathy
Eye Care
Eye Exams
Glaucoma
Intraocular Lens
Archives
2017
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
Feeds
RSS Feed
Atom Feed
Locate Us
Monterey County Eye Associates
p (831) 375-2020
View Locations
Email Us
From (Email Address):
Hello, my name is I am interested in scheduling an appointment with Monterey County Eye Associates and would like to receive information about
Please call me at at your earliest convenience. Thank You!
X Hide Comment
Get In Touch
Home
About Us
Blog
Locations
Contact
Site Map
Procedures
Pediatric Ophthalmology
General Eye Care
Cosmetic Ophthalmology
Highlights
Cataract
Retinal Care
Contact Lenses
Optical Centers
Patient Information
Patient Portal - Dr. Del Piero
Patient Portal - Salinas
Follow Us
Google+ Local
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Docshop
Please note: some images are of models, not actual patients.
©2012 - 2019 Monterey County Eye Associates | Lucid CMS® Tweed V1 | Designed & Developed by Einstein Medical | Login