Taking vitamin c supplements – Asean Breaking News
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
Asean Breaking News
Update latest Asean news
About Us
Privacy Policy
Disclaimers
DMCA
Contact Us
Submit your story
You are here: Home / Archives for Taking vitamin c supplements
Taking vitamin c supplements
News Vitamin C, home remedies not enough to combat flu: expert
January 15, 2019 abs-cbn Leave a Comment
MANILA - Getting extra doses of vitamin C is not enough to get rid of flu, while taking over-the-counter antibiotics may worsen the virus, an infectious disease expert warned Tuesday. Paracetamol, cough medicine, supplements and other home remedies give "temporary relief" but does not heal the viral infection, said Dr. Rontgene Solante, chairman of San Lazaro Hospital's Adult Infectious Diseases and Tropical Medicine Department. "Pag may influenza, hindi sagot ang antibiotic. If you take an antibiotic without being diagnosed by a doctor, you may induce drug resistance, lalakas lalo 'yung virus," he said. (Antibiotic is not the cure for influenza. If you take an antibiotic without being diagnosed by a doctor, you may induce drug resistance and end up having a stronger virus.) "Puwedeng uminom ng vitamins pero these are just supplementary treatments. It's not really something that can prevent an infection," he said. (You can take vitamins but these are just supplementary treatments.) … [Read more...] about News Vitamin C, home remedies not enough to combat flu: expert
News vitamin c cold remedy, home remedy for flu, home remedies for flu, hepatitis c home remedy, vitamin c cold flu megadose, Home remedies for stomach flu, cold n flu home remedies, flu home remedies, Stomach flu home remedies, home remedies for swine flu, how much vitamin c is in an orange, vitamin c before bed, why is vitamin c important, daily value of vitamin c, can vitamin c help with a cold, how much vitamin c to take, how much daily vitamin c, antioxidant mechanism of vitamin c, vitamin c how much to take, vitamin c during pregnancy, anti aging home remedy, molluscum contagiosum home remedies, molluscum contagiosum home remedy, blocked drains home remedies, home loan experts review, slow shower drain home remedy, wheatgrass vitamin c, vitamin c quit smoking, money saving expert home insurance, regrow lost hair naturally home remedies, flu, influenza, heatlh, Rontgene Solante, Vitamin C, News, 2019-01-15
New evidence suggests that most vitamins are useless, but here are the only ones you should take
July 18, 2018 businessinsider Leave a Comment
source Flickr/Steve Depolo Vitamins and supplements are a roughly $37 billion industry, but new research suggests they’re mostly useless. A crop of fresh studies looking at multivitamins and vitamins B, C, and D have concluded that for most people, they do little to no good. Still, some specific vitamins can be helpful for people with specific health conditions. It seems like simple, obvious advice: Eat your vegetables, get some exercise, and – of course – take your vitamins. Or not. Decades of research has failed to find substantial evidence that vitamins and supplements do any significant good. In fact, the results of recent studies lean in the opposite direction, finding that certain vitamins may be bad for you. Several supplements have been linked with an increase in certain cancers, for example, while others have been associated with a higher risk of kidney stones. Still others have been linked with an overall higher … [Read more...] about New evidence suggests that most vitamins are useless, but here are the only ones you should take
Features suggested vitamin d intake, bigfoot new evidence, shroud of turin new evidence, mermaid new evidence, megalodon new evidence, megalodon new evidence 2016, titanic the new evidence, new york suggested itinerary, new york suggestions, new research on schizophrenia suggests that, new york rules of evidence, new york evidence rules, new york one, new one direction song, one direction new songs, one eyed jacks new orleans, one direction new song, one bryant park new york ny 10036, mango one new change, one line blurbs on the new york times bestseller list, care one facilities in new jersey, new space game xbox one, new teeth in one day, care one holmdel new jersey, one millenium hotel new york, amazon account suspended how to open a new one, care one moorestown new jersey, page one inside the new york times, care one new bedford, Features, Fitness, Health, Healthy Eating, Minerals, Nutrition, Research, Supplements, Vitamins, Weight Loss, Life, News, Tech Insider
Omega-3 supplements are essentially useless for preventing diseases, according to a new study
July 18, 2018 businessinsider Leave a Comment
source Baoyan zeng / Shutterstock A new Cochrane review has found omega-3 supplement pills probably don’t do that much for our health. Out of over 112,000 people, 8.8% died while taking fish oil pills, compared to 9% of those who didn’t take any. This is not a significant difference. For some reason, we have been looking at omega-3 as a magical pill for health and intelligence for a long time. But it’s becoming increasingly clear this is not the case. There’s a growing body of evidence to suggest most vitamin supplements don’t do all that much. In fact, a study earlier this year found how some of the most popular vitamin supplements, including vitamin C and calcium, don’t really have major health benefits. The next pill in the firing line is fish oil. Also known as omega-3, fish oil has been widely publicised as being protective against heart disease, but according to a new Cochrane review, led by the University of East … [Read more...] about Omega-3 supplements are essentially useless for preventing diseases, according to a new study
Uncategorized how to prevent disease, prevent disease, preventable diseases, preventing disease, supplements essential for bodybuilding, how does vaccination prevent disease, how does vaccinations prevent diseases, preventing disease through healthy environments, how vaccines prevent diseases, vaccine preventable disease outbreaks, vaccine preventable disease, how do vaccines prevent disease, how do vaccinations prevent diseases, vaccine preventable diseases, vaccine preventable diseases list, centers for disease control and prevention, preventing chronic disease, new school for music study, medicare supplements new jersey, new york medicare supplement plans, obesity centers for disease control and prevention, centers for disease control and prevention obesity, new jersey medicare supplement plans, outbreaks of vaccine preventable diseases, who vaccine preventable diseases monitoring system, paralegal studies new york, new york university school of professional studies, Diet, fish oil, Health, Heart disease, Omega-3, Vitamins, Life, News
There’s even more evidence to suggest most popular vitamin supplements are essentially useless
May 29, 2018 businessinsider Leave a Comment
source Flickr/Steve Depolo A new study has shown how vitamin supplements are mostly useless. The most popular pills, including vitamin C and calcium, don’t really have major health benefits. Folic acid and B vitamins with folic acid were found to possibly reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke. But some others, like niacin and antioxidants, could actually cause harm. Vitamin and mineral supplements are a staple in many people’s diets, but there is increasing evidence to suggest most popular pills are essentially useless. A new systematic review of existing data and trials published between January 2012 and October 2017 has found that popular multivitamins, vitamin C, vitamin D, and calcium – some of the most common choices – had no real advantage to people’s health, and there was no evidence taking them reduced the risk of … [Read more...] about There’s even more evidence to suggest most popular vitamin supplements are essentially useless
Uncategorized rsquo s meaning, Popular Herbal Supplements, vitamin supplement, vitamin supplementation, multi vitamin supplements, top vitamin supplements, runners vitamin supplements, best vitamin supplements, vitamin supplements, postnatal vitamin supplements, why vitamins are essential to good health, essential evidence plus, s suggest app, most essential vitamins and minerals, popular u.s. destinations, popular u.s. travel destinations, vitamins and supplements, vitamin d deficiency how much supplement to take, suggested vitamin d intake, most essential bodybuilding supplements, supplemental vitamins and minerals, supplements vitamins and minerals, wholesale vitamins and supplements, vitamin d supplementation, supplement vitamin, supplements and vitamins, Diet, Health, Minerals, Research, Supplements, Vitamins, Life, News
Here’s the only supplement you should take for your cold
February 9, 2018 robert Leave a Comment
Research suggests that neither vitamin C or orange juice will help beat that cold. Nevertheless, sales of the beverage are rising for the first time in half a decade – and people think it may have to do with this year’s terrible flu season. If you’re looking for something that could actually help reduce your symptoms and the length of your cold, studies suggest that zinc – not vitamin C – may be your best bet. Flu season 2018 is not messing around. As the virus has swept the US in recent months, people seem to have turned to orange juice in the hope that the vitamin C-rich beverage will help them fight off illness. Sales of the drink rose 0.9% in the four weeks ending on January 20, according to The Wall Street Journal – the first time in almost five years that Nielsen data showed a year-over-year increase. Importantly, the symptoms of the flu and the common cold, both of … [Read more...] about Here’s the only supplement you should take for your cold
Life rsquo s meaning, lysine supplements cold sores, lysine supplement cold sores, s&b cold air intake, u.s. growers cold storage, s n l dietary supplement, s cold, u.s. cold storage, cold sore supplement lysine, cold sore vitamins supplements, what is s cold sore
Next Page »
Primary Sidebar
Search this website
Categories
Asia Backstage Bacolod Basketball Breaking News Business Business News Canada Career Cebu Davao Entertainment Featured Columns Finance GTA Headlines Health Inside News Instagram Life Lifestyle Litra-Talk Bansa Probinsiya Metro Opinyon Palaro Showbiz True Confessions Dr. Love Kutob Komiks local Manila Metro Mindanao Nation National News Opinion Opinions and Editorials Overseas PostScript Provincial Queen's Park Singapore sport Sports Tech Insider Technology Today's Headline Photos Travel Uncategorized Weekly World
Recent Posts
Lakers interview Kidd for coaching gig; Suns challenge LA for Monty Williams
Sri Lanka warned of threat hours before suicide attacks
Commuter headache after ‘unauthorized’ closure of Bloor and Yonge Streets
Technology ethics campaigners offer plan to fight ‘human downgrading’
Student loses entire savings of $22,500 to conmen impersonating Chinese officials
Wie to ‘take some time away’ from LPGA to heal injury
Ex-Jay Kevin Pillar happy to have the chance at a proper goodbye
York parent fighting to serve as trustee on board she accuses of discrimination
News How China is replacing America as Asia’s military titan
Old Trafford holds no fears for Guardiola
Copyright © 2019 Asean Breaking News. Power by Wordpress.