Brain cancer & Cellphones
[ Tim's web ] [ Home ] [ Up ] [ Site map ] [ Contact ] [ Feedback ] [ Bioenergy links ] [ GOOGLE Search ] [ Energy Systems ] [ Human Tests ] [ Protection Products ] [ Research ] [ Mailers ]
WARNING! EMF radiation from this PC depletes your bioenergy! Get protection for your safety!
Cellphone Risks
Cellphone dangers - Industry knows
Mobile Cell Stress = Cancer
Acoustic Neuromas
Blood-brain barrier breached
Brain tumour from cellphones
Brain cancer Review
Cellphone excites brain cortex
Deadly Obsession cellphones
Ear tumours up 4x due cellphones
Loss of hearing due cellphones
DNA damage Cellphone Radiation
Endothelial stress to brain
Gliomas up 40% - 10 years CP use
GSM damages brain neurons
Video: Cellphones disrupt hospital equipment
Cellph Risks 2
Health fears - Cellphones
Mobile health implications
Infertility from cellphones
Sperm count reduced by cellphones
Mobiles damage DNA
Mobiles breach blood-brain barrier
Rural risk higher with cellphones
Scientists avoid mobiles
Alzheimer's triggered by phones
Sperm reduced by 1/3rd
US$30k payout -cellphone cancer
Visual damage from mobiles
Work absence up -mobiles
Mobiles interfere vital hospital equip
Child Risks
Radiation from Baby Monitor risky
Fetal exposure RF - Autism
Leukaemia 5x higher -Magnetic fields in homes
Cellphones hazardous 4 children
Emeritus Professor view cellphones as cigs of 21st C.
Cellphones endanger children more
Child brain effect shock -cellphone
Child brain tumour -cellphones
Child Warning over mobiles UK
Cellphones for Kids - Risks
Cellphone worse for child
Health fears - Mobiles
Sperm count reduced by cellphones
Mobiles damage DNA
Infertility from cellphones
Warning Cellphones UK study
UK & French warnings
Vienna Drs Warning: Child use Cellphones
Leukaemia -Power lines
Child autism from EMF
Dangers - EMF
Cordless phone high risk
Sensitive to things Electrical - a Chief Exec's warning
Electrosensitivity - Health Issues
Breast cancer EMF cause 2006
Breast cancer EMF in Home
Adverse effects of EMF
Cumulative effect from EMF
Screen use ups glaucoma
Visual damage from EMF frequencies
Video camera use -brain tumours
RF frequencies cause cancer
Fed. warning - cordless phones
What doctors warn: Freiburger links with illness
Benevento scientists caution
How radio frequency EMR harms you
What is your exposure to EMFs?
Danger articles
Safety regulations are inadequate
RF frequencies do cause cancer
Women & Children more Exposed
Hormone disruption from EMFs
Electropollution, Hormones, Cancer
Cumulative effect of EMF
EMF affects your Brain
EMF affects to humans
Range of health effects from EMF
EMR causes cancer
Visual damage from EMFs
Insurance risks
Reinsurers avoid cellphone risks
Human Tests
MSAS bioenergy test video
How radio frequency EMR harms you
Cellphone effect on you
Computer effect on you
Cordless phone effect on you
Television effect on you
Shaver's effect on you
Vehicle effect on you
MSAS bioenergy tests Auckland
MSAS bioenergy tests Toronto
Inst. Vital Energetics: Cellphones
Biolife body energy enhancer
Blood microscopy Stress reduction
Smart Card fluid energiser
Smart Card food energiser
Home-Office Harmoniser
Protection
Buy effective GIA Wellness protection
EMF Stress Effects Outline
Biopro Solutions to be Safe
Thermographic Imaging of Cell Chip Benefit
Amazing Biolife Pendant
Biolife blood micro. stress reduce
Smart Card drinks energiser
Smart Card food energiser
Bioproduce "star burst" vitality
Amazing Home-Office Harmoniser
News Shocks
Radiation from Baby Monitor risky
Radiation Risks Real
11% affected by phones
2 in 3 people now affected by EMFs
Cordless phone high risk
Respiratory Disease -Electrosmog
10th Breast cancer -ABC studio closes
9th Breast cancer -ABC Newsroom
Personal accounts of breast cancer sufferers in ABC
Breast cancer EMF cause 2006
Breast cancer -EMFs & Environ factors
Breast cancer - EMF in homes
Bee navigation disrupted
Benevento Statement of Concerned Scientists
Nth Sth ltr EMF hazard
BBC studio Video Cam brain tumours
Reinsurers avoid cellphone risks
WiFi Dangers
WiFi - Hi Tech Horrors caution
WiFi Health Time Bomb
WiFi health worries
Children at Risk from Electro Smog
WiFi Reasons for Health Concerns
WiFi Outline
WiFi myths debunked
Federal Govt warning on WLAN
EU watchdog WiFi warning
WiFi radiation 3x cell masts
Worried Families ditch WiFi
Salzburg Health against WLAN
UK Schools dismantle WiFi
WLAN - a Doctor's account
RF Mast Danger
Cellphone Masts - Awful Truth
Cell Masts Cancer Clusters UK
RMIT Top Floor Cancers - Masts on Roof
How Mast Radiation affects U -Hyland
ICRW Harm Mechanisms
Health & Environ effects RF Radiation
Cumulative effect from EMF
Masts - Sleep Disturbance
Fire Fighters refuse Masts
Pylons & Wiring
Leukaemia -Power lines
Draper Study: Cancer-Power lines
Breast: Cancer -HiVolt Power lines -Melatonin effect
Leukaemia 5x higher -Magnetic fields in homes
Pylons - Child Leukaemia
Pylons Caused Son's Cancer
Pwr Lines Double Cancer risk for Children
Pylons constant Radiation - Cancer
Pylons links to Disease
Pylons double Miscarriages
Pwr Lines Cancers in Massey
Pylon links to Cancers in Hunuas
Chronic Fatigue - Appliance EMF
EMF Research
LATEST -Science reveals Mech of Harm
LATEST Global Review: EMR Dangers verified
Safety regulations are inadequate - US views
Safety guidelines inadequate - UK perspective
Physics & Biology of Mobile Telephony -Hyland
Scientists Benento Caution
EMF affects to humans
Fetal exposure RF - Autism
How ICRW radio waves harm you
Dr Carlo discloses hazards
ERK activation cell harm
Inst. Vital Energetics: Cellphones
Studies on Microwave Radiation
Energy systems
About EMF - What is it?
Atoms - an EMF force holds them together
How EMF waves affect atoms
EMF disrupts your bioenergy -Kirlian images
Your Biofield - your body's energy system
Subtle Energy - your body's signals
Intellectual Energy
EMR - understanding effects
Environmental EMF basics
Schumann resonances of Planet & life
BioE mailers
Bioenergy Mailer Aug 2007
Bioenergy Mailer Feb 2007
Bioenergy Mailer Jan 2007
Bioenergy Mailer Nov 2006
Your body has an energy signalling system that's vital for its proper function. See Energy Systems. You need to protect it!
Don't exposure yourself to EMFs without protection. You wouldn't expose yourself to the sun for hours - you'd get skin cancer soon enough. EMF is invisible and every day EMF stress affects your body putting your health at risk; a wide range of symptoms result. Just read What Doctors warn. EMF radiation depletes bioenergy, compromising your immune system! There is a cumulative effect. Take advantage of my website to find out more about these modern day hazards.
An amazing new protection that really works is now available with GIA Wellness. You can avoid adverse health risks and enjoy a New Generation of Wellness in an increasingly electropolluted world. Electropollution is a real environmental toxin.
Especially don't expose your child to EMFs. They have a lifetime more to bear this and the full extent of risks is not yet known!
Coastal Post
Coastal Post Journalist: Amy Worthington
March 06, 2005
Brain Cancer and Cell Phones
Some people appear to have an almost pathological emotional attachment to their cell phones and there is a fascinating suggestion that cell radiation pulses might actually be addictive to the human brain. We can't save those who would rather die than switch. But ethics compelled us to ensure that all reasonable people have access to the basic scientific facts.
Your cell phone is a microwave transmitter and it should bear a cancer warning! Microwave energy oscillates at millions to billions of cycles per second. The Journal of Cellular Biochemistry reports that these frequencies cause cancer and other diseases by interfering with cellular DNA and its repair mechanisms. Brain cancer and cell phone risk is real. Microwave promotes rapid cell aging. Italian scientists have recently demonstrated that cell phone radiation makes cancerous cells grow aggressively. Cordless phones marked 900 megahertz or 2.4 gigahertz emit the same dangerous microwave radiation as cell phones.
Recent studies confirm that cell and cordless phone microwave can:
Microwave radiation & Cancer?
The connection between microwave exposure and cancer has been documented for years. During the Cold War, the Soviets irradiated the US Embassy in Moscow, Russia, with low level, twin-beam microwave radiation. Two successive ambassadors developed leukemia. Other staffers also developed cancer--or their blood showed DNA damage, which precedes cancer.
Research by University of Washington professor Dr. Henry Lai shows brain cells are clearly damaged by microwave levels far below the US government's "safety" guidelines. Dr. Lai notes that even tiny doses of radio frequency can cumulate over time and lead to harmful effects. He warns that public exposure to radiation from wireless transmitters "should be limited to minimal."
Motorola advises consumers to avoid pointing a cellular antenna toward exposed parts of the body. But independent tests show that cell phones can also leak huge amounts of radiation from the keypad and mouthpiece. This radiation deeply penetrates brain, ear and eye tissues, which are especially susceptible to microwave damage. Belt clip cases allow cell phones to deliver radiation to the liver or kidney areas when a wired, hands-free earpiece is used.
Damage nerves in the scalp
Cause blood cells to leak haemoglobin
Cause memory loss and mental confusion
Cause headaches and induce extreme fatigue
Create joint pain, muscle spasms and tremors
Create burning sensation and rash on the skin
Alter the brain's electrical activity during sleep
Induce ringing ! in the ears, impair sense of smell
Precipitate cataracts, retina damage and eye cancer
Open the blood-brain barrier to viruses and toxins
Reduce the number and efficiency of white blood cells
Stimulate asthma by producing histamine in mast cells
Cause digestive problems and raise bad cholesterol levels
Stress the endocrine system, especially pancreas, thyroid, ovaries, testes
Industry Panic
In 1993, the Telecom industry committed $25 million dollars for a series of research projects designed to prove that cell phones are safe. The studies proved just the opposite! They proved that federal microwave exposure standards are dangerously inadequate. Cell damage and tumors can be easily induced in the lab at about one third of the FCC's exposure guidelines.
The Telecom boys panicked. They and their lackey politicians and federal regulators decided the only lucrative thing to do was to LIE and DENY. Despite damning evidence, the FDA still prevaricates: "There is no reason to conclude that there are health risks posed by cell phones to consumers." Meantime, the Telecom industry has been pressing to INCREASE BY MORE THAN 10 TIMES the allowable human exposure to cell phone radiation!
Luckily, Dr. George Carlo headed up the industry's study project. He presents the shocking facts in his book, Cell Phones: "Invisible Hazards in the Wireless Age: An Insider's Alarming Discoveries About Cancer and Genetic Damage" (Carroll and Graf, 2001).
A summary of Dr. Carlo's book is this: Cell phones are hot, adequate protective regulations are naught, and Americans are being "fried" so that the deceitful telecom industry can rake it in! It's dirty business as usual, and the longer the industry can con the public, the more billions it collects.
On June 16, 2002 , CBS aired a Sixty Minutes segment which confirmed the telecom industry is about as grungy as it gets. CBS producers accused major phone service providers of cheating, scamming, forging signatures, switching phone service without permission and lying about charges. The attorney general of Connecticut stated that despite millions of dollars in fines each year, these companies remain incorrigible. Should we be trusting this industry with our brain tissues and our very lives?
Plenty of Evidence of dangers
Microwave to the head is extremely hazardous to children. Parents in some European nations are now warned to keep children away from cell phones. A University of Utah researcher found the younger the child, the more radiation is absorbed by the brain. Spanish researchers have shown that cell phones can alter electrical activity of a child's brain for hours, causing drastic mood changes and possible behavior and learning disabilities. Scientists fear that cell phone radiation could damage human embryos. Pregnant women are advised to be wary.
A cell phone must greatly increase its field strength to maintain communications within the metallic cage of an auto. Thus, the effect of microwave radiation inside a vehicle is especially intense. Volkswagen of Europe has warned that cell phone usage inside a car can be "injurious to health due to the extremely high electromagnetic fields generated."
Insurance studies in England showed that an average driver talking on a cell is actually more impaired in function and reaction time than a drunk. Finland's Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority reports that one hour of exposure to mobile phone radiation can cause human cells to shrink. Researchers believe this is due to increased protein activity, an indicator of cell damage. What an unstable world needs now is a global population afflicted with incredible shrinking brains!
Brain cancer rates in USA have increased by 25% since 1975. In 2001, 185,000 Americans were diagnosed with some form of brain cancer. A grade four brain tumor can grow from the size of a grape to tennis ball size in just 4 months. Brain tumors are almost always fatal and most people die within 6-12 months after diagnosis. On April 7, 2002 , Sixty Minutes aired a fascinating report on brain cancer, explaining that scientists are unsure why incidence of the disease is growing so exponentially.
Ads ignore the evidence
Ironically, the segment was followed by a Sprint ad, which advised parents that the best way to keep track of teenagers is to connect them to a cell phone. While researchers say that radical damage to the brain can occur within the first few minutes of conversation, Telecom ads encourage customers to spend many hours on the phone each month. Those blazing, full-page cell phone ads in newspapers and magazines must be the reason cell phone dangers are almost never discussed in the mainstream media.
An excellent resource tool is Robert Kane's book "Cellular Telephone Russian Roulette" (Vantage Press, 2001). As a telecommunications expert, Kane presents an impressive collection of studies showing that both government agencies and cell phone manufacturers KNEW YEARS AGO that cell phone radiation at present exposure levels is dangerous to human health. He notes that cell phones would be rendered useless if their RF emissions were reduced to safe levels.
Cellphones today's tobacco
Reports of illness from heavy cell phone usage and from living or working close to powerful RF transmitters are synchronous with numerous cancer-related lawsuits now being filed against the cell phone industry. The insurance industry sees big trouble ahead. Underwriters for Lloyd's of London refuse to insure phone manufacturers against damage to users' health. Cell phones are today what tobacco was 40 years ago.
Coastal Post
Journalist: Amy Worthington March 06, 2005
You have a sophisticated body electronics system that is vital to its function. So don't allow yourself to be exposed to health risks invisibly imposed by EMF radiation from electric & magnetic fields and pulsed microwave transmission signals, which are at frequencies that disrupt your brain and cellular functions. Cellphone and cordless phone use does carry well-established risks! EMF stress occurs with all other electric and electronic devices, too. There are adverse health effects - see What Doctors Warn. Scientific studies have shown that EMF exposure has a cumulative effect, increasing over time. Be sure to reduce the risks for your children who face a lifetime of exposure and those with poorer health conditions, they are especially at risk. For an appreciation of this start at Child Risks.
Depletion of your body's bioenergy causes a lowered energetic capability, at a fundamental atomic level. See Atoms & EMF. Disturbance of it's inherent bioenergetic system results in disruptions to cellular functions and a compromised immune system. Start at Energy Systems. Quite simply, your body systems are no longer able to work in the way that they would if such destructive interference from EMR was not imposed on you. To see how human energies are affected by common electronic devices see bioenergy test charts showing patterns typical of that experienced by everyone from Human Tests.
If you can't understand why the authorities are allowing you to be exposed to such risks, start at my Research page. So-called "safety" regulations only consider thermal (tissue heating) effects, but frighteningly disregard low frequency biological effects. Strong vested interests resist change to this in spite of mounting evidence. For your own health and safety, and sustainable wellness, you need to adopt the Precautionary Principle with some urgency to avoid the risks of the invisible hazard of EMR that do compromise your health. You can now make use of the amazing new GIA Wellness protection available to reduce the effects of EMR, and have the chance to enjoy sustainable wellness. See GIA Wellness Protection Products.
Find out more so you can immediately protect yourself and achieve optimal health in our increasingly electropolluted world.
GET PROTECTION to avoid ADVERSE HEALTH EFFECTS and the CUMULATIVE EFFECTS.
Health and safety needs to be treated seriously. Be sure to get GIA Wellness (formerly Biopro Technology) protection for others that you care about, too. Tell others about my website and the wealth of information it provides so they can avail themselves of this and the amazing new Biopro protection against the adverse health risks of increasing exposure to EMF in our modern technological world.
INTERESTING STUFF? GET THE LATEST BY ADDING YOURSELF & OTHERS TO MY MAILER LIST ON MY BIOENERGY MAILERS PAGE
Others to assist in worthwhile protection enterprise?
Do you know of any enterprising people who care about others and may like to join with me in this worthwhile undertaking of providing protection to others from this growing EMF radiation hazard? You'll enjoy an additional income stream, too.
* Free Bioenergy test subject to product purchase and reasonable proximity to me or you pay travel costs, all at my discretion.
Other sections - [ EMF Dangers ] [ Significant EMF News ] [ EMF Danger articles ] [ Energy Systems ] [ Human-Tests ] [ Protection Products ] [ Research ] [ Feedback ]
E mail Tim Leitch here or use my Feedback page. Any hyperlink issues, please let me know by email. Thanks.
Always being enhanced.
Copyright © 2005-2012 Tim Leitch. Last modified: 13 Jul 2011
Any use of material from this site must include a clear link back to this website.
To Top