Lipitor (Atorvastatin) - USRecalls.org
Get Email Updates | Report Product Recall
Toggle navigation
Home
Recalls
Lawsuits & Settlements
News and Alerts
FAQ
Home
Lipitor (Atorvastatin)
Lipitor (Atorvastatin)
FDA
Manufacturer: Pfizer
Recall Number: #lipitor01
Hazards
Diabetes
Hyperglycemia
Ketoacidosis
Pancreatitis
Memory Loss
Liver injury
Potential Muscle Damage
Product
Lipitor
Product Details
Lipitor (atorvastatin)
Summary by USRecalls.org
Lipitor (atorvastatin) is a drug that is prescribed by doctors to patients who need to treat high cholesterol. In February 2012 the FDA released information and added new warnings to the labels of Lipitor and other cholesterol drugs warnings they may raise blood sugar levels, leading to memory loss and increasing the risk of developing Type II diabetes. Other studies have shown Lipitor may cause diabetes, hyperglycemia, ketoacidosis, pancreatitis, and other serious side effects. There are clear benefits to using the drugs and in some cases the benefits outweigh the risks but there are serious risks associated with the long-term use of these drugs.
Special Alert: You may be entitled for financial compensation. Click here to learn more.
Federal Agency Description
FDA is advising consumers and health care professionals that: Routine monitoring of liver enzymes in the blood, once considered standard procedure for statin users, is no longer needed. Such monitoring has not been found to be effective in predicting or preventing the rare occurrences of serious liver injury associated with statin use. Cognitive (brain-related) impairment, such as memory loss, forgetfulness and confusion, has been reported by some statin users. People being treated with statins may have an increased risk of raised blood sugar levels and the development of Type 2 diabetes. Some medications interact with lovastatin (brand names include Mevacor) and can increase the risk of muscle damage. FDA will be changing the drug labels of popular statin products to reflect these new concerns. (These labels are not the sticker attached to a prescription drug bottle, but the package insert with details about a prescription medication, including side effects.)
Frequently Asked Questions
Who is at risk when using Lipitor?
If your doctor has prescribed Lipitor or another statin to help control your high cholesterol and/or to lower your risk of a heart attack or stroke you can be at risk for one or many of the side effects associated with long term use of statins.
Immediate steps to take if using Lipitor
For some people the side effects of using Lipitor or another statin can outweigh the benefits. Before you decide to stop taking Lipitor be sure you understand the risks and benefits. However, if you have experienced any of these serious side effects contact your doctor immediately: unexplained muscle pain or weakness, unusual fatigue, dark colored urine, swelling, weight gain, urinating less than usual or not at all; or nausea, stomach pain, itching, loss of appetite, jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes).
Is there an active lawsuit or settlement for people using Lipitor?
Lawsuits are being filed alleging that Pfizer and other statin manufacturers failed to warn doctors and patients about the many harmful side effects associated with the drugs' use. Many mass tort cases and lawsuits have been settled. Find out about your rights.
Am I entitled to financial compensation as a result of my Lipitor use?
If you have been injured or harmed by the use of Lipitor or another statin you may be entitled to financial compensation. Find out if you qualify for compensation.
ALERT: As a result of the FDA warning you or a family member may be eligible to compensation
CHECK ELIGIBILITY
© Copyright 2014 - USRecalls.org - All Rights Reserved
About
Contact
Useful Resources
Terms And Conditions
Privacy Policy
×Close
Newsletter Sign Up
Stay Safe. Keep Informed as Recalls Occur
Email
Yes, I want to receive news and alerts from USRecalls.org.
I agree to USRecalls Terms of Use