running | Maxed Out Muscles
Maxed Out Muscles
Search
Main menu
Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content
Maxed Out Muscles
Blog
2015 posts
Gym Motivation
Video of the Day
Alcohol
Gym humor
Crohn’s Disease
Weekly Progress
Contact
Tag Archives: running
Practicing What I Preach
Posted on December 11, 2015 by maxedoutmuscles
8
Almost every day I write a post about fitness, Crohn’s Disease, and life. Almost every day, I try to share advice that was given to me, research, and my personal opinions on the above topics. That does not mean that I am a testament to this perfect, idealistic version of me that I am trying to assimilate in this blog.
However, every day I keep in mind of where I’m at and I remember my end goals. I remember that eating a nearly perfect diet that I believe in will further my goals, that pushing out the extra rep will also help, and that blogging is my form of expression and a means to an end for going the extra mile until I choose to go even further.
Not having these things all figured out oftentimes makes me feel like a hypocrite. I’m reminded of a quote from Jesus in the Christian’s New Testament:
3 “Why do you look at the speck of sawdust in your brother’s eye and pay no attention to the plank in your own eye? 4 How can you say to your brother, ‘Let me take the speck out of your eye,’ when all the time there is a plank in your own eye? 5 You hypocrite, first take the plank out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother’s eye.
That’s Matthew 7:3-5 in the New International Version of the Bible(crazy how many different versions there are!!). I was raised in a fairly religious home, thus I remember random scriptures often that I sometimes relate to things I’m going through in my life.
I chose this image from freeimages.com because the bar looked like a barbell
However, if those words were taken literally I wonder if there would be a single person willing to preach. That’s where Christians believe in grace and moving forward, even when they make mistakes. That’s where I believe in getting up, even when I fall down, and continuing to blog while simultaneously fighting to improve my life into that idealistic version I spoke of in the first paragraph.
So what is the idealistic version of myself?
Idealistically, I’m going to continue blogging and working out, running, and dieting, studying nutrition and also furthering my career. I will turn into someone I would proudly call a role model.
I will practice what I preach.
It’s going to happen! I believe in myself and I know I can do it! Since I wrote the series on diet last week, I have made a lot of healthier choices. I’ve been running a lot more and eating cleaner just like I said my character Jimmy would as compared to Carl who only likes greasy, nasty food.
So as long as I talk bad about Carl, I’m going to be a Jimmy! While practicing what I preach, I’ll continue to keep you posted and share content.
Posted in Lifelong Fitness, Motivation	| Tagged blog, clean, eat, eye, fitness, gym, jesus, new testament, plank, practice, practicing what i preach, quote, religious, running, speck	| 8 Replies
10 Fitness Myths That You Might Still Believe
Posted on November 8, 2015 by maxedoutmuscles
16
In today’s world, information is at our fingertips. While this is a blessing, it can also be a lead to a lot of misinformation. Here are ten fitness myths that you might still believe!
Myth #1: Squatting Is Bad For Your Knees!
Don’t shy away from doing barbell squats next time you go to the gym! While many people have said in the past that squats are bad for your knees, that is 100% false. Doing squats will actually build strong muscles to support your joints rather than causing injury.
Myth #2: Up The Crunches If You Want A Killer Six Pack!
Actually, crunches won’t do you any good in attaining that chiseled look you are going for! While you may build up ab muscle, those abs will never show unless you have a lower body fat percentage. Having abs is, in fact, almost entirely a matter of low body fat. This is followed by genetics, but don’t use genetics as an excuse not to try.
Myth #3: Stretch Before Your Workout
While stretching after your workout is a great idea to avoid injury and soreness, stretching before your workout could actually cause injury! That isn’t a guarantee but some studies have shown that doing stretches before you work out actually destabilizes your muscles. Try doing a warm-up before your workout to get the blood flowing and you will be much better off.
Myth #4: You Can Spot Reduce Fat
I’ve gotten into (polite)arguments about this all the time, and it is the question I get asked most through my email: “Can you spot reduce fat?” The answer is no! You may store fat more in some areas due to genetics, but that doesn’t mean crunches can burn off the extra stomach fat. Try a good resistance training routine, some good cardio, and a great diet to drop your body fat percentage, feel great, and look better!
Myth #5: Test Boosters!
Raise your hand if you are guilty of buying test boosters! **I guiltily had to raise my hand since I was naive starting out** There is actually no evidence to support the possibility that natural test boosters actually work! The only thing I am certain of with test boosters is that they are a waste of money. Know that you aren’t buying actual prohormones or steroids so they won’t work to raise you testosterone level over natural limits, and if your testosterone is so low you think you absolutely need the help….then you could probably just get a prescription for real testosterone therapy.
Myth #6: Lifting Weights Will Make You Look Like A BodyBuilder
A lot of women don’t want to look weights because they are afraid of looking “bulky”. Trust me, due to genetics and hormones you won’t get that bulky look. You’ll look fine unless you start taking steroids and other than that, you’ll be able to control how far you take it in the weight room! So keep calm, and keep lifting!
Myth #7: Sweating Means You Burned More Calories
Sorry to rain on that sweaty parade of yours…
While sweating can sometimes be a great indicator of a hard day’s work in the gym, it can also mean that it was just really hot. Sweating is your body’s physiological response to being overheated. Nevertheless, keep working hard in the gym and keep sweating and you will burn more calories through perseverance.
Myth #8: Running is Bad For Your Knees
I did a little bit of research on this and found that running actually isn’t that hard on your knees! The knees of older runners compared to other people of the same age were of no worse condition. I would like to add that you should probably still wear a nice running shoe and throw in some squats!
Myth #9: Muscle Weighs More Than Fat
This is just funny! I read this on someone’s blog post one day and had a real laugh, because I’ve even said this before(and I bet some of you have too): “Muscle weighs more than fat?” How though? How much does a pound of muscle weigh? A pound. How much does a pound of fat weigh? A pound.
Muscle is leaner than fat! But it certainly doesn’t weigh more!
Myth #10: Cardio Will Give You A 48 Hour AfterBurn
The statement itself is true, but you don’t benefit nearly as much from this afterburn as you think. Some experts say that you will only burn 20 extra calories a day! Weight training will give a slightly higher afterburn but it still isn’t anything significant. Therefore, if you really want to lose weight you’ll probably just have to do more cardio or add intensity! If you still don’t lose weight, then try dropping your calories.
..and there you have it! Ten fitness myths that you may have still believed! I hope you benefited from reading this post!
Train hard and train smart! Make sure you have some maxed out muscles!
Posted in Lifelong Fitness	| Tagged cardio, crunches, fat, fat loss, fitness, maxed out muscles, muscle, myths, running, six pack, spot reduce, squatting, stretch, sweating, test boosters, weighs more	| 16 Replies
Sunday Funday!
Posted on August 24, 2015 by maxedoutmuscles
Reply
Today was my Sunday Funday and it was my first day back in the gym in a week. I had really missed the gym that whole week I was gone but needed the time to recover.
Anyways, what better way to get back into the grind than to do squats, front squats, and overhead squats? I loved every minute of it.
Happy Sunday! Hope you made the most of it. Thanks for reading.
Posted in Lifelong Fitness, Motivation	| Tagged exercise, fitness, gym, life, motivation, running, squats, sunday funday	| Leave a reply
Search Maxed Out Muscles Articles
Search
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive free notifications of new posts by email.
Join 1,493 other followers
Follow
Create a website or blog at WordPress.com
Post to
Cancel