Teens and Marijuana Addiction | Facts About Teen Addiction
Get a free, confidential consultation. Austin: 512-729-7757 Scottsdale: 480-210-0248
We can help. 844-876-5568
Promises Treatment Centers
Toggle navigation Menu
Search
Treatment Programs
Treatment Programs
Drug and Alcohol Detox
Residential Drug Rehab
Scottsdale Executive Program for Men
Professionals Drug Rehab
Men’s Mental Health Treatment
Women’s Mental Health Treatment
Addiction Aftercare
What We Treat
Locations
Locations
Austin
Scottsdale
The Experience
The Promises Experience
Why Choose Promises
Success Rates
Promises Staff
Therapies
Testimonials
For Clinical Professionals
Resources
Addiction Resources
Addiction Articles
Admissions
Admission Process
Insurance
Contact Us
Search Here
Search
Teens Who Get Addicted to Marijuana
Marijuana is more controversial than ever these days. With legalization for medical use in more than 20 states and legalization for recreational use in two, the drug continues to be the subject for debate.
One of the hot topics is addiction. Some people claim that marijuana is not addictive, but most experts know better. While not as addictive as many other drugs, it can and does lead to dependence. The real issue now is that teens are getting hooked on smoking pot.
Marijuana Addiction
Addiction is a complicated medical condition, and it can occur when a person becomes physically dependent on a substance. But it can also be the result of a psychological dependence. The former is usually more severe and more difficult to overcome. Marijuana use can result in a physical dependence, a need to take more of the drug in order to feel normal. It can also turn into a psychological dependence or a combination of the two.
According to the National Institute on Drug Abuse, 9 percent of marijuana users will become addicted. The risk is greater for users who start at a young age and for those who use marijuana on a daily basis for a long period of time. Those addicted to the drug report feeling withdrawal symptoms like irritability, anxiety, cravings, insomnia and a decreased appetite.
Teens and Marijuana Addiction
While the overall numbers reported by the government suggest that 9 percent of marijuana users get addicted, new research has found that the number could be much higher among teens. In a recent study, researchers looked at 127 teens being treated for substance abuse. Of those, 90 used marijuana most often and, of those, 76 percent were addicted. The criteria for addiction used for the teens included an inability to cut back on using the drug in spite of negative health consequences, increasing tolerance to its effects, and the experience of withdrawal symptoms.
The results are important, but they come from a single, small study. To confirm the results, researchers hope to follow up with research involving more teens. In the meantime, the fact that so many young people may be getting hooked on what is often considered a harmless drug should start important conversations. The researchers also point out that the signs of marijuana addiction seen in the teens are much less severe than similar symptoms seen in addicts of drugs like heroin, alcohol or even tobacco.
Addiction, however, is not the only concern that we should have for teens using marijuana. There are many more problems that can be caused by use of the drug. We know that marijuana impacts the brain, but it particularly has an effect on brains that are still developing. This means that teens smoking pot are at risk for diminished cognitive abilities and memory issues, and the drug has been shown to exacerbate mental health illnesses. Using marijuana also causes physical health problems. It can lead to the same respiratory conditions that effect smokers. Smoking pot also increases the risk of having a heart attack and of having a serious accident.
It should be obvious to anyone reading the research that using marijuana is not a harmless activity. Not only can it cause a number of health problems, mental health issues and cognitive decline, but marijuana can and does lead to addiction in many users. Young people seem to be particularly at risk for addiction, and by spreading awareness we can educate teens and empower them to make better choices.
By: Mary Ellen Ellis
Posted in: Teen Issues
Posted in Teen Issues
Verify Insurance
We Work With Multiple Insurance Providers
Learn More About Using Insurance to Pay for Treatment
Recent Posts
Imprisoned by Addiction, Freed by Recovery
Becky R. believes in miracles. How else can she explain the change in her life from two years ago when she heard a judge say these words after her arrest for selling ecstasy to […]
How to Stop Smoking Weed
Despite weed’s social acceptance and legal status in some states, it’s still a substance with high potential for abuse and addiction. The main ingredient in weed is THC. It changes the brain in ways […]
How to Help a Meth Addict
Meth addiction often leads to disturbing symptoms that can make families feel helpless and put meth addicts at serious risk for health and legal problems. Families often describe noticeable physical changes in their meth […]
Common Street Names for Prescription Painkillers
Of the 63,600 drug overdose deaths reported in 2016, 42,249 were attributed to opioids. The effects on the brain of the two most commonly prescribed prescription opioids (hydrocodone and oxycodone) are virtually indistinguishable from those of […]
View All
Get a free, confidential consultation.
Call 844-876-5568 or fill out the form below.
Your Name * Required
Your Phone * Required
What is your timezone?
EST
CST
MST
PST
Other
Your E-mail
How did you hear about us?
Doctor/HospitalEmployeeInternet/Web AdInterventionistLegal/CourtMedia/NewsPrevious Client/AlumniPrint AdTherapist/ClinicianWord of Mouth/FriendTVRadioOther
How can we help?
Infinity VisitorID
Subscribe To Email
Yes, I'd like to receive emails with information that helps my journey to recovery.
Opt-Out
Timestamp - Opt-Out
Comments
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
Promises Austin
840 Co Rd 420
Spicewood, TX 78669
(512) 842-7060
Promises Scottsdale
12816 E Turquoise Ave,
Scottsdale, AZ 85259
(480) 320-3037
Facebook
Twitter
© 2019 Promises Treatment Centers. All Rights Reserved. 844-876-5568
Promises Alcohol & Drug Rehab
Careers
Elements Behavioral Health
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Photo Disclaimer
Sitemap
×