Hemorrhoid | Q CINEMAS
Q CINEMAS
Contact Us
Food For Hemorrhoids: What’s In, What’s Not
21. March 2013 · Write a comment	· Categories: Hemorrhoid · Tags: food for hemorrhoids, food to avoid for hemorrhoid, hemorrhoid, hemorrhoid treatment
Hemorrhoids are veins that have become swollen and inflamed. They may form around the anus and are called external hemorrhoids.
Some can form inside the lower rectum and are called internal hemorrhoids. They can be very painful when you have a bowel movement and itch a lot.
You will also be very uncomfortable when you sit. If you eat a diet which is naturally rich in fiber, you can have soft feces which you can pass easily.
Kinds of Fiber
Soluble fiber – this collects the water in your digestive tract. Later on, it becomes like jelly which slows down your digestion.
Insoluble fiber – it stays in your system, intact. It moves through your intestines to push out the waste and increases the bulk of your feces.
Fruit
Fruits which have soft parts like the apple or orange give us soluble fiber. Majority of fruits give us soluble fiber since they have soft, fleshy inside parts.
If you consume the outer part of a fruit that is tough, it is rich in soluble fiber. Berry and pear skins, citrus fruit veins and peels from apples are rich in insoluble fiber.
Eat the whole fruit and not just its juice because you will get all the fiber you need this way.
Hemorrhoid Treatment: Fiber
Lifestyle changes and most importantly, diet can lessen inflammations and swelling caused by hemorrhoids. If you eat a lot of fibrous foods like fruits, you can reduce strain when you have a bowel movement.
Fiber makes your stool bulky and soft, so you’ll have an easier time passing them. This will reduce the pain and pressure on your hemorrhoids.
Amount of Fiber To Eat
Relieve the pain of hemorrhoids and enhance your digestion by eating about 14 grams of fiber per 1000 calories.
If you have a diet with 2,000 calories, you will need to have 28 grams of fiber to offset it. For hemorrhoid relief, eat whole fruits since they contain the two types of fiber you need.
Food To Avoid When You Have Hemorrhoids
Processed Food
This kind of food has a high animal fat content and very little fiber. They can raise the risk of having hemorrhoids because they don’t have roughage.
Roughage can help make stool soft and move gently through the intestines. Prepackaged, boxed and canned food must be lessened in your diet.
Foods That Are Highly-Refined
Pastries, white bread, cookies, sugary cereals, white rice and prepackaged cakes are not easy to digest.
They have very little dietary fiber and may cause strained passing of stools and constipation. Painless and soft bowel movements are produced by fiber.
Alcohol and Caffeine
Caffeine and alcohol must be eliminated from your diet if you have hemorrhoids. The water supply in your body will be diminished by these substances, so your stool will be dry and small.
Eat more whole fruits daily to add more fiber into your diet to lessen the chances of hemorrhoids forming. It will also diminish the hemorrhoids you already have.
Hemorrhoid Itch: How To Relieve It
05. March 2012 · Write a comment	· Categories: Hemorrhoid · Tags: hemorrhoid, prevent hemorrhoid, remedies for hemorrhoids, treatments for hemorrhoids
Hemorrhoids are veins in the anus and lower part of the rectum that have become irritated and swollen. Internal hemorrhoids grow in the rectum itself.
External ones grow beneath the skin around the anus. If there are blood clots that form inside these hemorrhoids, they will inflict pressure and cause a lot of pain. Some of the reasons why they form are severe strain when you have a bowel movement and constipation.
Because of increased pressure in the abdomen during pregnancy, many women have hemorrhoids. Hemorrhoids can also form if you sit or stand for too long.
Home Remedies For Hemorrhoids
Reduce the itch and swelling by taking sitz baths. You can buy a bathing seat at the pharmacy or get one from your doctor. If you have a bathtub, fill it for a few inches. Soak your bottom for at least ten minutes, and repeat this several times each day, especially after a bowel movement. After you finish this treatment, dry your anal area with patting movements. Don’t rub it.
Look for a hemorrhoid cream which has lidocaine or any other topical anesthetic. This reduces the itchiness and irritation by numbing the area. Suppositories and creams that have hydrocortisone can be used too. However, don’t use them for more than seven days. You might have skin irritations if you do so.
Put witch hazel on a cotton ball and apply it to the anal area. There are also pre-soaked pads at pharmacies which are safe for use if you need to do so for a long time.
Bathe in warm water daily to cleanse the anal area. Prevent and relieve pressure by sitting on a cushion. This also prevents new hemorrhoids from growing.
To reduce the itchy feeling, wear cotton underwear.
Lifestyle Changes for Hemorrhoid Prevention
Eat more fiber. Fruit, vegetables, wheat and oat bran are good foods to add to your diet. You can also take a fiber supplement. Drink more water along with the extra fiber. Eight or more glasses of water or other fluids should be your goal. Your stool will become soft and this will greatly reduce the chances of hemorrhoids forming. You will definitely experience either bloating or increased gas when you eat more fiber, so do this addition slowly.
Exercise daily for the stimulation of your bowels and constipation can be prevented. Pressure on the veins in your anus and rectum will be reduced if you are more active. This will also help you maintain your weight. If you’re a little heavy, it will increase the chances of you having hemorrhoids.
If you have the urge for a bowel movement, don’t delay it. You can ask your doctor if you can get stool softening treatment.
Sometimes home treatments for hemorrhoids don’t work. You can ask your doctor if it’s possible for you to have rubber band ligation treatment, infrared or laser coagulation.
You can have these done in a surgeon’s office or at a hospital.
Recent Posts
Diet Pills in Prevention of Obesity
Food For Hemorrhoids: What’s In, What’s Not
Strangely Effective Weight Loss Tips
Introduction to Colon Cleanse
Raspberry Ketones: Foods You Should and Shouldn’t Eat
Diet and Die
Hemorrhoid Itch: How To Relieve It
Weight Loss Tips for Your Beach Vacation
Healthy Colon Cleanse Using Herbs
Know Your Dosage For Raspberry Ketones!
Archives
March 2013
February 2013
August 2012
March 2012
December 2011
September 2011
January 2011
Categories
Colon Cleanse
Diet Pills
Hemorrhoid
Raspberry Ketones
Weight Loss
Recommended Sites
Best ICO Review
Tags
colon cleanse colon cleanse treatment colon cleansing diet and exercise diet pills dosage of raspberry ketone effective weight loss food for hemorrhoids foods to eat with raspberry ketone food to avoid for hemorrhoid fun with weight loss hemorrhoid hemorrhoid treatment herbs for colon cleanse lose weight losing weight methods of colon cleanse natural raspberry ketone supplements natural way to lose excess weight obesity prevent hemorrhoid prevent obesity purpose of colon cleanse raspberry ketone raspberry ketone supplement remedies for hemorrhoids techniques for colon cleanse tips for weight loss treatments for hemorrhoids types of diet pills weight loss weight loss tips
© Copyright 2019 Q CINEMAS