Signs of Marijuana Abuse
Speak to an Addiction Specialist
(425) 629-0433
Read Our Blog Our Staff
MENU
Drug & Alcohol Rehab Program
Services
DUI Assessments
Intensive Outpatient Program
Assessments and Testing
Family Support
Vivitrol Services
Alumni
Resources
Addiction Guides
Addiction Quizzes
Addiction Medication
Drug Information
Addiction Questions
Infographics
Resources in Bellevue
Resources in Washington
Locations
Outpatient Programs
Ashwood in Boise, ID
Ashwood in Nampa, ID
Evergreen in Bellevue, WA
Inpatient Programs
Northpoint in Boise, ID
Northpoint in Edmonds, WA
About Us
About Us
Our Staff
Testimonials
How We Treat Addiction
What Is Addiction
What Is IOP
What We Treat
Joint Commission Accreditation
Employment
Blog
Blog
Contact
Contact Us
Free Addiction Assessment
Verify Insurance
Call 24/7 For Help
×
Call Now
(425) 629-0433
Signs You Are Abusing Marijuana
What are the signs you're abusing marijuana? Now that marijuana is legal in so many states, is it OK to use it occasionally, or even daily?
These are the questions that many marijuana users frequently ask. It seems as though almost everyone has an opinion on this particular drug. This is even truer now that it many states have made it legal to use recreationally. You may even have questions of your own.
The fact is that, even though marijuana has been legalized in many places, it is still harmful. That has not changed. However, it's so important to get the answers to your questions about marijuana abuse.
On This Page:
What is Marijuana?
Marijuana Addiction
Symptoms
The Effects of Mary Jane
Living With a Pothead
Treatment for Weed Addiction
Find the Best Weed Treatment
Do You Have Questions About Addiction? Call Our Recovery Experts Now.
(425) 629-0433
What is Marijuana?
Marijuana is a well-known cannabinoid drug.
Marijuana joins a host of other drugs in this classification, such as:
Hash
Sativa
Dabs
Wax
K2
Cannabinoids are drugs that bind to the cannabinoid receptors in the brain. They come from the cannabis plant. Of all of the different drugs in this classification, marijuana is the most popular. In fact, many of the above drugs are made from it.
This drug also goes by several other names as well. It is often referred to as:
Pot
Weed
Ganja
Mary Jane (or MJ)
Grass
Signs of Marijuana Abuse
Pot is a drug that has an immediate effect on those who use it. Afterwards, these individuals demonstrate certain signs of pot abuse that are hard to miss. They may feel:
Very relaxed and calm
A sensation of euphoria
Extremely tired
An altered sense of time (it may seem to move more slowly)
Paranoid or suspicious
These and other sensations can be felt every time a person uses pot. In and of themselves, they appear to be fairly harmless. However, with ongoing use, pot can be very dangerous.
Marijuana Addiction: Can You be Addicted to Pot?
It is possible to form an addiction to weed, although this belief isn't very popular. Most people think that it's impossible to have a weed addiction. However, drug rehabs all across America are filled with people who can't stop using it.
If you are addicted to weed, the drug is the most important part of your life. You use it every day, and every chance you get. You may feel strange without it, and you may even crave it.
Abusing marijuana long enough is what eventually leads to an addiction. There's no way to know how long it might take. Some can become addicted within a few weeks, while others may take years. Also, there are some individuals who can abuse marijuana their entire lives, but never form addictions.
How to Tell if You're a Stoner or a Pothead
People with weed addictions are often referred to as stoners or potheads. They are typically always high, or they're high most of the time. You can usually tell if someone is a stoner if they:
Smoke weed when they're by themselves
Use the same language other stoners use when talking about pot
Smoke weed every single day, without fail
Use pot before they do anything
Don't cough when they smoke because their lungs are used to it
Have the physical signs of a pothead- red, itchy eyes, laughing frequently, and speaking very slowly
Different Types of Potheads
Most people lump potheads into one group. However, there are actually different types of stoners. Some of these include:
Paranoid Stoners- These individuals are always worried about how they're acting, or what may happen next.
Klutz Stoners- They typically break things when they're high.
Chemist Stoners- These people are always looking for new ways to get high. They may use dabs, or other forms of weed when they smoke.
Contact High Stoners- They never actually smoke pot, but enjoy being around others who are.
The Quitting Stoner- They are always looking to quit smoking pot, but they can't. They may be trying to get their lives together, but marijuana always calls them back.
Stoner Personality Traits
The pothead personality is truly unique. They tend to be very forgetful, which goes back to suffering from memory loss. They may even forget what a friend told them just a few minutes ago. They are usually quite laid back as well. People tend to think of them as individuals who are "go with the flow" type people.
Also, stoners are obsessed with pot. This is what makes what they do a problem. They think about it almost all the time. If they're using it, they're making sure they have enough, or they're working on getting more.
Symptoms of Being High on Weed
People who use weed are going to display certain symptoms, and many of these are physical. You may notice:
Red, bloodshot eyes
A faster heart rate than normal
Feelings of lethargy
Problems with coordination
Cravings for junk food or snacks
Problems with focusing
Being extremely talkative
Becoming very secretive
Many of these stoner symptoms seem harmless, and even fun when people use pot. However, they can become much worse as time goes on.
The Effects of Mary Jane
It's wrong to think that using Mary Jane will have no effect on you as a person. So many abusers are taught this, and it's simply not true. Mary Jane does have side effects, both in the short and in the long term.
The Short-Term Effects of Getting High
In the short-term, getting high on grass can have a profound effect on you. You may notice changes in yourself, such as:
Weird shifts in your mood
Impaired body movement
Seeing vivid colors or hearing strange sounds
Problems with decisions or judgment
The onset of hallucinations
The onset of delusions
The possibility of psychosis
Once they begin using grass frequently, most people discover that it's not as fun as they thought it would be. Many of the short-term effects of smoking pot are troubling. Still, they're not as dangerous as the long-term effects.
The Long-Term Effects of Smoking Ganja
If you smoke ganja for a period of time, you're likely to experience the long-term effects of this drug. Some of these include:
A lower IQ level
A decline in verbal ability
The onset of breathing problems
A higher chance of a heart attack
Difficulty with child development, if used during pregnancy
Worsening symptoms of schizophrenia (for those already diagnosed)
The onset of anxiety and depression
The possibility of suicidal thoughts
Living With a Pothead
Weed effects everything a person says a does. No one knows this better that an individual who lives with a stoner. Maybe this is you, and you have someone who smokes pot living in your home. Whether this person is a sibling, a spouse, or even a parent, you wish the behavior would stop.
It's possible that you've attempted to talk with your loved one about your concerns many times. However, your words don't make a bit of difference. They continue to smoke pot. It may be time to consider scheduling an addiction intervention. These meetings have been helpful for so many people. You may be able to get help for your loved one as the result of one.
It's also possible that you're in a position where you suspect a loved one is using pot. However, you're not sure. This presents a new set of problems for you.
How To Tell if Someone is Hiding Smoking Weed
This is a problem that a lot of parents run into. In fact, according to one survey, 16% of high school seniors report daily marijuana abuse. Only just above 31% of high school seniors feel that pot is in any way dangerous.
There are ways you can tell if someone you love has been hiding their ganja habit. You can look for:
Abrupt and sudden changes in mood
Changes in behavior, such as a slower reaction time than normal
Difficulty with remembering things
Trouble following conversations
Becoming paranoid about being in danger
How to Tell if Someone is High By Their Eyes
The eyes often offer a glimpse into what's really happening behind the scenes. You can tell if someone is high by looking into their eyes. When you do, do you notice any of the following:
Any redness of the eyes?
Does the person have watery eyes?
Do their eyes seem to move involuntarily?
Do they have dilated pupils or constricted pupils?
Do they wear sunglasses, even when they're inside?
These are all obvious signs that someone is high. You can even look for more signs that are related to the eyes. Have you noticed the individual using Visine, or another type of eye drops? If you have, they may be doing so as a way to calm down any redness.
Is There Treatment for Weed Addiction or Abuse?
Yes, there is treatment available for anyone who has a pot addiction. For those who are abusing marijuana, and who want to stop, they can also get treatment.
Abusers most likely don't need to go to a drug rehab to get help. However, if they're going to stop abusing weed, they may need to consider counseling.
The draw to smoke pot is very strong for some people. They may not be addicted to it yet, but they may still have a strong desire to use it. There is usually some underlying reason why this is the case. Counseling can help you to understand what that reason is, so that you can heal properly. You may even be able to avoid an addiction.
For those who are addicted to weed, marijuana rehab is available to help. Proper treatment is so important, otherwise recovery is not likely.
Where to Find the Best Weed Addiction Treatment
If you're going to be treated for an addiction to marijuana, you want to get the best treatment you can find. The right kind of rehab will address your problem at its core. This allows you the best chance of recovering successfully.
At Northpoint Evergreen Bellevue, we understand the difficult situation you're in. You never thought that misusing marijuana was going to have such a negative impact on you. It may help to know that all pot abusers have felt the exact same way. There is so much misinformation out there about the safety of marijuana. You need to know that it's dangerous.
Taking the proper steps right now can put you on the right path toward your healing. Do you need more information about marijuana addiction or abuse? Contact us right away.
Talk to a Rehab Specialist
Our admissions coordinators are here to help you get started with treatment the right way. They'll verify your health insurance, help set up travel arrangements, and make sure your transition into treatment is smooth and hassle-free.
(425) 629-0433 Contact Us
Full Infographic:
Get in Touch With Us!
Do you have a question? Interested in learning more about Northpoint Evergreen's facility, programs, or staff? We are here to help. Contact us today and get the answers you need to start your journey to recovery.
Submit
Schedule a Call
(425) 629-0433
Useful Links
Home
About Us
Our Staff
Locations
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Follow Us On
TOP