Diet, Habits, & Other Behaviors Archives - Stop Cancer Fund
Or CFC #11967
TIP: Do not include the word cancer in your search,
e.g. Type in "Lung" but not "Lung Cancer"
Menu
Skip to content
About Us
Overview
Events
Key Staff
National Boards
Positions Open
Donate or Volunteer
Helpline
In the News
We’re In the News
New Cancer Research
Patient Booklets
Health Policy Affecting You
Laws & Policies
Testimony & Briefings
Category Archives: Diet, Habits, & Other Behaviors
Does Infrared Light Therapy Work for Weight Reduction?
August 20, 2018 Diet, Habits, & Other BehaviorsCPTFadmin
Danielle Pavliv, Sandy Wang and Varuna Srinivasan, National Center for Health Research
Wouldn’t it be great if we could each shed a couple of inches off our waist without having to diet or exercise? For years, millions of Americans have tried pills, injections, “natural” herbs, and even berries that are supposed to help us shed pounds. Unfortunately, these usually don’t work.
The latest magical way to lose weight is infrared light, also known as “red light therapy” or “low light therapy”
Infrared therapy is also suggested for pain management, jaundice, eczema, wrinkles, scars, improved blood circulation, and to help wound and burns heal faster. That doesn’t mean it actually works for any of those things. But in this article, we’re focusing on whether it works to help you look thinner. 1
Light therapy uses near infrared light, usually from lasers, lamps, or tanning bed-like devices. The patient is told to either lie down or sit in front of the light for a specific amount of time on a regular basis (usually once a day). One popular device is the infrared body wrap, consisting of large silicone bandages or pads that emit infrared light around the legs, torso and arms. In addition, patients are told that red light therapy is supposed to improve the appearance of cellulite and help shape the body.
If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. There is little scientific evidence supporting the claims that infrared light, whether administered by lamp, laser or while in a body wrap, can help people lose weight or shape their body. Nevertheless, in 2010, the FDA cleared a laser called Zerona, manufactured by Erchonia Medical Inc., which uses red light therapy to remove “unwanted” fat without surgical procedures. This device is not approved by the FDA – it is “cleared for market”, which is a different cleaning service process that does not require that a device be proven safe or effective. Since 2010, several devices using the same technology have been cleared for marketing in the U.S. for body contouring and fat reduction. 2
Light therapy has been tested in clinical trials of patients, but these studies were not as scientific as they would need to be to prove safety or effectiveness. Most studies have few patients who have very similar demographics. Since the patients and clinicians know that the patient is being treated, and in most studies the patients getting treatment weren’t compared to patients getting a different treatment, this could result in a type of “placebo effect.” The placebo effect is when patients believe in a treatment and for that reason it seems to help even if the treatment isn’t actually effective. Also, the companies that make the light therapy devices provided funding to conduct the studies, which can result in overly optimistic results.
Despite all these substantial shortcomings, the studies showed only a small benefit from the light therapy. So, even if the treatment has some benefit, which is doubtful, the benefit may not be substantial enough to be worth the time and money for the treatment.
In addition, all of the studies were short – none were more than 4 months long, and none followed up with the patients for more than a few weeks after treatment. So, we cannot know how long even small changes might last or what might happen if patients continued the treatment for years.
And what about the risks? Almost all of the studies did not provide any information about potential side effects of the therapy. However, one study done in Poland looked at the effects of LLLT used in close contact with the skin. They found that patients developed skin ulcers as a result of certain types of lasers. 3
What exactly do the studies show?
A study funded by Erchonia (the company that makes Zerona) included 54 overweight or obese patients.4 Most of the patients were Caucasian men which is odd, since most weight loss patients are women. The patients were treated weekly for 6 weeks. The study found a significant reduction in the combined circumference of hips, waist, thighs, and upper abdomen by 13 cm (about 5 inches) after 6 weeks. Two weeks after the final treatment, patients lost another 2 cm (about 0.8 inches). However, patients knew that they were getting this treatment and may have changed their diet or exercise in an effort to succeed. These patients were not compared to a control group, so we can’t tell how much patients would have changed without the treatment. Also, patients were only studied for two weeks after their last treatment, so we do know how long this reduction lasted.
Whether or not infrared therapy is effective on its own, some scientists are studying whether it can potentially boost the benefits of exercise. To do this, they study obese patients all of whom are in an exercise program. Half the patients also get light therapy and the other half don’t. Results in these studies show us that it is possible that infrared therapy boosts the effect of exercise on weight loss. However, the studies were not well designed so it is impossible to know.
A study in Brazil tested whether LLLT and aerobic exercise could reduce the chances of obese women developing heart disease.5 It was a well-designed study: 62 women were given an exercise regimen and randomly assigned to either be exposed to LLLT or a placebo for 4 months. LLLT increased the effectiveness of aerobic exercise to improve the women’s heart health. The scientists reported that LLLT reduced the abdominal fat and the women’s total body fat as measured by waist circumference and other measures. However, the study did not follow the women after their 4 months of treatment, so we don’t know how long the effect lasted.
Another device using Water Filtered Infrared Radiation (known as wIRA) is currently being studied to see if it helps patients lose weight.6 In this study, all 40 patients engaged in aerobic exercise 3 times a week for 4 weeks, with some patients also treated with wIRA while exercising. Although they were able to show a statistical difference in weight loss between the two groups (p<0.001), there were so few people in the study to be certain, and not enough information about any benefits lasting more than 4 weeks.
The uses of wIRA are currently being studied for a variety of medical conditions.7,8 However, there are currently not enough studies to conclude how effective it is for weight loss.
Bottom Line
Light therapy may possibly reduce fat in the short term, but studies are small and only follow patients for a few weeks or months. We don’t know if any likely benefit is large enough to be meaningful or how long it might last. So, if you want to lose weight, sustain weight loss, and get fit, we suggest exercise and dieting in a healthy manner. These tried and tested methods are also shown to decrease the overall risk for heart disease and some cancers in the long term.
All articles on our website have been approved by Dr. Diana Zuckerman and other senior staff.
References:
LED light therapy accelerated healing pain reduction red near infrared. (2015). Retrieved fromhttps://www.elixa.com/light/healing.htm
Accessdata.fda.gov. (2018). 510(k) Premarket Notification. [online] Available at:https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm
Jankowski M, Gawrych M, Adamska U, Ciescinski J, Serafin Z, Czajkowski R. Low-level laser therapy (LLLT) does not reduce subcutaneous adipose tissue by local adipocyte injury but rather by modulation of systemic lipid metabolism. Lasers in Medical Science. 2017;32(2):475-479. doi:10.1007/s10103-016-2021-9.
Thornfeldt CR, Thaxton PM, Hornfeldt CS. A Six-week Low-level Laser Therapy Protocol is Effective for Reducing Waist, Hip, Thigh, and Upper Abdomen Circumference. The Journal of Clinical and Aesthetic Dermatology. 2016;9(6):31-35.
Duarte FO, Sene-Fiorese M, de Aquino Junior AE et al (2015) Can low-level laser therapy (LLLT) associated with an aerobic plus resistance training change the cardiometabolic risk in obese women? A placebo-controlled clinical trial. J Photochem Photobiol B 153:103–110. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2015.08.026
Möckel F, Hoffmann G, Obermüller R, Drobnik W, Schmitz G. Influence of water-filtered infrared-A (wIRA) on reduction of local fat and body weight by physical exercise. GMS German Medical Science. 2006;4:Doc05.
Hoffmann G. Principles and working mechanisms of water-filtered infrared-A (wIRA) in relation to wound healing. GMS Krankenhaushygiene Interdisziplinar. 2007;2(2):Doc54.
Al-Ahmad A, Bucher M, Anderson AC, et al. Antimicrobial Photoinactivation Using Visible Light Plus Water-Filtered Infrared-A (VIS + wIRA) Alters In Situ Oral Biofilms. Hamblin M, ed. PLoS ONE. 2015;10(7):e0132107. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0132107.
Share
The Dangers of Juuling
August 9, 2018 Diet, Habits, & Other Behaviors, news-you-can-use, PreventionCPTFeditor
John-Anthony Fraga, National Center for Health Research
What is Juuling? Is it safer than smoking?
A new type of e-cigarette called “juul” has become so popular that it is now about 68% of the $2 billion e-cigarette market. The “juul” is especially popular among children and young adults due to its sleek and discreet design, its ability to be recharged on a laptop or wall charger within one hour, and its liquid-filled cartridges that come in popular flavors like cool mint, creme brulee, and fruit medley.
As a result, “juuling” is now very common at teenage hangouts and even at school. Medical professionals are very concerned because juul delivers higher concentrations of nicotine than other e-cigarettes. Not only is nicotine highly addictive, but it is also toxic to fetuses and is known to impair brain and lung development if used during adolescence.[1] It is not replacing cigarette smoking but rather encouraging it: A 2017 study found that non-smoking adults were four times more likely to start smoking traditional cigarettes after only 18 months of vaping, which includes “juuling.”[7] For more information about e-cigarettes in general, check out our article here.
How does the Juul Work?
According to Juul Labs, the company that owns and sells the juul e-cigarette, the device uses an internal, regulated heating mechanism that creates an easily inhaled aerosol. This mechanism prevents the batteries in the juul from overheating and exploding, which has been a problem for other brands of e-cigarettes. Juul is easy to use because there are no settings to adjust or control. All that is required is a non-refillable juul pod cartridge that clicks into the top of the juul and contains a nicotine e-liquid formula. This e-liquid is heated and converted into vapors that are inhaled by the user. One of the reasons it is so popular among youth is that it is so easy to use – no prior experience or knowledge required. All they have to do to intake nicotine is to put a juul to their mouth and inhale.
What makes Juuls different from other e-cigarettes?
The increased harm of juuls compared to other e-cigarettes is due to the concentration and contents of its juul pods. The e-liquid is 5% nicotine by volume, which is more than twice the concentration of nicotine in similar devices like the Blu e-cig cartridge (2.4% nicotine). This increases the risk of addiction; in fact, a study done by the UK’s Royal College of Psychiatrists showed that nicotine is about as addictive as cocaine and even more addictive than alcohol and barbiturates (anti-anxiety drugs).[2]
The impact on the developing brain is also of great concern. Brain imaging studies of adolescents who began smoking at a young age had markedly reduced activity in the prefrontal cortex of the brain, an area critical for a person’s cognitive behavior and decision making, leading to increased sensitivity to other drugs and greater impulsivity.[3] The amount of nicotine in one juul pod is equivalent to a pack of cigarettes. Since teens often use multiple pods in one sitting, they can unknowingly become exposed to unsafe levels of nicotine that can have immediate and long-term health consequences. In 2016, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) was given the authority to regulate e-cigarettes such as juul but has allowed e-cigarette manufacturers to postpone their applications for FDA approval until August 2022. Meanwhile, these harmful devices can remain on the market and continue influencing adolescents to become addicted to nicotine.[8]
Another reason why the juul is a unique threat to teens is its patented formula of nicotine. While other brands use a chemically modified form called “freebase nicotine,” juuls use “nicotine salts” that more closely resemble the natural structure of nicotine found in tobacco leaves. This makes the nicotine more readily absorbed into the bloodstream and makes the vapor less harsh so that it is easier to inhale more nicotine for longer periods of time.
In addition to this patented formula, juul pods contain a greater amount of benzoic acid, 44.8 mg/mL, compared to other e-cigarette brands, which are in the range of 0.2 to 2 mg/mL. According to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), benzoic acid is known to cause coughs, sore throat, abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting if exposure is constant, which is the case when using a juul.[4] This is due to how juuls utilize the properties of benzoic acid to increase the potency of the nicotine salts in its e-liquid.
What makes Juuls popular among children and teens?
Since juuls are small, discreet, and closely resemble a USB drive, they can be easily hidden and used in a wide variety of settings, such as the classroom. Teachers and school administrators across the nation are finding students juuling when their backs are turned: Students can take a hit, blow the small, odorless puff of smoke into their jacket or backpack, and continue their school work in a matter of seconds. Compared to other forms of teenage rebellion, juuling is especially dangerous as middle and high school students are unknowingly becoming addicted to nicotine at an alarming rate.
Because a person must be at least 21 to purchase a juul or juul pod, a juul black market is the source for many teens, through eBay or Craigslist. In response, the FDA contacted eBay to raise concerns about listings of juul products on its website, resulting in the removal of the listings and the creation of measures to prevent new listings from being posted.[5]
In April 2018, FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb announced that he was creating a Youth Tobacco Prevention Plan aimed at stopping the dramatic rise in the use of e-cigarette and tobacco products among youth. The FDA specifically asked Juul Labs for documents related to product marketing and research on the health, toxicological, behavioral, or physiological effects of their products in order to understand why youth are so attracted to them.[6] Additionally, Juul Labs is currently facing lawsuits in several states claiming that its products were deceptively marketed to youth under the legal smoking age. The FDA now plans to create enforcement policies for e-cigarette manufacturers, including juul, that are marketing their products to children and teenagers.
The Bottom Line:
The popularity of juuls among adolescents exposes them to large amounts of nicotine that can have adverse health risks for their physical and emotional development. While juuls are called e-cigarettes, they look nothing like them, making it easy for children and teens to secretly use them without a parent, guardian, or teacher noticing. This may be just a temporary trend, but if the FDA does not quickly do more to restrict flavors that appeal to adolescents and to educate the public about the risks, it is likely to create an enormous increase in young people addicted to nicotine.
All articles are reviewed and approved by Dr. Diana Zuckerman and other senior staff.
References:
England, L., Bunnell, R., F. Pechacek, T., Tong, V., & A. McAfee, T. (2015). Nicotine and the Developing Human (Vol. 49).
Nutt, D., King, L. A., Saulsbury, W., & Blakemore, C. (2007). Development of a rational scale to assess the harm of drugs of potential misuse. The Lancet, 369(9566), 1047-1053. doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(07)60464-4
Musso, F., Bettermann, F., Vucurevic, G., Stoeter, P., Konrad, A., & Winterer, G. (2007). Smoking impacts on prefrontal attentional network function in young adult brains. Psychopharmacology, 191(1), 159-169. doi:10.1007/s00213-006-0499-8
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Safety Material Data Sheet: Benzoic Acid. Accessed July 30, 2018. Available at: https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/ipcsneng/neng0103.html
“Statement from FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb, M.D., on new enforcement actions and a Youth Tobacco Prevention Plan to stop the youth use of, and access to, JUUL and other e-cigarettes. ” FDA News & Event. FDA, April 24, 2018. Accessed: July 30, 2018. https://www.fda.gov/NewsEvents/Newsroom/PressAnnouncements/ucm605432.htm
“Official Request of Information for JUUL Labs.” FDA Rules and Regulations, FDA. April 24, 2018. Accessed: July 30, 2018. https://www.fda.gov/downloads/TobaccoProducts/Labeling/RulesRegulationsGuidance/UCM605490.pdf
Primack, B. A., Shensa, A., Sidani, J. E., Hoffman, B. L., Soneji, S., Sargent, J. D., . . . Fine, M. J. (2018). Initiation of Traditional Cigarette Smoking after Electronic Cigarette Use Among Tobacco-Na&#xef;ve US Young Adults. The American Journal of Medicine, 131(4), 443.e441-443.e449. doi:10.1016/j.amjmed.2017.11.005
“FDA’s Comprehensive Plan for Tobacco and Nicotine Regulation” FDA Newsroom, FDA. August 6, 2018. Accessed: August 8, 2018. https://www.fda.gov/TobaccoProducts/NewsEvents/ucm568425.htm
Share
Boosting Healthy Bacteria for a Healthy Pancreas
March 16, 2018 Diet, Habits, & Other Behaviors, Pancreatic Cancer, PreventionCPTFeditor
Jessica Cote and Danielle Shapiro, MD, MPH, Cancer Prevention and Treatment Fund
Pancreatic cancer is rare–less than 2% of Americans will develop it in their lifetimes. However, pancreatic cancer is the 4th most common cause of cancer-related deaths in the U.S. claiming more than 43,000 American lives in 2017.1 The good news is that prevention is possible, since most pancreatic cancers are not cause by inherited genes. Smoking and alcohol use are the major known causes, and can double the lifetime risk to about 3%.2 Quitting smoking and cutting back on alcohol are good ways to prevent pancreatic cancer and so is a healthy mouth and gut. Scientists have recently discovered that the bacteria living in our bodies can help us stay healthy and ward off dangerous cancers.
What is the Microbiome?
Inside our bodies we have hundreds of type of living bacteria and other organisms; this community of microorganisms is called the microbiome. These organisms live in harmony with our body and can keep us from getting sick, so we call them “probiotic” or “good bacteria.” In 2012, Scientists from the National Institutes of Health started the Human Microbiome Project to study the role of the microbiome in human health and disease.
We can increase the amounts of good bacteria in our body by eating foods rich in natural probiotics or taking a probiotic supplement. Probiotic-rich foods include: yogurt, sourdough bread, sour pickles, soft cheeses, sauerkraut, tempeh (fermented soy and grains), and other foods. Check out this list — you’re bound to find something you like!
Oral Bacteria and Pancreatic Cancer
A 2017 review found that gum disease can increase the chances of developing pancreatic cancer in a lifetime to about 2.4% to 3.2%. When scientists studied the blood of patients before they got diagnosed with pancreatic cancer, they began to find patterns of “bad” vs. “good” bacteria.3
Since diagnosing cancer early is the key to effective treatment, scientists hope that it will soon be possible to have a simple screening test for pancreatic cancer by testing the saliva for certain bacteria. They believe that 9 times out of 10, if certain bacteria are present, the person is not likely to have pancreatic cancer.4
Although medical experts aren’t completely certain how to remove bad bacteria from the mouth and gums, they usually recommend flossing and brushing teeth regularly as well as rinsing with mouthwash as the best ways to get rid of them.
Gut Bacteria and Pancreatic Cancer
Like the mouth, certain bacteria in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract may have a role to play in the development of pancreatic cancer. The bacteria Helicobacter pylori, which causes stomach ulcers and stomach cancer, can increase the lifetime risk of pancreatic cancer to about 2.4%. These trends were more frequently seen in people living in Europe and East Asia rather than North America, which suggests that environment, diet (red meat or high temperature foods), and genetics may all help to increase or decrease the chances of developing pancreatic cancer.5
The Bottom Line
More research is needed to understand the link between bacteria and pancreatic cancer, and medical experts have not yet figured out how best to reduce the number of harmful bacteria in our bodies and increase the good kind. Until then, take good care of your mouth (brushing and flossing and regular visits to your dentist) and keep your gut healthy by eating fruits, vegetables, and foods rich in natural probiotics such as yogurt. See gleamcleanspecialists.com memphis article to know more.
Footnotes:
National Cancer Institute. Cancer Stat Facts: Pancreas Cancer. Accessed Dec. 18, 2017. Available online: https://seer.cancer.gov/statfacts/html/pancreas.html.
National Cancer Institute. Pancreatic Cancer Treatment (PDQ®)–Patient Version. (Dec. 23, 2016). Available online: https://www.cancer.gov/types/pancreatic/patient/pancreatic-treatment-pdq#section/_162.
Bracci PM. Oral Health and the Oral Microbiome in Pancreatic Cancer: An Overview of Epidemiological Studies.The Cancer Journal. 2017;23(6): 310–314. doi: 10.1097/PPO.0000000000000287
Ertz-Archambault N, Keim P, Von Hoff D. Microbiome and pancreatic cancer: A comprehensive topic review of literature. World Journal of Gastroenterology. 2017;23(10):1899-1908. doi:10.3748/wjg.v23.i10.1899.
Xiao M, Wang Y, Gao Y. Association between Helicobacter pylori Infection and Pancreatic Cancer Development: A Meta-Analysis. Miao X, ed. PLoS ONE. 2013;8(9):e75559. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0075559.
Share
Cancer Prevention Campaign
March 6, 2018 Diet, Habits, & Other Behaviors, PreventionCPTFeditor
You can reduce your risk of cancer through small changes in your life, including what you eat!
See these links for tips on how to reduce your risk through eating healthy foods and losing weight, and click “Prevention” at the top of this site for all kinds of other ways to prevent cancer.
Tips for Healthier Eating
Ten Tips to Get Your Family Eating Healthy
How Do I Get My Child to Eat Healthier Foods?
MyPlate: A New Alternative to the Food Pyramid
Kids Talk About Healthy Eating
Eating Habits That Improve Health and Lower Body Mass Index
Nutrition, Obesity, Exercise, and Cancer
Weight and Cancer: What You Should Know
What’s a Woman to Eat?
The Cost of Obesity: A Higher Price for Women—and Not Just in Terms of Health
Obesity in America: Are You Part of the Problem?
Breastfeeding: The Finest Food for Your Infant Isn’t Sold in Any Store
Are Processed Meats More Dangerous Than Other Red Meats? Yes and No!
Do Chemicals in Our Environment Cause Weight Gain?
Fast Food Facts: Calories and Fat
Will Acai Help Me Lose Weight?
Thanks to Walmart for sponsoring this campaign. You can visit Walmart.com for an inexpensive source for fruits & vegetables.
Share
Heart Disease and Breast Cancer
February 22, 2018 Breast Cancer, Diet, Habits, & Other Behaviors, news-you-can-use, PreventionCPTFeditor
Diana Zuckerman PhD and Danielle Shapiro, MD, MPH, Cancer Prevention and Treatment Fund
In a first-of-its-kind scientific statement, the American Heart Association reminds women that heart disease is the #1 killer of women and that frequently used breast cancer treatments can increase a woman’s chances of developing heart disease. These treatments include radiation, hormone therapy, chemotherapy, and targeted therapy.
Facts that will Help you Decide your Treatment Options
Fact: Heart disease affects almost 50 million U.S. women, and 1 in 3 deaths in women in the U.S. are due to heart disease. Breast cancer affects about 3.3 million U.S. women, and 1 in 32 deaths in women are due to breast cancer. That means that women are about 10 times more likely to die of heart disease than to die of breast cancer.
Fact: Women with a history of breast cancer are more likely to die from heart disease than women without a history of breast cancer. That is because some health habits cause both heart disease and breast cancer, and because some breast cancer treatments can also increase your chances of dying of heart disease.
Fact: There are many things you can do to decrease your risks of developing both breast cancer and heart disease: not smoking, eating a healthy diet, losing weight (if you are overweight or obese) and being physically active
Which Breast Cancer Treatments Harm the Heart?
Radiation therapy:
Radiation therapy is often recommended for women who have a lumpectomy, so it is important to know that it can cause inflammation that can damage heart muscles and blood vessels. Studies on animals show that it can also cause clots to form in the coronary arteries. The risks are higher for radiation that is directed at the left side of the chest. The effects are not immediate, but radiation can increase the chances of heart disease at any time between 5-30 years after radiation therapy.
Hormonal therapy:
Tamoxifen is a hormone therapy that is often prescribed for breast cancers that are sensitive to the hormone estrogen. Studies show that tamoxifen lowers bad cholesterol, but there is no evidence this decreased their chances of developing heart disease or dying from it. Perhaps that is because tamoxifen also increases the chances of forming blood clots, which can be dangerous if they are in the lungs, heart, or brain.
Aromatase inhibitors are a type of hormone therapy that is often prescribed for postmenopausal women with breast cancers that are sensitive to the hormone estrogen. Aromatase inhibitors increased the chances of developing heart disease by less than 1%, but the risks may be higher (about 7%) in women who already have heart disease. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration issued a warning about this for one aromatase inhibitor, anastrazole (brand name arimidex).
Chemotherapy:
Doxorubicin, a type of anthracycline-based chemotherapy, can have harmful effects on the heart, which can be permanent and irreversible. Doxorubicin can damage heart cells and cause inflammation that can weaken the heart muscles, which can lead to heart failure. Heart failure means the heart isn’t pumping well, which can cause the body to become swollen and the lungs to fill with fluid. This can cause you to feel short of breath, tired, or weak.
5-Fluorouracil (5-FU), is a type of antimetabolite chemotherapy used for metastatic breast cancer and other cancers. Some women who take 5-FU develop chest pain caused by a blood clot or tightening in the blood vessels that feed the heart (coronary arteries). In very rare cases, the heart does not get enough blood, which can cause a heart attack.
Targeted Drugs:
Trastuzumab or pertuzumab are targeted drugs that work against breast cancer cells that make the protein HER2. These medications can cause heart failure that is reversible. Because of the risks, women should only take these medications for 1 year. Women who are over age 50 with diagnosed heart disease, high blood pressure, reduced heart function, or prior use of doxorubicin are most likely to be harmed by this drug.
Prevention
Studies show that there are things you can change to help prevent breast cancer and heart disease.
Stop smoking
For heart health – Smoking increases the chances of having a heart attack or stroke.
For breast health – Women who start smoking at a younger age, and smoke for many years, are more likely to develop breast cancer. Smoking causes about 4 in 1000 breast cancers. Quitting decreases the chances of developing breast cancer, but it may take about 20 years to see the full benefits. To read more, click here.
Maintain a healthy weight
For heart health – Being overweight or obese (a BMI of 25 or above) increases the chances of developing heart disease.
For breast health – Every extra 10 pounds over “normal” weight (BMI below 25) increases the chance of developing breast cancer by about 10%.
Be physically active
For heart health – Sitting, watching TV, lying in bed, or driving for 10 hours or more a day while you are awake instead of 5 hours or less per day increases the chances of developing heart disease by about 18%. The AHA recommends exercising for 30 minutes or more a day 5 days each week.
For breast health – Those same sedentary activities for 12 hours or more a day compared to 5.5 hours or less increase the chance of developing breast cancer by about 80%. To prevent breast cancer, exercise for 30 minutes or more a day 5 days each week.
Eat a healthy diet
For heart health – Eating a diet rich in fresh vegetables, Fresh fruit, fish, poultry, and whole grains reduces your chance of dying from heart disease by about 28% compared to eating a typical U.S. diet with many fast foods, red meats/processed meats, and packaged or processed foods.
For breast health – The typical U.S. diet is associated with a greater chance of developing breast cancer, but the clearest evidence is for eating at least 15 oz of red meat or processed meat each week compared to less than 9 oz. of red meat or processed meat.
Heart Health for Breast Cancer Patients and Survivors
High blood pressure, diabetes and high cholesterol increase the chances of having a heart attack or dying from one. The AHA recommends controlling blood pressure, blood sugar, and blood cholesterol with diet, exercise, and medications when needed. Exercise is good for the heart and it also fights off cancer. Studies show that exercising 30 minutes a day for 5 days out of the week decrease the chances of breast cancer returning and from dying from breast cancer.
The Bottom Line
Heart disease is a major cause of deaths in women, and remains a number one cause of death in breast cancer survivors. Women who are at a higher risk of heart disease should talk with their doctors about the risks and benefits of commonly used cancer treatments.
All articles are reviewed and approved by Dr. Diana Zuckerman and other senior staff.
References:
Laxmi S. Mehta. et al. Cardiovascular Disease and Breast Cancer: Where These Entities Intersect: A Scientific Statement From the American Heart Association. Circulation. 2018, originally published February 1, 2018. https://doi.org/10.1161/CIR.0000000000000556
Jones ME. et al. Smoking and risk of breast cancer in the Generations Study cohort. Breast Cancer Research. 2017;19:118. https://doi.org/10.1186/s13058-017-0908-4
Share
Alcohol and Cancer
February 16, 2018 Breast Cancer, Colon Cancer, Diet, Habits, & Other Behaviors, Lung Cancer, news-you-can-use, Pancreatic Cancer, PreventionCPTFeditor
Danielle Shapiro, MD, MPH, Cancer Prevention and Treatment Fund
The link between and alcohol and cancer may surprise you. A 2017 statement by the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) reports that drinking alcohol increases the risk of cancer of the mouth and throat, vocal cords, esophagus, liver, breast, and colon. The risks are greatest in those with heavy and long-term alcohol use. Even so, moderate drinking can add up over a lifetime, which could be harmful.[1]
What is Moderate Drinking? Heavy Drinking?
According to the National institute of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA), “moderate” drinking is 1 drink per day for women and 2 drinks per day for men, but not all “drinks” are equal. A drink is defined as approximately 14g of alcohol, which equals: 1.5 ounces of distilled spirits (e.g., vodka, gin, tequila, etc), 5 ounces of wine, 12 ounces of beer, and 8 ounces of malt liquor.[1,2] (Click here to see the CDC’s fact sheet.)
Heavy drinking is defined as 8 or more drinks per week OR 3 or more drinks per day for women and 15 or more drinks per week OR 4 or more drink per day for men. Most adults who engage in high-risk drinking started as teens.[1] (Click here to see our article on teen drinking.)
Drinking Amount and Cancer Risk
According to the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), a branch of the World Health Organization (WHO), alcohol is a “group 1 carcinogen.” That means it can cause cancer in humans. Group 1 carcinogens include cigarette smoke, UV solar radiation, radon, and asbestos, for example.[3] Alcohol is known to cause six types of cancer, including cancer of the mouth and throat, vocal cords, esophagus (squamous cell), liver, female breast, and colon/rectum. Alcohol may also be tied to cancer of the pancreas, stomach, and lung, but more research is needed to find out for certain.[4] (Click here to see the National Cancer Institute’s Fact Sheet.)
Some of these cancers, such as mouth and throat cancer, are rare (about 1% lifetime risk), while colon cancer and breast cancer are much more common. [7] Depending on the amount a person drinks, he or she can increase the risk for even rare cancers. For example, moderate drinkers can almost double their lifetime risk of mouth and throat cancer to almost 2%, while heavy drinkers have a 500% increased risk of having mouth or throat cancer, from 1% to 5%.
Scientists believe that when alcohol comes into direct contact with tissue through drinking and swallowing, it causes more damage. For example, in the heaviest drinkers, alcohol raises the lifetime risk of esophagus cancer from about 0.5% to about 2.5%.[1,7]
Women need to be more cautious when drinking any amount of alcohol. The World Cancer Research Fund estimates that for every additional average drink per day, breast cancer risk goes up by 5% pre-menopause and up by 9% after menopause. Alcohol affects the amounts of certain sex hormones circulating in the body. For women who have had hormone receptor-positive breast cancer, 7 or more weekly drinks increased the chances of having a new cancer diagnosed in the other breast from about 5% to about 10%.[1]
How Alcohol Causes Cancer
Scientists believe that alcohol causes cancer in several ways:[1, 4]
Alcohol (ethanol) is broken down into a toxic substance called acetaldehyde. Acetaldehyde is directly toxic to the body’s cells.
Alcohol causes damage to cells through a process called free-radical oxidation.
Alcohol causes the body to absorb less folate (an important B vitamin) and other nutrients (antioxidant vitamins A, C, and E), which naturally repair damage and fight off cancers.
Alcohol increases the body’s level of estrogen (a sex hormone associated with breast cancer).
Does Quitting Change Your Chances of Developing Cancer or Cancer Recurrence?
Yes, drinking less alcohol on a regular basis reduces cancer risk, even in people who were already diagnosed with cancer. Research has shown that heavy or moderate drinkers who substantially reduce their alcohol consumption will slowly reduce their risk of developing mouth, throat, vocal cord, and esophagus cancer, but it would take 20 years of abstention to reduce the chances of developing those cancers to the lower chances of someone who never drank so frequently. It is not clear whether reducing or giving up drinking after years of moderate or heavy drinking will have much impact for other alcohol-related cancers.[1]
In those who survived an esophagus cancer, drinkers tripled their risk for a new primary cancer diagnosis. On average, the risk of a new cancer diagnosis after esophagus cancer is removed is 8 % to 27%, and continuing heavy drinking will triple that risk.[5]
Among all cancer survivors, heavy drinking caused an 8% increased risk in dying and a 17% increased risk of cancer recurrence. Patients with cancer who abuse alcohol do worse because alcohol causes poorer nutrition, a suppressed immune system, and a weaker heart.[1]
What You Can Do to Lower Cancer Risk for You and Your Family
. If you drink alcohol, limit drinks to an average of 1 a day for women and 2 a day for men.
Recognize heavy drinking in a loved one, because the more a person drinks, the greater his or her chances of developing cancer. The “CAGE” questionnaire can help spot heavy drinking. Has the person tried to Cut back? Has the person been Annoyed when asked about drinking? Has the person felt bad or Guilty? Has the person needed a drink first thing in the morning (Eye opener)? Each “yes” counts as 1 point. A score of 2 or more suggests problem drinking.[6]
Talk with your doctor about your risk. Doctors can refer or offer counseling and treatment services to patients with risky drinking habits.
Seek help early. Problem drinking can’t be wished away. There are many resources to access information and help. The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), which is part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has a toll free hot-line and website. Call 1-800-662-HELP (4357) or visit https://findtreatment.samhsa.gov/ today.
Practice healthy habits. Eating a diet rich in cancer-fighting nutrients (i.e., fruits and vegetables), exercising, maintaining a healthy weight, reducing stress, and getting restful sleep can all help to lower cancer risk. Don’t smoke, and quit if you do. Drinking and smoking increases cancer risk more than either one alone.
The Bottom Line
To prevent cancer, try to limit your drinking by sticking to a maximum average of 1 a day if you’re a woman and 2 a day if you’re a man.
All articles are reviewed and approved by Dr. Diana Zuckerman and other senior staff.
Footnotes:
LoConte, NK. et al. Alcohol and Cancer: A Statement of the American Society of Clinical Oncology. Journal of Clinical Oncology. published online before print November 7, 2017. DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2017.76.1155. Available online: http://ascopubs.org/doi/full/10.1200/JCO.2017.76.1155
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Alcohol and Public Health. Fact Sheets- Moderate Drinking. Accessed November 16, 2017. Available online: https://www.cdc.gov/alcohol/fact-sheets/moderate-drinking.htm
Share
Beginner’s Guide to Developing an Exercise Routine
February 16, 2018 Breast Cancer, Colon Cancer, Diet, Habits, & Other BehaviorsCPTFeditor
Morgan Wharton and Caitlin Kennedy, Cancer Prevention and Treatment Fund
Exercise is one of NCHR’s seven recommended ways to maximize your health. If you want to exercise but aren’t sure where to begin, we can help! If you feel like your daily life doesn’t allow you to get fit (not enough time, no money for a gym membership, etc.), we have some “work-arounds” that may help.
Benefits of Exercise
Everyone knows that exercise helps keep you healthy by preventing weight gain, but did you know that it also lowers your risk of heart disease, stroke, high blood pressure, unhealthy cholesterol, type 2 diabetes, colon cancer, breast cancer, and depression? Exercising to improve muscle strength improves balance, and reduces the risk of falling, fractures, and arthritis. Overall, regular exercise improves your chances of living a longer, healthier life.[1] Even people who have been diagnosed with cancer can benefit from exercise. Click here to read more how exercise can help cancer patients.
How Much Should I Exercise?
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommend that adults should aim for 150 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise every week (such as walking quickly) or 75 minutes of high-intensity activity per week (such as running), plus two days of strength training (training with weights or resistance bands). If you haven’t been very active, start exercising at a low intensity, then slowly increase the amount and intensity of exercise each week.[2]
How Do I Create an Exercise Routine?
Regardless of your fitness goals, start small to avoid discouragement or burnout: if you set your initial goals too high and aim for perfection, you’ll be more likely to abandon your exercise plans before they improve your health. Follow these exercise routines from the CDC to create a balanced, varied routine.
To prevent injury, always start your workout with a good warm up-short aerobic activity followed by dynamic stretching. Dynamic stretching involves moving different muscle groups through a full range of motion and is the best form of stretching before exercise because it warms up groups of muscles rather than individual muscles. Static stretching, such as holding a muscle in a position of resistance for up to 30 seconds, is helpful for improving flexibility and muscle imbalance over time, but is not beneficial just before exercising.[3] Investing in good running shoes will also help with preventing injuries such as shin splints that can develop after running on hard surfaces with the wrong kind of footwear.
If you don’t feel up to completing a full workout or are too busy on a given day, even taking the stairs instead of an elevator or escalator, walking around while you make phone calls, or walking to work or during your break can make up your exercise for the day. Try to have some physical activity each day, and you’ll find that’s more likely if you get co-workers involved.[4] Form a walking group and walk to work with people who live near you, or walk together on your daily breaks. If you don’t have a group of people to exercise with at work, consider using social media to benefit from peer pressure. You can download the HealthyShare app on Facebook to get people from your social network involved and use Nike+ to track your workouts and upload your progress to sites like Facebook and Twitter.
Keeping track of your fitness goals and exercise can help you develop a routine so exercise becomes a habit. If you don’t want to use mobile technology to keep track of your exercising, click here to check out some tools designed by the U.S. Department of Health & Human services for other ways to track your fitness goals and routines.
In addition to running- and movement-based exercise, weight training is very valuable. If you enjoy weight lifting, joining a gym can add a financial incentive to working out: if you’ve already paid for a membership, you’ll have more reason to go and get your workout in! If you need more motivation to get to the gym, check out GymPact – you can get paid just for completing workouts at your gym! If you aren’t sure how to use the machines in the gym, check out these instructional videos and these tips for better technique.
Whether or not you go to a gym, there are plenty of ways to get a good workout at home! You can get a great workout with bodyweight exercises alone. Use this guide from the National Institutes of Health to begin resistance training and weight lifting at home. Investing in a jump rope, balance ball, medicine ball, resistance bands, and 5-pound dumbbells can give you more flexibility with your workouts. Variation is important to get the most benefits from exercise and prevent boredom from the same routines. The Nike Training Club app for smartphones has free workouts, sorted by difficulty, which can be done with these basic training tools. The app also tracks your progress and adds new workouts once you reach specific milestones based on the number of minutes you’ve exercised.
Signing up for a race is a great way to motivate you to begin an exercise routine. It gives you a deadline to work towards – the date of the race – and a concrete goal to train for – the length of the race. A 5k is a great first race to train for because it’s only 3.14 miles.
Avoiding the Risks of Exercise
Dehydration
People who exercise outside and do not drink enough water put themselves at risk for heat stroke and exhaustion. Drink plenty of water beginning the day before you exercise, and drink 10 ounces of water for every 20 minutes of exercise (a can of soda is 12 ounces). Drink before you get thirsty, because thirst is the first sign of dehydration.[5] Finally, beware of the dangers of water bottles containing BPA. Be sure to select a stainless steel bottle or a plastic water bottle that is labeled “BPA free.” Read more about the harmful effects of BPA here.
Skin Cancer
While running and exercising outside, remember to apply sunscreen of SPF 30 or higher that offers full spectrum protection (protection against both UVA and UVB rays) and is water-resistant. Apply at least fifteen minutes before going outside to allow your skin to soak up the sunscreen. Reapply often-every two hours and after swimming and excessive sweating. You should also apply lip balm of at least SPF 30. This will reduce your risk of sunburn, skin cancer, and premature aging of the skin.[6] Read more about running and skin cancer here.
Overtraining
Overtraining can put too much stress on the immune system and keep it from doing its job, which is to keep you from getting sick! People who overtrain put themselves at risk of developing illnesses like colds and the flu because their immune systems are “run down.” You may feel fatigued all the time, or find yourself getting injured. Some soreness and fatigue is a normal part of training, but if your discomfort becomes excessive, increase your rest/recovery time in between workouts.[7]
Regular endurance exercise may be risky, as well. Running more than 30 miles per week may lessen or erase the health benefits, including a longer life, which moderate levels of running provide. People who run a lot of marathons have been found to have higher levels of coronary plaque, a type of heart disease and a cause of heart attacks.[8] Therefore, moderate levels of regular exercise are recommended.
The Bottom Line
The potential benefits far outweigh the potential risks of regular exercise. Grab a friend, use social media, and register for a race to keep your motivation levels high until exercise becomes a part of your daily routine. Regular physical activity can improve your physical health, and also your mood and overall mental well-being. Maybe you’ve heard of a “runner’s high” – well, you don’t have to be a runner to experience the calming effects of exercise. If you want to experience these health benefits and live a longer, healthier life, now is the time to begin a fitness routine!
All articles on our website have been approved by Dr. Diana Zuckerman and other senior staff.
References:
Physical activity and health. Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity and Obesity 2011; Available from: http://www.cdc.gov/physicalactivity/everyone/health/index.html.
Health, O.o.W.s. Physical activity (exercise) fact sheet. 2009.
How much physical activity do adults need? 2011; Available from: http://www.cdc.gov/physicalactivity/everyone/guidelines/adults.html.
O’Donovan, G., Lee, I., Hamer, M., et al. (2017). Association of “Weekend Warrior” and Other Leisure Time Physical Activity Patterns with Risk for All-Cause, Cardiovascular Disease, and Cancer Mortality. JAMA Intern Med. 177(3): 335-342. Retrieved from https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamainternalmedicine/article-abstract/2596007?utm_source=silverchair&utm_campaign=altmetric&utm_content=2017_year-end&cmp=1&utm_medium=email&redirect=true. Accessed on January 5, 2018.
Parracino, L., A Simple Guide to Stretching, 2002, National Academy of Sports Medicine.
Make Physical Activity Fun, in Overcoming Barriers to Physical Activity, W. Can!, Editor, U.S. Department of Health & Human Services.
Healthy Hydration. 2012; Available from: http://www.acefitness.org/fitfacts/fitfacts_display.aspx?itemid=173.
Sunscreens. 2012; Available from: http://www.aad.org/media-resources/stats-and-facts/prevention-and-care/sunscreens.
Kellmann, M., Preventing overtraining in athletes in high-intensity sports and stress/recovery monitoring. Scand J Med Sci Sports, 2010. 20 Suppl 2: p. 95-102.
Mohlenkamp S, Lehmann N , Breuckmann F, Brocker-Preuss M, Nassenstein K, Halle M, Budde T, Mann K, Barkhausen J, Heusch G, Jockel K, & Erbel R. Running: The risk of coronary events. Prevalence and prognostic relevance of coronary atherosclerosis in marathon runners. European Heart Journal, 2008. 29(15): p. 1903-1910.
Share
Are Processed Meats More Dangerous than Other Red Meats?
November 13, 2017 Diet, Habits, & Other BehaviorsCPTFadmin
Megan Cole, Claire Karlsson, and Sage Wylie, Cancer Prevention & Treatment Fund
You have probably heard it many times already: don’t eat too much red meat or processed foods. But research shows processed red meats, like bacon, hot dogs, and salami are the biggest problem. Here’s why.
Red Meats vs. Processed Red Meats
In 2015, the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) of the World Health Organization concluded that processed meats are a Group one carcinogen, which means it causes cancer. Other Group one carcinogens include tobacco and asbestos. Based upon a review of over 800 studies, 22 scientists from ten countries determined that processed meats can cause colorectal cancer and probably stomach cancer. [1] Although people who eat more red meat are more likely to develop pancreatic and prostate cancer, nobody knows whether people who eat more red meat tend to have other poor health habits that are the real causes of these cancers, rather than the red meat itself.
Bacon, hot dogs, bologna, and other processed meats are now blamed for causing cancer, and they also increase your chances of developing heart disease and diabetes. A 2010 study led by Dr. Renata Micha from the Harvard School of Public Health analyzed 20 previous studies and concluded that while eating more red meat didn’t predict whether a person developed heart disease or diabetes, eating processed meat did. [2] A person who ate one portion (about one hot dog or two slices of deli meat) of processed meat every day was 42% more likely to develop coronary heart disease and 19% more likely to develop diabetes than if that person did not eat processed meat every day. That risk was the same if the person ate 2 portions of processed meat every day instead of one, and doubled if the person ate 2 portions a day instead of none. In other words, even if you like the taste or convenience of processed meat, eating less processed meat is always better for your health than eating more.
Why the Difference?
When comparing red meats with processed meats, there are some key nutritional differences. While levels of saturated fats and cholesterol are usually similar in processed and unprocessed meats, processed meats generally have four times the amount of sodium and 50% more preservatives than red meats.[3] Researchers suggest that these increased levels of sodium and preservatives may explain the increase in health risk. To determine if that is true, further research is needed. What is known, however, is that sodium increases blood pressure and preservatives have been shown to reduce tolerance to sugars. High blood pressure contributes to heart disease and reduced tolerance to sugars increases the risk of diabetes. Other studies have found that processed meats that have been cured, smoked and barbequed at high temperatures are more likely to cause colon cancer than other red meats.[4] Cured meats like salami may pose particular risks for cancers because the nitrate and nitrite salts used in the curing process can promote cancer cell growth. Yet much more research is needed to clarify how processed meats can lead to cancer.
In addition, a study found an increase in breast cancer for Hispanic women with the highest consumption of processed meat, although that was not found in non-Hispanic white women. [5]
…But Don’t Pick up That Steak so Fast.
Does this mean that you are now free to eat all the red meat you want as long as it isn’t processed? Well, no. Studies have shown that red meat raises the level of “bad cholesterol,” because it is high in saturated fat. Chicken and fish are much lower in saturated fat. While processed meat is labeled as a definite carcinogen, red meat is categorized as probably carcinogenic to humans (called Group 2A by IARC). Plus, eating less red meat may help reduce climate change, because cows emits harmful greenhouse gases.[6] Additionally, a study of 150,000 women, published in a major medical journal in 2016, found that eating red meat for protein instead of eating plants increases the chances of developing heart disease and dying at a younger age.[7]
What Meats Should I Eat and What Meats Should I Avoid?
As outlined by the US Department of Agriculture (USDA), consider the following when selecting meats for you or your family:
• Choose lean or low-fat meat and poultry. Avoid ground beef that is less than 80% lean (the leaner, the better), and choose skinless chicken.
• If you do buy processed meats, be sure to read the ingredients and Nutrition Facts label to avoid foods high in salt. Look for products labeled “low sodium,” “reduced sodium,” or “no salt added.” To be considered “healthy,” products must not have more than 600 mg of sodium per serving.
• Consider eating fish rich in omega-3 fatty acids, such as salmon, trout, and herring, or getting protein from other non-meat sources, such as beans, legumes, almonds, sunflower seeds, and egg whites.[8]
Is All Processed Meat Worse than Red Meat?
All processed meats are not necessarily worse than all other red meats, as the “healthiness” of a meat depends upon the number of calories per serving as well as its sodium and fat content. For instance, lean deli meat may be healthier than a fatty unprocessed hamburger or steak. However, in general, bacon, sausage, hot dogs, pastrami, and many other processed meats are fattier, saltier, higher in calories, and contain more additives than unprocessed red meats such as beef, pork, and lamb. Lean and low-sodium varieties of processed meat are less unhealthy, but still not as healthy as most non-processed meats.
The Bottom Line
Foods that are higher in calories, saturated fat, and sodium tend to increase weight, fat, and blood pressure, which in turn, may lead to the development of heart disease and/or diabetes. So? Eat a balanced diet with plenty of whole grains, fruits, vegetables, low-fat dairy, and lean proteins. Enjoy red meat in moderation and remember: if you have to choose between a hot dog or a hamburger, the unprocessed meat of the hamburger is the safer bet when it comes to avoiding cancer, coronary heart disease and diabetes. However, try to avoid topping your burger with high-salt processed condiments such as ketchup, salt, and pickles.
All articles are reviewed and approved by Dr. Diana Zuckerman and other senior staff.
References
Bouvard, Véronique; Loomis, Dana; Guyton, Kathryn Z; Grosse, Yann; El Ghissassi, Fatiha; Benbrahim-Tallaa, Lamia; Guha, Neela; Mattock, Heidi; Straif, Kurt. (October 2015). “Carcinogenicity of consumption of red and processed meat”. The Lancet. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S1470-2045(15)00444-1.
Micha, R., Wallace, S.K., Mozaffarian, D. (June 2010).“Red and processed meat consumption and risk of incident coronary heart disease, stroke, and diabetes: A systematic review and meta-analysis”. Circulation. 121(21): 2271–2283. doi: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.109.924977.
Sinha R, Cross AJ, Graubard BI, Leitzmann MF, & Schatzkin A (2009 March 23) Meat intake and mortality: a prospective study over half a million people. Archives of Internal Medicine 169(6):562-571.
Santarelli, R.L., Pierre, F., Corpet, D.E., (2008). “Processed meat and colorectal cancer: a review of epidemiologic and experimental evidence”. Nutrition and Cancer. 60(2):131-44. doi: 10.1080/01635580701684872.
Kim, A.E., Lundgreen, A., Wolff, R.K., et al. (2016). “Red meat, poultry, and fish intake and breast cancer risk among Hispanic and Non-Hispanic white women: The Breast Cancer Health Disparities Study.” Cancer Causes Control. doi: 10.1007/s10552-016-0727-4. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26898200. Accessed on November 13, 2017.
Powell R (2008) Eat less meat to help the environment, UN climate expert says. Telegraph.
Song M, Fung TT, et al. Association of Animal and Plant Protein Intake With All-Cause and Cause-Specific Mortality. JAMA Internal Medicine; 2016.
United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) (2010). Inside the Pyramid (Meat).
Share
Should I Get the Flu Shot?
October 6, 2017 Diet, Habits, & Other BehaviorsCPTFadmin
Lauren Goldbeck, Alex Pew, Arista Jhanjee, and Kousha Mohseni, MS, Cancer Prevention & Treatment Fund
It’s that time of year again — time to get your flu shot! Everyone 6 months or older who have no restrictive health conditions is encouraged by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to get the vaccine every year.1
Flu season usually starts as early as October and can last all the way until May. The flu usually peaks between December and March. The CDC recommends getting vaccinated by the end of October. Even if you don’t get your vaccine by then, it’s good to get vaccinated anytime during the flu season.
Check if your office, school, or local government is giving free flu vaccines first. If not, don’t worry! Most (if not all) pharmacies and doctors’ offices have the vaccine available and it is free (no co-pay at all) under nearly every insurance plan. Just call first to make sure the vaccine is available.
Thanks to the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare), health insurance companies have to provide free preventive services like the flu shot.2 However, insurance companies can require you to go to certain places to get the shot. You should check with your insurance company first before getting your shot.
What’s New for 2018-2019?
As parents are getting their kids ready for flu season, they need to decide whether their children (or they themselves) should get a flu shot or a flu vaccine that comes in the form of a nasal spray. This spray, known as FluMist, sprays a live virus up your nose via mist and is an alternative for those who don’t like the idea of a flu shot. The CDC did not recommend FluMist for the 2016-2017 and 2017-2018 seasons because they rated the spray as ineffective during those years. However, flu vaccines are revised every year, and the CDC expects that FluMist will be somewhat effective in 2018-2019 for healthy 2 to 49-year-old non-pregnant patients.1
Even though FluMist is less likely to make a child cry than a shot, experts question whether it is a good idea because it is unlikely to be as effective as a flu shot. The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) strongly advises parents to choose the traditional flu shot for the 2018-2019 flu season when possible.3 The AAP points out that while the nasal spray is better than nothing, the effectiveness of FluMist has not yet been determined.4
Since the CDC and AAP realize the importance of vaccinating young children to protect from the flu and serious complications that the flu can cause, both are advocating for the same goal. As long as children are protected with a form of the Flu vaccine, a child’s risk of influenza is greatly reduced. However, experts agree that the best way to protect oneself against different types of flu viruses is with the traditional flu shot. We agree that while the FluMist is better than nothing, you should choose a flu shot whenever possible for you and your children.
How Effective Is the Flu Vaccine in 2018-2019?
The most common flu viruses change every year. Since the new seasonal vaccine requires about 6 months to make, scientists change the flu vaccine every year. Vaccines are made with either three or four viral strains. This year’s vaccine differs from last year’s vaccine by a single strain. Scientists change the flu vaccine every year to try to make it as effective as possible against the new flu strains that are most common that year, but that can be difficult to predict.5
For this flu season, current evidence shows that the vaccine will reduce your risk of getting the flu by 40 to 60%.6 Although it’s far from perfect, it’s definitely worth getting.7
If I Have Cancer or Am a Cancer Survivor, Should I Get the Flu Shot?
Yes, getting a flu shot is recommended for people with cancer and cancer survivors. It is also important for family members and close friends to get the shot as well. People with cancer or a history of cancer can get more severe flu symptoms that can result in hospitalization and serious conditions if they get the flu. In some cases, patients with certain cancers like leukemia, lymphoma, and myeloma as well as patients who have recently been treated with chemotherapy should preemptively take medication to treat the flu if friends and family around them show signs of the virus.8
The most important thing to know is that people with cancer should get the flu shot and not the nasal sprays like FluMist. This is because the shot uses dead or “inactivated” virus while the nasal sprays use live virus. Make sure to ask your physician any questions you have.8
Can the Flu Shot Give Me the Flu?
No, the flu shot can’t give you the flu. The flu shot is made of proteins that come from dead viruses, so you can’t get infected. However, the flu shot can cause soreness, redness, or swelling around the injection site. It can also cause a low-grade fever or body aches.9
Things to Remember for Young Children
Children aged 6 months to 8 years who have never received a flu vaccine should get two doses of the vaccine. The two doses should be separated by at least 4 weeks.
Children aged 6 months to 8 years who have previously received 2 or more vaccine doses only need one dose this year.
Because FluMist contains a live flu virus, healthy children should only start using the spray at age 2, and only if they are unable to get the shot instead.1
If I’m Over 65, Is There Anything Different for Me?
As we age, the flu can be more dangerous and vaccines are less effective because our immune systems are not as strong. You may have seen a “high-dose flu vaccine” advertised for people over the age of 65. Should you consider it?
The high-dose vaccine has four times as many flu proteins than the usual flu shot, and so it is expected to be more effective. Studies comparing the high-dose and standard-dose vaccines found that those who received the high-dose version (IIV3-HD) were better protected against the flu during the 2012-2013 flu season.10,11 While studies show that the high-dose flu vaccine (Fluzone) might be more protective than the standard flu shot, the CDC is still reviewing data to see how effective Fluzone is in the 2018-2019 flu season.1 And, individuals receiving the high-dose version also had more of the common side-effects from the flu shot, like a low-grade fever and soreness. Since there is no clear evidence that the high-dose vaccine has benefits that outweigh the risks, the CDC doesn’t have a recommendation for getting one vaccine over the other. However, facilities that offer flu shots may administer the high-dose shot without asking patients what they prefer. If you are 65 or older and don’t want the high-dose shot, you should say so when requesting a shot.
What Should I Do If I Have an Egg Allergy?
Flu injection options are very similar for individuals with and without egg allergies.
If your only reaction to eating eggs is hives, you can receive any flu vaccine.
If you have a severe reaction to eggs, including nausea/vomiting, changes in blood pressure, respiratory issues, and/or any reaction requiring medication or emergency medical attention (ex. anaphylaxis shock)…
You can receive any flu vaccine.
You should receive the vaccine in a medical setting and under the supervision of a provider who is trained to address allergic reactions.12
Can I Still Get the Flu Even After Getting the Flu Shot?
Yes, you can still get the flu after getting the flu shot. There are many strains of the flu that could possibly infect you, and the shot doesn’t protect you against all strains. And as we said, it works better on people with stronger immune systems. Even if you do get the flu, it might be less severe if you’ve had the vaccine.
All articles on our website have been approved by Dr. Diana Zuckerman and other senior staff.
References
Grohskopf LA, Sokolow LZ, Broder KR, et al. Prevention and Control of Seasonal Influenza with Vaccines: Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices — United States, 2018–19 Influenza Season. MMWR Recomm Rep 2018;67(No. RR-3):1–20. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.15585/mmwr.rr6703a1. Accessed on September 21, 2018.
Will the Affordable Care Act cover my flu shot? U.S. Department of Health and Human Service. Retrieved from https://www.hhs.gov/answers/affordable-care-act/will-the-aca-cover-my-flu-shot/index.html. Accessed on September 21, 2018.
American Academy of Pediatrics. American Academy of Pediatrics advises parents to choose the flu shot for 2018-2019 flu season. AAP.org. https://www.aap.org/en-us/about-the-aap/aap-press-room/Pages/AAP-Advises-Parents-to-Choose-the-Flu-Shot-For-2018-2019-Flu-Season.aspx. May 21, 2018. Accessed September 21, 2018.
American Academy of Pediatrics. AAP issues flu vaccine recommendations for 2018-2019. AAP.org. https://www.aap.org/en-us/about-the-aap/aap-press-room/Pages/AAP-Issues-Flu-Vaccine-Recommendations-for-2018-2019.aspx. September 3, 2018. Accessed September 21, 2018.
Selecting Viruses for the Seasonal Influenza Vaccine. (2018). Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases. Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/flu/about/season/vaccine-selection.htm. Accessed on September 21, 2018.
Frequently Asked Flu Questions 2018-2019 Influenza Season (2018). Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases. Retrieved fromhttps://www.cdc.gov/flu/about/season/flu-season-2018-2019.htm. Accessed on September 21, 2018.
Flannery B, Chung JR, Thaker SN, et al. Interim Estimates of 2016–17 Seasonal Influenza Vaccine Effectiveness — United States, February 2017. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2017;66:167–171. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.15585/mmwr.mm6606a3. Accessed on September 8, 2017.
Should People With Cancer Get a Flu Shot? (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/physical-side-effects/infections/should-i-get-a-flu-shot.html
Key Facts About Seasonal Flu Vaccine. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (2018). Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/flu/protect/keyfacts.htm. Accessed on September 21, 2018.
Diaz Granadanos, C. A. et al. (2014). Efficacy of high-dose versus standard-dose influenza vaccine in older adults. N Engl J Med. 2014 Aug 14;371(7):635-45. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1315727. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25119609. Accessed on September 21, 2018.
Shay, D., Chillarige, Y., Kelman, J., et al. (2017). Comparative Effectiveness of High-Dose Versus Standard-Dose Influenza Vaccines Among US Medicare Beneficiaries in Preventing Postinfluenza Deaths During 2012-2013 and 2013-2014. The Journal of Infectious Diseases; 215(4): 510-517. Retrieved from https://academic.oup.com/jid/article/3058746. Accessed on September 21, 2018.
Flu Vaccine and People with Egg Allergies. (2017). Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases. Retrieved fromhttps://www.cdc.gov/flu/protect/vaccine/egg-allergies.htm. Accessed on September 21, 2018.
Share
Third-hand smoke
August 8, 2017 Diet, Habits, & Other Behaviors, Environmental Exposures, Lung CancerCPTFeditor
Noy Birger and Celeste Chen, Cancer Prevention & Treatment Fund
You know that smoking and being exposed to other people’s cigarette smoke (second-hand smoke) is dangerous, but did you know that residue from cigarette smoke, which remains on just about every surface exposed to that smoke, is also harmful? This is called third-hand smoke.
Third-hand smoke or smoke residue clings to hair and fabrics, including clothing, carpets, drapes, and furniture upholstery.[1] The residue reacts with other chemicals and materials in the air, combining to form substances that cause cancer.[2] This toxic mix is then breathed in or absorbed through the skin.
One particular chemical found in third-hand smoke, NNA, has been scrutinized because it can directly interact with and damage DNA, possibly paving the way for cancer to grow. Researchers believe that NNA behaves similarly to a byproduct of nicotine called NNK, which has long been known to cause cancer.
In a 2014 study, researchers confirmed that NNA not only breaks up DNA just like NNK does, but also attaches itself to DNA. By breaking up and attaching to DNA, NNA is able to produce cells that grow when they shouldn’t, creating tumors and causing damaging genetic mutations.[3]
Third-Hand Smoke Is Sneaky
Many public buildings ban indoor smoking, and the majority of people who smoke are aware of the health risks–to them and everyone around them–and therefore confine their smoking to outdoors, away from children and non-smokers. But even after the cigarette has been put out, you can carry dangerous nicotine residue back inside on your hair and clothes, and consequently put others at risk of developing cancer.[1]
Children are particularly vulnerable. Like adults, they can absorb the tar and nicotine leftovers through their skin. The effect on children is greater because they are smaller and still developing. Also, children are more likely to put their residue-covered hands on their nose or in their mouth.[4] Chemicals such as NNA that are produced when smoke residue mixes with chemicals in the air can cause developmental delays in children.[1] Parents should know that if they smoke in the car, their children can absorb the cancer-causing chemicals from the car upholstery, even if the children weren’t inside the car when the parent was smoking
Third-hand smoke is a new health concern. While we know that the residue combines with the air and other pollutants, like car exhaust fumes, to make a cancer-causing substance, we don’t yet know for certain that it causes cancer in humans and if so, how much exposure is dangerous.[5] Figuring out the answer will be challenging, because most people exposed to third-hand smoke are also exposed to second-hand smoke. We know that non-smokers develop lung cancer, for example, but we usually don’t know if a non-smoker developed cancer because he or she was exposed to third-hand smoke, or for other reasons unrelated to smoking.
Bottom Line
Smokers with children or who live with non-smokers should never smoke inside the home or in their car, and clothing worn while smoking should be washed as soon as possible. If you smell cigarette smoke in a place or on someone, it means you are being exposed to third-hand smoke. An expert on helping people quit smoking recommends that after quitting, people should thoroughly clean their homes, wash or dry clean clothing, and vacuum their cars to remove the dangerous smoke leftovers.[2] Ideally, it would be best to replace furnishings that may have absorbed the chemicals from third-hand smoke, such as sofas, and re-carpet floors, re-seal and re-paint walls, and replace contaminated wallboard. Even if a smoker hasn’t quit yet, it’s a good idea to vacuum and wash clothes, curtains and bedding regularly to reduce their and their loved ones’ exposure to the dangerous chemicals that form when smoke residue mixes with the air.[3]
All articles on our website are reviewed and approved by Dr. Diana Zuckerman and other senior staff.
References
“The dangers of thirdhand smoke.” Mayo Clinic. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research, 13 July 2017. http://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy-lifestyle/adult-health/expert-answers/third-hand-smoke/faq-20057791.
Sleiman M, Gundel LA, Pankow JF, Peyton J, Singer BC, Destaillats H. Formation of carcinogens indoors by surface-mediated reactions of nicotine with nitrous acid, leading to potential thirdhand smoke hazards. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. January 6, 2010 www.pnas.org/cgi/doi/10.1073/pnas.0912820107.
American Chemical Society (ACS). “Major ‘third-hand smoke’ compound causes DNA damage and potentially cancer.” ScienceDaily. ScienceDaily, 16 March 2014. www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2014/03/140316203156.htm.
Winickoff JP, Friebely J, Tanski SE, Sherrod C, Matt GE, Hovell MF, et. al. Beliefs About the Health Effects of “Thirdhand” Smoke and Home Smoking Bans. Pediatrics. (123.1)74-79.
Ballantyne C, What is third-hand smoke? Is it hazardous? Scientific American. January 6, 2009. http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=what-is-third-hand-smoke.
Share
Posts navigation
← Older posts
PREVENTION & EARLY DIAGNOSIS
Brain Cancer
Breast Cancer
Cervical Cancer & HPV
Colon Cancer
Lung Cancer
Ovarian Cancer
Pancreatic Cancer
Prostate Cancer
Skin Cancer
And Other Cancers
Diet
Environment
Medical Treatments
TREATMENT & CARE
Brain Cancer
Breast Cancer
Cervical Cancer & HPV
Colon Cancer
Lung Cancer
Ovarian Cancer
Pancreatic Cancer
Prostate Cancer
Skin Cancer
And Other Cancers
1001 Connecticut Avenue NW, Suite 1100, Washington, DC 20036
www.StopCancerFund.org
The major program of the:
National Center for Health Research www.center4research.org
Contact Us For More Information
Email: info@stopcancerfund.org
Phone: (202) 223-4000
CFC #11967
Designated one of America's best charities by Independent Charities of America, The Cancer Prevention and Treatment Fund helps to reduce your risk of getting all kinds of cancer, and assists in choosing the best, most affordable cancer treatments based on the most recent research. Our work on the personal and national level is helping millions of Americans every day! Read more. See our video.
Home | Contact Us | Donate | Receive Our Monthly Email Updates
Disclaimer | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
Follow Us: