Vitamin Stuff Blog: Why Grapefruit And Some Medications Don't Mix
Vitamin Stuff Blog
A Health, Nutrition, and Alternative Medicine Blog
Saturday, January 12, 2008
Why Grapefruit And Some Medications Don't Mix
Written by Opal Tribble
I love grapefruit. They are a nutrient powerhouse. Not only are they are an excellent source of fiber, they are also a great source of antioxidants such as Vitamin A, and Vitamin C. But, despite their excellent qualities, grapefruit can be harmful to some who take medication.
Grapefruit also contains chemicals that can interfere with enzymes that breaks down certain drugs in your digestive system. When this happens, the medication enters the bloodstream at unacceptable levels. This can increase your chances of developing side effects.
According to a study published by the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, a group of natural chemicals named furanocoumarins was likely the culprit. Originally, scientists thought that flavonoids were the culprit for this interference.
Grapefruit Most Commonly Interacts With Drugs Taken For:
Allergies
Anxiety
Depression
High blood pressure
High cholesterol
HIV
Impotence
Seizures
If you are taking drugs for any of the above conditions avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice unless approved by your pharmacist or family internist.
To read articles written by Opal Tribble
Return to VitaminStuff Homepage:
Web www.vitaminstuff.com
posted by Vitamin Stuff Editor @ 12:10 PM
0 Comments:
Post a Comment
<< Home
Subscribe in a reader
About Me
Name: Tim Moore
View my complete profile
Previous Posts
Do pet ferrets have hunting instincts?
Is a ferret a rodent?
A Health Nutrition Dictionary
Health Conditions and Herbs, Vitamins, and other N...
Tea Tree Essential Oil: A Natural Antiseptic
Tunnels and Ferrets
How do you play with a ferret?
Carrying things in your house when you have a ferr...
Cheesecake, Ferrets, and so forth
Do ferrets like to get into dangerous places?
Subscribe to
Posts [Atom]
Archive 1
Archive page 2
Vitamins
Minerals
Herbs
Antioxidants
Amino Acids
Supplements
Diets, Dieting, Weight Loss
Alternative Medicine
Healthy Foods
Health and Fitness
Skin Care
Longevity
Antiaging
Aromatherapy
Whole Foods
Veganism
Bodybuilding
Endorphins
TCM
Glycemic Index
Bioflavonoids
Erectile Dysfunction
Antioxidant Diet
Essential Oils
Juicing
Raw Food, Raw Foods
Homeopathy and Restoring Balance
Acupuncture
Fibromyalgia
Chronic Fatigue
Mediterranean diet
Dietary Fiber
Ayurvedic Medicine
The Vitamin Stuff Health Nutrition Dictionary
Disclaimer: The information provided here is for informational purposes and is not medical advice. Individuals wishing to use supplements or alternative medicine therapies should consult with their doctor beforehand.
Copyright © 2005 www.vitaminstuff.com