Bladder cancer - Genetics Home Reference - NIH
Skip to main content
Share This Page
Email This Page
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Search
MENU Toggle navigation
CLOSE navigation
Home Page
Search
Home
Health Conditions
Genes
Chromosomes & mtDNA
Classroom
Help Me Understand Genetics
Home
Health Conditions
Bladder cancer
Bladder cancer
Printable PDF Open All Close All
Enable Javascript to view the expand/collapse boxes.
Description
Bladder cancer is a disease in which certain cells in the bladder become abnormal and multiply without control or order. The bladder is a hollow, muscular organ in the lower abdomen that stores urine until it is ready to be excreted from the body. The most common type of bladder cancer begins in cells lining the inside of the bladder and is called transitional cell carcinoma (TCC).
Bladder cancer may cause blood in the urine, pain during urination, frequent urination, or the feeling that one needs to urinate without results. These signs and symptoms are not specific to bladder cancer, however. They also can be caused by noncancerous conditions such as infections.
Enlarge
Frequency
In the United States, bladder cancer is the fourth most common type of cancer in men and the ninth most common cancer in women. About 45,000 men and 17,000 women are diagnosed with bladder cancer each year.
Related Information
What information about a genetic condition can statistics provide?
Why are some genetic conditions more common in particular ethnic groups?
Causes
As with most cancers, the exact causes of bladder cancer are not known; however, many risk factors are associated with this disease. Many of the major risk factors are environmental, such as smoking and exposure to certain industrial chemicals. Studies suggest that chronic bladder inflammation, a parasitic infection called schistosomiasis, and some medications used to treat cancer are other environmental risk factors associated with bladder cancer.
Genetic factors are also likely to play an important role in determining bladder cancer risk. Researchers have studied the effects of mutations in several genes, including FGFR3, RB1, HRAS, TP53, and TSC1, on the formation and growth of bladder tumors. Each of these genes plays a critical role in regulating cell division by preventing cells from dividing too rapidly or in an uncontrolled way. Alterations in these genes may help explain why some bladder cancers grow and spread more rapidly than others.
Deletions of part or all of chromosome 9 are common events in bladder tumors. Researchers believe that several genes that control cell growth and division are probably located on chromosome 9. They are working to determine whether a loss of these genes plays a role in the development and progression of bladder cancer.
Most of the genetic changes associated with bladder cancer develop in bladder tissue during a person's lifetime, rather than being inherited from a parent. Some people, however, appear to inherit a reduced ability to break down certain chemicals, which makes them more sensitive to the cancer-causing effects of tobacco smoke and industrial chemicals.
Learn more about the genes and chromosome associated with bladder cancer
FGFR3
HRAS
RB1
TP53
TSC1
chromosome 9
Related Information
What is a gene?
How can gene mutations affect health and development?
Can changes in the structure of chromosomes affect health and development?
More about Mutations and Health
Inheritance Pattern
Bladder cancer is typically not inherited. Most often, tumors result from genetic mutations that occur in bladder cells during a person's lifetime. These noninherited genetic changes are called somatic mutations.
Related Information
What does it mean if a disorder seems to run in my family?
What are the different ways in which a genetic condition can be inherited?
Are chromosomal disorders inherited?
More about Inheriting Genetic Conditions
Diagnosis & Management Links
Genetic Testing Information (2 links)
What is genetic testing?
Genetic Testing Registry: Bladder cancer, somatic
Research Studies from ClinicalTrials.gov (1 link)
ClinicalTrials.gov
Other Diagnosis and Management Resources (2 links)
MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Bladder Cancer
National Cancer Institute: Bladder Cancer Treatment (PDQ®)–Patient Version
Related Information
How we cover diagnosis and management of health conditions
How are genetic conditions diagnosed?
How are genetic conditions treated or managed?
How can I find a genetics professional in my area?
Other Names for This Condition
Cancer of the bladder
Malignant tumor of urinary bladder
Urinary bladder cancer
Related Information
How are genetic conditions and genes named?
Additional Information & Resources
Health Information from MedlinePlus (2 links)
Encyclopedia: Bladder Cancer
Health Topic: Bladder Cancer
Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center (1 link)
Bladder cancer
Additional NIH Resources (2 links)
National Cancer Institute: Bladder Cancer Home Page
National Cancer Institute: Bladder Cancer Treatment (PDQ®)–Patient Version
Educational Resources (5 links)
M. D. Anderson Cancer Center
MalaCards: bladder cancer
Merck Manual Consumer Version
Orphanet: NON RARE IN EUROPE: Bladder cancer
Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins
Patient Support and Advocacy Resources (2 links)
American Cancer Society
National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship
Scientific Articles on PubMed (1 link)
PubMed
Catalog of Genes and Diseases from OMIM (1 link)
BLADDER CANCER
Sources for This Page
American Cancer Society: What Are the Key Statistics for Bladder Cancer?
Bryan RT, Hussain SA, James ND, Jankowski JA, Wallace DM. Molecular pathways in bladder cancer: part 1. BJU Int. 2005 Mar;95(4):485-90. Review.
Citation on PubMed
Bryan RT, Hussain SA, James ND, Jankowski JA, Wallace DM. Molecular pathways in bladder cancer: part 2. BJU Int. 2005 Mar;95(4):491-6. Review.
Citation on PubMed
Buscarini M, Quek ML, Gill P, Xia G, Quinn DI, Stein JP. Molecular prognostic factors in bladder cancer. BJU Int. 2005 Apr;95(6):739-42. Review.
Citation on PubMed
Dinney CP, McConkey DJ, Millikan RE, Wu X, Bar-Eli M, Adam L, Kamat AM, Siefker-Radtke AO, Tuziak T, Sabichi AL, Grossman HB, Benedict WF, Czerniak B. Focus on bladder cancer. Cancer Cell. 2004 Aug;6(2):111-6. Review.
Citation on PubMed
Lindgren D, Liedberg F, Andersson A, Chebil G, Gudjonsson S, Borg A, Månsson W, Fioretos T, Höglund M. Molecular characterization of early-stage bladder carcinomas by expression profiles, FGFR3 mutation status, and loss of 9q. Oncogene. 2006 Apr 27;25(18):2685-96.
Citation on PubMed
Mhawech-Fauceglia P, Cheney RT, Schwaller J. Genetic alterations in urothelial bladder carcinoma: an updated review. Cancer. 2006 Mar 15;106(6):1205-16. Review.
Citation on PubMed
Oxford G, Theodorescu D. The role of Ras superfamily proteins in bladder cancer progression. J Urol. 2003 Nov;170(5):1987-93. Review.
Citation on PubMed
Smith ND, Rubenstein JN, Eggener SE, Kozlowski JM. The p53 tumor suppressor gene and nuclear protein: basic science review and relevance in the management of bladder cancer. J Urol. 2003 Apr;169(4):1219-28. Review.
Citation on PubMed
Syrigos KN, Karapanagiotou E, Harrington KJ. The clinical significance of molecular markers to bladder cancer. Hybrid Hybridomics. 2004 Dec;23(6):335-42. Review.
Citation on PubMed
Wolff EM, Liang G, Jones PA. Mechanisms of Disease: genetic and epigenetic alterations that drive bladder cancer. Nat Clin Pract Urol. 2005 Oct;2(10):502-10. Review.
Citation on PubMed
van Rhijn BW, van Tilborg AA, Lurkin I, Bonaventure J, de Vries A, Thiery JP, van der Kwast TH, Zwarthoff EC, Radvanyi F. Novel fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) mutations in bladder cancer previously identified in non-lethal skeletal disorders. Eur J Hum Genet. 2002 Dec;10(12):819-24.
Citation on PubMed
More from Genetics Home Reference
Recently Added Pages
Cerebro-facio-thoracic dysplasia
Orthostatic hypotension
Wiedemann-Rautenstrauch syndrome
All Recently Added Pages
Noteworthy
GeneEd resources available on Genetics Home Reference
Genetics Home Reference results available from MedlinePlus Connect
You Might Also Like
What is direct-to-consumer genetic testing?
What are genome editing and CRISPR-Cas9?
What is precision medicine?
What is newborn screening?
Reviewed: January 2007
Published: April 16, 2019
The resources on this site should not be used as a substitute for professional medical care or advice. Users with questions about a personal health condition should consult with a qualified healthcare professional.
About
Selection Criteria for Links
Data Files & API
Site Map
Subscribe
Customer Support
USA.gov
U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
National Institutes of Health
National Library of Medicine
Lister Hill National Center for Biomedical Communications
Copyright
Privacy
Accessibility
FOIA
Viewers & Players
8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894, USA