Oil Pulling - Pros and Cons | Chandler Dentist 85286
Disable Preloader
Chandler Dentist 85286: Shumway Dental Care Family, Cosmetic
Call Us at 480-659-7800
Home
Services
General
Children’s Dentistry
Cleaning
Crowns
Fillings
Inlays and Onlays
Sensitive Teeth
Cosmetic Dentistry
Invisalign
Lumineers
Teeth Whitening
Dental Restorations
Bridges
Dental Implants
Specialty
Dental Sedation
Sleep Apnea / Snoring
TMJ / Jaw Pain
Full and Partial Dentures
About Us
Meet Dr. Andy
Meet Dr. Joel
Meet Dr. Tyler
Our Team
Our Office
Reviews
Patient Info
Advanced Dental Technology
Financial Options
Patient Protection and Comfort
Services Overview
Medical History Form
Smile Assessment Form
Directions
Blog
General Dentistry
Informed Consent for Dental Procedures
Why You Should Replace a Missing Tooth
Your Highly Trained Dental Hygienist
10 Effective Ways to Remineralize Teeth
5 Dental Emergency Signs - Call Our Office Now
How to Avoid Getting Cavities: Must-Know Tips
Tooth-Friendly Foods You Should Stock Up On
The Best Whitening Toothpaste Review
Common Causes of Toothache
Dental Care Tips for the Healthiest Teeth
Cosmetic Dentistry
Why You Should Replace a Missing Tooth
The Dental Implant Procedure Explained
Yellow Teeth: The Most Common Causes
Take Selfies with a Confident Smile
The Best Ways to Care for a Retainer
Top Questions Patients Ask About Teeth Whitening
How to Avoid Teeth Stains Effectively
Teeth Whitening - Is It Necessary?
Correcting Bite Problems
Making Dental Care Fun for Kids
Children's Dentistry
Fun Dental Care Activities for Toddlers
Making Tooth Brushing Fun for Kids
Keeping That Retainer in Your Kid's Mouth
Flossing Teeth - Teach Your Child the Right Way
Thumbsucking - How It Affects a Child's Teeth
Pacifier Safety Tips for Your Baby
Ways to Prevent Baby Bottle Tooth Decay
Sedation Dentistry
How Nitrous Oxide Works at the Dentist's Office
Dental Anxiety - Are You Scared of the Dentist?
Scared of the Dentist? We Offer Sedation
Restorations
Why You Should Replace a Missing Tooth
10 Effective Ways to Remineralize Teeth
The Dental Implant Procedure Explained
I Have a Receding Gum Line - Now What?
How Long Will a Dental Bridge Last?
What is Burning Mouth Syndrome?
Canker Sores - Effective Ways to Heal Them
Appointments
Contact
Oil Pulling - Pros and Cons
Home
Oil Pulling - Pros and Cons
Oil pulling is an ancient alternative health practice that is used for improving the condition of your mouth and teeth.
This practice typically requires using coconut oil that you swish around inside your mouth.
While there are benefits, there are also possible negative consequences. Here are the pros and cons of oil pulling.
OIL PULLING REQUIRES USING NATURAL COCONUT OIL
Coconut oil is a natural substance that you can find in local supermarkets or online stores. You don’t need a prescription to buy it, and a jar of this substance is easy to store in a kitchen or bathroom cabinet.
However, one negative about buying coconut oil is that some manufacturers add other ingredients that you should avoid using for oil pulling. Make sure to read the label on the coconut oil that you buy to ensure that it is 100% pure and organic.
IT CAN ELIMINATE THE DANGEROUS BACTERIA INSIDE YOUR MOUTH
If you want to eliminate the dangerous bacteria inside your mouth, then oil pulling is helpful. Reducing the bacteria in your mouth can prevent halitosis, gingivitis and tooth decay so that you have a healthy mouth.
It is important to remember that this technique does not replace traditional dental care, such as brushing or flossing. They remove food particles that collect on your teeth and gums. You should continue to use dental floss and a toothbrush at least twice a day.
CAN OIL PULLING REVERSE THE CAVITIES IN YOUR TEETH?
Some individuals believe that oil pulling with coconut oil can reverse the cavities in your teeth by eliminating bacteria and stimulating dental enamel repair. Most dentists believe that it will not reverse a cavity, and they believe that the best way to protect a decayed tooth is with a filling or a crown.
They also suggest that oil pulling doesn't strengthen dental enamel in the same way that fluoridated mouth rinses or toothpastes do.
CAN IT TREAT GINGIVITIS OR GUM DISEASE?
There is research that suggests that the technique can treat gum disease or gingivitis. The studies concerning gingivitis and this technique were conducted on patients who had mild cases of gum disease with a minor buildup of plaque.
Forcing coconut oil through the mouth will help to lift away the plaque that contains the bacteria that cause gingivitis, but oil pulling won't cure moderate to major cases of gum disease. If you have gingivitis, then you need professional periodontal treatment from a dentist.
IS THIS TECHNIQUE A SAFE WAY TO CLEAN TEETH AND ELIMINATE BAD BREATH?
If you perform oil pulling with coconut oil correctly, then it is a safe practice, but this alternative form of dental care has several dangers. When you use coconut oil that has chemicals in it, you risk having allergic side effects.
In addition, if you swallow the coconut oil accidentally it can lead an upset stomach. Exogenous lipoid pneumonia is the biggest danger from oil pulling, and it is caused by inhaling a fatty substance into the lungs.
Categories: Dental Care
Tags: oil pulling, oil pulling benefits, oil pulling for dental care
All Services
Opening Hours
Mon
7:00 am - 3:00 pm
Tues - Wed
8:00 am - 5:00 pm
Thurs
7:00 am - 4:00 pm
Fri
7:00 am - 3:00 pm
Sat - Sun
closed
Schedule an Appointment
Great care and always friendly.
Anonymous
My entire experience was wonderful. A beautiful office, charming staff members, everyone was very helpful. Lisa, my hygienist was patient and explained everything she was going to do BEFORE starting…
Sondra B
I have always been pleased with the level of professional service and care at Shumway Dental. From the staff at reception to the dentists. Thank you the care and service you provide.
Wodash, Donald
Everyone from the font office to the Dentist were very friendly and knowledgable. The office is run very efficiently.
Jillian L
Every thing is always wonderful
Manning, Peggy
The work performed here is very good and friendly. I question the integrity of the billing.
McBride, Carol
I was helped and treated very kindly. Thank you
Anonymous
Wish I had known about your office when I moved to Chandler 8 years ago. The best dental office I have even been to.
McLernon, Ken
My first visit was very good. I didn’t expect such courtesy. Got thorough explanation of proceeders.
Tatreau, Betty
The professionalism demonistrated all of the staff, made my visit to your office an enjoyable experience. Thank you, Gordon
Gordon G
WHAT WE DO FOR YOU
Bridges
Children’s Dentistry
Cleaning
Crowns
Dental Implants
Dental Sedation
Fillings
Full and Partial Dentures
Inlays and Onlays
Invisalign
Lumineers
Sensitive Teeth
Sleep Apnea / Snoring
Teeth Whitening
TMJ / Jaw Pain
0
Professional Dentists
0+
5 Star Testimonials
0
Combined Years of Experience
We are a general family dentist office that takes great pride in how we treat our patients and the excellence in dentistry we strive to achieve.
3150 S Gilbert Rd #1, Chandler, AZ 85286, USA
480-659-7800
480-820-5677
mychandlerdentists.com
Useful Links
Home
Contact
Map & Directions
Disclaimer
Sitemap
Latest Articles
How Nitrous Oxide Works at the Dentist's Office
22 Apr
When to Call an Emergency Dentist
12 Mar
How Dental Implants Will Improve Your Life
14 Feb
Opening Hours
Mon :
7:00 am - 3:00 pm
Tues - Wed :
8:00 am - 5:00 pm
Thurs :
7:00 pm - 4:00 pm
Fri :
7:00 pm - 3:00 pm
Sun - Sat :
Closed
' + resp.msg + '
'; // } else if (resp.result === 'error') { // $response = '
×
' + resp.msg + '
'; // } // $mailchimpform.prepend($response); // }
Copyright ©2019 Shumway Dental Care. All Rights Reserved | Website by OVS Websites