The Inherited Gene Mutations that Increase Colorectal Cancer Risk
Join me @ IBOtoolbox for free.
Oncology Group
Member Since: 1/4/2018
performance / stats
Country: United States
Likes Received: 6
Featured Member: 0 times
Associates: 2
Wall Posts: 17
Comments Made: 0
Press Releases: 16
Videos: 0
Phone: 972.316.4220
Skype:
profile visitor stats
TODAY: 1
THIS MONTH: 31
TOTAL: 2094
are we ibo associates?
recent press releases
The Diagnostic Tests for Squamous Cell Lung Cancer
The Inherited Gene Mutations that Increase Colorectal Cancer...
Catalyst Oncology and Diagnosis for All Cancer Patients
The Types of Radioactive Seed Implants for Prostate Cancer
The Risk Factors Associated with Lung Cancer
The Various Screening Options for Colorectal Cancer
The Real Facts about Lung Cancer
Prostate Seed Implant as a Treatment Option for Prostate Can...
The Treatment Options for Breast Cancer
The Most Common Types of Breast Cancer
business links
recent videos
active associates
Kris Karafotas
Last logged on: 4/20/2019
IBOtoolbox Admin
Last logged on: 4/13/2019
other ibo platforms
menu: home | social wall | my businesses | press releases | videos | learn more | search
Oncology Group My Press Releases
The Inherited Gene Mutations that Increase Colorectal Cancer Risk
Published on 2/25/2019
For additional information Click Here
Dr. Neeraja Dasari highlights the inherited gene mutations that elevate the risk of colorectal cancer.
Lewisville, TX, Feb 25, 2019 – The gene mutations that aid in increasing the risk of colon cancer can be found in every person's cell and passed on in families. But the inherited genes are only linked to a small fraction of colon cancers. Inherited gene mutations can significantly increase a patient’s risk of cancer.
"All the rare inherited colorectal cancer syndromes, including HNPCC and FAP, can be detected by genetic testing," explained Dr. Dasari. “Consult with your doctor if you have a concern regarding your family history of colorectal cancer for genetic testing and counseling.”
The two common forms of inherited colon cancer syndromes include:
• Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) – This is a rare disorder and creates polyps in the colon and rectum lining. It is caused by inherited changes in the APC gene, which is a tumor suppressor gene that helps to suppress cell growth. When the brake on cell growth is turned off, polyps develop in the colon. If this condition goes untreated, the risk of developing colorectal cancer before age 40 increases.
• Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC) – This is also known as Lynch Syndrome. It is caused by gene changes that help cells to repair damaged DNA. HNPCC increases colon cancer risk as well as other cancers. People who have this syndrome usually develop colorectal cancer before turning 50 years of age.
“Hereditary cancers manifest at an early age compared to sporadic colon cancers,” continued Dr. Dasari. “The risk of inheriting the mutated genes for a parent who is affected is 50% in both genders. It is therefore important to seek for advice as early as possible if you are at a higher risk.”
About Lewisville/Flower Mound Oncology Group
The Lewisville/Flower Mound Oncology Group has state-of-the-art facilities that offer individualized care to patients throughout North Texas. With a team of expert oncologists and other specialists on staff, the Lewisville/Flower Mound Oncology Group treats a variety of cancers and blood disorders with an eye towards the newest advancements available in diagnostic technology and treatments.
Contact Details:
Lewisville/Flower Mound Oncology Group
500 W. MainSuite 380
Lewisville, Texas 75057
972.316.4220
https://lewisvilleflowermoundoncology.com/
Colorectal Cancer Risk,
Member Note: To comment on this PR, simply click reply on the owners main post below.
- Copyright 2016 IBOsocial - Part of the IBOtoolbox family of sites.