Does vitamin C help with the common cold?
×
Subscribe
We just need your email, then we'll add you to the list!
Cancel
Subscribe
+AA
Fr
Toggle navigation
McMaster University 905-525-9140 info@mcmasteroptimalaging.org Your source for healthy aging information that you can trust. 1280 Main St W, Hamilton, ON L8S 4L8
Browse
Blog
Professionals
Clinician
Public health professional
Policymaker (health systems)
Clinician Blog
Promotional Materials
Policymaker (social systems)
Help
Log In Subscribe
Does vitamin C help with the common cold?
Sep 21, 2014 - McMaster University - Updated Dec 2016
The Bottom Line
Taking vitamin C regularly as a supplement doesn't prevent the number of colds in adults but may help with the duration and severity once it is started.
Starting vitamin C as a treatment after a cold has started doesn't appear to affect the duration and severity of symptoms.
More research is needed to measure the benefits or harms of taking mega-doses of vitamin C as a treatment once a cold has started.
The common cold affects people worldwide, not just those who live in cold climates. Although almost everyone has experienced a common cold, researchers can't always measure how widespread the problem is. This is because most of us suffer through a cold without seeking treatment unless the symptoms (which might include a persistent cough, red nose, sneezing, and fever) become severe.
The best solution for the common cold is prevention. The popular media portrays many options and friends and family often make suggestions such as eating raw garlic or taking different vitamins and herbal supplements. But what (if anything) actually works to help prevent the common cold?
The study of vitamin C became popular after Linus Pauling, a Nobel Laureate in chemistry, claimed that it prevented many different diseases, including the common cold. Vitamin C is believed to have protective effects on body cells when there is an infection, reducing the risk of infections as well as their severity.
A high quality systematic review (1) including 29 studies involving 11,306 participants evaluated three impacts of vitamin C on the common cold:
Regular supplement to prevent the common cold
Regular supplement to reduce the duration and severity of symptoms, and
Treatment, to improve how long people experience symptoms and how sick they feel once they catch a cold
What the research tells us
The studies evaluating prevention showed that adults taking vitamin C supplements daily (doses ranged from 200 mg to 2000 mg) did not report fewer colds compared to people taking a placebo.
There was one small exception to this finding. The review found that people who do regular and intense physical exercise in cold weather (soldiers, skiers, marathon runners) and take vitamin C regularly did have a 48% decrease in the frequency of colds. However, an average older adult who doesn't exercise as intensely may not experience the benefits seen in people doing this type of intense training.
The research findings do suggest that taking vitamin C regularly as a supplement can decrease the number of days you feel sick. If the average cold lasts 8 to 10 days then you will feel like your cold has stopped about one day sooner when you take vitamin C regularly, and your symptoms may not be as severe.
A smaller number of studies measured vitamin C as a treatment after coming down with cold symptoms and found it is unlikely to make a difference to the length of time you feel sick (duration) or how sick you feel (severity).
In two studies the participants took 'mega' doses of vitamin C (6000 to 8000 mg) at the start of the cold. The findings suggest that taking a higher dose may decrease the duration of a cold by about half a day. However, more research is needed to be fully convinced and there is some uncertainty about whether the benefits outweigh potential side effects of taking larger doses of vitamin C.
There is still controversy around this issue. Although the benefit is small, some researchers suggest that it may be worthwhile to take vitamin C regularly as a supplement (1, 2). They argue that it is inexpensive and may be helpful for some individuals (2). The research studies varied greatly with respect to the length of time that people took vitamin C (from 2 weeks to 5 years). More research will help to evaluate if taking vitamin C for different lengths of time will produce the same results.
Featured Resources
Blog Post: Tis the season: Have you had your flu shot yet?
Evidence Summary: Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for the common cold.
Web Resource Rating: Echinacea: Is it effective for the common cold?
Web Resource Rating: Relief for a stuffy nose, cough and sore throat
Web Resource Rating: How can you protect yourself from respiratory infections?
Get the latest content first. Sign up for free weekly email alerts.
Subscribe
Help flu shots stick with prebiotics and probiotics?
Just a fad? Do popular diets actually work?
Traditional Chinese Medicine: A supplement to modern diabetes management?
Author Details
Optimal Aging Portal Blog Team
The latest scientific evidence on this topic was reviewed by the McMaster Optimal Aging team. Blog Posts are written by a professional writer, assessed for accuracy by Dr. Maureen Dobbins, an expert in interpreting and communicating the scientific literature, and edited by a professional editor. There are no conflicts of interest.
References
Hemila H, Chalker E. Vitamin C for preventing and treating the common cold. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2013;1:CD000980.
Shamseer L, Vohra S, Bax R, Spee L, Madderom M, Hemila H. Commentaries on 'Vitamin C for preventing and treating the common cold' with responses from the review author. Evidence-Based Child Health 2008;3:723-8.
DISCLAIMER: The blogs are provided for informational purposes only. They are not a substitute for advice from your own healthcare professionals.
Want the latest in aging research? Sign up for our email alerts.
Subscribe
Our Content
Blog
Evidence Summaries
Web Resource Ratings
Professionals
About
Our Content
Registration
Leadership team
Expert Advisory Council
Labarge Initiative
Partners
© 2012 - 2019 McMaster University | 1280 Main Street West | Hamilton, Ontario L8S4L8 | +1 905-525-9140 | Terms Of Use