UTI-Clear | Feelgood Health | Herbal and Homeopathic Remedies
Home
Become an Affiliate
Trade Queries
FAQ's
Shipping
Contact Us
RSA & Africa: +27 21 797 0193
USA | Canada | UK | Europe
Family
Children
Pregnancy / Infants
Pet Health
Become an Affiliate
Select a Product Browse Products by Topic A+ TestCalmer Acid Free-Flux AdaptoZen AdrenoBoost AgoraFear Relief AllergiClear Anal Itch Assist AnemiCare Anger-Soothe AntiCan Caps Aphrodisual Bath Crystals Aphrodisual Burner Oil Aphrodisual Massage Oil Aphrodusual Spritzer AquaRite BaniFlu Bio-Oxidate Defence BioVent Drops BladderWell Calm Within CD Candidate CanTravel ChemoCleanse CholestoRite Circu-Live ClearSkin Daily Wash ClearSkin-A Gel ClearSkin-E Cream ComfiCoff Complete Calm Bath Crystals Complete Calm Burner Oil Complete Calm Massage Oil Complete Calm Spritzer Congesto-K Aromatherapy Bath Crystals Conjunct-a-Clear EyeCure Crave-Rx Drops DeodoRite Detox Drops Digest Assist Don Quai Dry Night Ear-Heal Drops Ear-OK Drops EcoSlim Endo-Ex Epi-Still Fatigue Fighter Femalite FemaLube Fertile XX Fertile XY FluGo Focus ADDult Focus Formula Gasolve Relief Gastronic Dr. Gout-Gone HaliTonic Hang-Over Morning Mend Hayfever Fighter Headache Soothe High-Rite Immunity Plus InflammaGo Inslumbia Bath Crystals Inslumbia Burner Oil Inslumbia Massage Oil Inslumbia Spritzer Spray Instant Skin Revitaliser Insulate Plus Iqawe Itch Dr. JointEase Plus Kidney Dr. Leg Cramp Away LegCalm Liver Dr. Med-Eye Wash MediAc Meditate Me Bath Crystals Meditate Me Burner Oil Meditate Me Massage Oil Meditate Me Spritzer Spray Melancholy Lift MellowPause Memo-Rise Mens-Reduce Migone Plus Mindsoothe Mindsoothe Jr. Miracle Night Oil MoodCalm Mucous-Clear Phlegm Away Nail-Rx Natural Moves Oral-Assist Abscess Dr. Pre-Party Protect Prostate Dr. ProState Relief Pure-Clenz Solution Pure-Heal Gel Pure-n-Fresh Breath Spray PureCalm RealHeal Massage Oil RealHeal Tablets RectoRex Balm RectoRex Drops ReGrow Plus ReGrow Scalp Massage Oil RosaRex SAD Soother Scab-Ease Itch Relief SciatiGon Serenite Plus Serenite-LT Skin Delight Caps Skin Dr. SmoothAway Cellulite Sniffly Sprinkles SocialFear Relief SOS HistaDrops Sports Soak Aromatherapy Crystals StudyPlus Sweat-Less TeenSlim Thanda Passion Booster Throat and Tonsil Dr. Thyroid Assist ThyroSoothe Tic Tamer TinnaRex TremorSoothe Triple Complex Brain Tonic Triple Complex BronchoSoothe Triple Complex Diabetonic Triple Complex Digestion Tonic Triple Complex Mood Tonic Triple Complex Nerve Tonic Triple Complex Nico-Tonic Triple Complex Sleep Tonic Triple Complex Slimmer’s Assist UTI-Clear Vagi-Soothe VertiFree VitaliTonic Vizu-All Plus Worm Dr.
Specials
Customer Love
Health Hub
Gifts
Competitions
Stockists
Shopping Basket
Health A to Z
A
Acid Reflux
Acne (Topical Remedy)
Acne (Internal Remedy)
ADD (1-12 Yrs)
ADD (12 Yrs+)
ADHD (All ages)
Adrenal Glands
Aging
Agitation
Agoraphobia
Allergies
Alzheimer's
Anaemia
Anal Itch
Anger Management
Anger Outbursts
Anti-Aging
Anxiety (Children)
Anxiety (Adults)
Aromatherapy
Arthritis
Asperger's Syndrome
Asthma
B
Bad Breath
Balding
Bedwetting
Belching
Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia
Bipolar (Manic)
Bipolar (Melancholy)
Bladder Infection
Body Odour
Breath Freshener
Bruising/Surgery
C
Cancer
Candida
Cavity
Chemotherapy
Chest Mucous
Chicken Pox
Cholesterol
Circulation
Colds (Children)
Colds (Adults)
Congestion (Rub)
Congestion (Spritzer)
Congestion (Crystals)
Conjunctivitis
Conjunctivitis (Wash)
Constipation
Concentration
COPD
Corneal Ulcer
Corneal Ulcer (Wash)
Coughing
Coughing/Phlegm
D
Dehydration Cramping
Dehydration Headache
Depression (Children)
Depression (Adults/Teens)
Detox
Diabetes
Digestive Disorders
Diuretic
Dizziness
Dry Skin
E
Ear Infection (Children)
Ear Infection (Adults)
Eczema
Endometriosis
Energy Booster
Energy Booster (Seniors)
Epilepsy
Exam Nerves
Eye Care
Eye Irritation
Eye Irritation (Wash/Compress)
Eye Itching
Eye Stinging
Eye Stinging (Wash/Compress)
Eye Tics/Twitching
F
Facial Tics/Twitching
Facial Psoriasis
Facial Wrinkles
Fertility Tonic
First Aid Cleanser
First Aid Gel
Flatulence
Flu
Flu Vaccine
Frustration
G
Gas
Gastric Reflux
Gastroesophageal Reflux
Gout
Gingivitis
Grief
Gum Disease
H
Haemorrhoids (Internal)
Haemorrhoids (Topical)
Hair Loss
Halitosis
Hangover Prevention
Hangover Cure
Hayfever
Headaches
Head Sweating
Healing
Heartburn
Hiatal Hernia
High Blood Pressure
Hormone Imbalance
Hyperhodrosis
Hyperthyroidism
Hypothyroidism
I
Injury
Immune System
Infertility
Influenza
Insomnia (Children)
Insomnia (Adults)
Irritation/Irritability
Itching
J
Jock Itch
Joint Pain
K
Kidney Health
L
Leg Cramping
Lice
Liver Health
M
Melancholy
Memory
Menopause
Menorrhagia
Migraines
Mites
Mood (Agitation)
Motion Sickness
Motor Tics
Muscular Pain
Muscular Twitching
N
Nail Fungus
Nervous Tics
Norwegian Scabies
O
OCD
Oral Hygiene
Overindulgence
P
Passive Aggressive Behaviour
Periodontal Disease
Piles (Internal)
Piles (Topical)
PMS
Pregnancy
Party Preparation
Perspiration (Excessive)
Phlegm
Post Nasal Drip
Prostate Discomfort
Pruritis Ani
Psoriasis
R
Restlessness
Restless Leg Syndrome
Rheumatism
Rosacea
S
Scabies/Scabies Rash
Sciatica
Seasonal Affective Disorder
Seasonal Allergies
Seasonal Depression
Seizures
Sexual Health (Men)
Sexual Health (Women)
Sexual Lubricant
Skin Disorders
Skin Health
Sleep Problems (Children)
Sleep Problems (Adults)
Sneezing
Social Fears
Stiffness
'Stop Smoking' Solution
Study Aid
Styes
Sweating (Excessive)
Sweaty Palms
Styes (Wash/Compress)
Swelling Joints
T
Temper
Tendonitis
Tension Headache
Throat & Tonsil Infection
Throat Congestion/Mucous
Thrush
Thyroid (Underactive)
Thyroid (Overactive)
Tinnitus
Tooth Abscess
Tooth Decay
Tooth Infection
Travel Sickness
Tremors
Triple Complex Tissue Salts
Twitching
U
Urinary Tract Infection (UTI)
Underarm Sweating
V
Vaginal Candidiasis
Vaginal Dryness
Vaginal Itch
Vertigo
Vision
Vitality
Vitality (Seniors)
Vocal Tics
W
Weight Loss (Children)
Weight Loss (Teens)
Weight Loss (Adults)
Wounds
Worms
Wrinkles
How do I Order?
Formulated by a Clinical Psychologist
Herbal (Tincture)
UTI-Clear
Natural Remedy to Prevent and Treat Cystitis, UTI and Bladder Infections
Use UTI-Clear to:
Stop burning when urinating, help to flush out the bladder and urinate more easily
Reduce the need for frequent urination and eliminate inability to urinate even though you have the urge
Treat and prevent recurring cystitis and bladder infection
Assist with bloating and as a diuretic
Reduce your dependence on antibiotics for UTI infection
Product Info
What is a Urinary Tract Infection?
Symptoms of Lower UTI (Cystitis, Urethritis) in Adults:
Infections in women
Infections in Men
Signs and Symptoms of UTI in young children
What is the conventional treatment for a UTI?
The Natural Way
What is UTI-Clear?
How has UTI-Clear helped others?
What does UTI-Clear contain?
How do I use UTI-Clear?
How long until I see results?
How long does a bottle of UTI-Clear last?
Is there anything else I can do to prevent a UTI?
What is a Urinary Tract Infection?
Infections of the Urinary Tract are extremely common, accounting for more than 8 million doctor's visits a year. Approximately 8 - 10 million people in the USA develop a UTI each year.
Urinary tract infection (UTI) usually occurs when bacteria enter the opening of the urethra and multiply in the urinary tract. The urinary tract includes the two kidneys, ureters (tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder), the bladder itself, and urethra (tube that carries urine from the bladder to the urethral opening).
The special connection of the ureters at the bladder help prevent urine from backing up into the kidneys, and the flow of urine through the urethra helps to eliminate bacteria. Men, women, and children can develop UTIs.
Urinary tract infections usually develop first in the lower urinary tract (urethra, bladder) and, if not treated, progress to the upper urinary tract (ureters, kidneys). Bladder infection (Cystitis) is by far the most common UTI. Infection of the urethra is called Urethritis.
Bacteria may enter the urethra due to poor hygiene, during sexual intercourse or due to the use of a catheter. The urinary system is especially designed to guard against infection. Normally urine is sterile and the flow of urine from the bladder usually helps to wash bacteria out of the body. A healthy immune system also plays a vital role in the prevention of all infections, including UTI's.
Some people, e.g. diabetics are more prone to developing a UTI. This is usually because of a compromised immune system.
Women develop the condition much more often than men, for reasons that are not fully known, although the much shorter female urethra is suspected. The condition is rare in boys and young men.
Twenty percent of women in the United States develop a UTI and 20% of those have a recurrence. Urinary tract infections in children are more common in those under the age of 2.
Symptoms of Lower UTI (Cystitis, Urethritis) in Adults:
Back pain
Blood in the urine (hematuria)
Cloudy urine
Inability to urinate despite the urge
Fever
Frequent need to urinate
Painful urination (dysuria)
Malaise (general discomfort)
Infections in women
Women are more prone to UTI's, probably because they have shorter urethras which therefore pass bacteria into the urinary tract more easily.
Statistics show that one woman in five will develop a UTI during her lifetime. Some women are prone to recurring infections.
Women who have had more than three UTI's are likely to continue to develop recurrences within 18 months of a UTI. In severe cases this can be even more frequent. Continued use of antibiotics is thought to increase the frequency of recurring UTI's and to make them more resistant to treatment.
Infections in Men
Men are not as prone to UTI's as women, but infections are still common. The prostate gland in men produces secretions that retard the growth of bacteria and a healthy prostate is one of the best defenses against UTI's in men. (see Prostate Dr.)
While men develop UTI's less frequently than women, their infections tend to be more severe. UTI's in men are often caused by an obstruction (e.g. a urinary stone) or an enlarged prostate.
Prostate infections are more difficult to cure via conventional means because many antibiotics do not easily penetrate infected prostate tissue.
Signs and Symptoms of UTI in young children
Symptoms of UTI in young children include the following:
Diarrhea
Excessive crying that cannot be resolved by typical measures (e.g., feeding, holding)
Loss of appetite
Fever
Nausea and vomiting
Older children may experience the following symptoms with UTI:
Flank or lower back pain (with a kidney infection)
Frequent urination
Inability to produce more than a small amount of urine at a time
Incontinence
Pain in the abdomen or pelvic area
Painful urination (dysuria)
Urine that is cloudy or has an unusual smell
What is the conventional treatment for a UTI?
Once a UTI has been diagnosed, most conventional doctors choose antibiotics as the preferred treatment. A course of antibiotics can quickly cure a UTI and kill the bacteria that cause it.
Although antibiotics certainly have their place, there are two main problems with antibiotic use for urinary tract infections:
Firstly, due to the frequency of antibiotic use for UTI's and other infections, bacteria are developing a resistance to the antibiotics, making them less and less effective. The 'smarter' the antibiotics become, the 'smarter' are the bacteria, which mutate to avoid the effects of the antibiotics.
Secondly, frequent use of antibiotics will also affect your immune system functioning. As we have seen above, a healthy immune system is important in the prevention of UTI's. This means that the antibiotics that are used to cure your UTI, may make another infection more likely in the near future.
The Natural Way
There are many natural herbs which are extremely effective in the treatment and prevention of UTI's. Some of these have been used for centuries and many have been subjected to clinical trials which prove their effectiveness.
Using the knowledge and experience of experts in the field of natural and indigenous medicine, Feelgood Health has developed UTI-Clear - a unique formula containing a total of seven therapeutic herbs, especially selected to relieve the symptoms of UTI and promote the health of the urinary system.
What is UTI-Clear?
Containing a unique combination of potent herbs in therapeutic dosage, UTI-Clear relieves the symptoms of Cystitis, Bladder infections and Urinary Tract Infections (UTI). Many people suffer from recurring infections of the bladder and urinary tract and find it embarrassing and costly to constantly have to consult their doctors for the same reason. Now you can help yourself with UTI-Clear.
How has UTI-Clear helped others?
"I have taken uti-clear, like the testimonials I read, I am shocked that this worked, ( actually I've been frightened to speak of it so that I don't jinx it or something, crazy huh) For the past few months I had an infection that just would not go away, I lost my job over it. I had been to the urologist sooo many times and have taken soooo many useless and dangerous drugs. So, in desperation I ordered uti-clear and as I have said, to me its a miracle. Thanks so much. Now, I want to try some of the other remedies but do not dare hurt what the uti-clear is doing (I'm still on it) So, please let me know if its ok to take the weight problem remedie and uti-clear. Thanks again."
- Debbe
"I am not the type of person to write a testimonial, but feel compelled to do so because of how UTI-Clear has changed the quality of my life. For about 7 years I have suffered with urinary tract infections and could not understand why I chronically had these while other women I know never did. I could not maintain a regular sex life because of this problem. Last year I was on antibiotics 8 times for urinary tract infections. The gynecologist who was prescribing these told me I must go to a urologist to begin considering surgery. I began to do research about why some women chronically have UTI's and others do not, when I came across your website. I immediately ordered the UTI-Clear. It has been about 7 months and I have not had one urinary tract infection since I began taking this product. Thank you, it has changed my life in every area."
- Ann
"UTI-Clear has worked very well to clear up this infection. I do have recurring infections and at one point, they caused my cervix to become inflamed, causing pap smears to come back abnormal. I'm glad to have found this product to help clear this up without antibiotics. Thank you."
- Cynthia
"I don't know why I always get Urinary Tract and Bladder infections - but I do! It's always embarrassing to have to go to the doctor every time so I decided to give UTI-Clear a try. Now I know what to do when that horrible burning sensation starts up again! Just a few drops in water and I'm back to normal again - and no more embarrassing trips to the doctor for me!"
- Ann
"Hi, I have recently started to use your UTI clear and have found it to be very good as I suffer with recurring cystitis, after a few days of taking the UTI-Clear the symptoms disappear, which is wonderful!"
- Leanne
"My recent purchase of Uti-Clear resulted in complete satisfaction. Not only did this product live up to the promises you advertise on your site, but it made me feel very confident in using herbal/homeopathic treatments in the future. I am very pleased with the results, and this is to show my appreciation for your quality products."
- Lissette
"I suffered with recurring Urinary Tract Infection and the antibiotics provided by my doctor offer only temporary relief. I found UTI-Clear and ImmunityPlus on the web and my symptoms have now cleared to the extent that I no longer suffer the agony of this uncomfortable condition. I am grateful that the products are available (shipped) internationally as I have been unable to locate such a beneficial product in the UK."
- Barbara
"I have suffered for 6 years with chronic UTI, and have been on constant antibiotic therapy. As a last attempt at relief, I came across UTI-Clear. It began working in 2 days and I have been symptom free since I began using it 3 weeks ago. I finally feel relief, and would recommend this product to anyone who has suffered like I have."
- Karen
What does UTI-Clear contain?
UTI-Clear is formulated in therapeutic dosage and contains medicinal extracts of the following selected herbs:
Agothosma betulina (buchu) is a urinary antiseptic and possesses diuretic properties. Buchu has been used by the natives of the Western Cape of Southern Africa for many centuries. Early Dutch settlers used buchu to make a brandy tincture and Boegoebrandewyn (buchu brandy) is still used today to treat many disorders.
Arctostaphylos uva-ursi has been shown to kill bacteria in the urine.
Achillea millifolium contains alkamides and volatile oils rich in sesquiterpene lactones which act as an anti-inflammatory.
Melissa officinalis (lemon balm) is indigenous to the Eastern Mediterranean region but is widespread throughout Africa. It is often used as a general nervous system restorative, digestive calminative and to reduce blood pressure. It acts as an anti-viral and its active ingredients include volatile oil (including citronella), tannins, flavinoids, tocopherols and choline.
Avena sativa is used as a restorative and nutritive tonic and as a diuretic.
Hypericum perforatum is used for viral and bacterial infections.
Echinacea angustifolia increases body resistance to infection and has a powerful antiseptic action.
Vaccinium myrtillus (billberry) contains anthocyanosides, a potent bioflavonoid complex with antioxidant properties.
How do I use UTI-Clear?
A few drops of UTI-Clear at the first signs of infection (burning and frequent urination, fever, stomach cramps or lower back ache) can help to clear the infection and stop it from recurring time and time again. Give UTI-Clear to your partner to prevent re-infection.
Dosage:
Adults: Take 15 drops in a little water or juice 3 times per day.
Children: Dilute one drop per age year of the child in a little water or juice. Continue for 5 - 7 days.
Note: For maximum results use with ImmunityPlus (see ComboPacks).
How long until I see results?
Due to the fast-acting tincture formula, just a few drops of UTI-Clear in a little water will begin to show results within about 24 - 48 hours. Continued use over a period of 5 - 7 days will completely clear the symptoms of most bacterial UTI's without the use of antibiotics and without compromising your immune system. Use consistently and drink at least eight glasses of water a day.
After that, use UTI-Clear for three days at the very first signs of a recurring infection to stop the infection in its tracks.
How long does a bottle of UTI-Clear last?
One bottle holds about 45 doses and will last 15 days. We recommend keeping one bottle of UTI-Clear on hand at all times. See our Buy 3 Get 1 Free offer.
Is there anything else I can do to prevent a UTI?
Yes! Here are some things that you can do to take responsibility for the continued health of your urinary system.
Drink at least 8 glasses of water daily. Remember that urine flushes out bacteria from the urinary tract and therefore prevents infection. Sufficient water every day is necessary for regular urination.
Some women are prone to develop a UTI after sexual intercourse. Cleansing the penis and the vagina both before and after making love will help to prevent infection. It will also helps for women to completely empty their bladders after sex, so that the urine can flush out any bacteria which may have entered the urethra during intercourse.
Avoid the use of scented vaginal sprays and douches. These products are more beneficial to their manufacturers than they are to female health! Always wear panties with a cotton gusset.
For recurring infections, it is recommended that both men and women take a regular course of ImmunityPlus - a natural remedy especially formulated to boost the immune system and protect against all types of infection, including UTI. (see our UTI-Clear/ImmunityPlus Combo Special Offer)
It is also highly recommended that all men over the age of 50, use Prostate Dr - a formula that promotes prostate health and helps to relieve and protect against the symptoms of BPH and prostatitis. BPH (Benign Prostate Hypertrophy) is a condition which causes swelling and enlargement of the prostate gland, which in turn can increase the likelihood of men developing a UTI.
Buy 1 Now Retail price: R110.00
Buy 3 Get 1 Free Retail price: R330.00 Save 25%
View Combo Packs
SA orders shipped to reach you
within 1-3 working days**
For shipping info, view our
Shipping Policy
Need help placing an order?
Give us a call:
SOUTH AFRICA
+27 21 797 0193
Customers in
USA, CANADA, UK, EUROPE
Please CLICK HERE.
People who bought this product also viewed
Immunity Plus
Fast acting Immune Booster to strengthen your body against disease. Boost Immune Functioning (AIDS, TB, Hepatitis and Cancer.)
LEARN MORE
BladderWell
FDA Registered 100% Homeopathic Remedy for Complete Urinary Tract and Bladder Wellness
LEARN MORE
Don Quai
Natural remedy balances hormones & strengthens female reproductive system
LEARN MORE
Combo Packs
UTI-Clear + BladderWell
Herbal Urinary Tract Infection remedy plus symptomatic remedy!
R210.50R191.40
Buy Combo Pack You Save 10%
UTI-Clear + Immunity Plus
Herbal urinary tract remedy plus all round immune system tonic!
R218.00R198.00
Buy Combo Pack You Save 10%
How to Order
Order online
Click on 'Buy Now' button
(Delivered in 1 - 3 working days)
Order Via Email:
helpdesk@feelgoodhealth.co.za
Order by phone
Head Office
T: +27 21 797 0193
F: +27 21 797 0045
Feelgood Health Shop
8 Gabriel Road
Plumstead, Cape Town
T: +27 21 797 0198
E-mail: sales@feelgoodhealth.co.za
View all Stockists
Payment Methods
Credit Card (Visa & Mastercard)
Direct Deposit
EFT
Shipping Policy
60 Day Guarantee
Michele Carelse M.A. (Clinical Psychology)
Copyright © Feelgood Health. All rights reserved.
Revised: March, 2013
Feelgood Health
P.O. Box 735, Plumstead, 7801
Cape Town, South Africa.
Disclaimer The information on this website is intended for educational purposes only. It is not intended to diagnose, treat or cure and is not a substitute for a professional consultation with a medical or health professional. Do not make any changes or additions to your prescription medicine without first consulting your doctor. Should symptoms persist, please consult your doctor.