Cleansing/Detoxing Archives - Jill's Home Remedies
Jill's Home Remedies
herbs, home remedies & natural health





Home
About
Disclaimer
Disclosure
Home Remedies
Home Remedies A-M
Home Remedies N-Z
DIY
Natural Health
Herbs
Health Hazards
Healthy Living
Recipes
Bath & Body
Cleaning
Food
Recommendations
Herbs & Health
Herbal Education
Homeschooling
Monthly Sales
Advertise
Contact
How To Use Oil Pulling For Self-Healing and Detoxification
March 17, 2016 By Jill 22 Comments
Let me just say that oil pulling can be a messy job (especially if you’re clumsy me), and is not something I necessarily look forward to every day, but it is worth every moment because of the health benefits!
What is oil pulling and how does it work?
Oil pulling is simply swishing your mouth with oil to pull all mucous, bacteria and toxins from your body through your saliva. It is said that acute diseases can be cured within 2-4 days by practicing oil pulling 3 times a day on an empty stomach. [1]
Who should oil pull?
Anyone with a disease, ailment or who wants to help rid their body of toxins that we all have – so basically everyone! :) I would recommend everyone practice oil pulling on occasion for 4 weeks at a time. You just may discover amazing healing in your body! Children over 5 can oil pull also.
Health Benefits of Oil Pulling
As I’ve previously said, oil pulling helps to detox the body by pulling out toxins, viruses, and bacteria (and some even say parasites as well.) Here are some specific ways it can assist the body to better health. [2] [3]
Heal cavities (I am currently oil pulling to heal some dental issues I have. I can already see a difference!)
Whitens teeth
Fights bad breath
Heals gum disease and bleeding
Improves digestion
Clears acne
Reduces inflammation
Boosts the immune system
The Reason I Use Coconut Oil
While olive, sesame, and sunflower oils do a great job when oil pulling, I typically use coconut oil. The reason why is because coconut oil has so many health benefits. It balances hormones, kills candida, fights Alzheimers, and inhibits the growth of the Streptococcus bacteria, which is a big contributor to tooth decay. [4]
How To Use Oil Pulling for Self-Healing and Detoxification
First thing in the morning, before eating or drinking, place 2 tsp to 1 tbsp of oil in your mouth. This can be olive, sesame, sunflower, or coconut oil.
Slowly swish, suck, chomp and pull the oil through the teeth. Make sure you swish between the back molars too. I have to admit that I felt kind of gaggy to swish oil in my mouth for several minutes the first few times I oil pulled, but I quickly got used to it and keep myself busy while I do it so that it goes by quicker. As I’ve said, the health benefits make it very worth it!
Pull the oil through your teeth for 15-20 minutes. I always do it for 20 minutes. You can start out with 5-10 minutes a day until you get used to it. I almost always oil pull while I’m showering in the mornings. By the time I’m out of the shower, dressed, putting on makeup, etc. my 20 minutes is up and the time goes by very quickly.
Spit the oil out and rinse your mouth out well. Never swallow the oil because you will be swallowing all the bacteria, parasites, and viruses that you’ve just pulled out of your body. If you use coconut oil, do not spit the oil down the sink because it will solidify and clog the drains. Instead, spit in the trash or outside.
Drink a glass of water right after.
Just a word of advice. Don’t ever oil pull when you are extremely tired and it’s way past your bedtime, and you realize you forgot to oil pull that morning. You may just sit on the couch swishing it in your mouth because such persistency and consistency are the keys to changing your health, so you must do it before bed, right? The problem with that is that (remember you are very tired because you lead a very busy life) you might wake up a few hours later realizing you fell asleep while doing the oil pulling and swallowed the oil. You can then only hope that you didn’t swish it around for too long before dozing off and hopefully the oil did not contain too many toxins. Don’t ask me how I know.
Note:
Children ages 5 and up can oil pull using 1 tsp. of oil.
People with dentures need to remove them before using this method.
To do this 3 times a day to heal an acute disease, you would need to do this before breakfast, lunch and dinner. Be sure to wait at least 4 hours after meals before you oil pull, and at least 1 hour after drinking anything. Once you are finished oil pulling, you can eat and drink right away – you will then need to be sure not to eat or snack between breakfast and lunch if you are oil pulling 3 times a day to heal something serious.
As with any detoxing, you may or may not experience a healing crisis. You may feel worse, have headaches, or you may not. If you do have a healing crisis, do not stop oil pulling! This is a sign that your body is healing and the ailment is being remedied. Sometimes we feel worse before we feel better.
References
Oil Pulling With Coconut Oil Is A Powerful Way to Cleanse. (n.d.). Retrieved March 17, 2016, from http://www.be-healthy-with-coconuts.com/oil-pulling-with-coconut-oil.html
Coconut Oil Pulling Benefits and My How-to Guide. (2014). Retrieved March 17, 2016, from http://draxe.com/oil-pulling-coconut-oil/
The Health Benefits of Oil Pulling. (2014). Retrieved March 17, 2016, from http://www.globalhealingcenter.com/natural-health/benefits-of-oil-pulling/
What Type of Oil Works Best for Oil Pulling? (n.d.). Retrieved March 17, 2016, from http://articles.mercola.com/sites/articles/archive/2014/05/05/oil-pulling-coconut-oil.aspx
This is linked to:
The Prairie Homestead Deep Roots At Home
This post has been updated from its original publishing date of October 19, 2011.
Filed Under: Cleansing/Detoxing Tagged With: coconut oil, detox, oil pulling
Ion Cleanse Foot Bath: The Total Body Detoxification
February 17, 2014 By Jill 15 Comments
Last month, my local naturopathic doctor had a special on all of her detox machines. I took advantage of the $15 price and had 3 foot detox baths!
What is a foot detox bath?
Foot detoxes have been used in Asian countries for centuries. This method draws toxins from your body through the feet. The water in the foot bath is charged with both positive and negative ions which pull toxins through the skin’s pores. Toxins attach themselves to organs, joints, muscles, nerves, arteries, glands and tissues, which can cause a great number of health problems. Getting rid of toxins promotes good health. Foot baths are really quite relaxing too!
Foot detoxes last for 30 minutes. As your feet detox, the water changes color. Your doctor {or whoever is doing the detox} will be able to tell by the color of the water where the toxins are coming from in your body. I’ve heard interesting experiences from some people who have had a foot detox, including one lady who had so much yeast that the water bubbled over the tub! After the detox, my doctor gave me a small amount of liquid minerals to replace what I lost during the detox. Detoxing gets rid of the bad stuff, but it will also pull out some beneficial minerals also.
Meaning of the colors:
Black – detoxifying from liver
Black flecks – detoxing heavy metals
Brown – detoxifying from liver, cellular debris, {if you are a tobacco user, the water will be brown as it rids your body of tobacco}
Dark green – detoxifying from gallbladder
Orange – detoxing joints
Red flecks – blood clot material
White cheese-like particles – getting rid of yeast overgrowth
White foam – detoxing lymphatic system
Yellow-green – detoxing kidneys, bladder, urinary tract
How often should you have a detox? If you can afford it, my doctor said once or twice a week is fine. I likely will not do any more foot detoxes this year since I’m cleansing internally. I also take bentonite clay baths and epsom salt baths at home, which is a whole body detox too.
Have you ever had a foot detox?
Linked to:
Walking Redeemed A Wise Woman Builds Her Home Raising Homemakers
Filed Under: Cleansing/Detoxing
My Detox Plan For 2014
January 31, 2014 By Jill 29 Comments
Photo Credit: Earl – What I Saw 2.0 via Compfight cc
There’s no denying that we come in contact with toxins on a regular basis in our food, personal care products, using our cell phones, iPads, laptops, and in the air we breathe. Not ridding ourselves of these toxins can lead to a host of health problems: fatigue, hormonal imbalances, gastrointestinal problems, skin issues, foggy thinking, diseases, cancers, susceptibility to illness, and on and on the list could go. Detoxing is a must for me, and every year I have my detox plans laid out.
This is my plan for 2014:
Colon Cleanse – For the colon cleanse, I plan to purchase Bentonite Clay, Detox +, Garlic Powder, Activated Charcoal, and Cayenne. I will follow the colon cleanse ingredients and instructions from the Bulk Herb Store. Currently the Colon Cleanse Kit is out of stock, so I plan to buy the items individually. To save money, I probably won’t use quite so much bentonite clay in my baths, especially since I have taken clay baths already and should not have quite the toxin overload as before. If you have never taken detox baths, I suggest using the amount recommended here.
I also normally take something to cleanse the blood, but I believe the cayenne and garlic powder in this cleanse will be sufficient.
Parasite Cleanse – Mountain Meadow Herbs’ Para-Rid. I will probably buy the 4 oz. bottle so I have enough to cleanse my girls too. Playing with animals and running outside barefoot all spring and summer, they are bound to have a parasite or two. {I really need to make my own parasite tincture one of these days.}
Kidney/Gallbladder Flush – Lemon juice/ olive oil flush
You can purchase a kidney cleanse, but I’m going to do the simple olive oil/lemon juice flush. I used this flush when I had a kidney stone. It also rejuvenates and detoxes the kidneys and gallbladder. {Will be great for the liver too}
Photo Credit: comingstobrazil via Compfight cc
Directions:
2 oz. olive oil
2 oz. lemon juice {freshly squeezed}
Large glass of water
Mix the olive oil and lemon juice the best you can. Do not mix the oil and lemon juice into the water; you drink the water separate. The oil insists on rising to the top, so it’s difficult to mix in, but do your best. I stir the two ingredients in a cup and stir again after each drink. After you down the mixture, follow with a large glass of water. Continue to drink as much water as possible the rest of the day so your body flushes out the toxins.
This flush is very inexpensive, but if you find it impossible to get down, you can purchase a kidney cleanse.
Liver Cleanse – liver cleanse tincture from Bulk Herb Store. I suffered with a damaged liver for years until I made and used this tincture. I’ve been taking this for almost 2 years, and plan to continue taking it almost daily for 3 more years. My liver was really that bad as a result of prescription medication. You can read about me making it here. If you don’t wish to make your own cleanse, you can find great products at Mountain Meadow Herbs.
Candida Cleanse – Not every one has candida {yeast overgrowth}, but I found out from my naturopathic doctor that I do. I’ve been taking Five Lac {2 packets a day}, and am feeling the difference! Sugar cravings are much less, blemishes are disappearing, more energy. I’m determined to get rid of this yeast overgrowth this year! {And make sure it doesn’t return!}
Bentonite Clay Baths - These clay baths are so refreshing! I like to take them every now and then when I can afford it. {the clay is not expensive, but I have to penny-pinch :)}. I like to take them once a month, but that doesn’t always happen. I will be taking clay baths during my colon cleanse {mentioned above}, but will hopefully be able to take a few more this year. Since I have done several good cleanses in the past 8 years, I don’t necessarily need one every month. You can read clay bath instructions here.
Foot Detox Bath – My awesome local naturopathic doctor ran a special in January with all of her detoxing machines being only $15! I took advantage of it and had 3 foot detox baths this month. Pictured below is me having a foot detox. You will notice the water that my feet are in is clear – that’s because this was the very beginning of the detox. The water did not stay that color as it detoxed through my feet. I’ll share my experience in the next few weeks.
I believe it’s necessary to cleanse each organ every year, and cleanse here and there throughout the year. {Read here on what I believe is the main cause of disease.} I was fully vaccinated, I have silver fillings {would love to get them removed some day}, I took my fair share of prescription medications, I didn’t eat the best diet growing up, I don’t eat as healthy now as I would like to {I eat the best that I can afford}. Our bodies should be cleansed of toxins, or our health will most likely suffer the consequences.
Do you have detoxing plans this year? Does it overwhelm you to detox? Start where you can!
If you enjoyed this post, I invite you to stay updated via Facebook, Twitter, Pinterest or by email.
*This post contains some affiliate links.
Linked To:
A Mama’s Story What Joy Is Mine The Modest Mom Growing Home
Time Warp Wife A Wise Woman Builds Her Home Raising Homemakers
Filed Under: Cleansing/Detoxing
1
2
3
4
Next Page»
Hi, there! I'm Jill, an herbalist, homeschool mom of four, and disciple of Jesus Christ. Welcome to my herbal home on the web! Here you'll find ways to treat your family at home with natural remedies, as well as how to make herbal medicine in your very own kitchen. Get To Know Me Here!
First Name... Email...
Looking for Something?
Share Our Button?
Copyright © 2019 · Jill's Home Remedies · Blog Design by Bellis Bohtique