CDC - NIOSH - Mosquito-Borne Diseases
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People
All A-Z Topics
All CDC
All CDC NIOSH
Submit
Search
All CDC
All CDC NIOSH
Submit
All A-Z Topics
All CDC
All CDC NIOSH
Submit
All A-Z Topics
The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)
Section Navigation
home4 TP Docs Home
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Syndicate
Mosquito-Borne Diseases
Minus
Related Pages
Protecting workers from mosquito bites can prevent diseases.
Mosquito-borne diseases are those spread by the bite of an infected mosquito. Diseases that are spread to people by mosquitoes include Zika virus, West Nile virus, Chikungunya virus, dengue, and malaria.
Employers should protect workers and workers should protect themselves from diseases spread by mosquitoes. Although most people do not become sick after a bite from an infected mosquito, some people have a mild, short-term illness or (rarely) severe or long-term illness. Severe cases of mosquito-borne diseases can cause death.
Workers at Risk
Workers are at risk when they are working where mosquitoes are biting. Different species of mosquitoes are found in varying geographic locations, are most active at different times, and spread different diseases. The risk to workers varies with where they are working in the United States or elsewhere, type of habitat at the work site, season, and time of day.
Workers at risk include:
Outdoor workers
Business travelers who may travel to areas with mosquito-borne diseases
Laboratory workers who may work with potentially infected samples, cultures, or arthropods
Healthcare workers who may handle patients who are, or might be infected with certain mosquito-borne diseases. Transmission may occur through a break in their skin or via a sharp penetration injury.
Employer Recommendations
Some mosquitoes breed in standing water. Decrease mosquito populations at worksites by:
removing, turning over, covering, or storing equipment
removing debris from ditches
filling in ruts and other areas that collect standing water
removing tires, buckets, bottles, and barrels that collect water
placing drain holes in containers that collect water and cannot be discarded
Keep mosquitoes out of indoor worksites by ensuring that doors and windows have screens and are kept closed when possible.
Provide training about:
the risk of mosquito bites and how to protect themselves
symptoms of diseases spread by mosquitoes
the safe use of insect repellents
Provide workers with, and encourage them to wear, clothing that covers theirs hands, arms, legs, and other exposed skin. Consider providing hats with mosquito netting to protect the face and neck.
Provide insect repellents with an EPA-registered active ingredient, such as: DEET, picaridin, IR3535, oil of lemon, eucalyptus or para-methane-diol, or 2-undecanone and encourage their use.
Worker Recommendations
Use insect repellents with an EPA-registered active ingredient, such as: DEET, picaridin, IR3535, oil of lemon eucalyptus or para-menthane-diol, 2-undecanone.
Permethrin can be applied to clothing and gear.
Follow the label instructions.
If also using sunscreen, apply it before applying insect repellent.
Wear clothing that covers hands, arms, legs, and other exposed skin. Wear hats with mosquito netting to protect the face and neck.
Get rid of sources of standing water (for example, tires, buckets, barrels) to reduce places where mosquitoes lay eggs
Workers who develop symptoms of a mosquito-borne disease should report this promptly to their supervisor and get medical attention.
West Nile Virus
Zika Virus
Insect Repellent Safety
Other Mosquito-Borne Diseases
Resources
CDC Avoid Mosquito Bites
Mosquito bites can be more than just annoying and itchy. They can make you sick.
CDC Insect Repellent Use and Safety
Answers to common questions about the safe use of repellents.
NIOSH Fast Facts: Protecting Yourself from Ticks and MosquitoesCdc-pdf
Print or order this free card for easy access to important safety information.
California Department of Pesticide Regulation: Fight the Bite! Protecting outdoor workersCdc-pdfExternal
Mosquitoes can carry diseases, including West Nile virus. The best way to avoid infection is to avoid being bitten. There are many steps employers and workers can take to make outdoor work safer.
US EPA Mosquito ControlExternal
About mosquitoes, prevention, repellents, and pesticides.
Page last reviewed: March 21, 2016
Content source: National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health
home Workplace Safety and Health Topics
Mosquito-Borne Diseases expand
West Nile Virus
Zika Virus
Other Mosquito-Borne Diseases
Insect Repellent Safety
Reminder about Preventing
Hazards to Outdoor Workers
Related Topics
Agricultural Safety and Health
All Mining Topics
Asphalt Fumes
Asthma and Allergies
Carbon Monoxide
Construction Safety and Health
Fighting Wildfires
Highway Work Zones
Logging Safety (Injury)
Pesticide Illness & Injury Surveillance
Protective Clothing
Skin Exposures and Effects
NIOSH Homepage
NIOSH A-Z
Workplace Safety & Health Topics
Publications and Products
Programs
Contact NIOSH
CONTACT CDC-INFO
Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY: 888-232-6348
Email CDC-INFO
CDC INFORMATION
About CDC
Jobs
Funding
Policies
File Viewers & Players
Privacy
FOIA
No Fear Act
OIG
Nondiscrimination
Accessibility
CONNECT WITH CDC
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
Instagram
Syndicate
CDC TV
RSS
Email
U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
USA.gov
CDC Website Exit Disclaimer
Facebook
Twitter
Email
PDF file_external
Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy
Close
Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
Cancel
Continue