Benefits of Fish Oil | Look Good Feel Great Always
Home
My Story
Work with Su Lee
Knowledge
Nourish
Cleanse
Exercise
Weight Loss
Health Conditions
Workplace Health
Contact Me
Select Page
Benefits of Fish Oil
by chongsulee | Knowledge | 2 comments
Fish oil is the common term for Omega-3 fatty acids or Omega fish oil, which is well-known for its benefits in heart health. There are many other benefits of Omega-3 fatty acids.
Omega-3 fatty acid is part of a family of polyunsaturated fatty acids considered as essential fatty acids. Essential means they are necessary for human health but the body cannot make them. So, we have to get them from food or supplements.
What are the benefits of Omega-3 fatty acids?
1) Heart Disease
Omega-3 fatty acids prevent atherosclerosis (hardening of arteries) by slowing the development of plaque and blood clot. At least 2 servings of fish a week can reduce the risk of stroke by 50%.
2) Cholesterol
Omega-3 increases HDL (good cholesterol) and reduces triglycerides. People who are on cholesterol lowering drugs such as Liptor, Mevacor or Zocor, taking Omega-3 can help the drugs to work more effectively. See earlier post on how to lower cholesterol.
3) Blood Pressure
Taking 3 g of fish oil daily can reduce blood pressure. See earlier post on how to lower blood pressure
4) Brain Function
Omega-3 fatty acids plays a crucial role in the brain memory and performance. It is also important for normal growth and development of the brain.
5) Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)
Omega-3 helps to reduce inflammation. It was found to help reduce the symptoms of RA such as joint pain and morning stiffness. People with RA who take fish oil can reduce the dose of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug.
6) Osteoporosis
Omega-3 can increase the level of calcium in the body and improve bone strength.
7) Attention Deficit Syndrome (ADHD)
Children with ADHD and behaviour problems may be deficient in certain essential fatty acids. A study in 1995 comparing the level of Omega-3 fatty acids in 53 boys with ADHD and 43 boys without ADHD. It was found that boys with ADHD have significantly lower Omega-3 fatty acids. Therefore, Omega-3 fatty acids can be used to complement treatment for ADHD.
8) Menstrual Pain
Women who have menstrual cramps can reduce the pain with fish oil. Evening Primrose Oil (Gama Linolenic Acid) , is also one of the Omega-3 fatty acid, can be used to treat menstrual cramps.
9) Weight Loss
Omega-3 fatty acids activate the enzyme for burning fat. It is also found to cause the insulin in the blood to reduce by 50%, hence, reduce the fat storage.
Where can you get Omega-3 fatty acids?
The main type of Omega-3 fatty acids that we should be concern of are EPA ( Eicosapentanoic acid ), DHA (Docosahexaenoic acid ) and ALA ( Alpha-linolenic acid ). ALA can be converted in the body into EPA and DHA.
The primary dietary source of Omega-3 comes fish, plant and nut.
EPA ( Eicosapentanoic acid ) and DHA ( Docosahexaenoic acid ) are found in cold water fish such as salmon, tuna, mackerel, sardines and krill.
ALA ( Alpha Linolenic Acid ) is the vegetarian source of Omega-3. You can find it from flaxseed, flaxseed oil, rapeseed oil ( canola oil ), soya bean, soybean oil, pumpkin seed and oil, walnut and walnut oil
It is important to take note of the source of fish oil. Farmed raised fish oil has a higher risk of heavy metal (mercury, cadmium, lead) contamination compared to wild caught fish.
How much is enough?
A healthy adult should eat fish at least 2 times a week. Higher dose of fish oil may increase the risk of bleeding and hemorrhagic stroke. Higher dose would mean 3 serving of fish a day or more than 3 g Omega-3 fatty acids.
Adult with heart disease should take 1 g of EPA and DHA while those with high cholesterol should take 2-4 g of EPA and DHA.
People with Type 2 diabetes may experience increase in fasting blood sugar when taking Omega-3 from ALA as it is converted to EPA and DHA. Therefore, it is better to get Omega-3 from EPA and DHA instead of ALA.
Are you taking sufficient Omega-3 fatty acids in your diet?
If you like this, I have many more. So, go ahead to the right hand side of the page and sign up for more information coming your way!
2 Comments
Bosssim	on February 2, 2018 at 2:02 am
Fish and other animals are brutally killed by cruel people and then consumed by humans. Eating animals does more harm than good.
chongsulee	on February 8, 2013 at 9:08 am
Hello!
Good fats can help weight loss. Please see http://lookgoodfeelgreatalways.com/knowledge/lose-weight-good-fats/
To the best of health, Su Lee
Trackbacks/Pingbacks
Eat Your Way To Good Mood with Serotonin | Look Good Feel Great Always - [...] fish such as salmon, tuna and mackerel, flax seed and flax seed oil and walnut oil. See more benefits…
Krill Oil Vs Fish Oil for Omega-3 - Which Is Better? | Look Good Feel Great Always - [...] knows that fish oil has a rich source of Omega-3 fatty acid. But do you know that there is…
Take The Pain Of Arthritis Away! | Look Good Feel Great Always - [...] Myristoleate can be found in fish oil, whale oil and dairy butter. But you can find this in supplements…
Can't Lose Weight? You Could Have Syndrome X! | Look Good Feel Great Always - [...] diet from nuts, seeds, legumes and white meat, especially from cold-water fish, which is rich in Omega-3 fatty acids.…
Can't Lose Weight Even Though You Eat Less? | Look Good Feel Great Always - [...] – Good fats such as Omega-3 can help to lose [...]
6 Ways To Lower Hydrochloric Acid | Look Good Feel Great Always - [...] Omega-3 is a good anti-inflammatory agent, which can help to reduce the overall inflammation and heals the stomach. [...]
Lose Weight With Good Fats | Look Good Feel Great Always - [...] A study reported in the International Journal of Obesity of 2 groups of obese volunteers were fed exactly the…
Heart Disease : 5 Ways To Prevent It | Look Good Feel Great Always - [...] Omega-3 fatty acid in the form of EPA and DHA play an important role as antioxidant that helps to…
Boost Your Brain Power And Help You Think | Look Good Feel Great Always - [...] Omega-3 fatty acids in the form of DHA is an important component in the brain cells membrane that helps…
Beware: Statin Drugs Can Cause Heart Attacks And Diabetes! | Look Good Feel Great Always - [...] Increase the intake of Omega-3. [...]
Nutrients And Foods For Healthy Heart | Look Good Feel Great Always - [...] fishes such as salmon, mackerel, tuna and swordfish are rich in Omega-3. The American Heart Association recommends eating salmon…
不能减肥，即使你吃得少吗？ | - [...] 如 脂肪 -好脂肪可以帮助减肥。 [...]
7 Steps To Treat Fibroids Naturally | Look Good Feel Great Always - [...] Omega-3 is a powerful antioxidant and anti-inflammatory agent. This will help prevent fibroid growth. [...]
Search
Follow Me!
Categories
Cleanse
Exercise
Health Conditions
Health Food Ideas
Home
Knowledge
Nourish
Nutrition
Weight Loss
Workplace Health
Recent Posts
Change Her Lifestyle And Loss Weight For Good!
8 Risk Factors For Heart Disease
Benefits of Probiotics
Common Eye Problems You Should Know And How To Prevent Them
Beware of Steroids Treatment for Eczema!
Tags
antioxidant antioxidants blood pressure blood sugar cancer carbohydrate carbohydrates cholesterol complex carbohydrates detox diabetes diet energy exercise fat fats fiber free radicals fruits fruits and vegetables glycemic index good fats green tea heart disease high blood pressure high cholesterol immune system lose weight metabolism minerals obesity omega 3 protein refined carbohydrate salt stress sugar Supplements trans fat vegetables Vitamins water weight gain weight loss whole grains
Follow Me!
Categories
Cleanse
Exercise
Health Conditions
Health Food Ideas
Home
Knowledge
Nourish
Nutrition
Weight Loss
Workplace Health
Disclaimer
Facebook
Twitter
RSS
Copyright © 2019. Website services by Asher