Vaccines and Autism | The Doctors TV Show
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Sections
Addiction
Alternative Treatments
Beauty
Cosmetic Surgery
Dentistry
Disease & Illness
Fitness & Weight Loss
Health & Wellness
Nutrition
Parenting
Pregnancy
Procedures
Safety
Sex & Relationships
Recipes
Videos
Episodes
Giveaways
Be on the Show
More
Get Tickets
Meet the Doctors
Recipes
Watch on TV
Search
Vaccines and Autism
Parenting By The Doctors Staff on 4:00 AM PDT, August 29, 2012
Vaccinations employ an innocuous form of a disease agent, such as a dead or weakened bacteria or virus, to stimulate antibody production in the body. In the United States, children are generally vaccinated at a young age for diseases from chickenpox and measles to tetanus and rubella; however, some parents are concerned that these vaccinations can cause autism.
Barbara Loe Fisher, co-founder and president of the National Vaccine Information Center, says her son, Chris, was vaccinated with a DPT shot then immediately suffered a convulsion and was later diagnosed with brain damage. Barbara insists that the vaccination and successive events were not a coincidence and points out that billions of dollars have been awarded to families of vaccinated children under the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act.
The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reports that that there is no relationship between vaccines and autism rates in children. Research specifically studied the ingredient thimerosal, which was previously used as a preservative in childhood vaccines. It has since been removed or reduced to trace amounts in all vaccines except for one type of flu shot. Findings from a number of studies do not support the association between thimerosal and autism, which has been confirmed by the Institue of Medicine. Source: CDC
"I don't think you should ever ban a child from getting healthcare," E.R. physician Dr. Travis Stork says. "In an article I read recently, there was a big study done by the Institute of Medicine that looked at 1,000 [subjects] and found that vaccines are very safe."
Share
Tweet
Newsletter
Sign Up
Email
Related Stories
Are Food Allergies Linked to Autism?
Disease & Illness
Give Babies Fish Oil to Prevent Obesity?!
Disease & Illness
Should You Take Medicine When You Have a Fever?
Disease & Illness
Three Tools to Calm Your Child (And Your) Anxiety
Parenting
Should Students Accept Scholarships from E-Cigarette Companies?!
Health & Wellness
Be on the Show
Do You Have a Question for The Doctors?
Do You Have an Embarrassing Health Question?
Does Your Family Member Need a Health Ultimatum?
Bizarre in the ER!
See a Full List of Topics!
About Us
Be on the Show
Meet our Doctors
Advertise with Us
Technical Help
Watch The Doctors
Get Tickets
Local Listings
Newsletter Sign Up
Sign Up
Email
CBS Television Distribution. Copyright © 2019 Stage 29, LLC. All Rights Reserved
By viewing our video content you are accepting our Video Services Policy.
Technical Help
Privacy Policy [NEW]
Ad Choice
Cookies
Terms of Use [NEW]
CBSi Mobile User Agreement
Disclaimer
Closed Captioning