Tickety-boo Health Coaching: Reducing nausea associated with chemotherapy
Pages
Home
Recipes
Monday, May 14, 2012
Reducing nausea associated with chemotherapy
I had a call from a friend this weekend who was looking for some ideas that may help his friend who is suffering from severe nausea associated with chemotherapy.
Sadly, nausea is an all too common side effect of chemotherapy. There are medications available that may help and you should be sure to talk to your doctor about how to prevent nausea and/or vomiting and treat it. Here are some general tips on how and what to eat that you might also want to consider:
One of best things that can help with nausea is ginger. I wrote a blog post a while ago about the health benefits of ginger and included a few recipes that you can try - especially the ginger glycerite recipe. But eating ginger anyway you can may help reduce nausea, from ginger cookies, to ginger tea to tinctures to..... Try different things and see which works best. You can also get ginger capsules to take twice a day.
Other herbs that might help are catnip, peppermint, chamomile and red raspberry. You can try these as teas - and why not combine a few. I often add a few different flavored tea bags to a big jug of cool water and get the combined benefit all at once. Try ginger, peppermint and chamomile - I bet they'd go nicely together. Use iced, cool, room temperature or warm water - not hot.
Try drinking 1/3 cup of warm water with 1 tsp of apple cider vinegar and 1 tsp honey.
Pumpkin seeds and squash seeds help nausea. Just plain, raw seeds.
Eat mainly starches like rice, crackers, dry toast, oatmeal, etc. The food should be low fat and bland. Cooking should not create lots of smells as this can make the nausea worse. Don't get too concerned about balanced nutrition at this time, the goal is to get rid of the nausea and eat something.
Eat cold or room temperature foods. Hot foods create more odors which is often a big cause of nausea.
Eat and drink slowly.
It often helps to put some dry toast or crackers at your bedside at night and eat a little of this before you get out of bed in the morning.
Eat small amounts, frequently.
Drink plenty of fluids during the day, but not during meals.
Try drinking through a straw.
Fruit popsicles are often easily eaten and enjoyed.
Don't try cooking or eating one of your favorite foods. The body may come to associate it with nausea and you'll no longer enjoy it.
If you need to rest after eating, make sure you keep your head higher than you feet.
It's a matter of trying different things and seeing what helps most for you. And don't forget to tell your doctor that you have been experiencing these side effects as he may have other options and ideas.
Posted by Ruth at 11:00 AM
Labels: anti-nausea, bland, cancer, chamomile, chemo, chemotherapy, dry toast, fluids, ginger, helping, nausea, odors, popsicles, reduce, starch, straw, vomiting
0 comments:
Post a Comment
Thanks for taking the time to add a comment.
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Tickety-boo: adj.- going smoothly, doing alright.
For an even better definition, watch this video: Everything is tickety-boo
Tickety-boo Health Coaching
Working either in small groups or one-to-one, Tickety-boo nutrition and health coaching guides cancer patients from fear to empowerment and supports everyone to create a healthier life, with a focus on preventing disease. We work together through education and individualized coaching that takes into consideration your personality, your values and beliefs, and your personal circumstances. One plan does not fit all and so we find YOUR motivation, overcome YOUR obstacles and achieve YOUR goals, with the end result being a healthier, empowered YOU.
Information on working with Ruth as your health coach and the programs available can be found on my website http://www.ticketyboohealthcoaching.com
About Me
Ruth
I was born in England and moved to the US in 1996. The idea was that we'd just come for a year - but we kind of forgot to go home! We do visit family and friends back there twice a year however - so don't have chance to feel homesick! After working as a research pharmacologist in England, I went back to school when we came to the US and gained my Master's degree in Health Psychology. I am also a certified Health Coach and a cancer guide. I currently live in Northern California with my husband and pet parrot Harold. We have a small vineyard and grow Merlot grapes which we sell to a winery. Life is tickety-boo!
View my complete profile
Search This Blog
Follow by Email
Total Pageviews
Subscribe To
Posts
Atom
Posts
Comments
Atom
Comments
Blog Archive
► 2016 (3)
► May (1)
► April (2)
► 2014 (31)
► November (1)
► August (2)
► July (7)
► April (3)
► March (12)
► February (4)
► January (2)
► 2013 (192)
► December (11)
► November (15)
► October (17)
► September (11)
► August (19)
► July (18)
► June (11)
► May (19)
► April (20)
► March (18)
► February (11)
► January (22)
▼ 2012 (164)
► December (28)
► November (16)
► October (21)
► September (19)
► August (13)
► July (16)
► June (3)
▼ May (10)
Everything is tickety-boo
Eat a rainbow a day
Everything is tickety-boo
Health benefits of cilantro
Reducing nausea associated with chemotherapy
Everything is tickety-boo
Salad Days
Nature's Medicine
Everything is tickety-boo
New Tickety-boo health coaching website launched
► April (12)
► March (14)
► February (5)
► January (7)
► 2011 (3)
► December (3)
Powered by Blogger.
Blog Template by BloggerCandy.com