7 colon cancer symptoms in men
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Signs and symptoms of colon cancer in men
Last reviewed	 Wed 3 April 2019	 Last reviewed	Wed 3 Apr 2019
By Jon Johnson
Reviewed by Christina Chun, MPH
Table of contents
Bowel habits
Cramps and bloating
Bowels not feeling empty
Blood in stool
Weight loss
Fatigue
Shortness of breath
Risk factors
Treatment
Seeing a doctor
Outlook
The digestive system is complex, which makes the symptoms of colon cancer difficult to catch. As a result, it is vital to attend regular colon cancer screenings.
Colon cancer, which is also called colorectal cancer, is the third leading cause of cancer-related deaths in both men and women in the United States. For men, the overall risk of developing colon cancer is about one in 22, which equates to 4.49 percent.
Many symptoms can indicate colon cancer, but if someone has these symptoms, it does not necessarily mean that they have this disease. There are many other explanations for the symptoms, such as infections or inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
However, anyone experiencing new symptoms may wish to visit a doctor for a diagnosis.
The symptoms of colon cancer are the same in men and women and include the following:
1. Changes in bowel habits
A person who suspects that they may have colon cancer should speak to a doctor.
An upset stomach or a minor infection can often cause changes in the bowels, such as constipation, diarrhea, or very narrow, thin stools. However, these issues usually resolve within a few days as the illness subsides.
Changes in the bowels that last more than a few days may be a sign of an underlying health issue.
If a person has these symptoms regularly or for longer than a few days, they should see a doctor.
2. Cramps and bloating
Occasional cramps or bloating are common digestive issues that can occur due to an upset stomach, gas, or eating certain foods.
Experiencing frequent, unexplained cramps and bloating can be a sign of colon cancer, though these symptoms are more often the result of other health issues.
How should you prepare for a colonoscopy?
A colonoscopy is a test that doctors use to examine the colon. Learn how to prepare for one here.
Read now
3. Feeling as though the bowels are not empty
If a growth turns into a blockage in the colon, it may cause the person to feel as though they can never empty their bowels.
Even if their bowels are empty, they will still feel the need to use the restroom again.
4. Blood in the stool
Seeing blood in the stool can be frightening. The stool may have streaks of fresh red blood, or the whole stool may have a darker, tarry appearance.
There are many other possible causes of bloody stools, such as hemorrhoids. However, anyone experiencing blood in their stool should still see a doctor for a diagnosis.
5. Unexplained weight loss
Suddenly and unexpectedly losing weight is a sign of several types of cancer. Unintentionally losing 10 pounds or more within 6 months may be a sign to report to a doctor.
In people with cancer, the weight loss may be due to cancer cells consuming more of the body's energy. The immune system is also working hard to fight the cancer cells.
If the tumor is large, it may lead to blockages in the colon, which can cause bowel changes and further weight loss.
6. Fatigue
People with colon cancer may feel constant fatigue or weakness, possibly due to the cancer cells using extra energy and the stress of bowel symptoms. Although feeling tired now and then is normal, chronic fatigue does not go away with rest.
Chronic fatigue is generally a symptom of an underlying condition. Anyone experiencing fatigue should see a doctor to help determine the cause.
7. Shortness of breath
Once cancer begins to drain energy from the body and fatigue sets in, it is common for people to experience related symptoms, such as shortness of breath.
They may find it difficult to catch their breath or might become winded very quickly from something as simple as walking a short distance or laughing.
Risk factors
African-Americans have a higher risk of developing colon cancer than people from other ethnic backgrounds.
Some factors may increase a person's risk of developing colon cancer, including:
a personal history of digestive issues, such as colorectal polyps or IBD
a family history of polyps or colorectal cancer
some inherited gene mutations, such as hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC)
getting older
having type 2 diabetes
some ethnic backgrounds, including being African American or Ashkenazi Jewish
It is not possible to prevent cancer in all cases, but making lifestyle changes to eliminate some risk factors may help a person reduce their likelihood of developing colon cancer.
Diet
As the American Cancer Society (ACS) note, a diet that is high in red meat or processed meat products increases the risk of colorectal cancer.
These foods include:
beef
pork
lamb
venison
liver
hot dogs
deli cuts
luncheon meat
Cooking meats at very high temperatures, such as on the grill or in a broiler or deep fryer, releases carcinogenic chemicals. These chemicals may also increase the risk of a person getting colon cancer, though the relationship between meat cooking methods and cancer is still unclear.
Weight
Being overweight or having obesity increases a person's risk of developing or dying from colon cancer.
According to the ACS, the link between obesity and colorectal cancer also seems to be stronger in men. Losing weight can help reduce the risk.
Inactivity
Being physically inactive increases the risk of developing colon cancer. Staying active by doing even light workouts each day may help reduce this risk.
Alcohol use
People who drink heavily or regularly may also be putting themselves at greater risk of colon cancer. Men should limit their drinking to no more than two drinks per day.
Smoking
People who smoke are more likely to develop or die from colon cancer than those who do not. Smoking cigarettes also increases the risk of many other types of cancer.
Treatment
Surgery is a common treatment for colon cancer.
Colon cancer is highly treatable and often curable if the diagnosis takes place at an early stage when the cancer is only in the bowel and has not spread to other areas of the body.
Surgery is the most common first-line treatment for colon cancer, and it has a cure rate of about 50 percent.
A surgeon will remove the cancerous growth and any nearby lymph nodes as well as a section of healthy tissue surrounding the growth. They will then reconnect the healthy parts of the bowel.
Many early forms of colon cancer do not require further treatment.
If the cancer is advanced, surgeons may need to remove more of the colon, and if the disease reaches too low into the rectum, the surgeon may remove this part of the large intestine.
Sometimes, doctors recommend chemotherapy to people who may have a higher risk of recurring tumors.
When to see a doctor
In most cases, digestive symptoms do not indicate cancer. However, if the symptoms are unusual, appear more regularly, or steadily get worse, it is best to see a doctor as there is no other way to diagnose these issues.
Even if the underlying cause is not colon cancer, the doctor may be able to identify and diagnose a separate disorder for which they can recommend treatment.
Many people with colon cancer do not show any early symptoms so experiencing symptoms can be a sign that the cancer is growing or spreading. The ACS recommend that men and women with an average risk of colon, or colorectal, cancer begin screening at the age of 45 years. Doctors can diagnose and treat colon cancer in the early stages if a person regularly attends screenings.
Outlook
Anyone who notices new, unexplained digestive symptoms or is uncertain about their symptoms should see a doctor.
Early screening and diagnosis are crucial in people with colon cancer. When doctors diagnose colon cancer before it spreads, the 5-year relative survival rate is 92 percent. However, survival rates are lower among people who do not get a diagnosis until a later stage.
Related coverage
Why do I wipe blood after I poop? There are many reasons for rectal bleeding after wiping. We look at 11 causes here, along with the treatment options there are for each one. Read now
Prostate cancer in detail Prostate cancer affects men. It starts in the prostate gland and is treatable in the early stages. Find out about the symptoms, treatments, and causes. Read now
Colorectal cancer: What you need to know Colorectal cancer affects the colon and rectum. It is the second and third leading cause of cancer deaths in women and men, respectively, in the United States. Symptoms can be common to other diseases as well, but if colorectal cancer is caught early, it can be treated. Learn all about it and how to reduce your risk. Read now
What are the early symptoms of cancer in men? Men have a higher risk of dying from cancer than women in the United States. However, recognizing the early signs can significantly improve a person’s outlook. Early symptoms of cancer in men can include changes in bowel habits, unexplained weight loss, testicular changes, and difficulties urinating. Learn more here. Read now
Everything you need to know about colon cancer Colon cancer is the third most common cause of cancer deaths in America. Read here about the signs and symptoms, the stages, plus surgeries and other methods used in its treatment. We also explain how colon cancer starts, its screening, and diagnosis, including a barium enema and colonoscopy, and survival rates. Read now
email email
print
share share
Colorectal Cancer
Cancer / Oncology GastroIntestinal / Gastroenterology Men's Health
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Wed 3 April 2019.
Visit our Colorectal Cancer category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Colorectal Cancer.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
American Cancer Society guideline for colorectal cancer screening. (2018). https://www.cancer.org/cancer/colon-rectal-cancer/detection-diagnosis-staging/acs-recommendations.html
Colon cancer treatment (PDQ®) — health professional version. (2019). https://www.cancer.gov/types/colorectal/hp/colon-treatment-pdq
Colorectal cancer risk factors. (2018). https://www.cancer.org/cancer/colon-rectal-cancer/causes-risks-prevention/risk-factors.html
Fact sheets — moderate drinking. (2016). https://www.cdc.gov/alcohol/fact-sheets/moderate-drinking.htm
Key statistics for colorectal cancer. (2019). https://www.cancer.org/cancer/colon-rectal-cancer/about/key-statistics.html
Signs and symptoms of colorectal cancer. (2019). https://www.cancer.org/latest-news/signs-and-symptoms-of-colon-cancer.html
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Johnson, Jon. "Signs and symptoms of colon cancer in men." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 4 Apr. 2019. Web.
26 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/324880.php>
APA
Johnson, J. (2019, April 4). "Signs and symptoms of colon cancer in men." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/324880.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Innovative patch may reduce muscle damage after a heart attack
An interdisciplinary team of researchers has designed a patch that can limit damage after a heart attack. The patch was successfully tested in rats.
Could invigorating the immune system prevent lung cancer?
Early immune-related molecular changes in airway tissue could potentially predict invasive lung cancer and serve as prevention targets, new study suggests.
Does your tongue have a sense of smell?
New research in mice and human cell cultures has revealed that the taste cells of humans and other mammals can also contain smell receptors.
This common food additive may fuel weight gain, diabetes
A new research study links the common anti-mold food additive propionate to blood sugar metabolism and insulin resistance in human volunteers and mice.
Study explores the neuroscience of overindulging
A recent study in mice identified a new brain circuit that appears to play a part in an animal's drive to overeat high-calorie foods.
Popular in: Colorectal Cancer
Colorectal cancer: Treatment looks set for human clinical trials
Signs and symptoms of colon cancer in men
How do oral bacteria make colorectal cancer more aggressive?
Low vitamin D levels may raise bowel cancer risk
Colorectal cancer: Scientists halt growth with cannabinoid compounds
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/324880.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);