Can people transmit HIV through kissing? Busting HIV myths
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Why you cannot get HIV from kissing
Last reviewed	 Thu 29 November 2018	 Last reviewed	Thu 29 Nov 2018
By Jamie Eske
Reviewed by Deborah Weatherspoon, PhD, RN, CRNA
Table of contents
HIV and kissing
HIV transmission
How HIV is not transmitted
Takeaway
A person can transmit HIV through blood, semen, and breast milk. However, HIV cannot survive in saliva, so there is no risk of contracting HIV through kissing.
HIV is a virus that weakens the immune system, which can leave the body vulnerable to infections and diseases.
A person can transmit HIV through certain bodily fluids, such as blood, semen, and breast milk. HIV cannot survive in other body fluids, such as saliva, tears, or sweat unless blood containing HIV is also present.
This means that people are not at risk of contracting the virus if they kiss someone who has HIV.
This article will debunk the myth that people can contract HIV through kissing. We also discuss how HIV is and is not transmitted.
Can a person transmit HIV through kissing?
A person cannot transmit HIV through saliva or kissing.
A person cannot transmit HIV through kissing because the virus is not present in saliva.
HIV can enter the body through damaged areas in the mucous membranes lining the vagina and the rectum. The mouth also contains mucous membranes, but they do not contain cells that are vulnerable to HIV, such as those present in the vagina and rectum.
Saliva contains several proteins and enzymes that serve many different functions, such as beginning the digestion process, assisting in mouth lubrication, and even fighting off germs.
Secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor (SLPI) is an enzyme present in saliva, mucus, and seminal fluid. SLPI prevents HIV from infecting monocytes and T cells, which are types of white blood cell and part of the immune system.
Saliva contains much higher concentrations of SLPI than vaginal and rectal fluids. This may explain why HIV is mostly present in body fluids other than saliva.
Kissing a person living with HIV will not put someone at risk of contracting HIV. According to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), a person cannot transmit HIV through saliva or closed-mouth kissing.
However, the CDC also state that in extremely rare cases, a person can transmit HIV through "deep, open-mouth kissing if both partners have sores or bleeding gums and blood from the HIV-positive partner gets into the bloodstream of the HIV-negative partner."
How HIV is transmitted
The only way a person can contract HIV is through direct contact with body fluids that contain HIV. Body fluids that contain HIV can include:
blood
semen
pre-seminal fluid
rectal fluids
vaginal fluids
breast milk
Below, we discuss the primary modes of HIV transmission:
Sexual transmission
HIV transmission can occur during anal or vaginal sex without the use of a condom. There have been cases of HIV transmission through oral sex but the risk of this extremely low.
HIV transmission during sex occurs when body fluids containing HIV come into direct contact with mucous membranes or damaged tissue. Anal sex has a higher risk of HIV transmission than vaginal sex because the tissues that line the anus are more prone to damage and bleeding.
It is important to note that effective HIV treatment can reduce a person's viral load to undetectable levels. This means that people who are taking HIV medications correctly and achieve and maintain an undetectable viral load have effectively no risk of transmitting HIV through sex.
Needles
A person can contract HIV through using needles or syringes in which HIV is present. According to the CDC, HIV can live in a used needle for up to 42 days. This is why it is best to avoid sharing needles with anyone.
Pregnancy and breastfeeding
A woman can pass on HIV to a fetus during pregnancy, birth, or breastfeeding. However, HIV treatment significantly lowers the risk of transmitting HIV to the baby.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), mother-to-child transmission rates range from 15 to 45 percent in the absence of any intervention. However, effective HIV treatment during pregnancy, labor, delivery, and breastfeeding can reduce the risk of transmission to less than 5 percent.
Explaining HIV and AIDS
Learn more about what HIV is here
Read now
How HIV is not transmitted
Most kinds of physical contact, including holding hands and hugging, do not cause transmission of HIV.
HIV cannot survive long outside of the human body. This means that people cannot contract HIV from touching objects or surfaces that a person living with HIV handles.
Nor can someone transmit HIV through holding hands, hugging, or touching other people. It is important to remember that HIV transmission requires an exchange of body fluids that contain HIV.
HIV transmission can also not occur through:
air or water
mosquitoes, ticks, or other insects
saliva, tears, or sweat, unless they also contain blood from a person living with HIV
scratching, biting
casual contact, such as hugging, shaking hands, or kissing
mutual masturbation
sharing food or drinks
sharing toilet seats, dishes, or other objects
There are no known cases of anyone contracting HIV from a tattoo or body piercings. However, it is possible to contract HIV from a reused needle or improperly sanitized equipment.
Takeaway
Many unfounded myths surround the transmission of HIV. However, a person can only transmit HIV through certain body fluids that contain HIV, such as blood, semen, and breast milk.
HIV cannot survive outside the body and is not present in other body fluids such as saliva, tears, or sweat. This means that a person cannot contract HIV through kissing, touching, hugging, or sharing toilet seats, foods, or drinks with someone living with HIV.
The primary mode of HIV transmission is through vaginal or anal sex without a condom. However, people who are taking HIV medications correctly and achieve and maintain an undetectable viral load have effectively no risk of transmitting HIV through sex.
Related coverage
What is HIV seroconversion? After a person contracts HIV, seroconversion is the period during which the body starts producing detectable levels of HIV antibodies. Before this period, HIV tests usually give negative results. During seroconversion, a person may experience flu-like symptoms, such as a fever and body aches. Read now
HIV and AIDS: Transmission myths and facts There are many myths about HIV and AIDS, including some about transmission. Developments in treatment mean that a person’s risk of contracting or transmitting HIV is significantly reduced. It is also vital to note that people cannot transmit AIDS, which develops from untreated HIV. Learn more. Read now
What are the symptoms of HIV in women? HIV can affect anyone, and it may cause different symptoms in males and females. In this article, learn how HIV affects women and about the treatment options. Read now
Safest condoms and methods of use Most condom brands are safe, but people should still check the labels to make sure they are effective against pregnancy and STIs. Novelty and natural condoms may not be as safe as others. Male and female condoms have slightly different safety levels. In this article, we look at the safest condoms and how to use them. Read now
What are the early signs of HIV in men? A prompt diagnosis allows people with HIV to receive effective antiretroviral treatment sooner. In men, the virus can cause flu-like symptoms in its early stages, such as fevers, tiredness, and sore throats. We look at the other symptoms of HIV in men, and when people should consider taking a test for the virus. Read now
email email
print
share share
HIV and AIDS
Infectious Diseases / Bacteria / Viruses Sexual Health / STDs
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Thu 29 November 2018.
Visit our HIV and AIDS category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on HIV and AIDS.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
HIV transmission. (2018, October, 31). Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/hiv/basics/transmission.html
Mother-to-child transmission of HIV. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.who.int/hiv/topics/mtct/about/en/
Wood, L. F., Chahroudi, A., Chen, H.-L., Jaspan, H. B., & Sodora, D. L. (2014, July, 1). The oral mucosa immune environment and oral transmission of HIV/SIV. Immunological reviews, 254 (1), 34–53. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3821196/
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Eske, Jamie. "Why you cannot get HIV from kissing." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 29 Nov. 2018. Web.
22 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/323847.php>
APA
Eske, J. (2018, November 29). "Why you cannot get HIV from kissing." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/323847.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Study finds that many people diagnosed with MS do not have the condition
A new study suggests that almost 20 percent of people who receive a diagnosis for multiple sclerosis do not have the chronic disease.
Replacing red meat with plant protein reduces heart disease risk
A study of data from 36 trials suggests that eating plant-based proteins, such as nuts, instead of red meat may help reduce cardiovascular disease risk.
Increased muscle power may prolong life
A first-of-its-kind study finds that increased muscle power, rather than muscle strength, can significantly prolong life for seniors.
MS: High-strength MRI may predict disease progression
New research suggests that a powerful MRI scanner may help predict the progression of multiple sclerosis by analyzing cortical lesions on the brain.
More evidence that being active extends life
A recent study concluded that 'regardless of age, sex, or starting fitness level,' increased physical activity of any type reduces overall mortality risk.
Popular in: HIV and AIDS
What are the early signs of HIV in men?
What are the symptoms of HIV in women?
Causes of mouth sores in people with HIV
What is a 4th generation HIV test?
How to tell if a penis rash is from HIV
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/323847.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);