How to Get Rid of Mosquito Bites? (Home Remedies)
The Top Remedies Best Home & Natural Remedies Guide
HOME
HEALTH
HOME REMEDIES
BEAUTY
CLEANING
SKIN CARE
FOODS
HAIR CARE
HOUSE
Home / Health / How to Get Rid of Mosquito Bites? (Home Remedies)
How to Get Rid of Mosquito Bites? (Home Remedies)
Gerry Health Comments Off on How to Get Rid of Mosquito Bites? (Home Remedies)
Nobody likes mosquitoes; they tend to bite us all over our body and just happen to come out of anywhere, making it difficult for us to control their movements. These mosquitoes tend to suck on our blood and have been known to carry bacteriaвЂ™s and viruses as well which can be harmful to us sometimes. Mosquitoes are more prominent to breed during summers and are more active in garden areas than other areas of the house. Read more, to know best ways remedies to get rid of mosquito bites.
These mosquitoes are also more permanent in areas which are filthy, dirty and unhygienic. However, it is really easy to get rid of mosquito bites and get rid of mosquitoes as well provided you get hold of the right remedies and donвЂ™t hit the panic button. So donвЂ™t scratch it all off, just get hold of simple remedies when you get those mosquito bites the next time.
Mosquito Bites: Know More
Mosquito bites are not really contagious, but sometimes they can cause a lot of serious complications and can cause pain and infection as well. These mosquitoes like to suck on the human blood and at times they carry viruses which get injected into the blood and can cause some serious problems. But if you get hold of the right remedies the moment you are infected with mosquito bites you can certainly prevent a lot of problems.
Symptoms:
Lesions
Soft bumps on the skin
Urticaria or nettle rash
Bruising near the region of the bite
Pink or red itchy patches and skin rashes
Inflammation of the lymph system
Swelling and itchiness
Nausea and vomiting
Causes for Mosquito Bites:
High body fat content,
Water stagnation in nearby areas.
Uncovered wounds and bruises.
Chemicals released by the body.
Mosquito infestation.
Skin exposure during outdoor activities.
Excess sweating.
Home Remedies to Get Rid of Mosquito Bites:
The below home remedies can help you get rid of mosquito bites easily at home. Be consistent with them the next time you get mosquito bites to get maximum relief.
Honey
Honey is one of the safest and easiest remedies you will get hold of to get rid of mosquito bites. It is not just sweet in flavor, but sweet on the skin as well. It helps to heal the skin and helps to repair the damaged skin tissues really fast. The antiseptic properties of honey have long been known in Asian medicinal practices and it is by far the most effective natural ingredient to get rid of mosquito bites really quickly. For this, just apply a good quality natural honey on the skin and leave it for some time. Make sure you donвЂ™t hold our outdoors with this as the sweetness attracts mosquitoes towards the honey. Apply this remedy twice or thrice a day for maximum relief. It is really comforting to the skin and also cools off the bites really fast.
Aloe Vera
Aloe Vera is one of the best things for your skin. It has long been used in a lot of skin ailments and almost all doctors and healers swear by its medicinal properties and its effectiveness in healing a majority of the skin infections. This lush green, juicy leafed plant has excellent healing properties. To benefit from Aloe Vera, simply cut an Aloe Vera leaf and apply its gel directly to the mosquito bite. It will instantly cool the skin, reduce the inflammation and moisturize and cleanse the skin as well. You can also opt for fresh Aloe Vera juice if you canвЂ™t get hold of a natural Aloe Vera leaf. Apply this to the skin at least two or three times a day to get rid of mosquito bites faster and watch how the skin gets healed almost by itself.
Green Tea
Green tea is one of the most effective remedies to get rid of mosquito bites. It helps in soothing the skin as well and helps to heal the damaged skin tissues as well. Green tea has long been known for its anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant properties and its natural antiseptic properties work like magic on the skin. In order to quickly get rid of the itch and red patches on the skin simply dip a green tea bag in cold water and apply it to the itch for a cooling effect. Do this twice or thrice a day to get rid of mosquito bites really fast. Green tea is easily available as well and helps to keep the bacteriaвЂ™s and any kind of skin infection at bay.
Tooth Paste
Severe mosquito bites can leave your skin with nasty marks. And this can easily be prevented with a good toothpaste. Simply apply toothpaste on the affected area, let it dry and then wash it off. Do this at least twice a day to get rid of mosquito bites easily. You shall see that the skin turns lighter in the region and the marks disappear completely. This is one of the easiest remedies to heal from the mosquito bites, however, make you are using a good quality toothpaste for this. You can also use one which has menthol as that increases the effectiveness of the toothpaste and helps to treat the condition faster.
Apple Cider Vinegar
Apple Cider Vinegar is practically good for any skin condition. Here it not only helps to get rid of mosquito bites, but also helps to kill any kind of bacterial infection and prevents any kind of other infection as well. The excellent disinfectant properties are another reason to keep this wonderful product handy. You can simply soak a small cotton ball in some apple cider vinegar and dab the affected area with it. Leave it for some time on the skin. Do this twice or thrice a day for maximum relief to the skin. Make sure you are using organic apple cider vinegar here as there are many other ones available in the market which are diluted and are far away from its natural form.
Witch Hazel
The stringent nature of witch hazel extracts can instantly remove bite marks and infections form mosquitoes. Witch hazel has got amazing anti-bacterial properties and helps to heal the skin really fast as well. It has long been used in a number of skin treatments and is really safe to use on the skin without any side effects. Here you can simply get hold of some witch hazel extract easily available in the market or just boil the barks of witch hazel in water and use this solution to apply on the skin. Though a burning sensation might ensue on the application, the extract will make sure that no infection will survive on the skin in the long run. It is one of the most effective remedies for getting rid of mosquito bites, get hold of witch hazel the next time you suffer from mosquito bites.
Baking Soda
It can act as an effective disinfectant and also doubles up as a repellent from other mosquito bites. Baking soda is easily available in everybodyвЂ™s kitchen and therefore it is really easy to use as well and does not cost much on the pocket. Here simply mix one tbsp of baking soda in a bowl of warm water. Now use a cotton ball and soak it in this solution and apply it to the affected area. Let it sit for a while and then you can wash it off. Do this at least twice a day for getting rid of mosquito bites faster. You can also sprinkle a little baking soda on the affected part to repel mosquitoes and to prevent them from breeding on your skin.
Basil
Basil has been known to have excellent healing properties and helps to heal damaged skin tissues and lesions almost magically. Its medicinal properties have long proven to be highly effective in a lot of serious ailments and vein doctors swear by this natural herb in treating some serious infections and skin ailments. Here you can simply grind some basil leaves and apply the mixture to the affected area at least twice or thrice a day. Let it sit on the skin for some time and then wash it off with water. It is best at repelling mosquitoes and getting rid of mosquito bites really quickly.
Onion
You may not like the strong odor of onions, but they are just amazing when it comes to treating skin infections. Onions are easily available in everybodyвЂ™s kitchen as well and they are really effective in getting rid of mosquito bites and getting rid of any marks as well. It is a natural astringent which helps to kill any kind of bacterial infection and helps to provide a lot of relief to the damaged skin tissues as well. Here you can simply slice an onion piece and apply it to the affected area. Cover this with a bandage or any other soft cloth and leave it for some time. You can also grate an onion and apply its pulp and juice as well to the skin. Do this twice or thrice a day for best results.
Lemon
Lemon has long been used in a number of skin treatments and other ailments. The high content of citric acid in it not just helps to get rid of mosquito bites really fast but also helps to prevent any further infection and soothes the skin as well. This citric acid does wonders to the body and helps to treat the skin like no other natural ingredient. Simply apply the pulpy part of lemons to the mosquito bite to disinfect and prevent it from spreading. Lemons helps to add a natural glow to the skin as well and are one of the most effective products to get rid of any marks and bruises on the skin as well.
Oatmeal Bath
Mosquitoes are known to be most active during dawn and dusk. So if you are preparing and eating some oatmeal for your breakfast remember to save a little for it for later part of the day as well. Oatmeal not only helps to get rid of mosquito bites naturally, but also helps to heal the skin and kill the bacteriaвЂ™s. You will almost start to see how instantly it helps to soothe your skin the minute you apply it over the affected area. Applying oatmeal bath to the bitten area will effectively remove the reddishness and remove the marks as well. Make sure the oatmeal is a little warm before you apply it. You can do this twice or thrice a day for best results.
Cornflour
Corn flour works just like baking soda in getting rid of mosquito bites instantly. It not only help to get rid of the irritation, scratching and the redness but also helps to prevent any kind of bacterial infection and helps to soothe the skin really well. Here mix appropriate proportions of corn flour with vinegar to create a paste and apply it over the mosquito bite. You can simply wash it off with lukewarm water when it dries off. Do this at least twice a day for best results.
Precautions:
Take the below precautions as well to get rid of mosquito bites:
Do not puncture skin when applying pressure.
Do not apply remedies to open wounds and bruises.
Use only cold water to wash away remedies.
Beware of allergic reactions to ingredients.
Avoid using bare fingers and nails when applying remedies.
Tags Bed Bug Bites Treatment at Home Home remedies for bed bug bites Remedies for burns Remedies for pimples Remedies for rashes Remedies for spider bite Remedies to cure bed bug bites naturally Remedies to get rid of razor bumps Tips to treat bed bugs fast and overnight Ways to get rid of acne Ways to get rid of bed bug bites Ways to Get Rid of Bed Bugs Organically Ways to prevent bed bugs Ways to treat itchy bumps
Previous How to Get Rid of Mold?
Next How to Get Rid of Poison Ivy?
Related Articles
How to Get Rid of Pimples Fast?
How to Treat a Spider Bite? вЂ“ Easy Methods for Quick Relief
How to Get Rid of Bed Bug Bites? (Most Effective Ways)
How to Get Rid of Pimples Overnight?
How to Get Rid of Bed Bug Bites?
How to Check for Bed Bugs?
How to Get Rid of Acne Fast?
How to Get Rid of a Pimple?
How to Stop a Nosebleed?
Popular Posts
How to Get Dimples?
How to Speed Up Metabolism?
How to Get Rid of Black Mold?
Fat Burning Foods вЂ“ Foods That Burn Fat
How to Get Rid of Hives?
How to Stop Hiccups?
How to Get Rid of Back Acne?
How to Get Rid of Hiccups?
How to Stop Smoking Weed?
How to Get Rid of a Headache?
© Copyright 2018, All Rights Reserved | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use