Our fish oil is a great catch! – Nurturition
Back to nature's intention.
Back to nature's intention.
Menu
Cancel
FREE SHIPPING
on all US orders
View cart
Home
Vitamins & Supplements
Healthy Recipes
Blog
Our Story
Support
Login
Login
Close
Home
Vitamins & Supplements
Healthy Recipes
Blog
Our Story
Support
Share:
Share on Facebook Tweet on Twitter Share on Google+ Pin on Pinterest
December 19, 2017 Alice Middag
Our fish oil is a great catch!
Let me tell you why. A standard American diet often lacks a sufficient amount of omega-3 fatty acids. At the same time, it contains a surplus of omega-6 fatty acids, that can be found in vegetable oils, meat and fast food. To restore the balance, you’ve probably heard it is good to eat more fatty fish. The bad thing is: the fish you want to eat to get your omega-3 fatty acids, also contains less healthy substances. The seas where they swim are polluted with heavy metals. These, in turn, end up in the fish you eat every week. It goes without saying that this can have a negative impact on your health.
This is where our fish oil supplements come to the rescue. Thanks to an advanced process of filtering and distillation, heavy metals, preservatives and PCBs are a thing from the past. We can guarantee our supplement is up to standards set by The Global Organization for EPA and DHA (GOED) Omega-3 fatty acids. Say hello to the best of fish oil without having to worry about the downsides.
Then what are these benefits exactly, you may ask? Well, I’m glad you asked. First, fish oil is known to protect and improve your heart health. High triglyceride and cholesterol levels can form a threat to your heart. Luckily, fish oil has a positive influence both on your triglyceride and cholesterol levels.
Did you know fish oil can also improve your mental health? People who use it notice they can focus better and for a longer period. Next, fish oil has a positive impact on how happy you feel. Studies show it can even help relieve feelings of depression! All factors combined, these oily caps are a treat for your heart and mind.
Now a side note on the actual fish in our fish oil. It is made from the tissue of Herring, Anchovy, Sardine, Salmon, and Mackerel. A daily serving of 2 softgels contains EPA 800 and DHA 600 fatty acids. Easy to incorporate in your daily routine if you combine it with your breakfast and dinner. Oh, and that way you will also save yourself the infamous fishy burp.
Filed in: Blog, News
Share:
Share on Facebook Tweet on Twitter Share on Google+ Pin on Pinterest
Previous article Why you shouldn’t believe the hype
Next article Why carbs are your best friends
Let us help you
Shipping
Return Policy
Support
Back to nature's intention
Living a healthy life can seem like an enormous mountain to climb. We know it’s not that complicated: just start and take one step at a time.
Do you like our content?
With our newsletter, you’ll stay informed of our newest updates. From our dietary supplements to healthy recipes and blogs, you’ll be the first you know! Subscribe to our newsletter and never miss another update!
Email address
Sign Up
Contact us
If you have any questions, please drop us a line at support@nurturition.com
Follow us
Find us on Facebook Find us on E-mail
Disclaimer
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Copyright © 2019 Nurturition.
Powered by Shopify
American Express
Apple Pay
Mastercard
PayPal
Visa
Added to your cart:
Subtotal
View cart () Checkout