Reasons Why You Should Have Himalayan Pink Salt Lamp At Your Home | Healthy House Tips
Healthy House Tips
Menu
Alternative Medicine
Beauty
Bodybuilding & Fitness
Diet & Weight loss
Drinks
Featured
Food & Recipes
General
Health
Health Tips
Herbs & Oils
Home Ideas
Natural Remedies
Uncategorized
Video
Reasons Why You Should Have Himalayan Pink Salt Lamp At Your Home
HealthyHouseTips | 03/06/2016 | General, Health, Home Ideas | No Comments
For some people the house without Himalayan pink salt lamp cannot be a safe home. For others these nice pinky lamps are just making their living room to look better, and they’re having the feeling like keeping an open window all the time. The salty lamps are natural source of fresh and purified air. You can keep the salty lamps anywhere.
1. Clean and deodorized air
The most popular benefit of the Himalayan pink salt lamps is keeping the air clean and deodorizes. This is the most common reason why people are using them. The pinky lamps are doing miracles when it comes to removing dust, cigarette smoke, pollen and other air contaminants. But there are people that are skeptic about this and they are wondering how this simple lamp can do this or how can salt and a bulb purify air.
Himalayan pink salt lamp is much more than this.
The Himalayan pink salt lamp has the ability to attract and absorb water molecules from the environment it is set in. Also it’s collecting the foreign particles that are in these molecules and it’s sucking them it the salt crystal. The bulb inside it’s warming up the lamp, so this water it’s evaporating back in the room, and all the dust, pollen, smoke and other particles remain sealed in the salt.
2. Relieves allergy and asthma symptoms
The other benefit is that Himalayan salt is helping with the allergy and asthma symptoms. These lamps are collecting dust, mold, pet dander, mildew and other particles from the air. That is the reason why they are so great in relieving allergies. Those who have problem with asthma can also have a great benefits. Miracles will happen for a week or two. The Himalayan salt is amazing for the airways, and there are made some Himalayan pink salt inhalers.
3. Relieves cough
When heated through, Himalayan pink salt lamp is changing the charging of released molecules during its hygroscopic cycle. Our homes are usually packed with positive ions, which are not very good for our health. The modern electronics are creating positive ions, but there are many other sources that release these.
Inhaling positive ions makes cilia sluggish and hinder their function to keep lungs safe from contaminants. If you were sleeping during your science classes, cilia are microscopic hairs that line trachea or windpipe. With absorbing water molecules from the air, the Himalayan pink salt lamps also it’s absorbing all the positive ions. Heated salt is releasing clean vapors back in the room along with the negative ions that are actually good for our airways. They’re stimulating the ciliary activity and they’re keeping the lungs clean and safe.
With absorbing air contaminants, Himalayan pink salt lamps actually it’s stimulating the body to filter air much better, and there are no nasty foreign particles that can be breathed in.
4. Boosts energy
Positive ions are sucking up your energy. If you feel like you don’t have the energy for doing anything, and you don’t have the clue from where all that fatigue come, you should try with keeping one of this lamps in the room where you spend your day. You will see the difference in a few days.
5. Neutralizes electromagnetic radiation
Most of the people aren’t conscious about all the electromagnetic radiation that is released in our homes from all the electronics that we have in our homes. But that is the modern world.
Your cell phone. your TV, computer, tablet, appliances and stereo are having this invisible effect, and the long-term exposure can cause serious health issues. Chronic exposure to electromagnetic radiation it’s increasing the stress, it can cause chronic fatigue, and lowers immune response. These are just some of the problems that you might have.
Himalayan pink salt lamps it’s neutralizing electromagnetic radiation through the emission of negative ions. Keeping one of these lamps next to your gadgets can reduce any potential health threat.
6. Enhances sleeping
Positive ions are depriving you from the quality sleep and rest. These positively-charged particles are decreasing the supply of blood and oxygen to the brain, and they’re affecting the regular sleeping pattern. The Himalayan pink salt lamps are natural generators of negative ions, so they can help with solving your sleeping issues. You just need to hold one lamp in your bedroom and it will help you to sleep much better and you will also breathe high quality air.
If you have problems with sleeping with a light in your bedroom, you do not have to keep the lamp on while you are sleeping. Just turn it on during the day and turn it off when you go to sleep. If the area you live in has a humid climate, keep in mind that these lamps weep as the salt cools. Keep an saucer underneath the lamp to protect the surface, and read the use and care tips before you start using it.
7. Improves mood and concentration
Himalayan pink salt lamps can help with improve your mood and relaxing your body in a natural way. The same is with the concentrations. Thanks to the effect negative ions have on your body, these ions are increasing the supply of oxygen and blood to the organs and they’re boosting the secretion of serotonin, the neurotransmitter that is making you happy.
8. Treats seasonal affective disorder
The natural light that releases is similar to the sunshine glow, and some people believe that it has helped them to relieve the seasonal affective disorder. Get some Himalayan pink salt lamps and set the timer when days get shorter in winter.
9. Reduces static electricity in the air
This may not be considered as a health benefit at first, but static can be really frustrating. It makes us stressed, embarrassed, and frustrated. It is attacking us without any warning and you have problems touching the door handle, kiss your kid before bedtime and pet your kitty. Static is the reason why you have bad hair some days, you cannot wipe crumbs off the counter, and sometimes you may go to work with a sock ‘glued’ on your shirt.
The static electricity can be a huge problem, so having the lamp can solve your problem and neutralize airborne ions that give you a headache.
10. Light source that takes care of environment
Himalayan pink salt lamps harm environment in no way. Salt reserves are estimated between 80 and 600 tons, and they will last for 350 years if we go by this extraction rate. The base of these lamps is made from neem, or any other sustainable wood. The bulbs added consume little energy, and some come with a lit candle.
How to choose and where to place your Himalayan pink salt lamp?
You should pay attention on the size of the crystal. For your bedroom, 5.4lb lamps will be fine. If you need it for your living room or den, you should find a 12lb sample. You should keep in mind that 1lb crystal cleans 4′ x 4′ room.
First buy you can buy lamps for the rooms that you spend your day in, then you can buy more for the rooms with electronics. Eventually, you can also buy a few of these for the areas that you do not use them that much.
Himalayan pink salt tealight holders can add a nice splash to your collection. Also you can use them as portable air purifiers and you can carry them with you around the house.
You should keep in mind that the crystals tend to melt when they are exposed to high humidity for long time. Also you should pay special attention and keep them away from your dishwasher, washing machine or shower.
You should notice the first results within a week, so do not give up the first day.
source: www.holisticlivingtips.com
Related Posts
See What Is The Worst White Poison That We Eat Every Day! It’s Not Salt Or Sugar!
No Comments | Jun 25, 2016
Get Rid Of The Cellulite Using Apple Cider Vinegar
No Comments | Sep 2, 2016
Why Dentists Don’t Want to Tell You This? An Easy Way to Fight Cavities with Coconut Oil at Home!
No Comments | Sep 25, 2016
AN ORDINARY DINNER FORK CAN PROTECT YOU WHILE YOU’RE AT HOME OR TRAVELLING
No Comments | Jul 18, 2016
About The Author
HealthyHouseTips
Recent Posts
Soak paper in apple cider vinegar. Then wrap your body for a summer tip you need to know
Apply this on your hands, wait 15 minutes and the wrinkles will disappear completely!
6 Best exercises to build a bigger butt. At home or at the gym.
It Tightens The Skin Better Than Botox: This 3 Ingredients Face Mask Will Make You Look 10 Years Younger
SCIENCE-BASED STEPS TO LOSE WEIGHT FAST
Soak paper in apple cider vinegar. Then wrap your body for a summer tip you need to know
Apply this on your hands, wait 15 minutes and the wrinkles will disappear completely!
6 Best exercises to build a bigger butt. At home or at the gym.
It Tightens The Skin Better Than Botox: This 3 Ingredients Face Mask Will Make You Look 10 Years Younger
SCIENCE-BASED STEPS TO LOSE WEIGHT FAST
Home Remedy To Erase All Aging Signs From Your Face
Copyright © 2019 Healthy House Tips.
Theme by MyThemeShop.
Sample Page
Menu Title
Home
Health
Home Ideas
Food
Natural Remedies
Beauty
Diet & Weight loss