Travel Health | Bemused Backpacker
Bemused Backpacker Gap year advice, information and inspiration
Menu
Skip to content
Home
About Me
Travel Services
Gap Year Safety Consultation.
Gap Year Safety Consultation Contact Form
Travel Clinic
Travel Clinic Contact Form.
Education Services.
Lesson Planning And Resources.
School Trip Planning Service.
School Trip Planning Service Contact Form
Travel Tips
Travel Basics
Backpacker Glossary: Get Used To The Lingo.
What You Should Consider Before You Start Planning Your Gap Year.
What To Pack For Your Gap Year.
How To Plan A Snap Year.
How To Plan A Gap Year.
Budget Travel
Budget Basics
Pre Trip Expenses
Haggling
Travel Safety
Basic Travel Safety Advice.
Common Travel Scams.
Solo Female Backpacker.
Travel Health
The Essential Travel Health Checklist Before You Go On Your Gap Year.
First Aid Kit Checklist.
What Vaccinations Do You Need For Your Gap Year?
Malaria And Dengue Fever.
Mosquito Avoidance.
Anti Malarial Medication.
Common Backpacker Illnesses And Diseases.
Sexual Health Advice For Backpackers.
Responsible Travel
Bemused Backpacker Code Of Responsible Travel.
Wildlife Tourism.
Volunteering.
What You Need To Consider Before Volunteering On Your Gap Year.
Blog
Destinations
Africa
Egypt
Ethiopia
Mali
Morocco
Sudan
Asia
India
Sri Lanka
Japan
South East Asia
Borneo
Cambodia
Indonesia
Malaysia
Myanmar (Burma)
Philippines
Singapore
Thailand
Vietnam
Australasia and the South Pacific
Australia.
Central America and the Caribbean
Aruba
Belize
Costa Rica
Dominican Republic
Panama
Europe
Austria
Czech Republic
England
Denmark
France
Germany
Greece
Ireland
Italy
Romania
Scotland
Spain
Wales
Middle East
Dubai
Israel
Jordan
North America and Canada
South America
Brazil
Colombia
Reviews
Accommodation Reviews
Abraham Hostel, Tel Aviv, Israel
Berjaya Times Square Hotel, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
Bru Bar And Hostel, Cork, Ireland.
Sri Ratih Cottages, Ubud, Bali.
Granada Inn Hostel, Granada, Spain.
K West Hotel And Spa, London, England.
Langland Bay House Bed And Breakfast, Swansea, Wales.
Lime Tree Hotel, Kuching, Sarawak.
Ministry of Coffee, Yogyakarta, Indonesia.
The Vicarage, Cheshire, England.
Gear and Equipment Reviews
Backpacks
Craghoppers Worldwide Rucksack
Numinous Anti Theft Travel Pack
Rolo Travel Bag.
SMASHii Anti Theft Backpack.
Standard Luggage Co. Carry On Backpack.
The Hero’s Journey Backpack.
Travel Accessories
Craghoppers Dry Bag.
Craghoppers Packing Cube.
Craghoppers Super Large Microfibre Towel
Nosilife Sleep Liner
Origami Unicorn TUO Organiser.
Pacsafe Backpack Protector.
Scrubba Wash Bag
SLPY Wearable Sleeping Bag.
Wanderwave Wanderbelt And Mini Wallet
Water To Go Filtration System And Bottle.
Travel Clothing
Bear Grylls Core Waterproof Jacket
Bear Grylls Survivor Trousers.
Craghoppers Corey Fleece
P Cubed Pickpocket Proof Clothing.
Shop
Books
Clothing Range
Work With Me
Media Kit
Rates Sheet
Disclaimer and Privacy Policy.
Contact
Home › Archive for Travel Health
Blog Archives
The Importance of Heat Awareness And Sun Care On Your Gap Year.
Posted on September 17, 2018 by Bemused Backpacker — 2 Comments
Most travellers enjoy the sun and the heat on their gap years – and they should – but too much sun and heat do have health risks that need to be carefully managed. It is important that all travellers understand the risks of being in the sun, hydrate well, stay cool and take the right sun care precautions before the sun and the heat have a negative impact on their health.
Read more ›
Tagged with: heat exhaustion, heatstroke, hydration, staying hydrated when travelling, sun care when travelling, sunburn, sunstroke, travel health, travel health advice, travel health clinic
Posted in Travel Health
What Is Shigella? Symptoms And Treatment For Travellers.
Posted on August 31, 2018 by Bemused Backpacker — 8 Comments
Shigella has hit the headlines recently with travellers in an Egyptian resort where two British holidaymakers died suddenly contracting the disease, but what is Shigella? What are the symptoms, and how can backpackers protect and treat themselves when travelling?
Read more ›
Tagged with: diarrhoea, diarrhoea and vomiting, dysentery, Egypt, getting sick abroad, getting sick on your travels, shigella, travel clinic, travel health, travel health advice, travel health clinic, travel sickness, what do I do if I get sick abroad, what happens if I get sick abroad, what is shigella, what to do when things go wrong on your gap year, what to do when you get sick when travelling
Posted in Travel Health
Top 5 Tips For Beating Culture Shock.
Posted on June 18, 2018 by Bemused Backpacker — 8 Comments
Culture shock is something most backpackers and travellers will deal with at some point, but if not recognized and dealt with properly it can really ruin your trip, or at the extreme even lead to some serious mental health problems. So how can backpackers deal with and beat culture shock on their gap year?
Read more ›
Tagged with: best ways to deal with culture shock, culture shock, How can you avoid culture shock, how do you deal with culture shock, How many stages of culture shock are there?, how to deal with culture shock, travel health, travel mental health, what are the symptoms of culture shock, what is culture shock, what is culture shock and how do I avoid it
Posted in Travel Health
Debunking 6 Common Myths About Mosquito Repellents For Gap Year Travellers.
Posted on April 30, 2018 by Bemused Backpacker — 8 Comments
The best way to defend yourself against mosquito bites and mosquito borne diseases on your gap year is to use an effective mosquito repellent, but the problem is there is a lot of misinformation and confusion amongst travellers about which ones to use, or even which ones are effective or safe. This article attempts to debunk some of the most prevalent myths and misinformation about using an insect repellent on your gap year.
Read more ›
Tagged with: best mosquito repellent, best mosquito repellent natural mosquito repellent deet mosquito repellent lavender mosquito repellent mosquito repellent spray lemon eucalyptus oil mosquito repellent eucalyptus mosquito repellent ho, DEET mosquito repellent, do bananas repel mosquitoes, do vitamins B1 or B12 repel mosquitoes, does garlic repel mosquitoes, does taking garlic capsules repel mosquitoes, eucalyptus mosquito repellent, foods you can eat to repel mosquitoes, homemade mosquito repellent with peppermint oil, How do you keep mosquitoes away?, How not to get bitten by mosquitoes?, how to repel mosquitoes from your body, how to repel mosquitoes naturally, how to repel mosquitoes while sleeping, how to repel mosquitoes without bug spray, how to repel mosquitoes without insect repellent, is DEET a natural product?, is DEET bad for you?, is DEET harmful to your body?, lavender mosquito repellent, lemon eucalyptus oil mosquito repellent, mosquito repellent facts, mosquito repellent lies, mosquito repellent myths, mosquito repellent spray, natural mosquito repellent, what are the side effects of DEET?, What can you eat to keep mosquitoes away?, what to eat to repel mosquitoes
Posted in Travel Health
The Ultimate Travellers Guide To Malaria And Antimalarials.
Posted on April 25, 2018 by Bemused Backpacker — 6 Comments
This ultimate guide to Malaria and antimalarials is here to give all travellers all the information they need from a qualified travel nurse to protect themselves against malaria and understand the importance of antimalarials.
Read more ›
Tagged with: anti malaria tablets, anti malarial, contracting malaria, dengue and malaria, do i need anti malarial tablets, everything you need to know about antimalarials, everything you need to know about malaria, Google, how to avoid malaria, how to protect against malaria, how to stop malaria, is there a vaccine for malaria, Malaria, malarone, should i take anti malarial tablets, side effects of anti malarial tablets, travel health advice, ultimate guide to malaria, what are antimalarials, what is malaria, will i get malaria in, world malaria day
Posted in Travel Health
Natural Or Chemical Mosquito Repellents. Which Is Best For Travellers?
Posted on April 23, 2018 by Bemused Backpacker — 4 Comments
Natural Or Chemical Mosquito Repellents. Which Is Better For Travellers?
Read more ›
Tagged with: DEET mosquito repellent, DEET vs natural mosquito repellent, how to avoid getting bitten by mosquitoes, how to protect yourself against mosquito bites, how to repel mosuitoes, IR3535 mosquito repellent, mosquito, mosquito bite prevention, mosquito bites, mosquito borne diseases, mosquito repellent natural vs chemical, natural mosquito repellent, Picaridin mosquito repellent, PMD mosquito repellent, recommended mosquito repellents, what is better DEET or natural mosquito repellent, what is better natural or chemical mosquito repellent
Posted in Travel Health
What Is Culture Shock And How Can Travellers Deal With It?
Posted on March 26, 2018 by Bemused Backpacker — 2 Comments
Culture shock is a common problem for backpackers and long term travellers, but it is one that is often misunderstood and underestimated. So what exactly is culture shock and how can backpackers deal with it when it happens?
Read more ›
Tagged with: culture shock, How can you avoid culture shock, how do you deal with culture shock, How many stages of culture shock are there?, how to deal with culture shock, travel health, travel mental health, what are the symptoms of culture shock, what is culture shock, what is culture shock and how do I avoid it
Posted in Travel Health
‹ Older posts
Looking For Something?
Hi, I'm Michael! I'm a published author, qualified nurse and world travelling professional adventurer! I have spent 15 years travelling over 100 countries and I want to inspire you to do the same! Want to know more about me? Just click here!
Follow Me Here
View bemusedbackpacker’s profile on Facebook
View @bemusedbackpack’s profile on Twitter
View bemusedbackpack’s profile on Pinterest
Subscribe Via Email
Get notified about all the latest travel tips, advice and inspiration as well as amazing competitions and exclusive discounts! Don't worry we will never send you spam or unwanted mail.
Join 18,941 other followers
Subscribe Here
Recent Posts
How To Make Your Travels Deeper And More Meaningful.
15 Reasons You Need To Visit Alexandria, Egypt.
How To Travel From Cairo To Alexandria By Train.
Do Airlines Need To Be Legally Held To Account For Letting Passengers Down?
5 Free Things To Do In Sydney.
Blog Topics
Competitions And Offers
Destinations
Responsible Travel
Solo Travel
Travel Advice
Travel Books
Travel Health
Travel Lists
Travel Safety
Travel Talk
Travel Tips
Travel Video
Volunteering
Copyright notice.
© Bemused Backpacker and the gecko logo is owned and copyrighted by Michael Huxley 2019. Unless stated, all blog and website content is owned and copyrighted by Michael Huxley 2019.
Unauthorized use and/or duplication of this material without express and written permission from Michael Huxley is strictly prohibited. Excerpts and links may be used, provided that full and clear credit is given to Michael Huxley and Bemused Backpacker with appropriate and specific direction to the original content.
© 2019 Bemused Backpacker
↑
Create a website or blog at WordPress.com
Bemused Backpacker
Create a website or blog at WordPress.com
Post to
Cancel