m overdose
morphineaddiction.com
1-855-895-4731
Do you need help finding the right drug or alcohol rehab facility?
Fill out the form below or call 1-855-895-4731 to get the help you need.
Name:
Email address:
Phone:
Contact me by: Phone Email
Seeking Help For: Choose Self Son Daughter Husband Wife Brother Sister Friend Family Other
Age: Choose Under 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 Over 65
General Situation:
Your privacy is important to us.
We do not give or sell your information to anyone.
Navigation
Home
Morphine
Morphine Effects
Morphine Side Effects
Morphine Addiction
Morphine Withdrawal
Morphine Overdose
Morphine Detox
Morphine Pictures
Morphine Abuse News
Nicole Richie Pleads Not Guilty
Nicole Richie has pleaded not guilty to driving under the influence of drugs and alcohol. Nicole ...
Speed In A Can
'Cocaine' drink pulled from shelves nationwide NEW HAVEN, Conneticut. - A Las Vegas company has ...
Two Arrested For Suspected Meth Lab At Camp BellowoodIndiana
Two Arrested for Suspected Meth Lab at Camp Bellowood,Indiana. Two people were arrested on ...
Federal Justice Grant Funds Approved For RenoNevada Police
Federal Justice Grant Funds Approved For Reno,Nevada Police. The Reno,Nevada City Council ...
Residents Tips Key In Meth Bust
Residents' tips key in meth bust. All these chemicals and supplies are used in the ...
Agency Touts Old Medicine Disposal Idea
It's time to pooper-scoop your leftover medicine. Mixing cough syrup, Vicodin or Lipitor with cat ...
Anhydrous Ammonia Lands Two ScrevenGeorgia Residents In Jail On Meth Charges
Anhydrous ammonia lands two Screven,Georgia residents in jail on meth charges. ...
NASCAR Driver Thankful To Be Alive
NASCAR Driver Thankful to be Alive. CINCINNATI,Ohio -- NASCAR driver Aaron Fike was on a ...
Mothers Involved In Heroin Party Limited To Supervised Visits With Children
Mothers involved in heroin party limited to supervised visits with children. PORTSMOUTH,New ...
Another Heroin Overdose
Another Heroin Overdose. Huntington,West Virginia police say a 911 heart attack call on ...
1-855-895-4731
>Morphine Overdose
Morphine is the principal constituent of opium and can range in concentration from 4 to 21 percent. Commercial opium is standardized to contain 10-percent morphine. In the United States, a small percentage of the morphine obtained from opium is used directly (about 15 tons): the remaining is converted to codeine and other derivatives (about 120 tons). Morphine is one of the most effective drugs known for the relief of severe pain and remains the standard against which new analgesics are measured. Morphine is marketed under generic and brand name products including "MS-Contin'," Oramorph SR'," MSIR'," Roxanol'," Kadian'," and RMS'." Morphine is marketed in a variety of forms, including oral solutions, immediate and sustained-release tablets or capsules, suppositories, and injectable preparations.
Morphine is highly addictive. Tolerance (the need for higher and higher doses to maintain the same effect), as well as physical and psychological dependence develop quickly. Morphine activates the brain's reward systems. The promise of reward is very intense, causing the individual to crave the drug and to focus his or her activities around taking it. The ability of morphine to strongly activate brain reward mechanisms and its ability to chemically alter the normal functioning of these systems can produce an addiction.
A Morphine overdose happens when you consume more Morphine than your body can safely handle. Morphine users are constantly flirting with Morphine overdose, and the difference between the high they're seeking and serious injury or death is often quite small. Many individuals have died due to an overdose of Morphine, such as celebrity Chris Farley who died of an overdose from Morphine and cocaine.
Morphine overdose symptoms include but are not limited to:
cold clammy skin
flaccid muscles
fluid in the lungs
lowered blood pressure
"pinpoint" or dilated pupils
sleepiness
stupor
coma
slowed breathing
difficulty breathing
slow pulse rate
bluish colored fingernails and lips
spasms of the stomach and/or intestinal tract
nausea
vomiting
constipation
palpitations
drowsiness
death
'
Drug Facts
By the early 19th century, morphine had been extracted in a pure form suitable for solution. With the introduction of the hypodermic needle in the mid-19th century, injection of the solution became the common method of administration.
Morphine acts to depress the function of all cells of the immune system.
Methadone is a man-made narcotic used to help people with addictions to opioid drugs (opium, codeine, heroin, morphine).
Individuals are as physically dependent on methadone as they were to heroin or other opiates; this is not recovery from drug addiction.
Methadone enters the illicit drug market primarily as a result of patients selling their prescriptions.
Copyright © 2009 - 2017 www.morphineaddiction.com