Vaccines Trigger Autism in Genetically Susceptible Children. – an evidence-based, heartfelt blog.
an evidence-based, heartfelt blog.
Menu Skip to content
Home
About
Contact
Links
September 25, 2016 August 23, 2018 thinklovehealthy
Vaccines Trigger Autism in Genetically Susceptible Children.
In 2010, the U.S. government awarded the family of Hannah Poling 1.5+ million dollars for vaccine-induced autism. At that point in time, there were 4,800 families who had petitioned the Vaccine Injury Compensation Program (VICP) and were waiting to be heard in “vaccine court” – where there is no jury of peers, no fair trial. A court-appointed “special master” hears the case and decides whether or not the family will be compensated for the injuries sustained by the vaccines that were administered.
Why? In 1986, vaccine manufacturers were granted immunity to lawsuits and could no longer be sued when their products inevitably caused death or injury. They are no longer liable. After the law was passed, the number of shots in the CDC schedule increased dramatically. With no liability, there was no reason to proceed with caution. More and more vaccines being recommended or mandated by the CDC = more $$$. No other industry was granted this kind of legal protection.
As of January 2018, the VICP has paid out over 3.8 billion dollars for vaccine injuries and deaths. This represents only a fraction of individuals who have petitioned the VICP for compensation. Two-thirds of all petitions are denied. Unfortunately, the independent scientific evidence showing that vaccines and their ingredients can and do trigger autism is typically ignored by our government, and the fraudulent CDC study which claimed to end the debate on whether or not the MMR vaccine caused autism has been used to deny vaccine injury victims compensation by the VICP. Considering the impediments that parents experience in getting their child’s vaccine-induce autism recognized by medical professionals and our government, if the amount paid out by the VICP reflected the true amount of vaccine-injured individuals, it would be much, much higher.
Besides the fact that Hannah Poling’s family has been compensated by our government for her vaccine-induced autism, here’s why many anti-vaccine activists will state that vaccines can and do cause autism:
(1) Vaccines contain neurotoxic substances at levels not proven to be safe. (E.g. The majority of vaccines contain aluminum & some still contain mercury.)
(2) Symptoms of aluminum toxicity and mercury toxicity are, but not limited to: cognitive and neurobehavioral deficits, speech and language impairment, personality changes, altered mood, depression, motor disturbances, weakness, fatigue, and seizure.
(3) Autism is associated with an increased toxic metal body burden and reduced glutathione levels. Glutathione depletion is implicated in the pathology of a variety of brain disorders.
(4) Genetic mutations (e.g. MTHFR C677T gene polymorphism) can further enhance toxicity of the metals, aluminum and mercury, through reduced folate levels and reduced folate processing which affects glutathione production and detoxification.
(5) MTHFR C677T gene polymorphism has been linked to an increased risk of autism. In one study, it was found that 98% of children with autism had at least one MTHFR gene mutation.
(6) It is approximated that up to 60% of the population has a genetic polymorphism of MTHFR. Most of those individuals have one copy (heterozygous) but some have two copies (homozygous) which is much more severe and results in significantly reduced capacity for detoxification.
(7) The amount of vaccines given today has dramatically increased since the 80s, as has the incidence of autism.
(8) Vaccines have been found to be contaminated with the toxic herbicide glyphosate, which is implicated in autism.
(9) Vaccine ingredients are linked to neurological disorders such as ALS, Gulf War Syndrome, & Alzheimer’s.
(10) Vaccines and their ingredients trigger autism in susceptible individuals. The scientific literature supports this statement here. And here. And here. And here. And here. And here. And here. And here. And here. And here…
(11) Our government, via taxpayer money, has compensated more than one family for vaccine-induce autism. In fact, an investigation found that there were 83 cases of autism associated with compensated cases of vaccine-induced brain injury. And other reports state that this is just the tip of the iceberg.
Based on the above, how can we be told over and over again that there’s no evidence linking autism to vaccines?
It appears that the CDC simply ignores the evidence. Information like this is rarely ever presented to us by the news media, if at all. Instead of informing the public, our government continues to hide behind and regurgitate the statement that “vaccines do not cause autism”. Try a google search for “autism vaccines” and this is the first result:
Ok. Most of us who have witnessed vaccine-triggered or vaccine-induced autism will admit that vaccines clearly don’t always cause autism and are not the sole cause of autism (it’s the toxic exposure). But vaccines can cause autism (and developmental delays, and neurological damage) in genetically susceptible individuals. For every parent who had a healthy, normally developing, neurotypical child prior to vaccination and witnessed their child regress into autism within days or weeks of receiving vaccines – vaccines were the cause. Their child may have never been pushed over the edge and into autism had they not been vaccinated.
The problem is that children who regress into autism after vaccines do not typically exhibit health concerns prior to regression. There aren’t obvious signs to new parents that their child may be susceptible, unless they already know about mid-line defects like tongue ties and other signs of MTHFR / methylation issues. Therefore, unless you perform genetic testing on yourself prior to vaccines in pregnancy, or on your newborn at birth, you won’t know if your child will be one who is susceptible to vaccine-induced autism. And even if you knew your child had the genetic wherewithal to not fully regress into autism following vaccines, does it seem right to inject them with substances so toxic that they can cause chronic neurological damage in previously normal, healthy children? With more vaccines and more booster shots added to the CDC schedule as the years go on, more and more children without MTHFR mutations will be harmed. Injecting these toxic substances may ultimately harm anyone and everyone, but the damage may not be visible until much later.
I share this information with you in hopes that you would proceed with great caution. There are thousands of parents who would do anything to go back in time and choose differently for their child.
If you’d like to learn more about the VICP petitioning process, here’s an explanation of how it works.
I want to add, that there are more gene mutations at play than just MTHFR. And MTHFR is implicated in a wide variety of illnesses. This is to get you started if you’ve never seen this evidence before.
Keep reading, keep questioning. Listen to your gut, follow your instincts. Do what you can to protect yourself and your child from unnecessary harm.
Thanks for reading,
Think, love, and be healthy.
Share this post:
Tweet
Like this:
Like Loading...
MTHFR
Science
Vaccines
Post navigation
Previous How your pediatrician will pressure you to vaccinate.
Next Reasons to Not Vaccinate.
5 comments
March for [Honest] Science. – a evidence-based, heartfelt blog. says:
April 26, 2017 at 3:51 am
[…] and autism. You have the support of the pharmaceutical industry, which maintains a significant influence over medical education and research. This industry would suffer enormous financial losses if vaccines were widely believed to […]
LikeLike
Reply
Aluminum in Vaccines: History and Toxicity. – a evidence-based, heartfelt blog. says:
June 17, 2017 at 9:44 am
[…] The neurological damage observed also suggests that aluminum adjuvants may play a significant role in the rising rate of autism. Dr. Russel Blaylock, a neuroscientist who has spent years researching the issue, has actually proposed a mechanism for the development of autism due to immunoexcitotoxicity. (More on the vaccine-autism connection here). […]
LikeLike
Reply
jameslyonsweiler says:
January 28, 2018 at 3:59 am
Good article! It’s perfectly ok to say vaccines cause autism… sometimes, in some people. Autism is not something that is triggered. It is an acquired cellular detoxification deficiency syndrome… hope to have my paper presenting that published very soon!
LikeLike
Reply
Is Your Child Having a Vaccine Reaction? – an evidence-based, heartfelt blog. says:
February 25, 2018 at 2:46 am
[…] reactions. We disagree about how often this occurs, and whether or not vaccines can be a cause of autism. We have fundamental differences of opinions on the pros and […]
LikeLike
Reply
Can Vaccines Cause Autism? – an evidence-based, heartfelt blog. says:
January 6, 2019 at 4:43 pm
[…] https://thinklovehealthy.com/2016/09/25/vaccines-trigger-autism-in-genetically-susceptible-children/ […]
LikeLike
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Categories
Aluminum
History
Life
Medical Profession
MTHFR
Natural Health
Science
Uncategorized
Vaccines
Wellness
Autodidact:
[aw-toh-dahy-dakt] a person who has learned a subject without a teacher or formal education; a self-taught person.
Follow Us!
View thinklovehealthy’s profile on Facebook
View ashley_cates’s profile on Twitter
The content of this website is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition. Never disregard professional medical advice or delay in seeking it because of something you have read on this site.
WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
%d bloggers like this: