Ginger is an Effective Natural Remedy for Nausea
Homepage
Posts
Typography
Standard Post
Gallery Post Format
Sound Cloud Audio
WordPress Gallery
Vimeo Video Post
Pages
Shortcodes
Page full width
Page with sidebar
Site authors
Site Map
Home
FYI Living Menu
Body
Allergy & Asthma
Arthritis
Back & Neck Pain
Beauty & Skin
Cancer
Cold & Flu
Digestive Health
Fertility
Fitness
Headaches
Heart Health
Sleep Disorders
Mind
ADHD
Anxiety
Depression
Adolescent and Teen
Bipolar
Postpartum
Happiness
Memory
Diet
Nutrition
Meals
Special Diets
Allergies & Food Sensitivities
Cholestorol Diet
Diabetes Diet
Heart Healthy Diet
Vegetarian Diet
Restaurants
Sports Nutrition
Vitamins
Featured
Pregnancy
Tea
Videos
Herbs, News
Ginger: A Natural Remedy for Nausea
by FYI Living
shares
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Print
Email
Ginger is a very evocative spice; it can remind you of baking cookies or bread around the holidays, a scrumptious sushi meal or a refreshing beverage on a hot summer day. However, there may be more to this spice than just good taste. For centuries, different cultures, primarily Asian, have been using this root-like plant not only to spice up food and drinks, but also to help relieve certain types of nausea.
It’s shown to help post-operative and chemo-related nausea, as well as being an effective morning sickness remedy. There is less research on whether ginger helps with motion sickness or other kinds of nausea, but it probably can’t hurt. In addition to fighting nausea, ginger might have some other benefits too that are currently being researched. We previously reported on a study that suggests ginger may even help reduce post-workout muscle pain.
While the mechanism by which it works its magic is not completely known, the chemical compounds that are a natural part of ginger may help move food through the intestinal tract or inhibit the signals that tell our brain to vomit.
Unfortunately, this does not mean you have an excuse to eat more gingerbread cookies! Most foods made with ginger actually contain little ginger per serving. The average ginger ale in the supermarket often does not contain any ginger at all, so read those labels. To help out your nausea, try these treats:
Ginger tea (they sell it packaged, or make it yourself by cutting up fresh pieces of ginger (the juicier, the better) and letting it steep in boiling water for around five minutes.
Pieces of dried ginger to chew. Just be careful to not have too much because these are often heavily sweetened with sugar.
Adding extra ginger to your food could also help. Most of the studies have shown about 1/4 to 1/2 tsp. of ginger powder to be effective.
Try a real ginger ale, such as Buffalo Rock Ginger Ale, that actually has ginger in it.
Like many herbs and plants that have a medicinal effect, make sure you talk to your doctor first before taking larger amounts of ginger. Some studies have shown ginger to alter the thickness of blood, so if taking aspirin regularly or warfarin (Coumadin), make sure to talk to your doctor to assess the safety of ginger for you.
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
Related
Tags from the story
ginger, morning-sickness, spices, women
0
Facebook Twitter Pinterest
Google + LinkedIn Email
You may also like
September 23, 2011
Won’t Leave the House Without Makeup? Blame the Marketing
September 13, 2011
Vitamin K: The New Heart Disease Fighter
November 10, 2010
Keep Your Brain In Shape By Losing Weight
August 4, 2010
Is Diet Cola Really Bad to the Bone?
March 30, 2010
Ask the Expert : Does My Friend Have Postpartum Depression?
June 21, 2010
Tea May Reduce the Risk of Ovarian Cancer
Previous articleSeems Using Kava May Come at a Cost
Next articlePreeclampsia Prevention Starts With Weight Loss
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
More Stories
Mind, News, Sex
Is It All in Your Head? Female Sex Problems Helped by Sugar Pill
Connect with FYI Living
Privacy Policy
Made with Love by Action Factory
Back to top
shares
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Print
Email
Send this to friend
Your email Recipient email
Send
Cancel