Related conditions - Urinary Tract Infections - Causes, Symptoms, Treatment, Diagnosis - Canoe.com
Home
...
Women's Health
Urinary Tract Infections
Urinary Tract Infections
(Bladder Infections,Cystitis,Urethritis)
Build your Knowledge
The Facts
Causes
Symptoms and Complications
Making the Diagnosis
Treatment and Prevention
Related conditions
Anemia
Candidiasis
Cancer of the Cervix
The Common Cold
Conjunctivitis
Contraception
Dandruff
Dysmenorrhea
Eating Disorders
Ectopic Pregnancy
Endometriosis
Female Sexual Dysfunction
Fibrocystic Breast Disease
Gallstones
GERD (Gastroesophageal reflux disease)
Herniated Disc
Hyperhidrosis
Infertility
Influenza
Insomnia
Iron Deficiency Anemia
Jet Lag
Lupus
Menopause
Morning Sickness
Obesity
Osteoporosis
Outer Ear Infection
Ovarian Cancer
Pelvic Inflammatory Disease
Peptic Ulcer Disease
Postpartum Depression
Preeclampsia
Premenstrual Syndrome
Smoking Cessation
Sports Injuries
Sexually Transmitted Infection
Toxic Shock Syndrome
Travel Immunization
Urinary Tract Infections
Uterine Cancer
Vaginitis
More on CHealth
Health News
Health Videos
Health Column
DRUGS
CONDITIONS
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
The Facts
The urinary tract includes the kidneys, bladder, ureters, and urethra. Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are far more common in women than men. Urinary tract infections have different names depending on which part of the urinary tract is infected.
infection of the bladder is cystitis
infection of the urethra is urethritis
infection of the kidney is pyelonephritis
Among newborns, UTIs are more common in boys, but by one year of age, they are ten times more likely to occur in girls. The rate of infection is higher for sexually active women – between 16 and 35 years old – than for men.
As many as 50% to 60% of North American women have had at least one UTI in their lifetime. Among seniors, the gender difference in infection rates diminishes, but rates of infection in seniors living at home or in care facilities or hospitals remains high.
Causes
Women are more likely to get UTIs than men. That's because women have a shorter urethra (the tube that carries urine out of the bladder) that's closer to the rectum. This allows bacteria easier access to a woman's urinary tract. After urinating, wiping from the back to the front pushes bacteria from the rectal area towards the urethra, which can lead to a UTI. Sexual intercourse increases the risk for UTIs because bacteria are spread upward into the bladder. Using diaphragms and spermicides can also increase the risk for UTIs because the normal bacteria around the urethra may be changed, making infection more likely. Women who are pregnant or have diabetes have been reported to have higher rates of UTIs when compared to women who are not pregnant and do not have diabetes.
In addition to bladder infections, men may get infections of the prostate (prostatitis). In fact, bacteria from the prostate can lead to recurrent UTIs in men. For infants and children, UTIs can be associated with particularly narrow urinary tracts, or with a condition where the urine is pushed back up into the kidneys.
In seniors, UTIs are often due to problems with incomplete bladder emptying or bowel incontinence. Conditions that prevent complete emptying of the bladder include urinary tract blockages, kidney stones, neurologic diseases (such as stroke or spinal cord injury), certain medications, and having an inserted catheter – as in the case of hospitalized patients.
On very rare occasions, UTIs can be caused by bacteria that have spread from infections elsewhere in the body.
Symptoms and Complications
Common UTI symptoms may include:
pain or burning during urination
frequent desire to urinate, often urgently and immediately
unusual discharge from the urethra
urine that looks cloudy or smells foul
pressure in the lower pelvis
fever, with or without chills
bedwetting in a person who has normally been dry at night
nausea and vomiting
Bladder infections (cystitis) often result in urine that's dark and cloudy. In addition to the above symptoms, bacterial prostatitis (infection of a man's prostate gland) can also cause fever, chills, low back pain, and discomfort or pain around the anus or perineal region. In some cases, a kidney infection (pyelonephritis) can follow a bladder infection by a couple of days, causing abdominal pain, flank pain, nausea, vomiting, fever, and chills.
In infants or children, UTIs can cause symptoms such as vomiting or fever and prevent normal weight gain.
Seniors don't necessarily have symptoms that are common to UTIs. Instead, they often have gastrointestinal symptoms including changes in eating habits, or mental signs like confusion. People with catheters or neurologic disorders might only complain of side pains and a fever.
Sometimes, there are large amounts of bacteria in the urine but no obvious symptoms of UTIs. This is known as asymptomatic bacteriuria and it's common in seniors. Pregnant women and kidney transplant patients may also develop this type of infection.
Symptomatic abacteriuria is the opposite: people have UTI symptoms, but bacteria levels in the urine are low. Even with very little bacteria present, a UTI can still be diagnosed.
Making the Diagnosis
Your doctor will consider the symptoms and do a urinalysis. You'll be asked to give a sample of your urine which will be sent to the lab to check for a bacterial infection. You shouldn't collect the first bit of urine that comes out: it already contains bacteria that are normally found on your skin. Wait until midstream to start collecting the sample.
Prostatitis is identified by examining the rectum to see if the prostate gland is swollen and painful. Samples of urine and of discharge from the urethra are sent to the lab to check for infection.
Recurring UTIs might have an underlying cause, and your urinary tract will need to be checked. Ultrasound, CT scan, cystoscopy, and intravenous pyelogram are tests that provide a visual image of the urinary tract, revealing any structural abnormalities.
Treatment and Prevention
Seniors with asymptomatic bacteriuria usually don't require treatment.
For most UTIs, three days to a week of antibiotics taken by mouth are the best treatment. Your doctor will help decide how long treatment should last. Before beginning any treatment, make sure that you discuss with your doctor any allergies you may have, previous antibiotic use within the last 3 months, and current prescription and non-prescription medications you are taking.
To prevent the infection from returning, it's important to take all of your medication until the end of the prescribed period. Your doctor may also suggest certain medications that relieve pain to help ease the burning that occurs when you urinate.
Very serious infections – such as a severe kidney infection – may require an intravenous drip of antibiotics. Aside from standard antibiotic treatment, children with UTIs may be checked for urinary tract abnormalities.
Treatment for prostatitis often lasts for 4 to 6 weeks. If the infection returns after that, long-term antibiotic therapy may be an option.
In women, recurring UTIs are usually caused by new bacterial infections. Recurrent UTIs are defined as having 3 or more UTIs within one year (or 2 or more in 6 months). In such cases, your doctor may recommend preventative medication to be taken daily or after sexual intercourse. During pregnancy, women are routinely screened for bacteria in their urine. Prompt treatment of UTIs is important. Up to a third of untreated cases lead to kidney infections, which can cause premature labour and low birth-weight babies.
Some strategies for preventing UTIs are:
urinating immediately after intercourse to clear out any bacteria that may have entered
not using the diaphragm as a means for birth control – choose other birth control measures (women with recurring UTIs should also avoid spermicides, which can increase the risk of recurring UTIs)
good toilet habits: women should wipe from front to back, to prevent bacterial spread from the anus
drinking plenty of fluids to flush bacteria out from the bladder
not holding in urine for long periods, as this gives bacteria more opportunity to multiply in the bladder
taking showers rather than tub baths
washing the skin around the vagina and anus daily
not using deodorant sprays or feminine products such as douches in the genital area that could irritate the urethra
While waiting for the antibiotics to take effect, drink plenty of fluids to ease your discomfort, but avoid anything that can irritate the bladder, such as coffee, alcohol, soft drinks with caffeine, citrus juices, and spicy foods, until the infection has cleared.
All material copyright MediResource Inc. 1996 – 2019. Terms and conditions of use. The contents herein are for informational purposes only. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition. Source: www.medbroadcast.com/condition/getcondition/Urinary-Tract-Infections
Related conditions Anemia Candidiasis Cancer of the Cervix The Common Cold Conjunctivitis Contraception Dandruff Dysmenorrhea Eating Disorders Ectopic Pregnancy Endometriosis Female Sexual Dysfunction Fibrocystic Breast Disease Gallstones GERD (Gastroesophageal reflux disease) Herniated Disc Hyperhidrosis Infertility Influenza Insomnia Iron Deficiency Anemia Jet Lag Lupus Menopause Morning Sickness Obesity Osteoporosis Outer Ear Infection Ovarian Cancer Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Peptic Ulcer Disease Postpartum Depression Preeclampsia Premenstrual Syndrome Smoking Cessation Sports Injuries Sexually Transmitted Infection Toxic Shock Syndrome Travel Immunization Urinary Tract Infections Uterine Cancer Vaginitis
Breast health
Bra fit basics
Breast cancer facts and risk factors
Breast cancer screening: the controversies
Breast lumps
Breast pain: What's wrong?
Busting breast myths
Life after breast cancer
Screening for breast cancer
Staging: how bad is the breast cancer?
Treatment of breast cancer
Types of breast cancer
View all
Overview
Anorexia nervosa: what is it?
Breast cyst: what is it?
Breast pain: what does it mean?
Bulimia nervosa: what is it?
Climate change and your health
Do you get enough calcium?
Fibroadenoma: what is it?
Grapefruit juice and your medications
Menopause: what is it?
Tips for good sleep hygiene
Osteoporosis: what is it?
View all
Women's fitness
Managing your weight: it can be done!
Pole dancing - don't forget your high heels!
Shoppercise
Swimming: the workout with splash
Women's nutrition
7 holiday foods to savour - in moderation
Calcium and osteoporosis
Canada's new and improved food guide
Dieting in a healthy way
Eating healthy in a busy world
Eating out nutritiously
Eating to lose weight
Getting back to the basics of women's nutrition
Goodbye belly fat
How do we manage food portion control?
Ideas for healthy, quick-cooking meals
View all
Women's health problems
6 self-care steps for dealing with TMJD
7 steps to help you deal with foot odour
7 ways to help prevent UTI
8 things you should know about concussion
Abnormal menstrual bleeding
Cervical cancer: risk factors
Deep vein thrombosis: What is it?
Endometriosis: overview
Fibroids: overview
Heart disease: risk factors
How to head off headache pain
View all
Your body
Dare you not to yawn!
Do you have bad breathing habits?
New vaccine for cervical cancer
No sweat: all about body odour
Pelvic floor exercises
Simple secrets to stay fresh and dry all day
Skin-to-skin contact and the benefit of human touch
Should women douche?
Swelling and edema
The bad breathing habits to blow off
View all
Your mind
27 ways to ease up
Coping with the stress of divorce
Ha! Laughing is good for you!
Melancholidays: 6 ways to beat the holiday blues
Post-traumatic stress disorder
Psychotherapy vs. drugs: Your prescription for easing depression
The trouble with tranquilizers
Work addiction
Lifestyle
5 cell phone safety wake-up calls
9 ways to warm up this winter
10 risks for contact lens wearers
Can stress cause a heart attack?
Getting your body out of dehydration
Candle and incense safety tips
Gossip: good or bad?
Hangover myths
Holiday survival guide
How to prevent second-hand smoke
Manage your hangover with HEART
View all
Your appearance
Care of hair and nails
Hair removal techniques
Straight facts about straightening your hair
Varicose veins
Varicose veins and sclerotherapy
Varicose veins: prevention tips
Your sex life
Get in the zone: the erogenous spots on our sensual maps
Hormones and sexual problems
Misconceptions and the pill
Oral contraceptives
Pain during intercourse: women
Sexual dysfunction
Valentine's candy calorie counts
The pill: benefits
The pill: side effects and risks
The pill and deep vein thrombosis: What's the connection?
What's in a kiss?
View all
More on CHealth
Health News
Health Videos
Health Column
BackToTop