10 Reasons To Have A Himalayan Salt Lamp In Every Room Of Your Home - FoodNurish
Home
Health
About
Contact
FoodNurish - Alternative Health News Portal
Blog
Guest Post
Contact
HomeAlternative Health10 Reasons To Have A Himalayan Salt Lamp In Every Room Of Your Home
Alternative Health
10 Reasons To Have A Himalayan Salt Lamp In Every Room Of Your Home
Health Buddha 11/04/2019 HimalayanHomeLampReasonsRoomSalt
29views
What Are Himalayan Salt Lamps?
Himalayan salt lamps are all the rage right now, and you most likely have heard a lot about them. However, do you really know what they are? Himalayan salt lamps are a source of clean and fresh air in your home. As such, they have countless benefits for our health.
How Do They Work?
Let’s talk some chemistry. All matter in nature including the human body is made of molecules. Molecules are made of atoms, while atoms are made of three different particles – electrons, neutrons, and protons. These electrons orbit molecules like planets do around stars. From time to time, an electron might fly off, leaving a positively-charged ion which needs to fill the void left by the electron. In order to do this, it must borrow steal an electron from another molecule. Not all materials lose electrons in the same way – some lose them more frequently than others.
Now that you know more about molecules and atoms, you’ll have an easier time understanding how Himalayan salt lamps work. They are essentially natural ionizers that can change the electrical charge of the air in your home. By attracting water particles that later evaporate off the lamps themselves, they produce negative ions that have numerous health benefits.
Here are the top health benefits of Himalayan salt lamps:
They Can Help Treat Allergy Symptoms
Himalayan salt lamps are said to clear the air of different pollutants including dust, pet dander, and mold. Put a lamp or two in your living room and bedroom to clean the air in your home and reduce the exposure to pollutants that might be behind your allergies.
You should notice the difference in a week or two.
They Clean and Deodorize the Air
The biggest benefit of Himalayan salt lamps is the fact that they clean and deodorize the air in your home. Put one in your living room and it’ll remove pollutants, cigarette smoke, and other contaminants from the air thanks to its hygroscopic properties.
Never heard the term? Don’t worry – most people haven’t. Hygroscopy is the process of attracting molecules from the surrounding area then absorbing them and other foreign particles into the salt crystal.
By heating the water up, it evaporates back into the air without the pollutants, which are now locked in the crystal itself.
They Help You Breathe Better
The hygroscopic properties of Himalayan salt lamps will clean the air in your home and ease coughing and other respiratory problems. When the now clean water evaporates back in the air, it boosts the cilial activity in your lungs, helping you breathe easier.
Eliminate Electromagnetic Radiation
Tech devices we constantly use nowadays emit a lot of electromagnetic radiation which is much more harmful than you think. EM radiation may be invisible, but that doesn’t make it any less harmful. Removing it from your home can be tricky unless you have a Himalayan salt lamp.
Thanks to their ability to emit negative ions, Himalayan salt lamps can neutralize electromagnetic radiation and reduce its harmful effects.
They Boost Your Energy Levels
You’re probably wondering “How the hell can Himalayan salt lamps boost my energy levels?!” Well, we did mention they release negative ions into the air, right? Positively charged ions sap our bodies of energy, while negative ones recharge our batteries.
So, put a Himalayan salt lamp in your home and you’ll feel much better in a while.
Improve Your Sleep
If you’re suffering from insomnia and nothing seems to help, you’ll be pleased to know that Himalayan salt lamps can. The positive ions floating in the air in our homes zap our oxygen and blood supply to the brain, resulting in irregular sleeping patterns. A Himalayan salt lamp can fix this by neutralizing the effects of positive ions and improving your sleep.
So, put one in your bedroom and you should notice the effects immediately.
They Improve Your Focus and Mood
Himalayan salt lamps are one of the best ways to improve your mood and relax in stressful times. The negative ions they release will reduce your stress and boost the supply of blood and oxygen to the brain, making you feel better immediately.
They Neutralize Static Electricity
Although not exactly a health benefit on its own, the lamps can reduce static electricity in the air which can be a real pain in the a** sometimes. It can mess with your hair and make it impossible to clean dust. Thanks to Himalayan salt lamps, you don’t have to worry about it anymore.
Excellent Environmentally-Friendly Light Source
Himalayan salt lamps usually use low-wattage bulbs that consume almost no energy. Put one in your home and you get a great environmentally-friendly light source.
Treat Seasonal Affective Disorder
The soft, natural light emitted by the lamps resembles the warm sunshine in spring, which can work wonders against seasonal affective disorder. With a Himalayan salt lamp in your living room, you can finally defeat the lethargy that often affects you during the change of seasons.
Source
Tags :HimalayanHomeLampReasonsRoomSalt
share on Facebookshare on Twitter share on Google+share on Pinterest share on Tumblrshare on Redditshare on VKontakte
add a comment
Leave a Response Cancel reply
Comment
Name
Email
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Keep Jasmine Plant in Your Room. It Reduces Anxiety, Panic Attacks and Depression
8 Reasons You Should Try Smudging & How To Do It At Home
Top Reviews
Video Widget
gallery
View stream on flickr
subscribe to my newsletter!
"Get all latest content delivered straight to your inbox."
[mc4wp_form id="36"]
You Might Also Like
Alternative Health
These Exercises Will Keep You in Shape If You’re a Woman Over 40
Health Buddha 25/04/2019
3
Can We Stop Aging? Unfortunately, aging can’t be stopped. It’s a natural process that can be wonderful until it takes...
Alternative Health
This Amazing Ginger-Garlic Soup Is All You Need to Reinforce Your Immune System
Health Buddha 24/04/2019
5
Soups – the Solution to Perfect Health? Tell us – what do you hate about winter the most? It probably...
Alternative Health
This 4-Minute Daily Workout can Improve Your Mood and Your Health
Health Buddha 24/04/2019
4
Dieting Isn’t the Only Way to Lose Weight If you’re reading this article, you’ve probably been looking for the...
We Bet You Didn’t Know These Banana Facts
Health Buddha 24/04/2019
5
Bananas – the King of the Fruit Jungle Everyone loves bananas. Just ask anyone and they’ll surely include it in...
Alternative Health
109-Year-Old Woman Says Avoiding Men Is The Secret To A Long Life
Health Buddha 24/04/2019
5
Is Avoiding Men the Key to a Good Life? Ever wondered what people do to live over a hundred...
Alternative Health
The Military Diet – the Best Way to Drop a Ton of Weight in a Short Time
Health Buddha 23/04/2019
6
How to Lose Weight in a Short Time Losing weight in a short time is every woman’s dream. However, there’s...
Find us on Facebook
Most Popular
1
Science
Engineers develop process to 3-D print cells to produce human tissue such as ligaments and tendons — ScienceDaily
2
health
These 10 Tricks You Didn’t Know You Could Do With Food Will Change Your Life Forever!
3
health
Jordan Peterson and his Daughter Claim Meat Only Diet Has Cured Their Depression
4
health
3 (More) Easy To Grow Medicinal Plants For Your Home And Garden
5
Largest-ever analysis of couples’ pronoun use affirms the relationship between — ScienceDaily
Featured Video
Search
info
foodnurish.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com
popular posts
Engineers develop process to 3-D print cells to produce human tissue such as ligaments and tendons — ScienceDaily
12/10/2018
These 10 Tricks You Didn’t Know You Could Do With Food Will Change Your Life Forever!
18/10/2018
Jordan Peterson and his Daughter Claim Meat Only Diet Has Cured Their Depression
18/11/2018
Categories
Alternative Health166
Cannabis1
health122
Science53
technology3
About
Contact
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
DMCA / REMOVAL
Guest Post
Copyright © FoodNurish - 2017