Category: Infected With Herpes
Healing Genital | Oral Herpes With Natural And Medication
Secrets To Life with Herpes Simplex Type One And Two
Menu
Home
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Sitemap
Category: Infected With Herpes
Herpes Simplex Type One Conditions And Cures
July 2, 2016
| No Comments
| Herpes Cure, Infected With Herpes
Oral herpes is classified under herpes simplex this being the medical term for the first type of herpes. This version of herpes simplex is usually found in your mouth or on the face. It is highly contagious which means that you can get it very easily. This is considered an acute viral infection. Some of the symptoms are circular redness brought about by itching and scratching the area that is infected. Most of us before adulthood have contract this type of herpes as children. Symptoms found inside the mouth show as blisters or commonly found canker sores. Depending on the severity will determine if you need to seek immediate medical attention. Usually the less sever oral herpes which is called cold sores and canker sores can be cleared up with over the counter topical treatments. This type of herpes virus can go through 3 stages from slight to sever.
Symptoms of Oral Herpes
The blisters and sores cause pain that can be from slight to sever. Some other symptoms that may occur are fever, tiredness, muscle aches, and irritability. Oral sores can cause pain when eating and drinking. The sores and blister can become infected to the point where it starts to bleed. If the infection gets worse than it can cause the lymph nodes in your throat to be swollen with small ulcers on your tonsils. This can make it difficult to swallow. A site that has more details about this type of herpes is (WebMD). As mentioned before if you are truly concerned speak with your doctor about tests to see if you have this type of herpes and what you both can do about it.
Help Us To Find Herpes Cure 2016
Having this type of herpes the cells that cause this virus can lay dormant as well. Oral herpes makes a roundabout number of 80% or more of cases involving herpes. There are preventative measures that you can take to protect yourself from getting oral herpes that are simple and not hard to do. First way that this type of herpes is usually contracted is through kissing someone that has a cold sore or canker sore. Second is by performing oral sex on someone that has not cleaned them in a proper manner. Or if the person has any blisters or sores in there genital area can cause you to get this type of herpes. This type of herpes is very different from genital herpes so take that in to consideration as well.
Timely Prevention Otherwise…
You can go a long time without outbreaks which means that the virus is not active. Taking the preventive measures will lessen the change of you getting oral herpes. There are sites that show graphic pictures of what can occur without herpes treatment depending of the severity of oral herpes that you might have. Now do not panic if you just have a cold or canker sore get a topical over the counter treatment this depends on how bad the sores are. Usually a cold or canker sore clears up in 2-14 days depending on the severity. If the sores do not clear up in 2-14 days seek medical attention so that it does not get any worse.
Some steps to be taken
Call your doctor if the sores make it hard to eat or drink. This applies to the other symptoms as well. If you have children and see sores just appear and do not know what exactly they are call your pediatrician immediately do not wait until it gets really sever. Stress and physical activity can cause the symptoms to come back. Just do not touch anyone’s face or mouth that has sores as described earlier. It’s harder to get children to avoid touching their or other children’s sores. We have all be there as kids so keep that in mind if you have young children. There are many sites online that offer information about oral herpes. It’s just a matter of knowing what you are looking for so that you are not getting the wrong information.
Wrong information could cause stress and panic
Finding information is the easy part but if it’s not correct then is causes unnecessary stress and panic. Testing to be discussed with your doctor to diagnose if that is the cause of concern for any sores that you have. In the event that you may have contracted oral herpes, treatment options that are available to ask your doctor about. Are as follows small sample of sores, culture analysis, staining test called Tzanck smear, and so on. These tests will determine if you have contracted oral herpes. This type of herpes can become sever to people with weak immune systems and cause hospitalization as well. People that have weak immune systems need to take the preventative measures with extreme importance.
Timely treatment
This type of herpes is not something to mess around with at all. Due to that if it becomes sever than you may be in trouble that was not necessary. Just as any other illness no one should wait to treat when mild, this stops it from becoming progressively worse. As I am about to mention that I am not a doctor and all things that are mentioned here are not medical advice and should not be taken as such in any way, shape, or form. This information is to give suggestions of where to find information about oral herpes. with suggestions of preventive measures to protect your health and well being so that you do not get oral herpes or pass it on to anyone else.
Some useful tips
You should have a general idea of what you want to know when talking to your doctor. This is to get you all the proper information about treatments and all options that are out there for you or someone that you know. It is better to know and be safe than sorry and not know anything. Hopefully all the information here will help you to understand how serious oral herpes can get. Remember to be safe and stay informed about oral herpes, and then educate the people you know to get the word out.
Read More »
Posted in Herpes Cure, Infected With Herpes
How can you get infected with herpes
October 26, 2015
| No Comments
| Infected With Herpes
Herpes is highly contagious. Here is a list of possibilities to get infected with herpes.
Direct contact – Close contact with an infected area of a person’s skin: Sex does not have to occur. You could simply be ‘spooning’ naked with an infected individual and still contract the herpes virus.
Sexual intercourse – Having sex with an infected person puts your skin in contact with the virus and makes it very likely for it to be transmitted. The more physical the act of sex the more likely transmission can occur. To be more direct, repeated “Bumping and grinding” causes the breaking of blisters and/or the skin to become red and irritated (this makes it more susceptible to infection).
This causes more virus to be shed from the infected person. These factors make the uninfected person more susceptible to contraction. However, do not be fooled, any contact whatsoever can easily transmit the virus.Oral sex – an infected person with a cold sore or fever blister that performs oral sex can transmit the virus to their partners genitals.Highest risk – When someone has an ‘outbreak’ or visible herpes blisters present on their mouth or genitalia region, this is when the most virus is shed and therefore substantially increase the risk of transmission. Remember, someone does NOT have to have visible herpes blisters/lesions/sores to transmit the herpes virus to others.
HSV (which causes genital herpes) is transmitted when the virus comes into contact with mucosal tissue (lining of vagina, lining of male urethra, eyes, mouth) or the broken skin of a susceptible host. Any break in the skin no matter how large or small puts you at a much higher risk of contracting HSV and subsequently herpes. People who have a compromised or weakened immune system (especially HIV/AIDS patients) are at higher risk to contract HSV if they are exposed.
Typically the virus is transmitted by direct contact. This is because the virus dies once it leaves the environment of its host. The virus is highly unlikely to survive in a dry environment at room temperature. However, there have been documented cases of the herpes virus being passed through contaminated surfaces and even underwear (especially if moist/damp). It goes without saying but just as a point of reiteration, it is never a good idea to share someone’s unwashed underwear.
An increasing amount of genital infections are being caused by HSV-1 (recall that HSV-1 typically causes oral herpes). This is due to the rising popularity of oral sex.
Read More »
Posted in Infected With Herpes Tagged How To Get Infected, What Is HSV
Recent Posts
Genital herpes medications – cure herpes outbreaks easy
Herpes Medication- Finding the right one for you
Genital Herpes And Natural Treatment
Herpes Simplex Type One Conditions And Cures
Herpes Symptoms And How is Herpes Diagnosed?
Categories
Diagnosing Herpes
Famous People And Herpes
Herpes Cure
Herpes Medication
Infected With Herpes
Home
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Sitemap
All Rights Reserved 2017 | HerpesSimplex1.net Precious Lite theme by Flythemes