WHO Archives - Auricmedia - Blogman's Wonderland
Auricmedia – Blogman's Wonderland
Search
Primary Menu
Skip to content
About
Privacy Policy
Mind Crimes Band
Music Bio
Discography
Musical history (mp3)
Recommended movies
Downloads (pdf)
Search for:
Tag Archives: WHO
Health / General Awareness
Vaccinations
11/01/2016 Blogman - Blacksmith Of Truth	Leave a comment
Once there was a time when I believed in vaccinations… then I woke-up.
>> Video
Vaccinations
During the past several months as a slew of draconian vaccine bills have been aggressively pushed upon state legislators to legally enforce vaccination against Americans freedom of choice, I have had the opportunity to debate publicly pro-vaccine advocates on a number of occasions. When faced with a barrage of peer-reviewed scientific facts confirming vaccine failures, and its lack of efficacy and safety, representatives of the vaccine establishment will inevitably raise the issue of the eradication of polio and smallpox from the US as case examples of two vaccine miracles.
Yet in neither case, has there been scientifically sound confirmation that the demise of these two infectious diseases were the result of mass population vaccine campaigns.
Furthermore, this horribly simplistic belief that polio and smallpox are exemplary models for all other vaccines is both naïve and dangerous. Vaccinology does not follow a one-size-fits-all theory as the pro-vaccine industry propagates to the public. For any coherent public debate, it is necessary for each vaccine to be critically discerned upon its own terms with respect to its rate of efficacy, the properties of viral infection and immune response, vaccine adverse effects, and the long term risks that may not present symptoms until years after inoculation.
This post is to deconstruct the false claims of polio and smallpox as modern medical success stories and put each in its historical and scientific perspective. In this first part, the legacy of the polio vaccine and its ongoing track record of failure, particularly in developing nations, will be presented.
It is a very dangerous assumption to believe that any new vaccine or drug to fight an infectious disease or life-threatening disease will be safe once released upon an uninformed public. The history of pharmaceutical science is largely a story of failures as well as successes. Numerous drugs over the decades have been approved and found more dangerous than the condition being targeted, but only after hundreds of thousands of people were turned into guinea pigs by the medical establishment. In the case of vaccines, both the first human papilloma vaccine (Gardasil) and Paul Offit’s vaccine for rotavirus (Rotateq) were disasters. Both were fast tracked through the FDA and both failed to live up to their promises.
This scenario of fast tracking unsafe and poorly researched vaccines was certainly the case for one of the first polio vaccines in 1955. In fact the polio vaccine received FDA approval and licensure after two hours of review – the fastest approved drug in the FDA’s history. Known as the Cutter Incident, because the vaccine was manufactured by Cutter Laboratories, within days of vaccination, 40,000 children were left with polio, 200 with severe paralysis and ten deaths. Shortly thereafter the vaccine was quickly withdrawn from circulation and abandoned.
The CDC’s website still promulgates a blatant untruth that the Salk vaccine was a modern medical success. To the contrary, officials at the National Institutes of Health were convinced that the vaccine was contributing to a rise in polio and paralysis cases in the 1950s. In 1957 Edward McBean documented in his book The Poisoned Needle that government officials stated the vaccine was “worthless as a preventive and dangerous to take.” Some states such as Idaho where several people died after receiving the Salk vaccine, wanted to hold the vaccine makers legally liable.
Dr. Salk himself testified in 1976 that his live virus vaccine, which continued to be distributed in the US until 2000, was the “principal if not sole cause” of all polio cases in the US since 1961. However, after much lobbying and political leveraging, private industry seduced the US Public Health Service to proclaim the vaccine safe. Although this occurred in the 1950s, this same private industry game plan to coerce and buy off government health agencies has become epidemic with practically every vaccine brought to market during the past 50 years.
Today, US authorities proudly claim the nation is polio-free. Medical authorities and advocates of mass vaccination raise the polio vaccine as an example of a vaccine that eradicated a virus and proof of the unfounded “herd immune theory”. Dr. Suzanne Humphries, a nephrologist and one of today’s most outspoken medical critics against vaccines has documented thoroughly that polio’s disappearance was actually a game of smoke and mirrors.By 1961, the polio vaccine should have been ruled a dismal failure and abandoned since more people were being paralyzed from the vaccines than wild poliovirus infection.
The 1950s mark a decade of remarkable medical achievement; it also marked a period of high scientific naiveté and enthusiastic idealism. Paralysis was not only associated with polio infections, but also a wide variety of other biologic and toxic agents: aseptic meningitis, Coxsackie and Echo viruses, arsenic, DDT and other industrial chemical toxins indiscriminately released upon millions of Americans. In addition, paralytic conditions were given a variety of names in an attempt to distinguish them, although some, such paralysis due to polio, aseptic meningitis and Coxsackie, were indistinguishable.
One of the more devious names was Acute Flaccid Paralysis (AFP), a class of paralyses indistinguishable from the paralysis occurring in thousands within the vaccinated population. It was therefore incumbent upon health authorities to transfer polio vaccine-related injuries to non-poliovirus causation in order to salvage vaccination campaigns and relieve public fears. Dr. Humphries and her colleagues have noted a direct relationship between the increase in AFP through 2011 and government claims of declining polio infectious rates parallel with increased vaccination.
One of the largest and most devious medical scandals in the history of American medicine also concerns the polio vaccine. In an excellent history about the polio vaccine, Neil Miller shares the story of Dr. Bernice Eddy, a scientist at the NIH who in 1959 “discovered that the polio vaccines being administered throughout the world contained an infectious agent capable of causing cancer.” As the story is told, her attempts to warn federal officials resulted in the removal of her laboratory and being demoted at the agency. It was only later that one of the nation’s most famous vaccine developers, Maurice Hilleman at Merck identified the agent as a cancer causing monkey virus, SV40, common in almost all rhesus monkeys being used to culture the polio virus for the vaccine.
This contaminant virus was found in all samples of the Sabin oral polio vaccine tested. The virus was also being found in Salk’s killed polio injectable vaccine as well. No one knows for certain how many American’s received SV40 contaminated vaccines, but some estimates put the figure as high as 100 million people. That was greater than half the US population in 1963 when the vaccine was removed from the market.
Many Americans today, and even more around the world, continue to be threatened and suffer from the legacy of this lethal vaccine. Among some of the more alarming discoveries since the discovery of the SV40 in Salk’s and Sabin’s vaccines and its carcinogenic footprint in millions of Americans today are:
Loyola University Medical Center identified SV40 in 38% of bone cancer cases
58% of mesothelioma cases, a life threatening lung cancer, had SV40 present
A later analysis of a large national cancer database found mesotheliomas were 178% higher among those who received the polio vaccines
A study published in Cancer Research found SV40 in 23 percent of blood samples taken and 45% of semen samples studied, thereby confirming that the monkey virus can be sexually transmitted.
Osteosarcomas are 10 times higher in states where the polio vaccine contaminated with SV40 was most used, particularly throughout the Northeastern states
Two 1988 studies published in the New England Journal of Medicine discovered that SV40 can be passed on to infants whose mother’s received the SV40 tainted vaccines. Those children later had a 13 times greater rate of brain tumors compared to children whose mothers did not receive the polio vaccines. This would also explain why these childrens’ tumors contained the SV40 virus present, even though the children themselves did not receive the vaccine.
There is a very large body of scientific literature detailing the catastrophic consequences of SV40 virus infection. As of 2001, Neil Miller counted 62 peer-reviewed studies confirming the presence of SV40 in a variety of human tissues and different carcinomas. Although the killed polio vaccines administered in developed countries no longer contain the SV40 virus, the oral vaccine continues to be the vaccine of choice in poor developing countries because its cost-effectiveness to manufacture. Safety is clearly not a priority of the drug companies, health agencies and bureaucratic organizations that push the vaccine on impoverished children.
After almost sixty years of silence and a federally sanctioned cover up, the CDC finally admitted several years ago that the Salk and Sabin vaccines indeed were contaminated with the carcinogenic SV40 monkey virus.
However, SV40 is not the only contaminate parents should be worried about. As with other vaccines, such as measles, mumps, influenza, smallpox and others, the viral component of the vaccine continues to be cultured in animal cell medium. This medium can contain monkey kidney cells, newborn calf serum, bovine extract and more recently clostridium tetani, the causative agent for tetanus infection.
All animal tissue mediums can carry known and unknown pathogenic viruses, bacterial genetic residues, and foreign DNA fragments that pose countless potential health risks. Based upon transcripts of CDC meetings on biological safety, the late medical investigative reporter, Janine Roberts, noted that vaccine makers and government health officials admit they have no way to prevent dangerous carcinogenic and autoimmune causative genetic material from being injected into an infant. Among the unwanted genetic material that might be found in vaccines today are: cancer-causing oncogenes, bird leukemia virus, equine arthritic virus, prions (a protein responsible for Mad Cow Disease and other life threatening illnesses), enzyme reverse transcriptase (a biological marker associated with HIV infection), and a multitude of extraneous DNA fragments and contaminates that escape filtration during vaccine preparation.
The CDC acknowledges that it is impossible to remove all foreign genetic and viral material from vaccines. As Janine Roberts noted, the science behind the manufacture of vaccines is extraordinarily primitive. Therefore, the CDC sets limits for how much genetic contamination by weight is permitted in a vaccine, and the agency over the years continues to increase the threshold.
Amidst the polio vaccine debacle and mounds of scientific literature confirming the vaccines’ i failure, US health agencies and the most ardent proponents of vaccines, such as Paul Offit and Bill Gates, retreat into the protected cloisters of medical denialism and continue to spew folktales of polio vaccines’ success.
The polio vaccines on the market have not improved very much during the past 60 years. They continue to rely upon primitive manufacturing technology and animal tissue culturing. In recent years Bill Gates’ polio eradication campaigns in India have been dismal failures. Touted as one of the “most expensive public health campaigns in history” according to Bloomberg Business, as many as 15 doses of oral polio vaccine failed to immunize the poorest of Indian children. Severe gastrointestinal damage due to contaminated water and wretched sanitation conditions have made the vaccine ineffective. Similar cases have been reported with the rotavirus and cholera vaccine failures in Brazil, Peru and Bangladesh. According to epidemiologist Nicholas Grassly at Imperial College London, “ There is increasing evidence that oral polio failure is the result of exposure to other gut infections.”
There is another even more frightening consequence of Gates’ vaccine boondoggle launched upon rural India in 2011. This particular polio vaccine contains an increased dosage of the polio virus. In the April-June 2012 issue of the Indian Journal of Medical Ethics, a paper reported the incidence of 47,500 new cases of what is being termed “non-polio acute flaccid paralysis”, or NPAFP, following Gates polio campaign. The following year, there were over 53,500 reported cases. NPAFP is clinically indistinguishable from wild polio paralysis as well as polio vaccine-induced paralysis. The primary difference is that NPAFP is far more fatal.
Physicians at New Delhi’s St. Stephens Hospital analyzed national polio surveillance data and found direct links between the increased dosages of the polio vaccine and rise in NPAFP. Coincidentally, the two states with the highest number of cases, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, are also the two states with the worst water contamination, poverty and highest rates of gastrointestinal diseases reported by Bloomberg. As early as 1948, during a particularly terrible polio outbreak in the US, Dr Benjamin Sandler at Oteen Veterans’ Hospital observed the relationship between polio infection, malnutrition and poor diets relying heavily on starches. According to nutrition data, white rice, the primary daily food staple among poorer Indians, has the highest starch content among all foods.
Despite this crisis, in January 2014, Bill Gates, the WHO and the Indian government announced India is today a polio-free nation. Another sleight of hand performance of the polio vaccine’s magical act.
The case of India, and subsequent cases in other developing nations, scientifically supports a claim vaccine opponents have stated for decades; that is, improving sanitation, providing clean water, healthy food, and the means for better hygiene practices are the safest and most efficacious measures for fighting infectious disease. According to statistics compiled by Neil Miller, Director of ThinkTwice Global Vaccine Institute, the polio death rate had declined by 47% from 1923 to when the vaccine was introduced in 1953. In the UK, the rate declined 55% and similar rates were observed in other European countries.
Many historians of science, such as Robert Johnson at the University of Illinois, agree that the decrease in polio and other infectious diseases during the first half of the twentieth century were largely the result of concerted national public health efforts to improve sanitation and public water systems, crowded factory conditions, better hygienic food processing, and new advances in medicine and health care. Relying upon the unfounded myth that vaccines are a magic bullet to protect a population suffering from extreme conditions of poverty, while failing to improve these populations’ living standards, is a no-win scenario. Vaccines will continue to fail and further endanger the millions of children’s health with severely impaired immune systems with high levels of vaccines’ infectious agents and other toxic ingredients.
A further question that has arisen in recent years is whether or not a new more deadly polio virus has begun to merge as a result of over-vaccination. Last year, researchers at the University of Bonn isolated a new strain of polio virus that evades vaccine protection. During a 2010 polio outbreak in a vaccinated region of the Congo, there were 445 cases of polio paralysis and 209 deaths. This is only the most recent report of polio virus strains’ mutation that calls the entire medical edifice of the vaccine’s efficacy into question.
One of the first discoveries of the vaccine contributing to the rise of new polio strains was reported by the Institut Pasteur in 1993. Dr. Crainic at the Institut proved that if you vaccine a person with 3 strains of poliovirus, a fourth strain will emerge and therefore the vaccine itself is contributing to recombinant activity between strains.
Moreover, since the poliovirus is excreted through a persons GI system, it is commonly present in sewage and then water sources. In 200, Japanese scientists discovered a new infectious polio strain in rivers and sewage near Tokyo. After genetic sequencing, the novel mutation was able to be traced back to the polio vaccine. Additional vaccine-derived polio strains have also been identified in Egypt, Haiti and the Dominican Republic.
Therefore, the emergence of new polio strains due to over-vaccination is predictable. Similar developments are being discovered with a new pertussis strain that evades the current DPT vaccines. For this reason, there has been an increase in whooping cough outbreaks among fully vaccinated children. Influenza viruses regularly mutate and evade current flu vaccines. The measles vaccine is becoming less and less effective, and again measles outbreaks are occurring among some of the most highly vaccinated populations.
As with the failure of antibiotics because of their over-reliance to fight infections, researchers are now more readily willing to entertain the likelihood that massive vaccination campaigns are contributing to the emergence of new, more deadly viral strains impervious to current vaccines.
Currently, federal agencies review the vaccine science, reinterpret the evidence as it sees fit, and are not held accountable for its misinformation and blatant denialism that threatens the health of countless children at the cost of tens of billions of dollars. Vaccine policies are driven by committees that govern vaccine scheduling and everyone is biased with deep conflict of interests with the private vaccine makers. Even if a person were to make the wild assumption that polio vaccines were responsible for the eradication of polio infection in the US, what has been the trade off? According to the American Cancer Society, in 2013 over 1.6 million Americans will be diagnosed with cancer. Twenty-four million Americans have autoimmune diseases. How many of these may be related to the polio and other vaccines? As we have detailed, In the case of the polio vaccine the evidence is extremely high that an infectious disease, believe to have been eliminated from the US, continues ravage the lives of polio vaccine recipients. Nevertheless it can no longer be disputed that the polio vaccine’s devastating aftermath raises a serious question that American health officials and vaccine companies are fearful to have answered.
Right now they “right” the papers, interpret them and are not held accountable if they are wrong. Policies driven by committees governing scheduling and all biased with conflict of interest.
Source
Read more from Auricmedia:
[carousel-horizontal-posts-content-slider]
General awarenessHealthRick HeskeyVaccinesWHO
Forbidden knowledge, Man-made diseases
AIDS & Ebola, The Man-Made Creation
13/10/2015 Blogman - Blacksmith Of Truth	Leave a comment
Always thought this would be the case, but I have never posted anything about it so here we go again… when they just want to destroy us:
AIDS & Ebola, The Man-Made Creation
Why was AIDS originally known as “The Gay Plague” in America? Is AIDS merely a freak accident of nature caused from an African green monkey virus? Or is AIDS a government-sponsored genocide program that seeded a laboratory virus into select populations for political and social purposes?
Is it possible to create pathogenic viruses by genetic engineering? Scientific arguments have been made to support various theories of an artificial origin of AIDS, though these arguments have been suppressed in both the mainstream press and in scientific literature.
The AIDS pandemic started as a direct result of genetic experimentation and military madness. The most damning evidence that AIDS was man-made comes from the Department of Defense (DOD) Appropriations Hearings for 1969 wherein Pentagon officials, namely a one Dr. MacArthur requested an AIDS-like virus, and biowarfare labs dutifully provided a virus which would destroy the human immune response. This genetically-engineered germ would be very different from any previous microbe known to mankind.
Interestingly, the above Hearings on “Synthetic Biological Agents” occurred the same year as the famous Stonewall Riot that won freedom and political clout for the gay community! Neither the government nor the press nor the scientific community has made any effort to bring the above facts to the attention of the public.
Enter the heroic patriots!! There are tireless physicians who have spent years researching and documenting the exhaustive evidence that proves conclusively that HIV/AIDS is in fact biological (germ) warfare experimentation. Whereas both our derelict politicians and mainstream media continue to fail us regarding this most tremendous story of our time! The heroic physicians introduced on this page are the true “saviors” if you will, who alone have exposed the government’s lies and devious smokescreens contrived to conceal an event that is easily the greatest mass murder in world history!! Those who control, manipulate, and censor the major media, are aware of the political and social implications of the AIDS biowarfare story. The reason for AIDS disinformation is obvious: to cover up the man-made origin of this disease. Americans have been duped!!
In his well known report WHO MURDERED AFRICA, Dr. William Campbell Douglass, M.D., wrote that HIV was finally produced (genetically engineered) in 1974, after having been PREDICTED and REQUESTED! He tells us that the AIDS virus by the WHO (World Health Organization), was not just a diabolical scientific exercise that got out of hand. It was a cold-blooded successful attempt to create a killer virus which was then used in a successful experiment in Africa. African AIDS was the result of the smallpox eradication vaccine program conducted by the World Health Organization during the 1970s. It was not an accident. It was deliberate! It is more than hypothetical hyperbole to conclude that our government has conducted biowarfare on Black Africa. It is fact.
For decades depopulation has been the highest long-range priority of US foreign policy towards the Third World. It was classified – it was a secret. “Reduction of the rate of population in these States is a matter of vital US national security.” [ National Security Memorandum, Henry Kissinger ] Viruses cannot jump species unless they are specifically engineered to do so. It is also scientific fact that the AIDS virus bears no resemblance whatsoever to any virus ever found in a green monkey or chimpanzee, but does bear a total resemblance to cow virus and sheep virus, which have been bonded together to create a hybrid virus. The only possible way these two different species of virus could bond together would be from deliberate laboratory manipulation, and then further engineered to make the jump into a human system. HIV is the synthetic biological agent requested by the United States Government to accomplish a hidden Federal program.
The National Institute of Health’s Special Virus Cancer Program (SVCP) is that said hidden Federal program. To attempt to give a comprehensive listing of the old and new documented animal cancer experiments behind the laboratory origin of HIV would fill up this website. Disbelievers and denialists are urged to open their minds. We are dealing here with a worldwide covert genocidal holocaust of unprecedented proportions.
Dr. Robert Strecker is on record saying that science’s new supergerm HIV (this perversion of science), had been worked on being created for 30 to 40 years, and because it was engineered at Ft. Detrick, MD, obviously his claim holds that it was specifically designed as a weapon of mass destruction. As bizarre as it may seem, there are connections between the U.S. Army’s Fort Detrick biowarfare lab and the National Cancer Institute, where Robert Gallo and other leading AIDS researchers worked. (See Emerging Viruses, AIDS and Ebola, by Leonard Horowitz.) The Army’s DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL WARFARE already has a well-documented tradition of EXPERIMENTATION ON HUMAN BEINGS. And nowhere has homophobia been more blatant or more vicious than in the military. The question arises, why would any homosexual want to serve in the military? Since the beginning of recorded history there has never been a group of people so universally hated and despised as homosexuals. And especially by the Pentagon! What happened in 1978 and beyond to cause AIDS to burst upon the scene and devastate the homosexual segment of the American population?
AIDS in America clearly traces back to the U.S. Federal government’s infamous enterprise of deceit, the hepatitis B experiments performed on thousands of gay volunteers between the years 1978-1981. New York City (in 1083 gay men), San Francisco (in 7000 gay men). The experiment began in Manhattan in November 1978, when over 1,000 homosexuals and bisexuals were injected with the experimental vaccine. Dr. Wolf Szmuness’ experimental hepatitis B vaccine was manufactured by the National Institute of Health (NIH). Also taking part in the study were the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) in Atlanta, the National Institute of Alergy and Infectious Diseases, and big drug companies such as Merck, Sharp & Dohme, and Abbott Laboratories.
To be eligible for the experiment the men had to be young, healthy, promiscuous (emphasis added), and under the age of 40. For statistical purposes — gays were set up — the government tested and interviewed the most promiscuous gays — those signed up in VD clinics for example, and then made the statistics fit the entire gay community. Szmuness had no trouble rounding up gays who were willing to be guinea pigs in a vaccine program that offered health benefits for themselves and their community. Most of the men in the experiment were white. Three months after the experiment began at the New York City Blood Center, the first AIDS case was discovered in a young white Manhattan gay. Beginning in March, 1980, similar vaccine experiments took place in Los Angeles, San Francisco, St. Louis, Denver and Chicago. In the fall of 1980, the first West Coast case of AIDS was reported in a young white gay man from San Francisco.
To this day the New York City Blood Center refuse to release their data on the AIDS deaths following that experiment! The details of the experiment, and its effect on the health of these men, are contained in the records of the trials. However, since 1984, when 64% of the men who got the vaccine already had full-blown AIDS, no additional reports have been released (Waves Forest, “Designer Diseases”, Open Road, Fall 1988, p.3). The U.S. Department of Justice is keeping this incriminating information “classified” and “unavailable” for public research and investigation.
The definitive report of this study can be found in two books by Dr. Alan Cantwell, AIDS and the DOCTORS of DEATH and QUEER BLOOD. Those American gays never realized they were the victims of a secret biomedical plot directed against them. The more one studies the hepatitis B experiment, the more the connections to biological warfare and genocide become apparent. To those perceptive enough to discern it, the mass deaths of homosexuals from AIDS was similar to the mass deaths of Jews in the Holocaust!
With the publication of And The Band Played On in 1987, the media became obsessed with author Randy Shilts’ “Patient Zero” story. A Canadian airline steward named Gaeton Dugas is portrayed as the promiscuous gay man “who brought the AIDS virus from Paris and ignited the epidemic in North America.” What Shilts probably did not know is that when Dugas was diagnosed with AIDS in 1980, over twenty percent of the Manhattan gays in the hepatitis B experiment were HIV positive. This twenty percent infection rate was discovered after the HIV blood test became available in 1985, and after the men’s stored blood at the New York Blood Center was retested for HIV antibodies (JAMA, Vol. 255, pp. 2167-2172, 1986).
Remarkably, these gay men had the highest recorded incidence of HIV anywhere in the world for that time! Even in African populations, where AIDS had been theorized to exist for millennia, there were never reports of such a high incidence of HIV in 1980. The media continue to promote ludicrous propaganda about the origin of AIDS, always avoiding discussion of the idea that HIV came out of a laboratory, and always pointing the finger to Africa.
Dr. Robert B. Strecker, M.D.,Ph.D., was the first AIDS whistleblower, and Lorimar Pictures has bought the screen rights to this most brilliant and courageous doctor’s life story.
Nothing less than a Congressional hearing and investigation that may lead to a full world conference in the United Nations is needed to clarify and defuse the alleged mentally deranged plan of world depopulation through genetically engineered bio-weapons and prevent world panic! Now if silence is complicity, then the American mainstream press IS libel for its continuing, ongoing silence in the face of this diabolic world genocide encompassing the decimation of third world countries for purposes of population control.
The CIA’s want and need for an offensive biological agent to stem the African birth rate is a matter of record documented over 50 years ago. The American people have the right to know and deserve a dialogue on this global genocide of Nuremburg gravity! The massive government cover up and disinformation campaign is expected to escalate (witness the proliferation of certain conspicuous books). Dr. Leonard Horowitz is building a grass roots activist movement to finally expose this great crime against humanity, and to hopefully prevent future bio-attacks against gays and other targeted groups with “ethno-specific” viruses.
The Genome Project makes this technology a very plausible reality for concern. During the late 1950’s, the 60’s, the 70’s, and the early 80’s, scientists and policy makers in the U.S. believed there was a population explosion of peoples who they considered inferior and or undesirable. This is historically the very essence of the intolerant and genocidal mindset. The political consequences for humanity can be disastrous if the new genetic technology is used for evil purposes. The cancer virologists and the genetic engineers are the new masters of life and death on the planet.
Physician/scientist, cancer/AIDS researcher, Dr. Alan R. Cantwell’s AIDS biowarfare books are his classic AIDS AND THE DOCTORS OF DEATH (suppressed at the Fifth International AIDS Conference at Montreal, Canada), and the Benjamin Franklin Award winning sequel, QUEER BLOOD:The Secret AIDS Genocide Plot. 1-800-431-1579. Dr. Cantwell is also author of the revolutionary THE CANCER MICROBE. It is a continuing tragedy that microbiologists, pathologists, oncologists, dermatologists, and other physicians and researchers are not willing to investigate the microbe of cancer. Knowledge of this cancer germ has been suppressed by a greedy and arrogant scientific establishment that does not really want to find a cause and a cure for cancer because it is more lucrative to continue the “search.” Until this infectious agent is recognized, it is doubtful that medical science will ever achieve an effective treatment for AIDS and cancer.
“In the face of a lethal disease, journalists and media editors have been frightened to contradict the conventional wisdom being put across by the scientists. There has been no serious attempt at investigative journalism into the wealth of scientific scandals surrounding AIDS.” – Dr. John Seale.
“We have more evidence on the man-made nature of the AIDS virus than the State of California has on some death-row prisoners,” says Jack Carpenter, the marketing associate of Dr.Robert Strecker and Dr.Alan Cantwell.
Blaming Gays, Blacks, and Chimps for AIDS.
Since the beginning of the AIDS epidemic there have been persistent rumors that the disease was man-made, and that HIV was deliberately “introduced” into the American gay and the African black populations as a germ warfare experiment. This so-called conspiracy theory was quickly squelched by virologists and molecular biolologists, who blamed primates in the African bush and human sexuality for the introduction and spread of HIV.
In the fall of 1986 the Soviets shocked the world by claiming that HIV was secretly developed at Fort Detrick, the U.S. Army’s biological warfare unit. Although the claim was dismissed as “infectious propaganda”, Russian scientists had worked hand in hand with biological warfare scientists in the transfer of viruses and virus-infected tissue into various non-human primates (monkeys, apes, chimps) during the 1970s before AIDS appeared. With improved international relationships, the Russian accusation vanished.
Although evidence supporting the man-made theory has never been mentioned in the major U.S. media, the theory continues to be ridiculed. For example, in the San Francisco Chronicle,( “Quest for the Origin of AIDS”, January 14, 2001), William Carlsen writes: “In the early years of the AIDS epidemic, theories attempting to explain the origin of the disease ranged from the comic to the bizarre: a deadly germ escaped from a secret CIA laboratory; God sent the plague down to punish homosexuals and drug addicts; it came from outer space, riding on the tail of a comet.”
AIDS certainly did not come from the hand of God or outer space. However, there is ample evidence to suspect the hand of man in the outbreak of AIDS that first began in the late 1970s in New York City.
Creating AIDS in animals before the epidemic
Lost in the history of AIDS is evidence pointing to HIV as a virus whose origin traces back to animal cancer retrovirus experimentation in the “pre-AIDS” years of the 1960s and 70s. Evidence linking the introduction of HIV into gays and blacks via vaccine experiments and programs in the late 1970s has been totally ignored in favor of the politically correct theory claiming that HIV originated in chimpanzees in the African rain forest, and that HIV “jumped species” into the African population around 1930 or even earlier.
Conveniently overlooked is the series of outbreaks of AIDS-like epidemics that broke out in U.S. primate centers, beginning in 1969. A decade before AIDS, the first of five recorded epidemics of “simian AIDS” erupted in a colony of stump-tailed macaques housed in a primate lab at Davis, California. Most of the macaques died. Two types of primate immunodeficiency viruses were eventually discovered as the cause. A few silently infected monkeys transferred to the primate colony at Yerkes in Atlanta subsequently died of simian AIDS in the late 1980s. Veterinarians claim the origin of the simian AIDS outbreak is unknown. However, one obvious possibility is the experimental transfer of viruses between various primate species, which is common practice in animal laboratories.
In 1974 veterinarians actually created an AIDS-like disease when newborn chimps were removed from their mothers and weaned exclusively on virus-infected milk from cows infected with “bovine C-type virus.” Within a year the chimps died of leukemia and pneumocystis pneumonia (the “gay pneumonia” of AIDS). Both diseases had never been observed in chimps before this virus-transfer experiment.
Also downplayed is the laboratory creation of feline leukemia and “cat AIDS” by the transfer of HIV-like cat retroviruses in the mid-1970s. These experiments were conducted at Harvard by Myron (Max) Essex, later to become a famous AIDS researcher. All this man-made creation of AIDS in laboratory animals directly preceded the “mysterious” 1979 introduction of HIV into gay men, the most hated minority in America.
Nowadays, scientists hunt for “ancestor” viruses of HIV in chimps in the African wild and ignore all the immunosuppressive viruses that were created in virus laboratories shortly before AIDS. No consideration is given to any of these lab viruses as possible man-made ancestors of the many “strains” of HIV (and HIV-2) that jumped species to produce AIDS in humans.
The gay experiments that preceded AIDS (1978-1981)
Scientists also discount any connection between the official outbreak of AIDS in 1981 and the experimental hepatitis B vaccine program (1978-1981) at the New York Blood Center in Manhattan that used gays as guinea pigs shortly before the epidemic. Curiously, the exact origin of AIDS in the United States remains unstudied. Health authorities simply blame promiscuous gay men, but never adequately explain how a black heterosexual African disease could have transformed itself exclusively into a white young gay male disease in Manhattan.
Researchers claim HIV incubated in Africa for more that a half century until AIDS broke out there in 1982. However, in the U.S. there was no incubation period for gay men. As soon as homosexuals signed up as guinea pigs for government-sponsored hepatitis B vaccine experiments, they began to die with a strange virus of unknown origin. The hepatitis B experiments began in Manhattan in the fall of 1978; the first few cases of AIDS (all young gays from Manhattan) were reported to the CDC in 1979.
Scientists have also failed to explain how a brand new herpes virus was also introduced exclusively into gays, along with HIV, in the late 1970s. This herpes virus is now believed to be the cause of Kaposi’s sarcoma, the so-called “gay cancer” of AIDS. Before AIDS, Kaposi’s sarcoma was never seen in healthy young men. Identified a decade after HIV, in 1994, this KS virus is closely related to a primate cancer-causing herpes virus extensively studied and transferred in animal laboratories in the decade before AIDS.
Also downplayed to the public is a new microbe (Mycoplasma penetrans), also of unknown origin, that was introduced into homosexuals, along with HIV and the new herpes virus. Thus, not one but three new infectious agents were inexplicably transferred into the gay population at the start of the epidemic (HIV, the herpes KS virus, and M.penetrans).
In his book, Virus [2000], Luc Montagnier (the French virologist who co-discovered HIV) blames promiscuous American gay tourists for bringing this new mycoplasma to Africa, and for bringing back HIV. He provides no evidence for this homophobic theory. Nor does he mention the various mycoplasmas that were passed around in the 1970s in scientific labs, and the fact that these microbes were frequent contaminants in virus cultures and vaccines.
Why are all these simultaneous introductions of new infectious agents into gay men ignored by scientists? Surely a credible explanation would be important in determining the origin of HIV and AIDS.
Why are scientists so opposed to the man-made theory? And why do they believe so passionately in the chimp theory? One explanation might be that scientists don’t want the public to know what happened to the tens of thousands of imported primates who were held captive in laboratories throughout the world in the decade before AIDS.
The forgotten Special Virus Cancer Program (1964-1977)
Rarely mentioned by AIDS scientists and media reporters is the fact that surgeons have been transplanting chimpanzee parts (and chimp viruses) into people for decades. When Keith Reemtsma died in June 2000, at age 74, he was hailed as a pioneer in cross-species organ transplants (now known as xenotransplantation). By 1964 he had already placed six chimpanzee kidneys into six patients. All his patients died, but eventually Reemtsma succeeded in many successful human-to-human organ transplants.
Much more likely to have spread primate (chimp and monkey) viruses to human beings is the largely forgotten Special Virus Cancer Program (SVCP). This research program was responsible for the development, the production, the seeding, and the deployment of various animal cancer and immunosuppressive AIDS-like viruses and retroviruses. These laboratory created viruses were capable of inducing disease when transferred between animal species and also when transplanted into human cells and tissue.
The SVCP began in 1964 as a government-funded program of the National Cancer Institute (NCI) in Bethesda, Maryland. Originally designed to study leukemia, the program was soon enlarged to study all forms of cancer. The scope of the program was international and included scientists from Japan, Sweden, Italy, the Netherlands, Israel, and Africa. The mission of the SVCP was to collect various human and animal cancers from around the world and to grow large amounts of cancer-causing viruses. As a result, thousands of liters of dangerous man-made viruses were adapted to human cells and shipped around the world to various laboratories. The annual reports of the SVCP contain proof that species jumping of animal viruses was a common occurrence in labs a decade before AIDS.
The SVCP gathered together the nation’s top virologists, biochemists, immunologists, molecular biologists, and epidemiologists, to determine the role of viruses and retroviruses in the production of human cancer. Many of the most prestigious medical institutions were involved in this program. Connected with the SVCP were the most famous future American AIDS scientists, such as Robert Gallo (the co-discoverer of HIV), Max Essex of “cat AIDS” fame, and Peter Duesberg, who claims HIV does not cause AIDS. Gallo and Essex were also the first to promote the widely accepted African green monkey theory of AIDS. This theory was proven erroneous as far back as 1988, but was heavily circulated among AIDS educators and the media until the theory was superceded by the chimp theory in the late 1990s.
Biowarfare research, primate research and the SVCP
Also joining forces with the SVCP at the NCI were the military’s biological warfare researchers. On October 18, 1971, President Richard Nixon announced that the army’s biowarfare laboratories at nearby Fort Detrick, Maryland, would be converted to cancer research. As part of Nixon’s so-called War on Cancer, the military biowarfare unit was retitled the new Frederick Cancer Research Center, and Litton Bionetics was named as the military’s prime contractor for this project.
According to the 1971 SVPC annual report, the primary task of the now jointly connected National Cancer Institute-Frederick Cancer Research Center was “the large scale production of oncogenic (cancer-causing) and suspected oncogenic viruses to meet research needs on a continuing basis.” Special attention was given to primate viruses (the alleged African source of HIV) and “the successful propagation of significant amounts of human candidate viruses.” Candidate viruses were animal or human viruses that might cause human cancers.
For these experiments a steady supply of research animals (monkeys, chimpanzees, mice, and cats) was necessary; and multiple breeding colonies were established for the SVCP. Primates were shipped in from West Africa and Asia for experimentation; and virus-infected animals were shipped out to various labs worldwide.
By 1971, a total of 2,274 primates had been inoculated at Bionetics Research Laboratories, under contract to Fort Detrick. Over 1000 of these monkeys had already died or had been transferred to other primate centers. (Some animals were eventually released back into the wild). By the early 1970s, experimenters had transferred cancer-causing viruses into several species of monkeys, and had also isolated a monkey virus (Herpesvirus saimiri) that would have a close genetic relationship to the new Kaposi’s sarcoma herpes virus that produced the “gay cancer” of AIDS in 1979.
In order to induce primates and other research animals to acquire cancer, their immune system was deliberately suppressed by drugs, radiation, or cancer-causing chemicals or substances. The thymus gland and/or the spleen were removed, and viruses were injected into newborn animals or into the womb of pregnant animals. Some animals were injected with malaria to keep them chronically sick and immunodepressed.
The U.S. is the world’s leading consumer of primates, and 55,000 are used yearly in medical research. Primates (especially newborn and baby chimpanzees) are the most favored lab animals because they are similar biochemically and immunologically to human beings. Humans share 98.4% of their DNA with chimpanzees. Chimps were extensively used by SVCP because there would be no official testing of “candidate” lab viruses on humans.
In the decade before AIDS, Gallo was a project officer of a primate study contracted by Bionetics that pumped cancerous human tissue, as well as a variety of chicken and monkey viruses, into newborn macaques (a small species of monkey that carries a close relative of the KS virus). Recorded in the 1971 SVCP report (NIH-71-2025), Gallo’s project notes state: “Inasmuch as tests for the biological activity of candidate human viruses will not be tested in the human species, it is imperative that another system be developed for these determinations, and subsequently for the evaluation of vaccines or other measures of control. The close phylogenetic relationship of the lower primates to man justifies utilization of these animals for these purposes.”
Researchers at Bionetics injected human and animal cancer material into various species of monkeys to determine the cancer effect. Newborn and irradiated monkeys were injected with blood (“using multiple sites and volumes as large as possible”) taken from various forms of human leukemia. In other studies, tissue cultures infected with various animal viruses were inoculated into primates. How many “new” and “emerging” viruses were created and adapted to human tissue and to various primates is not known. Some primates were released back into the wild carrying lab viruses with them. The possible spread of these lab viruses to other animals in the wild has been ignored by scientists searching for the origin of HIV and its close relatives in African animals.
Cats were also bred for leukemia and sarcoma cancer studies. Germ free colonies of inbred mice were established. Mouse cancer viruses were manipulated to produce resistant and non-resistant strains. These adapted viruses would be employed in the 1980s in human gene replacement experiments. Such experiments utilized a weakened strain of the mouse leukemia virus to infect and “taxi-in” the missing genes to genetically-defective human beings.
The end of the SVCP and the birth of AIDS
By 1977 the SVCP came to an inglorious end. According to Gallo, “Scientifically, the problem was that no one could supply clear evidence of any kind of human tumor virus, not even a DNA virus, and most researchers refused to concede that viruses played any role in human cancers. Politically, the Virus Cancer Program was vulnerable because it attracted a great deal of money and attention and had failed to produce dramatic, visible results.”
Despite all this, the SVCP was the birthplace of genetic engineering, molecular biology, and the human genome project. More than any other program it built up the field of animal retrovirology, which led to the vital understanding of cancer and immunosuppressive retroviruses in humans. As the SVCP was winding down, thousands of gay men were signing up as guinea pigs in government-sponsored hepatitis B vaccine experiments in New York, Los Angeles, and San Francisco. These same cities would soon become the three primary epicenters for the new “gay-related immune deficiency syndrome,” later known as AIDS.
Two years after the termination of the SCVP, the introduction of HIV into gay men (along with a herpes virus and a mycoplasma) miraculously revived retroviral research and made Gallo the most famous scientist in the world. Could virus-contaminated hepatitis vaccines lie at the root of AIDS? In the early 1970s the hepatitis B vaccine was developed in chimpanzees. To this day, some people are fearful about taking the hepatitis B vaccine because of its original connection to gay men and AIDS. Was HIV (and the KS herpes virus and a new mycoplasma) introduced into gays during these vaccine trials when thousands of homosexuals were injected in Manhattan beginning in 1978, and in the West Coast cities in 1980-1981?
As mentioned, the first gay AIDS cases erupted in Manhattan a few months after the gay experiment began at the NY Blood Center. When a blood test for HIV became available in the mid-1980s, the Center’s stored gay blood specimens were reexamined. Most astonishing is the statistically significant fact that 20% of the gay men who volunteered for the hepatitis B experiment in New York were discovered to be HIV-positive in 1980 (a year before the AIDS epidemic became “official” in 1981). This signifies that Manhattan gays in 1980 had the highest incidence of HIV anywhere in the world, including Africa, the supposed birthplace of HIV and AIDS. And epidemic cases in Africa did not appear until 1982.
Although denied by the AIDS establishment, a few researchers are convinced that these vaccine experiments served as the vehicle through which HIV was introduced into the gay population. My own extensive research into the hepatitis B experiments is presented in AIDS and the Doctors of Death: An Inquiry into the Origin of the AIDS Epidemic [1988], and in Queer Blood: The Secret AIDS Genocide Plot [1993]. These books also debunk the preposterous “Patient Zero” story of 1987, which claimed a promiscuous gay Canadian airline steward brought AIDS to America. The highly implausible story was sensationalized in the media and served to further obscure the origin of AIDS in America and blame gay promiscuity.
Even Montagnier is doubtful that the U.S. epidemic could have developed from a single patient. Never mentioned by proponents of the chimp theory is the fact that the New York Blood Center established a chimp virus laboratory in West Africa in 1974. One of the purposes of VILAB II, at the Liberian Institute for Biomedical Research in Robertsfield, Liberia, was to develop the hepatitis B vaccine in chimps. A few years later this vaccine was inoculated into gays at the Center.
Chimps were captured from various parts of West Africa and brought to VILAB. Alfred Prince, Head of virology at the NY Blood Center, has been the director of Vilab for the past 25 years. The lab prides itself by releasing “reha bilitated” chimps back into the wild.
Also closely allied with “pre-AIDS” development of a hepatitis B vaccine is the little publicized primate colony outside New York City called LEMSIP (the Laboratory for Experimental Medicine and Surgery). Until disbanded in 1997, LEMSIP supplied New York area scientists with primates and primate parts for transplantation and virus research.
Founded in 1965, LEMSIP was affiliated with the New York University Medical Center, where the first cases of AIDS-associated Kaposi’s sarcoma were discovered in 1979. Researchers at NYU Medical Center were also heavily involved in the development of the experimental hepatitis B vaccine used in gays; and the Medical Center received government grants and contracts connected with biological warfare research beginning in 1969, according to Leonard Horowitz, author of Emerging Viruses: AIDS and Ebola [1996].
Scientific disinformation and the 1959 HIV-positive blood test from Africa
By predating HIV back to the 1930s, the chimp theory effectively discredits the man-made theory of AIDS, which dates the introduction of HIV to the late 1970s. Only time will tell whether the chimp theory will hold up to further scientific scrutiny.
Conspiracy theorists believe some wildly popular AIDS origin stories in the press reek of scientific disinformation. One example is the Patient Zero story. Another is the media blitz surrounding the English sailor who supposedly contracted AIDS in 1959. This now-disproven story made worldwide headlines in 1990 and obviously served to contradict the underground conspiracy theory (particularly among African-Americans) that AIDS was man-made.
The New York Times (July 24, 1990) declared: “The case also refutes the widely publicized charges made by Soviet officials several years ago that AIDS arose from a virus that had escaped from a laboratory experiment that went awry or was a biological warfare agent. The human retrovirus group to which the AIDS virus belongs was unknown at the time. Nor did scientists then have the genetic engineering techniques needed to create a virus.” Several years later, the case was discovered to be not a case of AIDS because the sailor’s tissue remains were accidentally (or deliberately) contaminated with HIV.
In 1998 the media alerted the public to further evidence that AIDS started in Africa. The proof consisted of an old 1959 stored frozen blood specimen discovered to be HIV-positive. Researchers claimed the tiny amount of serum contained fragments of HIV “closely related” to a virus found in 3 chimpanzees in the African wild and in the frozen remains of a chimp named Marilyn, discovered in a freezer at Fort Detrick.
The 1959 specimen was obtained from a Bantu man living in Kinshasa, the Congo. His name and health status were not recorded. Details of the history and testing of this specimen (later heralded as the “world’s oldest HIV-positive blood sample”) are recorded in The River: A Journey to the Source of HIV and AIDS [1999], by journalist Edward Hooper who theorizes that HIV was introduced into Africans via the polio vaccine programs in the late 1950s. Hooper claims the polio vaccine was prepared using chimp kidney cells contaminated with the ancestor virus of HIV.
When tested for HIV in the mid-1980s, the 1959 blood sample was the only specimen out of 700 stored frozen Congo bloods that tested positive for HIV. Originally collected by Arno Motulsky on a Rockefeller grant, the African sample was one of many sent to the University of Washington in Seattle and used for genetic testing and included in a report, “Population Genetic Studies,” published in 1966. Around 1970, the remaining 672 frozen bloods were flown to Emory University in Atlanta for further genetic tests.
In 1985 the specimens again changed hands, this time for HIV testing by Andre Nahmias, a virologist and animal researcher associated with the Yerkes Primate Center at Emory. The Congo specimens were tested along with 500 other blood specimens taken from blacks living in sub-Saharan Africa between the years 1959 and 1982. Initially over 90% of specimens taken in 1959 tested positive for HIV by the ELISA test. However, these HIV-positive tests were later determined to be false-positive. After the examinations at Emory, the specimens were shipped to Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts, for HIV testing in Max Essex’ lab.
Three specimens initially tested HIV-positive, but finally only the 1959 specimen from the unidentified Bantu man was confirmed HIV- positive. Around the time of these examinations, Essex’s lab was unknowingly contaminated with primate viruses.
In 1986, Essex discovered a new “human” AIDS virus that later proved to be a contaminating monkey virus. The source of the primate virus traced back to a captive monkey at a primate center in nearby Southborough, Massachusetts. This primate contamination at his lab resulted in the erroneous green monkey theory, heavily popularized by Gallo and the media.
Also unpublicized is the little known fact that Gallo’s lab at the National Cancer Institute was plagued with contamination by primate viruses. In 1975 he reported a new human “HL-23” virus that eventually proved to be three contaminating ape primate viruses (gibbon-ape virus, simian sarcoma virus, and baboon endogenous virus). Gallo claims he has no idea how these viruses contaminated his research.
In 1996 Hooper convinced Nahmias to turn over the remaining 1959 specimen to David Ho of Rockefeller University in Manhattan for PCR testing. In 1996 Ho was named Time magazine’s “Man of the Year”, at a time when few people had ever heard of him. Ho is also the director of the Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center, affiliated with Rockefeller University since 1996. The Diamond Center is also now connected with the New York Blood Center, home of the gay vaccine experiments that gave birth to AIDS.
Ho determined the tiny amount of the remaining specimen did not contain live virus, nor was the complete virion of the virus present. Instead, some fragments of the virus (about 15% of the total genome) were tested and presented to the scientific world as the oldest specimen of HIV in the world. Ho’s PCR results cannot be confirmed by independent investigators because the 1959 specimen is now totally used up.
When published in the journal Nature on February 5, 1998 (“An African HIV-1 sequence from 1959 and implications for the origin of the epidemic”), Hooper’s name appeared on the report, along with Ho, Bette Korber, Nahmias, and others, The report was heavily publicized as proof that HIV existed in the African population in 1959.
Although there are no HIV-positive tissue specimens from Africa from the 1960s and 1970s, and no proven cases of AIDS either, Hooper relies heavily on this 1959 test to support his theory that HIV entered the African population via the polio vaccines programs in the late 1950s.
In The River Hooper quickly dismisses the claims of physician Robert Strecker, the first whistle-blower of man-made AIDS, as well as the research in Horowitz’s Emerging Viruses, and in my own books, AIDS & The Doctors of Death, and Queer Blood.
In condemning AIDS biowarfare research, Hooper declares, “Sadly, supporters of the Streckers have continued to peddle their ill-informed and outdated versions of the myth, blaming variously the Soviets, the CIA, the Germans, and the World Health Organization (WHO) well into the nineties.” He dismisses the hepatitis B vaccine connection to AIDS by noting that only two of the 826 gay vaccinees had developed AIDS by 1983. Hooper ignores the fact that by 1981 over 20% of the men in the trials were HIV-positive and that by 1982, over 30% of the men were HIV-positive. He dismisses the World Health Organization’s African smallpox vaccine connection by saying, “there is no reason for either HIV or SIV [simian immunodeficiency virus] to be accidentally present in the vaccine.” Hooper fails to consider the possibility that the vaccines could have been deliberately contaminated with HIV. Hooper has been a United Nations official, but no details of this are included in his book .
Despite his massive research, Hooper seems naïve about the continuing transfer of viruses between various primate species at primate centers. For example, in 1995 he interviewed Preston Marx at LEMSIP. At that time Marx was a representative of David Ho’s organization, the Aaron Diamond Research Center. Hooper writes: “I was shocked by the cavalier way in which tissues and sera from one species had been introduced into other species, long after the risks of cross-species transfer had been highlighted by the SV40 [polio vaccine] debacle, and I was astonished that survivors from troops that had been stricken by mystery illnesses could have been casually sold to other centers, for use in experiments there. Furthermore, this apparent lack of monitoring and central control seemed to be echoed in other fields, like xenotransplantation (the transplanting of organ or cells from one species to another) — and here, of course, the implications were even more frightening.”
By predating his polio vaccine theory back to the late 1950s, Hooper greatly simplified his theory of AIDS origin. He ignored all those animal viruses that were placed into human tissue in the 60s and 70s, and all those dangerous viral creations that were genetically altered for cancer research, vaccine research, and secret biological warfare.
The chimp in the freezer at Fort Detrick
On February 1, 1999 Lawrence K Altman, longtime physician-writer for The New York Times, dutifully reported “the riddle of the origin of the AIDS virus has apparently been solved.” A team of researchers, headed by Beatrice Hahn at the University of Alabama, performed viral studies on three chimps in the African wild and had also studied the frozen remains of a chimp, discovered by accident in a freezer at Fort Detrick. The chimp had tested positive for HIV in 1985. On the basis of all this research, Hahn declared that a common subspecies of chimp (Pan troglodytes troglodytes) was the animal source of the virus “most closely ” related to HIV.
In a media blitz U.S. government scientists presented a phylogenetic ancestral “family tree” of primate viruses (which few people could understand) to prove that HIV was genetically descended from a chimp virus in the African bush. Molecular analysis of virus genetic data, performed by Bette Korber and the supercomputer Nirvana at the Los Alamos National Labor atory in New Mexico, indicated that HIV had jumped species from a chimp to a human in Africa around the year 1930. (Los Alamos is the official home of nuclear bomb-building, alleged Chinese spies, and the laboratory which directed secret human radiation experiments on unsuspecting civilians from the 1940s up to the beginning of the AIDS epidemic.)
Beatrice Hahn theorized that the epidemic started when a hunter cut himself while butchering chimp meat and subsequently became infected. Scientists readily accepted Hahn’s notion that the AIDS virus and its closest relatives jumped species from chimps to humans on multiple occasions, thereby explaining the origin of the three separate subtypes of HIV-1 (M, N, and O), as well as HIV-2.
Chimps in West Africa are hunted for food, as well as for medical experimentation. Young chimps are especially prized for scientific research and are usually caught by shooting their mothers. Many die from stress and inhumane conditions during capture and transport to laboratories and zoos in Western nations.
Due to all this killing, chimps are now an endangered species. During the past century the African chimp population has dropped from two million to less than 150,000. Despite the mass killing of chimps, they are still blamed for causing the worldwide epidemic of AIDS.
Beatrice Hahn is no stranger to primate theories, having worked in Gallo’s lab when he was heavily promoting the green monkey theory in the mid-1980s and the “close relationship” of the monkey virus to HIV. Now Hahn’s virus was claimed to be a closer relative than the contaminating monkey virus in Essex’ lab that formed the basis of the false green monkey theory.
Media journalists paid no attention to these discrepancies. Hahn’s new chimp findings, along with the old 1959 blood specimen, fully convinced the AIDS establishment, and an adoring media, that Africa was indeed the source of HIV and the AIDS epidemic.
The 2000 London Origin of AIDS Conference.
When Hooper’s book appeared in the fall of 1998, molecular scientists quickly used the new chimp virus data to completely discredit Hooper’s polio vaccine theory. AIDS in Africa could not be caused by a virus jumping species in the 50s if it had already jumped species back in the 1930s. Researchers refused to believe scientists could have played any role in the origin of HIV and AIDS.
Hooper bypassed the biowarfare theory by predating HIV back to the 50s. Now scientists bypassed Hooper by dating HIV back several decades earlier. The fact that there was no African epidemic until the early 1980s did not seem pertinent. To make their view official, a small group of scientists proposed an “invitation only” meeting to settle the origin matter once and for all. In October 2000 the Royal Society of London held a two-day conference on the origins of HIV. Obviously, the biowarfare theory of AIDS was not discussed. On the contrary, one professor emphatically declared “all human infectious diseases have an animal origin.” Although there never was a disease like AIDS (until scientists started to flagrantly pass viruses around to repeatedly break the species barrier ), the same professor declared that “natural transfer of these infections is a common event in animal populations.” Using the viral fragments from the 1959 specimen and comparing them with the select viruses contained in the data bank at Los Alamos , Betty Korber refined her computer calculations to establish a likely date of 1940, “with confidence levels extending from 1871 to 1955.” The Rega Institute in Antwerp estimated the transfer could have occurred between 1590 and 1760, with 1675 the most likely date.
Hooper spoke but his views were largely ignored by the molecular biologists. Preston Marx warned about more human diseases caused by viruses emerging from primates, None of the speakers mentioned what happened to the thousands of liters of animal viruses that were passed around the world by the Special Virus Cancer Program in the decade before AIDS.
Instead, the London conferees alerted the public to a new view of medical science, championed by the virologists. The “Last Word” at the conference was that “all human viral infections were initially zoonotic (animal) in origin. Animals will always provide a reservoir for viruses that could threaten human populations in the future.” And the scientists predicted: “There is still a myriad of current unknown viruses in animal populations on land, sea, and air with the potential to cause human disease.” Apparently, none of these viruses were in animal laboratories.
AIDS, cancer, genetic science and covert human medical experimentation.
Although rejected completely by most scientists, the man-made theory of AIDS is a rational explanation for the origin of HIV. This theory is partly based on an awareness of the gene-polluting activities and species jumping virus experiments of irresponsible scientists during the two decades before the epidemic.
In addition, the record clearly shows that scientists and biowarfare scientists experiment secretly on unsuspecting people. Horrific aspects of the Cold War Human Radiation Experiments attest to the fact that covert medical experimentation is not an “X-Files” fantasy or a totally paranoid belief.
It is easy to understand why researchers might want to obscure the man-made origin for AIDS and blame primates. It is now apparent that most of the major researchers promoting the African primate origin of AIDS were connected with the largely secret Special Virus Cancer Program, or are scientists involved in the transfer of viruses in animal research, particularly primate research. From the very beginning of the epidemic, researchers disclaimed any connection between AIDS and cancer, as well as any connection between HIV and animal retrovirus cancer research. In 1984, Gallo originally named HIV a cancer-causing “leukemia/lymphoma” virus. To obscure the cancer connection, the name was immediately changed to “lymphotropic” virus.
My own Kaposi’s sarcoma research, first published in medical journals in 1981, showed “cancer-associated bacteria” as possible infectious agents in “classic” KS tumors. Before HIV was discovered in 1984, additional papers in 1982 and 1983 showed similar cancer bacteria in the enlarged lymph nodes and KS tumors of gay men with “gay cancer” and AIDS. Since the 1950s, cancer-associated bacteria have been linked to viruses, as well as to mycoplasmas. This aspect of cancer research has been suppressed for decades by the cancer establishment. A history of this research and its relevancy to AIDS is the subject of my books, AIDS: The Mystery and the Solution [1984] and The Cancer Microbe: The Hidden Killer in Cancer, AIDS and Other Immune Diseases [1990].
Gallo, in his 1991 book, falsely claims that no infectious agent had ever been found in KS. The refusal of AIDS scientists to recognize cancer microbe research, published in peer reviewed scientific journals, is a further indication that the AIDS establishment seeks to control all aspects of HIV research in such a way as to never connect the origin of AIDS with previous cancer research and covert biological warfare research. This cover-up conceals the possibility that AIDS, in reality, is a new man-made form of infectious and contagious cancer.
Could a small coterie of government scientists concoct a bogus (but scientifically plausible) primate theory of AIDS origin and bamboozle the public to believe it in order to cover-up the truth?
In the 1930s the highly respected German scientific community was entirely transformed by fascist beliefs proclaiming the genetic inferiority of the Jews and the genetic superiority of the German Master Race. This Nazi takeover of science and the media eventually led to the murder of millions in the Holocaust. Could the genetic science surrounding the origin of AIDS obscure a genocidal and world depopulation program of man-made origin?
It is time for the man-made theory of HIV to be examined fairly. Proponents of this theory should not be dismissed as paranoid conspiracy theorists; and AIDS educators should educate themselves about this hidden history of AIDS and its implications for the origin of HIV. How many more species jumping viruses will we have to endure before we question the integrity and the agenda of scientists who still blissfully jump viruses between species in animal laboratories?
Lawrence K. Altman, the Times reporter who in 1999 wrote that the origin of the AIDS virus was solved, recently asked “Where did AIDS come from?” Now seemingly undecided, Altman answers, “We can only guess. Determining the answer would be important because discovering how AIDS came to be an epidemic might prevent a similar catastrophe in the future.” (“The AIDS questions that linger,” January 30, 2001).
It doesn’t take a rocket scientist to figure out how researchers could have created HIV and how they could have transferred the virus to gay and blacks in a covert medical experimentation for genocidal or population control purposes.
The secrecy and scientific disinformation surrounding the Human Radiation Experiments of the Cold War era has taught us how easily government scientists can fool the public on scientific matters. And when it comes to scientific monkey business, researchers know that most people are chumps.
Dr. Cantwell is a retired dermatologist and AIDS and cancer researcher, who has written extensively on the man-made origin of AIDS.
Source
Read more from Auricmedia:
[carousel-horizontal-posts-content-slider]
AIDSEbolaHIVMan-made diseasesRick HeskeyWHO
Follow Us!
Visitor Globe
Twitterfeed
Tweets by @auricmedia_net
Popular Auricmedia posts
Red Ice Creations
Jared Taylor - Banned From Europe - Hour 1
Tim Murdock - If You Are White, You Won't Be Allowed To Be a Nationalist -
Orwell &amp; Goode - Smollett Walks, EU Meme Ban Passed & Facebook Bans
Write Winger - Population Replacement: A Dangerous Conspiracy Theory? - Hour 1
Survive The Jive - The Fascinating Story of Indo-Europeans & Those Who Seek
The Vigilant Citizen
The Meaning of Paul McCartney’s “Who Cares”: It’s About MK ULTRA
A Teen Vogue Video Says: “This Idea That the Body Is Either Male or Female is
Rapper Nipsey Hussle Shot Dead at 33 … And Some Say It’s a Conspiracy
Zara Removes “Suggestive” Photoshoot Featuring a Child Model
Jussie Smollett Case Dismissed: Proof of Elite Corruption
Moon Phase
Third Quarter Moon
The moon is currently in CapricornThe moon is 20 days old
Joe's
Space News Today
CERN Panels
Arto Lauri – Nuclear info
Auricmedia Topics
Auricmedia Topics Select Category Abductions (13) Alien agenda (115) Alien Disclosure (65) Aliens, Reptilians (108) Ancient Aliens (48) Antarctica (2) Anunnaki (20) Archons (20) Area 51 (7) Artifacts (1) auricmedia.net (26) Authors (2) Bilderberg (1) BioAPI (6) Black Goo & AI (9) Brain Hacking (8) Celebrity clones (8) CERN (3) Chemtrails (26) Chipheads (4) Cloned Humans (26) Clones (28) Cloning Center (15) Conspiracies (55) Creatures from beyond (18) Crop Circles (1) DARPA (18) Donald Marshall (40) Doubles (6) Dulce Base (5) DUMBS (4) eBooks (1) Egypt’s Giza Plateau (3) False Flag Operations (2) FBI/CIA (14) Feminism and gay agenda (2) Forbidden geology (5) Forbidden knowledge (55) Forbidden Technology (35) Free Energy (7) Free Information (4) Freemasons (16) Ghosts (4) Giants (12) GMO (1) Gnostics (4) HAARP (7) Health / General Awareness (68) History (4) Hollow Earth (5) Hollywood (5) Hologram reality / Reality Matrix / Glitches In The Matrix (10) Human UFO technology (1) Illuminati (140) Information war (2) Knights Templar (1) Man-made diseases (1) Mandela Effect (2) Matrix (18) Metaphysical Abilities (2) MILABS (11) Military Experiments (16) Military projects (26) Mind Control (51) Mind Crimes (14) MK-ULTRA (25) Morgellons (9) Music (13) Music Industry (5) Mysteries (40) Nanotechnology (10) NASA Coverup / Moon hoax (16) Nazi knowledge & technology (15) Nephilim (16) Nibiru / Planet X (7) NLP Mind Control (7) NSA (6) NWO (112) Organic Robotoids (6) Paranormal (5) Philip K Dick (2) Project Bluebeam (1) Psi & ESP (3) Psych Engineering (5) Remote Viewing / Image Streaming (12) Satanism (26) Secret sites (11) Secret Societies (4) Secret space programs (1) Silenced people (13) Social engineering (2) Soul-Catching Net (3) Space missions (3) Space Weather (2) Spirituality (79) Stargates (8) Subliminal messages (2) Synthetic People (18) Synthetic Telepathy (14) Targeted Individuals (23) Technology (2) Time Travel (26) Titans (1) Transhumanism (29) UFO / Alien / Abduction (11) Uncategorized (15) Underground bases (8) Universe / Sun / Comets (3) Vaccines (6) Vatican (9) Vril (26) Vril droning (19) Weather control (8) Web Bot (1) White genocide (1) World politics (62) World War I (3) World War II (17) World War III (3)
Calendar of Posts
April 2019
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Mar
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30
Auricmedia Archive
▼2019 (3)
April(1)
March(1)
January(1)
►2018 (26)
December(2)
November(1)
September(2)
August(1)
July(3)
June(8)
May(2)
April(1)
March(1)
February(4)
January(1)
►2017 (31)
December(2)
November(1)
September(1)
August(2)
July(3)
June(1)
May(1)
April(4)
March(7)
February(8)
January(1)
▼2016 (55)
December(2)
September(7)
August(1)
June(3)
May(4)
April(11)
March(10)
February(7)
January(10)
►2015 (203)
December(20)
November(12)
October(21)
September(22)
August(10)
July(3)
June(21)
May(18)
April(20)
March(16)
February(20)
January(20)
►2014 (289)
December(21)
November(19)
October(23)
September(19)
August(18)
July(28)
June(23)
May(29)
April(26)
March(27)
February(28)
January(28)
►2013 (170)
December(16)
November(16)
October(18)
September(16)
August(14)
July(18)
June(14)
May(17)
April(22)
March(19)
Tags
Abduction Alien Alien agenda Alien disclosure Aliens, Reptilians Ancient aliens Archons Audio Letter Breaking free of cult programming Celebrity clones Chemtrails CIA clone Clone humans Clones Cloning Centers Cloning factory Cloning Station Conspiracies Cult Donald Marshall Dr. Peter Beter Forbidden knowledge Forbidden technology Freemasons General awareness Health Heavy Metal Illuminati Military projects Mind Control Mind Crimes Music Mysteries Nazi Nephilim New World Order plan Nigel Kerner NWO Reality matrix Reptilians Rick Heskey Satanism Spirituality Time travel Transhumanism UFO Vril Vril droning World politics
Blogman's Wonderland
Return To Top
Copyright © 2019 Auricmedia
Privacy Policy	Proudly powered by WordPress
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.OkNoRead more
Revoke Cookies