What You Need To Know About Reiki – A Mini Guide | Crystals Online
Search products and articles
Go
No items in your basket
Checkout
Home
Crystals
Carvings
Jewellery
Cut & Polished
Dowsing
Natural Crystals
Others
Reduced
Articles
Testimonials
About Us
Glossary of Ailments
Get in Touch
Carvings
Jewellery
Cut & Polished
Dowsing
Natural Crystals
Others
Reduced
Cats, dogs, dolphins, heffalumps we have many gorgeous carved crystal animals
View details
Animals
Crystals eggs can make beautiful ornaments or massage tools.
View details
Eggs
Bring some love into your life with a healing crystal heart.
View details
Hearts
Feel the cool healing goodness of a crystal sphere in the palm of your hand.
View details
Spheres
We have a lovely selection of varying sized healing crystal angels
View details
Angels
Our smiling crystal Buddhas make great gifts for guys or gals
View details
Buddhas
The healing goodness of crystals you can wear on your wrist - or even on both wrists
View details
Bracelets
Beautiful crystal earrings for that special occasion or just every day.
View details
Earrings
Really feel the healing goodness close to your skin with a crystal necklace
View details
Necklaces
Bespoke and day to day crystal pendants for all occasions
View details
Pendants
Ring a ling lings for your fingers and (maybe) your toes
View details
Rings
Polished chunks of gorgeous healing crystal goodness!
View details
Freeforms
Crystal points for healing, grids or decoration
View details
Crystal Points
Crystal goodness shaped to fit perfectly in the palm of your hand
View details
Palm Stones
Powerful and beautiful pyramids to decorate your home
View details
Pyramids
Very strokable and tactile thumb stones, perfect for your pocket
View details
Thumb Stones
Tumbles of all kinds; little pieces of crystal joy!
View details
Tumble Stones
Oracle & Tarot Cards for work or play
View details
Oracle & Tarot Cards
For serious dowsing or just a bit of fun
View details
Pendulums
Wands for healing others or yourself
View details
Wands
Beautiful magical crystal geodes
View details
Geodes
Natural cleansing clusters of all sizes
View details
Clusters
In here you'll find lovely raw, natural chunks of crystal!
View details
Raw Chunks
Crystal Bibles, books and greeting cards
View details
Books & Greeting Cards
Chains and neck cords for pendants or just as they are
View details
Chains & Neck Cords
Gift pouches to complete that perfect present.
View details
Gift Boxes & Pouches
Crystals for in and around your home
View details
In The Home
Incense to burn and holders to hold it!
View details
Incense & Incense Holders
Relaxing and calming music perfect for meditation
View details
Meditation & Relaxation CDs
Home
Articles
What You Need To Know About Reiki – A Mini Guide By Sandra
What You Need To Know About Reiki – A Mini Guide By Sandra
Have you heard about the benefits of Reiki healing and would like to try it for yourself but don’t know where to begin or what to expect? Here’s some useful information to get you started and help you learn what you need to know about Reiki.
The Benefits Of Reiki
Reiki healing has so many benefits – too many to list here. To give you some examples, Reiki is great to help alleviate stress and anxiety, to heal physical complaints and illness, it benefits those suffering from depression, Reiki is also wonderful if used during pregnancy, it can enhance relationships and strengthen spirituality, the list goes on.
Of course the best way to learn more about Reiki healing is to experience it directly. All the reading about the subject will never replace the actual experience of receiving Reiki healing. It is definitely something worth trying.
When choosing a Reiki practitioner, always go with your heart and let it guide you to the right person. Speak with them on the phone or meet in person in advance to discuss your needs and to get a feel for their energy. You want to not only trust the person giving the healing but feel completely safe, nurtured and connected to them. If you’re not feeling it, don’t book a healing. Search around for someone else that you do feel this connection with.
Believe me, they’re out there!
Reiki Training
Reiki practitioners are initiated into Reiki healing by a Reiki Master. Anyone can learn how to become a Reiki practitioner and become attuned to Reiki healing. However, the training must be undertaken with great respect, with an understanding of the responsibility that comes with being a Reiki Practitioner. There should always be a deep desire to help others to heal and to be of service by helping those in need.
Attunement
There are three levels of Reiki attunement. The first level allows students to practice Reiki on themselves first but also on friends and family members. Level two initiates the student into the second Ray of Reiki healing, they also receive the Reiki symbols used together with the healing energy, and they learn to practice professionally as a Reiki practitioner. The final level – Reiki Master attunes the student to the Reiki Master symbol and they can then go on to teach and attune others into the Reiki healing system.
The Principals Of Reiki Are:
Just for today, I will not be angry
Just for today, I will not worry
Just for today, I will be grateful
Just for today, I will do my work honestly
Just for today, I will respect every living thing
How Reiki Works
The healing energy is channeled through the practitioner and directed to the client through the hands. The practitioner can sense the aura or energy field of the client through their hands. In this way, they can get a sense of the energy within the aura and sense if there are any blockages or stuck energy that needs to be cleared. The practitioner will then work to enhance the energy of the client by directing Reiki healing into their field and clearing away or transmuting lower energies that do not serve. A little bit like taking a shower and washing away dirt and grime but on an energetic level!
Reiki Healing Sessions – What To Expect
An average Reiki healing session lasts one hour, although some practitioners offer shorter sessions of thirty minutes or longer sessions up to ninety minutes. In general, the healing works very quickly and extended sessions are not needed. Having said that, it depends on the client and it is always useful to have healing sessions at regular intervals to maintain a healthy, balanced energy system. You wouldn’t take just one shower and feel clean for the rest of the year!
During our day-to-day lives we encounter other people’s energy, our own emotional ups and downs amongst other things and this can lead to imbalances in our energy system. Reiki is a wonderful way to help bring everything back into balance and restore the energy system to its optimal function. Clients often report feeling lighter and less burdened after a Reiki healing session. Everyone experiences Reiki in different ways, some feel strong sensations of heat or coolness and even tingling, while others don’t feel anything in particular but notice a great sense of relaxation and peace.
Many Reiki practitioners like to enhance the healing session by calling in the Angels to help with the healing – known as Angelic Reiki. Crystals are also used to greatly enhance the healing energy. By placing specific crystals on or around the body, the healing properties of the crystals work in tandem with Reiki to provide greater healing and balance. A Reiki crystal healing session can be very powerful and as such often after only fourth minutes the client would have received the same amount of healing as they might have during a regular one-hour Reiki healing.
And Finally…
Most of all, when you do try Reiki healing, go with the intent of enjoying the treatment. This is time for you to relax and unwind, and if your feeling relaxed and at ease you’ll gain much more from the session.
If you want to read more about Reiki check out the Reiki Bible here.
Article by Sandra on 19 April 2016
Recent Articles
December 2018
Crystal Skulls
November 2018
7 Things To Do With Your Crystals
Colour Therapy For Moods And Health
Love & the law of attraction
Cleaning your crystals
Charging your crystals
Crystal Programming for specific use
Crystal Hints For A Healthy Sex Drive And The Menopause
July 2018
Chakras and Yoga By Guest Writer Citrine Sunflower
April 2018
Green Thumbs and Crystals By Guest Writer Citrine Sunflower
Grounding and re-connecting By Guest Writer Citrine Sunflower
January 2018
Happy new year and a bit of Astrology for 2018 By Guest Writer Citrine Sunflower
October 2017
Altering our state of mind using body language By Guest Writer Citrine Sunflower
Reconnect with a walk in nature By Guest Writer Citrine Sunflower
July 2017
Matters of the mind By Guest Writer Citrine Sunflower
April 2017
Spring forwards! By Guest Writer Citrine Sunflower
Crystals and Cancer By Guest Writer Citrine Sunflower
Spring Clean Your Life
March 2017
“Hey Citrine, what is a Crystal?” By Guest Writer Citrine Sunflower
February 2017
Seeing Auras for beginners
Why work with Crystals? It's just a stone! By Guest Writer Citrine Sunflower
October 2016
Energetic Space Clearing By IAYAALIS Kali-Ma'at Eloa
August 2016
Consciously Create A Life That You Love
April 2016
What You Need To Know About Reiki – A Mini Guide By Sandra
The Power Of Affirmations – And How To Use Them
January 2016
Chinese Animal Signs – Which Are You, And What Does That Mean?
November 2015
How To Look After And Store Your Healing Crystals
October 2015
Healing Crystals For Abundance
September 2015
Moldavite – Fakes And Evolution
August 2015
How to create a crystal grid
8 Useful Tips For Helping With Anxiety
Using A Pendulum To Locate Negative Energies….And Then Clear Them!
Crystals for past life healing
April 2015
Our Crystal Ice Melting Experiment!
February 2015
St Valentine's Day
January 2015
Body Language for Confidence
December 2014
Dragons and Feng Sui
November 2014
A recipe for Geodes
August 2014
A simple "Loving Myself" boost to start the day
July 2014
Crystal Forms and meanings
October 2013
Crystals and the Mohs Scale
September 2013
Feng Shui for love, wealth and happiness!
July 2013
Astrological Birthstones (and flowers)
April 2013
How crystals are formed
Crystal Grids for Money/Business success
Choosing a crystal
March 2013
Crystal Healing - how it works
Simple Crystal Grid for Protection and Peace in the Home
February 2013
Invoking Love Ritual
Crystal Grid for Stress Relief
January 2013
Crystal meditation for memory improvement
Sign up to our newsletter
Sign up to our newsletter
Full name:
Email address:
Sign up now
* We will never share your information with any third parties
Home
Get in Touch
Links to some of our friends
Follow us on Google Plus Visit us on Facebook
Trustpilot
All information on our site regarding crystals and their healing properties has been researched from published reference books and from our experience. We do not accept responsibility for the effectiveness of these crystals as crystals may have a different effect on different people. Should you have a medical condition, please consult your GP as crystals are not a replacement for medical treatment. Read more...
Secure Online Payments
Copyright © 2019 Crystals Online. All rights reserved.