Taking vitamin C DOES reduce the risk of a cold – but only if you exercise – Big Wife Health and Diet Blog
Skip to content
Big Wife Health and Diet Blog
Health and Diet Blog
Taking vitamin C DOES reduce the risk of a cold – but only if you exercise
Posted byBig Wife February 15, 2013 February 15, 2013
Follow
Taking vitamin C DOES reduce the risk of a cold – but only if you exercise
Vitamin makes no difference to couch potatoesBut in those who work out, it can HALVE the risk of a cold and help speed up recovery, say Finnish expertsChildren are more responsive to the vitamin than adults
By
Anna Hodgekiss
PUBLISHED:
18:06 GMT, 14 February 2013
|
UPDATED:
18:10 GMT, 14 February 2013
Taking vitamin C to ward off a cold only helps if you exercise regularly, new research suggests.
Finnish researchers have found necking drinks rich in vitamin C – such such as orange juice – makes no difference to couch potatoes.
But in people who work out, vitamin C can halve the risk and even help get rid of the sniffles.
Drinking orange juice won't reduce the risk of a cold – unless you exercise
Scientists from the University of Helsinki embarked on a series of studies involving more than 11,000 people to work out the benefits of Vitamin C, found in many vegetables and fruits, such as oranges, strawberries and kiwis.
They gave groups of volunteers, including Swiss school children, marathon runners, teenage competitive swimmers and Canadian soldiers, a dose of the vitamin and then assessed its impact on their health.
The researchers discovered that it halved the risk of catching a cold among people under short term physical stress, such as exercise.
And male teenage swimmers who caught a cold and were treated with the supplement shook off their illness twice as quickly as boys who didn't take the vitamin.
The researchers also found that children also appear to be more responsive to the vitamin than adults, with a daily one gram dose slashing the average duration of colds in children by 18 per cent and in adults by 8 per cent.
Adults on average only have two or three colds a year, whereas children suffer, on average, half a dozen annually.
Children also appear to be more responsive to the vitamin than adults
The study's authors, Harri Hemild and Elizabeth Chalker, concluded: 'The failure of vitamin C supplementation to reduce the incidence of colds in the general population indicates that routine vitamin C supplementation is not justified, yet vitamin C may be useful for people exposed to brief periods of severe physical exercise.
'Regular supplementation trials have shown that vitamin C reduces the duration of colds, but this was not replicated in the few therapeutic trials that have been carried out.'
Research published last week found that men who take vitamin C supplements every day double their risk of suffering from kidney stones.
The excruciating condition is on the rise – and Swedish researchers say a bi-product of the vitamin may be to blame.
Men who took vitamin C supplements at least once a day had the highest risk of kidney stones, according to research published in the journal JAMA Internal medicine.
Related posts:
Caught a cold? Don¿t bother taking vitamin D – scientists say no evidence supplement will fend of the sniffles
Taking Vitamin D "may reduce the risk of Alzheimer"s disease"
Taking vitamin C every day DOUBLES the risk of painful kidney stones
Washing up, cooking and cleaning can "reduce Alzheimers risk even in those over 80"
Taking multi-vitamin pills "does nothing for our health"
Posted byBig Wife February 15, 2013 February 15, 2013 Posted inHealthTags: benefits, drinks, finnish, helsinki, orange, physical, potatoes, researchers, result, runners, strawberries, swimmers, vegetables, vitamin, volunteers
Post navigation
Previous Post Previous post:
Unborn babies get taste for fruit and vegetables from their mothers
Next Post Next post:
Children with controlling "helicopter parents" are more likely to be depressed
Big Wife Health and Diet Blog, Proudly powered by WordPress.