2012 | HerpesDatingWebsite.org
Herpes Dating Website
Secure and Anonymous Community for People Living with Herpes
PositiveSingles.com - the Best and Largest Anonymous STD Dating Site!
Free Sign Up
STDs
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
What is genital herpes?
Living with Herpes
Top 10 Female Celebrities with Herpes
Pregnant Woman with Herpes
Genital Herpes Symptoms in Men
Herpes Dating Tips
How Do I Tell My Partner I Have Herpes
Herpes Dating Sites Review
Positive Singles
Herpes Success Story
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Know what happen and what you can do.
Living with Herpes
Living with Herpes is the Beginning of Your New Life.
Herpes Dating Tips
Tips for People with Herpes, HIV and STDs.
Herpes Dating Sites Reviews
Find Herpes Love and Support.
Herpes Success Story
Share Your Wonderful Life to People with STDs
Categories
Positive Singles Genital Herpes Symptoms HSV Dating AIDS Anonymous Herpes Dating. Celebrities with Herpes Celebrities with STDs Chlamydia Crabs/Pubic Lice Genital Herpes and Pregnancy Gonorrhea HIV HIV Gay Having a Baby with Herpes.Pregnant with HSV Herpes Dating Herpes Dating Review Herpes Dating Sites Review Herpes Dating Website Herpes Dating. Herpes Gay Herpes Love Herpes Romance. Herpes Success Story Herpes Support Herpes Symptoms in Men Herpes Symptoms in Women Herpes Women Herpes and Pregnant How to tell other I have herpes?Do I have Herpes? Human Papilloma Virus/HPV I have Herpes Living with HSV Living with Herpes Male Genital Herpes Photo Male with Herpes Mycoplasma Genitalium Pictures of Women with Herpes Positive Gay STD Gay. STD sex STDs Scabies Sexually Transmitted Diseases Singles With Herpes Syphilis Trichomoniasis Women with Herpes celebs with herpes famous people with aids famous people with herpes genital herpes hsv cupuid positive singles review positivesingles.com positivesingles.com review std symptoms in women
Powered by Blogger.
Wednesday, December 26, 2012
Herpes Success Story
9:58 PM Herpes Dating, Herpes Dating Website, Herpes Love, Herpes Romance., Herpes Success Story, Herpes Support, Positive Singles 18 comments
Ain't love grand? We love to celebrate the success of our members! We define "success" as anyone who benefits from our site in aspects of marriage, faith, friends, and romance. Herpes Dating Website has helped people living with STDs find one another more than any other places. We're excited and proud of all of our successful couples!
Success story from BeautifulLife (Married)
I met my husband on Positive Singles. We dated long distance for about five months and we both knew that we wanted to spend the rest of our lives together. In August 2009, he flew to New Orleans for some Marine pre-deployment training preparation before he left for Afghanistan and I drive down from Kentucky to see him. He had always said he was going to marry me but I didn't think he was going to right then. He asked me to marry him the first day I got down there and we were married the very next day. The day after we got married, he shipped back to Camp Pendleton. He got two weeks leave to come home to me before his deployment and then he left for the desert for seven months. He has been home since the beginning of June and we could not be happier! I have never been with anyone who loved me for exactly who I am, faults and all. He really is the man of my dreams, as corny as that sounds! Thank you for helping me meet the man I am going to spend the rest of my life with!
— BeautifulLife , Redondo Beach, United States
Soul Mates by the click of a mouse... (Engaged)
I was very skeptical at first and really thought at most I'd find a hook up. After talking via phone, text, and emails for about a month we finally met for the first time. We stayed in the restaurant until well after they closed just talking. After many more dates we moved in together and are currently trying to plan out a wedding and trying for our first child. I've never been in love, never knew true love, until him.
Advice to other members:
Give the guys the benefit of the doubt... when you're face to face is when you really see who they are.
—GvillGrl and jscotty44, Greer, United States
I found someone FANTASTIC here!!!! (Engaged)
I seen Michaels' profile on August 20th and he seemed like a nice normal guy, so I sent him an email. He answered me a couple days later and we talked back and forth for a couple of weeks before we had an opening in our schedules to meet. We met at Il Fornello's for dinner and it was so comfortable that we stayed for hours. Then we went out for coffee until the the coffee house closed and kicked us out.
We continued to chat and email and had our second date on Sept. 5. A movie and dinner. We talked until midnight when I walked him home. We've talked everyday since and we have so much in common (besides our status). We were both looking for someone who would understand what our status meant (and didn't mean). I'm convinced that is going to be a great relationship, and that is why I've left the site.
Thanks for the great service.
— roblinc , Toronto, Canada
Your site is fabulous and keep to the good work (Dating)
I have first corresponded with the Brazilian Lady from the Positive Single site in April 2009.She did come to England not to see me but to work at first and we did still keep in touch. She is working in Walls. She did come to visit me in London last September and i been to see her and from there Love has developed. No plan to get married but plan to live together when she finish her training.
Your site is fabulous and keep to the good work. A thousand thanks.
Christian, London, UK
True Love (Dating)
we now live together. and have truely relized that we love eachother to spit our differences and we always work things out. *MUAH*
—desplay and sassydc419, Bryan, United States
Please visit Herpes Success Stories and STD Inspirational Stories for More.
PositiveSingles.com - Best, Most Trusted & Largest Anonymous STD Dating Site!
Read More
Herpes Dating Sites Reviews
9:57 PM Anonymous Herpes Dating., Herpes Dating Review, Herpes Dating Sites Review, hsv cupuid, HSV Dating, Living with Herpes, Positive Singles 49 comments
At least a quarter of the American population has one form of herpes or another, whether they know it or not. Unfortunately, it is just as prevalent in most countries around the world today. Many people start to give up hope of finding true love and running off into the sunset with that special someone. Actually it is not difficult to find thousands of others living with herpes, in your region and around the world. We have done the digging for you and are here to deliver the goods on many herpes dating sites, so you can find the perfect one for your personality and needs without wasting hours of your own time.
The Largest and Best Online Herpes Dating Site - PositiveSingles.com
650,000+ members and 150,000 daily active members according to the report from SiteLatitude.
500+ blog posts per day. 24,000+ total blogs.
The chat room generates 110,000 instant messages per day.
Unique features: Online STD counselor, STD dating tips, STD inspirational stories and many privacy settings that ensure your privacy.
Visit Positive Singles Now
Best HSV Dating Site - HSVcupid.com
HSV chatroom
HSV dating counselor
HSV treatment stories
STD care location
STD blogs
The Largest Anonymous Herpes Community - Dating After Herpes
What is Herpes.
Sex Life After Herpes.
Herpes During Pregnancy.
Date Other People with Herpes.
Find the one who has herpes at the largest Herpes Group.
Read More
How Do I Tell My Partner I Have Herpes
9:57 PM How to tell other I have herpes?Do I have Herpes?, I have Herpes 29 comments
Generally, genital herpes will not cause any other major health problems if you are, by and large, a healthy person.
However, genital herpes can affect you in ways other than physical health. Concern about outbreaks or of spreading the disease to your partner or your baby may cause you to feel scared, anxious, stressed, and even depressed. Also, depending on how you contracted the disease, you may feel betrayed, angry, and alone. How can you break the news without breaking up?
◆ Pick a comfortable location, where you feel comfortable and the surrounds are familiar.
Ads by Google
Genital Herpes Dating - Join The Largest Herpes Dating Site,Find Match & Support Nearby.
www.HSVcupid.com
◆ Compose your thoughts, and plan what you are going to say in advance. You don't want to be too blunt. She may not take the news so well.
◆ Begin by complimenting her.
◆ Lay it all out there. Tell her that you have an STD. Explain in detail what it is and what it means for your relationship if the two of you decide to have a sexual relationship.
◆ Tell her the ways that she can avoid getting it from you, so that she has an understanding that things can still work for both of you. If you are in an advanced, adult relationship, you will probably also need to be ready to allay her anxieties about having children. Know your facts on this ground rather than making anything up; have the information already. Think of options, such as adoption, if this causes an issue.
◆ And really when it comes down to it... You need to speak with someone that is going through the same thing as you. If you do not have a close doctor or partner to share and discuss this with, you are likely to find additional advice through an online Support Group.
Tips
Though you may be very familiar with your surroundings, stay away from public areas to avoid any embarrassment.
Related Posts:
Top 10 Female Celebrities with Herpes
What is Genital Herpes?
Herpes Dating Sites Reviews
Read More
Genital Herpes Symptoms in Men
9:56 PM Genital Herpes Symptoms, Herpes Symptoms in Men, Male Genital Herpes Photo, Male with Herpes, Singles With Herpes 112 comments
Genital herpes is a lifelong disease that causes painful outbreaks of blisters in the genital area. Herpes simplex virus can infect men and women equally, but the pattern of infection is different.
Herpes symptoms in men can vary greatly from one individual to another, with some men exhibiting obvious signs of infection, while others' symptoms are so mild that they go unnoticed. Not surprisingly, the CDC (Centers for Disease Control) estimates that, although one out of every nine American men between the ages of 14 and 49 is infected, nearly 80% of those with genital herpes (or HSV-2) are unaware that they carry the virus.
You’re not alone. First thing you have to understand is that the Herpes virus is very very common. Even the ancient Greeks knew about how often the herpes virus got around.
It is estimated that 56% of the male adult population have Oral Herpes (cold sores) otherwise known as HSV-1. However many of these men don’t even know they have Herpes or have very few herpes symptoms such as herpes sores or blisters. Typically these will occur around the lips but can occur in the nose, the mouth, cheeks, or even the eye!
It is estimated that about 20% of the U.S male adult population have genital herpes otherwise known as HSV-2. Again, many of these guys don’t know they have it or aren't experiencing outbreaks. Or they are just living in denial that they have something strange occuring “down there”. Typically these outbreaks will occur around the genital area.
The symptoms of genital herpes in women and men are primarily the same. Here’s some Male Herpes Symptoms to look for.
(Picture of Herpes Symptoms in Men: Herpes Blisters on Penis)
Herpes lesions/sores/blisters. 63% of men get this. Herpes sores are the #1 indicator of male herpes symptoms. For oral herpes these can occur on your lips, cheeks, mouth, nose, or inside mouth. Though usually on the lips. For genital herpes these occur on penis, around penis, inner legs, and even on buttocks. Usually these outbreaks start with itchiness then get painful then turn into blisters. Here’s some good pictures of what herpes looks like.
Male Genital Herpes Photo
Ads By Google:
Herpes Dating Online
Tired of Being Alone? Meet Singles With Herpes Free Now!
www.PositiveSingles.com
Listen, if you see these kind of sores you need to go and get tested! Quit having sex and see a doctor. There’s many testing options that you can use.
Fever, malaise, headache, flu. 39% of men get this in primary outbreaks. For me I got flu-like symptoms during my primary outbreak. These herpes symptoms are not so common in recurrent outbreaks.
Painful urination or penis discharge. These symptoms occur in up to 44% of men during the primary outbreak. The reason for this is you could be getting an outbreak in the urethral track. Yes! You can even get herpes inside the penis! However this symptom occurs less than 10% of the time in recurrent outbreaks.
Swollen lymph nodes. Lymph nodes are small glands that are located under the jaw, in the neck, the underarms, and in the groin. During a herpes outbreak these areas can get swollen and sensitive. This is a very common herpes symptom in men and occurs in 80% of primary outbreaks and 25% of recurrent outbreaks.
Itchy areas. Itchiness and skin irritation is a big sign that you have male herpes symptoms. It really occurs during recurrent outbreaks (85% of the time). It pretty much always occurs before I break out in herpes blisters. My skin gets really itchy and irritated either around the lips or in the groin area.
Other symptoms. Here’s a list of some other symptoms:
skin cracks/fissures
areas that look like skin is rubbed off
small white dots (looks like pimples)
pain down the legs
What Should You Do Next if you Have Herpes Symptoms in Men?
Go get tested. You have some options here. If you have an active outbreak you can go for a culture test at your doctors. Or you can go to a testing lab like GetStdTested and get it done confidentially on your own. If you do that, you'll still have to visit a doctor for Herpes Medications.
Tell your partner. I have written on my website how to tell someone you have Herpes. It's a good idea to tell your partner about your condition.
Keep Dating Your love life is not over. You'll have to make a few minor changes in the way you date. Consider using a Herpes Dating Site. That way your partners will totally understand.
It’s not the end of the world or your health if you have these symptoms, the important thing is to take a deep breath then take some action.
Read More
Pregnant Woman with Herpes
9:55 PM Genital Herpes and Pregnancy, Having a Baby with Herpes.Pregnant with HSV, Herpes and Pregnant 128 comments
Genital Herpes and Pregnancy
Herpes Simplex Virus (HSV) impacts 40% of women across the U.S. Pregnant women with herpes can transmit the virus to the skin, eyes, brain or central nervous system of their newborn. About 25% pregnant women is infected with genital herpes, although most do not know it . If you are pregnant and have genital herpes, you probably don't need to worry. A woman with recurrent herpes rarely passes the infection to her newborn.
Oral Herpes and Pregnancy
If you have an outbreak of oral herpes while you are pregnant, don't worry. It shouldn't harm your pregnancy. However, after birth, if you have a cold sore, don't kiss your baby until it has healed completely to prevent giving the baby the infection.
Low risk during pregnancy if you have genital Herpes
If you get genital herpes for the first time during your first three months of pregnancy, there’s a small risk of miscarriage.
High risk during pregnancy if you have genital Herpes
If you get genital herpes for the first time later in your pregnancy, particularly within six weeks of giving birth, there won’t be enough time for your immune system to protect your baby. You’ll be offered a caesarean section for the birth, so that your baby doesn't come into contact with any active sores. With a vaginal birth, the risk of passing on a newly caught infection to the baby is about 4 in 10 (40%). If a baby becomes infected at birth, the condition is called neonatal herpes. In the UK, this condition is very rare, affecting 1-2 in every 100,000 babies born. Neonatal herpes can cause infection in the baby’s skin, eyes, brain and other organs.
How does herpes affect the process of getting pregnant? I have herpes before pregnancy.
If you get genital herpes for the first time before you become pregnant, you’ll have antibodies to the virus. You’re unlikely to need a caesarean section, even if you get more attacks while you’re pregnant, because the antibodies will protect your unborn baby. The risk of passing an infection to your baby during a vaginal birth is very low, estimated to be around 1-3%. However, if you have active sores when your labour starts, your doctor or midwife will discuss the birth with you, so you can decide how you want your baby to be born.
Genital Herpes Treatment During Pregnancy
Women taking antiviral drugs for herpes -- either daily suppressive therapy or occasional therapy for outbreaks -- should consult their doctor about whether to take the drugs during pregnancy. The answer is not set in stone: You and your doctor have to discuss the risks and benefits to decide what's right for you.
Herpes infection in a newborn is also serious. Do not allow anyone with a cold sore on the mouth to kiss the baby. If you have a cold sore, don't kiss the baby, and wash hands with soap and water before touching the baby.
Read More
What is Genital Herpes
9:29 PM Genital Herpes Symptoms, Herpes Dating., Herpes Symptoms in Women, HSV Dating, Living with HSV, Pictures of Women with Herpes, Women with Herpes 21 comments
What is Genital Herpes
Herpes is an STD caused by HSV (herpes simplex virus). There are two types of the HSV. HSV-1 and HSV-2. Usually, HSV-1 is the virus associated with oral herpes, and HSV-2 is the virus associated with genital herpes. Genital herpes is a lifelong STD that causes painful outbreaks of blisters in the genital area. Genital herpes is usually located below the waist and caused by HSV-2, the Herpes Simplex Virus Type 2.
Genital Herpes Infection
In most case, a person can only get HSV-2 infection during sexual contact with someone who has a genital HSV-2 infection. Cold sores or HSV-1, the Herpes Simplex Virus Type 1, can also cause genital herpes. HSV-1 infection of the genitals can be caused by oral-sex or genital-genital contact with a person who has HSV-1 infection. So having oral sex with a person who has a cold sore can cause genital herpes, having had contact with the cold sore.
Herpes Symptoms in Women
Genital HSV-2 infection is more common in women (approximately one out of four women) than in men (almost one out of eight). The signs and symptoms will tell you whether you have been infected with Genital Herpes. Specific signs and symptoms of herpes in women include tiny, fluid-filled blisters (vesicles) on the vulva and vaginal opening. When the vesicles rupture, painful ulcers are the result. In a majority of patients, inflammation of the cervix is involved (cervicitis). Cervicitis may be the only sign of genital herpes in some women. Women with genital herpes may have pain on urination along with infection and inflammation of the urethra (urethritis).
Pictures of women with Herpes
Meet Women with Herpes
Want to date online, slip in love, or maybe simply have laid-back gender? Living with HSV is often complicated, especially when you are a singles women with herpes. However, you are not alone! There are many single women with the same condition, but they are doing well with it. There are also many single men who are looking for the single women just like them out there. Fortuitously, herpes dating online presents you the distinct online dating site that actually works that you need. Start dating with Herpes again! HSV dating sites offer chat rooms, support groups, help forum, dating blog & success stories for singles with H.
Related Posts:
Genital Herpes Symptoms in Men
Herpes Dating Sites Reviews
Herpes Success Story
Read More
Tuesday, December 25, 2012
Top 10 Female Celebrities with Herpes
6:34 PM Celebrities with Herpes, Celebrities with STDs, celebs with herpes, famous people with aids, famous people with herpes, genital herpes, Herpes Women, std symptoms in women 248 comments
Using scientific methodology we have taken the most attractive celebrities infected with STD’s and determined which are the most attractive. Each subject was given a total score or DRrf or Disease Risk Reward Factor taking account for physical appearance, wealth, and disease severity…
Using the STD rating system which accounts for severity of disease, likelyhood of infection, wealth and looks (see Figure-8 below the list) Jessica is the most desirable disease riddled starlet.
Her disease was apparently given to her by Derek Jeter. A former employee of her ex-boyfriend Cash Warren used to go out on runs and refill her Valtrex prescription on a regular basis.
2008 STATS
STD RATING LOOKS WEALTH STD
91% 9 $18m Herpes
Reportedly Kritanna passed the gift that keeps giving it to her boyfriend, Justin Whalin. Her most memorable role was as the female terminator in Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines. Being a converted fashion model the less she speaks the better when acting.
Loken stated in an interview with Curve magazine, “I have dated and have had sex with men and women and have to say that the relationships I have had with certain women have been much more fulfilling, sexually and emotionally, than of those with certain men… I connect with an aura, with energy. And if the person with whom I connect happens to be a female, that’s just the way it is. That’s what makes my wheels turn.”
2008 STATS
STD RATING LOOKS WEALTH STD
90% 9 $3m Herpes
Pamela Anderson is making strong progress in her battle against Hepatitis C – her doctor has declared her fitter and healthier at 40 than she’s ever been in her life. In 2003, Anderson claimed she was not expected to live for more than 10 or 15 years after contracting the disease from ex-husband Tommy Lee – but last October the former Baywatch star announced her determination to defy all odds and cure the virus completely.
Her numbers would be higher, but her looks are on the downhill slope and she can’t rely on her acting skills to pay her phone bill.
2008 STATS
STD RATING LOOKS WEALTH STD
84.7% 7.8 $75m Herpes
Victoria Beckham the former Spice Girl turned freakish alien example of plastic surgery gone too far (ala Michael Jackson) would be the wealthiest on this list if her and her husband didn’t manage money like Fannie Mae. The poster couple for nouveau riche jet sets around the world buying up orchards and reportedly Victoria aka “Poche Spice” sports a seven million dollar ring.
Victoria probably picked up the Herp from one of her husband’s thousand plus groupie count.
2008 STATS
STD RATING LOOKS WEALTH STD
72.8% 7 $125m Herpes
Paris neglected to pay off her bills for a storage unit and her belongings were auctioned off. Thanks once again to that storage locker which held more secrets than the chest in Raiders of the Lost Ark, a medical record/prescription info insert emerged for a drug called Valtrex, which is used to treat outbreaks of genital herpes.
The troubled celebutante, sort of actress, sort of singer was formerlly a professional heiress was but written out of the will for her crazy antics. That cost her more than fifty million dollars and at least two spots on this list.
2008 STATS
STD RATING LOOKS WEALTH STD
72.2% 7.5 $12m Herpes
This former child model went on to become a late-teen Disney movie star to wild party girl with not much of an acting future. By all accounts she has given up men and is set to marry Samantha Ronson within a year.
Prior to switching teams Lohan went through more male actors than a catering truck. She has recently taken a break from acting to drive under the influence and get back her girlish figure in rehab centers.
2008 STATS
STD RATING LOOKS WEALTH STD
70.5% 7 $7m Herpes
Her career has tapered off since two succesful TV shows (Charmed and Who’s The Boss) and her career is mostly limited to B Movies and the Sci-Fi Channel.
She is sweet, loves sports and visits the troops so with her good looks you could probably put up with the odd flare up.
2008 STATS
STD RATING LOOKS WEALTH STD
70.4% 7.8 $8m Herpes
Britney’s well telivised downward spiral has led her to wake up in more than one strange bed after a drug filled evening of partying. This former member of the Mickey Mouse Club even kissed Madonna on the lips, and that’s roughly equivelent to locking lips with a half dozen Bangkok prostitutes. She has been doucmented buying Zovirax in Kentwood.
The head shaving, well publicised drug problems, losing her children to Kevin Federline and massive weight gain have all taken their toll on her career and more importantly her cash supplies.
2008 STATS
STD RATING LOOKS WEALTH STD
69.9% 7 $80m Herpes
Janet Jackson had a list of her perscriptons leaked online.
She has the highest wealth on the list but looks too much like her child fondling brother Michael to score too high on this list. Besides at 42 she is one of the oldest on this list and is prone to massive (Oprah-esque) weight gains.
2008 STATS
STD RATING LOOKS WEALTH STD
69.4% 6 $150m Herpes
Katie seems like a nice enough child bride in the happy Scientology family. She would rank higher in wealth, but signed a $40 million dollar prenuptual agreement with Tom Cruise. I think for $40 million I would let the man nearly twice her age slobber all over me and give me herpes.
2008 STATS
STD RATING LOOKS WEALTH STD
68.1% 6.5 $50m Herpes
Related Posts:
What is Genital Herpes?
Herpes Dating Sites Reviews.
Herpes Success Story
Review of Top 5 Free Herpes Dating Websites
PositiveSingles.com - Best, Most Trusted & Largest Anonymous STD Dating Site!
Read More
Monday, December 24, 2012
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
6:10 PM AIDS, Chlamydia, Crabs/Pubic Lice, Gonorrhea, HIV, Human Papilloma Virus/HPV, Mycoplasma Genitalium, Scabies, Sexually Transmitted Diseases, STD sex, STDs, Syphilis, Trichomoniasis 15 comments
Sexually transmitted diseases (STD), also referred to as sexually transmitted infections (STI) and venereal diseases (VD), are illnesses that have a significant probability of transmission between humans by means of human sexual behavior, including vaginal intercourse, oral sex, and anal sex.
According to the American Social Health Organization, one out of four teens in the United States becomes infected with an STD each year and by the age of 25, half of all sexually active young adults will get an STD.
STDs are serious illnesses that require treatment. Some STDs, like HIV, cannot be cured and are deadly. By learning more, you can find out ways to protect yourself from the following STDs.
Here are some common STDs you should know.
● Chlamydia
Chlamydia is the most common curable STD. It infects the cervix in women, and the penile urethra in men. Its most frequent symptoms are pain during sex, and discharge from the penis or vagina. However, the reason chlamydia is so common is that most people who get chlamydia don’t have symptoms for weeks, months, or even years. Despite the lack of symptoms, it’s important to get screened and treated if you think you might have been exposed to chlamydia, because it can do a lot of damage to your body in the long run. Want to avoid getting chlamydia? Latex condoms are effective at preventing the disease.
● Gonorrhea
Gonorrhea, otherwise known as “the clap,” is another common bacterial STD. In general it infects the same organs as chlamydia, and has similar long-term effects. Symptoms of gonorrhea include burning when urinating and, in men, white, yellow, or green discharge from the penis. Just as with chlamydia, however, many people with gonorrhea don’t have symptoms. This is why the CDC estimates that, in the United States alone, there are more than 700,000 new cases a year. Oh, and if you’re one of those people who thinks that oral sex is safe sex (or isn’t sex at all), you should know that gonorrhea can also infect the throat.
● Syphilis
Syphilis is a sexually transmitted disease with a notorious history. Caused by the bacteriumTreponema pallidum, it can lead to serious complications if left untreated. Syphilis is transmitted by direct contact with syphilis sores, which can appear on the external genitals and the mouth, as well as in the vagina or rectum. Because these sores can appear on areas not covered by a condom, condoms only reduce the likelihood of transmission, but not eliminate it entirely. The small painless sores (chancres) of early syphilis may heal by themselves, but that doesn't mean the disease is gone — it’s just become more difficult to detect and treat.
● Mycoplasma Genitalium
In 2007, a prominent study of U.S. adolescents found that a little known STD, Mycoplasma genitalium had surpassed gonorrhea in prevalence. Most cases of M. genitalium don’t cause symptoms and it had been difficult to identify until more recent technology became available. While the emerging research is still unclear, it is thought that MG is associated with serious long-term consequences, including infertility from pelvic inflammatory disease. MG, like gonorrhea and chlamydia, may emerge as a major cause of cervicitic in women, and nongonococcal urethritis in men.
● Trichomoniasis
Trichomoniasis is the most common STD in sexually active young women. Some women may mistake this infection for a yeast infection or bacterial vaginosis since the symptoms are similar: frothy discharge, strong vaginal odor, pain on intercourse, irritation and itching. Men can get trichomoniasis too, but they don’t tend to have symptoms. If you are a young woman who has been diagnosed with the disease, make sure your partner gets treated. Trich may not be affecting him much, but you don’t want him giving it back to you! And, if your partner is a woman, you could be passing the disease to each other as well.
● Crabs/Pubic Lice
“Crabs” are a form of lice that live on the hair in the genital area and occasionally on other course-haired areas of the body, such as the armpits or the eyebrows. They are usually spread by sexual contact, although they also can be transmitted by infested linens and clothing. Symptoms include itching in the genital area and visible lice or eggs. You should know that crab lice are not the same as head lice, and that they almost never infest the hair on the head. And the rumor that you have to shave off all your pubic hair if you get infected? That simply isn't true.
● Scabies
Scabies is a contagious skin disease that is not always sexually transmitted. Caused by the parasite Sarcoptes scabei, scabies causes an extremely itchy rash that gets worse at night. The rash is most often found on folds of skin, such as between the fingers, on the wrists and ankles, and in the genital area. Scabies is incredibly contagious, and the mite can live for days off the human body. It is not only spread by close personal contact, but by skin-to-skin contact in general, shared clothing, towels and bedding.
● Human Papilloma Virus/HPV
HPV is quite possibly the most common STD. One 1997 study estimated that three-quarters of the sexually active population has had HPV at some point during their lives, and a study released in 2007 found that one-quarter of women are infected at any given time. HPV may be known as “the cervical cancer virus,” but only a few types of HPV are linked to cancer. Others cause genital warts, or no symptoms at all. Although HPV is considered incurable, its symptoms can be treated, and many people resolve infections on their own. Recently the government approved a new vaccine to protect young women from the four most common strains of the virus.
What Are the Symptoms of STDs?
Sometimes, there are no symptoms of STDs. If symptoms are present, they may include one or more of the following:
▪ Bumps, sores, or warts near the mouth, anus, penis, or vagina.
▪ Swelling or redness near the penis or vagina.
▪ Skin rash.
▪ Painful urination.
▪ Weight loss, loose stools, night sweats.
▪ Aches, pains, fever, and chills.
▪ Yellowing of the skin (jaundice).
▪ Discharge from the penis or vagina. (Vaginal discharge may have an odor.)
▪ Bleeding from the vagina other than during a monthly period.
▪ Painful sex.
▪ Severe itching near the penis or vagina.
How Do I Know If I Have an STD?
Talk to your doctor. He or she can examine you and perform tests to determine if you have an STD. Treatment can:
▪ Cure many STDs.
▪ Lessen the symptoms of STDs.
▪ Make it less likely that you will spread the disease.
▪ Help you to get healthy and stay healthy.
How Are STDs Treated?
Many STDs are treated with antibiotics.
If you are given an antibiotic to treat an STD, it’s important that you take all of the drug, even if the symptoms go away. Also, never take someone else’s medicine to treat your illness. By doing so, you may make it more difficult to diagnose and treat the infection. Likewise, you should not share your medicine with others. Some doctors, however, may provide additional antibiotics to be given to your partner so that you can be treated at the same time.
How Can I Protect Myself From STDs?
Here are some basic steps that you can take to protect yourself from STDs:
Consider that not having sex or sexual relations is the only sure way to prevent STDs.
▪ Use a latex condom every time you have sex. (If you use a lubricant, make sure it is water-based.)
▪ Limit your number of sexual partners. The more partners you have, the more likely you are to catch an STD.
▪ Practice monogamy. This means having sex with only one person. That person must also have sex with only you to reduce your risk.
▪ Choose your sex partners with care. Don’t have sex with someone whom you suspect may have an STD. However, keep in mind that you can’t always tell by looking if your partner has an STD.
▪ Get checked for STDs. Don’t risk giving the infection to someone else.
Don’t use alcohol or drugs before you have sex. You may be less likely to use a condom if you are drunk or high.
▪ Know the signs and symptoms of STDs. Look for them in yourself and your sex partners.
▪ Learn about STDs. The more you know, the better you can protect yourself.
How Can I Avoid Spreading an STD?
If you have an STD, stop having sex until you see a doctor and are treated.
Follow your doctor’s instructions for treatment.
▪ Use condoms whenever you have sex, especially with new partners.
▪ Don’t resume having sex unless your doctor says it’s okay.
▪ Return to your doctor to get rechecked.
▪ Be sure your sex partner or partners also are treated.
Read More
Newer Posts Home
Social Profiles
Blog Archive
► 2013 (2)
► May (1)
► April (1)
▼ 2012 (8)
▼ December (8)
Herpes Success Story
Herpes Dating Sites Reviews
How Do I Tell My Partner I Have Herpes
Genital Herpes Symptoms in Men
Pregnant Woman with Herpes
What is Genital Herpes
Top 10 Female Celebrities with Herpes
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Copyright © Herpes Dating Website | Powered by Blogger
Design by HerpesDatingWebsite