Grapefruit Diet – Everything You Need To Know About It
Weight Loss
Toggle navigation
Toggle navigation
Makeup
Makeup
Bridal Makeup
Celebrity Makeup
Eye Make up
Lip Make up
Makeup Ideas
Mehandi Designs
Nail Art
hair care
Hair Care
Basic Hair Care
Dandruff
Dry Hair Care
Hair Care Ideas
Hair Care Solutions
Hair Colour
Hair Fall
Hair Growth
Hair Treatment
Oily Hair Care
skin care
Skin Care
Acne
Anti Ageing
Beauty Secrets
Dry Skin
Face Care Tips
Face Packs and Masks
Glowing skin
Homemade Tips
Oily Skin
Perfumes
Skin Care Ideas
Skin Care Problems
Sunscreen
hairstyle
Hairstyle
Bob Hairstyles
Braid hairstyles
Bridal Hairstyles
Bun Hairstyles
Celebrity Hairstyles
Curly Hairstyles
Different Hairstyles
Hairstyle Trends
Long Hairstyles
Medium Hairstyles
Short Hairstyles
Teen Hairstyles
Updo Hairstyles
Wavy Hairstyles
health & wellness
Health & Wellness
Diet Tips
Healthy Food
Home Remedies
Ingredients and Uses
Nutrition
Fitness
Weight Loss
Weight Gain
Yoga
Medicine
news
News
Fashion
Brand News
Celebrity News
Community news
Inspiration
Top 10’s
Trends
StyleCraze Experts
reviews
Reviews
हिंदी
हिंदी
Charushila Biswas
Home » Health and Wellness » Weight Loss
Grapefruit Diet – Everything You Need To Know About It
April 24, 2018 by Charushila Biswas IncnutIncnut Incnut
ISSA Certified Specialist in Fitness & Nutrition
Grapefruit Diet – Everything You Need To Know About It Charushila Biswas April 24, 2018
What do you do if you need to lose weight in just 10 days for a special occasion? Freak out? Wear loose clothes that make you look rounder and chubbier? Opt for body shapers? No way! You can do way better than that! Lose the flab. True, you cannot lose all the extra fat in 10 days but you can kickstart your weight loss, lose water weight, and start melting the fat. And nothing works better than the grapefruit diet. We have tweaked the old grapefruit diet and made it more convenient and acceptable with a special diet chart for vegans. Sounds exciting? Read on.
Why You Should Follow The New Grapefruit Diet ?
Image: Shutterstock
The guidelines of the original grapefruit diet have many issues. They can make many dieters uncomfortable. For instance, the original grapefruit diet requires you to eat foods that are high in cholesterol and fat such as pork, red meat, etc., with no limitations on the amount. You also cannot consume more than 800 calories per day. You need 2000-2200 calories per day to do your daily functions and suddenly cutting down on calories will make you weak. You will give up within a day or two because you will be too hungry. The goal of the modified grapefruit diet is to make you complete your diet plan. It includes lean protein, healthy fats, dietary fiber, and complex carbs along with the goodness of the grapefruit. The modified diet plan also doesn’t require you to starve and you can eat between meals (only healthy snack) to keep your metabolism active. So, follow this modified grapefruit diet to get great results in just 10 days. But first, take a look at the guidelines.
Modified Grapefruit Diet Guidelines
Consume grapefruit juice or grapefruit before breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
Avoid processed carbs, sugary, and salty foods.
Include high-fiber, low-calorie, and nutritious foods.
No unhealthy snacks or caffeine allowed.
Consume more protein and avoid high-cholesterol foods.
Consume healthy fats.
Drink water and fluids to keep yourself hydrated.
Follow this diet no more than 10 days.
If you are addicted to eating junk and comfort food, you may find snacking healthy a little difficult initially. But keep in mind why you are doing this. Moreover, eating healthy snacks will start to reflect on your body and you are going to love it. So, stay focused and follow the diet chart mentioned below.
Modified Grapefruit Diet Chart
Image: Shutterstock
Meals What To Eat
Early Morning (7:00 – 7:45 a.m) 1 cup warm water + juice of 1 lime
Breakfast (8:15-8:30 a.m) 4 oz grapefruit juice/ ½ grapefruit + 2 boiled or scrambled eggs + 2 slices of bacon + 4-6 almonds
Pre-Lunch (10:30-11:00 a.m)
4 oz grapefruit juice/ ½ grapefruit
Lunch (12:30 – 1:00 p.m) Vegetable salad (light dressing) + 3 oz grilled chicken breast
Evening Snack (4:30 p.m) 32 kernels of in-shell pistachios (unsalted)
Pre-Dinner (6:30 p.m)
4 oz grapefruit juice/ ½ grapefruit
Dinner (7:00 p.m) Options:
Sauteed veggies (use ghee or olive oil) + Grilled salmon
Ground turkey and veggie casserole
Why This Works?
Warm water with lime juice in the mornings is the best detox drink for weight loss. It is low in calories and complies with the grapefruit diet guidelines. Have 4 oz juice of half a grapefruit before every meal. Since grapefruit is loaded with fiber, vitamin C, and other nutrients, it will help suppress appetite, flush out toxins, and reduce inflammation. Eggs and bacon are high in protein and will keep you active while almonds are a great source of healthy fats. Vegetable salad and grilled chicken breast are rich in dietary fiber, vitamins, minerals, and lean protein. Pistachios aid weight loss but make sure not to exceed the quantity and always eat in-shell and unsalted pistachios. For dinner again, have a good amount of veggies and protein to provide your body with protein, complex carbs, and other nutrients. All the foods mentioned here are easily available and requires minimum cooking time.
Now, this diet chart is not vegan-friendly. Since so many of you are vegan and still want to follow a diet to lose weight quickly, here’s a vegan grapefruit diet chart for you.
Vegan Grapefruit Diet Chart
Image: Shutterstock
Meals What To Eat
Early Morning (7:00 – 7:45 a.m) 1 cup warm water + juice of 1 lime
Breakfast (8:15-8:30 a.m) 4 oz grapefruit juice/ ½ grapefruit + bean sprouts salad + 4-6 almonds
Pre-Lunch (10:30-11:00 a.m) 4 oz grapefruit juice/ ½ grapefruit
Lunch (12:30 – 1:00 p.m) Boiled kidney beans and thinly sliced veggies tossed with chili flakes, olive oil, apple cider vinegar, and herbs of your choice
Evening Snack (4:30 p.m) 32 kernels of in-shell pistachios (unsalted)
Pre-Dinner (6:30 p.m) 4 oz grapefruit juice/ ½ grapefruit
Dinner (7:00 p.m) Options:
Sauteed mushroom with lettuce, tomato, and bell pepper
1 cup lentil soup + sauteed veggies
Why This Works?
For your morning detox drink, have a cup of warm water with the juice of one lime in it. It will help you flush out the toxins and improve bowel movement. Have grapefruit juice or grapefruit before breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Bean sprouts are a great source of protein and almonds are rich in healthy fats. Have a spicy and tasty boiled kidney bean salad for lunch to satiate your hunger and taste buds. Remember, spices also aid weight loss. Have no more than 32 kernels of in-shell pistachios (unsalted) as an evening snack as pistachios also aid weight loss. Have sauteed mushroom with veggies or lentil soup with veggies to get the right amount of protein, fiber, and other nutrients. The foods included in this diet chart are also easily available in the market and can be prepared within 20-30 minutes.
If you are curious to know about the original grapefruit diet, then here it is!
Original Grapefruit Diet Chart
Meals What To Eat
Breakfast (8:15-8:30 a.m) 4 oz grapefruit juice/ ½ grapefruit +2 boiled or scrambled eggs + 2 slices of bacon
Lunch (12:30 – 1:00 p.m) 4 oz grapefruit juice/ ½ grapefruit + meat (any cooking style; any amount) + Salad (any dressing)
Dinner (7:00 p.m) 4 oz grapefruit juice/ ½ grapefruit + meat or fish any cooking style; any amount) + green, red, and yellow veggies cooked in butter with any seasoning
Bedtime Snack (9:00 p.m) 1 glass low-fat milk or 1 glass tomato juice
It is clear from this diet chart that eating unlimited amounts of unhealthy fats (butter) or meat is not going to help you lose weight. Chances are it can make you bulkier. Now, let me list out the foods that you can eat and should avoid when you are on the modified grapefruit diet.
Foods To Eat
Image: Shutterstock
Veggies – Cabbage, broccoli, spinach, kale, lettuce, carrot, bell peppers, beetroot, brussels sprouts, green onion, red onion, zucchini, cucumber, tomato, and radish.
Fruits – Grapefruit, prune, avocado, orange, tangerine, apple, gooseberry, strawberry, blueberry, watermelon, and pear.
Proteins – Chicken breast, ground turkey, fish, bacon (lean cuts), eggs, mushroom, soy chunks, lentils, kidney beans, black beans, lima beans, tofu, sprouts, and chickpeas.
Nuts – Pistachios, almonds, walnuts, macadamia nuts, and pine nuts.
Dairy- Low-fat milk, low-fat yogurt, sour cream, and cheese.
Grains – Brown rice (only with lots of veggies and a good protein source), quinoa, barley, broken wheat, oats, and millet.
Oils & Fats – Olive oil, flaxseed oil, rice bran oil, sunflower butter, peanut butter, flaxseed butter, and ghee (clarified butter).
Beverages – Buttermilk, coconut water, freshly pressed fruit and vegetable juice, and detox water.
Herbs & Spices – Coriander leaves, dill, basil, oregano, cumin powder, cinnamon, turmeric, coriander powder, star anise, nutmeg, cloves, cardamom, and black pepper.
Foods To Avoid
Veggies – Sweet potato, cauliflower, potato, and bottle guard.
Fruits – Mango, pineapple, jackfruit, and grapes.
Protein – Red meat.
Processed Carbs – Fries, pizza, burger, pretzel, doughnut, and batter-fried foods.
Sugary and Salty Foods – Jam, jelly, syrup, ketchup, pickle etc.
Nuts – Cashews.
Dairy- Full-fat milk, full-fat yogurt, flavored yogurt, and cream cheese.
Beverages- Alcohol, packaged fruit and vegetable juices, mocktails, aerated drinks, and energy drinks.
Oils & Fats – Animal fat, hydrogenated vegetable oil (dalda), butter, margarine, vegetable oil, and canola oil.
Now, let’s get the facts right. In order to lose weight, you need to utilize the calories that you consume as energy. Otherwise, you will not lose weight no matter how less you eat. And in order to use the calories as energy, you need to workout. Here is your workout regimen when you are on the modified grapefruit diet.
Workout Routine
Image: Shutterstock
Head tilt – 1 set of 10 reps (right and left)
Neck rotations – 1 set of 10 reps (clockwise and anticlockwise)
Shoulder rotations – 1 set of 10 reps (clockwise and anticlockwise)
Arm rotations – 1 set of 10 reps (clockwise and anticlockwise)
Wrist rotation – 1 set of 10 reps (clockwise and anticlockwise)
Ankle rotation – 1 set of 10 reps (clockwise and anticlockwise)
Side lunges – 1 sets of 10 reps
Spot jogging – 7-10 minutes
Jumping jacks – 2 sets of 20 reps
Burpees – 2 sets of 15 reps
Full Squat – 2 sets of 10 reps
Forward lunges – 2 sets of 10 reps
Crunches – 2 sets of 10 reps
Bicycle crunches – 2 sets of 10 reps
Scissors – 2 sets of 10 reps
Horizontal kicks – 2 sets of 10 reps
Leg raise (90 degrees) – 2 sets of 12 reps
Mountain climbers – 2 sets of 12 reps
Push ups – 2 sets of 6 reps
Forward plank – 20- 30 second hold
Stretch
How You Will Feel By The End Of Grapefruit Diet ?
Image: Shutterstock
Exercising and following a diet plan may seem challenging in the beginning but from the 4th day, you will start to notice a difference. This will keep you motivated to see how your body transforms after completing the diet. By the end of the 10th day of the grapefruit diet, you will look slimmer, toned up, and will be beaming with confidence about the way your body looks.
How Grapefruit Aids Weight Loss
There is no scientific proof that grapefruit melts fat. But grapefruit is rich in vitamin C that helps to scavenge the harmful oxygen radicals, thereby reducing inflammation. And it is loaded with dietary fiber that prevents fat absorption and helps to add bulk to the stool.
But does this mean there are no cons to this diet? Let’s find out.
Grapefruit Diet Cons
Grapefruit can interfere with the actions of a few drugs such as statins (to lower cholesterol), which can lead to kidney and liver problems.
Grapefruit can also reduce the action of antihistamines (anti-allergic drugs).
Grapefruit also interferes with antiarrhythmic drugs, anti-anxiety drugs, hypertension reducing drugs, and organ transplantation rejection drugs.
So, it is best that if you are on any medication, you should talk to your doctor to know if it is safe for you to consume grapefruit.
Points To Remember
Image: Shutterstock
Do not follow this diet for more than 10 days.
Talk to your doctor or dietician to know whether you are suitable to be on the grapefruit diet or if consuming grapefruit can potentially interfere with your current drug’s action.
Just dieting will lead to muscle loss, therefore, you should work out. It will keep your muscles active and toned.
Have lean protein, complex carbs, healthy fats, and dietary fiber, and avoid junk food, alcohol, unhealthy fats, and sugary and salty foods.
Get adequate sleep.
Never skip your breakfast.
Drink water and other fluids to keep yourself hydrated.
So, don’t let the body shaper take your breath away, let your new avatar take others’ breaths away! Start following the modified grapefruit diet and look your best. Good luck.
The following two tabs change content below.
Latest Posts
Bio
Latest posts by Charushila Biswas (see all)
Pescatarian Diet – What Is It, What To Eat, And Benefits - February 27, 2019
How To Exercise – 10 Easy Ways To Help You Start Exercising - February 25, 2019
10 Best Exercises To Do To Reduce Stress And Anxiety - February 25, 2019
How To Reduce Shoulder Pain – 12 Best Rotator Cuff Exercises - February 22, 2019
Rachael Ray’s Weight Loss Secrets – How Did The Celeb Chef Lose 40 Pounds? - February 5, 2019
Charushila Biswas
Related
RELATED ARTICLES
12 Best Diets That Work For Weight Loss
What Are The Advantages And Disadvantages Of Fad Diets?
Top 10 Fruits To Eat To Lose Weight Quickly
How To Lose Weight In One Week By Crash Dieting?
Special K Diet - Weight Loss Recipes And Their Benefits
A Military Diet Meal Plan To Lose Up To Half A Kilo In 3 Days!
The 3-Day Military Diet Review – The Ultimate Scientific Guide
Scarsdale Diet - Best Plan To Lose 20 Pounds In 2 Weeks
Hotpicks
15 Effective Ayurvedic Face Packs For Glowing Skin
12 Aloe Vera Face Packs For Different Skin Types
Basic Beauty Tips You Should Definitely Follow
20 Divine Hairstyles To Complement Your Saree
Aishwarya Rai’s Beauty Tips And Secrets Revealed
Simple Tips To Lose Weight In Just 10 Days
Most Popular
Rachael Ray’s Weight Loss Secrets – How Did The Celeb Chef Lose 40 Pounds?
Revealed! How Celebrity Chef Nigella Lawson Lost 12 kg
How To Lose Weight With Intermittent Fasting – A Beginner’s Guide
Linda Robson’s Two And A Half Stones Weight Loss Secrets
About Us
Advertise With Us
Disclaimer
Report Violation
Image Usage Policy
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Terms Of Use
Get Advice, Free Samples & More
Follow us
Our Sister Sites
Copyright 2019 © Stylecraze
StyleCraze provides content of general nature that is designed for informational purposes only. If you have any concerns about your health, consult a qualified healthcare professional. Please review the Terms of Use before using this site.