Fish Oil and Cholesterol Reduction
As more research is done, the connection between fish oil and cholesterol reduction becomes more apparent.
If you aren't already adding fatty fish into your diet on a regular basis, or supplementing with fish oil, now may well be a good time to start.
In fact, the benefits of including this nutrient in your diet go far beyond lowering cholesterol levels, as it will protect you from a number of diseases, such as cancer, Alzheimer's disease, high blood pressure, stroke, diabetes, and many other chronic health conditions.
Often, our diets today are quite low in omega 3 essential fatty acids, unless we are making a good effort to include foods rich in them. Thus, if you currently aren't aware of which foods contain these fatty acids, that's a signal it's time to start on a supplement plan or take a closer look at your everyday diet.
Share YOUR Knowledge and Experiences
or Read Others' Contributions
Click here for more pages and articles on Cholesterol.
A note about Fish Oil and Cholesterol Reduction
In natural health and healing, we believe in holistic health and healing, as we realize that different parts of the human body are highly interlinked, often beyond Man's understanding. We also believe that the body has the ability to heal itself of any disease, even supposedly incurable diseases.
In order to do so, the body needs the support of some basic dietary and lifestyle good health habits, such as a full body detox and a proper understanding and application of nutrition. No matter how remote or unrelated a health condition may seem, these fundamental health steps will greatly magnify the effects and benefits of any of our health-promoting efforts, including the use of specific natural health remedies.
Here is what you should know about fish oil and cholesterol.
How Fish Oil Works
The impact of fish oil and cholesterol is seen because the fish oil will work to decrease certain body fats that are often referred to as triglycerides. The lower the levels of triglycerides you have circulating throughout the body, the healthier your heart will be, so you will certainly see positive effects in this regard.
In addition, when you add fish oil to your diet, you will increase the levels of good cholesterol (HDL cholesterol) in the body, which then helps to offset the effects of bad cholesterol (LDL cholesterol). Fish oil can also cause a slight thinning of the blood, which can be beneficial in some people at risk for heart disease.
Recommendations For Those Without Coronary Heart Disease
If you're someone who is not or has not suffered from coronary heart disease in the past, then you should be able to get a good level of protection by consuming oily fish at least twice a week. This includes fish such as salmon, mackerel, kippers, pilchards, tuna, trout, sardines, herring, cod, and haddock.
Steaming your fish will be the best method of cooking it, as it helps to retain the maximum amount of the fish oil found in the fish.
Recommendations For Those With Coronary Heart Disease
If you are suffering from coronary heart disease and are thinking about fish oil and cholesterol, it will be important to speak with your health care practitioner about medications and supplements before use. One possible recommendation will be one gram of EPA and DHA per day from oily sources of fish. Generally speaking, this works out to about 3 grams of fish oil supplements.
Keep in mind that you can also get omega 3 fatty acids from other foods, such as flax seeds and flaxseed oil, canola oil, soybean oil, and walnuts; however, if you are going to incorporate these foods into your diet, try and do it along with the increased fish consumption for maximum benefits.
Conclusion
By keeping these points about the connection between fish oil and cholesterol in mind, you can work towards maintaining a healthier blood cholesterol level and reduce your risk of heart disease.
After having read about fish oil and cholesterol, you can learn more about maintaining healthy cholesterol levels by reading the other related cholesterol articles and pages.
Read More: More on Cholesterol | Natural Health Remedies for Various Ailments and Conditions | Home Page | Site Search
Share YOUR Knowledge and Experiences
or Read Others' Contributions
Click here to access the High Cholesterol Remedy Report, where you can learn how to stop high cholesterol in just a few short days using a step-by-step natural home remedy.
Click here for natural, herbal and homeopathic remedies for high cholesterol.
Tweet
Get Quality Natural Health Supplements at Reasonable Prices. $5 or $10 discount for new customers
Get natural, herbal and
homeopathic remedies for hundreds of
health conditions and ailments. GO.
New! Comments
Have your say about what you just read. Leave a comment in the box below.
Some Related Cholesterol Pages
Click here for more pages and articles on Cholesterol.
Return from this page to Natural Health Remedies, Natural Health Cures, Organic Remedies & Organic Cures
Return from this page Fish Oil and Cholesterol Reduction to All 4 Natural Health... attaining good health naturally... Home Page
Get Quality Natural Health Supplements at Affordable Prices. $5 or $10 discount for new customers
[?] Subscribe To This Site
Quality Natural Health Supplements at a Reasonable Price - iHerb Coupon and Referral Code
Tweet
Follow this site
Tweet
Site Search
Home Page
Latest Site Updates
Natural Health News
Introduction;
Basics & Foundation
About Good Health
About Natural Health
Good Health Basics
Food, Diet & Nutrition
Nutrition Articles
Healthy Lifestyle
Body Detoxification
Holistic Therapies
Conditions & Remedies
Natural Remedies
Herbal Remedies
Herbs & Supplements
Info on some Herbs
About Supplements
Best Herbs & Foods
Useful Information
Quotes & Inspiration
Health Articles
Links & Resources
Admin Links
About Me
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Subscribe Newsletter
Contact Us
Site Search
This website's content must not be reproduced or republished without express permission.
Site Search
The information provided on this website is not meant to diagnose, prevent, treat or cure any disease.
It is to be taken as suggestions or educational material and not to be considered professional advice.
Copyright© 2007-2014 All4NaturalHealth.com. All Rights Reserved.
Home | Links & Resources | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | Subscribe to E-zine | Site Search | Contact Us
Return to top