Tips On How To Heal Cavities Naturally At Home - Topic Map
Home
Natural Remedies
News
Product Review
Videos
Weight Loss
Menu
Facebook
Instagram
Mail
Tips On How To Heal Cavities Naturally At Home
July 24, 2017 /in Natural Remedies /by Mihaela
We previously thought it was impossible to heal dental cavities, but recent research found out that there are proven remedies that can heal cavities because now we understand the true nature of tooth decay and what can cause it.
Dentists will not tell you this because big money is involved in the dental industry because of it. If everyone knew how easy it is to cure tooth decay, no one would go to the dentist. If you ask people whether caries and teeth can be healed naturally, 99% of the answers would be that that is impossible.
The American Dental Association says that tooth decay and cavities are formed when carbohydrates are stuck between the teeth, creating an acidic environment in which tooth’s enamel rots and thus decay is formed.
Taking care of your teeth is difficult as it is directly associated with your eating habits. The condition of your teeth depends upon your regular meal. Excess sweets can destroy your teeth whereas too much salt or spice isn’t very good for them either. Taking care of your teeth is a part of taking care of your complete body.
What constitutes a “good” diet?
A diet high in animal fatsand especially from pastured animals. These are rich sources of the 4 fat soluble vitamins A, D, E, and K. The fat soluble vitamins are found in butter, eggs, liver, organ meats, seafood and cod liver oil.
A diet low in phytic acid.This does not necessarily mean a grain free diet, although in severe cases of tooth decay, it is recommended for a time. But, it does mean that when grains are consumed, they be prepared properly through soaking, sprouting or fermentation to neutralize the phytic acid. Proper grain preparation is vital to mineral absorption.
Plenty of vegetables, cooked or raw and especially those high in vitamin C, such as, broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage, lacto-fermented sauerkraut …
Fruit in moderation.While fruit is natural, it is easy to overdo – no more than 1 piece a day is recommended in “Cure Tooth Decay“ .
Daily intake of cod liver oil and especially a fermented cod liver oil/ butter oil blend which is high in the fat soluble vitamins, A, D,E, and K.
No processed sugar including white sugar, high fructose corn syrup and cane sugar. Use only unheated (raw) honey.
No processed foods.
Also you can practice oil pulling. Oil pulling is an effective method to practice to reverse cavities naturally by detoxing the body with organic extra virgin coconut oil. Although the practice is new to the U.S., it’s been a common method that has been used to heal the body from ailments in other countries. It’s known to reduce diabetes, heal gingivitis, and even reverse tooth decay.
Swish the oil around in your mouth for 20 minutes in the morning after you wake up before spitting it out. Brush your teeth to remove the remaining oil that may still be in the mouth. Some people may find it challenging to swish the oil around for 20 minutes but can attempt to do it for three to five minutes.
Share this entry
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Google+
Share on Pinterest
Share on Linkedin
Share on Tumblr
Share on Vk
Share on Reddit
Share by Mail
http://topicmap.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/2-1.jpg 400 640 Mihaela http://topicmap.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/06/png-transparent-background.png Mihaela2017-07-24 18:14:282017-07-24 18:14:28Tips On How To Heal Cavities Naturally At Home
Categories
Natural Remedies
News
Product Review
Videos
Weight Loss
Facebook
Latest
Top 5 Foods That can Replace Whey ProteinMarch 3, 2019 - 10:31 pm
Forget Fluoride! Use Homemade ToothpastesFebruary 19, 2018 - 2:02 am
The Health Benefits Of Foot MassageAugust 11, 2017 - 5:09 pm
Take A Look At The Amazing Benefits Onions Offer YouAugust 11, 2017 - 5:07 pm
Interesting Infos
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetuer adipiscing elit. Aenean commodo ligula eget dolor.
Enfold GYM
1818 N Vermont Ave
Los Angeles, CA, United States
(555) 774 433
office@enfold-gym.com
Opening Hours
Mo-Fr: 8:00-22:00
Sa: 8:00-24:00
So: 8:00-14:00
Copyright - Topic Map - Enfold Theme by Kriesi
Facebook
Instagram
Mail
The Amazing Benefits Of Chia Seeds A Simple And Healthy Weekend Detox Plan
Scroll to top