Why WiFi signal are NOT bad for health (Video)
TechWiser
Home
How To
Internet
More
ABOUT US
CONTACT US
ADVERTISE
PRIVACY POLICY
HIRING
RTT Explains: Why WiFi Signals Are Not Dangerous to Health
Mrinal Saha February 22, 2015	Internet
Five girls from Hjallerup Skole, a primary education school in Denmark, conducted an experiment- to find out the impact of WiFi on humans. In the test they placed 6 trays of cress seeds, next to two WiFi routers, while the other 6 tray in a room without WiFi.
And for next few weeks, both half of seeds received same treatment, i.e. same water and same amount of sunlight. But twelve days later, the results were shocking. Seeds next to the routers “turned brown and died” while nothing happen to other half. [Source]
This experiment created a buzz in tech world. So is’t true that WiFi signals are harmful ? Or this could be yet another urban legend ?
The answer is simple- No. Many scientific studies has confirmed ‘WiFi is completely safe’. Recently I have published a video on my YouTube channel on the same topic. The video gives 3 scientific reason, to proof WiFi signals are harmless-
1. WiFi signals are non-ionizing radiation which can pass though our skin without causing any harm (unlike UV or X-rays which are ionizing radiation and harmful)
2. It has very low intensity (around 100,ooo less than microwave)
3. Unlike microwave, WiFi is kept in open. Therefore its signal strength reduces drastically as it travel.
Why WiFi signal are NOT bad for health
If WiFi is safe, then why did the seed died ?
Scientist believes, since the experiment was conducted by minors, it was not carried out in control environment. For instance- routers radiate heat and thus seeds that were near them, needed more water. But since both half were given same water, it was not enough which eventually leads to their death.
Conclusion
WiFi signals are safe and that’s why people are using it everywhere – even in hospitals and schools. Moreover there is no report on, harm caused by WiFi.
Studies says, that radiation we get from 20 min phone calls is equivalent to 1 year use of WiFi [source] And since no one has ever fell sick, from cell phone’s radiation, it’s less likely that WiFi will affect our health. So keep calm and use WiFi.
WiFi	2015-02-22
+Mrinal Saha
Share
Facebook
Twitter
About Mrinal Saha
Mrinal is a tech geek who spends half of his day reading and writing about tech. While the nights are spent on shooting or editing YouTube videos. Feel free to geek out with him on-
@TechWiser
Previous Mac Tips: Cleaver use of Spotlight
Next Tutorial: Use Spotify Outside US and UK (with Video)
Related Articles
How to Share your WiFi without Sharing Password on Android Q
March 15, 2019
How to Remove Someone From Your WiFI
December 1, 2018
How to Boost Your Wi-Fi Network With an Old Router
July 27, 2018
Search for:
© Copyright 2012 - 2019 , All Rights Reserved