Oncologists Don’t Like Baking Soda Cancer Treatment Because It’s Too Effective and Too Cheap | Science Of Earth
Your browser does not support JavaScript!
The
Science Earth
≡
Home
News
Everyday
Science
Health
Technology
Nature
Discovery
Terms &Conditions
Privacy Policy
Home » Health » Oncologists Don’t Like Baking Soda Cancer Treatment Because It’s Too Effective and Too Cheap
Oncologists Don’t Like Baking Soda Cancer Treatment Because It’s Too Effective and Too Cheap
Written By Admin on Thursday, October 6, 2016 | 2:42:00 AM
Often the cancer patients agree to chemotherapy without knowing of its negative side effects. The chemo is very much toxic but still is the lead first treatment for cancer. The only reason that the chemo treatment is still present are the money who companies provide from it. Chemo sometimes boost the cancer and it is not effective.
The unknown useful information is that from baking soda also can be provided cancer treatment. One man once declared that he cured his cancer with baking soda. The treatment from baking soda in this case, for breast cancer is the same reason that few years ago one doctor received remuneration to study and prove the benefits of sodium bicarbonate. This in the future maybe will be the safest and effective treatment.
The doctor successfully provided a program and made a successful cancer treatment protocols in addition of the fact that sodium bicarbonate indeed makes tumors more alkaline and inhibit metastasis. It can increase also the pH of acidic tumors without making any damage to the pH of the blood and tissues.
The mixture is simple by using 12g baking soda combined with 2 cups of water and low calorized sweater by your choice. Drink a sip three times a day from the mixture in every 2 hours.
The baking soda is not only useful for cancer treatment it also helps with kidney disease, diabetes, influenza and sometimes it helps even with flu. When it is mixed with water or better the water is high with magnesium content it becomes the strongest medicinal for diseases. It is also very helpful and effective with cases of radiation exposure.
The Dr. Robert Gillies already proved that the treatment with baking soda is useful and it alkalizes the area around tumors.
Baking soda – as we said before, the soda has many benefits and it is used not just as medicine but also in baking, hygiene products (toothpastes- as cleaning and whitening agent), to soft the vegetables, sometimes tenderize meat. It is known with names as, cooking soda, bread soda or maybe bicarbonate of soda. It is different from the washing soda but they do share the taste of alkaline and salt.
Connections with pH – if our pH is unstable we will not be able to resist the gunny flues or colds or any other disease. Our pH needs to be kept in safe and healthy range and also necessarily diet changes are needed which will protect us over the long term while the use of sodium bicarbonate gives us a start toward increased alkalinity. If we ever face ourselves with numbers that are up or down from 7.35-7.45 pH range we face with difficulties as low fighting against the diseases. The cellular integrity will compromise directly from the body’s extra fluids and connective tissue cells by not effectively neutralizing and eliminating the acids. The body becomes alkalinized and negative effects are coming if this is not corrected rapidly. John Barron declares the benefits of alkaline water. It is well known that for survival the cells need oxygen. Combined, the hydrogen ions and the acid are tiding up the oxygen. Our health is maintained by oxygen. If we have more acid in our blood, the lower is the pH and less oxygen is available for use. The acid always “swallows” all of the available oxygen. The same situation is with cancer. The more oxygen is available, the higher is the pH and the harder is for cancer to thrive.
Baking soda (one kind of cure for cancer) – malignant tumors are masses of rapidly growing cells. Carbohydrates and sugars are used in large amount by cancer cells. Sometimes lactic and pyruvic acids are formed. In normal condition they disappear very fast but in case like this they multiply very fast and they live and accumulate in the environment of the tumor. In short lines the cancer needs acids to grown and spread. To lower the acidy inside, you don’t need anything remarkable medicine or expensive drug, you only need nothing but sodium bicarbonate. The oral receive of it is can and can be useful but not as much as useful by direct inject in the tumor. Alkalinized effect of sodium bicarbonate can indeed stop cancer.
In one 2009 study, published in journal called “Cancer research” the results from one testing made quite an impression with fact that baking soda is really helpful and indeed is raising the pH and reducing the metastases. Also it reduces the environment of the lymph and did not spread the cancer cells to other organs.
Baking soda as treatment for cancer- Dr. Sircus explained the treatment in one of his books, presented by one of his patients who had a fight with prostate cancer which was mediatized to his bones.
The patient on the first day mixed 1 teaspoon of baking soda with 1 teaspoon of molasses in a cup of water.
He took this for another 3 days after which his saliva pH read 7.0 and his urine pH read 7.5.
Stunned by the results, the patient took the solution 2 times on day 5 instead of once daily. And from day 6 -- 10, he took 2 teaspoons each of baking soda and molasses twice daily.
By the 10th day, the patient’s pH had risen to 8.5. The only side effects he had were headaches and night sweat.
After that the patient had a bone scan and too other medical tests. The results showed that his PSA (prostate-specific antigen, the protein used to determine the severity of prostate enlargement and prostate cancer) level was down from 22.3 at the point of diagnosis to 0.1.
Mixing 90 teaspoons of maple syrup with 30 teaspoons of baking soda is another formula recommended. While doing this, the maple syrup must be heated to become less viscous. Then the baking syrup is added and stirred for 5 minutes until full desolation.
This preparation should provide about 10-day worth of the baking soda remedy. 5 -- 7 teaspoons per day is the recommended dose for cancer patients.
Source:www.healthyfoodplans.net
SHARE SHARE SHARE
RELATED POSTS
Home
Like Our Fan Page
Healthy Food Plans
Popular Posts
SCIENTIST REVEALS THE MOST POWERFUL CANCER KILLER – JACKFRUIT
I might want to begin this article with a basic inquiry – did you realize that Jackfruit is the biggest natural product that develops on a t...
The 5 Kidney Damage Symptoms You Are Most Likely to Ignore
If the function of any body organ is impeded, including the kidneys, the entire condition of the body is threatened. Namely, if their funct...
Unbelievable: Treat Diabetes, Asthma, Cholesterol And Kidney Diseases With Okra Water- Now You Can Make It Yourself
In this article, we are going to acquaint you with a stunning plant thought to be a standout amongst the most nutritious vegetables of North...
Search this site
Subscribe To
Posts
Atom
Posts
Comments
Atom
Comments
Labels
Everyday (1152) Health (2643) Nature (300) News (249) Science (72)
Copyright © 2015. Science of Earth - All Rights Reserved
ThemeXpose