After Wisdom Tooth Removal Las Vegas | Home Care Instructions
Skip to main content
Menu Call our Offices
×
Office Numbers
Las Vegas Office
702-633-7500Pahrump Office
775-751-0800Elko Office
775-777-2622
Home
Patient Information
Introduction
First Visit
Scheduling
Financial Policy
Insurance
Privacy Policy
Online Videos
3D Imaging
Useful Information
Procedures
Wisdom Teeth
Impacted Wisdom Teeth
Wisdom Teeth Removal
After Extraction of Wisdom Teeth
Facial Trauma
Meet Us
Dr. Jay Selznick
Elko Office Tour
Pahrump Office Tour
Las Vegas Office Tour
Instructions
Before Anesthesia
Wisdom Teeth
Multiple Extractions
Case Studies
Case Studies
Gunshot Wound
Gunshot Wound 2
Lip Cancer
Maxillofacial Injury
Intra-Oral Explosive Detonation
Contact Us
Contact Information
Las Vegas Office
Pahrump Office
Elko Office
Search our website
Instructions
Before Anesthesia
Wisdom Teeth
Multiple Extractions
After Wisdom Tooth Removal
Dr. Jay Selznick provides the following advice for patients after wisdom tooth removal.
The removal of impacted teeth is a serious surgical procedure. Post-operative care is very important. Unnecessary pain and the complications of infection and swelling can be minimized if the instructions are followed carefully.
Immediately Following Surgery
The gauze pad placed over the surgical area should be kept in place for a half hour. After this time, the gauze pad should be removed and discarded.
Vigorous mouth rinsing or touching the wound area following surgery should be avoided. This may initiate bleeding by causing the blood clot that hasformed to become dislodged.
Take the prescribed pain medications as soon as you begin to feel discomfort. This will usually coincide with the local anesthetic becoming diminished.
Restrict your activities the day of surgery and resume normal activity when you feel comfortable.
Place ice packs to the sides of your face where surgery was performed. Refer to the section on Swelling for an explanation.
Bleeding
A certain amount of bleeding is to be expected following surgery. Slight bleeding, oozing, or redness in the saliva is not uncommon. Excessive bleeding may be controlled by first rinsing or wiping any old clots from your mouth, then placing a gauze pad over the area and biting firmly for 30 minutes. Repeat if necessary. If bleeding continues, bite on a moistened tea bag for 30 minutes. The tannic acid in the tea bag helps to form a clot by contracting bleeding vessels. To minimize further bleeding, do not become excited, sit upright, and avoid exercise. If bleeding does not subside, call for further instructions.
Swelling
The swelling that is normally expected is usually proportional to the surgery involved. Swelling around the mouth, cheeks, eyes and sides of the face is not uncommon. This is the bodys normal reaction to surgery and eventual repair. The swelling will not become apparent until the day following surgery and will not reach its maximum until two to three days post-operatively. However, the swelling may be minimized by the immediate use of ice packs. Two plastic bags filled with ice, or ice packs should be applied to the sides of the face where surgery was performed. The ice packs should be left on continuously while you are awake. After 36 hours, ice has no beneficial effect. If swelling or jaw stiffness has persisted for several days, there is no cause for alarm. This is a normal reaction to surgery. Thirty-six hours following surgery, the application of moist heat to the sides of the face is beneficial in reducing the size of the swelling.
Pain
For moderate pain, one or two tablets of Tylenol or Extra Strength Tylenol may be taken every three to four hours or ibuprofen (Motrin or Advil) two to four 200 mg tablets may be taken every 6 hours.
For severe pain, take the tablets prescribed as directed. The prescribed pain medicine will make you groggy and will slow down your reflexes. Do not drive an automobile or work around machinery. Avoid alcoholic beverages. Pain or discomfort following surgery should subside more and more every day. If pain persists, it may require attention and you should call the office at Las Vegas Office Phone Number 702-633-7500.
Diet
Drink liquids after general anesthesia or IV sedation. Do not use straws when drinking from a glass. The sucking motion can cause more bleeding by dislodging the blood clot. You may eat anything soft by chewing away from the surgical site(s). High calorie, high protein intake is very important. Try to maintain a normal diet. You should prevent dehydration by taking fluids regularly. Your food intake will be limited for the first few days. You should compensate for this by increasing your fluid intake. At least five to six glasses of liquid should be taken daily. Try not to miss a single meal. You will feel better, have more strength, less discomfort, and heal faster if you continue to eat.
CAUTION: If you suddenly sit up or stand from a lying position, you may become dizzy. If you are lying down following surgery, make sure you sit for one minute before standing.
Keep the Mouth Clean
No rinsing of any kind should be performed until the day following surgery. You can brush your teeth the night of surgery but rinse gently. The day after surgery you should begin rinsing at least five to six times a day with a cup of warm water mixed with a teaspoon of salt especially after eating.
Discoloration
In some cases, discoloration of the skin follows swelling. The development of black, blue, green, or yellow discoloration is due to blood spreading beneath the tissues. This is a normal postoperative occurrence, which may occur two to three days post-operatively. Moist heat applied to the area may speed up the removal of the discoloration.
Antibiotics
If you have been placed on antibiotics, take the tablets or liquid as directed. Antibiotics will be given to help prevent infection. Discontinue antibiotic use in the event of a rash or other unfavorable reaction. Call the office if you have any questions: Las Vegas Office Phone Number 702-633-7500.
Nausea & Vomiting
In the event of nausea and/or vomiting following surgery, do not take anything by mouth for at least an hour including the prescribed medicine. You should then sip on Coke, tea, or ginger ale. You should sip slowly over a 15-minute period. When the nausea subsides, you can begin taking solid foods and the prescribed medicine.
Other Complications
If numbness of the lip, chin, or tongue occurs there is no cause for alarm. As stated before surgery, this is usually temporary in nature. You should be aware that if your lip or tongue is numb, you could bite it and not feel the sensation. So be careful. Call Dr. Selznick if you have any questions.
A slight elevation of temperature immediately following surgery is not uncommon. If the temperature persists, notify the office at Las Vegas Office Phone Number 702-633-7500. Tylenol or ibuprofen should be taken to reduce the fever.
You should be careful going from the lying down position to standing. You were not able to eat or drink prior to surgery. It was also difficult to take fluids. Taking pain medications can make you dizzy. You could get light headed when you suddenly stand up. Before standing up, you should sit for one minute and then get up.
Occasionally, patients may feel hard projections in the mouth with their tongue. They are not roots; they are the bony walls, which supported the tooth. These projections usually smooth out spontaneously. If not, they can be removed by Dr. Selznick.
If the corners of your mouth are stretched, they may dry out and crack. Your lips should be kept moist with an ointment such as Vaseline.
Sore throats and pain when swallowing are not uncommon. The muscles get swollen. The normal act of swallowing can then become painful. This will subside in two to three days.
Stiffness (trismus) of the jaw muscles may cause difficulty in opening your mouth for a few days following surgery. This is a normal post-operative event that will resolve in time.
Finally,
Sutures are placed in the area of surgery to minimize post-operative bleeding and to help healing. Sometimes they become dislodged. This is no cause for alarm. Just remove the suture from your mouth and discard it. The sutures will be removed approximately one week after surgery. The removal of sutures requires no anesthesia or needles. It takes only a minute or so, and there is no discomfort associated with this procedure. So its really nothing to worry about.
The pain and swelling should subside more and more each day following surgery. If your post-operative pain or swelling worsens or unusual symptoms occur, call the office for instructions.
There will be a cavity where the tooth was removed. The cavity will gradually fill in with new tissue over the next month. In the meantime, the area should be kept clean especially after meals with salt-water rinses or a toothbrush.
I always say Your case is individual. No two mouths are alike! Do not accept well-intended advice from friends. Discuss your problem with the persons best able to effectively help you: Dr. Selznick or your family dentist.
Brushing your teeth is okay & necessary just be gentle near the surgical sites.
A dry socket is when the blood clot gets dislodged prematurely from the tooth socket. Symptoms of pain at the surgical site and even pain to the ear may occur two to three days following surgery. Call the office if this occurs: Las Vegas Office Phone Number 702-633-7500.
If you are involved in regular exercise, be aware that your normal nourishment intake is reduced. Exercise may weaken you. If you get light headed, stop exercising.
Dr. Jay Selznick Serves the Greater Las Vegas Area & Surrounding Communities in Nevada & Arizona Including
Las Vegas, NV • Pahrump, NV • Elko, NV • Henderson, NV • North Las Vegas, NV
Carlin, NV • Lamoille, NV • Spring Creek, NV • Wells, NV • Wendover, NV
Battle Mountain, NV • Ely, NV • Winnemucca, NV • & Kingman, AZ
Home
Patient Information
Procedures
Meet Us
Instructions
Case Studies
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Sitemap
Nevada Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery, LLC
Oral Surgeon Jay K. Selznick, DMD, MD
Address: 2500 West Sahara Avenue, Suite 202, Las Vegas, Nevada 89102 • Phone: 702-633-7500 • Fax: 702-436-3535
Address: 361 South Frontage Road, Suite 3, Pahrump, Nevada 89048 • Phone: 775-751-0800 • Fax: 775-751-1019
Address: 247 Bluffs Avenue, Suite 103, Elko, Nevada 89801 • Phone: 775-777-2622 • Fax: 775-777-2022
Dr. Jay Selznick provides affordable Oral Surgery, affordable dental extraction, Wisdom Teeth Removal, painful wisdom teeth treatment,
go to sleep for dental extraction, pull teeth asleep, $1299 Wisdom Tooth Special (for patients without insurance/cash patients only),
and treats Facial Trauma and Facial Injury.
Dr. Jay Selznick serves the greater Las Vegas area, Pahrump NV, Elko NV, and the surrounding communities in Nevada and Arizona
including Henderson NV, North Las Vegas NV, Carlin NV, Lamoille NV, Spring Creek NV, Wells NV, Wendover NV, Battle Mountain NV, Ely NV, Winnemucca NV, Kingman AZ, Eagle Station NV, Carson Hot Springs NV, New Empire NV, Mill Creek Settlement NV, Stewart NV, Pinyon Hills NV, Lakeview NV, Brunswick NV, Indian Hills NV, Mound House NV, Fiddlers Green NV, Johnson Lane NV, and Cradlebaugh NV.
Oral Surgery Website Design by PBHS © 2008 - 2019
Scroll to Top