Grapefruit and Medicines - A Possible Deadly Mix?
Skip to Content
Search Drugs.com
All Select the section you want to search in All Consumer Professional Pill ID Interactions News FDA Alerts Approvals Pipeline Clinical Trials Care Notes Natural Products
Close
Search
Browse all medications: a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z 0-9
Advanced Search
Register Sign In
Sign In
Register
Menu
Close
Account
Sign In
Register Now
Drugs A-Z
A-Z Drug Index
Treatment Options
Drugs by Class
Compare Drugs
Generic Drugs
OTC Drugs
International Drugs
Natural Products
Drug Side Effects
Dosage Guides
Pregnancy Warnings
Breastfeeding Warnings
Pricing & Coupons
Inactive Ingredients
Info en Español
Veterinary Products
Pill Identifier
Interactions Checker
FDA Alerts
New Drugs
News
Pro Edition
More
Videos
Slideshows
Newsletters
Pricing & Coupon Guide
Facebook Twitter YouTube
Health & Medication Slideshows
Grapefruit and Medicines - A Possible Deadly Mix?
Grapefruit & Medicines: A Possible Deadly Mix?
Medically reviewed by L. Anderson, PharmD. Last updated on Apr 1, 2019.
« Previous
1 of 12
Next » View as slideshow
Love Grapefruit Juice? Drug Interactions Are Numerous
Grapefruit (Citrus paradisi) is nutritious fruit full of vitamin C, antioxidants, and a tangy-sweet flavor. However, research points to hundreds of drug interactions -- many of which may be serious -- with grapefruit.
Medications can interact with all forms of grapefruit - the fresh fruit, juice or even the frozen concentrate can result in problems. Interactions may occur with commonly used drugs - such as those that lower cholesterol, treat high blood pressure, or even those that fight cancer.
Tip: If you drink grapefruit juice, always have your pharmacist check for drug interactions with any new prescription or over-the-counter (OTC) drug.
What Causes These Dangerous Drug Interactions with Grapefruit?
Grapefruit interactions can be dangerous because blood levels of an interacting drug may rise, potentially leading to side effects.
Drug levels rise because grapefruit compounds known as furanocoumarins can block cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) enzymes. These enzymes, involved in the metabolism of over 50 percent of all drugs, are needed to break down drugs for elimination from the body.
Some interactions are theoretical, based on their mechanism of action, but a warning is still important.
What If I Just Take My Drug At a Different Time From Grapefruit?
It seems like taking the medication and the grapefruit or juice at different times might lessen the interaction, but this is not always the case.
The CYP450 enzymes, found in the intestine and the liver, can stay blocked after eating or drinking grapefruit. Sometimes they can stay blocked for more than 24 hours. Therefore, even certain drugs that are only given once a day cannot be separated from the grapefruit effect.
If you need to avoid grapefruit while you are taking a certain drug, it's probably best not to consume grapefruit at all, in any form.
Can I Eat Other Kinds of Citrus Fruits?
Most other citrus fruits are fine to eat. Exceptions are the seville orange (often used in marmalades), the pomelo, and limes.
These fruits also contain furanocoumarins that may cause the same interactions as grapefruit.
Drinking grapefruit, apple and orange juice with an antihistamine called fexofenadine (Allegra) may lead to decreased levels of fexofenadine, meaning your antihistamine may not work as well. Take fexofenadine with water and avoid drinking large amounts of grapefruit, orange, or apple juice.
Technically considered a berry and not citrus, pomegranate juice may also interact with certain medications like the breast cancer treatment Kisqali (ribociclib). Patients should not consume pomegranates, pomegranate juice, grapefruit, or grapefruit juice during treatment with ribociclib unless your doctor recommends otherwise. Pomegranate juice or grapefruit juice can increase the blood levels of ribociclib. Elevated blood levels of this drug can worsen side effects and lead to infections, altered blood cell counts, lowered appetite, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, hair loss, and fatigue, among others.
How Much Grapefruit or Juice Does it Take to Cause the Interaction?
It doesn't take much.
One whole fruit or 200 milliliters of grapefruit juice (less than one cup) can block the CYP3A4 enzymes and lead to toxic blood levels of the drug.
For example, when a common calcium channel blocker blood pressure medicine by the name of felodipine (Plendil) is taken with grapefruit juice instead of water, blood levels of the drug can more than double.
This interaction can occur with other calcium channel blockers, too.
The manufacturers of nifedipine (Adalat CC) and nisoldipine (Sular), both calcium channel blockers used for blood pressure, also recommend avoiding grapefruit juice.
There are many possible interactions, so be sure to tell your healthcare provider if you drink grapefruit juice and about ALL of your medicines and dietary supplements, including over-the-counter (OTC) and herbal products.
What are the Most Common Drugs that Cause a Grapefruit Interaction?
Some of the most common grapefruit interactions include:
Some statin cholesterol medications (atorvastatin, lovastatin, simvastatin)
Certain medicines that are used to stabilize heart rhythms (amiodarone, dronedarone)
Certain high blood pressure medications called calcium channel blockers (nifedipine, verapamil, felodipine)
Not all drugs in any one class of medications have these interactions, so usually your healthcare provider can select an alternative medication.
As new drugs are approved frequently, always have your pharmacist check for interactions with each new prescription, OTC, or herbal supplement you use.
What Kind of Effects Can Occur with Grapefruit-Drug Interactions?
Side effects that may occur vary with the drug, and can range from abnormal heart rhythms, stomach bleeding, and muscle breakdown and kidney damage, to low blood pressure, difficulty breathing, sedation, and dizziness.
Other reactions may occur -- it depends on the drug and the levels of the drug in the blood.
If you have been warned about a possible drug interaction with grapefruit, ask your healthcare provider to describe the possible side effect and learn how to recognize it.
Who is Most at Risk for Grapefruit Interactions?
Grapefruit juice is primarily consumed by an older crowd - kids tend to shy away from it's slightly sour tatse. Older patients may be at a greater risk of interactions because they are more likely to drink grapefruit juice and take several medications.
Discuss all of your prescription, over-the-counter (OTC), and herbal medications with your healthcare provider every time a new drug is prescribed, and tell them if you eat grapefruit or drink grapefruit juice.
You can also join the Drugs.com Grapefruit Support group to discuss this topic at more length and keep up to date with the latest news.
Which Drugs are Most Dangerous to Take with Grapefruit Juice?
Each person is unique and the severity of an interaction can very from person to person.
Some cancer drugs, antibiotics, or heart medications may lead to an abnormal heart rhythm when combined with grapefruit.
Muscle and kidney damage can be a serious side effect with statins used for lowering cholesterol.
Some immunosuppressants used after organ transplants have been reported to cause kidney damage.
Certain pain medications may be linked with depressed breathing when taken with grapefruit.
There are too many posible drug interactions to list, so be proactive and ask your healthcare provider and research yourself, too.
Movantik and Grapefruit Juice Don't Mix
In 2014, the FDA approved AstraZeneca’s Movantik (naloxegol) for the treatment of opioid-induced constipation (OIC) in adults with chronic non-cancer pain.
Movantik is an oral, opioid receptor antagonist and counteracts the effect of opioid agonists (painkillers) that can slow the intestines and frequently lead to constipation.
In studies, 1,352 participants received 12.5 milligrams (mg) or 25 mg of Movantik or a placebo (sugar pill) once daily for 12 weeks. Results showed that 41% to 44% of participants experienced an increase in bowel movements per week, compared to 29% of participants receiving placebo.
However, Movantik has an interaction with grapefruit, too, and you should not consume grapefruit or grapefruit juice during treatment with Movantik, because blood levels of the drug can be significantly increased.
You may be more likely to have side effects and withdrawal symptoms such as sweating, tearing, runny nose, chills, diarrhea, abdominal pain, anxiety, insomnia, irritability, restlessness, and yawning.
Are There Drug Interactions With Pomegranate?
Pomegranate juice is full of antioxidants and vitamin C, like many other juices, and is now considered a "superfood". Some people drink pomegranate for its health effects on the heart, to help prevent cancer, lower blood pressure, or for prostate health in men. However, more research is needed to determine if pomegranate is beneficial in the long run for our health.
Like grapefruit, pomegranate may have an effect on how drugs are metabolized (broken down and removed from the body) due to blocking of certain CYP enzymes - like CYP3A4 and 2C9. For example, the manufacturer of Kisqali, a breast cancer treatment approved in March 2017, states it has specific drug-food interactions with both pomegranate and grapefruit juice.
They recommend that patients avoid pomegranate or grapefruit and their juices while taking Kisqali as the combination may increase the amount of Kisqali in the blood, possibly causing worsened side effects, such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, loss of appetite, abdominal pain, mouth sores, hair loss, weakness, and impaired bone marrow function with anemia, bleeding problems, and infections.
Theoretically, drugs that may have interactions with grapefruit juice may have interactions with pomegranate juice as they affect similar enzymes. Warfarin, some blood pressure or cholesterol medications, carbamazapepine, or other drugs that are broken down by CYP3A4 or 2C9 may also have interactions with pomegranate juice.
Always have your pharmacist check for drug interactions anytime you start or even stop a medication, herb, or vitamin product. Be sure to tell your doctor if you regularly drink pomegranate juice, too.
How to Best Avoid Dangerous Grapefruit Interactions?
Grapefruit is a healthy and delicious snack and juice, but it is best to avoid grapefruit and its juice if drug interactions are possible.
If you discover that you are at risk for an interaction with a drug you currently take, call your healthcare provider to determine the best course of action. It may be that the interaction is minor and no course of action is needed. Alternatively, you may need to avoid grapefruit altogether or your healthcare provider may need to prescribe an alternate drug.
It's always easier to prevent a drug interaction and its effects, instead of dealing with it after the fact, so be sure to check for possible interactions before any new drug, herbal or OTC is started.
Finished: Grapefruit and Medicines - A Possible Deadly Mix?
NEXT UP
Top 10 Ways to Save Money on Your Medication Costs
Let’s face it - talking about health care costs is not at the top of everybody's to-do list. But with patients now responsible for more out-of-pocket costs, it is important…
DON'T MISS
Osteoporosis: A Battle For Your Bones
Osteoporosis is a condition where bones become weak and brittle and can easily break. Although more often diagnosed in older women, osteoporosis can affect anyone but there are several lifestyle changes you can make to keep your bones in the best health possible.
View all slides as one page
Print this page
Sources
Mayo Clinic. Consumer Health. I like to drink grapefruit juice but hear that it can interfere with some prescription medications. Is that true? Accessed March 30, 2019 at http://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy-lifestyle/consumer-health/expert-answers/food-and-nutrition/faq-20057918
FDA. Consumer Health Info. Juice and Medicine May Not Mix. Accessed March 30, 2019 at https://www.drugs.com/fda-consumer/grapefruit-juice-and-medicine-may-not-mix-208.html.
Bailey DG, Dresser G, Arnold M, et al. Grapefruit-medication interactions: Forbidden fruit or avoidable consequences? CMAJ. 2012. Accessed March 30, 2019 at https://issuu.com/achs/docs/grapefruit-medication-interactions
Hansten PD, Horn JR. The Top 100 Drug Interactions. A Guide to Patient Management. H&H Publications. Freeland, WA. Accessed March 30, 2019.
Shimomura S, Wanwimolruk S, Chen J. Drug Interactions with Grapefruit Juice: An Evidenced-Based Overview. Pharmacy Times. Accessed March 30, 2019 at http://www.direct-ms.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/Grapefruit-juice-drug-reactions.pdf
Srinivas NR. Is pomegranate juice a potential perpetrator of clinical drug-drug interactions? Review of the in vitro, preclinical and clinical evidence. Eur J Drug Metab Pharmacokinet. 2013 Dec;38(4):223-9. Accessed March 30, 2019 at https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23673492
Komperda KE. Potential interaction between pomegranate juice and warfarin. Pharmacotherapy. 2009 Aug;29(8):1002-6. Accessed March 30, 2019 at https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19637955
Hidaka M, Okumura M, Fujita K, et al. Effects of pomegranate juice on human cytochrome p450 3A (CYP3A) and carbamazepine pharmacokinetics in rats. Drug Metab Dispos. 2005 May;33(5):644-8. Accessed March 30, 2019 at http://dmd.aspetjournals.org/content/33/5/644#sec-4
Kim H, Yoon YJ, Shon JH, et al. Inhibitory effects of fruit juices on CYP3A activity. Drug Metab Dispos. 2006 Apr;34(4):521-3. Accessed March 30, 2019 at http://dmd.aspetjournals.org/content/34/4/521#T2
Further information
Always consult your healthcare provider to ensure the information displayed on this page applies to your personal circumstances.
Medical Disclaimer
How to Prevent Deadly Drug Interactions
Some mixtures of medications can lead to serious and even fatal consequences.
Here are 9 ways to stay safe
Subscribe to our newsletters
FDA alerts
Daily news summary
Weekly news roundup
Monthly newsletter
I accept the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy
Email Address
Drugs.com Mobile Apps
The easiest way to lookup drug information, identify pills, check interactions and set up your own personal medication records. Available for Android and iOS devices.
Explore Apps
Support
Help Center
Frequent Questions
Sitemap
Contact Us
About
About Drugs.com
Advertising Policy
Content Submissions
Drugs.com Blog
Terms & Privacy
Editorial Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Attribution & Citations
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
RSS Feed
Subscribe to receive email notifications whenever new articles are published.
Drugs.com provides accurate and independent information on more than 24,000 prescription drugs, over-the-counter medicines and natural products. This material is provided for educational purposes only and is not intended for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Data sources include IBM Watson Micromedex (updated 1 Apr 2019), Cerner Multum™ (updated 1 Apr 2019), Wolters Kluwer™ (updated 29 Mar 2019) and others.
Third Party Advertising
We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information - verify here
Copyright © 2000-2019 Drugs.com. All rights reserved.
Hide