Explainer: Vaccines are not linked to autism | Science News for Students
Skip to main content
Google Tag Manager
Menu
Topics
Body & Brain
Earth & Environment
Genes & Cells
Humans & Society
Invention & Innovation
Life & Evolution
Math & Technology
Physics & Chemistry
Space
Teachers
Doing Research
Cool Jobs
Blogs
Eureka! Lab
Scientists Say
Analyze This!
Technically Fiction
Collections
DIY Science: 5-Second Rule
Gravity Waves
Explainers
Concussions
Science News
Current Issue
Health
Science & Society
Explainer: Vaccines are not linked to autism
Ignore a long-debunked study and internet scare-mongers. Science still confirms no causal tie
Kathiann Kowalski
Stephen Ornes
Apr 4, 2019 — 6:35 am EST
A now-discredited study once linked vaccines and autism. But many studies have since shown that vaccinations don’t lead to the brain disorder.
lisegagne/E+/Getty Images
Study after study confirms that vaccines are safe and save lives. So, most parents say yes to vaccines. They want to protect their children from diseases that can cause permanent harm or even death. Yet some parents say no. Many of these people base that refusal on a 1998 study that claimed to find a link between autism and vaccines.
Autism is a disorder that affects how the brain develops. Its symptoms can range from mild to severe. These symptoms can start to appear around the same time that kids get many of their vaccinations. So the 1998 study worried parents. Many feared their kids might develop autism after getting the MMR vaccine. That vaccine gets its name from the fact that it protects against three major childhood diseases: measles, mumps and rubella.
Explainer: What is autism?
In fact, the 1998 study’s claims were false. Scientists debunked the report long ago. Still, some people haven’t learned about that or refuse to believe data that find no signs of an autism link. None. The most recent of these follow-up studies — and the largest — came out March 5, 2019 in the Annals of Internal Medicine. Like the others, it found no link between autism and vaccines.
In this new study, Anders Hviid of the Statens Serum Institut in Copenhagen, Denmark and his colleagues collected data on more than 657,000 Danish children between 1999 and 2013. They followed the children from age 1. Denmark provides free vaccines for children. As a result, most families chose to have their kids receive the MMR vaccine. But not all.
Over the study period, 6,517 children were diagnosed with autism. But the team found that children who got the MMR vaccine were no more likely to be diagnosed with autism than were those who didn’t get it. Groups that might be more susceptible to autism also did not have an increased risk from being vaccinated.
About that 1998 study
The initial claim of a possible autism link appeared in The Lancet. A small study, it had focused on just 11 boys and one girl with autism. Led by a surgeon in England, Andrew Wakefield, this study linked autism in these kids to their having gotten the MMR vaccine.
That 1998 study had not been performed well. Later research would show this. That didn’t stop parents around the world from panicking over its claims, however.
Many scientists also were concerned about the claims by Wakefield’s group. Some of them tried to repeat the study. But they didn’t get the same result. Much larger studies investigated further. They, too, failed to find support for the claim made by Wakefield’s team. More than that, research turned up evidence that Wakefield committed fraud. A series of articles published in BMJ, a British medical journal, outlined much of the evidence for that in 2011.
Explainer: What is a vaccine?
Despite all of this, the 1998 study’s claims have mushroomed online. One 2016 study in the Journal of Communication in Healthcare found nearly 500 anti-vaccine websites. The study’s authors looked at tactics used by different websites. Fear of autism is a big theme, thanks to the now-discredited study, it found. Some websites even cast Wakefield as a victim. Those websites dismissed or excused the big problems with his report.
Other websites included vague appeals to readers’ values or emotions. Some sites argued for individual freedom of choice. Those arguments don’t mention that public health and safety laws protect everyone. Other websites fostered distrust of doctors and companies that make vaccines. They did not point out that parents will need both doctors and vaccines if children get sick. Still other sites suggested that vaccines were somehow toxic or not “natural.” They ignored the fact that preventable diseases are “natural” — yet can still be deadly.
Why some people think they know more than vaccine experts
“Unfortunately,” says Peter Hotez, “anti-vaccine misinformation media dominates the internet.” Hotez is a pediatrician and vaccine scientist in Houston. He works at Baylor College of Medicine and at Texas Children’s Hospital.
Bogus findings
Sometimes when scientists can’t replicate, or reproduce, another study’s findings, it’s because someone made a mistake. But Wakefield’s group didn’t just make mistakes, scientists would find. And the 1998 study wasn’t just false. It was “fraudulent,” editors of BMJ would later report.
In January 2010, a government panel in the United Kingdom announced that it had found many problems with the 1998 study. Wakefield, for example, had gotten money from lawyers involved in lawsuits against the companies that make vaccines. That’s considered a “conflict of interest.” Wakefield also was charged with picking and choosing data to show what he wanted. That reflected poor study design. Evidence also showed that the team had fudged data — changed them to make them say what Wakefield wanted. Beyond that, there were ethical problems with how Wakefield’s team had gotten data on the children.
Wakefield lost his medical license. And The Lancet retracted his group’s paper in February 2010. Scientific journals have since become more attentive to signs of potential fraud.
Yet the damage from Wakefield’s work continues. Many parents still refuse to vaccinate their children because of his team’s initial claims.
Vaccines help everyone — even the unvaccinated
“I see your pain [and] your desire for answers to your children’s health problems,” said Washington State Secretary of Health John Wiesman. He made this comment as an aside to parents of children with autism during a March 5 congressional hearing in Washington, D.C. But the answer is not to refuse vaccines, Wiesman stressed.
In the end, says Hotez, there is no link between vaccines and autism. That complex brain condition starts during pregnancy — long before anyone gets vaccines, he notes.
Hotez wrote about many more studies confirming the lack of any vaccine link to autism in a 2018 book. It’s about own adult daughter, Rachel, who has autism. And the title sums up what all the studies show: Vaccines Did Not Cause Rachel’s Autism.
Power Words
(more about Power Words)
autism (also known as autism spectrum disorders ) A set of developmental disorders that interfere with how certain parts of the brain develop. Affected regions of the brain control how people behave, interact and communicate with others and the world around them. Autism disorders can range from very mild to very severe. And even a fairly mild form can limit an individual’s ability to interact socially or communicate effectively.
colleague Someone who works with another; a co-worker or team member.
conflict of interest A situation where someone may have something to gain from (such as money, power or a job) by not making a fair or objective assessment of something. Journals, for instance, often ask the authors of journal papers to report any potential conflicts of interest that might affect their judgment of research data or conclusions as to their value.
data Facts and/or statistics collected together for analysis but not necessarily organized in a way that gives them meaning.
develop To emerge or come into being, either naturally or through human intervention, such as by manufacturing. (in biology) To grow as an organism from conception through adulthood, often undergoing changes in chemistry, size and sometimes even shape.
disorder (in medicine) A condition where the body does not work appropriately, leading to what might be viewed as an illness. This term can sometimes be used interchangeably with disease.
ethics (adj. ethical) A code of conduct for how people interact with others and their environment. To be ethical, people should treat others fairly, avoid cheating or dishonesty in any form and avoid taking or using more than their fair share of resources (which means, to avoid greed). Ethical behavior also would not put others at risk without alerting people to the dangers beforehand and having them choose to accept the potential risks. Experts who work in this field are known as ethicists.
fraud To cheat; or the resulting effects of something done by cheating. Or to make a mistake and intentionally cover up the error.
internal medicine A branch of medicine where doctors diagnose and treat adults for conditions that don’t need surgery. Doctors who work in this field are known as internists.
internet An electronic communications network. It allows computers anywhere in the world to link into other networks to find information, download files and share data (including pictures).
journal (in science) A publication in which scientists share their research findings with experts (and sometimes even the public). Some journals publish papers from all fields of science, technology, engineering and math, while others are specific to a single subject. The best journals are peer-reviewed: They send all submitted articles to outside experts to be read and critiqued. The goal, here, is to prevent the publication of mistakes, fraud or sloppy work.
link A connection between two or more people or things.
measles A highly contagious disease, typically striking children. Symptoms include a characteristic rash across the body, headaches, runny nose, and coughing. Some people also develop pinkeye, a swelling of the brain (which can cause brain damage) and pneumonia. Both of the latter two complications can lead to death. Fortunately, since the middle 1960s there has been a vaccine to dramatically cut the risk of infection.
media (in the social sciences) A term for the ways information is delivered and shared within a society. It encompasses not only the traditional media — newspapers, magazines, radio and television — but also Internet- and smartphone-based outlets, such as blogs, Twitter, Facebook and more. The newer, digital media are sometimes referred to as social media. The singular form of this term is medium.
mumps A highly contagious childhood viral disease characterized visually by swollen cheeks and a puffy jaw due a swelling of the salivary glands. It causes flu-like symptoms, including fever, muscle aches, headaches and being very tired. It’s spread as influenza is, by sneezing, coughing or touching something contaminated with the virus, such as a patient’s hands, drinking glass or spoon. In rare cases, the disease can inflame the brain, spinal cord or other tissues or cause deafness.
online (n.) On the internet. (adj.) A term for what can be found or accessed on the internet.
pediatrician A doctor who works in the field of medicine that has to do with children and especially child health.
range The full extent or distribution of something. For instance, a plant or animal’s range is the area over which it naturally exists.
replicate (in biology) To copy something. When viruses make new copies of themselves — essentially reproducing — this process is called replication. (in experimentation) To copy an earlier test or experiment — often an earlier test performed by someone else — and get the same general result. Replication depends upon repeating every step of a test, one by one. If a repeated experiment generates the same result as in earlier trials, scientists view this as verifying that the initial result is reliable. If results differ, the initial findings may fall into doubt. Generally, a scientific finding is not fully accepted as being real or true without replication.
risk The chance or mathematical likelihood that some bad thing might happen. For instance, exposure to radiation poses a risk of cancer. Or the hazard — or peril — itself. (For instance: Among cancer risks that the people faced were radiation and drinking water tainted with arsenic.)
rubella A formerly common childhood infection sometimes called the “German” measles or three-day measles. The short-lived infection tends to cause a slight fever and rash that spreads from the face to the rest of the body. Almost half of infected people show no symptoms. The big risk is to the baby of women who get the disease during pregnancy. The child may develop deafness, vision problems, heart defects, mental retardation and liver or spleen damage.
symptom A physical or mental indicator generally regarded to be characteristic of a disease. Sometimes a single symptom — especially a general one, such as fever or pain — can be a sign of any of many different types of injury or disease.
toxic Poisonous or able to harm or kill cells, tissues or whole organisms. The measure of risk posed by such a poison is its toxicity.
United Kingdom Land encompassing the four “countries” of England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. More than 80 percent of the United Kingdom’s inhabitants live in England. Many people — including U.K. residents — argue whether the United Kingdom is a country or instead a confederation of four separate countries. The United Nations and most foreign governments treat the United Kingdom as a single nation.
vaccine (v. vaccinate) A biological mixture that resembles a disease-causing agent. It is given to help the body create immunity to a particular disease. The injections used to administer most vaccines are known as vaccinations.
Readability Score:
7.7
Citation
Journal: A. Hviid et al. Measles, mumps, rubella vaccination and autism: A nationwide cohort study. Annals of Internal Medicine. Vol. 170, March 5, 2019. doi: 10.7326/M18-2101.
Journal: S. Omer and I. Yildirim. Further evidence of MMR vaccine safety: Scientific and communications considerations. Annals of Internal Medicine. Vol. 170, March 5, 2019. doi: 10.7326/M19-0596.
Journal: The MMR vaccine is not associated with risk for autism. Annals of Internal Medicine. Vol. 170, March 5, 2019.
Hearing: United States Senate. Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions. “Vaccines Save Lives: What Is Driving Preventable Disease Outbreaks?” Washington, D.C. March 5, 2019.
Book: P. Hotez. Vaccines Did Not Cause Rachel’s Autism. Johns Hopkins University Press. October 30, 2018. ISBN: 9781421426600.
Journal: M. Moran, et al. What makes anti-vaccine websites persuasive? A content analysis of techniques used by antivaccine websites to engender anti-vaccine sentiment. Journal of Communication in Healthcare. Vol. 9, December 7, 2016, p. 151. doi: 10.1080/17538068.2016.1235531.
Journal: T.S. Rao and C. Andrade. The MMR vaccine and autism: Sensation, refutation, retraction, and fraud. Indian Journal of Psychiatry. Vol. 53, April – June 2011, p. 95. doi: 10.4103/0019-5545.82529.
Journal: F. Godlee et al. Wakefield’s article linking MMR vaccine and autism was fraudulent. BMJ. Vol. 342, Jan. 6, 2011, p. c7452. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c7452.
News article: B. Deer. How the case against the MMR vaccine was fixed. BMJ. Vol. 342, Jan. 6, 2011, p. c5347. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c5347. https://www.bmj.com/content/342/bmj.c5347.
Related Stories
Science & Society
Retractions: Righting the wrongs of science
Science & Society
When a study can’t be replicated
Health
U.S. outbreak of measles emerges
Health
10 things to know about measles
Technology
Ouchless measles vaccine could save lives
Latest Headlines
Hagfish (two shown) are unlike most fish. They don’t have eyes, jaws or bones. Now, a newly discovered fossil helps explain how these fish got their unusual look.
SqueakyMarmot/Flickr (CC BY-SA 2.0)
Animals
A new fossil shows how hagfish went back to basics
People with mental illnesses such as eating disorders can relapse. They go back to harmful eating habits after they had been eating healthfully.
Tero Vesalainen/iStock/Getty Images Plus
Scientists Say
Science Education
Scientists Say: Relapse
New data suggest that humans may join birds, bacteria and certain other organisms in being able to sense Earth’s magnetic field (illustrated).
vjanez/iStock/Getty Images Plus
Brain
People may indeed have a sixth sense — for magnetism
Brood parasites leave their young with another animal who acts as a “foster parent.” Here, the foster parent is a cape robin-chat (right). It is feeding an enormous chick of another species, a red-chested cuckoo (left).
Alandmanson/Wikimedia Commons (CC BY-SA 4.0)
Animals
When parenting goes cuckoo
Trending
The first image of a black hole shows a bright ring with a dark, central spot. That ring is a bright disk of gas orbiting the supermassive behemoth in the galaxy M87. The spot is the black hole’s shadow.
Event Horizon Telescope Collaboration
Astronomy
Here’s the first picture of a black hole
New data suggest that humans may join birds, bacteria and certain other organisms in being able to sense Earth’s magnetic field (illustrated).
vjanez/iStock/Getty Images Plus
Brain
People may indeed have a sixth sense — for magnetism
As climate change warms the Atlantic, the range of the lobster is shifting north. Lobsters are just one of many species around the world reacting to global warming.
temmuzcan/iStock/Getty Images Plus
Ecosystems
Warming pushes lobsters and other species to seek cooler homes
Being stressed or afraid may alter a person’s usual scent. That can throw dogs off the person’s track. People with a particular version of a gene may have a bigger change in odor when stressed, data show.
fsHH/Pixabay
Genetics
The smell of fear may make it hard for dogs to track some people
Science News for Students
Founded in 2003, Science News for Students is an award-winning online publication dedicated to providing age-appropriate, topical science news to learners, parents and educators. It’s part of the Science News Media Group, which has published its flagship magazine since 1922. SNS is a program of the Society for Science & the Public , a nonprofit 501(c)(3) membership organization dedicated to public engagement in scientific research and education. SNS — which is free to use — helps to fulfill the Society’s enduring mission to inform, educate and inspire.
About
Science News for Students
Science News
Student Science
Society for Science & the Public
FAQ
Society Staff
Careers
Rights and Permissions
Newsletter
Cookie Policy
Join the Society
Become a Member
Gift Memberships
Renew
Donate
Sponsor
© Society for Science and the Public
1719 N Street, NW, Washington, DC 20036-2801
202-785-2255
Contact Us
Legal/Privacy Policy
Science News for Students
Topics
Body & Brain
Earth & Environment
Genes & Cells
Humans & Society
Invention & Innovation
Life & Evolution
Math & Technology
Physics & Chemistry
Space
Cool Jobs
Blogs
Eureka! Lab
Scientists Say
Analyze This!
Technically Fiction
Outside Comment
Collections
Concussions
Cookie Science
Cool Jobs
DIY Science: 5-second rule
DIY Science: Snot Science
Explainers
Gravity Waves
Invention & Innovation
Kid Scientists
Pluto
Scientists Say
Solar Eclipse 2017
Vaping
Women in STEM
Zika
For Educators
How to Use This Site
Careers & Teaching
Doing Research
About Us
Science News
Student Science Competitions
Broadcom MASTERS
Intel International Science and Engineering Fair
Regeneron Science Talent Search
Society for Science & the Public
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Tumblr
Like us on Facebook
Subscribe via RSS