medication — The Nutrition Experts
The Nutrition Experts
Drinks
Eating Out
Eco-Friendly Food
Health Issues
Healthy Eating
Kids + Food
Shop Smart
Weight Control
medication
Marijuana As Food
by Jo-Ann Heslin, MA, RD, CDN on August 24, 2017 · 0 comments
One-third of all marijuana consumption is either eaten in food or ingested as a drink and the use of marijuana edibles has increased with the expansion of legalized recreational and medical use. The effect of THC (tetrahydrocannabinol), the main psychoactive ingredient in marijuana has been associated with an increase in traffic accidents and deaths, but … Read More
Fast Food Fact: How to Get the Most from Meds
by Jo-Ann Heslin, MA, RD, CDN on July 5, 2013 · 11 comments
Getting the most from medication. For those taking drugs for high blood pressure or high cholesterol, adding healthy habits will reduce the risk of heart disease by 57%. … Read More
Fast Food Fact: This Trendy Fruit Can Be Trouble
by Jo-Ann Heslin, MA, RD, CDN on June 28, 2013 · 0 comments
Pomegranate caution. Antioxidant-rich pomegranate juice can interfere with blood pressure medications, antidepressants, AIDS drugs, and some narcotic pain relievers. If you take medication and drink pomegranate juice regularly, check with your doctor or pharmacist. … Read More
Cholesterol Levels Go Down: The Good News and the Bad News
by Jo-Ann Heslin, MA, RD, CDN on May 15, 2013 · 1 comment
Between 1988 and 2010, average total cholesterol values for American adults dropped from 206 to 196. This may not seem like a lot, but on a population basis that is a major shift in the right direction. Values under 200 are considered heart healthy. That is the good news. The bad news is that the … Read More
Fast Food Fact: What Works Better Than Heart Medication?
by Jo-Ann Heslin, MA, RD, CDN on August 31, 2012 · 0 comments
Lifestyle trumps drugs for a healthy heart. Not smoking, drinking in moderation, maintaining a healthy weight, exercising regularly, and eating right can reduce the risk of heart disease by 87%. … Read More
What Doesn’t Mix With Your Meds
by Jo-Ann Heslin, MA, RD, CDN on November 28, 2011 · 0 comments
Antioxidant-rich pomegranate juice may sound like a good idea, but it can interfere with blood pressure medications, antidepressants, AIDS drugs, and some narcotic pain relievers. Pine nuts and cashews are high in vitamin K and can interfere with anticoagulant drugs like Coumadin (warfarin). Grapefruit juice increases the potency of cholesterol-lowering statin drugs which could cause … Read More
Fast Fact: How to Make Your Medications More Effective
by Jo-Ann Heslin, MA, RD, CDN on November 11, 2011 · 0 comments
A healthy diet and regular exercise will make your meds more effective. When your doctor prescribes drugs for high blood pressure, high cholesterol, or type 2 diabetes, don’t consider them a “get-out-of-jail-free” card. Exercise and healthy eating boosts your medication to give you better results. … Read More
Fast Food Fact: When to Avoid Grapefruit Juice
by Jo-Ann Heslin, MA, RD, CDN on May 25, 2011 · 0 comments
Don’t wash down meds with grapefruit juice. The effect of cholesterol-lowering drugs, some blood pressure medications, sedatives, and immunosuppressive drugs can all be enhanced–to your detriment!–when taken along with grapefruit juice. … Read More
Fast Food Fact: Nuts and Meds Don’t Mix
by Jo-Ann Heslin, MA, RD, CDN on February 18, 2011 · 1 comment
If you’re taking medication, ask about possible interactions with nuts. Pine nuts and cashews are high in vitamin K and can interfere with anticoagulant drugs like Coumadin (warfarin). Others nuts do not interact with this class of drugs. … Read More
Our eBooks
The Diabetes Counter
The Calorie Counter
The Protein Counter
The Healthy Wholefoods Counter
The Complete Food Counter
The Fat and Cholesterol Counter
Books in Print
About the Experts
Nutrition information you can use right now. We know that you are more interested in what to eat for lunch than understanding how your metabolism works. Read More...
The World’s Best Food App
Meet all your eating goals with the new Your Complete Food Counter app. Get the skinny on 23,000 foods, personalized eating advice and a food diary--anytime, anywhere. Find out more!
Popular Stories
New in the Market: Carotino Red Palm & Canola Oil
New in the Market: Kefir – The Greek Gods, Helios and Lifeway
New in the Market: Arctic Zero Ice Cream Pints and Bars
New in the Market: NoOodle Noodles Without Calories
Want To Be Healthy? It Pays to Do The Math
New in the Market: Phase III Recovery Drink
New in the Market: Chip’ins Popcorn Chips
Fast Food Fact: It's Called Watermelon for a Reason
New in the Market: Barramundi
New in the Market: It Tastes RAAW Fruit & Vegetable Juice
Subscribe by email
Get RSS feed
Be a Facebook fan
Search
Sites We Like
American Dietetic Association
HealthNewsDigest.com
Nutrition Blog Network
SuperKids Nutrition
Hot Topics
alcohol antioxidants books bread breakfast caffeine calories cholesterol coffee condiments cooking dairy dessert diabetes dieting drinks eggs exercise fats food safety fruits and vegetables gluten free grains heart disease kids kitchen products meat medication new in the market nuts obesity oils organic pasta pregnancy protein snacks sodium sugar tea vegetables vitamins weight control weight loss yogurt
Get smart with the Thesis WordPress Theme from DIYthemes.
WordPress Admin