sole
Skip to content
My Blog about Living life with a little spice
Home
Store
Tag: sole
Pink Himalayan Salt
Posted on February 17, 2018 February 17, 2018 by infusionskw
Salt is an essential part of all human and animal life. What make’s salt so invaluable? It is the sodium / ions that the salt possesses. Our body uses salt to maintain some of its essential functions. For example, salt is used to uptake certain nutrients from our intestines. Salt also helps to maintain fluid in our blood cells and to relay information in our muscles and nerves. Our bodies don’t naturally produce salt, so its up to us to give it to our body. More and more people are discovering something new on their tables – it’s pink salt. You may associate the Himalayan mountain range with Mt. Everest, but the fact is, one of the best things from the Himalayas is its salt. Within the mountains, lay crystallized sea salt beds. They are protected by snow, ice and once lava. Himalayan sea salt is considered to be one of the purest salts on earth. Salt is a necessary ingredient in everybody’s life. In order to survive we need it, but we choose good natural salt.
Xoxo Patty
Love more and laugh a lot. Eat well and move around. Life is a blessing so live it right! God bless!
Spread the love
Posted in Eat HealthyTagged autoimmune disease, balance, blog, blood pressure, body, cleaneats, electrolytes, gut health, healing, health benefits, healthy life style, lifestyle changes, pink salt, rehydration, sole, spicesLeave a Comment on Pink Himalayan Salt
The Natural Gatorade Drink
Posted on January 17, 2018 by infusionskw
Himalayan Pink Salt Sole. What is it? Sole is water fully saturated with unrefined natural salt. When himalayan salt dissolves in water, it results in a concentrated, electrically charged matrix of the 84 trace minerals in the salt. The ionic salt and trace minerals nourish each cell in your body.
Some of the benefits of himalayan salt sole include:
✔Detoxifies the body by balancing systemic pH
✔Improves hydration by providing trace minerals while maintaing mineral levels of the body
✔Reduces muscle cramps by improving minerals and hydration
✔Helps balance blood sugar
✔Supports hormone balance for everyone
✔Helps balance blood pressure because it provides unrefined, mineral-rich salt in an ionic solution
✔Improves sleep by supporting blood sugar and hormone balance
✔Acts as a powerful antihistamine
✔Supports weight loss by balancing hormones and improving energy
✔Supports thyroid and adrenal function
How to make Salt Sole:
Fill a glass jar about 1/4 of the way with Infusions KW Himalayan Pink Salt (fine or coarse grain). Fill the rest of the way with filtered water leaving 1 inch empty space from top. Add a plastic or glass lid (not metal). Gently shake and let sit overnight.You should always have some undissolved salt in the jar, this means the water is fully saturated. Add more salt if needed. In the morning, take 1 teaspoon of sole mixed into 1 glass of warm or room temperature water. Never use metal spoon with your sole! Keep refilling your jar with salt and water when it runs low. The natural Gatorade perfect for electrolytes rebalancing!
Xoxo Patty
Love more and laugh a lot. Eat well and move around. Life is a blessing so live it right! God bless!
Spread the love
Posted in Eat HealthyTagged 2018, balance, blood pressure, body, drink, electrolytes, Gatorade, gut health, healing, health benefits, holistic, kuwait, lifestyle blog, lifestyle changes, pink salt, rehydration, soleLeave a Comment on The Natural Gatorade Drink
Search for:
Archives
May 2018
April 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
Tags
2018 anti autoimmune disease balance blog blood pressure body cancer cleaneats curry daddy electrolytes food foodie gluten free gut health hair heal healing health health benefits healthy healthy life style herb holistic inflammation kitchen kuwait lifestyle blog lifestyle changes lunch lupus mask may pink salt processed protect rehydration rosemary school skin sole spice spices turmeric
Share the joy:
↑
Theme: Food Express WordPress Food Theme is developed by Template Express.
Proudly powered by WordPress