Methanol Toxicity: Background, Etiology and Pathophysiology
News & Perspective
Drugs & Diseases
CME & Education
Academy
Video
Edition: ENGLISH
DEUTSCH
ESPAÑOL
FRANÇAIS
PORTUGUÊS
Log In
Sign Up It's Free!
Edition: ENGLISH DEUTSCH ESPAÑOL FRANÇAIS PORTUGUÊS
Register Log In
No Results
No Results
News & Perspective Drugs & Diseases CME & Education Academy Video
close
Please confirm that you would like to log out of Medscape. If you log out, you will be required to enter your username and password the next time you visit. Log out Cancel
https://profreg.medscape.com/px/getpracticeprofile.do?method=getProfessionalProfile&urlCache=aHR0cHM6Ly9lbWVkaWNpbmUubWVkc2NhcGUuY29tL2FydGljbGUvMTE3NDg5MC1vdmVydmlldw==
processing....
Drugs & Diseases > Neurology
Methanol Toxicity
Updated: Nov 05, 2018
Author: Kalyani Korabathina, MD; Chief Editor: Tarakad S Ramachandran, MBBS, MBA, MPH, FAAN, FACP, FAHA, FRCP, FRCPC, FRS, LRCP, MRCP, MRCS more...
Share
Email
Print
Feedback
Close
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Google+
Sections
Methanol Toxicity
Sections Methanol Toxicity
Overview
Background
Etiology and Pathophysiology
Show All
Presentation
History
Physical Examination
Show All
DDx
Workup
Approach Considerations
CT Scanning and MRI
Show All
Treatment
Medication
Medication Summary
Antidotes, Other
Show All
Questions & Answers
References
Overview
Background
Methanol, also known as wood alcohol, is a commonly used organic solvent that, because of its toxicity, can cause metabolic acidosis, neurologic sequelae, and even death, when ingested. It is a constituent of many commercially available industrial solvents and of poorly adulterated alcoholic beverages. Methanol toxicity remains a common problem in many parts of the developing world, especially among members of lower socioeconomic classes. (See Etiology and Pathophysiology and Presentation.) [1]
Sophisticated imaging techniques have enabled a better understanding of the clinical manifestations of methanol intoxication. Additionally, neurologic complications are recognized more frequently. This is possible because of early recognition of the toxicity and because of advances in supportive care. Hemodialysis and better management of acid-base disturbances remain the most important therapeutic improvements. (See Workup, Treatment, and Medication.)
According to a study by Jaff et al, methanol intoxication can lead to several ECG changes, with sinus tachycardia and non-specific T-wave changes being the most common. In the study, the changes were more prominent in cases of severe acidosis. A retrospective chart review of 9 patients between 2006 and 2011 revealed that lower pH and higher plasma methanol concentration were associated with multiple ECG changes. On admission, ECG changes included sinus tachycardia (44%), PR prolongation (11%), QTc prolongation (22%), and non-specific T-wave changes (66%). One patient developed a type-1 Brugada ECG pattern. [2]
According to Zakharov et al, S-formate measurement can help in the laboratory diagnosis and clinical management of acute methanol poisoning. In their study of 38 patients from a Czech methanol mass poisoning in 2012, S-formate levels ≥3.7 mmol/L were seen to lead to the first clinical signs of visual toxicity, indicating hemodialysis. S-formate ≥11-12 mmol/L was associated with visual/CNS sequelae and a lethal outcome. The probability of a poor outcome (death or survival with sequelae) was higher than 90% in patients with S-formate levels ≥17.5 mmol/L, S-lactate levels ≥7.0 mmol/L, and/or pH < 6.87. [3]
Complications
Vision loss
The mechanism by which the methanol causes toxicity to the visual system is not well understood. Formic acid, the toxic metabolite of methanol, is responsible for ocular toxicity in animal models and is rightly presumed to be responsible in human studies. (See Etiology and Pathophysiology.)
Serum methanol levels of greater than 20 mg/dL correlate with ocular injury. Funduscopic changes are notable within only a few hours after methanol ingestion and range from retinal edema in the perimacular region to the entire fundus. Optic disc edema and hyperemia are observed within 48 hours.
Visual injury may be prevented with prompt antidote therapy or via elimination of the metabolites from the system with hemodialysis; however, this is not always the case. (See Treatment and Medication.)
Movement disorders
Parkinsonian motor impairment has been described in some long-term survivors of methanol poisoning. This is thought to be due to formic acid’s predilection for accumulating in high concentrations within the putamen, but the reasons for this phenomenon are unclear. One proposed reason is that formic acid has the ability to impair dopaminergic pathways and increase enzymatic activity of dopa-B-hydroxylase. (See Etiology and Pathophysiology.) [4]
Symptom onset is usually delayed several weeks after methanol exposure. Common parkinsonian symptoms, such as tremor, cogwheel rigidity, stooped posture, shuffling gait, and hypokinesis, have been well described. In addition, the development of dystonia and corticospinal tract signs has been established.
Several case reports have indicated symptom response to standard antiparkinsonian agents, particularly levodopa, amantadine, and bromocriptine. [5]
Muscle spasms have also been reported in methanol poisoning. As expected, this symptom responds poorly to traditional therapy. [6]
Rarely, lesions in the lobar regions of the cerebrum and cerebellum have been observed. [7]
Prognosis
The prognosis in methanol poisoning correlates with the amount of methanol consumed and the subsequent degree of metabolic acidosis; more severe acidosis confers a poorer prognosis. The prognosis is further dependent on the amount of formic acid that has accumulated in the blood, with a direct correlation existing between the formic acid concentration and morbidity and mortality. Little long-term improvement can be expected in patients with neurologic complications. (See Treatment and Medication.) [8]
The minimal lethal dose of methanol in adults is believed to be 0.3-1 g/kg of body weight. [9] The exact rates of morbidity and mortality from methanol intoxication are not available.
Next:
Etiology and Pathophysiology
Methanol has a relatively low toxicity. The adverse effects are thought to be from the accumulation of formic acid, a metabolite of methanol metabolism.
Upon ingestion, methanol is quickly absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract and metabolized in the liver. In the first step of degradation, methanol is transformed into formaldehyde via the enzyme alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH). This reaction is slower than the next step, the transformation of formaldehyde into formic acid via the enzyme aldehyde dehydrogenase. This may explain the reason for the latency of symptoms between ingestion and effect. The half-life of formaldehyde is estimated to be 1-2 minutes. [10]
Formic acid is further oxidized to carbon dioxide and water in the presence of tetrahydrofolate. The metabolism of formic acid is very slow; thus, formic acid often accumulates in the body, which results in metabolic acidosis. [10]
The eye damage caused by methanol has been well described; however, the mechanism behind this phenomenon is not well understood. Vision loss is thought to be caused by interruption of mitochondrial function in the optic nerve, resulting in hyperemia, edema, and optic nerve atrophy.
Optic nerve demyelination has been reported to be due to formic acid destruction of myelin. The major damage occurs at the retrolaminar optic nerve, with intra-axonal swelling and organelle destruction. Little to no change is seen in the retina. [11]
Methanol also affects the basal ganglia. Hemorrhagic and nonhemorrhagic damage to the putamen are common problems in cases of severe intoxication. As a result of this damage, patients can develop parkinsonism or other dystonic/hypokinetic clinical pictures. [12]
The predilection for and mechanism of toxicity to the putamen is not understood. Some postulate that striatal neurons have a varying sensitivity to toxic metabolites of methanol. However, this remains to be proven. [6]
At-risk populations
Suicide attempts using methanol are uncommon. [13] However, unintentional methanol poisoning occurs under a variety of circumstances in several discrete populations, including the following:
Children - Accidental overdose can be seen in children; methanol is found commonly in antifreeze, perfumes, paint solvents, photocopying fluid, and windshield washing fluid, all of which are readily available
Persons with alcoholism - These individuals commonly consume methanol as a substitute for ethanol
Populations of developing countries - In many parts of the developing world, methanol is often a component of "bootlegged alcohol," which is made in rural regions; because of its low cost, it is often consumed by members of lower socioeconomic classes
Industrial workers - In the industrial setting, the inhalation of methanol fumes poses a health risk; methanol is used in the production of formaldehyde and in shellac processing; in addition, it is used as an extractant in chemical processes and as a denaturant in ethanol [14]
Previous
Clinical Presentation
References
Pohanka M. Toxicology and the biological role of methanol and ethanol: Current view. Biomed Pap Med Fac Univ Palacky Olomouc Czech Repub. 2016 Mar. 160 (1):54-63. [Medline].
Jaff Z, McIntyre WF, Yazdan-Ashoori P, Baranchuk A. Impact of methanol intoxication on the human electrocardiogram. Cardiol J. 2014. 21(2):170-5. [Medline].
Zakharov S, Kurcova I, Navratil T, Salek T, Komarc M, Pelclova D. Is the Measurement of Serum Formate Concentration Useful in the Diagnostics of Acute Methanol Poisoning? A Prospective Study of 38 Patients. Basic Clin Pharmacol Toxicol. 2014 Oct 11. [Medline].
Finkelstein Y, Vardi J. Progressive parkinsonism in a young experimental physicist following long-term exposure to methanol. Neurotoxicology. 2002 Oct. 23(4-5):521-5. [Medline].
Bitar ZI, Ashebu SD, Ahmed S. Methanol poisoning: diagnosis and management. A case report. Int J Clin Pract. 2004 Nov. 58(11):1042-4. [Medline].
LeWitt PA, Martin SD. Dystonia and hypokinesis with putaminal necrosis after methanol intoxication. Clin Neuropharmacol. 1988 Apr. 11(2):161-7. [Medline].
Gupta N, Sonambekar AA, Daksh SK, Tomar L. A rare presentation of methanol toxicity. Ann Indian Acad Neurol. 2013 Apr. 16(2):249-51. [Medline]. [Full Text].
Coulter CV, Farquhar SE, McSherry CM, Isbister GK, Duffull SB. Methanol and ethylene glycol acute poisonings - predictors of mortality. Clin Toxicol (Phila). 2011 Dec. 49(10):900-6. [Medline].
National Center for Biotechnology Information. Methanol. PubChem Compound Database. Available at https://pubchem.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/compound/887. January 13, 2018; Accessed: January 19, 2018.
Rathi M, Sakhuja V, Jha V. Visual blurring and metabolic acidosis after ingestion of bootlegged alcohol. Hemodial Int. 2006 Jan. 10(1):8-14. [Medline].
Casarett LJ, Doull J, Klaassen CD, eds. Casarett and Doull's Toxicology: The Basic Science of Poisons. 5th ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill; 1996. 604-5, 756-7.
Phang PT, Passerini L, Mielke B, et al. Brain hemorrhage associated with methanol poisoning. Crit Care Med. 1988 Feb. 16(2):137-40. [Medline].
Jacobsen D, McMartin KE. Antidotes for methanol and ethylene glycol poisoning. J Toxicol Clin Toxicol. 1997. 35(2):127-43. [Medline].
Rosenstock L, Cullen MR, eds. Textbook of Clinical Occupational and Environmental Medicine. Philadelphia, Pa: WB Saunders; 1994. 768.
Hageman G, van der Hoek J, van Hout M, et al. Parkinsonism, pyramidal signs, polyneuropathy, and cognitive decline after long-term occupational solvent exposure. J Neurol. 1999 Mar. 246(3):198-206. [Medline].
Chio A, Herrero Hernandez E, Mora G, et al. Motor neuron disease and optic neuropathy after acute exposure to a methanol-containing solvent mixture. Amyotroph Lateral Scler Other Motor Neuron Disord. 2004 Sep. 5(3):188-91. [Medline].
Jacobsen D, McMartin KE. Methanol and ethylene glycol poisonings. Mechanism of toxicity, clinical course, diagnosis and treatment. Med Toxicol. 1986 Sep-Oct. 1(5):309-34. [Medline].
Fujita M, Tsuruta R, Wakatsuki J, et al. Methanol intoxication: differential diagnosis from anion gap-increased acidosis. Intern Med. 2004 Aug. 43(8):750-4. [Medline].
McKellar MJ, Hidajat RR, Elder MJ. Acute ocular methanol toxicity: clinical and electrophysiological features. Aust N Z J Ophthalmol. 1997 Aug. 25(3):225-30. [Medline].
Blanco M, Casado R, Vazquez F, Pumar JM. CT and MR imaging findings in methanol intoxication. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2006 Feb. 27(2):452-4. [Medline].
Hantson P, Duprez T, Mahieu P. Neurotoxicity to the basal ganglia shown by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) following poisoning by methanol and other substances. J Toxicol Clin Toxicol. 1997. 35(2):151-61. [Medline].
LoVecchio F, Sawyers B, Thole D, et al. Outcomes following abuse of methanol-containing carburetor cleaners. Hum Exp Toxicol. 2004 Oct. 23(10):473-5. [Medline].
Sharma R, Marasini S, Sharma AK, Shrestha JK, Nepal BP. Methanol Poisoning: Ocular and Neurological Manifestations. Optom Vis Sci. 2011 Nov 28. [Medline].
Media Gallery
of 0
Tables
Back to List
Contributor Information and Disclosures
Author
Kalyani Korabathina, MD Consulting Physician, North County Neurology Associates, Inc
Kalyani Korabathina, MD is a member of the following medical societies: American Academy of Neurology, American Epilepsy Society
Disclosure: Nothing to disclose.
Coauthor(s)
Selim R Benbadis, MD Professor, Director of Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, Departments of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Tampa General Hospital, University of South Florida Morsani College of Medicine
Selim R Benbadis, MD is a member of the following medical societies: American Academy of Neurology, American Academy of Sleep Medicine, American Clinical Neurophysiology Society, American Epilepsy Society, American Medical Association
Disclosure: Serve(d) as a director, officer, partner, employee, advisor, consultant or trustee for: Acorda, Livanova, Eisai, Greenwich, Lundbeck, Neuropace, Sunovion, Upsher-Smith.<br/>Serve(d) as a speaker or a member of a speakers bureau for: Livanova, Eisai, Greenwich, Lundbeck, Neuropace, Sunovion.<br/>Received research grant from: Acorda, Livanova, Greenwich, Lundbeck, Sepracor, Sunovion, UCB, Upsher-Smith.
David Likosky, MD Director of Stroke Program, President of Medical Staff, Evergreen Hospital Medical Center
David Likosky, MD is a member of the following medical societies: American Academy of Neurology, American College of Physicians-American Society of Internal Medicine, American Heart Association
Disclosure: Nothing to disclose.
Specialty Editor Board
Nicholas Lorenzo, MD, MHA, CPE Co-Founder and Former Chief Publishing Officer, eMedicine and eMedicine Health, Founding Editor-in-Chief, eMedicine Neurology; Founder and Former Chairman and CEO, Pearlsreview; Founder and CEO/CMO, PHLT Consultants; Chief Medical Officer, MeMD Inc
Nicholas Lorenzo, MD, MHA, CPE is a member of the following medical societies: Alpha Omega Alpha, American Academy of Neurology, American Association for Physician Leadership
Disclosure: Nothing to disclose.
Chief Editor
Tarakad S Ramachandran, MBBS, MBA, MPH, FAAN, FACP, FAHA, FRCP, FRCPC, FRS, LRCP, MRCP, MRCS Professor Emeritus of Neurology and Psychiatry, Clinical Professor of Medicine, Clinical Professor of Family Medicine, Clinical Professor of Neurosurgery, State University of New York Upstate Medical University; Neuroscience Director, Department of Neurology, Crouse Irving Memorial Hospital
Tarakad S Ramachandran, MBBS, MBA, MPH, FAAN, FACP, FAHA, FRCP, FRCPC, FRS, LRCP, MRCP, MRCS is a member of the following medical societies: American College of International Physicians, American Heart Association, American Stroke Association, American Academy of Neurology, American Academy of Pain Medicine, American College of Forensic Examiners Institute, National Association of Managed Care Physicians, American College of Physicians, Royal College of Physicians, Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, Royal College of Surgeons of England, Royal Society of Medicine
Disclosure: Nothing to disclose.
Acknowledgements
Nestor Galvez-Jimenez, MD, MSc, MHA Chairman, Department of Neurology, Program Director, Movement Disorders, Department of Neurology, Division of Medicine, Cleveland Clinic Florida
Nestor Galvez-Jimenez, MD, MSc, MHA is a member of the following medical societies: American Academy of Neurology, American College of Physicians, and Movement Disorders Society
Disclosure: Nothing to disclose.
Jonathan S Rutchik, MD, MPH Assistant Professor, Department of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, University of California at San Francisco
Jonathan S Rutchik, MD, MPH is a member of the following medical societies: American Academy of Neurology, American Association of Neuromuscular and Electrodiagnostic Medicine, American College of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, and Society of Toxicology
Disclosure: Nothing to disclose.
Francisco Talavera, PharmD, PhD Adjunct Assistant Professor, University of Nebraska Medical Center College of Pharmacy; Editor-in-Chief, Medscape Drug Reference
Disclosure: Medscape Salary Employment
Close
What would you like to print?
What would you like to print?
Print this section
Print the entire contents of
Print the entire contents of article
Sections Methanol Toxicity
Overview
Background
Etiology and Pathophysiology
Show All
Presentation
History
Physical Examination
Show All
DDx
Workup
Approach Considerations
CT Scanning and MRI
Show All
Treatment
Medication
Medication Summary
Antidotes, Other
Show All
Questions & Answers
References
Find Us On
Group 2 34A8E98B-62ED-4216-98D6-E986304F4C2E
About
About Medscape Privacy Policy Cookies Terms of Use Advertising Policy Help Center
Membership
Become a Member
Email Newsletters Manage My Account
Apps
Medscape MedPulse News CME & Education
WebMD Network
WebMD MedicineNet eMedicineHealth RxList WebMD Corporate
Editions
English Deutsch Español Français Português
All material on this website is protected by copyright, Copyright © 1994-2019 by WebMD LLC. This website also contains material copyrighted by 3rd parties.
Close
encoded search term (Methanol Toxicity) and Methanol Toxicity
What to Read Next on Medscape
Related Conditions and Diseases
Forensic Toxicology - Drugs and Chemicals
Adjuncts to the Forensic Autopsy
Pill ID: Which Drug Is This?
Medication Emergencies: What Drug Is This?
Fast Five Quiz: Do You Know the Signs of and Best Treatment for Alcohol Poisoning?
Fast Five Quiz: This Thanksgiving, Are You Prepared to Confront Food Poisoning?
Fast Five Quiz: How Much Do You Know About Holiday-related Dangers?
Medscape Consult
News & Perspective
FDA Confirms 'Dangerous' Levels of Heavy Metals in Some Kratom Products
A 22-Year-Old Man Who Can’t Speak: Osmosis USMLE Study Question
Pot Brownies More Toxic Than Smoke?
Tools
Drug Interaction Checker
Pill Identifier
Calculators
Formulary
Slideshow
Murderers in Medicine: Perpetrators and Policies
Most Popular Articles
According to Neurologists
'Blue' in Blueberries Tied to BP Lowering that Rivals Medication
Aspirin for Primary Prevention: New Meta-analysis
More Evidence Ties Diet Drinks to Greater Stroke Risk
Best Diets for Preserving Brain Health Identified
Rethinking the Most Common Causes of Death
View More
Recommended
2002 1680257-overview Diseases & Conditions
Diseases & Conditions Forensic Toxicology - Drugs and Chemicals
2002 1011689-overview Diseases & Conditions
Diseases & Conditions Pediatric Iron Toxicity
2001 /viewarticle/892346 News
News Largest Animal Study of Cell Phone Radiation and Cancer Risk
2002 1699062-overview Diseases & Conditions
Diseases & Conditions Adjuncts to the Forensic Autopsy
Need a Curbside Consult? Share cases and questions with Physicians on Medscape consult. Share a Case