Coffee and Weight Loss
Coffee and Weight Loss
What are the studies saying about coffee and weight loss? It’s just as easy to find a study talking about how caffeine can spike your blood sugar and cause fat storage as it is to find one that suggests that it may have fat burning benefits, suppresses appetite and acts as a diuretic!
The truth is you need the antioxidants left in to get the additional blood sugar management benefits. For the only coffee I can recommend to increase your metabolism AND help you lose weight, scroll down. It is the only one I can find that has left the antioxidants in with a special processing. By doing this the coffee helps to reduce blood sugar.
There is a lot of interesting information conveyed in the research and there are hundreds if not thousands of research papers and studies done on coffee and weight loss. It seems clear from the research that there are health benefits to moderate coffee drinking. Caffeine will boost your metabolism. One cup of coffee contains about 90 mg. and 200 mg. is considered to be a moderate, safe amount.
The lighter roasted coffee below formulated by Life Extension has significantly more health benefits than ordinary coffees because it's patented roasting process retains the all the potent antioxidants. The most significant one is called chlorogenic acid.
There is double the chlorogenic acid in the Rich Rewards Coffee.
What about this coffee and weight loss? The chlorogenic acid interferes with glucose synthesis and release in the body which helps to reduce sugar levels in the blood. There is evidence that combined with caffeine it boosts the preventive effect of chlorogenic acid against diabetes.
If you love coffee, this is the one that will help you to support your weight loss. You're getting a real coffee, full bodied and real, full flavor and it's organic and has the most antioxidants! It comes with caffeine or without. You can click the buy button below and purchase here.
Life Extension makes a rich, healthy roasted coffee 100% certified organic Arabica coffee with beans that are hand picked from the rain forests of Central America.
It is roasted in small batches using their patented 100% natural roasting process that leaves in 254% more of the chlorogenic acids.
Blends
12 oz. Breakfast Blend $13.00 USD 12 oz. Decaf Roast $14.00 USD
Rich Rewards Breakfast Blend #01609 12 ounces for $13.00<p>
Rich Rewards Decaf Roast #01610 12 ounces for $14.00
These coffee blends retain the nutritional content of coffee beans with all the considerable antioxidant and weight management advantages.
All roasting destroys some polyphenols (antioxidants) in coffee. The most important one is called chlorogenic acid. In this company's new patented roasting process the coffee beans are soaked and drained prior to being roasted. Later, after roasting, the beans go back into the same liquid in which they were orginally presoaked. This returns substantial polyphenol content to the beans.
So what about coffee and weight loss – should you try coffee to help you get rid of your fat?
I would not recommend it as a way to help you lose weight unless you go with the one high in antioxidants. It not only gives you far more health benefits with the antioxidants but it can also assist you with managing your blood sugar and increase your metabolism.
The Life Extension coffee blends retain the nutritional content of coffee beans with all the considerable antioxidant and weight management advantages.
For more really great tips to lose fat permanently keep reading below!
Use A Pedometer
When you reach 10,000 steps a day you are your way to losing weight and permanently changing your metabolism for the better.
Lose Weight Walking
This habit will change your life!
How Many Calories Burned?
You want to know exactly what it takes to burn off that dessert you had after lunch?
Best Green Tea for Weight Loss
If you're a tea lover than by all means drink green tea to lose fat instead of coffee!
Slow Metabolism
Most people really don't understand the impact metabolism has on your freedom from obsessing about fat.
Return from Coffee and Weight Loss to Slow Metabolism.
Return from Coffee and Weight Loss to Lifetime Fat Loss home page.
Follow @LifetimeFatLoss
Home
What's New
Your Questions
Site Map
Eat Low Glycemic Foods
Glycemic Index
Lower Blood Sugar
Calorie Counter
LG Recipes
Lose Fat With Nutrition
Nutrition Facts
Mediterranean Diet
Cheap LG Foods
Medical Complications
Type 2 Diabetes
Obesity
Exercise for Life
Calculate BMI
Best Exercise
Coaching
Weight Loss Coach
10 Success Steps
Fat Loss Programs
Resources
Odds and Ends
About Me
Certifications
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
[?]Subscribe To This Site
Like Lifetime Fat Loss? Please tell a friend!
Subscribe to our Free monthly newsletter, "Nothing to Lose But Fat!"
Learn the latest tips for losing fat, get recipes to balance your blood sugar and find out how so many others are losing weight permanently!
Enter Your E-mail Address
Enter Your First Name (optional)
Then
Don't worry — your e-mail address is totally secure.
I promise to use it only to send you Nothing To Lose But Fat!.
Archived Newsletters
April 17, 2014 "At Last...Healthy Snack Foods" - issue 029
December 22, 2013 "Lose Weight During the Holidays?" - Issue 028
November 5, 2013 "Biggest Barrier to Losing Weight?" - Issue 027
September 2, 2013 "Fresh Peach Smoothie Recipe" - Issue 026
August 5, 2013 "Cold Gazpacho soup - A Perfect Summer Recipe!" - Issue 025
July 18, 2013 "Drinking Water to Lose Weight" - Issue 024
June 5, 2013 "Thai Coconut Chicken Soup, Are Saturated Fats Ok Now?" - Issue 023
May 9, 2013 "When Are Foods With a High Glycemic Index Ok?" - Issue 022
April 17, 2013 "Do Calories Count?" - Issue 021
March 28, 2013 "A Tabouli Recipe" - Issue 020
February 3, 2013 "Low Fat Fish Soup Recipe" - Issue 019
January 6, 2013 "Get Skinny With Detoxing!" - Issue #018
December 17, 2012 "What's For Christmas Dinner? - Issue #017
November 19, 2012 "Low Glycemic Breakfast Burrito" - Issue #016
October 26, 2012 "Juicing For Weight Loss" - Issue #015
September 30, 2012 "Healthy Munchies for the Low Glycemic Plan" - Issue #014
Copyright LifetimeFatLoss 2009 - 2014. All rights reserved.