Fish Oil Benefits and How Much You Need - Weight Lifting Complete
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to footer
Weight Lifting Complete
Finally the Average Person Can Build Muscle & Burn Fat
Home
How To Guides
Weight Lifting
Weight Loss
Diet
Exercise
Workout
Build Muscle
Home Gym
About
Forum
Tools
Testimonials
Fish Oil Benefits and How Much You Need
Pay It Forward:
Fish oil benefits are amazing.
If you haven't been supplementing with fish oil, you should get started today — I'm going to tell you why you should be taking fish oil on a daily basis.
I'm not a fish oil salesman either. I'm just helping you get the fastest possible results from the WLC System.
If you've followed this website, you'll know that I don't care for most supplements at all.
Do you know what happened when I started taking fish oil?
Lost more body fat at a faster rate
Recovered faster from heavy weight lifting workouts
Felt better overall
My energy levels increased. I felt better. I was able to think more clearly. My weight lifting workouts and cardiovascular workouts improved. My body was looking better each and every day.
How Did I Know Fish Oil Was Providing These Benefits?
I vigorously measure and track results on a weekly basis. I added fish oil to my program and changed nothing else. I lost more fat and built more muscle.
Fish oil helps me build a better looking body, and helps me feel great each and every day of the week! I give credit where credit is due.
Fish oil helped me totally transform my physique.
The benefits of fish oil are amazing. I cannot recommend fish oil any more than I already do.
Let's talk in a little more detail about fish oil benefits.
Just A Few Fish Oil Basics: What Are DHA and EPA
This will be quick and painless. Before I get into fish oil benefits, let's learn a little about the actual substance.
Fish oil consists of a variety of fatty acids.
DHA and EPA are the fatty acids in fish oil responsible for the many benefits you will receive. Other sources of fatty acids like flax oil do not provide your body with DHA and EPA.
With fish oil, your body does not have to do any extra work in producing DHA and EPA. With other fatty acids, your body must work to make DHA and EPA. Our bodies are not very efficient with that process.
Fish oil gives your body what it needs so that it doesn't have to work to produce what it needs.
Lose Body Fat Instantly — More Of Your Body Fat Available For Energy
How in the world does fish oil help you lose body fat instantly? This is an outrageous claim you might be thinking.
Fish oil will help you lose body fat instantly.
Increases metabolism
Stabilizes blood sugar levels
Allows fatty acids to be released into bloodstream for energy use
The 3 benefits listed above will burn more fat from your body.
Those fish oil benefits are enough for me. Are they enough for you, though? Do you believe you need to get yourself some fish oil? Let's take a look at some more of the benefits of fish oil…
Build Muscle Faster: Double Or Triple The Amount Of Muscle You Build
Yes, fish oil does help you build more muscle at a faster rate! How?
Fish oil has anti inflammatory benefits. This benefits you because you'll recover faster from your weight lifting workouts and your cardiovascular workouts.
You might be thinking, so? What does that do for me?
Recovering faster after a workout allows you to work the muscle more frequently. Working the muscle more frequently builds more muscle at a faster rate.
Let's look at an example…
Let's say you currently lift weights once per week for each muscle group. It takes you a full week for your muscles to recover from a workout. You have 52 opportunities per year to build muscle.
Now, add fish oil into the picture.
Your muscles recover faster from each workout. You can now work each muscle group twice per week with the same intensity as before.
You just doubled your muscle building opportunities with fish oil. You will build more muscle at a much faster rate. Congratulations!!!
Want a healthier body? How About A Better Life With Less Pain Too?
So far you've learned that fish oil helps you lose fat and build muscle faster than ever. But, that's not even the greatest benefits it provides. What? How can that be, you ask?
Health is one of the most important things in life. Life is great when you feel good. Bad health is not so great. Improve your health today.
Fish oil will improve your health. Your joints will fall in love with fish oil.
Less pain
Less Inflammation
Prevents and relieves painful conditions such as arthiritis
Your cardiovascular system benefits from fish oil supplementation. Your cholesterol levels will improve and blood pressure will improve.
Lowers cholesterol
Lowers triglycerides
Improves blood pressure
Lowers LDL's
Increases good cholesterol HDL
How about decreased chance for stroke and heart attack? Fish oil helps break up clots before they can cause a problem. You've got to be amazed at the benefits of fish oil at this point.
I've got to go on… I told you the benefits were endless. The next part is very important for any of you who are thinking about having children or have children already. For any teenagers out there, listen up because this benefits you too.
Brain Power! Improve Your Memory… Improve your Focus
How about better brain function? Fish oil helps you focus and improves your memory. Improving your focus is something you can benefit from every second of every day.
Are you pregnant or do you know someone who is pregnant? Let them know how fish oil can benefit their unborn baby. Get fish oil in their diet to increase the intelligence of the baby and to help that baby live a happier life.
Do you see all of the amazing fish oil benefits? Just wait, there's a few more left…
And Now For The Most Amazing Benefits
I'm still not finished. I know. There are just so many fish oil benefits that I want you to know about.
Symptoms of depression, psychosis, and bipolar disease are alleviated through fish oil supplementation. Childhood disorders are decreased through the use of fish oil.
Children and adults with ADD and ADHD live a better life.
Fish oil reduces the risk of cancer:
Reduces risk of Prostate Cancer
Reduces risk of Colon Cancer
Reduces risk of Breast Cancer
In other words, you need to FIRST improve your diet by eating ONLY the healthiest of foods and always strive for a large variety of foods. THEN, add fish oil to your diet to reap all the benefits.
So, How Do You Get More Fish Oil In Your Diet?
First thing you can start doing is eating more cold water fish. Wild salmon is my recommendation. Eat 2 to 3 servings of wild salmon per week.
Ensure the salmon you buy is not farm raised. Most grocery stores will only have farm raised salmon, so you need another option.
A fish oil supplement ensures you get the amount of fatty acids you need without worrying about whole food fish intake.
It's difficult and expensive to eat so many servings of wild fish each week.
Wild fish can be very expensive. It tastes very good and is very good for you BUT expensive. You do get other nutrients within the whole food fish so there are some advantages to eating REAL fish.
I personally take about 12 fish oil capsules per day spread out evenly throughout the day.
Ask your doctor what he/she recommends — and make sure he/she has studied fish oil benefits before giving advice on it… Ensure you tell your doctor that you lift weights and exercise daily. A good doctor will understand that this puts a larger requirement on your body.
For example, I take 3 capsules with my breakfast. 3 more with my second meal. 3 more with my fourth meal, and 3 more before I go to bed. I've refined my supplementation over the years by analyzing results every week.
If you'd like to take a look at some fish oil supplements, take a look here:
Fish Oil In Liquid Form
Fish Oil In Capsule Form
Order fish oil today. You'll have it at your doorstep shortly. You can't make a better decision than to buy today and start taking it and getting all the fish oil benefits as soon as possible.
You can buy fish oil in capsule form or in liquid form. If you buy the liquid form, simply mix it in your protein shake. Don't mix it in fruit juices that are loaded with sugar. The easiest method is capsule form due to the taste.
Good luck and be sure to sign up for a FREE membership to our website. We'll give you lots and lots of FREE gifts that will help you build muscle, burn fat, and live a healthier and far more fulfilling life.
Pay It Forward:
Sign up here to become a member of Weight Lifting Complete
Reader Interactions
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Recipe Rating
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Check the Box to Subscribe to Weight Lifting Complete
Currently you have JavaScript disabled. In order to post comments, please make sure JavaScript and Cookies are enabled, and reload the page. Click here for instructions on how to enable JavaScript in your browser.
Footer
Free Membership to WLC
When you sign up for a free membership, I’ll give you access to the WLC System instantly. You’ll also receive emails from me with additional tips.
Follow Josh from WLC
I use Instagram the most and post pictures of my family, workout tips, and more. Please follow me on your favorite social network.
Follow Pam from WLC
Hello, this is Pam. I also use Instagram the most and post pictures of the meals I cook along with pictures of our family. Please follow me!
Weight Lifting
Weight Loss
Diet
Exercise
Workout
Build Muscle
Home Gym
Copyright © 2019 Weight-Lifting-Complete.com · Terms, Conditions, Privacy Policy · Online Since 2007 · josh@weight-lifting-complete.com
Back to Top