Baking Soda & The Human Body | HomeCleanik
Toggle navigation
Home
Profile
Health Pillars
Health Scoop
Contact
Baking Soda & The Human Body
Sodium bicarbonate cleans! It cleans related water in your body by killing the bad, thus strengthening healthy normal cells. It also alkalizes and produces healthy pH levels in your body.
How much baking soda must I take daily?
Take half to one teaspoon per day mixed with a cup of water. If having cold or fever, take 2-3 teaspoon mixed with water.
Our diet has changed much over the last century to include “fast foods”, highly refined and processed foods, carbohydrates and excessive amounts of sugar. In earlier eras, we would eat a lot more wholesome food that contributes to a healthy alkaline level in the body. The modern diet is now highly acidic and allows many diseases and conditions to develop and flourish. The increased acidity within the body compromises immunity and causes a variety of health problems. Baking soda, taken in moderate amounts and at appropriate times, promotes healthy biochemistry.
Although many of us may not be aware, the humble baking sodium is actually a brilliant cure for cancer, among other ailments. The alkalinity that occurs with drinking baking soda can even dissolve the painful uric acid crystals of gout and relieve the inflammation of arthritis.
Although multiple research studies support this fact, the strongest testimonials come from the average person who has reaped its benefits. For these people, they do not need medical “research” to tell them it works, for it is already proven to work in their lives. The best news is that baking soda is very safe and well tolerated.
4 Powerful Benefits of Baking Soda
1. Maintains a pH level that prevents cancer cells from thriving
Baking soda creates a healthy pH level that prevents cancer tumour from growing. Tumour cells often create an acidic environment that stimulates tumour cell invasion or the invasion of adjacent normal tissues. Many case studies show that the regions of highest tumour invasion correspond directly with the areas of lowest pH. Interestingly, tumour invasion does not occur in regions with normal or near-normal pH. Orally taking in baking soda is enough to increase pH to optimal level and thereby inhibit tumour growth and local invasion.
Boosting bicarbonate levels in your diet can also improve the pH of acidic tumours without upsetting the pH of the blood and healthy tissues. In clinical trials, oral sodium bicarbonate makes breast cancer tumours in animals more alkaline and inhibits metastasis. Metastasis refers to the transference of disease producing organisms or cancerous cells to other parts of the body.
Case studies in support of baking soda as an anti-cancer agent:
2003 study by the University of Arizona Cancer Center—shows how drinking sodium bicarbonate resulted in the alkalisation of the area around cancer tumours. This in turn caused new metastases to cease. Further research shows an effect on breast and prostate cancers but mixed results with other cancers. Reference: Case study on aggressive prostate cancer
March 2009 research by Arizona Cancer Center, University of Arizona, Tucson, the Department of Pharmacology in Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan and the H Lee Moffitt Cancer Institute in Tampa Florida (Ian F Robey et al)—shows that the acidity level of malignant solid tumours is in the range of 6.5 to 6.9 whereas in a healthy human it would be 7.2 to 7.5.
2. Helps prevent kidney disease
A healthy body naturally produces bicarbonate, an alkaline substance that buffers acids and keeps pH in check. In people with chronic kidney disease most often caused by diabetes or hypertension, poorly functioning kidneys have a hard time removing acid from the body. This results in a condition known as metabolic acidosis. In one study, British researchers treated patients with advanced kidney disease and metabolic acidosis with oral sodium bicarbonate in conjunction with their usual treatment for two years. The sodium bicarbonate slowed the rate of decline in kidney function by two-thirds. Only 6.5 percent of the patients treated with sodium bicarbonate required dialysis by the end of the study, compared to 33 percent in a control group.
Kidney patients also benefit from intravenous hydration with sodium bicarbonate by having less incidences of kidney failure, compared to using a drip with normal saline. In a small trial study, using baking soda causes a significant drop in the number of patients requiring kidney replacement therapy and deaths resulting from kidney failure.
Case study in support of baking soda in preventing kidney disease:
2009 study published in American journal of kidney disease: the official journal of the National Kidney Foundation by the Department of Nephrology and Hypertension, Cleveland Clinic —shows how intravenous hydration with sodium bicarbonate instead of normal saline significantly reduces the instances of kidney failure.
3. Acts as an antidote against biochemical poisoning
Baking soda protects against the toxicity of biochemicals such as Dichlorvos, used widely as an insecticide for household pests and keeping insects from stored products. We are often in contact with such biochemicals, which makes developing effective antidotes against them a persistent challenge over the past decades. A research study with lab rats shows that baking soda significantly improves the protective effects of standard antidotes in rats poisoned with Dichlorvos.
Case study in support of baking soda in preventing kidney disease:
2006 study by Institute of Toxicological Chemistry, School of Pharmacy, University of Belgrade—shows a clear correlation between protection and biochemical outcome when sodium bicarbonate is being added to atropine. Reference: http://science.naturalnews.com/pubmed/16445591.html
4. Acts as an anti erosive agent for enamel in teeth
Rinsing your teeth with a sodium bicarbonate solution after being exposed to highly acidic liquids can control dental erosion. Research shows that rinsing teeth with baking soda for 60 seconds after exposure to hydrochloric acid significantly reduces the erosion of enamel as compared to rinsing with deionised water.
Case study in support of baking soda in preventing kidney disease:
2010 study by School of Dentistry, University of Ribeirão Preto, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil—shows that baking soda actually controls the loss of enamel surface. Reference: http://science.naturalnews.com/pubmed/20662912.html
Do You Know?
Drinking baking soda dissolved in water is a folk remedy used for many generations to alleviate the symptoms of indigestion, heartburn, infections and arthritis.
Follow us
×
Your e-mail has been added to our list!
×
An error occured. Please try again.
Get the newsletter
Your email address
Home
Profile
Health Pillars
Health Scoop
Contact