What is the Best Exercise for Lower Back Pain and How to Fix It? - WB-Health.com
Skip to content
Health and Weight Loss Blogs
Home Remedy Diet Exercise Weight Loss
Main Navigation
Menu
Healthy Living
Home Remedies
Celeb Slim Secret
Diet Recipes
Product Review
Slim Tips
Workout & Exercise
What is the Best Exercise for Lower Back Pain and How to Fix It?
By : Sonya Lee | Category : Workout & Exercise
Having lower back pain is not easy for you to make movement or even doing some simple exercise but we have some good advice for you.
Since doing exercise every day is making you a good health or you are on weight loss mission and you must do it and here is your best advice.
My advice, if you have lower back pain, you should get some rest, seeing the doctor, take some pill, start healing your back and start doing exercise once you get better.
But still, if you want to do some exercise and here we have what is best exercise for lower back pain for you to try and get sweat.
Besides, we have some good solution for you on how fix lower back pain at the end of article, so keep reading.
What is the Best Exercise for Lower Back Pain?
Here, we divide into 2 group of lower back pain exercise, one is good and one is bad.
Bad exercise for lower back pain
The following exercise should be avoid at any cost.
* Toe Touches
You must remind that any exercise that let you touch your toe then you should AVOID this.
For example, standing toe touches, this will put the most stress on the disks and ligaments in your spine. This will overstretch your lower back muscles and hamstrings, which will lead more harm.
* Sit-ups
Despite the fact that you may think sit-ups can fortify your muscular strength, many people tend to utilize muscles in the hips while doing sit-ups. Sit-ups may likewise put a great deal of weight on the circles in your spine so it will do more harm than good.
* Leg Lifts
Actually, this exercise can help you restore strength to your lower back but don’t try to lift both legs at a time, this can make it worse.
If you still want to try, do it each leg and lift it up slowly, keep lower back flat on the floor and hold for awhile and then put down slowly.
Good exercise for lower back pain
The following exercise is good for your lower back pain condition and help your cure it faster.
* Partial Crunches
This can help strengthen your back and stomach muscles. To do this, simply lie with knees bent and feet flat on the floor. Put hands behind your neck or cross arms over your chest and then tighten stomach muscles and raise your shoulders off the floor. Inhale out as you raise your shoulders. Try not to lead with your elbows or use arms to pull your neck off the floor. Hold for a moment, and then gradually let down. Do it for 8 to 12 times.
* Hamstring Stretches
Lie on your back and twist one knee. And then circle a towel under the ball of your foot. Straighten your knee and gradually pull back on the towel. You ought to feel a tender extend down the back of your leg. Hold for 15 to 30 seconds and do 2 to 4 times for each leg.
* Press-up Back Extensions
Lie on your stomach with your hands under your shoulders. Push with your hands so your shoulders start to lift off the floor. Find the comfort position for you, put your elbows on the floor straightforwardly under your shoulders and hold this position for a few seconds.
Still. there are many exercise position that are good and bad for lower back pain, but I will cut stress to the point, here are the 3 step you should do to get the good result.
Step #1 – Lower Back Pain Stretches
This step can release stress in your muscle and get the good mood for the next step.
Step #2 – Lower Back Workout
The workout for low back
Step #3 – Lower Back Rehab
This step can help you inhale your lower back pain faster
Now, you know how to do lower back pain exercise, next I will talk about how fix lower back pain.
The method that I am talking about is relief of pressure on pinched nerves in the spinal column and it also called “spinal decompression“, the process is used to stretch low back muscles and relief of pressure.
There are two simple ways to do it:
By using an inversion table.
Simple stand by an inversion table and hang on it for about five minutes and do it every day, this process help your lower back pain and strengthen your lower back too.
By using decompression belt
This is an option for you if you can’t use an inversion table, you can use a belt that applies pressure for a similar decompressing effect.
And also, you should try Yoga Lower Back Pain Relief
If you do Yoga, follow the above 3 steps but still your back pain not relief, try to check this out, it may help!
I do Yoga every day in the morning, which really help strengthen my lower back, with this I will never having lower back problems again.
You Might Also Like
Best Walking Plan for Weight Loss
Best Exercise For Heart At Home
How to Lose Fat and Gain Muscle
Does 1 Minute Workout Really Work?
What Quick Weight Loss Tips 2 Weeks That Really Work
10 Benefits Doing Morning Yoga
5 Home Based Workouts for Post Pregnancy Fitness
Effective Guide on How to Lose Weight Fast and Safety
Share this Post
Leave a Reply
Filed Under: Workout & Exercise
Post navigation
Previous Previous post: 5 Tips on How to Lose the Baby Weight for Good
Primary Sidebar
Featured Posts
Basil Seeds for Weight Loss : Does It Work?
How to get motivated to work out and lose weight
Goldie Hawn Age Defying Secrets and Diet Secret
What Fruits Help Lose Weight Fast?
HCG Injection Dosage For Weight Loss : Obese People Should Read Before Taking Action
Slim Product Review : HCG Slim Weight Loss
What Quick Weight Loss Tips 2 Weeks That Really Work
Best Walking Plan for Weight Loss
Does 1 Minute Workout Really Work?
Get Plat Stomach with Miley Cyrus Weight Loss Secrets
Information
Contact
Privacy Policy
My Exact Slim Secret!
We’re Looking For Contributors!
Health and Weight Loss Blogs © 2019 . All Rights Reserved
Powered by WordPress	| Theme by PremiumWP