Myth or Reality? Know The Facts About HIV and AIDS
It looks like you have javascript turned off. This Myth or Reality? Know The Facts About HIV and AIDS page on EmpowHER Women's Health works best with javascript enabled in your browser.
Toggle navigation
Women's Health & Wellness
Get HER Health News
Would You Consider Biphasic Sleep?
courtneysunday
Sleep Disorders
Log in | Register
Health A-Z
Bones & Joints
Breast Cancer
Cancer
Diabetes
Ears, Nose & Throat
Financial Health
Healthy Eating
Menopause
Menstrual Cycle
Mental Health
Pregnancy
Sex & Relationships
Sexual Health
Skin, Hair & Nails
Sleep Disorders
HER Health Questions
Ask a Health Question
HER Health Stories
Post your Health Story
HER Health News
HER Healthy Living
HER Health Hubs
HER Health Communities
Featured Tools
Advocacy Checklists
HER Podcast
HER Health Meter
SkinSAFE
Home
>
Conditions
>
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
>
AIDS / HIV
>
Myth or Reality? Know The Facts About HIV and AIDS
Myth or Reality? Know The Facts About HIV and AIDS
By Stacy Lloyd HERWriter
Average Select ratingPoorFairAverageGoodExcellent
Rate This
`
0 comments View Comments
Print
Text Size
Elenaphotos21/PhotoSpin
The human immunodeficiency virus known as HIV causes AIDS. One can have HIV for years without developing AIDS.
HIV and AIDS are often feared. But knowing the myths and realities about HIV and AIDS can stop that fear.
Myth:
One can get HIV from doing any of these activities with an HIV-infected person:
- Sharing exercise equipment
- Kissing, hugging, holding hands
- Breathing air
- Sharing eating utensils
- Touching a toilet seat or doorknob handle after them
This Article
Vote Improved My Health 4
Vote Changed My Life 6
Vote Saved My Life 4
Reality:
You cannot catch HIV from any of the activities listed above. HIV can only be transmitted through an exchange of some body fluids (semen, vaginal fluids, breast milk, blood or pre-ejaculatory fluids) with an HIV-positive person. But body fluids such as saliva, sweat and tears cannot transmit HIV.
HIV also cannot be transmitted through mosquitoes.
Myth:
Getting a tattoo or body piercing does not cause HIV.
Reality:
It is possible to get HIV from tattoo and piercing tools that aren’t sterilized properly between clients.
Myth:
HIV infected women who get pregnant will spread the disease to their unborn baby.
Reality:
HIV-infected women who seek treatment early in their pregnancy have about a 2 percent chance of having a baby with HIV. WomensHealth.gov said that without treatment, the risk is about 25 percent. HIV infected women should not breastfeed as that can pass the virus.
Myth:
There is no need to use a condom if both partners already have HIV.
Reality:
There are different strains of HIV. HIV-infected partners may exchange different types or strains of HIV. This can lead to re-infection, which will make the treatment of HIV infection more difficult. The new HIV strain may become more resistant to the current treatment or cause the current treatment to be ineffective.
Myth:
If I'm receiving treatment, I can't spread the HIV virus.
Reality:
1
2
3
Next >
>>
More on This
Sex with an Uncircumcised Man
Reasons for Having a Period Every Two Weeks
Is Your Male Partner Withholding Physical Affection or Sex? Helpful Advice ...
The Morning After Pill - Get Your Questions Answered!
Add a CommentComments
There are no comments yet. Be the first one and get the conversation started!
Do you really want to post anonymously?
Are You a Member? Log InConnect your comment to your member profile. It only takes a second!
Not a Member? Join Now!You'lll be automatically notified when someone else comments on your post.
Tell us what you think Write your comment here *
Leave this field blank
Receive email notifications of new comments Email Addresss
Sign me up for EmpowHER Updates
What code is in the image? *
Enter the characters shown in the image.
By submitting this form, you agree to EmpowHER's terms of service and privacy policy
Stacy Lloyd HERWriter View Profile Send Message
We value and respect our HERWriters' experiences, but everyone is different. Many of our writers are speaking from personal experience, and what's worked for them may not work for you. Their articles are not a substitute for medical advice, although we hope you can gain knowledge from their insight.
Tags:
AIDS / HIV
Sexual Health
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Adult Living
Sex & Relationships
Wellness
AIDS / HIV
Get Email Updates
Videos
Health Newsletter
Receive the latest and greatest in women's health and wellness from EmpowHER - for free!
ASK A Health Question
POST Info, Tips and Stories
Company
About HER
Press
Advertise
Policies
Feedback
My Account
Log in
Register
Get Email Updates
Subscribe
Follow HER
All content is Copyright © 2019 HER Inc. dba EmpowHER unless otherwise noted. All Rights Reserved. EmpowHER does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. View more info
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.