Can Males Get UTI from Females? | New Health Advisor
New Health Advisor
New Health Advisor for Daily Health Care.
About Us
Home
Sex & Relationship
Blood, Heart & Circulation
Women's Health
Life
Digestive System
Bone, Joint & Muscle
More...
Can Males Get UTI from Females?
While both men and women can have a urinary tract infection (UTI), the condition is much more common in women. In fact, statistics show that one in five women will have a UTI at some point in her life. On the other hand, most men never develop a urinary tract infection – only 20% of diagnosed UTIs affect men. However, men still have many questions regarding urinary tract infections. Can men get UTI from women? It is a common question and requires a detailed answer. Let's find out more about it.
Can Males Get UTI from Females?
UTIs are more common in men older than 50 years, but even they cannot catch it by having sex with a woman who already has a UTI. A male can get infected only when there are already bacteria present in his urinary tract. However, it is worth mentioning that women can contract a UTI from intercourse mainly because the urethra is quite short in females. There is always a possibility of developing a UTI during intercourse also because the urethra is located near the vagina and having sex may make it easier for bad bacteria to enter the urinary tract. Due to the length of a man's urethra, it is usually difficult for bacteria to enter the bladder.
What Indeed Puts Men at Risk?
Can males get UTI from females? The answer is no, but there are many other contributing factors that can increase men’s risks. For instance, the bacteria Escherichia coli (E. coli) is naturally present in the body. It may be there in the urinary tract and even go into the urethra. However, the bacteria go out of your bladder when you urinate. It is worth mentioning that older men are likely to develop urinary problems mainly due to the enlargement of their prostate gland. It could be due to a condition called benign prostatic hyperplasia. Due to this enlargement, it would become difficult to empty the bladder completely, which means some bacteria may stay in the bladder for long enough to cause an infection.
Some other factors may also put men at a greater risk for urinary tract infections. For instance, you can develop a UTI if you are immobile for long periods, do not drink enough fluids, have diabetes, or have a urinary tract surgery recently. Similarly, fecal incontinence, engaging in anal intercourse, and being uncircumcised can also increase your risk of developing a urinary tract infection.
Recognizing UTI Symptoms in Men
Can males get UTI from females? No, men usually get UTIs from other factors. And when you have a urinary tract infection,you do not always notice symptoms. However, whenever there are symptoms, they are usually the same in both men and women. Some of the most common symptoms include the following:
You may pass cloudy, bloody, or bad-smelling urine.
You may pass a small amount of urine at a time.
You have abdominal pain.
You may experience pain in your lower back.
You may experience a burning sensation when passing urine.
You may have a strong urge to urinate.
You may have a low-grade fever.
Other common symptoms are frequent urination, a burning sensation after urination, blood in urine, and trouble urinating. However, one symptom is usually present in men only and that is the fluid leaking from the penis. You should seek immediate medical attention if you notice any discharge from the penis. It is also possible to have a kidney infection if you also experience chills, nausea, and fever along with the aforementioned symptoms.
How Is UTI in Men Treated?
You develop a urinary tract infection because of bacteria entering your urinary tract. When you have the symptoms, your doctor will prescribe antibiotics to help clear the infection. However, it is better to take some precautionary measures to avoid becoming infected in the first place. For instance:
Be sure to clean the genital area thoroughly if you are not circumcised.
Increase your intake of water and include other fluids in your diet.
Never try to hold your urine for long.
Be sure to clean your genitals before and after engaging in sexual intercourse.
Always wear condoms when having sex.
Increasing your intake of water may help flush bacteria out of your urethra, which can relieve the symptoms associated with a UTI. Keep in mind that if you have serious symptoms, you should seek immediate medical attention because a UTI can spread quickly to your kidneys and complicate the whole situation.
Categories
Sex & Relationship
Blood, Heart & Circulation
Women's Health
Life
Digestive System
Bone, Joint & Muscle
Men's Health
Ear, Nose & Throat
Fitness & Wellness
Allergies
Skin Care
Pregnancy and Parenting
Food & Nutrition
Mental Health
Kidney & Urinary System
Hair & Nails
Pets and Animals
Oral Health
Pain Management
Immune System
Eye Health
Drugs and Addiction
Children's Health
Respiratory System
Brain & Nerves
Nursing and Care
Miscellaneous
Medical Profession
Endocrine System
Excretory System
VIEW ALL...
Similar Topics
Male Bladder Infection: Symptom, Cause and Treatment
Same Category
8 Effective Ways to Ejaculate Harder and More
Instructions for Prostate Massage Therapy
Pumpkin Seeds Benefits for Men
How to Naturally Increase Your Testosterone Levels
Hard Lump on Testicle
What Are Those White Bumps Under Head of Shaft?
Urinary Tract Infection in Men
Advanced Prostate Cancer
Copyright WWW.NEWHEALTHADVISOR.COM © 2014, All rights Reserved. Last Updated 24 April, 2019.
Current time: 04/24/2019 10:12:19 pm (America/New_York) Memory usage: 1446.32KB