Omega-3s are one of the easiest ways to improve your cholesterol levels
Omega-3s are one of the easiest ways to improve your cholesterol levels
10/01/2018 / By Edsel Cook
Managing your cholesterol levels is always tough, especially if you have diabetes, but one easy way to do so is to increase your intake of omega-3 fatty acids by eating the right foods or taking supplements. A Saudi animal study reported that fish oil – which contains a lot of omega-3s – can improve the blood parameters and cholesterol levels of normal rats.
Derived from oily fish like herring and salmon, fish oil is loaded with eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). These omega-3 fatty acids are used to create signaling molecules that help prevent inflammation.
They also provide some remedy for hypertriglyceridemia, a health condition where there are high levels of triglyceride fats in the blood. Other conditions that the fatty acids may help prevent or treat include atherosclerosis, cardiovascular diseases, hypertension, and inflammatory diseases.
Earlier studies have already shown that increasing the intake of omega-3s caused serum cholesterol levels to go down. These effects could benefit medical conditions and diseases related to cholesterol. (Related: Manage your cholesterol levels naturally with this Chinese herbal pill.)
Fish oil with omega-3s improves lipid levels of diabetic rats
Researchers from the University of Ha’il (UOH) in Saudi Arabia looked into the possibility of using fish oil to manage total cholesterol and protein levels. They undertook an animal study using a large group of rats, which they divided into two groups: the control group and the supplement group.
Both groups were given commercially-available animal food and water. In addition, the supplement group also received five milligrams of fish oil in every 100 grams of food they were given. The fish oil contained omega-3 fatty acids.
The trial lasted for seven weeks. In the end, the animals were culled so that blood samples could be taken and analyzed for various parameters related to their lipid profiles.
The researchers reported that the blood glucose levels of rats that received fish oil were not that much different from those of the control group. However, the supplemented animals did show much lower levels of cholesterol, especially low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and triglycerides. These fats are considered to be “bad” cholesterol that causes health problems such as inflammation and cardiovascular disease.
In addition, the blood samples from the rats that received fish oil also contained significantly higher levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, the “good” counterpart to LDL. This ability of fish oil and omega-3s to manage both good and bad lipids is a trait shared with other natural substances that are under investigation for potential use by patients with diabetes.
Restoring lipid levels to healthy norms through natural means
Diabetes mellitus disrupts the normal metabolism of lipids. When lipid levels in the blood go out of control due to hyperglycemia, they can lead to complications in the cardiovascular system.
Researchers have looked into the possibility of using plant metabolites to restore lipid levels to their normal state. Plant-based extracts from neem trees (Azadirachta indica) and other sources have been tested for their hypolipidemic, antihyperglycemic, and hypotensive activities.
These medicinal plants see use in traditional medicine as a means of treating diabetes and other diseases. Fish oil displayed similar abilities to return runaway lipids to more normal levels.
The UOH researchers theorize this is due to the antioxidant activity of omega-3 fatty acids. Antioxidants reduce the inflammatory effects caused by unhealthy levels of bad cholesterol by scavenging the free radicals produced by lipids. They recommend further testing of fish oil’s potential as an adjuvant support for treating diabetes mellitus.
For stories about a different group of equally healthy, natural oils, check out EssentialOils.news.
Sources include:
Science.news
LPI.OregonState.edu
AJBASWeb.com [PDF]
NCBI.NLM.NIH.gov
Tagged Under: cholesterol, Fish Oil, fish oil supplements, fish oils, good cholesterol, natural remedies, omega 3, omega 3 fatty acid, omega 3 supplements, prevent disease, supplements
Comments
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus
RECENT NEWS & ARTICLES
Omega-3 supplementation lessens symptoms of depression in people with chronic heart failure
01/02/2019 / By Ellaine Castillo
Eating more omega-3-rich food may lower inflammation and arthritis pain
12/20/2018 / By Michelle Simmons
Having trouble sleeping? Research shows the soporific benefits of omega-3
12/16/2018 / By Ellaine Castillo
High intake of omega-3 found to significantly reduce depression in people with cardiac problems
12/12/2018 / By RJ Jhonson
Beat depression without drugs: These are the best supplements and activities that work faster and better than prescription medicine
12/09/2018 / By Isabelle Z.
Omega-3 keeps the blues away: EPA and DHA found to reduce depression symptoms
12/05/2018 / By Edsel Cook
Ahiflower: The richest non-fish source of omega fatty acids on the planet
12/02/2018 / By Derek Henry
Supplementing with omega-3s can reduce your risk of cardiac death by 8%
11/28/2018 / By Tracey Watson
There is a STRONG link between fish intake during pregnancy and the health of the baby’s brain
11/28/2018 / By RJ Jhonson
Omega-3 fatty acid consumption associated with lower risk of early death
11/23/2018 / By Isabelle Z.
Comprehensive scientific study concludes that the beneficial effects of nutritional supplementation persist for more than a decade
11/18/2018 / By Tracey Watson
Study: Fish oil helps fight arthritis, cancer, heart disease, depression by preventing inflammation – Are you getting enough?
11/18/2018 / By Vicki Batts
Omega-3 fatty acids found to control non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
11/15/2018 / By Tracey Watson
Scientists: Taking EPA and DHA omega-3s reduces your risk of cardiac death
11/13/2018 / By Vicki Batts
Are you getting enough vitamin D? Low levels linked to compromised immune function
11/13/2018 / By Lance D Johnson
The MIND diet: Cut your risk of Alzheimer’s by half with these delicious brain-boosting foods
11/08/2018 / By Ellaine Castillo
Deficiency in omega-3s can cause depression; supplementing with them can prevent or treat it
10/28/2018 / By Edsel Cook
Fish oil supplements make children smarter, vastly improving reading ability in just 90 days
10/26/2018 / By Russel Davis
Are you pre-diabetic? Study finds multivitamins, omega-3s are a “safe, economical, and effective means” of lowering diabetes risk
10/07/2018 / By Rhonda Johansson
More compelling evidence that omega-3s decrease the risk of heart disease
10/02/2018 / By Vicki Batts
FishOils.News is a fact-based public education website published by Fish Oils News Features, LLC.
All content copyright © 2018 by Fish Oils News Features, LLC.
Contact Us with Tips or Corrections
All trademarks, registered trademarks and servicemarks mentioned on this site are the property of their respective owners.
Privacy Policy