After Wisdom Teeth Removal, Exton Oral Surgery Group, Oral Surgeon
Maxillofacial Enhancement Center
Oral & Maxillofacial Surgeon
119 E. Uwchlan Ave., Suite 101
(610) 363-4400
PATIENT INFORMATION
Introduction
First Visit
Scheduling
Financial Policy
Insurance
Privacy Policy
Online Videos
PROCEDURES
Dental Implants
Bone Grafting
Wisdom Teeth
Impacted Canines
Facial Trauma
Jaw Surgery
Oral Pathology
TMJ Disorder
Sleep Apnea
Cleft Lip & Palate
Platelet Rich Plasma
COSMETIC ENHANCEMENT
Laser Hair Reduction
Laser Vein Reduction
Tattoo Removal
Microdermabrasion
BOTOX® Cosmetic
Dermal Fillers
Skin Care Products
MEET US
Meet Dr. Manna
Meet Our Staff
Office Tour
INSTRUCTIONS
Before Anesthesia
Dental Implants
Wisdom Teeth
Exposure of Impacted Tooth
Extractions
Multiple Extractions
ONLINE FORMS
Patient Registration
REFERRING DOCTORS
Referral Form
Links of Interest
CONTACT US
Contact Information
Map/Directions
Online Educational Tutorials
Dental Implant Presentation
Wisdom Teeth Presentation
Surgical Instructions
Before Anesthesia
After Dental Implant Surgery
After Wisdom Tooth Removal
After Exposure of an Impacted Tooth
After Extractions
After Multiple Extractions
After Wisdom Tooth Removal
The removal of impacted teeth is a serious surgical procedure. Post-operative care is very important. Unnecessary pain and the complications of infection and swelling can be minimized if the instructions are followed carefully.
Immediately Following Surgery
The gauze pad placed over the surgical area should be kept in place for a half hour. Remove pad and continue every 30 minutes until bleeding stopped.
Vigorous mouth rinsing, no rinsing, spitting, sucking on a straw, smoking, or brushing teeth for 24 hours, or touching the wound area following surgery should be avoided. This may initiate bleeding by causing the blood clot that has formed to become dislodged.
Take the prescribed pain medications as soon as you get home. This way you will have some comfort before the local anesthetic diminishes.
Restrict your activities the day of surgery and resume normal activity when you feel comfortable.
Place ice packs to the sides of your face where surgery was performed for 20 minutes on 20 minutes off for the max of 2 days. The day 3 switch to warm moist heat.
Bleeding
A certain amount of bleeding is to be expected following surgery. Slight bleeding, oozing, or redness in the saliva is not uncommon until bleeding subsides, please change gauze about every 30 minutes. Repeat if necessary. If bleeding continues, bite on a moistened tea bag for 1 hour. The tannic acid in the tea bag helps to form a clot by contracting bleeding vessels. To minimize further bleeding, do not become excited, sit upright, and avoid exercise. If bleeding does not subside, call for further instructions.
Swelling
The swelling that is normally expected is usually proportional to the surgery involved. Swelling around the mouth, cheeks, eyes and sides of the face is not uncommon. This is the body’s normal reaction to surgery and eventual repair. The swelling will not become apparent until the day following surgery and will not reach its maximum until 2-3 days post-operatively. However, the swelling may be minimized by the immediate use of ice packs. Two baggies filled with ice, or ice packs should be applied to the sides of the face where surgery was performed. The ice packs should be on for about 20 minutes at a time. After 48 hours, ice should be diminished and you should switch to warm moist beat on the outside of your face. Your jaw may become stiff, by using the moist heat, this could help your jaw loosen up.
Pain
For moderate pain, one or two tablets of Tylenol or Extra Strength Tylenol may be taken every three to four hours or Ibuprofen, (Motrin or Advil) two-four 200 mg tablets may be taken every 3-4 hours.
For severe pain, take the tablets prescribed as directed. The prescribed pain medicine will make you groggy and will slow down your reflexes. Do not drive an automobile or work around machinery. Avoid alcoholic beverages. Pain or discomfort following surgery should subside more and more every day. If pain persists, it may require attention and you should call the office.
Diet
After general anesthetic or I.V. sedation, liquids should be initially taken. Do not use straws. Drink from a glass. The sucking motion can cause more bleeding by dislodging the blood clot. You may eat anything soft by chewing away form the surgical sites. High calorie, high protein intake is very important. Refer to the section on suggested diet instructions at the end of the brochure. Nourishment should be taken regularly. You should prevent dehydration by taking fluids regularly. Your food intake will be limited for the first few days. You should compensate for this by increasing your fluid intake. At least 5-6 glasses of liquid should be taken daily. Try not to miss a single meal. You will feel better, have more strength, less discomfort and heal faster if you continue to eat. Caution: If you suddenly sit up or stand from a lying position you may become dizzy. If you are lying down following surgery, make sure you sit for one minute before standing.
Keep the mouth clean
No rinsing of any kind should be performed until the day after surgery. The day after surgery you should begin rinsing at least 5-6 times a day especially after eating with a cup of warm water mixed with a teaspoon of salt and resume your oral hygiene routine. (ie. brushing but no strong mouthwash.)
Discoloration
In some cases, discoloration of the skin follows swelling. The development of black, blue, green, or yellow discoloration is due to blood spreading beneath the tissues. This is a normal post-operative occurrence, which may occur 2-3 days post-operatively. Moist heat applied to the area may speed up the removal of the discoloration.
Antibiotics
If you have been placed on antibiotics, take the tablets or liquid as directed. Antibiotics will be given to help prevent infection. Discontinue antibiotic use in the event of a rash or other unfavorable reaction. Call the office if you have any questions.
Nausea and Vomiting
In the event of nausea and/or vomiting following surgery, do not take anything by mouth for at least an hour including the prescribed medicine. You should then sip on coke, tea or ginger ale. You should sip slowly over a fifteen-minute period. When the nausea subsides you can begin taking solid foods and the prescribed medicine.
Other Complications
If numbness of the lip, chin, or tongue occurs there is no cause for alarm. As stated before surgery, this is usually temporary in nature. You should be aware that if your lip or tongue is numb, you could bite it and not feel the sensation. So be careful. Call Dr Manna if you have any questions.
Slight elevation of temperature immediately following surgery is not uncommon. If the temperature persists, notify the office. Tylenol or ibuprofen should be taken to reduce the fever.
You should be careful going from the lying down position to standing. You were not able to eat or drink prior to surgery. It was also difficult to take fluids. Taking pain medications can make you dizzy. You could get light headed when you stand up suddenly. Before standing up, you should sit for one minute then get up.
Occasionally, patients may feel hard projections in the mouth with their tongue. They are not roots, they are the bony walls which supported the tooth. These projections usually smooth out spontaneously. If not, they can be removed by Dr. Manna.
If the corners of your mouth are stretched, they may dry out and crack. Your lips should be kept moist with an ointment such as vaseline.
Sore throats and pain when swallowing are not uncommon. The muscles get swollen. The normal act of swallowing can then become painful. This will subside in 2-3 days.
Stiffness (Trimus) of the jaw muscles may cause difficulty in opening your mouth for a few days following surgery. This is a normal post-operative event which will resolve in time.
Finally
Sutures are placed the area of surgery to minimize post-operative bleeding and to help healing. Sometimes they become dislodged, this is no cause for alarm. Just remove the suture form your mouth and discard it. The sutures that are normally uses in this type of procedure will dissolve on their own. Do not become alarmed if you swallow a piece or see a piece dislodged in your moth, this is completely normal.
The pain and swelling should subside more and more each day following surgery. If your post-operative pain or swelling worsens or unusual symptoms occur call my office for instructions.
There will be a cavity where the tooth was removed. The cavity will gradually over the next month fill in with the new tissue. In the mean time, the area should be kept clean especially after meals with salt water rinses or a toothbrush to keep infections and delays healing to a minimum.
Your case is individual, no two mouths are alike. Do not accept well intended advice from friends. Discuss your problem with the persons best able to effectively help you: Dr. Manna or your family dentist.
Brushing your teeth is okay - just be gentle at the surgical sites.
A dry socket is when the blood clot gets dislodged prematurely from the tooth socket. Symptoms of pain at the surgical site and even pain to the ear may occur 2-3 days following surgery. Call the office if this occurs.
If you are involved in regular exercise, be aware that your normal nourishment intake is reduced. Exercise may weaken you. If you get light headed, stop exercising.
The Maxillofacial Enhancement Center | Oral Surgery Patient Information | Oral Surgery Exton PA | Meet Our Exton PA Surgeon |
Surgical Instructions Exton PA | Online Forms| Oral Surgery Office Exton PA | Referring Doctors| Sitemap| Disclaimer
Website Design By PBHS Inc. - Copyright © 2008