Breastfeeding as Birth Control - Metropolitan Mama
Learn More about Stephanie Sheaffer
About
Advertise/PR
Contact
Metropolitan Mama
Babies
Ask Dr. Sears
Baby Products
Birth
Breastfeeding
Vaccines
Fitness
Outdoor Family
Running Mamas
Food
Fashion
Gift Guides
Travel With Kids
You are here: Home / Babies / Breastfeeding / Breastfeeding as Birth Control
Breastfeeding as Birth Control
January 21, 2008 By Stephanie 3 Comments
Fact or Fiction? Breastfeeding will prevent you from getting pregnant.
That’s a trick question, actually. It can and does, depending on the circumstances.
Because there are so many rumors and half-truths flying around on the topic, I thought I’d give you a quick look at the facts.
All information is taken from the Ask Dr. Sears website, unless otherwise indicated.
Q. I’ve heard about something called LAM. What does it stand for?
A. The lactational amenorrhea method (LAM) is a natural birth control technique based on the fact that lactation (breastmilk production) causes amenorrhea (lack of menstruation).
Q. How do I use the LAM method?
A. According to LAM, a mother can rely on breastfeeding for protection from pregnancy if she can answer “no” to the following questions:
1. Have your menstrual cycles returned?
2. Are you supplementing regularly or allowing long periods without breastfeeding, either during the day (more than three hours) or at night (more than six hours)?
3. Is your baby more than six months old?
Q. How effective is LAM?
A. Research shows that LAM’s effectiveness in preventing pregnancy is better than 98 percent, a figure that compares well with artificial methods of birth control.
Q. The 6-month mark has passed, but I’m still nursing like crazy. How likely is it that I’ll get pregnant?
A. Studies have shown that most mothers who are breastfeeding exclusively remain infertile for more than the six-month period covered by LAM.
Q. My baby is sleeping through the night (six hours or more without nursing). How will this change effect my fertility?
A. The milk-making hormones that suppress ovulation are highest between 1 a.m. and 6 a.m. Nighttime nursing is important to the suppression of fertility.
Q. I want to get pregnant, but I’m still nursing my toddler. How much is breastfeeding effecting my fertility?
A. Sometimes women who are nursing older babies or toddlers want to get pregnant and find this difficult while they are breastfeeding. The baby’s nursing may continue to affect a woman’s fertility even after her periods have returned. This can be very frustrating. Sometimes getting the toddler to cut back a bit on breastfeeding, especially at night, can make it possible for mother to conceive.
Here’s a LAM fact sheet by Family Health International that you can print.
*** As always, please consult your care provider if you have further questions about LAM or about birth control options while breastfeeding.
(Photo by: super-structure)
Share this:
Pinterest
Facebook
Twitter
Filed Under: Breastfeeding
Comments
Annie says
January 22, 2008 at 5:36 pm
Just a little about my experience…
I breastfeed exclusively, but have never made more than a few drops of milk per feeding, so I use a LactAid nursing supplementer filled with formula (or donated mamas milk). My son has been sleeping 12 hours straight at night since 4 1/2 months. He’s 7 1/2 months now, eating 3 meals of solids, and I have yet to have a post-baby cycle! (really can’t complain about that!) Chalk it up to the mystery of the woman’s body… :)
Reply
Christine says
January 22, 2008 at 2:59 am
May I give my 2 cents?
I am currently nursing my sixth baby. In my previous experience I did not begin ovulating until my breastfeeding baby was 9 months old – Makes sense since that was about the time baby was sleeping through the night and eating lots of table foods.
HOWEVER, I am older now, I had such a different pregnancy this last time around, baby is already so big, and at 5 months he’s sleeping through the night. That said, I do not feel like I can trust what has always happened before, and will be a bit more careful than I was when any of my other babies were only 5 months old.
My best advice for those who would like to count on breastfeeding as a form of birth control is to listen to your body. Do what you do best by providing for that little one and let God worry about the rest!
~Christine
From Dates to Diapers
P.S. I was planning on posting about this very thing this week. In fact, have most of it written, but was wondering if I can I link to your post?
Reply
Lis Garrett says
January 21, 2008 at 10:23 pm
This is interesting. I’ve heard of women getting pregnant within a few months of having a baby while exclusively breastfeeding (gasp!), so I’ve never relied on breastfeeding as a means of birth control. Perhaps they were just one of the few, however.
I don’t know . . . I take this with a grain of salt. I liken it to telling a girl that she can’t get pregnant if she hasn’t started mentruating, which also is and isn’t true. You never know what is going on with your body, hormonally, so I would opt to use a back-up method just in case. That’s what my midwife advised anyway . . .
PS – My SIL got pregnant while breastfeeding. Unfortunately, she had a miscarriage . . .
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
See the World, One City at a Time.
Email
Facebook
Pinterest
RSS
Twitter
SUBSCRIBE VIA EMAIL
Enter your email address...
Travel With Kids
Travel With Kids: Austin
Austin is a tree-lined city, alive and bustling with young people (I read somewhere that the average age is 34). Zilker Park is probably the most “famous” park in Austin…and for good reason. It’s HUGE and features great playscapes, a miniature train, a sculpture garden, and running paths. We also spent an afternoon at City […]
Amazon Associates Disclosure
Metropolitan Mama is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
Contributor
Me…On ABC News
Contributor
Copyright © 2019 · Metropolitan Mama - See the World, One City at a Time