Care Instructions | Smith & Co. Dental Practitioners | Bel Air, MD
Smith & Co. Dental Practitioners
General & Cosmetic Dentistry in Bel Air, MD
Menu
Services
Fillings
Sealants
Veneers
Inlays/Onlays
Bonding
Dental Implants
Extractions
Bleaching
Bridges
Crowns
Dentures
Cerec®
Clear Orthodontics
Esthetic Procedures
Information & Forms
First Visit
Scheduling
Financial Policy
Insurance
Infection Control
Home Instructions
Privacy Policy
Patient Forms
Care & Technology
Oral Hygiene
Child Dentistry
Periodontal Maintenance
Dental Specialties
Laser Dentistry
Power Whitening
Intraoral Camera
Precision Dentistry
Digital Imaging
Oraverse
About Us
Contact Us
Skip to content
First Visit
Scheduling
Financial Policy
Insurance
Infection Control
Home Instructions
Privacy Policy
Patient Forms
Home Instructions
Caring for yourself after a major procedure is an important part of proper dental hygiene. Doing so elevates the need for additional visits due to infection or other issues. The following home care instructions will help you or someone you know recover properly from a dental procedure.
After Cosmetic Reconstruction
Remember that it will take time to adjust to the feel of your new bite. When the bite is altered or the position of the teeth is changed it takes several days for the brain to recognize the new position of your teeth or their thickness as normal. If you continue to detect any high spots or problems with your bite, call our office so we can schedule an adjustment appointment. A fraction of a millimeter can affect your bite and cannot always be detected when numb.
It is normal to experience some hot and cold sensitivity. The teeth require some time to heal after removal of tooth structure and will be sensitive in the interim. Your gums may also be sore for a few days. Warm salt water rinses (a teaspoon of salt in a cup of warm water) three times a day will reduce pain and swelling. A mild pain medication (650mg of Tylenol every 4-6 hours or 800mg of Ibuprofen every 6-8 hours) should ease any residual discomfort.
Don’t be concerned if your speech is affected for the first few days. You’ll quickly adapt and be speaking normally. You may notice increased salivation. This is because your brain is responding to the new size and shape of your teeth. This should subside to normal in about a week.
Daily brushing and flossing are a must for your new dental work. Daily plaque removal is critical for the long-term success of your new teeth, as are regular cleaning appointments.
Any food that can crack, chip or damage a natural tooth can do the same to your new teeth. Avoid hard foods and substances (such as beer nuts, peanut brittle, ice, fingernails, or pencils) and sticky candies. Smoking will stain your new teeth. Minimize or avoid foods that stain such as coffee, red wine, tea and berries.
If you engage in sports let us know so we can make a custom mouthguard. If you grind your teeth at night, a custom made night guard may be necessary for you. Adjusting to the look and feel of your new smile will take time. If you have any problems or concerns, please let us know. We always welcome your questions.
After crown and bridge appointments
Crowns and bridges can take or two appointments to complete. In the first visit, the teeth are prepared and digital images of the mouth are taken. Temporary crowns or bridges are sometimes placed to protect the teeth while the custom restoration is being made. Since the teeth will be anesthetized, the tongue, lips and roof of the mouth may be numb. Please refrain from eating and drinking hot beverages until the numbness is completely worn off.
Occasionally a temporary crown, when used, may come off. Call us if this happens and bring the temporary crown with you so we can re-cement it. It is very important for the temporary to stay in place, as it will prevent other teeth from moving and compromising the fit of your final restoration.
To keep your temporaries in place, avoid eating sticky foods (gum), hard foods, and if possible, chew on the opposite side of your mouth. It is important to brush normally, but floss carefully and don’t pull up on the floss which may dislodge the temporary but pull the floss out from the side of the temporary crown.
It is normal to experience some temperature and pressure sensitivity after each appointment. The sensitivity should subside a few weeks after the placement of the final restoration. Mild pain medications may also be used as directed by our office.
If your bite feels uneven, if you have persistent pain, or if you have any other questions or concerns, please call our office at (410) 638-0920.
After Tooth Extraction
After tooth extraction, it’s important for a blood clot to form to stop the bleeding and begin the healing process. That’s why we ask you to bite firmly on a gauze pad for 30-45 minutes after the appointment. If the bleeding or oozing still persists, place another gauze pad and bite firmly for another 30 minutes. You may have to do this several times. A moistened tea bag may be substituted for gauze for persistent bleeding.
After the blood clot forms, it is important not to disturb or dislodge the clot as it aids healing. Do not rinse vigorously, suck on straws, smoke, drink alcohol or brush teeth next to the extraction site for 72 hours. These activities will dislodge or dissolve the clot and retard the healing process. Limit vigorous exercise for the next 24 hours as this will increase blood pressure and may cause more bleeding from the extraction site.
After the tooth is extracted you may feel some pain and experience some swelling. An ice pack or an unopened bag of frozen peas or corn applied to the area will keep swelling to a minimum. Take pain medications as prescribed. The swelling usually subsides after 48 hours.
Use the pain medication as directed. Call the office if the medication doesn’t seem to be working. If antibiotics are prescribed, continue to take them for the indicated length of time, even if signs and symptoms of infection are gone. Be sure to take medications with food to avoid an upset stomach. Drink lots of fluid and eat nutritious soft food on the day of the extraction. You can eat normally as soon as you are comfortable.
It is important to resume your normal dental routine after 24 hours. This should include brushing and flossing your teeth at least twice a day. This will speed healing and help keep your mouth fresh and clean.
After a few days you will feel fine and can resume your normal activities. If you have heavy bleeding, severe pain, continued swelling for 2-3 days, or a reaction to the medication, call our office immediately at (410) 638-0920.
After Composite Fillings (tooth colored fillings)
When an anesthetic has been used, your lips and tongue may be numb for several hours after the appointment. Avoid any chewing and hot beverages until the numbness has completely worn off. It is very easy to bite or burn your tongue or lip while you are numb. Request OraVerse, an anesthetic reversal agent to get you from numb to normal more quickly.
It is normal to experience some hot, cold & pressure sensitivity after your appointment. Injection sites may also be sore. Ibuprofen (Motrin), Tylenol or aspirin (one tablet every 3-4 hours as needed for pain) work well to alleviate the tenderness. If pressure sensitivity persists beyond a few days or if the sensitivity to hot or cold increases, contact our office.
You may chew with your composite fillings as soon as the anesthetic completely wears off, since they are fully hardened when you leave the office.
If your bite feels uneven, if you have persistent pain, or if you have any other questions or concerns, please call our office at (410) 638-0920.
First Visit
Scheduling
Financial Policy
Insurance
Infection Control
Home Instructions
Privacy Policy
Patient Forms
"I have been seeing Dr. Smith for 10+ years. My entire family including my husband, and my daughter and son-in-law, and our three grandsons have all see Dr. Smith and all experiences were excellent. My husband had extensive bridge work, I had several crowns. No discomfort ever. My grandsons were all treated well and were completely relaxed with Dr. Smith and his staff. I would highly recommend Smith and Co. Dental Practitioners for patients of all ages."
— Sharyn B. —
225 Brierhill Drive, Suite H • Bel Air, MD 21015225 Brierhill Drive, Suite H • Bel Air, MD 21015
p. 410.638.0920410.638.0920 • f. 410.638.0980
Monday: 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
Tuesday: 6:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Wednesday: 8:00 a.m. to 7:30 p.m.
Thursday: 6:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Friday: CLOSED