Do Phones Cause Radiation – Phantom Vibration Syndrome
Phantom Vibration Syndrome
Signs, symptoms & treatment of phantom vibration syndrome
Home
Symptoms & Signs
Causes & Triggers
Treatments & Cures
EMF Dangers
PVS Shop
Home
Symptoms & Signs
Causes & Triggers
Treatments & Cures
EMF Dangers
PVS Shop
Do Phones Cause Radiation
Home / Do Phones Cause Radiation
By admin July 2, 2018 PVS StoreProducts, Store
Bracelet,Mens Bracelet,Mens Copper Classic Retro Bracelet,Healthy Unisex Magnetic Pure Copper Double Row Therapy Bracelet Pain Relief for Arthritis
$65.00
$35.99
1 new from $35.99
Free shipping
Product Info & Price
Amazon.com
as of January 28, 2019 7:05 am
Features
BRACELET MATERIAL:This magnetic bracelet is made of 99.95% Pure copper,scratches resistant,lead and nickel free.Copper is an important nutrient element, the body of biological transformation, electron transfer, redox, tissue breathing are inseparable from copper. Copper has become an important nutrient for human health.
THE ROLE OF MAGNETIC ELEMENTS:In our daily life,we can not do without cell phones and computers,so how much time do we have to care about our health?But don't worry,the magnetic elements can help you.It can promote human blood circulation,activated cells,effectively play the body metabolism.We can say good bye to the physical fatigue.^^
THE MAGNETIC BRACELET'S FUNCTION:Anti-fatigue, relievestress, anti-radiation,help to fall asleep faster, improve sleep quality,help to reduce pain, reduce inflammation and improve blood circulation.Enhance human balance and immunity.Improve endurance; Improve motor function.
BRACELET SIZE:Length:21.5 CM/8.5 inches,wide:1.5 CM/0.59 inches,weight:75.3G.The pure copper bracelet can make you feel comfortable and warmth,and will not cause skin allergies and other symptoms.Also it is waterproof,you can wear it to washing hands or swimming.
WHAT IS IN THE PACKAGE:As a gift is generous,a elegant box include a beautiful bag which is packaged the bracelet,and a free link removal tool.If you have any questions,please feel free to contact us,we will try our best to help you.
BXT Classic Unisex Womens Mens UV Radiation Protection Safety Eyeglasses Anti Blue Ray Anti-reflective Anti-glare Rectangle Blue Lens Computer Reading Gaming Plain Glasses Eyewear Spectacles
$8.98
1 new from $8.98
Free shipping
Product Info & Price
Amazon.com
as of January 28, 2019 7:05 am
Features
Brand new fashion classic computer readers video goggles glasses anti-reflective,anti-glare,UV protection for unisex men women safety protective eyeglasses
Special coated lens blocks harmful digital blue-light emitted from the screen of your computer, cellular phone, TV, and other electronic devices
Functions: Radiation Protection, Anti-UV, Anti-reflective, Clear Vision, Anti- glare, Anti Blue Rays; Great for alleviating visual fatigue and discomfort from long periods of web surfing, gaming and working under fluorescent lights
Frame Length: 130mm, Lens Width: 49mm, Lens Height: 33mm, Bridge: 22cm, Leg Length: 130mm
Come with a case and carrier pouch. A great gift for officer clerk, teachers, businessman, scientist, students, etc.
Do Cell Phones Really Cause Cancer?
Some people think that the radiation from phones and other electronic devices can give you cancer. Is there any truth to this, or is it just a huge misconception?
Do Cell Phones Cause Cancer?
Remember the last time you used your phone and it left a nice warm spot on your face? - Is that causing cancer? Michael Aranda tells you all about the radiation ...
Do Cellphones Cause Cancer?: Understanding Cell Phone ...
Do Cellphones Cause Cancer?: Understanding Cell Phone Radiation and Cancer. By Lloyd Burrell 16,886 Facebook Shares
Cell Phones and Cancer Risk Fact Sheet - National Cancer ...
On This Page. Why is there concern that cell phones may cause cancer or other health problems? What is radiofrequency energy and how does it affect the body?
Do Mobile Phones Affect Brain Function? | NutritionFacts.org
The World Health Organization concluded that cell phone radiation may cause brain tumors, but what about effects on cognitive function?
Cell Phones
Radiofrequency radiation from cell phones is non-ionizing and is not powerful enough to cause cancer. Ionizing radiation, including x-rays and ultraviolet light, produces molecules called ions that have either too ma
Cell Phone Health Issues
Cell Phone Radiation And Cancer
PVS Shop
About This Website
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Developed by Think Up Themes Ltd. Powered by Wordpress.