Fish Oil Cholesterol - Is fish oil good for lowering high cholesterol?
Www.CholesterolCholestrol.Com
Lowering Cholesterol to Extend Life Easily
Written by health professionals: Doctor, M.D., CphT, and others - but easy to read.
HOME
Skip to content
Email
A+
A-
Tweet
Cholesterol levels managed without harsh drugs.
BASICS
Cholesterol
What causes high cholesterol?
Dietary fats cholesterol
High Cholesterol Symptoms.
Cholesterol, heart disease and stroke.
Management
Cholesterol Prescription Drugs Overview.
Cholesterol Medication
TYPES + GUIDELINES
Types of cholesterol fats
High Cholesterol.
LDL
HDL
Cholesterol and Saturated fat - daily allowances and guidelines.
NON-PRESCRIPTION HELPFUL CHOLESTEROL SUPPLEMENTS
Lipi-Rite is one good supplement
Stabilise cholesterol naturally with herbs etc
SCAMS.
LEVELS
Cholesterol levels information and tables - covering hdl, ldl, total, ratio and VLDL triglycerides level
The Test to determine your level
Provide your personal numbers for analysis!
More numbers / levels analysed
Doctor isn't worried? Should you be?
DIETS
My own Cholesterol Sample Diet to immediately start with
My own Cholesterol diet plan, meal planner for the more advanced
Popular diets known to help
The especially popular mediterranean diet - in depth
Low Cholesterol, Low Calorie, Low Saturated Fat Recipes
Cholesterol Chart of Foods and Drinks
The OLD low cholesterol diet page - kept for those who still use it
HEALTH CALCULATORS
Easily work out your daily allowance of saturated fat, calories and much more with our special calculator.
FREE BMI calculator, fitness calculator and weight loss calculator
OTHER TOPICS - Pregnancy, Turkey, Shrimp, Egg, Fish, Chocolate, Fish Oil, Alcohol, Niacin, Red Rice Yeast, Smoking, Myth, Pets, and FAQ
Cholesterol drugs, medications and pregnancy.
Cholesterol in Turkey
Shrimp Cholesterol.
Egg Cholesterol.
Fish cholesterol.
Chocolate
Fish Oil.
Alcohol
Niacin or flush free niacin?
Red rice yeast.
Cholesterol Myth
Smoking
FAQ
Pets, Cholesterol and Cardiovascular disease.
STATIN DRUGS
OVERVIEW of The Statin Cholesterol Prescription Drugs
Atorvastatin / Lipitor
Pravastatin / Pravachol
Simvastatin / Zocor
Rosuvastatin / Crestor
Lovastatin / Mevacor
Fluvastatin / Lescol
NON-STATIN DRUGS
Ezitimibe / Zetia
Gemfibrozil
Cholestyramine
Colestipol / Colestipid
ASSOCIATED DISORDERS
Metabolic Syndrome aka Syndrome X
Glucose Tolerance Test
4 weeks Diabetes Cure.
Thyroid, hypothalamus and pituitary.
CARDIOVASCULAR & HEART DISEASE
Heart disease - types and explanations
Cardiovascular disease - it's effects on the arteries, veins and capillaries.
Erratic Pulse.
OUR RELATED RAPID WEIGHT LOSS WEB SITE
Fast weight loss and the urge to eat.
Our Very Best Weight Loss Program.
50+ weight loss TIPS.
Weight loss exercise
The Professionals behind www.CholesterolCholestrol.com
Donald Urquhart,(BA & DipAppPsy), Fully Registered Psychologist. A past cholesterol sufferer.
Dr James Hogg, (BSc Oxon, MBBS & BA Hons), Medical Doctor, experienced and trained. A great addition to www.CholesterolCholestrol.com
Michael T. Sapko, M.D., Ph.D.,Trained as a Doctor, but preferred writing more. Excellent that he chose to write for www.CholesterolCholestrol.com too!
Loni Ice, (CphT), Certified Pharmacy Technician - the one behind the counter you ask for help from with your cholesterol medication and drugs. Strong interest in healing herbs.
Chris Urquhart, Student, studying for a social work degree. Has a passion for medical and veterinarian history and provides back up support. Not yet qualified to write for CholesterolCholestrol.com, but very useful indeed.
Cant see all the site links?
Scroll down so that the topic you are interested in is at the top of the screen and mouse over. Site appears to display best in IE, eg IE7. Screen resolution about 1200+ wide.
Fish Oil Cholesterol - Is fish oil good for lowering high cholesterol?
Contents: Is there such a thing as fish oil cholesterol? -- Does fish oil lower cholesterol? -- Does fish oil protect against cholesterol build up on artery walls and the resultant heart attacks and strokes? -- Does fish oil lower triglycerides? -- Heres how fish oil may be able to benefit your cardiovascular system, especially if you lower LDL cholesterol as well -- Summary of fish oil cholesterol
How much Cholesterol in fish oil?
Fish oil does contain cholesterol. So, yes, fish oil cholesterol is real and does exist, but fish oil cholesterol is normally only a quite small amount in a fish oil capsule, about 0 to 1mg cholesterol per 1000mg fish oil capsule.
Does fish oil benefit the lowering of cholesterol?
The use of fish oil to lower cholesterol is a contentious subject. Some research supports the opinion that omega 3 enriched fish oil lowers cholesterol, but there are also other research reports that fail to find any improvement in cholesterol as a result of taking fish oil.
If you take omega 3 enriched fish oil daily, hdl good cholesterol improves 1-3%, which means heart attack risk is reduced by about 3 to 9%. BUT ldl bad cholesterol increases by 5-10%, which can raise your risk of heart attack 10 to 20%. So fish oil does NOT appear to be a viable treatment option for high cholesterol.
Some of the information above is based on cholesterol guidelines and cholesterol research from both AMA and AHA.
However, a recent study by Dr. C Anderson, MD, at the George Institute for International Health at the University of Sydney in Australia, circa 2007, found that fish oil failed to lower cholesterol and failed to protect against heart disease. "The supplements didn't work."
Lipi-Rite helps support the heart and arteries
Lipi-Rite is made of quality natural ingredients that were selected for their ability to help regulate and maintain TRIGLYCERIDE and CHOLESTEROL levels.
What more could you want? Click Lipi-Rite to read more about this fantastic all natural product
Fish oil, heart attack, heart disease and heart health
According to the Mayo Clinic, there are claims that fish oil lowers the risk of death, heart attack, abnormal heart rhythms, and strokes in people with known cardiovascular disease. They also state that fish oil slows hardening of the arteries and lowers blood pressure slightly by 2-5 mmHg.
What I have found is that the research into fish oil for heart health, disease and so on, is very much in it's infancy. One study may find a benefit to fish oil capsules, while another finds no benefit, or even that fish oil hurts your cardiovascular system.
To give one example, the CSIRO, a respected and highly valued government research department in Australia, proved conclusively that omega-3 fatty acids - as found in fish and fish oil, protects against heart rhythm disorders - that was in 2005. In 2006, another valued research report is published in the AMA, proving that omega 3 enriched fish oils do NOT lower the occurence of serious abnormal heart rhythms, nor the risk of death due to them.
So we have two conclusive fish oil studies that contradict each other! Obviously more fish oil and heart research has to be done to find out more.
Fish oil and Triglycerides
Fish oil rich in omega 3 has been found to be extremely suitable to lowering blood triglycerides.
The American Heart Association, 2003, recommends supplementation with 2000-4000mg of EPA + DHA daily can reduce triglycerides by 20-40%. Because of there is a risk of bleeding caused from omega-3 fatty acids when supplementation exceeds 3000mgs daily, see your doctor before starting.
Fish oil supplements, rich in Omega 3's EPA + DHA, can lower blood triglyceride levels with doses as low as 2000mgs daily. The more fish oil consumed, the better the fish oil effect at lowering triglycerides. 4000mgs fish oil per day can reduce blood triglyceride levels between 25 and 40%.
Heres how fish oil may be able to benefit your cardiovascular system, especially if you lower LDL cholesterol as well.
Dr. Miller circa 2007 conducted a study on 4,000 patients who had suffered heart attack or serious heart problems. Although he wasn't looking at fish oil, he was looking at the relationship between triglyceride level and LDL cholesterol (the bad cholesterol). He found that if you had low triglycerides and low LDL, then your risk of heart attack was about 25 to 30 less than if you just had low LDL.
The low LDL had been achieved via the use of statin drugs mainly, but lowering LDL through diet should be of equal value.
So, although fish oil may not directly help with cholesterol based heart disease, fish oil may help reduce the risk if you reduce LDL cholesterol as well to low levels.
Targets to aim for LDL below 130 and triglycerides below 150.
Don't want to take fish oil capsules to get the benefit of reduced cardiovascular events? Then eat fruits, vegetables, fish and so on and you may be able to reduce your triglycerides by as much as 50%.
Fish oil, cholesterol and heart health: in Conclusion
AS the research is continuing and expanding, the medical guidelines will possibly alter, perhaps quickly. Therefore it appears prudent to consult with your doctor about the use of fish oil as a treatment for high cholesterol, high triglycerides, heart disease, heart attack and heart health.
Don't want to risk the side effects of harsh medications?
Lipi-Rite may be what you want.
Lipi-Rite is Safe, Natural, and Convenient and
Can help support a healthy cholesterol profile
And help support cardio-vascular health
Please remember to SHARE us with your online social groups. Add www.cholesterolcholestrol.com to your bookmarks or favorites now to find it again easy! Always CONSULT YOUR DOCTOR AND DIETICIAN first about lowering cholesterol. See what they say about the cholesterol lowering ideas you find on this website and others. Our Privacy Policy: www.cholesterolcholestrol.com/privacypolicy.htm Copyright © 2000-present Donald Urquhart. All Rights Reserved. All universal rights reserved. Designated trademarks and brands are the property of their respective owners. Use of this Web site constitutes acceptance of our legal disclaimer.
Cholesterol / Cholestrol / Cholesteral WANT TO HELP? ABOUT US CONTACT US
Remember, www.CholesterolCholestrol.com is crammed packed with useful and beneficial information for lowering high cholesterol naturally through a cholesterol diet, and much, much more.