Urinary Tract Infection - Symptoms, Causes, Ayurvedic Treatment & Diagnosis
Whatsapp us: 999-9142-656
Call us: 1800-103-1644
| SIGN-IN
Toggle navigationn class="icon-bar">
Home
About Dabur
Ayurveda
The Science of life
Healthy habits for a healthy body
The Science of life
What is Ayurveda
Diagnosis in Ayurveda
Importance of Vihar (Lifestyle) in Ayurveda
Ayurveda & The Concept of Disease
Ayurveda & the Concept of Health
VIEW ALL >>
Healthy habits for a healthy body
Dincharya & Ratricharya
Understanding Ritucharya
5 Immunity boosting herbs in Ayurveda
Yoga
Ayurvedic Tips to Reduce Stress
VIEW ALL >>
What is Ayurveda
AILMENT
AILMENT
Allergy & immunity / Infection
Diabetes
Gastro Intestinal diseases
Pain
Women's Health
Psychiatry/Mental diseases
Oral Care
Kid's Health
Dermatology
Cardiology
Kidney Diseases
Men's Health / Sexual Health
Bone Diseases
Ophthalmology/ Eye diseases
ENT(Ear Nose Throat)
Hair Health
Weight Loss With Ayurveda
Liver Diseases
VIEW ALL >>
Allergy & immunity / Infection
KNOW YOUR KPV
Shop
×
Login
Login
Sign Up
Mobile number
Enter Password
Enter OTP
Forget password? Get an OTP to login.
OR
OTP sent successfully.
Login using Facebook Login using Google+
Enter mobile number
Enter OTP
By creating an account you agree to our Disclaimer
OR
OTP sent successfully.
Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Google+
Search
Ask Query
Locate Store
What is Urinary Tract Infection -UTI- in men
Know More on Men's Health / Sexual Health
Urinary Tract Infection (UTI) in men Depression in Men Enlarged prostate or Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) Erectile dysfunction (ED) Heart health in Men Hydrocele Loss of libido in men Male hypogonadism Male infertility Infections of the Penis Premature ejaculation (PE) Prostate cancer Sexually Transmitted diseases (STDs) Urinary incontinence Varicocele Anorgasmia Blood in semen (Hematospermia) Delayed puberty Fatigue Gynecomastia Low Sperm Count Male menopause/Andropause Prostate infection/Prostatitis Retrograde ejaculation Testicular pain
Definition
Causes
Symptoms
Diagnosis
Ayurvedic Tips
FAQS
References
URINARY TRACT INFECTION -UTI- IN MEN Meaning
An infection present in the urine and the organs that make up the urinary system are considered to be a Urinary Tract Infection (UTI). This involves an infection in the following organs - the kidneys, ureters, bladder and urethra. Commonly infection occurs in the lower organs such as the urinary bladder and the urethra.1
Such infections need immediate medical attention as if left untreated they can cause permanent damage to the kidneys.1
As per Ayurveda, all urinary tract infections are discussed under a broad term called Mutrakricchra (Difficulty in urination) that covers the conditions of kidney and urinary tract infection.2
Incorrect diet and lifestyle habits (excessive exercise, alcohol, fish, excessive cold food and drink, dry food that lack oil, depression, fear) can vitiate all doshas in bodies. The vitiated doshas with low digestive fire produce undigested toxins in the body called ama. Ama mixes with doshas and blocks mutra vaha srotas (channels of urine). This leads to symptoms such as yellowish urine (peetamutrata), burning sensation while urinating (sadahmutra pravruti), swelling in bladder (mutrendriya gurutwa), etc.3
Disclaimer: The information on this page is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice. Do not use this information to diagnose or ayurvedic treatment of mens-health-sexual-health and/or urinary tract infection (uti) in men without consulting the doctor. Consult your physician before beginning an exercise regime. "While we have products /ayurvedic medicines for mens-health-sexual-health and/or urinary tract infection (uti) in men, you must consult an authorized physician before taking any of the products. For more information on products, visit www.dabur.com or call 1800-103-1644"
Related Articles
Heart health in Men
Men are at a greater risk of a heart disease as compared to women. Heart...
Urinary incontinence
Urinary incontinence is the name given to a condition where people are not ab...
Call us: 1800-103-1644
Ailments
Women's Health
Pain
Gastro Intestinal diseases
Diabetes
Allergy & immunity / Infection
View All >>
Our Brands
Dabur Amla
Dabur Real Juice
Dabur Chyawanprash
Dabur Vatika Naturals
Dabur Red Paste
Dabur Hajmola
Dabur Meswak
Dabur Honey
Dabur Glucose
Dabur Gulabari
General
Careers
Shop Online
Media
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Contact us
Sitemap
Track order