Marijuana Addiction - Clarity House Women's Sober Living
Home
About
Location
Treatment
Blog
Contact
877-705-6859
Select Page
Marijuana Addiction
Contact Us
Can you be addicted to Marijuana?
Today, the topic of marijuana addiction can be rather controversial. The drug has recently been legalized for medical use and even recreational use in many states. Weather it has medical use or not, it certainly has its dangers, especially when it is abused. Used over a long period of time, consistently, it is known that marijuana can cause dependence, tolerance, and addiction.
People generally use marijuana by smoking it out of a pipe. Other ways they use it are by using vaporizers, “dabs”, and edibles. The results of taking the drug in any fashion are usually a relaxed and euphoric effect. However, it can have other undesired effects such as paranoia, overeating, lack of energy, depression, and anti-social behavior. When individuals use marijuana daily, they can also become dependent on the drug, which can lead to addiction.
Some people say that weed is very addictive and that it can create negative effects physically and psychologically that last even when the user quits. Others will say that there are no addictive qualities, and that it has no direct negative effects. So this can be confusing. What is the truth? Is weed harmless or is it a dangerous and addictive substance?
Just speaking physically, marijuana can lead to several negative effects. These include increase or decrease in appetite, altered mood, more rapid heart rate, and respiratory issues when smoked.
People generally use marijuana by smoking it out of a pipe. Other ways they use it are by using vaporizers, “dabs”, and edibles. The results of taking the drug in any fashion are usually a relaxed and euphoric effect. However, it can have other undesired effects such as paranoia, overeating, lack of energy, depression, and anti-social behavior. When individuals use marijuana daily, they can also become dependent on the drug, which can lead to addiction.
Some people say that weed is very addictive and that it can create negative effects physically and psychologically that last even when the user quits. Others will say that there are no addictive qualities, and that it has no direct negative effects. So this can be confusing. What is the truth? Is weed harmless or is it a dangerous and addictive substance?
Psychologically, weed can lead to anxiety and paranoia, depression, poor decision making, and unclear thinking. Most of these effects will wear off once the effects of the drug wear off. However, for some individuals, these effects can last for weeks, months, or even permanently.
For those who use marijuana regularly, for a long period of time, may experience withdrawal symptoms if they stop abruptly. These symptoms may include irritability, insomnia, loss of appetite, anxiety, depression, agitation, craving for marijuana, and mood swings. These symptoms will generally alleviate after two weeks without smoking pot.
Some of the mental effects of use will not go away so easily, and may require additional treatment to overcome. These include anxiety, depression, social anxiety, schizophrenia, and psychosis. Weed can also increase the heart rate by 20% or more, increase the risk of heart attack, may lead to lung cancer, pneumonia, and create lack of motivation, mental impairment, reduced cognitive skills, and a poor social life.
As with all addictions, the first step to overcoming an addiction to weed is to recognize the problem. Many times, marijuana addiction will be accompanied with other addictions as well, such as alcohol or other drugs. Marijuana addiction is actually the most common substance for people to be addicted to, simply because of the number of marijuana users there are in comparison to other drugs.
Signs of Marijuana Addiction
Tolerance
If you have to use more marijuana to get the same effects as before, you could be developing an addiction.
Withdrawal Symptoms
Symptoms like anxiety, depression, or changes in appetite or mood when not smoking.
Unable To Control Use
Smoking when you don’t mean to or smoking more than you wanted.
Inability to Cut Down on Use
If you are having a hard time with cutting back when you want to, you may be addicted.
Amount of Time Spent
Spending most of your time thinking about getting high or getting high.
Loss of Recreation
Spending less time on other activities because of weed.
Negative Effects
Continuing to use marijuana despite negative consequences.
Primary Coping
Needing to use the drug to relax or be okay.
If you believe that you or a loved one may be addicted to marijuana, there is help. Sober living is a great way for those trying to get out of their old habits to develop a positive community and get used to living life sober without as many temptations and distractions they would experience otherwise.
Contact
If you have any questions or concerns, give us a call or fill out the form below. We are here to help!
Name
Email Address
Message
7 + 5 =
Submit
If you or a loved one is struggling with addiction, help is avaliable!
Give us a call at 818-921-2424
House Structure
– 5 bedrooms 5 bathrooms
– There will be daily chores for residents to complete. Nothing crazy though.
– Not sure about the amenities yet.
– There will be curfews, just need to look into what makes the most sense with times.
– They can have their phones and cars, if felt appropriate and productive for the residents recovery. This will be decided by all staff and their treatment team at IOP.
– School or work is encouraged and something each resident will be encouraged to accomplish in their recovery. Through work at their IOP treatment team and involvement in sober living activities, residents will be pushed to gain tools and skills to enter the workforce or school and to be successful while doing it. Depending on their progress in their recovery will determine when it is appropriate to enter such environments.
– Each decision, whether it is about having a phone, car, or entering school or work, will be discussed with all managers of the house and the individual, in order to determine the conduciveness it will have on their recovery and its appropriateness in the resident’s life.
– We believe healthy living is a significant component to recovery. This included healthy dieting and lifestyle, such as exercise and physical activities like hikes, surfing, bike rides etc.
CLOSE
Clear Recovery Center
The Adult Outpatient services provided include:
Individual Sessions
Family Sessions
Group Therapy
Family Group Therapy
Aftercare Planning
Career Counseling
Family Support Group
Drug Testing
Individual Sessions
Individual counseling at Clear Recovery Center is one of the cornerstones of the foundation in recovery that the outpatient builds. This is an essential step that helps individuals in their continued recovery. Every member of the outpatient is given a personal councilor who makes a unique addiction treatment plan and works with the individual’s other treatment professionals. The councilor is the main liaison for their clients care.
There are many goals of individual sessions:
Education on addiction and harm reduction
Exploring signs and symptoms of addiction in the lives of the clients
Developing healthier coping mechanisms and problem solving strategies
Integrate clients into 12 step groups
Goal setting
Accountability
Individual counseling is focused on giving clients a safe environment to change harmful behavior and explore the root problems underneath their addictions.
Group Therapy
Group Therapy has long been considered a crucial aspect of addiction treatment. Often times, addiction pushes an addict into an isolated lifestyle, which further exaggerates mental and emotional issues. Group therapy helps to reconnect people to a community of healthy relationships which is a big step in addressing these issues.
The foundation of group therapy is a safe environment that allows people to safely express their feelings, personal truths, fears, and frustrations. Members of the group are empathetic towards each other’s struggles, which makes group therapy an effective way to facilitate treatment.
At completion of group therapy clients will be able to:
Identify and relate with other members personal experiences and offer each other advice and support
Witness others reaching sober milestones and have a sense of hope in their own ability to reach these milestones
Have relief from the isolation that they lived in prior to treatment
Develop healthy social skills in a positive and productive environment
All counselors at Clear are professionally trained and experienced. They run group therapy with topic based meetings that aid addicts in identifying and working though issues in a group setting.
Both Clarity House and Clear Recovery Center believe that escaping from the grips of addiction is a two-part process. The first part is to get individuals inspired about their recovery, so residents and clients are integrated into a community of other sober addicts and alcoholics who are dedicated to maintaining their sobriety and improving their quality of life. The second part, is to get them involved in therapy and learn what drove them to their addiction in the first place and what factors to look out for that continue to drive them back. To learn more, visit https://clearrecoverycenter.com
CLOSE
Philosophy
– Community is key. People battling addiction need to be surrounded with healthy and positive people that can aid as motivators to continue on the path of recovery.
– Incorporating family involvement. In order for a successful recovery process, the family must be educated, included in the recovery plan, and utilized as a tool for the person struggling with addiction to feel supported and encouraged to continue progressing in their recovery.
– Relearning how to live and function in the world substance-free. This includes learning ways to enjoy one’s self without the need to use any substances. We believe that aiding people in finding hobbies, either through encouragement or organized activities, can help people see that life without substances can be fun, and essentially more productive and fulfilling.
CLOSE
Our Mission
We strive to allow people struggling with addiction to find enjoyment, contentment, and fulfillment in their lives, while developing healthy coping strategies to life difficulties and occurrences. Through building community and a strong support system, a foundation can be built that can assist people in obtaining long-term recovery.
CLOSE