Aspartame - What is Aspartame - Aspartame Side Effects
Home
Advertise
Contact
Facebook
Improve your life with health articles written by your healthcare assistant
Beauty Secrets
Diets
Fitness
Health News
Healthy Recipes
Medical Advice
Nutrition
Quiz
Medical Advice
What is Aspartame and the Aspartame Side Effects
7 years ago
by Health News
Add Comment
11 min read
Aspartame raised over time much controversy, and knowing the Aspartame Side Effects might help you act with caution regarding artificial sweeteners.
What is Aspartame and which are the Aspartame Side Effects
Aspartame Side Effects - Killing even the polar bears
Aspartame is the most popular artificial sweetener in the world, but also the most dangerous additive. The commercial names of aspartame are: NutraSweet, Equal, Spoonful, Equal-Measure, Canderel, Benevia, Neotame.
Neotame has a sweetness of 150-200 times higher than sugar and is a calorie free product. Neotame is a stronger poison than aspartame, being derived from it. It has a slightly modified structure and more sweetness.
Aspartame is produced through a process of genetic engineering. The main component of aspartame, phenylalanine, is produced by a bacteria. Monsanto, the company that mades aspartame, is a producer of the herbicide, glyphosate, and of herbicide-resistant and insect-resistant genetically modified (GM) crops. Monsanto genetically modified the bacteria from which aspartame is made of to produce more phenylalanine. Scientists who are honest admit that not enough is known about the process of obtaining aspartame and that the harmful aspartame side effects are obvious.
Aspartame is a very sophisticated drug, which could never be discovered “accidentally”. The chemist about which is said that he licked his fingers when working on a medicine against ulcer was never interviewed. Why?
The aspartame side effects are enhanced by the presence of glutamate and other excitotoxins. A low dose of aspartame added to a small dose of glutamate is transformed into a more toxic dose than they may be separately. Aspartame was discovered in the G. D. Searle company from Illinois, a company that has produced in recent decades other hazardous substances that are included in foods (eg. bovine growth hormone, rBGH).
At first, aspartame was used as a anti-ulcer agent. It is obtained from two amino acids (phenylalanine and aspartic acid) and methanol.
The road to hell is paved with Aspartame
According to the 25-2-10 NMSA law, USA, aspartame is a toxic substance, which is seriously detrimental to health. Documents relating to aspartame side effects to its toxicity say that to be manipulated in the laboratory, it is necessary to use chemical protective gloves and masks, special apron and air purifier!
Aspartame has enjoyed until now 27 years of commercial success, being present in 7 to 9000 of food products and medicine and used by hundreds of millions of people around the world. Following laboratory tests, aspartame was found in products that didn’t mentioned it on the label. Once listed by the Pentagon as a biochemical weapon, it is now never missed in the daily diet of world population!
Aspartame Side Effects: The mechanism of action of Aspartame
Following the process of metabolising in the human body, aspartame breaks down into: 50% phenylalanine, diketopiperazine (DCP), approximately 40% aspartic acid, 10% methanol. Phenylalanine is an amino acid normally found in the brain. People with phenylketonuria can’t metabolize phenylalanine. This leads to the accumulation of high levels of phenylalanine in the brain, that sometimes can be deadly.
Dr. Russell Blaylock states that especially in certain areas of the brain very high levels of phenylalanine accumulates: hypothalamus, medulla oblongata, corpus striatum. To support the rapid growth of the fetus, many amino acids are required. Amino acids in fetal veins are four times more than in maternal blood. Natural food is a complex mixture of amino acids. No food has one or two isolated amino acids, as aspartame has.
Dr. Louis J. Elsas, Professor of Pediatrics at Emory University (which testified before the American Congress) stated that aspartame is a neurotoxin and a known teratogenic substance, in yet undefined dose, aspartame side effects are reversible in adults, but irreversible in fetal brain or in a child. He also showed that phenylalanine is metabolised by rodents better than people. The so-called dietary supplements, with isolated phenylalanine, aspartic acid, glutamic acid and other dicarboxylic amino acids are neuroexcitotoxine and they are marketed from a crass ignorance or a deliberate malice. They do exactly the opposite of what is intended to do. Isolated phenylalanine disrupt neural transmission, brain subnutrition, neurotoxicity, leading to reduced functioning of the brain, depression, migraines, etc..
It is estimated that from about 200 million Americans who consume aspartame annually, 20 million can’t metabolize phenylalanine, and this is a genetic incapacity particularly to children, leading in time to mental retardation. This means a risk of retardation for millions of children. Like formaldehyde, aspartame is an agent that destroys chromosomes. Neurological dangers to the fetus are obvious. Chromosomal damage in the mother’s body can be inherited by the child, and all future generations are in danger by inheriting the chromosomal damage, but also by damaging potential ovules (if female fetus) due to maternal consumption of aspartame during pregnancy.
Diketopiperazine (DCP) appears through decomposition of aspartame. Besides the intact aspartame molecule, it is responsible for the most massive brain tumor epidemic ever occurred. Dr. John W. Olney noted that DCP produces in the intestines a compound similar to N-nitrozoureea, a powerful chemical that determines brain tumors. Some researchers say that DCP is formed after ingestion of aspartame. Dr. Blaylock says that DCP is formed in the liquid products containing aspartame, following a long-term storage.
Aspartame Side Effects - artificial sweeteners
Aspartame Side Effects: Methanol
In 1987, the toxicologist Dr. Jacqueline Verrett, in her testimony before the US Senate, showed that methanol (methyl alcohol) is metabolized by oxidation of aspartame and forms formaldehyde and then formic acid (which gradually accumulate in the body and inhibits the metabolism of oxygen). Methanol is obtained in the small intestine when the methyl group from aspartame encounters the chymotrypsin enzyme. Formaldehyde is a deadly neurotoxin that interferes in the process of DNA replication and generates teratogenic effects. Intoxication with methanol and formaldehyde produce a number of cumulatively degenerative diseases and functional abnormalities in the body.
Environment Protection Association (EPA) says: “Methanol is a cumulative poison that once ingested, is eliminated from the body very hard. In the body, methanol is oxidized and decomposes into formaldehyde and formic acid: both are extremely toxic.“ Therefore, EPA recommends a methanol consumption limit dose of 7.8 mg/day. But a diet drink sweetened it with aspartame contains about 56 mg of methanol!
Methanol is present naturally in certain fruits and vegetables (eg. tomatoes), but it’s never isolated from ethanol and pectin, the latter preventing methanol to be metabolized into formic acid and formaldehyde, both lethal toxins. Synthetic Methanol is a fatal poison. The content of methanol in aspartame is 1,000 times higher than in regular food, according to American Medical World News magazine in 1978. In addition, methanol from aspartame is “pure methanol,” which is not found as such in nature. Methanol in nature is always mixed with ethanol and other compounds, which decrease its concentration when methanol is released in the human body.
It is enough that the bottles of Coca-Cola light or Pepsi-Cola light to remain several hours in a warehouse or in a vehicle without a cooling and exposed to sunlight, so that they become extremely toxic. Due to the lack of key enzymes, humans are more exposed to the toxic effects of methanol (also the aspartame side effects) than animals. Therefore, aspartame and methanol tests conducted on animals don’t accurately reflect the dangers of these substances on humans.
Methyl alcohol intoxication is 50 times stronger than intoxication with ethyl alcohol (from alcoholic drinks) and formaldehyde poisoning is 5,000 times stronger. Carefully assembled in the aspartame molecule, these neurotoxins are 20,000 times stronger than alcoholic drinks.
Aspartame Side Effects: the aspartame disease
The harmful effects of these toxins have led to a new disease: aspartame disease. When patients complain of symptoms associated with aspartame cease to consume products containing aspartame, the symptoms disappear, but they return again when the person begins to consume aspartame. Many doctors refer to this symptomatology as “aspartame disease”.
The symptoms may occur immediately or gradually degenerate into chronic diseases. Dr. Lendon Smith said that a large proportion of the population suffer from aspartame side effects, although they have no idea why medications, supplements and herbs don’t cure the symptoms.
Compared to other additives which are used up to now, this sweetener has recorded the most complaints (80-85% of total complaints) from consumers.
Aspartame Side Effects
Consumption of aspartame generates the following conditions:
• The eyes: conjunctivitis; pupil dilation; exophthalmos syndrome; irritation, eye pain and pressure; gradual blindness in one or both eyes; problems with contact lenses; reduction of tear fluid; blindness, decreased vision and/or other vision problems such as: blur, flash forth light, tunnel vision, spots or lines.
• The ears: severe intolerance to noise; hearing problems, hearing loss; tinnitus (ringing in the ears).
• Neurological: dizziness, unstable gait, balance problems; numbness of extremities, pain in extremities; arthritis; partial or complex strokes; panic attacks; confusion; seizures; for seizures; joint pain; headaches, migraines, some quite acute (women are more vulnerable); atypical facial pain; generalized aches; muscle and skeletal pains; feverishness; hallucinations; acute hyperactivity and the need to constantly move the legs; hyperactivity in children and adults; inability to concentrate, memory loss, impaired thinking; shortness of speech, difficulty speaking, blurred diction; fainting, unconsciousness and coma; changing the shape and texture of the breasts; paraesthesia and numbness of limbs; retardation in children; sensation of body weight; muscle spasms; muscle tremors; severe tremors; neurological disorder; swelling of various body parts.
• Psychological/Psychiatric: aggression; anxiety; moderate to severe depression (because it decreases the level of serotonin); phobias; insomnia, drowsiness, sleep problems; irritability; changes in personality; tiredness; rapid changes in the quality and intensity of mood.
• The chest: arrhythmia; shortness of breath; chest pain; hypertension; changes in blood pressure; palpitations, tachycardia; asthmatic breathing; shortness of breath due to changes in position.
• Gastrointestinal: bloating; constipation; cramps; diarrhea, sometimes with blood clots; pain and difficulty swallowing; abdominal pain; nausea, vomiting; change of appetite; changing the taste sensitivity; changes in weight; sinus problems; problems of salivary; persistent thirst and water retention; salivation; tendency to eat and drink excessively; chronic cough; traces of blood in vomit or stool; dry throat, sore throat.
• The skin: in the chest, aggravated respiratory allergies (eg. asthma); eczema; facial flushing; skin lesions; allergic reactions in the region of the mouth and lips; itching, no rash; hives and other skin problems.
• Endocrine and metabolic: accelerates and triggering diabetes in people who are susceptible to diabetes, but which never developed the disease if they hadn’t consumed aspartame; accelerating clinical trials of diabetes; adenopathy; worsening of hypoglycaemia; aggravates and simulates diabetic retinopathy and neuropathy; various metabolic disorders, anemia; hair loss or thinning of; aggravation of diabetic complications: retinopathy, cataracts, neuropathy and gastroparesis; cramps during the menstrual cycle; increased appetite for carbohydrates; increase in weight; diabetes and diabetes complications; difficulties in pregnancy; dysmenorrhea; hematuria; hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia; nail and skin coloration changes; body odor changes; changes in the appearance of hair and nails; changes in sweat; nodules; obesity; loss and taste perversion; problems and menstrual changes; produce a low control of diabetes in patients taking insulin or oral antidiabetic; rapid weight loss.
• Urogenital: impotence; reduction of sexual function; sexual disorders; difficulty passing urine; changes to the amount of urine; urogenital problems; frequent urination and burning.
• Other disorders: changes in body temperature; problems with teeth; non-specific problems; decreased immunity, increased susceptibility to infections; excessive thirst, fluid retention, swollen legs.
• The worst aspartame side effects: aggressive behavior; cancer incidence and degree of malignancy of brain tumors; birth defects (including mental retardation) and miscarriages (not only if the mother has consumed aspartame, but when the father has eaten); aspartame addiction and excessive and uncontrollable desire to sweets; severe depression; hyperactivity in children; sudden death; schizophrenia; suicidal tendencies; peptic ulcer; irreparable damaging to the brain.
Diseases caused by aspartame: Alzheimer; Basedow- Graves; Lyme; Méniere; Parkinson; attention deficit; epilepsy (“grand mal” and “petit mal” form); fibromyalgia; hypothyroidism due to mercury in dental fillings; • non-Hodgkin’s malignant lymphoma; lymphoma of the brain (a tumor is a very high rate of mortality, being associated with the consumption of aspartame); lupus erythematosus; mental retardation; amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; multiple sclerosis; increased sensitivity to mercury from dental amalgams; chronic fatigue syndrome; eosinophilic myalgia syndrome (EMS); brain tumors, thyroid, breast, pancreatic, testicular, ovarian, uterine, adenomuri pituitary, uterine tumors.
Aspartame changes the amino acids in the blood, blocking or lowering the level of serotonin, tyrosine, dopamine, norepinephrine and adrenaline. Thus emotional disorders such as depression occur. Even a single dose of aspartame significantly increases blood levels of phenylalanine. These disturbances cease immediately after the removal of aspartame from the diet.
Aspartame destroys the fertilization process by the fact that ruins women’s sexual response and induces sexual dysfunction to men. Moreover, aspartame interrupts fetal development by abortion or generates birth defects. Aspartame destroys the DNA structure of the fetus, putting a stigma on generations to come.
Now that you are aware of the Aspartame Side Effects it’s up to you to take action and fight back.
Incoming search terms:
define aspartame
define aspartame side effects
aspartame side effects 2011
what is aspartame derived from
aspartame
Related posts:
Being Too Optimistic Problematic For Bipolar People
A Coffee A Day And No Risk For Strokes
How to Deal with Seasonal Affective Disorder
Treat Acute Bronchitis in The Right Way
Prevent Hair Loss With Natural Products
Stay Two Steps Ahead of Allergy Season
artificial sweeteners aspartame aspartame aspartame and cancer aspartame and depression aspartame and fibromyalgia aspartame and migraines aspartame aspartic acid aspartame diabetes aspartame effects aspartame free diet soda aspartame side effects what is aspartame
5 daily habits that cause Alzheimer’s Disease
Diseases you risk to develop by working in night shifts
You may also like
Medical Advice
Dealing with Postnatal Depression
3 min read
Medical Advice
Dealing Better with PMS and Menstrual Cramps
3 min read
Medical Advice
Staying Away from HIV
3 min read
Medical Advice
The Dangers of Excessive Calcium Intake
3 min read
Medical Advice
ProbioSlim Review in 2017
3 min read
Medical Advice
What Vitamins Do You Need for Bones and Joints?
5 min read
Leave a Comment X
You must be logged in to post a comment.
Hotels in Bucharest Romania
Copyright © 2015.
Beauty Secrets
Diets
Fitness
Health News
Healthy Recipes
Medical Advice
Nutrition
Quiz
Powered by themekiller.com anime4online.com animextoon.com apk4phone.com tengag.com moviekillers.com