Drink This Lemon Juice & Baking Soda Mixture In The Morning To Reverse Cancer Growth & Infections – Healthy Food USA – Healthiest Eating in America Tips & Guides
Breaking News
How To Grow An Avocado Tree
5 Disgusting Secrets About White Flour That Will Shock You
Myths and Facts about food!
100 Science-Proven, Evidence-Based Facts About Turmeric’s Cancer & Inflammation Reversing Powers
4 Apple Cider Vinegar Recipes for Instant Immunity Boost and Healthy Weight Loss!
33 Astonishing Uses Of Coconut Oil
18 Mind Blowing Uses For Aloe Vera – You Will Never Buy Expensive Products Again!
Drinking Water On Empty Stomach Immediately After Waking Up!
Baking Soda – True Enemy of the Pharmaceutical Industry
Cancer In A Can: The Shocking True Story Of How Pringles Are Made
Learn How To Take The Right Dosage Of Turmeric For Your Body
Regulate Your Vitamin D Deficiency, Thyroid Imbalance, And Fight Cancer Cells By Consuming 1 Cup Of THIS
This Turmeric Lemonade Is Better At Treating Depression Than Prozac
This Garlic Syrup Is 10x More Powerful Than Penicillin And Treats Many Diseases Including Cancer
4 Tablespoons a Day And The Cancer is Gone: The Famous Russian Scientist Reveals the Most Powerful Homemade Remedy
Drink Banana and Cinnamon One Hour Before Sleep And See What Will Happen! Incredible
This Is The Most Alkalizing Food You Should Be Eating Every Day
Turmeric Smoothie – So Tasty You Won’t Believe It Has One Of The Most Powerful Antioxidants In The World
3-Ingredient Health “ Shots ” To Reverse Cancer and Burn Stored Fat Fast (take it everyday!)
Just One Glass of This Drink Will Clear Your Body of All Toxins
Save Your Heart, Kidneys, and Brain: Clean Your Arteries With These 3 ingredients
Drink This Lemon Juice & Baking Soda Mixture In The Morning To Reverse Cancer Growth & Infections
A Powerful Cancer-Fighting Treatment The Pharmaceutical Companies Don’t Want You To Know About
This Garlic Syrup Is 10x More Powerful Than Penicillin And Treats Many Diseases Including Cancer
Healthy Food USA – Healthiest Eating in America Tips & Guides
BEAUTY
DIET & WEIGHTLOSS
DRINKS
GENERAL
HEALTH
NATURAL REMEDIES
NEWS
RECIPE
Search for:
Drink This Lemon Juice & Baking Soda Mixture In The Morning To Reverse Cancer Growth & Infections
4 Oct 2018 hfusaLeave a comment
Many researches have shown that Lemon juice and baking soda could be a miraculous combination as it has the potential to kill the cancer cells.
One of the largest drug manufacturers confirmed that lemon destroys carcinogenic cells in 12 types of cancers based on the results from 20 laboratory studies conducted since 1970 they. The findings also revealed that lemon, a powerful citrus fruit, prevents the division of cancerous cells and is 10,000 times stronger than chemotherapy, including drugs like Adriamycin.
Benefits of Lemon and Baking Soda:
Can Cure Cancer:
Recent studies have shown that consuming citrus fruits, specifically lemons have prevented and in some cases cured cancer. And by adding baking soda you will normalize the pH of the body which does not allow the cancer to continue to spread. Since Chemotherapy has horrible side effects the worst being that it destroys healthy cells. Lemon juice and baking soda, on the other hand only kills the cancer cells.
Patients should drink two teaspoons of lemon juice with half a teaspoon of baking soda. Consume the drink before breakfast on an empty stomach for better effect. Please make sure to use organic lemons. Organic lemons are 100 times more effective than a lemon grown with chemical fertilizers and sprayed with chemicals. Lemon has already been proven to have strong anti – carcinogenic properties. In addition to this there are many other useful properties. It also has a strong effect on cysts and tumors.
It Has Strong Antimicrobial Effect
The strong antimicrobial effect of lemons is due to the high content of vitamin C, which has a wide range of activity against bacterial and fungal infections.
Moreover, it can treat internal parasites and worms successfully and regulate blood pressure levels. Plus, it’s a powerful antidepressant, which effectively reduces stress.
Similar Posts
3-Ingredient Health “ Shots ” To Reverse Cancer and Burn Stored Fat Fast (take it everyday!)
4 Oct 2018 hfusa
Regulate Your Vitamin D Deficiency, Thyroid Imbalance, And Fight Cancer Cells By Consuming 1 Cup Of THIS
5 Oct 2018 hfusa
How To Grow An Avocado Tree
8 Oct 2018 hfusa
Post navigation
A Powerful Cancer-Fighting Treatment The Pharmaceutical Companies Don’t Want You To Know About
Save Your Heart, Kidneys, and Brain: Clean Your Arteries With These 3 ingredients
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Search for:
Recent Posts
Tips For Eating Healthy Foods While On A Beach Vacation
Make A Honey-Coconut Oil Wrap And Empty Your Chest Of Mucus And Congestion
This is Why Scientists Urge You to Never Make Your Bed Again
How To Rid Your Body Of Fluoride From All Sourcess
This Shake Is So Powerful, It Removes up to 13 Pounds In a Week
© Copyright 2019 Healthy Food USA - Healthiest Eating in America Tips & Guides. Travel Magazine by Rara Theme. Powered by WordPress.