Olive Oil – Living 2.0
Living 2.0
Living Better
Search for:
Home
Home
Tag: Olive Oil
Doctors are saying gut health is as important as heart heath
December 15, 2018 / Robert / 0 Comments
Increasingly researchers are finding that your intestines not only digest food, but may also regulate mood, emotion, and play a central role in your body’s response to disease.
What you eat feeds every single cell in your body.
Sushrut Jangi, The Boston Globe:
Avoid processed deli meats and red meat while feeding the dense jungle of bacteria in the colon with fibers, fruits, and vegetables. Siegel says unhealthy and sedentary lifestyles rife with fast foods and processed meats are contributing to the rise in colon cancer among young people. A lot of people go to the deli and buy very expensive turkey breast and think they are eating healthy, Siegel says. Shifting away from the standard Western diet to the Mediterranean diet — composed primarily of plant-based foods, olive oil, fish, and mixed nuts — supports both gut health and a healthy heart. Sprinkling food with curcumin — the activated ingredient in turmeric — may dampen inflammation. Routine exercise staves off obesity, which does wonders for the gastrointestinal tract and reduces cancer risk. While particular diets are effective in treating specific gut conditions, consult with a gastroenterologist or nutritionist before pursuing anything radical.
Read More
Anti-inflammatory diet linked to reduced risk of death from heart disease and cancer
September 19, 2018 / Robert / 0 Comments
In the study of 68,273 Swedish men and women aged 45 to 83 years who were followed for 16 years, participants who most closely followed an anti-inflammatory diet had an 18% lower risk of all-cause mortality, a 20% lower risk of cardiovascular mortality, and a 13% lower risk of cancer mortality, when compared with those who followed the diet to a lesser degree. Smokers who followed the diet experienced even greater benefits when compared with smokers who did not follow the diet.
Anti-inflammatory foods consist of fruits and vegetables, tea, coffee, whole grain bread, breakfast cereal, low-fat cheese, olive oil and canola oil, nuts, chocolate, and moderate amounts of red wine and beer. Pro-inflammatory foods include unprocessed and processed red meat, organ meats, chips, and soft-drink beverages.
Read more at ScienceDaily.com
Search for:
Recent Posts
If you are not getting enough sleep, it’s killing you. Literally
How much water should we drink every day?
Canada has been ranked highest for quality of life
Obesity rate among adults
New study states bad diets kill more people than smoking
Recent Comments
Low carb diets are linked to premature death – RAV.IM on Low-carb diets could shorten life by four years
Air pollution causes ‘huge’ reduction in intelligence – RAV.IM on Outdoor air pollution is shortening your life
Archives
April 2019
March 2019
February 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
Categories
Culture
Curiosity & Education
Environment & Nature
General Health
Health & Wellbeing
Humanitarianism
Mental Wellbeing
Nutrition
Physical Activity
Quality of Life
Rest & Relaxation
Whatnot
© 2019 Living 2.0
Theme by Anders Noren — Up ↑