Salt Lamp Savvy – The Geek Girl's Detox
Skip to content
The Geek Girl's Detox
this potion shop sells free self care
Menu
About
Contact Me
Header Image
What Music Is Playing?
Salt Lamp Savvy
March 7, 2018 March 9, 2018 maiaeden
Ever seen one of these before? These cool, glowy rock-looking lamps started popping on my feed all over the place last year. At first I thought they were just an “aesthetic” trend, but once my sister got one of these “Himalayan salt lamps” for Christmas this past year, I noticed that there might be more to these than meets the eye.
image via: https://www.healthline.com/nutrition/himalayan-salt-lamp-benefits#section1
Himalayan salt lamps are more than just pretty room decorations. In fact, their name really says literally what they are: big hunks of Himalayan salt carved into lamps for your bedroom. I didn’t even know they were made of real salt until I…found out…how salty they were (don’t question my methods!!).
My curiosity piqued after discovering the saltiness (again, don’t question my methods…), I did a bit of research on these salty decorations and figured I’d share what I found out with you!
image via: http://www.naturallivingideas.com/himalayan-pink-salt-lamp-benefits/
Himalayan salt lamps are made of – you guessed it – salt. What you might not have guessed are all of the health benefits that come along with it. Salt is antibacterial, anti-inflammatory, removes pathogens and even reduces immune system oversensitivity. It’s also great for easier breathing as it loosens mucus to clear up your sinuses…gross, but hey, whatever works. 😛 Apparently, Himalayan salt is even used in some inhalers for asthma relief!
image via: https://negative-ion-store.myshopify.com/products/himalayan-rock-salt-lamp-natural-air-purifer-negative-ion-producer
One of the biggest benefits these lamps are known for is air purification, and is one of the top reasons that they’re bought in the first place. Salt naturally attracts water vapor in the air, and water vapor will often bring pollutants (think mold and bacteria) along with it. However, when the water vapor makes contact with the heated lamp, the salt traps the pollutants while releasing the water vapor back into the air. As long as the lamp is turned on and stays warm, this cycle will continue.
image via: https://www.theapollobox.com/product/sku1363/himalayan-salt-lamp
Some more benefits of salt lamps:
neutralize electromagnetic radiation that come from TV systems, computers, appliances, etc. (do I sound smart yet?)
boost mood and improve sleep from the calming orange glow
eases asthma and other allergy symptoms
environmentally friendly light source from natural elements and typically use low wattage or are even lit with a candle
image via: http://polza-vred.su/solevye-lampy-polza-i-vred-prirodnogo-svetilnika/
Personally, I just think that these lamps are really pretty and taste really sa– uh, I mean, they’re just great all around. Isn’t it neat to think that a magical-looking lamp is actually really healthy? If you want to pick one up for yourself, here is the top rated (over 10,000 reviews!) Amazon’s choice Himalayan salt lamp at $18.70 (if you want to do a little more shopping around, there are a lot of other lamps at lower prices too!).
Do you own a Himalayan salt lamp? What kind do you have or like the best? Have you noticed any benefits or do you know of some more that I missed? Be sure to let me know by leaving a comment! ❤
Advertisements
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Tagged decorations, fantasy, health, himalayan salt lamp, positivity, recommendations, review, room decor, salt lamp, salt lamp benefits, salt lamp review, stress, tips and tricks, what is a himalayan salt lamp, winter, yoga
Published by maiaeden
21 | USA | Online content creator on YouTube | Student | Geek girl	View all posts by maiaeden
Post navigation
Previous postThis Week’s Music: Rain Mixes
Next postHow To Thrift
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Advertisements
Search for:
https://geekgirlsdetox.files.wordpress.com/2018/02/in-love-with-a-ghost-the-land-of-the-giant-flying-beast3.mp3
Follow The Geek Girl's Detox on WordPress.com
@itsmaiaeden
aaaahh sorry ive been super mia on here! I was super sick last week and then there was easter so I'm just now catching up on everything, work, social media, cleaning, etc lol 😅 in other news im SO HAPPY the weather is finally starting to feel better!! Its giving me major spring cleaning vibes so I'm going to be tearing up my room any day now
My Latest YouTube Video!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4vcrwTOQoUI
Top Posts & Pages
This Week's Music: Kawaii Queen
I’m on Twitter!
My Tweets
Advertisements
Stalk Me
YouTube
Twitter
Pinterest
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Follow
National Suicide Prevention Lifeline
1-800-273-8255
Create a website or blog at WordPress.com
Post to
Cancel
%d bloggers like this: