Natural Immune Support
My Account
Contact Us
Home
About Us
Coupons
Resources
Healthy Recipes
Ingredient Glossary
News & Features
Welness Library
Events Calendar
Natural Immune Support
The immune system does a remarkable job of defending against disease-causing microorganisms, but its wise to do what you can to keep it functioning at its best. General healthy-living strategies like eating a diet rich in color fruits and vegetables, exercising regularly, and managing stress go a long way toward supporting immunity. But a few key supplements can help give your immune system a boost.
While vitamin C may not prevent the common cold, research finds that taking vitamin C regularly may help reduce a colds severity and duration. Several key immune system cells need vitamin C to function properly, and a deficiency of this vitamin may reduce resistance against certain pathogens. Vitamin C is available in foods like citrus, berries, peppers, and broccoli. Its also available as individual supplements and is commonly included in immune-support formulas.
Evidence suggests garlic may be a tasty way to prevent colds. In one study, people took garlic supplements or a placebo for 12 weeks during cold season. Those who took garlic had fewer colds than people who took the placebo. In addition, the people who did catch a cold saw their symptoms go away faster with a garlic supplement. Make fresh garlic part of your regular diet, and look for supplements containing aged garlic extract at your local natural market.
Oregano is another powerful defender of the immune system. Oil of oregano kills disease-causing bacteria and may also help the immune system fight viruses, fungi, and parasites. Look for oregano as part of an immune formula, and pick up the oil form as well; to fight a respiratory infection, add a drop of oregano oil in a bowl of steaming water. Loosely cover your head with a towel and inhale the steam once a day until you feel better.
Used in Traditional Chinese Medicine for thousands of years, astragalus is an adaptogen, which means it protects the body against the effects of physical, mental, and emotional stress. Its often combined with other herbs to strengthen the body's defense against disease. Astragalus has anti-inflammatory and antiviral properties, and studies show that it stimulates the immune system, helping to prevent colds.
© 2017 GeniusCentral Systems, Inc.
Printable Version E-mail a Friend
Back
Top Health
Conditions
To learn more, select a condition from the following menu.
Select ADHD Allergies Anti-Aging Arthritis Asthma Blood Pressure Bone Health Cancer Cholesterol Chronic Pain Cold and Flu Depression Diabetes Digestion Eye Sight Gluten Free Hair, Skin, Nails Healthy Kids Hearing Heart Joint Lung Health Men's Health Menopause Migraine Oral Health Pregnancy Prostate Senior Health Sleep Stress Thyroid Travel Health Weight Weight Management Women's Health
Lentil Burgers
Make a double batch and freeze after cooking. Will keep up to 6 months...
600 E. Third Ave.
New Smyrna Beach, FL 32169
(386) 423-5126
(386) 428-9416
(386) 423-8573 (fax)
Email Our Store
Driving Directions
STORE HOURS
Mon 8:30 AM - 7 PM
Tue 8:30 AM - 7 PM
Wed 8:30 AM - 7 PM
Thu 8:30 AM - 7 PM
Fri 8:30 AM - 7 PM
Sat 8:30 AM - 7 PM
Sun 9:00 AM - 5 PM
Healthy Living Marketplace
Home | About Us | Coupons | Resources | Events Calendar | My Email Subscription | Contact Us | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use
All contents © Copyright 1999-2019 Genius Central and Heath's Natural Foods. All rights reserved. This internet site is hosted by Genius Central, a Web site service provider to natural health stores nationwide. Genius Central and Heath's Natural Foods have no means of independently evaluating the safety or functionality of the products offered by their suppliers and affiliates and thus can neither endorse nor recommend products. Information presented is of a general nature for educational and informational purposes only. Statements about products and health conditions have not been evaluated by the US Food and Drug Administration. Products and information presented herein are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent disease. If you have any concerns about your own health, you should always consult with a physician or other healthcare professional. Your use of this site indicates your agreement to be bound by our Terms and Conditions
Contact Information
Heath's Natural Foods
600 East Third Avenue
New Smyrna Beach, FL 32169
(386) 423-5126
Monthly Newsletter
Enter your e-mail address into the field below to subscribe to our monthly newsletter.
Subscribe
Social Networking
• Facebook
• Instagram
• Twitter
Copyright © 2014 Heath's Natural Foods & GeniusCentral. All rights reserved.
(386) 423-5126
600 E. Third Ave., New Smyrna Beach, FL 32169
Mon-Sat: 8:30-7:00PM, Sun: 10:00-5:00PM