Can Men Get UTIs? Male Cystitis Explained | Angela Kilmartin
Home
Biography
Testimonials
Q&A
Suppliers
Blog
Purchase
Contact
Member Area
Sitemap
In case of difficulty ordering UK literature please contact Angela Kilmartin - angelakilmartin1@gmail.com
Can Men Get UTIs? Male Cystitis Explained
Home
/
blog
/
Can Men Get UTIs? Male Cystitis Explained
Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are very common among women, but the belief that men cannot develop the condition is a total myth. In fact, because many guys are not as aware of cystitis and problems that can occur from it if left untreated, male UTIs can often end with more serious consequences than females’.
To find out more about UTIs in men, read on.
– How do UTIs develop?
UTIs occur when part of a person’s urinary system becomes infected – whether it is the bladder, resulting in cystitis, the urethra, leading to urethritis, or the kidneys, bringing on a kidney infection.
For any of these areas to become infected, bacteria needs to have entered the body and irritated the area before it could be purged.
– Why are women more prone to UTIs?
The reason why UTIs are more common in women, therefore, is because there is more chance of bacteria entering the body. This could be through sexual intercourse or not wiping properly after going to the toilet.
Ladies are also more likely to develop cystitis because their urethra is much shorter than in men. Therefore, it takes less time for bacteria to reach – and infect – the bladder than it would for a man.
As the anus is also much closer to the urethra in females than males, bacteria from this area could contaminate the urinary tract system more easily.
– Other reasons why men can develop UTIs
A reason why men can get a UTI that does not apply to women is if they have an enlarged prostrate, which is the gland between the penis and the bladder. If this is inflamed and bigger than it should be, it could cause an obstruction in the urinary tract, resulting in a build-up of fluid. This could lead to a growth of bacteria, which cannot then be released from the body very easily.
– Signs of an infection to look out for
As UTIs are less common in men, they might not be as aware of what symptoms they should be aware of.
Here are just a few signs that should ring alarm bells and cause you to seek help:
– Pain when passing urine
– Signs of blood, darkness or cloudiness in the urine
– Strong smelling urine
– Pain in the bladder, low down in the abdomen, or in the lower back
– A need to pass water very often, but only being able to urinate a small amount
– A fever
Guys who have some, or all, of these symptoms should immediately read a cystitis self-help book to find out the best natural course of treatment to get rid of their infection.
– What could recurrent infections mean?
While most men who have a UTI will go on to fully recover and may never experience another one in their lifetime, there will be a few who suffer from recurring infections. If you think you have got rid of yours but then start to experience some of the symptoms again, it could be a sign of an underlying problem, such as a permanent obstruction in your urinary tract. This could be due to a tumour that is not reducing in size – and may even be getting bigger.
It is worth getting this checked out to make sure there is not something more sinister to worry about.
February 5, 2019
angela kilmartin
Permalink
Comments are closed
74
0
Tweet this article
Written by angela kilmartin
View all posts by: angela kilmartin
Related Posts
How To Reduce Your Risk Of UTIs This Christmas
What Exactly Is Cystitis Anyway?
Here To Help!
Angela offers help and advice to thousands of people around the world! Through her blog, Q&A sessions & books she is able to get the right help to everyone who needs it! You'll find the answers you need in the Q&A section, blog and books by Angela Kilmartin.
Angela can help with..
Candida, Thrush, Fungal Infections
Cystitis/Water/Bladder/Urinary Infections
Dental Mercury Poisoning
NAVIGATION
Home
Biography
Testimonials
Q&A
Suppliers
Blog
Contact
BOOKS
Available in many languages, Angela’s work has inspired people from around the globe to make a change to their lives. Click Here To View
E-BOOKLETS
Available in English
E-BOOKS
English Chinese Spanish Russian
DVD
English
ADDRESS
3, Iceni House,
Witham,
Essex.
CM8 2FS
United Kingdom
COPYRIGHT 2015 ANGELA KILMARTIN - DESIGNED, PROMOTED & POWERED BY SEARCHQUEST
COPYRIGHT 2015 ANGELA KILMARTIN - DESIGNED, PROMOTED & POWERED BY SEARCHQUEST