How To Make Simple & Spicy Vegan Carrot Fried Rice
Oops! It appears that you have disabled your Javascript. In order for you to see this page as it is meant to appear, we ask that you please re-enable your Javascript!
Cookilicious
Delicious Vegetarian/Vegan Cooking!
Home
Recipes
Meet Priya
Work With Me
My Kitchen Equipment
Media
February 9, 2019 By Priya Leave a Comment
How To Make Simple Carrot Fried Rice
Need a new go-to side dish for busy weeknights or a new rice variety for your burrito bowl? Vegan Spicy Carrot Fried rice is always a great staple to make!
Leftover Specials should be a thing!
I always love a leftover special! I feel, when I have leftovers in the fridge, that excites me more than any shopping trip to the grocery store. Because having leftovers means an opportunity to create something new with it! This time I had some leftover rice from yesterday’s dinner. We had Kootu and rice for dinner the previous day. Now there are many ways to use leftover rice and I try to cook something new with it every time. I was looking for some idea this time, so i called my MIL for some inspiration. I asked her for some rice recipe and she immediately suggested some. Of all the ideas she gave, I liked the idea of making carrot rice. It was new, different and sounded delicious.
Why Carrots are not just good for the eyes!
If you have been raised in an Indian home, you would have heard this line a lot – Carrots are good for the eyes, so you must eat a lot of carrots! This statement is true to some extent. Carrot which is a root vegetable, is really good for your overall health. The best thing is that it tastes great cooked or raw. It is crunchy, tasty and highly nutritious. They are a weight loss friendly food which is good news for all weight-watchers out there and have also been linked to lower cholesterol levels. While carrots come in different colors, the traditional orange colored carrots get their bright color from beta-carotene, an antioxidant that is converted to vitamin A in the body. Its also low in fat and protein.
How to use carrots in your kitchen?
Since carrots are naturally crunchy, full of nutrients, low in calories, and taste sweet, they make a perfect snack. There are many ways in which you can incorporate carrots in your diet. Baby carrots tastes great in smoothies and are ideal for juicing. You can also add them in salads or koshimbir. Mashed carrot puree can be given to infants and toddlers as well since its easy to digest. Vibrant colored carrots can be used in stews, curries, soups, burger patties, desserts, oatmeal, raita and rice dishes. Carrots blend seamlessly into all these fun and delicious recipes. Let me give you one handy tip – Don’t store carrots near apples, which give off a gas that makes the carrots bitter. Keep that in mind. Today I am sharing with you my MIL’s recipe of Carrot Fried Rice which is super easy and simple to make.
Here is the recipe for Carrot Fried Rice
Just follow these steps and you will love the end result. Heat oil in a pan and once its hot, temper mustard seeds and cumin seeds. Once they crackle, add minced garlic and ginger. Fry them for 30-40 seconds or till they turn light golden. Then add chopped green chillies and cilantro. Continue to fry for another minute. Then add chopped onions and saute them till they turn translucent. You can add salt along with onions to speed up the process. Then add chopped orange bell pepper and saute for another minute. Next add grated carrots, turmeric powder, cumin powder, curry powder and salt. Mix it all together and cook it for 2 more minutes or till the carrots are cooked. Lastly add cooked rice and mix it all together. Garnish with cilantro, squeeze lime juice on top and serve warm.
If you do try this recipe, please do share it with your friends on Facebook, Twitter and Pinterest. This will keep me motivated to develop more interesting recipes. Click a pic and post it with the hashtag #cookiliciousveg . I would love to see your pictures on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter!
Print
Vegan Spicy Carrot Fried rice
Need a new go-to side dish for busy weeknights or a new rice variety for your burrito bowl? Vegan Spicy Carrot Fried rice is always a great staple to make!
Course Main Course, rice
Cuisine Asian, Indian
Keyword carrot, fried rice, Indian, spicy
Prep Time 10 minutes
Cook Time 15 minutes
Total Time 25 minutes
Author Priya Lakshminarayan
Ingredients
1 tbsp olive oil
1 tsp mustard seeds
1 tsp cumin seeds
4-5 cloves garlic
2-3 green chillies
1/4 cup chopped cilantro
Half inch ginger
1 onion
1 orange bell pepper
2 grated carrots
1 tsp turmeric powder
1 tsp cumin powder
1/2 tbsp curry powder
2 cups cooked rice
salt as required
cilantro for garnish
lime juice for garnish
Instructions
Heat oil in a pan and once its hot, temper mustard seeds and cumin seeds. Once they crackle, add minced garlic and ginger. Fry them for 30-40 seconds or till they turn light golden. Then add chopped green chillies and cilantro. Continue to fry for another minute. Then add chopped onions and saute them till they turn translucent. You can add salt along with onions to speed up the process. Then add chopped orange bell pepper and saute for another minute. Next add grated carrots, turmeric powder, cumin powder, curry powder and salt. Mix it all together and cook it for 2 more minutes or till the carrots are cooked. Lastly add cooked rice and mix it all together. Garnish with cilantro, squeeze lime juice on top and serve warm.
I use the hashtag #cookiliciousveg on all social media platforms (Instagram, Twitter, Facebook) so you can get access to what's cooking in my kitchen. To stay updated, you can either subscribe to our newsletter (free gift if you do so!) or follow me on my social media Instagram , Facebook and Twitter! There is even a Pinterest board called Cookilicious Recipes from where you can pin the recipes you love.
Need some more ideas to cook with leftover rice, try these recipes then – Vegan Tomato Basil Rice, Burnt Garlic Fried Rice, Mint Pistachio Vegetable Rice, South Indian Lemon Chickpea Rice, Pistachios Dill Turmeric Brown Rice, Roasted Peanut Rice, Lahsuni Palak Rice, Tomato Rice, Cheese Rice Methi Kebab and Tendli Masala Bhaat.
Tweet
Pin175
Share
Yum
Share
175 Shares
Filed Under: Flavors Of Rice Tagged With: carrot, colored rice, dinner, fried rice, how to make, leftovers, orange rice, recipe, rice, vegan, vegetable, vegetarian, weeknight
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
FIND A RECIPE!
Facebook
Google+
Instagram
Pinterest
RSS
Twitter
YouTube
SIGN UP NOW!!
​
Copyright © 2019 · Divine theme by Restored 316
Copyright © 2019 · Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in