33 Home Remedies to Get Rid of Cavities Naturally
AllGes
Home
Health
Dogs
Cats
How To
Contact
AllGes
How to Get Rid of Cavities with Home Remedies
Health
What is Cavity?
In the current era, Cavity and Tooth decay are one of the most common dental issues faced by people around the world. Mostly these issues are seen in teenagers, children, and aged people. However, there is no specific age; one can get cavity at any point of time. Our mouth is usually a busy place with all those bacteria constantly moving on our lips, teeth, gums and tongue. Bacteria are a normal thing, and not all of them are bad, some bacteria are helpful while others can prove to be harmful.
Few bacteria get attached with the hard coating of the teeth which is known as enamel. If not removed they might multiply in numbers and form a colony. Different type of bacteria gets attached on teeth with the growing colony on enamel. The proteins inside our saliva mix with bacteria which forms a whitish film which is known as plaque.
Plaque results into the cavity on teeth. The plaque that has been formed on the teeth does not get washed away quickly by saliva or while brushing and instead produces acid since it eats the sugar. This acid inside plaque is difficult to be washed away by saliva, and it makes the enamel weak as it dissolves the minerals which keep the enamel hard. This leads to tiny holes appearing on the surface of enamel. The acid makes the small holes bigger, and in a few days, it becomes a large hole. This is known as a cavity.
Cavities are mainly caused by tooth decay which affects both the outer layer called enamel and the inner layer called dentin. The cavities usually grow deep with the passage of time. Cavities are also termed as dental caries. It is important to get the cavity repaired in the initial stage to avoid further damage.
Page Contents
1 Causes of Tooth Decay
2 Clove
3 Salt
4 Oil Pulling
5 Homemade Toothpaste
6 Lemon and Asafoetida
7 Garlic
8 Guava Leaves
9 Alum
10 Mustard Oil and Camphor
11 Wheat Grass
12 Mint Leaves
13 Nutmeg
14 Licorice
15 Turmeric Powder with Mustard Oil
16 Indian Lilac to Get Rid of Cavities
17 Neem Toothpaste
18 Alcohol Compress
19 Tea Tree Oil
20 Apple Cider Vinegar
21 Potato
22 Cucumber
23 Cayenne Pepper
24 Salt and Pepper
25 Avocado Seeds
26 Bayberry
27 Black Tea Bag compress
28 Using Activated Charcoal
29 Warm Water
30 Gooseberry
31 Vanilla Essence
32 Myrrh
33 Butter Oil Capsules and Fermented Cod Liver Oil
34 Basil and Mustard Oil Toothpaste
35 Share this:
36 Related
Causes of Tooth Decay
When food items like Milk, fruits, cereals, cake, bread or candy are consumed, they stay on the teeth. There are bacteria present in our mouth which convert them into acid. Further, the food remnants combined with saliva, bacteria and acid forms plaque on teeth. The acid creates a hole in enamel which leads to the cavity.
Who is Prone to Cavities?
It is a common misconception that only children are prone to have cavities, with growing age and changes occurring in the mouth, even adults are prone to get cavities. Old age can also cause cavities as when you start ageing the teeth pulls away from gums. This may also happen because of certain gum disease which exposes the plaque to roots of teeth.
People who have a sweet tooth are more likely to suffer from the cavity issue.
It has been noticed that older people get decay around the fillings which have been done as a part of the dental The fillings get weak with the passage of time might lead the teeth to break. The gap caused by tooth breakage gets filled with bacteria causing decay.
Factors that Lead to Increasing Chances of Cavity
Factors which can enhance the chances of getting cavity are:
Food which gets stuck in teeth for longer duration
Snacking and sipping frequently
Poor dental hygiene routine
Lack of fluoride
Drying of mouth
Worn out fillings
It has been observed that disorders related to eating habits such as bulimia or anorexia can also lead to dental issues because of repeated purging.
Factors Contributing to Tooth Decay and Cavity
There are mainly four factors which result in decaying of the tooth which is as follows:
Lack of minerals in diet such as calcium, magnesium and phosphorous. Deficiency of these minerals is said to cause tooth decay.
Lack of vitamins A, D, E and k which are fat soluble in nature. The deficiency of Vitamin D mainly causes tooth decay.
High consumption level of food items which contain phytic acid.
High consumption of food items which contain processed sugar.
Symptoms of Cavity
The signs or symptoms of the cavity differ from one individual to other as it depends on the type of cavity and the severity of cavity. However, common symptoms of the cavity consist of tooth sensitivity, visible holes on infected tooth, toothache, mild or severe pain while drinking or eating and stain on the teeth in black, white or brown color.
How to Check if You Have a Cavity?
The dentist can help you find a cavity during the usual dental checkup routine. The dentist can determine hole with the aid of X-rays and soft spots on teeth.
You can yourself get to know about it if you have one or more symptoms of the cavity like holes and stains on teeth or a toothache while eating and drinking something which is cold, sweet or hot.
How is the Cavity Treated?
The cavity treatment depends on the severity of cavity. However, mostly the dentist will remove the decayed part of the tooth by drilling followed by filling the hole with silver alloy, porcelain, composite resin or gold as they are safe for dental usage.
What Happens if the Cavity is Left Untreated?
The cavity can prove to be much harmful to dental health. If the cavity is left untreated, it can destroy a huge part of the tooth which will make it difficult to restore with the usual filling procedure.
If a large of teeth is destroyed, dental crown remains the only option.
If the bacterium reaches to pulp chamber, where blood vessels and nerves are located, the chamber will get irritated along with catching the infection. This will cause an abscess which will cause immense pain that can only be fixed by a root canal. A root canal will do the restoration by placing the crown on teeth.
In certain scenarios, the damage is so bad that no filling or crown can come to rescue and the only solution is tooth extraction.
In any case, the dental treatments are expensive, be it a root canal or placement of a crown. The tooth replacement is even more expensive.
If, you do not want to go for treatment to the dentist and seek relief from natural ingredients, here is a list of home remedies which can help in getting rid of cavity and relief from pain. These ingredients are easy and safe to use and have no side effects. Also, they have been found to be effective in treating tooth decay.
Let’s have a look at the home remedies:
Clove
Clove is one of the best ingredients to be used for healing cavity. The clove is loaded with powerful anti-inflammatory and antibacterial characteristics which help in the fighting cavity. Clove not only helps in reducing the severity of a toothache but also prevents it from spreading further.
The clove can be used in two different ways. One can go for the use of clove with sesame oil or consume the clove directly. However, direct consumption of the clove can cause a burning sensation in mouth owing to its strong flavour. Hence the first option is considered as a safer one.
Salt
The salt is known for its antibacterial and antiseptic properties. These features make salt an effective remedy for treating cavities. Salt not only helps in reducing pain but also helps in reducing inflammation which is caused by it. The salt is also known to help in controlling the bacteria which is the cause of cavity.
You can add salt in lukewarm water and swish the solution in mouth for 5 minutes. Alternatively, you can also use salt with mustard oil and lemon juice as both of them have antibacterial properties. Make a paste of these ingredients and gently massage on the gums followed by rinsing with warm water. Both ways, one can get rid of tooth decay and cavity.
Oil Pulling
Oil pulling is one of the common and efficient remedies for getting rid of the cavity. It is one of the oldest methods which have been used for decades to treat it. Also, it is one of the easiest remedies as all you need is oil for the treatment. And hence it can be considered as the best method which has been recommended strongly for fighting cavities. For oil pulling one can use either coconut oil or clove oil as both of them are loaded with strong antiseptic and anti-fungal properties.
The oil pulling should be done early in the morning after waking up or before bedtime at night. The oil pulling can be done either with the help of coconut oil or clove oil. One can swish the oil in the mouth for about 5 minutes, gradually increasing to 20 minutes. Rinse mouth with warm water after swishing.
Homemade Toothpaste
One can make natural toothpaste at home which helps to fight cavity and prevents tooth decay. The toothpaste can be made from natural ingredients such as clove oil, coconut oil, xylitol, baking soda and calcium powder. The clove and coconut are two excellent ingredients which are loaded with antibacterial properties which is one of the primary purposes of the toothpaste.
The coconut and clove oil will help in killing the bacteria and fungus present in the mouth. Xylitol is considered as natural alcohol which again helps in preventing tooth decay and dry mouth. The baking soda is acidic in nature. Its acidic properties will counteract with the acids which are causing tooth decay.
The calcium is considered as one of the essential elements which help in keeping the teeth strong. Hence, the calcium content in paste will assist in making the teeth strong enough to fight bacteria and decay.
The homemade toothpaste can be used just like conventional toothpaste twice a day in morning and evening for brushing the teeth. Using the toothpaste a day will offer better results in fighting decay.
Lemon and Asafoetida
The lemon and asafoetida are known as the most reliable home remedies to fight cavity. Both Lemon and Asafoetida are packed with natural antimicrobial properties which help in fighting tooth decay. Also, both lemon and asafoetida are said to have anti-inflammatory properties which offer great relief in a toothache which is caused by a cavity.
The lemon and asafoetida solution is very to use. One can simply soak a cotton ball in the solution and dab on the affected area. You can also massage the affected tooth with the help of cotton ball, whichever way feels comfortable on the decayed tooth.
Garlic
Garlic is a storehouse of healing properties and has been used in the treatment of health and dental issues. One of the most revered benefits of garlic is that of its antibacterial properties. Garlic can prove to be very helpful in healing and treat cavities. In fact, garlic is known to be beneficial for overall dental health.
The garlic cloves can be crushed finely and placed on the affected tooth for about 5-10 minutes. Further, one can rinse with mouthwash or lukewarm water. The remedy should be at least repeated twice a day for one month to notice faster results.
Guava Leaves
The guava leaves are rich in phosphoric acid, calcium, and manganese. All the three components are known to help in treating the tooth infection and reducing the toothache which has been caused due to the cavity.
You just simply need to chew the guava leaves for 4-5 minutes and spit them out followed by rinsing mouth with lukewarm water. Follow the procedure twice daily for noticeable results. Alternatively, one can also opt for a guava mouthwash. The mouthwash can be made by boiling the guava leaves in water for 5-10 minutes. The preparation can be used just like any other mouthwash at any time of the day after taking meals and snacks to prevent plaque and cavity.
Alum
Alum is packed with antiseptic characteristics which help in treating tooth decay actually along with making the gums strong.
You can use the Alum grain for getting rid of the pain by pressing it with a cotton ball against the infected tooth. It helps in getting instant relief from pain which has been caused by cavities. Alternatively, one can also use alum mouthwash for relieving pain. Mix alum powder in a glass of water and use it as mouthwash 2-3 times a day.
Mustard Oil and Camphor
The mustard oil is one of the frequently used elements in the treatment of many health issues. It is known for its potent antibacterial properties. Camphor is again packed with antibacterial properties and combined they make for a wonderful home remedy which helps in fighting tooth decay and cavity.
The camphor and mustard oil can be used to make a paste which can be further utilised for the treatment. One can place the paste on affected area and leave as it is or gently massages the paste on the teeth. Either way, it would help in getting rid of the cavity.
Wheat Grass
Wheat grass is said to be enriched with the goodness of Vitamin E and A. For maintaining a proper dental health, Vitamin A and E are essential as their deficiency is considered as one of the leading causes of cavity and decaying of the tooth. Wheat grass is also known to be a rich source of magnesium and Iron which help in maintaining the health of teeth. Hence, wheat grass proves to be an excellent remedy for Cavity.
It can be used in two different ways. Either one can directly consume wheat grass juice every morning or make a wheatgrass mouthwash by mixing it in a glass of water. The mouthwash can be swished twice daily for faster results.
Mint Leaves
Using mint leaves for treatment of cavity is one of the best natural remedies. Mint is loaded with antibacterial properties which help in healing the tooth cavity.
Mint leaves can be used as mouthwash for getting rid of the cavity. Just boil few mint leaves in a glass of water, strain and use as mouthwash at least two times a day.
Nutmeg
Nutmeg includes anti-carcinogenic properties that help in preventing cavity and tooth decay.
For the nutmeg remedy, you need oregano oil as well. The Nutmeg simply needs to be mixed with oregano oil to form a paste. Now just place the paste on infected tooth and allow it to rest for 5-10 minutes. Repeat the process three times a day for better and quick results.
Licorice
Studies have shown that Licorice is an effective remedy for both curing cavities and removing plaque. Licorice consists of licoricidin and Lycoris flavan A. Both these ingredients are said to have antibacterial characteristics. These components of licorice directly attack the bacteria which cause cavities.
Licorice can be consumed in two ways. One can either use licorice powder to brush teeth daily or, use tender licorice stick for brushing the teeth. If stick feels uncomfortable, the powder seems to be the best option.
Turmeric Powder with Mustard Oil
Turmeric is packed with antibacterial, anti-fungal and anti-inflammatory properties and has been used as part of many treatments. It also aids in the healing process. Mustard Oil is also known to have antibacterial properties. When combined, both the ingredients help in healing cavities and fighting inflammation. Hence, they make for a great remedy for cavity and tooth decay.
To harvest the goodness of turmeric and mustard oil, one simply needs to make a paste mixing both the ingredients followed by massaging the paste on affected tooth for at least 10 minutes. This is one of the best remedies which can even be used by children suffering from cavity issues.
Indian Lilac to Get Rid of Cavities
Indian Lilac is known to have potent anti-inflammatory and antiseptic properties which make it one of the most efficient remedies for cavities.
One can simply take some lilac leaves and grind them to make a fine paste. The paste can further be applied to the affected area for 5 to 10 minutes followed by rinsing the lukewarm water. Repeating the remedy on a regular basis can help in reversing the cavities.
Neem Toothpaste
Neem is known for its antibacterial properties, and it has been used in the treatment of various ailments. Neem has a positive impact on dental health as well. The antibacterial properties make it a potent remedy for curing cavity and tooth decay.
The Neem toothpaste can be made by mixing Neem powder with salt. The toothpaste can be used twice daily for getting positive results. One can also use tender Neem tree stick for brushing, whichever way feels comfortable on the teeth.
Alcohol Compress
For treatment of cavities, the mouthwash with alcohol content is widely prescribed by dentists as it offers positive results. Hence, it is an excellent idea to use alcohol compress as a home remedy for curing cavities. One can use alcohol compress to get rid of cavity and decay.
The alcohol compress can be made by mixing Gin, Vodka, and Whisky in equal quantities. One just needs to take a cotton ball, soak it in the alcohol mix and just press it on the affected teeth for getting relief. After an initial pain for few second, the compress will offer a soothing effect.
Tea Tree Oil
Tea tree oil can prove to be one of the most efficient remedies for the fighting cavity. Tree tea oil is considered as an antiseptic and antibacterial agent. It is also known to have disinfectant properties which make it a powerful remedy for treating tooth decay. The Tea tree oil remedy is sure to offer positive results in getting rid of the cavity.
One can simply take a cotton ball and soak in the tree tea oil. Place the cotton swab on affected teeth for around 5-10 minutes and repeat the process regularly for fast results.
Apple Cider Vinegar
image credit: rd.com
Apple Cider Vinegar is yet another element which is used widely as a home remedy for the treatment of various health issues including dental health. It makes for an excellent solution for fighting tooth cavity because of its antibacterial and anti-inflammatory characteristics.
The apple cider vinegar is quite easy to use. One can dip a clean cotton cloth or cotton swab in the vinegar and place on the teeth for relief. This can be repeated once daily for positive results.
Potato
The potato which is again an easily available ingredient is known to reduce a toothache and possess anti-inflammatory properties. Potato is believed to extract extra moisture which is a known cause of inflammation in gums surrounding the affected tooth.
One simply needs to cut the potato into thin slices, add salt on it and place on the teeth and gums. This can help in reversing cavities. One can also cut a small piece of potato and gently massage on the teeth for getting relief from pain.
Cucumber
Cucumber is abundantly enriched with antioxidants which significantly help in reducing the toothache which has been caused by cavities.
Just like a potato, the cucumber can also be placed on affected teeth with salt or the slice of cucumber can be massaged gently on the infected tooth for quick results.
Cayenne Pepper
Cayenne pepper consists of a natural analgesic known as capsaicin which helps in getting rid of the cavity. One can make the cayenne pepper paste by mixing the pepper with water and grinding it thoroughly. The solution can be placed on teeth and left for 10 minutes followed by rinsing with warm water.
Alternatively, one can also make a paste of Cayenne Pepper, Apple Cider Vinegar, and Ginger and place the paste on affected tooth for 5-10 minutes followed by rinsing with water.
Salt and Pepper
credit: gizmodo.com
Salt and pepper both are enriched with antibacterial properties which help in fighting tooth decay and cavity. When combined, Salt and pepper make for a wonderful home remedy.
The salt and pepper powder can be mixed with few drops of water to make a fine paste which can be spread on the decayed tooth for getting relief.
Avocado Seeds
The Avocado can offer significant relief in pain which has been caused by a cavity. It is loaded with antioxidant properties which are believed to help in relieving toothache which is caused due to the cavity.
The Avocado seeds need to be crushed finely, and the paste needs to applied for 5-10 minutes on the tooth for getting rid of the cavity.
Bayberry
Bayberry is a tried and tested a home remedy for cavity owing to its astringent properties. It is also enriched with myricitrin, tannins, flavonoids and taraxerol which help in fighting tooth decay and cavity.
The Bayberry can be mixed with vinegar to form a paste which can be applied to the infected tooth for getting rid of a toothache.
Black Tea Bag compress
Black tea is loaded with astringent tannins which help in reducing inflammation and the pain. After soaking the tea bag in a cup of warm water, the tea bag can be placed on infected tooth removing the excess of water.
Using Activated Charcoal
Activated charcoal is yet another effective remedy for fighting tooth decay. Activated charcoal is natural charcoal which has been specially created for medical usage. Activated charcoal is believed to help the body in getting rid of toxins. It has been used extensively for skin cleansing and teeth whitening. Activated charcoal can be used to remove toxins from the mouth which are causing cavity and decay.
Brushing teeth with activated charcoal can not only help in getting whiter teeth but also in destroying plaque, and bacteria colony build up. The activated charcoal is also believed to promote the formation of enamel which helps in getting stronger teeth. Hence,
Warm Water
Though it may seem very simple and basic, hot water can significantly assist in reducing the pain which has been caused by tooth decay and cavity. Lukewarm water should be used for gargling or swishing which offers great relief. One can also add a little salt to warm water for getting better results.
Gooseberry
Gooseberry is considered very effective in fighting cavities. It contains antioxidants and vitamin C which help in relieving pain and fight cavity thereby reducing dental issues significantly.
The gooseberries can be consumed in two ways. One can take the gooseberry powder mixed in a glass of water or can directly consume the gooseberry every day for getting rid of the cavity.
Vanilla Essence
Vanilla essence is yet another alternative home remedy but is said to offer significant relief from a toothache which has been caused due to the cavity. Vanilla extract contains a small quantity of alcohol which works as a natural painkiller. It numbs the affected area of the cavity.
Massaging vanilla essence with a cotton ball on affected area including gums can help significantly in soothing the toothache.
Myrrh
The Myrrh is said to have astringent properties which assist in getting rid of inflammation of gums near the infected teeth. It helps in reducing the toothache and offer much-required relief.
The myrrh can also be used as a mouthwash by boiling myrrh in water for 30 minutes. After cooling and straining the solution, few drops can be added to a cup of water and used as the mouthwash twice a day.
Butter Oil Capsules and Fermented Cod Liver Oil
This remedy is helpful in the treatment of cavity, especially in children. Both the ingredients are packed with vital vitamins which help in getting rid of the cavity.
One can take three capsules of butter oil and one teaspoon of cod liver oil daily after breakfast. Following the treatment for few weeks can offer optimum results.
Basil and Mustard Oil Toothpaste
Basil is considered to be enriched with Vitamin A, C, K, Calcium and Omega 3 fatty acids while mustard oil consists of antibacterial properties. When combined, they both make for an excellent remedy to heal cavities and tooth decay.
One can mix dried basil powder in mustard oil and make a paste. The paste can be used daily once in the morning to cure cavities as well as get rid of bad breath which is caused due to the cavity and tooth decay.
These are some tried, tested and recommended home remedies for treatment and reversing of the cavities and tooth decay.
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
Related
Share FacebookTwitterGoogle+ReddItWhatsAppPinterestEmail
Next Post
Home Remedies for Altitude Sickness
You might also like More from author
Health
How Blazers can Protect you in Winter?
Cats
How To Tell If Your Cat Has Fleas?
Health
10 Countries with best Medical Education & Colleges
Health
What are Vitamin Patches?
Health
Chronic illness Should not Lessen your Chances of Getting a Mortgage for a Home
Health
Why Payroll Accuracy Matters in a Hospital?
Prev	Next
Comments are closed.
Recent Posts
Health Benefits of Playing Football
Why you Should Never Skip Leg Day?
How can Drug Rehabs be Helpful?
What are Inversion Tables?
Muscular Pain: Treating both Problem and Symptom
Newsletter
Subscribe our newsletter to stay updated.
Subscribe
Natural Home Remedies to Get Rid of Pimples Fast At Home
Home Remedies to Stop Dry Heaving
Learn How to Meditate to Heal Yourself Naturally
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
XML Sitemap
Html Sitemap
Contact
© 2019 - AllGes. All Rights Reserved.
Designed by TheFogut.com