Urinary Tract Infections, UTI
About Us
Health Issues
Contact Us
Search
Illnesses Remedies
Home Page
Illnesses & Conditions
Herbal Remedies
Home Remedies & Cures
Vitamins & Supplements
About Us
Health Issues
Contact Us
A – Z of Illnesses & Conditions
Help: To find an Illness or Condition . Select a letter from A - Z of Illnesses & Conditions. Or Scroll lists. Or Use Search.
Urinary Tract Infections (UTI)
BACK
Urinary Tract Infections (UTI) : A urinary tract infection (UTI) is an infection, usually caused by bacteria, in any part of your urinary system such as your kidneys, ureters, bladder and urethra. Most infections involve the lower urinary tract - that is the bladder and the urethra.
Women are at greater risk of developing a UTI than men are. Infection limited to your bladder can be painful and annoying. However serious consequences can occur if a UTI spreads to your kidneys.
UTI in men are far less common than in women and need investigating to find an underlying cause. These causes may include narrowing of the urethra (a stricture), a previous STI, a bladder stone, or a problem with the prostate gland.
Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are very common. They can be painful and uncomfortable, but they usually pass within a few days. If you develop a UTI, you're likely to feel:
pain or a burning sensation when urinating (doctors refer to this as dysuria)
a need to urinate often
pain in the lower abdomen (tummy)
There is usually no obvious reason why the urinary tract gets infected, although some women find they develop a UTI after having sex.
UTIs are not sexually transmitted infections (STIs), but irritation from having sex can sometimes trigger a UTI.
If you find your symptoms very uncomfortable or if they last for more than five days, see your doctor.
FREQUENT URINATION
Herbal Remedies:
Buchu RemediesCorn Silk RemediesCranberry RemediesCrataeva, Varuna RemedyRenal Cleansing Tea RemedyUva Ursi, Bearberry Remedies
Home Remedies:
Sauna RemedyTomato Juice RemediesWatermelon Seed Tea Remedy
Vitamins & Supplements:
No Vitamins & Supplements
Health Issues
03
April
Antioxidants and a lower risk of age-related cataracts (ARC).
A $5.7 billion global medical bill to restore sight for the estimated 45 million people with cataracts could be slashed in half by a diet rich in colourful fruits and vegetables, according to an international study.
VIEW MORE
17
Dec
HFMA lodges formal complaint over ‘irresponsible’ BBC Horizon programme prog
UK-based trade group the Health Food Manufacturers Association (HFMA) has written a formal letter of complaint to the BBC about a controversial BBC2 Horizon programme about the food supplements industry.
VIEW MORE
03
Oct
BPA-Free, but Not Toxic-Free - Stop poisoning ourselves
Consumers are demanding BPA-free products, but the alternatives are no safer. Despite this alarming data, nearly 81% of Americans have detectable levels of BPS in their urine.
VIEW MORE
Weights & Measures
Herbal Terminology
Herbal Preparations
Herbal Research
Privacy Policy
Home
Terms and Conditions
Disclaimer
Copyright
Herbal and Natural Shop
Legal
Health Issues
Devinia Sookia
FAQs
Contact Us
Copyright © 2019 Natural Remedies and Cures. All rights reserved.
DCP : Website Design