Skip the juice, go for whole fruit | Harvard Gazette
success
fail
Jul AUG Oct
26
2013 2014 2015
103 captures
01 Sep 2013 - 15 Apr 2019
About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls. At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer. View the web archive through the Wayback Machine.
Collection: Survey Crawl Number 1 - Started May 17th, 2014 - Ended Dec 10th, 2014
The seed for this crawl was a list of every host in the Wayback Machine
This crawl was run at a level 1 (URLs including their embeds, plus the URLs of all outbound links including their embeds)
The WARC files associated with this crawl are not currently available to the general public.
TIMESTAMPS
Skip to main content
Menu Menu Home
Search for:
harvard.edu
Photographic Services
Resources for Journalists
HPAC
Home
Campus & Community
Awards
Commencement
Faculty
Harvard News
Harvard Traditions
In the Community
News by School
Obituaries
On Campus
Staff & Administration
Staff News
Arts & Culture
Art & Photography
Harvard Bound
History, Language & Culture
Literature & Poetry
Music
Theater, Film & Dance
Science & Health
Culture & Society
Engineering & Technology
Environments & Sustainability
Health & Medicine
Life Sciences
National & World Affairs
Business
Economics
Education
Government & Politics
International
Law
National
Public Service
Religion
Athletics
All Teams
Awards
Games/Events
Harvard Events
Events Calendar
Studies Calendar
Ongoing Events
Gazette Topics
Commencement 2014
Experience
Harvard Houses
Global Harvard: Latin America
Global Harvard: Asia
Subscribe to the
Daily Gazette
harvard.edu
Photographic Services
Resources for Journalists
HPAC
Find Harvard on:
Facebook | Twitter | LinkedIn
Instagram | YouTube | iTunes U
About |
Privacy |
RSS |
Trademark |
Print Gazette Archives
© 2014 The President and Fellows of Harvard College
Skip the juice, go for whole fruit
Email Google Plus LinkedIn Twitter Facebook
Science & Health > Health & Medicine
Skip the juice, go for whole fruit
Eating whole fruits, particularly blueberries, grapes, apples, linked to lower risk of type 2 diabetes
August 29, 2013 | Editor's Pick
Photo by Jeff Kubina
People who ate at least two servings each week of certain whole fruits — particularly blueberries, grapes, and apples — reduced their risk for type 2 diabetes by as much as 23 percent in comparison to those who ate less than one serving per month.
Show more
By Amy Roeder, Harvard School of Public Health Communications
Eating more whole fruits, particularly blueberries, grapes, and apples, was significantly associated with a lower risk of type 2 diabetes, according to a new study led by Harvard School of Public Health (HSPH) researchers. Greater consumption of fruit juices was associated with a higher risk of type 2 diabetes. The study is the first to look at the effects of individual fruits on diabetes risk.
“While fruits are recommended as a measure for diabetes prevention, previous studies have found mixed results for total fruit consumption. Our findings provide novel evidence suggesting that certain fruits may be especially beneficial for lowering diabetes risk,” said senior author Qi Sun, assistant professor in the Department of Nutrition at HSPH and assistant professor of medicine at the Channing Division of Network Medicine, Brigham and Women’s Hospital.
The study appears online Aug. 29 in BMJ (British Medical Journal).
The researchers examined data gathered between 1984 and 2008 from 187,382 participants in three long-running studies (Nurses’ Health Study, Nurses’ Health Study II, and Health Professionals Follow-Up Study). Participants who reported a diagnosis of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, or cancer at enrollment were excluded. Results showed that 12,198 participants (6.5 percent) developed diabetes during the study period.
The researchers looked at overall fruit consumption, as well as consumption of individual fruits: grapes or raisins; peaches, plums, or apricots; prunes; bananas; cantaloupe; apples or pears; oranges; grapefruit; strawberries; and blueberries. They also looked at consumption of apple, orange, grapefruit, and “other” fruit juices.
People who ate at least two servings each week of certain whole fruits — particularly blueberries, grapes, and apples — reduced their risk for type 2 diabetes by as much as 23 percent in comparison to those who ate less than one serving per month. Conversely, those who consumed one or more servings of fruit juice each day increased their risk of developing type 2 diabetes by as much as 21 percent. The researchers found that swapping three servings of juice per week for whole fruits would result in a 7 percent reduction in diabetes risk.
The fruits’ glycemic index (a measure of how rapidly carbohydrates in a food boost blood sugar) did not prove to be a significant factor in determining a fruit’s association with type 2 diabetes risk. However, the high glycemic index of fruit juice — which passes through the digestive system more rapidly than fiber-rich fruit — may explain the positive link between juice consumption and increased diabetes risk.
The researchers theorize that the beneficial effects of certain individual fruits could be the result of a particular component. Previous studies have linked anthocyanins found in berries and grapes to lowered heart attack risk, for example. But more research is necessary to determine which components in the more beneficial fruits influence diabetes risk.
“Our data further endorse current recommendations on increasing whole fruits, but not fruit juice, as a measure for diabetes prevention,” said lead author Isao Muraki, research fellow in the Department of Nutrition at HSPH. “And our novel findings may help refine this recommendation to facilitate diabetes prevention.”
Other HSPH authors are JoAnn Manson, professor in the Department of Epidemiology; Frank Hu, professor of nutrition and epidemiology; Walter Willett, Fredrick John Stare Professor of Epidemiology and chair of the Nutrition Department; and Rob van Dam, adjunct associate professor of nutrition and epidemiology.
Support for the study came from research grants from the National Institutes of Health. Sun was supported by a career development award from the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute.
View all posts in Campus & Community
Next:
How the garden grows
By Crystal Chandler, Harvard Correspondent | August 30, 2013
>
Photo by Jeff Kubina
People who ate at least two servings each week of certain whole fruits — particularly blueberries, grapes, and apples — reduced their risk for type 2 diabetes by as much as 23 percent in comparison to those who ate less than one serving per month.
Email Google Plus LinkedIn Twitter Facebook
Popular
View all posts in Science & Health
Are failing bees our warning sign?
By Alvin Powell, Harvard Staff Writer | August 19, 2014 | Editor's Pick Popular
Harvard School of Public Health Associate Professor of Environmental Exposure Biology Chengsheng (Alex) Lu outlines the danger posed to our food supply — and possibly to us — by the collapse of honeybee colonies.
View all posts in Science & Health
The 1,000-robot swarm
By Caroline Perry, SEAS Communications | August 14, 2014 | Editor's Pick Audio/Video Popular
Harvard researchers create a swarm of 1,000 tiny robots that, upon command, can autonomously combine to form requested shapes — a significant advance in artificial intelligence.
View all posts in Campus & Community
Engage, enjoy, get centered
By Colin Manning, Harvard Correspondent | August 22, 2014 | Editor's Pick Popular
As freshmen move into dorms in and around the Yard, fellow students, faculty, and administrators offer tips on how best to adjust to the Harvard experience, from maintaining basic wellness to exploring the vast resources Harvard has to offer.
View all posts in Campus & Community
Settling in
By Colin Manning, Harvard Correspondent | August 25, 2014 | Editor's Pick Photography Popular
The members of Harvard’s Class of 2018 arrive and move into their dorms, where they are welcomed by University leaders.
View all posts in Science & Health
Fighting unfairness
By Peter Reuell, Harvard Staff Writer | August 18, 2014 | Editor's Pick Popular
A new study by Harvard scientists suggests that, from a young age, children are biased in favor of their own social groups when they intervene in what they believe are unfair situations. But as they get older, they can learn to become more impartial.
View all posts in National & World Affairs
The fumbles in Ferguson
By Christina Pazzanese, Harvard Staff Writer | August 21, 2014 | Editor's Pick Popular
Crisis management expert Herman “Dutch” Leonard talks about how the confrontation in Ferguson, Mo., was mishandled.
Related
View all posts in Science & Health
Healthy menus for people and planet
By Alvin Powell, Harvard Staff Writer | June 13, 2013 | Editor's Pick
Harvard nutrition experts and leaders of the food industry met this week at the Charles Hotel in Cambridge to discuss recommendations for changing menus of everything from restaurants to cafeterias to prepared foods in an effort to improve the American diet and lessen the environmental impact of the foods we eat.
View all posts in Science & Health
Weight and mortality
By Jake Miller, Harvard Medical School Communications | February 23, 2013 | Editor's Pick
In January, when the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) published a meta-analysis of 100 studies that probed the relationship between body mass index and mortality — studies that found slightly overweight people have lower all-cause mortality than normal weight and underweight people — media around the globe trumpeted the news.
View all posts in Science & Health
Kids are what they eat
By Jessica Cerretani, Harvard Medical School Communications | September 26, 2012 | Editor's Pick
Sugary cereals, oversized soft drinks, and quarter-pound cheeseburgers are among the unhealthy food choices kids face daily. Junk food, most of it highly processed, and sugar-sweetened beverages are major contributors to the childhood obesity epidemic.
View all posts in Science & Health
Obesity? Diabetes? We’ve been set up
By Alvin Powell, Harvard Staff Writer | March 7, 2012 | Editor's Pick
The twin epidemics of obesity and its cousin, diabetes, have been the target of numerous studies at Harvard and its affiliated hospitals and institutions. Harvard researchers have produced a dizzying array of findings on the often related problems.
Upcoming Events
Bridget Everett Returns to OBERON!
August 27, 2014
2 Arrow Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Contempt
August 29, 2014
Harvard Film Archive
The Late Joan Crawford (All-Night Movie Marathon)
August 31, 2014
Harvard Film Archive
Liliom
August 31, 2014
Harvard Film Archive
John Coltrane: A Love Supreme
September 3, 2014
Thompson Room, Barker Center, 12 Quincy Street, Cambridge MA
John Coltrane: A Love Supreme
September 3, 2014
Thompson Room, Barker Center, 12 Quincy Street, Cambridge MA
More »