Testing for Inherited Gene Mutations in Prostate Cancer Equally Important
Cancer Updates,
Research & Education
News
Videos
CURE Connections
CURE Expert Connections
CURE TV
Cancer Type
Breast Cancer
Lung Cancer
Melanoma
Prostate Cancer
Gastrointestinal Cancer
More >>
Voices
Cancer Guide
Email Sign Up
Customize
Log In
Sign Up
Cancer Types
Anal Cancer
Bladder Cancer
Brain Cancer
Breast Cancer
Cancer of Unknown Primary
Carcinoid Cancer
Caregiving
Cervical Cancer
Childhood Cancers
CLL
Colorectal Cancer
Diet and Exercise
Esophageal Cancer
Financial Issues
Gallbladder Cancer
Gastric Cancer
Gastrointestinal stromal tumor
General Financial Topics
General Psychosocial Aspect Topics
Head & Neck Cancer
Immunotherapy
Kidney Cancer
Leukemia
Liver Cancer
Lung Cancer
Lymphoma Cancer
Mantle Cell Lymphoma
MDS
Mesothelioma
Metastatic Breast Cancer
MPN
Myeloma
Neuroendocrine Cancer
Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
Ovarian Cancer
Pancreatic Cancer
Prostate Cancer
Psychosocial Issues
Sarcoma
Sexual Health
Side Effect Management
Skin Cancer
Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma (SLL)
Survivorship
Testicular Cancer
Thyroid Cancer
Uterine Cancer
Vulvar Cancer
Quick Links
Cure Connections®
Advocacy & Research
Magazines
Magazine Subscription
Share Your Story
Newsletter Sign Up
Event Coverage
Art Gallery
Podcasts
Forum
Award Programs
MM Heroes
GBM Heroes
MPN Heroes
Extraordinary Healer
Ovarian Cancer Heroes
Bone Health Champions
CLL Heroes
About Us
Careers
Contact Us
Newsroom
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Cure Media Group, LLC.
2 Clarke Drive
Suite 100
Cranbury, NJ 08512
P: 800-210-2873
Copyright © 2018
CURE Media Group.
All rights reserved.
Cure Media Group, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
CURE does not provide medical, diagnostic, or treatment advice.
Currently Viewing
Testing for Inherited Gene Mutations in Prostate Cancer Equally Important
February 09, 2018 – Kristie L. Kahl
Survey Reveals Impairment in Sexual Function Among Germ-Cell Tumor Survivors
February 09, 2018 – Kristie L. Kahl
How to Manage Hormone Therapy-Related Hot Flashes
February 08, 2018 – Kristie L. Kahl
Current Drug Evaluation System 'Holds Drugs Hostage' from Patients Who May Benefit
February 08, 2018 – Brielle Urciuoli
The History Behind the Development of CAR-T Cell Therapy
February 08, 2018 – James H. Essell, M.D.
FDA Approves Zytiga for High-Risk Prostate Cancer
February 08, 2018 – Silas Inman
Visible Melanoma Lesions Affect Patients' Physical, Emotional Quality of Life
February 07, 2018 – Kristie L. Kahl
Viruses May Be the Future of Boosting Immunotherapy in Brain Cancer
February 07, 2018 – Kristie L. Kahl
LivingWith App Helps Patients Navigate 'New Normal' After Cancer Diagnosis
February 07, 2018 – Kristie L. Kahl
With Unexpected Help From Kate Middleton, Organization Provides Free Wigs to Children
February 06, 2018 – Katie Kosko
Share
Tweet
Share
Print
Testing for Inherited Gene Mutations in Prostate Cancer Equally Important
More than 12 percent of men with prostate cancer tested positive for hereditary mutations of cancer-causing genes, according to study results presented at the 2018 Genitourinary Cancers Symposium.
BY Kristie L. Kahl
PUBLISHED February 09, 2018
More than 12 percent of men with prostate cancer tested positive for hereditary mutations of cancer-causing genes, according to study results presented at the 2018 Genitourinary Cancers Symposium.
In turn, these findings support the need for genetic testing in men with prostate cancer, which ultimately may aid in medical management and decision making that could reduce overall cancer risk.
“There is a high prevalence of pathogenic variants in genes that confer hereditary cancer risk among men with metastatic prostate cancer,” the researchers wrote. “Currently, prostate cancer is not regarded as an indication for genetic testing.”
Therefore, researchers from Virginia Cancer Specialists and Myriad Genetic Laboratories tested men with a personal history of prostate cancer using the myRisk® Hereditary Cancer test, a multi-gene hereditary cancer panel.
Over a four-year period, 1,240 men with a personal history of prostate cancer were tested with the hereditary cancer panel, including 794 men who had a history of only prostate cancer and 446 men who had a history of prostate cancer and at least one additional cancer. The most common additional cancer was colon (33.6 percent) and breast cancer (31.8 percent).
Overall, 12.1 percent of the 1,162 men included in the analysis were found to have carried one or more pathogenic variant, which was significantly higher among men with a personal history of cancer and another cancer (14.7 percent) compared with men who only had prostate cancer before (10.6 percent).
In particular, the prevalence of the BRCA2 mutation appeared to be higher in men with only prostate cancer, and mismatch repair mutations were higher in men with additional cancer history, of which most had cancers associated with Lynch syndrome.
“As one of the largest studies of hereditary cancer risk assessment ever conducted in prostate cancer, our myRisk Hereditary Cancer test demonstrated that roughly the same percentage of men with prostate cancer carry hereditary cancer-causing mutations as do women with breast cancer,” Johnathan Lancaster, M.D., Ph.D., chief medical officer of Myriad Genetics, said in a press release. “These compelling findings provide a strong reason for expanding the use of genetic testing in men diagnosed with prostate cancer consistent with existing professional medical guidelines.”
In addition, these results may have clinical implications on how men are treated moving forward, as well as for family members of these patients.
“We believe hereditary cancer testing can help inform treatment decisions for these men, including whether to pursue active surveillance, increased screening for secondary cancers and potentially for treatment selection with PARP inhibitors or other medicines in the future,” said Lancaster. “Additionally, once men know they carry an inherited mutation, they can encourage their family members to get tested to learn if they’re at increased risk for cancer and potentially help them prevent future cancers.”
Be the first to discuss this article on CURE's forum. >>
Talk about this article with other patients, caregivers, and advocates in the Prostate Cancer CURE discussion group.
Related Articles
1
/articles/testing-for-inherited-gene-mutations-in-prostate-cancer-equally-important
×
Sign In
Email Address Password Forgot Password?
Not a member? Sign up now!
×
Sign Up
Email Address First Name Last Name Password Re-type Password
Are you a member? Please Log In