Exercise to lower cholesterol
home
lower cholesterol naturally
the plan
the plan
lower cholesterol
cholesterol lowering lunch
cholesterol Lowering dinner
7 days
cholesterol lowering diet day 1
cholesterol lowering diet day 2
cholesterol lowering diet day 3
cholesterol lowering diet day 4
cholesterol lowering diet day 5
cholesterol lowering diet day 6
cholesterol lowering diet day 7
cholesterol +
Exercise
levels of cholesterol
raise HDL
Reading
relaxation
results
sleep
triglycerides
cholesterol news
improve
aging strategies
bladder control
bone density
help your teen lose weight
improve kidney disease
moving while dieting
pain relief
things to avoid
thyroid
Food
apples
Asian Pear
avocados
avocados for lower cholesterol
plant an avocado tree
beverages
eating out
fish
holiday giving
holidays
overeating
peanut butter
vegetables
recipes
breakfast recipes
breakfast recipes
healthy beverage recipes
healthy pancakes
recipes for lower cholesterol
sprouted grain wafflettes
breads snacks desserts
avocado cookies
bread snacks desserts
pineapple bread
cheating on diet
main dishes & sandwiches
main dishes
avocado fish salad
gingered-carrots
guacamole sandwich
smoothie recipes
smoothie recipes
Add vegetables
cheery cherry smoothie
mothers day smoothie
old fashioned smoothie
pineapple berry smoothie
pineapple cream smoothie
semitropical smoothie
valentine day smoothie
smoothies for lower cholesterol
snacks for lower cholesterol
watermelon
what's for dinner
Learn about
antioxidants
benefits of nuts
bread
chia seeds benefits
flaxseed
gelatin
hospital
gardening
maple syrup
oatmeal for lower cholesterol
pears
Pizzazz
pecans for cholesterol
sweeteners
what's new
Me
my story
my country
hobbies
Intermittent fasting
Pokemon Grandma exercise
Pokestops
Vacations
exercise to lower cholesterol
Don't be afraid to go to the park or a playground. If there are no children around, you can swing or slide. It is a lot of fun even if you are older. It is more fun if you have a friend with you. I suppose there are places with playgrounds for older people, but I don't know where. I only know that all of us need to exercise and that it can be fun.
You are never to young to exercise, or too old
exercise helps more than cholesterol
it:
Gives you energy - give this the test - after a few days of regular exercise
helps prevent falls - fit bodies are safer
might prevent diseases such as cancer, arthritis and heart disease
improve muscle tone
take much needed oxygen to various organs of your body
Make you feel good - happy, cheerful
Well, I have to say it, exercise can help lower cholesterol
Exercise can be the hard part of a healthy lifestyle. It takes time away from a busy schedule. You need to exercise every day if you want to lower you cholesterol very much. If you have back pain, there are machines that will not hurt your back. A recumbent cycle is excellent for those of us who can't walk the treadmill without pain.
Exercise is important. I feel good when I do it, but can get so busy with everything else that I forget about it. Now I have an exercise diary. Every evening before I sleep, I check off the amount and type of exercise I did that day. The diary is right by my bed. It is like writing down what you eat. If you are recording something, you see it in black and white, and you try to do better.
go to the local gym
Gym membership is not as expensive as it once was. Most gyms have various plans to choose from. Family plans can be economical. If you are a senior you can most likely get a discount. If you like to workout at home, you can choose from inexpensive equipment at most discount stores. I have a recumbent exercise bicycle from Wal-Mart which was fairly inexpensive.
exercise to lower cholesterol
Exercise doesn't have to take much time
Try to stretch before hopping out of bed. It gets your blood flowing. Your body will thank you.
Take time to lift weights daily. Do not lift anything too heavy. Even five pounds is good for us older folks. I do my back exercises during the day if I get lower back pain, and sometimes even if I have no pain.
Even though I miss some days of exercise, I have still lowered my cholesterol and lost weight. I am trying to do better with the exercise though, because my body needs it as I travel through the unknown territory of oldness. If only Grandma had warned me—but that is another story. She certainly never mentioned exercise to lower cholesterol. Well, she was still driving when she was in her late eighties. She loved to walk on the beach She was an avid canasta player into her nineties. Her mind was sound.
Grandma was a bit chubby and probably had high cholesterol. Maybe not. She never had it tested. She didn't eat genetically modified food. She made her own bread and had a large garden of vegetables and berries. We can learn so much from those who came before us.
Exercises you can do daily
even if you have a busy life
When you wake up, stretch before you get up to get your blood moving.
Lie on the floor for a few minutes and do leg lifts.
Get some small weights to lift to keep those arms firm.
If you have access to a pool, go often. Fill 2 liter bottles to use as weights in the pool. Swimming is excellent for the entire body.
When you go to the store, park farther away from the store so that you can get a little walk time.
Television is hard on exercise time. Put your treadmill or recumbent bicycle in front of the television so that when you watch tv you can also exercise. It is easier to exercise if you are watching your favorite show. Start out exercising a short time and gradually lengthen that time. Don't overdo it.
Sweep the floor
Work in the garden - mow or pull weeds - get your vitamin D while you exercise
Learn to relax, breathe and have fun while you exercise.
Diet is crucial
The diet plan I am on is the biggest factor in lowering cholesterol but exercise is also necessary. I am doing my diet alone. One of my grandsons will drink a smoothie. He doesn’t know it might have kale or spinach in it. Laugh laugh laugh. My husband will occasionally eat an avocado sandwich, but he has mayonnaise on it and no veggies. Well, one can only try.
Go to my home page to begin learning how I lowered my cholesterol and how you can do it too.
Exercise with pokemon
Download Pokemon Go and exercise with pokemon.
Click on the
pictures to
visit the page.
You will soon be
walking to
all of your favorite
Pokestops.
pokestops
Judith says
"Exercise is a very important part of any cholesterol lowering plan"
"Exercise helps to reach and maintain healthy cholesterol levels."
by Judith Blacklock Robbins
buy my family recipe cookbook. Just click the link below.
Over 300 recipes
Price recently lowered to $5.00
by Judith Blacklock Robbins
Get "My Ten Favorite Smoothies" ebooklet at the reduced price of $1.00
warm boot cuffs
Need a baby shower gift? Need a gift for a new graduate? visit YarnCraft Boutique. Click picture to go to the boutique
Copyright © 2014 - 2016 eathealthylowercholesterol.com. All rights reserved
Home - about me Contact me cholesterol blog cholesterol news my story
eathealtlhylowercholesterol.com does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.