My addiction to marijuana and fight to become sober | Babajack
Babajack
Home
About Me
Marijuana Withdrawal
Blog
Disclaimer
Contact Me
Marijuana Withdrawal
You are here: Babajack > Marijuana Withdrawal
We’re going to take a bit of a break this time around. You see, I figured I’d throw in some factual information here. I don’t want people to think I’m just some guy who got in trouble with weed. I’ve learned quite a bit in the last few years, and I thought I should share it with you.
Of course, people can still become addicted to marijuana, and it just happens less often than it does with other drugs. Somehow I managed to be in that small percentage that needed to detox from marijuana. Yeah, I used it that much.
See, addiction changes the brain, it makes it think you can’t function unless there is THC in your system. I didn’t even realize I was that far gone because I was at the point I was never not high.
So that means when I went to prison I had myself a little bit of a detox. Let me tell you guys, it wasn’t pleasant.
They don’t have weed in prison, and I learned that quick enough. Without weed I went through a detox which meant all traces of weed left my system. That wasn’t a good thing. Without my regular bud, I was going through withdrawal.
Withdrawal is that very uncomfortable process your body goes through once you stop using a drug you grew dependent on. Yeah, I was dependent on marijuana. Like I said I was smoking a lot!
Just in case you were curious, some studies prove marijuana addiction and withdrawal is a real thing. So don’t go trying to say I’m all pathetic in the comments or something because I’m not.
The younger you start smoking marijuana the more likely you are to get addicted. I started when I was fifteen, so that was a good while to get me addicted.
Some of those yucky symptoms of marijuana withdrawal are:
– Headaches
– Chills
– Irritability
– Anxiety
– Depression
– Shakiness
– Fever
– Low appetite or losing weight
– Extreme sweating
– Restlessness
– Stomach pain
– Difficulty sleeping
– Tiredness during the day
I got to feel all of these in a cell alone trying to get used to freaking prison. Yeah. It was not a good week for me. Luckily marijuana withdrawal symptoms don’t tend to last very long. So after a while, I was back to my old chipper self. But like, from five years ago. It had been so long since I’d had any time away from weed I didn’t even know my own personality anymore.
But that’s a story for another blog.
So I’ll leave you here, totally engrossed in my tale of weed and woe. Ha, not bad, maybe I should be a writer or something once I’m done with all this? Come back next week for more!
Contact at
1257 Jones Avenue, Greensboro, NC
+1 336-912-9911
info@babajack.com
Recent Posts
That Time I Got Caught
What Friendship Really Means
Saying Goodbye
Prison Without Weed
Coca-Cola Zero Sugar
Quick Links
Blog
About Me
Disclaimer
Contact Me
Copyright © 2019 Babajack. Powered by WordPress. Theme: Ample by ThemeGrill.
Blog
About Me
Disclaimer
Contact Me