The Hidden Danger To Your Health: What You Don't Know About Mobile Radiation May Be Harming Your Family • Barb Davies
Facebook
Instagram
LinkedIn
Pinterest
Twitter
YouTube
1.800.647.1982
Barb Davies
Change Your Mind, Change Your Life
Menu
Home
About
Work With Barb
Blog
Resources
Barb Recommends
Attraction Marketing: Training & Tools
3 Minute Expert Blogging Bundle
Books
How To Brand Yourself e-book (FREE)
Discover your Destiny, Live Your Dreams, Love Your Life
Chocolate and Diamonds for the Woman’s Soul
Empowered Women of Social Media
Testimonials
Shop
Contact
Home > Health & Wellness > The Hidden Danger To Your Health: What You Don’t Know About Mobile Radiation May Be Harming Your Family
The Hidden Danger To Your Health: What You Don’t Know About Mobile Radiation May Be Harming Your Family
February 22, 2017 By Barb Davies 2 Comments
I first heard about this hidden danger to our health in 2011. Except for taking basic precautions, I didn't know how to protect myself and my loved ones until recently. I've learned a lot more about this issue lately, and I feel compelled to share. The truth is, what you don't know about mobile radiation may be harming your family.
What is mobile radiation?
It's also referred to as electromagnetic radiation, EMF (electromagnetic field) exposure, or electrosmog, which are invisible fields emitted from electronic devices and appliances. Mobile phones are ubiquitous, yet anything that uses a power adapter (electricity) or a battery is also a source.
What are the greatest sources of exposure and/or concern?
Devices which use wireless technology (WiFi) or magnetic fields, such as cell phones, tablets, and laptop computers are of primary concern. Other sources include desktop computers, baby monitors, “Smart meters”, power lines, cordless phones, bluetooth devices, cell towers, televisions, microwave ovens, and radios.
What are some of the symptoms associated with mobile radiation?
Headaches
Sleep disturbances
Fatigue
Joint and muscle pain
Dizziness and balance problems
Heart palpitations
Mood issues, such as depression and anxiety
Blood pressure fluctuations
Cognitive issues with concentration, memory, and learning (sometimes referred to as “digital dementia”)
Behavioral problems in children, such as hyperactivity
Skin issues (rashes, itching, a prickly sensation)
Eye problems (blurred vision, irritation, eye pain, pressure)
Tinnitus (hearing a ringing or buzzing sound in the ears)
Digestive issues and stomach pains
And many, many more
Who is at risk?
Nearly everyone is affected. Wireless devices and electronics are everywhere, unless you live off the grid. Children, unborn fetuses, the elderly, and those with a weakened immune system are most susceptible.
Children have smaller heads, and mobile radiation affects them to a much greater extent. This photo depicts the radiation measured in an adult male compared to a 3-year-old after a 6 minute cell phone call. Peak radiation is shown in red and yellow.
“The average RF [radiofrequency] radiation energy deposition for children exposed to mobile phone RF is two times higher in the brain and 10 times higher in the bone marrow of the skull compared with mobile phone use by adults.” – International Agency for the Research on Cancer Monograph on Radio Frequency Fields as a Class 2 B Carcinogen
Occasional exposure is not thought to be harmful. Scientists are more interested in the effects of cumulative exposure. In one study, rats exposed daily prenatally to radiation exhibited significant behavioral issues with memory, hyperactivity and anxiety. Other studies with small animals have measured effects such as cellular damage affecting gut health and the immune system, liver damage, brain damage, and DNA damage to sperm.
Links to several diseases, including autism and cancer, are also being studied. Numerous women who regularly carried their cell phones in their bras have developed breast cancer tumors at the exact location the cell phone antenna contacted their bodies.
But don't take my word for it. Watch this video clip of a presentation by Dr. Devra Davis, PhD, MPH, and internationally renowned scientist; and review the list of resources at the bottom of this post to learn more.
How can you reduce your exposure?
The World Health Organization's IARC (International Agency For Research On Cancer) has classified electromagnetic radiation as a Class 2B Carcinogen (“possibly carcinogenic to humans”) and further studies are underway. In the meantime, do you and your loved ones want to be used as a human science experiment? I didn't think so.
Many mothers have reached out to me recently to tell me how guilty they feel for exposing their children to this insidious danger. This is what I have to say to them: It's not your fault. You didn't know. But now that you do know, what will you do about it?
Here are some recommendations from the experts:
Reduce your use of wireless devices and WiFi. Use devices with cords whenever possible.
Turn off WiFi in your home when everyone is sleeping.
Do not sleep with your cell phone, cordless phone or other electronic devices nearby. If you use your cell phone's alarm clock feature, put the cell phone in airplane mode and turn off WiFi while you sleep.
Never store your cell phone on your body. Men often carry their phones on their hip or in their pocket, and women sometimes carry them in their bra. Store and hold your devices away from your reproductive organs and abdomen, especially if you are pregnant or trying to conceive.
Text, use the speakerphone feature or air tube headsets when using mobile phones, rather than holding the phone to your ear, as the device is held farther away from your body.
Do not hold tablets or laptop computers in your lap. Use them while sitting at a table or desk. This is especially important for pregnant women and children.
Minimize children's exposure to electronics and wireless devices, especially cell phones.
Opt out of using “Smart meters” if possible. If this is not possible, do not place beds or any furniture that is occupied often against the wall where the Smart meter has been installed.
Eat a diet rich in antioxidants and foods that promote gut health and a healthy immune system.
Reduce stress.
Additional resources to help protect your family are listed below.
Did you find this post about reducing your exposure to mobile radiation helpful? If you know someone who could benefit from learning about this issue, please share this with them.
To Your Health,
Barb Davies
Health & Wellness Advocate
Resources For More Information:
Environmental Health Trust
Environmental Health Trust – Top 20 Facts On 5G: What You Need To Know About 5G Wireless And “Small” Cells
The Truth About Mobile Phones and Wireless Radiation – Presented at The University of Melbourne by Dr. Devra Davis (YouTube – Length 1:01:29)
The BabySafe Project
EMF Scientist Appeal
World Health Organization (WHO): Electromagnetic Fields
IARC Classifies Radiofrequency Electromagnetic Fields As Possibly Carcinogenic To Humans
IARC: Non-Ionizing Radiation, Part 2: Electromagnetic Fields
Children's Health Expert Panel: Cell Phones & Wifi – Are Children, Fetuses and Fertility At Risk?
BioInitiative 2012: A Rationale For Biologically-Based Exposure Standards For Low-Intensity Electromagnetic Radiation
EMF Safety Network: Smart Meter Complaints
Why You Should Avoid Over Exposure to Cell Phones and WiFi – Dr. Mercola
EMF Exposure: Worse Than Cigarettes? The Silent Enemy Harming Your Health Today – Dr. Mercola
New Urgent Warning To All Cell Phone Users – Dr. Mercola
Protect Your Family From EMF Pollution website
Comments
Filed Under: Health & Wellness Tagged With: Biozen, cell phone radiation, cell phone radiation protection, cell phone radiation shield, cell phone safety, electromagnetic radiation, electrosmog, EMF, EMF exposure, EMF protection, EMF protection devices, EMF radiation, EMF shielding, mobile phone radiation, mobile radiation, radiation, wireless radiation, World Global Network
Previous Post
Are You Open For Business?
Next Post
How To Attract Business By Using Facebook Groups
Comments
Slow•o•lution says
February 26, 2017 at 10:47 am
Very interesting……especially since I have kids that are 3 and 5 years old! I was aware of the issue, but never really informed myself into detail!
Reply
Barb Davies says
February 26, 2017 at 11:23 am
Thank you! I’m glad you found it informative.
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Currently you have JavaScript disabled. In order to post comments, please make sure JavaScript and Cookies are enabled, and reload the page. Click here for instructions on how to enable JavaScript in your browser.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Affiliate Disclosure
Antispam
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Like Me on Facebook!
Let’s Connect on Instagram!
Load More...Follow on Instagram
Follow me on Twitter
My Tweets
Let’s Connect on Pinterest!
Follow me on Pinterest
CREATE AN E-BOOK
FREE DOWNLOAD: Step-by-step PDF + Video to Create Your 1st E-Book Even if You're Brand New (free tools included)
FREE INSTANT ACCESS
Copyright Barb Davies © 2019 WordPress Log in
Logo design by Passion Driven Me ♦ Photos by Izabela Pioro Photography
Pin It on Pinterest