Vitamin Chart Infographic
16.5k
SHARES
SharePinTweetSend
Home
Conditions
Addiction
ADHD
Alzheimer’s & Dementia
Arthritis
Asthma & Allergies
Autism
Cancer
Cardiovascular
Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
Chronic Pain
Diabetes
Eye Disorders
Fibromyalgia
Flu, Colds
Hepatitis C
Migraine
Mental Health
Multiple Sclerosis
Obesity & Weight Loss
Osteoporosis
Parkinson’s
Skin Disorders
Sleep Disorders
Urinary Disorders
Nutrition
Fitness
Yoga
Info
Advertise
Contact Us
DMCA
Privacy Policy
Vitamin Chart Infographic
Vitamin C appears to be especially beneficial for individuals under intense physical stress. In five studies of people with intense short term physical stress, the incidence of the common cold was cut in half with the use of vitamin C.
Three of the studies observed marathon runners, one researched Swiss school children at a skiing camp and another observed Canadian soldiers for the duration of a winter exercise.
In addition, in a recent study conducted with teenage competitive swimmers, the duration of colds in males was cut in half with vitamin C, but the vitamin didn’t have any effect on females.
Daily doses of vitamin C of 1 gram or more have reduced the typical duration of colds in adults by 8 percent and in children by 18 percent.
Even though these results clearly demonstrate that vitamin C does have a biological influence on colds, consuming vitamin C each day to shorten occasional colds doesn’t seem to realistic. Generally, adults only have a number of common cold episodes annually and children get as few as 6 colds each year.
Few therapeutic studies, which means studies in which vitamin C was administered only once the 1st symptoms of a cold developed, have been conducted and their outcomes are not consistent. Even so, considering the consistent effect of vitamin C on the duration and severity of colds in the regular supplementation research, and the safety and affordability of vitamin C, the study authors consider that it could be beneficial for individual common cold sufferers to try whether therapeutic vitamin C is effective for them.
Vitamin Chart Infographic
Image Source: Miles Harrison Info Graphics
References: DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD000980.pub4
Want to use any of our images on your site?
Just right click on image for the embed code
Want more articles like this?
Get your dose of health by subscribing to our newsletter
Your information will never be shared with any third party. You can unsubscribe anytime.
Leave this field empty if you're human:
Carb Protein Fat Ratio Calculator
Daily Calorie Intake
Calculator
BMI Calculator
for Women and Men
Activity Calorie
Calculator
Am I Depressed
Quiz
Postpartum Depression Quiz
Teenage Depression Quiz
Bipolar Quiz
5 of the best supplements for depression (SCIENTIFICALLY PROVEN)
10 ways to help boost your mental energy (SCIENTIFICALLY PROVEN)
10 of the worst inflammatory foods to avoid (SCIENTIFICALLY PROVEN)
20 happiness hacks that will improve your life (SCIENTIFICALLY PROVEN)
10 health benefits of spinach (SCIENTIFICALLY PROVEN)
10 health benefits of coconut oil (SCIENTIFICALLY PROVEN)
10 health benefits of potatoes (SCIENTIFICALLY PROVEN)
10 health benefits of pineapple (SCIENTIFICALLY PROVEN)
10 health benefits of almonds (SCIENTIFICALLY PROVEN)
10 health benefits of bananas (SCIENTIFICALLY PROVEN)
10 health benefits of avocados (SCIENTIFICALLY PROVEN)
10 health benefits of broccoli (SCIENTIFICALLY PROVEN)
DMCA | Privacy Policy | Advertise | Contact
The content on this website is meant as reference material only and not as medical or professional advice. Your usage of this website indicates your agreement to these terms. Copyright © 2019
close
Want to use this image on your site?
Simply copy and paste the code below to embed the image on your page