Avoid This Fruit If You Take Medications
Trending
Nutritional needs of the infant and how these are met by human and formula milks
Tamales nutrition and benefits
Health benefits of Vegetable juice
Health benefits of Wild Strawberry
How to Select, Prepare and Store Fresh Vegetables Juice
Healthy Herbs That You Can Easily Grow in Your Yard
Nutritional needs during pregnancy: Daily doses and sources
Although necessary, hormone therapy is still taboo for men
Navigate
Home
Nutrition
Healthy Recipe
Vegetables
Fruits
Herbs & Spices
Essential OIls
You are at:Home»Health & Beauty»Avoid This Fruit If You Take Medications
Health & Beauty
Avoid This Fruit If You Take Medications
Share Tweet Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email +
As a health-conscious individual, you likely eat a diet rich in fruits and vegetables. But no matter how healthily you eat, you’re likely going to need medications at some point. Unfortunately, there’s one fruit you should avoid when doing so, at least while you’re taking certain medications.
What is this culprit fruit, you may ask? Why, it’s grapefruit (and many of its related products, including grapefruit juice).
Why is grapefruit dangerous?
Grapefruit may interfere with certain biological mechanisms in your body like enzymes and transporters. And these mechanisms are important for absorbing and breaking down pharmaceutical drugs. So when these mechanisms are meddled with, you can receive too much or too little of the drug’s active ingredient.
It can block enzymes, leading to excess drug levels.
CYP3A4 is an enzyme located in your small intestine that plays an important part in breaking down certain drugs. Unfortunately, this enzyme can be blocked by grapefruit consumption. Consequently, too much of the drug may enter and linger in the body. And a drug in excess levels can increase negative side effects.
It can also block transporters, creating inadequate absorption.
Other drugs are absorbed into our body’s cells with the help of a protein transporter, and grapefruit consumption can also interfere with these proteins. It can allow too little of the drug to be absorbed, which reduces the drug’s effectiveness.
What drugs react with grapefruit?
Many drugs can interact quite negatively with grapefruit. So if you take any of the following, try not to consume grapefruits or grapefruit products:
Drugs called statins, such as LIPITOR® (atorvastatin) and CRESTOR® (rosuvastatin)
Anti-anxiety medications, such as buspirone
Drugs used to treat hypertension
Antihistamine (i.e., allergy) medication, such as Allegra® (fexofenadine)
Medications used to treat high blood pressure, such as nifedipine
Corticosteroid medications, such as budesonide
Do note, however, that this is not an exhaustive list of all drugs that interact with grapefruit.
What else should you consider?
Your risk for a bad grapefruit-drug interaction can depend on several factors, including how much grapefruit you actually ingest. There can be a big difference in the amount of grapefruit content between a grapefruit product (like commercial juice) and an actual whole grapefruit.
Other fruit juices can also act in similar ways. For example, Seville oranges, a species commonly used in marmalade, can have a similar effect, as do tangelos. So it’s best to avoid these fruits as well if you’ve been told to avoid grapefruit.
It’s also important to note that products not advertised as grapefruit juice can still contain that ingredient. Even fruit juices like certain punches can contain small amounts of grapefruit in them.
Learn more, and find an alternative.
Learning about the dangers of grapefruit can be anxiety-provoking, especially since many of our favorite food products contain grapefruit products!
To lessen your worries, make sure you get as much information as possible when starting a new drug:
Familiarize yourself with any pamphlets included with your medication, such as the medication guide materials that come with prescription drugs and the Drug Facts label that comes with over-the-counter drugs.
Confirm with your health-care provider and pharmacist if there’s any risk to mixing grapefruit with your drug.
See if you can get a drug that does not react poorly to grapefruit.
Responsible health-care providers should alert you of possible negative drug interactions. So if you choose to buy your medication online from an international or Canadian pharmacy referral service like Canada Med Pharmacy, ask if you can speak to a licensed pharmacist if you have concerns.
A reputable, online drug company should be able to help you. Typically, they’ll have a licensed pharmacist on hand who is happy to answer your questions. These companies also come with the added benefit of offering substantially cheaper medications from licensed pharmacies abroad.
Minus bad drug interactions, grapefruit can still be part of a healthy diet!
If you enjoy the health benefits that come from grapefruit, talk to your doctor about only taking medication that won’t interact with the fruit. After all, this citrus fruit is rich in nutrients like vitamin C and potassium, so it can be a great addition to any diet.
Comments
comments
Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email
Previous ArticleNatural Remedies For Common Health Problems
Next Article Mollusks facts and Health Benefits
Related Posts
Nutritional needs of the infant and how these are met by human and formula milks
Tamales nutrition and benefits
Health benefits of Vegetable juice
Health benefits of Wild Strawberry
How to Select, Prepare and Store Fresh Vegetables Juice
Healthy Herbs That You Can Easily Grow in Your Yard
Nutritional needs during pregnancy: Daily doses and sources
Although necessary, hormone therapy is still taboo for men
Essential oils for the skin and hair
What is Aromatherapy and how to Practice
What is Lasagna?
What is Fish stock?
Health experts’ dietary advice
Health benefits of eating plant based diet
Facts about Strawberry Bush
Comments are closed.
Categories
Beverages (65)
Dairy (28)
Equipment (5)
Essential OIls (181)
Facts (36)
Foods (176)
Fruits (226)
Grains and Cereals (26)
Health & Beauty (102)
Herbs and Spices (485)
Medicines (8)
Nutritional value (25)
Nuts and seeds (48)
Oils (79)
Poultry & Seafoods (67)
Pulses and Beans (16)
Vegetables (153)
Like on Facebook
Follow on Google+
Follow on Twitter
Please install Jetpack plugin and activate the WordPress.com Stats module.
8.1
Facts and benefits of Black Bean (Black Turtle Bean)
Black bean scientifically known as Phaseolus vulgaris (commonly called Black turtle bean, Dry bean), is a herbaceous and annual plant…
Pigeon peas facts and health benefits
July 19, 2016
Health Benefits of Job’s Tears
February 20, 2018
Adzuki beans Facts and Health Benefits
April 25, 2016
Facts and benefits of Horse gram
July 11, 2018
Health benefits of Black gram
January 9, 2018
Like us on Facebook
Recent Posts
Nutritional needs of the infant and how these are met by human and formula milks
Tamales nutrition and benefits
Health benefits of Vegetable juice
ABOUT
About us
Contact us
Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of use
Disclamer