How To Lose Weight In A Month
Home
About Me
Sitemap
Privacy
Disclosure
Our Toolbar
Weight Loss Fantasy Weight Loss Tips, Trends and News
2014 Weight Loss Trends
Foods That Burn Fat
How To Increase Metabolism
How To Lose 10 Pounds Naturally
How To Lose Belly Fat
How To Lose Weight
Weight Loss Diet Plan
Weight Loss Exercises
Weight Loss Motivation
Weight Loss Supplement Reviews In 2013
Categorized | How To Lose Weight
How To Lose Weight In A Month
Posted on 12 February 2014. Tags: How To Lose Weight In A Month
Hey, this is Lana with weightlossfantasy.com. By the end of this video, I will share three tips on how to lose weight in a month, without having to spend a dime on weight loss solutions.
For more weight loss tips, visit my blog at weightlossfantasy.com. I love to share my personal experiences and I welcome your comments as well.
We’ve all seen the weight loss commercials selling solutions such as exercise equipment, exercise DVDs, weight loss meal plans with monthly fees, weight loss pills and fitness club memberships. The great news is, you don’t need to spend a fortune to shed weight. By making simple changes to your diet and lifestyle, you can achieve your weight loss goals.
Tip 1: Supercharge Your Metabolism
First of all, you have to eat more. Doesn’t make sense right? I know, but actually eating 6 meals a day will put your metabolism on overdrive. Each time you eat, you actually stimulate your metabolism. You will burn your excess fat when you supercharge your metabolism.
Secondly, start lifting weights if you’re not already including weight training in your weight loss program. Lifting weights will help you build muscle, which in turn will raise your resting metabolism. You can burn an extra 100 calories a day just by gaining 5 pounds of muscle. Oh and ladies, you do not have to worry about bulking up, since we do not have the same level of testosterone as our male counterparts.
Tip 2: Cut Your Sugar Intake
Get rid of sodas. Many of us get a lot of sugar from the sodas, sweet tea, sweetened coffee, and other sugary drinks we consume. It is best to give these drinks up completely, but if you just feel like you can’t, artificially sweetened drinks may be a good alternative. I prefer Stevia and always keep packets with me wherever I go.
Clean out your pantry. If you can’t easily find sugary foods, you will be less likely to eat them, right?
Reach for fruits. Eating fruit can sometimes help us conquer a sugar craving. Choosing a fruit over a candy bar may not be easy, but in the long run you will feel better for doing it.
Check the labels. Things don’t have to taste sweet to have these extra calories lurking. Reading the ingredients can often help you find things like high fructose corn syrup or other hidden sugars before you bring it into your home.
Tip 3: Avoid These 3 Foods
1. Make processed foods your greatest enemy. Processed foods are the foods that you find in the middle of your local supermarket. Most of them are canned or pre-packaged. This is usually a great option for people who do not have the time to cook, which is why they sell so well. However, there are many chemicals that have been used to preserve them. These chemicals come with their own side effects. It’s healthier and safer to eat natural and perishable foods that are available at the grocery store or farmer’s market.
2. Avoid fried foods. This includes fries and many of the fatty foods that you find in your favorite fast food restaurants.
3. Avoid caffeinated drinks including coffee, dark tea, and popular power drinks. It is best if you can drink pure plain water. Caffeinated drinks tamper with your metabolism, which interferes with burning your excess fat.
Are you ready to get started on your weight loss goals?
It’s important to exercise regularly
And to maintain a healthy diet
The results will be a flatter belly
And achieving your weight loss goal
Want More Free Tips On How To Lose Weight In A Month, Without Having To Spend A Dime On Weight Loss Solutions?
Click here to download my free report, “29 Fast Ways To Lose Weight Naturally.”
Go ahead and click here now for your free report now, and start using weight loss tips that will help you attain your weight loss goals naturally and safely.
Comments are closed.
Popular
Latest
Comments
Tags
Subscribe
Best Super Fast Ways To Lose Weight For Summer February 23, 2014
Paleo Diet Results June 23, 2012
Best Super Fast Ways To Lose Weight For Summer February 23, 2014
Safe Weight Loss Supplements? February 22, 2014
2013 fitness trends african mango african mango plus african mango plus ingredients african mango plus review african mango plus reviews african mango plus side effects buy african mango plus buy green coffee bean max diabetes diet strategies eating for weight loss foods that burn fat funny weight loss cartoons get african mango plus get green coffee bean max green coffee bean max green coffee bean max review green coffee bean max reviews how to increase metabolism how to increase metabolism rate how to lose 10 pounds naturally how to lose belly fat how to lose weight jenny craig review natural weight loss natural weight loss remedies natural weight loss tips nutrisystem review paleo diet paleo diet foods paleo diet for athletes paleo diet grocery list raspberry ketone max raspberry ketone max ingredients raspberry ketones max the paleo diet weight loss weight loss exercises weight loss meme cat weight loss meme confession bear weight loss meme grumpy cat weight loss motivation weight loss trends weight training for women
Stay up to date
Subscribe to the RSS feed
Subscribe to the feed via email
© 2019 Weight Loss Fantasy.
0 Requests
Increase Your Metabolism And Burn Fat Fast
0 Messages
Lose Your Belly Fat And Get The Abs You Deserve
0 Notifications
Lose Weight Naturally And Keep It Off