Free Aids Essay Example For Students | Artscolumbia
Hire Writer
Essay topics
Plagiarism Checker
Log In
We use cookies to give you the best experience possible. By continuing we’ll assume you’re on board with our cookie policy
Home Page Aids Essays Free Aids Essay
Free Aids Essay
Choose Type of service
Writing
Rewriting
Editing
Choose writer quality
Standard
Standard quality.
Experienced Verified Writers
Premium
Premium quality (Add 10% to price).
Bachelor's (or higher) degree.
Over 80% success rate.
Platinum
Platinum quality (Add 15% to price).
Master's (or higher) degree.
Over 30 successfully finished orders.
Over 90% success rate.
Page count
1 page 275 words
Deadline
$13.9 Order Now
(No Ratings Yet)
Loading...
Download: .pdf, .docx, .epub, .txt
University/College: University of California
Type of essay: Essay
A limited time offer!
Get custom essay sample written according to your requirements
urgent 3h delivery guaranteed
Order now
AIDS in Africa
Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) is one of the most deadly
viruses in the world. No country in Africa has escaped the virus. Some have been
effected more then others though. The spread of AIDS in Africa is because of
poor medical treatment and a lack of education on the part of the people.
HIV is the virus which causes AIDS.(Aids in Africa,1994) HIV stands for
Human Immune-deficiency Virus. The virus attacks the bodies immune system
and weakens it. Scientists have wondered about the origin of HIV ever since the
epidemic emerged.
Experts believe that the virus was contracted through Chimpanzees. (AIDS
came from Chimps, 1999) Perhaps when someone was bitten by a chimp, or a
hunter was exposed to contaminated blood while field dressing an animal. (AIDS
came from Chimps, 1999) Tests were done by Dr. Beatrice Hahn of the University
of Alabama. Her studies tracked HIV back to a virus that infects four sub-species
of chimps that live in Africa. (AIDS came from Chimps, 1999) Hahn and her team
studied frozen tissue from a chimp that died of complications at childbirth. In
this frozen tissue their was the chimp version of the AIDS virus, called SIVcpz.
We will write a custom essay sample on Free Aids Essay specifically for you
for only $16.38 $13.9/page
Order now
The genes in SIVcpz are genetically similar to the AIDS virus. (AIDS came from
Chimps, 1999) Chimps who have probably carried this virus for thousands of
years do not get sick from it. Researchers are trying to find out why chimps are
not effected by this virus, because it may lead to a cure. (Aids in Africa,1994) This
productive finding about the virus wasn’t found until 1997 when testing started.
(Aids in Africa,1994) If it would have been found sooner maybe the massive
spread of AIDS could have been prevented.
Since the start of the epidemic an estimated 34 million people living in
Sub-Saharan Africa in 1998 were infected with HIV. (AIDS,1991) This is due to a
lack of education on the part of the people in Africa. They are not taught about
the virus as we are in the United States. In this country the public and media
educate the people about AIDS, including how to prevent the disease. Without
embarrassment, Americans openly discuss methods in which the disease is
transmitted. However in African cultures confronting sexual issues that cause
AIDS and HIV is very uncommon.(AIDS the epidemic,1994)
In Africa AIDS has become the number one cause of death, overtaking
Malaria.(The AIDS Reader,1991) The U.N. AIDS/health experts say more than 40
million people contracted the disease in 1980’s and nearly 12 million of them
have died in Africa. (The AIDS Reader,1991) If the people in Sub-Saharan Africa
were educated about preventing the spread of AIDS and HIV maybe the statistics
wouldn’t be so dramatically different from other countries.
In the African countries good medical treatment can be hard to find. The
United States has a better economy, and more highly trained professionals then
Africa. The lower quality of medical treatment in Africa has contributed to some
of the spread of AIDS in the past.(The AIDS Reader,1991)
Unfortunately the cost of drugs to slow down the disease can cost
$10,000-$20,000 per year per person. (The AIDS Reader,1991) This keeps most
infected HIV patients from getting the needed drugs because they cant afford
them.. This amount of money would cover the annual health care for 200 people
in Zimbabwe.(The AIDS Reader,1991) A family in Sub-Saharan Africa might
p.2
spend between $600 and $1,500 to care for a person living with AIDS.(The AIDS
Reader,1991) This money could be used for a college education or other basic
necessities. This country was hit so hard with AIDS that more then one-quarter
of working-age adults are infected with HIV and are forced to use money for
health care.(AIDS the epidemic,1994)
Zimbabwe was the hardest hit country of AIDS or HIV. In this country
about half of all hospital beds are filled with patients who have AIDS and AIDS
related symptoms.(AIDS,1991) Even if we stopped AIDS now the millions of
people already living with it would make the disease continue. In Zimbabwe 25
testing sites were set up to test pregnant women’s blood for HIV virus. At two of
these sites less then 10% were infected, but at the remaining sites almost half
were infected.(Aids in Africa,1994) All pregnant women with the virus have a risk
of passing it onto the baby.
READ: Wretched misery Essay
One other major problem in the spread of AIDS is through rape and
sexual abuse. In Africa these kinds of sexual actions are never discussed by
Choose Type of service
Writing
Rewriting
Editing
Choose writer quality
Standard
Standard quality.
Experienced Verified Writers
Premium
Premium quality (Add 10% to price).
Bachelor's (or higher) degree.
Over 80% success rate.
Platinum
Platinum quality (Add 15% to price).
Master's (or higher) degree.
Over 30 successfully finished orders.
Over 90% success rate.
Page count
1 page 275 words
Deadline
Order Essay Writing
$13.9 Order Now
Search
Related Essays
The name for AIDS is short for acquired immune def Essay (20.6) 276 Words | 1 Pages
bigiciency syndrome.Some people think that aids are the same thing as HIV. But they are wrong because HIV is the virus that means human immunodeficiency virus. Some people can have the HIV virus and not be diagnosed as having aids for up to ten years. What the virus does is attacks the immune system directly until it just shuts down and you die. There are two main ways that people can get aids one of them is by doing drugs, like using the same needle. Another main way to get aids is by having sexual intercourse with a person that...
Show More
Dr. Ronald Porter Aids Essay (20.1) 237 Words | 1 Pages
AIDS(Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome) is a deadly disease for whichthere is no cure. This disease was first recognized in the mid 1980's. Thecause of AIDS is the HIV virus, and is most commonly spread by venereal routesor exposure to contaminated blood or blood products. This disease weakens thebody's immune system, allowing other diseases to occur. The most commontreatments available for this virus are the drugs called AZT, DDI, and DDC whichinterfere with HIV'S ability to reproduce itself. These are the only known waysto slow down the production of the virus.This virus is spread through the exchange of body fluids {semen,...
Show More
HIV and AIDS Essay (18.9) 718 Words | 3 Pages
The first case of AIDS was identified in New York in 1979. The cause of the disease, a retro virus now called Human Immunodeficiency Virus, was identified in 1983-84 by scientists working at the National Cancer Institute in the United States and the Pasteur Institute in France. These workers also developed tests for AIDS, enabling researchers to follow the transmission of the virus and to study the origin and mechanism of the disease. Close relatives of the AIDS virus infect some African monkeys. This fact and the high incidence of infection of people in central Africa has led to the...
Show More
HIV and AIDS Essay (18.1) 718 Words | 3 Pages
The AIDS and HIV virus is a very dangerous disease that sees no race, no color, no gender, no economic background and not even a specific age group. It can affect anyone, at any time if they put themselves in a situation where they could be at risk. AIDS stands for what is called acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. The virus causes the body’s immune system to break down and become useless in fighting illness and bacteria. Even a common cold could lead to the death of a person affected with the AIDS virus. Contrary to popular belief, a person does not...
Show More
Knowingly Transmitting AIDS Essay (17.7) 801 Words | 3 Pages
The Criminalization of Knowingly Transmitting AIDS Submitted by: Necroman May 28, 1992 Table of Contents Brief history of AIDS and the criminalization of knowingly transmitting it.......................................3 Interviews concerning the issue............................4 Reasons for the criminalization of knowingly transmitting AIDS..................................................5 Reasons against the criminalization of knowingly transmitting AIDS.....................................7 My position and conclusion.................................8 Brief History of AIDS and the Criminalization of Knowingly Transmitting It Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) is caused by the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). The virus was discoverd independently in France in 1983 and in the United States in 1984. In the United States, it was initially identified in 1981....
Show More
Aids (627 words) Essay (17.5) 632 Words | 3 Pages
AidsScientists have concluded, based on mathematical research, that the virus that lead to the epidemic of AIDS can be traced all the way back to 1930, somewhere around Central Africa. Bette Korber, of the Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico, presented this conclusion at the Conference of Retroviruses. The notion that HIV was introduced in contaminated oral polio vaccines in Africa between the years of 1957 and 1961 has been often debated and challenged. The results presented by Korber, not only refute the before mentioned allegations, but also move us toward finding out where the virus really came from...
Show More
AIDS and You Essay (17.4) 822 Words | 3 Pages
Introduction:AIDS is a life and death issue. To have the AIDS disease is at present asentence of slow but inevitable death.I've already lost one friend toAIDS. I may soon lose others. My own sexual behavior and that of many ofmy friends has been profoundly altered by it. In my part of the country,one man in 10 may already be carrying the AIDS virus. While the figures maycurrently be less in much of the rest of the country,this is changingrapidly. There currently is neither a cure, nor even an effective treatment,and no vaccine either. But there are things that have been...
Show More
AIDS: Aquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome Essay (17.2) 767 Words | 3 Pages
AIDS: Aquired Immune Deficiency SyndromeI am doing a report on AIDS, I don't know much about AIDS but I willtell you what I know. I know that it is transmitted by sexualcontact,blood,needles,children during/before birth. I also know it affects theimmune system directly, It is caused by the virus HIV which they have no curefor either AIDS or HIV at the current moment, but they are doing seriousresearch on them.I call it the "Generation X Disease" because it mostly affects my sex-oriented generation. It is currently one of the leading causes of death in theUSA and the death rate is increasing...
Show More
AIDS/HIV Essay (16.8) 639 Words | 3 Pages
AIDS/HIV Essay The HIV virus poses one of the biggest viral threats to human society today. It is contracted through bodily fluids such as blood and semen, and sometimes even saliva and tears. AIDS kills 100% of its victims and puts them through agony before they die. It has been a threat for about 15 years, and it is not going to stop now. In fact, AIDS is just getting started: It consumes more people each year. There is no known treatment for it either, only antibiotics to slow the reproduction of the virus. HIV is passed from one person...
Show More
Aids 3 Essay (16.8) 712 Words | 3 Pages
In 1918 the United States experienced one of the worst epidemics in its history. With 500,000 dead in a matter of 6 months, the Spanish influenza left its mark. With approximately 11.7 million dead worldwide, Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome(AIDS) is still leaving its mark. It is a pandemic the likes of which the world has always feared to see. The HIV virus comes in several varieties, yet they kill basically the same. Our understanding of this virus and how it works is essential to finding its cure, and to preventing its spread. Who it affects and the reasons for its...
Show More
Get your custom essay sample
Sorry, but copying text is forbidden
on this website.
If you need this or any other sample, we can send it to you via email.
Topic: Free Aids Essay
send
By clicking "Send", you agree to our terms of service and privacy policy. We'll occasionally send you account related and promo emails.
Sorry, but downloading
is forbidden on this website
Topic: Free Aids Essay
How About
Make It Original?
Let us edit for you at only $13.9 to make it 100% original
PROCEED
If you need this or any other sample, we can send it to you via email.
SEND
By clicking “SEND”, you agree to our terms of service and privacy policy. We’ll occasionally send you account related and promo emails.
Thank You!
How about make it original at only $13.9/page?
Let us edit for you at only $13.9 to make it 100% original Proceed
Haven't found the Essay You Want? Get your custom essay sample For Only $13.90/page
Copyrights © Artscolumbia 2018
company About us Contacts Plagiarism Checker For Students
Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy
PAYMENT
1935 Bicetown Road New York,
NY 10004
1-917-341-2678 [email protected]
THIS SERVICE WILL BE USEFUL FOR:
At artscolumbia.org you will find a wide variety of top-notch essay and term essay samples on any possible topics absolutely for free. Want to add some juice to your work? No problem! Here you will also find the best quotations, synonyms and word definitions to make your research essay well-formatted and your essay highly evaluated.
Sara from Artscolumbia
Hi there, would you like to get such an essay? How about receiving a customized one?
Check it out goo.gl/Crty7Tt
Free Aids Essay
Artscolumbia
Artscolumbia
AIDS in Africa
Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) is one of the most deadly
viruses in the world. No country in Africa has escaped the virus. Some have been
effected more then others though. The spread of AIDS in Africa is because of
poor medical treatment and a lack of education on the part of the people.
HIV is the virus which causes AIDS.(Aids in Africa,1994) HIV stands for
Human Immune-deficiency Virus. The virus attacks the bodies immune system
and weakens
2019-02-09 03:43:00
2018-12-27 03:00:03
Sherrie Hood
$ 13.900 2018-12-31
artscolumbia.org
In stock
Rated 0/5 based on 0 customer reviews