√ A Guide to Place Himalayan Salt Lamps with Optimal Benefits | Himalayan Salt Lamp Guide
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Himalayan Salt Lamp Guide
FAQ about Salt Lamps
Himalayan Salt Lamp Guide > Salt Lamp > A Guide to Place Himalayan Salt Lamps with Optimal Benefits
A Guide to Place Himalayan Salt Lamps with Optimal Benefits
05/06/2017 04/15/2019 Ratna Salt Lamp Salt Lamp
What is a general guide to place Himalayan Salt Lamps with optimal benefits? Generally, lighting and lamp placement (room size guide) is the last factor that is considered important in interior design. However, lighting mistakes can create inconveniences.
Therefore, lighting including Himalayan Salt Lamp needs to be placed well prior to designing an interior to create a homey and comfortable atmosphere.
Learn more about How to use Himalayan Salt Lamp.
Here are some placement ideas for Himalayan Salt Lamp:
In the bedroom. Himalayan Crystal Salt Lamp is perfect for a night lamp that creates a soothing mood. The benefits: Increases sleeping quality, treats insomnia and repels mosquitoes.
In the family room. The benefits: promote family health, improves moods, neutralizes toxins, and terminates virus/bacteria.
In a study room/ office. The benefits: improve concentration helps clean air circulation and reduces stress. Besides, it can also neutralize radiation and positive ions.
In the living room. The benefits: invites the guests, removes cigarette smoke, improves moods, and beautifies the interior.
In the classroom. The benefits: improves brain performance and student’s concentration.
In the kitchen. The benefits: neutralizes static electricity (ion neutralizer) of kitchen utensils such as microwave, oven, and refrigerator, etc.
In the spa and massage rooms. The benefits: promotes faster healing, helps absorbing negative energy from human bodies during the massage.
In a hotel room. The benefits: creates a comfortable and soothing atmosphere.
Here are some home lighting tips using Himalayan Salt Lamp :
1. Create several spots of the lamp; we can do it on the wall or create cove lighting
Cove lighting is indirect lighting where the Himalayan Rock Salt Lamp is placed in the drop ceiling. This lighting is widely explored for a bedroom because of the soft illumination which is good for eyesight. For direct lighting, we can utilize down-light on one side or on the corner. In addition, We can also add a bedside lamp on bedside tables.
2. Wire arrangement and placement in a certain room should be well-managed
It is recommended that the wires are hidden to avoid risks and also to maintain its aesthetic.
Can you leave a Himalayan salt lamp on all the time? ABSOLUTELY. Himalayan salt lamp only needs a low-wattage bulb in them, so the power needed for that and the electricity bill to keep them on is absolutely minimal, even if you had them on all night.
3. From the point of view of Feng Shui, it is essential to place Himalayan Salt Lamp in the bedroom and home under these conditions :
The Himalayan salt lamp is definitely beneficial for improving the negative ions and increase positive energy in a room. However, the comfort of a house is not only determined by the air purifier but also the Feng Shui.
The term “Feng Shui” translates from the Chinese language literally into “wind water”. We all know that Feng Shui is an art of creating harmony and balance by furniture placement, rooms designs, and even ventilation shapes. But what if we can get both an air purifier and good Feng Shui at the same time.
First of all, we need to find out the right direction of furniture placement in our interior. The positive energy flows through the rooms will determine the wonderful comfort that we can obtain. With the right objects arrangement, we will be able to create a room with positive energy. Besides, we have to mind the geographic location. The way the air flows in the interior also determines the Feng Shui of a room.
The Feng Shui based on the Salt Lamps’ Colors
Before learning about the placement, we need to be sure that we pick the Himalayan salt lamp with the colors of our needs. This is so because each color has a different meaning implies.
For instance, orange represents security which is good to activate kidneys and bladder. Meanwhile, yellow promotes intellectuality which will be good for pancreas and liver health. The red salt lamp is a good choice for heart and circulation.
If we need to support our affectionate love life, the pink Himalayan salt lamp is a good choice. Yet, we need to choose a white salt lamp if we want to experience the best detoxification. The brown salt lamp is the best bet for sensing a balance in the interior. And the best choice that contains the highest chakra and spirituality is the purple salt lamp.
Some people do not really concern with the Feng Shui. Some even give no care about the bad Feng Shui that their interior might have. Some users of Salt Lamp also share a testimony that explains that the lamp can possibly harmful to a house. This is so because the salt lamp basically absorbing all energy, both negative (Sha Chi) and positive energy (Sheng Chi). However, the testimonies are not always true. Thus, it is better for us to learn Feng Shui tips for improving our home comfort.
Feng Shui Salt Lamp Placement Tips 2018 – 2019 :
Place Pink or Purple Salt lamp in our bedroom because it will promote better sleep and also increase the serenity which will be positive for the marriage relationship.
Place Himalayan salt lamp of any colors in a corner that needs aesthetical touch. Feng Shui says that a dark area will decrease its energy as we place beautiful ornaments such as flower vase or the decorative lamp.
Never place the lamp back to the door.
The lamp position must not right above our bed.
The lamp position must not right above our Head.
Final Thoughts :
” On a basic feng shui level, it adds nature and earth to space, along with glowing fire. On a more radiant level, it may help detoxify your environment.” – Fengshuidana.com
” We are talking about the essential lifeforce of everything. Through proper placement of feng shui enhancers, a beautiful salt crystal lamp, for instance, a person can create a balanced and harmonious level of sheng chi within their surroundings, even around their surroundings, and find themselves with a happier, healthier, wealthier life full of positive energy and motivational force.” – Saltwonders.com
” Once I experienced their healing glow in the bedroom there was no turning back; no other lighting comes even close to its energy. The salt lamp also purifies the air while it fills your bedroom with a healing sensual glow.” – Knowfengshui.com
” If everything in your life is going harmoniously and you’re using a salt lamp, then no need to change anything. If life isn’t going as well as you want, try getting rid of that salt lamp and see if things turn around.” – Deepaknair.com
” Salt is a great cleansing agent especially if you are moving into a new home or when used in space clearing rituals. It’s particularly good when you need to remove stagnant energy from a piece of old furniture or next to your bedside.” – Lilliantoosblog.wordpress.com
Based on the experiences of the users, Himalayan salt lamps and other types of salt lamps can provide positive benefits. With the right Feng Shui placements, people can get more advantages. We can place the lamp as a mere room decorator or air purifier. Additionally, we can always get health benefits from the salt lamps.
So if you are a serious Feng Shui believer, be sure to consult an expert before placing the lamps.
WhatsAppFacebookTwitterPinterest
Related Posts
8 Signs of Authentic Himalayan Salt Lamp
Natural health gadgets cover many kinds of products including the Himalayan Salt Lamp. We might…
Do Salt Lamps Really Work? What does a salt lamp do?
The Himalayan salt lamps are a natural masterpiece of the pure salt crystal that is…
How to Clean Salt Lamp (Himalayan salt lamp care)
Himalayan Salt Lamp can be a wonderful accessory for the interior design. This lamp produces…
16 Health Benefits of Himalayan Salt Lamp
Does the Himalayan Salt Lamp truly offer medical benefits? The answer is YES, there are…
Himalayan Salt Lamp Room Size Guide
What size salt lamp do I need? How to choose the right size salt crystal…
Guide to place Himalayan salt lamp himalayan salt lamp placement Himalayan Salt Rock Lamp Placement guide of Himalayan salt lamp Rock salt lamp and feng shui Where to place salt lamp feng shui
2 thoughts to “A Guide to Place Himalayan Salt Lamps with Optimal Benefits”
Pingback: FAQ about Himalayan Salt Lamp | Himalayan Salt Lamp Guide
Pingback: Himalayan Salt Lamp Room Size Guide - Himalayan Salt Lamp Guide
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Post navigation
How to use Himalayan Salt Lamp in Bedroom
Himalayan Salt Lamp Room Size Guide
Random Posts
Agate Lamp: Facts, Metaphysical & Decorative Functions
Blue Kyanite Lamp: Properties, Meanings & Uses
Lapis Lazuli Lamp: Meaning, Healing Properties & Uses
Citrine Lamp Meaning, Facts and Healing Properties
Onyx Lamps Etymology, Healing Properties, and Facts
Persian Salt Lamp: The Majestic Lamp from Iran
About Us
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Contact Us
Theme by Colorlib Powered by WordPress
This site uses cookies to improve your experience. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies : More.
Accept