Physiotherapy Archives - Orthopaedics.org.uk
the Orthopaedic Store for all you orthopaedic needs
Opening Hours : Cart
Orthopaedics.org.uk
Home
Orthopaedic Conditions
Sports Injuries
Arthritis information
Types of Arthritis
Arthritis Advice
Osteoporosis
Arthritis Links
Knee
Ankle
Foot
Hip
Shoulder
Elbow
Hand & Wrist
Back & Spine
Head & Neck
Children’s (Paediatric) problems
Glossary
Orthopaedic Store
Foot & Orthotics
Ankle & Calf
Knee
Hip
Shoulder
Elbow
Hand & Wrist
Back & Spine
Head & Neck
Nutritional supplements, Glucosamine etc.
Exercise Equipment
General Mobility, Travel and Healthcare
Children’s products
Patient Info
Physiotherapy & Exercises
Physio Advice
Physiotherapy exercises
Rehabilitation Protocols
Physiotherapy Links
Equipment you need for problems or surgery
For foot surgery
For toe & bunion problems or surgery
For ankle surgery
For knee arthroscopy
For ACL ligament reconstruction
For a knee replacement
For a hip replacement
For wrist & hand problems or surgery
For elbow problems or surgery
For shoulder problems or surgery
For back / lumbar problems
For neck problems or surgery
Paying for Private Treatment Yourself
Product Advice & Support
Get an Orthopaedic Opinion
Get a Quotation for Surgery
Glossary
Private Medical Insurance
WPA
Exeter Healthcare
Cigna Healthcare
Doctors Preference
Aviva Healthcare
Vitality Healthcare
AXA – PPP Healthcare
BUPA
Paying For Yourself
Orthopaedic Surgeons
Orthopaedic Procedures
Professional Product Advice
Get an Orthopaedic Opinion
Get a Quotation for Surgery
Orthopaedic Links
News
NHS
Sports Injury
Arthritis Treatment
Knee Surgery
Hip Surgery
Orthopaedic Surgery
Physiotherapy
Other news
Submit a News item
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Product Advice
Get an Orthopaedic Opinion
Get a Quotation for Surgery
Delivery
Terms and Conditions
FAQs
All Posts in Category: Physiotherapy
Mar 05 1
The paralysed man who can ride a bike
Posted by News editor
A man who was paralysed from the chest down after a knife attack in 2010 can now ride an adapted tricycle. In 2014, surgeons in Poland announced they had reversed Darek Fidyka’s paralysis using cells taken from his nose to repair his spinal cord. The former fireman says he has noticed a gradual return of feeling and muscle control below his injury.
Continued...
The surgical team are now launching a search for two more paralysed patients who they will try to help walk again. Mr Fidyka told me: “I can tell that sensation is coming back and I am getting stronger. A year ago I would not have been able to ride a tricycle. Now I can feel each muscle and each press of the foot on the pedals.”
The BBC’s Panorama program told the remarkable story of Darek Fidyka and the 40-year research programme involving scientists in Britain and Poland. The medical team are now launching the worldwide search as they are looking for patients with an uncommon type of injury, where the spinal cord has been completely severed, which can happen after a knife injury. The head of the project, surgeon Dr Pawel Tabakow said: “If we can bridge the gap between two spinal cord stumps then there will be no doubt that our technique works and this will be historic – if we succeed we will have found a cure for paralysis.
“Then we will be able to help other patients with the most common type of injury, caused by a crush or compression.”
The Wroclaw Walk Again Project will be conducted in Poland, but patients anywhere in the world aged 16-65 will be able to apply via the team’s website, which will be officially launched on 8th March in Wroclaw. All the treatment will be free, but to be eligible patients must have no feeling or voluntary muscle function below the injury and they must be prepared to spend around three years in Poland. They will undergo extensive physiotherapy before and especially after the transplant surgery.
The medical team are expecting to be inundated with applications in the months ahead. They will make an initial shortlist based on patient scans and medical notes and then invite a few potential volunteers for assessment in Poland. Those selected will undergo the same pioneering surgery that was performed on Darek Fidyka.
Analysis
Scientists have spent decades searching for a means of enabling the paralysed to walk again. Motorised exoskeletons, which are strapped on the body, bypassing the injury, are now available commercially. Electrical stimulation techniques use implants to enable patients to flex their lower limbs. But neither method involves repairing the damaged spinal cord. The approach in Poland aims to reconnect the brain with the lower limbs along the neural superhighway that is the spinal cord, enabling both motor control commands to travel down the body and sensation to travel up.
Darek Fidyka’s spinal cord had been almost completely severed as a result of a knife attack, apart from a thin thread of external connective tissue and prior to the transplant, he had no feeling or control below his injury. Now he has had to re-learn how to control his muscles and interpret sensations. He said: “I realise how important the brain is while cycling, and that thinking is more tiring than the exercise itself.” But the results from one patient, however impressive, would never be sufficient evidence on which to base a new approach to spinal cord injury. The forthcoming trial in Poland will be crucial if the wider scientific community is to be convinced that a patient’s own cells can be used to regenerate their spinal cord. It is also worth stressing that the patients selected will have to show enormous determination if they are to see the full benefits of the treatment.
In the first of two operations, surgeons will remove one of the patient’s olfactory bulbs, which sit above the nasal cavity at the base of the brain, and process the sense of smell. The bulb contains specialist cells known as olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) which act as a pathway that enables nerve fibres in the olfactory system to continually renew. In a second operation the patient’s OECs will be injected above and below the injury and strips of tissue laid across the gap in the cord. The team believe the OECs will enable nerve fibres to regenerate across the cord and so repair the damage. An independent team of assessors led by neurophysiologists from Imperial College London will also be closely involved in monitoring the research. Peter Ellaway, emeritus professor of physiology, at Imperial said: “I’m excited because this is a novel treatment with a lot of promise.” But he cautioned that even if it works it would take some years to refine and so would not be immediately available for patients.
The treatment in Poland will cost £250,000 per patient and is being funded by a small British charity, the Nicholls Spinal Injury Foundation. It was founded by chef David Nicholls after his 18-year-old son Daniel was paralysed from the neck down in a swimming accident. Mr Nicholls said: “I know how important progress is to people living with spinal cord injury and am optimistic that success with the next two patients will result in an announcement that paralysis is curable.” NSIF and the UK Stem Cell Foundation both support the research of Prof Geoff Raisman, chair of neural regeneration at University College London (UCL), who has pioneered the use of OECs to repair the damaged spinal cord and leads the British side of the Walk Again project.
Prof Raisman said: “Darek’s latest progress demonstrates the extraordinary power of (neuro) plasticity. But it depends on the patient’s own efforts. It is like a baby learning to walk. We cannot teach it how. The progress comes from inside.” Darek underwent his transplant in April 2012, and he still spends five hours a day undergoing physiotherapy. He can now walk slowly using crutches or a small walking frame, but usually relies on a wheelchair as it is simply quicker and less tiring. The return of sensation below his injury has brought other benefits like bladder control and the return of sexual function.
Darek was happy to discuss sex and explained that the reawakening of the erogenous zones was a crucial part of his recovery. He said: “The return of sexual satisfaction – which travels along the spinal cord to the brain – is very important psychologically and is another part of my growing sense of independence.”
Read More
Mar 03 1
How to Keep Your Feet From Aching
Posted by News editor
Your feet do a lot for you every day. They need some TLC in return. Stay ahead of foot pain with these 10 simple tips.
1. Insist on Comfort
Sure, you want your shoes to look great. But they also need to fit you just right. You’ll feel better in them and your feel will be happier when they do. When you’re shoe shopping and fall for a gorgeous but crazy-making pair, walk away, no matter how much you like the style. Don’t count on them “breaking in.”
2. Take the Wet Footprint Test
This simple test will help you pick the best shoes for you. Get your foot a little bit wet. Stand on a paper bag and then step off. Look at the image your foot left behind. If you see half of your arch, you have a normal foot or a neutral arch. If you see almost your entire foot, you have a flat foot. If you see just a thin line connecting the ball of your foot to your heel, you have high arches. Remember your type when you choose your shoes.
3. Choose the Proper Shoe for High Arches
Shoes with laces, buckles, or straps are best for this type of foot. Look for extra cushioning and a soft platform. Shoes with good arch support and a slightly raised heel can help keep your feet in fine form.
4. For Flat Feet Get the Right Insert
See a foot doctor to set you up with custom inserts for your shoes. They can be pricey, but they may really help. “They’re like eyeglasses for your feet,” Reid says.
5. There’s a Shoe for That, So Wear It
Do you run or play a specific sport three or more times a week? Treat your feet to a shoe made just for that activity. Good running shoes, for example, can help prevent heel pain, stress fractures, and other foot problems that runners sometimes get. Replace your sports shoes when they start to wear down.
6. Kick the High Heel Habit
“A 5-inch spike heel isn’t going to do anybody any good,” Bowman says. “It forces all the weight to the front of the foot and will cause pain.” High heels also put you on the fast track to bunions, corns, and other problems. If you love heels, try a shorter one. A two-inch heel is better than a four-inch heel. Don’t wear them every day, and don’t wear them when you will be on your feet for a long time. Choose chunky heels instead of skinny ones if you have flat feet.
7. Forgo Flip-Flops
Flip-flops are a good choice to protect your feet in locker room showers, pool areas, and the hot sand at the beach. But they can cause big problems, like heel pain, tendinitis, and stress fractures, especially if you have flat feet. Don’t wear flip-flops on a long-distance walk, for sports, or for yard work. They don’t give you enough shock absorption, arch support, or protection. Does the thong between your toes cause irritation? That can lead to blisters and infections. When they wear out, replace them.
8. Ease the Stress
Extra weight can lead to muscle fatigue as well as heel, arch, and muscle pain. Extra pounds can change your foot structure. You can develop spurs — bumps that grow on your foot bones — which can be painful. And they can make your feet and ankles swell.
9. Slip on a Shoe
Don’t go barefoot. It puts a strain on your foot and can lead to plantar warts and athlete’s foot. “If you’re walking in bare feet, you’re exposed to the elements. You can cut the skin on your feet,” Reid says.
10. Don’t Cut Corners
Do you know the best way to trim your toenails? Cut them straight across. If you clip them in the corners, that will lead to an ingrown nail, which becomes extremely painful over time. Like for any other part of your body, see your doctor if you have pain or notice anything unusual. With that kind of care, your feet will flourish.
WebMD Feature June 27, 2015
Read More
Mar 03 1
10 Solutions for Sore Knees
Posted by News editor
If you slip on the sidewalk, wipe out while playing with your kids, or wrench your knee all of a sudden, you know you need rest, ice, and a trip to your doctor. But what should you do about ongoing knee pain that just won’t quit? Maybe it’s a hangover from an old sports injury. Or perhaps it’s arthritis or another condition. Whatever the cause, these 10 tips will help you feel better and get back on your feet.
1. Do This Stretch DailyMany people with knee pain have trouble straightening their knee, says Ann Wendel, PT, a physical therapist in Virginia and spokesperson for the American Physical Therapy Association.Doing hamstring stretches helps your legs move better. To do them:
Lie on your back.
Wrap a sheet, towel, or strap around your foot to help you hold your knee straight. Keep the stretch gentle. It should not hurt.
Raise your leg and hold for about 30 seconds.
Repeat with the other leg.
2. Go Shoe Shopping
If your soles have worn thin, it’s time for a new pair of shoes. Shoes should provide enough protection so you can move without pain shooting up your leg to your knee. David Johnson MD an orthopaedic surgeon in Bristol said that some people do well, he says, with cushioned insoles or orthotics or from a change the alignment of their leg.
Love your stilettos? Save them for special occasions. High heels are bad news when you wear them too often. They pitch your body forward and make it harder to keep your knees aligned.
3. Consider Acupuncture
Acupuncture is all about unblocking qi, the Chinese medical word for life force. It uses very fine needles on certain points of the body. Western scientists don’t know exactly how it works. But a large study from Germany found that people with knee osteoarthritis had less pain and stiffness after 15 sessions of acupuncture than others who didn’t add it to their knee care.
4. Plank for Posture
Strengthen your core with exercises such as planks and Pilates to help improve your posture. When you slouch, your body mass shifts forward. That’s bad for your knees, so make posture a priority. The idea is to make your core — especially your abs and back — strong. Keep them engaged and you’ll stand taller.
Don’t know how to plank? It may be hard at first, but it gets easier with practice.
Get down on your hands and knees.
Extend your legs behind you with your toes on the ground and your heels in the air as if you were doing a push-up.
It’s OK to put your knees on the ground if you need to modify the pose.
Rest your upper body on your hands or your forearms.
Try to hold the pose for 10 seconds if you’ve never done one before. When that becomes easy, hold it a little longer.
5. Try Tai Chi
This traditional Chinese exercise improves your balance, strength, and flexibility. It’s a good choice for people with conditions such as knee pain caused by osteoarthritis. In one study, people who practiced Tai Chi twice a week had less knee pain after 12 weeks. Some even felt good enough to stop taking pain medication.
6. Heat Things Up or Cool Them Down
A heating pad or warm shower can loosen up a stiff joint and the achy muscles around it first thing in the morning. Ice soothes a knee that feels sore and helps fight post-workout or post-rehab inflammation.
7. Walk It Off
When you’re in pain, you might want to sit still. But it’s best to move as much as possible. To ease the pain, stay active to help strengthen the muscles that support your knees. One study showed that people with osteoarthritis who walked at least 6,000 steps a day were less likely to have movement trouble even after two years.
8. Get Wet Take your normal walk in the pool. When you stroll in the water, you’ll take pressure off your joints and still get a good workout. Swimming and water aerobics are good picks.9. Check Your Weight
If you’re overweight, one of the best things you can do for your knees is to shed some of those extra pounds. It will take pressure off all your joints, including your knees.
“For some people, losing as little as 10 to 20 pounds can make a huge difference in terms of how much pain they’re having,” Ray says.
Not sure if your weight is on track? Ask your doctor, who can also give you advice about safe ways to lose it.
10. Use Pain Meds Sparingly
For quick temporary relief, you can take an over-the-counter medication. Be sure, though, to follow the directions on the label. Some drugs like NSAIDS, including aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen, ease pain and fight inflammation. Still, they can lead to stomach upset, stomach or intestinal bleeding, and, in some cases, blood pressure or kidney problems. Paracetamol can help cut the pain. But if you accidentally take too much, it can cause liver damage. These drugs are all effective, so it comes down to your personal preference. If you have taken medicine for several weeks and the problem isn’t going away, it’s time to call your doctor. You might need physical therapy, prescription pain medication, or injections of steroids or hyaluronic acid.
Although knee pain rarely signals an emergency, if your knee feels very warm or swollen and you have a fever, head to the ER. You could have an infection that needs immediate treatment.
WebMD Feature July 10, 2015
Read More
Mar 02 1
Copper Bracelets: Do Copper Bracelets Help With Arthritis?
Posted by News editor
Many people say copper wristbands help ease the aches and pains of stiff and sore joints. It is certainly true that people do say this – even scientific research provides evidence that people taking part in trials sometimes say bracelets help with their pain. It is also true, however, that online shops and forums use marketing pitches to remind us of this fact that people do sometimes say that copper bracelets help – and people say it for good reason. But why do people say copper worn around the wrist is beneficial, and how does the evidence stack up?
Do copper bracelets have a beneficial effect, or not – especially for the arthritis pain that people often use them for?
Part of the problem in trying to answer the efficacy question is that copper bracelets almost certainly do no harm, and as they are not drugs or medical devices, there is no regulation of the health claims that are made for them. Also, to find out if they provide any benefit, there has been only limited research into the use of copper bracelets. This article will examine the research that has been done into any pain-relieving power – and then explain why copper wristbands are bought for health reasons.
What is the evidence behind the use of copper bracelets?
For the question of what evidence there is for the health effects of copper bracelets, the scientists give a short answer.
There is:
No good evidence that they reduce pain or inflammation
Fairly good evidence that they do not have any clinical effect.
These conclusions come from the best data out there so far: a widely available scientific comparison of different copper and magnetic bracelets used by people with rheumatoid arthritis, published in 2013.
This study was designed in such a way that, while it was not a large study, there were enough people taking part and wearing different kinds of bracelets that, should there have been even a minimal clinical improvement of 20% in pain ratings, the study would have found it. There was not.
The trial adds to a previous disappointment about the benefits of wearing metals in this way. A previous study looked at magnetic bracelets. It was the single randomised, placebo-controlled trial on the use of magnet therapy for rheumatoid arthritis that had been conducted before the new experiment on different kinds of bracelet. Dr. Stewart Richmond, who also led the 2013 study from the Department of Health Sciences at the University of York in the UK, wrote in the published paper for magnetic bracelets:
“The results of this trial, which compared strong versus weak magnets strapped to the knee, showed that there was no statistical difference in pain outcomes between experimental and control groups.”
And about the latest findings from comparing copper-only, magnetic and placebo bracelets, Dr. Richmond writes:
“It’s a shame that these devices don’t seem to have any genuine benefit. They’re so simple and generally safe to use.”
But he goes on to say that “people who suffer with rheumatoid arthritis may be better off saving their money, or spending it on other complementary interventions, such as dietary fish oils for example, which have far better evidence for effectiveness.”
Using copper bracelets for pain relief
When we see the sales descriptions for copper bracelets, sold within a wider industry for magnetic wristbands estimated to be worth hundreds of millions of dollars, we find that the information is often:
Impressive – “worn for healing by mankind for centuries” or “made from the finest pure copper”
Accurate – “copper is essential for our bodies” or “the metal has a natural ability to conduct heat.”
But what is the relevance of these two types of information when it comes to any effect against disease? What is the relevance to the human body at all, when copper is worn as a bracelet? Reputable sellers try not to tie such information to any direct claims for health, and that is because, however impressive or accurate this type of information is, it is not proof of any effect and provides no real promise. Even when reasonable product statements testify that “many people wear these for health benefits,” or many people say “these work for their condition,” these statements are not necessarily proof of a health benefit.
MNT 8 February 2016
Read More
Mar 02 1
New understanding of bones could lead to stronger materials, osteoporosis treatment
Posted by News editor
Researchers at Cornell University have discovered that bone does something better than most man-made materials: it bounces back after it breaks. In an article published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences this week Cornell scientists report that cancellous bone the spongy foam-like type of bone found near joints and in the vertebrae that is involved in most osteoporosis related fractures displays unique material properties that allow it to recover shape after it breaks.
When most things break, they fall apart and lose their mechanical function. To help make car and aircraft parts last longer, engineers apply surface treatments that harden the surfaces to prevent cracks from starting.
“Cancellous bone does the opposite, it has softer surfaces with a more brittle interior,” says Christopher Hernandez, Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering and Biomedical Engineering and principal investigator on the project. The combination of softer surfaces and brittle interior allows cancellous bone to direct cracks to locations where they are less detrimental, allowing the structure to recover its shape — bounce back — after it breaks.
“That’s totally not what we expected from an engineering standpoint,” says Ashley Torres, a graduate student in biomedical engineering who was one of two individuals to lead the study. “But it allows the material able to continue to function after failure.”
The discovery provides a compelling answer to the long-standing question as to why bones have foam-like regions. “We used to think that we had cancellous bone for the same reasons that we use foams in engineering, to absorb energy or make the structure more lightweight, but it turns out that cancellous bone does something different, the way cancellous bone breaks actually makes it heal better,” says Hernandez.
“In the future, this could help in the design of new materials that can take advantage of this ‘function after failure,'” says Jonathan Matheny the other graduate student leading the project. Material heterogeneity in structures, the group proposes, could help mitigate the effects of small structural flaws that are inevitable in manufacturing. Additionally, Matheny said these findings have implications for medicine, “to help us identify people at risk for an osteoporosis-related fracture and prescribe drug treatment.”
MNT 1 March 2016
Read More
Mar 02 1
New study of patients receiving physical therapy following total knee replacement raises new concerns over referral for profit
Posted by News editor
A new study concludes that patients who undergo total knee replacement (TKR) surgery and are referred to a physical therapist (PT) not affiliated with their surgeon’s practice have fewer visits and more individualized, one-on-one care. Conversely, the research showed that those who received physiotherapy services from a clinic owned by their physician had twice as many visits and were provided a less-intensive approach.
The study, e-published ahead of print in the scientific journal Health Services Research, examined whether the course of physical therapy treatments received by patients who undergo TKR surgery differs depending on whether the orthopedic surgeon (OS) has a financial stake in physical therapy services, often called physician self-referral. The authors reviewed 3,771 TKR episodes. Of those, 709 (18.8%) met criteria as self-referring. Of the remaining 3,062 episodes deemed non-self-referring (NSR), 2,215 (72.3%) were cases in which the OS who performed the TKR did not have an ownership interest in physical therapy services. For the remaining 847 NSR episodes, the OS had an ownership interest in physical therapy services, but the patient received services elsewhere.
Key findings included:
The duration of episodes of care provided by a physician-owned physical therapy practice were a week longer.
TKR patients who were treated in a clinic owned by their OS received an average of 8.3 more (or twice as many) PT visits than those who were treated in a clinic in which their OS had no financial stake.
When there is no financial incentive for the OS owner, the episodes of care were virtually identical to those received in a non-physician-owned clinic, making clear the link between financial profit and course of care.
Patients who received care in a non-physician-owned clinic tended to receive more one-on-one care than those who were self-referred to their physician’s own physical therapy services. Patients who were self-referred for treatment received less intensive interventions and more group care, an approach that requires more visits and potentially extends recovery time.
“When there is referral-for-profit, and from this data as related to group therapy and an extended number of visits, it stands to reason there is increased risk that the patient’s individual needs are of secondary importance to revenue. This has long been the concern here at the American Physical Therapy Association (APTA), and it is why we have fought so hard, alongside our partners in the Alliance for Integrity in Medicare Coalition, against physician-owned physical therapy services (POPTS),” said APTA President Sharon Dunn, PT, PhD, OCS. “This study provides further evidence that when the bottom line takes precedence in health care the patient loses. A patient’s welfare and recovery should always be the primary focus of treatment.”
Beyond the clinical implications, authors believe their study adds more weight to the argument against the in-office ancillary services (IOAS) exception to the Stark laws – federal legislation that prohibits most self-referral practices in Medicare. IOAS allows physicians to self-refer for several “common sense” or same-day treatments; unfortunately, it also creates loopholes for services that are rarely provided on the same day, including physical therapy, anatomic pathology, advanced imaging, and radiation therapy. Authors write that most research on these exceptions has reached the same conclusion as their own study: “that self-referral results in increased use of services and higher health care expenditures.”
The study was funded by the Foundation for Physical Therapy and was authored by Jean M. Mitchell, PhD, James D. Reschovsky, PhD, and Elizabeth Anne Reicherter, PT, DPT, PhD. Reicherter, who is currently employed by APTA, was with the Department of Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation Science, University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, when the study was conducted.
MNT 26 February 2016
Read More
Mar 02 1
Study finds freezing nerves prior to knee replacement improves outcomes
Posted by News editor
The first study of its kind has found that freezing nerves before knee replacement surgery combined with traditional pain management approaches significantly improves patient outcomes. The results of the preliminary retrospective study led by Vinod Dasa, MD, Associate Professor of Clinical Orthopaedics at LSU Health New Orleans School of Medicine, were published online Feb. 10, 2016, in the journal, The Knee, as an Article in Press.
The study, a retrospective chart review, investigated the cases of 100 patients with advanced osteoarthritis requiring total knee replacement in Dr. Dasa’s LSU Health New Orleans orthopaedic practice. Half of them were treated with standard multiple pain management options, before cryoneurolysis (nerve freezing) was introduced to the practice. The first 50 patients to undergo cryneurolysis in addition to multimodal pain management comprised the treatment group, which was compared to the control group who had standard therapy alone. The treatment and control groups were similar in terms of gender, age and body mass index. The only difference is that the treatment group received cryoneurolysis via an FDA-approved handheld device five days prior to surgery. The KOOS (Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score), PROMS (Patient-reported Outcomes Measurement Information System), WOMAC (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index) and Oxford Knee Score were used to measure outcomes.
“Patients in the treatment group had significantly shorter hospital stays, were prescribed significantly fewer opioids during the first 12 weeks post-operatively and had significantly fewer knee symptoms,” notes Dr. Vinod Dasa, Associate Professor of Clinical Orthopaedics at LSU Health New Orleans School of Medicine.
The ability to decrease hospital length of stay following total knee replacement should substantially reduce costs for hospitals and payers. In the present study, only 6% of patients treated with cryoneurolysis prior to surgery stayed in the hospital for two or more days compared to 67% of patients who did not receive this treatment. Similarly, almost half of patients treated with cryoneurolysis were discharged on the same day of surgery compared with only 14% in the control group. The shorter length of stay of the patients in the treatment group may be due to better local control of pain and a reduced need for nerve blocks that can impair motor function, as well as reduced use of opioids for pain control, which allows patients to walk and function well enough to go home sooner.
Approximately 600,000 knee replacements are performed each year, and this number is expected to increase in coming years. Although knee replacements usually are very successful in the long term, patients often experience a significant amount of pain during the immediate post-operative period, which can be a major hindrance to effective rehabilitation and restoration of function following surgery.
MNT 12 February 2016
Read More
Mar 02 1
Muscle Strengthening Aids New Knees
Posted by News editor
A new study suggests that a carefully focused program of muscle strengthening can make an important difference in how well patients recover after knee replacement. Patients who underwent six weeks of progressive muscle strengthening aimed at the quadriceps did much better than patients given conventional treatment. The study appears in the February issue of Arthritis Care & Research. Almost 500,000 knee replacements are done in the United States each year, and patients often report that they still have problems doing things like walking and climbing. For the study, more than 200 patients were divided into groups and given different treatments about four weeks after surgery. One received conventional treatment. Another was also given quadriceps strengthening, while a third was given the strengthening and electrical stimulation to make the muscles contract.
While the electrical stimulation did not appear to make a difference, the muscle strengthening appeared to bring the patients back to a level of functioning almost normal for their age. One of the authors, Lynn Snyder-Mackler of the University of Delaware, said in an e-mail message that knee replacement patients and their doctors should not underestimate the ability “to really improve their function.”
Read More
Mar 02 1
Caring for Hips and Knees to Avoid Artificial Joints
Posted by News editor
PROTECT your joints now, or pay later.
That’s the message of today’s column, which could be headlined Joint Economics.
If you are one of the more than 400,000 people a year who have already had one or more hips or knees replaced — or someone who already has no choice but to consider joining their ranks — we offer our sympathies or encouragement or even congratulations, depending on how you are faring. But this column is for people who are not yet destined to necessarily become part of those statistics.
Although the human body has an amazing capacity to repair itself, our joints are surprisingly fragile. When the cartilage that cushions bones wears away, it does not grow back. Thinning cartilage contributes to osteoarthritis, also known as degenerative arthritis, a painful and often debilitating condition.
Over time, arthritic joints can become so sore and inflamed that they need to be replaced with mechanical substitutes. A result: more pain, at least in the short term, and big medical bills. Fortunately, you can act to protect your joints now, to reduce your chances of needing to replace them later. And protect you should. The cost for a new hip or knee — the joints most commonly replaced — is $30,000 to $40,000. If you have insurance, your total out-of-pocket costs will be much less, but may still be $3,000 to $4,000. And don’t forget to factor in all those days of work you will miss before you get your new prosthetic.
Creaky joints are a growing national problem. The population is getting older, more people are overweight, and an increasing number of children and young adults are playing serious sports and getting seriously injured — all factors that contribute to osteoarthritis.
“Arthritis used to show up in people during their late 40s and 50s, now we’re seeing it earlier, like in the 30s and 40s,” said Dr. Patience White, a rheumatologist and the chief public health officer at the Arthritis Foundation.
The total national bill for hip replacements in 2007 was $19 billion, and $26 billion for knees, according to the federal Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. Those figures are expected to rise significantly in the coming decade, Dr. White said. So protecting your joints will do more than save wear and tear on you and your budget. You could also be doing your part to curtail the national health care bill. If your joints are still intact, or just beginning to creak, here are some ways to keep osteoarthritis at bay.
CONTROL YOUR WEIGHT The more you weigh, the more pressure on your joints, which can lead to joint damage. When you walk, each knee bears a force equivalent to three to six times the body’s weight. If you weigh a mere 120 pounds, your knees are taking a 360-pound, or more, beating with every step.
Studies have found a connection between being overweight and developing osteoarthritis of the knees, and to a lesser extent the hips. One recent review found that 27 percent of hip replacements and 69 percent of knee replacements might be attributed to obesity. For reasons not well understood, weight is more of risk factor for women than men.
“A woman’s risk for developing O.A. is linearly related to her weight,” Dr. David Felson, a rheumatologist and arthritis prevention specialist at Boston University School of Medicine, said, referring to osteoarthritis.
“Men who are moderately overweight are not as at high a risk as a woman of the same weight,” Dr. Felson said.
But a woman can substantially lower her risk by shedding pounds. One study in which Dr. Felson was a co-author found that when a woman lost 10 pounds, her risk of arthritis of the knee dropped by half.
GO LOW-IMPACT Although no definitive link has been found between osteoarthritis of the knee and running (or any other sport), sports medicine doctors discourage their patients from running on hard pavement, playing tennis on concrete or activities like skiing over lots of moguls.
“Impact sports put too much stress on the joints, particularly the knees,” said Dr. Donald M. Kastenbaum vice chairman of orthopedic surgery at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. “These activities may lead to O.A. and they definitely can escalate the progression of the condition.”
If you run regularly, try to do so on a track or treadmill and consider swapping one run a week for something low-impact like swimming, biking, lifting weights or tai chi.
AVOID INJURY Easier said than done, of course. But major injuries, typically the type that require surgery, greatly increase your risk for osteoarthritis. According to one big study, 10 to 20 years after a person injures the anterior cruciate ligament or menisci of the knee, that person has a 50% chance of having arthritis of the knee.
Those rates are even higher when the injury happens in your 30s or 40s, Dr. Felson said. “As you move into middle age, it’s crucial to avoid sports that predispose you to injury,” he said. Weekend warriors, who sit at a desk Monday through Friday, and then run or play basketball for five hours straight on the weekend, are at a high risk for injury, and thus for osteoarthritis.
GET FIT It makes sense. The better toned your muscles are, the less likely you are to injure yourself (unless you are also playing football every Saturday morning). And “building muscles up around joints acts like a shock absorber, spreading stress across the joint,” said Dr. Laith M. Jazrawi, chief of the sports medicine division at NYU Hospital for Joint Diseases. Pilates, moderate weight lifting, vinyasa yoga and swimming are all nonimpact forms of exercise that firm up your muscles without jeopardizing your cartilage.
No definitive link exists between increased flexibility and lower, or higher, rates of osteoarthritis. But some doctors interviewed said they believed that by regularly stretching your muscles you are less likely to injure your joints. It can’t hurt to judiciously stretch your muscles after a workout. And even if it won’t protect your joints from deterioration, it will certainly make your muscles feel better.
BE SKEPTICAL Don’t waste your money on specialized nutrients. Shark cartilage, glucosamine and chondroitin — popular supplements marketed for healthy joints — can be expensive and probably are of limited benefit, many specialists say.
“There’s some evidence to suggest glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate may be helpful in O.A. once it has started, but overall the results are inconclusive,” Dr. Jazrawi said. As for shark cartilage, there is no evidence to suggest that it has any benefit for treating the symptoms or the disease, he said. Joints are like car parts. With proper care and maintenance, they last longer.
New York Times
Read More
Mar 02 1
New Models Of Implants Not Better, Study Finds
Posted by News editor
A new study suggests that the recent technology for artificial hips and knees did not perform any better than older, less expensive designs.
The study, which draws on data from Australia’s orthopedic registry, covered implants introduced from 2003 to 2007 and was published this week. The findings are significant for patients in the United States because many of the new designs, like so-called metal-on-metal hips, are widely used here. Those implants, which have both a ball and cup made of metal, are expected to fail prematurely in tens of thousands of patients rather than lasting 15 years or more as artificial joints are supposed to do.
The Australian study showed that not a single new artificial hip or knee introduced over a recent five-year period was any more durable than older ones. In fact, 30 percent of them fared worse. The Australian study concluded that both patients and taxpayer-financed health care programs were paying a high cost because surgeons were using newly designed implants, introduced with little test data, over existing designs that had track records. ”Not only has the introduction of this technology been potentially detrimental to patient care, but the current approach may be an important driver of increased health care costs,” the review concluded.
Dr. Stephen E. Graves, the director of the Australian registry and a co-author of the study, said he believed that surgeons, hospitals and regulators should closely look at the review’s results. In the case of the all-metal hips, some experts say they believe that replacing them may cost companies, insurers and taxpayers billions of dollars.
”There needs to be a careful re-evaluation of current deficiencies in regulation,” Dr. Graves said in a recent e-mail.
The Australian review is part of a special issue of a medical journal, The Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery, devoted to studies that examine the benefits and the limitations of orthopedic registries. While America does not have a registry, the Food and Drug Administration is financing efforts to see whether data from sources like overseas databases and registries run by hospitals here can be used to better monitor device performance. Many experts argue that such efforts are essential because 700,000 Americans undergo hip or knee replacement every year, and that number is expected to increase sharply as the population ages. In a registry, information about a patient is entered into a database when he or she receives an implant. Then, when that patient undergoes surgery again to replace that device, more data is added. By looking at large numbers of patients followed in a registry, researchers can tell whether certain device models are failing prematurely at significantly higher rates.
But researchers in England, which has a registry, pointed out in another article in the same medical journal that a product-related disaster had likely already occurred before it was detected in a such a database. As a result, some experts say they believe that there must be greater scrutiny of implants either before or after they go on the market to detect problems earlier. Another review in the same issue found that the results of published studies that accompany the introduction of new implants could bear little resemblance to registry findings about a device’s success once it went into broader use. That problem occurs, the review by Australian researchers found, because surgeons involved in the original published reports are often involved in its development and may have a financial stake in them. In addition, such reviews tend to be short term. Some surgeons say they believe that one type of all-metal implant known as a resurfacing device is permitting some patients to remain more active. However, data indicates that such benefits are limited to one group of patients, namely larger, middle-aged men.
This month, bipartisan legislation was introduced in the Senate that could force manufacturers to track the performance of implants like artificial hips after they have been approved for sale. Proponents of the bill acknowledge that the measure faces an uphill fight. Both device producers and their allies in Congress have maintained that any additional F.D.A. regulations would slow the development and marketing of innovative products that benefit patients. For his part, Dr. Graves, the Australian official, said he believed that such arguments were misleading.
”The purpose of regulation is not to impede innovation but to ensure safety and effectiveness of medical devices,” he stated. ”This protects patients, but it also protects companies.”
New York Times December 23, 2011
Read More
1 2 >
Popular
Latest
Comments
3D-printed bone structure allows tissue regeneration
March 02, 2016
Why the rising cost of social care cannot be ignored
March 02, 2016
10 Solutions for Sore Knees
March 03, 2016
New Models Of Implants Not Better, Study Finds
March 02, 2016
How to Keep Your Feet From Aching
March 03, 2016
The paralysed man who can ride a bike
March 05, 2016
Doctors urge schools to ban tackling in rugby
March 05, 2016
Rise in hip replacements for under 60s
March 05, 2016
How to Keep Your Feet From Aching
March 03, 2016
10 Solutions for Sore Knees
March 03, 2016
Find an expert and get a quotation on your private Orthopaedic Surgery
Getting the best surgery,…
Get professional advice on a product
A quick and simple…
Get an On-line Orthopaedic Opinion
An excellent and simple…
Glucosamine and Chondroitin Sulphate.
The less expensive version…
Padded Mesh Crutches / Wheelchair Gloves
Using crutches or a…
Product Tags
Ankle and Calf Back and Spine Children Elbow Exercise Equipment Foot and Orthotics General mobility, travel and healthcare Head and Neck Hip and Groin Knee & Thigh Nutritional Supplements, Glucosamine, Vitamins Services Shoulder Wrist and Hand
Categories
Categories Select Category Arthritis Treatment Hip Surgery Knee surgery NHS Orthopaedic Surgery Other Physiotherapy Sports Injury
Archives
Archives Select Month March 2016 May 2014
Search for:
About the Orthopaedic Store
The Orthopaedic Store is your resource where you can find information about any Orthopaedic, Rheumatological or Sports Injury problem. We have detailed patient information sheets about each diagnosis and condition from ACL ligament injury, Knee pain, Carpal tunnel syndrome to Hallux Valgus, sore feet and bunions.
We also provide detailed information as how you can manage the condition, what treatment, physiotherapy, medication, injections or orthopaedic splints, aids or orthotics may help. If you need to consider surgery then we describe the indications and outcomes from the full range of Orthopaedic Surgery procedures and identify our selected experts and hospitals where you might seek advice.
News Categories
Arthritis Treatment
Hip Surgery
Knee surgery
NHS
Orthopaedic Surgery
Other
Physiotherapy
Sports Injury
Recent Posts
The paralysed man who can ride a bike
Doctors urge schools to ban tackling in rugby
Rise in hip replacements for under 60s
How to Keep Your Feet From Aching
10 Solutions for Sore Knees
Product Tags
Achilles tendonitis ankle sprain & ligament injury anti-inflammatory medication bunion toe calf compartment syndrome carpal tunnel syndrome clavicle fracture flat feet foot pain groin injury hallux valgus big toe hammer toes hamstring heel pain plantar fasciitis hip arthritis hip pain joint replacement knee arthritis knee ligament knee pain lumbar support metatarsalgia of the foot muscle pain / strain neck pain Orthopaedic Surgeon orthopaedic surgery osteoporosis painful walking patellar tendoniits physiotherapy aids plantar fascitis rehabilitation aids rheumatoid arthritis shin splints shoe wear shoulder pain sports injury tendonitis tennis elbow thumb pain toe pain trigger finger whiplash neck injury wrist pain
© Copyright 2016. All Rights Reserved by Orthopaedics.org.uk | www.kneeandsportsinjuryclinic.co.uk
Orthopaedics.org provides this Internet site for your general information only. The advice contained within the web site and or any advice provided at any time by any staff or documentation of Orthopaedics.org is provided only as a limited review based on the limited information provided. The service does not take account of the medical history, other medical conditions, medical ailments, medications or drugs prescribed or taken, and has not reviewed a complete patient history or undertaken any examination. Any opinion expressed is limited by these constraints and is only to be used as a second opinion and does not assume or take over any care from the primary treating local clinician or doctor. Any opinion expressed is not to be taken as a full clinical consultation or relied upon for any treatment decisions. A full personal clinical consultation is available on request. You should always check with your local health care professional and original treating doctor or clinician before changing a treatment plan or submitting to any treatment. The information provided here is not a substitute for medical care. If you have or suspect you have a health problem, you should consult your health care professional. If you suspect that you have any infection, thrombosis or clotting disorder, tumor, cancer or deterioration in your condition or symptoms or feel unwell at any time, if the symptoms deteriorate or get worse then please consult you treating doctor or seek emergency care immediately.