Primarily Inattentive ADD: Inattentive ADHD Medication and Grapefruit Juice a Sour Combination
Primarily Inattentive ADD
Learn about Inattentive ADD, ADHD Inattentive (ADHD I ,ADHD-PI). Find Information on ADD Medicines and Supplements, ADD Tests and the Diagnosis of Inattentive ADD in Adults and Kids.
FORUM & RESOURCES
Welcome
Disclosure & Privacy
Tess Messer
Home
The Primarily Inattentive Child
Inattentive ADHD Medication and Grapefruit Juice a Sour Combination
Stimulant drugs, supplements, anti-anxiety, anti-depressants and other medications for inattentive ADHD or Sluggish Cognitive Tempo should not be taken with citrus juice. Grapefruit juice, in particular, can interfere with the metabolism of many drugs and should be avoided.
A study performed in France tested 54 drugs and found that the metabolism of 42 of the drugs was altered by combining them with grapefruit juice. The reason for this is that grapefruit juice and other citrus contains naringin which is a substance than can affect the medication break down action of enzymes in the gut. The action of these enzymes, known as CYP3A enzymes, are diminished or enhanced by grapefruit juice in many people.
Some of the effects of ‘party’ drugs containing amphetamines are enhanced by combining the drug with grapefruit juice. This reported increased effect has not been well studied but there is reason to believe that the metabolism of amphetamines such as Adderall and Methylphenidate will be different if consumed with a citrus such as grapefruit.
It is possible that when you consume your stimulant medication with grapefruit juice or other citrus, more of the stimulant medication will stay in your blood stream and this will increase substantially the potency of your medication. The danger is that the increase can reach dangerous levels and can, in the worse case, cause life threatening side effects.
As ever present as citrus juice is on our morning breakfast table, few studies have been performed on the interaction of citrus and medicines but most physicians agree that you should avoid drinking grapefruit juice within an hour of consuming any medication.
Over the holidays I spent some time with my aunts and uncles. One of my uncles had a near fatal allergic reaction to his blood pressure medicine. The medicine reached an increased level because he took it while eating grapefruit and he ended up in ICU for 10 days after his tongue and throat swelled (angiodema) closing his wind pipe (trachea). I decided to post about this interaction because I realized that, though it is well known in the medical community, most non-medical people are unaware of citrus/medication interactions.
Unfortunately for him, he has now developed an angioedema reaction to many other drugs and foods as a the result of this interaction of grapefruit and his ace inhibitor drug. About 10% of people treated with Ace Inhibitors will have an angioedema reaction like my uncle had and a few of them will develop idiopathic angioedema (when you start to swell for unknown reasons).
You can still drink your coffee with grapefruit juice as the effects of caffeine and naringin have been studied and the effect and levels of caffeine are not changed by the citrus, Do not, however, take your Inattentive ADHD or Sluggish Cognitive Tempo medications or supplements with grapefruit juice as it is likely that the effects of these therapies will be affected.
Grapefruit juice and drugs: a hazardous combination?
Lohezic-Le Devehat F, Marigny K, Doucet M, Javaudin L.
Therapie. 2002 Sep-Oct;57(5):432-45.
Labels: adhd medication, grapefruit and medication, grapefruit and stimulant, grapefruit juice and stimulant
No comments:
Post a Comment
Note: Only a member of this blog may post a comment.
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Commanding Attention: A Parent and Patient Guide to More ADHD Treatment
Get The Ebook Today!
Inattentive ADHD Students Success
Research References
Inattentive ADHD PDF.
TYPE IN SEARCH BOX BELOW TO SEARCH OLDER PRIMARILY INATTENTIVE ADD POSTS.
Custom Search
Popular Posts
The Best Medicine for Inattentive ADHD
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR INATTENTIVE ADD AT THE BEST BLOG OF THE WEEK!! The best medicine for Inattentive ADHD is probably not Ritalin. ...
Sleep problems and ADD
Sleep Problems and ADD Inattentive ADD (ADHD-PI) and Sluggish Cognitive Tempo (SCT) often co-occurs with sleep problems. The most com...
Ritalin vs Adderall for Inattentive ADD, The Medical Literature
Ritalin or Aderall I have been asked by several of you to post the citations in the medical literature regarding Ritalin vs Adderall f...
Inattentive ADHD Symptoms, Causes and Treatment, An Overview
Inattentive ADHD Symptoms, Causes, Rx Overview This is the overview page for Primarily Inattentive ADD. Here you will find a broad v...
The Primarily Inattentive Child
I wanted to give you a sense of how a child with Primarily Inattentive ADHD might appear at school. Do you see that kid in the corner ...
Russell Barkley
Russell Barkley, Ph.D. is one of the ADHD researchers that believes that the primarily inattentive type of ADHD is a different disorder fr...
Welcome to Primarily Inattentive ADHD
PRIMARILY INATTENTIVE ADD NOMINATED FOR HEALTH ACTIVIST AWARD I write a blog because I had inattentive ADHD as a child and because I w...
Teresa M.
ADD & ADHD Community
Website Award- Top Site
Outstanding Website Honor
Blog Outstanding Recognition
Commanding Attention Book
Read About Commanding Attention
Tess's Ten Tips Ebook
Read About the Ten Tips Ebook
Simple theme. Theme images by friztin. Powered by Blogger.