Childhood vaccinations not linked to development of autism, University of Sydney finds - ENT Wellbeing Sydney
Skip to content
Skip to footer
ENT Wellbeing Sydney
Nutrition • Skincare • Speech Therapy
Home
About Us
Nutrition
Skincare
Speech
Articles
News
Recipes
Contact
Home > Childhood vaccinations not linked to development of autism, University of Sydney finds
May 26, 2014 By @entwellbeing
Childhood vaccinations not linked to development of autism, University of Sydney finds
First quantitative data analysis of vaccination and autism link
International review was published in medical journal Vaccine
Fall in vaccination linked to rise in preventable disease outbreaks
THERE is no evidence to link the development of autism with childhood vaccines, research from the University of Sydney has found.
Measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine, which is usually given to children 12-18 months for free in Australia. Source: AFP
A systematic international review — the first of its kind — was undertaken examining studies from medical databases, including cohort studies with more than 1.25 million children and an additional five case-controlled studies with 9920 children.
The results found there was no statistical data to support a relationship between childhood vaccination for the commonly-used measles, mumps, rubella, diphtheria, tetanus and whooping cough vaccines and the development of autism or autism spectrum disorders.
Associate Professor Guy Eslick from the Sydney Medical School said these vaccines were the ones which had received the most attention by anti-vaccination groups.
“A rising awareness of autism cases and the claimed, but not proven link, to childhood vaccinations has led to both an increased distrust in the trade between vaccine benefit outweighing potential risks and an opportunity for disease resurgence,” he said.
The data consistently shows the lack of evidence for an association between autism, autism spectrum disorders and childhood vaccinations
Lachlan, who had a liver transplant at 18 months, has such a weak immune system he cannot be vaccinated and relies on the community being vaccinated to protect him. Source: News Corp Australia
“This has in recent times become a major public health issue with vaccine-preventable diseases rapidly increasing in the community due to the fear of a ‘link’ between vaccinations and autism.”
Prof Eslick said this was especially concerning given the fact that there have been 11 measles outbreaks in the US since 2000 and NSW also saw a spike in measles infections in 2012.
“Vaccine-preventable diseases clearly still hold a presence in modern day society, and the decision to opt out of vaccination schedules needed to be urgently and properly evaluated,” he said.
There had been no quantitative data analysis of any relationship between autism or autism spectrum disorders and childhood vaccinations to date, Prof Eslick said.
“Our review is the first to do so, and we found no statistical evidence to support this idea,” he said.
An Iraqi child is given a polio vaccine in Baghdad this month. Health officials aims to vaccinate millions of children against the highly contagious polio virus after an outbreak of the disease. Picture: Afp Source: AFP
“Furthermore, our review found the components of the widely-used vaccines (thimerosal or mercury), nor the measles, mumps and rubella combination vaccines (MMR) are not associated with the development of autism or an autism-spectrum disorder.”
The increase in parents deciding not to vaccinate their children has substantially decreased ‘herd immunity’ among populations, subsequently increasing the risk of catching potentially more serious infectious diseases, Prof Eslick said.
“The risks incurred by not immunising a child is increasing substantially as the level of immunisation coverage in the population falls,” he said.
“The data consistently shows the lack of evidence for an association between autism, autism spectrum disorders and childhood vaccinations, regardless of whether the intervention was through combination vaccines (MMR) or one of its components, providing no reason to avoid immunisation on these grounds.”
The results were published in the medical journal Vaccine.
Source
Herald Sun
Filed Under: News Tagged With: Autism
About @entwellbeing
Wellbeing is not just the absence of disease or illness. It is a complex combination of a person’s physical, mental, emotional and social health factors. Wellbeing is strongly linked to happiness and life satisfaction. In short, wellbeing could be described as how you feel about yourself and your life.
We are Dietitians & Nutritionists, Skincare Specialists and Speech Pathologists. ENT Wellbeing, located at ENT Clinic in Randwick, Sydney, are here to provide advice, treatment and practical remedies. Achieve total wellbeing - Contact us today!
ENT Clinic on Google +
Newsletter
Leave this field empty if you're human:
Footer
Contact Info
ENT Clinic Randwick
Suite 70b Royal Randwick Shopping Centre
73-109 Belmore Road
Randwick NSW 2031
Phone 02 8188 2570
Local call number 1300 123 368
Search
Search this website
Stay Connected
BLOG | DISCLAIMER | PRIVACY POLICY | COPYRIGHT © 2019 · ENT CLINIC · ALL RIGHTS RESERVED | SITEMAP