Hereditary Cancer
Biotech Check
Biotechnology News & Articles
Hereditary Cancer
January 9, 2015 By biotechcheck.com Leave a Comment
Shares
Hereditary cancer includes all types of cancer that develops because of gene mutation passed from a parent to child. Inheritance of gene mutation does not mean a person might develop cancer, but it increases the risks of having cancer. According to research, cancer is not inherited, but the gene mutation that increases the chances of developing various types of cancer is the one that may be passed from parent to child (Ellis, 2011). This paper discusses the common types of hereditary cancer.
The commonly inherited types of cancer include:
Breast Cancer
All types of breast cancer are caused by multiple gene mutation. Sometimes the initial mutation can be inherited or may occur after conception. Inherited gene mutation is said to be responsible of all 27% cases of breast cancer. There are two types of mutation associated with early breast cancer in many families. These include BRCA1 and BRCA2.
Prostate Cancer
Prostate cancer is said run across some families. This suggests that in some cases, there might be an inherited or genetic factor. Having a brother or father with prostate cancer is said to double the risk of developing this disease. The risk is said to be higher for those who have an affected brother, and lower to those with an affected father. However, it is higher for those with several affected relatives especially if the relatives developed it at a young age.
Ovarian Cancer
Although 90% of ovarian cancer cases develop sporadically, 10% of women with ovarian cancer are said to inherit the gene mutations that caused the disease. Ovarian cancer in women with families with the history of ovarian cancer develops at an early age than sporadic cancer.
Colorectal Cancer
Colorectal cancer is said to be inherited or hereditary when several generations of a family have developed the disease. Several gene mutations that cause colorectal cancer and allow it to be transmitted to various family members have been found. These include familial adenomarous polyposis and nonpolyposis colorectal cancer. These two can affect both sexes, and children with parents having these gene mutations have 50% chance of inheriting the gene mutations (Rodriguez-Bigas, 2010).
References
Ellis, C. N. (2011). Inherited cancer syndromes: Current clinical management. New York: Springer.
Rodriguez-Bigas, M. A. (2010). Hereditary colorectal cancer. New York: Springer.
Shares
Filed Under: Uncategorized
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Copyright © 2019 · Biotech Check
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
Privacy Preferences
I Agree
Privacy Preference Center
Options
Consent Management
Consent Management
Privacy Policy
Required
You read and agreed to our Privacy Policy.
More Information
Close your account?
Your account will be closed and all data will be permanently deleted and cannot be recovered. Are you sure?
Continue
Cancel