Methanol test: MedlinePlus Medical Encyclopedia
Skip navigation
U.S. National Library of Medicine
The navigation menu has been collapsed.
Menu
Health Topics
Drugs & Supplements
Videos & Tools
About MedlinePlus
Show Search
Search MedlinePlus
GO
About MedlinePlus
Site Map
FAQs
Customer Support
Health Topics
Drugs & Supplements
Videos & Tools
Español
You Are Here:
Home →
Medical Encyclopedia →
Methanol test
URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003563.htm
Methanol test
To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.
Methanol is a substance that can occur naturally in small amounts in the body. The main sources of methanol in the body include fruits, vegetables, and diet drinks that contain aspartame.
Methanol is a type of alcohol that is sometimes used for industrial and automotive purposes. It can be toxic if you eat or drink it in certain amounts. Methanol is sometimes called "wood alcohol."
A test can be done to measure the amount of methanol in your blood.
How the Test is Performed
A blood sample is needed. The blood is collected from a vein, most often in your arm or hand venipuncture.
How to Prepare for the Test
No special preparation is necessary.
How the Test will Feel
When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain. Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing where the needle was inserted.
Why the Test is Performed
This test is done to see if you have a toxic level of methanol in your body. You should not drink methanol. However, some people accidentally drink methanol, or drink it on purpose as a substitute for grain alcohol (ethanol).
Methanol can be very poisonous if you eat or drink it in toxic amounts. Methanol poisoning mainly affects the digestive system, nervous system, and eyes.
Normal Results
A normal result is below a toxic cut-off level.
What Abnormal Results Mean
An abnormal result means you may have methanol poisoning.
Risks
Risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:
Excessive bleeding
Fainting or feeling lightheaded
Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)
Images
Blood test
References
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. Emergency Response Safety and Health Database. Methanol: systemic agent. Updated May 28, 2015. www.cdc.gov/niosh/ershdb/EmergencyResponseCard_29750029.html. Accessed January 20, 2017.
Nelson LS, Ford MD. Acute poisoning. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. Goldman-Cecil Medicine. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 110.
Review Date 11/15/2016
Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
PoisoningRead more
NIH MedlinePlus MagazineRead more
Health Topics A-ZRead more
A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, also known as the American Accreditation HealthCare Commission (www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability. A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy, editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of Hi-Ethics and subscribes to the principles of the Health on the Net Foundation (www.hon.ch).
The information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2019, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.
About MedlinePlus
Site Map
FAQs
Customer Support
Get email updates
Subscribe to RSS
Follow us
Disclaimers
Copyright
Privacy
Accessibility
Quality Guidelines
Viewers & Players
MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
For Developers
U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health
Page last updated: 01 April 2019