Cell phone radiation causes brain cancer, says pediatric conference
Search for:
News
Food News
WARNING: Popular sweetener stimulates tumor growth, plus 3 other horrible health effects
Vitamin C News
Vitamin E Alert: Researchers discover surprising reason why you may be deficient in this critical an…
Cancer News
Cancer survival NEWS: Breast cancer patients discover the true value of physical activity
EMF Updates
Parents demand removal of cell tower from elementary school after four students and three teachers d…
Videos
Podcasts
Shop
Pediatric conference declares cell phones and wireless cause brain cancer and other health issues
by: Dena Schmidt, staff writer | August 15, 2016
(NaturalHealth365) Today, smartphones are everywhere – even our children use wireless technology. Yet, most caring parents don’t seem to be worried about the dangers of cell phones. Unfortunately, new studies are definitively linking cell phone radiation to health issues in children and the unborn babies carried by pregnant women.
A pediatric conference held at the Baltimore Convention Center provided a forum for health experts to discuss the findings. Yale and Harvard scientists and doctors were particularly vocal about potentially harmful cell phone radiation to the brain development of unborn children. A correlation was found between cell phone use during pregnancy and behavioral problems manifesting in the children as they develop.
Cell phone radiation exposure linked to cognitive impairment and cancer
Research from the International Agency for Research on Cancer showed that pregnant mice exposed to cell phones regularly had babies that tended to have memory issues and hyperactivity. Dr. Martha Herbert of Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard University found links between autism and the electromagnetic field of wireless internet. Wireless was found to disturb the brain’s calcium signaling and information flow, causing children to become agitated.
Cell phone radiation exposure has been linked to many types of cancer, including breast and brain cancer. A U.S. National Toxicology Program study found a strong correlation between cell phone use and brain and heart tumors. In fact, children’s brains absorb up to 10 times as much cell phone radiation from wireless technology as adults due to their thinner craniums, putting them at higher risk for impairment and brain cancer.
The younger the child, the higher the risk
The average adult checks their cell phone dozens of times a day, in some cases over 100 times. The brains of infants and young children are extremely vulnerable to cell phone radiation, whether from in the womb or near the parent checking their phone.
Therefore, it is crucial for pregnant women to keep their cell phones away from their bellies, especially near the end of their term. Ideally, a hands-free device should be used, with the phone kept as far away as possible. Young children should also be limited in terms of their use of cell phones, tablets and any other devices linked with wireless technology.
Did you know? The liver is the most important detoxifying organ in the body. When the liver can’t effectively neutralize and dispose of toxins, they accumulate in the body. Two essential nutrients for healthy liver function are milk thistle and glutathione. These two ingredients - plus much more – are now available in an advanced liver support formula. Click here to learn more.
The U.S lags behind many other countries in terms of researching the hazards of wireless technology and cell phone radiation. The Environmental Health Trust is currently petitioning wireless providers and cell phone manufacturers to assist in funding research about prevention and treatment of cell phone radiation exposure.
Evidence of negative impact of wireless radiation on children presented at Baltimore Pediatric Conference
Much about the long-term use of cell phones is unknown, since they have only been in wide use for a couple of decades. However, studies have connected high use with negative effects on the ability to focus, which can lead to behavioral problems.
The CTIA, which represents the U.S. wireless communications industry, cites an FDA statement claiming there’s “not enough evidence” to show wireless technology and devices can cause health risks. Clearly, this is false.
We should all take steps to minimize our exposure to wireless internet and cell phone radiation, but the youngest among us require and deserve special protections.
References:
https://biorxiv.org/content/biorxiv/early/2016/05/26/055699.full.pdf
https://www.baltimoresun.com/health/blog/bal-cell-phones-child-brain-story.html
Cancer & Heart Disease
NaturalHealth365
NaturalHealth365 is a premium source of trending and popular health-related news, science, testimony & research articles on the most up to date and relevant natural health information. The Food & Nutrition articles found herein are meant to inform and advise our site visitors on eating healthy, nutritious foods and safely using supplements and vitamins to achieve optimal health.
Join thousands of daily visitors staying informed and involved on Natural Health 365! We seek out scientific solutions with proven results and it is our mission to keep you up to date on the latest information! Articles range in topic from the causes of cancer, cancer-fighting foods, to natural cancer treatments, cancer prevention & specific research-backed information on Breast Cancer, Prostate Cancer, etc. We also write extensively on Heart Disease because it is accounts for 25% of all deaths in the United States – that’s one in four! We take an in depth look at the symptoms of heart disease, the causes and treatment of high blood pressure, benefits of CoQ10 and healthy, natural ways to unclog arteries.
Read Some of Our Most Popular Articles
Grape Seed Extract More Effective than Chemotherapy, Olive Oil is AWESOME, Store Bought Almond Milk is Basically Just Sugar Water, Antioxidants, Cancer & Blueberries.
Food News is one of our major post categories on www.naturalhealth365.com and contains over 350 articles that cover a wide range of subjects; including but not limited to…
Food News
Cancer Cures
Cancer
Cancer Treatment
Cancer Causes
Cancer Prevention
Breast Cancer
Prostate Cancer
Alkaline Foods
Heart Disease
Heart Disease Prevention
Foods that Lower Blood Pressure
Clogged Arteries
CoQ10 Benefits
Healthy Fats
Heart Disease Symptoms
Blood Pressure
More Food & Nutrition Articles
Fresh Organic Produce Fights Cancer, Susan G. Komen on Organic Foods, Hemp Seeds for Inflammation, Pau D’Arco For Improved Immunity
In addition to publishing articles on cutting edge natural cancer treatments and heart disease prevention, we also aim to connect healthy lifestyles, diets and balanced consumption of dietary supplements to long-lasting cancer-free health and adding happy years to your life. For example, did you know that the amount of emotional stress in your life can contribute to your risk of cancer? Or that raw, expeller-pressed olive oil has cancer fighting qualities? Perhaps you didn’t know that Fresh Organic Produce has been found to have higher concentrations of key, cancer-fighting anti-oxidants and vitamins than conventional produce? You can find all of that information and more right here on Natural Health 365.
Join Our Email List
Each day, visitors sign up for our weekly informative news sent directly to their email or RSS feed agregator. We send out three weekly emails keeping you informed and involved on the latest Natural Health News, information about our FREE SHOWS and updates on your favorite topics including Food & Nutrition, Cancer & Heart Disease, Vaccines & Autism, & – of course – GMOs & Dangerous Chemicals!
You can also check out our VIP member area, The Inner Circle, where you get access to thousands of recorded interview (audio/video), pod casts, & literature by some of the worlds foremost experts on Natural Health and Treatments that could save you thousands! Learn how to REVERSE disease without the use of toxic and expensive medications.
Natural Health 365 also is a venue for webinars on various topics, has a flourishing e-commerce store where you can purchase vitamins, pro biotics, supplements and unique products such as Grazing Goat Whey Protein.
Grazing Goat Whey Protein™ is formulated exclusively for the health-conscious consumer looking for the finest whey protein nutritional supplement on the planet.* Best of all, this goat whey protein comes from goats that graze – 365 days per year – on pesticide and chemical free pastures. No hormones, antibiotics or pesticides are used – ever. This product is non-GMO and gluten free.
Submit
RELATED NEWS
Parents demand removal of cell tower from elementary school after four students and three teachers develop cancer
(Naturalhealth365) As communication companies intensify their efforts to institute 5G wireless across …
Electromagnetic frequencies blamed for MASSIVE decline in health globally, stunning research reveals
(NaturalHealth365) If you are paying attention to those around you, it may …
Government overreach: New FCC order allows private wireless companies to strip power from local authorities
(NaturalHealth365) America has long been recognized as a world leader in technology. …
World’s first WiFi homes supported by Amazon
(NaturalHealth365) 5G wireless technology is coming –ready or not – as corporate …
← Previous Article
Next Article →
MOST POPULAR
This Week
1
Gates Foundation quietly plans to control nutritional supplements for the ‘good of humanity’
2
Bad news about the Impossible Burger: Ushering in a new wave of genetically engineered foods
3
Shocking NEW research exposes the truth about ‘moderate’ alcohol consumption and your risk of a stroke
4
NYC Mayor threatens unvaccintaed residents: Get vaccinated or pay $1,000 fine
5
Multiple chemical sensitivities is an overlooked worldwide health epidemic causing massive health problems
6
WARNING: Popular sweetener stimulates tumor growth, plus 3 other horrible health effects
All Time
1
Microwave oven ALERT: The dangers of microwaves revealed
2
A safe and effective way to detox aluminum, scientist reports
3
Eggs EXPOSED: The difference between pasture raised, free-range and cage free
4
5 reasons why milk does NOT do a body good
5
Pro-vaccine medical expert ADMITS ‘there is a link’ between vaccinations and autism
6
Why aluminum foil can be a health hazard for you and your family
Popular Topics
Toxic Chemicals
Drug Alerts
Food News
Heart Disease
Natural Healing
Nutrition News
Vaccine Updates
Vitamin C
EMF Warnings
The Inside Scoop
Contact Us
Inner Circle Login
About Jonathan Landsman
NaturalHealth365 Store
Affiliate Disclosure
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Let’s Be Friends!
Join thousands of NaturalHealth365 Subscribers on your favorite platform!
All content on this site are the freely-expressed, individual opinions of all those involved. NaturalHealth365.com does not recommend any particular nutritional supplement or treatment option for any medical health condition. We do not intend to replace the need for professional advice in any way. Ultimately, it is up to you to work with a qualified, medical professional and make an informed decision. The information on this site is provided for educational purposes only. Your use of this website constitutes an agreement with our terms and conditions. All trademarks, registered trademarks and servicemarks posted on this website are the property of their respective owners.
NaturalHealth365 © 2019 - All Rights Reserved.
English
Arabic Chinese (Simplified) Dutch English French German Italian Portuguese Russian Spanish