Vitamin C shown to reduce cold and flu symptoms by 85%
Search for:
News
Food News
WARNING: Popular sweetener stimulates tumor growth, plus 3 other horrible health effects
Vitamin C News
Vitamin E Alert: Researchers discover surprising reason why you may be deficient in this critical an…
Cancer News
Cancer survival NEWS: Breast cancer patients discover the true value of physical activity
EMF Updates
Parents demand removal of cell tower from elementary school after four students and three teachers d…
Videos
Podcasts
Shop
Vitamin C shown to reduce flu and cold symptoms by 85 percent
by: Lori Alton, staff writer | November 9, 2015
(NaturalHealth365) Every year, millions of people heed the barrage of dire warnings about the flu and make their annual pilgrimage to a local clinic, pharmacy or community center to become inoculated against seasonal influenza. By the time winter begins to fade a few months later, over half the U.S. population will have received a flu vaccine. Yet, many will still suffer side effects, some of them quite severe.
Meanwhile, the market for over-the-counter pharmaceuticals geared toward countering symptoms of the common cold has climbed to an astonishing $8 billion annually, according to business research firm IBISWorld. Yet, a recent study by University of Florida researchers found that the primary decongestant included in these medications is no more effective than a placebo.
Flu remedy: A safe alternative to dangerous medications
A 2013 study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found that older adults receiving the flu vaccine were just as likely to seek medical attention for flu symptoms as those not receiving the vaccine. Research on pharmaceuticals marketed to cold and flu sufferers often show lack of effectiveness and high risk of side effects. Often, in the rush to get these drugs to market, safety can take a backseat.
But there is better news. The growing demand for natural dietary supplements to combat cold and flu symptoms has led to extensive research revealing the effectiveness of large doses of vitamin C in preventing and relieving such symptoms.
Editor’s note: The NaturalHealth365 Store offers the finest quality vitamin C powder on the market. To learn more about the proper way to take vitamin C – read about the “multi-C protocol” written by Thomas E. Levy, MD, JD
In a study led by Dr. H. Clay Gorton, D.C., and published in the Journal of Manipulative and Physiological Therapeutics in 1999, more than 800 students were divided into control and test groups. Investigators then tracked the number of reports of cold and flu symptoms within each group.
Did you know? The liver is the most important detoxifying organ in the body. When the liver can’t effectively neutralize and dispose of toxins, they accumulate in the body. Two essential nutrients for healthy liver function are milk thistle and glutathione. These two ingredients - plus much more – are now available in an advanced liver support formula. Click here to learn more.
Those reporting systems in the control population were administered pain relievers and decongestants, while those suffering symptoms in the test group were treated with doses of 1,000 mg of vitamin C hourly for the first six hours and then three times daily thereafter. Those in the test group, not reporting symptoms, still received 1,000-mg doses of vitamin C – three times a day.
Reported flu and cold symptoms in the test group following treatment with vitamin C were a whopping 85 percent lower when compared to the control group. Researchers concluded that vitamin C – in megadoses – administered either before or after the start of cold or flu symptoms successfully relieved and prevented the symptoms in the test population compared with the control group.
Building a healthy immune system is the key to success
The secret to vitamin C’s success in combatting and preventing symptoms of flu and colds lies primarily with its ability to greatly boost the immune system.
“One fact that all doctors and all lay persons agree on is that a strong immune system is key to recovering from an infection, neutralizing and eliminating a toxin, and bringing diseased cells back to a state of good health,” says Dr. Thomas Edward Levy, M.D., J.D. Dr. Levy is a board-certified cardiologist and has written six books on vitamin C benefits and other health-related issues.
You may be wondering: “What’s the ‘magic’ behind vitamin C?”
While vitamin C is probably best known as a powerful antioxidant, research has also shown it directly supports and stimulates a number of very important functions of the immune system. Immune cells have active vitamin C transporter molecules embedded in their membranes that vigorously pump the vitamin into the cells – especially when more vitamin C is required like under stressful situations.
When inflammation or infection occurs – such as with colds or flu – those special transporters ramp up their activity to provide enough vitamin C to the cells’ inner workings. This is why blood levels of vitamin C drop during times of disease or infection.
Obviously, a health crisis can create a potentially vicious cycle in which, just when you need extra vitamin C, your body’s stores are depleted. Which is why it only makes perfect sense to increase one’s intake of vitamin C when sick.
References:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?orig_db=PubMed&term=The+effectiveness+of+vitamin+C+in+preventing+and+relieving+the+symptoms+of+virus-induced+respiratory+infection&cmd=search&cmd_current=
https://www.lifeextension.com/magazine/2015/11/the-link-between-vitamin-c-and-optimal-immunity/page-01?sourcecode=CVD500E&utm_source=zMag&utm_medium=email&utm_content=Article&utm_campaign=CVD500E
https://www.foodconsumer.org/newsite/Nutrition/Vitamins/vitamin_c_zinc_common_cold_1018121028.html
Food & Nutrition
Natural Health 365
Natural Health 365 is a premium source of trending and popular health-related news, science, testimony & research articles on the most up to date and relevant natural health information. The Food & Nutrition articles found herein are meant to inform and advise our site visitors on eating healthy, nutritious foods and safely using supplements and vitamins to achieve optimal health.
Join thousands of daily visitors staying informed and involved on Natural Health 365! We seek out scientific solutions with proven results and it is our mission to keep you informed! Articles range in topic from the cancer fighting qualities of Olive Oil, to the remarkably high concentration of anti-oxidants found in blueberries, to how to make your own almond milk, to a nutritional comparison of organic vs conventional produce, to an analysis of the health benefits of tree nuts. You can find all of the Food News Articles here
Read Some of Our Most Popular Articles
Artichokes, Olive Oil, Almond Milk, Blueberries
Food News is one of our major post categories on www.naturalhealth365.com and contains over 350 articles that cover a wide range of subjects; including but not limited to…
Food News
Fruits and Vegetables
Organic Foods
Vitamins
Antioxidants
Omega-3
Healthy Fats
Non GMO
Vitamin D
Vitamin C
Health News
Coconut Oil
Healthy Eating
Nutrition News
Sugar
Processed Foods
Saturated Fats
More Food & Nutrition Articles
Fresh Organic Produce Fights Cancer, Susan G. Komen on Organic Foods, Hemp Seeds for Inflammation, Pau D’Arco For Improved Immunity
In addition to exploring health benefits of certain foods, vitamins and supplements, we also aim to connect healthy eating and balanced consumption of dietary supplements to long-lasting health and adding healthy, happy years to your life. For example, did you know that eating Granny Smith Apples on a regular basis can reduce your chance of building up unhealthy gut yeast? Or that ingesting ground hemp seeds can significantly reduce inflammation throughout the body? Perhaps you didn’t know that Fresh Organic Produce has been found to have higher concentrations of key, cancer-fighting anti-oxidants and vitamins than conventional produce? You can find all of that information and more right here on Natural Health 365.
We’d love to know what you’re thinking! Please join the conversation on Facebook, post comments here on the website and feel free to reach out to us if you have any questions.
Please use and share the articles you find here with your friends, family and peers.
Submit
RELATED NEWS
Vitamin E Alert: Researchers discover surprising reason why you may be deficient in this critical antioxidant
(NaturalHealth365) Generally speaking, vitamin E deficiencies are rare and affect only about 0.1% …
Secret cause of heart attacks revealed, by European doctor
(NaturalHealth365) Over the last 100 years, cardiovascular disease has become a top …
Suffering with the symptoms of celiac disease? Discover an overlooked solution for gluten intolerance
(NaturalHealth365) If you’re gluten intolerant or know someone who is, you understand …
Infection rates from colonoscopy more than 100 times higher than expected, study reveals
(NaturalHealth365) Conventionally speaking, most doctors urge their patients – age 50 and …
← Previous Article
Next Article →
MOST POPULAR
This Week
1
Gates Foundation quietly plans to control nutritional supplements for the ‘good of humanity’
2
Another reason NOT to eat fried foods, the real problem with vegetable oil exposed
3
Roundup adjuvants are 9,661 times more toxic to human cells than the active ingredient glyphosate
4
Researcher discovers a BIG problem with aluminum in vaccines and his peer-reviewed study gets ‘withdrawn’ from a medical journal
5
Bad news about the Impossible Burger: Ushering in a new wave of genetically engineered foods
6
New study: Chronic health problem linked with frequent nighttime bathroom trips
All Time
1
Microwave oven ALERT: The dangers of microwaves revealed
2
A safe and effective way to detox aluminum, scientist reports
3
Eggs EXPOSED: The difference between pasture raised, free-range and cage free
4
5 reasons why milk does NOT do a body good
5
Pro-vaccine medical expert ADMITS ‘there is a link’ between vaccinations and autism
6
Why aluminum foil can be a health hazard for you and your family
Popular Topics
Toxic Chemicals
Drug Alerts
Food News
Heart Disease
Natural Healing
Nutrition News
Vaccine Updates
Vitamin C
EMF Warnings
The Inside Scoop
Contact Us
Inner Circle Login
About Jonathan Landsman
NaturalHealth365 Store
Affiliate Disclosure
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Let’s Be Friends!
Join thousands of NaturalHealth365 Subscribers on your favorite platform!
All content on this site are the freely-expressed, individual opinions of all those involved. NaturalHealth365.com does not recommend any particular nutritional supplement or treatment option for any medical health condition. We do not intend to replace the need for professional advice in any way. Ultimately, it is up to you to work with a qualified, medical professional and make an informed decision. The information on this site is provided for educational purposes only. Your use of this website constitutes an agreement with our terms and conditions. All trademarks, registered trademarks and servicemarks posted on this website are the property of their respective owners.
NaturalHealth365 © 2019 - All Rights Reserved.
English
Arabic Chinese (Simplified) Dutch English French German Italian Portuguese Russian Spanish