Your Questions about the Keto Diet Answered | Fox Chase Cancer Center - Philadelphia, PA
Temple Health
Lewis Katz School of Medicine
MyFoxChase Login

Search form
Search
Fox Chase Cancer Center - Philadelphia, PA
MENU
About
Locations
Contact Us
Giving
MyFoxChase Login
Find a Doctor
Request Appointment
Call 888-FOX-CHASE
Lewis Katz School of Medicine at Temple University
Clinical Care
Why Choose Fox Chase
Cancer Types & Conditions
Prevention & Screening
Support
Clinical Trials
Departments
Patient Stories
Research & Training
Overview
Find a Scientist
Research Programs
Translational Medicine
Clinical Research
Facilities
Training & Education
For Patients & Visitors
Appointments
Insurance & Financial Information
Visitor Information
Locations
Partners
For Healthcare Professionals
Refer a Patient
Key Account Managers
Care Connect for Physicians
Continuing Education
Resources
Careers
ONC eNewsletter
For Community
Volunteer
Community Outreach
Community Health
Patient and Family Advisory Council
Walk & Run Events
888-FOX-CHASE
About
Blog
History
Leadership
Administrative Leaders
Clinical Leaders
Research Leaders
External Advisory Committee
Administrative Offices
R&D Alliances
Careers
Care Connect
News & Publications
Events
Locations
Contact Us
Giving
MyFoxChase Login
Find a Doctor
Request Appointment
Call 888-FOX-CHASE
Lewis Katz School of Medicine at Temple University
You are here
Home » About » Blog » Your Questions about the Keto Diet Answered
Print Text Size Share This Page
Share This
View all posts
April 15, 2019
Your Questions about the Keto Diet Answered
Google “keto diet” and page after page will pop up about this popular diet. Many people are using it to lose weight. But is it a healthy choice for people with cancer? Learn what Karen Vincek, RD, LDN, a registered dietician at Fox Chase Cancer Center, has to say about the diet.
What is the keto diet?
A ketogenic—or keto—diet is high in fat and low in carbohydrates. The diet is supposed to cause the body to break down fat into molecules called ketones. These ketones then become the main source of energy for many cells in the body.
“Keto” and “low-carb” are sometimes used interchangeably when describing the diet. But that’s not quite accurate.
“It’s not just a low-carb diet,” Vincek said. “The keto diet severely restricts carbs but embraces fats and allows for a moderate consumption of protein.”
The diet can be challenging because it requires eating exact amounts of carbohydrates, fats, and proteins. A person on a classic keto diet consumes 5 percent or less of their daily calories from carbohydrates, 80 percent from fat, and 15 percent from protein.
Is the keto diet used to treat cancer?
The keto diet isn’t new—it was developed in the 1920s to curb seizures. Currently, it may be used in children with epilepsy who don’t respond to standard treatment.
Research is underway now to examine how the diet might help people with certain kinds of cancer—including breast, endometrial, prostate and brain cancers.
“For cancer patients, there are more and more studies being done looking at keto,” Vincek said. “But it’s still being evaluated.”
How might the keto diet help treat cancer? In simple terms, it may deprive cancer cells of the glucose (sugar) they need to grow. Glucose is delivered to cells via the blood from the digestion of carbohydrates, which is why the keto diet is very low in carbohydrates.
Is the Keto diet appropriate for people with cancer?
Talk to your health care provider or a registered dietician to see if the keto diet might be an option for you or a loved one. But keep in mind that nutrition is especially complex for cancer patients.
The main concern is to stay nourished so treatment can proceed on schedule. If someone with cancer loses too much weight, they may have to stop treatment for a while or take a break between cycles of chemo.
Side effects from cancer treatments can also affect nutrition. For instance, nausea and fatigue are common. And some types of foods aren’t tolerated well during treatment, which can make eating more complicated too.
“If a person wants to know the best way to nourish themselves during cancer treatment, they should connect with a dietician,” Vincek said.
Fox Chase has inpatient nutrition services. But we also offer outpatient nutritional counseling free of charge. These services can be helpful to anyone who is wondering what they should eat in light of a cancer diagnosis.
“There are a lot of myths out there on nutrition and cancer—and many of them have no good science backing them up,” Vincek said. “Some patients think they’ll start a diet on their own. But they don’t realize how important the right medical nutrition therapy can be. You want to maintain lean muscle mass and nourish the body so you can stick with your recommended treatment regimen.”
Can the keto diet cause cancer?
Meat can be a main component of the keto diet. But, like any diet, it’s important to make smart choices when deciding what to put on your plate.
Processed meat can increase your risk of cancer, according a study by The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC). The study found that eating 50 grams of processed meat every day increased the risk of colorectal cancer by 18 percent. That’s about fourstrips of bacon or one hot dog. Other processed meats include foods like ham, sausage, and deli meats.
It’s not just processed meat that can increase your risk. Excess read meat consumption can put you at an increased risk of colorectal, pancreatic, and prostate cancer. Red meat includes beef, pork, lamb, and goat.
Now that doesn’t mean you can’t enjoy an occasional slice of bacon, but you should be keeping the amount of processed and red meat to a minimum if you want to lower your risk of certain cancers. In that sense, the keto diet may not be the right choice.
How do I learn more?
Learn more about our nutrition program at Fox Chase Cancer Center or schedule an appointment with one our dietitians, call 215-728-2600.
Tags
Wellness Prevention Nutrition
Share This
Request an Appointment
Offering next business day appointments.
Call 888-FOX-CHASE
(888-369-2427)
Request Online
You may also be interested in ...
Steps You Can Take to Decrease Your Risk for 5 Common Cancers
Your Questions about the Keto Diet Answered
Important Things to Know About Oral, Head and Neck Cancer
Still Smoking? Get the Help You Need to Quit
Intimacy After Breast Cancer
How Can a Colonoscopy Prevent Colon Cancer?
11 Actions You Can Take to Support Cancer Patients
Coping With Cancer When You’re Single
Obesity: A Growing Risk For Cancer
Less Can Mean More When it Comes to Treating Some Cases of Prostate and Bladder...
10 Common Questions About Cancer, Answered
Anemia: Be Aware of This Cancer-Related Risk
Ovarian Cancer: Do You Know the Signs and Symptoms?
Q&A: A Spotlight on Gynecologic Oncologists
5 Keys to Self-Care During Cancer Treatment
Precancerous Cervical Changes: They’re Common and Treatable
Easing Stress When Waiting for Test Results
Cancer Disparities: How Cancer Affects Different Populations
Patient and Family Advisory Council Paves the Way To a Better Patient Experience
Can’t Sleep? You’re Not Alone
How to Talk to Your Family About Cancer History and Risks
Finding the Right Words to Talk About Cancer
Combating Cancer-Related Fatigue With Exercise
Quality and Equality in LGBTQ+ Cancer Care
8 Ways to Reduce Your Risk for Cancer
Why Ovarian Cancer Awareness Is So Important
Cancer Risks: Separating Myths From Facts
Cancer Patients Benefit in Multiple Ways from Exercise
5 Reasons to Consider Joining a Cancer Support Group
How to Get All the Fruits and Vegetables You Need During Cancer Care
Shining a Spotlight on UV Rays
Sunscreen Smarts: 6 Things Everyone Should Know
Step into Summer with these Sun Protection Tips
Finding Comfort and Calm in Nature
‘Is My Cancer Coming Back?’ How to Cope with the Fear of a Recurrence
Talking With Your Child About Cancer
The Value of Survivor Support
The Vaccine That Can Prevent Cervical Cancer
Tips For Overcoming Common Nutrition Hurdles During Cancer Treatment
You may also be interested in ...
Steps You Can Take to Decrease Your Risk for 5 Common Cancers
Still Smoking? Get the Help You Need to Quit
Intimacy After Breast Cancer
Sign up for our newsletter
Connect with Fox Chase
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
Flickr
YouTube
Contact Fox Chase:
1-888-FOX-CHASE
(1-888-369-2427)
Main Campus
333 Cottman Avenue
Philadelphia, PA 19111-2497
View All Locations
Resources:
Appointments
Careers
Contact Us
Online Hospital Bill Pay
Financial Assistance/Charity Care
Giving
MyFoxChase
©2019 Temple University Health System, Inc., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Patient Rights | Privacy & Non-Discrimination Notices | TUHS Vendor Policies & Procedures
Temple Health refers to the health, education and research activities carried out by the affiliates of Temple University Health System (TUHS) and by the Lewis Katz School of Medicine at Temple University. TUHS neither provides nor controls the provision of health care. All health care is provided by its member organizations or independent health care providers affiliated with TUHS member organizations. Each TUHS member organization is owned and operated pursuant to its governing documents.
✕
Sign up for our newsletter