Inner Alchemy I Sargam Mishra | Sargam Mishra | Page 2
Sargam Mishra
Inner Alchemy
About Sargam
Services and Workshops
Contact
Author Archives: Inner Alchemy I Sargam Mishra
About Inner Alchemy I Sargam Mishra
Sargam is a life enhancement coach and mentor. Connect with Sargam on www.sargammishra.com
Jun4
Citrine – Follow Your Joy
Posted on June 4, 2018 by Inner Alchemy I Sargam Mishra
Standard
Citrine a crystal representing solar power is a crystal that can bring joy and positivity in your life. It is also a crystal for constancy of aim and effort. A beautiful yellow crystal has been an ornamental gemstone as early as 300 BC.It is known to be the premier manifestation stone. When you combine this crystal with the power of your affirmation and intention, it is a powerful stone for helping with the manifestation of prosperity and abundance.
Citrine because of the colour is believed to work on the higher mental plane, bringing clarity creativity and intelligence. The crystal has Yellow Prana and works great with Solar Plexus Chakra. Increases one pointedness of aim and effort.
Crystal Tip: Spread a few citrine crystals on your vision board or hold a citrine while writing your visions and goals.
Either wearing or holding Citrine daily will help amplify this process and bring you closer to your manifestation! You can also sleep with a piece of Citrine under your pillow to continue manifesting in your astral body ;).
Citrine is a variety of quartz just like amethyst and varies from light yellow to brown hues. because of these colours it is also considered the birthstone for the month of November.
Crystal Tip: Keep a carnelian and citrine when you want your creative juices to flow and materialise to give rapid results. Excellent combination when working on any creative project like designing, writing ,singing…an excellent crystal combination for artist.
Citrine Jewellery can be worn for balancing your solar plexus, for diabetes, liver issues and gall issues. Citrine is known as a Merchant’s stone excellent for keeping in your money box to energise inflow of cash.
Citrine is an excellent crystal to be used in grids for manifestation, prosperity , abundance. Learn more about the wealth crystals in my upcoming masterclass
Citrine can be kept in a bedroom to bring in light and abundance into intimate relationships. It is also a great crystal to be kept in children room as it helps in creating a healthy self image and bringing golden light force.
Citrine Points are great for prosperity rituals.
You can create a Citrine essence for uplifting your happy quotient and strengthening your solar plexus chakra.
Citrine Snapshot
Colored Prana : Yellow
Element: Fire
Chakra: Solar Plexus
Planet/Celestial Object : Sun
God: RA, Surya, Apollo
Angel:Jophiel
Citrine is also effective in treating emotional problems such as depression, low self-confidence, fear and helplessness. Besides activating the will power and inner-strength, in case of emotional issues, citrine enables the person to make difficult decisions, think clearly and take action.
“What your mind can conceive it can achieve”
Love Sargam
Visit our Crystal Alchemy Studio here>>>>
To book energy healing appointments and to particpate in energy healing workshops with Sargam click here>>>
Disclaimer: I am not a doctor and cannot give out medical advice. This purely from my understanding .Crystals and energy healing should be used as a compliment to other therapies and not as a replacement for regular medical care.
Share this:
Tweet
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Filed under crystal alchemy by sargam, Crystal Healing, Path to Inner Alchemy and tagged abundance crystals, citrine, Crystal Healing, healing citrine, healing with citrine, prosperity crystals, Sargam Mishra, wealth crystals |	Leave a comment
May28
Crystals to Connect with the Moon Energies – Ritual
Posted on May 28, 2018 by Inner Alchemy I Sargam Mishra
Standard
Moonstone:
Get back to your natural feminine flow with the Moonstone crystal, the dreamy, ethereal stone channels the moon, a force that has the power to push and pull the tides of our great oceans and your emotions. Keep Moonstone close by and feel the glow of the moonlight infusing your chakras with its brilliant white light. If you’re facing issues of stability, whether it’s emotional or otherwise, you can ask for stability and inner calm.For a deep and healing therapeutic session with Moonstone, retreat into a sacred healing space free of clutter and distractions. Meditate on your Intention for the new moon and the next monthly phase of goals, aspirations, and dreams you have for your life. Repeat this ritual on a full moon and experience the full potential of your soul under the glow of moonlight.
Selenite: Bring in the light
The word Selena is a greek word for moon and it is just as gorgeous as the full moon. You can see the beautiful selenite in the video it feel as if you are holding the moon. The energy is cooling and calming.
Selenite is a great altar piece as it is continually clearing low vibrational energies, working in pure love & light. It increases overall clarity and worldly awareness, as it shifts your thoughts to a higher frequency.
Labradorite:
A rock star of mystical lore and ancient legends, the Labradorite crystal meaning can be traced back to the native peoples of icy Canada that believed the stone was created from frozen fire, a result of the northern lights. With its pearly hues that shimmer in a range of iridescent blues and greens, the Labradorite crystal reminds us to keep it magical by linking us to the spirit world, a dimension where anything is possible. Other stones keep us anchored to the earth with their powerful grounding effects while Labradorite encourages us to keep our head in the clouds.
Letting GO and Bringing IN Ritual on Full Moon
Setting up the Full Moon Altar
You will need
Incense/Sage Stick
Candles
Your crystals (clean them prior to ritual) technique here
Flowers
Water in a jug (octagonal better)
Yellow paper red pen
Procedure
Follow these steps (in order) to activate your Full Moon Altar.
Set up the candles, incense and flowers on the altar
If there is anything you want to let go /release write on the yellow paper with red pen
What is the quality you want to invoke write on another yellow paper with red pen
Put this paper(step 3) under the glass jar so that the writing is upwards
Place your crystals around the water jug with the intention to charge the water
Light the candle or incense with intention to purify and charge your altar
If you want to include bells or chimes on your altar, ring them to purify the energy in the environment. The sound brings focused awareness to the present moment.
In your right hand, hold the piece of paper (Step 2)
Now read it aloud ” I release ……..”
Inhale and exhale imagining the energy from your system is accumulated on to the paper and now just burn or tear the paper into pieces
Now Experience the feeling of having what you desire, not any specifics, but feelings like happiness, peace, and love.
At this time you can do the Twin Hearts Meditation
13. Open your hands with a big big smile
14. You can drink the water imagining you are infused with the blessings of the moon and the crystals.
15 Dismantle the Altar in three days , you can do the meditation for these 7 days (3 days prior and 3 days after full moon)
Crystallify your life!
Love
Sargam
www.sargammishra.com
Check out our Crystal Alchemy Studio
Share this:
Tweet
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Filed under crystal alchemy by sargam, Crystal Healing, MCKS Twin Hearts Meditation, Moon, Path to Inner Alchemy and tagged crystal alchemy by sargam, full moon crystal cleanse, labradorite healing, Master Stephen Co, MCKS Twin Hearts Meditation, moon healing, moon rituals, moonstone healing, release and let go, Sargam Mishra, selenite healing properties, Twin Hearts Meditation |	Leave a comment
May25
Tourmaline Your Psychic Protector
Posted on May 25, 2018 by Inner Alchemy I Sargam Mishra
Standard
Everyone can benefit from using Black Tourmaline. Life’s stressful situations can put us out of balance and this crystal can help center and ground you in times of need. Black Tourmaline is an excellent protection and grounding crystal. Black tourmaline has unique properties of being pyroelectric and piezoelectric.
The best use for these beautiful single terminated black tourmalines is to create a protective grid around your home or property. This crystal is great for grounding and protection from harmful EMF.
Psychic Protection for Yourself
Powerful Psychic Protection Banding using Black Tourmaline and Golden Pyrite. A beautiful combination of protective crystals. Wear your black tourmaline in your left hand (receiving hand) to shield or protect yourself from any kind of psychic attacks and wear a golden pyrite bracelet in your right hand to give away the energies of being enough and self worth to people who need it.
Creating your personal protection grid for restful sleep
Take 4 pieces of black tourmaline (polished or natural) place one black tourmaline inside a mason jar and put some salt and water. Create 4 such mason jars. Place them in a cross pattern around your bed. One jar with piece of black tourmaline is to be put near the foot of the bed, one piece around or on the headboard. Then place one piece to the right of the bed and the other piece to the left of the bed. This sets up a grid that you should find very effective. You can enter the grid when you get into bed or exit the grid when you get up and this will not affect the grid’s properties or abilities.
Change the water every alternate day and cleanse the jar and crystal under running water. Repeat with salt water.
Sealing your room/office or home to ward off negative energy/psychic attacks with tourmaline and selenite
Take 4 pieces of black tourmaline (polished or natural) place one black tourmaline inside a mason jar and put some salt and water. Create 4 such mason jars and put on four corners of the home/office. Place selenite in between two mason jars. like the below figure.
If you feel a room needs extra protection you can also grid individual rooms. Typically with grids you would energetically link the crystals together with a wand while stating your affirmation. Instead I’d suggest placing your crystals and state your affirmation while placing them.
You can use the following affirmation “This home and everyone within are divinely protected at all times.” — You can use whatever affirmation or programming you need.
Once the crystals have been placed, sit approximately in the middle of your house so you are as close to being in the middle of your house grid as possible. Relax and focus your energy. Visualise a virtual connection between your crystals. You can visualise a brilliant white , electric violet or golden protective, energetic shield around your house that is emanating from the crystals.
Love Sargam
Visit our Crystal Alchemy Studio here>>>>
To book energy healing appointments and to particpate in energy healing workshops with Sargam click here>>>
Disclaimer: I am not a doctor and cannot give out medical advice. Crystals and energy healing should be used as a compliment to other therapies and not as a replacement for regular medical care.
Share this:
Tweet
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Filed under crystal alchemy by sargam, Crystal Healing, Path to Inner Alchemy and tagged bracelets, crystal alchemy by sargam, Crystal Healing, golden pyrite, power banding, psychic protection crystals, Sargam Mishra, tourmaline healing properties, watermelon tourmaline |	Leave a comment
May21
Lapis Lazuli – A Crystal of Royalty
Posted on May 21, 2018 by Inner Alchemy I Sargam Mishra
Standard
Turn your ideas to reality using this beautiful blue crystal Lapis Lazuli it aligns the Heart and Mind and gives expression to the sacral chakra energy.
As per the esoteric teaching Dath, the throat chakra is the abyss to higher consciousness and it is a beautiful crystal to help stimulate the third eye chakra. You can find this teachings in the Pranic Healing course Spiritual Essence of Man
The stone of the gods to create/for creation purposes/crystal grids and to turn your dreams into reality through action. An excellent crystal associated with royalty Venus, Aphrodite, ISIS, Athena ….read on
Check out our Lapis Royale Collection
To the Egyptians, lapis lazuli represented all good things. In later periods, the Egyptian word for lapis lazuli, khesbedj, became a synonym for “joy” and “delight.” In the Book of Coming Forth by Day, lapis lazuli is connected with abundance as in this passage: “O you who sweeten the state of the Two Lands, you with whom are provisions, you with whom is lapis lazuli.” Another text repeats the association then connects the deceased, “the bull of lapis lazuli,” with the Star Goddess, Sothis. “I am the bull of lapis lazuli, unique and exalted, Lord of the Field, Bull of the Gods. Sothis speaks to me in her good time.” Because of its positive associations, lapis lazuli was used in many different types of amulets, but was especially employed for the heart amulet. Egyptian judges were known to wear lapis lazuli stones about their necks inscribed with the word “truth.”
22nd dynasty; Isis and Horus protect Osiris, seated on a lapis lazuli pillar
One of the beautiful ways the Egyptians used lapis lazuli
Today, we still associate lapis lazuli with some of the same qualities that the ancient Egyptians did. We, too, associate the heaven-blue stone with the heavenly qualities of spirituality and psychism. Just as the Egyptians associated it with joy, today’s metaphysicians say that lapis lazuli helps relieve melancholy. And just as the ancient Egyptians connected lapis lazuli with fertility, regeneration, and abundance, so we understand it to give an abundant boost to creativity.(Source:https://isiopolis.com/2014/10/05/isis-with-the-lapis-lazuli-head/)
Lapis Lazuli Snapshot
Colored Prana : Blue,Gold
Element: Water
Chakra :Throat, Ajna, Crown
God:Nuit, Venus, Isis, Sin;
Angel: Sahaquiel, Michael
Planet: Venus
Magickal Uses of Lapis Lazuli
Lapis can be used to attract spiritual love and infuse fidelity in a relationship. It is also used to strengthen your inner wisdom, psychic awareness and intuition.
Lapis helps to disconnect the conscious and subconscious mind and boosts intuition. Lapis lazuli is a very protective stone.
Healing with Lapis Lazuli
Body: Lapis helps relieve headaches and migraines, eases eyestrain and calms the nervous system. It is also used to help reduce inflammation. Do not use to make a traditional elixir due to the sulfur content of the stone.
Mind: Lapis lazuli helps to relieve depression.
Care and Cleansing
Sunlight can affect the color of Lapis lazuli. Use incense or a singing bowl to cleanse and recharge by laying on a clear crystal over night under the moon.
Love and Light!
Sargam
Share this:
Tweet
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Filed under crystal alchemy by sargam, Crystal Healing, Path to Inner Alchemy and tagged Crystal Healing, egypt, Goddess of egypt, Healing properties of Lapis Lazuli, ISIS, isis and lapis lazuli, lapis lazuli, lapis lazuli healing, sargam, Sargam Mishra |	Leave a comment
May18
Selenite – ‘Bring In the Light’
Posted on May 18, 2018 by Inner Alchemy I Sargam Mishra
Standard
I recently came across selenite and instantly fell in love with the beautiful white light that it emits. The Selenite crystal is a light bringer and can light any area within you and around you that is dark so this is a perfect crystal to keep where you want light (energy)
It is gypsum and is a sensitive crystal on a Moh’s scale it is a 2 and is easily soluble in water. This crystal does not need cleansing and energising just some light to replenish. So keep it near a window where there is plenty of sunlight. You can also put it out in a few days to let it soak the light.
The word Selena is a greek word for moon and it is just as gorgeous as the full moon. You can see the beautiful selenite in the video it feel as if you are holding the moon. The energy is cooling and calming.
Selenite is a great altar piece as it is continually clearing low vibrational energies, working in pure love & light. It increases overall clarity and worldly awareness, as it shifts your thoughts to a higher frequency.
Simple word of caution: Selenite is a high vibration crystal and you need to be prepared to work with this crystal. When I say prepared it means expect a powerful detoxification at all levels and in every area of your life.
Selenite Snapshots
Colored Prana: Brilliant White Light
Element: Water
Archangel: Uriel
Planet: Moon
Chakra: All Chakras
Selenite crystals help to remove all energy blockages in the body and also the subtle bodies. If you place a selenite wand on any area of the body that feels sore or tight, for about 20 minutes, and you will feel the difference.
Selenite is also excellent for clearing and purifying jewelry and environments. I often place my crystal healing jewelry on a Selenite charging plate over night, and in the morning, it feels light and clean.
The selenite healing properties hold the energy of the light and it feels good. When I hold Selenite wand or stone, I know I am holding a piece of Mother Nature’s most magnificent creation. One of the most beautiful displays of Selenite appears in the Naica Cave, in Mexico. The largest one weighs around 55 tons and estimated to be 50,000 years old.
Test the crystal for yourself by holding it for 11 minutes and if it feels great try sleeping with it under the pillow.
Let me know your experience.
Sargam
Share this:
Tweet
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Filed under Crystal Healing, Path to Inner Alchemy and tagged crystal alchemy by sargam, Crystal Healing, Sargam Mishra, selenite |	1 Comment
May5
‘Amethyst’ The Crystal
Posted on May 5, 2018 by Inner Alchemy I Sargam Mishra
Standard
Amethyst the crystal of Intuition and Emotional Harmony
Amethyst was used in ancient times to recover from both physical addictions as well as addictive relationships, and became known as the stone of sobriety. A natural stress reliever, Amethyst encourages and supports inner strength.
In Pranic Healing we use it for producing Violet and Electric Violet Prana.
One of the Most Revered Crystal in the Spiritual and Healing Community
Being a pranic healer has been one of the biggest blessing in my life and still is 🙂 . I have been a crystal lover since my childhood as my mother was very fond of astrological gemstones. So by the age of 12-15 I knew a list of crystals and their uses as well as when and which finger to wear them. Seriously ! This is actually a brief background of my love for crystals. Then after my mother transitioned in 2000 I was focussed on my studies and somewhere forgot all about crystals. However In 2010 I had to fly to Vancouver for an official assignment and I came across this beautiful small crystal shop near my hotel I stayed nearly for a month in Vancouver and this shop became my favourite hangout place. Every day I used to stop by and explore crystals at their shop and there was other shamanic and Native American stuff which I absolutely loved.
One of my client counterpart whom I met during this project in Vancouver is also a crystal lover and is into native American art and jewellery we are still connected and I love her. Here are few pics of Vancouver , every journey , every person that we meet is aligned with our divine purpose so keep your heart and mind open.
Sargam at Capilano Bridge Vancouver
Vacouver Official Trip 2010
Amethyst has a rich history with Romans and Greeks wearing them in their jewellery and amulets. I love this crystal as it is a crystal for Pisceans too and the beautiful purple and lavender color is associated with Violet Flame.
Amethyst Snapshot
Colored Prana : Violet and Electric Violet
Element: Air (Intellect & Intuition)
Chakra: Crown ,Forehead & Ajna
Direction : East
Hindu God: Indra
Angel:Archangel Zadkiel and his twin flame, Holy Amethyst
With an amplified intuition, Amethyst crystal is said to enhance your decision making power. For this reason, it’s often said to be one of the powerful crystals for healing addiction. Helping to break negative patterns and pursue positive alternatives, amethyst gently, but surely guides you toward transformation.
One of the less well known facts about Amethyst and other violet stones is that they embody the vibration of the Violet Flame, brought to renown by Saint Germaine.
If you’re having trouble making a business decision, you’re not sure in which direction you should move next, try placing an Amethyst stone in your office or on your desk. The combination of the stress relieving properties, which take a lot of the fear and hesitation out your deliberation, and the intuitive properties, which empower you to trust your gut instinct, will increase the likelihood of a positive result. Whether you’re tapping into Amethyst to better your business, bring peace into your relationship, break free from your addiction or to get the rest you need each night, this stone can improve areas of your life that you didn’t even realise needed cleansing.
Amethyst Crystals, are one of the most potent stones against psychic attack and protection.They will also guard against psychic attack, transmuting negative energy into the positive energy of love.
Ranging from lavender to deep purple this gemstone has a long affiliation with spiritual development and attunement. It is a perfect partner to hold during mediation or to add to your desk to create an environment of tranquility.
Chevron Amethyst
A combination of Amethyst and White Quartz, in a banded pattern, Chevron Amethyst combines the strengthening and enhancing qualities of Quartz with the visionary qualities of Amethyst. It draws back the veils that obscure hidden things. Chevron Amethyst is one of the best stones to work with the third eye, enhancing psychic sight on all planes of existence and removing negativity. It is particularly helpful for cleansing and repairing the aura. It is also said to deepen the meditative state, enhancing the quality and frequency of visions and inspiration from higher realms. It is particularly useful shaped into skulls that will relay intuitive guidance from higher realms. (Judy Hall)
Crystallify your Life!
Sargam!
Amethyst
Share this:
Tweet
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Filed under Crystal Healing, Path to Inner Alchemy and tagged amethyst, crystal alchemy by sargam, electric violet prana, healing crystals, healing jewellery, judy hall, pranic psychotherapy, psychological healing, sargam, Sargam Mishra, violet flame, violet prana |	1 Comment
Apr12
11 Ways to Crystallify Your Life
Posted on April 12, 2018 by Inner Alchemy I Sargam Mishra
Standard
Today, more people than ever before are open to using healing crystals. These gems have thousands — sometimes millions — of years of the Earth’s history stored within them that you can harness to tap into your most magnificent self. But just like with any healing practice, diet, or exercise, a crystal routine that works for one person won’t necessarily work for another.
There are countless ways to work with these amazing stones.
11 ways to Crystallify Your Life
1.Using Crystals as Healing Tools
As a Pranic Healer I was introduced to crystals in Pranic Crystal Healing course and I loved how crystal lasers, disintegrators , extractors could reduce the healing time by 1/10th or even less. Mainly we use clear quartz crystals for healing but amethyst, rose quartz , black onyx can also be used by advanced healers based upon the patient ailment.
2. Crystal Jewellery
Crystal jewellery has been around the days of the kings and queens who adorned themselves with precious and semi precious jewellery. Jewellery is an excellent way to experience the energy of these beautiful minerals and have said to be effective in raising the vibrations of the wearer. One of the best ways to wear them is in the form of bracelets, earrings and also necklaces. Ensure to cleanse and charge your jewellery regularly for maximum benefit. Check out Crystal Alchemy Jewellery which is handmade and energized so that it vibrates at the highest frequency.
3. Carry them in your purse/pocket
The magic of crystals can be felt when you are constantly in touch with them. One of the best ways is to carry a crystal in your pocket or purse and pull it out whenever you need to center yourself or bring your attention back to the intention you’re working towards. I have a bowl of crystals and based on which one attracts me on a particular day I just keep it with me and use it as a touchstone to center myself when needed.
4. Create Your Sacred Space
Sacred spaces have quickly become popular — they’re now a must have in of yoga and meditation practice spaces. Using crystals in these calming displays adds a beautiful piece of earth energy and brings a peaceful, grounding presence. The crystals also remind you to reconnect with your intention each time you revisit your space.
Amethyst is one of the most popular crystals for sacred spaces, because it emits positive energy and fosters a deeper state of meditation. Crystal points can help you set an intention in your space. Simply place one point on top of a piece of paper with your intention written on it, and the point amplifies the intention into the universe.
You can do this for your goals and wishes too we will do this in our upcoming event This Wesak Make A Wish
5. Sleep Well with your Crystals
After a tiresome day you can choose to relax with your crystals , you can put them under your bed or your side table ensure the crystals are cleansed and charged. Then place them in your hand , close your eyes and just ask for what you need. It can be clarity, rest, peace, astral travel …just be creative with crystals and you will experience their presence.
Look for crystals that are of the Earth element, these are commonly browns, earthy reds and black. Crystals that are grounding or associated with the Lower Chakras are usually very helpful (sleep is a Lower Chakra activity).
Crystals that are calming, soothing, stress reducing, comforting and cleansing. For shapes try to stick to rounded forms like Tumble Stones, Eggs and Spheres. Some of the recommended crystals are Rose Quartz, Haematite, Red Jasper, Howlite, Selenite.
6.Bring positive energy to your décor
Healing crystals have been popping up in several home décor magazines, and for good reason. Larger crystals make for jaw-dropping statement pieces that work to shift the energy of a space. Amethyst, Clear Quartz for example, dispel negative energy and emits positive vibes — it’s the perfect addition to any room.
7. Use Crystals as the DIY Spa Treatment
Crystals can infuse many self-care routines with healing properties. For a DIY crystal treatment, bring your crystals into the bath with you or let them soak in the water you use to wash your face. The crystal energy will have a peaceful and restorative affect on your at-home spa day.
You can soak your rose quartz overnight in a bowl with some jasmine fresh flowers or rose petals and use that water to wash your face myth is beautiful women like cleopatra used these too.
8. Place crystals on your body
Putting crystals on your body has a completely different effect than simply holding them. If you’re working with a specific chakra, pick a stone that corresponds to that chakra and place it on your body. This serves to stir the energy around that chakra and bring up the emotions that you need to heal.
To start, use smoky quartz to give your root chakra grounding energy or place an aventurine over your heart to open your heart chakra to giving and receiving love. You can place a quartz crystal above your head to open your crown chakra for enlightenment and guidance. Keeping a stone over your third eye during this process can help you enter a deeper state of meditation.
9. Make Your Own Beauty Elixirs
You can create your own beauty elixirs for example rose water /lavender water readily available in market can be energized by Rose Quartz and Aquamarine small soft tumbles. You can also put your beauty products on a rose quartz plate to energize them.
10. Use them in Your Meditation
It is beneficial to choose a crystal that radiates healing properties or energies that are in alignment with what you want to achieve from your meditation. Setting an intention and meditating with your crystal each morning enhances and magnifies the expected outcome. When your mind is focused on your intention from the stillness of your meditation and energy of the crystal, you will have better motivation and inspiration for achieving your goals or receiving certain energy.
11. Amplify the Energy of your Kriyashakti
After you have written your Kriyashakti /wish you can place a clear quartz pyramid, point or cluster to amplify its energy this can help you in faster materialisation of your goals.
It is an exciting world of mineral kingdom with my own experience of nearly a decade I am exploring my own ways of integrating crystals in daily life. As and when I get any new way to use them will update all of you.
Spread the crystal light!
Sargam
Share this:
Tweet
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Filed under Crystal Healing, Path to Inner Alchemy and tagged amplify energy with crystals, crystal alchemy, crystal elixirs, Crystal Healing, crystal meditation, crystal spa, kriiyashakti, lay on crystals, love for crystals, mcks crystal healing, MCKS Pranic Healing, pranic crystal healing, Sargam Mishra, uses of crystals |	Leave a comment
Apr9
How Does Crystal Healing Work?
Posted on April 9, 2018 by Inner Alchemy I Sargam Mishra
Standard
“Consciousness sleeps in the stone, dreams in the plant, awakes in the animal and slowly becomes aware of itself in man.” (Pythagoras)
Crystals are part of the mineral kingdom and it has its own consciousness. Its own subtle energy. In Consciousness of the Atom (COA) Alice Bailey writes on page 102 about minerals: “that they manifest signs of fatigue, and that it is possible to poison a mineral and to murder it, much as you can murder a human being.”
Most of the crystal readers will agree with the above lines, when a crystal is impregnated with dirty energy one can see the dullness in the appearance and a heaviness in the energy.
The mineral kingdom is the lowest and most dense part of the world of material forms, or “the densest expression of the life of God in substance” (Esoteric Psychology I, EP I, p. 228). Here the process of condensation or externalisation of the etheric planes takes place. Minerals are a precipitation of etheric substance.
“The goal for all mineral atomic forms is this radio-active condition, the power to pass through all limiting and environing substances. This is initiation, or the entering into a state of liberation, for all mineral appearances, and the organising of all forms in this kingdom…” (EP I, p. 197)
The secret of this kingdom is transmutation
Crystals have healing quality because of its chemical element foundation, energetic vibration (subtle energy) which adds to its colour & properties. The therapeutic qualities of minerals and crystals act on our subtle vehicles, which in turn bring changes to the physical body and the consciousness.
All energies have a twofold nature; they can be perceived as having strong vibrations, also a frequency of vibrations, and the subtle energies adhere to this ruling. If 5,500 different minerals exist, then equally 5,500 different kinds of mineral energies also exist. Each mineral creates a specific energy and all these energies differ in strength and vibrational frequency. Encoded within them is a special agent called the Element of Harmony which acts to ensure that balance and equilibrium are maintained throughout all the processes encountered by the energy.
Holistic Healing with Crystals:
The first thing to consider is when you use crystals do not expect miracles to happen , crystals are allies they are beautiful energetic tools that work with your energy and intention. Michael Gienger postulates that the power of a crystal to generate light interacts with the cells of the physical body. What is clear is that crystals have an energy field that interacts with any other energy field near it.
At the most basic level, everything is energy. How it manifests is simply a matter of vibrational frequency and the crystalline structure (organic or inorganic) that enfolds it. The human body is no exception. It is a conductive energy system with crystalline structures in and around the blood, lymph and cells and it is repaired and maintained by a complex electrochemical system.
In other words, it runs on vibrations.
Time and distance have no relevance in crystal healing. Research has shown that the brainwaves of a healer and the recipient synchronise, or entrain, no matter what the distance. The same may well be true of crystals. This is how I use programming of crystals for healing long distance.
In order to understand healing let us look at the following considerations that can give a fair idea as to how crystals help in healing.
Points to consider:
Only one thousand millionth part of our body is matter. The rest is energy
The human body is around 75-55 per cent water, and that water is found in every part of the body, water is crystalline in nature therefore the human body is crystallin
Crystals generate, store and radiate energy
Quantum physics describes energy controls matter
Fundamental particles such as electrons can influence each other at a considerable distance
Each individual crystal carries the energetic resonance of the crystal type, no matter where in the world it may be
Everything is interconnected in such a way that the smallest piece contains the properties of the whole (the holographic universe)
Based on the above what I deduce is that crystal healing works by bringing back into equilibrium all the separate elements of the body, utilising universal energetic forces that are encoded into the crystals.
The energetic (auric) field of a crystal interacts with that of a human being or a particular environment, with each part influencing the other. This can work at a distance, powered by intention and consciousness.
In other words, as Professor John Wheeler puts it, ‘In some strange sense the quantum principle tells us that we are dealing with a participatory universe.’
Happy Healing
Love Sargam
Visit our Crystal Alchemy Studio to shop for awesome tourmaline Jewellery here>>>>
To book energy healing appointments and to participate in energy healing workshops with Sargam click here>>>
Disclaimer: I am not a doctor and cannot give out medical advice. This purely from my understanding .Crystals and energy healing should be used as a compliment to other therapies and not as a replacement for regular medical care.
Sources: https://www.healyourlife.com/how-crystals-work-the-science-of-crystal-healing
https://www.theosophical.org/publications/quest-magazine/42-publications/quest-magazine/1534-clairvoyant-observation-of-minerals
http://www.sensability.nl/wp-content/uploads/The-five-kingdoms-of-nature-October-27-2014.pdf
Share this:
Tweet
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Filed under Crystal Healing, Path to Inner Alchemy and tagged alice bailley, consciousness of atom, Crystal Healing, esoteric psychology, healing with crystals, judy hall, micheal gienger, pranic crystal healing, pranic healer, Sargam Mishra |	Leave a comment
Apr2
Crystal Cleanse Rituals
Posted on April 2, 2018 by Inner Alchemy I Sargam Mishra
Standard
Here is one of the most asked about post on How to cleanse & Recharge the crystals.
First let us understand why we need to cleanse a crystal after we have purchased it.
When you get a crystal, you may be excited to use it just like the way you get it as you feel they are new to you, but frankly for the crystal it is a long journey before reaching its final destination in your hands. The crystal was mined from the earth, passed off to different handlers, who then gave it to a vendor, to sell to a retailer, where it went through the touch of various customers before your eyes caught sight of it and it was taken.
That’s a lot of collected energy and subtle programming. Because we all want a fresh start for our new journey with our crystals, it’s important that the first step you take is cleansing your crystals.
Key Take Aways…
How to cleanse your crystals with the power of mantras, cleansing crystals like Quartz or Selenite, the sacred smoke of sage, sandal wood, lavender, and use prana from nature like the earth, light of the moon or sun and air
Using the excess energy post meditation to bless the crystals
How to program your crystals and make them work for you
As a crystal lover I have explored several ways of cleansing my crystals some techniques are highly therapeutic for my own spirit as they are for my crystals. From getting some relaxation & meditation during the full moon, or enjoying a nice mantra sound, carrying some of my crystals during spiritual retreats, laying them out on a sunny beach, or letting them be in sunlight/moonlight often are some fun methods for cleansing and charging my crystals to get both me and my crystals in the highest, purified spirits.
Use your crystals as often as needed. Your crystal’s energy can get congested, heavy and dull, just like your own. So be sure to do a periodic crystal cleansing to get the most out of your continued work with your stone.
6 Simple Methods for Cleansing & Charging Your Crystals
1.Sunlight or Moonlight Spa
As a healer when you feel the intensity of energy becoming less from your crystals or it appears heavy it is time to cleanse and recharge. They may even appear as dull and not as vibrant it is a sign let them connect with nature. Let your crystals bathe outside in light of the sun or moon for at least 4 -6 hours. Especially with the large crystals in your home, although it can be a process, make sure that you place them outside to clear and recharge at least once a month.
Be gently aware of the nature devas in the light, earth and air surrounding the crystals and invoke them to cleanse your crystals thoroughly. You can put a salt water bowl to absorb any dirty energy expelled by the crystals.
2 Visualisation & Meditation
Light a candle and place it in the middle of your crystals. After completing your meditation use the excess energy to purify and recharge your crystals. With the intention of cleansing or charging, picture pure white light emanating from your hands and passing through the crystals. Sit in a clear and centered state, tune into your crystal, and simply ask it to clear or charge, depending on what you feel is needed.
3.Using Crystals to Cleanse Crystals (Quartz or Selenite)
You can pair your crystals with either a selenite or quartz crystal! Both of these crystals have the unique ability to cleanse, recharge and purify the energy of other crystals, without diminishing their own energy. Lay your crystals and tumbled stones on a piece of Clear quartz or a selenite charging plate for 6 -8 hours. Place your jewelry on a large crystal cluster every night and next morning they will be energized to wear and work with you.
4.Smudge and Clear your Crystals
Not only will burning Sage, Frankincense, and Sandal wood , Lavender make your home smell great and purify it, they’ll have your crystals feeling great too. Immerse your crystals in the sacred smoke until it seems to come back to life. This is likely the best option for larger, harder to pick up crystals. Simply use your a feather or your hand to waft the smoke over and around the crystal.
You can use natural incense sticks to smudge (3-5-7)
5.Mantra Therapy
Use the sacred chants of ‘OM’ to cleanse your crystals, sound bath can help the dirty energy within the crystals to disintegrate. Use 108 Om Chants and ring the bells a couple of times to cleanse the space around the crystals. You can place a saltwater bowl also to absorb the dirty energy.
6. Allow Crystals to Sleep in the Mother Earth
We could all use an energetic reset in nature every now and then. To give your crystal that revitalizing pleasure, place it on the soil or even bury it within the Earth for 24 hours.
Note: make sure you are mindful when placing certain crystals in water; many of the softer ones that are salt-based will dissolve when they get wet.
Here are the recommended products
Dried California White Sage Smudge Sticks
Lavender Incense Sticks by Auroshikha
Om Mantra Chants by MCKS
Love N Light!
Share this:
Tweet
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Filed under Crystal Healing, Path to Inner Alchemy and tagged crystal alchemy, crystal cleanse, energize your crystals, full moon crystal cleanse, inneralchemy, Sargam Mishra |	1 Comment
Mar9
Poly Cystic Ovaries PCOS/PCOD – Energy Healing Approach
Posted on March 9, 2018 by Inner Alchemy I Sargam Mishra
Standard
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a hormonal disorder common among women of reproductive age. Women with PCOS may have infrequent or prolonged menstrual periods or excess male hormone (androgen) levels. The ovaries may develop numerous small collections of fluid (follicles) and fail to regularly release eggs.
The exact cause of PCOS is unknown. Source: Mayo Clinic.
Here is some more information on PCOS and the numbers are alarming 1- IN -EVERY 10 Women has PCOS/PCOD today. There is a whole bunch of issues that follow PCOS including diabetes, weight gain, infertility, irregular periods to name a few. These are physical conditions but the emotional and mental symptoms are quite alarming like anxiety and depression.
The woman of today is going through a tough time because somewhere between the gender wars where we have a constant need to prove we are better than men or women are equal to men we are missing out on being a WOMAN. We are still struggling with gender issues like female infanticides, rape crimes, corporate gender bias , dowry deaths, all of these fears and insecurities have silently drifted us from womanhood.
Amidst all of these somewhere You as a WOMAN feel disconnected from your own divine feminine qualities. The pride and happiness of being born a woman is seldom celebrated by you or others around you. Imagine Our mothers, grandmothers and great grand mothers have all paid a huge price to ensure that as a woman you and I can live our joy , we can embrace our sexuality and feel proud of being a woman. If even today we are shameful of being a woman and mask our sexuality by shaming ourselves and others for being connected with the divine feminine* we are going against our energetic constitution.
*Divine feminine qualities are ; creation, birth, healing, receptivity, openness, motherhood, nurturing, love, understanding, compassion, insight, intuition, wisdom, forgiveness, sensuality.
When as woman you disown your sexuality you suppress the joy of being a woman the hormones that nurture the female reproductive system are triggered by your thoughts and emotions and when your thoughts and emotions are constantly dreading your being as a woman you are constantly playing against your constitution, that which differentiates you from a man physically and emotionally, the reason why you were constituted a certain way.
We all are so focussed on making it big in life , somewhere we are sacrificing our desires of being mothers, nurturers and caregivers as we see it as one of the biggest hurdles in our success and growth. As women we have also taken an active role in family for helping financially , it is also important for us to continue earning and hence we restrict ourselves from procreation. Various over the counter pills, poor nutrition and inability to take care of our health also adds to woes of female wellbeing.
Let us look this emotional condition from the energy perspective (Chakras)
So when you are emotionally suppressing your emotions or are dwelling with lower emotions (anger, resentment, anxiety) your Solar Plexus chakra and back heart chakra is impacted as this is happening with improper thinking to some extent your upper chakras are out of balance. (Crown, Backhead, Ajna , Forehead) when you consistently repress sexual energies and are disconnected with your sexuality your sex chakra is adversely impacted. The Sex chakra provides prana to your reproductive organs. The energy has to move from lower to upper chakras and upper to lower chakras. With these chakras adversely impacted (blocked) you create an imbalance in your life force energy. Those in energy healing modality can now understand the cause of the additional symptoms of PCOS?PCOD.
Pranic Healing has a beautiful protocol for healing PCOS/PCOD depending on the condition you can get physical and psychological healing for this condition.
“Incurable means curable from within”.
Here I am sharing some self help tips and techniques for initiating your healing journey:
Self Love – No matter how cliche’d is self love a lot of issues with our physical body happens because of suppressing our emotions, self sabotaging beliefs, self harm in thoughts and emotions. here is how you can practice self love in daily life.
Forgiving the Past – Psychosomatic illnesses and other disease are a result of holding a lot of pent up emotions within us. Most of us carry a lot of baggage from our past the hurt from relationships and emotional turmoil caused by others can still be felt as thorns in the heart. Some of us nurture these thoughts and emotions so as to keep the fire burning by holding on these memories and then feeling the pain in times of solitude. Here is a beautiful forgiveness technique to help you heal.
Embrace Your Feminity – Connect with the divine feminine qualities within you appreciate your sexuality and accept it with love. The incarnated soul chooses its form prior to birth because it has certain lessons to learn and master them. So be respectful of the choice you made and live it gracefully.
Affirmations – Louise Hay is a pioneer in affirmations for healings and here are some affirmations that can help in healing PCOS. If you carefully reflect these affirmations also give you insight into your own thought patterns, so you can mentally replace these program from your system through affirmations.
Ovaries– Represent point of creation. Creativity.
Affirmation- “I am balanced in my creative flow.”
Female Problems– Denial of the self.
Affirmation- “I rejoice in my femaleness. I love being a woman. I love my body.”
Cysts– Running an old painful movie.
Affirmation- “The movies of my mind are beautiful because I choose to make them so. I love me.”
Using Crystals to Support Healing being a certified crystal healer I feel if one uses crystals with proper instructions and guidance it can help in healing any physical conditions/support the healing. Crystals like Rose Quartz, Moonstone, Carnelian
Metaphysical Properties for Rose Quartz: Rose Quartz is a stone of unconditional love! It opens your Heart and Crown Chakras to all forms of love: self-love, family love, platonic love, and romantic love. The elevated energy of Quartz gives Rose Quartz allows it to enhance love in virtually any situation, bringing gentleness, forgiveness, and tolerance. Rose Quartz opens you up to the beauty and love in everything
Metaphysical Properties for Moonstone: Grab a Moonstone when you need to feel balanced or are changing aspects in your life. It brings calm through awareness and provides the energy to sustain you through stages of growth. It’s a highly intuitive stone that allows self-expression and creativity to your energy flow.It is one of the best stones used to promote ease of pregnancy and childbirth, to enhance fertility, relieve PMS, to eliminate insomnia and circulatory disorders.
Metaphysical Properties Carnelian
This will be a perfect stone for women who lead very busy and sometimes chaotic lives. When you are surrounded by the stabilising energies of carnelian, you will continue to function on high energy levels.Carnelian stones are not only very pretty and decorative stones, but they can also do wonders for your health and well-being. For starters, they can help with a woman’s reproductive issues.Health problems that concern the uterus, vagina, cervix, the fallopian tubes, and the ovaries can be eased or remedied by the energy of carnelian stones.
PCOS Healing Bootcamp is a step towards utilising the Pranic Healing protocols for group healings and showcasing results. This Healing bootcamp is specially designed for women who want to heal naturally and have 100% commitment towards their well being. This is a 28 days healing bootcamp. To know more —>>>http://sargammishra.com/…/PolyCystic-Ovaries-Online-Healing…
Love and Light
Sargam
Share this:
Tweet
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Filed under Path to Inner Alchemy, Physical Disease, Pranic Healing and tagged crystals carnelian, crystals for PCOS, forgiveness for pcos, irregular periods, Louise Hay, MCKS Pranic Healing, menstrual, moonstone for pcos, Ovaries, PCOD, PCOS, periods, PolyCystic Ovaries, pranichealing, Sargam Mishra, self love |	2 Comments
Post navigation
<span class="meta-nav">←</span> Older <span>posts</span> Newer <span>posts</span> <span class="meta-nav">→</span>
Follow Sargam Mishra on WordPress.com
Copy Right License
© Sargam Mishra and , sargammishra.blog, sargammishra.com 2018-2022. Unauthorized use and/or duplication of this material without express and written permission from this site’s author and owner is strictly prohibited. Excerpts and links can only be used, provided that full and clear credit is given to Sargam Mishra and sargammishra.blog/sargammishra.com with appropriate and specific direction to the original content.
Photo Gallery
This slideshow requires JavaScript.
Sargam Mishra – Heal Transform Evolve
Sargam Mishra – Heal Transform Evolve
Blog Stats
217,146 hits
Categories
Categories Select Category Conscious Parenting crystal alchemy by sargam Crystal Healing gratitude Inner Conversations Intention Make A Wish MCKS Twin Hearts Meditation Mindful Parenting Moon New Beginnings 2016 parenting our emotional self Path to Inner Alchemy Physical Disease Pranic Healing Prosperity Quotes Relationship Relationship Healing Self Help and Spirituality Testimonials for Sargam Travel Woman Zero Hunger Feeding Program
Archive
Archive Select Month March 2019 December 2018 October 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 April 2018 March 2018 February 2018 January 2018 December 2017 November 2017 September 2017 July 2017 June 2017 May 2017 April 2017 March 2017 January 2017 December 2016 November 2016 October 2016 September 2016 June 2016 May 2016 April 2016 December 2015 November 2015 October 2015 September 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 July 2013 June 2013 February 2013
Recent Posts
Holi -Festival of Colors
Merry Christmas 2018
How To Jump Start…after a Long Vacation
Shungite – The Crystal of Life
Golden Pyrite – Abundance is Your State of Being
Likeminds :)
Powered by WordPress.com.
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: