Do Himalayan Pink Salt Lamps Really Work? - Oola.com
Oola.com
Life in Flavor
Day to Day Life
Life at Home
Social Life
Yum_Oola
Search
Life at Home
Do Himalayan Pink Salt Lamps Really Work?
Katy Spratte Joyce
June 29, 2018
Shutterstock / Africa Studio
Facebook
Yum_Oola
Email
Have you noticed the trendy crystal lamps popping up in homes and yoga studios? They are Himalayan pink salt lamps, and we are beyond intrigued by these pink-hued pretties. We'll break down exactly what they are, the purported benefits, and proven perks. It's sure to be enlightening!
Shutterstock / Fernando Cortes
So What Are They?
Himalayan salt lamps are created when a lightbulb is placed into a large piece of Himalayan pink salt. Himalayan salt is only mined in one specific place in Pakistan, the Khewra Salt Mine. Its distinct pink color is due to iron oxide being present in the salt, and it also contains small amounts of potassium, calcium, and magnesium. Salt lamps are popular home decor items and are also commonly found in yoga studios, and therapists' offices.
Pixabay / pompi
What We Know
We know that these lamps are aesthetically pleasing, and make for a cool decor element. They also emit a soft warm light, which could be useful as we wind down to sleep. Plus, they help to create a zen atmosphere, so here we come relaxation station. Additionally, they're sustainably sourced, and use less energy as they require a lower wattage bulb.
Shutterstock / grafvision
Health Claims
Salt lamps have increased in popularity in large part due to the health benefits attributed to them. Let's examine those more closely below, with an explanation of the top 3 most widely circulated claims.
Claim #1: Mood Booster
Salt lamp proponents often claim that they enhance and improve one's mood through exposure to negative ions. While there have been promising studies that show increased serotonin produced in animals with ion exposure, there is no proven link yet established for humans. Additionally, the lamps don't even produce the amount of ions being studied in these cases, so it's a moot point.
Claim #2: Sleep Aid
Another common benefit listed by salt lamp advocates is that they promote healthy sleep patterns. At this time, there have been no scientific research studies completed regarding the effect of Himalayan salt lamps on quality of sleep, so this claim remains unfounded. However, since they emit a softer light than traditional lights or electronics, they could be helpful to ease the transition from day to night.
Claim #3: Air Purifier
The most popular health benefit related to Himalayan salt lamps is that they purify and improve air quality. This is due to their "ionizing" nature, which means they change the electrical charge of the air. This claim may also refer to the old-fashioned practice of halotherapy, where sitting in salt caves was said to help those with respiratory diseases. Again, there's no scientific evidence to support this, so it is another fact that cannot be proven.
Wikimedia Commons
In Conclusion
While they're certainly pretty and popular, it's clear that the health benefits claimed to be connected to salt lamps have not been definitively proven. That doesn't mean they aren't true, but anecdotal evidence is not as strong as research-based information. Overall, we dig Himalayan pink salt lamps and would love if they positively affected our environment, but we aren't counting on it.
Like this article?
Let us know.
Subscribe to the Oola Newsletter
5 Delicious Dishes That Taste Even Better When You’re By The Beach Life in Flavor Sharon Sidwell Read More
25 Popular Dishes You Can Cook In Your New Air Fryer Life in Flavor Perry Carpenter Read More
The Best Homemade Biscuit Recipe Life in Flavor Maria Cruz Read More
Oola.com
Our mission is to help you live your life to your tastes by empowering you with the most useful information, inspiration, guides, and reviews to help life taste sweeter.
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Life in Flavor
Day to Day Life
Life at Home
Social Life
Life To Your Tastes
Yum_Oola
Cookie Settings
©copyright 2019
Gateway Blend
For details on Gateway Blend's privacy and cookie policies, please visit our privacy policy page.