Week 3 - Is there a link between MMR vaccine and autism - IB TOK @ Kristin
Wikidot.com
.wikidot.com
Share on
Join this site Explore »
IB TOK @ Kristin
Home
This week
T1 - Week 1
T1 - Week 3
T1 - Week 5
T1 - Week 7
T1 - Week 8
T2 - Week 11
T2 - Week 17
T2 - Week 18
T3 - Week 21
T3 - Week 22
T3 - Week 23
T3 - Week 24
T3 - Week 25
T4 - Week 31
Useful Resources
Your blogs
Forums
View categories
Recent posts
Contact
Create account or Sign in
How to join this site?
Site members
Reference pages
Old start page
What is a Wiki Site?
How to edit pages?
Recent changes
List all pages
Page Tags
Site Manager
Page tags
central home
Add a new page
=edit this panel
Week 3 - Is there a link between MMR vaccine and autism
Forum » Main discussion area / Topic discussions » Week 3 - Is there a link between MMR vaccine and autism
Started by: Nigel Smith
Date: 06 Feb 2011 21:05
Number of posts: 9
RSS: New posts
Summary:
Use this thread to discuss the MMR - autism link
Unfold All Fold All More Options
Edit Title & Description Stickness Lock Thread Move Thread
Fold
Re: Week 3 - Is there a link between MMR vaccine and autism
Nigel Smith 10 Feb 2011 23:02
What's really going on? Which piece of evidence is most convincing to you? Why?
Reply Options
Unfold Re: Week 3 - Is there a link between MMR vaccine and autism by Nigel Smith, 10 Feb 2011 23:02
Fold
Re: Week 3 - Is there a link between MMR vaccine and autism
Maddy Lister 12 Feb 2011 01:30
I believe that there isn't a connection between autism and the vaccine because of the most recent and widely spread research conducted. There have been tests carried out since the findings were printed in the Lancet journal, that show hundreds of thousands of children have had no behavioural symptoms occur since their vaccination with the MMR vaccine. Dr Andrew Wakefield only tested twelve children, some of whom had prior behavioural issues and it has been shown that he was paid a large amount of money (£435,643) to find evidence against the manufacturers of the MMR vaccine via research on children (which was also paid for). Therefore, I think it coincidental that twelve families from across the UK came to him to persuade the government that the vaccine was unsafe and should be taken off the market.
Reply Options
Unfold Re: Week 3 - Is there a link between MMR vaccine and autism by Maddy Lister, 12 Feb 2011 01:30
Fold
Re: Week 3 - Is there a link between MMR vaccine and autism
Hannah Rose 16 Feb 2011 01:44
I believe although Maddy has a very valid point, we all have our own opinions. Dr. Andrew Wakefield wrote a paper SUGGESTING an association between MMR immunization, bowel disease and autism. He said that the vaccine MAY be negative to a child’s immune system and also POSSIBLY lead to infection as well as, in the long run, to POSSIBLE brain damage and autism.
However, again in saying this, this is only his opinion. Until further testing continues on the vaccine, we cannot say whether or not this particular vaccine does in fact cause these things.
Reply Options
Unfold Re: Week 3 - Is there a link between MMR vaccine and autism by Hannah Rose, 16 Feb 2011 01:44
Fold
Re: Week 3 - Is there a link between MMR vaccine and autism
Sam Burden 16 Feb 2011 02:08
I think that the MMR vaccine can lead to autism in young children. This is because I cant think of any other ways in which autism could suddenly occur in a child, a part from a dangerous drug. It might seem coincedental that only 12 families have come forward saying that there child got autism from the MMR, but there are possibly many more families in this situation but they dont realise that MMR was the cause. In addition to this childrens immune systems arent fully developed and therefore would be more likely to be effected by a drug such as MMR.
Reply Options
Unfold Re: Week 3 - Is there a link between MMR vaccine and autism by Sam Burden, 16 Feb 2011 02:08
Fold
Re: Week 3 - Is there a link between MMR vaccine and autism
JayKim 16 Feb 2011 02:10
I do not believe that there is a link between the MMR vaccine and autism because there are no clear evidences supporting this. 'Reviews of the evidence by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Institute of Medicine of the US National Academy of Sciences, the UK National Health Service, and the Cochrane Library all found no link between the vaccine and autism'(from wikipedia). Most of the children that are claimed to having autism after taking the vaccine, previously were all 'abnormal' according to the UK test. It is said that the vaccine's benefits 'greatly' outweigh its risks, (for example in 1998 Wakefield's The Lancet article were spread widely and as the vaccination rate dropped tremendously in UK and Ireland, measles and mumps occured with greater frequency causing several deaths and permanent serious injuries). So I think there is no absolute links between MMR vaccine and autism, and even if it had some kind of connection, I believe it is better taking the vaccine to reduce more deaths.
Reply Options
Unfold Re: Week 3 - Is there a link between MMR vaccine and autism by JayKim , 16 Feb 2011 02:10
Fold
Re: Week 3 - Is there a link between MMR vaccine and autism
George Freeman 16 Feb 2011 05:22
I would say that there probably is a link between the vaccine and the autism. The evidence is, that many children are normal, and only after do they take the vaccine do they become autistic. It is not necessarily going to effect every child who has the vaccine, but as many hundreds of parents claim (not just the 12 that Dr Andrew Wakefield tested on), it most probably has effected some. In many countries, the vaccine has been banned and also these countires have low autism rates. Compare that with America, who still has the vaccine, and has such a high rate of autism. It is not a definite, but certainly it is a likely possibility. As Jocelyn pointed out, I don't think there is quite enough evidence yet to make a full conclusion, but a link is quite probable.
Reply Options
Unfold Re: Week 3 - Is there a link between MMR vaccine and autism by George Freeman, 16 Feb 2011 05:22
Fold
Re: Week 3 - Is there a link between MMR vaccine and autism
Nigel Smith 16 Feb 2011 19:33
It seems we have quite a diversity of opinion amongst us! Great. Also great to see everyone backing up their opinion with some reasoning. Some of you find the numbers of people who believe convincing, others are more convinced by the scientific data. Others wisely use cautious words and keep the options open. For those still to respond (and anyone else) - how will this affect your decision in the next 15 years to vaccinate any children you might have? or not?
Reply Options
Unfold Re: Week 3 - Is there a link between MMR vaccine and autism by Nigel Smith, 16 Feb 2011 19:33
Fold
Re: Week 3 - Is there a link between MMR vaccine and autism
veronicayoung 16 Feb 2011 01:58
Thousands of people around the world believe that there is a link between the MMR vaccines and autism. They think that days after their children recieved the vaccine they started showing symptoms or autism. The most convincing piece of evidence to me is the number or families who agree with this debate, and many of them have video's and other evidence of there healthy ordinary children before and after the vaccine. I personally believe that there is a link between the two, although it has not yet been scientifically proven.
Reply Options
Unfold Re: Week 3 - Is there a link between MMR vaccine and autism by veronicayoung, 16 Feb 2011 01:58
Fold
Re: Week 3 - Is there a link between MMR vaccine and autism
Jocelyn Ho 16 Feb 2011 02:12
I think that there is not enough evidence to fully make a decision. The problem is that the government will not allow for further studies that could possibly help us with our decisions. We need to gather more information to compare both sides of the argument. I believe that there is some kind of negative effect of the MMR vaccine, as with all injections. But, whether it causes autism or not, we can not decide, until more evidence is gathered. You can not make a decision solely based on suggestions and parents' opinions. After all, these parents have gone through a tragedy and are looking for a scape goat (someone to blame) and it's no surprise they took the first liable option they were given.
Reply Options
Unfold Re: Week 3 - Is there a link between MMR vaccine and autism by Jocelyn Ho, 16 Feb 2011 02:12
New Post
Permanent Link Edit Delete
/forum/t-305758/week-3-is-there-a-link-between-mmr-vaccine-and-autism#post-
Help | Terms of Service | Privacy | Report a bug | Flag as objectionable
Powered by Wikidot.com
Click here to edit contents of this page.
Click here to toggle editing of individual sections of the page (if possible). Watch headings for an "edit" link when available.
Append content without editing the whole page source.
Check out how this page has evolved in the past.
If you want to discuss contents of this page - this is the easiest way to do it.
View and manage file attachments for this page.
A few useful tools to manage this Site.
See pages that link to and include this page.
Change the name (also URL address, possibly the category) of the page.
View wiki source for this page without editing.
View/set parent page (used for creating breadcrumbs and structured layout).
Notify administrators if there is objectionable content in this page.
Something does not work as expected? Find out what you can do.
General Wikidot.com documentation and help section.
Wikidot.com Terms of Service - what you can, what you should not etc.
Wikidot.com Privacy Policy.