10 Best Home Remedies for Nausea – How to Get Rid of Nausea Fast?
Press enter to see results or esc to cancel.
Toggle navigation
Beauty & Fitness
Skin Care
Hair Care
Diet
Exercises
Yoga
Weight Loss
Food & Drink
Health
Nutrition
Acupressure Points
Benefits
Human Body
Supplements
Remedies & Natural Treatments
Pregnancy
How To Get Pregnant
Symptoms
Pregnancy Week by Week
Second Pregnancy
Safety
Giving Birth
Post Pregnancy
Infertility
Human Stages
Baby
Toddler
Child
Pre Teen
Early Teen
Young Adult
Tools
Sai Sudha Chintapalli in Remedies & Natural Treatments December 5, 2018
0 Comments
Home Remedies for Nausea – 10 Tactful Ways To Get Rid Of Nausea Instantly!
We all face nausea at some point in our lives! Pregnancy and travelling are the most common phases that make us feel nauseous but why let the discomfort bother you when you have the best home remedies for nausea within your reach!?
Nausea is just a temporary uneasiness that may sometimes lead to vomiting which may actually end the symptom but the symptoms of uneasiness which does not lead to vomiting can seem so annoying, you may want to get rid of it no matter what.
We are here to help you get rid of all the temporary chaos! Here are some natural remedies to end your suffering.
Top 10 Home Remedies For Nausea
Whether it is PMS, an upset stomach, too much of alcohol, or any medication that has been showing nausea as a side effect, knowing the right tactics can help in suppressing the symptom.
Know how to get rid of nausea fast by applying the simplest methods!
1. Inhale The Essence Of Peppermint
Carrying a bottle of peppermint essential oil during long journeys can be helpful especially if you are suffering from travel sickness.
It is very common to fall sick while travelling because of the rapid up and down movement which causes a confusion between your visual perception and your body movements!
Aromatherapy which is the process of using natural essential oils for improving mental and spiritual well-being can be helpful in treating motion sickness. Inhaling the essence of peppermint can relieve you from the uneasiness and nausea.
If you are currently undergoing a state of pregnancy, you can benefit from inhaling peppermint oil because it not only relieves you from nausea but also balances you at an emotional and spiritual level.
You can mix the essential oil with any carrier oil like olive oil or coconut oil if you feel that the odour is too strong. Intake of Peppermint tea can also relieve nausea if you are not travelling but avoid drinking the tea if you are suffering from Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD).
2. Inhale The Scent Of Lime
Pregnant women are often suggested to inhale the essence of lemon because of the citrusy essence and flavour that makes you feel relaxed.
Ensure that you choose a fresh and juicy lime to experience a strong flavour.
A study conducted regarding lemon inhalation aromatherapy among pregnant women proved that lemon essence can help in relieving you from nausea and vomiting sensations.
There is also anti-nausea medication available for suppressing the symptoms of nausea and vomiting during pregnancy but they are associated with various side effects such as restlessness and drowsiness which is why choosing natural remedies for nausea would be the best among the available options.
3. Indian Gooseberry For Nausea
Indian Gooseberry is much preferable for treating pregnancy-related sickness.
It is much advisable to drink fresh Amla juice (Indian Gooseberry juice) to get rid of pregnancy-related symptoms.
It cures Edema, helps in a proper regulation of blood pressure, maintenance of healthy gums, purification of blood and provides constipation relief.
You can also get rid of uncontrollable food cravings that are common to occur during pregnancy. Sucking on the gooseberry pieces can also help in providing a relief from nausea.
But, if you are aiming for the consumption of Amla juice, consuming 5-10 ml of Amla juice per day can be enough for getting rid of morning sickness and frequent throw ups during pregnancy.
4. Does Coconut Water Help?
Consuming coconut water during pregnancy can help in curbing the symptoms of nausea and vomiting because it prevents dehydration which could be the major reason behind motion sickness.
However, women suffering from pregnancy-related nausea are suggested to take fluids a few hours or at least half an hour before the meals.
Also, you must keep your stomach full with protein-rich foods so as to get rid of morning sickness. Coconut water can prevent dehydration because frequent throw ups can result in the loss of electrolytes.
Coconut water is packed with rich nutrients but do not replace your regular water with coconut water during pregnancy. A minimum of 8-12 glasses of water is an ideal water consumption.
5. Ever Tried Acupressure Band For Nausea?
Acupressure is a scientific massaging technique that deals with the meridians (energy lines) which are the channels that can send life energies throughout your body so that the problem is cured internally.
There are certain pressure points on your body which have to be stimulated by applying the right pressure so that the problem related to that particular pressure point can be controlled or completely healed.
Do not follow acupressure treatment if you are pregnant as it can interfere with your health.
How To Cure Nausea With Acupressure?
Use your thumb to massage the wrist of your opposite hand. The point lies exactly three-quarters of an inch below your wrist line.
The acupressure point present in this region is known as PC 6 point that works effectively in treating nausea and motion sickness.
Apply a firm pressure that seems pleasurably painful for about one minute using your thumb and move your finger upwards to your wrist line. Apply the pressure for about a few seconds and then release.
You can buy an acupressure wristband which is labelled as anti-nausea from your nearby medical store or simply visit an acupressure centre for an effective treatment.
6. How To Get Rid Of Nausea Fast Using Ginger?
A perfect remedy that works for nausea without any side effects is ginger. Ginger is said to contain a chemical compound called Gingerol that acts well on your central nervous system as well as your unsettled stomach.
Whether it is pregnancy, PMS, travel sickness or any other problem like post-chemotherapy that causes nausea, ginger is all you need for obtaining relief.
However, you may have to avoid the over-consumption of ginger to avoid side effects. You can consume 2 grams of ginger per day for obtaining a soothing effect.
Sucking on ginger flavoured lozenges can also help If you do not like consuming raw ginger.
7. Try To Take Vitamin B6 Supplement
Pregnant women are often suggested to take vitamin B6 supplements to get rid of nausea. Consult your doctor to know the exact dosage so that it does not cause any side effects.
Vitamin B6 can help you get rid of morning sickness because it releases certain amino acids that can combat the symptoms of nausea and vomiting.
This may also help people suffering from travel sickness or any other issue that may result in nausea.
You can also consume foods that are rich in vitamin B6 if you are prohibited from taking supplements. This is probably the best natural remedies for nausea as it suppresses the symptom by acting upon it internally.
To stay away from the symptoms of nausea, consume more potatoes, soybeans, peanuts, pork, turkey, whole grains, fortified breakfast cereals, eggs, fish, bread, vegetables and chicken.
The recommended intake of vitamin B6 is between 1.2-1.4 milligrams per day. Ensure that you do not consume more than the recommended amounts to avoid side effects like loss of sensation in your arms and legs.
8. Yoga As The Best Natural Home Remedies For Nausea
Nausea can create a lot of emotional instability which distorts your mental peace! Your day gets ruined because of the discomfort associated with other irritable symptoms.
Practising Yoga can improvise the blood circulation throughout your body so that you feel relaxed each morning.
Start your day with Yoga and see how you can eventually get rid of nausea. Some of the simple poses such as Suptha Virasana and Viparitha Karani can help you get rid of nausea.
You will feel completely relaxed an eased down when you practice the poses along with deep breathing.
You can avoid practising Yoga if you are currently pregnant. A simple breathing exercise like that of a deep inhalation and exhalation may help if you are pregnant.
How To Practice Suptha Virasana?
To practice Suptha Virasana, get into the diamond pose or Vajrasana (Kneel down with your buttocks resting on your ankles).
Bring your knees close to each other such that the kneecaps of both your legs are touching each other. Raise your buttocks up off your ankles and widen your ankles such that you can comfortably rest your buttocks on the floor when you sit.
Start leaning backwards (exhaling) with the support of your elbows until you finally rest your back on the floor.
Stay in the position for as long as you can and get back to your normal position slowly while inhaling.
Practice Suptha Virasana if you have been constantly suffering from nausea.
How To Practice Viparitha Karani?
Select a place that is close to a wall. Lie down near the wall and push yourself closer to the wall. Raise your legs upwards and press them against the wall.
You are in such a position that you make a 90-degree inclination with the floor and wall. Rest in the position for 5 minutes after which you can get back to the normal position.
What To Take For Nausea?
Following a diet that involves soothing foods such as yoghurt, staying away from spicy foods and following a BRAT diet along with the natural home remedies for nausea mentioned in the article is the best way to fight the symptom.
Wondering what is a BRAT diet? Here is how to follow it!
9. Follow A BRAT Diet
BRAT (Bananas, Rice, Applesauce, and Toast) is a diet consisting of simple foods that can keep you away from the inconvenience or nausea that may be caused due to an increased feeling of fullness.
This kind of a diet would be helpful if you are suffering from diarrhea because all these foods are particularly low in fibre that will harden up your stools and also limit your number of visits to the bathroom.
Ensure that you include other fluids such as coconut water or sports drinks to prevent dehydration. Remember that dehydration will further worsen your feeling of nausea.
10. Avoid Spicy Foods
You may not want to consume spicy foods when you feel nauseous but if you are feeling compelled to eat them after you have gained relief, you may have to wait until the symptoms of nausea and an unsettled stomach subside completely.
An intake of spicy foods can further aggravate the symptoms and worsen your condition. You can choose to consume some gut healthy foods like Yogurt or relish a glass of ginger flavored buttermilk to get rid of the irritable symptoms.
Simple Tips To Be Followed To Get Rid Of Nausea
Following the above-mentioned remedies can give you a major relief but you can follow some simple tips for a quick recovery!
Keep Yourself Hydrated – Drink at least 2 litres of water per day to avoid nausea that may occur due to dehydration.
Get Proper Ventilation – A suffocating environment can worsen your symptoms and make you feel much anxious. Try to find a peaceful relaxing environment or the one that is close to nature.
If you are suffering from travelling sickness, you have no other option but to follow aromatherapy or to suck on ginger flavoured lozenges.
Take Deep Breaths – Making deep inhalation and exhalation and concentrating on your breath may shift your focus from what you have been actually feeling.
Do Not Eat Heavy Meals Before Journeys – Since your journeys involve a rapid movement which can make you feel nauseous; you may prefer having just little amounts of foods to keep it as simple as possible.
Move Around Soon After You Have Your Meals – Lying down soon after you have your meals causes the food to move into your upper oesophagal region which can eventually lead to a condition called acid reflux.
Acid reflux occurs due to improper food timings, having large meals or lying down immediately after having meals.
Moving around helps in a better digestion of food which can prevent the symptoms of nausea.
Bottom Line
Though there are various reasons for nausea, pregnancy and travel sickness are the two main causes of this discomfort.
Following some simple remedies like inhaling peppermint essence, chewing ginger, intake of vitamin b6 supplement, following acupressure, sucking on Indian gooseberry or lime essence can work as the best home remedies for nausea.
Written By
Sai Sudha Chintapalli
Sai Sudha Chintapalli is a certified health blogger, who has an experience of above 2 years in the field of writing with an authorized certificate in the area of Introduction to food and health from Stanford University.
She has a special interest in life sciences, human psychology and fitness which drove her to make blogging turn passion to profession. She has conducted a survey on Malnutrition in children in a slum area at Hyderabad and studied about the adulteration in Food items as the part of her projects while pursuing her bachelor's degree in Life Sciences.
Being an introvert, writer, empath and a nature lover, she loves Yoga and believes it to be one of the best pathways to self discovery!
Comments
Leave a Comment
Cancel reply
Message *
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Search for:
April 20, 2019
Grapefruit Benefits – Why Should Grapefruits Be A Regular Part Of Your Diet?
Read more
About Us
Privacy Policy
Write for us
Search for:
Copyright 2018 © Thefitglobal