Lemon And Baking Soda Combination Saves Lives - Sakshin.nl
Navigation
Sakshin.nl Tachyon Energy Facilitator
Home
main
Sakshin.nl – Tachyon Energy facilitator
Healing-Arts
Tachyon behandeling
Questionaire
Reconnective healing
Testimonials
Add your testimonial
Matrix Energetics
Rebirthing
ho’oponopono
Carbon60 Fullerenes
Carbon60 Fullerene testimonials
Health Blog
About
Contact
Disclaimer
Return to Content
Lemon And Baking Soda Combination Saves Lives
By Sakshin on 13/06/2014 in Genezen, Kanker
Does the combination of lemon and baking soda have 10 000 times more stronger effect than chemotherapy! Cancer rates are rising fast and the need for alternative treatments is becoming more and more evident. Some studies have proven that lemons have an anti-cancer properties. It has also been reported that lemon can provide other benefits, including the treatment of cyst and tumors. It has been said that lemons have the power to cure cancer, and is currently being tested on all cancer types. Adding baking soda makes it even more powerful, because baking soda brings pH to normal level. It also has potent antimicrobial effect in treating bacterial and fungal infections. It works against internal parasites and it regulates blood pressure. Lemon is beneficial for the nervous system as well – it is a powerful antidepressant, reducing stress and calming nerves. One of the largest drug manufacturers claims that 20 laboratory experiments, conducted since 1970 until recently, proved that: Lemon destroys cancer cells in 12 cancer types. It prevents metastasis of cancer cells and it is 10 000 stronger than drugs like Adriamycin, chemotherapy and narcotic products. It also found that the combination of lemon extract and baking soda destroys cancer cells and it does so without harming healthy cells and tissues. The experiments have shown that patients diagnosed with cancer should drink lemon juice and a teaspoon of baking soda. This treatment can not cure the disastrous side effects of chemotherapy but it can help. Source: healthyfoodhouse.com Baking Soda Testimonials
via Lemon And Baking Soda Combination Saves Lives .
Related
Kanker
Kankerpatiënt geneest na hoge dosering vitaminen, kurkuma | NineForNews.nl
The Spice That Can Potentially Help Your Health in 150 Different Ways: Turmeric
No comments yet.
Leave a Reply	Cancel reply
Tags
5 tibetan rites (6) Apple cider vinegar (3) Baking soda (4) Brandwonden (2) Breathwork (3) Colloidaal zilver (6) Detox (3) EMF (7) Energie (6) Ervaringen (4) Gal (3) Genezen (76) Gezondheid (36) Honey (4) Kanker (61) KleurenPunctuur (4) Kruiden (4) Kurkuma (4) Lever (2) Leverreiniging (5) Magnesium (4) Meditatie (8) Migraine (2) MMS (7) Ontgiften (19) Opladen (4) Pijn (9) Q-link (2) Raw (8) Reconnection (4) Reconnective healing (4) Reinigen (5) Silica gel (2) Straling (12) Superfoods (4) Supplementen (30) Tachyon (12) turmeric (3) vaccins (2) Vitaminen (10) voeding (18) Wetenschap (3) Yoga (4) Zapper (2) Zout (3)
Tachyon Products Shop
Order NOW to start healing yourself within two days
Testimonials
Testimonial * More and more Reconnective healing get mix in with my Tachyon energy sessions. It just happens. I don't ask for it or wish for it but some clients experience all the beauty and sensations of the reconnective healings.
Author * Sakshin
Testimonial * My first session had an amazing impact on me. It felt as if i touched God during the session. I felt revived and relieved. Thank you Sakshin.
Author *Aniek
Recent Posts
New study suggests Vitamin C is cancer’s worst enemy – NaturalNews.com
Vitamine B17 verboden. Het geneest kanker!
Tamarind found to remove fluoride deposits from bones
Liver repair with Tamarind
Colloidal silver was ‘erased from textbooks’ because cured diseases from tuberculosis to syphilis
Intravenous Vitamin C is a cancer killer and the FDA wants to ban it
Turmeric and Honey: The Most Powerful Antibiotic That Doctors Can’t Explain
What are Tachyons – video
Recent Comments
Sakshin on OPKIKKER UIT DE AMAZONE
Michelle Terzo on Italiaanse rechtbank: verband tussen mobieltjes en hersentumoren
Torres Siemon on Italiaanse rechtbank: verband tussen mobieltjes en hersentumoren
Jan Tulen on Paardenbloem is antioxidant en kankermedicijn
Leo M on Detox and Relieve Constipation with this Apple Cider Vinegar & Honey Drink!
Vegetable Health Benefits, Spinach, Capsicum, Cucumber, Broccoli - Organic Vegetables- on Herbs For Joint Pain
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
Subscribe to Blog via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
© 2019 Sakshin.nl. All Rights Reserved.
site by green
Next Previous