The India Blog | Bharat Expedition: Hindu Squats & Hindu Push-ups
Sunday, May 6, 2012
Hindu Squats & Hindu Push-ups
First and foremost, let's answer this simple question, "What are Hindu squats?" If you have worked out before and are aware of the different types of squats that can be done, then maybe you have heard about these squats. As the name suggests, these squats are very common in India as they are used in Indian martial arts form known as Pehlwani. These squats are called Uthak-bethak or Dand-bethak and are very famous in various villages around the country. These squats are performed to strengthen your entire body, increase your stamina, and make your joints more flexible. Today, in this article, we will be talking about these squats in more detail. We will learn about the benefits of these squats and how they are done correctly.
Custom Search
Benefits of These Squats
What does these squats affect in our body? When performed correctly, these squats can build endurance and strengthen your buttocks, thighs, lower back, calves, and chest muscles. Apart from these, there are other health benefits of squats. If you perform these squats on a regular basis, then you can increase your lung's endurance level as well. They can make your leg muscles strong as well as the knees and ankles. Many people question if these squats are bad for the knees. It's a typical concern because as you do these squats, your entire body's weight will fall on them.
The point here is, any exercise, if done correctly, won't affect any part of your body adversely. Which is why, in order to avoid any injuries, you should always consult your doctor and a physical trainer. This way, you can be absolutely sure if you are capable of doing the squats (or any other exercises). The benefits also include a fantastic aerobic workout that builds your muscles, tones you body, and reduces stress.
How the Squats are Performed
To assure that you gain all the benefits from this squat, it is most commonly paired with Hindu push-ups, called Hanuman Push-ups. These squats are done together so that you can build strong, powerful legs in less amount of time. Although many squat exercises may include weights, these are push-ups and squats without weights that provide a better workout. Keeping that in mind, we shall see how these squats and push-ups are done correctly.
Hindu Squats
Stand with feet shoulder-width apart and toes facing forward.
Keep your back straight and keep both hands at your side, close to chest.
Now squat down, bending your knees and bring your arms closer to floor and behind you.
This will give you a good balance while you've squatted down.
When you are completely down, raise the heels of your feet and stay on your toes.
To come up, you will swing both arms in the front and lower your toes.
Come all the way up and end at the starting position.
Bring hands back close to your chest and back straight.
All throughout the workout, breathe normally; don't hold it inside.
Repeat the steps and do 20 to 40 squats at one time. You can keep increasing the squats gradually.
Hindu Push-ups
Place an exercise mat on the floor and stand on it.
Spread your legs, further than shoulder-width and place the palms of your hands on the mat.
Keep head down and your midsection raised towards the ceiling. You need to make a "V" shape.
Relax your shoulders and neck. Don't strain them.
To begin, swoop your upper body downwards keeping head down and hands planted on the mat.
You need to do a swooping movement. Bring your upper body down and then up.
When your upper body is up, your midsection will go down. But keep your back straight.
Look up towards the ceiling as your midsection is down.
Again you will swoop but push your midsection back towards the ceiling to make the "V" shape.
All throughout the workout, breathe normally; don't hold it inside.
Repeat the steps 12 to 15 times in 1 set. You can keep increasing the sets gradually.
Now you know how these squats and push-ups are done properly. Follow the steps mentioned in this article and don't forget to concentrate on your breathing. In Hindu squats, breathing can be a difficulty for some people as they forget to do the same. It is very important that you don't hold your breath and breathe normally.
Custom Search
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Dand bethak, Dand-bethak, Hanuman Push-ups, Hindu Push-ups, Hindu Squats, Pehlwani, Uthak-bethak
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Search This Blog
Home
Visitors
Feedjit Live Blog Stats
Resources
Indian Khana Delivery
Indian Nashta Delivery
BE ON THE ROAD
India Free Classifieds
Blogarama - The Blog Directory
Subscribe to bharatexpedition
Email:
Visit this group
Archives
► 2015 (5)
► September (3)
► May (1)
► February (1)
► 2013 (1)
► January (1)
▼ 2012 (15)
► December (1)
► November (4)
▼ May (3)
Rajasthan in 7 days - how
Hindu Squats & Hindu Push-ups
Surya Namaskar
► April (6)
► January (1)
► 2011 (40)
► February (24)
► January (16)
► 2010 (134)
► December (5)
► November (2)
► October (17)
► September (12)
► August (8)
► July (18)
► June (37)
► May (31)
► April (4)
► 2007 (1)
► July (1)
Popular Posts
Fifty(50) Things Everyone Should Know How To Do
Self-reliance is a vital key to living a healthy, productive life. To be self-reliant one must master a basic set of skills, more or les...
आरती प्रीतम प्यारी की, कि बनवारी नथवारी की - Arti Preetam Pyaari Ki
" जय श्री राधे कृष्ण" आरती प्रीतम प्यारी की, कि बनवारी नथवारी की दुहुन सिर कनक मुकुट छलके दुहुन श्रुति कुण्डल भल हलके ...
Great Indian Railway
... I’m sharing my practical knowledge about the India railway system, the Indian train, and the India travel ‘culture’. The information...
Hindu Squats & Hindu Push-ups
First and foremost, let's answer this simple question, "What are Hindu squats?" If you have worked out before and are awar...
Kamasutra Temples, Khajuraho
Lord Ganesh statue Besides the temples exemplary for their architecture and bold artistic statement, Khajuraho is just a sm...
Mahakavi Surdas - सूरदास की रचनायें
जीवन परिचय हिन्ढी साहित्य में कृष्ण-भक्ति की अजस्र धारा को प्रवाहित करने वाले भक्त कवियों में महाकवि सूरदास का नाम अग्रणी है। उनका जन्...
Temples of North India
India’s contribution to the spiritual sphere of modern world is unique. From Vedic age, all that is pure and sublime in Nature’s creation ...
Kabaddi - Its History and How to Play Kabaddi
Man's playing Kabaddi It always irks me that almost nine out ten people I talk to about kabaddi have almost no inkling to the...
Hindu City - Hidden in secret - Angkor Wat
Ankor Wat One of the most archeological site of South East Asia, stretching over 400 km2 along with the forested area is Angkor which ...
(no title)
मुरली मनोहर श्री कृष्ण जन्माष्टमी के इस पवन पर्व पर नास्ता डिलिवरी की तरफ़ से हमारे सभी ग्राहको को हार्दिक बधाई. जन्माष्टमी का छप्पन ...
Followers
Home
Labels
travel tips (68) Ancient Temples in India (12) Wildlife (11) Hindu Temples (9) moneytips (9) Adventrue in Rajasthan (8) China Travel Tips (8) Indian Temples (8) money tips (8) Amazing Temples of India (7) Hindu mythology (7) History of Ancient India (7) hinduism (7) save the tiger (7) Indian Poet (6) Rajasthan (6) holiday tips (6) A Complete India Travel Guide Launched (5) India (5) Kavita (5) Temples of India (5) all about jaipur (5) kavi sammelan (5) royal bangal tiger (5) New Zealand (4) Poetry (4) about india (4) bangal tiger (4) mahakavi surdas (4) rajasthani food (4) 100s of tips (3) Business Travel (3) Energy Music (3) Great Indian Railway (3) Indian Music (3) Jaipur - The Pink City (3) Kanak Vrindavan (3) Krishna Arti (3) Kumar Vishwas (3) Vintage MUMBAI (3) recipe (3) 38th tiger reserve opens in India (2) Adventure Travel Ideas (2) Adventurers Travel (2) Angkor Wat (2) Architecture of the Hindu temple (2) Awesome Quotes (2) Cricket (2) Cross Road in India (2) Experience of travelling in a Mumbai Local Train (2) Ganga River (2) Going to China (2) How to Become a Travel Agent in 24 Hours (2) How to play kabaddi (2) Incredible India (2) Khajuraho (2) RAJASTHANI CUISINE (2) Radha Krishna Arti (2) Rail Europe for the Student Traveler (2) Rajasthan Festivals (2) Singapore (2) Tips On Making Your Car More Fuel Efficient (2) Travel Guide (2) Travel India (2) Varanasi (2) Wildlife Sanctuaries (2) addiction to money (2) all about india (2) all about singapore (2) best quotes (2) bhartiya rail (2) birthday of Lord Krishna (2) churma (2) coffee (2) colourful rajasthan tour (2) gilli danda (2) how to Celebrate Christmas (2) vacation time is coming up (2) vastu shastra (2) work life balance (2) Ajanta and Ellora caves (1) Ayurveda Panchkarma (1) Best Places in India (1) Facts About India (1) Honeymoon Destinations (1) Indian culture (1) Sacred Rivers of India (1) Virtual Walks of Europe (1) adventure paradise in india (1) beaches in india (1) festivals of India (1) goa (1) hanuman (1) आरती प्रीतम प्यारी की (1) कि बनवारी नथवारी की (1) चोखी ढाणी (1) भज गोविन्दं (1) मतंगेस्वर मंदिर (1) महाकवि सूरदास भजन (1) वृन्दावन (1) वृन्दावन धाम (1)
Powered by Blogger.