Skin tag or wart?
EndWarts PEN
What is EndWarts PEN?
Wart treatment with EndWarts PEN
User instructions
EndWarts PEN on children under 4
Warts
About Warts
What causes warts?
Verrucas
Warts on hands and fingers
Warts in children
Symptoms of warts
How do you get warts and prevention
Wart removal
Wart removal
Formic acid for warts
Salicylic acid and warts
Trichloroacetic Acid TCA and warts
Laser for wart removal
Burning warts off
Freeze warts off Cryotherapy
Wart removal by surgery
Natural home remedies for wart removal
Reviews
FAQ
FAQ Warts
FAQ EndWarts Pen
Buy
News
Videos
Ask the pharmacist
toggle menu
Home
Question
Skin tag or wart?
The symptoms of skin tags are similar to wart symptoms but there are also some important differences. Skin tags can be smooth or irregular and range in size from a few millimeters to a few centimeters. While skin tags are usually soft and balloon shaped, warts are harder and usually have a rougher surface. The color of skin tags can range in from pale to dark. Another difference is that warts are caused by the human papillomavirus (HPV) and are contagious, whereas skin tags cannot be transmitted from one person to another. Since warts and skin tags look similar, many people get them confused. If you are unsure if you have a skin tag or wart you should consult a dermatologist or doctor.
To FAQ
Wart removal
Its important with wart treatment. How do you remove warts?
Wart removal
Preventing warts
How do you get warts and what is the best way to prevent warts?
Preventing warts
Contact Us:
Meda Pharmaceuticals,
Skyway House,
Parsonage Road,
Takeley,
Bishop Stortford,
CM22 6PU
Tel: 01279 873 649
info@remove-this.medapharma.co.uk
EndWarts products are medical devices. Always read the instructions for use carefully before use.
Legal Manufacturer: Meda Pharma S.p.A., Via Valosa di Sopra, 9, 20900 Monza, Italy CE 0546
Last update: 02/2017
MORE MEDA PAGES:
meda.co.uk
cb12.co.uk
Adverse events should be reported.
Adverse events should be reported. Reporting forms and information can be found at www.mhra.gov.uk/yellowcard. Adverse events should also be reported to Meda's Medical Information line on 01748 828810
UK/END/16/0001(1)
Date of prep: October 2016
Terms of use
Privacy Policy