Glycerin. A diesel by any other name wouldn’t taste as sweet. | Dirty Popcorn
Dirty Popcorn
Good Stuff for Dogs from Health, Nutrition, Fitness, Training and More
Skip to content
Home
About Goodness Gracious
← From China with Luck
The Dirty Dozen Aliases for MSG →
Glycerin. A diesel by any other name wouldn’t taste as sweet.
Posted on March 7, 2012	by Amy Renz
My children, Grace and Lula
I want to give Waggin’ Train and others like them, a firm kick in the caboose.
Glycerin. You see it everywhere in dog treats. When you do, put the bag down and slowly step away. It could kill your pet.
Glycerin (aka glycerol or vegetable glycerin or glycerine) is a sugar and a filler. It’s classified as a humectant, which means it absorbs water or moisture. It’s included in pet treats – which are sold by net weight – so the manufacturer can sell you the weight in water. Glycerin binds the water so as to disguise the water as a solid treat or food, and inhibit mold growth. And if you see it on the label, there’s generally a lot of it present. To produce a soft, moist / semi-moist treat, glycerin generally makes up about 10% to 18% of the product. Glycerin is also about 60% as sweet as sugar so there’s some palatability benefit for the treat maker to include the stuff as dogs can taste sweetness.
Until recently, most glycerin for pet food was produced as a byproduct of soap making. It’s created when fat or vegetable oil is saponified. Today, a lot of glycerin that’s in food for animals comes from a much deadlier source. It’s a byproduct of biofuels.
There has been an extraordinary amount of glycerin coming into the market from biofuel production, since one gallon of biodiesel yields one pound of glycerin. This rate of production places tremendous pressure on the supply side of the glycerin market to find new uses for this product. Animal food is where it’s being dumped.[i]
What makes glycerin produced from biodiesel any different than that from soap? Plenty.
The production of glycerin from biofuels leads to significant amounts of residual methanol (wood alcohol) and sodium that remain in the glycerin. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the EPSA (Europe) are taking a hard look at this product given the nature of its contaminants.
Methanol (wood alcohol) is a flammable, poisonous liquid that’s also the raw material for making formaldehyde. It’s on the Community Right to Know List. Methanol is highly toxic, readily absorbed from all ways one can be exposed to it, and has narcotic properties. Ingestion can cause blindness and death. Lesser exposure causes blurry vision, headaches, and GI disturbances. Symptoms of exposure include headache, dizziness, confusion, abdominal pain, lung problems, weakness and coma.[ii]
Pet food makers that use glycerin from soap are trying to distinguish their products from those containing the poisonous glycerin from biodiesel. To do so, they’re now referring to their glycerin as “natural” glycerin. Natural, refined glycerin (derived from soap making) is generally recognized as safe (“GRAS”) though irritating to mucous membranes.
It’s wise to be cautious when seeing “natural” glycerin on a label though, as the production of crude glycerine from biodiesel is also categorized as “natural.”
Founding members of Goodness Gracious (maker of 100% human-grade dog treats)
Below is a list of some pet treats containing glycerin. At a minimum, it’s worth asking the manufacturer if they use human food grade glycerin, what company provides it to them and what country it comes from.
Beggin’ Strips
Beneful (Baked Delights and Snackin’ Slices)
Bil-Jac (liver treats for dogs and Gooberlicious)
Blue Buffalo (Blue Bits, Blue Bites, Blue Stix, Super Bars, Blue Bones, Wild Bites, Blue Wilderness Wild Bites)
Blue Dog Bakery (Softies, Perfect Trainers)
Buddy Biscuits (Soft and Chewy, Chewy Tricky Trainers)
Busy Bones
Canyon Creek Ranch
Carolina Prime
Cesar Treats
Dentastix (from Pedigree)
Good Bites (from Pedigree)
Halo (Spot’s Chew)
Milo’s Kitchen
Pur Luv (Chewy Bites, Little Trix, Grande Bones)
Purina Pro Plan (various treats including Roasted Slices)
Real Meat Jerky Treats (Jerky Bites, Bitz, Long Stix, Large Bitz)
Solid Gold (Beef Jerky, Turkey Jerky, Lamb Jerky, Tiny Tots)
Snausages
T-Bonz
Waggin Train
Wellness (Wellpet, Wellbites)
Zukes (Hip Action, Natural Purrz, Jerky Naturals, Mini Naturals)
[i] Is ‘natural’ glycerin a good petfood ingredient? Greg Aldrich, PhD. Petfood Industry Magazine. January 2012, pp 52-53
[ii] A Consumer’s Dictionary of Food Additives, 7th Edition. Ruth Winter, M.S.
Advertisements
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
About Amy Renz
Amy is the CEO and Pack Leader of Goodness Gracious, LLC (www.GoodnessGraciousTreats.com) and we save lives. We make healthy 100% human-grade, USDA certified, USA sourced dog and cat treats, and give 51% of our profits to local animal shelters, rescues and spay/neuter programs in communities where our treats are sold. Our products include single-ingredient jerky and gluten free biscuits that pets love, and parents love to give. Amy is a Marathoner, a slalom skier, but first a parent to her pack of three beautiful canines. Find us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/goodnessgracioustreats www.GoodnessGraciousTreats.com www.run4rescue.org Twitter @Goodnssgracious
View all posts by Amy Renz →
This entry was posted in Animal Health, Cats, Dog nutrition, Dogs, Pet food, Pet Nutrition, Pet treats, Pet Treats and Supplies, Uncategorized and tagged animal nutrition, Beggin Strips, Bil-Jac, biljac, biodiesel, biofuel, Blue Buffalo, Blue Dog Bakery, Canyon Creek Ranch, cat treats, chicken, chicken jerky recall, China, dog treats, glycerin, glycerine, glycerol, Goodness Gracious, Hill's Science Diet, jerky, methanol, Milo's Kitchen, natural glycerin, natural glycerine, pet food, pet health, petfood, Pur Luv, Purina, Real Meat Jerky, Snausages, soft treats, toxins, vegetable glycerin, vegetable glycerine, Waggin Train, Wellness, wood alcohol, Zukes. Bookmark the permalink.
← From China with Luck
The Dirty Dozen Aliases for MSG →
22 Responses to Glycerin. A diesel by any other name wouldn’t taste as sweet.
Valerie Bortell Neeb says:
March 7, 2012 at 3:12 pm
These articles just keep coming folks!! And it makes me more & more angry, every time I read one!!
Shame on every single one of these companies that are putting this crap into our pets treats!!! They all lead you to believe that these treats are good for your pet, when that is far from the truth ~ I for one, do not want to give my dog treats that could harm them. It makes me wonder how they can sleep at night & if any of them have pets, do they give this stuff to their 4-legged friends. Once again, the almight dollar prevails without regard to what effects their product has on our beloved pets…..
Reply
Shropshire Lass says:
December 7, 2013 at 12:23 pm
PROPYLENE GLYCOL, SORBITOL, GLYCERIN FOUND IN BENEFUL AND JERKY TREATS COULD BE KILLING DOGS IF IT IS DERIVED FROM JATROPHA
The Jatropha plant is used extensively in China to produce Oils, Biodiesel, Glycerin, Propylene Glycol, Sorbitol and Proteins. This highly toxic, non-food shrub is also grown in India and parts of Africa. Three seeds from this plant can kill an adult. Symptoms include vomiting and bloody diarrhea. Haemorrhagic gastroenteritis is generally diagnosed, and the kidneys and liver can both fail. Death can occur quickly.
The FDA wants the industry to watch for glycerin from Jatropha
The FDA has issued new guidance about ingredients made from Jatropha curcas, a plant that has become popular in making biodiesel. The glycerin extracted in that process may contain toxins but which conventional testing may not find. Jatropha plants may contain phorbol esters, which could be toxic “both acute and chronic, to exposed humans and animals.”
The agency says it has not discovered any problems yet but is trying to get out in front of the issue with the new rules. The plant has become popular in biodiesel production, the FDA says, because its seeds contain high levels of oil, the drought-resistant plant grows well in tropical and semi-tropical climates and it is relatively cheap to grow.
The FDA is STILL TRYING TO DEVELOP A TEST FOR THE PRESENCE OF JATROPHA because of the jerky treat issue, and InPharm says it welcomes any assistance in that effort from the industry.
Read more: FDA wants industry to watch for glycerin from Jatropha – FiercePharma Manufacturing http://www.fiercepharmamanufacturing.com/story/fda-wants-industry-watch-glycerin-jatropha/2012-07-10#ixzz2iYgZocBN
FDA Notification to Industry: Products using oils, glycerin, or protein that were derived from the Jatropha plant may have toxic effects
Read more: http://www.fda.gov/downloads/ForIndustry/IndustryNoticesandGuidanceDocuments/UCM310867.pdf
Deadly Chinese Dog Treats – Could This Be the Cause? Dog Food Advisor
http://www.dogfoodadvisor.com/dog-food-news/chinese-dog-treats-glycerin/
THE BOTTOM LINE
Until the FDA or the industry has positively identified the cause the death of these unfortunate — and innocent — animals, why expose your pet to these avoidable risks?
Avoid feeding potentially deadly jerky treats. Don’t buy them. Or if you already have, take them back to the store you got them from.
Avoid ANY pet food containing Propylene Glycol, Sorbitol or Glycerin!
REPORT any adverse reaction to your State Dept of Agriculture:
and to the state/regional FDA!
Reply
Shropshire Lass says:
December 7, 2013 at 12:29 pm
Oh, and the FDA is STILL working on those tests at the end of 2013!
Here is a snippet on an FDA report on jerky testing protocol “We are developing a protocol and testing methods for DNA analysis of other potential contaminating products including the toxic plant JATROPHA CURCAS. CVM also developed methods for extracting DNA from Jatropha oil, for use in validating these assays”
JERKY PET TREAT INVESTIGATION link: http://www.fda.gov/downloads/AnimalVeterinary/SafetyHealth/ProductSafetyInformation/UCM371485.pdf
WEB LINK is to our FB group: “Is BENEFUL by PUTRINA Killing or Sickening Dogs? Post YOUR Story”
Phil kelly says:
March 7, 2012 at 4:19 pm
Good
Reply
Chris Johnson says:
March 12, 2012 at 8:40 pm
There are so many better uses for glycerine anyway. An aid to aneorobic digestion to creat methane gas. Glycerine can be made into hydrogen, ethanol and methanol, all things which are currently mostly made from fossil fuel. So it could be such a good alternative to use glycerine.
Reply
Pingback: Top 10 Things To Look For In Dog Food | Dirty Popcorn
Pingback: Chinese Food: Here’s what’s in the chicken jerky that’s poisoning our pets | Dirty Popcorn
narong chamkasem says:
June 14, 2012 at 2:56 pm
I am working at FDA and we are looking for the bad chicken treat samples that kills your dog so we can analyze them to compare with the good one so we can distinguise the difference and find out what compounds that kills the dog. This way we can screen the bad treat from the good one in the future. Anyone are interested in sending the samples, please contact me at narong.chamkasem@fda.hhs.gov.
thanks,
Narong
Reply
Is BENEFUL by Purina Killing our Dogs? Post Your Story! says:
February 15, 2013 at 5:59 pm
I believe that “Glycerin” is a major problem as it used to be sourced from soap. It is now a byproduct of biofuels. It is contaminiated with Methanol.. which breaks down into Formaldehyde and is a potent hepatotoxin. BTW, Liver failure is the predominant feature in the current round of BENEFUL dog food deaths… where is that Propylene Glycol (antifreeze) sourced from? I would suggest that Glycerin/ol sourced from a country like China is probably even more likely to have this and other contaminants than a US manufactured product.
Reply
Robert Kawalec says:
October 10, 2012 at 5:13 pm
God bless you Narong. I hope you can figure this out and save our pets. My theory is the glycerin is to blame. Some dogs eat more treats than others, also glycerin is in many different treats. I believe it builds up in the animals system until a threshold is reached.
Bobk
Reply
Terie Vass says:
November 24, 2012 at 2:07 am
The FDA has been looking specifically at the Jatropha glycerin because there are specific toxins in it after the biodiesel process that they don’t have a test for. Also, what does irradiation do it it? So many questions. I just want to know what killed my young dog and sicked his momma.
Reply
Pingback: Glycerin in dog treats « Awesome Tails
dogtrainingnewportbeach says:
March 13, 2013 at 3:44 am
Reblogged this on dogtrainingnewportbeach and commented:
In our foods too!
Reply
narong says:
April 15, 2013 at 3:51 pm
Definition: Glycerin, sometimes spelled glycerine, is a clear, thick liquid that has a faint sweet taste. It is often used in pharmaceuticals and beauty products like soaps and lotions to help moisturize the skin, but it also has food applications. Because it readily absorbs moisture from the air, it is often used to keep foods moist and soft. It is also sometimes used as a sugar substitute. When used in candy-making, it can add a subtle sweetness, keep candy soft, and help improve the texture. Be sure to buy food-grade or food-safe glycerin for baking and candymaking purposes.
Reply
narong says:
April 25, 2013 at 10:25 am
Glyerine is in the food already. We still don’t know what cause your baby to get sick. I will try to get more info from my end.
Reply
Pingback: It might be in Milo’s Kitchen but it’s probably not in yours… | Dirty Popcorn
Pingback: Opt for Top Five. Choose Dog Treats that Meet these Criteria | Dirty Popcorn
Joanne Schoonjans says:
July 12, 2013 at 8:58 pm
I bought Melaleuca ProCare Skin and Coat Treats for my dog and yes it has glycerin in them. I wrote them and they have yet to comment! They say they r pet friendly”NOT”
Reply
Charles Lavis says:
October 4, 2013 at 9:15 pm
Glycerin’s ability to bind water also causes a laxative effect when consumed. When it gets to the large intestine it will tend to pull a lot of water with it. When this happens your pet could end up with diarrhea.
Propylene glycol is NOT toxic in small amounts. Ethylene Glycol is toxic because it is converted to methanol by the liver and methanol is toxic. One of the treatments is too simply drink ethyl alcohol to counteract a poisonous effect.
There are tests to determine if methanol is left behind in the biodiesel process. I know because I make biodiesel. The test is performed with a headspace GC. Anyone telling you anything else is a liar. Secondly it is highly unlikely any methanol remains behind after baking the dog treats. Methanol is more volatile than ethanol.
There is absolutely no reason why the glycerol isn’t being tested for methanol especially for food use. It is easily driven off with heat and vacuum.
Reply
bfrerichs says:
December 1, 2013 at 4:10 pm
Teddy’s Goodies DO NOT use glycerine or thickeners of any kind! Our treats are pure food! No hormones, steroids or antibiotics, either! While we see others that add glycerine (like Earth Animal, btw), which increases the weight of end product that you get from each pound of chicken or beef, doesn’t that negate what you are trying to achieve? My Teddy has never, ever been sickened, nor any other dog, from our treats. We may not get as much end product, or profits, per pound, but we are proud of what we deliver!
Reply
Justine Melville says:
February 25, 2014 at 11:01 pm
I have being doing a lot of research on this whole Glycerin thing and the only thing I am not getting a clear answer on is what the difference between “vegetable Glycerin” and plain Glycerin is. By the looks of thing all my research says to stay away from both. Does anyone know for sure. Is vegetable glycerin really from vegetables or can it still be a byproduct of bio-fuel?
Reply
Don Clack says:
June 2, 2014 at 2:46 pm
I feel like an idiot. We bought the Pur Luv bone treats for our dogs and the smaller one, a yorkie/chihuahua mix, died after being at the emergency pet hospital for 12 hours. I noticed she was lethargic, and then she just collapsed and became unresponsive. Our other dog is larger, a Lab mix, and he has diarrhea, but otherwise seems ok. We only bought these, because they said Make in USA, and “All natural ingredients” on the label. I feel awful that I fed this poison to our dogs.
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
Share Good Stuff
Recent Posts
Quiz! Test your knowledge of human and pet food from USA and China!
Life Lesson #2: Be Present. As taught to me by my dogs.
Life Lesson #1: Is it fair? As taught to me by my dogs.
Opt for Top Five. Choose Dog Treats that Meet these Criteria
4-D, For Shame. How FDA breaks the law and sickens animals.
What’s Cookin’? Ever Wonder What Happens to Dead Animals? A Look at Baltimore’s Only Remaining Rendering Plant Explains By Van Smith
Chinese Food: What’s in the chicken jerky that’s poisoning our pets?
Top 10 Things To Look For In Dog Food
Salmonella Contamination Causes Widespread Recall of 14 Brands of Dog Food.
The Dirty Dozen Aliases for MSG
Glycerin. A diesel by any other name wouldn’t taste as sweet.
From China with Luck
It might be in Milo’s Kitchen but it’s probably not in yours…
Cool Dog Runnings. How conditioning, fitness level and diet can keep dogs cool.
No-Kill Sheltering means taking a hard look at the organizations we trust (ASPCA, HSUS) and a good look at ourselves
Hey Good Lookin.’ Whatcha Got Cookin?
A Cheat Sheet for Identifying Additives and Preservatives in Pet Food
The Wolf
All the Way, May!
Where’s the Beef? Why your dog should never eat another Milk-Bone or Beggin Strip, and you should avoid the Slim Jims.
Dirty Popcorn and More Reasons to Love Dogs
Search for:
Archives
July 2014
June 2014
May 2013
April 2013
May 2012
March 2012
February 2012
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
March 2011
September 2010
June 2010
April 2010
Advertisements
Tweet… I mean Woof.. Woof…
Of the 710 children that answered the dog safety quiz below, not a single child answered all twelve questions corre… twitter.com/i/web/status/1… 3 weeks ago
Study: Women sleep better with dogs by their side ow.ly/cfML30mM6cw Do you agree? ow.ly/cfML30mM6cw 1 month ago
Bloat is an equal opportunity killer, it can happen to any dog. Yes, there are certain predispositions which may ma… twitter.com/i/web/status/1… 1 month ago
😂 facebook.com/GoodnessGracio… 1 month ago
😂 facebook.com/GoodnessGracio… 1 month ago
Follow @goodnssgracious
Categories
Categories Select Category Animal Health Animal Rescue Animal Rights Animal Welfare Cats Dog nutrition Dogs Life Lessons No-Kill Movement Pack Leader Tips Pet food Pet Nutrition Pet treats Pet Treats and Supplies Uncategorized
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com
Dirty Popcorn
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: