Health Benefits of Pink Himalayan Salt, found millions of years ago in Punjab, Pakistan
Your address will show here +12 34 56 78 email@example.com
HOME
ABOUT US
PRODUCTS ▽
Salt Lamps
Salt Candle Holders
Salt Ashtrays
USB Lamps
Salt Slabs & Bricks
Cooking Salt
Bath Salt
De-Icing Salt
Salt Cave Therapy
ABOUT PINK SALT
HEALTH BENEFITS
USES
NEWS
CONTACT US
HOME
ABOUT US
PRODUCTS ▽
Salt Lamps
Salt Candle Holders
Salt Ashtrays
USB Lamps
Salt Slabs & Bricks
Cooking Salt
Bath Salt
De-Icing Salt
Salt Cave Therapy
ABOUT PINK SALT
HEALTH BENEFITS
USES
NEWS
CONTACT US
Health Benefits of Pink Salt
Pink Himalayan salt is often said to be the most beneficial as well as the cleanest salt available on this planet today. It has all kinds of nutritional and therapeutic properties, not to mention culinary uses. You can use it as a healthier option to processed salt. You can also use it to create homemade body scrubs and bath soaks, and you may have seen or own a Himalayan salt lamp made from pink Himalayan salt. Historically, the people of the Himalayas have used this versatile salt to preserve meat and fish. There are many benefits to switching to Pink Himalayan Salt for cooking or to even using various products made of Pink Himalayan Salt; below are a few we have listed.
Increase Hydration
Pink Himalayan Salt regulates the water content throughout your body.
Lower Blood Pressure
Pink Himalayan salt lowers blood pressure. It is more refined and improves circulation.
Reduce Signs of Ageing
Promoting blood sugar health and helping to reduce the signs of ageing.
Balance pH Level
Pink salt promotes a healthy pH balance in your cells and helps to reduce acid reflux.
Strong Bones
Pink Salt promotes bone strength and also helps in prevention of muscle cramps.
Healthy Skin
Pink Salt usage boosts healthy skin and makes you feel revived.
84 minerals found in Pink Himalayan Salt: Himalayan salt contains the minerals that are necessary for your health, including macrominerals and trace minerals. The macrominerals are needed in relative abundance and include calcium, chloride, iron, magnesium, phosphorus, potassium and sodium. The recommended daily amount of these macrominerals depends of your age, activity level and general health. Calcium is the most common mineral in your body and is found in your bones and teeth, as well as playing a vital role in nerve and muscle health. Trace minerals are needed in small amounts for health, and those found in Himalayan salt include boron, chromium, copper, fluoride, iodine, manganese, molybdenum, selenium and zinc.
Air Purification: By attracting water vapor, Pink Himalayan Salt Lamps traps indoor air pollutants including allergens, mold and bacteria.
Helps control water levels in the body: Pink Himalayan salt also helps maintain the correct levels of water or fluid in the body, unlike traditional table salt that has opposite impact of making a person dehydrated. It actually helps maintain the body’s water content.
Helps regulate blood sugar: It has been demonstrated that Pink Himalayan Salt can regulate glucose levels also known as, blood sugar levels. It contains a total of 84 different minerals, including Manganese, Magnesium, Chromium, and Vanadium, which all play a role in keeping blood sugar at healthy levels. These minerals primarily help in the digestion of starches and sugars which is what enables it to help balance blood sugar.
Improves respiratory problems, reduces asthma symptoms, reduces risk of sinus problems and improves breathing: To help treat respiratory issues or illnesses such as asthma, bronchitis, sinusitis, and allergies, simply inhale the steam of Pink Himalayan Salt soaked in hot water as necessary.
Regulates blood pressure: Pink Himalayan Salt consists of trace minerals that are effective in maintaining a healthy blood pressure. It has been shown to actually prevent high blood pressure when consumed with plain drinking water. Use regularly if you want to keep a healthy level of blood pressure to help prevent heart diseases.
Improves digestion: Pink Himalayan Salt can also be very beneficial for proper digestion. It helps stimulate the glands producing digestive juices in the body as well as the stomach, intestines, and the liver as it produces acids and enzymes. Thus, Pink Himalayan Salt assists proper digestion by allowing our food to move more smoothly through our digestive tracts.
Reduces cramping caused by menstrual issues: You can also take advantage of using pink Himalayan salt when bathing, but for women, this can be especially beneficial. Soaking in a tub of warm water with this type of salt helps release pressure and ease cramps as well as stabilize the body’s fluids most especially during menstruation.
Promotes healthy bones, great for teeth: Many people have experienced much improved dental health when regularly rinsing with Pink Himalayan Salt water solution. The reason is because this natural salt contains potassium as well as other trace minerals like calcium that aids in maintaining overall dental health and strong bones.
Relief in muscle cramps: Pink Himalayan Salt also has the ability to balance the electrolytes within your body thus preventing cramps. Furthermore, it also helps supply the fluids and minerals the muscles need in order to function optimally.
Body Detoxification
: Pink Himalayan Salt doesn’t just help heal the many pains and aches of your tense muscles or parched skin; it promotes the entire health and functioning of the body when added to daily bath water, it will help rid the body of toxins and chemicals that frequently lead to disease.
Helps balance electrolytes
Pink Himalayan Salt lamps and bricks balance positive and negative ions, which reduce radiation or electric smog, along with airborne infection.
Improves mood and sleep
The warm pinkish glow from Pink Himalayan Salt Lamps, candleholders, or bricks (when light is placed next to them) creates a calming and relaxing presence in the room, which helps improve mood and even quality of sleep.
Reduces stress & depression
As the electric smog clears in the room, the air quality is similar to that in a salt cave or on a beach, which greatly helps in reducing stress. It is also a noted fact that Himalayan Salt miners are the happiest people. Continued use of Pink Himalayan Salt can also cure depression.
Promotes stable PH levels
Pink Himalayan Salt is rich in minerals and helps to maintain your body’s natural pH level. A proper pH helps foster better immunity, digestion and the quality of blood produced by your body.
Additional health benefits
including Pink Himalayan Salt in your diet and lifestyle may result in these additional benefits too: improved brain health, anti-ageing, increased energy levels, increased absorption of nutrients, improved vascular health, better blood circulation, improved kidney and gall bladder health, increased hydration, better metabolism, and better serotonin levels.
Boost Healthy Skin
Pink Himalayan Salt contains minerals that are also important for maintaining skin health. These include Zinc, Chromium, Sulfur, and Iodine. Additionally, pink Himalayan salt works effectively in drawing out toxins in the skin, thus helping to ease and treat certain issues of the skin such as psoriasis, acne, and even insect bites and dry skin.
The complete list of minerals found in Pink Himalayan Salt are: actinium, aluminum, antimony, arsenic, astatine, barium, beryllium, bismuth, boron, bromine, cadmium, calcium, carbon, cerium, cesium, chlorine, chromium, cobalt, copper, dysprosium, erbium, europium, fluorine, francium, gadolinium, gallium, germanium, gold, hafnium, holmium, hydrogen, indium, iodine, iridium, iron, lanthanum, lead, lithium, lutetium, magnesium, manganese, mercury, molybdenum, neodymium, neptunium, nickel, niobium, nitrogen, osmium, oxygen, palladium, phosphorus, platinum, plutonium, polonium, potassium, praseodymium, protactinium, radium, rhenium, rhodium, rubidium, ruthenium, samarium, scandium, selenium, silicon, silver, strontium, sulfur, tantalum, tellurium, terbium, thallium, thorium, thulium, tin, titanium, uranium, vanadium, wolfram, yttrium, ytterbium, zinc and zirconium.
Disclaimer
This site offers health and fitness options related to our product Pink Himalayan Salt. You should not rely on this information as a substitute for, nor does it replace, professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. If you have any concerns or questions about your health, you should always consult with a physician or other health-care professional. Do not disregard, avoid or delay obtaining medical or health related advice from your health-care professional because of something you may have read on this site. The use of any information provided on this site is solely at your own risk.
All the information on this website is published in good faith and for general information purpose only. http://mogulsalt.com does not make any warranties about the completeness, reliability, and accuracy of this information. Any action you take upon the information you find on this website (http://mogulsalt.com), is strictly at your own risk. http://mogulsalt.com will not be liable for any losses and/or damages in connection with the use of our website.
RECENT POSTS
How to order Pink Salt Lamps in Bulk? Full Details
Health Benefits of Pink Himalayan Salt
How to spot a fake Himalayan Salt Lamp?
At Mogul Salt, we are passionate about our salt. We understand that salt is both a necessity and a luxury for a healthy life. So instead of just providing you with salt, we went one step further to the foothills of the Himalayan salt range in Pakistan where we sourced the very best Pink Himalayan Salt.
OUR POLICIES
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Return Policy
Disclaimer
FAQ
CONTACT US
10/10 Sector B-1 Township
Lahore, Pakistan
Phone: +92 (42) 111 101 018
E-Mail: info@mogulsalt.com
Web Site: www.mogulsalt.com
SEARCH
Mogul Salt presents Pink Himalayan Salt products for customers around the world.
Copyright 2018 - Created by MogulWaveTech