OPINION: Health check – does processed meat cause bowel cancer? | University of Newcastle Blog | UON Australia
Go to the UON Homepage
The University of Newcastle, Australia UON Blog
OPINION: Health check – does processed meat cause bowel cancer?
Opinion
Opinion article* published in The Conversation written by University of Newcastle’s Professor in Nutrition and Dietetics Clare Collins*.
Each year around 14,400 Australians are diagnosed with bowel (colon and rectal) cancer. It’s the second most common newly diagnosed cancer after lung cancer and claims around 3,980 lives a year.
The good news is that bowel cancer has a high cure rate if detected early.
And there is convincing evidence that you can reduce your risk of it by regularly eating foods that are high in dietary fibre, such as wholegrains, legumes, pulses, high fibre cereals, vegetables and fruit. In fact, for every ten grams of fibre you consume per day, your risk reduces by 10%.
Being physically active for at least 30 minutes a day also decreases your risk of bowel cancer.
But the other side of the risk equation is bad news for those who love a good deli meat: the regular consumption of processed meat increases your chances of getting bowel cancer.
READ the full article in The Conversation.
* Opinions represent the author’s views.
Tags: bowel cancer, Cancer, colon cancer, dietetics, exercise, Faculty of Health, Health, Healthy eating, meat, Newcastle, nutrition, processed meats, Professor Clare Collins, research, The Conversation, University of Newcastle
Share this post
Tweet
Monday, September 30, 2013
Posted in Opinion, University of Newcastle staff
Provide your thoughts Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. All fields are required.
Name *
Email *
Comment
Please note: All comments are moderated before being published.
Privacy Statement
Blog categories
From the VC's Desk
News
Opinion
University of Newcastle staff
UON Alumni
UON Researchers
UON Students
Engage with us
Like us!
Follow us!@Uni_Newcastle
Popular tags
University of Newcastle research Newcastle Health The University of Newcastle UoN University Education students Caroline McMillen HMRI nutrition Australia Higher Education teaching opinion Cancer diet Newcastle Herald obesity
Partner websites
HMRI
Newcastle Innovation
The Forum Fitness
UoN Services
GradSchool
Women's Health Australia
Research participation
Australian longitudinal study on women's health
Running shoe safety and performance testing program
© 2019 The University of Newcastle, Australia | CRICOS provider number 00109J Powered by WordPress