Jillian Michaels Maximum Strength Fat Burner Review | SupplementClarity.com
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
SupplementClarity.com
Supplement Reviews From A Real Expert
Home
About
My Book
Resources
Contact Us
Work With Me
Weight Loss
Anti Aging
Joint Supplements
Herbs
Diabetes Supplements
FAQ
Jillian Michaels Maximum Strength Fat Burner Review
August 29, 2010 by Joe Cannon 26 Comments
This is a follow up to my review of Jillian Michaels Maximum Strength Calorie Control supplement. This review focuses exclusively on Jillian's Maximum Strength Fat Burner so that you can decide if this product is right for you.
Update. Since writing this review, Jillian's counter part, Bob Harper has been selling weight loss supplements. Here is my review of Bob Harpers Smart Weight Loss Formula. Do read both reviews because these supplements are different.
According to the supplement’s website, (jillianweightloss.com), the Jillian's fat burner is supposed to:
Promote Preferential Loss Of Fat Mass*
Encourage Lipolysis (release of fat from mature cells)*
Inhibit Activity Of Phosphodiesterase*
On the website, all of these statements have an asterisk next to them which refers people to bottom of the website page. There people told that “these statements have not been evaluated by the FDA to cure treat or prevent any disease”. This is standard cover your butt language that all supplement advertisements carry in US.
Let’s take a closer look at each of the statements:
Statement # 1 What does “preferential” fat loss mean? Does it mean that the supplement will preferentially lead to fat loss in specific areas, like under the arms or tummy? That’s what I think it means however if I am right, then this is called “spot reduction” and it’s impossible! No supplement or exercise will do this.
Jillian Michaels knows this is not true because it is “personal training 101”. If preferential fat loss doesn't mean spot reduction, what else could it be referring to?
Statement #2 is a structure function claim because it contains the ambiguous word “encourages” fat loss. They also use the word “lipolysis” which means fat loss. Lipolysis sounds smart and that’s likely why they used that word.
If somebody sounds or looks smart, people take them more seriously. This is why Dr. Oz always wears his scrubs and its why doctors often wear white coats or have stethoscopes around their neck on TV. In fitness, personal trainers are sometimes seen as smarter if they have good abs or big muscles.
Statement #3 jumped out at me because the Jillian's fat burner supplement is alleged to inhibit phosphodiesterase. Phosphodiesterase is an enzyme that breaks a specific type of chemical bond, called a phosphodiester bond. Doctors abbreviate phosphodiesterase as PDE.
There are many types of phosphodiesterase enzymes in our body. Each type is responsible for different actions. For example Viagra is also a phosphodiesterase inhibitor. Doctors call Viagra a PDE 5 inhibitor.
Some research finds that the enzyme PDE 3B is involved in fat burning. But, Jillian's Fat Burner website does not tell you which PDE enzyme the fat burner is inhibiting. Does it inhibit the same type as Viagra? Likely not.
I'm telling you this because unless they tell you which PDE enzyme the fat burner inhibits, you don’t know if it’s inhibiting the type that helps you burn fat, or causes erections – or does something else. Phosphodiesterase is also another one of those “smart words”, like lipolysis.
Jillian's fat burner Ingredients
According to the website, Jillian's fat burner contains a “proprietary blend” of the following:
Blood orange (fruit) extract
Bitter orange (fruit) extract
Sweet orange (fruit) extract
Grapefruit extract
Guarana (fruit) extract (standardized to 12% caffeine)
Coffee bean (standardized to 70% natural caffeine)
Alpha Lipoic Acid
Kola Nut (seed) extract -standardized to 12% caffeine
Cocoa (seed) Extract
White Willow (bark) Extract
Cayenne Pepper (fruit) Powder
Notice that many of the ingredients are similar to those of Jillian Michaels Calorie Control supplement.
Let's review the research on each of these ingredients and see what we can learn.
Blood orange. It’s interesting that blood orange and sweet orange are listed as separate ingredients but they are similar. Both are extracts from oranges.
A recent study in lab mice did find that blood orange reduced body weight and this is likely why it is found in this supplement. What about people? More research is needed.
Blood orange may have a blood pressure lowering effect. As such, people who take high blood pressure medications should speak to their doctor before using this weight loss supplement. Other drug interactions may also be possible.
Bitter Orange. Bitter orange (Citrus aurantium) is a stimulant that is chemically similar to ephedra. As such it also elevates blood pressure and heart rates.
Bitter orange may have a mild fat burning effect but it should be avoided by anyone with health or medical issues including people with high blood pressure, heart problems, liver or kidney issues and those who take antidepressants to name a few. How much bitter orange is in the Jillian's supplement? They don't tell us.
Bitter orange supplements have even resulted in heart problems– even in healthy people.
Guarana . This is a caffeine containing compound. Weight loss supplements often use guarana because caffeine has a mild fat burning effect.
Coffee Bean. This is another caffeine containing compound.
Alpha Lipoic Acid. There is no good proof that alpha lipoic acid promotes weight loss in humans.
There are studies suggesting that Alpha Lipoic Acid may help people with type II diabetes. Generally, research uses a lot to impact type II diabetes. How much is in the Jillian's Fat Burner? They don't tell us.
Kola Nut (seed) extract. This is another caffeine containing compound.
Coca (seed) extract. Coca seed contains caffeine.
Grapefruit Extract. Grapefruit can slow the breakdown of caffeine in the body. As such, grapefruit helps caffeine stay in the body longer. This means heart rate and blood pressure stay elevated longer also.
Warning! Grapefruit can interact with many medications. This can result in the medication either being absorbed too fast or not absorbed enough. Either can lead to serious medical complications. Grapefruit can interfere with drugs used to treat heart problems, anxiety disorders, infections and epilepsy to name a few.
White Willow (bark) Extract. If you read my in-depth review on the weight loss shake, Right Size Smoothie you may recall it also contains white willow bark.
Since white willow bark is similar to aspirin, it may interfere with blood thinner medications.
Cayenne Pepper (Fruit) Powder. This compound contains capsicum, the molecule that causes your mouth to burn when you eat peppers. The thinking is that spicy foods enhance metabolic rate. Right size smoothie, which I reviewed in another blog, also contains cayenne pepper fruit. Cayenne pepper may interfere with blood thinner medications.
Conclusions.
Based on rational thought, I come to the following conclusions:
1. Jillian's Maximum Fat Burner contains several ingredients that are also found in other weight loss products. The dosages may be different however. Since the name of the product is “Maximum Strength” the amounts may be greater.
2. Many of the ingredients contain caffeine which might help the fat burning process. The stimulating effect of caffeine may also promote more physical activity – and hence more calories burned at the end of the day. How much caffeine is in a serving of the product? They don't tell us.
3. Some of the ingredients – bitter orange, cayenne pepper fruit, grapefruit extract, white willow bark – are in my opinion, scary and should be avoided by people who take any medications or have health issues.
4. Since people who are overweight tend to have more health issues, in theory, they may be at higher risk of unhealthy side effects.
5. I was unable to discover any published peer reviewed studies of Jillian's weight loss supplements – any of them.
What do you think?
Share this review with others:
Tweet
Email
Filed Under: As Seen on TV, Weight Loss Tagged With: Jillian Michaels
About Joe Cannon
Joe Cannon, MS has been investigation supplements since the 1990s. He holds a MS in exercise science and a BS degree in chemistry and biology. He uses science to evaluate supplements. He's the author of several books, been quoted in the New York Times, Shape Magazine and The Daily Beast. He trains personal trainers, speaking to thousands each year and has even lectured to NASA.
Learn more about Joe Cannon here
Reader Interactions
Comments
danielle says
May 17, 2013 at 11:28 am
i just purchased this product yesterday and decided to do some research before i use it and i’m glad that i saw this article..i didn’t know that it had sooooo much caffeine in it and they tell you to take two pills a day (wow). i also found it odd that on the box it list the “active fat burner compound” and “additional energy components” when they both are full of caffeine ingredients(smh).
thanks for posting this because i was going to look up each ingredient one by one and you saved me the time. also thanks for explaining what “encourage lipolysis” and “inhibit activity of phosphodiesterase” is.
Reply
Joe says
May 17, 2013 at 12:51 pm
Danielle, glad I was able to help and I hope you didn’t have to search too hard to find me 🙂
Reply
Joanna says
May 9, 2013 at 11:22 am
Thank you for this review! When I saw these ingredients in the store, they looked harmless enough. I thought the most that could happen was they didn’t work, and I’d be no worse off than before. I don’t drink caffeine anyway, so that doesn’t bother me.
But my family has heart problems and high blood pressure. Now I can warn them away from a potentially dangerous product.
Reply
Joe says
May 9, 2013 at 12:25 pm
Joanna, glad you found me and happy I was able to help.
Reply
Stacey says
March 27, 2013 at 9:09 pm
Hi. I found your research to be very informative. Have you done any research on Isagenix products?
Reply
Joe says
March 28, 2013 at 9:15 am
Stacey, thanks! Isagenix is on my list to review. I have not gotten to it yet. If you know the ingredients in a producct though you can enter them in the search box. if I ever covered them in other products, those reviews will show up and you can see what I said about them 🙂
Reply
Heynard says
February 17, 2013 at 10:47 pm
Simply brilliant. Well researched, explained and without the marketing hype of trying to sell a product. Thank you so much for such detailed analysis and for rendering your observations.
Reply
Joe says
February 18, 2013 at 11:16 am
Heynard, you are very welcome! Im glad I was able to help.
Reply
Courtney says
February 4, 2013 at 5:42 pm
I’ve been taking the Maximum Strength Fat Burner for only a week and have lost 10 lbs. I strongly believe this works. I sit in a cubicle for 8 hours a day at work and don’t have time to go to the gym. My eating habits have gotten better, but to lose that much weight?! I’ve done them before too. Over the summer I dropped weight, and then gained it back after I stopped eating healthy and working out…
Yes, this might be water weight. But I don’t think this is a joke. I’ve had SO much energy on these pills. I love them…
Reply
renee kirby says
November 15, 2014 at 10:05 am
I am having great results from this product, not because of celebrity endorsement…but because I have increased energy and have lost 10 lbs in a month!!! I notice no adverse side effects and will continue to take this….the pills tend to stick in my throat so drinking alot of water is a must!!!
Reply
Joe says
November 15, 2014 at 11:05 am
Renee, I am very glad to hear that. Just a thought: maybe if you open the capsules and mix them with juice /water that might be better if you say they stick in your throat?
Reply
Andy K says
January 22, 2013 at 11:25 am
Most dietary supplements have a mixture of some of these ingredients to some degree. I think the ingredient that kept bothering me the most was Tribulus Terrestris which is basically a flowering weed (yes, I looked it up..lol). There have been studies that report that testosterone levels can be boosted and sex drive increased with use. My main fear is that it has been reported to act as a steroid, though it is unsubstantiated.
In the end, it’s best to lose weight the ol’ fashioned way – eat right, drink plenty of water, get enough sleep, reduce stress, and exercise.
I appreciate all the information you’ve given on this.
Reply
Joe says
January 22, 2013 at 1:11 pm
Andy K, yes a lot of weight loss products have similar ingredients. Personally I’ve never given any credence to tribulus as a testosterone booster. I think they add it to products because people think it works. Here is my review of tribululs research https://supplementclarity.com/tribulus-terrestris-review-testosterone/
for me its the grapefruit in this product that jumps out at me. Its probably only a little grapefruit extract in this supplement but given its potential to interact with medications, I don’t like this. This is actually one of the few weight loss products Ive seen that have grapefruit. I think most sellers of weight loss products steer clear of grapefruit for this reason.
Thanks for chiming in Andy 🙂
Reply
Sahirah says
January 18, 2013 at 2:02 pm
Hey Thanks for the info n yes if ur on medication especially the grapefruit extract is really dangerous as it is filtered n the liver the same as many medications n cud cause major problems.
Any who with that said I started taking this stuff about last week so 7 days n now n I have lost a bit only like 3lbs buuuuuut I am walking on average 4 miles per day n doin other stuff.
I also dont take the full dosage as too much caffeine can really mess u up. But I do appreciate the break down of ingredients. However it shouud be noted that some benefits outside of fat loss can be possible within these fruit extracts for example bitter orange can help with lowering blood sugar which n turn helps with the storing of fat (Type2 Diabetes)
Kola nut can decrease appetite and aid n digestion and cacaco extract has the ability to support cardiovascular health. Now I will admit I gravitated towards this product becuz while I think Jillian Michales seems a lil pyscho lol she appears to get results but also becuz of the use of these particular herbs struck me.
Of course when it comes too herbs in this culture many things are “unfounded” and we instead rely on many chemical compositions even thou many of these things has been used for thousands of years….but again I totally love what u post as I have avoided some crazy supplements as a result
Reply
Joe says
January 18, 2013 at 5:22 pm
Sahirah, thanks for the feedback; Im glad you found me 🙂
Reply
Lizz says
September 27, 2012 at 11:15 pm
I’m sorry but I been taking Jillian’s fat burner pills for 4 days just as it says to on the container.. And nothing… No loss of appetite, no extra energy… Absolutely nothing at all :/
Reply
Samantha says
March 12, 2012 at 5:22 am
Thank you so much for posting this. I am a seizure patient & I have a pituitary tumor. I have to be very careful what I take. You have helped me tremendously.
Reply
Joe says
March 12, 2012 at 9:19 am
Samantha, thanks for letting me know. I’m glad I was able to help you 🙂
Reply
Christallin says
October 4, 2011 at 1:39 pm
I really like the way you break down the claims and ingredients scientifically using logic and knowledge. I will continue to read your writings. Thank You! This is information we need to know.
On another note, I was present during a demo tasting of the Jillian Micheals Whey Protein supplement. About 95% of the people tasting it did not like the taste.
Reply
Joe says
October 4, 2011 at 2:33 pm
Christallin, I apprecaite you taking the time to write! Thanks also for the heads up on Jillians Protein supplement too. I didn’t know she had that. I’ll have to take a look at it 🙂
Reply
Joe says
August 11, 2011 at 8:04 am
Katherine, thanks for your words. I also mentioned preferential fat loss to point out the vagueness of the statement.
Supplement makers ofter use big, smart sounding words and phrases that mean nothing or are vague. Jillian Michaels fat burner supplement was one of the biggest users of this selling tactic and I wanted to call them on it.
Reply
Katherine says
August 10, 2011 at 10:26 pm
Thanks for the unbiased review. Very refreshing.
Early in the article you ask what ‘preferential fat loss’ might mean. I think I can explain this:
When people lose weight, they lose a combination of fat, muscle, and water. What this product claims to do is encourage a higher percentage of fat loss, and a lower percentage of water and muscle, during the weight loss process.
It’s not spot reduction, it’s still overall fat reduction. It looks good on paper, but would be very difficult to prove or disprove because there are so MANY variables contributing to an individual’s weight and body fat percentage.
Reply
Joe says
July 10, 2011 at 8:48 pm
Thanks Rebecca apprecaite the feedback 🙂
Reply
Rebecca says
July 10, 2011 at 7:50 pm
Great article! So scary that people will just take supplements without really researching each ingredient simply bc a celebrity endorses it.
Reply
Trackbacks
Is Anna Kournikova a Certified Personal Trainer? says:
September 23, 2011 at 9:37 am
[…] I don’t remember seeing anybody in a national fitness trade journal even raising an eyebrow over Jillian or Bob Harper selling weight loss […]
Reply
Jillian Michaels Maximum Strength Calorie Control Review says:
July 9, 2011 at 3:44 pm
[…] Control supplement will be the focus of this review. In a separate review Ive also critiqued Jillian’s Fat Burner supplement so do read that as […]
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Primary Sidebar
About Me
I'm Joe Cannon, MS. I hold degrees in exercise science, chemistry & biology.
I've been investigating supplements since the 1990s.
I've lectured to thousands of people, been quoted in the New York Times and The Daily Beast. I've even lectured to NASA.
I wrote the first book ever on exercise-induced rhabdomyolysis ("rhabdo"). I'm the author of 8 books (so far).
My goal is to give you facts and honest answers about supplements to help you cut through the hype, save money and find dietary supplements right for you. Learn more about me
Copyright © 2019 · Supplement Clarity ·Privacy Policy · Terms of Service
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.