An Italian Doctor Shocked the World: Cancer Is a Fungus That Can Be Treated With Baking Soda! – All About Healthy Life
Skip to content
Thursday, April 25, 2019
Recent posts
Can You Lose 7lbs In 7 Days? Yes, You Can, with the Cucumber Diet
900 Calorie Meal Plan Lose 10 kgs in 10 days
Get Rid Of Your Belly Fat Fast With This Amazing Slimming Drink!
Apple Cider Vinegar Helps Cellulite Disappear Magically!
This Is What Frozen Lemons Can Do And You Will Keep Doing This Forever!
All About Healthy Life
Food & Recipes
Healthy Tips
Diet & Fitness
Home Remedies
You are here
Home > Healthy Tips > An Italian Doctor Shocked the World: Cancer Is a Fungus That Can Be Treated With Baking Soda!
An Italian Doctor Shocked the World: Cancer Is a Fungus That Can Be Treated With Baking Soda!
November 2, 2017 December 10, 2017 John A
The Italian doctor Tulio Simonchini claims that cancer is a fungus that baking soda can eliminate easily. According to him, this method has proven to be effective in the treatment of all kinds of cancer, he used it to treat thousands of his patients with 100% rate of success.
The fact is that baking soda can only do you good and you’ve got nothing to lose if you try his method out. Dr. Simonchini says that oncology has failed in finding a cure for cancer but doctors have the responsibility and an ethical obligation towards their patients to search for the best treatment that will finally put an end to this modern day plague.
Cancer is just a fungus!
Dr. Simonchini goes on to say that some hundred years ago the main theory regarding cancer was that malfunctioning genes are the main factor that contributes towards the onset of this disease, indicating that it’s an intercellular disease. But he strongly believes that cancer is nothing more than a fungal infection and his claim has caused uproar in the entire medical community.
Candida
Plants can also develop carcinomas but we know that in plants a fungal infection causes the disease so why should it be any different in humans? Fungi are tumor carriers, in vitro and in vivo studies have showed, but scientists believed that fungi appear after the disease has already developed. However, Dr. Simonchini is convinced that fungi were already there before and they’re what caused the cancer. They weaken the immune system and go on full attack against our entire body, every system and every organ inside. Several studies have shown that almost every type of cancer is caused by candida overgrowth and the histological structure of cancer cells is just the result of defensive actions. As time goes by and the fungi spread and grow our body starts to get tired and weak from fighting them and starts producing unidentified cells.
Baking soda
If cancer is a result of fungal infection why can’t it be counteracted with antifungal medications? Well the point is that these medications only attack the cells’ surface and this is not effective against this type of infection. The infection that leads to cancer is much more powerful and should be eliminated in another way. Dr. Simonchini says that he’s discovered the best way to deal with this infection, the best counterattack against these colonies of fungi is baking soda. There are multiple studies which show the intercellular action baking soda has against cancer.
The baking soda treatment
Dr. SImonchini has used baking soda in cancer treatments for over 20 years and the majority of his patients have completely recovered even when their doctors said there was no chance to get better. The best treatment for cancer is baking soda, an ingredient that works wonders on all types of tumors and cancers. It can be applied in the form of enema for digestive tumors, via inhalation for upper respiratory tumors and intravenously for lung and brain tumors. Local perfusion can be the method of application for subcutaneous, lymph nodes and breast tumors, while tumors of the internal organs can be treated by direct application into the arteries. The main thing we all need to look out for is the proper dosage of baking soda because every tumor requires a different dosage. The treatment should last for a minimum of 6 consecutive days and needs to be repeated in 4 cycles. It has no side effects except for maybe an excessive thirst and weakness.
Skin cancer should be treated with 0.7% iodine tincture, applied topically on the affected part of the skin for 25-30 times per day according to Dr. SImonchini.
If you suspect you have a Candida overgrowth look out for the following symptoms:
Feeling tired all the time
OCD
Irritability and anxiety
Nausea
Brain fog
Chronic digestive problems
Chronic skin conditions
Mood swings
Sugar cravings.
Just two of the above mentioned symptoms in combination are a tell-tale sign of a candida overgrowth which can very soon lead to cancer so don’t ignore them.
How to prevent and treat a candida infection?
If you notice you have a candida infection or some other fungal infection you must start treatment immediately and prevent spreading. Fungal infections spread like wildfire and can soon cause a number of other health problems including leaky gut syndrome and intestinal perforations. If you want to prevent this from happening you must first eliminate candida-feeding foods such as sugars and starch. Avoid eating candy, sweets, plain bread, pasta and rice. Consume more fresh or steamed veggies and raw fruit. Many people have said that grapefruit seeds give good results in candida treatment and Dr. Simonchini recommends aluminum free baking soda for cancer treatment. Aluminum free baking soda can be purchased in almost every pharmacy and healthy food store.
Method of treatment
Baking soda is a highly alkaline compound which increases the alkalinity in your blood and eliminates the fungi. It acts against the tumor cells causing them to disintegrate and die off slowly.
If you have oral, colon or rectal cancer start taking a glass of water mixed with 1tsp. baking soda every morning and evening for 30 consecutive days. One month should be enough for the treatment to show full results. This therapy that Dr. SImonchini recommends also includes intravenous injections. He suggest a 500ml. of baking soda solution (5%) applied directly in the vein every day for 24 days maximum. You can perform a scan afterwards and see the results. You can even use baking soda for vaginal fungal infections which are quite common these days and according to Dr. Simonchini are the main cause for vaginal tumors and cervical cancers. Mix 2tbsp. of baking soda with 2 l. of filtered water and rinse your intimate parts with this mixture. This will eliminate the infections and prevent a recurrence.
Source:http://www.organicsolutionsportal.com/
Healthy Tips
Post navigation
Never Dry Laundry Indoors, The Side Effect Can Be Deadly!
CREAMY CHICKEN ENCHILADAS
Related posts
April 20, 2019 John A 0
Can You Lose 7lbs In 7 Days? Yes, You Can, with the Cucumber Diet
We are always trying to find the next best thing when it comes to diets. There...
Healthy Tips
July 27, 2018 John A 0
Why Should You Never Eat After 19:00?
Eating in the late hours represents a peril to a great many individuals, specialists from the...
Diet & Fitness Healthy Tips
July 27, 2018 John A 0
Drive A Bike And Enjoy Actively In Nature!
Riding a bicycle is a mainstream work out, both for entertainment and weight reduction. You can...
Healthy Tips
Copyright © All rights reserved
Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: SuperMag by Acme Themes.