Times You Should Never Use WD-40 | Reader's Digest
Skip links
Skip to content
Skip to footer
Menu
Close
Health
Diabetes
Diet & Weight Loss
Everyday Wellness
Healthy Eating
Health Care
Fitness
Conditions
Beauty
Food
Food Fun & News
Recipes & Cooking
Advice
Parenting
Pets
Home
Relationships
Saving Money
Travel
Work & Career
Culture
True Stories
Share Your 100-Word Story
Love Stories
Inspiring Stories
Amazing Survival Stories
Jokes
Submit Your Joke
Funny Stuff
Knock-Knock Jokes
Corny Jokes
Funny One-Liners
Riddles
Cartoons
Cartoon Submissions
All Funny Jokes
Videos
Sweepstakes and Prizes
Contests
Shop
Subscribe
Newsletters
Home
Health
Food
Advice
Culture
True Stories
Jokes
Videos
Search
Toggle Search
Do you live in the Nicest Place in America?›
View as slideshow
Home Improvement
5 Times You Should Never Use WD-40
Emily DiNuzzo
WD-40 is known for its thousands of uses, but there are a few times that you should avoid using the product.
Door hinges
Artsiom Kuchynski/Shutterstock
Do-it-yourself-ers commonly use WD-40 on squeaky door hinges, but Brian Gow, President of Scheel Window & Door, says that the product attracts dust, which won’t help the issue. “As a result, your door hinges will slowly darken and turn black and dirty looking,” Gow says. “Always make sure to properly wipe away the residue with hot, soapy, water after applications to avoid this.” Gow also says to remember to dry the hinges after to avoid any rusting. Find out more ways to fix squeaky doors and floors in your home.
Arthritis relief
Khaoniewping/Shutterstock
Some people suffering from arthritis claim that using WD-40 on their stiff joints is helpful. But this is not recommended by doctors, and the company doesn’t recommend using the product for any medical purposes. It is advised to wash your body with soap and water if your skin does come into contact with the product. There are other oils, creams, and other remedies you can use instead.
Plastics
Sarah Biesinger/Shutterstock
There are many different types of plastic, but there are two kinds that you should avoid using WD-40 on—polycarbonate and clear polystyrene plastic. Polycarbonate is a transparent plastic that is commonly used in greenhouses, and polystyrene is typically used for styrofoam and soft drink lids among other items. Don’t miss these 40 home repairs anyone can do.
Electronics
Ekaterina_Minaeva/Shutterstock
Specifically, you should avoid using WD-40 to fix your iPad or iPhone home button. It could further damage the device since some iPhones consist of plastic parts. Plus, it doesn’t help that WD-40 is a liquid and spraying it closely to electronics is a hazard. Apple recommends not using any sprays, solvents, or abrasives on their devices.
Bike chains
Tobin C/Shutterstock
WD-40 is for immediate lubrication, so it’s not ideal for things requiring longer-term lubrication—like a bike chain. That said, the company does sell an alternative product called WD-40 BIKE specifically for this use. Now, check out the things you can use WD-40 on.
[Sources: snopes.com; gizmodo.com]
Originally Published on sitename.com
Emily DiNuzzo
Emily DiNuzzo is an assistant staff writer at Reader's Digest who previously wrote for INSIDER, the Food Network, POPSUGAR, Well + Good, Westchester Magazine, and more. Although Emily much prefers eating to food shopping, currently, her most popular story on RD.com is about the grocery store with the worst reputation in America. There's also a 90 percent chance Emily is drinking tea right now, but when she's not writing away about food and health with a cuppa by her side, you can find her lifting heavy things at the gym, listening to murder mystery podcasts, and liking one too many astrology memes
Sign Up for Our Newsletters
Get articles sent right to your inbox
Sign up
Enjoy the BEST stories, advice & jokes!
Reader Interactions
Enjoy the BEST stories, advice & jokes!
Health
Food
Advice
Culture
True Stories
Jokes
Contests
Shop
Sign-up for posts to your inbox
Sign up
Our Brands
Taste of Home
The Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
LifeRich Publishing
OneMain Financial Services
MediaKit
Contact Us
Customer Service
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
About Ads
© 2019 Trusted Media Brands, Inc.
Sign Up for Our Newsletters
Get articles sent right to your inbox
Sign up
Enjoy the BEST stories, advice & jokes!