The Current Health Scenario.: 22 Studies Big Pharma Avoids Informing You
The Current Health Scenario.
Monday, July 02, 2018
22 Studies Big Pharma Avoids Informing You
By Chris Kirckof
Here are 22 studies that big pharma, the government, and their medical puppets definitely don't want you to know about . . .
1. A study published in the Journal Annals of Epidemiology has shown that giving Hepatitis B vaccine to newborn boys could triple their risk of developing an autism spectrum disorder compared to boys not vaccinated as neonates. Research was conducted at Stony Brook University Medical Centre, NY.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21058170
2. A study published in the Journal of Inorganic Biochemistry by researchers at the Neural Dynamics Group, Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences at the University of British Columbia determined that Aluminum, a highly neurotoxic metal and the most commonly used vaccine adjuvant may be a significant contributing factor to the rising prevalence of ASD in the Western World. They showed that the correlation between ASD prevalence and the Aluminum adjuvant exposure appears to be the highest at 3-4 months of age. The study also shows that children from countries with the highest ASD appear to have a much higher exposure to Aluminum from vaccines. The study points out that several prominent milestones of brain development coincide with major vaccination periods for infants. These include the onset of synaptogenesis (birth), maximal growth velocity of the hippocampus and the onset of amygdala maturation and major developmental transition in many bio-behavioral symptoms such as sleep, temperature regulation, respiration and brain wave patterns, all of which are regulated by the neuroendocrine network. Many of these brain functions are known to be impaired in autism, such as sleeping and brain wave patterns.
http://omsj.org/reports/tomljenovic%202011.pdf
FDA: “vaccines represent a special category of drugs as they are generally given to healthy individuals, placing significant emphasis on the safety of vaccines”. While the FDA sets a limit for Aluminum in vaccines at no more than 850/mg/dose, this amount was selected empirically from data showing that Aluminum in such amounts enhanced antigenicity of a vaccine, rather than from existing safety considerations. Given that scientific evidence appears to indicate vaccine safety is not firmly established, it seems ill advised to exclude pediatric vaccines as a possible cause of adverse long-term neurodevelopment outcomes, including those associated with autism.
3. A study published in the Journal of Toxicology and Environmental Health, Part A: Current Issues by the Department of Economics and Finance at the University of NY shows how researchers suspect one or more environmental triggers are needed to develop autism, regardless of whether individuals have a genetic predisposition or not. One of those triggers might be the “battery of vaccinations that young children receive.” They found a positive and statistically significant relationship between autism and vaccinations: the higher the proportion of children receiving recommended vaccinations, the higher the prevalence of autism; a 1% increase in vaccination was associated with an additional 680 children having autism, suggesting that vaccines may be linked to autism which calls for more in-depth study before continually administering vaccines.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21623535
4. A study published in the Journal of Toxicology by the Dept. of Neurosurgery at The Methodist Neurological Institute in Houston has shown that ASD is a disorder caused by a problem in brain development. Looking at B-cells and their sensitivity levels to thimerosal (a commonly used additive in many vaccines), they found that ASD patients have a heightened sensitivity to thimerosal which would restrict cell proliferation typically found after vaccination and that individuals with this hypersensitivity are highly susceptible to toxins like thimerosal, and that individuals with a mild mitochondrial defect may be affected by thimerosal. The fact that ASD patients’ B cells exhibit hypersensitivity to thimerosal is significant.
https://www.hindawi.com/journals/jt/2013/801517/
5. A study published in the Journal of Biomedical Sciences determined that the autoimmunity to the central nervous system may play a causal role in autism. Researchers discovered that because many autistic children harbor elevated levels of measles antibodies, they should conduct a serological study of measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) and myelin basic protein (MBP) autoantibodies. They used serum samples of 125 autistic children and 92 controlled children. Their analysis showed a significant increase in the level of MMR antibodies in autistic children, concluding that the autistic children had an inappropriate or abnormal antibody response to MMR. The study determined that autism could be the result of an atypical measles infection that produces neurological symptoms in some children. The source of this virus could be a variant of MV, or it could be the MMR vaccine.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12145534
6. Study published in the Annals of Clinical Psychiatry suggests that Autism is likely triggered by a virus, and that measles virus (MV and/or MMR vaccine) might be a very good candidate. It supports the hypothesis that a virus-induced autoimmune response may play a causal role in autism.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12145534
7. A study published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition determined that an increased vulnerability to oxidative stress and decreased capacity for methylation may contribute to the development and clinical manifestation of autism. It’s well known that viral infections cause increased oxidative stress. Research suggests that metals, including those found in many vaccines, are directly involved in increasing oxidative stress.
http://ajcn.nutrition.org/content/80/6/1611.full
8. A study published by the Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences at Northeastern University, Boston determined that a novel growth factor signaling pathway regulates methionine synthase(MS) activity and thereby modulates methylation reactions. The potent inhibition of this pathway by ethanol, lead, mercury, aluminum and thimerosal suggests that it may be an important target of neurodevelopmental toxins. Read more about this and about the MS/autism link here.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14745455
9. A study published in the Journal of Child Neurology examined the question of what is leading to the apparent increase in autism, noting that if there is any link between autism and mercury, it’s crucial that the first reports of possible causation are not falsely stating that no link occurs. This study found a significant relation does exist between blood levels of mercury and a diagnosis of an autism spectrum disorder.
http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0883073807307111
10. A study published in the Journal of Child Neurology noted that autistic spectrum disorders can be associated with mitochondrial dysfunction. It was determined that children who have mitochondrial-related dysfunctional cellular energy metabolism might be more prone to undergo autistic regression between 18 and 30 months of age if they also have infections or immunizations at the same time.
http://journals.sagepub.com/…/…/10.1177/08830738060210021401
11. A study conducted by Massachusetts General Hospital at the Centre for Morphometric Analysis by the Department of Pediatric Neurology illustrates how autistic brains have a growth spurt shortly after birth and then slow in growth a few short years later. It was determined that neuroinflammation appears to be present in autistic brain tissue from childhood through adulthood. "Oxidative stress, brain inflammation and microgliosis have been well documented in association with toxic exposures including various heavy metals. The awareness that the brain, as well as medical conditions of children with autism, may be conditioned by chronic biomedical abnormalities such as inflammation opens the possibility that meaningful biomedical interventions may be possible well past the window of maximal neuroplasticity in early childhood because the basis for assuming that all deficits can be attributed to fixed early developmental alterations in net."
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16151044
12, A study conducted by the Department of Pediatric at the University of Arkansas determined that thimerosal-induced cytotoxicity was associated with depletion of intracellular glutathione (GSH) in both cell lines, outlining how many vaccines have been neurotoxic especially to the developing brain. Depletion of GSH is commonly associated with autism. Although thimerosal has been [allegedly] removed from most children’s vaccines, it is still ever present in flu vaccines given to pregnant women, the elderly, and to children in developing countries.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15527868
13. A study published in the Public Library of Science showed that elevation in peripheral oxidative stress is consistent with, and may contribute to, more severe functional impairments in the ASD group. We know oxidative stress is triggered by heavy metals, like those found in multiple vaccines.
http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article…
14. A study conducted by the University of Texas Health Science Centre by the Department of Family and Community Medicine determined that for each 1,000 Ib of environmentally released mercury, there was a 43% increase in the rate of special education services and a 61% increase in the rate of autism. It is emphasized that further research is needed regarding the association between environmentally released mercury and developmental disorders such as autism.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16338635
15. A study published in the International Journal of Toxicology showed that in light of the biological plausibility of mercury’s role in neurodevelopment disorders, the present study provides further insight into one possible mechanism by which early mercury exposures could increase the risk of autism.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12933322
16. A study published in the Journal of Toxicology and Environmental Health showed that mercury exposure can induce immune, sensory, neurological, motor, and behavioral dysfunctions similar to traits defining or associated with ASDs. Based on differential diagnoses, 8 of 9 patients examined were exposed to significant mercury from Thimerosal-containing vaccine preparations during their fetal/infant developmental periods. These previously normal developing children suffered mercury encephalopathies that manifested with clinical symptoms consistent with regressive ASDs. Evidence for mercury intoxication should be considered in the differential diagnosis as contributing to some regressive ASDs.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17454560
17. A study published by the US National Library of Medicine conducted by the University of Texas Health Science Centre suspected that persistent low-dose exposures to various environmental toxicants including mercury, that occur during critical windows of neural development among genetically susceptible children, may increase the risk for developmental disorders such as autism.
http://civileats.com/wp-conte…/uploads/2009/…/palmer2008.pdf
18. A study conducted by the Dept of Obstetrics and Gynecology at University of Pittsburgh’s School of Medicine showed that Macaques are commonly used in pre-clinical vaccine safety testing. Collective Evolution does not support animals testing, we feel there is a large amount of evidence and research already indicating the links to vaccines in which some animals have been used to illustrate this. The objective of this study was to compare early infant cognition and behavior with amygdala size and opioid binding in rhesus macaques receiving the recommended childhood vaccines. The animal model, which examines for the first time, behavioral, functional, and neuromorphometric consequences of the childhood vaccine regimen, mimics certain neurological abnormalities of autism. These findings raise important safety issues while providing a potential model for examining aspects of causation and disease pathogenesis in acquired disorders of behavior and development.
http://www.ane.pl/pdf/7020.pdf
19. A study conducted by The George Washington University School of Public Health from the Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics determined that significantly increased rate ratios were observed for autism and autism spectrum disorders as a result of exposure to mercury from Thimerosal-containing vaccines.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18482737
20. A study published in the Journal of Cell Biology and Toxicology by Kinki University in Osaka, Japan showed that in combination with brain pathology observed in patients diagnosed with autism, the present study helps to support the possible biological plausibility for how low-dose exposure to mercury from thimerosal-containing vaccines may be associated with autism.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19357975
21. A study published by the Journal Lab Medicine determined that vaccinations may be one of the triggers for autism. Researchers discovered that substantial data demonstrates immune abnormality in many autistic children consistent with impaired resistance to infection, activation of inflammatory responses, and autoimmunity. Impaired resistance may predispose to vaccine injury in autism.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2376879/
Credit: Chris Kirckof
Posted by Jagannath Chatterjee at 1:22 AM
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Pages
Home
About Me
Jagannath Chatterjee
I am from India. I usually research on vaccines having suffered an extensive adverse reaction in 1979, when I was 17. I suffered bipolar disorder, multiple sclerosis, splenomegaly, hepatotoxicity, and irritable bowel. I studied vaccines despite my ill health and started campaigning since 1985. I have been guided by immunologists, doctors and medical scientists who have provided material and education for me to understand and spread awareness on the subject. Life is not easy for me but it is important to get the message across and try and save children and future generations from harm.
View my complete profile
Blog Archive
► 2019 (51)
► April (6)
► March (27)
► February (8)
► January (10)
▼ 2018 (380)
► December (25)
► November (23)
► October (9)
► September (30)
► August (35)
▼ July (55)
1 in 8 children suffer neurological disorders in I...
Was India Unhealthy?
Natural Childbirth - Road to Health
Everything is Rigged
73 Questions for Vaccine Happy Pediatricians!
More on DDT & Polio
What you don't know about polio.
What should a medical system do to be effective?
Vaccine Trials DO NOT use Real Placebos!
Autism Linked to Vaccines in 1943!
What is the "Vaccination Debate" about?
The "Virus Causes Disease" Theory Full of Assumpti...
Is Ayurveda Superstitious? Or is it being validate...
Scale of Pharma Criminal Cases Exposed
Jagannath Ratha Yatra.
Why people hate philanthropies.
Vaccination: No Safety Reports Submitted in 32 Yea...
Why is vaccination harm not revealed?
Spirituality & Religion: Are They Different?
A Vaccine for Meningitis is Causing Epidemic of Di...
This is NOT Normal Childhood!
Are you aware of animal cells in vaccines?
Historical Evidence: Benefits of Delayed Cord Clam...
Tobacco Science - Strategy Explained
Worried About Tetanus? Get the Facts.
Vaccination: Guiding Researchers
Vaccination and Cancer
Autism is genetic? NOT A CHANCE!
Vaccine Adverse Effects Collected from Vaccine Lab...
The many causes of cancer
Vaccination & Population Control
Why we should start worshiping nature again.
The Wakefield Saga to Date
Ending the Explosion of Mental Disorders
Synergism in aluminum and mercury neurotoxicity
DNA Contamination in Vaccines Inevitable
Vaccines & Autism: Plenty of Studies Confirm Link
Human DNA in Vaccines & Gender Confusion
Why India Matters
List of 257 Doctors Who Speak Against Vaccines
How Industry Funds Medical Education
Are Doctors "Experts" When it Comes to Vaccines?
What a leading Pediatrician says about vaccines.
Why Skin Problems Must be Respected.
Selective Vaccination?
Dr Abdul Majid Katme is Why Muslims Fight Vaccines...
Pediatrician's Child Disabled by Vaccines.
The Vaccine Myth
Historical Vaccine Scandals Suppressed by the Esta...
About Vaccines and Immunocompromised Schoolchildre...
In Defense of Brahmins.
Vaccination is Mass Hypnotism
22 Studies Big Pharma Avoids Informing You
Are there risks with childhood vaccines?
Vaccines and Neurological Damage
► June (80)
► May (29)
► April (24)
► March (32)
► February (24)
► January (14)
► 2017 (111)
► December (17)
► November (36)
► October (47)
► September (7)
► April (2)
► March (1)
► February (1)
► 2016 (9)
► November (1)
► September (1)
► April (1)
► March (3)
► February (3)
► 2015 (77)
► October (7)
► September (5)
► August (8)
► June (17)
► May (22)
► April (10)
► March (7)
► January (1)
► 2014 (63)
► December (2)
► November (13)
► September (5)
► July (1)
► June (6)
► May (2)
► April (11)
► March (12)
► February (11)
► 2013 (151)
► November (2)
► October (1)
► September (2)
► August (9)
► July (21)
► June (33)
► May (22)
► April (17)
► March (17)
► February (13)
► January (14)
► 2012 (567)
► December (11)
► November (16)
► October (5)
► September (14)
► August (126)
► July (173)
► June (60)
► May (76)
► April (86)
► 2011 (1)
► December (1)
► 2007 (2)
► January (2)
Picture Window theme. Powered by Blogger.