Herbal Tea for Nausea | Live Well - Jillian Michaels
Skip to main content.
Home
The App
Meal Plans
Workouts
Transformations
Community
Podcast
Blog
Loading ...
Herbal Tea for Nausea
by Sharon Therien
About Sharon Therien
Sharon Therien has been writing professionally since 2007. She specializes in health writing and copywriting for websites, blogs and businesses. She is a Certified Yoga Teacher and a Reiki Master with a Certificate in Fitness and Nutrition. Therien has a Master of Arts in sociology from Florida Atlantic University.
X
Related Articles
The Health Benefits of Spearmint Tea
What Are the Benefits of Raw Ginger Juice?
Ginger Tea for Acne
Ginger Root & Inflammation
What Are the Benefits of Licorice Tea?
Turmeric Alternatives
There are many causes of nausea, which can develop either with another condition or by itself. If you are feeling queasy, a number of herbal teas might help. Herbal teas are technically called “tisanes” as they are not the same as traditional black, green or white teas made from the Camellia sinensis plant, but rather they are made from a variety of plant components, such as roots, leaves, and bark. Since herbal teas have the potential for producing side effects and causing interactions with supplements and medications you are taking, ask your doctor before use.
Loading...
Ginger
Ginger root is widely used to relieve nausea. Ginger has numerous qualities that help the digestive system. For instance, it encourages your body to make saliva and digestive enzymes for digestion. A number of studies back up ginger’s anti-emetic, or nausea-fighting, properties. One such study in the August 1990 edition of “Anaesthesia” found that ginger eased the nausea of patients after surgery as well as a common medication taken for the same purposes. Ginger was significantly better than placebo. To make ginger tea, slice and chop two tbsp. of ginger root. Boil this with a cup of water and then simmer it for an hour. Strain the ginger root pieces from the water and enjoy the resulting tea. For an easier version, buy pre-packaged ginger tea bags. Ask your doctor before using ginger for nausea.
Peppermint
Peppermint tea is a popular nausea-reliever that makes a strong tea for easing nausea when combined with ginger, according to Victoria Zak in her book “20,000 Secrets of Tea.” The menthol in peppermint seems to numb nerve endings in your stomach so you do not feel nausea. You can make peppermint tea by steeping two tbsp. of chopped mint leaves in one cup of boiling water for seven to ten minutes. Other options include making tea with a small amount of peppermint essential oil or with pre-packaged peppermint tea bags. Peppermint can have side effects including heartburn. Although many alternative health practitioners swear by its effects, more research is needed to determine if peppermint effectively treats nausea.
Chamomile
You can find two types of chamomile: Roman and German. While they are different plants, they have similar properties. They both help digestive problems and have antispasmodic qualities, but Roman chamomile is more often used for nausea. Make chamomile tea by steeping two to three tbsp. of the leaves in one cup of boiling water for ten to fifteen minutes, or buy pre-packaged tea bags. Ask your physician if you should take chamomile for your nausea.
Wild Yam
While perhaps not as well known as the previous herbs, wild yam is another type of herbal tea that might relieve nausea. This plant is different from yams we eat and is used for a wide variety of digestive concerns. To make wild yam tea, slice and chop one to two tsp. of wild yam root and steep in boiling water for three to five minutes, or buy pre-packaged wild yam tea bags. Wild yam can act like a hormone in your body, so check with a doctor before using it. Research does not back up claims that wild yam relieves nausea or other digestive problems.
Loading...
References (6)
Tea Association of the USA: About Tea
“20,000 Secrets of Tea”; Victoria Zak; 1999
PubMed.gov: Ginger Root – A New Antiemetic. The Effect of Ginger Root on Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting After Major Gynaecological Surgery.
MedlinePlus: Peppermint
University of Maryland Medical Center: Roman Chamomile
University of Maryland Medical Center: Wild Yam
DON'T MISS
The Health Benefits of Spearmint Tea
What Are the Benefits of Raw Ginger Juice?
Ginger Tea for Acne
Photo Credits:
mint tea image by ros images from Fotolia.com
This article reflects the views of the writer and does not necessarily reflect the views of Jillian Michaels or JillianMichaels.com.
Live Well »
Diet & Nutrition »
Herbal Tea for Nausea
Loading...
Loading ...
Loading ...
Popular Articles
Does Tea Help Digestion?
What Is Cinnamon Tea Good for?
Health Benefits of Cardamom Tea
Are Pineapples Good for Digestion?
Loading ...
Loading ...
More Articles
Is Kombucha Safe for Pregnancy?
What Does Ginger Do for the Body?
Does Black Licorice Work as a Laxative?
What Are the Health Benefits of Ginger, Lemon, & Honey Tea?
Grapefruit Seed Extract Benefits & Dosage
Stay Connected
Customer Support
We're here to help!
Find answers to your questions in our help section or contact our customer service team, who are available Monday-Friday 9AM - 5PM EST.
Get Help
Jillian's Story
The App
Meal Plans
Workouts
Community
Podcast
Press
Terms
Privacy
Returns
Disclaimer
Advertising
Business Inquiries
Help
Help with the Old Website
JillianMichaels.com Copyright © 2016 EM Digital LLC, a subsidiary of Empowered Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.