Beware the Double-Dose Poison Approach to Treating Cancer | Cancer Defeated CancerDefeated.com
Home
Newsletters
Books
About Us
Survivor Stories
Videos
Contact
Home /
Articles
/ Beware the Double-Dose Poison Approach to Treating Cancer
Beware the Double-Dose Poison Approach to Treating Cancer
By	Lee Euler	/	January 8, 2013
Beware the Double-Dose Poison Approach to Treating Cancer
Recently, scientists across the U.S. paired all different variations of the 100 approved cancer drugs into 5,000 drug combinations. The goal was to find a two-drug combo more effective than any single drug. Since the agents tested were already approved for use by patients, the hope was that any promising new combinations could quickly be brought to market.
The scientists involved called this approach “the first systematic characterization of approved drugs in a large number of cancer cell lines.” I’d call it something else. . .
Continued below. . .
The secret to curing cancer:
You’ve been throwing it in the trash!
In 1921, a British doctor discovered that members of a remote native tribe were almost totally cancer-free. But when members of this tribe move away from their native land and change their diet, they get cancer just like anyone else.
It’s all thanks to a food most of us throw away as waste — a food that’s rich in amygdalin — what most of us call Laetrile.
Click here now and watch a video presentation about this cancer breakthrough. One cancer expert calls this overlooked food “the key to curing AND preventing cancer” — and you can benefit now — without going to a doctor or buying expensive supplements. This little throwaway food tastes great. Bill Clinton, of all people, eats a certain amygdalin-rich food all the time, and so can you. Click here now to watch the video!
I prefer Bill Frezza’s interpretation, a writer for Bio-IT World. He called it “curing cancer by throwing spaghetti at the wall.”
Latest generation of medicines: Stuck in the mud
The rationale behind this barbaric search for a better poison is that the agents in use already have FDA approval as individual drugs. So combining them to see if they make a miracle union is a lot cheaper and quicker than actually taking the time to come up with a new, truly effective drug.
They’ve got plenty to work with. The FDA approved an unprecedented 31 new cancer drugs this year. In 2011, the agency approved 30 drugs, marking a seven-year high. But it’s rare these drugs bring any kind of real breakthrough, like we saw with tamoxifen — and that was way back in the 1960s.
Hoping for a quick-fix instead of putting in the effort to do things right is exactly what you never want to see in healthcare. The authorities who control the billions of dollars in cancer research are out of ideas.
Even worse is that some of these combinations can be so toxic, it’s only safe to administer them in tiny doses that might not be effective. You see, the experiments that tested 5,000 possible cancer drug combinations were performed in the lab on cancer cell lines.
Doctors may not be able to use the resulting combos on real humans because they’re deadly to the patient as well as to the cancer. When you put together two toxic cancer drugs you get a double-dose of poison.
What we need is a medical establishment that diversifies its strategy beyond the exhausted drugs we know don’t work. The National Institutes of Health even has something called an R21 Exploratory grant, intended to finance research into alternative treatments. But, according to Bill Frezza, that money appears to be too tied up in the Good-Buddies club of established researchers who peer-review and vote to fund their colleagues’ projects more often than they give a grant to any innovative new researcher’s ideas.
Yes, the precious “War on Cancer” taxpayer dollars are parceled out to the pals of people in power.
The Band-Aid approach
Medical research on traditional chemotherapy has stalled. We’re not the only ones who see it. In a recent meeting of 100 cancer specialists at the World Oncology Forum in Switzerland, experts at least agreed on one thing: urgent action is needed. Not only are we lacking in innovative approaches, but cancer rates are rising both in the developed world and in poor countries.
It wasn’t long ago that they thought designer medicines built to interfere with tumor growth and suppression would make all the difference. Instead, those treatments only buy patients a month or two of life, and any excitement in the medical establishment quickly wanes.
Just look at vemurafenib, a BRAF-inhibitor that melted tumors associated with malignant melanomas in only two weeks. Six months later, the cancer would come back, often stronger than before. Or Tarceva (for lung cancer), Avastin (for breast and colorectal cancer), Sutent (for renal cell carcinoma). All prompted great expectations but brought disappointment.
What bothers me is that medical pundits say the future is in combining these drugs together, and exploring combinations between both new and old drugs. But instead of investing their energy in working out the cause of cancer, their biggest concern is that mixing drugs will be radically expensive. They’ve directed their focus to regulation and funding, instead of true innovation.
Granted, cancer and money are inseparable. Americans spent over $23 billion last year on cancer drugs. Treating cancer has never come cheap, but now the cost of every new treatment seems to eclipse the ones that came before it. In spite of their hefty price tags, those drugs continue to overpromise and under-deliver.
You call this a War on Cancer?
It’s bad enough that this approach is like putting on a blindfold and trying to hit a moving target. But my real beef with the issue is that it’s got nothing to do with actually curing cancer.
Sure, the mixologists in the lab world might come up with a concoction that extends survival by an extra month or two. Some patients will choose the misery of chemo to gain those extra weeks.
But better than that would be a cure. After 40 years and billions of dollars, you’d think we’d be further along.
The question that remains, is what can we do about it? I believe the alternative treatments we talk about in this newsletter and in our books and reports are more promising than conventional chemotherapy.
For late stage cancer, chemotherapy buys a few extra weeks or months (and sometimes not even that; the data are often manipulated to make it look like patients last a little longer on these drugs than do patients who don’t receive them.) Meanwhile, my colleagues and I have seen and talked to people who gained years of life and sometimes complete remission thanks to alternative cancer treatments. And they did it without sickness, nausea, hair loss, “chemo brain,” or the destruction of their immune systems that chemo brings.
Even for early stage cancer, where conventional treatments are more successful, my first choice would be alternatives.
One of the things you can do right now to improve your health, whether you have cancer or not, is to avoid the toxic chemicals found in processed foods. Our last issue covered the most deadly food additive of all. If you missed this important info, you can scroll down and read it now.
“Safe” Ingredient Found in 6,000 Products
Can Lead to Cancer, Seizures,
Holes in Your Brain, and more
Enjoying any of 6,000 popular foods and beverages can lead to leukemia, multiple myeloma and non-Hodgkin lymphomas… along with brain, kidney, liver and lung cancers. These products contain what I call the most dangerous single food additive on earth.
I’m basing that charge on the largest human study ever on the subject — based on over two million person-years worth of data. Keep reading and I’ll identify this deadly chemical and give you the shocking new findings. . .
Continued below. . .
The Blood Pressure Lie EXPOSED!
If you’ve been told you have high blood pressure, you’re probably scared to death.
It is called “the silent killer.”
With a name like that, it has to scare you.
And, if that’s not scary enough, you were probably told to start taking a blood pressure drug immediately.
But, that wasn’t all, was it? I bet you had to go and see a cardiologist next.
And, did the cardiologist tell you that if one drug didn’t bring your pressure down, you might have to take a second drug at the same time? Often, there’s even a third drug.
I know how the system works. I’ve been fighting against it for you for almost 30 years.
And, I know you don’t want to be part of that group who’s taking blood pressure medication for the rest of their lives.
So I’ll let you in on a little secret…
It’s a safe guess that every American man, woman, and child has consumed aspartame at one time or another. More than 250 million people drink beverages containing this deadly chemical because they actually think it’s a healthy choice!
The facts say otherwise: these people are boosting their cancer risk far beyond anything you’d imagine. It’s proven by a new study released by Harvard and then almost immediately scrubbed from the Internet. It appears that powerful interests want to protect aspartame from any criticism.
The dreadful consequences of a “safe” food choice
This mega-study revealed some downright frightening results. As little as one diet soda a day leads to:
42% higher leukemia risk (men and women)
102% higher multiple myeloma risk (men only)
31% higher non-Hodgkin lymphoma risk (men only)
Researchers analyzed data from the Nurses’ Health Study and the Health Professionals Follow-Up Study gathered over a 22-year period. It included 77,218 women and 47,810 men, for a total of 2,278,396 person-years of data. That certainly seems like enough data to give us meaningful results.
The study identified over this 22 year period:
1,324 non-Hodgkin lymphomas,
285 multiple myelomas, and
339 cases of leukemia.
Aside from its sheer size (the largest aspartame study ever), this study was particularly thorough in its analysis of aspartame consumption. They evaluated dietary information every two years during the 22 year period, instead of at just one point in time.
And make no mistake… Americans consume a LOT of aspartame — 10.5 million pounds per year — eighty-six percent of which is from diet soda.
Previous studies — slammed by critics —
were absolutely right
Several studies over a period of years found a link between aspartame consumption and cancer. But they were often criticized as too small, too short, or poorly constructed.
This study puts those doubts to rest.
And the results are not exactly surprising. But they are disturbing. Consider what we already new before this large-scale human study was released. . .
One previous rat study found that of 48 experimental rats, up to 67% of all female rats developed golf ball sized (or larger) tumors. And 21% of the males developed similar cancerous growths.
An Italian study connected aspartame intake to lymphomas, leukemia, and kidney cancer. This study confirmed aspartame as a carcinogen affecting multiple sites in both rats (males and females) and mice (males only).1
“The truth isn’t sweet when it
comes to artificial sweeteners.”
So screamed the headline of the Brigham and Women’s Hospital (Harvard Medical School) press release about a link between aspartame and cancers, especially blood cancers. Then suddenly they got cold feet and scrubbed the story.
They also issued an “apology”, stating that the data were “too weak to find a causal link”.
None of this is too surprising. If it becomes established that aspartame causes cancer, it could be equivalent to the long-running scandals over tobacco or asbestos. Can you imagine the frenzy of litigation against food and beverage makers? The lawsuits will never end.
Don’t ignore a 22-year study of 125,000+ people
Don’t take a chance and ignore a large-scale, long-term study like this one that shows a link between aspartame and blood cancers.
The long-term aspect is critically important, because one of the tricks industry uses to hide product toxicity is short term tests. Short-term studies reveal nothing about long-term risks. Based solely on short-term trials, the industry can get away with claiming aspartame is one of the most studied food additives ever, with no health concerns. And it’s all blessed by the FDA.
The reality is they never study the long-term effects, and those remain largely unknown till a product has been on the market for years — even decades — and the horrible consequences start showing up.
As proof of that, shortly after the release and retraction of the Harvard study, the beverage industry quickly stated that aspartame has been “deemed safe for decades by the world’s leading toxicologists”.
Unfortunately, most people don’t know how short and poorly designed these industry-funded studies are, and the media choose not to tell you. So it’s easy to be deceived.
Well-guarded secrets of a scary molecule
Aspartame is the name of the active ingredient in artificial sweeteners like NutraSweet, Equal, Spoonful, and Equal-Measure.
It was accidentally discovered in 1965 when James Schlatter, chemist for the G. D. Searle Company, was testing an anti-ulcer drug.
It turned out his discovery is some 200 times sweeter than table sugar, and was approved for dry foods in 1981 and carbonated beverages in 1983. Now get this: Already in the 1960s aspartame was labeled a dangerous chemical and shown to create holes in brain tissue and to cause brain and nerve damage in developing fetuses. But wait, there’s more: Researchers also knew it causes cancer, migraines, headaches, seizures, convulsions, and even retinal damage.
Anything this dangerous should have been removed from the market many years ago!
It actually was removed for a time after initial approval, when Dr. John Olney of the Washington School of Medicine discovered that aspartic acid — a major aspartame ingredient — caused holes in the brains of animal subjects.
There’s a whole long and sordid story to be told about questionable lab practices, an FDA grand jury investigation of studies and more, but space prohibits its telling here and now. Interestingly, one of the government’s prosecuting attorneys later joined the law firm representing Searle.
Don’t trust the FDA to protect your health…
One can only guess about the political shenanigans involved in gaining approval for aspartame.
Finally, after the FDA received over 8,000 complaints about NutraSweet’s side effects, a list of possible side effects was made public. Besides cancer and tumors, including brain cancer, aspartame is linked to a long laundry list of problems. I won’t list them all here, but if you or a loved one suffer any symptoms or vexing health issues that won’t resolve, it may be worth examining your diet for hidden aspartame.
Be forewarned, to this day the FDA still denies a cancer link. By the time they admit it (if ever), it will be too late for you.
Many chronic conditions are linked to aspartame:
Memory loss
Alzheimer’s disease
Dementia
Brain lesions
Multiple sclerosis (MS)
ALS
Parkinson’s disease
Epilepsy
Hearing loss and vision problems
We can hardly overstate the risk to infants, children, pregnant women, the elderly, and anyone with chronic health conditions. The book Prescription for Nutritional Healing by James and Phyllis Balch, lists aspartame as a “chemical poison”. I’ll show you in a moment just how true that is.
But first, the acute conditions in the following list may also be linked to aspartame. Take a look and see if any of these shoes fit your feet. . .
Hallucinations
Infertility
Diarrhea
Seizures
Depression
Migraine and headaches
Fatigue (blocks glucose from entering brain)
Insomnia
Nausea and abdominal pain
Sleep problems
Asthma and chest tightness
Heart palpitations
Weight gain
Rashes
Many of these conditions can also lead to early death.
Danger: brain damage ahead…
Aspartame is comprised of three chemicals — aspartic acid, phenylalanine, and methanol.
Aspartic acid, an amino acid also called aspartate, is a neurotransmitter in your brain.
Its big problems come when taken in free form (not bound to proteins).
Aspartate slowly destroys your neurons. Seventy-five percent of the neural cells in one area of your brain can be killed before you show any clinical symptoms of chronic illness. No wonder one key complaint from aspartame use is memory loss!
Dr. Russell Blaylock, leading neurologist and neurosurgery professor at the Medical University of Mississippi, published an entire book detailing the damage caused by aspartate. He uses 500 scientific references to show the link to serious chronic neurological disorders.
Phenylalanine is also an amino acid. Diet soda must carry a label warning people with phenylketonuria (PKU) not to drink it, because they cannot metabolize phenylalanine. But even those without PKU can experience a dangerous buildup of phenylalanine — leading to plummeting serotonin levels, depression, anxiety, and violent rages.
One especially alarming account of the effects of spiked phenylalanine levels was documented in the Wednesday Journal article, “An Aspartame Nightmare.” John Cook drank six to eight diet drinks daily.
His symptoms began with memory loss and frequent headaches, and then moved to violent rages and severe mood swings. He didn’t have PKU, yet a blood test showed a phenylalanine level of 80 mg/dl. (Safe levels of phenylalanine are under 10 mg/dl.) He also showed brain damage and abnormal brain function.
When he cut aspartame from his diet, his symptoms improved.
Methanol (aka wood alcohol) is a deadly poison. You may have heard of methanol as the poison that causes some “skid row” alcoholics to end up blind or dead.
Methanol breaks down into formic acid and formaldehyde in your body. Formaldehyde is a deadly neurotoxin and a known carcinogen. It also causes retinal damage, interferes with DNA replication, and causes birth defects.
Even the EPA calls methanol “a cumulative poison due to the low rate of excretion.” EPA recommends a limit of 7.8 mg/day, yet a one-liter beverage (or 3 cans of diet soda) contains 56 mg of methanol. Heavy users may consume up to 250 mg per day — a staggering 32 times the EPA limit.
More dangerous for people than for test animals
Due to your lack of a couple key enzymes that digest methanol — enzymes that lab animals have but you don’t — you’re much more sensitive to its toxins than animals.
In humans, ,methanol converts to formaldehyde via an enzyme called ADH (alcohol dehydrogenase). This enzyme is more active in men than in women, which may explain the association between diet soda consumption and higher lymphoma and multiple myeloma in men, but not women.
Methanol absorption spikes when heated to 86 degrees. This may occur when a product is improperly stored (diet drinks sitting in hot sun), or as part of a food product such as Jello.
Another byproduct of aspartame is Diketopiperazine (DKP), implicated in brain tumors. Olney noted that DKP in the gut produces a powerful brain-tumor-causing chemical.
DKP is also implicated as a cause of uterine polyps and blood cholesterol by FDA toxicologist Dr. Jacqueline Verrett (in her testimony before the U.S. Senate).
Don’t drink it or eat it,
no matter how safe they claim it is!
Don’t believe the party line about aspartame safety. Avoid all products that contain it. I eat almost no processed or manufactured foods myself, and I don’t drink sodas at all, regular or diet. If you give up aspartame-sweetened sodas, for heaven’s sake don’t go back to the ones with sugar or high fructose corn syrup. They’re even worse.
And it’s not all about sodas. Considering that aspartame is hidden in 6,000 products*, check out the footnote below for a list. Aspartame is in a great many consumer items you might not think of, such as children’s Tylenol, certain vitamins, laxatives (Metamucil), pharmaceuticals**…
It pays to become an astute label reader and questioner!
Janet Starr Hull, who holds a doctorate in nutrition, says about the latest aspartame reports,
I will never accept the news of aspartame safety. I think it is a ‘business’ decision to discredit/discount the research results that aspartame DOES cause cancer, major nerve disorders, birth defects, and brain imbalances. Think about it… can you imagine the chaos that will occur when the truth of aspartame dangers is accredited…
Perhaps you’re thinking it’s worth the risk of cancer to keep your weight down? Don’t count on it. There’s evidence that aspartame causes people to gain weight, not lose it!
* Foods besides soda which may contain aspartame:
Mints, chewing gum, hard candies, soft candy chews
Flavored syrups for coffee, flavored water products
Frozen ice cream, ice cream novelties and frozen ice, ice cream toppings
Fruit spreads, jams/jellies
Jell-O and pudding
Iced tea powder and ready to drink, instant cocoa mix
Juice blends and drinks
Mousse
Syrups
Meal replacements, protein nutritional shakes, protein and nutritional bars,
“No sugar added” and “Sugar Free” — any food!
Veggie drinks
Yogurt — drinkable, fat free, sugar free
** See this link for a list of OTC and prescription drugs containing aspartame: http://suewidemark.com/asparmeds.htm
You get the idea.
There may not be multi-million dollar studies going on regarding this approach, but believe me — it’s more effective than trusting your health to experimental science.
Kindest regards,
Lee Euler,
Publisher
References from 1st article:
“Curing Cancer By Throwing Spaghetti At The Wall.” By Bill Frezza, Bio-IT World. Nov 30, 2012.
http://www.bio-itworld.com/2012/11/30/curing-cancer-throwing-spaghetti-at-wall.html
“Cancer fight stalls amid push for profits, doctors say.” By Sarah Boseley, The Guardian. 28 October 20012.
http://www.guardian.co.uk/society/2012/oct/28/targeted-cancer-drugs-
expectations-experts
“Exelixis’s Thyroid Cancer Treatment Gains U.S. Approval.” By Ryan Flinn and Anna Edney, for Bloomberg Businessweek. November 29, 2012.
http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-11-29/exelixis-s-thyroid-cancer-
treatment-gains-u-dot-s-dot-approval
“Scientists Test 5,000 Combinations of 100 Existing Cancer Drugs to Find More Effective Treatments.” ScienceDaily. 6 Nov. 2012.
http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2012/11/121106191736.htm
“Tamoxifen.” Wikipedia Source, Walter (2005). Drug discovery: a history. New York: Wiley. p. 472 pages.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tamoxifen
“The Cancer “Breakthroughs” that Cost Too Much and Do Too Little.” By Laura Beil, 27 Aug 2012.
http://www.thedailybeast.com/newsweek/2012/08/26/the-cancer-
breakthroughs-that-cost-too-much-and-do-too-little.html
Footnotes from 2nd article:
1http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16507461
Related Posts
The 7 Wonders that Cured Bettina’s Cancer
Apr 24, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
Why There’s No Such Thing as Heart Cancer
Apr 21, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
Popular Spring Flower Packs a Punch Against Cancer
Apr 17, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
A List of Herbs that Can Slow or Reverse Pancreatic Cancer
Apr 14, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
Asbestos and Mesothelioma – The Full Story
Apr 10, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
You Need This Nutrient Before the Summer Sun Arrives
Apr 07, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
The Other Big Cause of Lung Cancer
Apr 03, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
The Strange, Little-Known Danger That’s in ALL Water
Apr 02, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
These Micronutrients Beat Cancer All by Themselves in Some Patients
Apr 01, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
About the author
Lee Euler
Hi I'm Lee Euler, I’ve spent over a decade investigating every possible way a person can beat cancer. In fact, our commitment to defeating cancer has made us the world’s #1 publisher of information about Alternative Cancer Treatments -- with over 20 books and 700 newsletters on the subject. If you haven't heard about all your cancer options, or if you want to make sure you don’t miss even one answer to this terrible disease, then join our newsletter. When you do, I'll keep you informed each week about the hundreds of alternative cancer treatments that people are using to cure cancer all over the world.
←Previous post Next post→
350 Alternative Cancer Treatments
I've compiled every known cancer treatment and put them ALL into one book: The Complete Guide to Alternative Cancer Treatments. Click below to find out how you can get a FREE copy.
Do You Have a Cancer-Prone Personality?
SEE QUESTION 1 OF 17
Join Our Newsletter!
Popular Articles
Could this Seed Really be ‘Cancer’s Worst Nightmare’?
This debunked cancer treatment may give you Alzheimer’s
If you feel you must do chemotherapy, please add this herb
Cancer Cells EXPLODE on Contact With This Non-Toxic Treatment!
The surprising #1 health problem in America
The Powerful CancerCure Locked Inside Your Cells!
Simple mineral wipes out cancer pain fast
Common spice kills 80% of prostate cancer cells
The ultimate cancer cure – banned in America
Dogs get cancer, too! Here’s what to do…
Fried foods and cancer: the new evidence
Yes, laetrile really works
Watch out for killer pomegranates!…
Can a water purifier cure cancer?
Common Garden Plant Doubles as Cancer Killer
Controversial celebrity cancer cure – does it work?
Food and drink containers that give you cancer
The Mother Goose home-style cancer treatment
Farrah Fawcett’s fatal mistake
Natural miracle prevents up to 99.4% of tumors
Exciting new proof this cancer cure works
Is your doctor a real doctor?
The 7 Wonders that Cured Bettina’s Cancer
Penny mineral melts away breast tumors and cysts
Detox and Lose Weight at the Same Time
Does oral chelation work?
OTC remedy cures skin cancer
Sugar, Cancer, and the Devil
My life in the drug culture
Massage cancer out of your body
Latest Survivor Story
Wonderful Choice for Me! - Kris Merlo Robinson
I went to the Hufeland German Cancer Klinik in March-April 2010 for 6 weeks, July 2010 for 3 weeks, and November 2010 for 3 weeks.
My follow-up treatment in March-April 2011 was great. I had a successful 9th fever therapy treatment. The ultrasound diagnostics taken on me look great, my tumor markers are extremely low and my follow-up blood work back in the States was nearly perfect!
I will return to Hufeland Klinik in July and have a 10th fever treatment. My plan is to then return to the clinic once a year for follow-up and a fever push or two. I continue on their maintenance plan and I work with naturopaths stateside to continue care.
Also, the administrators at Hufeland are working on a new website and have a Facebook page and I am helping them edit a beautiful brochure about their clinic.
Wonderful choice for me! Never missed a beat choreographing gymnastics since diagnosis.
Mrs. Kris Merlo Robinson
Latest posts
The 7 Wonders that Cured Bettina’s Cancer
April 24, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
Why There’s No Such Thing as Heart Cancer
April 21, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
Popular Spring Flower Packs a Punch Against Cancer
April 17, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
A List of Herbs that Can Slow or Reverse Pancreatic Cancer
April 14, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
Asbestos and Mesothelioma – The Full Story
April 10, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
You Need This Nutrient Before the Summer Sun Arrives
April 7, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
The Other Big Cause of Lung Cancer
April 3, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
The Strange, Little-Known Danger That’s in ALL Water
April 2, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
These Micronutrients Beat Cancer All by Themselves in Some Patients
April 1, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
The Cancer-Fighting Food That’s Linked to Longer Life
March 24, 2019 / By	Lee Euler
Copyright text 2017 by Cancer Defeated. - Designed by	Thrive Themes | Powered by WordPress
About Us
Publications
Support
Sitemap
Privacy Policy