anilingus | Planned Parenthood Advocates of Arizona
Planned Parenthood Advocates of Arizona
Search
Main menu
Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content
PPAA Home
About Our Blog
Commenting Policy
Contact Us
Newsroom
Get Involved
Become a Member
Become a Volunteer
Receive Care
Tag Archives: anilingus
Dental Dams Help Spread Intimacy, Not STDs
Posted on February 14, 2018 by Serena Freewomyn
Reply
It’s that time of the year when people focus on intimacy and romance. Most people think jewelry and roses are good gifts to give for Valentine’s Day. They’re nice, but you know what’s even better? Dental dams.
What’s a dental dam, you ask? Like condoms, dental dams are a way to prevent the spread of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) by covering the vagina or anus during oral sex. Dental dams are usually made of latex, and some are made from polyurethane. Since they’re used for oral sex, dental dams often come in different flavors, and they’re flexible enough to fit in your purse.
Dental dams are an essential component of protecting your sexual health.
Dental dams are particularly useful for lesbian partners, since oral sex is a common form of sexual activity, but anyone who engages in cunnilingus (the oral stimulation of female genitals) can use them. Dental dams are also beneficial for consenting partners who enjoy anal play (aka “rimming”). Dental dams serve as a barrier against most STDs, since many sexually transmitted diseases, such as syphilis, human papillomavirus (HPV), and herpes, can be passed simply by skin-to-skin contact. Gonorrhea, chlamydia, and hepatitis A and B viruses can also be spread through oral sex. HIV can be transmitted through oral sex if blood is present.
Unfortunately, dental dams aren’t distributed as widely as condoms are. You’re not likely to find a dental dam dispenser in a public restroom, and many community organizations provide dental dams on a request-only basis because they’re more expensive than condoms. And most drug stores don’t carry dental dams in the same aisle as condoms and lube because dental dams were originally created to be used during dental procedures. (Get it — dental dams.) Continue reading →
Share this post:
Tweet
Email
Posted in LGBTQ, Sexual Health	| Tagged accessibility, anal sex, anilingus, barrier method, bisexual, blood, chlamydia, cold sores, cunnilingus, dental dams, eat out, gay, genital herpes, gonorrhea, hepatitis A virus, hepatitis B virus, herpes, HIV, human papillomavirus, latex, lesbian, LGBT, oral herpes, oral sex, polyurethane, queer, rimming, sexually transmitted diseases, sexually transmitted infections, syphilis, vagina, Valentine's Day, vulva	| Leave a reply
STD Awareness: Can I Use Plastic Wrap as a Dental Dam During Oral Sex?
Posted on January 4, 2016 by Anna C.
Reply
If you read this blog — or any sexual health website, really — you’ll probably see dental dams getting a lot of props. A dental dam (not to be confused with a female condom) is a square piece of latex that can cover the vaginal opening or the anus. Anyone wishing to avoid the oral transmission of STDs like herpes, gonorrhea, HPV, syphilis, chlamydia, and intestinal parasites, dental-dam advocates say, should use a latex barrier. Most people, however, have probably never even seen a dental dam, and they are not widely used. Perhaps their unpopularity is related to myths about oral sex being safe sex (it’s not!); perhaps it’s due to dental dams being expensive or difficult to find.
Plastic wrap hasn’t been evaluated by the FDA for STD prevention, and no studies have assessed its effectiveness in reducing disease risk during oral sex.
Some safer-sex aficionados have found ways around that, though. They might cut the tips off of condoms and make incisions along the sides, creating little latex rectangles. An even easier and cheaper option lies in plastic wrap, which many people use as a barrier while performing cunnilingus (oral contact with the female genitalia) or rimming (oral contact with the anus). It is inexpensive, easy to find, odorless, and tasteless, and can be purchased without even a hint of embarrassment (unless perhaps your other purchases include duct tape, cucumbers, and clothes pins). And it can be pulled off the roll in sheets as long as your heart desires!
Planned Parenthood endorses the use of plastic wrap for oral sex when dental dams aren’t available. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and AIDS.gov both recommend plastic wrap for use during rimming. Health authorities, such as AIDS.gov and the Idaho Department of Health & Welfare, recommend non-microwavable Saran Wrap, because microwave-safe Saran Wrap has tiny pores to let out steam — which might also let viruses and bacteria through. Continue reading →
Share this post:
Tweet
Email
Posted in Sexual Health	| Tagged anilingus, Australia, bacteria, barrier, barrier method, chlamydia, cling film, cling wrap, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, cunnilingus, dental dam, E. coli, eat out, Escherichia coli, evidence, evidence-based medicine, FDA, female condom, Food and Drug Administration, genital herpes, giardiasis, Glad Wrap, go down, gonorrhea, gonorrhea of the throat, herpes, herpes simplex virus, HIV, HPV, human papillomavirus, internal condom, intestinal parasites, LDPE, low density polyethylene, lubricant, mad cow disease, microbe, microwave, oral gonorrhea, oral sex, pathogen, permeability, pharyngeal gonorrhea, plastic wrap, polyethylene, polythene film, prion, protozoa, rimming, safer sex, sandwich wrap, Saran Wrap, sex dam, sexually transmitted disease, sexually transmitted infection, Sheer Glyde Dam, shrink wrap, STD, STD Awareness, STI, studies, syphilis, trials, virus	| Leave a reply
Can Oral Herpes Be Spread to Genitals?
Posted on April 1, 2013 by Anna C.
33
A herpes simplex lesion on the lower lip on the second day after onset. Image: CDC
Herpes simplex virus is mystifying, fascinating, and sneaky. Mystifying because we have yet to unravel all of its secrets; fascinating because when we do uncover one of its mysteries, we are amazed by the capabilities of such a tiny, microscopic object; and sneaky because it enters our bodies by stealth and conceals itself in our cells, taking us by surprise when it comes out of hiding and causes outbreaks of blisters and other lesions.
It can also be confusing. Herpes simplex virus actually comes in two flavors: HSV-1 and HSV-2. HSV-1 is associated more with oral herpes, which can cause “cold sores,” a type of blister that appears on the lips or face. HSV-2 is associated more with genital herpes, which can cause blisters and other lesions in the genital area. It used to be standard to describe HSV-1 as an “above-the-waist” infection and HSV-2 as a “below-the-belt” infection — but now many researchers are pointing out that it’s more appropriate to say that HSV-1 is both an orally and genitally transmitted infection while HSV-2 is a predominantly genitally transmitted infection. If HSV-1 enters the body in the genital area, it can cause a genital herpes infection — and likewise, if HSV-2 enters the body in the facial area, it can cause an oral herpes infection.
Using condoms and dental dams during oral sex reduces risk of herpes transmission.
What exactly is a cold sore, anyway? A cold sore, also known as a fever blister, is a cluster of blisters that can pop up around the lips or even in the mouth. Sometimes, cold sores are so painful that eating or drinking is difficult, and in extreme cases sufferers must be treated for dehydration. An especially severe infection could also cause high fever or swollen lymph nodes, and in young adults a first oral HSV-1 infection might be misdiagnosed as tonsillitis, possibly leading to unnecessary tonsillectomies. Most symptomatic first-time cold-sore outbreaks occur during childhood, and take about two or three weeks to clear up. Luckily, the first infection is almost always the most severe, and when the infection is reactivated it usually happens without symptoms.
Because both cold sores and genital herpes are caused by herpes simplex viruses, and because oral herpes is so common, many people are concerned that they might be more vulnerable to acquiring a genital herpes infection than they previously thought. They might have a lot of questions, and if they’ve sought answers to those questions, they might have heard a lot of conflicting answers. Let’s see what the scientific literature has to say.
Can I get genital herpes if someone with cold sores performs oral sex on me?
Because HSV-1, the virus responsible for most oral herpes infections, can also cause genital herpes, many people wonder if someone with cold sores can transmit the virus to someone else by performing oral sex, resulting in a genital herpes infection. Other people wonder if HSV-1 can be transmitted via oral contact with the anus, resulting in a herpes infection in the rectal area. The answer to these questions is: Yes! Continue reading →
Share this post:
Tweet
Email
Posted in Sexual Health	| Tagged anilingus, asymptomatic, cold sore, cold sores, condom, condoms, crying, cunnilingus, dehydration, dental dam, fellatio, fever blister, fever blisters, genital herpes, herpes, herpes febrilis, herpes labialis, herpes simplex virus, Herpesviridae, HSV, HSV-1, HSV-2, human herpesvirus, human herpesvirus 1, human herpesvirus 2, immunity, oral herpes, oral sex, orolabial HSV infection, outbreak, polymerase chain reaction, reactivation, recrudescent herpes labialis, rimming, safe sex, safer sex, saliva, sexually transmitted disease, sexually transmitted infection, spit, STD, STI, symptoms, tear, tonsillectomy, trigeminal nerve ganglia, viral shedding, virus	| 33 Replies
STD Awareness: 10 Sexually Transmitted Diseases You Probably Don’t Know About
Posted on July 5, 2012 by Anna C.
4
Giardia lamblia, a microbe that can be transmitted sexually. Image: NIH
Gonorrhea and chlamydia go back to antiquity. Syphilis took hold in Europe during the late 15th century. Herpes wasn’t on most people’s radars until the early 1980s, and human papillomavirus (HPV) was relegated to relative obscurity in the popular imagination until the HPV vaccines made their debuts less than a decade ago.
Have you heard of CMV, chancroid, or donovanosis?
But there are still a handful of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) that you might not know about. These include incredibly common infections, as well as those caused by pathogens you might have heard of but probably don’t associate with sexual transmission. They also include infections that are very rare here in Arizona but are much more common in other parts of the world. They all deserve a closer look.
10 Trichomoniasis: What is the most common curable STD? You might guess that it’s chlamydia or gonorrhea, but according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, it’s trichomoniasis (also known as trich, pronounced “trick”). This infection is caused by Trichomonas vaginalis, a single-celled parasite that is actually pretty cute as far as microbes go. What’s not so cute is its propensity to attach to your cells and degrade their surfaces, which on a large scale can produce unpleasant symptoms. Continue reading →
Share this post:
Tweet
Email
Posted in Sexual Health	| Tagged adenovirus, adult T-cell leukemia lymphoma, amebiasis, anilingus, ATL, bacteria, Calymmatobacterium granulomatis, chancroid, Chlamydia trachomatis, climatic bubo, cryptosporidiosis, donovanosis, Durand-Nicolas-Favre disease, EBV, Epstein-Barr virus, fecal contamination, fifth venereal disease, Filatov's disease, fourth venereal disease, genital mycoplasma, genital mycoplasmas, giardiasis, granuloma inguinale, granuloma venereum, Haemophilus ducreyi, HAM/TSP, HTLV, HTLV-1, HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis, human herpesvirus 4, human T-cell leukemia virus type 1, human T-cell lymphotropic virus, human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1, infectious mononucleosis, infective dermatitis, intestinal parasites, Klebsiella granulomatis, LGV, lymphogranuloma inguinale, lymphogranuloma venereum, M. genitalium, molluscum contagiosum, mono, Mycoplasma genitalium, NGU, nongonococcal urethritis, nonspecific urethritis, oral-anal contact, parasitic infections, Pfeiffer's disease, poradenitis inguinalis, protozoa, retrovirus, rimming, sexually transmitted disease, sexually transmitted diseases, sexually transmitted infection, sexually transmitted infections, sixth venereal disease, STD, STD Awareness, STDs, STI, STI Awareness, STIs, strumous bubo, symptoms, trich, Trichomonas vaginalis, trichomoniasis, tropical bubo, virus	| 4 Replies
STDs 101: An Introduction to Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Posted on April 10, 2012 by Anna C.
3
Coupons for STD-screening discounts in April 2014 are available here.
It’s April, which for Arizonans means a gradual increase in temperature as we head toward summer. But at Planned Parenthood Arizona it also means that it’s time to focus on sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) in observance of STD Awareness Month. While we regularly provide information about sexual health with our monthly STD Awareness series, April is the time of year to fix the spotlight on sexually transmissible microbes and the infections they cause. April is also the time of year when Planned Parenthood Arizona offers coupons for discounted STD screening, so if you’ve been putting it off, now’s the time!
Symptoms of Sexually Transmitted Diseases
First, some basic facts. STDs can be transmitted through all sexual activities — vaginal, anal, or oral sex, as well as activities involving skin-to-skin contact. STDs are most commonly caused by viruses or bacteria, though they can be caused by other agents as well, including animals! Each STD is unique, with unique symptoms, but common symptoms include:
rashes, open sores, blisters, or warts in the genital area
swelling or tenderness
pus, bleeding, odor, or abnormal discharge
itching in the genital region
burning sensation during urination
It’s best not to focus too closely on symptoms, though — most people with STDs actually don’t experience any symptoms whatsoever! As they say in the biz, “The most common symptom of an STD is … no symptom.” For example, most people with herpes either have no symptoms or have mild symptoms that go unnoticed. Ten percent of males and 80 percent of females with gonorrhea don’t experience symptoms, and most people with chlamydia are asymptomatic. And HIV symptoms usually take a decade to show up. If you are, or have been, sexually active, you can’t assume that the absence of symptoms means you’re in the clear. To know for sure if you have an STD, the best thing you can do is to get yourself tested. Continue reading →
Share this post:
Tweet
Email
Posted in Sexual Health	| Tagged abstinence, AIDS, amebiasis, anal sex, anilingus, antibiotics, asymptomatic, bacteria, barrier methods, chlamydia, condom, condoms, cryptosporidiosis, dental dams, epididymitis, female condom, Gardasil, get yourself tested, giardiasis, gonorrhea, GYT, hepatitis B, herpes, HIV, HPV, insects, insertive condom, intercourse, intestinal parasites, mites, oral sex, pelvic inflammatory disease, prevention, protozoa, protozoan, pubic lice, pubic louse, receptive condom, rim job, rimming, scabies, sexually transmitted disease, sexually transmitted diseases, sexually transmitted infection, sexually transmitted infections, STD, STD Awareness Month, STDs, STI, STIs, symptoms, syphilis, tertiary syphilis, trichomoniasis, vaccination, vaccine, vaccines, vaginal sex, virus, viruses	| 3 Replies
STD Awareness: Intestinal Parasites
Posted on January 3, 2012 by Anna C.
27
Editor’s Note: If you’re wondering if there is a sexually transmitted disease (STD) that causes maggots, please see our new article, “Is There an STD That Causes Maggots?”
This colorized scanning electron micrograph shows Giardia lamblia reproducing asexually. Image: Stan Erlandsen, CDC’s Public Health Image Library
Most sexually transmitted diseases are caused by bacteria or viruses, but some are caused by organisms that are classified as completely different lifeforms. Trichomoniasis, for example, is caused by a protozoan organism; protozoa occupy their own kingdom, separate from plants, animals, and bacteria. Intestinal parasites are often protozoan organisms, but can also include parasitic worms (which are members of the animal kingdom). They are spread through contact with fecal matter — and as such, they can be transmitted sexually as well as nonsexually. Intestinal parasites are usually transmitted by fecal contamination of food or water, and are most common in areas with insufficient sewage treatment and untreated water in the wilderness. Some pathogens, however, have low infectious doses, making their sexual transmission more likely.
What has eight flagella and can live in your intestines?
Oral contact with the anus, also called anilingus or rimming, is the primary means of the sexual transmission of these pathogens. Putting fingers or hands in your mouth after they have had contact with the anus is also risky. Other modes of transmission include oral sex, as genitals can be contaminated with feces, as well as sharing sex toys and other equipment. For these reasons, it is very important to use dental dams or latex gloves during contact with the anus; to clean the anus before engaging in rimming; to clean or use condoms on shared sex toys; and to use condoms or dental dams during oral sex. Continue reading →
Share this post:
Tweet
Email
Posted in Sexual Health	| Tagged amebiasis, amebic dysentery, amoebic dysentery, anilingus, beaver fever, binary fission, C. hominis, C. parvum, condom, condoms, cryptosporidiosis, Cryptosporidium, Cryptosporidium hominis, Cryptosporidium parvum, dental dam, dental dams, diarrhea, diloxanide furoate, dysentery, E. histolytica, Entamoeba histolytica, fecal matter, feces, flagella, flagellum, G. duodenalis, G. intestinalis, G. lamblia, Giardia duodenalis, Giardia intestinalis, Giardia lamblia, IBS, immune system, intestinal parasite, intestinal parasites, intestinal tract, intestine, irritable bowel syndrome, latex barriers, lesion, lesions, metronidazole, nitazoxanide, oocyst, oocysts, oral sex, oral-anal intercourse, oral-fecal route, parasite, parasites, protozoa, protozoans, rimming, sexually transmitted disease, sexually transmitted diseases, sexually transmitted infection, sexually transmitted infections, STD, STD Awareness, STDs, STI, STIs, string test, ulcer, ulcerative colitis, ulcers, worm, worms	| 27 Replies
Subscribe to Blog via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address
Subscribe
Follow us on Twitter! Like us on Facebook! Subscribe to RSS! Receive PPAA updates!
Recent Posts
Gloria Steinem Inspired More Than 1,500 at Phoenix Event
Ending a Wanted Pregnancy: Jacqueline’s Story
Reproductive Health-Care Providers Challenge Arizona Laws That Put Women’s Health at Risk
From HPV to Cancer to Dry Mouth
STD Awareness: Can HIV Be Cured Now?
STD Awareness: The Syphilis Outbreak’s Youngest Victims
Women Fighting for Everyone’s Health
Top Posts & Pages
STD Awareness: Will STDs Go Away on Their Own?
STD Awareness: Is Bacterial Vaginosis a Sexually Transmitted Disease?
STD Awareness: How Can I Protect Myself if My Partner Has Herpes?
Can Oral Herpes Be Spread to Genitals?
STD Awareness: Why Should You Care About Oral Gonorrhea?
Ending a Wanted Pregnancy: Jacqueline's Story
My Partner Just Told Me They Have Herpes. I Don't. Now What?
STD Awareness: Is There an STD That Causes Maggots?
Categories
Abortion (63)
Activism (32)
Arizona News (20)
Birth Control (79)
Book & Film Reviews (22)
Cancer (30)
Elections (182)
General Health (21)
History (92)
Legislative Watch (44)
LGBTQ (37)
Men's Health (21)
National News (27)
PPAA News (13)
Pregnancy & Parenthood (33)
Racial Justice (18)
Relationships (9)
Rundowns (121)
Sex Education (23)
Sexual Health (167)
Sexual Violence (14)
Spirituality (8)
Volunteers (17)
Archives
Archives Select Month April 2019 (5) March 2019 (3) February 2019 (4) January 2019 (4) December 2018 (4) November 2018 (4) October 2018 (8) September 2018 (8) August 2018 (8) July 2018 (7) June 2018 (4) May 2018 (4) April 2018 (6) March 2018 (7) February 2018 (10) January 2018 (6) December 2017 (6) November 2017 (4) October 2017 (7) September 2017 (6) August 2017 (9) July 2017 (7) June 2017 (8) May 2017 (8) April 2017 (6) March 2017 (7) February 2017 (6) January 2017 (8) December 2016 (6) November 2016 (5) October 2016 (13) September 2016 (9) August 2016 (15) July 2016 (13) June 2016 (6) May 2016 (5) April 2016 (5) March 2016 (5) February 2016 (6) January 2016 (6) December 2015 (5) November 2015 (6) October 2015 (5) September 2015 (4) August 2015 (8) July 2015 (4) June 2015 (7) May 2015 (7) April 2015 (6) March 2015 (9) February 2015 (7) January 2015 (8) December 2014 (10) November 2014 (8) October 2014 (36) September 2014 (11) August 2014 (18) July 2014 (18) June 2014 (9) May 2014 (7) April 2014 (8) March 2014 (8) February 2014 (8) January 2014 (5) December 2013 (7) November 2013 (7) October 2013 (8) September 2013 (10) August 2013 (4) July 2013 (5) June 2013 (7) May 2013 (6) April 2013 (10) March 2013 (10) February 2013 (12) January 2013 (8) December 2012 (7) November 2012 (7) October 2012 (20) September 2012 (18) August 2012 (9) July 2012 (16) June 2012 (7) May 2012 (9) April 2012 (7) March 2012 (13) February 2012 (10) January 2012 (8) December 2011 (2) November 2011 (1) October 2011 (3) September 2011 (3) August 2011 (3) July 2011 (1) June 2011 (8) May 2011 (7) April 2011 (8) March 2011 (8) February 2011 (12) January 2011 (12) December 2010 (6) November 2010 (5) October 2010 (18) September 2010 (9) August 2010 (5) February 2010 (1) November 2009 (1) August 2009 (2)
Links
Arizona List
Emily's List
Planned Parenthood Arizona
Planned Parenthood Federation of America
Find Us
Our bloggers cannot diagnose medical conditions or recommend treatment. See a licensed medical professional for diagnosis and treatment.
Please see this page for our Commenting Policy.
Proudly powered by WordPress
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.