Mosquito Bites: Everyone is at Risk! - Special Needs Resource
15 Must Read Articles
Home
Features
eParent Connect
Education
Healthcare
Military
Money
Mobility
Wellness
Health Topics
Autism
Cerebral Palsy
Down Syndrome
Epilepsy
Intellectual Disability
Special Needs Resource Directory
Exceptional Blog
Get Social
Login
Login
Register
TRENDING NOW
What Hope Looks Like
Children with Autism, Developmental Delays More than Twice as Likely to Have Sleep Problems
12 Autism Symptoms to Bring Up with Your Pediatrician
Spina bifida – Types, Diagnosis, Treatments, Causes and Prevention
Autism Spectrum Disorder: Communication Problems in Children
Small molecule targets cause of adult onset muscular dystrophy
Epilepsy and Seizures
Mosquito Bites: Everyone is at Risk!
Featured Topics, What's Happening 04/05/201903/26/2019 admin
The most effective way to avoid getting sick from viruses spread by mosquitoes is to prevent mosquito bites.
Almost everyone in the world has been bitten by a mosquito. Although most kinds of mosquitoes are just nuisance mosquitoes, some kinds of mosquitoes spread viruses that can cause disease. For most viruses spread by mosquitoes, no vaccines or medicines are available. Mosquitoes bite during the day and night, live indoors and outdoors, and search for warm places as temperatures begin to drop. Some will hibernate in enclosed spaces, like garages, sheds, and under (or inside) homes, to survive cold temperatures. Except for the southernmost states in North America, mosquito season starts in the summer and continues into fall.
Mosquito bites can make you sick
Disease epidemics from viruses spread by mosquitoes are happening more often, including the recent Zika (2015-2017) and chikungunya (2013-2014) epidemics. West Nile virus is the most common virus spread by mosquitoes in the continental United States. In the United States, people can also get sick from less common viruses spread by mosquitoes, like La Crosse encephalitis or St. Louis encephalitis. From 2004 to 2016, most US cases of dengue, chikungunya, and Zika were reported in US territories.
Protect against mosquito bites
Use insect repellent: When used as directed, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)-registered insect repellents are proven safe and effective, even for pregnant and breastfeeding women. Use an (EPA)-registered insect repellentExternal with one of the following active ingredients:
DEET
Picaridin
IR3535
Oil of lemon eucalyptus (OLE)
Para-menthane-diol (PMD)
2-undecanone
Cover up: Wear long-sleeved shirts and long pants.
Keep mosquitoes outside: Use air conditioning or window and door screens. If you are not able to protect yourself from mosquitoes inside your home or hotel, sleep under a mosquito bed net.
For more information: https://www.cdc.gov/chikungunya/pdfs/fs_mosquito_bite_prevention_us.pdfCdc-pdf
Planning a trip?
Make a check list of everything you’ll need for an enjoyable vacation and use the following resources to help you prepare.
Learn about destination-specific health risks and recommendations by visiting CDC Travelers’ Health website.
Pack a travel health kit. Remember to pack insect repellent and use it as directed to prevent mosquito bites.
See a healthcare provider familiar with travel medicine, ideally 4 to 6 weeks before your trip.
Go to the Find a Clinic webpage for help in finding a travel medicine clinic near you.
Do your homework before you travel
For most viruses spread by mosquitoes, no vaccines or medicines are available. However, vaccines are available for viruses like Japanese encephalitis and yellow fever. Travelers to areas with risk of those viruses should get vaccinated.
After traveling
Even if they do not feel sick, travelers should prevent mosquito bites for 3 weeks after their trip so they do not spread viruses like dengue, Zika, or chikungunya to uninfected mosquitoes.
If you have been travelling and have symptoms including fever, headache, muscle and joint pain, and rash, see your healthcare provider immediately and be sure to share your travel history.
What can state and local public health agencies do?
Build and sustain public health programs that test and track diseases and mosquitoes that spread them. .
Train vector control staff on five core competenciesExternal for conducting prevention and control activities.
Educate the public about how to prevent control mosquito-borne diseases in their communities.
What is CDC doing?
Funding states and territories to detect and respond to infections from mosquitoes, ticks, and fleas and report cases to CDC.
Partnering with local and tribal health departments, industry, universities, and international groups to detect and respond to diseases from mosquito .
Supporting five regional centers of excellence to address emerging diseases from mosquitoes and ticks.
Developing and improving laboratory and diagnostic tests for these diseases.
Educating the public about protecting themselves from diseases caused by the bite of an infected mosquito.
Remember, everyone can help control mosquitoes. Take action to protect yourself, your family, and your community: use insect repellent, cover up, and keep mosquitoes outside. For more information about CDC’s work on vector-borne diseases, please visit: https://www.cdc.gov/ncezid/stories-features/browse/subjects/vectorborne-diseases.html
Contact Information
CDC Media Relations
(404) 639-3286
media@cdc.gov
Janet McAllister, PhD
Biography
“Mosquito control is much more than just spraying. To be effective, we need to use all the tools available to us in order to design and implement mosquito control programs that work at the community level.”
Janet McAllister, PhD – Medical entomologist , Arboviral Diseases Branch, Division of Vector-Borne Diseases
Christopher Gregory, MD, MPH
Lyle R. Petersen, MD,
Sharing
Email this article
Print this article
Tags
eparent
Post navigation
Sesame Place® Opens First Certified Autism Center Theme Park
Epilepsy in Schools
admin
Exceptional Blog
What Hope Looks Like
by Maria Spencer In my daughter Olivia’s sixteen years, I have seen many hope-filled days. I have seen her improve in areas at school that we never dreamed of, have seen her run track and always, always defy the odds that were given to her as a baby. But in the past several months, I have seen her do something that is beyond my wildest dreams or imaginations. Just when I think she has reached a […]
Forgetting Milestones and Learning to Measure Progress… a New Way of Thinking! #Reflection
Advocate like a Mother
Teach Them to Care
We Found Santa at the Pool!
Facebook Fans
Company Info
Who We Are
Contact eParent
Guideline for contributors
Our Daily Bread
Work With Us
2019 Media Kit
Terms of Use
Health Topics
Autism
Cerebral Palsy
Down Syndrome
Epilepsy
Intellectual Disability
Learning Disabilities
Muscular Dystrophy
Government Resources
NOD
Disability.gov
AAPD
SSA
Access-board.gov
USA.gov
OPM.gov
Healthcare Links
Genome Sequencing
Newborn Screening
CMV
Resource Tools
Special Needs Resource Directory
eParent Military Resource Directories
Products & Services
Copyright © 2019 by Special Needs Resource.	Theme: DW Focus by DesignWall.
Proudly powered by WordPress