Oil Pulling - Fact or Fad? - Sable Industries Inc.
ISO 13485:2016 • FDA Registered • Health Canada Registered
TF: 800.368.8106 • P: 519.579.9323 • F: 519.579.9324 • E: info@sableindustriesinc.com

SIGN IN / REGISTER
 ABOUT US
Philosophy & History Owner Biographies Legal Information
PRODUCTS
Handpieces Parts Equipment Consumables Terms Of Sale Full Product List
EVENTS NEWS DOWNLOADS CONTACT US
Forms Rep Listing
Oil Pulling - Fact or Fad?
Monday, November 27, 2017
An inviting smile can open doors and our oral health is also important to our overall well-being. Most of us brush and floss regularly to ensure our teeth remain clean and free of cavities, though some people go the extra step of having their teeth whitened.
Such measures can be quite expensive and inconvenient, so wouldn’t it be wonderful to have another more cost-effective way of ensuring your dental health you could do at home? Not to mention one that may also result in fresher breath?
Oil pulling might be the way to accomplish this. While there is no definitive scientific evidence to say this method works, many people swear by it. Although oil pulling is a hot topic on the internet, it is actually a case of renewed interest in a cleaning method dating back several centuries.
How Does it Work?
Oil pulling is the practice of swishing raw coconut oil in your mouth for 15 to 20 minutes each day. If you are interested in trying this, don’t worry—you won’t have to be splitting or milking coconuts. You can find bottled coconut oil in your grocery store. You can also use sesame or sunflower oil, though most people find the taste of coconut oil preferable.
Coconut oil is solid in form, but quickly liquefies as it mixes with your saliva. Take a generous tablespoon of the oil, place it in your mouth, and swish. You don’t need to swish as vigorously as you would with mouthwash as your jaw would become quite tired.
Do the oil pull first thing in the morning before you eat to get rid of the bacteria build-up in your mouth that occurred overnight. Once the time has elapsed, spit out the oil, and gargle for one minute with a mixture of lukewarm salt water. Then brush your teeth using a brush separate from one used normally. After brushing, rinse the brush thoroughly in warm water.
It is important to avoid swallowing. While the coconut oil will not harm you, swallowing means you will ingest all of the oral bacteria you want to purge from your body.
Detoxing Your Mouth
Those who swear by oil pulling say it is a great way to detox your mouth. Tooth decay results from a build-up of harmful bacteria in the mouth. These germs can lead to plaque, gingivitis, cavities, and even gum disease. Brushing your teeth regularly helps to eliminate such germs, but could oil pulling provide extra help for you in this area? Possibly, but there is no concrete proof.
Tooth Whitening and No More Bad Breath?
We all want whiter teeth. Could oil pulling provide a cheaper and easier way to attain this without having to go to the dentist or deal with those annoying whitening strips? Oil pulling enthusiasts enthusiastically claim yes, your teeth will look cleaner.
They also claim oil pulling will make your breath fresher, though this is not something that would last throughout the day.
Should you try oil pulling? Doing so will not cure cavities or correct any major dental issues, and it is no replacement for daily brushing and flossing. There is no scientific basis for the claims made on behalf of oil pulling and some dental professionals feel you can get comparable results using mouthwash and possibly even just water.
However, oil pulling certainly cannot harm you in any way and will not worsen your oral health.
Posted By: Aaron Creces at 8:51 AM
Comment on this post: add a comment
Share and Subscribe:
Tags: Oral Health Oil Pulling Teeth Whitening Bad Breath Tooth Discolouration
Contributors
Name: Ellen Gao
Posts: 5
Last Post: March 28, 2019
show Ellen's posts
Name: Christopher Zielinsky
Posts: 1
Last Post: March 19, 2019
show Christopher's posts
Name: Generic Administrator
Posts: 2
Last Post: August 28, 2017
show Generic's posts
Latest Posts
Show All Recent Posts
Archive
2019
March
How Ultrasonic Scaling Benefits Patients and Dental Hygienists Alike
3 Steps to Handling the Unhappy Denture Patient
5 Non-Traditional Career Opportunities for Dental Hygienists
February
Introducing a Tooth Whitening Program to Your Practice
7 Truths About Hygiene School to Remember When It’s Getting the Best of You
January
Cannabis Legalization - What Does it Mean for Your Dental Practice?
Motivational Interviewing in Dental Hygiene
Are Your Patients Protected? 4 Important Points on Athletic Mouth Guards
2018
December
Checklist: 6 Vital Questions to Ask on Your Next Dental Visit
Assissting Stroke Patients with Oral Hygiene Care
Treating the 4 Common Dental Problems During Pregnancy
November
What You Should Know About the EPA’s Rule on Dental Amalgam Separation
Dental Handpiece Innovation: Meet Sable’s 6 Newest Handpieces
Importance of Dental Amalgam Separation
October
The Importance of Pet Dental Care
It’s Time to End These 6 Persistent Veterinary Dental Myths
September
Do Dental X-Rays Cause Thyroid Cancer? How to Ease Patient Concerns About Dental X-Rays
Why Dental Hygienists Should Perform Extraoral Head and Neck Examinations
August
Airway Support in Dentistry
Can Dental Problems Trigger Migraines?
July
10 Ways Being Confident Can Boost Patient Satisfaction
June
NEW Expanded List of Electric Parts Available
April
Is Your Dental Practice Using Too Many Chemicals?
New Power Transformer for Part Number 2300101 - Sable Light Board
January
Can Chewing Xylitol Gum be Good for Your Teeth?
Dental Office Design
4 Tips to Prevent Chairside Burnout
2017
December
Fluoride – What You Should Know
10 Tips for Oral Health Care
8 Things You’ll Learn About in Dental School
Ergonomics in the Dental Office: Helping to Ensure You Remain Healthy and Comfortable
November
Remembering “Just” What a Hygienist Does
Oil Pulling - Fact or Fad?
Three Innovative Ways to Calm Your Patient
4 Behind The Scenes Tasks Dental Hygienists Do
Post-Surgical Home Care Tips
First Data On New Dental Fillings To Repair Tooth Decay Revealed
Can Chemicals in Food Packaging Damage Children’s Teeth?
5 Software Solutions for a Busy Dentist Office
August
Best And Worst Foods For Your Teeth
The Role of Dental Hygiene in Public Health
Tags
Everything Dental Hygienist Dentists Dental Practices Off Topic Software Solutions Dental Office Tooth Enamel Endocrine Disruptors Oral Health Tooth Decay Bioactive Glass Dental Fillings Oral Surgery Oral Surgery Recovery Dental Patients Dentist Anxiety Patient Therapy Oil Pulling Teeth Whitening Bad Breath Tooth Discolouration Oral Screening Ergonomics Musculoskeletal Disorders Dental Equipment Handpiece Dental School Chairside Burnout Ondontophobia Pet Dental Care
100 Campbell Avenue, Suite 5 Kitchener, Ontario
TF: 800.368.8106 • P: 519.579.9323 • F: 519.579.9324 • E: info@sableindustriesinc.com
HOME ABOUT US PRODUCTS EVENTS NEWS DOWNLOADS CONTACT US SITEMAP SIGN IN / REGISTER
ISO 13485:2016 • FDA Registered • Health Canada Registered
© 2019 Sable Industries Inc. All Rights Reserved. Web Design and Content Management by REM Web Solutions.