How Chewing Gum Help in Weight Control? by MunFitnessBlog.com
MunFitnessBlog.com
Be Strong. Be Fit.
How Chewing Gum Help in Weight Control?
October 24th, 2007 · 14 Comments ·
Wrigley has created a website called gumisgood.com. Its aim is to create awareness about the benefits of chewing gum. According to the company, chewing gum:
Improves oral health
Helps in weight management
Improves concentration and alertness
Provides stress relief
Let’s look at the second benefit. Wringley claims that chewing a 5-10 calorie piece of gum is a better replacement of high-calories snacks. It even tried to proved the claim with a study. The study found out that chewing gums help reduce hunger, reduce cravings for sweets and decrease snack intake.
However, I realized that the research used only 40 women and 20 men in the experiments. The results will have been more convincing with more specimens. Moreover, this exercise is funded by the company itself (Wrigley Science Institute ), and not by any other independent third party research company.
I have a friend who has gum chewing habit after he finishes a meal. He told me that the gum not only helps clean his teeth, but also stop him from ordering more food to eat. I also know of people who take chewing gum as a replacement for boredom eating.
I used to like chewing gum too, but I got rid of the habit when I wore braces when I were 14. Even after without the braces, nowadays I chew “socially”, only if I were offered the gum by others. I don’t think chewing gum will discourage me from eating. In fact, I get hungry. Probably my body expects something to eat when I have more saliva after chewing the gum. So, for weight control purpose or to eat something out of boredom, I rather eat fruit than having chewing gum.
In short, I don’t really buy into the idea of controlling weight by having chewing gum. Having gums in the mouth will not stop me from eating later. It is still the will power that makes the difference.
How about you, do you chew gum to stop yourself from eating junk food?
Check out this article on Is It True That Eating Slower Can Help in Weight Control?
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Email This Post
Category: Weight Loss
If you like this or other articles in this blog, Subscribe to MunFitnessBlog.com today. It is free.
Scroll down to leave a comment. I really want to know what you think.
14 responses so far ↓
Mary // Oct 24, 2007 at 7:01 AM
A little. I sometimes get a chocolate craving around 3 when im at work. I know I’m not really hungry (i just had a healthy snack), im just stressed. I usually pop a piece of gum to distract me long enough until i forget about the cravings.
Angie Tan // Oct 24, 2007 at 10:04 AM
Hmmmm.. I chew gum after meals to get rid of certain “smells” however I know that brushing my teeth is more effective than chewing gum.
Anyway, it does help cause it stops you from eating/ordering more food. However, because of the air around my mouth, chewing gum actually gives me flatulence. :-S
One bad side effect of chewing gum – jaw problems. A friend chewed too much until he found that he had a hairline fracture in his jaw. It caused him a lot of pain….
Andy // Oct 24, 2007 at 10:07 AM
But for me, chewing gums apparently produces more unwanted air in my stomach. Each chew somehow absorbs air into the stomach. At the end of the chewing, I will have a gassy stomach.. how?
chikanozboy // Oct 24, 2007 at 3:39 PM
somehow same case with Andy. Gassy stomach sometimes after chewing it.
sylvesteR // Oct 25, 2007 at 12:51 AM
Lie, all lies!!!! It doesn’t help in managing your weight, but increasing it instead by increasing your appetite. They just said that to promote their products, which company will say something that will tarnish their reputation?? Anyway, I rarely chew gums, just too lazy to spit it out after the taste worn out. Wonder what will happen if u accidentally swallowed the gum? It’ll get stuck is it?
anomie101 // Oct 26, 2007 at 7:56 PM
chewing gum is the most disgusting thing. so no, no matter how much benefits it can bring to losing weight, i wouldnt sell my soul for it. period.
tonie // Jun 3, 2008 at 3:06 AM
To add even more health benefits chew gum with cinnamon flavor, helps to control blood sugar levels.
Hayley, 12 // Sep 1, 2008 at 9:48 PM
I chew it rather than eating (with paracetamol for the hunger pains) when i can. not just snacks, but it substitues for whole meals sometimes. it works.
Jon // Mar 7, 2009 at 5:12 AM
Assuming a 95% level of confidence, a sample size of 50 people will leave you with a 14% margin of error. Not really all that bad if you ask me.
Darcy // Mar 26, 2009 at 11:08 AM
I practically lived on gum when I had to drop 15 pounds for crew in a fairly short period of time. It can make you feel hungry or “snacky” by causing you to salivate, but if you were already hungry to begin with its not such a bad side effect. I’m one for the fruity gums, tastes like I indulged in candy without the calories.
For the people who get gassy, there could be two reasons. One, sugar alcohols in sugarless gum can cause a laxative effect as well as gas if you have enough of it or are more sensitive than most. Also, most people swallow some air whenever they eat food just from the act of swallowing. If you are swallowing a lot of saliva while chewing, its possible you are swallowing some air as well.
SuperHotPinkNailz // Mar 29, 2009 at 7:33 AM
Honestly, I believe this is true. Only because even before this research had been had been done, GUM chewing helped me out a lot. For example, I am a type 1 diabetic. When I was pregnant with my 2 children I had MAJOR cravings and with my super strict diet I was unable to stuff my face with whatever I wanted to. So instead, I chewed gum to pass my times of craving… And honestly.. It worked. I also found that chewing gum when I was in school helped me concentrate more. Ask me how? heck if I know.. I just always found that I the chewing helps me to focus.. LOL!!! But yes, believe me.. It works!
asredas // Apr 12, 2009 at 1:49 AM
Chewing gum results in more saliva (which is a very good natural way of cleaning your teeth).
Saliva also aids the food digestion process and hence increases the rate at which food is digested, and will result in you becoming hungrier faster.
Unless you are the sort of person who is happy just chewing gum and nothing else (even when hungry) then by all means chew gum, otherwise, eat a fruit or veg!
Brandi // Apr 15, 2009 at 10:52 PM
If you take a look at the digestion process you will figure out that chewing gum can help aid in weight loss. To some extend. First when you take a bit of food, or gum in this case, you produce saliva, this saliva contains enzymes that break up protiens and sugars, once you swallow your saliva it reaches your stomach, intestines and so on where vitamins sugars and such get absorbed. So the more saliva that contains food breaking enzymes will be produced more often and therefore goes through the body at a faster rate. On the flip side due to this affect your body will in return be more hungry more often since your digestion is sped up. But how you deal with that will result in the weight loss, we have always been told to eat three meals a day, well in all reality we are suppose to have five or more small meals a day which can boost matabolism, and since chewing gum can sped up the process of digestion a bit, maybe that would give more people a reason to eat five or more small meals a day. So overall when you look at it, yes it does help in weight loss, but chewing gum along is not going to help anything. The only true weight loss cure is healthy foods and exercise.
katie // Nov 5, 2010 at 2:04 PM
chewing-gum actually contains sorbitol which is a mild laxative. in large quantities it becomes dangerous so people who chew 2 or 3 packets of gum a day are in danger of extreme rapid weight loss and bowel problems.
this also depends on the person.
the benefit of chewing gum is not only to occupy yourself but to prevent constipation or liquid retention in the body.
Leave a Comment
Name
Mail
Website
Notify me of future comments via e-mail
← My New Experience Training Without Lifting Gloves How To Help Your Dog To Lose Weight with Slentrol →
[shareaholic app="share_buttons" id=""]
MunFitnessBlog.com
About MunFitnessBlog.Com
Articles Archive
Ask Mun a Question
Contact Mun
Don't miss any post. Subscribe to MunFitnessBlog.com now. Enter your email address:
Subscribe in a reader
Why Subscribe and How?
Top Posts & Pages
How Rain Build His Body For Ninja Assassin?
How To Build Body Like Bruce Lee
How To Build A Body Like Ryan Reynolds
How To Cure and Prevent Mouth Ulcers?
Can You Take Medicine With Coffee, Tea, Milk or Coke?
Post Of The Month
Bruce Lee - The Legend
Shopping For Fitness Gadget?
Categories
Fitness Classes (16)
Les Mills (5)
Yoga (6)
Fitness Gadget/Equipment (76)
Fitness News (39)
Funny Fitness Experience (17)
Gym Going (42)
California Fitness (3)
Celebrity Fitness (4)
Clark Hatch (2)
True Fitness (6)
Health (112)
Motivation (61)
Nutrition (80)
Other Fitness/Sports Articles (74)
Pregnancy & Parenting (1)
Weight Loss (57)
Weight Training (128)
Abs (18)
Back (12)
Biceps (7)
Chest (13)
Forearm (4)
Legs (20)
Shoulders (8)
Triceps (6)
Copyright (C) 2007-2018 MunFitnessBlog.com
Sitemap
Archives
Privacy