How to Use Lightening Cream Products: Fade Skin Blemishes & Scars | Bellatory
MORE
Bellatory
Sign InJoin
6
Bellatory»
Skin»
Products
How to Use Lightening Cream Products: Fade Skin Blemishes & Scars
Updated on November 29, 2017
Alison Graham
more
Alison is a freelance writer on health, nutrition, skincare, and pets, especially cats and dogs.
Contact Author
skin whitening creams can be used to lighten skin blemishes but be careful which product you use - and remember there are also alternative treatments | Source
Many people affected by skin blemishes and scars are turning to lightening creams to fade them. This article seeks to address the questions people have about using skin lighteners for example, how to choose the right product, how to use it and what precautions to take. We also provide some alternative solutions to the problem.
Skin Blemishes Can Be Caused For Many Reasons
Scars left behind after an acne breakout
Age spots (also sometimes called liver spots)
Dark patches of pigmentation caused as a result of taking contraceptive pills
Freckles, moles or birthmarks
Although there are many for whom none of the blemishes mentioned above cause them the slightest concern, for many others, perhaps the majority, the distress caused can vary from minor irritation to acute embarrassment. In extreme cases, depression, withdrawal from the world and acute emotional problems can result.
How To Choose A Good Skin Lightening Cream
It is perhaps unsurprising that skin lightening products have huge appeal but there are some very dubious products on the market.
Some are illegal imports, others continue to be sold because people are unaware of the potential problems that might be caused by the ingredients.
Look for the product that does not contain the following items:
Hydroquinone (the most dangerous skin bleaching agent that acts as a carcinogen)
Steroids
Mercury (read more about this on the FDA website here http://www.fda.gov/ForConsumers/ConsumerUpdates/ucm294849.htm)
Artificial Colours
These substances have been banned in many countries, but one should be careful while selecting a lightening cream.
The Dangers of Illegal Ingredients in Skin Lighteners
This quote from the UK's NHS Website highlights the dangers of illegal ingredients in skin lighteners:-
“Unfortunately, many skin-lightening creams contain illegal compounds that can damage your health,” says Indy Rihal of the British Skin Foundation. “The most common compounds are high-dose steroids.”
Some creams also contain hydroquinone, a bleaching agent that is banned from use in cosmetics.
The damaging effects of these products are taken seriously by the law. In 2007, a couple in London who had sold non-prescription skin-lightening creams were fined £70,000.
In March 2009, a man who sold unlicensed medicines and banned cosmetics, including skin-lightening creams containing corticosteroids and hydroquinone, was ordered to pay £80,000 in fines, costs and repayment of illegal earnings.
The Dangers of Hydroquinone Skin Whitening Creams
Ingredients To Look For In Skin Lightener Products
Look for these key ingredients in any skin lightener you choose:-
Vitamin E Oil (acts as an antioxidant),
Vitamin B3 (improves elasticity of the skin),
Licorice extract (reduces pigmentation),
Glycolic and salicylic Acid (removes spots and lightens the skin), spot deacti-complex (brightens the skin),
Lemon extracts (moisturises the skin),
Vitamin C (lightens the skin),
Alpha hydoxy acid (exfoliates skin).
All these ingredients are available in a variety of products. One will never find all the ingredients mentioned above in a single product. However, always look for a combination of lightening agents, exfoliating agents, and antioxidants. There are many manufacturers that offer lightening creams, choosing a well-known and trusted brand in this case is a very good idea.
How To Lighten Scars With Scar Fading Cream
The correct way to use this kind of product on your skin to apply it directly on the scar or blemish and rub until it is absorbed completely by the skin.
It is essential to apply any such product in accordance with the manufacturer’s directions. However, in most cases the advice is to use a gentle, circular motion until the cream is completely absorbed to ensure deep penetration of the essential ingredients.
With many skin lighteners, this process can be repeated twice a day and one can stop using the product once the skin is lightened to the desired skin tone.
Once the product has dried onto the skin, apply a sunscreen of SPF 30 if you are going out in the sun in order to protect your skin.
Some products have specific instructions for application. For instance you may be required to wash off the product after a specific time or apply moisturiser after use. Be sure to read the directions on your chosen product very carefully to avoid any possible negative side effects.
The most important thing in using any skin lightening product for fading blemishes is keeping at it!
Scars and blemishes will fade little by little so even though the change might be imperceptible day by day, taking a picture of your skin on the first day of use and again in a week, a fortnight, a month, will reveal the difference most noticeably!
Products That Help With Hyperpigmentation
Treating Your Skin Without Lightening Cream
My personal recommendation would be The Body Shop tea tree blemish fade night lotion (pictured below).
I love using natural products on my skin and am a great fan of tea tree oil because of its anti-bacterial as well as natural properties.
It not only improves the appearance of blemished skin but also helps to prevent future blemishes. It also controls oiliness and is available at an affordable price.
The Body Shop Tea Tree Night Lotion, 1 Oz
Buy Now
Precautions During Skin Lightening Treatment to Fade Blemishes
Check the cream for any possible side effects. Apply a small amount on an inconspicuous part of the skin and observe for 24 hours. If you are going to use the product on your face, use it on a sensitive area of your skin such as behind your ear, inside the crook of your elbow, or the inside of your wrist. Do not use it if inflammation or irritation occurs.
Remove all the makeup prior to applying any paste or cream on your facial skin. Make sure you skin is thoroughly cleansed and dried before application.
Avoid applying the cream on areas that are unaffected by blemishes. It would make the lighter part even more light which would make matters appear worse.
Do not forget to pay special attention to moisturising any areas treated with skin lighteners. The bleaching action of the cream can make the skin very dry.
Avoid going out in sunlight after applying lightening formula on your skin. If this is unavoidable, apply a sunscreen cream or lotion with a high spf (30 or more).
Do not expose the skin to lightening products for more than the time advised on the specific brand you have chosen. It may damage the skin.
Do not bleach any area of skin where you have already used acne treatments or other skin care products containing glycolic acid or alpha-hydroxyl acid.
If you experience a burning sensation or rash appearance on the face, in spite of all the precautions, rinse your face thoroughly and gently apply pure coconut oil to the irritated area. As an alternative to coconut oil, you could rub ice over the affected area for 10 to 15 minutes.
So What Have We Learned About Skin Lighteners?
Most of all, we now have a clear idea of the ingredients in skin lighteners to avoid - no matter how much hype the manufacturers may put out, some ingredients are just plain dangerous. Hydroquinone for example, has been banned in the European Union (EU) since 2001.
We have also learned about the precautions to be taken with any skin lightening product and also, that there are alternatives to skin whitening products that will effectively fade scars and blemishes.
This content is accurate and true to the best of the author’s knowledge and is not meant to substitute for formal and individualized advice from a qualified professional.
Questions & Answers
Questions must be on-topic, written with proper grammar usage, and understandable to a wide audience.
Related
Treatments
Brighten Your Skin with a Natural Gram Flour Facial Mask
by Angie Woods198
Products
derma e Skin Lighten: Natural Fade and Age Spot Creme - A Review
by Marisa Hammond Olivares12
Treatments
Apple Cider Vinegar Treatments for Acne-Free Skin
by Danielle Nash2
Treatments
Skin Care Reviews: Calily Life Organic Dead Sea Mud Mask
by Cynthia Hoover0
Acne Care
Home Remedies for Pimples, Zits and Skin Blemishes
by theseattlegirl11
Popular
Products
Armpit Whitening - A Beginner’s Guide To The Perfect Underarm
by CMHypno42
Products
The Top 5 Affordable Anti-Wrinkle Serums (That Actually Work)
by Michelle Zunter18
Products
My Review of Burt's Bees: Earth-Friendly Products for the Whole Family
by Catherine Tally14
Comments
Submit a Comment
You Must Sign In To Comment
To comment on this article, you must sign in or sign up and post using a HubPages Network account.
AUTHOR
Alison Graham
3 years ago from UK
Thanks Ann810 - yes, it is good to know that blemish and scar fading creams and lightening creams without Hydroquinone are available but it's important that people know what to look for on the product label when buying.
Ann810
3 years ago from Sunny Cali
Hi Alison, it's good to know there are fade creams that doesn't contain Hydroquinone.
AUTHOR
Alison Graham
4 years ago from UK
Hi mamaboys, the dark spots are a build up of the pigment melanin. The brightening serums work in various ways on this dark pigment (so they don't affect other areas of the skin) and the result is a lightening and fading of the dark areas. Hope this explanation helps.
mamaboys
4 years ago
Hi, does a brightening serum lighten only dark spots?
AUTHOR
Alison Graham
5 years ago from UK
Hi Writer Fox, that is actually a stock photo I bought to illustrate the point that people do want to fade their blemishes. What I tried to make clear in my article is that although skin lighteners can work well, there are precautions to take and ingredients to avoid. Many readers might prefer to use other, effective alternatives such as the ones I highlight above.
Writer Fox
5 years ago from the wadi near the little river
Those are amazing before and after photos. I've often wondered if those products really work. I guess they do.
About Us
Editorial Policy
Copyright
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Advertising
Copyright © 2019 HubPages Inc. and respective owners. Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners. HubPages® is a registered Service Mark of HubPages, Inc. HubPages and Hubbers (authors) may earn revenue on this page based on affiliate relationships and advertisements with partners including Amazon, Google, and others.
Sign InJoin
Skin
Treatments
Acne Care
Products
Show All Categories
Connect with us
About Us
Editorial Policy
Copyright
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Advertising
Copyright © 2019 HubPages Inc. and respective owners.
working
This website uses cookies
As a user in the EEA, your approval is needed on a few things. To provide a better website experience, bellatory.com uses cookies (and other similar technologies) and may collect, process, and share personal data. Please choose which areas of our service you consent to our doing so.
Necessary
Features
Marketing
Statistics
Approve All & Submit
Approve Checked Only
For more information on managing or withdrawing consents and how we handle data, visit our Privacy Policy at: https://bellatory.com/privacy-policy#gdpr
Show Details
Necessary
HubPages Device ID This is used to identify particular browsers or devices when the access the service, and is used for security reasons.
Login This is necessary to sign in to the HubPages Service.
Google Recaptcha This is used to prevent bots and spam. (Privacy Policy)
Akismet This is used to detect comment spam. (Privacy Policy)
HubPages Google Analytics This is used to provide data on traffic to our website, all personally identifyable data is anonymized. (Privacy Policy)
HubPages Traffic Pixel This is used to collect data on traffic to articles and other pages on our site. Unless you are signed in to a HubPages account, all personally identifiable information is anonymized.
Amazon Web Services This is a cloud services platform that we used to host our service. (Privacy Policy)
Cloudflare This is a cloud CDN service that we use to efficiently deliver files required for our service to operate such as javascript, cascading style sheets, images, and videos. (Privacy Policy)
Google Hosted Libraries Javascript software libraries such as jQuery are loaded at endpoints on the googleapis.com or gstatic.com domains, for performance and efficiency reasons. (Privacy Policy)
Features
Google Custom Search This is feature allows you to search the site. (Privacy Policy)
Google Maps Some articles have Google Maps embedded in them. (Privacy Policy)
Google Charts This is used to display charts and graphs on articles and the author center. (Privacy Policy)
Google AdSense Host API This service allows you to sign up for or associate a Google AdSense account with HubPages, so that you can earn money from ads on your articles. No data is shared unless you engage with this feature. (Privacy Policy)
Google YouTube Some articles have YouTube videos embedded in them. (Privacy Policy)
Vimeo Some articles have Vimeo videos embedded in them. (Privacy Policy)
Paypal This is used for a registered author who enrolls in the HubPages Earnings program and requests to be paid via PayPal. No data is shared with Paypal unless you engage with this feature. (Privacy Policy)
Facebook Login You can use this to streamline signing up for, or signing in to your Hubpages account. No data is shared with Facebook unless you engage with this feature. (Privacy Policy)
Maven This supports the Maven widget and search functionality. (Privacy Policy)
Marketing
Google AdSense This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Google DoubleClick Google provides ad serving technology and runs an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Index Exchange This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Sovrn This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Facebook Ads This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Amazon Unified Ad Marketplace This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
AppNexus This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Openx This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Rubicon Project This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
TripleLift This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Say Media We partner with Say Media to deliver ad campaigns on our sites. (Privacy Policy)
Remarketing Pixels We may use remarketing pixels from advertising networks such as Google AdWords, Bing Ads, and Facebook in order to advertise the HubPages Service to people that have visited our sites.
Conversion Tracking Pixels We may use conversion tracking pixels from advertising networks such as Google AdWords, Bing Ads, and Facebook in order to identify when an advertisement has successfully resulted in the desired action, such as signing up for the HubPages Service or publishing an article on the HubPages Service.
Statistics
Author Google Analytics This is used to provide traffic data and reports to the authors of articles on the HubPages Service. (Privacy Policy)
Comscore ComScore is a media measurement and analytics company providing marketing data and analytics to enterprises, media and advertising agencies, and publishers. Non-consent will result in ComScore only processing obfuscated personal data. (Privacy Policy)
Amazon Tracking Pixel Some articles display amazon products as part of the Amazon Affiliate program, this pixel provides traffic statistics for those products (Privacy Policy)
{{section}}
{{title}}
by {{author}} {{comment_count}}