How To Make and Use Ginger Syrup – Herbal Academy
View Cart (0)
Contact Us
Sign In
Please sign in first
Username
Password
Lost Your Password?
Not a member?
Please simply create an account before buying/booking any courses.
Create an account for free!
|Sign Up
Courses
View All Courses
Introductory Herbal Course
Intermediate Herbal Course
Clinical Herbalist Path Package
Entrepreneur Herbalist Path Package
Botany & Wildcrafting Course
Workshops
View all Workshops
Herbs for ADHD, Cognition, and Focus Intensive
The Herbarium
Visit the Blog
Botanical
DIY
Eat Well
Live Well
Our Favorites
Shop Goods
Shop All Goods
Botanical Illustrations Workbook
Materia Medica Journal
Plant ID Foraging Tote Bag
About Us
Press and Media
The School
Team
Testimonials
FAQ
Open Menu
Shop Herbalism Courses
View Herbal Workshops
The Herbarium
Blog
Goods Shop
About Us
FAQ
Get our Free Ebook!
5 Sep 2016
How To Make and Use Ginger Syrup
/
Posted ByColleen Codekas
/
Comments0
/
Tagsginger syrup
Ginger is a great herbal ally that should be a part of every home herbalist’s medicine cabinet. Not only does it have many health benefits, but it can be used in a variety of herbal preparations. Today, I want to show you how to easily make and use ginger syrup in your daily life, but first, let’s look at some health benefits of using ginger.
The Many Health Benefits of Ginger
Ginger has a few key actions that make it such an amazing and useful herb. Not only is it well-known for its anti-nausea and digestive properties, but it’s also an anti-inflammatory, antispasmodic, diaphoretic, a circulatory stimulant, and appetite stimulant (“Ginger,” n.d.).
Below, let’s look a bit deeper into some of the more well-known medicinal benefits of ginger.
Ginger As A Digestive Aid
Ginger eases digestion and helps to reduce gut inflammation. It can help with intestinal cramping, bloating and gas, and when consumed after a meal can help our body to more easily digest (Wood, 2007).
Ginger For Nausea
Ginger is known by many to be a powerful herb against nausea. Several studies have found that ginger is more effective than over-the-counter medications for nausea, motion sickness, and seasickness (Gladstar 2012). Studies have even shown it to be effective for morning sickness in pregnancy and for chemotherapy-induced nausea (Ozgoli et al., 2009; Ernst and Pittler, 2000).
Ginger As An Immune Booster
Ginger is a warming, decongesting herb that is beneficial for colds and flus, respiratory congestion, and sore throats (Gladstar 2012). It is anti-inflammatory and anti-viral, which makes it one of our top 5 kitchen herbs for cold season.
The Energetics And Flavor of Ginger
Ginger has a pleasant and warming flavor, so it’s oftentimes more palatable than other herbs. It’s a common ingredient in fall and wintertime sweet treats, such as gingerbread, gingersnaps, and molasses cookies. This is for good reason too, as it is a strong immune system booster and is beneficial for colds and flus, both of which are common during the winter season (see: Three Reasons to Eat Ginger During Wintertime).
Another great way to enjoy the flavor and benefits of ginger is to make it into a medicinal syrup. It is simple to make and keeps well for whenever you might need it. There is a recipe below for how to make and use ginger syrup.
How To Make Ginger Syrup
Ginger syrup is easy to make and surprisingly delicious. I recommend using fresh ginger, as it is usually quite easy to find in the produce section of most grocery stores, and it imparts a better flavor than dried ginger. If the ginger is organic it is not necessary to peel the outer skin, otherwise, it’s probably better if it is peeled.
Either honey or sugar can be used in this recipe. I’ve included instructions here for both. Honey has the added benefit of being anti-viral, anti-bacterial, and anti-fungal, so can make this syrup even more powerful. If raw honey is used, it is important to let the ginger concentrate cool completely before adding it, in order to preserve the honey’s benefits. The amount of sugar or honey you use will vary depending on how sweet you want the syrup to be. One cup will make a heavy syrup, and one-half cup a light syrup.
Ginger Syrup
Print
Ingredients
1 cup thinly sliced fresh ginger root
1 cinnamon stick (optional)
2 cups water
½ – 1 cup sugar or honey
Directions
Combine ginger, cinnamon stick (if using), water, and sugar (if you are using honey, it will be added later) in a small saucepan and bring to a boil.
Reduce heat to a simmer until the liquid has reduced by half, about 30-45 minutes.
Strain out the ginger. If you used sugar then your syrup is finished and you can skip to storage.
Let the syrup cool to room temperature, then stir in the honey (if using).
Store in a glass jar in the fridge. The syrup will keep for a month or more. Yields about 2 cups of finished ginger syrup.
How to Use Ginger Syrup
The best part about this ginger syrup is that it’s health promoting and great tasting, which often isn’t the case for other herbal preparations. Because of this, it can be used as a delicious food as well as a powerful medicine.
It’s delicious poured over vanilla ice cream or stirred into oatmeal or yogurt. It could also be used in place of traditional pancake syrup, used in marinades and sauces, or simply as a cocktail flavoring.
To use ginger syrup for its health benefits, you can take a spoonful if you’re not feeling well, if you’re nauseous, or if you’re suffering from sluggish digestion. It’s also wonderful stirred into a hot tea.
My favorite way to use ginger syrup is to stir it into sparkling mineral water. This makes a natural ginger ale drink that settles the stomach and tastes good at the same time. Healthy, healing, and delicious!
Learn more about the health benefits of ginger and various ways to prepare it in The Herbarium!
REFERENCES:
Ernst. E and Pittler, MH. (2000). Efficacy of ginger for nausea and vomiting: a systematic review of randomized clinical trials. Br J Anaesth, 84(3):367-71.
Ginger Monograph. (n.d.). Retrieved on 6/21/2016 from http://herbarium.herbalacademyofne.com/monographs/#ID=1012
Ozgoli, G., Goli, M., Simbar, M. (2009). Effects of ginger capsules on pregnancy, nausea, and vomiting. Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine, 15(3):243-246.
Wood, Matthew. (2007). Ginger. Retrieved August 2016 from http://www.woodherbs.com/Ginger.html
Share this:
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
Click to print (Opens in new window)
A Free Ebook Just For You!
Sign up for the Herbal Academy Newsletter, and we'll send you a free ebook.
Please add your email address below and click "Submit" to add yourself to our mailing list. Then check your email to find a welcome message from our Herbal Academy team with a special link to download our "Herbal Tea Throughout The Seasons" Ebook!
SUBMIT!
You have Successfully Subscribed!
How To Make Calendula Salve
How To Make A Medicinal Mushroom Double-Extraction Tincture
About Post Author
Colleen Codekas
Colleen Codekas runs the blog Grow Forage Cook Ferment, a website that teaches about all types of homesteading endeavors, particularly related to food, herbalism, wildcrafting, permaculture, health and modern homesteading.
Related Articles
Disclosure
The Herbal Academy supports trusted organizations with the use of affiliate links. Affiliate links are shared throughout the website and the Herbal Academy may receive compensation if you make a purchase with these links.
Information offered on Herbal Academy websites is for educational purposes only. The Herbal Academy makes neither medical claim, nor intends to diagnose or treat medical conditions. Links to external sites are for informational purposes only. The Herbal Academy neither endorses them nor is in any way responsible for their content. Readers must do their own research concerning the safety and usage of any herbs or supplements.
Subscribe to our Newsletter!
We'll send you a Free Ebook
SUBSCRIBE!
You have Successfully Subscribed!
Search
From the Blog
Botanical
DIY
Live Well
Eat Well
Our Favorites
SHOP COURSES + PRODUCTS
FREE Becoming an Herbalist Mini Course From: $0.00
Entrepreneur Herbal Course From: $99.50 / month
Introductory Herbal Course From: $49.50 / month
Materia Medica Journal $34.00 $29.99
Introductory Herbal Course Student Transfer $102.00–$301.00 $50.00–$249.00
Follow the Academy
View HerbalAcademyOfNewEngland’s profile on Facebook
View herbalacademyne’s profile on Twitter
View herbalacademy’s profile on Instagram
View herbalacademyne’s profile on Pinterest
View Herbalacademyofne’s profile on YouTube
Blog
About Us
Contact Us
Courses
Affiliate Program
Disclosure & Terms
Join our Newsletter
© COPYRIGHT THE HERBAL ACADEMY
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.