Experts say Wifi is Harmful; Tips You Need to be Safe
Home
About
The Team
Media
Channels Television
Punch Newspaper
Syndicated Radio Show
Other Initiatives
Radio & Podcast Site
CFA’s Startups Hangout
CFA’s Personal Blog
Nigeria Int’l Technology Exhibition & Conference
Training
Portfolio
Events
Books by CFA
Internship
Contact
Pitch
Startups
Tips
News
Interviews
Business
Community Development
Fund Raising
HR
Marketing
Partnership & Growth
Tax & Law
Training
Channels TV
The Punch
Startups
Tips
News
Interviews
Business
Community Development
Fund Raising
HR
Marketing
Partnership & Growth
Tax & Law
Training
Channels TV
The Punch
How To
Experts say Wifi is Harmful; Tips You Need to be Safe
16th September 2016
by Justice Okamgba
We are all living in a modern world where everything is just all about technology. A good percentage of people around the globe is connected. We receive wifi signals in our homes and offices once in a while, if not every day.
The truth is that connecting to a wifi signal is not as good as you think, it has some health implications. Most of us just prefer to use wifi instead of cable; you can never tell if these devices are safe for us to use. However, it is just good, and health wise for some of these smartphone makers to strictly adhere to certain rules and instructions. Yes, we need smartphones, but we need a total guarantee that using these devices by connecting to wifi shouldn’t have any side effect.
How Wifi Is Harmful To Your Health
I am sure you have not thought about this before, is wifi detrimental to the body system. If yes, how come? Let me explain and back it up with research carried out in the United Kingdom.
When your devices are connected online, it means your device either laptop or smartphone uses a router. Meanwhile, each time you are connected, your router emits electromagnetic waves which are known as the WLAN signals, these signals are harmful, studies have shown.
This information could sound incredible, and I urge you not to doubt these facts, these messages are negative. In a survey carried out in by a group of experts at the British Health Agency, they discovered how routers from our connected devices have a harmful effect on human.
Suggested Read: NITDA-Phinnx Initiative Positions to Boost Education System in Nigeria
Consequences Of Wifi Exposure according to British Health Agency findings
You will be prone to a frequent headache
Fatigue
You will observe some pain inside your ear
You start lacking concentration
Sleepless night
Interestingly, you have been armed with the information about routers and signals and how harmful they could be to our health. That doesn’t t mean you will not make use of the internet or get connected. I have some tips that will go a long way to help you avert these harmful effects.
Tips to be Safe
Replace your home wireless smartphones with cables
Turn off your wifi when not in use
Before going to bed make sure all your devices are disconnected
Avoid placing your router in the kitchen where it could be easily exposed to fire
Feel free to share
WhatsApp
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
More
Print
Pocket
Related
Digital Library, Academix.ng to Host Reports From BudgIT
The History of Samsung And Short Review of Trendiest Models
Partner with Us
Receive our Updates
Email
Name
Leave this field empty if you’re human:
Featured Posts
5 Ways Entrepreneurs Can Win...
Tech Trends: How To Download All Your...
DAAYTA 2019; Supporting Young...
Emerging Economies In Africa; Taking...
Tech Trends: Exploring Prospects...
Cote d’Ivoire to Host First-Ever...
Farmgate Africa Partners Livestock247...
Tech Trends: Digital Detox: IRL Glasses...
₦12 million Won At The 2019 Deji Alli...
Lessons From Africa On Building...
Home
About
Privacy
Disclosure
Get in touch
Internship
Copyright ©2013-2019 CFAmedia.ng designs. Some Rights Reserved!
Tweet
Pin
Share
+1