Knee Pain Squatting (Knee Pain After Squat) - Kho Health
Blog
What are you looking for? Press enter to confirm search term
Blog
AthleteBlogInjury Directoryknee
Knee Pain Squatting (Knee Pain After Squat)
Squatting is one of the most important athletic movements for an athlete. If you are experiencing knee pain squatting, it can be frustrating. Not only does it hurt to squat but it can start hurting your knee to accelerate or change direction as well. Knee pain after squat is a common injury, but there are solutions to make sure that this does not derail your season or career. When you experience knee pain squatting one of the best things you can do is address the issue as soon as possible. The knee pain after your squat will only get worse if you do nothing about it.
Causes of Knee Pain Squatting /Knee Pain After Squat
Foreign Bodies Causing Knee Pain Squatting
Bone burs
Cartilage pieces
When you have these foreign bodies, it often requires minor scope surgeries to help get rid of these foreign pieces that are in the way. When you have foreign bodies, there is not a lot you can do on your own to deal with the problem.
Patellar Tracking Causing Knee Pain After Squat
The kneecap and the patellar tendon have a natural path of movement when you flex your knee. When that natural path is interpreted, it will make knee flexion painful. The knee is the largest join in the body, and there are a lot of things that can go wrong with it. As an athlete when knee problems begin your first thought should be to see a healthcare provider.
Symptoms of Patellar Tracking Issues
Bruises
Trouble walking
Unstable knee
Trouble straightening your knee
Loose kneecap
Muscle Tightness in Quad Causing Knee Pain Squatting
When the quad is tight the fascia will begin to pull up on the knee. When you squat or put the quad in a stretched position, it puts more strain on the knee. The key here is to remember that the whole body is connected, so you want to get into the habit of stretching your whole body out weekly.
The quads may be the issue with the knees, but if the hips are tight, the quads will feed off of the hips. If the adductor is tight, the fascia blends with the quads muscles and may make it harder for the quads to relax. Get into the habit of making sure your whole body feels good.
Cures for Knee Pain Squatting / Knee Pain After Squat
Find The Right Healthcare Provider
One of the best things you can do is see a healthcare provider right away. It cannot just be any healthcare provider though; it needs to be one that understands your physical demands as an athlete. A typical medical doctor will not understand that you have the biggest game of your life in a week, but a good one will come up with a short-term solution when needed.
The right healthcare provider will save you time and stress in the long run. When you try and attack knee pain after squat on your own, you spend time stressed out about. You also have to deal with the fact that you may not figure out what to do and have to see a healthcare provider later in much worst condition.
VMO Rehab for Knee Pain After Squat
The VMO is the quad muscle that is closed to the knee and on the inside. A lot of quad work that athletes do does not hit that muscle specifically. When you do rehab work on the VMO, you are explicitly working to target that VMO. When you strengthen the VMO, you help provide more support for your knee during squats.
X Bands Walks for Knee Pain After Squat
When the glute med is not strong enough, the knee can be strained from being out of position. Most athletes efficiently target their glute max with bridges and squats but neglect the glute med.
Glute Circuit for Knee Pain After Squat
The glute circuit is a great routine to go through before doing any squatting. It will get your entire glute complex warm and ready for training. A big reason that the glutes have an issue in the first place is from the amount of time we spend sitting down as a society. Being in the season position shuts are glutes off. It is in your best interest to wake them to avoid knee pain squatting.
Daily Stretching and Foam Rolling for Knee Pain After Squat
Not all of the stretches you need to do will be related to your knee pain squatting. When you experience some knee pain after squat, one of the best things you can do on your own is stretch out your quads and surrounding areas.
Areas You Want to Stretch to Relieve Knee Pain Squatting
Quads
Hips
Psoas
Groin
Hamstrings
Calves
Tibialis Anterior
Taping to Help Knee Pain After Squat
Whether you use athletic tape or Kinesio tape, athletic injury tape can be used to tape the knee so that it sits in a better position. Taping is a short-term fix for Knee Pain Squatting. It is essential that you find a health care provider to do this tape job for you. If the knee is tape into the wrong position, you can increase your risk of injury.
What If You Can’t Rehab Your Knee Pain From Squats?
Sometimes you can ice all you want, but a muscle is in pain because another area is not working or because it is protecting you. With the hips, for example, your back may be hurting because your psoas is doing too much work and it is also tight. The psoas may be doing too much work because your other hip flexors are not activating correctly. The chain reaction could keep going.
Sometimes you need the help of a sports medicine provider. Sports medicine providers are used to working with athletes that need to get results quickly, to get back on the field. If you are not an athlete, I am sure that you still want quick results.
There are many different options you can go with when looking for a provider. You could get a chiropractor, massage therapist, physical therapist or many other options. The key is finding someone you trust and that you are excited to work with.
How to Find The Best Healthcare Providers for Knee Pain After Squats
Kho Health is the best place to find the health care providers you need for any injuries. It does not matter where you are hurting; a Kho Health provider will be able to get you healthy again. Kho allows you to find the best local providers and compare them quickly using the Kho Number.
If you have no idea what you need, but you know you need something, Kho Health is an injury guide, and you will get helped through the process. We make it easier for you to find the information and the person you are looking for.
Skills to Look for in a Healthcare Provider for Knee Pain Squatting:
Active Release Technique
Graston Technique
Acupuncture
Massage
Fascial Stretch Therapy
Corrective exercises
Dry Needling
Sports Background
Functional Movement Screen
And more
Tags: knee
Share on social media
Athletic Injury Tape and How You Can Use It
Shin Splints Running And What To Do About Them
Related Posts
Athlete
Podcast Episode # 5 (Self-Talk)
On today’s episode Justin and Ian talk about self-talk, why the conversations you have with...
By Kho Health
Athlete
Sternocleidomastoid Stretch – What You Need To Know!
There is nothing like waking up with a tight neck. The sternocleidomastoid stretch will help...
By Kho Health
Athlete
Shin Splints From Basketball and What To Do About Them
Basketball players can get some of the worst shin splints of all sports because of...
By Kho Health
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
© 2017 KHO LABS. All Rights Reserved.