KISST Organics Health & Wellness Blog - Natural Cancer Treatment
Search Our Store
Categories
Health Blog
Services
About Us
Contact Us
Legal
Store Policies
Terms of Use
Health Blog
Magnesium Deficiency
KISST Organics by Earl Silo on Destination Small Town
Weight Loss, Tea
Weight Loss Juice
Weight Loss Smoothies
Do NOT Microwave Your Food
Low Carb Snacks
KISST AD
Vitamin D and The Sun!
Make The Decision To Quit Smoking Today!
Cancer Cells Cannot Live in an Alkaline System
Need Additional Help?
Holistic Health & Wellness
KISST Organics Offers a Variety of Services To Promote Better Health
Bad Food Causes Illness & Disease
Parasites From Eating Pork
Fed Up
Truth
Assume all non-organic corn, soy, cottonseed, and canola ingredients are GMO -
10 Signs Of Gluten Intollerance
*** 146 REASONS WHY SUGAR DESTROYS YOUR HEALTH ***
Truvia, PureVia & Stevia
“MIRACLE HEALTH FOOD” LINKED TO BRAIN DAMAGE AND BREAST CANCER
The Truth About What Is Making You Sick
Prescriptions & Phareceuticals
Prescription Drug Costs
Prescriptions and Pharmeceuticals
Good Food Is Good Medicine
Benefits of a Vegan Diet
Diabetes & a Vegan Diet
Ten Ways To Use Apple Cider Vinegar In DIY Remedies
Drink More Water!
Dandelions Are Not Weeds!
Why We Should All Be Eating More Leafy Greens
Alkaline Foods = Balanced Ph
Top 10 herbs and spices for strengthening your immune system
KISST Organics Pure Raw Honey
Feeding Your Mitachondria
Health Begins With Your Next Meal
The Original Fast Food
Aloe Vera
Nuts & Seeds
Benefits of Pure, RAW Honey
Eight Foods For Healthy Digestion
Humor…Not Feeling Well?
Fruit Rx Veggie Instead of Prescriptions
Coconut Oil
Food Cravings
An Easy Drink To Better Health
At-Home Flu Shots
Nut Eaters Have Lower Cancer, Heart Disease Risk
Food Is Medicine
Eat Healthy!
Diet/Nutrition
Diet and Digestion
Powerful, Healthy Eating Habits
You Are What You Eat!
How to Break a Fast and the Importance of Breaking a Fast Properly
The Principles of Fasting
Vitamin C
Detecting Nutritional Deficiencies
Minerals For Stress & Adrenal Fatique
Illness & Disease
Hypothyroidism (Low Thyroid)
Really? Could It Be Gout?
Reduce Inflammation
Disease Begins In The Colon
Depression/Bipolar Disorder
Is There A Cure For Arthritis?
There Is A Cure For Eczema!
Breast Cancer
The Cause of All Disease
Natural Cancer Treatment
Destroy Cancer Cells
The Truth About Candida & Cancer
Diabetic Neuropathy: Cause, Risk Factors, Types and Symptoms
Gut Bacteria May Cause Rheumatoid Arthritis
Heart Disease?
Health & Wellness: MIND
Managing Your Stress
Crying Cleanses The Soul!
Change Your Thinking
13 Things Mentally Strong People Don’t Do
Your Mind
Health & Wellness: Body
7 Reasons You Need To Try Castile Soap
Should You Do A Cleanse?
Detox Pathways
The Importance of Proper pH Levels in the Body
PH Balance-It's Critical!
Oxygenate Your Body For Optimal Health
Good Digestion, Why is it important?
Iridology (Reading Eyes)
Natural Methods For Healing Your Lungs
A Fever Is A Good Thing!
Is Sitting Killing You? Nine Things You Can Do To Change It
6 Natural Alternatives to Ibuprofen
Back In The Swing Of Things
Exercise
Anatomy of Walking
Benefits of Walking
Basic Zumba Steps
Zumba For Begiiners
Work Your Body!
Metabolic Acidosis
What Science Says About Getting A Flu Shot
Health Benefits Of Pure Raw Honey
Coloidal Silver
Weight Management
Vitamin D Can Help or Hinder Your Weight Management
10 Reasons You Are Not Losing Weight
Skincare/Cosmetics
Sunscreen Warning For Women!
Onions help us age gracefully
Turmeric & Your Skin
Are Oils Good For Your Skin?
Save Your Skin!
Does Your Skin Need A Detox?
I have pimples all over my face, what can I do to get rid of them?
Five ways to make your skin look younger naturally
I have HUGE pores and I am quite prone to acne and the odd occasional HUGE spot. How can I minimize my pores?
Do Your Products Help with Acne?
Skin Problems? Dry, Dull or Damaged Hair? Weak & Brittle Fingernails?
Your skin is a reflection of your internal and external health and cleanliness
How Safe are Your Personal Care Products? Do you know what's in them?
How Often Should You Cleanse Your Skin?
Why Should You Use a Facial Mask?
The 10+ worst chemicals in cosmetics and personal care products
Health & Wellness: SPIRIT
We All Need A Reminder!
Answers
Jesus
Create In Me A New Heart!
Forgiveness
Encouragement
Positive Attitude
Rules For Healthy Living
Blessings
Resolutions
The Heart Is A Garden
Live Humbly
Greatness In Giving
Angry People
Take Courage
Wishing You Much Success!
Choose To Live!
Today
Appreciate Life Today and Everyday!
Be Creative!
Everything Happens For A Reason
Be Good To You!
You Have Purpose!
Live A Positive Life
Recipes
RAW Chocolate Skinny Shake
Blueberry Chia Seed Pudding
No-Bake Chocolate Peanut Butter Cookies
Raw Mayonaise
Raw Brownies
Raw Tortillas
Veggie Wraps
More Smoothie Recipes
Nutritious & Delicious Smoothie Recipes!
At-Home "Flu Shots"
Lymph System Cleanse
3 Day Juice Detox Cleanse
Raw Vegan Creamy “Pistachio Ice Cream” Kale Smoothie
Healthy Ice Cream!
Liver Cleanse
Baking soda has been used throughout history for a variety of purposes such as removing odors from the fridge, freshening up carpets and whitening teeth. But what few people know is that is it also a successful alternative cure for cancer. The treatment primarily benefits cancers of the throat, colon, intestines and rectal area, and when compared with the exorbitant costs of chemo and radiation, the baking soda cure weighs in at around $3. In addition, it is humane and non-invasive, something one cannot say for traditional cancer treatments. With baking soda, the worst that can happen is nothing, no change. This is a far cry from the decimation caused by cancer drugs and surgeries, which damage the immune system and leave the body in a severe state of shock.
"I was healthy and happy that I didn`t have to go through the torture that other people were being subjected to by doing the chemo or radiation. I never lost my hair or anything," remarks 60-year-old cancer survivor Sondra Braun.
Cancer cells thrive in a low-oxygen environment. The body cannot retain oxygen cells if the blood pH is highly acidic, and this is the standard condition of those with tumors who eat a diet of refined sugars, flours, caffeine and other acidic foods. Baking soda, or Sodium Bicarbonate, is a substance that neutralizes acids. One teaspoon a week will reverse an acidic blood pH, as will switching to a diet high in alkaline-producing foods.
Because cancer cells are so hungry for sugars, when the baking soda is mixed with Pure, Raw Honey or Maple Syrup, the mixture will go straight to the site of the tumor, like a Trojan Horse, where the bicarbonate will quickly work as a weapon against disease.
A good recipe for this is to mix 2 teaspoons of baking soda with 1 heaping teaspoon of raw honey or maple syrup (I also add 2 teaspoons of organic apple cider vinegar) and about 8 to 10 ounces of hot water. Drink this concoction twice each day, preferably morning and night. Avoid eating at least one hour before and after drinking this tea as it does lower the acid in the stomach and will slow digestion. This formula can be taken every day, twice a day for up to 3 months at which time you should take break to see how your body is holding it's ph.
"I found the article about Dr. Simoncini in Italy who injected baking soda directly into the tumors to kill them." Braun continues. "For some reason this idea struck a chord with me. Three weeks after taking a baking soda and maple syrup mixture, my tumor began to shrink and become softer. This was documented by my oncologist and the surgeon by physical exams and also measurements by ultrasound. The tumor shrank down to 1.7 centimeters then only to 1.4 centimeters 2 months later after the ultrasound. It stopped shrinking because it had died. "
Italian physician and researcher Dr. Tullio Simoncini determined that high levels of Candida were present in those individuals with cancerous tumors. His conclusions led him to declare cancer a type of fungus. The body does not quickly develop immunity to baking soda as an anti-fungal, so he was able to apply it directly to tumors and neutralize their acidity. He also found it is important to replenish the body with good bacteria, or probiotics, and to avoid exposure to chemicals and environmental toxins as much as possible.
North Carolina farmer Ian Roadhouse also experienced the healing power of this baking soda mixture when healer Jim Kelmun put him on the protocol.
"Those other doctors told me that I was a goner and had less then six months to live," says Roadhouse. "But the doc put me on his mixture and in a couple of months the cancer was gone. It did not even show up on the x-rays."
For maximum results, combine the baking soda treatment with other alternative cancer-healing protocols as recommended by your holistic health practitioner.
Source:
Sircus, Mark Allan Ac. OMD. Sodium Bicarbonate - Rich Man`s Poor Man`s Cancer Treatment. IMVA Publications, 2008
adapted from Natural News
Add Comment
Follow This Site
Request Login
Create a Website with Easysite