Benefits Of Lemon Water Diet For Health And Weight Loss
Menu
Nutrition
Healthy Foods And Recipes
Nutrients And Supplements
Unhealthy Foods
Weight Loss
Diet Plans
Pills And Supplements
Procedures And Medication
Weight Loss Basics
Weight Loss Foods
Mental Health
Addictions
Disorders
Psychology
Self-Improvement
Remedies
Conditions
Home Remedies
OTC Remedies
Skin Care
Acne
Basic Skin Care
Conditions And Remedies
Skin Rejuvenation
Hair Care
Basic Hair Care
Hair Growth
Hair Loss
Hair Treatments
Health News
Home
>
Nutrition
>
Healthy Foods And Recipes
>
Benefits Of Lemon Water Diet For Health And Weight Loss
Benefits Of Lemon Water Diet For Health And Weight Loss
Kristina Robert, M.Sc, RD Healthy Foods And Recipes, Nutrition
The lemon, scientifically known as citrus lemon, is the most commonly used citrus fruit in the world.
This fruit appears to be small in size but has more comprehensive health benefits than all other citrus fruits.
Lemon trees are originally native to the regions of Himalayan foothills in India, and it spread to all over the world in the course of time.[1]
Today there are large varieties of lemon commercially grown in different parts of the world. Two most common verities of lemon are Lisbon and Eureka, and the other popular sweeter lemon variety is the Meyer Lemons.
Lemon juice mixed with water/ soda with a little of added sugar or salt is the most common way to enjoy a lemon.
Pure lemon juice extract is used to add a sour flavor to foods, or small lemon slices are used as an ingredient in various food preparations like salads and verities of dishes.
Lemon Nutrition Facts
Lemon is high nutrition fruit and a rich source of Vitamin C and soluble fiber. This fruit also has few essential minerals, plant compounds, and essential oils.
Lemons are packed with nutrients, including vitamin C, B-complex vitamins, calcium, iron, magnesium, potassium, and fiber[2]
It is low in calories, only 29 calories per 100 grams.
Fat and protein content in lemon is very little. About 10% of its weight is carbohydrates, and nearly 88% of the total weight of this fruit is water.
The lemon also contains beneficial plant compounds like citric acid, Hesperidin, Diosmin, Eriocitrin, and D-Limonene, which have great importance in maintaining good health.[3]
The table below contains information on all the nutrients in lemons.
Lemon Is Rich In Vitamin C
One of the best and convenient sources of Vitamin C is the humble lemon.
A small lemon contains about 30-40 mg of vitamin C.[4,5]
The other best source of Vitamin C is the orange that contains about 80-90 mg of this vitamin per orange.
I am sure you are well aware of the several health benefits associated with Vitamin C, and the lack of this essential vitamin can cause cardiovascular diseases, poor eyesight, unhealthy skin, and weak immune system.[6,7]
Vitamin C is also a good antioxidant that fights against the free radicals that can damage the body cells.[8,9]
Major Health Benefits Of Lemon Fruit And Juice
Before we go into the detailed reviews on the health benefits of lemon water diet, we shall just briefly discuss some of the important general health benefits of lemon.
This tiny yellow fruit provides an enormous benefit to the health by lowering the risk of heart disease, cancer, and kidney stones.[10,11,13]
Lack of Vitamin C increases the chances of cardiovascular diseases and stroke, especially in obese persons.
The fibrous content and antioxidant capabilities of Vitamin C in this fruit are helpful in decreasing the bad cholesterol (LDL) in the blood.
The citric acid in lemon increases the urine volume, and this helps in decreasing the chances of kidney stone formation.
The iron mineral present in the lemon is good for preventing the occurrence of anemia, a disease caused by iron deficiency. Vitamin C and citric acid from the lemon also improves the ability of the body to absorb iron from the food we eat.
The plant compounds like hesperidin and d-limonene present in the lemon are good for preventing the occurrence of different types of cancer, especially breast cancer.
Lemon water drinks are very commonly used as a refreshment drink by most of us.
It will be surprising for some of you to know the great health benefits of lemon juice that are not known to many.
This humble drink consists of freshly squeezed juice from ½ or 1 full lemon that is stirred into a cup of water or soda with little added sugar or salt for better taste.
Do not mistake the lemon water/juice with Lemonade, which is another form of lemon flavored drink mixed with different kinds of sweeteners.
Lemon water contains all the vitamins and plant compounds found the whole lemon; however, most of the fiber, oil, and carbs content will disappear with the flesh and skin of the lemon.
Here let me bring home to you 11 major health benefits of lemon water in the ongoing discussion below.
1. Promotes Healthy Digestion
Lemon water, which contains ‘citrus flavonoids’, improves the food digestion process in the body by removing the toxins in the digestive tract.[14]
This juice also can relieve the symptoms of indigestion such as bloating, burping and heartburn.[15]
With the enhancement of healthy digestion better assimilation of nutrients and vitamins take place and decrease in insulin resistance and improved metabolism of fats also comes into effect.
The citrus flavonoids in lemon water also help and support the hydrochloric acid in the stomach in faster and efficient breaking down of food.
2. Helps In Detoxifying The Body
The plant compounds and Vitamin C present in the lemon water is good for enhancing the enzyme and stimulates the liver that results in flushing the toxins out of the body.
The citrate compound in lemon also increases the volume of urine which allows the flushing out more toxic waste present in the body.
3. Reduces Inflammation Of The Joints
Regular intake of lemon water is beneficial for decreasing the acidity in your body.
It is also good for removing the uric acid in the joints of the body, and this prevents the inflammation that commonly affects the joints.[16]
4. Good For Boosting The Immune System
The lemon water that contains a lot of Vitamin C is good for boosting the immune system in the body.
The weak immune system makes a person gets affected by common diseases very easily and in such cases, the physicians usually recommend the increased intake of Vitamin C rich foods and pills for the better health of such people.
Also, the potassium present in the lemon stimulates brain and nerve function and helps to control blood pressure.
5. Lemon Is Good For The Skin
The vitamins and plant compounds found in the lemon is very good for the growth and protection of skin tissues.
The powerful antioxidants present in the lemon helps in reducing the blemishes and wrinkles on the skin and make it appear healthy and glowing.
Both drinking lemon water and application of lemon juice on the skin is good for the rejuvenating the skin.
The antioxidants present in the lemon slow down the aging process of the skin.
The antioxidants derived from the plant sources like lemon can reverse the breakdown of collagen fibers in the skin.[17]
Lemon helps in improved collagen formation in the skin which would give the skin a healthy structure, strength and protect it from adverse effects of toxins within and outside.[18]
6. Lemon Juice/Water Is Good For Weight Loss
Lemon juice is found to moderate benefit in helping a person to lose weight fast, especially for losing the belly fat.
There are NO established scientific researches or studies available to prove or refute the claims on the weight loss benefits of lemon.[19]
The plant compounds such as pectin and polyphenols found in the lemon have the ability to suppress the appetite and increase fat metabolism leading to a gradual reduction in body weight.[20]
These two substances are also helpful in reducing the LDL Cholesterol (bad cholesterol) and increase HDL cholesterol (good cholesterol) in the blood.[21]
The pectin fiber contained in lemon improves healthy digestion and reduces hunger cravings.
The citrus flavonoids present in lemon also possess the ability to suppress the appetite.
It is highly advisable to have a glass of lemon water in the morning in an empty stomach as it is found to be more effective in the detoxifying digestive tract and helps in healthy bowel movement.
Many people also have reported that a glass lemon water in the morning has helped them to get rid of belly fat.
7. Lemon Is Good For Refreshing Mouth And Breath
The citric acid has the ability to destroy the oral bacteria that cause tooth decay and produces a foul smell.
It is good to rinse the mouth with lemon water to refresh the mouth.
However, the citric acids can loosen and erode the tooth enamel, so it is important not to brush the teeth immediately after rinsing the mouth with lemon water. Also, make sure to wash the mouth with clean water a few minutes after rinsing to remove totally the citric acid from teeth.
8. Helps In Boosting Energy
The intake of lemon juice helps in boosting energy as it cleanses the digestive tract and quickly improves the metabolism.[22]
Most people who use lemon water regularly say that it not only refreshes body but also reduces anxiety and depressions.
Even the scent of the lemon is refreshing and often helps to relieve the feeling of nausea and headache.
9. Lemon Juice Contains Potassium
Potassium is rarely present in most vegetables and fruits. Lemon is a good source of potassium that is essential for the good health of the heart and in the maintenance of healthy blood pressure.
Potassium also improves the healthy functioning of the brain and nerves.
10. Prevents And Heals The Viral Infections
A cup of warm lemon water is an excellent natural remedy for weakening the effects of common viral infection. This also helps in getting relief from sore throats and the common cold.
Having a cup of lemon water daily will help in boosting your immune system, and it will protect your body from common viral infections.
11. Lemon Water Alkalize The Body
A healthy blood pH without cancer has ‘acid plus alkaline’ balance almost equal.
The pH range is from 0 to 14, with 7.0 being neutral. Anything below 7.0 is considered acidic and if pH above 7.0 is alkaline.[23]
The ideal range of pH level should fall between is 4.6-8.0.[24]
Certain acids that at times can become a cause of negative side effects such as acidosis, upset stomach, and acid reflux.
You could use a pH strip to identify the pH level of your body and decide whether your body needs to be alkalized or the other way around.
The lemon water can alkalize the body moderately.
The lemons are low on sugar content and contain a good bit of alkaline mineral.
Regular intake of lemon juice helps in alkalizing the body more than the citric acid it adds to the body.
Lemon water can help in balancing healthy pH level in the blood that is essential for bone health, decreasing chances of hypertension and stroke, improved memory and improved cardiovascular health.[25]
How Much Lemon Juice To Drink?
There is NO scientific theory to tell us how much lemon juice to be taken at a time.
However, from the point view of the pH level balance in the blood, a person weighs less than 150 pounds should squeeze half a lemon’s worth of juice into a glass of water for drinking; person above 150 pounds weight could use a whole lemon.
It is healthy to have lemon water drink one or two times a day.
Many lemon juice drinkers from their experience recommend the practice of having a glass of lemon water as a replacement for the morning coffee. This seems to work for better weight loss results and gives a good boost of energy at the beginning of the day.
Side Effects
Lemon is very commonly used fruit and majority of the people will not experience any side effects with it.
However, in a rare case, it might cause allergic reactions in some individuals especially in people with dermatitis.[26,27]
The citric acid content in the lemon can lead to the gradual erosion of tooth enamel. It is good to rinse mouth with water immediately after drinking lemon juice or eating a lemon.[28]
People suffering from high acidity issues or suffering from stomach ulcer could better avoid the lemon as the citric acid in this fruit can aggravate the problem.
The Bottom Line
Lemon and its juices are very refreshing fruit and drink. Many people, especially the woman, love to eat small slices of lemon. As a beverage, it has a distinctive flavor and mood elevating effect on the individual.
This fruit is naturally endowed with a good amount of Vitamin C, soluble fiber, and many beneficial plant compounds.
There is no doubt that lemon is healthy food and can add wonderful flavor and aroma to the food.
However, the lemonade that contains the lemon juice as the prime ingredient is not so healthy because of the different sweeteners added into it.
A cup of lemon juice in the morning, about 30 minutes before the breakfast a can give maximum health benefits and may help in reducing the belly fat.
Sharing is caring!
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
4 Comments
Amanda Wetzel February 7, 2016
Lemon water is undauntedly the best natural drink. It is really a great substitute for the unhealthy soft drinks. Both my sons also love to have lemon water instead of cola as I have taught them that way.
Nancy DeLong December 9, 2015
I regularly drink warm lemon water in the morning since a couple of years. It is one of the first things I do after brushing my teeth. It is extremely helpful for colon cleansing and detoxifying the body. I feel fresh and energized after I have the lemon water. It is helping me in some way to maintain a flat belly (of course, I do few workouts as well).
Vicky December 4, 2015
Try out this, if you like this suggestion. Take one 1 tablespoon ‘lemon juice concentrate’ (I use Santa Cruz) and stir it in a glass of lukewarm water; then add two teaspoons of organic honey and one teaspoon of cinnamon (ground powder) in the lemon water; and drink it every morning. Drink it in empty stomach in the morning. If you keep repeating it every morning you will see your belly fat disappearing slowly. It will also improve the metabolism.
Note: Diabetes patients can use about 1/4 teaspoon of Himalayan Salt instead of honey.
J. Gordon November 16, 2015
Lemon is truly a “super-fruit”. Besides the many health benefits you have brought forth, it has great benefits to skin rejuvenation. Daily application of lemon juice on facial skin and neck actually helps to brighten the skin and tightens the loose skin.
Recent Posts
Does Coconut Oil For Weight Loss Work?
Does Hypnosis For Weight Loss Work?
Does Pure Green Coffee Bean Extract Work? Must Read Reviews
How To Lose 30 Pounds In A Month? | 30 Days Diet Plan
Does Acupuncture For Weight Loss Really Work?
Content
Nutrition
Healthy Foods And Recipes
Nutrients And Supplements
Unhealthy Foods
Weight Loss
Diet Plans
Pills And Supplements
Procedures And Medication
Weight Loss Basics
Weight Loss Foods
Mental Health
Addictions
Disorders
Psychology
Self-Improvement
Remedies
Conditions
Home Remedies
OTC Remedies
Skin Care
Acne
Basic Skin Care
Conditions And Remedies
Skin Rejuvenation
Hair Care
Basic Hair Care
Hair Growth
Hair Loss
Hair Treatments
Health News
Inside AHM
About
Archive
Contact
Disclaimer
Legal Policy
Privacy Policy
Popular Posts
Borderline Personality Disorder Criteria For Diagnosis – DSM-5
Magnesium and Weight Loss, Dosage, Dietary Source, Side Effects
Does Magnesium for Constipation Work? (Magnesium Citrate)
How Long Does Oxycodone Stay In Your System, Urine, Blood
Authority Health Magazine – A Research Journal Of Better Health Copyright © 2019. All rights reserved.
The content on this website is intended for informational and educational purposes only. Consult a doctor for medical advice, treatment or diagnosis. Natural remedies shared on this website do not have enough scientific backing to prove their efficacy in healing or preventing diseases.