Ginger Does Not Improve Chemotherapy-associated Nausea - Cancer Therapy Advisor
Skip to navigation Skip to main content
Menu
Close
Search...
Submit
Breast
CML
Gastrointestinal
GYN
Lung
Multiple Myeloma
Prostate
RCC
Skin
More
Open Submenu
More
Back
Bladder Cancer
Bone Cancer
Brain Cancer
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
Endocrine Cancer
General Oncology
Head and Neck Cancer
Hematologic Cancers
Lymphoma
Pancreatic Cancer
Pediatric Cancer
Practice Management
Sarcoma
Supportive Care
Urologic Cancers
Toggle Search Menu
Headlines
Regimens
Drugs
Conferences
Clinical Resources
Tools
Multimedia
CME
Jobs
Login
Register
Get the App
Submit Cases
Home » Cancer Topics » Supportive Care » Side Effect Management
Publish Date June 29, 2017
Ginger Does Not Improve Chemotherapy-associated Nausea
Jonathan Goodman, MPhil
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on LinkedIn
Share on Reddit
Print
Share by Email
Ginger (Zingiber officinale) does not improve chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting among patients with cancer.
Ginger (Zingiber officinale) does not improve chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) among patients with cancer, according to a study published in the Annals of Oncology.1
CINV is a side effect noted in more than 90% of patients who do not receive a prophylactic antiemetic. Ginger is linked to nausea prevention, though there are limited data about the efficacy of ginger in reducing CINV.
For this randomized study (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01887314), researchers evaluated whether ginger improved CINV over placebo among 251 patients receiving cisplatin. Ginger’s efficacy vs placebo was evaluated using “daily visual-analogue scale and Functional Living Index Emesis (FLIE) questionnaires.”
All patients were scheduled to undergo at least 2 cycles of high-dose cisplatin. Most patients had lung (49%) or head and neck cancer (35%); 121 were assigned to ginger and 123 to placebo.
Thirty-nine percent of patients withdrew before study close, though similar numbers of patients withdrew from each group.
The researchers noted no difference in nausea scores between the 2 groups at baseline or on the first day of the second chemotherapy cycle. Delayed, intercycle, and anticipatory nausea were not improved in the ginger group over placebo.
There was, however, some improvement in CINV among female patients and patients with head and neck cancer.
Patients were similarly compliant and the rate of adverse events was similar between the 2 groups.
RELATED: Chemotherapy- and Radiation-Induced Nausea and Vomiting: An Overview
The authors concluded that despite the small sample size, this study showed that “ginger did not reduce the impact of nausea due to cisplatin throughout the 2 cycles of chemotherapy, without any benefit in delayed, anticipatory and intercycle assessments.”
Reference
Bossi P, Cortinovis D, Fatigoni S, et al. A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study of a ginger extract in the management of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) in patients receiving high dose cisplatin. Ann Oncol. 2017 Jun 28. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdx315 [Epub ahead of print]
Topics:
General Oncology Side-Effect Management
Jonathan Goodman, MPhil
Jonathan was the editor of Cancer Therapy Advisor from 2016 to 2018. His work has appeared in Aeon Magazine, The Week, and The Guardian, among other publications.
Related Articles
Chemotherapy- and Radiation-Induced Nausea and Vomiting: An Overview
Patients With Ovarian Cancer Rank Nausea as Most Concerning Chemotherapy Side Effect
Recommended For You
Popular
Emailed
Recent
Loading...
Loading...
Loading...
Want to read more?
Please login or register first to view this content.
Login
Register
Open
Next post in Side Effect Management
Close
Korean Red Ginseng Improves Cancer-related Fatigue in Colorectal Cancer
Back to Top
CancerTherapyAdvisor.com is a free online resource that offers oncology healthcare professionals a comprehensive knowledge base of practical oncology information and clinical tools to assist in making the right decisions for their patients.
Our mission is to provide practice-focused clinical and drug information that is reflective of current and emerging principles of care that will help to inform oncology decisions.
Resources
Submissions
Advisory Board
Useful Links
User Center
About Us
Advertise
Contact Us
Staff
Other Haymarket Medical Websites
Clinical Advisor
Clinical Pain Advisor
Dermatology Advisor
Endocrinology Advisor
Hematology Advisor
Infectious Disease Advisor
McKnight’s Long Term Care News
McKnight’s Senior Living
Medical Bag
MPR
myCME
Neurology Advisor
Oncology Nurse Advisor
Psychiatry Advisor
Pulmonology Advisor
Renal and Urology News
Rheumatology Advisor
The Cardiology Advisor
Copyright © 2019 Haymarket Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in any form without prior authorization.
Your use of this website constitutes acceptance of Haymarket Media’s Privacy Policy and Terms & Conditions.
Close more info about Ginger Does Not Improve Chemotherapy-associated Nausea
Loading...
Close more info about Ginger Does Not Improve Chemotherapy-associated Nausea
Loading...