The Surprising Reason Why Every Home Should Have At Least One Himalayan Salt Lamp (Plus How Many to Put In Each Room for Maximum Benefits)
Health
Food & Drinks
Herbs
Home/Garden
DIY
Beauty
Extra
Search
Wise Mind Healthy Body
Health
Food & Drinks
Herbs
Home/Garden
DIY
Beauty
Extra
Avoid breakfast?
-hard-boiled eggs-
What you eat for breakfast has a HUGE impact on how much fat you burn the rest of the day. Because certain foods can either turn ON or OFF your body’s most powerful fat burning hormones. So, which foods should you eat and which should you avoid to burn belly fat all day? Find out here:
==> Best foods to eat for breakfast to burn belly fat all day (and through the night)
Health
The Surprising Reason Why Every Home Should Have At Least One Himalayan Salt Lamp (Plus How Many to Put In Each Room for Maximum Benefits)
By
Nick Meyer
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Pinterest
WhatsApp
This article was originally published by our friends at AltHealthWorks
It seems as if you can’t visit a health food store, raw organic cafe, yoga studio or other holistic health spot without seeing a Himalayan Salt Lamp, and their signature warming glow. But what you may not realize is that the lamps provide many incredible benefits even beyond their good looks.
These benefits include cleaner air, the ability to mitigate the effects of damaging EMF’s from computers and Wi-Fi, and a widely-reported calming effect, just to name a few.
I’ve experienced the benefits of these incredible mood boosters first-hand, and I actually have six of them in my home: one for each room and then some. They’ve given my living space a certain ambiance that, combined with house plants, provides a more “soft” and natural overall feel.
Himalayan Salt Lamps can be purchased in health food stores or online at HimalayanSaltShop.com (check out their new sales!).
Negative Ions in Salt Lamps and Their Powerful Benefits
Himalayan Salt Lamps are particularly effective because of their ability to produce negative ions, and here’s a simple example of why this is so significant for your health.
Close your eyes and visualize the last time you were outdoors during a coming thunderstorm.
Dark clouds loom overhead, an ominous wind rustles your hair, and a palpable sense of tension can be felt in the air. Do you remember that feeling?
The tension actually stems from a huge build-up of positive ions in the air prior to the storm.
Now, close your eyes and think back to how you feel after the storm and the rain have passed.
The tension is gone, you can begin to breathe freely again, and an overall sense of calm enters your world, along with a pleasant smell. This phenomenon is the result of the benefits of negative ions, which are also provided by Himalayan Salt Lamps.
The benefits of negative ions are well known and accepted in the medical community, and are even acknowledged by the “mainstream” health site WebMD for their amazing healing properties.
You can’t see, taste, or touch negative ions — but you certainly can feel them.
According to WebMD: “Once they reach our bloodstream, negative ions are believed to produce biochemical reactions that increase levels of the mood chemical serotonin, helping to alleviate depression, relieve stress, and boost our daytime energy.”
Negative ion-rich environments include natural settings such as waterfalls, hot springs, beaches, mountains and even caves that contain large amounts of natural Himalayan or other salt, minerals, and crystals.
The ions are created in nature when air molecules are broken apart due to the powers of sunlight, air, water and more. Such natural areas are stacked with untold thousands of negative ions while our homes and offices often contain very little — some actually test out at zero, believe it or not.
According to author Pierce J. Howard, PhD, negative ions increase altertness and oxygen to the brain, resulting in more mental energy (editor’s note: and less stress).
Himalayan Salt Lamps give you the ability to punctuate your workspace with negative ions that will keep you feeling excellent all day long if placed in the right spots.
Salt Lamp Benefits: Cleaner Air, Sinuses and Much More
I have personally enjoyed the benefits of Himalayan Salt Lamps for many years now, and place them all over the house: One near the computer, one in the kitchen, one in the bedroom that even contains an essential oil air dispersal system, and one in a quiet corner where I like to relax, read or meditate.
The Benefits of Salt Lamps include:
Balancing and Mitigating EMF Fields
Increased Mental Alertness
Increased Oxygen to the Brain
Boosted Serotonin Levels (Good Mood Brain Chemical)
Protection Against Air Irritants for (Less Coughs and Sneezes)
Prevention of Allergy Symptoms
Protection Against Free Radicals
Help for ADHD Suffers
An Overall More Refreshing Feeling
Personally, I’ve felt many of these benefits from own salt lamps and notice the effects immediately as long as I’m close enough to them.
Reviews everywhere have been positive: for example, 872 people have reviewed one type that I own on Amazon.com for an average review score of 4 ½ stars out of 5.
Here are some testimonials from Amazon.com:
“I find this product exceeds my expectations…Not only is it an attractive piece of home décor, it is also useful in purifying the air within my room. It leaves the smelling clean & fresh. Thank you.”
-Lewis Rice, customer
And another:
“I think this is an awesome lamp no matter what, I believe it does help, once again was sick with pneumonia and decided to try natural stuff, bought this along with the Himalayan salt inhaler. Would recommend…”
-Teresita Rice, customer
How Many Salt Lamps Should You Place Per Room?
Many people have wondered about the range of each salt lamp’s healing potential. In order to ensure that you receive the best results in your placement with Himalayan Salt Lamps, consider the following stats:
Salt lamp sizes chart.
Where to Buy Himalayan Salt Lamps Online
Click the picture above to check out the salt lamps.
Check out a wide selection of Himalayan Salt Lamps by clicking on this link.
Thanks for reading and I hope you enjoy them as much as I do!2
11 pounds in 22 days?
baking soda
Is it REALLY possible to lose 11 lbs. of fat in 22 days? Actually yes… BUT only when you’re a level 4 fat burner. Unfortunately, most people are stuck as level 1 fat burners. So, how do you become a level 4 fat burner to lose up to 11 lbs. in 22 days? Simply eat these foods daily:
==> Lose up to 11 lbs. in 22 days by eating these foods daily (upgrades you to level 4 fat burning status)
Yoga
Pain Relief
Best stretch before bed (1 minute)
By Lisa D, Yoga Coach
Did you know that one of the best times to stretch is right before bed? However…
What stretches should you do? Here’s a 1-minute stretch routine you can do before bed...
=> Best stretch before bed (takes 1-min)
Enjoy!
Lisa, Yoga Coach
eatlocalgrown / wisemindhealthybody
Snoring
Sleep Apnea
Stop Snoring in 3 Minutes - Starting Tonight
...easy, 3-minute exercise that completely cured his horrendous snoring! We can both finally sleep!
Today is a good day. Tonight will be even better. Why?
Because you're about to learn easy throat exercises that cure (not just treated) your stubborn snoring – in 3 minutes – starting TONIGHT!
...even if straps, sprays and even torturing CPAP masks have failed you in the past.
Most people heal their snoring in just a few minutes per day using these powerful throat exercises. And they're so easy, you can do them, regardless of your age or physical shape.
Use them anytime, anywhere... even while stuck in traffic or watching TV.
Plus the results are permanent!
To learn more and test-drive the easy snoring and sleep apnea exercises for yourself, click here...
To a good night's sleep,
Rick + Lisa
eatlocalgrown / wisemindhealthybody
Weight Loss
Hormones
The #1 "bodyfat-eating" hormone...
By Natural Health Sherpa
Did you know that your bodyfat can become "calorie-resistant"?
True. And it's completely unaffected by even the strictest diets... and most intense exercises.
However, there's good news- Calorie-resistant bodyfat can be now removed...
It's a little-known, calorie-burning hormone we all have... just waiting for the right spark to come alive. It's not thyroid, leptin, ghrelin, insulin, adiponectin, HGH or any other "fat loss" hormone you may know. Read more to find out precisely how to unleash its calorie-burning power:
==> How to Activate Your #1 "Bodyfat-Eating" Hormone...
To your health!
PS - Studies show that it can also reduce your risk of diabetes by 53.7%, a heart attack by 83.3% and stroke by 51.4%. Here's more of the scientific proof...
Mobility
Pain Relief
#1 muscle that eliminates joint and back pain, anxiety and looking fat
By Mike Westerdal CPT
I bet you can’t guess which muscle in your body is the #1 muscle that eliminates joint and back pain, anxiety and looking fat. This “hidden survival muscle” in your body will boost your energy levels, immune system, sexual function, strength and athletic performance when unlocked.
If this “hidden” most powerful primal muscle is healthy, we are healthy.
Is it…
a) Abs
b) Chest
c) Glutes
d) Hip Flexors
Take the quiz above and see if you got the correct answer!
Healing
Remedies
How to Wipe Out Chronic Inflammation (Free Book)
By Jonathan Richard, WMHB Staff Writer
In April, 2009, researchers stunned the medical community when they reported chronic inflammation as the root cause of several major diseases.
See, every year 610,000 people in the U.S. die of heart disease. Cancer claims another 584,000...stroke 130,000...Alzheimer's disease nearly 85,000 — and the list goes on.
Truth is, we now know... chronic inflammation is responsible for 7 out of the top 10 leading causes of death in the United States! Hundreds of studies and scientific reviews prove it.
Fortunately, newer research shows you can prevent-even reverse-most major diseases by "turning off" inflammation. And in our new book, we show you how to do just that.
If you or a loved one is suffering from a debilitating condition-and you"re not sure what the culprit is-now's the time to find out...while you can still do something about it!
Get the Free Inflammation Book
--> Grab your FREE copy of this groundbreaking soft cover book today (while supplies still last.)
Paleo/Keto Weight Loss
Free Offers
Free Paleo / Keto Cookbook
By Rick D. (Editor)
Over the past year, my friend Dave over at PaleoHacks has been working on a super secret cookbook project with our good friend Peter Servold ­­ a Le Cordon Bleu trained Chef and owner of Pete's Paleo...
And today, this new incredible Paleo Cookbook is finally available to be shipped right to your door for FREE!
The cookbook is called Paleo Eats, and it's filled with over 80 chef ­created, insanely tasty Paleo recipes ­­ which means they are free from gluten, soy, dairy, and refined sugar.
Get your FREE copy of Paleo Eats Here. (Grab this today, because they only ordered a small batch of these cookbooks for this freebie promotion, and they will sell out FAST!)
>> Get The Free Cookbook
Enjoy!
Sponsored Health Resources
In the years that I've been working on this website project I've come across some amazing resources by some very special people. I'd like to share them with you here.
NOTE: I update these links often so please check back to see what's new!
1) Everyone knows green smoothies are healthy right? Have you heard of a “red” smoothie? If not, check out this story…
--> "Red" Smoothie Helps Alabama Girl Shed 80lbs!
2) Forget what you've read about 10-day lemonade cleanses, 7-day detoxes with green juices and Gwyneth's gruel. All you need to do, and this is perfect for Saturday or or anytime really, is a simple 1-day cleanse.
--> Get the 1 Day Cleanse (better than 7-day detoxes!)
3) This “hidden survival muscle” in your body will boost your energy levels, immune system, sexual function, strength and athletic performance when unlocked.
--> #1 muscle that eliminates joint and back pain, anxiety and looking fat
4) I thought it was virtually impossible for a website to be able to tell me anything even a little bit insightful after only submitting my name and date of birth... I was wrong!
--> Your Birth Date + Name - Free Report
5) Turmeric is amazing. The problem is - It's hard to absorb!
--> The best way to get maximum effects of Turmeric
6) Wonder why your stomach still sticks out even though you're hammering the core exercises every day? It's a common myth that bulging belly is due to weak abdominal muscles.
--> Why Some People LOOK Fat that Aren't
7) Even if you're the most active of athletes, you may still suffer from tight hip flexors due to the amount of time you spend each day planted to a chair.
--> Unlock Your Hip Flexors
Enjoy! Let me know how these work out for you. And if you run across anything I've missed please let me know.
Rick D.
wisemindhealthybody.com
TAGS
allergies
free radicals
mood
natural remedies
pink himalayan salt
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Pinterest
WhatsApp
Previous article“Knock, Knock: Monsanto’s Here” Farmers Recall Lawsuits (and Tense Moments) in Shocking Short Film
Next articleThe only source of CBD oil I personally test and trust
Nick Meyer
//althealthworks.com/
Nick Meyer is an independent health researcher and journalist and the founder of AltHealthWORKS. Nick's mission is to "tell the many incredible stories of the growing holistic and natural health community, stories that had slipped through the cracks of the traditional media." He's been cited by Dr. Joseph Mercola of Mercola.com and published on the website of The Cornucopia Institute. Nick has also written several books for the Amazon Kindle covering important health topics, which can be viewed here. Nick is currently offering eatlocalgrown readers a free copy of his e-book 'Healing Secrets of the Amazon Rainforest.'
FREE Turmeric Book
Turmeric Fights Inflammation and Cancer:
Learn These 7 Easy Ways To Eat (and Drink) It
"Turmeric is one of the Most Powerful Natural Medicines Known to Man"
Send Me The FREE Book!
Wisemindhealthybody is powered by eatlocalgrown.com.
See our Privacy Policy
© 2016 wisemindhealthybody.com Privacy Policy
'); var formated_str = arr_splits[i].replace(/\surl\(\'(?!data\:)/gi, function regex_function(str) { return ' url(\'' + dir_path + '/' + str.replace(/url\(\'/gi, '').replace(/^\s+|\s+$/gm,''); }); splited_css += ""; } var td_theme_css = jQuery('link#td-theme-css'); if (td_theme_css.length) { td_theme_css.after(splited_css); } } }); } })();
Edit with Live CSS