I Am Dying: February 2009
I Am Dying
« January 2009 | Main | April 2009 »
February 2009
February 25, 2009
WD-40
Dying became more physical yesterday.
For years, I have had pain in my left knee. Sometimes it would get bad enough to call attention to itself, but usually it stayed below the level of awareness.
Some months ago, it was uncomfortable enough to send me to the orthopedist's office. He injected it with cortisone, and the pain abated. Recently, it flared up again--very painful. Last Friday, I got another injection.
The pain subsided for a day, but returned on Sunday. I called the doctor's office. As is usually the case nowadays, a machine answered, and I left a message for the doctor's nurse.
On Tuesday I received a reply, from someone in the office whose name I did not recognize. He calmly told me that since the shot did not reduce the pain, the next step is a "knee replacement," an operation that will take me out of commission for perhaps two months.
A knee replacement? The only thing to do next is an operation to replace part of my dying body? That gives dying a new kind of reality!
However, the same day, someone emailed me a list of 43 uses for WD-40, one of which is to "relieve arthritis pain"! I sprayed it on my knee, and it does relieve the pain!
That led me to remember that I have several other creams and lotions to relieve pain. I won't have to start giving up pieces of my body to death! Not yet!
Posted at 04:39 AM | Permalink | Comments (2) | TrackBack (0)
February 21, 2009
Tragic Gap
I learned a new word listening to Parker Palmer being interviewed by Bill Moyers last night: "Tragic Gap," the gap between what is and what could (or should) be. Palmer says we live in that gap. If we lean too far toward "what is" (reality), we can descend into cynicism and depression; if we lean too far toward "what could or should be" (our aspirations), we get discouraged.
In this blog I began with such high aspirations, that I got discouraged (even depressed) when I couldn't keep it up, and I stopped. However, as old "boss" Kettering, one of the founders of GM, famously said,"The only time you fail is the last time you try."
My depression about this blog also arose from the fact that, as I contemplated the unfinished business to clean up before I die, I began to confront how many things I didn't finish, how many ideas, tasks--and people--I haven't followed up on.
Everywhere I lived I met good people, but when I moved I didn't stay in touch. What a loss. My shelves are full of books I meant to study--some I haven't even read. My disorganized files contain projects I abandoned. On top of the file cabinet is a pile of stuff that has been there for at least a year. Even my "inbox" has stuff I haven't looked at for months.
Since my last post to this blog I have been haunted--even lying awake at night--by the "tragic gap" between what I have done and what I might have done. Now, with Palmer's advice, I see that the tragic gap is not a failure; rather, it is where life occurs. Evolutionary psychologists even suggest that the gap, and the depression that it leads to, may be an evolutionary adaptation to keep us from going down paths that we will not be able to pursue.
At any rate, I have begun to blog again.
Posted at 01:56 PM | Permalink | Comments (9) | TrackBack (0)
About
Blog powered by Typepad
Archives
November 2010
May 2009
April 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
Categories
First Post
See More
Subscribe to this blog's feed