Benefits of carrot that you may have definitely known - Healthy Explain
HOME
FRUITS & JUICES
HERBS
BEAUTY TIPS
VEGETABLES
HEALTH & FITNESS
PREGNANCY
Search
Sunday, April 21, 2019
Contact Us
Healthy Explain
HOME
FRUITS & JUICES
HERBS
BEAUTY TIPS
VEGETABLES
HEALTH & FITNESS
PREGNANCY
Home VEGETABLES Benefits of carrot that you may have definitely known
VEGETABLES
Benefits of carrot that you may have definitely known
By
Ryan M. Lusk
-
December 31, 2017
0
690
Share on Facebook
Tweet on Twitter
Carrots are one of the most important vegetablesin the world and most of the peoples don’t know the benefits of carrot. It may be in different colours red, orange, yellow etc. Carrots were firstly grown in Asia and they were not orange. In this article, we can be discussed the benefits of carrot.
Facts Of Carrot:
Carrot contains a rich source of antioxidants, which protect us from cancer.
Carrots are a rich source of vitamin A, C, K, B8, and iron.
History of Carrot
Carrots were considered one of the most important vegetable crops in the history. They provide nutrition to populations of thousands of years ago. Many types of wild carrots were eaten in many countries like Iran, Asia etc.
There are two types of carrots:
1. Eastern carrots
2. Western carrots
Eastern carrots are mainly found in Asia, Afghanistan, Russia, Western carrots are mainly found in Europe, North and south America.
Benefits of Carrot:
Image source: pixabay
Improves vision
An eye disease that can damage normal vision or inability to see in low light or result in night blindness. According to National Institutes of Health ( NIH ) deficiency of vitamin A is one of the main cause of blindness or improper vision in students. Carrot contains vitamin A which help us to improve our vision. It is good for our eyes. The special nutrients lutein, beta-carotene, within carrots helps to boost our eye health. Vitamin A deficiency can cause night blindness or permanent blindness. Eating carrots regularly can help to reduce our blindness or keep our eyes safe. Carrots can act as a vision booster. Improving vision is considered as the best benefits of carrot. Many doctors prefer carrots for improving vision.
Control Diabetes
The antioxidants present in carrots helps to regulate blood sugar regulation due to the presence of carotenoids in them. Carotenoids affect insulin resistance and lower blood sugar help diabetic patients to live a healthy and safe life. They regulate the amount of insulin and glucose also that is used and metabolized by the body.
Prevent Cancer
Carrots help to reduce the risk of lung cancer, breast cancer etc. The antioxidant can able to fight leukaemia cells and play a vital role in reducing the widespread types of cancers including breast cancers etc. Due to antioxidants power in carrots helps to reduce free radicals in the body. The beta-carotene supplements present in carrots help to reduce lungs cancer. Among smokers, the beta-carotene supplements increase the risk of lungs cancer. Consuming more beta-carotene may help to reduce the risk of colon cancer An average carrot contains normally 3 milligrams of beta-carotene.
Promotes Healthy Skin
Vitamin A and antioxidants present in carrots helps to protect us from sun damage or promotes healthy skin. Due to deficiency of vitamin A and antioxidant can cause dryness to the skin, hairs etc. Carrots can be used as a facial mask. Just mix a grated carrot with honey.
Aloe vera is the great way to make your skin healthier. You can read our articles on aloe vera benefits.
Prevent Infection
Carrots help to prevent us from infection. If you have any type of cuts and infection you will find carrot benefits. Your skin health by increasing your ability to fight infection and noticeable signs of skin inflammation.
Prevent Heart Diseases
Carrots contain beta-carotene, alpha-carotene, lutein etc. High cholesterol in the body is the major factor of heart diseases. Regular consumption of carrots can help to reduce cholesterol levels. It decreases the risk of cardiovascular disease, especially in women.
Protect Teeth And Germs
Carrots help to clean our mouth and teeth. They scrape off food particles just like a toothbrush. The minerals and vitamins present in carrot prevent tooth damage. The vitamins and nutrients present in carrot help to improve immunity, including the body activity to fight against bacteria, that enter through our mouth which lives in the gums & teeth. Certain minerals prevent us from cavities and tooth decay. Carrots remove stains from teeth. Fibres in carrots boost the immunity.
Protects Brain Health
Carrots help to keep our brain healthy and prevent Alzheimer’s disease. Carrots also help in improving brain memory. It helps to lower oxidative stress in the brain which weakens nerve signalling capacity.
Lower Blood Pressure
Carrots are a rich source of potassium, which reduces the stress and tension in your blood vessels and arteries. Increasing blood flow and circulation help to boosts organ function throughout the body, and reduce the stress on the cardiovascular system. High blood pressure is directly linked to heart attacks and strokes.
Help in Digestion
Fibres is one of the most important elements in maintaining and providing good digestive health. It stimulates the peristaltic motion and also the secretion of gastric juices. This reduces constipation and protects your colon and stomach from a serious illness, including cancer also. Fibres also help to boost our heart health by eliminating LDL cholesterol from the walls of blood vessels.
Carrots in Diet:
There are many benefits of carrot and it must be peeled and washed before consuming in the body. It can be used as a steamed, boiled, roasted, and also used as ingredients in many soups.
Used shredded carrots in salads.
Use carrots in a juice for a sweet and mild flavour.
Disadvantages
Excessive consumption of vitamin A may be toxic. It may cause an orange tinge of skin colour but this is not harmful to our body.
People who are taking supplements derived from vitamin A must avoid the excessive amounts of carrots, they may lead to hypervitaminosis A.
Ways To Use Carrot
Cooked
Cooked carrots may have higher antioxidant activity. Balance carrots juices with others juices that are lower in carbohydrates.
Juiced
Juicing is a great way to includes carrots in our diet.
Some peoples don’t eat a carrot because they believe they are rich in sugar and will raise blood glucose. Carrot contains 10 grams of carbohydrate and 4 grams of fibre. The fibres in carrots help to slow down the release of the sugars, in the form of glucose, into the bloodstream. Including carrots in a diet can be good for people who have diabetes.
TAGS
benefits of carrot
SHARE
Facebook
Twitter
tweet
Next articleAloe vera uses and Aloe vera juice benefits
Ryan M. Lusk
Hello, I am Co-founder and CEO of HealthyExplain. I am a student and currently doing Engineering. Kumar Abhishek is a young passionate blogger and his interest in the field of blogging and web development encourage him to do more work. His learning attitude day by day makes him unique. You can follow Kumar Abhishek on Facebook, Instagram, Google+
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
VEGETABLES
10 Unknown Benefits Of Eating Cucumber In Night
VEGETABLES
Chaga Mushroom Benefits, Tips, Nutrients & Side Effects
VEGETABLES
Pumpkin Benefits For Health & Side Effects
LEAVE A REPLY Cancel reply
Log in to leave a comment
Must Read
10 Awesome Guava benefits during pregnancy
Ryan M. Lusk - January 27, 2018
0
Top 20 Best Perfumes For Women: A Complete Guide
Thomas D. Pittman - August 24, 2018
0
Onion Benefits for Skin and Onion Juice For Skin
Nick Kolsen - January 31, 2018
0
Aloe vera uses and Aloe vera juice benefits
Nick Kolsen - January 3, 2018
0
22 Amazing Kiwi Benefits For Health
Nick Kolsen - September 22, 2018
0
Load more
Amazon Flat Offers
EDITOR PICKS
28 Amazing Parsley Benefits And Side Effects
December 4, 2018
9 Orange Juice Health Benefits, Side Effects & Nutrition
December 4, 2018
19 Asparagus Benefits And Side Effects
December 1, 2018
POPULAR POSTS
Apple cider vinegar during pregnancy: Is It Safe?
February 25, 2018
Apple Benefits: 17 amazing apple health benefits
January 25, 2018
Onion Benefits for Skin and Onion Juice For Skin
January 31, 2018
POPULAR CATEGORY
FRUITS & JUICES10
VEGETABLES7
HERBS6
BEAUTY TIPS5
HEALTH & FITNESS4
PREGNANCY3
ABOUT US
Mission – healthyexplain.com was founded with the mission of ‘taking right health information to every home’. Our objective is to spread awareness about the things which will help people lead a happy life.
Contact us: Healthyexplain@gmail.com
FOLLOW US
Home
Disclaimer
Contact Us
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
© © Copyright 2018 Healthy Explain | All rights reserved.
By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
I Understand
MORE STORIES
Pumpkin Benefits For Health & Side Effects
November 9, 2018
10 Unknown Benefits Of Eating Cucumber In Night
November 25, 2018
'); var formated_str = arr_splits[i].replace(/\surl\(\'(?!data\:)/gi, function regex_function(str) { return ' url(\'' + dir_path + '/' + str.replace(/url\(\'/gi, '').replace(/^\s+|\s+$/gm,''); }); splited_css += ""; } var td_theme_css = jQuery('link#td-theme-css'); if (td_theme_css.length) { td_theme_css.after(splited_css); } } }); } })();
Edit with Live CSS