How the Benefits of Himalayan Pink Salt Compare to Those of Table Salt | STACK
Toggle navigation
Log In Join
Partner Sites Fox Sports YardBarker Eastbay Footlocker Yahoo! Sports
Training
Build Muscle
Conditioning
Flexibility
Get Faster
Skills
Sports Injuries
Strength Training
STACK Fitness
Nutrition
Eat Healthy
Hydration
Meals & Recipes
Supplements
Gear
Electronic Fitness Bands
Energy Drinks & Protein Bars
Exercise Apparel
Exercise Equipment
Kinesio Tapes
Lifestyle
Running Gear
Workout Tools
Sports
Football
Basketball Training
Yoga
Baseball
Hockey
More
Swimming
Soccer
Track & Field
Cross Country
Resources
Airline Tickets
Coaches and Trainers
STACK Conditioning
News
Partner Offers
STACK Fitness
Recruiting
Sport Injury Treatment
STACK 4W
Sports Hotel Discounts
Log In
Join
Search STACK
Search
Search
Home // Nutrition
How the Benefits of Himalayan Pink Salt Compare to Those of Table Salt
Do the purported benefits of Himalayan pink salt actually live up to the hype? STACK investigates.
0 Shares Share on Facebook Share on Twitter
The U.S. is shifting in a healthier direction by offering a variety of nutritious choices, including even simple ingredients like salt. For example, there is regular table salt, sea salt and Himalayan pink salt. Of particular focus recently, Himalayan pink salt is being advertised as superior to other salts. Tom Brady's dietÂ includes this type of salt, and it's likely to be on the table at trendy restaurants.
RELATED:Â 5 Foods That Are Stunningly High inÂ Sodium
Read More >>
The U.S. is shifting in a healthier direction by offering a variety of nutritious choices, including even simple ingredients like salt. For example, there is regular table salt, sea salt and Himalayan pink salt. Of particular focus recently, Himalayan pink salt is being advertised as superior to other salts. Tom Brady's diet includes this type of salt, and it's likely to be on the table at trendy restaurants.
RELATED: 5 Foods That Are Stunningly High in Sodium
But do the purported benefits of Himalayan pink salt live up to the hype? STACK investigates.
Sodium, which makes up a part of salt, is an essential mineral with a variety of functions, such as maintaining blood pressure and hydration levels. It is crucial to consume enough sodium, especially when you work out for prolonged hours or in a hot environment. But though it's essential for many health benefits, too much sodium in your diet can be detrimental. If you are an athlete and fall into this category, it can limit your performance and leave you dehydrated.
Benefits of Himalayan Pink Salt
The chemical makeup of Himalayan pink salt is different from standard table salt. Because it is unprocessed, it contains more minerals such as calcium, potassium, magnesium and iron, all of which are essential for health and can enhance athletic performance—especially if you lack them in your diet. It also contains less sodium than table salt. If you need to cut your sodium consumption to maintain healthy blood pressure, pink salt may be a good option. Other potential health benefits of Himalayan pink salt include relieving muscle cramps, dizziness, low energy and nausea.
RELATED: Grab the Salt Shaker: Why Athletes Need to Eat More Sodium
Unfortunately, however, the purported benefits of Himalayan pink salt are backed by limited research. The top nutrition journals in the world have published no studies of its benefits when consumed by itself or compared to other salts. This feeds skepticism about claims that it supports healthy respiratory function and increases bone strength. Although it does contain more minerals than table salt, if you're getting those minerals through your diet, the amounts obtained in pink salt will have few if any positive effects on your health and performance.
Bottom Line
Due to its added mineral content and lower sodium, Himalayan pink salt can be used as a healthier alternative than table salt in cooking. But many statements about its benefits remain unsupported by research. It is difficult to determine if the claimed benefits are real. Adding pink salt to your diet may be beneficial, but with little research to prove the benefits, it may not be worth the money—especially if you are following a healthy and variable diet. Remember, it's still salt and not some magical substance that you can load on your food without consequence.
RELATED: Why Your Body Needs Sodium During a Workout
References
Drake, S.L. and Drake, M.A. (2011). "Comparison of salty taste and time intensity of sea and land salts from around the world." Journal of Sensory Studies, 26.1, 25-34.
Franzsen, S., & Komesaroff, L. (2016, February 16). "Benefits of Himalayan Pink Salt." Retrieved June 30, 2016, from http://www.wildpatch.com.au/benefits-of-himalayan-pink-salt/
Group, E. (2009, May 15). "The benefits of Himalayan Salt." Retrieved June 27, 2016, from http://www.globalhealingcenter.com/natural-health/himalayan-crystal-salt-benefits/
Gunnars, K. (2016, May). "Types of Salt: Himalayan vs Kosher vs Regular vs Sea Salt." Retrieved June 27, 2016, from https://authoritynutrition.com/different-types-of-salt/
Photo Credit: Getty Images // Thinkstock
Topics: MUSCLE CRAMPS | SODIUM | ATHLETIC PERFORMANCE | CALCIUM | POTASSIUM | MAGNESIUM | BLOOD PRESSURE | HEALTH BENEFITS | CRAMPS | PINK SALT | SALT
Updated: July 14, 2016
Nicholas Mortensen - Nicholas Mortensen is an exercise physiologist and a private strength and conditioning coach in the Greater Detroit Area. He is a Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist (CSCS) and a Level 1 Sports Performance Coach through U.S. Weightlifting. He earned his Master's degree in Exercise and Nutr
Become a Contributing Expert
Become a Better Athlete
Join STACK and gain instant FREE access to resources that have helped millions of people jump higher, run faster, get stronger, eat smarter and play better.
JOIN STACK
Instant access to FREE resources that have helped millions of people jump higher, run faster, get stronger, eat smarter and play better.
ONE-TAP SUBSCRIBE
Most Popular
Are Bang Energy Drinks Healthy?
Legendary Basketball Coach Muffet McGraw: Parents Today Don't Want to Give Their Child a Chance to Fail
Feed the Beasts: Nutrition Strategies That Power Duke Basketball
Why the 2,000-Meter Row May Be the Most Killer Fitness Test Ever Created
The Message You Send to Your Kid When You Complain About Their Coach
How I Stumbled Upon the Ultimate, Science-Backed Bedtime Snack for Better Sleep and More Muscle
How America Killed Play—and What We Can Do to Bring it Back
Are Bai Drinks Actually Healthy?
5 Rear Delt Exercises for Strong and Durable Shoulders
Stanley Morgan Jr. Shattered Records and Changed the Culture at Nebraska
See More
More About Nutrition
Are Harvest Snaps Healthy?
How I Stumbled Upon the Ultimate, Science-Backed Bedtime Snack for Better Sleep and More Muscle
The 44-Cent Halftime Snack That Powers Duke Basketball
Feed the Beasts: Nutrition Strategies That Power Duke Basketball
Top 10 Signs Your Diet is Dragging You Down
The Superfood Diet That Helps Antonio Brown Devour Defenses
Are You a Teen Athlete Looking For an Edge? Try Eating Twice Before Lunch
This Company Created the First Nutrition Bar Formulated Specifically for Youth Athletes
More Cool Stuff You'll Like
6 Amazing Benefits of Eating a Banana Every Day
Time Your Fueling for Peak Performance
Are 'Healthy Chips' Really Healthy? 5 Popular Options Examined
The Healthiest (And Unhealthiest) Ways to Eat Chicken
Chocolate Milk after Workouts
Protein Shake or Chocolate Milk: Which Is Better Post-Workout?
How to Use Stretching and a Foam Roller for Lower Back Pain
5 Rear Delt Exercises for Strong and Durable Shoulders
How to Treat Piriformis Syndrome
Get Faster and More Nimble With 10 Agility Ladder Drills
Build a Stronger Chest With the Dumbbell Floor Press
Speed Drills for Basketball: Get Faster On Court in 3 Weeks
More About Nutrition
How to Indulge in Dessert Without Ruining Your Diet and Undermining Your Performance
7 Reasons Athletes Are Going to Love CLIF's Nut Butter Bars
This Rare Compound Found in Watermelon Improves Endurance, Reduces Fatigue and Makes You a Better Overall Athlete
High Powered Performance: Hydration Tips For All Athletes
Giants Running Back Rashad Jennings Drinks This Smoothie Recipe Every Single Day
More About Muscle Cramps
What Every Athlete Can Learn From Ironman Record Holder Craig Alexander
When Your Cramps Have Nothing to Do with Hydration or Electrolytes
The Obstacle Course Racer's Guide to Fixing Muscle Cramps
Tips to Avoid a Side Stitch
Football summer camps
STACK Resources
STACK Fitness
STACK Conditioning
Coaches & Trainers
STACK 4W
News
STACK Partners
Fox Sports
YardBarker
Eastbay
Foot Locker
Men's Fitness
Yahoo! Sports
Stack Sports
CaptainU
Goalline
Krossover
League Lineup
Pointstreak
STACK
About STACK
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
STACK Experts
Advertising
Contribute
Follow STACK
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram
Pinterest
RSS