Morphine: What are the Side Effects on the Body and the Brain?
Free & Confidential Drug Hotline. Call NOW: (888)-459-5511
Menu
Addiction Guides
Addiction Facts
What is Addiction?
Recognizing Addiction
Drug Abuse Statistics
Substance Abuse Triggers
Polydrug Use: Get the Facts
Drug Testing
Addiction Stories
Meth Addiction Stories
Heroin Addiction Stories
Gambling Addiction Stories
Marijuana Addiction Stories
Cocaine Addiction Stories
People at Risk
College Students abd Drug Abuse
Dual Diagnosis
Teenagers and Students
Veterans and Addictions
PTSD and Addiction
Self-Assessment
Substances
Alcohol Addiction
Effects of Alcoholism
Alcoholism Treatment
Alcoholism Recovery
Alcoholism Resources
Street Names of Addictive Substances
Understanding Drugs
Types of Drugs
Illicit Drugs
Marijuana
Crystal Meth
Spice
Cocaine
Crack
GHB
Amphetamine
Speed
Prescription Medication
Ambien
Ketamine
Vicodin
Gabapentin
Accutane
Provigil
Morphine
Zoloft
Prozac
Trazodone
Barbiturates
Fioricet
Stimulants
Nicotine
Adderall
Kratom
Ecstasy
Ritalin
Benzodiazepines
Valium
Restoril
Midazolam
Librium
Klonopin
Halcion
Ativan
Xanax
Hallucinogens
LSD
AL-LAD
Peyote
DMT
Ayhuasca
Shrooms
Opioids
Opiates
Heroin
Opium
Opana
Suboxone
Vicoprofen
Methadone
Fentanyl
Dilaudid
Demerol
Codeine
Tramadol
Oxycodone
Hydrocodone
Norco
Percocet
Sedative-Hypnotics
Lunesta
Sonata
Other Substances
Sleeping Pills
OTC Drugs
Diet Pills
Inhalants
Painkillers
Narcotics
Antidepressants
NPC
Anxiety Medication
Cyclobenzaprine
Lexapro
Baclofen
Vyvanse
Phenibut
Kava
Celexa
Treatment Guides
Treatment Stages
Addiction Treatment: the Overview
1 ► Intervention
2 ► Inpatient and Outpatient Therapy
3 ► Lifelong Commitment
Treatment for Substance Abuse: An Overview of Addiction Recovery Programs
Resources
Relapse Prevention Plan
Support Groups: An Overview
When a Loved One Has an Addiction
Drug Addiction Medications
Addiction and Rehab Hotlines
Find AA meetings
Find NA Meetings
Addiction Treatment Facility Locator
Rehab Guides
Facilities
Best Drug Rehabs
Inpatient Rehabs F.A.Q.
Outpatient Rehabs F.A.Q.
Drug Rehabs Near You
Outpatient Rehabs Near You
Types
Court Ordered Rehabs
Free and State Funded Rehabs
Rehabs for Veterans
Dual Diagnosis Rehabs
F.A.Q.
Rehab Question Answered
Can I Beat an Addiction On My Own?
How Long Does Rehab Take?
Medicaid and Medicare
Addiction Recovery Costs
Substances
LSD Rehab
Heroin Rehabs
Cocaine Rehab
Crystal Meth Rehab
GHB Rehab
Ecstasy Rehab
About Us
Our Community
Scholarship
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Addiction Treatment Events
Morphine Addiction: The Physical And Psychological Side Effects
Free 24/7 rehab helpline > (888)-459-5511
Morphine is highly addictive, and despite its medical use, it has many side effects. The side effects of Morphine are often advantageous in a medical environment. However, the adverse effects of Morphine can be highly problematic and potentially dangerous for a person’s health. This article looks into Morphine’s effects and how they differ in from the short term to the long term.
Hope Without Commitment
Find the best treatment options.
Call our free and confidential helpline
Treatment Is Fully Covered by Insurance In Most Cases
(888)-459-5511
Table of contents:
What are the Side Effects of Morphine?
Short-Term Effects of Morphine Consumption
Long-Term Effects of Morphine Use
Why Get Medical Help for Morphine Abuse?
What are the Side Effects of Morphine?
Due to Morphine affecting both the body and the brain, it is both physically and psychologically addictive. Many users get hooked on Morphine after receiving it during medical treatment. They then continue to seek the drug for its recreational and numbing effects. Typically, Morphine pills side effects affect both body and mind.
Some of the usual effects of Morphine on the body include:
Dilated pupils
Drowsiness and fatigue
Slurred speech
Shallow breathing
Some of the usual effects of Morphine on the brain include:
Depression
Rebound anxiety
Withdrawal from everyday life
Mood swings
Instability
Hallucinations
Delusions of grandeur
Short-Term Effects of Morphine Consumption
Morphine use can affect the user in both short and long-term manners. In the short term, adverse morphine effects are often lessened in comparison to the long term. However, this does not mean they aren’t a health hazard.
The short-term effects of Morphine include:
Drowsiness – Caused by Morphine numbing on nerves, it can make the user feel tired and only half awake.
Shallow breathing – Morphine slows the body’s systems, including breathing. This can make it uncomfortable.
Constipation – Also due to the slowing of the bodies systems and dehydration.
Unconsciousness – Often a slightly more extreme version of drowsiness, the user will sometimes become completely unconscious.
Nausea – A common side effect when a drug alters the body and the way it works.
Depression – This is down to the drug suppressing the nervous system. As the comedown begins, the body has adjusted to the drug and the mind struggles without it.
Long-Term Effects of Morphine Use
Over time, Morphine use presents an even greater danger to the user. The long-term effects of Morphine are often stronger versions of the short-term effects.
Morphine long-term side effects include:
Dependency and tolerance – The user’s body may adjust to the drug and need more of it to take effect. They may also rely on it entirely to effectively function.
Restlessness and inability to sit still – Morphine impairs the nerves, so as it wears off, long-term users may suddenly feel too much and not be able to sit still.
Muscle aches and bone pain – Once nerve impairment wears off pain will return
Insomnia – Accompanies anxieties and restlessness because of nerves returning
Diarrhea, vomiting, and nausea – The user’s bodily systems get used to the drug and struggle to deal without it
Temperature changes – Similarly to other symptoms, this starts when there isn’t enough Morphine in the body in comparison to what it is used to
Coma – In extreme use, the Morphine will sedate the user to the point where the body struggles to reawaken
Death – The most extreme case, either by symptoms or Morphine overdose
According to the US National Library of Medicine, there is also a big concern over the psychological effects that long-term Morphine use may have. Long-term morphine abuse has been linked with patients exhibiting frequent delusions and hallucinations, as well as memory loss and the impairment of psychomotor speed.
Why Get Medical Help for Morphine Abuse?
If Morphine is taken in excess, regularly or not, it may be necessary to get medical help. One reason to get medical help may be that the body is developing a tolerance to the drug. Another may be the negative effects of Morphine. Morphine side effects can be dangerous if left untreated, which is why those experiencing them should ensure they get the best and most suitable care possible.
In addition to those reasons you may also need to seek out medical help if:
If you are thinking about Morphine all the time
If you are spending all your money on the drug
If Morphine is affecting your relationships or career
If you are starting to take larger doses of Morphine
Morphine may have many medical uses. However, it can be dangerous and should be treated as so. If you do decide to get medical help and remove Morphine from your life, you may need a way to deal with a life without Morphine. Many inpatient, outpatient, and therapy programs provide ways of dealing with Morphine withdrawal and cravings. There are a variety of programs to suit every lifestyle and personality. These programs may even offer substitutes from the drug, so you can lead a happy and healthy life once the drug is out of your system.
Hope Without Commitment
Find the best treatment options.
Call our free and confidential helpline
Treatment Is Fully Covered by Insurance In Most Cases
(888)-459-5511
If you are experiencing the long-term effects of Morphine abuse, or know somebody who is, you should seek medical assistance. Long-term abuse of Morphine is dangerous and becomes more of a hazard every day you go without help. For further advice, such as finding out where to get treatment or the most suitable treatment for you, please call our hotline on (888)-459-5511.
Morphine Addiction: The Physical And Psychological Side Effects
Rate this article
Addiction Resource » Addictive Substances: The Anatomy of Drug Addiction » Morphine Addiction and Treatment » Morphine Addiction: The Physical And Psychological Side Effects
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Free 24/7 Treatment Helpline
(888)-459-5511
Speak confidentially with a compassionate counsellor.
Feel hope
without commitment.
Morphine Addiction Resources
Morphine Addiction: Overview
Morphine Street Names
How Long Does Morphine Stay In Your System
Morphine High
Morphine Withdrawal
Morphine Substance Interaction
Morphine Side Effects
Morphine Addiction Signs
Morphine Overdose
Morphine Street Prices
Morphine Dosage
Morphine Addiction Treatment
Drug Rehab Resources
Best Rehabs
Local Rehabs Locator
Free Rehabs
Court-Ordered Rehabs
Inpatient Rehabs
Outpatient Rehabs
Jewish Rehabs
Veterans Rehabs
Holistic Rehabs
LGBT Rehab Centers
Dual Diagnosis Rehab Centers
Alcohol Hotlines
Rehab Hotlines
Luxury Rehabilitation
Private Rehabs
Christian Rehabs
Women-Only Rehabs
Men-Only Rehabs
Rehabs for Couples
Family Rehabs
Teen Rehabs
State-Funded Rehabs
No-Insurance Rehabs
Executive Rehabs
Resort Rehabs
Drug Rehab Information
Speak to a representative concerning substance abuse treatment or request printed material on alcohol or drugs.
(888)-459-5511
The information available at AddictionResource.com is not a substitute for professional medical help.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here
© 2014 - 2019 Addiction Resource
Terms And Conditions
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
About Us
➤