The Thermal Effect of EMF
FREE SHIPPING IN THE US, CANADA, UK, EUROPE & AUSTRALIA
Plus 30 Day Returns & a Lifetime Warranty on All Orders
Menu
Shop
For Cell Phones
Phone Pouch
Air Tube Headset
Pocket Patch
Pocket Card
Laptop Pad
Boxer Briefs
For Babies
Baby Beanie
Baby Blanket
For Home/Office
Poster Frame Liner
Picture Frame
Tiles
About
The SYB Story
Product Testing
How it Works
Register Your Warranty
Contact Us
Become an Affiliate
Become a Distributor
Blog
My Cart
Shop
Phone Pouch
Air Tube Headset
Laptop Pad
Pocket Patch
Pocket Card
Boxer Briefs
Baby Blanket
Baby Beanie
Picture Frame
Poster Liner
About SYB
Blog
Contact
$0.00 0 items
Posted on July 29, 2014 February 25, 2017 by R Blank — 3 Comments
The “Thermal Effect” of EMF
You may have heard that there is a debate whether non-ionizing electromagnetic radiation (or EMF, such as emitted by your cell phone and your WiFi card) is a risk to human health. That is false.
The type of radiation used to enable wireless communication is a form of microwave radiation. The same type of microwave radiation used by microwave ovens to cook.
And so, obviously, it has long been established and accepted that this type of radiation can harm tissue— if it couldn’t, microwave ovens wouldn’t work.
The “debate” (such as it is) over whether radiation from technology like cell phones and WiFi is safe, centers entirely around the question of *what levels of power* of this type of radiation are safe.
Danish schoolgirls performed an experiment, exposing some watercress seeds to WiFi radiation and leaving another batch unexposed. Here you can see the difference. (Photo courtesy of Kim Horsevad, teacher at Hjallerup Skole in Denmark.)
At certain levels of power, microwave radiation can heat tissue. This is known as the “thermal effect.”
And, for many years, it was believed that microwave radiation was safe at levels of power insufficient to heat human tissue. This is why the vast majority of regulations governing EMF emissions are designed to protect against the thermal effect.
Today, however, the body of science in this area demonstrates that there are harmful risks to human health at levels far below those required to generate a thermal effect. Regulations that protect against your phone emitting enough EMF to cook your head are important— but they are also vastly insufficient.
Increasingly, it is becoming clear that there is no “safe” level of EMF exposure. Instead, it’s about what degree of risk exists from what types of exposure.
But when you hear or read that there is a debate about whether microwave radiation poses a risk to human health, realize that is simply not true. It is universally accepted that this type of radiation poses real risks to human health; the question is “what risks exist at what levels of this radiation”.
And that’s a big difference.
Category: Education
Tags: EMF, microwave, thermal effect, wifi
Post navigation
Previous post: Making Cell Phone & WiFi Radiation Visible
Next post: Waiting for “Conclusive Proof”
3 thoughts on “The “Thermal Effect” of EMF”
The Differences Between EMF Energy and Power, Explained - SYB
January 28, 2017
[…] can cook food (and human tissue), but only at very high levels of power. This is called the ‘thermal effect‘ of EMF, where powerful enough non-ionizing forms of EMF radiation can heat tissue and damage […]
Reply
What is a Safe Level of EMF Exposure from Devices like Cell Phones and WiFi? - SYB
August 10, 2017
[…] Almost all EMF regulations are designed to protect against immediate-term health effects, such as burning and killing your cells. So it is illegal to sell a cell phone that, when held up to your head, burned your ear. This is the so-called ‘thermal standard.’ […]
Reply
Microwave Attack Theory Demonstrates The Dangers of EMF - SYB
November 14, 2018
[…] A common argument against stronger regulations for electromagnetic radiation exposure is that such radiation is only harmful to humans when it induces a thermal effect. […]
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notice: It seems you have Javascript disabled in your Browser. In order to submit a comment to this post, please write this code along with your comment: 905e89f75f2c629f51a43b4ac403a218
About SYB
I started SYB® in 2012 based on the work of my father, Dr. Martin Blank, with the goal of making it simple and affordable for people to live healthier lives, in balance with modern technology.
The SYB Story >
Newsletter
EMF Testing Resources
How can you know that my SYB products really doing what I say?
EMF Testing Resources >
SYB EMF Protection Products
SYB Air Tube Headset
$39.00 Select options
SYB Laptop Pad
$89.00 – $94.00 Select options
SYB Phone Pouch
$28.00 Select options
Shop All SYB Products >
Learn About EMF & Health
Get access to FREE ebooks about EMF and health, and what you can do about it.
From the Blog
5G And Your Child: The Health Risks of 5G for Children
5G is coming. For some of us, it’s already here. And if you’re concerned that the increase in electromagnetic radiation might be detrimental to adults, then here’s something else to bear in mind: the health risks of 5G for children are even greater. Why? Below we’ll take a look. Here’s what we know so far […]
The post 5G And Your Child: The Health Risks of 5G for Children appeared first on EMF Protection from SYB.
The Negative Effects of 5G: How Big Wireless Obscures The Truth
Even as questions mount around the negative effects of 5G, the wireless industry continues to grow in power and influence. According to a 2018 report, the U.S. wireless industry now contributes $475 billion annually to America’s economy, and generates over $1 trillion in economic output. It’s no wonder: there are hundreds of millions of smartphones […]
The post The Negative Effects of 5G: How Big Wireless Obscures The Truth appeared first on EMF Protection from SYB.
5G Health Concerns Raised By City Council Officials
“The FCC is committed to doing our part to help ensure the United States wins the global race to 5G,” the Federal Communications Commission said recently in a declaratory ruling. They add that it would be “to the benefit of all Americans”. This is supposed to assure us that the FCC takes 5G health concerns […]
The post 5G Health Concerns Raised By City Council Officials appeared first on EMF Protection from SYB.
Healthy Living Tip #92: Avoid Induction Cooktops
People often see induction stoves as a greater way to cook, because you don’t have to clean the coils like a traditional stove and the food can cook up to 50% faster. However, these types of stoves and cooktops produce high amounts of EMF radiation in order to cook the food. Which brings us to […]
The post Healthy Living Tip #92: Avoid Induction Cooktops appeared first on EMF Protection from SYB.
Cell Phones And Thyroid Cancer: Is There A Link?
That cell phones pose a threat to the human brain is well recognized. But what about cell phones and thyroid cancer? Is there a link? With thyroid cancer rates rising around the world, it’s a question worth exploring. Here’s what we know so far. Escalating Rates of Thyroid Cancer Thyroid cancer is now the fastest […]
The post Cell Phones And Thyroid Cancer: Is There A Link? appeared first on EMF Protection from SYB.
Sperm, The Brain, And The Dirty Secret Of Cell Phone Testing
What do the brain and sperm have in common? Both are crucial to the future of the human race. And both are being damaged by cell phones. But there’s more to it. In a recent TEDx talk, Dr. Devra Davis, Ph.D, explores the connection between these two disparate parts of the body. And what she says […]
The post Sperm, The Brain, And The Dirty Secret Of Cell Phone Testing appeared first on EMF Protection from SYB.
Healthy Living Tip #6: Don’t Use Radiant In-Floor Electrical Heating
If you read the Healthy Living Tip #73 on not using electric heating blankets, you may have learned that EMF radiation from a blanket can penetrate the skin up to 6 or 7 inches deep. Radiant in-floor electrical heating is similiar to heating blankets in the way they heat up and give off EMF radiation. […]
The post Healthy Living Tip #6: Don’t Use Radiant In-Floor Electrical Heating appeared first on EMF Protection from SYB.
What Dr. Martin Blank Taught Me About Science
Last year, the world lost Dr. Martin Blank. Dr. Blank was not only one of the most important EMF scientists in the world, but he was also my father and the inspiration behind the creation of SYB®. Shortly after he passed, I sent a note out to my SYB® mailing list. And I thought I […]
The post What Dr. Martin Blank Taught Me About Science appeared first on EMF Protection from SYB.
Contact Us
Shield Your Body
10300 West Charleston Blvd.
Suite 13-G31
Las Vegas, NV 89135
Phone: +1 (800) 491-4850
Email Us
SYB’s Policies
Privacy Policy
Site Use Terms & Conditions
Returns
Free Shipping
Lifetime Warranty: Register | Terms
Accepted Payment Methods
All orders on this website include FREE SHIPPING. In addition, we will add the appropriate sales tax. If you are in the United States, your tax will depend on your state. If you are in another country, it will depend on your nation’s VAT rate. There are no additional or hidden charges.
Join Our Mailing List
Follow us
facebook
twitter
linkedin
youtube
Learn About EMF & Health
Get access to FREE ebooks about EMF and health, and what you can do about it.
Download Your Copy Now >
© 2012 - 2019 Shield Your Body LLC
My Account
Search
Search for:
Search
0
25% OFF SITE-WIDE
For National Infertility Awareness Week, save 25% on all orders , through Sunday, April 28th. Discount automatically applied at checkout.
May not be used in conjunction with other coupons.
x