5 Easy Steps to Lowering Your Cholesterol - She Loves Nice Things
POPULAR POSTS....
7 Best Ways to Lose Weight This Month
4 Ways to Stop Stressing About Money
4 Easy Ways to Eat Well on a Budget
8 Awesome Handmade Christmas Gifts (that don’t suck)
Best Black Friday 2018 Shopping Tips
Achieving Your Dreams
8 Instagram Food Accounts that you MUST Follow
3 Easy Ways to Simplify Your Life
4 Simple Ways to Eat Healthy While Traveling
5 Easy Ways to Reduce Back to School Stress
How to Choose the Right Wine on a First Date
10 Cool Coffee Facts You Probably Didn’t Know
15 Creative Household Uses For Coffee Filters
17 Tasty Things to Make With Bacon
5 Keto Pizza Recipes That’ll Make You Happy You’re on a Diet
Organic Baby Food; A complete buying guide
7 Dieting Tips to Lose Weight Fast
6 Ways that You’re Sabotaging Your Diet Without Even Knowing It
4 Great Ways to Eat Tasty Foods on a Diet
How to Get Super Cheap School Supplies
12 Things You Should Always Buy at the Dollar Store
Eggs Make Quick, Classy, Convenient Cooking for Two
4 Delicious and Simple Slow Cooker Dinner Recipes
6 Easy Ways to Eat Healthier During Pregnancy
4 Things to Do When Nothing is Going Your Way
4 Fantastic Lunch Hour Yoga Poses
8 Festive Tips to Make Your 4th of July Barbecue a Success
6 Super Easy Move Out Cleaning Tips
6 Tips to Help You Prepare for Family Beach Vacations
5 Best Selling Weight Loss Pills + Which Ones Really Work
10 July 4th Desserts the Whole Family will Love
7 Tips for a Peaceful Family Vacation
The Truth About Bottled Water
Is Your Diet Giving You a Headache?
5 Healthy Benefits of Eating Oatmeal
5 Easy Ways to Save Money On Organic Food
Top 5 Things You MUST Have in Your Kitchen
A Free Credit Report Helped Me Buy My First House
5 Surefire Ways For Teachers To Make Money This Summer
7 Simple Steps to Creating a Positive Life
4 Tips to Choosing Your Perfect Sunglasses
6 Awesome Ways to Really Enjoy the Empty Nest :)
9 Easy Ways to Keep Cats Out of Your Garden
5 Helpful Tiny Home Decorating Tips
5 Cool Summertime Home Decorating Tips
5 Smart Secrets to Creating a Killer Budget
3 Hacks for Healthy Hair
5 Mouth Watering Lobster Recipes Anyone Can Make
How to Choose the Right Bridal Handbag
35 Strange Facts You’ve Probably Never Heard
The Lazy Girl’s Guide to Working Out
Best Anti Aging Hack You Should Be Doing
How to Buy a Bar Stool; 3 Great Tips
4 Great Ways to Keep Pets Out of Your Plants
How Organizing Your Closet Can Help You Shop
6 Top Packing Hacks for Moving Day
7 Organic Gardening Hacks for Your Health
6 Herb Growing Hacks for Your Garden
9 Easy Ways to Take Control of Your Life
Cool Summer Crafts for Kids
Wedding Craft Ideas to Help You Save Money
Here’s How to Manifest Anything You Want
6 Little Words That Will Save You Thousands of Dollars
6 Refreshing Benefits of Cucumber Water
3 Day Military Diet
How to Make Keto Bread Recipe
Easy Gourmet Cooking for Pleasure
Learn Almost Anything From a Celebrity
Why I Refuse to Stress About Growing My Facebook Business Page
6 Really Cool Online Stores You Should Know About
3 Reasons Why She Hates Your Beard
3 Things You Need to Find Mr. Right
Dash Diet Recipes for Better Health
7 Simple Exercises to Burn Belly Fat
How Much Coffee is Too Much Coffee?
12 Cooking Hacks that Will Change Your Life
15 of the World’s Best Travel Hacks
18 Household Uses for Baking Soda
How to Arm Knit a Super Chunky Blanket
If You’re Struggling to Lose Weight, Here’s Some Good News…
5 Cool Ways for Stay at Home Moms to Make Extra Cash
How to Get to 60,000 Page Views a Month in 60 Days
11 of the Best Shampoos for Curly Hair
How Discipline Makes Children More Out of Control
Wanna Pay Less at Starbucks? Here’s How…
How I Made $1400 for My First Paid Freelance Writing Gig
7 Natural Ways to Keep Your House Spider Free
How Not to Let Your Smart Phone Make You Dumb
10 Awesome Side Hustles You Can Start Today
The BEST Way to Keep Love Alive
Are You Ready for Fashion Insurance?
Looking for a Side Gig? 7 Great Ways to Make Money From Home
Not Your Average Avocado Toast
How to Make Real Money with Affiliate Marketing
11 Perfect Gifts for the Foodie on Your List
10 Genius Ways to Save Tons of Money on Things You Use Everyday
10 Household Cleaning Hacks That Will Completely Change Your Life
7 Easy Ways to Stretch Your Budget
Want Clear Skin? Eat These 5 Foods!
6 Green Ingredients to Clean Every Corner of Your Kitchen
5 Awesome Benefits of Pumpkin Seeds
6 Easy Ways to Make Your Home Smell Awesome
6 Everyday Habits that are Making You Age Faster
9 Cheap AND Stylish DIY Home Decor Hacks
6 Shocking Benefits of Drinking Earl Grey Tea
4 Habits that Create Better Relationships
8 Ways Clutter Is Wrecking Your Life
Why You Should Never Use Social Media In the Washroom
Best Halloween Makeup on Instagram
Setting Goals for 2018; Are You Ready?
8 Easy Ways to Decorate Your Bedroom on a Budget
4 Best Tips to De-cluttering for a Move
8 Amazing Household Hacks You’ll Love!
Caramel Apple Sangria
She Loves Nice Things
Women's Living Well Lifestyle Magazine
Search for:
LIFESTYLE
Home Decor
BEAUTY
Beauty and the Buck
FOOD & DRINK
Recipes
HEALTH & WELLNESS
TRAVEL
MAKE MONEY
BLOGGING
Pinterest Traffic School
Blogging Tools
How to Start a Blog
ABOUT
CONTACT
Privacy Policy
Affiliate Disclosure
WORK WITH ME :)
Home | Health | 5 Easy Steps to Lowering Your Cholesterol
5 Easy Steps to Lowering Your Cholesterol
by Health
Pinterest
Facebook
Twitter
8shares
You can lower your cholesterol without drugs by following some basic steps that will not only change your cholesterol levels, but will also improve your health today and into the future.
So often we use a prescription drugs and hope they will magically cure whatever ails us. The truth is, prescription drugs for lowering cholesterol do work. The problem is both the short term and long-term side effects of those drugs.
Even more dangerous than the side effects of prescription drugs to lower cholesterol, is not getting cholesterol under control. Over time, high cholesterol can lead to numerous conditions of the heart and arteries, not the least of which are atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries), stroke or heart attack.
Here are 5 Easy Steps to Lowering Your Cholesterol without prescription drugs.
Eat right.
Might sound simple, but diet has such a huge impact on lowering cholesterol that it should be the number one factor you look at in determining if your high cholesterol is hereditary or a matter of dietary choices. A low fat and low cholesterol diet is the first step toward lowering cholesterol.
2. Exercise.
Improving cardiovascular health is a big step toward reversing the effects of high cholesterol. Exercise itself doesn’t directly lower cholesterol, but it will strengthen the heart and entire circulatory system.
3. Quit smoking.
If you smoke, the plaque build up in the arteries due to high cholesterol is accelerated. When plaque blocks the flow of blood to the heart, the muscle has to work harder to get oxygen. This can lead to a heart attack. If the arteries get completely blocked with plaque from high cholesterol then a stroke can occur.
4. Relax.
You Might Like This: 6 Superfoods That Can Make You Look Younger
Chronic stress can affect cholesterol levels. If you are constantly stressed and eating a low cholesterol diet, you may not see any improvement in cholesterol readings until you learn to relieve stress.
5. Talk to your doctor.
Not all doctors are quick to prescribe medications. In fact, the more enlightened doctors will help you form a diet and exercise plan that is suitable for your current overall health and abilities as a first step toward lowering cholesterol. It is always important to ask your doctor if your decision to follow a specific diet or exercise plan is right for you. In addition, do not stop taking medications before consulting with your doctor. You can lower your cholesterol with diet and exercise, and under the care of your doctor, see about removing drugs from the process.
It doesn’t take long to see significant improvements in your cholesterol. Lower cholesterol can be yours in just a matter of weeks, if you take the right steps now.
Peace 🙂
LIKE IT? PIN IT!
featured
Post navigation
4 Natural Ways to Relieve Sunburn
7 Things You Should Know About Essential Oils
Random News…
Looking for MORE truth in blogging? Check out…
Follow
Most Popular Posts
The One Thing No One Tells You About Starting a Blog
10 Genius Ways to Save Tons of Money on Things You Use Everyday
How to Make Keto Bread Recipe
6 Apps that Help Me Make Money with This Blog
5 Awesome Reasons You Should Network with Other Bloggers
How to Increase Your Blogging Income with One Little Tweak
PinterestFacebookTwitter132sharesHow to Increase Your Blogging Income with One Little Tweak If you’re a new blogger, you’re no doubt trying to …
Read More...
3 Ways Cross Fit Training Helps You Lose Weight FAST
PinterestFacebookTwitter42sharesThe numbers on your scale don’t indicate whether you are fit or fat. Far more significant than your total body …
Read More...
© 2019 She Loves Nice Things Rara Magazine By Rara Theme. Powered by WordPress
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy
8shares
error: Content is protected !!