Genetic Testing for Cancer - Your Health Matters Blog | Mercy Medical Center Des Moines
Home
Helpful Resources
Cancer / Procedures and Services
Genetic Testing for Cancer
by Mercy Medical Center - Des Moines · October 17, 2016
Tweet
Could it be right for you?
A person’s medical and family history often hold clues about an increased cancer risk or an inherited cancer. Inherited genetic mutations play a major role in five to 10 percent of all cancers. Many of these genetic mutations have now been identified, and genetic testing can usually confirm whether a condition is, indeed, the result of an inherited syndrome.
Many experts recommend genetic testing should be considered a) when someone has a personal or family history that suggests an inherited cancer risk condition; b) when the test results can be adequately interpreted; and c) when the results can provide information to help guide a person’s future medical care.
Anyone considering genetic testing should speak with a trained genetics professional before deciding whether to go through the process. Genetic counseling includes a detailed review of the individual’s personal and family medical history related to possible cancer risk. Counseling also includes discussions about such issues as the medical implications of a positive or a negative test result, the possibility that a test result may not be useful in making health care decisions, the psychological risks and benefits of learning one’s genetic test results, and the risk of passing a genetic mutation (if one is present in a parent) to children.
Genetic testing is not right for everyone, and the test itself has limitations. It does not always provide a simple “yes” or “no” answer about hereditary cancer risk within a family.
It can also be expensive if it’s not covered by a health insurance plan. In some instances, a genetic counselor will even recommend genetic testing not be done for any number
of reasons.
Learn more. The experts at Mercy Cancer Center can help determine if you are a good candidate for genetic testing, and ensure results are interpreted and explained correctly. Contact Mercy Cancer Center at (515) 643-8206 for more information.
Share
Tags: cancergenetic testing
Like this topic? Subscribe to the RSS Feed: Cancer (RSS), Procedures and Services (RSS)
You may also like...
Speaking the language of healing
18 Jul, 2017
Colorectal Cancer Screening: What test is right for you?
19 Feb, 2016
9 Simple Things to Help Food Go From Bland to Grand
29 Feb, 2016
Follow:
Next story Adding POWER to your Walking Routine
Previous story An Executive Decision
Categories
Select Category Ask an Expert Cancer Exercise Healthy Recipes Infographics Kids Health Medical News Mercy Legacy Pregnancy and Childbirth Procedures and Services Stress Uncategorized Weight Loss Wellness Women’s Health
Recent Posts
Is hormone therapy right for you…it’s all in the timing.
From regret to reinvention
Stress management for aging women
Depression in Women
Speaking the language of healing
Twitter Feed
Tweets by @mercydesmoines
Sign Up for Our Newsletter
Name:
E-mail:
Your Health Matters Blog | Mercy Medical Center Des Moines © 2019. All Rights Reserved.
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Welcome | Your Health Matters