People’s pharmacy: Are statins linked to memory problems? | The Spokesman-Review
Arrow-right Camera
The Spokesman-Review Newspaper The Spokesman-Review
Saturday, April 20, 2019 Spokane, Washington Est. May 19, 1883 55° Partly Cloudy
Menu
Search
News
Sports
AEArts & Entertainment
Weather
Obits
Newsletters
e-Edition
Classifieds
Customer Service
Subscribe
Close
Log in/Register Go to e-Edition Sign up for newsletters Customer service
News
Spokane
Washington
Idaho
Nation
World
Business
Health
Marijuana
Election Center
WA Government
ID Government
Weather
Sports
Outdoors
Gonzaga basketball
WSU football
EWU basketball
EWU football
Gonzaga women
High school sports
Seattle Mariners
Seattle Seahawks
Seattle Sounders
Spokane Chiefs
Spokane Indians
UW basketball
UW football
Idaho basketball
Idaho football
Whitworth
WSU basketball
Arts and Entertainment
A&E
Food
Spokane7
Art
Books
Beer/Drinks
Cooking
Dining
Northwest Passages
Special Sections
Opinion
Opinion
Letters to the Editor
Archives
Today's News
Archives
Multimedia
Know Spokane
data.spokesman.com
Photos
Reader Photos
Blogs
Picture Stories
Video
Local area guides
Classifieds
General Classifieds
Homes/Rentals
Employment
Auto Connection
Public Records
Brides
Births
Birthday/Anniversary Form
Announcements
Advertising
Advertise with us
Advertising inserts
Subscribe now
Close
Zags
Further Review
Northwest Passages
Outdoors
Difference Makers
A&E
People’s pharmacy: Are statins linked to memory problems?
Tue., Jan. 23, 2018
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Reddit
SMS
By Joe Graedon, M.S., , Teresa Graedon and Ph.D. King Features Syndicate
Q. I read somewhere about a statin that is not fat-soluble and doesn’t cross the blood-brain barrier. Unfortunately, I forgot the name. I am currently taking simvastatin and have noticed a decline in my memory. Can you help me?
A. Physicians have been debating the relationship between statins and cognitive function for decades. The Food and Drug Administration requires this statement for simvastatin: “There have been rare postmarketing reports of cognitive impairment (e.g., memory loss, forgetfulness, amnesia, memory impairment, confusion) associated with statin use. These cognitive issues have been reported for all statins.”
Clinical trials have not demonstrated memory impairment due to statins (Journal of General Internal Medicine, March 2015). Despite this, published case reports link cognitive problems to statins (Pharmacotherapy, July 2009; Drug Safety Case Reports, December 2016).
Until this controversy is resolved, some experts recommend switching to a less fat-soluble statin such as pravastatin or rosuvastatin (Canadian Pharmacists Journal, May 2015). You can learn more about other ways to lower cholesterol in our “Guide to Cholesterol Control and Heart Health” (online at www.PeoplesPharmacy.com).
Q. After I had made numerous fruitless trips to a dermatologist, my husband read about using Selsun Blue for rosacea. What a difference it made after just a couple of days! I haven’t been back to the dermatologist since.
I like a scrub, so I add a little baking soda and wash my face with Selsun Blue. My face is so much better now that I barely need makeup.
A. Rosacea causes redness and flushing on the face, especially the cheeks and nose. It may be due in part to the immune system overreacting to mites that live on everyone’s skin. Selenium sulfide (found in Selsun Blue) may help reduce the reaction.
Q. I was on Lexapro for almost 15 years. Due to accumulated sexual side effects, I finally decided to get off the drug.
With my psychiatrist’s guidance, we reduced the dosage over five weeks. I have been off this drug for about a month.
During the latter stages of tapering off, I started getting dizzy, and this has not gone away. I have bouts of dizziness throughout the day, and I get a quick burst of vertigo if I move my head or eyes rapidly. Will this dizziness ever go away?
A. Stopping antidepressants like escitalopram (Lexapro) suddenly can trigger a “discontinuation syndrome.” Symptoms may include dizziness, vertigo, anxiety, amnesia, headaches, trouble concentrating, “brain zaps” (electric shocklike sensations in the head), tremor, fatigue, insomnia and digestive upset (Clinical Neuropharmacology, May-June 2016).
Some people appear to be especially sensitive to withdrawal symptoms. It may take several more months for the dizziness to fade.
Q. I had the cotton tip of a swab come off in my ear. It became infected, and the ENT doctor had to use a vacuum to get it out. That was the most painful experience of my life. Do not use cotton swabs for cleaning your ears!
A. Researchers have found that cotton-tipped swabs often are associated with eardrum injuries (JAMA Otolaryngology Head & Neck Surgery, online, Dec. 21, 2017). Instead of these applicators, experts advise cleaning the ear with a washcloth. They point out that earwax is water-soluble and manufactured in the outer third of the ear canal.
In their column, Joe and Teresa Graedon answer letters from readers. Write to them in care of King Features, 628 Virginia Drive, Orlando, FL 32803, or email them via their website: www.PeoplesPharmacy.com.
Wordcount: 574
Published: Jan. 23, 2018, midnight
Tags: health, Medicine, People's Pharmacy
Subscribe to the Spokane7 email newsletter
Get the day’s top entertainment headlines delivered to your inbox every morning.
You have been successfully subscribed!
There was a problem subscribing you to the newsletter. Double check your email and try again, or email webteam@spokesman.com
Most read stories
Do nurses spend time ‘playing cards’? Washington senator’s remarks spark outrage …
Spokane climber Jess Roskelley missing and presumed killed by avalanche in Canadian Rockies; David Lama, Hansjorg Auer also presumed dead …
Bad weather delays search and recovery of Jess Roskelley and climbing partners …
Parents of missing Austrian alpinist climbing with Roskelley say he ‘lived his dream’ …
Grandparents accused of kidnapping grandchildren and fleeing to Louisiana arrive at Spokane County Jail …
Follow us elsewhere:
Facebook
Twitter
Newsletter
Subscribe
Print edition home delivery
Newspaper Routes Available
Help
Customer Service
Sitemap
Directory
Subscriber Services
User
Log in/Register
Classifieds
Classifieds
Advertising
Obituaries
More
Masthead
Staff
Cowles Jobs
Archives/Research
Buy photo reprints
Jumble
Crossword
Horoscopes
Contact Us
Downtown Spokane
999 W Riverside Ave
Spokane, Wa 99201
Mailing Address
P.O. Box 2160
Spokane, WA 99210
Customer service:
(509) 747-4422
Newsroom:
(509) 459-5400
© Copyright 2019, The Spokesman-Review | Community Guidelines | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | Copyright Policy