Montgomery County MD mosquito control | Mosquito Squad of Maryland's Blog
Mosquito Squad of Maryland's Blog
Providing mosquito free, tick free and healthy outdoor living.
About
Contact Us!
Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery
301-444-5566
Visit our Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery website
email us
Search Our Blog
Site Categories
Site Categories Select Category All Natural Mosquito Control Asian Tiger Mosquito Canine Lyme Disease Chikungunya Chikungunya in Maryland Community Outreach and Special Events Diseases Eastern Equine Encephalitis Healthy Family Lyme Disease Malaria Malaria No More Campaign Support Mosquito control Mosquito Facts Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery Customer Reviews and Testimonials Mosquitoes and Mosquito-borne Illness Nuisance Insect Control Organic Mosquito Control Outdoor Events Outdoor Living Special Event Mosquito & Tick Control for Outdoor Events Stink Bug Protection Tick Control and Prevention Tick Tubes Montgomery Ticks and Lyme Disease Ticks and Tick-borne Illness Traditional Mosquito Control Program Uncategorized West Nile Virus
Posts tagged ‘Montgomery County MD mosquito control’
« Older Entries |
August 14, 2015
Whatever you’re celebrating this summer – do it worry free. Outside!
A Bird Hanging on to Summer.
Here at Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery we believe in living outdoors as much as possible. Whether it’s going for a hike, driving out to the beach or throwing a family reunion in your back yard – be sure to get outside and enjoy the rest of this too short summer and the beautiful fall weather that is coming.
What are you celebrating this month?
August is a fantastic month in the Greater D.C. area for outdoor celebrations. If you’re throwing a bah-mitzvah or a birthday party, have it at your North Potomac house. Your backyard provides a great space to enjoy the outdoors and celebrate with family and friends. The convenience of using your own yard is unbeatable. You can start and end the party at the times that work best for you. If the party runs late, stay outside and throw a bonfire without having to hurry and clean up to be out at a certain time.
Family Reunion
Planning the annual family reunion? Host your extended family at your North Bethesda home for a cook out, softball game, horseshoes and good times. There is no reason to go rent a hall when you can take advantage of summer and fall weather. Don’t let the mosquitoes and ticks deter you, with a simple call to Mosquito Squad we can eliminate mosquitoes and ticks for your next event. Enjoy the comfortable weather outside while you can, winter is coming.
Wine Tasting
Do you love sipping wine with friends? Have your next wine tasting party on your back deck or patio. Whether it’s late summer or early fall, nothing completes a good sampling of wines better than being in nature with great friends. The lovely sound of chirping birds and a cool breeze while you sip wine and catch up on the latest can provide of the best moments we get in this life. Eliminate the mosquitoes and ticks that are interested in interrupting your zen moments by calling Mosquito Squad before your next party or event.
Weddings and Fundraisers
One of the best contributions you can make to your child is to let them have their wedding at your Montgomery County home. The memories you create will be cherished forever and in the place you call home. Hosting a fundraiser at your house is an easy contribution to make to your favorite cause. In either case, bring in the caterers, the party planners and other special event vendors. We love the work that Digital Lightning out of Gaithersburg does, from fireworks and pyro to laser light shows, you can add a wonderful surprise to any wedding or fundraiser at your home. But don’t forget to call Mosquito Squad too, we’ll make sure your guests aren’t swatting mosquitoes while in their formal attire.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery
No matter what you’re celebrating, do it pest free with help from Mosquito Squad. We’ll come out 24-48 hours and spray your property to eliminate up to 90% of mosquitoes and ticks before your next outdoor event. ContactMosquito Squad of West Montgomerytoday to schedule mosquito (and tick) protection for your special outdoor occasion! You can reach us at (301) 444-5566 • email:westmontco@mosquitosquad.com.
Advertisements
Posted in Outdoor Events, Outdoor Living, Special Event Mosquito & Tick Control for Outdoor Events | Leave a Comment »
Tags: Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito control, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery MD, Raising awareness of mosquito borne illness in Rockville MD, Rockville MD mosquito control service
July 31, 2015
Outdoor Living in the Montgomery County area is a Dream
With a wet beginning to the summer it looked like a wash out was inevitable. While it’s hard to complain about rain when so many parts of the country and the world are suffering immense droughts, it was getting to be quite depressing.
Alas, Summer is Here
Luckily, it can’t rain all the time and the weather has given us some breaks. Between the tropical heat and humidity that has become part of the Montgomery County summer climate and the complete down pours, there are some really lovely days that are important to get out and enjoy. The fleeting clear warm days accompanied by cool nights feel like autumn is coming and I even needed a light jacket one day last week. I’d hate to hear of anyone losing the opportunity to be outside enjoying those perfect days due to mosquitoes and ticks.
Time to Get Outside
When a perfect day with low humidity and warm temperatures presents itself, now is the time to get outside. Go play ball in the yard with the kids. Invite your friends over for a barbecue. Take the dog for a nice long walk. Whatever you love doing, go do it outside, take full advantage of the weather as much as you can. With these gorgeous days being tucked in between rainy wet days and hot humid days it is vital that you have your yard treated for mosquitoes and ticks now, before these days arrive. If you wait until the weather is nice to call us, you’ll have already lost some outdoor time.
The Best Outdoor Living Is Pest Free
Outdoor living is best done with a bit of preparation. Being chased in by mosquitoes or having your dog come in covered in ticks is not something you want to worry about when your trying to make the most out of the beautiful weather. To really live outdoors without annoyance or dangerous bug bites, you need a mosquito control and tick control plan. Make your adventures outdoors spontaneous and without ridiculously smelly sprays, by eliminating the mosquitoes and ticks in your yard with Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery. With our traditional barrier spray eliminating 85-90% of the mosquitoes in your yard you can head outside any time day or night without having to spray yourself, light candles or torches or cover yourself from head to toe. When outdoor living can become this easy, you’re sure to take advantage of every moment of this beautiful Maryland summer.
Dangers of Not Controlling Mosquitoes and Ticks at your Home
Mosquitoes are multiplying rapidly thanks to the wet weather that has just recently let up. They carry and transmit diseases that can really make you sick. West Nile Virus has already been discovered in mosquito pools all around the North East this summer and there has even been a human case of West Nile Virus in Delaware.
With the number of deer loitering in our backyards from Darnestown and North Potomac to Derwood and North Bethesda, deer ticks are at an all time high — making Lyme Disease more widespread than ever. With West Nile Virus hitting so close to home and the increase in Lyme Disease, spread by ticks being heavily reported – protecting yourself, your family and your pets is crucial to living a carefree outdoor life.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery
Preventing your exposure to mosquitoes is your best weapons against West Nile Virus. At Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery we can eliminate 85-90% of mosquitoes and ticks in your yard with our traditional barrier. Contact Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery to learn more about protecting yourself and your family from the risks of tick-borne illnesses such as Lyme Disease in your backyard! Sign up today • (301) 444-5566 • email: westmontco@mosquitosquad.com
Posted in Mosquito control, West Nile Virus | Leave a Comment »
Tags: Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery MD, Raising awareness of mosquito borne illness in Rockville MD, Rockville MD mosquito control to reduce the risk of mosquito-borne illness
July 10, 2015
Mosquitoes and Ticks (stink bugs, fleas, gnats and other outdoor pests too) are All we do at Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery
Do you want your landscaper to be held responsible for the mosquito and tick control in your yard? How about the HVAC and plumbing company? We’ve come across a new trend here in Montgomery County that is intriguing to say the least. Other service industry businesses are going out and buying some products, arming themselves with a fogger machine and offering up mosquito control services as part of their product line.
You may have seen signs on the corner, or mailers that say $19.95 for your first spray (be careful, the fine print that says this is for a yard under 5,000 square feet.) We’ve also seen full season offerings that are priced so low we know that either 1.) They are operating at a loss and will soon be gone from the industry or 2.) They are not using the quality products and highly qualified and trained technicians we employ.
In an effort to keep our professional integrity and superior service we refuse to race to the bottom of the price wars. We know that our valued customers are aware of the difference between fly by night/non-specialty mosquito control services and what Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery is providing.
Quality in Product & Quality in Service
With Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery you know exactly what you’re going to get. We specialize in mosquito control and tick control making us the top choice for your outdoor pest control needs. Our products are the best of the best. We want you to know what your yard is being treated with so we share valuable information about those products on our Product Information page. Our knowledgeable staff is here if you should have any additional questions about the content of our mosquito and tick sprays.
Being the experts in mosquito and tick control our customer service is our number one priority. With our fully trained and registered applicators treating your yard you can be sure that the best work is done no matter what challenges your property presents. Our office staff is as knowledgeable as the technicians so that when you call with questions or concerns we can help you immediately. We are so confident in our mosquito and tick control treatment that if for any reason you are not satisfied, you just give us a call and we’ll come out and re-treat with no questions asked.
Mosquitoes on the Side
You may have called other services because you saw a special promotion. When they answer the phone you likely talked to someone who couldn’t answer any questions but just wanted to send someone out to inspect your property. Or if you’re lucky you may have gotten someone with a little bit of knowledge who could tell you the cost for a yard your size, but it seemed as if they were guessing and trying too hard sell you without an agreed upon price. Or you may have had the worst luck and been placed on hold by three different people before finally hanging up. Here at Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery if you don’t get through to one of our expert customer service representatives immediately, we let you leave us a message so we can pay special attention to every caller and get back to you right away with all of the answers you need.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery
The plumbers, HVAC, indoor pest companies and landscapers do it on the side. Mosquito and tick control is ALL we do. Protect your family from tick-borne and mosquito-borne viruses with our traditional barrier spray that eliminates 85-90% of mosquitoes and ticks in your yard. Contact the experts at Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery to schedule mosquito and tick protection for your special outdoor occasion and all season long! You can reach us at (301) 444-5566 • email: westmontco@mosquitosquad.com.
Posted in Mosquito control, Tick Control and Prevention | Leave a Comment »
Tags: Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery MD, Rockville MD mosquito control service
July 7, 2015
Rain, Rain Go Away So We Can Spray for Mosquitoes Today
We have a love/hate relationship with the rain and we’ve had a LOT of rain lately here in Montgomery County. For mosquitoes to breed and business to be good we need the rain. To be able to spray, successfully eliminating those rain produced mosquitoes we need it to stop raining sometimes. When a summer like this one comes along it is a double-edged sword, but you might be surprised at how uneven that double-edged sword really is.
Our Sticky Time-Released Formula
Our traditional barrier spray has a timed-released formula that allows it to last for up to 3 weeks even if it rains later that very same day. Before buying this franchise location, I had a really good chance to test the effectiveness of this product, even in rain. My yard was being sprayed every three weeks for the summer and the results were amazing. Then came an extended wet period. One July day despite very heavy skies my yard was treated and within one hour we had the heaviest torrential rain of that summer. My first inclination was to call and request a respray. But because I was considering buying this franchise, I realized I had a great opportunity to really test the product. Being the curious person I am, I decided not to ask for a respray. I am not kidding you, I had zero mosquitoes for the next three weeks. Given enough time to dry, our product really sticks.
If you see a chance of rain in the forecast you can still get treated with the regular product. As long as the mosquito spray has time to dry you should be good to go. If it does rain after an application don’t fret, hold off and see, it really does stick as long as it has dried first. With our traditional barrier spray sticking to leaves, grass and other foliage, mosquitoes that come along after the fact will be eliminated or repelled for up to 3 weeks.
How Long Does it Take for Mosquito Spray to Dry?
There is not an exact answer for how long it takes for mosquito spray to dry. I can’t say with certainty that after 31 minutes and 28 seconds you can turn on the sprinklers and do the rain dance. There are many variables. On a hot sunny day with low humidity it can be very fast. On a cool cloud damp day it can take a bit longer. Generally an hour is enough time to dry in most conditions. As always we guarantee our product, so if it does indeed rain shortly after your yard is sprayed and you find the effectiveness to be diminished in some way – we will come out and respray, no questions asked.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
We are crossing our fingers that we get some great summer weather to enjoy in between these bursts of rain, but even if we don’t get our wish you can still protect your family from mosquito bites and mosquito-borne viruses such as West Nile Virus. Protect your family and friends today by contacting Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery to schedule mosquito and tick protection for your special outdoor occasion and all season long! You can reach us at (301) 444-5566 • email: westmontco@mosquitosquad.com.
Posted in Mosquito control, Traditional Mosquito Control Program | Leave a Comment »
Tags: healthy outdoor living, Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention, Kensington MD tick control and prevention, Kentland mosquito control & prevention, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito Squad, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, Rockville MD effective mosquito control, Rockville MD mosquito control service, Rockville MD mosquito control to reduce the risk of mosquito-borne illness
July 3, 2015
Choices, choices: Did you know we offer an organic and traditional barrier spray program?
It seems the word “Organic” is appearing more and more on the shelves of every grocery store. Whether concern over GMO food, the antibiotics used in our meat or concern over the pesticides used to increase the production of food, the term organic is used on more products. As popular TV shows on food and health teach us, buying organic is more important when buying some foods than it is for others. We may choose to pay more for organic fruit when we are going to eat the outside skin of our fruit. For other fruit, like bananas and oranges we have fewer health concerns eating ones sprayed with pesticides. The more we know about the food we eat, the better choices we can make for our families and our self. When considering a mosquito barrier spray for your yard, you also have a traditional and organic option. They each work differently, so we want to point out some of the things you may want to consider when making your choice between a traditional or organic barrier spray for mosquitoes.
Traditional Barrier Spray Keeping mosquitoes away is the best way to prevent mosquito bites,and the further away they are, the better. Our traditional barrier spray eliminates 85-90% of the mosquitoes in your yard. Since most mosquitoes are poor fliers, most live their life within 300’ of where they are born. Eliminating mosquitoes in your yard means fewer mosquitoes and fewer bites throughout the summer. The traditional mosquito control approach uses a very effective and proven insecticide. The spray eliminates mosquitoes on contact and continues eliminating them for weeks, as they rest and feed on the treated vegetation. When the spray dries, this take approximately an hour, it remains there. It will need to be reapplied usually every 21 days.
Organic Barrier Spray Our organic mosquito control spray is made from garlic. It reduces the number of mosquitoes in your yard by repelling them rather than eliminating them. When applied, the spray has a slight odor. After it dries, you will no longer smell the odor. However, mosquitoes will be able to smell it and continue to be repelled. This spray will reduce the number of mosquitoes in your yard by 70-75%. Just as any organic farmer knows, natural pesticide solutions don’t last as long as traditional pesticides. They need to be reapplied more often. The same is true when using our organic mosquito control treatment. Our organic treatments needs to be reapplied every 14 days in order to receive continuous protection in your yard.
Your Decision The decision on whether to use our traditional or organic spray is often decided on how you use your yard and whether you have infants or toddlers. You should know that our technicians are trained to avoid spraying flowering plants or fishponds. Fish ponds usually have moving water to support the fish. Mosquitoes prefer standing water like that found in flowerpots and tires. Focusing the spray on areas where mosquitoes are more likely to be resting will also help prevent harm to any beneficial insects.
If you have a vegetable garden or fruit trees in your yard, or little ones who are still crawling, you may feel more comfortable using our organic barrier spray. When spraying, we use foggers to mist vegetation. Of course, some of the mist will come in contact with the lawn where toddlers may later be playing and crawling. Until your children are walking and not on hands and knees, you may feel more comfortable using our organic spray.
Whether you choose our organic garlic, organic essential oil or traditional barrier spray each will typically dry on leaf foliage within an hour after treatment. You can feel comfortable using your yard as you normally would after that time. The difference noted in your yard will feel like night and day when it comes to mosquito bites. Finally, you can enjoy working in your flower garden or grilling outside with friends and family no longer worried about mosquito bites. Preventing West Nile disease and other mosquito-borne infections begins and ends with reducing your exposure to mosquitoes and their bite. Using either a traditional or organic barrier spray is an effective place to start with your mosquito control program.
Contact Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery to learn more or sign up today • (301) 444-5566 • email:westmontco@mosquitosquad.com
Posted in All Natural Mosquito Control, Mosquito control, Mosquitoes and Mosquito-borne Illness, Organic Mosquito Control, Outdoor Living, Traditional Mosquito Control Program | Leave a Comment »
Tags: biting mosquitoes, Community outreach on mosquito and tick safety in Rockville MD, healthy outdoor living, Kensington All Natural Mosquito Control, Kentland mosquito control & prevention, Kentland mosquito service, Kentlands All Natural Mosquito Control, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery MD, Rockville MD All Natural Mosquito Control, Rockville MD organic mosquito control
June 25, 2015
Mosquito Eater? Mosquito Hawk? Giant Mosquito? What is this Huge Flying Daddy Long Legs Looking Thing?
Crane Fly
“You just sprayed my yard and it’s covered in giant mosquitoes! Please come back and spray again.” Receiving a call like this at Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery County is our worst nightmare. It is also something we are not accustomed to and we take it very seriously. We headed out to the house in question that very same day to see what possibly could have happened.
A Giant Mosquito Infestation
Sure enough, the back yard really was covered in large mosquito-like insects. Upon closer inspection however, they were not mosquitoes. They in fact were Mosquito Eaters. Often mistaken for giant mosquitoes these lovely creatures resemble a cross between a mosquito and a Daddy Long Legs with wings. They are also widely known in the south as Mosquito Hawks or Skeeter Eaters. But their proper name is actually Crane Fly.
What You Should Know About the Crane Fly
Crane flies do not eat mosquitoes. They were named after them because they look like large versions of them, not because they eat them.
Crane flies do not bite humans.
Adult Crane flies usually don’t eat at all, but their larvae will devour any decaying matter in the water where they live.
Adults only live for 10 to 15 days after hatching.
Living to reproduce, sometimes the female Crane fly will die immediately after laying her eggs.
Crane flies are known for their lazy flight, attraction to light and their dangly long legs. Many of us were under the impression that they were a natural form of mosquito control. If one would get in the house we might carefully shoo it out, realizing its value in eating mosquitoes was too important to squash. Carefully picking it up and trying to release it back in the wild was always a challenge with their fragile long legs often becoming victims to our good will.
Mosquito
Don’t Kill Mosquito Hawks
While you don’t have to “save” them for their mosquito control value, there is no need to eliminate these harmless flies. They serve as food for a large variety of other insects, birds and fish and their larvae provide a great service in munching away at the decaying matter in wetlands. There have been reports of larvae munching on the roots and destroying lawns when they show up in massive droves but that is the exception not the norm.
If you happen to be an angler you might be very familiar with The Crane Fly and its value. But you probably don’t call it a Crane Fly either, you quite likely call it great bait or fish food. Known to be a wonderful bait for catching Bass, the Crane Fly can be mighty useful to the fishing sportsman/woman.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
While we don’t advocate killing Crane Flies we do suggest you eliminate its smaller, much more dangerous, smaller name sake – the mosquito. Protect your family and friends today by contacting Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery to schedule mosquito (and tick) protection for your special outdoor occasion and all season long! You can reach us at (301) 444-5566 • email: westmontco@mosquitosquad.com.
Posted in Healthy Family, Mosquito control, Mosquito Facts, Outdoor Living | Leave a Comment »
Tags: A case of mistaken identity Crane fly vs. mosquito, Facts about Crane Flies, Facts about mosquito hawks, healthy outdoor living, Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Nuisance Insect Control, Rockville MD mosquito control service, Traditional Mosquito Control Program Kentlands mosquito control in MD
June 16, 2015
Don’t Let One Mosquito Turn into One Billion Mosquitoes in your Montgomery County Back Yard
The wet weather that has been occurring here in Maryland over past weeks presents the perfect mix of moisture and warmth, resulting in booming mosquito populations. In honor of Mosquito Awareness week, which is June 21-27, we want to do our part in making the public aware of the reality of mosquitoes we want to share with you the crazy, unbelievable facts about how fast mosquitoes can reproduce going from 1 to more than 1 billion.
You may think having an unprotected property means you will have a few pesky mosquitoes here and there. You will have to light a candle or spray some spray when you are going outside for the evening, no big deal. Right? Wrong. What you don’t know can hurt you, and your neighbors! It only takes one bite from one mosquito carrying West Nile Virus (WNV) or Eastern Equine Encephalitis (EEE) to make you, a loved one, or your neighbor very sick.
Only One Mosquito to Make you Sick. What Will a Billion Do?
Here at Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery County we like numbers. Numbers help us make sure we are doing our job. How many mosquitoes did you see in your yard before we treated it? How many did you see after? Numbers are a perfect measuring tool. Let’s look at the numbers to see how in the world mosquito populations get to be so big so fast.
Week One
That one female mosquito comes a takes a bite out of you. The blood you provided her allows her to develop viable eggs. This little lady goes and lays up to 300 eggs at one time! (She can lay 3 batches of eggs in her lifetime.) About half of these 300 eggs will become egg laying female mosquitoes, hanging out in your backyard waiting for a meal to help them produce their 300 eggs.
Week Two
Now you have 151 female mosquitoes flying around your back yard laying their eggs. Not only will these mosquitoes be gaining 300 new siblings as Mom lays 300 more eggs, but they are also making Momma mosquito a grandma to 45,000 grandbabies. Add the grandbabies and siblings up and you have 45,300 new mosquitoes during week two.
Week Three
It is safe to assume half of week two’s new mosquitoes are egg laying females, or 22,650. Do you want to do the math? 22,650 x 300 eggs each = 6,795,300 new mosquitoes and that is just from the mosquitoes that hatched from week 2. You still have to add their mothers’ new batch of eggs laid (for simplicity we will skip that part).
Week Four
Keep doing the math as we have before and week three’s 3,397,000 new female mosquitoes are laying their eggs in week four. We are talking about 1,319,250,000 mosquitoes in your yard (and your neighbors I am sure) in just four weeks. Four weeks is all it takes for 1 female mosquito to turn into 1.3+ billion mosquitoes.
Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery County wants to help you nip it in the bud when you are in week 1 or at the least, week 2. Doesn’t it make sense to eliminate 1-300 mosquito bites and avoid the whole math thing in the first place? Don’t fret if you are already in the thick of your mosquito multiplication problem, our traditional barrier spray eliminates mosquitoes on contact. With the time-released formula it keeps working for up to 3 weeks eliminating up to 90% of the mosquitoes in your yard.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
Protect your family and friends today by contacting Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery to schedule mosquito (and tick) protection for your special outdoor occasion and all season long! You can reach us at (301) 444-5566 • email: westmontco@mosquitosquad.com.
Posted in Healthy Family, Mosquito control, Mosquito Facts, Nuisance Insect Control, Outdoor Living | Leave a Comment »
Tags: healthy outdoor living, How quickly mosquitoes populate in an untreated area, Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito Awareness week, Mosquito control, Mosquito Facts, Nuisance Insect Control, Rockville MD mosquito control service, Traditional Mosquito Control Program Kentlands mosquito control in MD
June 5, 2015
Team Up against dangerous mosquitoes and ticks with your friends, family, and neighbors!
Do you want your neighbors to have their yard sprayed to help keep the tick and mosquito population down in your adjoining yards? Are you hoping for a pest free barbecue when you go to your sister’s house for her annual Fourth of July party? Do you want to earn a $25 gift card to your favorite store just for telling your friends how awesome we are? Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery is making it easy to share your pest free-living with others with our ShareTheSquad Referral Reward Program.
Build Your Mosquito Fighting Team
Mosquito Squad’s success in fighting Lyme Disease and West Nile Virus, by eliminating the number of ticks and mosquitoes in Montgomery County depends greatly on word of mouth. The more yards we treat, the more successful the battle. That’s why we made it easy to tell your friends, family, and neighbors about Mosquito Squad with just a few clicks at ShareTheSquad.com.
A Win-Win
When your neighbors are enjoying your backyard in the evening or at night are they curious as to why (and how) your yard is mosquito free? Tell them. By using ShareTheSquad.com to spread the word, everyone wins:
You earn a $25 gift card to your choice of retailers for every referral who becomes a client as a special thank you from us.
If your neighbors become a client, your success with Mosquito Squad spraying your yard will be even better than the 85-90% you are already accustomed to.
When you go to outdoor gatherings at your friends’ and families’ homes you will get to experience the same pest-free living you are used to.
When your friend, family, or neighbor signs up they will get $25 off of their first spray.
We get to spray more yards. Eliminating more ticks and mosquitoes. Lowering the risk for Lyme Disease, West Nile Virus and other tick-borne and mosquito-borne diseases.
Our goal is to make sure our customers hear “thank you for the referral” loud and clear and that making that referral is as easy as possible.
Sign Up Today to register. Just enter the email address you already have on file with Mosquito Squad. You will then get an email from ShareTheSquad with a confirmation code. Once you are confirmed you can log in and get your personalized share codes for popular social media sites, email, a printable form, and a personalized link that you can share anywhere.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
If you have any questions about the ShareTheSquad Referral Rewards Program give us a call. Contact Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery today to schedule mosquito (and tick) protection for your special outdoor occasion! You can reach us at (301) 444-5566 • email: westmontco@mosquitosquad.com.
Posted in Community Outreach and Special Events, Mosquito control, Outdoor Living | Leave a Comment »
Tags: healthy outdoor living, Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention, Kensington MD tick control and prevention, Kentland mosquito control & prevention, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, North Bethesda MD tick control program, Rockville MD effective mosquito control, Rockville MD mosquito control service, Rockville MD tick control, ShareTheSquad Referral Program, ShareTheSquad Referral Reward Program, ShareTheSquad.com, tick control montgomery county
September 13, 2014
First West Nile Virus case recently reported in Maryland
According to an article published in The Washington Post, “Maryland’s health department reported the state’s first confirmed case of West Nile virus of 2014. The state’s survey period for West Nile virus lasts from July 1 to Oct. 31. Last year, the first three cases of the year were reported by mid-August. By the end of the year, 16 people had been infected. In 2012, Maryland hit a nine-year high of 47 cases.”
Here at Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, our goal is to keep residents protected from the dangers associated with mosquitoes and ticks. Though news of the recent report is concerning, we are keeping a positive outlook and are hopeful this will be the only confirmed case of the season. According to the state department of health, most people infected with the virus do not become sick. Those who do grow ill exhibit symptoms including fever, achiness, rash and swollen glands within two days to two weeks of being bitten by an infected mosquito. Less than 1 percent of people who are infected suffer more serious consequences.
A wheelbarrow of standing water, forgotten behind your garden shed serves as the perfect breeding ground for thousands of mosquito eggs.
The Labor Day week heatwave accompanied by the massive rainfalls are causing mosquitoes to be more active now than they have been all summer! It is a known fact that Asian tiger mosquitoes peak late August through September and we are seeing this come to fruition in our area and continuing with the trend. Keep in mind, even as temperatures start to grow a bit cooler as we welcome the arrival of fall in the coming weeks, it is important that residents stay vigilant with their mosquito control practices. As the health department continues to monitor and test for the virus here in Montgomery County region, and all across the state, here is a quick checklist for keeping mosquitoes away for the remainder of the season:
Enjoy being outdoors knowing you and your family are protected!
Common sense practices to reduce mosquito populations include keeping your lawn mowed and free of debris, this includes brush piles. Keep your landscape from becoming overgrown. Make sure all screened areas in and around your home are not damaged or torn to reduce the risk of mosquitoes becoming uninvited house guests. Clogged gutters are a refuge for mosquitoes as well as down spouts. Make certain these areas are kept free of debris. Other things to avoid are pooled water in sandboxes and swing sets or other outdoor kids play structures. Also avoid keeping tires outside.
In addition to removing the potential for mosquitoes to breed, it is also highly recommended to have your property treated by a licensed mosquito control professional to provide an invisible veil of protection from mosquitoes and the illnesses they carry. Since mosquito activity is still in full force, now is the time to be vigilant in mosquito control practices in your own backyard.
Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery offers an intensive mosquito control program that controls and prevents mosquitoes. Our highly effective barrier sprays are sprayed on a regular schedule throughout the mosquito season to ensure no gaps in your mosquito and tick control. We offer an organic mosquito control spray as well!
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
Our goal is to keep you, your family and your pets completely protected from mosquitoes and the many diseases they carry for the entire season. Contact Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery for a free estimate today • (301) 444-5566 • email:westmontco@mosquitosquad.com
Posted in Diseases, Mosquito control, Mosquitoes and Mosquito-borne Illness, West Nile Virus | Leave a Comment »
Tags: First West Nile Virus case recently reported in Maryland, Kensinton MD mosquito control, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito control, Mosquito Control to reduce the risk of West Nile Virus Rockville MD, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery MD, Raising awareness of mosquito borne illness in Rockville MD, Rockville MD effective mosquito control, Rockville MD mosquito control service, Rockville MD mosquito control to reduce the risk of mosquito-borne illness, Rockville MD organic mosquito control and prevention, The 5T's of mosquito control and prevention, the Washington Post., West Montgomery MD mosquito control and prevention
September 4, 2014
Our service enables you to renew your love of the outdoors and being at one with nature!
There are many benefits associated with spending time outdoors!
One of the most beneficial aspects of being able to enjoy your backyard mosquito and tick free is freedom; the freedom of placing yourself at one with nature anytime. Being “in” nature has proven positive effects including an increase in health, happiness, wealth, a better sense of community, an improved state of mind and even increases a child’s ability to learn!
According to an article published by the Harvard Health Letter through the Harvard Medical School titled “A prescription for better health: go alfresco”, the simple act of spending time outdoors is loaded with mental and physical benefits. One of the listed benefits includes an increase in your level of Vitamin D. Being exposed to sunlight begins a process that leads to the creation and activation of vitamin D. Studies suggest that this vitamin D helps fight certain conditions, including Osteoporosis, Cancer, depression and heart attacks. A lack of vitamin D, and not getting outdoors often is a driving force for what we refer to as “cabin fever”, and even the “rainy day blues.”
It is human nature to become more active when outside because there is so much to see, and experience in nature.
Another benefit of getting outdoors is it gets you up and at em’! Outdoor living increases physical activity. It is human nature to become more active when outside because there is so much to see, and experience in nature. It is true that many adults exercise “within” the settings of a gym or on the treadmill at home but children are the ones who generally miss out on the many benefits of being outdoors. Indoor living has long been associated with being sedentary, particularly for children, while being outdoors is associated with activity. According to some surveys, American children spend an average of 6+ hours a day with electronic media (video games, television, and so on), time that is spent mainly indoors and sitting down. British researchers used Global Positioning System devices and accelerometers, which sense movement, to track the activity of 1,000 children. They found that the children were more than doubly active when they were outside. By encouraging children to get outside, especially though setting an example, this will mean less time spent in front of the television and computer and more time walking, biking, gardening, cleaning up the yard, and doing other things that get kids moving — plus, the time spent outdoors with your child are the times they will cherish!
Did you know that light can help elevate your mood? It’s true, and getting outside and enjoying the sun is one of the best ways to treat conditions like Seasonal Affective Disorder. Physical activity has been shown to relax and cheer people up too, so if being outside replaces inactive pursuits with active ones, it might also mean more smiles and laughter.
Mother Nature holds the power of healing.
Not only will experiencing the outdoors increase concentration, but a recent story discusses how outdoor play in children is increasingly linked scientifically to stronger mental muscle. The article, titled “Does outdoor play make kids smarter?” was featured on the Children and Nature Network website and points out that “Parents have long thought of outdoor play as the icing on the cognitive cake: Finish your homework, attend to all of the after-school lessons and clubs intended to gain you admission to Stanford or Cal, and then, and only then, can you go out and play. A growing body of research, however, suggests that outdoor play offers such a positive bump in brain power, it should perhaps be a priority. One school of thought about why nature has such an effect is the attention restoration theory: If you want to gain strength by lifting weights, you need to take a break between sessions for your muscles to recover; nature provides a similar break in attention for your brain. The other theory, “is biophilia: This is what my brain was built for. Our brains evolved in nature. Now that we have light bulbs and iPads, nature has a calming effect. MRI tests confirm that nature produces chemical shifts in the brain.”
And last , but certainly not least, fresh air, nature and exposure to natural sunlight has been proven to help us heal faster from injuries, illness and surgery. University of Pittsburgh researchers reported in 2005 that spinal surgery patients experienced less pain and stress and took fewer pain medications during their recoveries if they were exposed to natural light. An older study showed that the view out the window (trees vs. a brick wall) had an effect on patient recovery. Of course, windows and views are different than actually being outside, but we’re betting that adding a little fresh air to the equation couldn’t hurt and might help.
The desire to spend time outdoors is natural to us. It puts things in perspective. Even after a long, hard week at work or school, stepping into nature gives us solace and is as good for our soul as it is for our health, and mood. At Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, our goal is to create a space that enables you the freedom to be outdoors spontaneously. We create backyards that allow you and your family the endless benefits of Mother Nature without the worry of mosquitoes or ticks.
Contact us to learn more today • (301) 444-5566 • email:westmontco@mosquitosquad.com
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
Posted in Healthy Family, Mosquito control, Outdoor Events, Outdoor Living, Tick Control and Prevention | Leave a Comment »
Tags: A prescription for better health: go alfresco", Benefits of being outdoors, biting mosquitoes, Children and Nature Network website, Community outreach on mosquito and tick safety in Rockville MD, Does outdoor play make kids smarter?, Exploring the physical and mental benefits of being outdoors, Harvard Health Letter through the Harvard Medical School, Health benefits of enjoying the outdoors, healthy outdoor living, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery discusses the misconception of the Polar Vortex's impact on mosquitoes, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery is a proud sponsor of the Summer Giveaway from Macaroni Kid Rockville Gaithersburg, University of Pittsburgh
« Older Entries |
Tags
asian tiger mosquitoes biting mosquitoes Community outreach on mosquito and tick safety in Rockville MD healthy outdoor living Heightening awarness of Lyme Disease in West Montgomery MD How to prevent Lyme Disease carrying ticks in your MD backyard this season Kensington Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention Kensington MD tick control and prevention Kensinton MD mosquito control Kentland mosquito control & prevention Kentland mosquito service Kentlands mosquito control in MD Kentlands Tick control and protections Lyme disease Malaria No More maryland Md MD tick control & prevention montgomery county Montgomery County MD mosquito control mosquito Mosquito control Mosquito Control to reduce the risk of West Nile Virus Rockville MD mosquito repellent Mosquito Squad Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery discusses the misconception of the Polar Vortex's impact on mosquitoes Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery MD North Bethesda MD tick control program Nuisance Insect Control Protecting against the risk of Lyme Disease in Maryland Raising awareness of mosquito borne illness in Rockville MD Raising awareness of tick borne illness in Rockville MD rockville Rockville MD effective mosquito control Rockville MD mosquito control service Rockville MD mosquito control to reduce the risk of mosquito-borne illness Rockville MD organic mosquito control and prevention Rockville MD tick control The 5T's of mosquito control and prevention The truth about Lyme Disease in MD tick control montgomery county tick treatment West Montgomery MD mosquito control and prevention
Calendar
April 2019
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Aug
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30
Archives
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
August 2011
August 2010
July 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
Blogroll
WordPress.com
WordPress.org
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy