15 Amazing Benefits of Ginger | Caravan Sonnet
menu
Pages
Home
Blog
Connect
_About
_Meet Rebecca
_Collaborate
Books
_December Caravan
_Ebooks
__12 Things to Pray
__12 Things to Do
_Lyme Disease
__Praying Through Lyme Disease
__When Hope Restores
__When Truth Refreshes
__When Light Dawns
Everyday
_Creative Life
_Faith
_Fashion
_History
_Lifestyle
_Lyme
_My Health Story
_Travel
_Wellness
_Writing
Travel
_Bahamas
__Castaway Cay
__Coco Cay
__Nassau
_Canada
__British Columbia
__New Brunswick
__Nova Scotia
__Prince Edward Island
__Quebec
_Europe
__France
__Germany
__Switzerland
_United States
__Alaska
__Arizona
__California
__Florida
__Maine
__Nebraska
__New York
__Vermont
_Crusing
__Ocean Cruising
__River Cruising
__Tips
__Disney
__Royal Caribbean
__Viking
_Adventure
__Disney
__General Tips
__Hiking
__Historical Sites
__Lake Champlain
__Lodging
__Restaurant
__Road Trips Itineraries
__With Illness
Shops
_December Caravan
_December Lane
_Twenty History Lane
#10000in7days
Social Icons
Caravan Sonnet
EST. MMXIII
15 Amazing Benefits of Ginger
August 17, 2017
I first heard of ginger from my acupuncturist about a decade ago. I started using ginger (specifically for nausea during times when I would travel) but didn't know all of the amazing health benefits of consuming ginger until I did additional research. Y'all I am so amazed at the health benefits that come with consuming ginger and hope that it will inspire you to add this to your daily life! So what are all of the health benefits that ginger has? Check out these 15 amazing benefits:
1. Ginger contains gingerol which is a powerful substance with medicinal properties. Ginger has been known to not only help aid digestion and reduce nausea but also help fight the flu and common cold (as I mentioned in this post HERE!)
2. Ginger helps prevent motion sickness. As I mentioned above one of the things that I have long used ginger for is to help prevent motion sickness. There was a study done several years ago that showed that ginger was as effective (but without all of the side effects) as Dramamine! [It should be noted that many times it takes a "build up" process with ginger so if you are going to travel I would suggest using ginger for several weeks ahead of time and in addition to the time during your travel.]
3. Ginger helps reduce nausea and vomiting from chemotherapy. There have been many studies that have been done that when ginger is added to an anti nausea regime for chemotherapy that nausea and vomiting was reduced!
4. Ginger helps the body absorb essential nutrients.
5. Severe digestive issues or cramps? Ginger has been known to help digestive issues and cramps! Ginger has been found to be as effective as ibuprofen in help relieve pain from menstrual cramps in women (see #6!). Another benefit to ginger is that it may help prevent stomach ulcers which can be caused by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
6. Ginger helps reduce pain. Ginger is anti-inflammatory and recent studies show that ginger has anti-inflammatory properties that may rival non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. In a study done in 2013 on women's athletes it was found that those that took 3 grams of ginger each day had a significant decrease in muscle soreness and muscle cramps. In addition to muscles though ginger has also been found to help with migraine headaches.
7. Ginger can help reduce nausea from morning sickness. Recent studies have shown that ginger can help reduce pregnancy-related nausea.
8. Ginger can help Osteoarthritis.
9. Ginger may help lower blood sugar and improve heart disease risk factors in patients. Although the studies on this are very new (just started in 2015) doctors are now saying that ginger may help diabetes and heart patients. Ginger appears to help with insulin release and insulin action in the body and helps improve lipid metabolism. Another clinical trial done recently shows that those who consumed ginger had a marked difference in many of their levels. It will be exciting to watch in years to come what future studies say about this!
10. Ginger helps improve circulation.
11. Ginger can help inhibit certain bacteria, including Salmonella. Ginger is a great item to add to your kitchen as it an help prevent sickness due to salmonella!
12. Ginger helps fight Cancer. Due to the anti-inflammatory properties that ginger contains it is beneficial for many chronic illnesses including Cancer. A recent British study shows that Ginger can help in the effective management of certain Cancers, including prostate Cancer. Other studies have shown that it helps promote anti-tumor activity that can help treat even the difficult to treat types of Cancer. In addition to this a study that was performed at the University of Minnesota found that ginger can help slow the growth of colon Cancer cells.
13. Ginger helps reduce vertigo. Studies show that regularly consuming ginger or ginger tea can help reduce vertigo.
14. Ginger helps reduce the chance of a stroke and the damage done due to strokes. Taking ginger may help reduce the effects that a stroke can have on the body.
15. Ginger helps strengthen the immune system. Along with other wonderful foods, ginger can help improve the immune system.
While using fresh ginger is a wonderful idea, ginger can also be used dried, powdered, or even as an oil (or tea). Do you use ginger? In what form have you found it helpful? Have you found any benefits to consuming ginger?
{Disclaimer: The information included on this site is for educational purposes only. It is not intended nor implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice. The reader should always consult his or her health care provider to determine the appropriateness of the information for their own situation or if they have any questions regarding a medical condition or treatment plan. Reading the information on this website does not create a physician-patient relationship.}
In: Cancer, Cancer & Lymes, Chronic Illness, Food, Lyme Resources, Organic and Natural Living, THT: the benefits of posts, Thursday Health Thoughts
16 comments
Sheryl at How to Make a Life August 27, 2015 at 6:03 AM
I use ginger on a regular basis as I struggle with inflammation in my body due to food allergies. It truly is wonderful and I think more people need to learn about it. So glad you shared this.
ReplyDelete
Replies
Caravan Sonnet August 27, 2015 at 3:22 PM
I am so glad to hear that you use this Sheryl! Do you might me asking in what form you use it in? As a lady who struggles with inflammation I take it orally, use it fresh and dried, but am always looking for ideas and thoughts! :) Thanks so much for sharing and taking the time to comment!!
Blessings, Rebecca :)
Delete
Replies
Reply
Reply
Chelsie Carr August 27, 2015 at 6:39 AM
I ate a LOT of ginger lollipops during treatment because it helped with my nausea ! It really worked!
xo, Chelsie @ Life with Rosie
ReplyDelete
Replies
Caravan Sonnet August 27, 2015 at 3:24 PM
OOH I need to try those!! I have not tried ginger lollipops yet!! Picking some up immediately!! :)
Hugs! Rebecca :)
Delete
Replies
Reply
Reply
Nina @ Flowers in my Hair August 27, 2015 at 7:45 AM
I add some ginger to my tea when I have it to help with a number of these things with my illness!
ReplyDelete
Replies
Caravan Sonnet August 27, 2015 at 3:14 PM
I love adding ginger to my tea too!! :) Thank you so much for sharing that it helps you too!! :) I hope that you are having a wonderful day today lady!!
Blessings, Rebecca :)
Delete
Replies
Reply
Reply
Seri Roth August 27, 2015 at 12:32 PM
Very informative post! I love me some ginger :) - Seri from www.Serisblog.com
ReplyDelete
Replies
Caravan Sonnet August 27, 2015 at 3:27 PM
Seri,
Thank you so much for stopping by and leaving a comment! :) I am so glad that you found this informative!! :) How do you use ginger mainly?
:) Hope you are having a wonderful week!
Blessings, Rebecca
p.s. I would love to have emailed you back directly but unfortunately you are a "no reply blogger". I hope to connect more with you in the future! :)
Delete
Replies
Reply
Reply
Caroline @ In Due Time August 27, 2015 at 5:46 PM
So awesome! I use ginger when I make Kombucha - I knew it was good for me, but I love seeing the list :)
ReplyDelete
Replies
Caravan Sonnet August 28, 2015 at 5:49 AM
ooh adding it to Kombucha is a GREAT idea!! :) Thanks for sharing friend!! :) I hope that you have a wonderful Friday and weekend!!
Blessings,
Rebecca :)
Delete
Replies
Reply
Reply
Megan Gonzalez August 28, 2015 at 5:48 AM
When my throat is a little scratchy I slice up fresh ginger and steep it in boiling water, then I add lime juice and honey. It kicks the problem right out of the park!
ReplyDelete
Replies
Caravan Sonnet August 29, 2015 at 7:50 AM
That is a great idea Megan! :) I typically sip on ginger tea at nighttime but haven't added in the lime or honey. I will have to keep that in mind! Thank you so much for sharing!!
Blessings, Rebecca :)
p.s. I would love to have emailed you back directly but unfortunately you are a "no reply blogger". I hope to connect more with you in the future! :)
Delete
Replies
Reply
Reply
Aidah Johnson August 28, 2015 at 12:04 PM
I am an avid ginger eater and lover! I genuinely like the taste and it helped with nausea :)
ReplyDelete
Replies
Caravan Sonnet August 29, 2015 at 7:51 AM
That is so great that you enjoy the taste! I have to admit that I don't always enjoy the taste! *smiles* Thanks so much for stopping by and sharing your thoughts!!
Blessings, Rebecca :)
p.s. I would love to have emailed you back directly but unfortunately you are a "no reply blogger". I hope to connect more with you in the future! :)
Delete
Replies
Reply
Reply
Rachel August 28, 2015 at 3:31 PM
I definitely believe that ginger is great for health. During my mom's last pregnancy (I have a sister almost 16 years younger than me), our househelper cooked meals chock-full of ginger all the time. The one problem is that I really, really don't like the taste. To this day, something about the flavor I don't like, so I can only use it in dishes like curries that mask the flavor.
ReplyDelete
Replies
Caravan Sonnet August 29, 2015 at 7:49 AM
Rachel, Thank you so much for stopping by and sharing your thoughts! I do agree with you that sometimes the taste for me can be difficult to handle! I love your idea about putting into some dishes like curry! Thanks so much for the tip!
Blessings, Rebecca :)
Delete
Replies
Reply
Reply
Add comment
Load more...
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
FINDING GRACE IN SIMPLE BEAUTY AND ORDINARY DAYS
Follow
Join the community!
Popular Posts
16 Unexpected Items to Bring on Every Cruise
Hello friends! Thanks so much for stopping by and reading today! Today I am so excited to share with y'all 16 unexpected but nec...
10 Things to Do Before You Leave on Your Caribbean Cruise
Hello friends! Happy Thursday! Today I am so excited to share with y'all 10 things that you should definitely do before you leave o...
Taking Life Slow In Lancaster PA
Do all vacations have to be about sun and fun? Sometimes you have to break away from the norm and just take a holiday slow. Traveling...
Browse the Blog
Featured
730 Days Later
Two years ago today, I went into surgery where I was told that there was a very high and probable chance that we would find that I had...
Archive
► 2019 (110)
► April (19)
► March (33)
► February (29)
► January (29)
► 2018 (274)
► December (27)
► November (26)
► October (34)
► September (36)
► August (32)
► July (16)
► June (19)
► May (17)
► April (20)
► March (17)
► February (17)
► January (13)
▼ 2017 (273)
► December (16)
► November (27)
► October (24)
► September (22)
▼ August (29)
From Hope Valley Devotionals (Week 28): The Legacy...
A Few More of My Favorite Things from Zulily
A Gorgeous Sunset// Lake Champlain
Recommendations for Prince Edward Island?
2nd Annual Party in The Woods
Sunday Scripture Fifteen (Psalm 20:4)
It's Fall Y'all Mini Altered Journal Now Available...
New Hello 2018 Altered Planner Now Available in Et...
From Hope Valley Devotionals (Week 27): The Blessi...
Recommendations for Camden, Maine?
Monday Inspiration and Encouragement (Volume Eleve...
Open Up Our Eyes, Surround us with Your Light... O...
Dog People Rule Altered Journal
15 Amazing Benefits of Ginger
From Hope Valley Devotionals (Week 26): The Legacy...
Summer Boat Ride// Lake Champlain, Vermont
A Few Of My Favorite Things from Zulily
"I'm In Love with Cities I've Never Been to, and t...
An Easy and Healthy Basil and Spinach Pesto Recipe...
44 Tips to Have a Happy Marriage for 48 Years
From Hope Valley Devotionals (Week 25): The Beauti...
4 Tips for Enjoying Animal Kingdom with a Chronic ...
Sunday Scripture Fourteen (Joshua 1:9)
Hello 2018 Altered Planner Now Available in the Sh...
Top 10 Must Pack Items for a New England and Canad...
Happily Ever After Fireworks Show at Magic Kingdom...
From Hope Valley Devotionals (Week 24): The Power ...
Why You Should Dream About Visiting Alaska
Animal Kingdom With Friends
► July (21)
► June (22)
► May (27)
► April (25)
► March (16)
► February (23)
► January (21)
► 2016 (198)
► December (23)
► November (16)
► October (25)
► September (13)
► August (25)
► July (12)
► June (15)
► May (15)
► April (14)
► March (15)
► February (12)
► January (13)
► 2015 (162)
► December (9)
► November (13)
► October (9)
► September (18)
► August (22)
► July (22)
► June (9)
► May (7)
► April (10)
► March (12)
► February (15)
► January (16)
► 2014 (183)
► December (6)
► November (14)
► October (26)
► September (20)
► August (13)
► July (16)
► June (15)
► May (19)
► April (16)
► March (20)
► February (8)
► January (10)
► 2013 (158)
► December (9)
► November (6)
► October (13)
► September (9)
► August (17)
► July (19)
► June (19)
► May (16)
► April (20)
► March (14)
► February (11)
► January (5)
Contact Form
#10000in7days
READER FAVORITES
about december lane
our alaskan road trip
our rhine river cruise
about december caravan
favorite travel adventures
what is lyme disease?
16 unexpected things to bring on every cruise
TWENTY HISTORY LANE (TWL)
12 THINGS TO PRAY
DECEMBER CARAVAN
NEWEST DECEMBER CARAVAN LISTING
NEWEST DECEMBER LANE LISTING
PRAYING THROUGH LYME DISEASE
latest 'grams from @rebeccaannvandemark
© Caravan Sonnet.
Theme by dulcet sight.