4 Simple Ways to Lower Your LDL Cholesterol
icon-circle-arrow-up icon-circle-arrow-right
Menu
Verywell Health
4 Simple Tips to Lower Your LDL Cholesterol
Share
Flip
Email
Search
Search
Clear
GO
More in High Cholesterol
Treatment
Causes & Risk Factors
Diagnosis
Support & Coping
Nutrition
View More
Tools & Resources
Thyroid Test Analyzer
Doctor Discussion Guides
Hemoglobin A1c Test Analyzer
Lipid Test Analyzer
Types of Lung Cancer
Scar Tissue
What Is Sacroiliitis?
Tips to Treat Acne
Eye Exams
Blood in Stool
Health A-Z
Arthritis
Type 2 Diabetes
Heart Disease
Digestive Health
Lung Cancer
Multiple Sclerosis
View All
Prevention & Treatment
Vaccines
First Aid
Surgery
Herbal Medicine
Supplements
Healthy Aging
View All
Health Care
Health Insurance
Public Health
Patient Rights
Health Technology
For Caregivers & Loved Ones
For Healthcare Professionals
View All
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Heart Health High Cholesterol Treatment
4 Simple Tips to Lower Your LDL Cholesterol
Reducing Your "Bad" Cholesterol Can Be Achieved With TLC
Print
By Jennifer Moll, PharmD | Medically reviewed by a board-certified physician
Updated March 21, 2019
Show Article Table of Contents
Weight Loss and Diet Increase Your Physical Activity
Stop Smoking Alcohol and LDL Levels
View All
Back To Top
Monkey Business Images
More in High Cholesterol
Treatment
Causes & Risk Factors
Diagnosis
Support & Coping
Nutrition
Having high levels of LDL cholesterol, also known as “bad” cholesterol, can place you at risk of developing heart disease if it is left untreated. The good news is that, unlike other risk factors, you may be able to prevent high LDL levels or lower your LDL levels if they are already high.
Although many cholesterol medications can lower LDL levels to varying degrees, your healthcare provider may want to use therapeutic lifestyle changes (TLC) to see how low your LDL can go before medication is needed.
Whether you want to lower your LDL or prevent your LDL from increasing, a few tips can help you keep it within a healthy range.
Weight Loss and Diet
Being overweight or obese not only places you at risk for developing high LDL levels, it can also contribute to heart disease and other chronic medical conditions. Research hints that losing even a small amount of weight may help lower your LDL levels.
Although studies have shown that losing weight helps lower LDL, they have also shown that eating the right types of foods can help your heart health. Foods that are high in soluble fiber and phytosterols, as well as healthy fats such as olive oil, have been found to be helpful in lowering LDL cholesterol.
In "Your Guide to Lowering Cholesterol With TLC," the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute notes that it is possible to reduce your LDL by 20 to 30 percent with a few simple changes in diet:
Allowing less than 7 percent of calories to be from saturated fats can reduce LDL by 8 to 10 percent.
Decreasing daily cholesterol intake to less than 200mg can lower LDL by 5 to 8 percent.
Losing 10 pounds can reduce your LDL by 5 to 8 percent.
Adding 5 to 10 grams of soluble fiber to your day can decrease LDL 3 to 5 percent.
Adding 2 grams daily of plant sterols can reduce LDL by 5 to 15 percent.
More long-term studies are needed in order to determine whether or not it is the actual loss of weight or the diet and exercise that go along with it that causes the reduction in LDL levels. It is also possible that LDL cholesterol can eventually return to original levels, even when weight loss is maintained. Nonetheless, the prospect makes weight maintenance and good nutrition worthy goals to have.
Increase Your Physical Activity
Exercise is not only good for losing weight, moderate amounts of it may help lower your cholesterol levels—especially your LDL cholesterol. Aerobic exercises, such as running, cycling, jogging, and swimming, appear to benefit cholesterol the most by lowering LDL and reducing the risk of cardiovascular disease, according to studies .
Other forms of exercise, such as yoga, walking, and weight-bearing exercises, have also been shown to modestly decrease LDL levels. Though they have not been studied to the extent of aerobic exercise.
Stop Smoking
Smoking cessation not only has a large impact on levels of HDL, or “good” cholesterol, it can also slightly lower LDL levels. Cigarette smoking is linked to higher cholesterol levels as well as the formation of a damaging form of LDL called oxidized LDL, which contributes to atherosclerosis.
Research has shown that cholesterol levels will decrease as soon as you stop smoking. With each month after quitting, LDL levels continue to lower, even partially reversing the effects of smoking on cholesterol after just 90 days.
Alcohol and LDL Levels
Although moderate consumption of alcohol can significantly raise HDL levels, it can also lower LDL, according to studies. Moderate consumption means one drink a day for women and one to two drinks per day for men. A typical serving of alcohol includes 12 ounces of beer or 5 ounces of wine.
However, drinking more alcohol doesn’t necessarily equal better results in terms of improving your heart health. Studies have also indicated that drinking more than three alcoholic drinks a day could actually increase your chances of getting heart disease.
A Word From Verywell
With a few simple lifestyle changes, your LDL cholesterol levels can become lower. Depending on your current cholesterol levels, however, these steps may not be enough. While it is good to make these changes because they will impact your overall health, be sure to follow your doctor's recommendations regarding other ways to treat high cholesterol.
Cholesterol Doctor Discussion Guide
Get our printable guide for your next doctor's appointment to help you ask the right questions.
Download PDF
Email the Guide
Send to yourself or a loved one.
Email Address
Send
There was an error. Please try again.
This Doctor Discussion Guide has been sent to .
Was this page helpful?
Thanks for your feedback!
Looking to start a diet to better manage your cholesterol? Changing lifelong eating habits can be scary at first, but our guide will make it easier.
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
What are your concerns?
Other
Inaccurate
Hard to Understand
Submit
Article Sources
Galindo Y. Cholesterol Levels Improve With Weight Loss and Healthy Fat-Rich Diet. University of California San Diego Health. 2016.
Tabara Y, et al. Mendelian Randomization Analysis in Three Japanese Populartions Supports a Casual Role of Alcohol Consumption in Lowering Low-Density Cholesterol Levels and Particle Numbers. Atherosclerosis. 2016;254:242–248. doi: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2016.08.021.
The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. Your Guide to Lowering Cholesterol With TLC. The National Institutes of Heath. 2005.
Yunsuk K, Park J, Carter R. Oxidized Low-Density Lipoprotein and Cell Adhesion Molecules Following Exercise Training. International Journal of Sports Medicine. 2017. doi: 10.1055/s-0043-118848.
Zhang Y, Chen L, Feng C, et al. ASSA 14-13-01 Cigarteet Smoking-Induced LDL Dysfunction is Partially Reversible After Smoking Cessation. Heart. 2015;101:A40–A41. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2014-307109.107.
Continue Reading
Article
Is It Safe to Take Phytosterol Supplements to Lower Your Cholesterol?
Article
What to Know Before Starting a Bile Acid Resin to Lower LDL
Article
Sources of Soluble Fiber for Lowering Your Cholesterol List
Article
How Oxidized LDL Cholesterol Affects the Body
Article
How Plant Sterols or Phytosterols Lower LDL Cholesterol
Article
Generic and Supplemental Drugs Are Cheap Options to Lower Cholesterol
Article
Using the TLC Diet to Lower Your Lipids
Article
Can Adding Barley to Your Diet Help Lower Your Cholesterol?
Article
Reducing Your Small, Dense LDL Cholesterol
Article
Does Exercise Really Lower Your Cholesterol?
Article
What's a Desirable Level of Total Blood Cholesterol in Adults?
Article
When and How to Reduce Cholesterol Without Prescription Drugs
Article
Taking Calcium Can Both Help Strengthen Bones and Lower Cholesterol
Article
Where to Find Phytosterols to Lower Your Cholesterol
Article
Can Blueberries Help Lower Your Cholesterol?
Article
Studies Show Psyllium May Help Lower Cholesterol Levels
Verywell Health
Daily Health Tips to Your Inbox
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
Follow Us
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Flipboard
Health A-Z
Prevention & Treatment
Health Care
Editorial Policy
About Us
Privacy Policy
Advertise
Cookie Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Contact
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Ⓒ 2019 About, Inc. (Dotdash) — All rights reserved
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
Verywell is part of the Dotdash publishing family:
The Balance
Lifewire
Trip Savvy
The Spruce
and more