Am I Addicted to Marijuana?
Substance Abuse
A Non-Profit Drug & Alcohol Rehab Referral & Placement Service
Let Us Help You. Call Now. 800-683-3270
Chat Let's Talk: Click To Chat Call Now: 24Hr Addiction Hotline 800-683-3270 Email We'll Call You: Contact Us
Find Recovery by State
Recovery Centers
Methadone Clinics
Substances of Abuse
Alcohol Abuse
Cocaine Abuse
Drug Abuse
Heroin Abuse
Marijuana Abuse
Meth Abuse
Opioid Abuse
Adderall Abuse
Inhalant Abuse
Opioid Abuse
Oxycodone Abuse
Prescription Drug Abuse
Tramadol Abuse
Substance Abuse Treatment
Inpatient Treatment
Counseling
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy
12 Step Programs
Substance Abuse Counseling
Home › Marijuana Abuse › Am I Addicted to Marijuana?
Am I Addicted to Marijuana?
As the most commonly used illicit drug in the United States, marijuana use continues to be a hot button topic.
There are people who feel there is nothing wrong with smoking marijuana. There are also those who understand the seriousness of using this drug.
Regardless of your stance on marijuana use, here is something to remember: it is possible to become addicted. As a result, continued drug use can harm your mind, body, personal relationships, and much more.
Below are 10 ways to tell if you are addicted to marijuana:
It is the first thing you think about when you wake up in the morning.
Marijuana addiction can cause irritability and mood swings.
You no longer smoke marijuana for recreational purposes, but instead have made it a big part of your life.
You are unable to stop using the drug despite the fact that it is having a negative impact in many ways.
Your addiction has led to financial troubles, as you are spending a lot of money to get your hands on the drug.
Your memory is not nearly as sharp as it used to be.
Irritability and mood swings have become the norm. For many, this makes it difficult to communicate with others or perform well in school or at work.
Drug cravings are intense, making it nearly impossible to concentrate on what is most important in your life.
Your tolerance continues to rise, meaning that you have to use more of the drug to achieve the desired results.
Choosing friends based on those who are interested in using marijuana with you.
Using the drug to escape reality. For example, you turn to marijuana if you have a bad day at school or work.
These are just a few of the many signs pointing towards a marijuana addiction. If you are unable to quit on your own, if the drug continues to rule your life, it is time to consider your next step.
Since marijuana is not as powerful as other drugs, such as cocaine and heroin, you may be able to overcome the addiction without professional help. If you find this difficult, don’t hesitate to consult with a drug treatment facility. Doing so will help you pinpoint your problem, receive treatment, and put your life back on the right track.
A marijuana addiction may not sound serious right now, but if it continues it will change your life for the worse.
Related Articles
Marijuana Addiction Myths – 4 Reasons Weed is Not Harmless - Marijuana abuse has many physical and psychological consequences you should become aware of.
Marijuana Street Names - Street names for marijuana refer to many different aspects of the drug and using the drug. Reefer, ganja and Maryjane are names that have been used for many years to talk about smoking cannabis in secret.
Marijuana Withdrawal Symptoms - For those who smoke marijuana frequently, withdrawal can be a painful and irritating process.
Warning Signs of Marijuana Abuse - Marijuana is a very controversial drug, but the science shows that it does indeed have negative health effects. A person who is using marijuana may have bloodshot eyes, be confused and tired often, display signs of anxiety and paranoia and more.
What are the Health Effects of Marijuana Abuse? - Marijuana use can lead to very unpleasant health effects on the short and long-term. Smoking marijuana, like tobacco, is associated with an increased risk of developing respiratory issues. It may contribute to cognitive and psychological problems, too.
Get Help Now!
Examples of insurance companies that drug rehabs may accept:
Home
Recovery Centers
Methadone Clinics
Sitemap
© Copyright 2019 • All rights reserved SubstanceAbuse.org
Speak with a placement counselor now 800-683-3270
Get Quick Help
Please fill out our short form and one of our treatment specialist will call you shortly.
Name*
First Last
Email*
Phone*
Individual Dealing with Addiction:*
MyselfA Loved One(Adult)A Loved One(Minor)A Patient or ClientOther
Financial/Insurance Situation:*
No Private Insurance or FundsHave Private Insurance but no FundsMedicaid/State Insurance/MedicareCan invest $3,000 - $5,000/mo + Private InsuranceCan invest $5,000 - $10,000/mo + Private InsuranceCan invest $10,000+/mo + Private InsuranceNo Private Insurance but can invest $10,000+/moUnsure
Message
Email
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
powered by Olark live chat software
Pin It on Pinterest
Share This
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Pinterest
Print Friendly