Chikungunya | Disease of the Week | CDC
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People
Search
×
Submit
For a full list of topics: A-Z Index
Disease of the Week
Section Navigation
home4 TP Docs Home
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Syndicate
Chikungunya
[chik-un-GUHN-ya]
Minus
Related Pages
Chikungunya is a virus spread to people by mosquito bites. Mosquitoes become infected when they feed on a person already infected with the virus. Infected mosquitoes can then spread the virus to other people through bites. Most people infected with chikungunya will develop some symptoms. The most common symptoms of infection are fever, joint pain and swelling. Others may include headache, muscle pain or rash that can last for a week or longer. These symptoms can be severe and disabling. The best way to prevent getting infected is to protect yourself and your family from mosquito bites.
Quiz
Key Facts
Chikungunya virus is spread to people by two species of mosquitoes: Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus, more commonly known as the Asian tiger mosquito.
People infected with chikungunya virus develop fever and often joint pain. Once infected, a person becomes immune for life.
There is no vaccine to prevent infection and no treatment for an infection.
The best way to protect yourself and your family from chikungunya is to prevent being bitten by mosquitoes.
Chikungunya outbreaks have been identified in countries in Africa, Asia, Europe and the Indian and Pacific Oceans. As of 2013, chikungunya has spread to the American Tropics.
Media
Chikungunya: What is local transmission?
Local case: A person with no recent history of travel to an area with the virus who gets bitten by a mosquito infected with chikungunya virus where they live, work or play.
Chikungunya: What is an imported case?
Imported case: A person who has recently returned from a country or region with active cases of chikungunya who gets bitten by an infected mosquito while traveling and gets sick after returning to the United States.
Chikungunya Virus
Numerous chikungunya virus particles as seen through a transmission electron microscope.
Feeding Mosquito
A female Aedes aegypti mosquito feeds on a person.
Using Repellent Sprays
Do not spray insect repellent directly on your face. Spray repellent onto your hands and then apply to your face.
Use Insect Repellent when Outside
Reapply insect repellent according to label instructions when outdoors for long periods of time.
Prevention Tips
Traveling? Be prepared. For country specific travel recommendations, see www.cdc.gov/travel.
Mosquitoes that spread chikungunya bite during the day. These mosquitoes live inside and outside.
Wear long-sleeved shirts and long pants.
Keep mosquitoes out of your home. Use screens on windows and doors. Repair holes in screens to keep mosquitoes outside.
Use insect repellent with one of these active ingredients: DEET, picaridin, oil of lemon eucalyptus, IR3535. Always follow the label instructions.
Do you have a fever with joint, muscle pain or a rash? See a healthcare provider as soon as possible. Tell your health care provider where you have traveled.
If you are sick with chikungunya, protect your family from getting sick. Don’t let mosquitoes bite you during the first week you are sick!
More at CDC.gov
Page last reviewed: March 3, 2016
Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
home Disease of the Week
A – D expand
Alcohol and Pregnancy
ALS
Alzheimer’s Disease
Arthritis
Asthma
Blood Clots
Botulism
Breast Cancer
Carbon Monoxide Poisoning (CO)
Cerebral Palsy
Cervical Cancer
Chickenpox (Varicella)
Chikungunya
Chronic Kidney Disease
Colorectal Cancer
Common Cold
Concussions
Congenital CMV
COPD
Dengue
Diabetes
Disease Detectives
E – J expand
Ebola
Enteroviruses
Epilepsy
Flu (Influenza)
Foodborne Diseases
Fragile X
Gonorrhea
Hand, Foot & Mouth Disease
Hantavirus
Heart Disease and Men
Hemophilia
Hepatitis A
Hepatitis C
Hepatitis E
HIV/AIDS
Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD)
K – Q expand
Listeriosis
Liver Cancer
Lung Cancer
Lupus
Lyme Disease
Measles
Norovirus
Pink Eye
Pneumonia
Polio
R – Z expand
Rabies
Recreational Water Illnesses
Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV)
Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever
Rotavirus
SARS (10 Years After)
Scarlet Fever
Shingles
Sickle Cell Disease
Skin Cancer
Strep Throat
Stroke
Tetanus
West Nile Virus
Whooping Cough (Pertussis)
Zika
CONTACT CDC-INFO
Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY: 888-232-6348
Email CDC-INFO
CDC INFORMATION
About CDC
Jobs
Funding
Policies
File Viewers & Players
Privacy
FOIA
No Fear Act
OIG
Nondiscrimination
Accessibility
CONNECT WITH CDC
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
Instagram
Syndicate
CDC TV
RSS
Email
U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
USA.gov
CDC Website Exit Disclaimer
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy
Close
Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
Cancel
Continue