HIE Multimedia - HIV/AIDS in pregnant women and infants - Lee Memorial Health System Health Information - Lee Health
For Health Professionals|
For Physicians|
For Employees|
Become A Volunteer
MyChart
Giving
News
Billing
Careers
About Us
Toggle navigation
I want to:
Find a doctor
Find a career
Pay my bill
Find a location
Find events & classes
Make a donation
Become a volunteer
View MyChart
Patients & Visitors
For Patients
Why choose us
Patient guides
Admissions
Patient billing
Financial assistance
Medical records
Quality
For Visitors
Guest services
Visiting hours
Language assistance
Places to stay & eat
Get well cards
Gift shops
Helpful links
MyChart
Find a doctor
Directions & maps
Contact us
A-Z Symptom Checker
A-Z Diseases & Conditions
Our Services
Featured Services
Cancer Care
Cardiology
Neurosciences
Orthopedics
Outpatient Services
Children's Health
Primary Care
Rehabilitation
Surgery
Women's Health
Emergency & Urgent Care
View All Services
Services A-Z
A B C D E F G H I J K L M
N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
Our Doctors
Our Doctors
Find a Doctor
Lee Physician Group
Medical Staff A-Z
Helpful Links
How to select a doctor
How to refer a patient
Request a second opinion
View MyChart (patient portal)
For Physicians
Medical Staff Services
Our Locations
Hospitals & Medical Centers
Cape Coral Hospital
Gulf Coast Medical Center
Health Park Medical Center
Lee Memorial Hospital
Rehabilitation Hospital
Golisano Childrens Hospital of Southwest Florida
Locations by Type
Hospitals & Medical Centers
Outpatient Locations
Specialty Centers
Pediatric Locations
Urgent Care Centers
Physician Offices
Pharmacies
Health & Wellness Centers
View All Locations
Health & Wellness
Health Resources
Healthy News newsletter
Healthy Living articles
Health Matters video
Events & Classes
Wellness tools
Medical Library
Health Information A-Z
Wellness Locations
Self-Care Instructions
Symptom Checker
Diseases & Conditions
Surgeries & Procedures
Injuries
Tests
Health Navigator
Complementary & Alternative Medicine
My Checkups
Health Risk Assessments
Cardiovascular Disease Risk Calculator
Wellness Centers
Healthy Life Center
SHARE Club
BACK
TO
TOP
Print-Friendly
Bookmarks
bookmarks-menu
HIV/AIDS in pregnant women and infants
HIV infection - children; Human immunodeficiency virus - children; Acquired immune deficiency syndrome - children; Pregnancy - HIV; Maternal HIV; Perinatal - HIV
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is the virus that causes AIDS. When a person becomes infected with HIV, the virus attacks and weakens the immune system. As the immune system weakens, the person is at risk of getting life-threatening infections and cancers. When that happens, the illness is called AIDS.
HIV can be transmitted to the fetus or the newborn during pregnancy, during labor or delivery, or by breastfeeding.
This article is about HIV/AIDS in pregnant women and infants.
Causes
Most children with HIV get the virus when it passes from an HIV-positive mother to the child. This can occur during pregnancy, childbirth, or when breastfeeding.
Only blood, semen, vaginal fluids, and breast milk have been shown to transmit infection to others.
The virus is NOT spread to infants by:
Casual contact, such as hugging or touching
Touching items that were touched by a person infected with the virus, such as towels or washcloths
Saliva, sweat, or tears that is NOT mixed with the blood of an infected person
Symptoms
Most infants born to HIV-positive women in the United States do NOT become HIV positive if the mother and infant have good prenatal and postpartum care.
Infants who are infected with HIV often have no symptoms for the first 2 to 3 months. Once symptoms develop, they can vary. Early symptoms may include:
Yeast (candida) infections in the mouth
Yeast (candida) infections in the mouth
Thrush is a yeast infection of the tongue and lining of the mouth.
Image
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
Failure to gain weight and grow
Failure to gain weight and grow
Failure to thrive refers to children whose current weight or rate of weight gain is much lower than that of other children of similar age and gender....
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
Swollen lymph glands
Swollen salivary glands
Enlarged spleen or liver
Ear and sinus infections
Upper respiratory tract infections
Being slow to walk, crawl, or speak compared to healthy babies
Diarrhea
Early treatment often prevents the HIV infection from progressing.
Without treatment, a child's immune system weakens over time, and infections that are uncommon in healthy children develop. These are severe infections in the body. They can be caused by bacteria, viruses, fungi, or protozoa. At this point, the illness has become full-blown AIDS.
Exams and Tests
Here are the tests a pregnant mother and her baby may have to diagnose HIV:
TESTS TO DIAGNOSE HIV IN PREGNANT WOMEN
All pregnant women should have a screening test for HIV along with other prenatal tests. Women at high risk should be screened a second time during the third trimester.
Mothers who have not been tested can receive a rapid HIV test during labor.
Woman known to be HIV positive during pregnancy will have regular blood tests, including:
CD4 counts
Viral load test, to check how much HIV is in the blood
A test to see if the virus will respond to the medicines used to treat HIV (called a resistance test)
TESTS TO DIAGNOSE HIV IN BABIES AND INFANTS
Infants born to women infected with HIV should be tested for HIV infection. This test looks for how much of the HIV virus is in the body. In infants born to HIV positive mothers, HIV testing is done:
14 to 21 days after birth
At 1 to 2 months
At 4 to 6 months
If the result of 2 tests is negative, the infant does NOT have an HIV infection. If the results of any test are positive, the baby has HIV.
Babies who are at very high risk for HIV infection may be tested at birth.
Treatment
HIV/AIDS is treated with antiretroviral therapy (ART). These medicines stop the virus from multiplying.
TREATING PREGNANT WOMEN
Treating pregnant women with HIV prevents children from becoming infected.
If a woman tests positive during pregnancy, she will receive ART while pregnant. Most often she will receive a three-drug regimen.
The risk of these ART drugs for the baby in the womb is low. The mother may have another ultrasound at the second trimester.
HIV may be found in a woman when she goes into labor, particularly if she has not previously received prenatal care. If so, she will be treated with antiretroviral drugs right away. Sometimes these drugs will be given through a vein (IV).
If the first positive test is during labor, receiving ART right away during labor can reduce the rate of infection in children to about 10%.
TREATING BABIES AND INFANTS
Infants born to infected mothers start receiving ART within 6 to 12 hours after birth. One or more antiretroviral drugs should be continued for at least 6 weeks after birth.
BREASTFEEDING
HIV-positive women should not breastfeed. This holds true even for women who are taking HIV medicines. Doing so may pass HIV to the baby through breast milk.
Support Groups
The challenges of being a caretaker of a child with HIV/AIDS can often be helped by joining a support group. In these groups, members share common experiences and problems.
Support group
The following organizations are good resources for information on HIV/AIDS:AIDSinfo -- aidsinfo. nih. govCenters for Disease Control and Prevention -...
Image
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
Outlook (Prognosis)
The risk of a mother transmitting HIV during pregnancy or during labor is low for mothers identified and treated early in pregnancy. When treated, the chance of her baby being infected is less than 1%. Because of early testing and treatment, there are fewer than 200 babies born with HIV in the United States per year.
If a woman's HIV status is not found until the time of labor, proper treatment can reduce the rate of infection in infants to about 10%.
Children with HIV/AIDS will need to take ART for the rest of their life. The treatment does not cure the infection. The medicines only work as long as they are taken every day. With proper treatment, children with HIV/AIDS can live a nearly normal lifespan.
When to Contact a Medical Professional
Call your health care provider if you have HIV or are at risk for HIV, AND you become pregnant or are thinking of becoming pregnant.
Prevention
HIV-positive women who might become pregnant should talk to their provider about the risk to their unborn child. They should also discuss methods to prevent their baby from becoming infected, such as taking ARV during pregnancy. The earlier the woman starts medicines, the lower the chance of infection in the child.
Women with HIV should not breastfeed their baby. This will help prevent passing HIV to the infant through breast milk.
Open References
References
AIDSinfo website. Guidelines for the use of antiretroviral agents in pediatric HIV infection. aidsinfo.nih.gov/guidelines/html/2/pediatric-treatment-guidelines/0#. Updated May 22, 2018. Accessed October 8, 2018.
AIDSinfo website. Recommendations for use of antiretroviral drugs in pregnant HIV-1-infected women for maternal health and interventions to reduce perinatal HIV transmission in the United States. aidsinfo.nih.gov/guidelines/html/3/perinatal-guidelines/0#. Updated May 30, 2018. Accessed October 8, 2018.
Weinberg GA, Siberry GK. Pediatric human immunodeficiency virus infection. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 129.
Yogev R, Chadwick EG. Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (human immunodeficiency virus). In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 276.
Text only
All
Video
Images
Tog
Primary HIV infection - illustration
HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) is more frequently transmitted through unprotected sex or sharing contaminated needles. Transmission from mother to fetus or through blood products has significantly declined in the United States.
Primary HIV infection
illustration
Primary HIV infection - illustration
HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) is more frequently transmitted through unprotected sex or sharing contaminated needles. Transmission from mother to fetus or through blood products has significantly declined in the United States.
Primary HIV infection
illustration
A Closer Look
Talking to your MD
Self Care
Tests for HIV/AIDS in pregnant women and infants
Related Information
Review Date: 9/22/2018
Reviewed By: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
The information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A licensed medical professional should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions. Links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites. © 1997- A.D.A.M., a business unit of Ebix, Inc. Any duplication or distribution of the information contained herein is strictly prohibited.
A.D.A.M. content is best viewed in IE9 or above, Firefox and Google Chrome browser.
Content is best viewed in IE9 or above, Firefox and Google Chrome browser.
About Us
Lee Health Fast Facts
Leadership
Awards & Recognition
In the Community
Volunteering
Foundation
For Health Professionals
For Physicians
For Employees
For Media
Patients & Visitors
MyChart (Patient Portal)
Patient Guides
Admissions
Patient Billing
Events & Calendars
Visitor Information
Get Well Cards
Gift Shops
Contact Us
Our Services
Services A-Z
Cancer Care
Cardiology
Neurosciences
Orthopedics
Children's Health
Primary Care
Surgery
Women's Health
Our Doctors
Lee Physician Group
Medical Staff A-Z
Refer a Patient
How to Select a Doctor
Locations
Hospitals & Medical Centers
Outpatient Locations
Specialty Centers
Pediatric Locations
Convenient Care/Emergency
Physician Offices
Pharmacies
Health & Wellness Centers
All Locations
HIPAA Privacy Policy Financial Assistance Special District Contact Us
This site is maintained by Lee Health | Site Feedback | copyright ©2018 | Accessibility