Does Ginger Help With Nausea And Vomiting?
CURE A-Z
Healthy Living
Life Style
Happy Mind
Healthy Beauty
Hair Care
Skin Care
Weight Loss
Super Foods
Essential Oils
Herbs
Food
Ayurveda Medicine
Tea
Men & Women
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
Cure A-Z
HEALTHY LIVING
Life Style
Happy Mind
Healthy Beauty
Hair Care
Skin Care
Weight Loss
SUPER FOODS
Essential Oils
Herbs
Food
Ayurveda Medicine
Tea
MEN & WOMEN
Does Ginger Help With Nausea And Vomiting?
Reviewed by Dr.Ashish Paul ON 24th Sep, 2018
0
Can ginger stop vomiting? How often should you take ginger for nausea? If you are troubled by nausea and vomiting and looking for a quick natural remedy then ginger can save your day.
Being nauseous is one of the most debilitating experiences. It is one of the most common ailment today.Each of us has been tormented by it at some point in time.
Nausea can be related to various conditions such as pregnancy, motion sickness, acid reflux, migraine post-surgical and after cancer treatment, even attacks of anxiety can make us nauseous.
There are numerous home remedies to relieve nausea namely these include peppermint, acupressure and aromatherapy, but in the light of recent research one substance that has proven effective is ginger.
Table of Contents
Ginger For Nausea
Ginger Is Found Effective Against The Following Types Of Nausea
How To Use Ginger For Nausea?
Ginger
Final Talk
Ginger For Nausea
Ginger has the long history of use in relieving morning sickness and also sea sickness. This simple old home remedy now has strong backing up by science. Various researches and clinical trials have concluded the same.
The National Institute of Health lists ginger and ginger supplements as effective in the prevention of nausea related to pregnancy and post cancer treatments.
2005 report from Obstetrics and Gynecology, as well as 2006 report from The American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology both, have concluded from the clinical trials for ginger to have a positive effect against nausea than placebo.
Though the exact explanation regarding the direct relationship between use of ginger and nausea remains largely obscure, there are still numerous clinically treated cases to verify the positive association between them.
Ginger Is Found Effective Against The Following Types Of Nausea
Ginger is Found Effective Against The Following Types of Nausea
1.Morning Sickness
A review of 12 studies that included a total of 1,278 pregnant women, 1.1-1.5 gm of ginger can significantly reduce the symptoms of nausea.
2.Nausea Related To Cancer
2012 study reported in Integrative Cancer Therapies showed that in a group of 100 women with advanced breast cancer who took ginger supplements, experienced less episode of nausea post-treatment.
3.Nausea From Motion Sickness
good news for all the travellers, ginger comes as instant rescue against those pangs of nausea during the bus rides and sea voyages.
4.Post-Surgical Nausea
some studies have shown improvement in nausea attacks in patients following surgical procedures.
5.In Cases Of A Migraine
nausea is a commonly associated symptom in an attack of nausea, ginger has been found to provide relief even in these cases.
How To Use Ginger For Nausea?
Too much of anything is never good, so what is the appropriate amount of ginger required to draw the benefits?
2 tablespoon of shredded ginger in a cup for twice or thrice in a day should suffice to keep those symptoms of nausea in check.
Ginger can also be taken mixed with a little honey to tone down the pungent taste or mixed with the tea or candy!
Ginger
Ginger is grown as root and it is a flexible ingredient used in drinks, cooking and cosmetics even. It can be used in fresh, dried, powder or as an oil or juice.
It is very similar to turmeric, cardamom, and galangal. The main and active component is gingerol, it imparts ginger its characteristic fragrance, flavor and also responsible for the medicinal properties.
Ginger has long been mentioned in a history of alternative medicine. Some of the common benefits include the following:
It is used as the digestive aid, to treat dyspepsia, eliminate intestinal gas, for relief from colic in children.
It has potent anti-inflammatory property and reduces joint pains and relieves arthritic pains.
It can give relief in menstrual pains and migraines.
It is a powerful cancer fighter.
Improves the blood circulation and treats various circulatory disorders.
It has been found both therapeutic and preventive in a case of diabetes.
It has shown positive results in treating respiratory disorders such as asthma.
It is an immunity booster and reduces common colds and cough.
Combats morning sickness and stomach flu effectively.
Final Talk
Ginger or ginger ale can be really helpful for providing that instant relief you desperately crave during nausea.However it is advised for people suffering from cancer, migraine or pregnant women to consult their physician before using it, so they can know beforehand that will it interfere with their medication or have any untoward side effect.
0
Close
Home Remedies To Get Rid Of Inner Thigh Rash
Ayurvedic Sensitive Teeth Home Remedy That Will Work Within 5 Min
Primary Sidebar
MUST READ
8 Health Benefits Of Drinking Jasmine Green Tea
12 Health Benefits Of Green Tea
Health Benefits Of Clove Oil
Chaste Berry Tea : 12 Health Benefits, Side Effects, Prec
16 Health Benefits Of Hawthorn Berry
You May Also Like
Health Benefits Of Murasaki Sweet Potato
Dr.Priya Jain
Home Remedies To Treat Alcoholism
Dr.Gopi Krishna Maddikera
Health Benefits Of Pumpkin Seed Oil
Dr.Manaan Gandhi
Get trusted information on Health, Alternative Medicine,
Yoga, Nutrition & Wellness from
the experts practitioner around the globe
Our Expert Panel
Join Our Expert Panel
Advertise With Us
About Us
Contact Us
Policies
Terms & Conditions