Coconut Oil And Baking Soda Can Cure Cancer - Topic Map
Home
Natural Remedies
News
Product Review
Videos
Weight Loss
Menu
Facebook
Instagram
Mail
Coconut Oil And Baking Soda Can Cure Cancer
June 8, 2017 /0 Comments/in Natural Remedies /by Mihaela
Health benefits of baking soda include reduced risk and prevention of diarrhea, metabolic acidosis, acidity, peptic ulcer, and drug intoxification. It has antipruritic properties which helps in maintaining healthy skin. It is effective home remedy in cold and flu and plaque removal. It is a good source of sodium prevents hyperkalemia, bladder infection and kidney stones.
It has antimicrobial properties which may protect body and feet from infections. Usage of baking soda is not just limited to health, it is used in cooking and cleaning.
Baking soda also known as sodium bicarbonate or sodium hydrogen carbonate is commonly used and found in almost every household. It is odorless, salty in taste and available as a white powder. It has various uses such as cooking, medical uses etc.
Nutritional value of baking soda: As per USDA baking soda contains water and sodium. It has no calories, fat and carbohydrates.
For decades, coconut oil was considered an unhealthy fat that clogged arteries and caused heart disease.
Now coconut oil is being hailed as a superfood that can cure everything from Alzheimer’s to tooth decay.
Why the flip-flop on the health benefits of coconut oil?
And does it live up to its reputation as the latest cure-all?
Coconut trees are found around the world in the tropics and subtropics.
This versatile palm, Cocos nucifera, is the “Swiss Army knife” of the plant kingdom.
Virtually every part of the coconut tree has an important use. coconut water, oil, and meat have been used for nourishment. Coconut husk and fronds are used to make everything from rope to roofs. Coconut oil has been used to promote health as part of India’s ancient Ayurvedic healing tradition.It’s been used for beautiful and healthy skin and hair as well.
It is quite surprising fact that some every day’s kitchen ingredients could be used in healing some diseases.
This time it is about how can coconut oil and baking soda cure skin cancer.
Here follows a short story about Ms. Azizo and the way she succeeded at her fight against this harmful disease.
Ms. Kyrenet Azizo is a great supporter of treatment of diseases with natural healthy remedies.
She treated the skin cancer known as basal cell carcinoma which appeared at her mother’s head.
She used her great knowledge and experience of natural medicine at the treatment of this non-life threatening skin cancer.
Ms. Azizo’s mother suffered carcinoma growing at the crown of her head.
She was treated with modern surgery methods which removed the carcinoma and she was hoping the best. She used coconut oil instead of water since this oil possesses extra strong regeneration efficiency. Kyrenet mixed one part of baking soda with one part of coconut oil (a teaspoon of each) and she mixed them by adding warm water until she got a thick paste. She treated the carcinoma directly using this paste. Since the first couple of treatments, there were visible positive results. It is recommended not to rub the carcinoma just to apply the healing mixture on it and to leave it there as long as possible. You can use a shower cap to keep the remedy safe and dry.
Tags: baking soda, cancer, coconut, oil
Share this entry
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Google+
Share on Pinterest
Share on Linkedin
Share on Tumblr
Share on Vk
Share on Reddit
Share by Mail
http://topicmap.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/06/Eye-Opening-Evidence-Baking-Soda-And-Coconut-Oil-Can-Kill-Cancer.jpg 292 560 Mihaela http://topicmap.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/06/png-transparent-background.png Mihaela2017-06-08 22:14:412017-06-08 22:14:41Coconut Oil And Baking Soda Can Cure Cancer
You might also like
These 3 Ingredients Will Help You Stop Cancer
Apple Cider Vinegar And Baking Soda Do Magic For Your Skin
Some Of The Benefits Of Oregano Oil
4 Amazing Home Remedies That Help You Beat Cancer
Baking Soda Is Your New Best Friend - Fantastic Result In One Week
Amazing Herb Helps Fight Cancer
0 replies
Leave a Reply
Want to join the discussion?
Feel free to contribute!
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Name *
Email *
Website
Comment
Categories
Natural Remedies
News
Product Review
Videos
Weight Loss
Facebook
Latest
Top 5 Foods That can Replace Whey ProteinMarch 3, 2019 - 10:31 pm
Forget Fluoride! Use Homemade ToothpastesFebruary 19, 2018 - 2:02 am
The Health Benefits Of Foot MassageAugust 11, 2017 - 5:09 pm
Take A Look At The Amazing Benefits Onions Offer YouAugust 11, 2017 - 5:07 pm
Interesting Infos
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetuer adipiscing elit. Aenean commodo ligula eget dolor.
Enfold GYM
1818 N Vermont Ave
Los Angeles, CA, United States
(555) 774 433
office@enfold-gym.com
Opening Hours
Mo-Fr: 8:00-22:00
Sa: 8:00-24:00
So: 8:00-14:00
Copyright - Topic Map - Enfold Theme by Kriesi
Facebook
Instagram
Mail
Ginger Has Amazing Properties To Heel Your Body Grapefruit-A Super Food That Will Help You Lose Weight
Scroll to top