Can you get addicted to morphine?
Skip to content
addiction blog an American Addiction Centers Resource
Call Now. 24/7 Help Available.
All calls free and confidential
1-888-882-1456 i Who answers?
HOW OUR HELP LINE WORKS
For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the Addictionblog.org helpline is a private and convenient solution.
Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit will be answered by American Addiction Centers (AAC).
Caring admissions consultants are standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options. These representatives work solely for AAC and will discuss whether an AAC facility may be an option for you.
Our helpline is offered at no cost to you and with no obligation to enter into treatment. Neither Addictionblog.org nor AAC receives any commission or other fee that is dependent upon which treatment provider a visitor may ultimately choose.
For more information on AAC’s commitment to ethical marketing and treatment practices, or to learn more about how to select a treatment provider, visit our About AAC.
If you wish to explore additional treatment options or connect with a specific rehab center, you can browse top-rated listings, visit our homepage and browse by state, or visit SAMHSA.
Alcoholism
alcohol
Drugs
Cocaine
Crack
Ecstasy
Heroin
Marijuana
Meth
Molly
Morphine
Spice
Prescription Drugs
Adderall
Ambien
Ativan
Buprenorphine
Hydrocodone
Methadone
Morphine
Oxycodone
Oxycontin
Percocet
Ritalin
Suboxone
Tramadol
Ultram
Valium
Vicodin
Xanax
About AAC
Treatment Q&A
Costs
Financing
Insurance
Interventions
Special Populations
Identifying Addiction
Rehab
Alcohol rehab
Drug rehab
The rehabilitation process
Rehab programs
Outpatient rehab
Inpatient rehab
Search
Call American Addiction Centers to find help with rehab.
Addiction Blog→ Prescription Drug→ Morphine→
Can you get addicted to morphine?
Get Help Today.
You are not alone. We can help you get better.
3RD-SAM-ACAD WEB-ADDICTIONBLOG-FORM
Can you get addicted to morphine?
Yes, you can get addicted to morphine after just a few doses. More here on morphine’s addiction potential and ways to recognize it. Plus, a section on non-opiate pain relief alternatives.
June 24, 2017 November 2, 2018
5
minute read
Lee Weber
Author of "The Definitive Guide to Addiction Interventions"
5
minute read
1,389
article reads
2
comments
June 24, 2017 November 2, 2018
Morphine is addictive
Yes, you can get addicted to morphine.
Morphine causes addiction by interacting with neurons in the brain. Repeated use of morphine can actually change the way your brain and body respond to pain and pleasure. Once addicted, you start to crave morphine constantly and start to use it to deal with physical and emotional pain.
So, how can you avoid getting addicted to morphine? In this article, we explain more about morphine’s addiction potential, signs and symptoms of a problem, and what you can do to prevent it. Then, we invite your questions at the end. In fact, we try to respond to all legitimate questions personally and promptly.
—–
Addiction is a medical condition.
It can be treated…medically.
Call 1-877-721-2951 for help TODAY.
Toll-FREE and Confidential.
—–
Ready for help?
Call us today. You don’t need to face addiction on your own.
1-888-882-1456
What is morphine…really?
Morphine is a naturally occurring substance extracted from the seedpod of the poppy plant. As a medication, morphine is used for the relief of pain, both acute and chronic. Additionally, morphine can also be used to sedate patients pre-operatively and to facilitate the induction of anesthesia.
Morphine belongs to the group of drugs called “narcotic pain relievers”, or opiates. It acts directly on the central nervous system. As a powerful opiate, morphine is a drug of choice for people who abuse prescription medicines or street drugs. Morphine is available in a variety of prescription forms, such as:
Immediate and controlled release tablets and capsules (15-200 mg)
Injectables (0.5-25 mg/mL)
Oral solutions (2-20 mg/mL)
Suppositories (5-30 mg)
Brand name medicines with morphine
Morphine has several clinical uses. Therefore, morphine is included in several brand names under which it is sold. Some of the most widely used brand names for morphine include:
Avinza
Embeda
Kadian
MS Contin
MSiR
Oramorph
RMS
Roxanol
Morphine effects on the brain
The human body has a natural ability to produce its own opiate-like effects of pain relief and pleasure. Specific groups of neurons communicate with one another to produce sensations, perceptions, and behaviors. The three general types of opioid receptors are:
Don’t let your loved one suffer.
Addiction responds to treatment. Call us to get started.
1-888-882-1456
The mu (µ) receptor found throughout the brain and spinal cord.
The kappa (k) receptor found predominately in the brain (hypothalamus).
The delta (δ) receptor located in certain sections of the spinal cord.
Morphine has the ability to alter the neuronal communication within these systems. However, the drug activates specific receptors with different effet. For example, morphine’s pain relieving and euphoric activities appear to be mediated mostly by the mu-receptor.
When the opioid receptors are activated, these neurons release neurotransmitters that shut down the ability of other neurons to communicate with one another. The end result of this activity is the change in the sensation and perception of pain, as well as the development and maintenance of addictive behaviors.
Questions about rehab?
Get confidential help day or night.
Access to top treatment centers
Compassionate guidance
Financial assistance options
1-888-882-1456
How does morphine get you ‘hooked’?
Morphine has crucial effects on the midbrain that includes the following structures:
the limbic system
the thalamus
the hypothalamus
the hippocampus
the nucleus accumbens
Each of these brain structures inside the midbrain control behaviors such as : emotions, pain, hormones, memory, and reward. Morphine use also clouds the brain’s ability to make judgments, understand reasoning and planning. However, the cerebellum is the part of the brain which gets addicted to drugs, including morphine.
Start your
recovery today.
Find Out How
When a person uses morphine s/he feels a sense of reward and pleasure. Individuals who are high on morphine feel cravings and a constant need for more and more morphine because of the intense feelings of pleasure and relaxation. Reward, pleasure, and instinct are behaviors controlled by the cerebellum. Repeat the behavior, repeat the reward…and a cycle is born.
Am I at risk of morphine addiction?
Addiction doesn’t choose…anyone can fall a victim to this chronic disease. But, while some people may use morphine therapeutically and never cross the line, some face greater risks of addiction.
If you may be wondering why some people are more likely to get ‘hooked’, here are some of the main contributing factors:
Your home, peer, and community environment.
Having parents with a history of drug abuse.
Your individual response to opioids and other drugs.
Severe physical or psychological trauma.
Mental health conditions such as depression and anxiety.
Morphine addiction signs and symptoms
Q: What does it mean to be addicted to morphine?
A: Addiction to morphine is a chronic disease characterized by drug seeking behavior and use that is compulsive, or difficult to control, despite harmful consequences.
If a loved one is prescribed morphine, it can be difficult to determine whether they have developed an addiction or are simply keeping the pain under control. While it can control extreme chronic pain to some extent, this drug is often abused. If you suspect that someone you care about may be addicted to morphine, you can look for the following tell tale signs:
Behavioral signs of addiction:
Ready for help?
Call us today. You don’t need to face addiction on your own.
1-888-882-1456
Avoiding/neglecting activities due to morphine use.
Compulsive use of morphine.
Continued use of morphine regardless of harmful consequences.
Using multiple sources (often illegal) to get morphine.
Physical signs of addiction:
Cravings.
Increase in morphine doses without consultation with doctor.
Loss of control over morphine use and doses.
Experiencing withdrawal after morphine discontinuation.
—–
Are you ready to stop your suffering?
You CAN take back control over your life!
Call 1-877-721-2951.
—–
How to avoid morphine addiction
The best way to avoid morphine addiction is to only take morphine as prescribed. Furthermore, be in constant communication with your prescribing doctor. Honesty will be your best ally. For example, when you notice euphoric effect, report it immediately. When you notice an increase in your tolerance for morphine, report that, too.
In order to prevent addiction to morphine it is important to be honest about any past addiction problems or addiction risk factors. Another way to prevent the occurrence of morphine addiction is to look for available pain-management alternatives. Some possible pharmacological alternatives will vary by situation. For example, medications for migraine will be different than medications used for fibromyalgia. Medicines used to treat pain include:
Acetaminophen
Botulinum toxin (BOTOX) injections
Gabapentin
Pregabalin
Norephinephrine reuptake inhibitors
Tricyclic antidepressants and serotonin
NSAIDs
Topical agents (lidocaine, capsaicin, NSAIDs)
You can also look into drug-free treatments for acute or chronic pain. Complementary and alternative treatments for pain that are opiate-free include:
Acupuncture
Biofeedback
Cold or heat therapy
Electroanalgesia such as CES, PENS, SCS, TENS
Exercise therapy
Herbal medicines and dietary supplements
Interventional pain management
Nuclear medicine
Physical therapies
Psychological interventions
Questions about morphine dependency
We hope to have addressed your main concerns about taking morphine and avoiding addiction. But, we realize that you may still have a question you’d like answered.
Please let us know if you have questions about morphine or its addictive properties. Leave us your question(s) in the comments section right below the article. If you have a personal experience that you’d like to share, please feel free to post in the comments section below. We try to respond to all legitimate inquiries personally and promptly, or refer you to professionals who can help.
Reference sources: CDC: Non Opioid Pain Alternatives
NCBI: Morphine
Medline Plus: Morphine Oral
DEA: Morphine
State of Michigan: Non-Opioid Pain Treatments
NHTSA: Morphine (And Heroin)
Mark Nawrot, Ph.D. – Areas of the Brain Affected
Drugs The Straight Facts – Morphine
About the author
Lee Weber
Lee Weber is a published author, medical writer, and woman in long-term recovery from addiction. Her latest book, The Definitive Guide to Addiction Interventions is set to reach university bookstores in early 2019.
Tags: morphine morphine addiction morphine addiction symptoms morphine dependence
SPEAK WITH OUR ADMISSIONS NAVIGATORS
1-888-882-1456
– OR –
LET US CALL YOU
3RD-SAM-ACAD WEB-ADDICTIONBLOG-FORM
Start your
recovery today.
Find Out How
2 Comments
Leave a Comment
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
I have read and agree to the conditions outlined in the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
Name *
Email *
Website
Subscribe to this post
Subscribe to Addiction Blog updates
Dan says:
December 9, 2017 at 4:09 pm
I’m dependant on mscontin but also use other drugs I buy such as heroin,fentanyl and use these daily an have been doing so for years,I’m tired and want to end it all,
Reply
Lydia @ Addiction Blog says:
December 12, 2017 at 3:50 pm
Hi Dan. Call the helpline you see on the website to get in touch with a trusted treatment consultant who can help you find the best rehab program for you.
Reply
Related Posts
Morphine overdose: How much amount of morphine to OD?
Help for morphine addiction
How to treat morphine addiction
Physical addiction to morphine
Morphine Addiction Treatment
Signs and symptoms of morphine addiction
Effects of morphine abuse and addiction (INFOGRAPHIC)
What is morphine used for?
Morphine Use
Is morphine addictive?
Get Help Today.
You are not alone. We can help you get better.
3RD-SAM-ACAD WEB-ADDICTIONBLOG-FORM
Home
Contact
Advertising
Contributors
Publishers
Terms of use
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
This site complies with the
HONcode standard for trustworthy
health information: verify here.
|
Copyright © 2019 AddictionBlog.org | For immediate help, call 1-888-882-1456
I am ready to call
i Who Answers?
×
HOW OUR HELP LINE WORKS
For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the Addictionblog.org helpline is a private and convenient solution.
Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit will be answered by American Addiction Centers (AAC).
Caring admissions consultants are standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options. These representatives work solely for AAC and will discuss whether an AAC facility may be an option for you.
Our helpline is offered at no cost to you and with no obligation to enter into treatment. Neither Addictionblog.org nor AAC receives any commission or other fee that is dependent upon which treatment provider a visitor may ultimately choose.
For more information on AAC’s commitment to ethical marketing and treatment practices, or to learn more about how to select a treatment provider, visit our About AAC.
If you wish to explore additional treatment options or connect with a specific rehab center, you can browse top-rated listings, visit our homepage and browse by state, or visit SAMHSA.