healthy eyes – EyeSite
Skip to content
EyeSite
The blog, by Philadelphia Eyeglass Labs
Tag: healthy eyes
Essential Sunglasses – Beyond the Cool Factor
Audrey Hepburn Breakfast at Tiffany’s
Why do we wear sunglasses? According to a 2012 survey, nearly 90% of people believe that protecting their eyes is key to overall health. But most people who choose to wear sunglasses do so only to cut down on the sun???s glare.
There are many reasons for wearing sunglasses more often, especially when you???re enjoying the outdoors during the summer. Keep reading and we’ll breakdown why you should remember those shades.
Start at a Young Age
“Sunglasses are especially important for children,” says Dr. Stacey Filippo Tyran, optometrist at Wink Optical in Jenkintown. ???UV eye damage is cumulative over a lifetime,??? Dr. Filippo Tyran added, ???so it???s important to make wearing sunglasses a habit early in life. What???s more, children???s eyes are especially vulnerable because they???re still developing.???
??Prevent Sun-Related Health Problems
Our eyes are sensitive. Prolonged exposure to sun can lead to a variety of ailments. Some are simply painful or irritating, others can be deadly serious. Remembering to wear a pair of high quality sunglasses can help to keep you safe from the sun???s damaging rays.
Let’s start by defining what we mean by high-quality??sunglasses. Start by looking for sunglasses with 100% UVA and UVB protection. This provides full protection against the sun???s ultraviolet rays. Polarized sunglasses can reduce glare, which is nice if you???re spending a lot of time on the water. Also look for sunglasses that fully cover your eyes.
Wrap-around lenses are even better because they block out light and glare from the side, as well as the front. Besides, big sunnies are all the rage.
Now let???s look at diseases and health complications that sunglasses can help protect against.
Skin Cancer
The skin around your eyes, including your eyelids is very sensitive to sunlight. And nearly 10% of skin cancers are found near the eyes. Wearing UV-protective wraparound sunglasses with large lenses can not only protect your eyes, but they???ll protect your skin, too.
Cataracts & Glaucoma
Cataracts are cloudy areas on the eye???s lens. According to the Glaucoma Research Foundation, prolonged and long term exposure to the sun???s UV rays contribute to cataracts. UV exposure may also worsen the symptoms of Glaucoma, another serious eye condition that can result in blindness. Sunglasses with complete UV protection can help reduce your risk of cataracts or complications from glaucoma.
Macular Degeneration
Macular Degeneration is a condition where part of the retina, called the macula, deteriorates, causing impaired vision and in many cases, eventual blindness. Certain types of UV radiation can speed up this process, so wearing sunglasses may help protect you.
Pteryguim
Also known as surfer???s eye, pterygium is a growth on the eyeball itself. It???s usually not serious, but it can be painful and annoying. Eye drops, steroids and surgery (in advanced cases) are the most common treatments. ??But the best treatment, of course, is prevention. Doctors recommend wraparound sunglasses with UV protection, especially on cloudy days when the sun isn???t visible but its UV rays can still damage the eyes.
Protection From the Elements
The sun isn???t the only thing that can damage your eyes. Spending time outdoors, puts you at additional risk of damage from sand, dust, wind and even snow.
Snow
You might be surprised to know that spending time in the snow can be very damaging to your eyes. Snow reflects 80% of UV rays from the sun and can cause a condition known as snow blindness, where glare from the sun actually burns the cornea.??If you???re skiing, climbing snowy mountains or spending time in the snow (at any time of year), wear sunglasses. Make sure they cover and protect the bottom of your eyes, because of the reflective nature of the snow.
Sand
Getting sand in your eyes can be very painful and dangerous. Tiny grains of sand can actually scratch your eye and can cause permanent damage. Sunglasses that fully cover your eyes are a great way to keep sand out.
Wind & Dust
Spending a lot of time in windy, dusty areas can irritate and damage your eyes. Again, the best way to protect yourself is by wearing sunglasses that keep your eyes safe from the elements.
Promote Healing & Recovery??
If you???ve hadsurgery to correct your vision, you should be extra sure to wear sunglasses. Your doctor may recommend a pair for you to wear immediately after the procedure, but continuing to wear sunglasses can protect your eyes as they heal and as you adjust to your new vision. ??If you???ve had cataract surgery, eyelid repair, or another procedure to correct your vision, you???ll also benefit from wearing protective sunglasses. Ask your Philadelphia Eyeglass Labs optometrist for their opinion and recommendations.
See More & Enjoy Nature??
As important as protecting your health is, there are more good reasons to wear sunglasses more often. If you???re spending time outdoors, you???ll really benefit from wearing your sunglasses. With polarized sunglasses they’re sharper, there???s less glare, and the colors and contrast are improved.??If you enjoy fishing or spending time on the water, with polarized sunglasses you???ll be able to see through the glare on top of the water and notice fish and aquatic life that you never even knew were there!
Fewer Headaches & You’ll be More Comfortable
Bright sunlight can be a trigger for migraines and bad headaches. Wearing sunglasses can help reduce both the frequency and intensity of these painful occurrences. And even if you???re not a headache or migraine sufferer, wearing sunglasses when out in the sun can help reduce eyestrain and fatigue, meaning that you???ll just be more comfortable and enjoy your time outdoors even more.
Safe Driving & Recovery
Do sunglasses help when driving in the rain? This is a hotly debated issue, but the consensus seems to be that in light rain, during the day, the right sunglasses can improve your vision and help you to drive safer. And of course when driving into bright sunlight, sunglasses can definitely help you see better and drive more comfortably. Just make sure you don???t wear sunglasses when driving at night??? that???s not recommended and it???s not safe.
Finally. The Cool Factor
Now the fun reason. Sunglasses today have been rated the number one fashion accessory!?? Aviators, mirrored lenses, retro round, double wire, geeky and big bigger biggest have been sported by celebrities and featured on runways. ??You can even have different sunglasses for different activities, or to coordinate with different outfits. Express yourself.
Round wire frames straight from the flower-power 70’s were featured at the Spring fashion shows and are a favorite of ??models.
One of our favorite things to recommend is matching sunglasses to a protective sun hat. Your extra protected from the sun???s rays and stay cool and comfortable, all while looking fashion-forward.
Whether it???s digital lenses, safety frames or progressives that you need, Philadelphia Eyeglass Labs experienced optometrists and dispensing opticians will craft a set of frames and lenses that fit you and your lifestyle. Plus, we manufacture your glasses in our very own in-house lab- betya??? didn???t know that!
No matter what look you???re going for, from classically cool to modern and fashionable, at Philadelphia Eyeglass Labs there???s a pair of sunglasses that will make you see and feel great… and look??oh so cool.
Center City and South Philadelphia, Bensalem, East Norriton, Ardmore and Wink Optical in Jenkintown PA
philadelphiaeyeglasslabs.com
Copyright 2017 Philadelphia Eyeglass Labs
Author Nancy BraginPosted on May 24, 2017 Tags age-related eye conditions, cataracts, designer eye wear, designer sunglasses, eye diseases, Eye Exams, eye health, glaucoma, healthy eyes, macular degeneration, Optometrist, polarized sunglasses, prescription sunglasses, protective eyewear, protective eyewear for children, pterygium, skin cancer, UV Protection, Winter eye protectionLeave a comment on Essential Sunglasses – Beyond the Cool Factor
Your Complete Guide to Essential Foods for Healthy Vision
The Right Foods – Essential for Healthy Vision
Research suggests that antioxidants and other important nutrients may
reduce your risk of cataracts and macular degeneration. Specific antioxidants can have additional benefits as well; for example, vitamin A protects against blindness, and vitamin C may play a role in preventing or alleviating glaucoma.
Omega-3 essential fatty acids appear to help the eye in a variety of ways, from alleviating symptoms of dry eye syndrome to guarding against macular damage.
Eye Benefits Of Vitamins And Micronutrients
The following vitamins, minerals and other nutrients have been shown to be essential for good vision and may protect your eyes from sight-robbing conditions and diseases.
A healthy diet for your eyes should include plenty of colorful fruits and vegetables.??
Incorporating the following foods in your diet will help you get the Recommended Dietary??Allowance (RDA) of these important eye nutrients. Established by the Institute of Medicine (National Academy of Sciences), the RDA is the average daily dietary intake level of a nutrient sufficient to meet the requirements of nearly all healthy individuals in a specific life stage and gender group.
While the RDA is a useful reference, some eye care practitioners recommend higher daily intakes of certain nutrients for people at risk for eye problems.??In the following , mg = milligram; mcg = microgram (1/1000 of a mg) and IU = International Unit.
Beta-carotene
Eye benefits of beta-carotene: when taken in combination with zinc and vitamins C and E, beta-carotene may reduce the progression of macular degeneration.
Food sources: Carrots, sweet potatoes, spinach, kale, butternut squash.
RDA: None (most supplements contain 5,000 to 25,000 IU).
Eye Benefits of Bioflavonoids (Flavonoids)
Bioflavonoids may protect against cataracts and macular degeneration.
Food sources: Tea, red wine, citrus fruits, bilberries, blueberries, cherries, legumes, soy products.
RDA: None.
Lutein and Zeaxanthin??
Eye benefits of lutein and zeaxanthin: may prevent cataracts and macular degeneration.
Food sources: Spinach, kale, turnip greens, collard greens, squash.
RDA: None.
Omega-3 Fatty Acids
Eye benefits of omega-3 fatty acids: may help prevent macular degeneration (AMD) and dry eyes.
Food sources: Cold-water fish such as salmon, mackerel and herring; fish oil supplements, freshly ground flaxseeds, walnuts.
RDA: None; but for cardiovascular benefits, the American Heart Association recommends approximately 1,000 mg daily.
Selenium
Eye benefits of selenium: when combined with carotenoids and vitamins C and E, may reduce risk of advanced AMD.
Food sources: Seafood (shrimp, crab, salmon, halibut), Brazil nuts, enriched noodles, brown rice.
RDA: 55 mcg for teens and adults (60 mcg for women during pregnancy and 70 mcg when breast-feeding).
Vitamin A
Eye benefits of vitamin A: may protect against night blindness and dry eyes.
Food sources: Beef or chicken liver; eggs, butter, milk.
RDA: 3,000 IU for men; 2,333 IU for women (2,567 IU during pregnancy and 4,333 IU when breast-feeding).
Vitamin C ??
Eye benefits of vitamin C: may reduce the risk of cataracts and macular degeneration.
Food sources: Sweet peppers (red or green), kale, strawberries, broccoli, oranges, cantaloupe.
RDA: 90 mg for men; 70 mg for women (85 mg during pregnancy and 120 mg when breast-feeding).
Vitamin D
Eye benefits of vitamin D: may reduce the risk of macular degeneration.
Food sources: Salmon, sardines, mackerel, milk; orange juice fortified with vitamin D.
RDA: None, but the American Academy of Pediatrics recommends 400 IU per day for infants, children and adolescents, and many experts recommend higher daily intakes for adults.
The best source of vitamin D is exposure to sunlight. Ultraviolet radiation from the sun stimulates production of vitamin D in human skin, and just a few minutes of exposure to sunlight each day (without sunscreen) will insure your body is producing adequate amounts of vitamin D.
Vitamin E
Eye benefits of vitamin E: when combined with carotenoids and vitamin C, may reduce the risk of advanced AMD.
Food sources: Almonds, sunflower seeds, hazelnuts.
RDA: 15 mg for teens and adults (15 mg for women during pregnancy and 19 mg when breast-feeding).
Zinc
Eye benefits of zinc: helps vitamin A reduce the risk of night blindness; may play a role in reducing risk of advanced AMD.
Food sources: Oysters, beef, Dungeness crab, turkey (dark meat).
RDA: 11 mg for men; 8 mg for women (11 mg during pregnancy and 12 mg when breast-feeding).
Eye Vitamins?
If you plan to begin a regimen of eye vitamins, be sure to discuss this with your Philadelphia Eyeglass Labs optometrist. According to Dr. Stacey Filippo Tyran, Wink Optical Optometrist, taking too much of certain vision supplements can cause problems, especially if you are taking prescription medications for health issues.
It All Comes Down to Fish, Colorful Vegetables and Fruits
In summary, it all comes down to getting nutrients through a healthy diet, including at least two servings of fish per week and plenty of colorful fruits and vegetables.
Wink Optical Optometrist Dr. Stacey Filippo Tyran
Questions about Eye Health???
Visit your Philadelphia Eyeglass Labs optometrist. You can count on family-owned Philadelphia Eyeglass Labs for expert service, top optometrists and a full range of the latest frames at the best prices.
Center City and South Philadelphia, Bensalem, East Norriton, Ardmore and Wink Optical in Jenkintown PA??philadelphiaeyeglasslabs.com
Copyright 2017 Philadelphia Eyeglass Labs
Author Nancy BraginPosted on April 27, 2017 April 27, 2017 Tags Best Foods for Eyes, Beta-carotene, bioflavonoids, Dr. Stacey Filippo Tyran, Essential Foods for Healthy Vision, eye health, healthy eyes, healthy vision, Lutein, macular degeneration, Omega-3 Fatty Acids, Philadelphia Eyeglass Labs, selenium, vitamin A, vitamin C, vitamin D, vitamin E, Wink Optical, Women's Eye Health and Safety Month, Zeaxanthin, ZincLeave a comment on Your Complete Guide to Essential Foods for Healthy Vision
Healthy Eyes for the New Year
Jeepers creepers where’d ya get those healthy peepers?
Flip the calendar, turn the page, wipe the slate clean, start fresh ??? dozens of expressions have been coined to celebrate the feeling of starting something new. You have your eyes for a lifetime. Start following these 7 simple tips in the new year and maintain healthy eyes well into your golden years.
Have an annual eye exam.??Eyes aren’t like teeth ??? there’s usually no pain if something is wrong. Many common eye diseases such as glaucoma, diabetic eye disease and age-related macular degeneration often have no warning signs. A dilated eye exam is the only way to detect these diseases in their early??stages.
Be cool and wear your shades. Sunglasses are a great fashion accessory – but their most important job is to protect your eyes from the sun???s ultraviolet rays. When getting sunglasses look for ones that block out 99 to 100 percent of both UV-A and UV-B radiation.
??Quit smoking or never start. Smoking is as bad for your eyes as it is for the rest of your body. Research has linked smoking to an increased risk of developing age-related macular degeneration, cataract and optic nerve damage, all of which can lead to blindness.
Protect those peepers. Wear protective eyewear when playing sports and doing activities around the home. Employers are required to provide a safe work environment. If protective eyewear is required as a part of your job make a habit of wearing it at all times.
??Know your family???s eye health history.?? Talk to family members about their eye health history – it???s important to know if anyone has been diagnosed with an eye condition. ??Since many are hereditary this will help your optometrist determine if you are at higher risk for developing an eye disease.
??Wash, wash, wash your hands.??Prevent eye infections by washing your hands before touching ??eyes and before handling contact lenses. Teach children to avoid touching their eyes without washing their hands first. ??If you are near someone with red eye, avoid contact around your own eyes until you wash your hands first. You can minimize the likelihood of catching common bacterial or viral eye infections by using anti-infective sprays and cleansers in public areas.
??Have an eye doctor who knows you and the history of your eyes to ensure you get the right care at the right time. Stop by soon and get to know our team of on-site optometrists at Wink – your Neighborhood Optical Center.
Copyright 2017 wink-optical.com
Author Nancy BraginPosted on January 7, 2017 Tags cataracts, diabetic eye disease, eye diseases, eye doctor, Eye Exams, eye health, eye infections, family eye history, glaucoma, healthy eyes, healthy vision, macular degeneration, optic nerve damage, Optometrist, protective eyewear, red eye, UV Protection, vision screeningLeave a comment on Healthy Eyes for the New Year
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
Essential Sunglasses – Beyond the Cool Factor
Your Complete Guide to Essential Foods for Healthy Vision
International Women’s Month: Focus on Visionary Women
Just In From London Fashion Week – 2017 Hottest Eyewear Trends
Be Cool Wear Sunglasses in Winter and Protect Your Eyes
Recent Comments
Archives
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Share Buttons
EyeSite Proudly powered by WordPress