Heroin Addiction - Addiction Treatment Center ~ Call 1-800-468-6933
Skip to content
Skip to main navigation
Skip to 1st column
Skip to 2nd column
Addiction Treatment Center ~ Call 1-800-468-6933
Home
News
Search
Addiction Treatment Center
Speak with an rehab
referral specialist
1-800-468-6933
Heroin Addiction
Heroin is a highly addictive drug that comes from a substance called morphine, which is obtained from the opium poppy. It is a "downer" or depressant that affects the brain's pleasure systems and interferes with the brain's ability to perceive pain. Heroin, first synthesized in 1874, is an opiate drug, formed as a crystalline white powder from morphine. Its habit-forming euphoric effect leads to high dependency and tenacious addiction. Overdose, overuse, and use with sedatives or alcoholic beverages may increase risk of fatality. Heroin addiction is a devastating-yet reversible condition that damages both the body and mind. Heroin addiction starts with dependency on recreational drug use. After extended use, physical dependency takes control of the body. Soon Heroin addiction takes control of behavior also. But like any opiate dependency the physical condition of opiate saturation and Heroin addiction in the body and brain can be reversed through detoxification.
Dependent Heroin users do not intend to end up with an addiction when they start recreational use. Heroin addiction comes about due to a one’s attempt to self-medicate emotional pain or to alleviate withdrawal pain. A lot of heroin users start abusing the substance because they believe that it will solve all of their problems. Not realizing they create more problems by getting very addicted to it.
Addiction starts with a debilitating, devastating dependency on medicine meant to decrease pain. Despite the negative consequences, Heroin users feel unable to break out of the prison caused by drug abuse. Some, such as Waismann Method patients, garner the courage to follow a Heroin rapid-detox program to end the horrid withdrawal syndrome. Heroin acts similarly to other opiate drugs, because it is a narcotic synthesized from morphine.
Heroin used to be prescribed by doctors to treat a morphine addiction. It was thought to be a “non-addictive” solution, which was proven to be even more addictive than heroin. Stopping illicit use of the drug after either little or prolonged exposure can trigger painful Heroin withdrawal as quickly as within 6 hours. Heroin withdrawal and side effects adversely influence the body’s physiological systems, especially the respiratory, circulatory, and central nervous systems. The effects upon the lungs, heart, and brain can prove fatal when overuse occurs.
However, serious reactions are not limited to the above. Heroin use has led to respiratory arrest, coma, and death. Heroin also triggers disastrous consequences and harm to the user, especially when combined with alcohol, sedatives, barbiturates, and certain other medication.
If you or someone you know has a heroin addiction, find a right treatment program immediately. You need a heroin rehabilitation center that will treat the physical and mental aspects of the devastating addiction. Fighting a heroin addiction is one of the hardest things to do, however with the best treatment and assistance from professional staff, it could be done!
Joomla SEO powered by JoomSEF
The Problem
Addiction
Drug Addiction Information
Prescription Drug Addiction
The Solution
Our Addiction Treatment Program
Addiction Research
Addiction Treatment
The Next Step
Contact Us
Success Stories
FAQs
Drug Rehab
Addiction
Addiction Treatment
Alcohol
Alcohol Rehab
Alcohol Treatment
Detox
Drugs
Drug Abuse
Drug Rehab
Drug Rehab Centers
Drug Rehabilitation
Drug Treatments
Dual Diagnosis
Help
Rehab
Rehab Centers
Rehabilitation
Treatment
Treatment Center
Treatment Centers
Withdrawal
Click here to complete: addiction2
Copyright © 2005 - 2019 Addiction Treatment Center ~ Call 1-800-468-6933.