wisdom teeth Archives - Authority Dental
Home
About Us
Dental Blog
History of Dentistry
Contact Us
Tag - wisdom teeth
Extracting Wisdom Teeth
Authority Dental
Wisdom Teeth
3 min read
Wisdom teeth, the 3rd set of molars, are the last ones in the mouth cavity to erupt. This usually happens between the ages 17 and 25, but wisdom teeth may erupt later in life.
For a long time, there had been a controversy around the question whether to remove wisdom teeth. If they do not cause pain or harm once they erupt, it is perfectly fine to stay in place.
However, if wisdom teeth cause discomfort or pain, or they are in a bad position, it is better to have them removed.
Having Your Wisdom Teeth Removed
In some cases, wisdom teeth will be impacted when they come in. Dentists recommend that such teeth are extracted. They may have to be cut out or pulled, but cutting out is a better option most of the time. This is done by a qualified surgeon. Persons who feel discomfort or pain when wisdom teeth erupt are advised to have a consultation with an oral surgeon.
The surgeon will take X-rays1 during the consultation as to find out how bad the tooth or teeth are. They will look at the results and will go over them with the patient, explaining what the options are. If the only option is to have the wisdom teeth cut out or pulled, the surgeon will use an IV sedation or local anesthesia.
Some dentists recommend opting for an IV sedation if a wisdom tooth has to be extracted. This way, the patient feels more relaxed. If the patient opts for a local anesthesia, they will be fully aware of what is going on, because it is only numbing. He or she will hear the cracking and popping involved in the procedure, which may feel uncomfortable.
Depending on the formation, size, and shape of teeth, the extracting them may be hard or easy. If the root tips of the tooth are around the bone, removing the tooth may be painful and time consuming. Once the removal process is completed, there is usually no or little swelling. Dentists typically prescribe some type of pain medication to be used at home.
Patients who opt for an IV sedation should ask someone to accompany them. The reason is that they will not be able to drive after the procedure.
Once the removal process is over, the dentist will explain the steps to ensure proper healing of the mouth and gums. Usually, dentists explain what to do so that the patient does not experience any problems during the healing process. The patient may have to ask someone to stay with them during the first 24 hours.
Conclusion
This is important as to make sure they are ok. Persons who have their teeth extracted should not consume some types of foods during the first two days. Once a wisdom tooth is removed, however, patients notice a visible improvement in their health and mouth.
http://www.nhs.uk/conditions/x-ray/Pages/Introduction.aspx ↩
Top 5 Symptoms Of A Toothache
Authority Dental
Toothache
3 min read
Hello everyone! For this article, I decided to talk about the top 5 symptoms of a toothache. Do you think you might have a toothache? The signs of a toothache seem pretty self-explanatory.
5 Signs of A Toothache
However, there are other signs that you should also watch out for. With this list, I hope you are able to learn just how to spot a toothache. With that, here is my personal list of the top 5 symptoms of a toothache.
1. Difficulty Chewing
Are you having a hard time chewing? Do you find that you are experiencing a lot of tooth pain when you chew? This is by far the most common sign of a toothache. You should have no problem chewing your food without any pain. If this isn’t the case, it’s likely a toothache if not something worse!
2. Sensitive To Temperatures
Do you find that you have a harder time eating foods that are sensitive to certain temperatures? While many people experience a sensitivity towards cold foods, it’s also a sign of a possible toothache remedy.
3. Bleeding From The Teeth/Gums
Are you noticing any blood when you are eating? How about in general? How about when you brush your teeth? While this can be a sign of dental decay, it can also mean you have some type of tooth infection.
4. Is It Really Your Teeth?
Are your teeth hurting? Then it’s likely a toothache. But.. are you sure it’s actually your teeth? It’s possible that the toothache pain you are feeling is really a feeling in your throat, jaw, or even ear.
Perhaps in reality, it’s a soar throat or ear infection1 . Make sure it’s actually your teeth that is hurting before concluding that it’s a toothache.
5. Which Teeth Are Hurting?
Figuring out which teeth are hurting is another way to figure out if you have a toothache or not. For instance, try and figure out if it is your wisdom teeth that are hurting. If so, your toothache may in fact be from your wisdom teeth pushing against your gums. When this happens, it is best to go to a doctor. This is especially common among teenagers and young adults.
Conclusion
Toothaches is a pretty vague diagnosis for tooth pain. However, with this list, I hope it has become a bit more clear to you as to what may or may not be a toothache. If you feel you may have a toothache, then consider checking out my blog. On this blog I list all sorts of toothache remedies that I come across. Good luck!
http://www.healthline.com/health/ear-infections#Overview1 ↩
Getting Wisdom Teeth Pulled: Case for and Against
Authority Dental
Wisdom Teeth
2 min read
Getting wisdom teeth pulled can be a traumatic experience, but despite the risks this surgical procedure may involve, millions of asymptomatic, healthy wisdom teeth are removed in young persons in the US every year.
In many cases, this happens as young people get ready to leave for college.
One obvious question is whether prophylactic extraction is a good option. Chairman of orthodontics Dr Greg J. Huang at the University of Washington explains that every person is at risk of appendicitis, but the organ is not surgically removed as means of prevention.
Dr Huang notes that he is not against wisdom teeth extraction, but there should be a good clinical reason for it.
Professor of surgery Dr. Raymond P. White Jr. at the School of Dentistry to the University of South Carolina counters this argument by explaining that about sixty to seventy percent of persons with wisdom teeth have problems with them eventually. According to Dr. Louis K. Rafetto, some 80 percent of patients do not maintain their wisdom teeth well (the New York Times).
Expert Opinion On Getting Wisdom Teeth Pulled
This is the opinion of some experts on getting wisdom teeth pulled. Dr. Alan Carr, D.M.D. explains that extraction may be unnecessary if a wisdom tooth has grown in completely, i.e. it is fully erupted and healthy. Wisdom teeth removal is normally not required if the tooth is biting properly with the tooth opposite to it and is positioned correctly.
Finally, if the tooth can be cleaned so that proper dental hygiene is maintained, removal is not required.
Wisdom teeth are extracted mainly as a way of eliminating the potential for damage to adjacent teeth and for infection. It should be noted that the jaws of many people aren’t large enough for the third molars to erupt, and they may become partially exposed, which increases the risk of becoming infected.
Alternatively, wisdom teeth remain trapped under the gums, and there is a chance (3 to 5 percent) that they become cystic. Infection, on the other hand, can cause wisdom teeth pain, damage to adjacent teeth, and bone loss.
Conclusion
If symptoms such as pain, impaction, swelling, and pocketing occur, wisdom teeth removal may be the best option. The decision on getting wisdom teeth pulled, however, should be made taking into account a variety of factors and after a consultation with an oral surgeon or a dentist.
Wisdom Teeth Bleeding – Home Remedies to Stop It
Authority Dental
Wisdom Teeth
2 min read
Wisdom teeth bleeding is common during the first hour following the extraction procedure. As time passes, its likelihood decreases and bleeding is unusual after twenty four hours. In general, the open wound takes about 7 days to heal and in 1 to 2 months, the dental socket fills in with gum tissue.
It is not advisable to take aspirin and the reason is that it can make bleeding worse. To stop wisdom teeth bleeding, it is recommended to soak a tea bag in a cup of warm water, squeezing the excess moisture. Then, the tea bag should be placed on the bleeding socket for five to ten minutes. Bite on it and do not rinse for a couple of hours.
If the bleeding does not stop
If the bleeding does not stop, you should contact the oral surgeon or dentist who performed the extraction procedure. What they will do is place a coagulating substance in the dental socket as to stop the bleeding.
It should be noted that slight bleeding is common, occurring periodically on the site where the wisdom tooth was removed. This is because the sutures are in such a place that it is not possible to keep immobile. Some seepage of blood may occur due to the movement of tissue there from running, talking, chewing, and other activities.
This should not be a source of concern in normal circumstances. However, you should consult your dentist if you have health issues such as bleeding disorders or diabetes or if you are on blood thinners. Occasional bleeding is considered normal if it stops within a couple of minutes and is not profuse.
Again, one way to stop bleeding is to rinse using warm salted water. If the bleeding continues, i.e. it doesn’t stop within a couple of minutes, you may want to try placing one or two wet tea bags over the bleeding area. Hold it there and bite it down firmly. The tea bag should stay in place for up to 45 minutes so that it helps stop the bleeding. The components in the tea make it possible for the blood in the socket to clot.
Finally, it should be noted that wisdom teeth extraction is easy to perform on young patients, and the risk of complications such as wisdom teeth pain is smaller.
Wisdom Teeth and Pregnancy, Infections, and Extraction
Authority Dental
Wisdom Teeth
2 min read
How to deal with wisdom teeth and pregnancy without worrying too much?
This is an important question given that in some women, pregnancy can cause dental problems such as higher risk of tooth decay and gum disease. Moreover, chronic gum infections (periodontal disease) can trigger premature birth. One study, which involved 1,020 pregnant women, examined the relationship between wisdom teeth and pregnancy. Of the participants, those who did not have a wisdom tooth removed were half as likely as the rest to give premature birth.
The findings from this study also suggest that gum disease has a similar effect on pregnancy to the effect of smoking.
Another study suggests that dental problems can cause preeclampsia in pregnant women. In fact, this is among the most common maladies of mothers-to-be in the Western world. Preeclampsia refers to developing protein in the urine and high blood pressure during the third or late second semester.
According to experts, if a wisdom tooth is erupting while pregnant and some infection occurs, it should be dealt with immediately. Tooth problems should be taken care of because infections can harm the fetus. Some women delay dental care during pregnancy because they are busy with their children, due to financial concerns or out of fear of dental work.
This is not recommended for two reasons – the first is possible infections and the second is that lying in a dental chair during the third trimester may be uncomfortable. If there is wisdom teeth pain or an active infection, the second trimester is a good time, but it isn’t the only time.
What about the extraction of wisdom teeth and pregnancy?
Usually, this is done if the mother is in a lot of pain, which is stressing the body and is not good for the baby. Pregnant women in the third or first semester are often advised to have the removal procedure postponed, if possible. The second trimester is recommended if wisdom teeth removal is required, and a smaller amount of anesthesia is used. It is important to inform your oral surgeon or dentist if you are pregnant.
They will use local anesthetic that does not cause harm to the baby. If you have to take an antibiotic after or before the removal procedure, it is recommended to avoid tetracycline. Finally, X-rays may be required before extraction, but this should be kept to a minimum.
Wisdom Teeth Removal Recovery
Authority Dental
Wisdom Teeth
2 min read
In this article we will explain to you the steps involved in wisdom teeth removal recovery. Following wisdom teeth extraction, it is important to maintain cleanliness and good oral hygiene. You can use salt water rinse and gently rinse, but try not to over-stimulate the extraction socket. Four days post extraction, you can brush your teeth but stay away from the extraction site. At this stage, it is better not to use oral rinse, but salt water rinse are recommended and will not dislodge the clots. Avoid touching the area with your fingers and rubbing it with your tongue.
However, do not rinse your mouth, brush your teeth, use a mouthwash, or spit during the first 24 hours following the extraction procedure. Rinse with warm salt water after meals and every 2 hours while awake. Do this for about a week after the surgery, mixing half a teaspoon of table salt and eight ounces of water. Resume brushing after the first 24 hours. To be on the safe side, you may slosh water instead of swishing it. Tilt your head from side to side and to get the water out, tilt it over the sink.
You do not have to spit in this way. In any case, it is not recommended to brush your teeth during the first 24 hours because it may open up the wound. This is going to hurt quite bad, and it is better to wait until the next day. These precautions are necessary to avoid complications such as bleeding, infections, dry socket, etc. Once the extraction site heals, you can rinse with a non-alcohol mouthwash which kills bacteria in the mouth and helps prevent infections.
It is important to keep the blood clot intact because if it is lost, this may cause swelling, discomfort, and pain, and will delay the healing process. What is more, the nerve endings will be directly exposed, and this may cause immense pain. It is important to keep the wound clean, avoid smoking, and take steps to prevent complications. Your oral surgeon may recommend oral antibiotics, an antiseptic solution to be applied to the wound, or antibacterial gels and mouthwashes which are applied before and following the surgical procedure.
Does Everyone Have Wisdom Teeth?
Authority Dental
Wisdom Teeth
3 min read
Does everyone have wisdom teeth, and is it possible that wisdom teeth never grow?
The majority of adults have 4 wisdom teeth, but some people have more, which are referred to as supernumerary teeth, and other people have fewer, a condition known as oligodontia.
Supernumerary teeth or hyperdontia is a dental condition whereby teeth grow in addition to the four wisdom teeth and the usual number of teeth. There are different types of supernumerary teeth, which are classified by position and by shape.
How do you know if you have wisdom teeth
They include complex odontome(1), compound odontome, conical, tuberculate, and supplemental.
Conical teeth are also known as peg shaped while tuberculate teeth are referred to as barred shaped. Complex odontome represent a mass of tissue, which is disorganized, and compound odontome are multiple, small-size, teeth-like forms.
Classified by position, these teeth are also referred to as distomolar, paramolar, and mesiodens.
Oligodontia or hypodontia is another dental condition whereby patients have missing or fewer teeth because these fail to develop. Hypodontia(2) occurs when patients have up to six teeth missing, and this excludes the third molars. Oligodontia is when a person has more than six teeth missing.
Oligodontia or hypodontia
Back to the question – does everyone have wisdom teeth?
Between 9 and 30 percent of adult population do not have third molars.
Those who are in their 20s, however, should know that their wisdom teeth might not have presently assumed their final position. With this in mind, one or more wisdom teeth may erupt later on.
One possibility is that wisdom teeth do not erupt at all and another is that they fail to grow properly. In this case, they are called impacted wisdom teeth and if complications occur, wisdom teeth extraction may be required, especially if it is accompanied by severe wisdom teeth pain and other complications.
Does everyone have wisdom teeth is not the only interesting question to explore. Why did they develop to begin with?
According to anthropologists, the 3rd set of molars developed because of our ancestors’ diet, which included rough food, including meats, nuts, roots, and leaves. These needed more chewing power, resulting in excessive teeth wear.
Conclusion
The modern diet includes a variety of soft foods, and along with marvels of modern technology, including knives, spoons, and forks, it has made wisdom teeth redundant. Thus, evolutionary biologists call these teeth parts of the body that are now functionless, referred to as vestigial organs. This is largely due to evolution.
Reference
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5034075 ↩
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4336964 ↩
Wisdom Teeth Bruising, Causes, and Recovery
Authority Dental
Wisdom Teeth
2 min read
Wisdom teeth bruising and swelling normally disappears in a couple of days (2-3 to 9). In fact, bruising is not common in patients who do not take medications that thin the blood and those without bleeding disorders. While bruising is not very common, it is still possible. Swelling normally increases during the first 2 days and begins to subside afterwards. Using ice during the first day helps minimize it.
With simple extraction, there is normally little bleeding, swelling, and bruising. A more complex extraction procedure – when there is wisdom teeth pain and complications – may lead to more bleeding, swelling, and wisdom teeth bruising. Your dentist or oral surgeon will give you post-treatment instructions in order to minimize such side effects.
In some people, the lymph nodes swell, and this may indicate an active infection involving their wisdom teeth. Dry socket is not only painful, but it can result in an infection causing lymph nodes to swell. In this case, it is important to visit the dentist’s office, and they may prescribe an antibiotic or anti-inflammatory to deal with the infection.
Note that younger patients who undergo wisdom teeth extraction have less swelling, bruising, and muscle stiffness, and experience less post-surgery discomfort than older patients. The reason is that young people have the ability to repair, re-grow, and heal sinus and nerve injuries. The maxillofacial surgery causes almost no permanent complications among young patients.
Moreover, young people and teens have lower rates of postoperative infection because they have strong immune systems. Then, the roots of wisdom teeth are not deep in the jaw in young patients, and less bone has to be removed. This means that the surgical site is less sore after the removal procedure. In teens, the socket defect and surgical defect is small and closes quickly, making recovery faster and easier. Thus, wisdom teeth bruising, infections, and other complications are less common in young patients.
To minimize post-extraction side effects, it is recommended not to smoke during the first 12 hours. Smoking interferes with bleeding and can cause bleeding to occur. To control the bruising and swelling, it is recommended to apply cold packs, which act to slow circulation. Cold packs should be used during the first 24 hours and placed at the site of swelling. Use in cycles – twenty minutes on and twenty minutes off.
1 2 3 Next
Categories
Bad Breath5
Braces9
Cavities3
Dental Implants2
Dental Information28
Gum disease9
Root Canal1
Teeth Whitening10
Toothache13
Wisdom Teeth26
Featured Posts
How to Whiten Teeth Fast [3 Proven Methods]
Does Everyone Have Wisdom Teeth?
Dental Care For Children
Fastest Way To Straighten Your Teeth [Perfect Smile]
Which Is The Perfect Toothbrush
DMCA Protected
Medical Disclaimer
Authoritydental.com is only for information purposes only. Always get guidance about a medical condition from a health care professional.
Stay With Me
Copyright © 2018. AuthorityDental.com
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Medical Disclaimer
SiteMap
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy