How to lower Cholesterol Levels Naturally ? [Top 10 Ways]
Home
Disclaimer
Cookie Policy
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Your Health Support
Home
Diseases & Remedies
Disorders
Health Effects
Fitness & Beauty
Food & Nutrition
Lifestyle
Weight Loss
Health Topics
Medicines
Home / Fitness & Beauty / How to lower Cholesterol Levels Naturally ?
How to lower Cholesterol Levels Naturally ?
Anirudh Singh July 16, 2017	Fitness & Beauty Leave a comment 1,352 Views
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Google +
Stumbleupon
LinkedIn
Pinterest
It has been well said that good health is the underpinning of happiness and no doubt high cholesterol is a threat to that very base. It is not like that cholesterol is totally undesirable or something. Our body needs good cholesterol to work properly but high cholesterol means that our body is producing more cholesterol than your body actually needs. High cholesterol puts you at risk of heart strokes and attacks. Thus to lead a healthy life lowering high levels of bad cholesterol is essential.
Contents
Top 10 Ways to lower Cholesterol Levels Naturally
1) Oats
2) Say Goodbye to Refined Sugars and Grains
3) Switch to Smaller Meals from Large Ones
4) Exercise, Exercise and Exercise
5) Avoid Drinking your Calories
6) Omega-3 and Antioxidants
7) Choose Sources of High Soluble Fibres
8) Oils for Lower Cholesterol
9) Limiting Caffeine
10) Avoiding Alcohol
Top 10 Ways to lower Cholesterol Levels Naturally
Here are some ways to lower cholesterol levels naturally.
1) Oats
Oats is the most wonderful way to lower cholesterol levels through diet. Including oats in your breakfast is the healthiest choice one can ever make. Oats absorbs the bad cholesterol in your food which then goes out of your body in your excreta. This is because oat is enriched with a substance called beta glucan which is capable of captivating LDL or the bad cholesterol.
Recommended Read :
Health Benefits of Good Sleep
Health Benefits of Honey
2) Say Goodbye to Refined Sugars and Grains
Instead of refined flour, sugar and rice, try to bank upon whole wheat flour, brown rice and unrefined sugar. Whole grains are a very wonderful source of fibres which is a very smart choice when it comes to lower cholesterol levels fast and naturally. Refined grains and sugar make your liver make more cholesterol and also cause inflammation.
3) Switch to Smaller Meals from Large Ones
It is perfectly fine to feed upon 5-6 smaller meals during the day instead of 3 colossal ones. By adopting this method you won’t have the urge to eat in between of your meals and also all of your meals will be appropriately sized and balanced. Make sure you opt for healthy snacks like fruits, nuts etc. This is the best way to lower cholesterol and lose weight as well.
4) Exercise, Exercise and Exercise
Exercising is an amazing remedy to lower cholesterol levels without medications. Exercising keeps your body healthy, active and also aids it to get rid of those stubborn toxins. With just 30 minutes of exercising you can amazingly increase your good cholesterol levels and lower the bad ones. You need not engage into very difficult high level warrior type tasks. A 30 minute brisk walk, swimming or any of your favourite sport is good enough to lower cholesterol levels.
Also Read : Health Benefits of Grean Tea
5) Avoid Drinking your Calories
Avoid those calorie sweetened beverages. Fizzy drinks, sodas etc are one of the major contributors of empty calories. Try lightening your coffee, choosing a diet soda, opting for toned milk rather than the full cream one and don’t forget to dilute your juice before drinking it. These smart tricks can help you to lower cholesterol and lose weight.
Also See : Best Ways to Burn Calories at Home
6) Omega-3 and Antioxidants
Both of these constituents are essential to consider if you are planning to lower cholesterol levels through diet. Fruits and vegetables teem with antioxidants and you can find omega 3 fatty acids in olive oil, flax seeds, canola oil, avocado etc. Including these items in your diet plan can help you go a long way to lower cholesterol levels naturally.
7) Choose Sources of High Soluble Fibres
Soluble fibres help you to get rid of the stubborn and bad cholesterol as it absorbs the bad cholesterol in your body itself and gets rid of it by eliminating it out of your body with the aid of excretory material. Choose fruits, vegetables, sprouts and all other rich sources of high soluble fibres to lower cholesterol levels quickly.
8) Oils for Lower Cholesterol
Essential lavender oil diminishes stress and thus also helps one to lower cholesterol levels fast. Rosemary oil supports cardio system and in enriched with anti-oxidants that reduces cholesterol levels. Cypress oil is also one of the best oils when it comes to lowering of cholesterol levels as it improves blood circulation. Choosing these oils can help you to lower cholesterol levels without medication.
9) Limiting Caffeine
Caffeine is known for enhancing cholesterol levels. If in case you’re an ardent fan of tea or coffee then try limiting your intake to 1-2 cups a day. This will help you to lower your cholesterol levels quickly.
10) Avoiding Alcohol
Alcohol stimulates your liver to harvest more cholesterol and also grounds inflammation. Alcohol should be strictly avoided to lower cholesterol levels. A glass of red wine is good for your cardio system but if taken more than this then it is no less than a nightmare dressed as a daydream. So these were the ways to lower your cholesterol levels naturally, fast and without medications. Adopt them and observe the desired changes in your lives.
Image Credits : 1, 2, 3, Featured Image
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Google +
Stumbleupon
LinkedIn
Pinterest
About Anirudh Singh
Previous Health Effects of Water Pollution on Humans
Next 10 Harmful Effects of Smoking on Your Body
Related Articles
Top 10 Home Remedies to Remove Facial Hair
September 11, 2017
Top 10 Exercises to Grow Taller
June 19, 2017
Top 10 Exercises for 6 Pack Abs
May 29, 2017
Top 10 Beauty Tips for Bride Before Marriage
April 25, 2017
Top 10 Home Remedies for Skin Whitening
April 22, 2017
Top 10 Home Remedies to get Glowing Skin Naturally
April 20, 2017
Check Also
10 Natural Ways to get rid of Pimples and Black Spots on the Face
Life is pretty simple unless you get a pimple! Pimples and black spots are one …
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
All the data shown above will be stored by Your Health Support on http://www.yourhealthsupport.in. At any point of time, you can contact us and select the data you wish to anonymise or delete so it cannot be linked to your email address any longer. When your data is anonymised or deleted, you will receive an email confirmation. We also use cookies and/or similar technologies to analyse customer behaviour, administer the website, track users' movements, and to collect information about users. This is done in order to personalise and enhance your experience with us. Click here to read our Cookie Policy.
I have read and accepted the Privacy Policy *
Ads by Google
Copyright © 2017-2018. Your Health Support. All Rights Reserved
error: Content is protected !!