How to Stop Nausea Fast During Pregnancy | Hana Tonic
t
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Products
Reviews
Our Story
Find Us
Contact
FAQ
0 
Hana Tonic

Products
Reviews
Our Story
Find Us
Contact
FAQ
 My Account
How to Stop Nausea Fast During Pregnancy
Mar 28, 2019
Filed under: how to treat nausea, many nausea remedies, nausea, nausea fast, nausea faster, nausea remedies, nausea treatment, prevent nausea
Share Tweet Pin it Fancy Add
There are few things that send most women reeling during pregnancy like nausea. Even women who previously had stomachs of iron find themselves queasy when there’s a bun in the oven.
No matter how much experts may say that it is temporary, to most pregnant woman, it feels like forever. During this time, you probably feel like you would do just about anything to get rid of the nonstop nausea.
The faster, the better.
If you want some tips to stop nausea fast, either because you have a big meeting at work today or you are just sick of feeling sick, try some of these remedies today to get back to your normal self… or at least your non-sick, pregnant self.
Nausea Causes
First, let’s take a look at why nausea happens during pregnancy to figure out which cures work for you.
The first and obvious cause of nausea is the dreaded morning sickness. Or, more accurately, all-friggin'-day long sickness. It is extremely common, it is estimated that anywhere from 70-85% of women suffer from it, but why women suffer from morning sickness is still somewhat of a mystery.
There are several theories as to the cause of morning sickness, including:
Genes
A protective mechanism to keep the mother from accidentally ingesting something that could hurt the baby
A vitamin or mineral deficiency
Hormones
Although morning sickness can be uncomfortable (to say the least), it is typically not dangerous for you or your baby. Another comfort is that it does not last forever: most women see a reduction or complete resolution of morning sickness between 12-14 weeks.
The second semester is a lot like the eye of the storm, where hormones settle down and the baby still fits pretty well inside of you. However, many women are dismayed to find that nausea begins to rear its ugly head again in the third trimester.
It is possible that third-trimester nausea, sometimes called “late morning sickness”, is due to changing hormones. The same hormones that are preparing your body to give birth soon can also cause the esophagus to relax so much that nausea can result.
Most likely, though, third-trimester nausea is due to your growing babe. When they take up the room where your stomach usually is, the squished space can result in nausea. Heartburn and reflux are extremely common and nausea can result from that as well.
Tips to Reduce Nausea Fast
Most likely, though, you don’t care as much why you are getting sick as to how to stop it. The bad news is there is no “cure” for nausea during pregnancy. However, there are some things that you can do to make it significantly better. Try out some of these remedies to help you feel better.
Eat Light and Often
While this is still useful in the first trimester, it is crucial in the third. Big and heavy meals are every pregnant woman’s enemy. There is little room for food so keep meals as light as possible. Plus, the stomach may not have the ability to digest large meals so it will be inclined to send it right back.
Blood sugar swings also can signal trouble for the stomach. Eat more meals throughout the day to keep your blood sugar up to resolve your nausea. Plan on eating every couple of hours and do not wait until you are hungry to eat. If you are hungry, you will likely find that your stomach is in pain and it will be harder to eat what you need to to keep your blood sugar up. Because your meals are light, you might be more inclined to eat more often anyways.
Bland, Bland, Bland
Besides eating smaller meals more often, bland foods are the way to quickly stop nausea. Spicy, fatty, and overly flavorful foods will likely trigger more nausea. It carries the double problem of being difficult to digest and the smell can trigger nausea as well.
A good rule during pregnancy nausea is to keep things simple and easy to digest. Bland food will help to stop your nausea and keep your stomach happy. Bananas, rice, oatmeal, toast, and yogurt are some food that should help to settle your belly. Stick to foods that do not have a powerful taste or strong smell.
Keep Good Smells Nearby
Not only do smells trigger nausea, but most women suddenly find themselves in possession of a supernatural smelling ability during pregnancy. Your co-worker's lunch in the neighboring cubicle, a whiff of cologne as you walk through a department store, even a hint of an aroma you formerly loved (think alcohol and coffee) can bring on a sick stomach.
The plus side is that good smells will have the opposite effect and can quickly end nausea. Lemon and peppermint are popular scents to help calm your stomach. Chew peppermint gum, invest in some essential oils, or even carry around a cut lemon. When nausea or a stomach-lurching smell start to strike, give your good smell a whiff. It is just about the fastest remedy there is.
Ginger
You may have heard about ginger for nausea again and again, but it is for a good reason. It actually works! Ginger is a wonder-food during pregnancy and is excellent at reducing nausea. Try ginger tea, dried ginger, ginger in a smoothie or juice, or ginger candies. It will help to quickly calm your stomach and get you feeling normal again.
As a bonus, ginger is a known remedy to help with bloating, a common problem during pregnancy. It can also help with indigestion, another problem many pregnant women have and sometimes the underlying problem for their nausea. To feel your best during pregnancy, ginger should be in your arsenal.
Acupuncture and Acupressure Treatment
Some people believe in the power of Easter Medicine and some stay far away. The desperation of morning sickness and nausea has led even the biggest skeptics looking to alternative medicine if it can help. The good news is that there is research that acupuncture can actually help. In addition, many people find that acupressure helps to treat nausea as well.
There are various points on the body that can help to relieve nausea, especially around the wrists. This is why some pregnant women swear by Sea Bands, which wrap around the wrist to give constant pressure. If you want a fast way to help with nausea, acupressure might give you the relief you need.
Breathing
Stress can often make nausea even worse. Practicing mindfulness and specifically breathing exercises have a demonstrable effect on stress levels to help bring them into a normal range. A quick way to stop nausea in its track is by taking a moment to take some deep breaths. In fact, a study that tried to show the effectiveness of inhaling peppermint vs. propyl alcohol instead found that just the act of taking deep breaths had a measurable effect on nausea.
If nausea is starting to take over, take a minute to breathe in deeply through your nose for 3 counts, hold for 3 counts, then slowly exhale out of the mouth for 3 counts. Although simple, it is an effective way to help manage your nausea.
Spices
Various spices have gained popularity among mothers-to-be for their reputed benefits as nausea-reducers. However, the science behind many of these spices is lacking and mostly antidotal. There are a few spices that are backed by science for their nausea-busting effects:
Fennel Powder
Cumin Extract
Cinnamon
Although there are not many studies behind these spices, it would not hurt to give them a try!
Vitamin B6
For women who want to avoid medication to handle their nausea, many experts recommend taking up to 200 mg per day of vitamin B6. There are several studies that report success in reducing nausea with the vitamin, which is also referred to as pyridoxine. In fact, its success in these initial studies led some experts to recommend taking the vitamin during pregnancy as a first-line of defense against nausea.
With proper doses (up to 200mg) there are virtually no side effects to taking the vitamin so it might be worth a try to help get rid of your nausea as quickly as possible.
Natural Tonics
Your body needs all the help it can get when it comes to beating sickness fast. Unfortunately, there is no cure to morning sickness so it may require a combination of the remedies above to get relief. Natural tonics can be extremely useful for helping to relieve nausea that comes with pregnancy quickly.
When you need to get back on your feet as fast as possible, but would like to avoid medication, then a natural tonic can give your body the boost that it needs. Hana Tonic can strengthen your body to help lessen the effects of nausea.
Hana Tonic is full of powerful B-vitamins that help your body fight off nausea.
It is also packed with natural ingredients, such as ginger, pineapple, lemon, and cayenne pepper, to help bring an end to your nausea safely. When you don’t have time to wait around for nausea to end and are ready to get your life back, give Hana Tonic a try. Find the boost you need today!
Previous Next
FAQ
Privacy Policy
Refund Policy
Terms of Service
Blog
Join the Adventure
Sign up for Hana Tonic news and wellness tips
info@hanatonic.com | (804) 993-HANA | FAQ
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Privacy Policy | © Hana Tonic LLC 2019
*Nausea associated with motion sickness and morning sickness
*These statements have not been evaluated by the Food & Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.