Side Effects Of Using Creams Containing Hydroquinone
A resourceful health blog for health awareness and healthy living.
Pages
Home
About
Archive
Advertise
Disclaimer
Write For Us
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Side Effects Of Using Creams Containing Hydroquinone
In the quest for beauty, so many people especially the female folks use skin lightening products. Majority of these products contains hydroquinone. Hydroquinone is a bleaching agent which lightens the skin and it is mostly used by people that are looking to reduce the appearance of dark spots, freckles, acne scars and other problem spots on the body. Hydroquinone usage goes as far as doing more harm than good. It is banned in European countries and in Japan because of the dangers associated with it. Although it is still legal in some countries.
Image courtesy of Ambro at FreeDigitalPhotos.net
Hydroquinone can be said to be a potential carcinogen because it has chemicals that may have cancer-causing properties(clastogen and mutagen). A clastogen is a toxin that can cause breaks in chromosomes, making some sections of them to be destroyed, and thereby resulting to mutations which results to various types of cancer. A mutagen is a material that causes mutations and damage in DNA. When the DNA is altered, it can have adverse effects on health, can cause cancerous growth of cells and cell division.
Hydroquinone bleach the skin by inhibiting the production of melanin and lighten already-darkened areas on the skin. The mechanism by which it inhibits melanin production also lets UV (ultra violet) light penetrate the skin more deeply. This makes your skin more susceptible to UV rays that can lead to dangerous sunburns, and over a prolonged period of time, an increased risk of certain types of skin cancer. Will you risk cancer because you want a lighter skin? For this reason people using hydroquinone products are always told to wear a sunscreen at all times, or use the product only before bed time when there is no risk of UV exposure.
Hydroquinone products also contain mercury which makes it highly dangerous. Hydroquinone creams may also contain sodium metabisulphite which can cause serious allergic reactions. Severe liver and kidney damage is one of the results of this combination. Skin disfiguration condition called ochronosis (a persistent blue-black pigmentation) can occur from using hydroquinone. The skin becomes darker and thicker than normal. Just imagine your skin so thick as your heel!
Hydroquinone can cause extreme redness, itching or even a burning sensation when it is applied to the sensitive skin. More reason you should never use hydroquinone cream is that there is also the possibility that after you stop using the product, your melanin cells that once were suppressed, may go haywire and start causing more discolouration. I have seen this occur in so many women's body.
There are safer and better alternatives to lighten your skin. I'll be glad to share this with you all in subsequent post.
Posted by Anonymous
Share to TwitterShare to Facebook
Tweet
Subscribe to receive new blog posts directly in your Inbox
Labels: Personal care, Skincare
Related Posts: Personal care, Skincare
3 comments:
Funmy Kemmy 17 April 2014 at 15:13
Hmmmmmmmm, thanks for this article. So revealing! Let he that has ears...
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
Nehemiah Chinonso 20 April 2014 at 06:59
I already know that Hydroquinone is a bleaching agent, yet ladies/mothers apply it on their children and themselves.
The article is quite revealing, time for ladies to start checking the chemical contents of any cream before buying.
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
Tuham Sanusi 7 March 2015 at 23:02
Nice post author. Though i dont knw the chemical involved, i initially knew lightening cream ain't good for the skin
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
Add comment
Load more...
We like to read healthy comments on this blog. All comments on this blog are manually review by human. Inappropriate, irrelevant and spammy comments with hidden links will not be publish. If your comment is unrelated to this post, you should use the contact page. By submitting a comment you grant Healthliveblog perpetual license to reproduce your words and name.
HealthLiveBlog is for informational purposes and should not be considered medical advice, diagnosis or treatment recommendations.
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Sign Up in Seconds
Sign up with your email address to receive latest updates straight in your inbox.
Recent Posts On Foods
Recent Posts On Women's Health
Recent Posts On Skincare
Recent Posts On Diseases and Conditions
Categories
Diet and nutrition
Diseases and conditions
Family health
Foods
General health
Healthcare
Healthy living
Lifestyle
Men's health
Mental health
Natural health
Oral health
Personal care
Public health
Skincare
Sponsored
Wellness
Women's health
Recent Comments
Get this Recent Comments Widget
Trending
Refrigerator Bacteria And Their Harmful Effects To Human Health
Food That Increases Sperm Count
Three Practical Approach to Make Your Food Safe
Tomatoes And Skincare - For Acne, Sunburn, Glowing Skin And Sunscreen
Preventive Measures For Stretch Marks
How To Build Muscle Fast: Have You Tried These Tricks?
Recognizing The Causes And Signs Of Stroke
Prescription Drug Use And Abuse
How Important Is Sleep?
Agonizing Conditions Nursing Mothers With HIV Face
Mouth-to-mouth (with Dr.'Malik)
Health Save Blog
Healthable
Cliniconomy
© 2018 HealthLiveBlog . All Rights Reserved. All images are copyrighted to their respective owners.
About | Contact | Disclaimer | Privacy policy | Terms Of Use | Sitemap | Advertise