Urinary Tract Infection in males
This page was printed from the South & West Devon Formulary and Referral site at
Please ensure you are using the current version of this document
Homepage
Formulary
Chapters
Committee
Information
Preferred brands
Updates
Referral
Key messages
Policies
Western locality
SDevon & Torbay
Learning
Go
Urology
Catheter Acquired Urinary Tract Infection (CAUTI)
Circumcision commissioning policy
Erectile dysfunction
Haematospermia
Haematuria
Male Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms
Peyronies Disease
Prostatitis Suspected
Suspected Renal and Ureteric Stones
Urinary Tract Infection in females
Urinary Tract Infection in males
Vasectomy
Women’s Health Physiotherapy Service
Referral feedback
To contact the Clinical Referral Guideline Support Team
Print this page
Urinary Tract Infection in males
It is unusual for men to have a urinary tract infection (UTI)
If a UTI is confirmed further investigations will be required
A single UTI in males does not require referral to secondary care
Out of Scope
Chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain
Epidydimo-orchitis
Catheter infections
Males with retention caused by infection
Definitions
Urinary tract infection (UTI) is infection of any part of the urinary tract, usually by bacteria, but rarely by other micro-organisms such as fungi, viruses, or parasites.
Lower UTI is infection of the bladder. In theory urethritis and prostatitis are also considered lower UTIs, the term 'lower UTI' implies infection of the bladder with no clinical evidence of urethritis, prostatitis, epididymitis, or orchitis.
Upper UTI includes pyelitis (infection of the proximal part of the ureters) and pyelonephritis (infection of the kidneys and the proximal part of the ureters).
Risk factors
Most urinary tract infections (UTIs) in men are not associated with any risk factor. Men with a single UTI can be manged in the community and do not require secondary care referral.
The following risk factors may predispose men to a single episode or recurrent UTIs
Abnormalities of urinary tract function (for example, neurogenic bladder, vesicoureteric reflux) or structure (renal tract anatomical abnormalities, urinary stones).
Incomplete bladder emptying (for example caused by bladder outlet obstruction in men with prostatic enlargement). Previous urinary tract instrumentation or surgery.
Men who are immunocompromised (may be more prone to viral and fungal infections).
Recurrent UTI is repeated UTI, which may be due to relapse or reinfection, and may be defined as 2 or more episodes of confirmed UTI in 3 months.
Relapse is a recurrent UTI with the same strain of micro-organism. Relapse is the likely cause if infection recurs within a short period after treatment (for example within 2-4 weeks).
Reinfection is a recurrent UTI with a different strain or species of micro-organism. Reinfection is the likely cause if UTI recurs more than 2 weeks after treatment.
Asymptomatic bacteriuria is the presence of significant bacteria in the urine without symptoms or signs of infection. These patients do not require antibiotics or referral.
Assessment
Signs and Symptoms
A lower UTI should be suspected if the man has:
Dysuria, frequency, urgency, nocturia, or suprapubic discomfort
Suprapubic tenderness, and cloudy, bloody, or foul-smelling urine
Systemically unwell
Confusion or cognitive impairment in the elderly
History and Examination
Focused history and examination
Lower urinary tract symptoms (IPPS questionnaire following resolution of infection)
Sexual history
Digital Rectal Exam (DRE)
Red Flags
Persistent non visible and visible haematuria - see haematuria guideline
Suspected urological cancer - see 2ww referral
Investigations
Midstream Urine Sample (MSU)
Consider chlamydia testing
Renal and bladder US to exclude anatomical abnormality and check on bladder masses and stones (KUB x-ray where available)
Post void residual (<150mls unlikely to be significant)
IPPS questionnaire and if available urinary flow test to exclude significant LUTS
True male UTI is rare and if suspected warrants thorough investigation.There is therefore no point in performing a urine dip as MSU is always required.
Management
Men with a single UTI can be manged in the community and do not require secondary care referral.
Relapsing UTI can be managed in the community with a longer course of appropriate antibiotics.
See Formulary chapter 5
Referral
Referral Criteria
Indications for acute referral patient systemically unwell (temperature over 38°) not responding to initial antibiotic therapy
Signs of upper urinary tract infection/ pyelonephritis
Microbiological proven recurrent UTIs
A complication of proven UTI not responding to initial therapy for example epidiymo-orchitis
UTIs in men with risk factors
Abnormalities of urinary tract function (for example, neurogenic bladder, vesicoureteric reflux) or structure (renal tract anatomical abnormalities, urinary stones)
Incomplete bladder emptying (for example caused by bladder outlet obstruction in men with prostatic enlargement)
Men who are immunocompromised (may be more prone to viral and fungal infections)
Referral Instructions
e-Referral Service Selection
Specialty: Urology
Clinic Type: Not Otherwise Specified
Service: DRSS-South Devon & Torbay-Urology-NEW Devon CCG - 99P
Referral Forms
DRSS referral form
Supporting Information
Evidence
NICE UTI - men
European Association of Urology
Pathway Group
This guideline has been signed off by NEW Devon CCG and South Devon and Torbay CCG
Publication date: February 2019
Home > Referral > SDevon & Torbay > Urology > Urinary Tract Infection in males
First line
Second line
Specialist
Hospital
Learning
Referral
Formulary
Return to Devon-wide Homepage | Apple App Store | Google Play Store
Accessibility | App | Contact formulary | Cookies & Privacy | Referral feedback
Website designed & developed by the CEMO Team, NEW Devon CCG, built by Reactor15