Boost Your Immune System With The Immune Booster Vitamin C - Hunt Duniya | Daily News Online
Home
About Us
Contact Us
Sitemap
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Terms And Conditions
Home
News
_India News
_World News
Entertainment
_Hollywood
_Bollywood
Sport
_Cricket
_Other Game
Lifestyle
_Health & Fitness
_Relationship
_Automobile
_Men's Lifestyle
Technology
Recipes
_Vegan
Other
skip to main | skip to sidebar
Home Health & Fitness Lifestyle Boost Your Immune System With The Immune Booster Vitamin C
Boost Your Immune System With The Immune Booster Vitamin C
October 23, 2018 Health & Fitness, Lifestyle
Boost Your Immune System With The Immune Booster Vitamin C
Boost Your Immune System With The Immune Booster Vitamin C: Do vitamin C supplements actually protect you from colds in autumn and winter? We reveal what the "immune booster" vitamin C really can - and what not!
How much vitamin C do I need daily? With which foods do I meet my needs and can you actually prevent colds with vitamin C pills and powders? Together with our expert, we clarify the most important questions about vitamin C.
Why Does Body Need Vitamin C ?
Vitamin C is the absolute star among the vitamins. No other vitamin is as well known as vitamin C, also known as ascorbic acid. The water-soluble vitamin boosts our immune system and strengthens our body's defenses. It needs to be ingested daily with food as our body can not make it by itself. In addition, it acts as an antioxidant and protects our body against cell-damaging substances, the so-called free radicals.
But we also need the all-around vitamin for many more, important metabolic processes: Vitamin C stimulates the formation and function of connective tissue, bones, and teeth, is involved in the formation of messengers and hormones and activates cell metabolism. In addition, vitamin C helps the body absorb and utilize mineral iron from plant products. Especially as a vegetarian or vegan, you should therefore always be sufficiently supplied with vitamin C.
Daily Requirement Of Vitamin C ?
As a guideline, 100 milligrams of vitamin C per day. However, due to special circumstances, our vitamin C requirement may increase: Athletes, for example, have an increased daily requirement because vitamin C is lost through sweat. Even smokers - whether passive or active - are considered a "risk group". It's not hard to meet your daily vitamin C requirement
Those who are under stress due to a mental illness or an injury also need an extra dose of ascorbic acid. "Aspirin (ASA) is also a vitamin C predator, as regular use of vitamin C is flushed out of the body," However, athletes or smokers do not necessarily have to take additional vitamin C supplements: those who eat well, easily absorb the 100 milligrams.
Does Daily Requirement Increase During Pregnancy Or Breastfeeding?
Yes, pregnant and lactating women generally have an increased need for vitamins, vitamin C is no exception. Pregnant women from the 10th month need 110 milligrams of vitamin C, breastfeeding 150 milligrams. These are only minimum quantities. That means you should take at least 110 or 150 milligrams. Incidentally, you do not have to be afraid of over dosage because vitamin C - as well as vitamins A, D, and K - are fat-soluble. "Since the body can not store excess vitamin C, it simply excretes it via the urine."
Which Foods Is Best For Daily Needs?
It is really easy to meet your daily requirement of vitamin C without much effort. Because fruits and vegetables almost always contain vitamin C in varying amounts. Major suppliers of vitamin C include fruits such as blackcurrants and vegetables such as cabbage, peppers, and broccoli. The top suppliers of vitamin C are, however, exotic: Camu Camu is the leader in vitamin C from the South American rain forest. 2nd place goes to the Mexican acerola cherry.
Dairy and milk products, meat (except offal) and cereal products contain relatively little or no vitamin C.
How To Prevent Vitamin Loss Through Cooking And Storage?
Vitamins are quite sensitive and are quickly destroyed by light, air, and heat. Also, vitamin C is a real mimosa and goes down quickly due to improper storage and preparation of vitamin C-rich foods. A certain vitamin loss can't be prevented. But you can do a lot to limit your vitamin loss:
Buy fresh fruits and vegetables (preferably seasonal, regional and organic) in small quantities. Better to go shopping once more than to store the food too long in the fridge or fruit basket.
If you still want to buy or have to stock up, you can also turn to frozen products. They contain more vitamin C than "fresh" goods that have been stored for too long and incorrectly since they were frozen immediately after harvest.
Avoid long storage at home, consume the food quickly.
Steaming, stewing and cooking with the steam pressure cooker are considered vitamin-friendly preparation methods.
Eat dishes as soon as possible after preparation, because prolonged keeping warm leads to particularly large vitamin losses.
Cook vegetables until firm and do not cook until mushy. In the vegetable, mus are in the end barely contained vitamins.
How Can I Know I Have Vitamin C Deficiency?
Those who not only feed on fast food and canned food but eat varied and fresh, need not be afraid of a vitamin C deficiency. Since the vitamin is in many foods, a shortage is almost impossible.
As mentioned above, however, pregnant women, lactating women, smokers and athletes must be careful to take in enough vitamin C. Even after illness or surgery, infections and stress, the need can increase. If there is a deficiency in these cases, it can be manifested for example by reduced performance or bleeding gums. You feel tired, tired and exhausted. A lack of vitamin C always affects the whole body. As mentioned above, however, pregnant women, lactating women, smokers and athletes must be careful to take in enough vitamin C. Even after illness or surgery, infections and stress, the need can increase. If there is a deficiency in these cases, it can be manifested for example by reduced performance or bleeding gums. You feel tired, tired and exhausted. A lack of vitamin C always affects the whole body.
The well-known "seafaring disease" occurs in an extreme lack of vitamin C. Seafarers had no fresh food for months on board, which then had a negative effect on the vitamin C level in the blood. The consequences: Skin and mucosal bleeding, due to impaired wound healing, flaky and dry skin, internal bleeding and loose teeth.
Can We Take Vitamin C As Dietary Supplement?
Anyone who is healthy and above all healthy can save their way to the pharmacy or drugstore because then there is no reason for you to resort to vitamin C pills or powder. Only the above-mentioned risk groups should be checked by a doctor if an increase in vitamin C with the help of preparations makes sense.
Can We Prevent Colds By Taking Vitamin C Pills?
Those who think that they can protect themselves from flu or colds with such supplements alone are wrong: If you constantly get too little vitamin C, you are more susceptible to infections, but the other way around, the logic does not work. So far, it has not been proven scientifically that vitamin C pills can really protect you from the flu and cold.
"Nevertheless, it makes sense to protect yourself from colds in the winter by taking a multivitamin preparation, because our immune system not only needs vitamin C but also vitamins B6 and B12 as well as zinc in order to function efficiently and viruses and fight bacteria. Even though it has already caught you and you are lying flat with flu, your body is grateful for every extra dose of vitamin C as your immune system wastes much of it in the fight against the pathogens. This can have a positive effect on the duration of the infection and makes you fit faster.
Does "Overdose Of Vitamin C" Dangerous?
An overdose of vitamin C on "normal ways", i.e via the food, as good as impossible. The body simply excretes excess vitamin C through the kidneys because it can't store it. However, if you take high-dose vitamin C supplements for a long time, you may have to deal with diarrhea.
"Vitamin C has long been suspected of favoring the development of kidney stones, a claim that has since been refuted." "Vitamin C is not a problem for a healthy kidney Kidney disease should be careful when taking vitamin C supplements. "
If you detect signs of a deficiency and/or belong to the "risk groups" (see above), you should get a multivitamin preparation, because an extra vitamin C supplement is basically not necessary.
Conclusion: Healthy through autumn and winter with vitamin C.
While vitamin C alone can not protect you from the flu viruses, etc., your body is grateful for any support in the fight against pathogens. This can positively affect the course and duration of the cold.
Boost Your Immune System With The Immune Booster Vitamin C Reviewed by Hunt duniya on October 23, 2018 Rating: 5
Share This:
Facebook Twitter Google+ Pinterest Linkedin
Lifestyle
No comments:
Subscribe to: Post Comments ( Atom )
Recent
recentposts
Popular
Salman Khan Celebrated His 53rd Birthday With Family And Bollywood Friends
Simmba Movie Review Ranveer Singh Awesome Action Story Is Weak
8 Best Way To Save Money Every Month From Salary
Big Changes In H-1B Visa Process, Skilled And Profitable Professionals To Get Priority
Comments
recentcomments
Labels
~Hindi Sad Status ~Love Status 140 Characters SMS 2 Line Shayari 2 line Shayari SMS 2018 jokes 4 Line Shayari Aadhar Card Aadhar Card Not Required For Bank Amit Shah Automobile Bank Closed Bevafa Hindi Shayari Bevafa Shayari Bevafa Shayari - miss you Shayari in Hindi Bewafaai Status BJP Bollywood Cool status Cool Tweets Cool Whatsapp Status Cricket Dard Shayari Desh Bhakti Shayari Dil Shayari Disha Patani Disha Patani Photo Diwali SMS Entertainment Festival shayari Friendship SMS Funny Facebook Status Funny Jokes Funny Saying SMS Funny Status Good Morning SMS Good Night SMS goverment schemes Gujarati Shayari Health & Fitness Hindi Attitude Status hindi funny shayari hindi jokes-chutkule hindi love Attitude Shayari hindi love shayari Hindi love shayari - yad Hindi Love SMS Hindi Poems Poetry hindi sad shayari Hindi Shayari Hindi Status India Defeated Australia India news India VS Australia Test Match iPhone Karisma Sharma Life Shayari Lifestyle long-distance relationship love Love Poem Love Romantic SMS Love Saying SMS LOVE SHAYARI Love Shayari In Hindi Love Shayari SMS Love SMS Love Status Love-Romantic Mahakal SMS Men's Lifestyle Miss You Shayari Miss You SMS Motivational Shayari Mp Chief Minister Mp Election Mukesh Ambani Daughter Wedding Narendra Modi national pension schemes News Nick Jonas Other petrol price petrol price rise Priyanka Chopra Rahul Gandhi Rakhi SMS Hindi Raksha Bandhan SMS Raksha Bandhan Status Recipes Relationship Romantic Shayari Romantic Status Sad Hindi Status Sad Shayari sad shayari image Sad Shayari SMS Sad Status Sad Whatsapp Status Sim Portability Sport suvichar Technology True Shayari Vegan Vivekanand Quotes Whats-app status Hindi Whatsapp Cool Messages Whatsapp Feature Whatsapp long posts Whatsapp Stickers World News Yaad Shayari Yaad Status Zero Movie Review
Popular Posts
Salman Khan Celebrated His 53rd Birthday With Family And Bollywood Friends
Salman Khan Celebrated His 53rd Birthday With Family And Bollywood Friends Salman Khan Celebrated His 53rd Birthday With Family And ...
Simmba Movie Review Ranveer Singh Awesome Action Story Is Weak
Simmba Movie Review Ranveer Singh Awesome Action Story Is Weak Simmba Movie Review Ranveer Singh Awesome Action Story Is Weak: Ranve...
8 Best Way To Save Money Every Month From Salary
8 Best Way To Save Money Every Month From Salary 8 Best Way To Save Money Every Month From Salary: At the end of the month, your ac...
Big Changes In H-1B Visa Process, Skilled And Profitable Professionals To Get Priority
Big Changes In H-1B Visa Process, Skilled And Profitable Professionals To Get Priority Big Changes In H-1B Visa Process, Skilled And Pro...
Random Posts
randomposts
Most Recent
recentposts
Created By SoraTemplates | Distributed By MyBloggerThemes
Powered by Blogger.