How soon can you get pregnant after having a baby?
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
How soon can you get pregnant after giving birth?
Last reviewed	 Tue 9 October 2018	 Last reviewed	Tue 9 Oct 2018
By Zawn Villines
Reviewed by Holly Ernst, PA-C
Table of contents
Ovulation and postpartum periods
Can you get pregnant while breastfeeding?
How long to wait
Takeaway
Myths about postpartum fertility are widespread. From rumors that it is impossible to get pregnant while breastfeeding to beliefs that the body will not get pregnant until it is "ready," it can be hard to get the facts.
While unlikely, it is possible to get pregnant less than 6 weeks after having a baby. However, it is impossible until a woman ovulates again. The point at which ovulation happens varies from person to person, which means some women could get pregnant earlier than others.
Sometimes, ovulation happens before a period, so it is also possible for a woman to get pregnant before having the first postpartum period.
In this article, learn more about how soon a woman can get pregnant after having a baby, as well as how long to wait, and the possible risks of pregnancies that are too close together.
Ovulation and the first postpartum period?
Most women resume ovulation between 45 to 94 days after giving birth.
Ovulation occurs when an ovary releases an egg for fertilization. If the egg is unfertilized, the body expels the egg, the uterine lining, and blood in a menstrual period. Ovulation must occur for a woman to get pregnant, and regular periods are a sign that a woman has ovulated.
A 2011 review of previous studies found that women ovulate for the first time between 45 to 94 days after giving birth. Most women did not begin ovulating until at least 6 weeks after childbirth, but a few ovulated sooner.
Usually, women who are not breastfeeding ovulate sooner after giving birth than women who do breastfeed.
However, a woman's first ovulation cycle might occur before she gets her first postpartum period. This means that it is possible for a woman to get pregnant before menstruation begins again.
Pregnancy causes many hormonal shifts, and it takes the body time to get back to normal. For many women, their first few postpartum periods are irregular.
Can you get pregnant while breastfeeding?
Breastfeeding often prevents ovulation, but this is not always the case. However, women who breastfeed their infants exclusively for 6 months are less likely to ovulate during this time than women who do not breastfeed.
Some women use breastfeeding as a birth control method. Doctors call this the lactational amenorrhea method (LAM). Amenorrhea means a lack of menstruation.
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the following three factors must be present for LAM to have the best chance at preventing pregnancy:
The baby must be younger than 6 months old. After 6 months, breastfeeding often becomes less frequent, increasing the risk that ovulation will return.
The mother must be exclusively or almost exclusively breastfeeding. Giving formula or other foods to the baby increases the time between breastfeeding sessions. Breastfeeding on demand with intervals of no more than 4–6 hours between feedings is the most effective strategy.
The woman's period must not have returned. While not all menstruating women are fertile, the return of a woman's period suggests the body is preparing to ovulate.
Research on the effectiveness of the LAM is mixed. One major challenge of this method is that it is difficult to use correctly. Traveling away from the baby overnight or spending long days at work can create gaps in breastfeeding that make this method less effective.
According to Planned Parenthood, LAM is about 98 percent effective when people use this method in the first 6 months after the baby is born.
After 6 months postpartum, LAM is less effective. Women who are not considering another pregnancy might think about starting to use another contraceptive method.
Birth control while breastfeeding: What options are safe?
Learn about which birth control methods to use while breastfeeding.
Read now
How long to wait to try for another pregnancy
The World Health Organization advise waiting 24 months before trying for another baby.
Getting pregnant again too soon after giving birth increases the risk of adverse outcomes for both the woman and baby. Recovering from birth takes time, especially if there were complications.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the safest option is to wait 24 months before trying for another baby. The charity March of Dimes suggests waiting at least 18 months.
Women who have had a pregnancy loss, stillbirth, hemorrhage, or surgical birth may need to wait longer. Talk to a midwife or doctor for help timing the next pregnancy.
Takeaway
Some women cannot imagine having another baby after giving birth, while others cannot wait to start planning for another.
There is no right or wrong way to feel about getting pregnant after childbirth. But practical considerations — including whether pregnancy might disrupt breastfeeding, and the safety of a pregnancy soon after birth — should play a role in the decision.
Also, recommendations for when it is safe to have sex after giving birth vary. In general, it is best to wait until postpartum bleeding has stopped, pain has disappeared, and a woman wants to have sex.
Consider using the final postpartum doctor's visit as a chance to discuss birth control options and ask questions about fertility, as well as any concerns about having sex.
Women have many options for preventing pregnancy, including condoms and hormonal contraceptives that are safe to use while breastfeeding. In many cases, the LAM method will be effective for the first 6 months postpartum.
Related coverage
Is it possible to get pregnant while on birth control? Although some forms of birth control are nearly 100 percent effective, they can fail sometimes. In this article, we explain why different types of birth control fail and discuss the percentage of women who get pregnant while using birth control. We also cover the early symptoms of pregnancy and when to see a doctor. Read now
Is it menopause or pregnancy? Menopause and pregnancy both involve hormonal changes, and the signs can be similar. In both cases, menstruation ceases, and there may be other similar symptoms, such as mood changes or light spotting. We take a look at how to determine if you are pregnant or approaching menopause, and what to do next in each case. Read now
Can you get pregnant right after stopping the pill? The pill prevents pregnancy, but what happens when you stop using it? This article looks at how soon you can become pregnant after stopping the pill. Find out more about how the pill works, what research says about stopping, and who is most likely to conceive as soon as they stop taking the pill. Read now
Can a person get pregnant while taking the pill? Birth control pills are generally very effective when a person takes them correctly and consistently. However, some things can reduce the pill’s effectiveness and increase the risk of unintended pregnancy, including missing pill days, vomiting, and taking certain medications. Learn more here. Read now
What to avoid during pregnancy Pregnant women can continue with many of their prepregnancy activities. However, to maintain the health of the developing fetus, there are some things that it is essential to avoid. In this article, learn about the things not to do while pregnant, including which foods, substances, medicines, and activities to avoid. Read now
email email
print
share share
Pregnancy / Obstetrics
Fertility Women's Health / Gynecology
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Tue 9 October 2018.
Visit our Pregnancy / Obstetrics category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Pregnancy / Obstetrics.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Borda, M., & Winfrey, W. (2010, March). Postpartum fertility and contraception: An analysis of findings from 17 countries [PDF]. Retrieved from http://reprolineplus.org/system/files/resources/ppfp_17countryanalysis.pdf
Breastfeeding. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.plannedparenthood.org/learn/birth-control/breastfeeding
Classifications for fertility awareness-based methods. (2017, February 1). Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/reproductivehealth/contraception/mmwr/mec/appendixf.html
How long should you wait before getting pregnant again? (2017, July). Retrieved from https://www.marchofdimes.org/pregnancy/how-long-should-you-wait-before-getting-pregnant-again.aspx
Jackson, E., & Glasier, A. (2011, March). Return of ovulation and menses in postpartum nonlactating women: A systematic review [Abstract]. Obstetrics & Gynecology, 117(3), 657–662. Retrieved from https://journals.lww.com/greenjournal/Abstract/2011/03000/Return_of_Ovulation_and_Menses_in_Postpartum.20.aspx
Lactational amenorrhea method. (2017, February 1). Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/reproductivehealth/contraception/mmwr/mec/appendixg.html
Sipsma, H. L., Bradley, E. H., & Chen, P. G. (2013, May). Lactational amenorrhea method as a contraceptive strategy in Niger. Maternal and Child Health Journal, 17(4), 654–660. Retrieved from https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10995-012-1054-3
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Villines, Zawn. "How soon can you get pregnant after giving birth?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 9 Oct. 2018. Web.
18 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/323286.php>
APA
Villines, Z. (2018, October 9). "How soon can you get pregnant after giving birth?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/323286.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Breast cancer: Reducing this amino acid could make drugs more effective
New research in cell cultures and mice reveals a surprising link between the essential amino acid leucine and resistance to tamoxifen in breast cancer.
Could this brain stimulation technique reverse memory decline?
New research examines the effect of a noninvasive brain stimulation technique called transcranial magnetic stimulation on age-related memory decline.
Seaweed extract may help design new drugs
Drug resistance is a large and growing problem. On the hunt for fresh sources of drugs, scientists have turned to the seaweed in underwater forests.
Some brain functions may be restored after death, pig study suggests
Scientists have restored some brain function in a pig's brain 4 hours after the mammal has died. The findings open new avenues for researching the brain.
Stimulating brain with ultrasound can influence decisions
A study in macaques reveals that targeting a brain region with noninvasive, low-intensity ultrasound can alter a specific decision-making process.
Popular in: Pregnancy / Obstetrics
What are the signs of having a girl?
Which fruits should you eat during pregnancy?
What to expect at 5 days past ovulation (DPO)
What do different colors of discharge mean in pregnancy?
Early pregnancy symptoms by days past ovulation (DPO)
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/323286.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);