Can Blood Pressure Medication Be Taken With Orange Juice? | Livestrong.com
Welcome
Sign up | Log in
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
News
Stronger Women
BMI Calculator
Food
Weight Management
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Follow Us!
Livestrong
Health
Blood Pressure
Blood Pressure Information
Can Blood Pressure Medication Be Taken With Orange Juice?
Dana Severson
About the Author:
Dana Severson
Based in Minneapolis, Minn., Dana Severson has been writing marketing materials for small-to-mid-sized businesses since 2005. Prior to this, Severson worked as a manager of business development for a marketing company, developing targeted marketing campaigns for Big G, Betty Crocker and Pillsbury, among others.
View Full Profile
Certain nutrients are known to interact with blood pressure medications. Any adverse interactions can alter their efficacy, thereby failing to improve your condition. Nutrients found in orange juice hold this potential. Because so many medications are used to lower blood pressure, whether you can take a medication with orange juice depends on the prescription. Talk to your doctor to determine if dietary restrictions apply to your medication.
Thiazide Diuretics
Thiazide diuretics are by far the most common medication used to treat high blood pressure. They stimulate the kidneys to eliminate both water and sodium from the body, which reduces the volume of your blood. A side effect, however, is the loss of potassium, so medical professionals often recommend taking this medication with orange juice or bananas to supplement this mineral.
Beta-blockers
Thiazide diuretics are sometimes taken with a beta-blocker, a medication that opens the blood vessels, helping reduce the workload of your heart. But fruit juices, such as orange, apple or grapefruit, can alter the efficacy of this drug, according to a study by the University of Western Ontario. It appears the flavonoid of naringin in these juices reduces the absorption rate of beta-blockers, particularly atenolol and potentially acebutolol. Talk to your doctor to determine if you should be drinking orange juice with your blood pressure medication.
Calcium-channel Blockers
Like other blood pressure medications, calcium-channel blockers help relax blood vessels, which can slow your heart rate and lower your blood pressure. Although grapefruit juice is the most problematic, it appears that orange juice — particularly when fortified with calcium — can interfere with the absorption of this drug, according to Harvard Medical School. This can reduce the efficacy of the medication.
Renin Inhibitors
Renin inhibitors are medications that inhibit the production of renin, an enzyme that initiates an elevation in blood pressure. A study published in the March 2011 "World Journal of Cardiology" found that orange juice could reduce the plasma concentration of aliskiren, the most common renin inhibitor, by 62 percent, thereby reducing its activity on blood pressure.
Other Medications
ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers both help open the blood vessels by either blocking or inhibiting chemicals that narrow the blood vessels. There's no indication that you can't take these medications with orange juice — at least based on available information, but talk to your doctor to ensure that adverse reaction do not exist.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
MayoClinic.com; High Blood Pressure (Hypertension); March 2011
NYU Langone Medical Center: Thiazide Diuretics
“The Times”; Taking Your Tablets with Fruit Juice Limits the Effect; Nigel Hawkes; August 2008
Harvard Health Publications; What You Need to Know About Calcium; April 2003
“World Journal of Cardiology”; Renin and Cardiovascular Disease: Worn-out Path, or New Direction; Gaurav Alerja and Jacob Joseph; March 2011
Colorado State University Extension; Nutrient-Drug Interactions and Food; December 2008
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
How to Eat Grapefruit With High Blood Pressure
2
Does Drinking Grapefruit Juice Lower Blood Pressure?
3
Foods That Interfere With Blood Pressure Medication
4
How to Make Grapefruit Juice Taste Better
5
How Does Hawthorn Berry Lower Blood Pressure?
6
Banana vs. Potassium Pills
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.