Professional Opinion: Does drinking alcohol reduce the effectiveness of antibiotics? | Hilton Head Island Packet
Alcohol and many antibiotics are metabolized in the liver. If the two interact, the antibiotic may not be fully metabolized and excreted, thus increasing one's risk of adverse effects of the medication.
Some antibiotics also have adverse effects similar to that of alcohol, such as gastrointestinal disturbance.
Vomiting shortly after taking an antibiotic, for instance, will cause the person to receive little to none of the therapeutic effects of the antibiotic.
Studies have also shown that with chronic alcohol abuse, certain liver enzymes may become induced and will therefore metabolize the antibiotic a lot quicker, causing the patient to not receive the full effectiveness of the antibiotic.
A few examples of antibiotics that should never be taken with alcohol are metronidazole and tinidazole, which can lead to severe reactions such as abdominal cramps, nausea, vomiting, headaches, and flushing.
It is recommended that alcohol not be consumed for another 72 hours after those antibiotics have been completed.
A rule of thumb is to check the warning label of each medication prior to taking it to determine if alcohol should be avoided, but if the instructions are not clear, check with your pharmacist or health care provider.
Another important tidbit to keep in mind is that alcohol can be found in other sources besides the obvious alcoholic beverages such as beer, liquor, or wine. For example, certain over the counter medications and mouthwashes contain alcohol too, so one should always pay attention to the list of ingredients of anything consumed while taking antibiotics to prevent any potential adverse effects or interactions.
There are several foods and beverages that can impact the effectiveness of antibiotics, such as grapefruit juice, certain types of dairy products, and certain high-fiber foods.
Grapefruit and grapefruit juice "can interfere with the enzymes that breakdown or metabolize the medication in your digestive system. As a result, the medication may stay in your body for too short or too long a time. A medication that's broken down too quickly won't have time to work. On the other hand, a medication that stays in the body too long may build up to potentially dangerous levels."
Therefore, the consumption of grapefruit juice may affect the absorption rate of a significant amount of medications including antibiotics, antihypertensive medications and medications that treat high cholesterol.
Yogurt or other dairy products containing calcium has also been known to reduce the absorption of certain antibiotics, such as quinolones.
Lastly, a diet that is high in fiber can reduce how quickly a medication is absorbed, so foods such as lentils, beans and whole grains should be avoided when taking certain antibiotics.
Mindy Lucas: 843-706-8152, @MindyatIPBG
Related content:
Professional Opinion: How to recognize the symptoms of concussion, Feb. 1, 2016
Comments
Videos
SHARE
COPY LINK
Sylvia Hatchell’s career at UNC
SHARE
COPY LINK
Take a look inside one of the coolest yachts docked in Harbour Town for RBC Heritage
View More Video
Trending Stories
‘Godfather of Sports’ died Wednesday after car crash in Bluffton area earlier this month
April 19, 2019 11:02 AM
RBC Heritage to resume after severe storms on Hilton Head. 15 trees down in Beaufort Co.
April 19, 2019 12:31 PM
RBC Heritage guide to Saturday: Weather, tee times, parking, TV schedule and players to watch
April 19, 2019 08:02 PM
Rain, wind still a threat, but tornado watch canceled for Beaufort and Jasper counties
April 19, 2019 09:23 AM
Heritage fashion 2019: The 11 best outfits of Friday on Hilton Head (even in the rain)
April 19, 2019 07:24 PM
Read Next
Professional Opinion
Attention germophobes and those who don’t want to get the flu: Don’t touch these 5 things
Posted by Liz Farrell
lfarrell@islandpacket.com
January 17, 2017 10:47 AM
ORDER REPRINT →
I’m not really a “germophobe,” but I had the flu last year and it was awful enough to make me not want to touch a single thing in public this winter. Am I being ridiculous?
KEEP READING
Unlimited Digital Access: Only $0.99 For Your First Month
#ReadLocal
Get full access to The Island Packet content across all your devices.
SAVE NOW
MORE PROFESSIONAL OPINION
Professional Opinion
Professional Opinion: Probiotics — take a pill or eat some yogurt?
May 27, 2016 09:37 AM
Professional Opinion
Professional Opinion: Do SPF 100s really work?
May 20, 2016 06:15 AM
Professional Opinion
Professional Opinion: How safe is robotic surgery and how does it work?
May 13, 2016 10:36 AM
Professional Opinion
Professional Opinion: Could hormones, busy lifestyle be to blame for fatigue?
May 06, 2016 11:13 AM
Professional Opinion
Professional Opinion: Why are allergies worse this year?
April 29, 2016 01:09 PM
Professional Opinion
Professional Opinion: Colonoscopies aren’t just for men
April 22, 2016 06:16 AM
Take Us With You
Real-time updates and all local stories you want right in the palm of your hand.
Hilton Head Island Packet App
View Newsletters
Subscriptions
Start a Subscription
Customer Service
eEdition
Vacation Hold
Pay Your Bill
Rewards
Learn More
About Us
Contact Us
Newsletters
News in Education
Photo Store
Archives
Advertising
Information
Place a Classified
Local Deals
Special Sections
Place an Obituary
Today's Circulars
Copyright
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service