Lemon and Baking soda Miraculous Healing Combination
Menu
Home
Health
Natural Remedies
Herbs & Oils
Recipes
Fruits & Veggies
Drinks & Smoothies
Diet & Weight Loss
Home
Health
Lemon and Baking soda Miraculous Healing Combination
Lemon and Baking soda Miraculous Healing Combination
Health Natural Remedies February 15, 2014 141
Why did not we know about this miraculous cure and why we still didn’t try it? Because there are organizations that have an interest, common people not to know about the miraculous healing properties of the combination of lemon and baking soda (sodium bicarbonate). Therefore, from now onwards, spread the words about this simple but amazing cure to the people that really needs it!
Miraculous healing combination: EFFECT 10,000 times stronger than chemotherapy!
Many people die while this secret is jealously kept in order to not affect the interests of the large corporations.
Lemon has strong anti-carcinogenic properties that are already been proven. Beside that it has many other useful features. It has a very strong effect over cysts and tumors. This fruit can cure cancer, it is tested on all types of cancer, and if baking soda is added it will have even bigger effect, because it will normalize the pH value in the body.
Also lemons have very strong anti-microbial effect with very wide range of activity against fungal and bacterial infections. Lemons are effective against worms and internal parasites. It is a powerful antidepressant and regulates the blood pressure, reduces stress and calms the nerves.
An interesting fact is the source of this information: It comes from one of the largest producers of medications, which says that after 20 laboratory tests conducted since 1970 until now it has been proved that: Lemon destroys carcinogenic cells in 12 forms of cancer. Also it prevents the spread of carcinogenic cells and has 10,000 times stronger effect than medications such as chemotherapy, anticancer drugs and narcotic products.
Even more interesting is the fact that this kind of treatment with lemon and baking soda only destroys the carcinogenic cells and does not affect the healthy cells.
The preparation is very simple, mix 2 dL (aprox. 6.8 oz) lemon juice with one teaspoon of baking soda in a cup, optional you can diluted the mixture with a distilled water and the miraculous drink is ready! Consume the drink before breakfast on a empty stomach for better effect. To have even bigger effect it is best to use organic lemon. Organic lemon is 100 times more efficient than lemon grown with artificial fertilizers and sprayed with chemicals.
Also an interesting fact is that this remedy does not have the terrible side effects that are typical for the chemotherapy.
Source:
Instituto de Ciencias de la Salud, L. L. C. 819 N. Charles Street Baltimore, MD 1201
* You have our permission to reprint this article via creative commons license if you attribute us with a live backlink to this article. – Best Herbal Health
Tweet
34.5K
Related
What are the Health Benefits of Acupuncture?
September 15, 2018 0
7 Health Benefits of Collagen and How to Take It Daily
March 18, 2018 0
65 Hydrogen Peroxide Benefits, Uses and Reasons Why You Should Always Have a Bottle at Home
March 5, 2017 0
Alpine Diet – Burn Fat and Lose Weight, Without Flabby Skin and Malnourished Face
June 11, 2014 0
141 Comments
Dwight Roger Mcdowell February 17, 2014 Reply
Interesting and accurate. Read also: Cancer is a fungus.
mido December 29, 2017 Reply
nice article because helpful of all the person who likes to change your life, then like this part:An interesting fact is the source of this information: It comes from one of the largest producers of medications, which says that after 20 laboratory tests conducted since 1970 until now it has been proved that: Lemon destroys carcinogenic cells in 12 forms of cancer. Also, it prevents the spread of carcinogenic cells and has 10,000 times stronger effect than medications such as chemotherapy, anticancer drugs, and narcotic products.
Gene Spencer February 18, 2014 Reply
How often should you drink this?
BestHH February 18, 2014 Reply
One month, to have a better effect
Charles March 1, 2015 Reply
It says every morning BEFORE BREAKFAST.
Stash October 13, 2017 Reply
Daily. Or even a couple of times a day. I have been using it for several years now.
Starla February 18, 2014 Reply
What do you do with the mixture? Do you ingest it? Do you spread it on your body in the location?
BestHH February 18, 2014 Reply
It should be drunk, early in the morning 20-30 min before breakfast
Rhondawyatt@gamil.com February 21, 2014 Reply
Do you drink this daily? Once a month?
BestHH February 22, 2014 Reply
It should be drunk on a daily base for a period of one month
Jim February 24, 2014 Reply
I read an article some months ago stating that not all baking sodas are alike. The article stated that some baking sodas have a high metal content (aluminum?) and to get another brand? Any suggestions?
BestHH February 26, 2014 Reply
It must be used only pharmaceutical sodium bicarbonate(baking soda)
Allison March 4, 2014 Reply
I called my pharmisist and he said he will order me some but the baking soda only comes in tablets…. But I thought and so did he…. That I could just crush the tablets and it would make it the same thing 😉 Do you agree?
BestHH March 10, 2014 Reply
Yes you can crush the tablets.
CARMON BROOKS March 10, 2014
Doesn’t Bob’s Red Mill all natural Baking Soda work just as well?
BestHH March 12, 2014
I don’t know the amount of aluminum in the composition of Bob’s Red Mill pure baking soda, if it has lower amount of aluminum you can use it.
Lynn February 16, 2015 Reply
Bob’s Red mill makes a non aluminum baking soda
Charles Knowshisshit February 27, 2017 Reply
ALL baking soda is aluminum-free. that MYTH started years ago because a company put “aluminum-free” on their baking soda because people were worried and got confused about the aluminum in baking POWDER. there is NO aluminum in baking soda, so don’t believe any B.S. someone tells you about having to buy any special kind of baking soda. ALL baking soda is aluminum-free.
Stash October 13, 2017 Reply
I found several sources for “organic” baking soda on the net.
Twin Eagles September 24, 2018 Reply
I am told the best baking soda to get is ARM & Hammer. No metal content.
Diane February 24, 2014 Reply
Can lime juice replace lemon juice if lemons are not readily available?
BestHH February 26, 2014 Reply
It is almost the same because they are both rich with vitamin C.
olivia February 25, 2014 Reply
Is this just for cancer victims or can anyone drink it
BestHH February 26, 2014 Reply
Anyone can drink it because vitamin C from the lemon is a strong antioxidant.
Audrey February 25, 2014 Reply
I drink half a lemon squeezed in a glass of warm water every morning. Can I add the tsp of baking soda to this, or is this not enough lemon juice?
BestHH February 26, 2014 Reply
Add a little bit more lemon juice and it will be just the right dosage 🙂
Lance Tan February 25, 2014 Reply
i dont have a cancer can I take it for 1 month to cleanse my colon?
BestHH February 26, 2014 Reply
You can try because there will be no side effects.
Jim Tombides February 25, 2014 Reply
Do we only take it once a day in the morning or should we try for 3 times a day.
BestHH February 26, 2014 Reply
Take it once a day. Before breakfast.
Diane February 26, 2014 Reply
It seems this would be a wonderful preventative however, in this article only discussing the use after a diagnosis. Any suggestions or discussions on preventative?
BestHH February 26, 2014 Reply
I have no information about using it as a preventive.However it is known that the vitamin C, which the lemon is abundant with, is a strong antioxidant and is used as a preventive from many diseases.
George Innes February 27, 2014 Reply
does it help people with tumors in the lung
BestHH February 27, 2014 Reply
It can be helpful for all kinds of tumors and cancer cells
Nik March 1, 2014 Reply
After taking this for one month, how often should you take it for prevention?
BestHH March 1, 2014 Reply
You can make pause for two or three weeks, after that you can repeat the consumption process again. You can repeat this cycle a few times a year!
Maria March 1, 2014 Reply
It must be used only pharmaceutical sodium bicarbonate(baking soda)
Where do you find pharmaceutical sodium bicarbonate for purchase?
BestHH March 2, 2014 Reply
You can ask in a pharmacy if they sell this kind of substance, if not try in a company which sells substances and other laboratory equipment.
Emmett McMahon November 30, 2018 Reply
I have read and been told that store purchased Arm & Hammer Baking Soda is quite fine for this purpose.
imjustme0502 March 1, 2014 Reply
Hi. My mom is going through chemotherapy right now. Can she do this recipe right along with chemo?
BestHH March 2, 2014 Reply
She must consult with her doctor before she starts using this remedy
Maricar March 2, 2014 Reply
Can this be taken by people with acid-reflux?
BestHH March 2, 2014 Reply
People with acid reflux problems can consume this remedy without problem, baking soda will help you with the acid-reflux. Although lemon juice is acidic in nature, it creates a paradoxical reaction in the stomach, stimulating the release of bicarbonate in the pancreas and neutralizing acids.
Alex March 2, 2014 Reply
I have to take medication 30 minutes before breakfast (Thyroidmed’s & Pantaprozol). Can I take this together with this mixture? If not, how to procede?
Thank you!
BestHH March 3, 2014 Reply
It is best to consult with your doctor, I don’t know your medication react
steve March 13, 2017 Reply
i wouldnt consult a doctor…most of them are just idiots and no nothing about natural cures
Cherie breau March 3, 2014 Reply
I’ve been using Bob’s Red Mill pure(sodium bicarbonate) baking soda “all natural ” is that comparable to the pharmaceutical type baking soda ? Also are Now brand vitamin C crystals pharmaceutical grade comparable to using lemon juice ?
BestHH March 3, 2014 Reply
Nothing can replace organic lemon, naturally grown without pesticides and artificial fertilizers. About the baking soda it is recommended to use pharmaceutical sodium bicarbonate, because the baking soda that is sold on the markets might contains higher quantity of aluminum, I don’t know the amount of aluminum in the composition of Bob’s Red Mill pure baking soda, if it has lower amount of aluminum you can use it.
Harvey March 3, 2014 Reply
We’ve all seen youtubes of people showing how easy it is mix the baking soda in warm water or cool water, and heard them say it stopped the spread of cancer or whatever testimonial.
My question/comment is why are you the only one saying “pharmaceutical sodium bicarbonate” is necessary? Is this really a big deal? Or can we get by with sodium bicarbonate a la cheap and convenient?
Thank you for your excellent article, Harvey
BestHH March 3, 2014 Reply
You must use pharmaceutical sodium bicarbonate, because the baking soda that is sold on the markets might contains higher quantity of aluminum.
Belen Manzsana March 3, 2014 Reply
I am very interested,it is good also to cured highblood?
BestHH March 3, 2014 Reply
This remedy is also effective for high blood pressure, for high blood pressure also you can use the combination of apple cider vinegar, baking soda and filtered water (mix two teaspoons of apple cider vinegar with one teaspoon of baking soda in a glass with 200 mL of filtered water)
Allison March 4, 2014 Reply
I am a Ovarian Cancer patient fighting this for 7 yrs now…. Ive often heard about the lemons w/ baking soda….. I just called my pharmacy and ask him if he could order me some of the pharmacy baking soda…. He said there’s tablets and he said he see’s no reason why I couldn’t crush the tablets with a pill are seasoning crush…. He also said the tablets are probably more potent because of being compacted together…. where no air can it hit like the grandules/powder baking soda’s 😉 So he has ordered me a bottle and I will crush them and he even said the tablets may come measured already for easy use!
Okay one more question….
Could I use Organic Lemon Juice? Thats sold in a bottle?? are does it have to be the whole lemons????
BestHH March 10, 2014 Reply
It has to be the juice drained from lemons.
Stephanie Maignan May 10, 2017 Reply
My grandmother was recently diagnosed with ovarian cancer that spread trough to her abdomen and started collect large amount of fluid. She was given less than a week to live. My mother somehow, found out about the baking soda mixed with water and lemon, started giving it to her 4 times a day. Her pain level has greatly decreased, she accumulates less fluid, and urinates a lot more.
This Saturday will give her a month since she was released from the hospital on Hospice care.
I am amazed, this Monday she’ll turn 93 years old. This recipe is worth looking into. Stephanie M.
Teri February 27, 2017 Reply
Is this taken in an empty stomach in the AM or PM for high blood pressure?
Lesley Wallace March 5, 2014 Reply
Love this article. As a life coach, I have many clients that suffer stress-induced stomach issues and some suffer the same condition I have.
I was diagnosed 1 year ago with hypochlorhydria, a lack of stomach acids for which digestives are required every time I eat in order to process my food. I also have limited pancreatic acids for which I require specific digestives. I was initially told that nothing could be done and it was from accumulated stress. They could only recommend digestives – nothing restorative.
7 years ago, I was diagnosed with adenomysis and endometriosis, requiring me to ingest large doses of ibuprofen (1200 mg/4 hours) over a 2 year period to manage intense pelvic pain. I have since had a hysterectomy to combat that issue, however, I have learned that ingesting such high doses for so long may be the reason for my my current condition of hypochlorhydria. Not ruling out the stress part from doctors but I believe there is something to my high consumption of ibuprofen that has tipped my body to function the way it is.
My question to you is would this be helpful for hypochlorydria? In other words, by taking the lemon and baking soda (pharmaceutical brand), would there be hope that my stomach and pancreatic acids begin functioning properly again? I would LOVE to move away from having to be on digestives every time I eat something. AND, I have been looking at ways for restoration and hoping that this lemon bicarb remedy may be the answer. Is restoration a possibility with this remedy?
Your thoughts would be greatly appreciated. I’m happy to be the guinea pig, for if this is successful, it’s a remedy that I can forward on to my clients.
Many thanks.
Lesley Wallace
BestHH March 12, 2014 Reply
One of the simplest ways to test for low stomach acid in the comfort of your own home is known as the “lemon test.” When you are suffering from stomach discomfort, simply place a teaspoon of lemon juice in 2-4 ounces of water and drink the mixture. If there is not enough acid in your stomach, the addition of the acid-filled lemon juice mixture will provide you with relief from your symptoms. But i don’t know how your body will react in combination with baking soda, so it is best to consult with your doctor.
Thanks for your visit!
Michele Perry March 8, 2014 Reply
Question….. Does the lemon cause you to become acidic? I know a lot of cancer patients are said to use Ester C vitamin C because it’s not acidic. It seems that the lemon would irritate the stomach. I love lemons. I found that they upset my stomach after being diagnosed with Lung Cancer. But I’ve never tried lemon with baking soda though. Maybe that’s a better balance.
BestHH March 10, 2014 Reply
The acidity of the lemons is neutralized by the sodium bicarbonate.
Joe Schrock March 12, 2014 Reply
Apparently a person needs a prescription for pharmaceutical sodium bicarbonate. What if a person just wants to take it as a preventative. Can that be done, I mean without a prescription ? I have had gall stones it would help dissolve them correct?
BestHH March 13, 2014 Reply
Baking soda can help you with the gallstones, it should dissolve them. About the prescription, you can use regular baking soda, only it must contain low level of aluminum.
Ms Anderson March 17, 2014 Reply
You actually don’t need a prescription for sodium bicarbonate. If you have a Rite-Aid in your area. The rule is the pharmacy can’t sell opened bottles, but you can order a sealed bottle of 1000 tablets of sodium bicarbonate from any pharmacy. The bottle ranges from $15-$35 a bottle.
I hope this is helpful. You may have already resolved this. Also, you don”‘to need to crush the tablets, they dissolve quite nicely within a minute of being submersed in liquid. Salud! To health.
Janet March 16, 2014 Reply
how do you keep the mixture from foaming and spilling out of the cup?
BestHH March 23, 2014 Reply
You can use a larger container to make the mixture.
shelly March 16, 2014 Reply
How do you keep mixture from bubbeling over. Do you drink while foaming ?
BestHH March 23, 2014 Reply
You can use a larger container for the preparation of the mixture, mix it well and drink it.
Akrus Acras March 19, 2014 Reply
Thanks for this text, grateful as BHH is so helpfully. Please, an answer: if we make organic lemon /b.soda/destiled water… can we put it in a bottle in amount for one week and keep it in the fridge, drinking every day glass, as you said?
Perhaps you know: Dr. Sircus, http://drsircus.com, also wrote and instructed about b.soda and many other things. ( I’m not his pr, I’m just his reader….) In his work/texts/books/investigations he does the same good thing: helps people.
Thanks a lot, once more…
BestHH March 23, 2014 Reply
It is best to make the mixture ex tempore, which means to prepare and consume it the same day.
Woody Jumper March 21, 2014 Reply
I am going to try this and get back to you in a month….thanks
angel March 23, 2014 Reply
Do you need to use a whole lemon for this?
BestHH March 23, 2014 Reply
You need 200 ml (6.8 oz) lemon juice.
Lance Tan March 24, 2014 Reply
is it normal a slight headache the whole day after taking the lemon soda
Koryn March 24, 2014 Reply
Is the amount really 6.8 ounces (almost a whole cup) of lemon juice? That seems like a lot. If that’s the correct amount, how much water can be used to dilute it? I’m guessing a whole cup of lemon juice would be mighty sour. Thanks!
BestHH March 25, 2014 Reply
You can use lemon juice from one lemon and dilute it to 200 ml (6.8 oz) with distilled water.
Laveda Tucker April 17, 2014 Reply
I THOUGHT DISTILLED WATER WAS DANGEROUS TO DRINK.
BestHH April 18, 2014 Reply
Drinking distilled water on a regular, daily basis is potentially dangerous. But you will only drink small amount of distilled water with this recipe, therefore it is not dangerous in this case.
linda March 30, 2014 Reply
Thank-you so much for this helpful information. I do not have cancer but I know of others.
harold March 31, 2014 Reply
I have prostate cancer will this concoction help me?
BestHH March 31, 2014 Reply
The combination of lemon and baking soda is a cure for any type of cancer.
Irene Hairston March 31, 2014 Reply
My parents brought me and my 11 brothers and sisters up with Baking soda for everything from indigestion ,laundry,deodorant ,toothpaste and any thing else that we needed I keep a bottle throught the house and it works everytime .kudos
Anna April 4, 2014 Reply
could i put raw honey in with the lemon/BS
BestHH April 10, 2014 Reply
The recipe is without honey. But if you want you can put honey but I don’t know if it will have the same effect.
Cor April 14, 2014 Reply
thank you for this very good and informative article, although still leaving some questions…
i press 2 oranges and 1 lemon and drink a glass of this juice with one teaspoon baking soda, is that just as good or it really has to be pure lemon juice?
In another article about baking soda you say that “When baking soda is combined with other basic and strong natural substances like iodine and magnesium chloride, we have a trinity of medical super heroes.
Does the iodine and magnesium have to be mixed with the lemon juice or to be taken separated and in what quantities?
It seems that also nano-silver is a good cure against cystes. Is it possible to use a cure of nano-silver in the same time or is this not a good combination?
BestHH April 14, 2014 Reply
The recipe is with organic lemons but if you what can mix it with oranges if you want (lemon in combination with baking soda will have even bigger effect, because it will normalize the pH value in the body).
You can take the magnesium chloride and iodine separately (about the magnesium chloride, prepare one liter of boiled water, but it must be left to cool before you add 33 grams of magnesium chloride). Consume one small cup of coffee from the magnesium chloride every morning, until you consume the whole liter of this mixture. ( We are preparing article for magnesium chloride, coming soon!).
About the combination of the four cures, we think that it is not recommended to consume all of them at once. You can consume two of the cures combined, than after some period combine the other two, to have better results (chose the combination randomly).
Cor April 14, 2014 Reply
Thank you for your answer. Lemon it is then!
Barry April 16, 2014 Reply
Very interesting and usefull website
Judy Gonzalez April 19, 2014 Reply
I’m planning on taking this for high blood pressure, will it take a whole month to work or will it start working right away?
BestHH April 19, 2014 Reply
It will take some time for this remedy to start working.
Lorraine Hall May 4, 2014 Reply
I have just been diagnosed with breast cancer. I have had this article bookmarked since I first found the lump.
However I just CANNOT afford to buy fresh organic lemons on my meagre wages and the best thing I can do is buy organic lemon juice which I imagine is better than juice from an ordinary not organic fresh lemon?
BestHH May 7, 2014 Reply
If you cannot afford to buy fresh organic lemons than you can try the recipe with organic lemon juice although the recipe is with organic lemons but it is better to try something to improve your health than not to do anything.
denise Johnson June 8, 2014 Reply
You shouldn’t say it will cure cancer unless you want the FDA after you. I know what you mean. Any natural treatment is better than chemo, which just poisons the body. I would still use my vitamins, bioflavanoids, msm converts to dmso. Chemo causes cachexia which kill the body and the patient dies from malnutrition. You need protein but not Ensure. Lemons are alkaline inside the body and acidic on outside. These natural remedies were put here for a reason. Wemust stop the curses ee bring into our own bodies. STDS ARE THE CAUSE OF ALL DISEASES INCLUDING
CANCERS AND 1% from the foods. Believe or not
kim enriquez June 12, 2014 Reply
hi! my father is using this but every after he drinks like after 10min he feels a lil groggy and poofs wet. any help why is this happening to him? thank you
BestHH June 13, 2014 Reply
To regulate the intestinal flora he can use activated carbon or probiotics and about felling groggy he can take additional amount of vitamins, proteins and minerals.
Gail August 3, 2014 Reply
I have the juice of a lemon made up to 200mls with distilled water & one teas of bicarb soda which I drink very morning before eating anything.
I quite like the mixture, after adding the bicarb, it tastes like homemade lemonade.
I was prone to kidney stones but this mixture helps dissolve the stones small enough for you to pass naturally!
I have a question: can it help with weight loss? It could be a coincidence, but I have lost half a stone, I have found i haven’t been as hungry
& eating less volume of food. Could this possibly be because of the lemon, bicarb mixture, I am not on a diet!
BestHH August 5, 2014 Reply
The lemon helps in the fat burning process. Together with the baking soda they regulate the pH environment in the body which is important for the normal functioning of the metabolism.
Avery August 8, 2014 Reply
My mother has lung cancer and I’m a little scared to use this product. Can I just boil the water and use with the baking soda and lemon juice?
BestHH August 12, 2014 Reply
The recipe is with distillate water.
Gail August 10, 2014 Reply
Another Q why do I feel nauseas (sorry I’m not sure how to spell it) whenever I drink the mixture of lemon, bicarb soda & distilled water
within 10 mins of consuming? Is this a good thing or a bad thing?
BestHH August 12, 2014 Reply
The nausea can be a side effect from the baking soda, although the side effects from the baking soda are very rear. If you continue to have this kind of problems you must consult with your doctor.
tee August 30, 2014 Reply
Can someone take this mixture during menstruation?
BestHH August 30, 2014 Reply
It is save to consume the mixture of baking soda and lemon juice during menstruation, not only that is save, but also can be very helpful during painful menstrual periods.
Adrienne September 1, 2014 Reply
Wow. I have to try this.
Sandra Trank September 10, 2014 Reply
What an amazing article! I was concerned about an accidental combination of organic lemon juice with my EcoDent extra bright tooth paste to whiten my teeth. I brushed my teeth and then drank some of my filtered zero water with half an organic lemon in it and realized some kind of chemical reaction occurred and even as an RN I wasn’t certain if I should be worried. It resulted in a very pleasant sweet taste in my mouth and I hadn’t added any sugar to my lemon water. I am so glad I found this article as it eases my mind over the consumption of the combo and with a 18 year battle with recurrent melanoma, this recipe may be just what I need! Thank you so much for this information and I will share it with all my friends!
richard lopez September 30, 2014 Reply
simple but great information
Novin Kumar October 9, 2014 Reply
My brothe’s wife Diogenes breast cancer.First chemo sitting given.can we start lemon baking soda mixture therapy with consent of doctor right now?
BestHH October 10, 2014 Reply
You can start with the lemon and baking soda mixture, but only with consent of your doctor.
Jackie November 19, 2014 Reply
Can i take it the recipe even if i have an ulcer? Thanks
BestHH November 20, 2014 Reply
You must consult with your doctor before you start using this remedy.
teresa January 30, 2015 Reply
thanks for this great article, i am drinking warm water with a squeeze of lime juice (half or 1/4 depends on the size of the lime) every morning and i put oregano leaves on it too..to add the taste and good smell..i guess it’s just ok..since oregano has great medicinal value too..and planning to try adding the baking soda soon..i was just browsing what is the right baking soda to use 🙂
naru February 6, 2015 Reply
thanks it give mi hope
q is it good for blood cancer ,and skin cancer
PB February 10, 2015 Reply
One month is not near long enough. When you deal with a natural therapy; it takes months and months for a complete healing. I’ve been down this road before and a minimum of 3 months is a starter. Lemon and baking soda will DO NO HARM so why not take it daily. I’ve been taking it for 4 months and have seen many benefits from it on a variety problems, I didn’t even know I had. You are wasting your time and money, if you only take lemon and baking soda for one month.
ellie March 4, 2015 Reply
Will arm and hammer pure baking soda be OK to use? I have a simple cyst on both my ovaries and before taking birth control would like to do some natural remidies.
BestHH March 4, 2015 Reply
It is ok to use Arm and Hammer Pure Baking Soda
jeannie March 4, 2015 Reply
from what i read there is NO aluminum in baking soda, but there is in Baking powder.
http://www.crunchybetty.com/the-great-baking-soda-anti-hoax
Dianne March 18, 2015 Reply
DO YOUR RESEARCH!!! There is NO (repeat – NO) aluminum in Baking Soda (only in Baking Powder) so there is absolutely no need to get pharmacy grade Baking Soda or any special brand. Arm and Hammer will do the job!
irene March 19, 2015 Reply
I have pancreatitis is it safe to take this remedy?
BestHH March 29, 2015 Reply
Lemons provide a source of magnesium and may benefit pancreatitis patients when added to their diets, also high doses of vitamin C offset the symptoms of pancreatitis. Baking soda is one of the best home remedies to get relief from pain caused due to Pancreatitis. You can use this mixture but first of all you must consult with your doctor!
Helix March 20, 2015 Reply
This is indeed great! I am going to make it available to my many friends. But what authentication do I have in recommending this recipe, since I am neither a doctor nor a scientist, only a reader
hemeson joy March 24, 2015 Reply
Good work, Can someone with breast cancer drink baking soda and lemon juice? any result for that.
leticia s. de alban March 29, 2015 Reply
Much to learn from this site.
Stephen Buckley May 21, 2015 Reply
Some of the information relating to the acidity of lemon juice is incorrect. Stomach acid has a very high ph. It is hydrochloric acid which is strong enough to dissolve chicken bones. The mix as described will ave very little effect of stomach acid. The effect here is Vitamin C. As far as the body is concerned Lemon juice is not acidic since the Ascorbic acid in the lemon juice is turned into a compound which the body uses. Under certain circumstances you want quite high level of vitamin c. You will tell went you may be over dosing by loose bowel movement. You might want to back off. Cut out refined sugar which leads to yeast over load in the gut. There is another product a natural anti-biotic called citricidal grapefruit seed extract (the best one is made by a company called higher nature) It is a good alternative to antibiotic for children. It taste quite bitter if you have acid reflux try it in pineapple juice, the bromaline helps digestion, then end with an apple, some people find the pectin helps. Oatmeal seems to be the thing that really kicks reflux off for me. Also look at your levels of Vitamin D3 produced by your exposure to sunlight. many cancers are traced to low vitamin D3 levels.
Most people are not getting enough sun
Diane May 23, 2015 Reply
Can’t wait to try this
shree nithi May 23, 2015 Reply
I will try and give my opinion.
Ron tarablous June 9, 2015 Reply
It did mention diabetes as one of the disease that can benefit from that cure but you speak very little of it
Thanks
Ron
Deniz June 27, 2015 Reply
It’s very nice of you of spreading the elf in this way. Thank you.
Will do it with mineral water and regular lemons as a start.
Has it been proven to help reducing pituitary bening macroadenomas?
Does it interact negatively with a Cabergoline treatment?
Big thanks!
Raj July 14, 2015 Reply
Hello, thanks for the information.. I have persistent stomach pain ssince last three months(mild pain and discomfort both side below ribcage) and my doctor told me I could have an intestine infection.
My question is, Does intestine infection last that long? Because I’m having stomach discomfort for almost 3 months and flatulence etc.
Will the baking soda with lemon can solve my issue?
P.S – I got my CT scan and no kidney stone or gallbladder issues were found.
Any help would be appreciated.
Best regards,
Raj
Girlley July 22, 2015 Reply
How many tspn of lime juice in this mixture…I have so many lime plant…and lemon is always out of stocks in the grocery…
Girlley July 22, 2015 Reply
Can I use lime instead of a lemon? If does, how many limes convert to 1 lemon?thank you…Hope it can help me…coz I have a breast cyst.
Eileen August 12, 2015 Reply
Can I use the water from the Kangen Machine instead of the distilled water to mix the lemon & baking soda?
April August 28, 2015 Reply
Can lemon essential oil be used instead and how much?
Madhusut March 28, 2016 Reply
I’m gonna try it… I had heard of drinking lemon water in the morning first thing – then with some variation of adding honey to it.
Bharper April 10, 2016 Reply
Can you mix the night before?
Dana July 15, 2016 Reply
I was told that fresh and squeezed lemon is alkalizing if taken instantly. Half a lemon left for later turns acidic and looses the Vitamin C content. That’s why it is not good to use a commercial juice or anything that is not freshly cut and taken instantly. Also the fruit must be never kept in a plastic bag ( do not buy the pre-packed lemons or any other fruit – the plastic leaches out very toxic chemicals into it, also bacteria & molds multiply extremely quickly in that environment.) Keep fruit in a paper-bag away from the light.
A Collins September 16, 2016 Reply
Everyone should read the book Sodium Bicarbonate – Nature’s Unique First Aid Remedy by Dr Mark Sircus.
Also, just plain Arm & Hammer Baking Soda has no aluminum. Baking powder does.
The book is amazing. Dr Sircus also has a web page. drsircus.com
Nune October 11, 2016 Reply
Would this work for viruses like herpes and hpv? Please respond.
Mike October 16, 2016 Reply
Would the solution work for gastritis and oesophagitis?
Ayibapreye Baralatei November 14, 2016 Reply
Does this combination help with diabetes
Aisha Abubakar March 8, 2017 Reply
DONT take baking Soda if your calcium level is low, your pregnant, planning to be pregnant or your breasfeeding. it can cause a reduction in your calcium level which could result to serious illness such as hypocalcemia.
Mark May 22, 2017 Reply
Mixing Sodium Bicarbonate and Lemon juice together makes FALSE claims of curing cancer!
Made from soda ash, soda bicarbonate has an alkaline base. Approximately 5 percent of lemon juice is citric acid, which accounts for the sour taste of the lemon. When you mix an acid and a base, the result is a chemical reaction that creates a new product, with a neutral base. In the case of lemon juice and baking soda, the new product is (carbon dioxide gas) (Water) and (salt).
The above result of the reaction between the two produces a benign compound that is inert and does absolutely nothing for cancer and as it as described above consists thereafter of the following;
Water
Salt
Dissipated Carbon Dioxide gas.
Those that keep propagating this unproven negative treatment should desist, all it does is give false hope to cancer sufferers that take it hoping for a cure and it doesn’t work!
Jim Hekker June 30, 2017 Reply
As soon as I use baking soda and lemon juice as described my low pH of 5.5 increases to 7.2 which is neutral. This is great for my general health and hopefully will stop the increasing of my PSA (Prostate cancer)
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Get More Health Information Like This IN YOUR INBOX
Subscribe to our mailing list and get interesting stuff and updates to your email inbox.
Thank you for subscribing.
Something went wrong.
We respect your privacy and take protecting it seriously
Find us on Facebook
Best Herbal Health Copyright © 2019.
Contact | Disclaimer | Privacy Policy | Sitemap | Terms and Conditions | About Us | DMCA Policy
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Read More
Subscribe to Our
Newsletter
Join Our Mailing List and Receive the Latest Healthy Tips
Thank you for subscribing.
Something went wrong.
We respect your privacy and take protecting it seriously