magnetic health matters issue1
MAGNETIC HEALTH MATTERS
August 15th 2006 - Issue 1
Greetings
IN THIS ISSUE YOU WILL FIND:
- Success story of the month
Read how magnetic therapy is changing the life of real people.
- Tell Your Story
A challenge to ALL subscribers: Send me your best 'little' success story and I'll publish it in the next issue of "Magnetic Health Matters"
- Improve your magnetic knowledge.
Discussion about how to use magnetic therapy effectively and the latest research taking place in magnetic therapy
- Offer of the month
Offer of the month are special offers on our magnetic devices available only to our newsletter subscriber.
- Important Links
links to specific products and information on magnetic therapy and other natural methods of pain relief.
- Tell us what you think!
SUCCESS STORIES OF THE MONTH
1. Read how magnetic therapy is changing lives
Hi world of magnets,
I keep meaning to write to you but I have been so busy!
I purchased one of your bracelets last year as I was having a lot of problems with my index finger on my left hand. It seemed to be stiffening up and would not bend totally. I was told it was probably arthritis and there was nothing that could be done about it. As I play the piano, and am a piano teacher, it was causing me immense problems. It was not only stiff, but painful and was affecting my playing. I had also taken the step of deciding to complete my final grade 8 examination, which although I have been playing for 23 years, I had never taken. The music is extremely taxing and I need my hand to be perfect.
I purchased your stainless steel bracelet after doing a lot of research on the internet, and your bracelets seemed to be one of the best. Well what can I say! After a few weeks of wearing the bracelet all the pain had gone in my finger and I had regained full movement. I was a little dubious and wondered if it was down to the bracelet, or just a coincidence. So I took the bracelet off.
After about a week I started to get the pain again. Needless to say I now wear the bracelet all the time, even to bed.
One last thing, I passed my piano examination in December. Thank you so much for such an excellent product. I have recommended your products to all my family and friends.
Kind regards
Linda Hammond,
France
I was introduced to world of magnets by a friend. I have suffered from fibromyalgia for about 10 years. I get pain in my neck and shoulders, and back, all over in fact. I first bought a necklace to help my neck which i wear day and night. It's wonderful! I can now turn my head from side to side without pain.
DEE then encouraged me to have a mattress cover for the rest of my body. I cannot thank her enough. I have now cut down to one medication per day. Almost pain free. My partner had a hip replacement and has arthritis in his knees and he is also finding help from pain by sleeping on the mattress cover.
Marlene Willis
aged 67
Weymouth
Dorset
"I have for many months now been wearing one of your stainless steel bracelets. I suffer from both RSI and Carpal Tunnel Syndrome on my dominant hand. On wearing the bracelet for a matter of days, my ability to type for extended periods was enhanced by 50 to 70%. I could not stand the pain after prolonged periods at the keyboard.
The noticeable effects were measurable because I recently took the bracelet off at the gym and lost it. Whilst your speedy replacement was much appreciated, there was a profound difference between wearing it and not.Thank you for making my work days so much more productive."
E. Eames,
London
TELL YOUR STORY
2. A challenge to my subscribers:
Send me your best 'little' success story and I'll publish it in the next issue of "Magnetic Health Matters"
If you would like to help others believe in how magnetic therapy can release them from pain, send me your story and I'll publish it in the next edition of Magnetic Health Matters.
Please email your success story to newsletter@worldofmagnets.co.uk
IMPROVE YOUR MAGNETIC KNOWLEDGE
3. Discussion about how to use magnetic therapy effectively and the latest research taking place in magnetic therapy.
Magnetic Therapy for Arthritis Pain Relief
by debbie shimadry
This article introduces the different magnetic therapy treatments that will help reduce the pain associated with arthritis and other rheumatic conditions
There are over 100 forms of arthritis and other rheumatic diseases. These diseases may cause pain, stiffness, and swelling in joints and other supporting structures of the body such as muscles, tendons, ligaments, and bones. Some forms can also affect other parts of the body, including various internal organs.
Many people use the word "arthritis" to refer to all rheumatic diseases. However, the word literally means joint inflammation; that is, swelling, redness, heat, and pain caused by tissue injury or disease in the joint. The many different kinds of arthritis make up just a portion of all rheumatic diseases.
Rheumatoid arthritis, the second most common form of arthritis, affects other parts of the body besides the joints. It begins at a younger age than osteoarthritis, causes swelling and redness in joints, and may make people feel sick, tired, and (uncommonly) feverish. Rheumatoid arthritis affects people differently. For some people, it lasts only a few months or a year or two and goes away without causing any noticeable damage. Other people have mild or moderate forms of the disease, with periods of worsening symptoms, called flares, and periods in which they feel better, called remissions. Still others have a severe form of the disease that is active most of the time, lasts for many years or a lifetime, and leads to serious joint damage and disability.
Osteoarthritis is the most common type of arthritis, especially among older people. Sometimes it is called degenerative joint disease or osteoarthrosis. Osteoarthritis is a joint disease that mostly affects the cartilage. Cartilage is the slippery tissue that covers the ends of bones in a joint. Healthy cartilage allows bones to glide over one another. It also absorbs energy from the shock of physical movement. In osteoarthritis, the surface layer of cartilage breaks down and wears away. This allows bones under the cartilage to rub together, causing pain, swelling, and loss of motion of the joint. Over time, the joint may lose its normal shape. Also, bone spurs(small growths called osteophytes) may grow on the edges of the joint. Bits of bone or cartilage can break off and float inside the joint space. This causes more pain and damage. People with osteoarthritis usually have joint pain and limited movement. Unlike some other forms of arthritis, osteoarthritis affects only joints and not internal organs.
Magnetic treatments for arthritis
All types of arthritis respond to magnetic treatments because the arthritic disease process involves inflammation. Magnets reverse the inflammatory process, which in turn alleviates the main symptoms of arthritis which are:
1.Swelling
2.Pain
3.Stiffness and immobility
Magnetic therapy is not a cure for arthritis as there is currently no known cure, but it is an extremely effective drug free treatment for the chronic symptoms for all types of arthritic conditions. However having said how well arthritis responds to magnetic therapy, it can be a little bit tricky to treat a person who has arthritis in multiple locations in the body. The reason for this is that as discussed in chapter 2 for the magnetic field to be effective it must be placed as close to the area of injury as possible. When a person has, for example, arthritis in the knees, hips, back and hands, it is not possible to reach all the area with one magnetic device. The person would need to place magnets on each area of pain to fully relieve the arthritic symptoms.
Possible treatments for this person would be:
1. To wear high strength magnetic straps around the knees, back/hips ( usually one strap will reach both areas) and wrists. Straps are both functional and comfortable, plus many contain lycra to give the joint additional support.
2. To wear super strength shoe insoles, that have a magnetic field that is strong enough to reach the knees, a high/super a strength bracelet for each hand and use a magnetic pad behind the back whilst sitting or lying. If the person does not feel comfortable in straps these are suitable alternatives.
3. To sleep on a magnetic mattress. The mattress will reach all areas of the body at once and
the strength of the magnetic field is so immense that the magnetism will last for up to 16 hours after getting out of bed. This is the easiest way to treat large areas of pain and does not necessitate the need to wear additional magnets during the day.
Luckily there is a vast array of magnetic devices available today and most areas of the body can be reached with an appropriate magnetic device. There is often more than one solution available fort he treatment of multiple areas of pain and a trained therapist will be able to advise while treatment regime will fit best with your particular lifestyle.
In order for magnets to be effective they must be worn night and day until the symptoms have gone, if you are given a magnetic device that do not feel comfortable wearing or using it is unlikely that you will continue to use the treatment for the required length of time. With out 24 hours, 7 days a weeks exposure to the magnets it is unlikely that all of your symptoms will be
relieved and you will feel disheartened and may even believe that magnets do not in fact work.
OFFER OF THE MONTH
4. Offer of the month are special offers on our magnetic devices available only to our newsletter subscriber.
This month's offer is on our super strength stainless steel bracelets. SAVE 25% ON ANY STAINLESS STEEL BRACELET.
click on the link below to view the bracelets
magnetic stainless steel bracelets
Use the discount code NEWSOFF1
This code is valid until 31.08.06
IMPORTANT LINKS
5. links to specific products and information on magnetic therapy and other natural methods of pain relief.
Latest research in magnetic therapy
Live BBC Radio Shows discusssing magnetic therapy
Ask the experts your questions
Audio Interviews of real people
Magnetic Therapy Devices for pain relief
6. "Tell Us What You Think!"
We'd love to hear what you think of this issue!
Please send your comments, questions, and ideas for upcoming issues to us at:
newsletter@worldofmagnets.co.uk
Your feedback matters to us!
Help spread the word!
Forward the Magnetic Health Matters Newsletter to anyone you believe would benefit from magnetic therapy or send them to
http://www.worldofmagnets.co.uk/newsletter and they can sign up for FREE
Enjoy the rest of your day
Sanj Shimadry
Editor
webmaster@worldofmagnets.co.uk
http://www.worldofmagnets.co.uk
Together, we can make anything happen!
Don't Waste Another Minute Of Your Life Suffering With Pain. You Don't Have To. Act Now! Discover how these Back, Hip, Sciatica, Neck & Shoulder, Elbow, Wrist & Hand, Knees & Thigh, Feet & Lower Leg, Insomnia and Depression and All Over Body Pain Treatments Can Get Rid Of All Your Pain And Improve Your Well Being...
privacy | security | testimonials | delivery | terms | FAQ
Magnetic Products:
Specialist Magnetic Products
Magnetic Straps
Magnetic Supports
Magnetic Hematite Bracelets
Stainless Steel Magnetic Bracelets
Expandable Hematite Magnetic Bracelets
Copper Magnetic Bangles / Bracelets
Magnetic Water Wand
Magnetic Shoe Insoles
Magnetic Mattress Pad
Magnetic Pillow Pad
Stainless Steel Magnetic Necklaces
Magnetic Rings and Earrings
Hematite Magnetic Necklaces
Magnetic Portable Travel Pad
Magnetic Bed Pad
Magnetic Collars
(dogs & cats)
Equine Magnetic Products
Massage Therapy Products
Magnetic Eye Mask
Conversion Chart
1 milliTesla (mT) = 10 Gauss
Magnopain magnetic therapy magnets are natural pain relief treatments for arthritis, back pain, sciatica, fibromyalgia and more..
[Close]
Discover The Real Truth About Magnetic Bracelets!
Do NOT WASTE YOUR HARD EARNED CASH till you've read this FREE report exposing what magnetic bracelets Will and WON'T do.
Simply enter your details below and the report will be sent to your email address instantly!
Name
Email
Important: Please add the email enquiry@magnetictherapyfacts.org to your address book to ensure that you get our emails. I will never share your info with anyone. And you can unsubscribe at any time! Privacy policy