Inheritance, 'Bad Luck' and the Environment
Turn on more accessible mode
Turn off more accessible mode
Advertisement
Practical Knowledge. Real Hope.
from the American Association for Cancer Research
Subscriber Services
e-Newsletter
Advertise
Contact Us
GO
Toggle navigation
Cancer Types
Bladder Cancer
Brain Cancer
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Kidney Cancer
Leukemia
Lung Cancer
Lymphoma
Melanoma
Ovarian Cancer
Pancreatic Cancer
Prostate Cancer
Thyroid Cancer
Uterine Cancer
Cancer Types A-Z
Research Updates
all
Treatment
Prevention
Screening
Disparities
Living with Cancer
all
Survivor Profiles
Celebrity Stories
In The Moment
Support for You
all
Nutrition & Exercise
Well-being
Your Questions, Our Answers
Money Matters
Caregiving
Taking Action
all
Advocacy
Policy
Volunteering
Scientist↔Survivor Program
In the Magazine
Current Issue
Archives
Cancer Talk
blog
week in cancer news
Subscriber Services
e-Newsletter
Advertise
Contact Us
In the Magazine
From the Editor-in-Chief
Inheritance, 'Bad Luck' and the Environment
Why do some people develop cancer while others do not?
by By William G. Nelson, MD, PhD
Article Cover Image
Article Cover Image Caption
Article Content
Photo by Joe Rubino
One in two men and one in three women in the United States are destined to develop cancer. Why do some people get the disease while others do not?
Cancer cells contain defective genes that drive uncontrolled cell growth, invasion into normal tissues and life-threatening metastasis. Some malfunctioning genes can be inherited, conferring a high risk of cancer that runs in families. Most of the gene defects in cancer cells appear from errors acquired while copying genes, as normal cells are replenished. Other cancer genes can be supplied by viruses, like human papillomavirus (HPV), which can cause cancer in infected cells.
Angelina Jolie Pitt, in a March 24, 2015, New York Times op-ed piece, described inheriting a BRCA1 gene mutation that greatly increased her risk for breast and ovarian cancers. This gene mutation was likely the origin of cancers in some of her family members. To reduce her chance of suffering with cancer, Jolie Pitt elected to have her breasts and ovaries removed. She wrote of how she made a choice that best suited her and her loved ones: “It is not easy to make these decisions. But it is possible to take control and tackle head-on any health issue. You can seek advice, learn about the options and make choices that are right for you. Knowledge is power.” For cancer-prone families, testing for mutations in an inherited cancer susceptibility gene like BRCA1 can help shape strategies to minimize the cancer threat, including prophylactic surgery, intensive cancer screening and an altered lifestyle.
Fortunately, catastrophic genetic mutations that dramatically affect cancer risk across generations of families are rare. Much more commonly, inherited genes exhibit minor differences from one person to another, and some of these variant genes influence the propensity to develop cancer. Studies of cancer in twins illustrate this well. When the risk of developing cancer is compared between identical twins, who share all of their genes, and fraternal twins, who share half of their genes, an excess of cancer in identical twins strongly suggests an inherited predisposition to cancer. Analyses of cancer in twins reveal that for many common cancers—for example, breast, prostate, and colon and rectum—inheritance is a strong contributor (as much as 40 percent or more of such cancers).
All cancer cells carry acquired gene defects, as mistakes in copying DNA sequences accumulate during the generation of normal cells to replace old ones. Cristian Tomasetti and Bert Vogelstein reported in the Jan. 2, 2015, Science that these errors might be responsible for as much as 65 percent of the variation in cancer risk. Their estimate was based on the high correlation between the number of cell divisions in different organs and the lifetime risk for developing cancer at those organ sites. For example, the small intestine undergoes less cell renewal than the colon and is less likely to develop cancer. Since most mistakes in DNA replication do not lead to cancer gene defects, the chance that cancer might arise via a copy error was considered “bad luck.”
Cancer genes also can be damaged by a variety of exposures—including carcinogens in tobacco smoke, overcooked meats and workplace exposures—and by chronic or recurrent inflammation. The impact of environmental exposures on cancer has been assessed by comparing cancer incidence and mortality rates in different parts of the world. As an example, breast and prostate cancers are common in the U.S. but relatively rare in Asia. In contrast, stomach and liver cancers are common in Asia but rare in the U.S. The notion that environment and lifestyle might account for these differences is buttressed by the tendency of Asian-born immigrants to the U.S. and their U.S.-born children to show lower risks of stomach and liver cancers and higher risks of prostate cancer. An estimated 70 to 80 percent of cancers may be caused by avoidable exposures.
How can 40 percent of cancer cases be attributed to inheritance, 65 percent to “bad luck” DNA replication errors and 70 to 80 percent to exposures? There must be a complex interplay among inheritance, the environment and “bad luck.” Jolie Pitt’s contention that knowledge is power remains apropos. For members of high-cancer-risk families, knowing whether defective genes have been inherited can inform decisions about interventions to reduce cancer risk. For the rest of us, knowing the hazards of cigarette smoking, alcohol abuse, obesity and poor diet should drive us to make healthier choices. The power of this knowledge will hopefully permit us to minimize the ravages of “bad luck” and reduce the threat of cancer.
William G. Nelson, MD, PhD​​​, is the director of the Johns Hopkins Kimmel Cancer Center in Baltimore.
June 26, 2015
Related Stories
Why Are Liver Cancer Death Rates Up? Hepatitis C infection, obesity and alcohol can contribute to more cases of liver cancer. Lynch Syndrome Linked to More Cancers Study findings suggest patient screening has been too narrow.
Cancer Talk
New Rule Would Require Breast Density Disclosure
A proposed federal rule says that patients must be informed after mammograms if they have dense breasts.
by Carly Weeks
PARP Inhibitors in Pancreatic Cancer
Drugs that target DNA repair enzymes may provide alternatives to long-term chemotherapy for some patients with pancreatic cancer.
by Kate Yandell
Telling Their Stories Through Posters
Survivors and advocates display their posters alongside the work of thousands of cancer researchers.
by Kevin McLaughlin
The Crowded Field of Checkpoint Inhibitors
Drug developers behind the six currently approved checkpoint inhibitors discuss the pros and cons of competition in the field.
by Kate Yandell
More Posts
subscribe today. digital editionpast issues
Advertisement
get our free e-newsletter
subscribe
Advertisement
From the AACR
CAR T-Cells Show Promise
A pair of studies demonstrated encouraging clinical outcomes with two different CAR T-cell therapies for patients with advanced solid tumors.
New FDA Approval
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has for the first time approved an immunotherapeutic for breast cancer.
Treating Drug-Resistant Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Researchers are studying how to treat EGFR-positive non-small cell lung cancer that has become resistant to tyrosine kinase inhibitors.
Advertisement
Video
A Lesson in Service
More Videos
Advertisement
social media
Tweets by CancerTodayMag
donate to the AACR
© 2019 AACR
615 Chestnut Street, 17th Floor
Philadelphia, PA 19106-4404
Phone: 215-440-9300
About Cancer Today
About the AACR
Advertise
Subscribe
Legal
Contact Us
Follow Us