PureTrim Gum: A Reliable Weight Loss Product or Just Another Gum?
Home
Subscribe
Diet Reviews - Best Diets Online - DietCritic.com
PureTrim Gum Review
by The Diet Critic on November 16, 2016
[starratingmulti id=1 tpl=12]
PureTrim Gum is a weight loss product that has been designed to reduce appetite and cravings for up to 3 hours. It also supposedly supports a healthy metabolism. Unlike other over-the-counter (OTC) oral products on the market created as fat loss aids, this isn’t a pill, powder, drop or food bar. It is chewing gum that will supposedly help you on your path to becoming a slimmer, trimmer you.
According to the official product page for PureTrim Gum, it is available in a spearmint flavor and contains 10 organic ingredients. Each one is “designed to help you lose weight by combating difficult food cravings and regulating metabolism.” These ingredients include: Organic Pomegranate, Organic Raspberry, Organic Amla, Organic Acai. Organic Burdock Root, Organic Ginger, Organic Kale, Organic Nopal, Organic Noni, and Organic Purple Corn. It also contains Mango, Potato and Dandelion Extract.
Users are instructed to chew 1 piece of gum 30 minutes before their evening meal and then one again later in the evening. The gum should be chewed for a minimum of 15 minutes. After chewing the gum, it is recommended that users drink a glass of water.
PureTrim suggests that if users would like the absolute best weight loss results, they should chew the gum in combination with the entire PureTrim system.
Pros
Some people do find that chewing gum can help to curb their appetite. Furthermore, some of the ingredients found in this product can be found in other weight loss products including raspberry, ginger and dandelion extract.
Other notable benefits are each piece of game contains only 2 calories, no sugar, no caffeine and it is free of gluten, dairy and soy.
Cons
While PureTrim Gum sounds like an easy and convenient way to curb hunger, there are two major downsides to gum chewing. The first is that it can be harmful to your teeth. Even chewing gum that is sugar-free can lead to dental erosion
The second is that it can cause gastrointestinal problems. Chewing gum causes you to swallow excess air which can lead to bloating and abdominal pain. Furthermore, when you chew gum, you are sending a signal to your brain that you are eating. As a result, the same enzymes and acids that are activated when you chew gum are released. The problem is that there is no food actually being ingested. This can lead to an overproduction of stomach acid and bloating. It can also make it harder for your body to produce sufficient digestive secretions when you do actually eat food.
Finally, there is no proof that the ingredients in PureTrim Gum are effective at aiding in weight loss. It is hard to imagine this product benefiting anyone who wants to lose weight.
Tagged as: appetite suppressant
{ 0 comments… add one now }
Cancel reply
Leave a Comment
Name *
E-mail *
Website
Previous post: Best Life Diet Review
Next post: Personality Type Diet Review
Browse By Category
Calorie Controlled Diets
Low Carb Diets
Low-Fat Diets
Low GI Diets
Healthy Lifestyle Diets
Health Related Diets
Meal Delivery Diets
Meal Replacement Diets
Diets for Children
Diet Pill Reviews
Diet Supplements Reviews
Diet Book Reviews
Diet Products Reviews
Browse By Diet
Weight Loss Diets
Atkins Diets
Vegetarian Diets
Vegan Diets
Detox Diets Reviews
Elimination Diets
Raw Food Diets
Fad Diets
Online Diets Reviews
Search By Keyword
Search for:
New Reviews
Success Chemistry Keto Core Review
Advanced Strength Forskolin Weight Loss Review
Lipofuze Review
Weight-Quash Formula Review
Nordic Diet Review
New Comments
Suzy on PGX Review
dirk on Israeli Army Diet Review
dirk on Israeli Army Diet Review
dirk on Israeli Army Diet Review
Patty on The 17 Day Diet Review
Get smart with the Thesis WordPress Theme from DIYthemes.