Apparently You Should Have Salt Lamps In Each Room Of Your House. The Reason? I Had No Idea - Fact Rider
Fact Rider
Delivers Every Facts To Your Finger Tips
Home
Ads Top
Home / Other / Apparently You Should Have Salt Lamps In Each Room Of Your House. The Reason? I Had No Idea
Apparently You Should Have Salt Lamps In Each Room Of Your House. The Reason? I Had No Idea
by Unknown about 7:39:00 AM
Facebook
Like us →
Millions of years ago the Indian landmass collided with Asia and formed the Himalayan Mountains, which have been growing ever since. The immense range is where 9 of the world’s highest peaks are found, one of which boasts the highest elevation on Earth, Mount Everest. Over a thousand miles away from Everest, in northern Pakistan, lies the foothills of the Salt Range. A shallow sea located there evaporated long ago, leaving behind tons of crystallized sea salt that’s buried deep below the mineral rich mountains. This is where most of the Himalayan pink sea salt is found and mined.
The salt mines have been open and active for hundreds of years, but the immense health benefits of Himalayan salt have only recently been widely recognized. The natural underground formation of the beds led to over 84 trace minerals being added to the salt including calcium, copper, sulfates, zinc, magnesium, iron and more, making it the most mineral dense type of salt in the world.
There are a number of excellent health benefits that Himalayan salt offers and you need not eat it to get all of them. Lamps made from the salt can do wonders for your health and home thanks to their natural air cleaning ability. The salt lamps generate and give off negative ions which are oxygen ions that have an extra electron attached to them. They are found in nature near rivers, waterfalls, and other bodies of fresh flowing water. It’s believed that when we breathe them in they react with our bodies and produce positive effects. When people report feeling happier, clearer, and more refreshed around these water sources, it’s generally attributed to the negative ions they are taking in. Think about and imagine the fresh air that comes after a thunderstorm, that air feels so good because it contains vast amounts of negative ions.
Another effect that negative ions have on our surroundings is that they can bond together with positive ions and thus neutralize them. Positive ions do not have a positive effect on our bodies. They are what TVs, microwaves, and other electronic devices create and put off and can be harmful to us. Some people are affected more than others and may experience headaches, stress, allergies, and sleep issues from them. Placing a salt lamp in your home greatly reduces the presence of positive ions in the air, while simultaneously increasing the amount of negative ions. Thus, they cut down on the harmful silent effects electronics have on us, which are often overlooked. The lamps are an easy way to make your environment and the air you breathe cleaner. The following health benefits are what people report experiencing soon after using salt lamps, they include help with:
~ skin conditions
~ headaches, migraines
~ stress and stress-related disorders
~ insomnia
~ allergies and sinus issues
~ arthritis and rheumatism
~ respiratory problems and asthma
~ colds
~ increased circulation
The lamps leave your mind, body, and health all better off and all you have to do is switch a light on. To truly harness the healing power of salt lamps they should be placed all throughout the home and especially near electronic devices. While one single lamp will have a positive effect, it won’t be strong enough to impact your health, so make sure to use several. Also, eating pink Himalayan sea salt is even more beneficial to your body than regular table salt, but that’s a whole other story.
Check out the video for more information and try out a few Himalayan salt lamps if you haven’t already done so yet!
Credits: Sun-Gazing
Thanks For reading....
Please Share This With Family and Friends!
<<< Like our Facebook Page >>>
Thanks For Reading
Share This Post With Your Friend and Family...
~--Please Like us on Facebook--~
Like us →
Apparently You Should Have Salt Lamps In Each Room Of Your House. The Reason? I Had No Idea Reviewed by Unknown on 7:39:00 AM Rating: 5
Tags Other
Facebook
Newsletter
Want more stuff like this?
Get the best viral stories straight into your inbox!
Email address:
Don't worry we don't spam
Other
No comments
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Facebook
Fact Rider
Labels
beauty
breaking news
featured
health
Other
Relationship
science
spirituality
Popular Posts
THE DARK SIDE OF BEING AN EMPATH THAT IS RARELY SPOKEN OF
Empaths are typically known as the healers of the world. They’re the people whose senses are heightened—the ones that not only see the ...
11 Signs to Look for When Having a Sex with a Narcissist
Sex is an important part of a relationship, and in a healthy relationship, it helps us to connect with our lover on an intimate level. ...
Only 10 percent of People Have this Line, and this is what it Means if you Have it
Most people have two major transverse lines in the upper half of the palm. In Palmistry and Hand Analysis these are called the Heart Li...
See Where You’re Getting Fat The Most & We Will Tell You How To Fix It
The scientists have acknowledged 6 different obesity types that are based on factors which are causing them, and solution to every single o...
Surya Namaskar Benefits: Top 12 Postures with Instructions
Morning is the right time to practice Surya Namaskar as the early morning sunrays are rich source of Vitamin D which is required for st...
8 Problems Only Old Souls Will Understand
Being an old soul isn’t always easy. They are often labeled as boring or weird, and they go through life with the constant feeling that...
QUIZ: Can You Actually See As Well As You Think You Can? - Eye Test
What you perceive through your vision, can say a great deal in regards to who you are and the kinds of skills you have as you navigate the ...
Things Your Narcissist Ex Will Do Post-Breakup That Prove You Were Right To End it
It’s safe to say when you began this relationship, you had no idea that your SO was a narcissist. Narcissists are irresistibly char...
This is How unborn child receive food while in the womb?
A baby gets all of his food, as well as his oxygen and water, from its mother’s bloodstream. The baby’s waste products (like C02) are d...
Do You Know the Differences between a Heart Attack, Cardiac Arrest and Stroke
Most people are using these 3 terms interchangeably, “heart attack”, “cardiac arrest” and “stroke. Well that’s a mistake, since though ...
Created By Themexpose
Back To Top
Powered by Blogger.