Buy Halal Fish Oil (1000mg) with Omega 3 (300mg) with Fish Gelati
Home
Who We Are
Shipping & Returns
Contact Us
(404) 585 - 8177
Sign in or Register
0 Cart
Search
Advanced Search | Search Tips
Categories
Qur'an & Tafsir
Mushaf (Qur'an Kareem)
Mushaf Uthmani
Uthmani - Color Coded Tajweed
Mushaf Pakistani
Pakistani - Color Coded Tajweed
Individual Para, Panj Para & Sets
Qur'an with Translation
English Translation
Urdu Tarjuma (Meaning)
Meaning in Other Languages
Beyaz Wala (Write Your Notes)
Qur'an with Roman Transliteration
Qur'an Word for Word Translation
Word-for-Word English Translation
Word-for-Word Urdu Meaning
Word-for-Word Para & Sets
Qur'anic Tafsir & Understanding
Qur'an & Arabic Learning
Noorani Qaidah
Language of the Quran
Tajweed Learning
Qur'anic Knowledge
Manzil, PanjSurah, Yasin, etc.
Bold Letter Qur'an (Weak Eyesight)
Recitation & Multimedia
Hadith & Fiqh
Ilm-ul-Hadith (Knowledge of Hadith)
Hadith & Sunnah Books
Fiqh (Islamic Law)
Seerah of Prophet
Life of the Prophet
Family of the Prophet
Medicine & Miracles of the Prophet
Way of the Prophet
Du'a & Ibadaat (Worship)
Supplication (Du'a) Books
Supplication (Du'a) Cards
Asma-ul-Husna (Beautiful Names)
Salat (Prayer)
Fasting, Ramadan & Zakat
Hajj & 'Umrah
Tazkiyah, Tasawuf & Spirituality
History & Biography
Companions of the Prophet
Stories of the Prophets
Islamic History
Muslim Scholars & Heroes
Stories from the History
Biography
Women & Family
Marriage & Family Life
Parenting in Islam
Great Women of Islam
Women's Rights
Muslim Baby Names
Health & Recipes
Islam and Women
Children & Teens Books
Islam for Children
Quran for Children
Hadith for Children
Learning about Islam
Prayer & Supplication
Morals and Manners
History & Biography
Seerah for Children
Prophet's Family
Prophet's Companions
Stories From Islamic History
General History
Stories from the Quran
Islamic Fiction
Enrichment Books
Teens' Books
Books for Ages 0-5
Board Books
Young Readers
Islamic School Curriculum
Islamic Studies
Quranic Studies
Seerah Books
Hadith Studies
Arabic Studies
Teacher's Resources
Miscellaneous
Languages
Learn Arabic
Learn Urdu
Fun, Games and Toys
Activity, Coloring & Sticker Books
Stickers & Badges
Islamic Board Games
Learning Card Games
Islamic Puzzles
Toys
Decoration
Gift Ideas for Children
Multimedia & DVDs
Educational Poster
Dawah & Outreach
Qur'an & Dawah Material
Qualities of Da'ee (The Caller)
New & Non-Muslims
Stories of Reverts
Status of Women in Islam
Comparative Religions
General Books
Belief & Aqeedah (Creed)
Personality Development
Islamic Character
Islam as Deen
Selected Reading
Basic Reading (SW)
Advanced Reading (SW)
Selected Reading (SW)
Signs of The Last Hour
Unseen & Hereafter
Islamic Knowledge
Islamic Economics
Islam & Science
Languages & Dictionaries
Miscellaneous
Distributable (Sadqa Jariyah)
Posters
Urdu Adab (Literature)
Novel Aur Afsana
Safar Nama
Tanz o Mazaah
Tareekhi Novel
Shaa'ery (Poetry)
Miscellaneous
Gift Items
Gift of Quran
Coffee Table Books
Gift for Loved Ones
Greeting Cards
Other Gifts
Dates, Vitamin, Blackseed
Dates from Madinah
Halal Vitamins
Blackseed Oil & Suppliments
Islamic Clothing
WEB SITE STATUS
Total Uploaded: 438
More to Upload: 4782
Deal Of The Week
Revive Your Heart - Putting Life in Perspective
Kitab House - Products Dates, Vitamin, Blackseed / Halal Vitamins
Halal Fish Oil (1000mg) with Omega 3 (300mg) with Fish Gelatin
Certified Halal Vitamins, 120 Soft Gels
SKU:
KHA12
Publisher:
Madina Vitamins
Suitable age:
Dimensions:
3" x 5" x 3"
ISBN:
091037788382
Weight:
0.52 LBs
Gift Wrapping:
List price
$ 23.99
Web Special
$ 19.98
16.7% Off
Sign in or Create an account for add to cart
Quantity
Price
Product Description
Our Halal Omega 3 Fish Oil with Fish Gelatin contains both Docosahexaenoic Acid (DHA) and Eicosapentaenoic Acid (EPA). Omega-3 fatty acids are very important in preventing and managing heart disease. Halal Omega 3 Fish Oil can help to reduce heart disease, supports healthy mood, and may help with joint health.
Extensive research indicates that Halal Omega 3 Fish Oil fats reduce inflammation, helping to prevent inflammatory diseases like heart disease and arthritis. In addition to warding off inflammation, halal Omega 3 Fish Oil is also essential to the brain, impacting behavior and cognitive function, and are especially necessary during fetal development.
Key Features & Benifits
1000mg Halal Fish Oil
300mg Halal Omega 3
Halal Omega 3 with Fish Gelatin
Lowers Blood Pressure
Reduces the Likelihood of Strokes
Supports Healthy Mood
Supports Heart Health
120 Softgels Per Bottle
2 Months Supply
100% certified halal and guaranteed to follow ISA (Islamic Services of America) guidelines
According to the University of Maryland Medical Center (UMM), Halal Omega 3 Fish Oil may also improve artery health by helping to reduce plaque buildup and blood clots in arteries that lead to the brain. It improves cholesterol by lowering triglycerides and elevating HDL (good cholesterol) levels. These benefits come primarily from DHA and EPA. It helps improve joint health by reducing joint tenderness and stiffness associated with arthritis and osteoarthritis.
Halal Omega 3 Fish Oil improve bone health by positively impacting the body’s calcium levels, reducing the incidence of bone loss. Also improve mental health by helping to insulate nerve cells in the brain, allowing these nerve cells to better communicate with one another. People who are deficient in Omega-3’s may suffer from depression, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, eating disorders, and ADHD. Improve skin health by helping to alleviate symptoms related to skin disorders like acne and psoriasis. Improve bowel health by reducing inflammation of the bowels, helping alleviate symptoms of Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis. Improve lung health by reducing inflammation in diseases like asthma. Halal Omega 3 Fish Oil improve menstrual health by reducing the pain associated with PMS and menstruation. Help prevent cancer. Colon, breast, and prostate cancers have all been correlated with low intakes of Omega-3’s.
Recommended Intake
2 Softgels a day preferably with meal as a dietary supplement.
Top 7 Reasons Why You Need Omega 3 Fish Oil
Lets talk about Omega 3 Fish Oil. If you want health, hygiene and a long life you must consume every nutrient and food item available to you without being annoyed. No matter how much you hate some dish, your body always requires you to eat it for your own good. Sticking just with the flavored or flavorless oil not only creates monotony, but health issues as well. You must consume and incorporate saturated fatty acids and omega 3 in your diet for an energetic living. That is called balanced diet where you eat everything and supply your body with every nutrient and fat possible. Fish Oil, fish oil supplements, omega 3 fatty acids are visionary and beneficial for your health. Following are the top 7 reasons why you need fish oil and its supplements in your diet.
Omega 3 Fish Oil are essentially healthy for pregnant ladies. It not only helps them gain strength, but also nurtures the fetus. It promotes the brain development of the fetus normal than usual babies. When the woman goes into labor the process is eased up and natural delivery is brought about.
It reduces joint pains in people facing the strong agony in the knees and other body parts. Joint health is made good, especially for those who have arthritis or have complaints of rheumatoid arthritis. Aching joints are an issue with elderly people and also in pregnant females, so they are advised to incorporate fish oil in their diet.
Omega 3 Fish Oil is an immunity booster. Its power pack food source that when consumed in sickness and ailment results in quick and healthy recovery. Fish oil strengthens your bones and your immunity is improved as a result.
Fish oil or the omegas 3 are good for healing purposes. When you have got an injury or you are under the effect of surgery, doctors advise you to take fish oil as it quickens your repair. Nerve cells and other cells in your body are repaired quickly and tissues are healed rapidly.
Not many a man knows this, but fish oil has another interesting feature which tells us that incorporation of omega 3 and fish oil in our diet prevents memory loss. When we grow older there is quite a chance that we might become a victim of short or long term memory loss. If you want to prevent that from happening, you must take fish oil supplements in your diet.
It improves your intelligence. I believe most of us need to have this because common sense is not common in common people. Jokes apart, but yes, your mind and neurological state is strengthened by the use of Omega 3 Fish Oil.
For all the beauty conscious ladies out there, you have good news. Omega 3 Fish Oil clears your skin. It’s a great skin care product that most ladies would want. It helps in fighting acne and leaves your skin healthier, shinier and more beautiful. So do use more of this product.
Our Halal Omega 3 Fish Oil with Fish Gelatin contains both Docosahexaenoic Acid (DHA) and Eicosapentaenoic Acid (EPA). Omega-3 fatty acids are very important in preventing and managing heart disease. Halal Omega 3 Fish Oil can help to reduce heart disease, supports healthy mood, and may help with joint health.
Extensive research indicates that Halal Omega 3 Fish Oil fats reduce inflammation, helping to prevent inflammatory diseases like heart disease and arthritis. In addition to warding off inflammation, halal Omega 3 Fish Oil is also essential to the brain, impacting behavior and cognitive function, and are especially necessary during fetal development.
Key Features & Benifits
1000mg Halal Fish Oil
300mg Halal Omega 3
Halal Omega 3 with Fish Gelatin
Lowers Blood Pressure
Reduces the Likelihood of Strokes
Supports Healthy Mood
Supports Heart Health
120 Softgels Per Bottle
2 Months Supply
100% certified halal and guaranteed to follow ISA (Islamic Services of America) guidelines
According to the University of Maryland Medical Center (UMM), Halal Omega 3 Fish Oil may also improve artery health by helping to reduce plaque buildup and blood clots in arteries that lead to the brain. It improves cholesterol by lowering triglycerides and elevating HDL (good cholesterol) levels. These benefits come primarily from DHA and EPA. It helps improve joint health by reducing joint tenderness and stiffness associated with arthritis and osteoarthritis.
Halal Omega 3 Fish Oil improve bone health by positively impacting the body’s calcium levels, reducing the incidence of bone loss. Also improve mental health by helping to insulate nerve cells in the brain, allowing these nerve cells to better communicate with one another. People who are deficient in Omega-3’s may suffer from depression, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, eating disorders, and ADHD. Improve skin health by helping to alleviate symptoms related to skin disorders like acne and psoriasis. Improve bowel health by reducing inflammation of the bowels, helping alleviate symptoms of Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis. Improve lung health by reducing inflammation in diseases like asthma. Halal Omega 3 Fish Oil improve menstrual health by reducing the pain associated with PMS and menstruation. Help prevent cancer. Colon, breast, and prostate cancers have all been correlated with low intakes of Omega-3’s.
Recommended Intake
2 Softgels a day preferably with meal as a dietary supplement.
Top 7 Reasons Why You Need Omega 3 Fish Oil
Lets talk about Omega 3 Fish Oil. If you want health, hygiene and a long life you must consume every nutrient and food item available to you without being annoyed. No matter how much you hate some dish, your body always requires you to eat it for your own good. Sticking just with the flavored or flavorless oil not only creates monotony, but health issues as well. You must consume and incorporate saturated fatty acids and omega 3 in your diet for an energetic living. That is called balanced diet where you eat everything and supply your body with every nutrient and fat possible. Fish Oil, fish oil supplements, omega 3 fatty acids are visionary and beneficial for your health. Following are the top 7 reasons why you need fish oil and its supplements in your diet.
Omega 3 Fish Oil are essentially healthy for pregnant ladies. It not only helps them gain strength, but also nurtures the fetus. It promotes the brain development of the fetus normal than usual babies. When the woman goes into labor the process is eased up and natural delivery is brought about.
It reduces joint pains in people facing the strong agony in the knees and other body parts. Joint health is made good, especially for those who have arthritis or have complaints of rheumatoid arthritis. Aching joints are an issue with elderly people and also in pregnant females, so they are advised to incorporate fish oil in their diet.
Omega 3 Fish Oil is an immunity booster. Its power pack food source that when consumed in sickness and ailment results in quick and healthy recovery. Fish oil strengthens your bones and your immunity is improved as a result.
Fish oil or the omegas 3 are good for healing purposes. When you have got an injury or you are under the effect of surgery, doctors advise you to take fish oil as it quickens your repair. Nerve cells and other cells in your body are repaired quickly and tissues are healed rapidly.
Not many a man knows this, but fish oil has another interesting feature which tells us that incorporation of omega 3 and fish oil in our diet prevents memory loss. When we grow older there is quite a chance that we might become a victim of short or long term memory loss. If you want to prevent that from happening, you must take fish oil supplements in your diet.
It improves your intelligence. I believe most of us need to have this because common sense is not common in common people. Jokes apart, but yes, your mind and neurological state is strengthened by the use of Omega 3 Fish Oil.
For all the beauty conscious ladies out there, you have good news. Omega 3 Fish Oil clears your skin. It’s a great skin care product that most ladies would want. It helps in fighting acne and leaves your skin healthier, shinier and more beautiful. So do use more of this product.
RELATED PRODUCTS
Halal Children’s Gummies Multi-Vitamins
Halal Children’s Chewable Multi-Vitamins (Fruit Flavors)
Halal Multi-Vitamins & Minerals for Women with Iron
Halal Multi-Vitamins & Minerals for Men without Iron
Halal Vitamin D3 - 5000 IU Soft Gels
Halal Vitamin D3 - 2000 IU Tablets
Halal Calcium 600mg with Vitamin D 400 IU
Halal B-Complex with vitamin C
Halal Diabetic Support Formula Veggie Capsules
Halal Prenatal Vitamins with Biotin & Folic Acid
Halal Vitamin B-12 1000 mcg
All prices are in USD. Copyright 2014 Kitab House. Sitemap | Powered by Internet Shopping Cart