Ultrasound Safety During Pregnancy : Integrative Obstetrics: Collaborative OB-GYNs and Midwives
Menu
About
About Us
Our Doctors
Our Midwife
Our Doulas
Careers
Services
Obstetrics
High Risk Pregnancy
Gynecology
Midwife
Maternal Fetal Medicine
VBAC
Fertility
C-Section
View More Services
For Patients
Blog
Recommended Products
Shakelee
Hackensack UMC
Patient Portal
Additional Services
C/S Reduction
Prenatal Nutrition
Integrative Gynecological Care
Natural Hospital Birth
Successful VBAC
Optimal Fetal Positioning
Natural Family Planning
Twins and Multiple Pregnancies
Pre-Conception Counseling
Midwifery Model of Care
Later Childbearing
External Cephalic Version
Billing Practices
Testimonials
More Testimonials
Contact
Hackensack
Hoboken
Jersey City
Request Appointment
Ultrasound Safety During Pregnancy
by New Jersey Midwifery
on Jun 2nd, 2016
Integrative Obstetrics Blog Ultrasound Safety During Pregnancy
Tweet
We have had a number of patients concerned about the safety of ultrasound for their baby. So, we went to the source to get some clear answers for our patients so they can rest assured there is no harm to their babies. The American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists have the following guidelines for ultrasound during pregnancy. It is a perfectly safe way to monitor mom and baby!
The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists’ Committee on Obstetric Practice makes the following recommendations regarding diagnostic imaging procedures during pregnancy and lactation:
Ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are not associated with risk and are the imaging techniques of choice for the pregnant patient, but they should be used prudently and only when use is expected to answer a relevant clinical question or otherwise provide medical benefit to the patient.
With few exceptions, radiation exposure through radiography, computed tomography (CT) scan, or nuclear medicine imaging techniques is at a dose much lower than the exposure associated with fetal harm. If these techniques are necessary in addition to ultrasonography or MRI or are more readily available for the diagnosis in question, they should not be withheld from a pregnant patient.
Ask your ultrasound technician about the ALARA principle. This is a technique where the acoustic output levels are As Low As Reasonably Achievable. ACOG also notes that there have been no reports of documented adverse fetal effects for diagnostic ultrasonography procedures, including duplex Doppler imaging.
Author New Jersey Midwifery
You Might Also Enjoy...
Tips for New Parents on How to Survive Your First Year
Congratulations - you’re a new parent! Having a tiny new human in the house will no doubt change everything about how your household operates. Life with baby will usher in a whole new set of responsibilities that include feeding the baby, changing the baby
Help Your Whole Family Get a Better Night’s Sleep
Sleep deprivation is a huge health concern. Operating without enough of it can be as detrimental to your performance as drugs or alcohol. In the short term, it causes irritability, anxiety, and cognitive impairment.
The Ultimate Guide to Exercise During Pregnancy
As you see the numbers on the scale creep up every week and your energy levels start to lower, the last thing you may feel like doing when you’re pregnant is exercising. But it’s exactly what you should be doing.
New Research Helps Diagnose Skin Problems in Pregnancy
There are many physical changes that occur during pregnancy that medical professionals and researchers are always trying to learn more about.
You Are Pregnant, Now What?
Congratulations – you are pregnant! Now what? Your mind is probably juggling many thoughts and questions, but don’t panic, this is a beautiful miracle and you have plenty of time before the little bundle arrives.
Babies Can See Face Features While in the Womb
While pregnant, you can’t help but wonder what your baby is up to. Researchers alike have been wondering the same thing and trying to fill in the gaps in our knowledge of what babies feel, taste, hear and see in the womb.
Ask us
Feel free to email us regarding any scheduling or general questions!
Name
Email Address
Phone Number
Question or comments
I understand and agree that any information submitted will be forwarded to our office by email and not via a secure messaging system. This form should not be used to transmit private health information, and we disclaim all warranties with respect to the privacy and confidentiality of any information submitted through this form.
Submit
Follow Us
Hours
Monday 8:00 am - 7:00 pm Tuesday 10:00 am - 2:00 pm Wednesday 7:00 am - 5:00 pm Thursday 9:00 am - 5:00 pm Friday 9:00 am - 5:00 pm Saturday Closed Sunday 8:00 am - 1:00 pm
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
Integrative Obstetrics, Jersey City, NJ
Phone (appointments): 201-691-8664 | Phone (general inquiries): 201-691-8664
Address: 21 McWilliams Place, Jersey City, NJ 07302
4.95/5
(88 reviews)
×