No link between vaccinations and autism: review
Trusted by 250,000+ buyers, sourcing equipment from 100's of medical brands
Get a free listing
Toggle navigation
Read Articles
Find Suppliers
Accident & Emergency Care
Aged Care & Disability
Anaesthesia, ICU & Respiratory Care
Cardiology & Cardiac Surgery
Dental & Orthodontics
Diagnostic Medical Imaging
Disinfection & Sterilisation
ENT & Audiology
Examination Tables & Chairs
Gynaecology & Obstetrics
Hospital Equipment & Supplies
Laboratory & Pathology
Medical Devices & Products
Medical Fridges & Freezers
Medical Waste Management
Ophthalmology & Optometry
Orthopaedics & Podiatry
Paediatrics & Neonatology
Physiotherapy & Rehabilitation
Surgical Equipment & Supplies
Wheelchairs & Mobility Aids
Popular: 3-Section Treatment Tables Air Mattresses Podiatry Chairs
Add My Business
BACK Main Directory > Pharmaceuticals & Medicines
No link between vaccinations and autism: review
20 May, 2014
Share
"There has been enormous debate regarding the possibility of a link between … childhood vaccinations and the supposed development of autism."
The first systematic international review of childhood vaccinations has found no evidence of a link to the development of autism or autism spectrum disorders (ASDs), according to researchers from the University of Sydney.
The comprehensive review, published in medical journal Vaccine, examined five cohort studies involving more than 1.25 million children, an additional five case-control studies involving more than 9920 children obtained via systematic searches of international medical databases MEDLINE, PubMed, EBASE and Google Scholar up to April 2014.
Both the cohort and case-control studies revealed no statistical data to support a relationship between childhood vaccination for the commonly-used vaccines for measles, mumps, rubella, diphtheria, tetanus and whooping cough and the development of autism or ASDs.
Paper senior author Associate Professor Guy Eslick from the Sydney Medical School said these vaccines were the ones which had received the most attention by anti-vaccination groups.
"There has been enormous debate regarding the possibility of a link between these commonly-used and safe childhood vaccinations and the supposed development of autism," Associate Professor Eslick said.
"A rising awareness of autism cases and the claimed – but not proven – link to childhood vaccinations has led to both an increased distrust in the trade between vaccine benefit outweighing potential risks and an opportunity for disease resurgence."
Fear in the community
Eslick continued: "This has in recent times become a major public health issue with vaccine-preventable diseases rapidly increasing in the community due to the fear of a 'link' between vaccinations and autism.
"This is especially concerning given the fact that there have been 11 measles outbreaks in the US since 2000, and NSW also saw a spike in measles infections from early 2012 to late 2012.
"Vaccine-preventable diseases clearly still hold a presence in modern day society, and the decision to opt out of vaccination schedules needed to be urgently and properly evaluated."
No link found
Associate Professor Eslick said to date there had been no quantitative data analysis of any relationship between autism, autism spectrum disorders and childhood vaccinations.
"Our review is the first to do so, and we found no statistical evidence to support this idea," he said.
"Our extensive international review found childhood vaccinations including measles, mumps, rubella, diphtheria, tetanus and whooping cough are not associated with the development of autism or an autism-spectrum disorder.
"Furthermore, our review found the components of the widely-used vaccines (thimerosal or mercury), nor the measles, mumps and rubella combination vaccines (MMR) are not associated with the development of autism or an autism-spectrum disorder.
"The increase in parents deciding not to vaccinate their children has substantially decreased 'herd immunity' among populations, subsequently increasing the risk of catching potentially more serious infectious diseases.
"Thus the risks incurred by not immunising a child is increasing substantially as the level of immunisation coverage in the population falls.
"The data consistently shows the lack of evidence for an association between autism, autism spectrum disorders and childhood vaccinations, regardless of whether the intervention was through combination vaccines (MMR) or one of its components, providing no reason to avoid immunisation on these grounds."
Have Your Say Comments: 1
Get our Newsletter
Read more articles
Have your say...
We welcome thoughtful comments from readers
Comment Guidelines
The approval of your comment is at the discretion of this article's publisher. Write your comment with the following in mind to ensure the highest likelihood of it being approved:
- No promotional undertones
- No use of profanity
- Good spelling, grammar and layout
- Check punctuation, language and missing words
- No use of aggression
- No unsubstantiated claims
We reserve the right to remove comments at our discretion.
Your name is used alongside Comments.
Password
Email address
Type the characters you see in this box. This helps us prevent automated programs from sending spam.
Post your comment
Terri Goodwin | Thursday, May 22, 2014, 3:03 PM
And yet the anti-vaccination campaigners are still proclaiming that the research is biased and does not demonstrate anything conclusive. Unfortunately I do not believe that they will ever concede that they could in fact have made an error of judgment and placed not only their own children but millions of others at risk by refusing to vaccinate.
People also visited
Hearing Aids & Devices
Tens Machines & Units
Wobble & Rocker Balance Boards
ENT & Audiology
Physiotherapy & Rehabilitation
"There has been enormous debate regarding the possibility of a link between … childhood vaccinations and the supposed development of autism."
Share
Send this article
×
Contact Supplier