Getting Pregnant While Breastfeeding
The Pregnancy Show
Week by Week
Sex and Pregnancy
Weight Gain
Fertility
In the News
Exercise & Nutrition
Featured Videos
Infertility
Getting Pregnant
Pregnancy
Teen Pregnancy
Fetal Development
Pregnancy Complications
Pregnancy Exercise
Health and Beauty
Baby Showers
Labor and Birth
Breastfeeding
Parenting
Baby Care
Baby Development
Toddler Care
Child Nutrition
Celebrity Babies
From Mom2Mom
Getting Pregnant While Breastfeeding
Some new mothers wonder if they can get pregnant while breastfeeding. The same hormones that make milk also suppress the release of reproductive hormones. Most women who breastfeed full time don't get their periods. For this reason, lactation consultants have developed the LAM method. Under LAM guidelines, you are less than 2% likely to get pregnant. This is better birth control than many prescribed contraceptives on the market.
These are the guidelines:
You have no menstrual periods
Your baby is less than six months old
You are breastfeeding approximately every two hours
Remember that LAM will no longer be effective once your period returns, or if you supplement the infant's milk supply with a bottle.
Safe Medications While Breastfeeding
If you’re taking medications while breastfeeding here are ... Nipple Vasospasms
If you’re breastfeeding and suffer from painful stabbing ...
Getting Pregnant While Breastfeeding
Some new mothers wonder if they can get pregnant while ... Flat or Inverted Nipples
Many women have flat or inverted nipples. This can often ...
Clogged Milk Ducts
Sometimes while you breastfeed your milk ducts can get ... Breastfeeding Positions
The most important part of breastfeeding is getting the baby ...
Breastfeeding and Your Diet
During the time you breastfeed it’s important to continue to ... Breastfeeding and Taking Medicine
If you’re breastfeeding and taking medications be very ...
Breast Infection
Breast infection, also known as mastititis can occur when ... Hyperlactation
Some mothers have hyperlactation meaning an overabundance of ...
1 2 3 ... 4 Next>>
Breastfeeding in Public
Best Breastfeeding Clothes
Breastfeeding Tips
Diet and Breastfeeding
Benefits of Breastfeeding
Breastfeeding and Medicine
Breastfeeding Twins
Breastfeeding Positions
Weaning Your Baby
Pumping Your Breast Milk
All About Colostrum
Bottle-feeding
Can I Get Pregnant While Breastfeeding?
Breastfeeding and Sex
Getting Your Baby to Latch On
Breastfeeing
Labor Questions
Cesarean Section
Twins and Multiple Birth
Back to Work Issues
Infant Care
About Us | Contact Us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Suggest a Resource
Copyright 2019© thepregnancyshow.com.
All rights reserved.