The Health Benefits of Ginger | Natural Balance Foods
Please enable Javascript for a better experience on this site.
Natural Balance Foods
We use cookies to help improve your experience on our site. By continuing, we'll assume you are happy to receive all cookies from our website. Visit our Cookie Policy page for more information on the cookies we use and how to manage or remove them.
X
Menu
Nakd
Trek
About Us
Blog
Recipes
PLEASE NOTE WE CLOSED OUR WEBSHOP ON 25TH MARCH. CHECK OUT EATNAKD.COM AND EATTREK.COM
Blog
Healthy Living
Dietary Needs
Fitness Tips
Nakd People
Causes We Believe In
Our products
Nakd Bars
Nakd Protein Crunch Bars
Nakd Infused Raisins
NEW Nakd Breakfast Bars
Nakd Nibbles
Nakd Posh Bits
TREK Protein Energy Chunks
TREK Protein Energy Bars
TREK Protein Flapjacks
Accessories
Facebook
Twitter
Spring Greens 💚 Our bars are here to satisfy your every craving 😊 Lovely photo from @veganafuk 📷 https://t.co/qmsAQsXO2v
Mon, 15 Apr 2019
The Health Benefits of Ginger
A popular ingredient in many world dishes, ginger has unmistakably aromatic and spicy flavour, adding heat and depth to many a recipe. Besides its wonderful flavours, ginger also provides us with a number of nutritional qualities. Our nutritionist, Lucy-Ann takes a look into the health benefits of ginger and explores what makes this radical root so good for you!
It's Historically Healing!
Ginger is part of the same plant family as cardamom, galangal and turmeric, where the “rhizome” or root-like stem of the plants is most commonly used. The therapeutic uses of ginger have been documented for thousands of years in traditional Indian and Chinese medicine, as well as widely adopted in the Middle East, Africa, the Caribbean and Europe too.
Now, modern-day science backs up traditional and anecdotal claims about ginger, as well as revealing more interesting findings about its powerful healing properties. This amazing spice has been found to possess broad-spectrum anti-bacterial, anti-parasitic, anti-viral and anti-inflammatory properties. Ginger also contains many types of powerful antioxidants, including gingerols, shogaols, and zingerones.
Ginger is known for its characteristic “heat”. This, along with its unique flavour is down to the presence of volatile oils. These plant oils, the “gingerols” have analgesic, sedative, and antibacterial properties, as well as exerting positive effects on gastrointestinal tract “movement” or motility.
Helping Digestion
Long used in herbal medicine as a good “digestive”, it is both a practical and very effective antidote to indigestion, bloating, stomach pain and nausea. Chewing a little fresh ginger 30 minutes prior to a meal can boost digestive capacity, as well as quell feelings of nausea, and motion sickness. According to Ayurveda (ancient Indian Medicine), ginger raises the “digestive fire”, and boosts our ability to digest food. If you find the heat too much, try adding chopped or grated ginger to a fresh mint tea, and sip this prior to, or during your meal.
Modern science has found ginger root eases morning sickness in pregnancy, as well as post-surgery nausea. Research recently published in the Journal of Clinical Oncology, also found ginger helped chemotherapy-related nausea in cancer patients. In a trial of 644 cancer patients, those who took ginger capsules before and after treatment reported significantly less nausea, than those taking a placebo.
Ginger For Pain Relief
Ginger is fast becoming noted for its ability to reduce joint inflammation, and the pain associated with arthritis. It does this by lowering levels of certain tissue hormones called prostaglandins that can induce pain and inflammation. Peer-reviewed data published in 2009 reported a significant joint-protective effect of ginger.
Now, if you suffer with migraine pain, then ginger powder may be worth a try. A trial with 100 patients, conducted in 2013 found that those taking a dose of ginger powder had just as much migraine relief as a common migraine medication – yet without the side-effects of the medication!
Another study, published in 2013, in the International Journal of Preventative Medicine found that female athletes taking 3 grams of ginger or cinnamon daily (less than a teaspoon) had a significant decrease in muscle soreness. Furthermore, the pain associated with female menstruation (known as “dysmenorrhoea”) also appears to be relieved with the help of ginger.
Research documented in the Journal of the Pakistan Medical Association, also in 2013, described a trial, whereby ginger was compared to a placebo to assess its effectiveness as a pain reliever. Seventy female students who suffered with period pain were either given ginger in capsules, or a placebo for the first 3 days of their menstrual cycle. Lo and behold, the ginger group reported less pain as well an improvement in nausea symptoms.
Blood Sugar Balance
Ginger might even help those looking to shed a few excess pounds! It appears to temporarily increase thermogenesis in the body. Thermogenesis is the metabolic process whereby the body burns stored fat to create heat. Ginger therefore has a positive “boosting” effect on the metabolic rate, increasing fat burning. As for those with blood sugar imbalances and disorders such as diabetes, ginger appears to be very effective, both preventively and therapeutically. It has positive effects on insulin release and insulin action, improving both carbohydrate and fat metabolism.
How To Use Ginger
Ginger root freezes very well, so it’s easy to keep plenty in stock. Ginger root can be chopped, sliced thinly or grated. This is by far the best form to use for teas, salad dressings or stir-fries. In addition to the root, both ginger extract and ground ginger (ginger powder) have powerful therapeutic effects.
Ginger powder has a lot of “heat” and works well for curries, or added to soups. How you use ginger therapeutically depends on what you are using it for, so seek advice from an experienced health practitioner to benefit from its full effects.
So, all in all ginger is pretty good stuff! Have a go at incorporating it into your diet and see how much better you feel for it!
We use ginger in some of our delicious Nakd range, tuck into the Nakd Ginger Bread Bar here.
Share this
Related Articles
What is Kale, and why do people love it?
Kale is another superfood that people are loving! Find out more about Kale, and some great recipe ideas here...
Read more
Top 5 Ab Exercises
Build on your abdominal strength with these top exercises, also discover the wonders that ab exercises have to offer your body beyond the fundamental 'six-pack' toning.
Read more
What is Kombucha and what are the benefits?
You may have heard about kombucha if you keep an eye on dietary trends. We dive deep on the topic in this article which investigates what the beverage is made of and the benefits it provides.
Read more
You might also like
TREK Oat Raisin Protein Flapjack - 16 Bars
Discover More
Nakd Ginger Bread - 18 Bars
Discover More
NEW Nakd Cocoa Coconut - 18 bars
Discover More
X HI THERE!
It looks like you're based in the United States
Would you like to shop from our US store?
Shop now
New to Nakd & Trek
About Us
Contact Us
FAQs
New to Nakd and Trek?
Privacy & Cookies
Sitemap
Our Products
Nakd Bars
Nakd Posh Bits
TREK Protein Energy Bars
TREK Protein Flapjacks
Nakd Oatie Bars
Nakd Protein Crunch Bars
Want to stock us?
We are always looking to stock our bars in new and exciting places, so please do get in touch with us directly.
Find out more . . .
Gleefully Made in Britain Vegetarian Society Approved Kosher We Forest
Natural Balance Foods © copyright 2019. All rights reserved.