The Six Best Foods for Healthy Eyes | Rittenhouse Eye Associates
Call Us: (215) 525-6821
Email Us: [email protected]
Facebook
Google
YouTube
Menu
Home
Lasik
Lasik Eye Surgery
TLC Laser Eye Centers
Frequently Asked Questions
Cataracts
Cataract Surgery
Frequently Asked Questions
Eye Care
Advanced Technology
Eye Examinations
Contact Lenses
Dry Eye Clinic
Eye Health
Eye Floaters
Glaucoma
Prepare for Your Visit
Optical Shop
About Us
News
Contact Us
Your body is directly affected, for better or for worse, by the foods you ingest. Every aspect of your overall health can be benefited by a healthy diet. Actually, “every” is a bit strong, as genetics play a part in your overall makeup. However, even genetic issues can be negatively affected if your diet is not supportive of a healthy lifestyle. Your eyes are no different. Genetics may play a role in your overall eye health, however, the foods you choose to ingest may be a factor to help maintain better eyesight or decrease your eye health.
Carrots Do Help your Eyes
This is not an old wives’ tale. Carrots are actually very beneficial for your eye health. The beta-carotene and vitamin A in carrots help prevent infections and numerous eye conditions that may appear on the surface of the eye. The best part is that carrots are easy to eat and are in many different dishes (even cake!).
Fish is Great for Everything, Even Eyes
The trick with fish is that the omega-3 fatty acids are the source of the health benefits for healthy eyes. This can be found in salmon most prominently. The omega-3 fatty acids help protect the back of the eye and can even help prevent dry eyes in many individuals. As with any fish, wild caught is much better than farm raised for several reasons, including having more of the good fats and less of the saturated fats found in farm raised fish.
Don’t Forget the Kale for your Eye Health
Ten years ago, kale was never even discussed as a food option. Now, it is the number one superfood. It is going to help with all your ailments and make you a better, healthier person. While this may be a little far stretched in some instances, kale is truly amazing for eye health. Kale is chock full of antioxidants and other nutrients found in so many healthy items. It’s like eating everything else on the list in one great food. The benefit is that your eyes will have a lower risk of developing age-related eye degeneration and even cataracts. Not bad for a little green veggie.
Eat the Yolk for Your Eyes
Eating egg whites may seem healthy, but the truth is the health benefits of the egg lies in the yolk. Egg yolks offer lutein and zeaxanthin. This helps reduce the risk of eye degenerative disease. The good news is, eating the yolks a few times a week may mean you can eat a little less kale for the same eye health results!
Your Eyes Love Almonds
Actually, your eyes love Vitamin E. Almonds are full of Vitamin E. Grab a handful as you walk out the door and you will get enough Vitamin E to satisfy half of the recommended daily dose. Keep this up and your eyes will be less likely to experience macular degeneration as you age. The good news is that almonds are easy to eat and travel well!
Berries
Berries, like Kale, are another super food! Berries are full of antioxidants and vitamin C. This helps increase your immune system, which help stave off infections in your eyes as well as degeneration. Enjoy a Kale and Berry salad, with a few almonds, egg yolks, and salmon, for the most eye healthy meal possible!
While eating healthy is essential to wonderful eye health, you must see your eye doctor at least once a year to make sure there are no underlying issues that are related to genetics or environment. If you are looking for an eye doctor you can trust, contact the experts at Rittenhouse Eye Associates at (215) 525-6821.
Recent Articles
The Real Meaning of “Legally Blind” November 16, 2017
Why You May Need Bifocals November 9, 2017
How to Improve Your Eye Health Naturally November 2, 2017
Article Categories
Eye Disease
Eye Health
Lasik
Make An Appointment
Fill out the form below to quickly schedule an appointment.
Order Number
Full Name *
Email *
Phone *
Service Interested In *
-- Please Select One -- LASIK Cataracts Eye Floaters Optical Shop Eye Exam Other
Available Financing
We have easy financing options available for both Lasik and Premier Cataract Treatments! Contact our office today to find out more information about these options.
Find Out More
Ready to make an appointment?
Our office is conveniently located in Rittenhouse, PA. Schedule your appointment today!
Contact Us Now
Dr. Walter P. Harris, Jr. is a Board-Certified fellow of the American Academy of Ophthalmology, and an affiliate of TLC Laser Eye Centers. He has performed thousands of eye surgery procedures in the Philadelphia area over the past decade and is the most trusted name when it comes to helping patients with their vision.
Contact Info
Rittenhouse Eye Associates
2000 Hamilton St. #306 Philadelphia, PA 19130
(215) 525-6821
[email protected]
Get Directions: Google Maps
Office Hours
Monday: 9am – 5pm
Tuesday: 9am – 5pm
Wednesday: 9am – 5pm
Thursday: 12pm – 7pm
Friday: 9am – 5pm
Contact us to find out about Saturday Appointments!
Download and fill out our New Patient Form to expedite the check in process for your first visit.
Copyright 2018 | All Rights Reserved | HIPAA Policy | Website by Omnia Creative Studio, LLC
Facebook
Google
YouTube
Menu