How long does a UTI last | Urinary Tract Infection - Tips Body
Menu
Home
About us
Contact us
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Tips Body
How long does a UTI last | Urinary Tract Infection
By Loree September 11, 2018 Health Topics
Before discussing the period for which UTI (urinary tract infection) lasts in men, women, or a child, we will discuss the basic definition of the infection known as UTI and explain what kind of infection the UTI is. UTI is also known as the urinary tract infection that can be caused by the harmful bacteria which may get in the urinary tract and infect the way. This infection does not happen and experienced by human beings, but also it may be found in the animals. In this article, we will discuss that for how long does a UTI last in male, female and a child and what can be the possible reasons and cure for this kind of infection.
Urinary tract and its parts
First of all, we will explore what a urinary tract may be comprised of and at what position this bacteria may affect your body causing you the urinary tract infection or UTI. The urinary tract is based on the following parts of a human body:
The kidneys of the body that function in generating the urination and removing the bad substances from the water in a body and making the waste as urine are the first organ of the body that is considered to be the part of the urinary tract in a human body.
The ureters are also the part of the urinary tract in a human body, and these are tubes that help and move to drain the urine to the bladder from the kidney.
The third part is the bladder of a person. The bladder is the place where urine gets stored, and upon filling up to a specific level, the person needs to get rid of the urine.
The urethra is the next part of the urinary tract, and it consists of the tube that helps in draining the urine from the filled bladder
The prostate gland is the last part of the urinary tract in men which consists of the tube surrounded by the muscles of the penis, and it helps in moving the urine out of the body through the penis in males while in female this tube is not present.
It is the urinary tract, and every part of the urinary tract may get infected by the bacteria which may cause Urinary tract infection in a human body either male or female. Even this problem may be observed in a child too. Most of the times, females have been seen infected by this kind of infection. All the parts of the urinary tract may get infected by urinary tract infection, but this is when the infection gets severe. Most of the time it may develop in either any part of the urinary tract mentioned above in its initial level. There are very rare chances that men at the age of 50 or less face this kind of infection. Men who are above 50 may get this urinary tract infection, but the symptoms are less obvious for the aged people.
On the other hand, for women, age does not matter. Young girls may also get infected with the urinary tract infection, and the symptoms of this infection in women are more obvious than in men. There are very rare chances that children may get the urinary tract infection just like men do not get this infection easily. However, some of the children may get this infection, and it can be diagnosed by the symptoms of the UTI or urinary tract infection.
How long does a UTI last and its symptoms
In men, the symptoms of the urinary tract infection include the excessive need of urination. You often need to urinate, and even if you have urinated, you feel an urgent urge to urinate again. While urinating, you may feel some pain and burning discomfort that is also a symptom of urinary tract infection. In the advanced problem of this infection, you may feel a discharge of puss from the penis that may be of a small amount and clear fluid, but the even smaller amount should not be ignored. Another symptom of this infection is the abdominal pain. You may feel fever some time with chills. Urine changes its color, and it may look yellow or reddish. With urinary tract infection, some people feel back pain, and it is due to the infection in the kidney or the prostate.
In women, the symptoms are almost the same as in men. There is also an excessive need of urination in women with the urinary tract infection. They often need to urinate, and even if they have urinated, they feel an urgent urge to urinate again while the amount of urine is very little. While urinating, they may also feel some pain and burning discomfort that is also a symptom of urinary tract infection. Women may feel fatigue while working when they have a urinary tract infection. Another symptom of this infection is the abdominal pain. You may feel fever some time with chills. Urine changes its color, and it may look yellow or reddish. With urinary tract infection, some people feel back pain, and it is due to the infection in the kidney or the prostate. They may feel pain in their bladder or the groin, and their lower abdomen hurts. They may feel a foul smell in their urine.
In children, the symptoms are a bit different. Your child may get the urinary tract infection in their kidney, or the ureters. They may get the infection in their bladder or urethra. It is commonly observed that in children, girls are more likely to have this kind of infection than the boys just like in adults. The symptoms are clear in the older kids while in smaller kids the symptoms are less obvious. Some of the symptoms are same just like the adults may feel. They also feel pain and burning discomfort while urinating. They feel pain in their back. The color of the urine changes. They may wet their bed as they lose the control over their bladder pressure. They also feel an urgent need to urinate again and again. They may also get a foul smell while peeing and a cloudy pee. They only pee a few drops and feel to urinate again. The other symptoms that a child may feel include the fever and they feel sick. They get nausea, and they start vomiting. Diarrhea is also a symptom of urinary tract infection in the children.
How long does a UTI (Urinary tract infection) last in men
After treating the urinary tract infection with the antibiotics to kill the bacteria, the discomfort or pain while urination starts fading away. After the proper treatment of the infection, it may take 24 hours for the symptoms to go away. After the 24 hours, you may feel relieved, but you should take the prescribed medicine for the given period else it may come back with all of its symptoms. Do not stop taking medicine even if you feel that the symptoms are gone. If the infection was advanced, it might take more time to get treated properly. Without treatment, the urinary tract infection may last for a longer period, and it may damage the kidneys or bladder of a person permanently if not treated on time. The urinary tract infection may get into the blood of a person if it is not taken care of. It may get fatal if the infection gets spread into the blood.
How long does a UTI (Urinary tract infection) last in women
Urinary tract infection may be treated at home by avoiding irritating diet and drinking more water. Natural supplements may also help in treating the urinary tract infection. Take some rest and have some healthy diet. It may take your seven days to get rid of urinary tract infection. While if you get the medicine from a doctor who is mostly the antibiotics that help in killing the bacteria. This treatment shows the result in 24 hours to two days, but for getting rid of this infection properly, doctors also prescribe the medicines for a week. After all the symptoms are gone, it is better to get a urine test again to check if the infection is treated properly or not.
How long does a UTI (Urinary tract infection) last in children
In children, the treatment of the antibiotics to kill the bacteria may take more time than in adults. The dosage for the kids is smaller so it may take three days to notice a change in the symptoms of the urinary tract infection. It may take up to 10 days to completely get rid of this urinary tract infection properly. Most often it may take 7 or more days to get relieved from this infection completely. Most of the kids clear up the symptoms of urinary tract infection in a week, but in some children, it may take more than a week. After waiting for three days to get the symptoms improved, if there is no improvement, you should see a doctor for your child. Your doctor may guide you well that how long does a UTI last in your child and how long it may take for medicine to improve the symptoms.
Related Posts
Where is the Heart Located in Human Body?
By Loree
Ambien Side Effects | Uses, Dosage & Warnings
By Loree
What is the pH of Water?
By Loree
How to get Rid of a Pimple in an hour Naturally
By Loree
Pain in Back of Neck and Head | Symptoms & Treatment
By Loree
About The Author
Loree
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Popular
Categories
Babies
Cancer
Health Topics
Pregnancy
Sexuality
Vitamins & Supplements
Wellness
Get more stuff
Subscribe to our mailing list and get interesting stuff and updates to your email inbox.
I consent to my submitted data being collected via this form*
Thank you for subscribing.
Something went wrong.
we respect your privacy and take protecting it seriously
Tips Body Copyright © 2019. All Rights Reserved