Surrey trading standards officers seize hundreds of illegal skin-lightening products | Surrey News
Surrey News
Latest news from Surrey County Council
Search
Search for: Go
All releases
News from 2019
News from 2018
News from 2017
News from 2016
News from 2015
News from 2014
News from 2013
News from 2012
News from 2011
Videos
Contact us
Useful links
News feeds
Children’s service improvement plan
Ofsted inspection report
surreycc.gov.uk
Demand Pressures
Surrey Matters
Subscribe to RSS
General, HP, Keeping families healthy, Surrey County Council, Trading Standards
Surrey trading standards officers seize hundreds of illegal skin-lightening products
Posted by SCC ⋅ March 29, 2017
Filed Under buckinghamshire and surrey trading standards, hydroquinone, skin creams, Steve Ruddy, surrey county council, trading standards
Trading standards officers in Surrey have seized hundreds of illegal skin-lightening products containing an ingredient linked to cancer.
They have confiscated two consignments of potentially dangerous cosmetics in the space of a few weeks after they were brought into the country from Nigeria through Heathrow Airport.
The products were seized because they contain the skin-bleaching ingredient hydroquinone which is banned in Britain and across the European Union. Cosmetics made with the chemical are thought to increase the risk of skin cancer by exposing the skin to more of the sun’s rays and are also linked to thinning and discoloration of the skin as well as liver and nerve damage.
The two consignments of cosmetics – seized earlier this year – contained a total of 385 creams, oils and soaps with brand names such as White Express, Skin Light, Clear Essence, Clinic Clear and Caro White.
The cosmetics were destined for importers in south London but trading standards officers will prevent them ever reaching consumers.
They were intercepted at Heathrow by customs officials before being sent to a trading standards inspection point in Surrey.
Steve Ruddy, head of Buckinghamshire and Surrey Trading Standards*, said: “Cosmetics like these have been banned in Britain since 2001 and yet we’re still uncovering attempts to ply a trade in them at the expense of people’s health.
“Working with border force staff, we’ll continue doing all we can to keep people safe from products such as these potentially life-threatening creams and stop them ending up in stores or being sold online in this country.”
*Surrey County Council and Buckinghamshire County Council operate a joint trading standards service.
Rate this:
Share this:
Print
Email
Tweet
More
Share on Tumblr
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
« Pavement Horizon close to covering 50 miles
Drive to make nappy sacks safer after 16 deaths »
Discussion
Comments are closed.
Social Media
View SurreyNews’s profile on Twitter
View SurreyNews’s profile on Instagram
View UCAx_Ub0p80FqlqR0W9urBdw’s profile on YouTube
Categories
Categories Select Category 3sc Caring for our environment Civic Corporate Deepcut inquest Finance Fire Flooding General HP Improving our roads Innovation Investing in our schools Keeping families healthy Libraries News News in brief Olympics Protecting vulnerable children PSTN Registration RideLondon Stregthening our economy Supporting our vulnerable adults Surrey County Council Surrey Fire and Rescue Service Tour of Britain Trading Standards Transport Waste Young people
Releases via Email
Enter your email address to receive new releases by email.
Releases by email
My Tweets
Flickr Photos
More Photos
Contact a local councillor
Contact a local councillor
Surrey News
Create a website or blog at WordPress.com
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Our Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: