UTIs in the Elderly- Can Dementia Symptoms Occur From a Urinary Tract Infection? | Uqora UTI Prevention
Products
How it Works
Our Story
Reviews
Blog
Order Now
0
Find My Solution
FAQs
Log in
Close Menu
BUY NOW
ORDER NOW
Products
How it Works
Our Story
Reviews
Blog
Order Now
0
Find My Solution
FAQs
Log in
FREE shipping and money-back guarantee
UTIs in the Elderly
Urinary tract infections increase dramatically as we age, both in frequency and severity and in both women and men. In addition to having unusual symptoms, UTIs in older adults can be recurring and dangerous, leading to hospitalizations and cycles of antibiotics.
Preventing UTIs before they start is even more important in the elderly. As we age, we should be more conscious of consuming antibiotics. If antibiotic-resistant bacteria develop, Urinary Tract Infections, as well as other infections, can be very difficult to treat and can even result in death.
UTI prevention in the elderly
It is very important that antibiotics be used sparingly in the elderly. Unfortunately, once a UTI develops, antibiotics are the only cure and form of treatment and must be used to stop the infection from spreading. More and more, doctors are becoming more careful about treating UTIs too quickly with antibiotics if symptoms do not develop. Of course, it is necessary to be on the lookout for UTI symptoms and be aware that a sudden change in behavior could be the only indicator.
Prevention is more important than ever, especially in the elderly. Below are actions that can be taken to the risk of a UTI.
Maintain good hygiene: If an individual is incontinent, frequent changing should be a habit to stay dry. If the individual is wheelchair bound, showering daily can help maintain cleanliness. Maintaining good hygiene is the simplest practice of working to avoid UTIs.
Eat healthily: Maintaining optimal immune function starts with eating a well-balanced diet that is high in protein and vitamins.
Use Uqora daily: Uqora’s preventive solution comes in two forms; Uqora Target and Uqora Control. While Target is a uti prevention drink-mix which uses a multi-layered approach to flush out bacteria, our Control is a uti prevention capsule to take daily and provide a bacterial defense before UTIs can start. Both Uqora Target and Uqora Control are natural, safe and the safest uti prevention for beloved elderly people.
UTI and dementia
There are new UTI symptoms that come up in the elderly that you would not expect. These symptoms include confusion, agitation, and a loss of balance that leads to falls. These symptoms can be hard to identify as a UTI, and can often be confused with symptoms of dementia. Unfortunately, it is not uncommon that an elderly patient is misdiagnosed with dementia while they have a UTI, and when it is treated, behavior returns to normal. Changes in mobility with a UTI can also be dangerous, as decreased balance can lead to an increase in the risk of physical injury.
If a parent or an elderly person you know is displaying dementia symptoms like confusion, irrational behavior, or agitation and have not previously been diagnosed with dementia, a urine culture may be able to tell if this is due to a UTI.
If the individual has an existing memory impairment, like Alzheimer’s or dementia, a UTI may still lead to a sudden change in behavior like increased agitation, confusion, or withdrawal. This may be particularly difficult to identify as the individual may already be withdrawn, or may have difficulty communicating.
UTI symptoms in men
UTIs are relatively uncommon in younger men, but as men age UTIs become much more common. There are certain risk factors that are unique to aging men.
Kidney or bladder stones – Blockages of the urinary tract can increase the risk for UTIs by altering the flow of urine and allowing for increased growth of bacteria. While both men and women can develop kidney/ bladder stones, they are more common in men than women. An enlarged prostate – Similarly, an enlarged prostate can push against the urethra, restricting the flow of urine. The force of urine pushing bacteria out of the urethra is one of the main defenses against colonizing bacteria.
Symptoms of UTIs in the elderly
UTIs in seniors can be difficult to identify, as they may not be accompanied by the classic symptoms of UTIs in younger adults. Symptoms like burning during urination, frequent urination, difficulty urinating, and fever may not develop early on. Due to this, these infections can go unnoticed and spread to the kidneys, which can lead to serious fever and illness, requiring hospitalization. If this goes untreated, the infection can spread to the blood and be life-threatening.
When only looking at the classic symptoms, these asymptomatic UTIs may only get noticed if a urine culture shows there are bacteria in the urine. Studies indicate that 15-20% of women over 65 and up to 50% of women aged 80 and above have bacteriuria, or bacteria in the urine, and are at very high risk of a UTI. However, it isn’t practical to constantly be testing urine cultures, and many will recommend not treating bacteriuria if there are no symptoms.
UTIs and confusion
When older adults get UTIs, their symptoms might not appear like the symptoms often associated with UTIs (frequent urination, urgency with urination, bladder pain), but instead might appear as delirium or confusion. If you notice a big change in lucidity in yourself or someone you care for, consult a physician—confusion can be a symptom of a UTI.
Prevent UTIs in the elderly with Uqora
Try Uqora—the effective way to prevent UTIs. Drink Uqora Target to flush out UTI-causing bacteria. Take Uqora Control daily to break down biofilm, which can cause recurring UTIs.
Uqora has helped SO much!
"My Mom is always getting UTIs. So, I heard the radio commercial and ordered her some - she's blown away and we now have a subscription! So much better than antibiotics and doctors visits. Life changing!!"
-Brooke B., Uqora customer
Read all reviews here
742 reviews
ORDER NOW
Preventing UTIs in Elderly People
Urinary Tract Infections increase dramatically as we age, both in frequency and severity, and in both women and men. In addition to having unusual symptoms, UTIs in older adults can be recurring and dangerous, leading to hospitalizations and cycles of antibiotics
Preventing UTIs before they start is even more important in the elderly. As we age, we should be more conscious of consuming antibiotics. If antibiotic resistant bacteria develop, Urinary Tract Infections, as well as other infections, can be very difficult to treat and can even result in death.
How to Identify a UTI in an Older Adult
UTIs in seniors can be difficult to identify, as they may not be accompanied by the classic symptoms of UTIs in younger adults. Symptoms like burning during urination, frequent urination, difficulty urinating, and fever may not develop early on. Due to this, these infections can go unnoticed and spread to the kidneys, which can lead to serious fever and illness, requiring hospitalization. If this goes untreated, the infection can spread to the blood and be life-threatening.
When only looking at the classic symptoms, these asymptomatic UTIs may only get noticed if a urine culture shows there are bacteria in the urine. Studies indicate that 15-20% of women over 65 and up to 50% of women aged 80 and above have bacteriuria, or bacteria in the urine, and are at very high risk of a UTI. However, it isn’t practical to constantly be testing urine cultures, and many will recommend not treating bacteriuria if there are no symptoms.
UTIs and Dementia?
There are new UTI symptoms that come up in the elderly that you would not expect. These symptoms include confusion, agitation, and a loss of balance that leads to falls. These symptoms can be hard to identify as a UTI, and can often be confused with symptoms of dementia. Unfortunately, it is not uncommon that an elderly patient is misdiagnosed with dementia while they have a UTI, and when it is treated, behavior returns to normal. Changes in mobility with a UTI can also be dangerous, as decreased balance can lead to an increase in risk of physical injury.
If a parent or elderly person you know is displaying dementia symptoms like confusion, irrational behavior, or agitation and have not previously been diagnosed with dementia, a urine culture may be able to tell if this is due to a UTI.
If the individual has an existing memory impairment, like Alzheimer’s or dementia, a UTI may still lead to a sudden change in behavior like increased agitation, confusion, or withdrawal. This may be particularly difficult to identify as the individual may already be withdrawn, or may have difficulty communicating. Learn more about UTIs in those with existing memory impairments here.
What causes UTIs in the elderly?
In addition to new symptoms, there are also new general causes of UTIs that are unique to aging adults, making them more common.
Incontinence – Urinary incontinence is a common problem among the elderly and may be a risk factor for UTIs. As urine leaks out of the bladder, it can provide an environment for bacteria to grow and then travel up into the urinary tract.
Hormones – In women, menopause leads to a slowed production of estrogen. Estrogen has been shown to protect the vagina and urethra from bacterial growth. As production decreases, E. coli and other bacteria may be able to more easily establish themselves.
Mobility – As we age, we may become less mobile, with many elderly and nursing home residents wheelchair bound. If an individual requires assistance to shower, this may lead to a decrease in shower frequency, leading to increased UTI risk.
What conditions are risk factors for UTIs in older adults?
If an elderly individual has a specific condition, this may lead to an increase in UTIs. Below, are some of these conditions:
Dementia – Having dementia or Alzheimer’s disease can decrease one’s ability to communicate symptoms and can also make maintaining good general hygiene more difficult as extra care is require.
Diabetes – Diabetes can decrease one’s immune system, making it more difficult to fight an infection. In addition, diabetes can lead to nerve damage. Nerve damage in the bladder can decrease bladder control and increase incontinence. If poorly managed, those with diabetes can have high amounts of sugar in the urine, which bacteria can eat to grow.
Catheter use – For various reasons, it may be necessary to have chronic or occasional catheter use in older adults. If so, this is a major risk factor for Urinary Tract Infections, as new bacteria can be introduced and bacteria can establish protective biofilms on the indwelling catheters.
Risk factors for UTIs in elderly men
UTIs are relatively uncommon in younger men, but as men age UTIs become much more common. There are certain risk factors that are unique to aging men.
Kidney or bladder stones – Blockages of the urinary tract can increase risk for UTIs by altering the flow of urine and allowing for increases growth of bacteria. While both men and women can develop kidney/ bladder stones, they are more common in men than women.
An enlarged prostate – Similarly, an enlarged prostate can push against the urethra, restricting the flow of urine. The force of urine pushing bacteria out of the urethra is one of the main defenses against colonizing bacteria.
What can I do for UTI Prevention?
It is very important that antibiotics be used sparingly in the elderly. Unfortunately, once a UTI develops, antibiotics are the only cure and form of treatment, and must be used to stop the infection from spreading. More and more, doctors are becoming more careful about treating UTIs too quickly with antibiotics if symptoms do not develop. Of course, it is necessary to be on the lookout for UTI symptoms and be aware that a sudden change in behavior could be the only indicator.
Prevention is more important than ever, especially in the elderly. Below are actions that can be taken to the risk of a UTI.
Maintain good hygiene – If an individual is incontinent, frequent changing should be a habit to stay dry. If the individual is wheelchair bound, showering daily can help maintain cleanliness. Maintaining good hygiene is the simplest practice to working to avoid UTIs.
Eat healthy – Maintaining optimal immune function starts with eating a well-balanced diet that is high in protein and vitamins.
Drink Uqora daily – Uqora’s preventive drink-mix uses a multi-layered approach to flush out bacteria before they can establish an infection, and research shows a 75% reduction in UTI incidence when taken daily. You can order Uqora here.
Why Cranberry Use is Declining
Contrary to popular belief, cranberry products have been shown to not have benefit in reducing the risk of UTIs. While they will not cause harm, and may increase hydration, the American Medical Association has recently declared cranberry juices and extracts to not have an impact on urinary tract infection prevention. With this old wives tale proven false, doctors and caretakers are quickly moving away from cranberry products.
Senior Citizens are More Prone to Infection
Seniors are more prone to UTIs than any other age group. Recognize the symptoms and learn what you can do to avoid repeat UTIs in you or your loved ones.
Preventing Urinary Tract Infections in the elderly and in nursing homes
With age comes lifetime full of laughter, dedication and hard work, and a certain confidence only attained through years of experience. Unfortunately, as we age, our body chemistry also changes and our immune system strains to give us the defense we’ve always enjoyed. As our immune system weakens, our bodies become more susceptible to infections. UTIs are no exception. Seniors are more prone to UTIs than any other age group.
Urinary tract infections (UTIs) can also be caused by certain health conditions that are more prevalent in the seniors. Diabetes, catheter usage, inability to fully empty your bladder or bowels, immobility, surgery, kidney stones, and a lack of estrogen in women who have gone through menopause all increase chances of developing UTIs.
Typical UTI symptoms like burning while urinating and frequent need to use the bathroom do not appear in seniors. According to AgingCare.com, elderly people experiencing UTIs will present different symptoms, like those often associated with memory loss:
Confusion
Loss of coordination
Dizziness
Falling more easily
Lethargy
Decreased appetite
Because these symptoms can be common among this group already, it is important to pay close attention to physical and mental wellbeing. Any sudden behavioral changes can indicate a UTI.
Good communication and careful observation are imperative because some people might not feel comfortable speaking up about symptoms of discomfort to caregivers or loved ones. Plus, misdiagnosing a UTI as a great mental health issue like dementia can exacerbate things, leaving the person more confused than before and postponing their treatment of the actual issue.
Small steps can make all of the difference in preventing UTIs:
Stay hydrated by drinking plenty of water
Keep your genital area clean by washing regularly with nonscented soap
Always wipe front to back
Wear loose, breathable cotton underwear
Change your underwear every day for a fresh clean pair, or adult pads or diapers if that is relevant
Try Uqora to flush out bacteria and provide another form of hydration
Always feel free to contact us if you'd like to learn more about how you can help an elderly person in your life prevent their next urinary tract infection, and make sure to read our reviews to see how adult children are preventing UTIs for their aging parents.
Customer Reviews
Based on 1503 reviews
Write a review
85%
(1272)
7%
(105)
3%
(48)
1%
(21)
4%
(57)
J
J.C.
LOVE!
I’ve been struggling with utis for way too long and this product is a miracle! The drink mix is so yummy and I may drink it even when I don’t need to!
J
J.C.
Product Review
Been on it for a few days. I’m hoping it’s doing what it’s supposed to do. We shall see.
M
M.
Life changing
I have been suffering from reccurant UTIs since I was a teenager, I finally broke down and saw a urologist who wanted to put me on daily antibiotics, that route just wasn’t for me. Ever since I started using Uquora I’ve had zero UTIs. This product has aided in increased libido and confidence.
D
D.G.
Amazing Product!
I have been battling UTI’s for over 10 years. I have tried hundreds of products and some helped but none of them compare to Uqora! I am 6 months UTI free!
C
C.
Working Great So Far!
I'm almost done with my first bottle of control and feel great! Haven't had any UTI symptoms since I started it! I'm a believer now!
S
S.
One month in
I guess you can say I was completely exhausted with trying this or that constantly for UTI relief. The constant pain and the constant dr visits or call in to the drs were weighing me down tremendously both mentally and physically.
It was so exhausting to be worried when the next one was going to hit . The uti would then stem to a yeast infections and or bv because of either antibiotics I had to take , or just the imbalance I was left with.
I started this last month because I wanted to try this after hearing the ads on the radio as well as suggestion from my dr. So far my first full month was very successful , I started getting a very early stage UTI right after my period(my period is a major trigger for uti’s) but that same day my uqora arrived too. I drank the target drink as well as took my control tabs and it diminished the uti ( thank goodness!). I purchased the kit with control and target but i wish I would have ordered the larger target mix packs because i ran out very quickly. I have since ordered additional target drink mixes since i find i use them often with my active lifestyle. Target is a life saver. I use this after any sexual activity as well as after the gym. My only complaint is because I use target so much ( sometimes 2 -3 times a day ) it can be a tad expensive but the relief is worth every penny so no complaints ! Thank you uqora !
V
V.P.
I love it!
So far, I’ve had no problems with UTIs on the uqora Target. And I love the pink lemonade taste!
E
E.
Disappointed
When I seen this product I became very excited and very relieved. Because I can become intimate again without the fear of a UTI. Guess what happen when I became intimate again after being celibate because of the fear. UTI happen!!!
D
D.M.
Uqora Complete Kit
B
B.B.
Great Stuff!!
Uqora has really helped with the frequency in which I have had UTIs. I was going to the doctor every time I turned around and now it seems like I’ve got it under control. I’m very pleased with your product!!!
123
Uqora
Contact Us
The Science
Take the UTI Quiz
FAQ
Subscriptions
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
We're based in
San Diego, CA
About UTIs
UTI Medicine
D-Mannose for UTIs
After Sex Wipes
Bladder Infection vs. UTI
UTIs in the Elderly
Recurrent UTIs
Sex and UTIs
UTI Prevention
UTI Symptoms
Probiotics for Vaginal Health
Probiotics for UTIs
Probiotics for Bacterial Vaginosis
Stay in touch
SUBSCRIBE
We're based in
San Diego, CA
Note: Results may vary.
These statements have not been evaluated by the FDA. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.