fish oil benefits – Healthy Living Secrets
Skip to content
Healthy Living Secrets
Nutrition, Fitness & Health Care Tips
Menu
Best Fish Oil
Fish Oil Benefits
Fish Oil Supplements
Omega 3 Fish Oil
Fish Oil Side Effects
Tag: fish oil benefits
9 Exciting Health Benefits of Fish Oil That Research Has Confirmed
Modern research throws up so many health benefits of fish oil that it has almost become imperative to seriously consider adding these precious health supplements to your diet at the earliest.
No longer are these advantages easy to ignore or overlook. Omega 3 fish oil, either in natural form or as supplements, is becoming almost as essential as vitamins and minerals!
Are you aware that the Greenland Eskimos possess a remarkably low occurrence of arthritis and heart ailments, even though their diet is high in fat?
Fact!
Researchers have discovered that this is because of the quantity of fish they consume. Scientists believe that it is essentially due to the omega-3 fatty acids contained in fish oil.
9 Health Benefits of Fish Oil
1. Healthy heart
Fish oil is a great source of omega-3 that reduces the chances of heart diseases, strokes and arrhythmias. By lowering the level of bad cholesterol and increasing the level of good cholesterol, fish oil stops the accumulation of triglycerides and also reduces existing levels of high triglycerides.
2. Improved immunity
Another fish oil benefit is it improves your immunity, making you more resilient to common diseases like cough, cold and flu. Those suffering from lupus – a disease where the immune system attacks the various tissues and organs in the body – have also been reported to find relief with the help of fish oils.
3. Anti-inflammatory properties
Fish oil is known to lower inflammation in blood and tissues.The regular consumption of fish oil supplements in the form of tablets, liquid, capsules or pills help those who are suffering from chronic painful inflammatory conditions like arthritis.
Apart from that, fish oil supplements have also been recommended for gastrointestinal disorders, short bowel syndrome and sprue.
Fish oil is an excellent source of omega 3 fatty acids which relieves pain as well as inflammation linked with conditions such as cystitis and arthritis. It even prevents prostatitis, a not uncommon disease in elderly men.
4. ANTI-Depression and anxiety
The high omega-3 fatty acid content makes fish oils a cure for sadness, depression, anxiety, fatigue, restlessness, stress, nervous disorders, suicidal tendencies as well as decreased sexual desire. A multi-national study showed that the populace in places that had a fish-rich diet was generally happier than where diets were free of fish.
Several scientific studies have shown that omega 3 fish oil supplements help alleviate psychosis, suppress bipolar behavior disorder, and cure depressive symptoms.
5. Eye disorders
Another of the important health benefits of fish oil is the positive effect on vision and eyesight. As either a formulated supplement or in its raw form, fish oil is widely regarded good for the treatment of eye disorders.
Ophthalmologists usually recommend fish oil supplements to patients with poor vision. This is because omega-3 is known to improve eyesight.
6. Skin and hair care
One of the important health benefits of fish oil is that it helps to maintain healthy skin. Dry skin often benefits from fish oil consumption. Skin conditions like psoriasis, eczema, redness, rashes and lesions can be treated by consuming fish oil or its supplements. Fish oil reduces sebum production, which results in fewer acne breakouts. It even keeps skin nicely moisturized and soft, thereby delaying the appearance of wrinkles.
Fish oil keeps your skin moisturized and free from acne and sunburn. It also helps in the faster growth of hair, making it look shiny and strong. Omega-3 fatty acids in fish oil also have anti bacterial properties. This reduces chances of skin problems like dermatitis and pimples.
7. Cancer and diabetes
Fish oil health benefits even extend to lowering the risk of cancer. Studies indicate that it helps to prevent 3 of the commonest types of cancer – prostate, breast and colon.
Scientists say that omega 3 fatty acids achieve this in 3 ways. They prevent the conversion of normal healthy cells to cancerous masses; they kill cancer cells; and they inhibit unwanted cellular growth.
Patients of diabetes who are prone to heart diseases could also benefit from the regular intake of fish oil supplements.
8. Enhanced Brain Function
There’s some evidence to suggest that nursing and expectant mothers can boost their infants’ brain development by taking fish oil supplements. For adults, too, there is an effect on brain function as omega 3 enhances focus, reasoning, memory and recall. You’ll enjoy better recall and brisk mentation, making you feel smarter and younger!
9. Helps in Treating Childhood Diseases
Fish oil has been suggested as a supplement for children who have disorders such as dyslexia, ADHD, ADD and several other compulsive disorders, with some improvement being noticed with continuous intake.
Whew!
That’s a load of health benefits of fish oil right there.
And the only cost of these serious advantages are a few side effects, including nausea, diarrhea and heartburn. It can also rarely result in bleeding or strokes, especially if there’s an overdose.
To avoid these side effects as well as enjoy the health benefits of fish oil, it is recommended that you take it in the correct dosage and select a great brand.
Of course, finding out the best form of fish oil supplement to take is the difficult part. This short, free report was designed to guide you in making this choice – read it here
Appreciating The Benefits of Fish Oil
There are many benefits of fish oil, which is what makes it one of the most frequently taken health supplements worldwide. From beauty to health, disease prevention to pain relief, enhanced longevity to improved fitness, omega 3 fish oil can have a transformational impact on your life and health.
The key is knowing which brand to choose and to take it regularly to enjoy the highest impact from this highly effective supplement.
Fish oil is not only good for your hair and skin, but it can also combat several diseases. Those who are health conscious might get worried about the term oil but fish oil is one of the healthiest supplements for your diet.
Let’s briefly recap some of these benefits of fish oil.
For a healthy heart
Fish oil is a very good supplement to protect one’s heart. Its omega-3 content reduces the chances of heart diseases as well as levels of LDL cholesterol (bad cholesterol) though it increases levels of HDL cholesterol (good cholesterol). HDL cholesterol can prevent heart strokes which is why fish oil is good for the heart.
For a slimmer body
Research studies have shown that fish oil helps to control hypertension and reduce obesity. With a healthy amount of fish consumption, weight loss diets are a lot more effective than those that leave out fish. This is one of the many benefits of fish oil.
To fight asthma
Those suffering from asthma and other respiratory problems should consume sufficient quantities of fish oil. A study revealed that those children who were put on a high-fish diet were less prone to asthma attacks than those who consumed none. Fish oil enables you to breathe easily and thus can be a solution for asthma patients.
Even curing cancer
Omega-3 fatty acid is known to prevent three of the most common cancers that affect people – colon cancer, breast cancer and prostate cancer. They prevent healthy cells from changing into cancerous masses, restrict unwanted cellular growth and cause apoptosis or death of cancer cells. So healthy amounts of omega-3 fatty acid can save your life!
For shinier hair
Enhancing the luster of your hair is among the many other benefits of fish oil. Omega-3 has properties that aid the growth of hair, prevent hair fall and make hair shinier. Since most fish have high amounts of protein, eating fish regularly helps to maintain healthy hair.
And more beautiful skin
Those who suffer from dry skin can consume fish oil for shinier and more glowing skin. Various skin conditions like psoriasis, eczema, redness, itching, lesions and rashes can be treated with fish oil.
For a happy pregnancy
The many benefits of fish oil also make it a must-have in a pregnant woman’s diet. The DHA in fish oil helps in the development of the baby’s brain and eyes. It also helps to prevent low weight at birth, premature births and miscarriages.
As you’ve seen, there are many advantages to regularly taking your fish oil supplements. The question then arises as to which formulation is the best, and which brand can give you the highest value.
The information in a free report which we have made available for you to read at no cost at all can help you make this important decision. Check it out here – click now.
Author Myntra MillerPosted on June 1, 2018 January 14, 2019 Categories Fish Oil BenefitsTags fish oil benefits, health benefits of fish oil
Omega 3 DHA Fish Oil
Hot on Healthy Living
Omega 3 Fish Oil Guide - Your Best, All Natural Solution To Health
Which Is The BEST Fish Oil Supplement & How To Choose The Right One?
9 Exciting Health Benefits of Fish Oil That Research Has Confirmed
Fish Oil Supplements – All You Need To Know
Fish Oil for Triglyceride Control
Beware These Side Effects of Fish Oil
5 Ways EPA DHA Fish Oil Will Save Your Life
How To Find The Best Fish Oil Capsules
7 Great Reasons To Buy The Best Fish Oil Tablets
Fish Oil & Email Newsletter
Click here
Interact
Follow us on Twitter.
Like us on Facebook
Join us on Google+
Subscribe RSS Feeds
Contact us
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Best Fish Oil
Fish Oil Benefits
Fish Oil Supplements
Omega 3 Fish Oil
Fish Oil Side Effects
Healthy Living Secrets Proudly powered by WordPress