The Amazing Health Benefits of Fish Oil
Home
Health And Fitness
Buying Guides
Contact
XML Sitemap
Privacy
Terms & Conditions
April 20, 2019
Confrazzled
Confused and Frazzled No More!
You are here: Home / Uncategorized / The Amazing Health Benefits of Fish Oil
The Amazing Health Benefits of Fish Oil
January 9, 2014 by Malone Jamison
Fish oil has long been thought to benefit heart health. However, fish oil provides many additional health benefits also. The omega 3 in fish oil accounts for most of its healthy benefits.
Fish oil can lower the risk of heart disease. It can lower the bad cholesterol (LDL) and increase the levels of good cholesterol (HDL). Fish oil may help with the prevention of strokes and sudden death due to a heart attack.
Since fish oil is effective in reducing inflammation in tissues and blood it may help with gastrointestinal problems and Celiac disease and may be useful for treating arthritis and lupus, asthma and kidney problems.
Omega 3 acids present in fish are said to help relieve depression, anxiety, stress and other nervous problems. Fish oil may also be helpful in the treatment of bipolar disease. In countries where fish containing omega 3 is consumed often the number of violent incidents is lower.
Fatty acids present in fish oil are said to be effective in acting as a defense against Alzheimer’s disease.
Fish oil combined with exercise has been shown to have a positive effect on weight loss.
The use of fish oil may result in improved immunity to colds, flu or coughs since it boosts the immune system.
Other benefits of fish oil may include improved treatment for acne, improved vision, improvement for skin problems such as eczema, psoriasis and rashes and can improve the growth of shiny hair.
Omega 3 fatty acids are available naturally by consuming fish such as shark, swordfish, halibut, mackerel, albacore tuna, yellow fin tuna, blue fin tuna, anchovies, salmon, sardines, lake trout, herring, sea bass, rainbow trout and oysters.
Fish oil is also available in supplements such as capsules, soft gels, tablets and liquid. It is important to consult with your health care professional to determine if fish oil is right for you and, if so, the amount you should be taking. Some people may have side effects or allergic reactions to taking fish oil so before starting a course taking fish oil consultation with your physician is necessary.
Filed Under: Uncategorized Tagged With: Fish Oil, supplements
Recent Posts
Kale with Corn and Carrots Corn, Tomato and Okra Stew, Eggplant with Tomato and Cheese
Spinach Ricotta Quiche, Broccoli Quiche, Chicken Quiche,
Shrimp Curry, Shrimp with Rice and Peas
Pork Tenderloin Stuffed with Spinach, Prosciutto and Mozzarella Turkey Tenderloin Stuffed with Squash, Pecans and Cranberries
Honey Garlic Shrimp, Ginger Shrimp
Green Beans with Mustard Sauce, Lentils with Onion, Sour Cream Lima Beans
Creamed Spinach, Swiss Chard with Tomatoes and Beans, Brussels Sprouts with Hot Sauce and Blue Cheese
Chicken Breast Stuffed with Tomato and Basil, Chicken Breast Stuffed with Jalapeno Peppers
Chicken Enchilada Roll-Ups, Spinach Lasagna Roll-Ups
Brussels Sprouts with Pancetta, Sesame Orange Broccoli, Orzo and Broccoli
Spinach Ricotta Quiche, Broccoli Quiche, Chicken Quiche
Pork Tenderloin Stuffed with Spinach, Prosciutto and Mozzarella Turkey Tenderloin Stuffed with Squash, Pecans and Cranberries
Kale with Corn and Carrots Corn, Tomato and Okra Stew, Eggplant with Tomato and Cheese
Green Beans with Mustard Sauce, Lentils with Onion, Sour Cream Lima Beans
Chicken Enchilada Roll-Ups, Spinach Lasagna Roll-Ups
Vegetable Chili Tomato, Vegetable Soup Summer, Squash Soup
Basil Tuna Steak, Sesame Tuna Steak Salad, Tuna Steak with Peppers, Tomato and Onion
Spicy Black – Eyed Peas Onion Rice Barley with Squash, Apples and Onions
Roast Beef, Onion and Swiss Sandwich, Prosciutto and Arugula Sandwich, Tuna Melt, Chicken Club Lettuce Wrap
Peach Bread Pudding, Custard Pudding, Pumpkin Custard Pudding
Tags
Astrology baby Body business buying guide car cardiac health car insurance cats cholesterol Coffee college dating Diet Dogs Exercise finance food garden Gym hair hamster health Home inflammation Luggage money motorcycle insurance nutrition pet pets plants retirement sagging skin savings Skin smoking student loans supplements travel vacation Vitamin vitamins weight loss workout
April 2019
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Mar
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30
Home
Health And Fitness
Buying Guides
Contact
XML Sitemap
Privacy
Terms & Conditions
Return to top of page
Copyright © 2019 · Magazine Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in