Answering the Question "Is Vaping is Bad for You?" | License to Vape
Vape Guides
Vaping for Beginners
Vape Tips
Vape Shops Near Me
Best Online Vape Stores
Vaping State Laws
Quit Smoking
Expert Interviews
News
All Reviews
MENUMENU
Mods
Box Mods
Temperature Control Mods
Mechanical Mods
Mini Box Mods
Tanks
Sub-Ohm
RTAs
RDAs
Pens
E-Liquid Vape Pens
Electronic Cigarettes
Vaporizers
Portable Vaporizers
Dry Herb Vaporizer
E-Liquids
Vape Juice Brands
CBD
Starter Kits
Box Mod Starter Kits
Pen Starter Kits
Accessories
Batteries
Chargers
Deals
Coupons
Promotions
Select Page
Is Vaping Bad for You?
by Lisa M Sep 27, 2018
If you are thinking about switching to vaping as a way of quitting cigarettes, you are probably wondering about the safety of using a vapor device due to some negative posts on media sites.
Everyone, especially the new vapers, asks “is vaping bad for you?” and “is vaping bad for your lungs?” Well, we’re going to answer these questions here to end some of the misconceptions about vaping being as bad as smoking. To answer these questions, we’ll look at the effects of smoking and vaping together.
How Does Smoking Affect the Heart, Lungs, and Blood Pressure?
It is already well known that smoking cigarettes contributes to lung cancer, heart disease, and a host of other respiratory conditions. Your lungs have tiny, hair-like receptors called cilia which help clean the lungs and keep germs out. When you smoke, you damage the cilia, rendering them lifeless and unable to do the job. The result is an increase in mucus production (phlegm), frequent infections (bronchitis, pneumonia), shortness of breath (pulmonary hypertension), and smoker’s cough.
The reason smokers develop conditions like COPD, (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease) emphysema and shortness of breath are because when you inhale smoke, even though you exhale it, small amounts of smoke and matter from the cigarette deposit into the lungs.
Smoke is heavier than air or vapor so some of it stays in the lower half of the lungs and attaches to the tissue. This, combined with reduced lung function (from long-term smoking), leads to infections and that feeling of not be able to take a full breath (shortness of breath, or breathlessness).
Blood pressure and heart rate increases and stays at an elevated rate for approximately 15 minutes after smoking a cigarette. So, it is safe to say that a person who is a heavy smoker may also have an increased risk of high blood pressure now and in the future.
Note: Blood pressure and heart rate are back to normal levels within 2 hours of the last cigarette smoked. This process goes on all day long depending on how much the individual smokes.
Does Vaping Affect the Heart, Lungs and Blood Pressure?
There is no change in blood pressure before or after vaping.
Vaping does not increase heart rate.
There is no change in lung function from vaping. In fact, many vapers report that they breathe better since quitting cigarettes and starting vaping.
Studies done since 2015 on the effects of vaping only make the headlines if they have something negative to say.
One prominent cardiac surgeon, Dr. Konstantinos Farsalinos of the Onassis Cardiac Surgery Center in Greece, has published several papers on how the effects of vaping are minimal compared to smoking cigarettes.
This segment from Vape Team Media highlights a study performed by Dr. Farsalinos and Dr. Giorgio Romagna in 2013 on the effects of vapor on myocardial (heart) cells. Please watch all the way through as they show the process of their evaluation.
Dr. Riccardo Polosa, researcher and director of the Institute for Internal Medicine & Clinical Immunology at the University of Catania, Italy was interviewed for a segment on Regulatorwatch.com. He has performed studies on vapers who have never smoked (to eliminate errors in results from prior smoking habits) and very clearly states that his results indicated no harm to the heart or lungs from vaping. His interview can be seen here, please watch all the way to the end for his statements.
While we cannot say that vaping is 100% safe, we can say that vaping produces fewer chemicals than traditional cigarettes and test results show no effect on the heart, lungs, and blood pressure, unlike smoking cigarettes.
Aside from exploding batteries, vaping has never been shown to be the cause of health problems or death. No one has ever died from vaping, but people die every day from conditions caused by smoking.
So the answer to the question, “Is vaping bad for you?” (is it bad for your lungs?) is no. There is no scientific evidence to show that it is harmful to the lungs.
The reports in the media generate fear to deter people away from vaping because smoking and tobacco generate revenue. If people quit smoking, then states lose money and government loses financial backing.
An interesting point made by Dr. Polosa in the interview above, is that if his study had shown any evidence of harm to the heart or lungs he would be famous. Why? Because negativity and scare tactics make headlines. If he would have found any negative evidence, the media would have been all over it like it is with everything vaping-related. But since he found nothing harmful in vaping, hardly anyone noticed. License to Vape provides you some of the best information and tips on vaping to help you make the switch from smoking to vaping.
Anti-vaping proponents profess concerned over what harm e-cigarettes could pose to the public in the future. What is more harmful to the public is all the negative and misleading information posted on the Internet about e-cigarettes every day. Let’s continue the fight to get the truth out there. Support vaping and the vaping community.
How to Use a Vape Pen
What is Vaper's Tongue and Top Ways to Avoid This
Related Articles
Vaping For Beginners
How To Order E-Cigarettes With Nicotine E-Liquid In Australia
Glossary of Vaping Terms
Vaping vs. Smoking – Is it Better to Vape Than Smoke?
5 Weird Vaping Facts You Probably Never Knew
Introduction to Vaping
Vaping Vs Tobacco
History Of Vaping
Vaping Safety
Types Of Vaping Products
Basics Of Using Vape Products
All About E-liquids
Ecig Battery Basics for Beginners
Clearomizers, Cartomizers, and Tanks
History of Tobacco
Is Vaping Bad for You?
Rate this post
Featured In
When it comes to buying new vaping gear, juices, vaporizers, cbd and kits,
our Specialized Ranking System and Reviews will help you find the the best new gear.
Vaping Home
Vape Mods
Best Vape Tanks
Best Vape Pens
Best E-Liquids & Juices
Best Starter Kits
Best CBD Oils
Accessories
Vaping Resources
Vaping State Laws
Vaping Tips
Vaping For Beginners
Expert Interviews
Vape Shops Near Me
Top Online Vape Websites
Vape News
All Reviews
© 2016 - 2018 LICENSETOVAPE.COM ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Disclaimer Contact Us Privacy Sitemap About Us
Vaping Pens We Evaluated
Halo Triton 2
The Juul Vapor System
eLeaf iCare Solo
VaporFi VAIO GO
Smok Stick AIO
Vaping Tanks We Reviewed
Uwell Valyrian
Uwell Crown
Hellvape Dead Rabbit
The Goon RDA
Wotofo Serpent Mini RTA
Digiflavor Pharaoh Mini RTA
The Goon 22 RDA
Vandy Vape Pulse 22
Sub Ohm Tanks We Reviewed
Sense Herakles 3
FreeMax Fireluke Mesh
Vaporgate Doolee
The Flow
TFV8 Baby Beast
Uwell Valyrian
Halo Reactor
Aspire Triton 2
Box Mods We Reviewed
GeekVape Aegis
Innokin Endura T22
Innokin iTaste MVP 3 Pro
IPV4S
Vaporfi Vox 2
Innokin Coolfire IV Plus
Joyetech eGrip II AIO
Tesla Wood 160W TC
Beginner & 0-50w Box Mods We Reviewed
Innokin Endura T22
Innokin EZ Watt
Innokin iTaste MVP 3.0
Vaporfi Vox 2
Eleaf iStick 30W
50-100w Box Mods We Reviewed
Vaporesso Nebula 100W TC
Innokin iTaste MVP 4.0 100W TC
Tesla Stealth 100W Starter Kit
Tesla Two 100W Box Mod
Eleaf iStick 100W TC
100 – 200w Box Mods We Reviewed
iJoy Capo 100
GeekVape Aegis 100W Mod
Innokin CoolFire Ultra TC150
Yihi SX Mini G Class 200W
YiHi SXMini Q-Mini 200W
Vape Mods We Reviewed
Joyetech Exceed D19
Innokin CoolFire 4 Plus
IPV5 200W
Eleaf iStick 200W
Halo Reactor 50W Mod
Halo Reactor Mega 80W Box Mod
Smok Alien 220W
Wismec Reuleaux Rx200
Geek Vape Aegis 100W
Mini Box Mods We Reviewed
Wismec Sinuous P80
Eleaf iStick Pico 75W Mod
Vaporesso SWAG 80W
Eleaf iKuun i80
Joyetech CUBOID Lite 80W
Joyetech eVic Primo Mini
Temperature Control Mods We Reviewed
UWELL Nunchaku 80W TC Starter Kit
Pioneer4You IPV4S
JoyeTech eVic VTC Mini
Sigelei 150 TC
Asmodus SnowWolf
Yihi SX Mini M Class
Wismec Reuleaux RX200 by JayBo
Mechanical Mods We Reviewed
VGOD Elite
Tesla Invader III
Bettlecraft Stabwood Tube Mod
Hellvape Trishul Tube Mod
Wismec-JayBo Noisy Cricket
Wismec-JayBo Noisy Cricket II
Vaporizers We Reviewed
Volcano Digital Vaporizer
DaVinci IQ
V2 Pro Series 7
Arizer Extreme Q
Pax 3 Portable Vaporizer
V2 Pro Series 3 Vaporizer
Starter Kits We Reviewed
Vape Pen Starter Kits We Reviewed
SMOK Stick Prince with TFV12 Prince
SMOK Stick X8
Eleaf iStick Pico Baby 25W
SMOK Stick V8 Big Baby Beast Starter Kit
Eleaf iCare Solo
SMOK Vape Pen 22 Starter Kit
Vape Mod Starter Kits We Reviewed
Joyetech Cuboid Tap
Vaporesso Revenger 220W TC
SMOK Alien 220W
SMOK ProColor 225W TC Starter Kit
SMOK Majesty Luxe 225W TC
Wismec RX Mini Vape Starter Kit
SMOK AL85 Alien Baby 85W Box Mod
Eleaf iStick Pico RESIN 75W
Vaporesso Attitude 80W TC
E-Liquids and Juice Brands We Reviewed
Cosmic Fog Milk and Honey
Nitro Cold Brew Coffee Macchiato – Best Coffee Flavor
Mt. Baker Moo Juice
Charlie’s Chalk Dust Slam Berry
Naked 100 Hawaiian POG – Best Fruit Flavor
Halo Tribeca – Best Tobacco Flavor
VaporFi Grand Reserve Rainbow Custard – Best Dessert Flavor
VaporFi Catch Ya Latte
VapeWild
BulkeJuice
Halo
Online Vape Stores We Reviewed
Direct Vapor
VaporDNA
VaporBeast
Vapornation
VapeWorld
Electric Tobacconist
HaloCigs
EcigExpress
Vape Battery Chargers We Reviewed
Nitecore Intellicharger I4
Nitecore Digicharger D4
Xtar VP4
Nitecore Digicharger D2
Efest LUC V2
Dry Herb Vaporizers We Reviewed
G Pen Elite – Best Dry Herb Vaporizer
Arizer Solo 2
The DaVinci IQ Portable Vaporizer
Pax 3
The Crafty
XMAX V2 Pro
Navigation
Mods
▼
Box Mods
Temperature Control Mods
Mechanical Mods
Mini Box Mods
Tanks
▼
Sub-Ohm
RTAs
RDAs
Pens
▼
E-Liquid Vape Pens
Electronic Cigarettes
Vaporizers
▼
Portable Vaporizers
Dry Herb Vaporizer
E-Liquids
▼
Vape Juice Brands
CBD
Starter Kits
▼
Box Mod Starter Kits
Pen Starter Kits
Accessories
▼
Batteries
Chargers
Deals
▼
Coupons
Promotions