communityoflights.com
New user
Login
Username
Password
Secret Key
Remember Me
Log in
Create an account
Forgot your username?
Forgot your password?
Who's Online?
We have 677 guests and no members online
Thursday, April 18, 2019
Home
Beams of light
Studio lights
Photography
Art
Music
Drama
Candle lights
Spiritual
Remembrance
Humanitarian
Romance
Guiding lights
Fashion
Lifestyle
Support groups
Mentorship
Spectrum of lights
Science
Space Exploration
Technology
Inventions
Community
Videos
Games
About us
Contact us
Home
Amazing Multiple Uses of WD-40
Print
Email
Published: 30 May 2011
Twitter
It is a carefully guarded recipe known only to four people. Only one of them is the "brew master." There are about 2.5 million gallons of the stuff manufactured each year. It gets its distinctive smell from a fragrance that is added to the brew. Ken East (one of the original founders) says there is nothing in WD-40 that would hurt you.The main ingredient is "Fish Oil." It's the first thing that has ever cleaned that spotty shower door. If yours is plastic, it works just as well as glass. Then try it on your stove-top and it will be shinier than ever before.
Here are Some of the Multiple Uses of WD-40:
Protects silver from tarnishing.
Cleans and lubricates guitar strings.
Gives floors that 'just-waxed' sheen without making it slippery.
Keeps flies off cows.
Restores and cleans chalkboards.
Removes lipstick stains.
Loosens stubborn zippers.
Untangles jewelry chains.
Removes stains from stainless steel sinks.
Removes dirt and grime from the barbecue grill.
Keeps ceramic/terra cotta garden pots from oxidizing.
Removes tomato stains from clothing.
Keeps glass shower doors free of water spots.
Camouflages scratches in ceramic and marble floors.
Keeps scissors working smoothly.
Lubricates noisy door hinges on vehicles and doors in homes.
Gives a children's play gym slide a shine for a super fast slide.
Lubricates gear shift and mower deck lever for ease of handling on riding mowers.
Rids kids rocking chairs and swings of squeaky noises.
Lubricates tracks in sticking home windows and makes them easier to open.
Spraying an umbrella stem makes it easier to open and close.
Restores and cleans padded leather dashboards in vehicles, as well as vinyl bumpers.
Restores and cleans roof racks on vehicles.
Lubricates and stops squeaks in electric fans.
Lubricates wheel sprockets on tricycles, wagons, and bicycles for easy handling.
Lubricates fan belts on washers and dryers and keeps them running smoothly.
Keeps rust from forming on saws and saw blades, and other tools.
Removes splattered grease on stove.
Keeps bathroom mirror from fogging.
Lubricates prosthetic limbs.
Keeps pigeons off the balcony (they hate the smell).
Removes all traces of duct tape.
Folks even spray it on their arms, hands, and knees to relieve arthritis pain.
Cleans and removes love bugs from grills and bumpers.
The favorite use in New York--WD-40 protects the Statue of Liberty from the elements.
WD-40 attracts fish. However, be careful as laced baits or lures for fishing are not allowed in some states.
Use it for fire ant bites. It takes the sting away immediately and stops the itch.
Removes crayon from walls. Spray on the mark and wipe with a clean rag.
Apply on clothes before washing to remove lipstick spots.
If you are having problems starting your car, spray on the distributor cap to displace moisture.
It helps remove black scuff marks from the kitchen floor. Just remember to open some windows if you have a lot of marks.
Add comment
JComments
Community of Lights
Welcome to Community of Lights.
In Loving Memory
Read the Terms and conditions.
Terms and conditions
Popular Articles
Hedy Lamarr: Co-Inventor of the LTE Technology
Are Puns The Highest Form of Literature?
Light as a Source of Energy for the Mind and Soul
The Most Expensive Paintings Ever Sold
Latest News
The Tragic Burning of Notre Dame of Paris
Israeli Scientists Print World's First 3D Heart with Human Tissue
The Most Expensive Object Lost During the Sinking of the Titanic 107 Years Ago
TAPESTRY: THE FACES OF AIDS WEB-DOCUMENTARY
Copyright ©2016 communityoflights.com
Powered by Best websites designer.
Home
Beams of light
Community
Videos
Games
About us
Contact us