Vitamin c (Vitamin) for Prevention of Common Cold in All Ages Under extreme physical exercise - CureFacts
Main menu
Sign Up
Log In
Index
Get Answers
Frequently Asked Questions
News about CureFacts
Events
Contact Us
To get clear answers, select a condition, a treatment OR a symptom:
Conditions
Flu
Common Cold
Treatments
Flu shot
Vitamin C
Symptoms
runny nose
sneezing
1 Results for
Vitamin c
Sorry... No alternatives found
(Vitamin)
All categories
Vitamin
for
Prevention
Prevention and Treatment
Prevention
Treatment
of
Common Cold
Sorry... No alternatives found
in
All Ages
All Ages
Toddlers
Children
Adults
Seniors
Under extreme physical exercise
All populations
Under extreme physical exercise
Vitamin c (Vitamin) for Prevention of Common Cold in All Ages Under extreme physical exercise
Filter
Sort by
Rating
Vitamin c (vitamin)
Helpful
Common Cold prevention in healthy Adults under extreme physical exercise
EVIDENCE | NEEDS MORE TESTING - 5 studies with 598 adults
EFFECTIVENESS | EFFECTIVE	for prevention of symptoms and complications
SAFETY | SAFE
Prevention with Vitamin C supplement (Ascorbic acid tablets). 5 valid study conducted, with 598 individuals. Prevents 1 in 2 Common Cold cases for people under extreme physical excursive (marathon runners, skiers, soldiers). Seems safe.
Read More	Source Save Share
Additional Information
Visitors at this page also visited
Vitamin C (Vitamin) for Prevention of Common cold in Healthy All Ages
Vitamin C for Prevention and Treatment of Common cold in All Ages
Treatments for Prevention and Treatment of Common Cold in All Ages
Treatments for Prevention of Common cold in All Ages
Treatments for Prevention and Treatment of Common cold in All Ages Under extreme physical exercise
Treatments (Vitamin) for Prevention and Treatment of Common cold in All Ages
Treatments for Prevention and Treatment of Common cold in Healthy All Ages
Vitamin C for Prevention of Medical Conditions in All Ages
Vitamin C for Prevention and Treatment of Medical Conditions in All Ages Under extreme physical exercise
Vitamin C (Vitamin) for Prevention and Treatment of Medical Conditions in All Ages
Index
See answers about other medical treatments here.
Choose only effective and safe medical treatments.
Live longer. Enjoy better life quality. Save healthcare costs.
Vitamin c
Vitamin C, also known as ascorbic acid and L-ascorbic acid, is a vitamin found in food and used as a dietary supplement. As a supplement it is used to treat and prevent scurvy. Evidence does not support use in the general population for the prevention of the common cold. It may be taken by mouth or by injection. It is generally well tolerated. Vitamin C was discovered in 1912, isolated in 1928, and first made in 1933. (source)
Similar pages on this site
AA (Vitamin) for Prevention of Common cold in All Ages Under extreme physical exercise
L-Xyloascorbic Acid (Vitamin) for Prevention of Common cold in All Ages Under extreme physical exercise
Vitamin C (Vitamin) for Prevention of acute viral nasopharyngitis in All Ages Under extreme physical exercise
Vitamin C (Vitamin) for Prevention of coryza in All Ages Under extreme physical exercise
Ascorbic Acid Quick Melts (Vitamin) for Prevention of Common cold in All Ages Under extreme physical exercise
Vicks Vitamin C Drops (Vitamin) for Prevention of Common cold in All Ages Under extreme physical exercise
Vitamin C (Vitamin) for Prevention of coronavirus infections in All Ages Under extreme physical exercise
Vitamin C (Vitamin) for Prevention of acute rhinitis in All Ages Under extreme physical exercise
Cemill (Vitamin) for Prevention of Common cold in All Ages Under extreme physical exercise
L-Ascorbate (Vitamin) for Prevention of Common cold in All Ages Under extreme physical exercise
Good to know
Video
The future of medical technology
Mark Rober, an American engineer, inventor and YouTube personality
Post
Think big! Big problems. Big impact.
How NemoCare's uses technology to helps newborns, including preterm babies, survive
Learn More...
Article
The Best-Positioned Tech Giant In Healthcare? The Answer Might Surprise You
David Shaywitz , Forbes
Learn More...
Book
Saving Normal / Frances Allen, MD
Why psychiatric drugs over-treat the normal, and under-treat the mentally ill.
Learn More...
Join CureFacts at:
CureFacts is for informational purposes and should not be considered medical advice, diagnosis or treatment recommendations.
See terms of use and privacy statement. Copyright © 2015-2017 CureFacts. All Rights Reserved.
About
Company
Vision
Mission
Team
News
Events
Investors
Collaborations
Contact
sitemap
Solution
Solution
FAQ
Rating
NLP
QA
Personal Zone
Platform
Treatments
Flu Shot
Vitamin C
Conditions
Flu
Common Cold
Symptoms
Runny Nose
Sneezing
Learn More
Principles
Articles
In the Media
Books
Videos
Blog
Press Room