7 Cancer Myths That Too Many People Still Believe
Toggle navigation
Search
Go!
Trending
Celebrity
Did You Know
Food
Shared Deals
Shop
About Us
About Us
Our Values
Careers
Terms of Service
DMCA
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Disclosures
facebook
pinterest
instagram
twitter
youtube
snapchat
Did You Know | Health
7 Cancer Myths That Too Many People Still Believe
By Zachary | Aug 14, 2018
PXhere
facebook
Toggle navigation
facebook
pinterest
twitter
google plus
Over the past decades, doctors and researchers have improved treatments for nearly all types of cancer by leaps and bounds.
Diseases that were once death sentences now have very promising survival rates.
But this year, an estimated 1,735,350 Americans will be diagnosed with cancer,and an estimated 609,640 people will die from the disease.
National Cancer Institute
With frightening numbers like those, it's no wonder there are all kinds of anxious myths about cancer and cancer treatments on the internet.
Experts say that these seven popular cancer "facts" are really fiction.
Myth #1: Cancer Is Contagious
Senior Airman Delano Scott - U.S. Air Force
Most people know better here in America. But in other parts of the world it's still a commonly held belief that one cancer patient can spread their disease to friends and family.
Not true at all!
Cancer, in general, is causes by mutations of cells in our bodies. Those cells can't spread to another person's body, except by something like an organ transplant (but of course, doctors screen organs very carefully).
Cancer-causing viruses or bacteria can spread from one person to another. Think of the HPV virus, or hepatitis, which can cause liver cancer.
But, like all cancers, the diseases caused by these viruses can't be spread from person to person.
Myth #2: Cell Phones Cause Cancer
Pixnio
Admittedly, there are some conflicting reports about the effect of cell phone use on our bodies, and some organizations say the jury is still out.
But the National Cancer Institute says there is no proof that cell phone use causes cancer.
In general, our fears about the cancer risk from cell phones are misguided. These devices emit energy at such a low frequency they can't physically affect our bodies.
For the same reasons, power lines and microwave ovens are also not considered a cancer risk.
You're more likely to get a condition like "text neck" from using your cell phone.
You can learn more about studies on the cancer risk of cell phones and make your own decisions here.
Myth #3: Certain Foods Prevent Cancer
Mohamed Hakim - PXhere
From vegetarian to Keto diets and everything in between, many people claim that certain healthy foods or diets can prevent cancer.
But expert researchers insist there is no "silver bullet" for cancer. Although, there's good reason to watch what you eat.
Certain foods have been linked to an increase in your cancer risk. For example, eating more processed meat makes you more likely to develop colorectal cancer.
Obesity, which may be caused in part by an unhealthy diet, is also associated with a higher cancer risk.
So you have every reason to stick to a healthy diet, which includes daily servings of fruit and vegetables.
Myth #4: Bras Cause Breast Cancer
Pixaby
Even before cell phones were public enemy number one, viral chain emails spread fears about an increase in breast cancer linked to bras.
There's even a hokey explanation included: that a bra "obstructs lymph flow," which supposedly promotes the growth of cancer cells.
But a 2014 study of 1,500 women found no connection between wearing a bra (or not) and breast cancer risk.
One study from 1994 did suggest women who didn't wear bras had a lower cancer risk, but doctors concluded it was because those women tended to be more thin than the bra-wearing group.
Myth #5: Cancer Feeds On Sugar
Circe Denyer - Public Domain Pictures
Do cancer cells consume sugar (glucose)? Yes. Do they tend to consume more glucose than other cells? Yes.
But every cell in your body consumes, and in fact relies on, sugar. So this doesn't mean much.
Still, many people insist that cutting sugar out of your diet can prevent or even cure cancer. Studies say this is just not true.
On the other hand, a high-sugar diet could lead to weight gain, and obesity is connected to a higher cancer risk.
So enjoy cookies and sugary drinks, but in moderation - whether or not you have cancer.
Myth #6: Tanning Without Sunscreen Is Safe
Gerlach - Pixabay
You could argue when we were children that people just didn't know any better.
But now, there are so many viral stories of women who suffered through awful cancer treatments because of their risky tanning habits.
Dermatologists report that patients are often mislead about "base tans," made by a short time in the sun or tanning bed without sunscreen.
For the record, doctors recommend sunscreen for any exposure in the sun, especially activities like tanning.
There are also worries that common sunscreen ingredients like oxybenzone and retinyl cause cancer, but researchers say this is not true.
In fact, studies prove that daily sunscreen use lowers your skin cancer risk, and no scientific bodies have issued warnings about sunscreen ingredients.
Myth #7: There's Nothing You Can Do To Prevent Cancer
Dubajjo - Pixabay
On the flip side of panicking about sugar or cell phones, patients also worry that there's no way to prevent cancer.
Doctors say there's no reason to be gloomy, and in fact there's quite a lot you can do to lower your overall cancer risk.
Obviously, quitting smoking and avoiding the use of tobacco products is good for your health.
Eating a balanced diet rich in fruit and vegetables but light in processed meat will also lower your risk of cancer.
Other common sense habits to adopt include drinking in moderation, protecting your skin, and getting immunized against viral infections like hepatitis and HPV.
Finally, be sure visit your doctor regularly. Not only can they run helpful tests, but they can also answer any questions you have about your health.
Have you fallen for any of these cancer myths in the past?
[Sources: Global News, NHI, Mayo Clinic, Reader's Digest]
Zachary
I write about all sorts of things for Shared, especially weird facts, celebrity news, and viral stories. CONTACT: zachary@shared.com
Here at Shared we are putting emphasis on accuracy. Learn more about our standards and ethics policy here, and please report factual errors to corrections@shared.com
Related Articles
Trending | News
Woman Fighting For Her Life When "Bloated Stomach" Is Revealed To Be Ovarian Cancer
By Maya | Aug 14, 2018
Facebook/Sarah Nicholson, NCJMEDIA
When someone has a bloated stomach, most people attribute it to a good, hearty meal.Although it should go away within a few hours, if your "food belly" persists, it may be wise to visit your doctor, as it could be a symptom of trapped gas, constipation, or something much more severe. Despite thinking she was suffering from Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS), one woman from Newcastle, England trusted her instincts that something was amiss
Read More →
Did You Know | Food
25 Weird Flavors People Asked Ben & Jerry's To Make
By Donna | Apr 21, 2019
Flickr - Andrew Malone/Instagram - Ben & Jerry's/Flickr - Rachel Black
If you had to create an ice cream flavor, what would it be? I think mine would be something to do with dark chocolate and raspberry...how could you not love that flavor combination? If I was going to do something a little more "out there," maybe it would have to do with a sweet and salty combination. Perhaps chocolate covered pretzels, with a little bit of peanut butter? Mmm...yep, that's what I want.
Read More →
Health | Food | Did You Know
8 Reasons You Should Be Eating More Onions
By Donna | Apr 21, 2019
Flickr - Mike Mozart/Flickr - psyberartist
If you ask me, onions are one of the most underrated foods on the planet. They're so delicious, and despite what many people think, they add an extra element to basically any dish. The smell of fried onions is one of the best things in the world, and I'm always looking for more was to add them into my dishes. Thankfully, there are actually health benefits to adding more onions to your food...so excuse
Read More →
Did You Know | Shared Deals
Do you want to think clearer and be more productive? Try this!
By Mike | Apr 18, 2019
- It's a No-Brainer: Stimulate your brain, be more productive and think clearer with PlatoWork!- Developed by a team of neuroscientists from Denmark- It's safe, easy to use and connects with your smartphone- You can can get on board now by backing their IndieGogo CampaignEveryone routinely experiences brain fatigue and sometimes even a cup of coffee can't shake the feeling. You’re at work or studying and your brain just hits a mental wall.
Read More →
Health | Did You Know | News | Trending
Woman Feels No Pain Due To Rare Genetic Mutation
By Emma C | Apr 04, 2019
Sustaining a physical injury is never a good time. We don't like feeling pain, so we avoid injuries because they're nasty, uncomfortable things that make us late for dinner. Still, pain serves an important purpose that we rarely think about. Pain is a conversation our brains have with our bodies to let us know when to slow down, see a doctor, or something along those lines.But, injuries happen. About 22% of slip and fall
Read More →
Travel | Did You Know
Wilderness Safety: How to Have a Safe and Fun Camping Trip With Your Family and Dogs
By Emma C | Apr 01, 2019
Camping is one of the most popular and most fun family activities in the United States. Whether you're going across the country to a warmer area for a week-long camping trip or you're simply spending a night out in the woods behind your home, there is nothing like letting go of technology and relaxing outdoors. Americans love camping, but it's important that everyone is fully aware of how to stay safe while in the wilderness.
Read More →
Popular
Trending
We've Finally Got An Update On Harry And Meghan's Baby
By Donna 11 days ago
Trending
Jinger Duggar Pens Sweet Letter To Parents Amid Move To Los Angeles
By Donna 3 days ago
Uplifting
Grieving Family Stunned When They See What Strangers Wrote On Their Bill
By Donna 3 days ago
Trending
Tyler Baltierra Fuming After "Disturbing" Comments Towards Wife Catelynn
By Donna 3 days ago
About Us DMCA Removal Privacy Policy Careers Connect with us Terms of Service
Shared.com © 2016 All Rights Reserved.