blood brain barrier Archives - Mills River Family Chiropractic
Mills River Family Chiropractic
Extraordinary Chiropractic and Natural Health Care
Get In Touch
(828) 891-8868
4170 Haywood Road
Mills River, NC 28759
Asheville Health Hub
You are here: Home / Archives for blood brain barrier
Texting – while not driving – may be better for your brain
September 16, 2011 by admin
There have been many reports over recent years questioning whether or not cell phones can cause brain cancer. I know that my brother, after a period of heavy cellphone usage for many years, had an aggressive skin tumor removed from his side of his head right where he typically held his phone. This is pretty convincing to me that the issue should not be easily dismissed. Unfortunately, like the question of whether vaccines cause autism, the question being asked is probably posed inappropriately. It is probable that some people are more vulnerable to these changes than others. Recent research on cell phone usage indicates that the radio frequencies from the antenna appear to disrupt the blood brain barrier for up to 14 days after two hours of cell phone exposure. Even slight disruption to the blood brain barrier is capable of significant brain cell damage. Interestingly, the investigators indicate that they detected brain cell damageat 28 and 50 days after exposure but not at 14 days.
Whereas, it is true, that no one has proven cell phones cause brain cancer, research has established convincingly that they pose a relative risk. There are several very important interventions which can mediate the potential damage of cell phone use.
1) texting instead of talking keeps the antenna further from your brain
2) supplementing exceptional quality DHA fish oil and certain antioxidants can go a long way toward protecting you from the ravaging effects of brain inflammation as well as helping restore the integrity of the blood brain barrier.some of the supplements we carry which are most beneficial in this area include NeuroFlam, Nitric Balance, Glutathione Recycler, and Neuro 02.
3) in addition texting instead of talking and taking nutritional supplements, it is extremely important to reduce your risk by managing your blood sugar and staying free of any kind of infection.
4) and because I’d rather be a fun guy than a fungi, I must add that having fun, and lots of it, really helps to reduce the potential for runaway inflammation which can lead to brain cell damage. So I highly recommend lots of laughter and fun.
Please don’t hesitate to reach out for help from our office if you have any concerns about managing your health, to increase your resilience against inflammatory degeneration, infections, blood sugar dysregulation or any other health concern you or your loved ones may have.
Sincerely, Dr. Tom
Filed Under: Health Topics Tagged With: blood brain barrier, like the question of whether vaccines cause autism, questioning whether or not cell phones can cause brain cancer, Recent research on cell phone usage, several very important interventions which can mediate the potential damage of cell phone use
Asheville Health Hub
Asheville Health Hub
Clinical Services
Clinical Services
Meet the Doctors
Chiropractic Neurology
Chiropractic Pediatrics
Massage
Nutrition
Administrative Services
Office Location
New Patient Forms
Contact
Our Blog
Links
Online Orders
Testimonials
Home
Asheville Health Hub
Forms
Chiropracticneurologistasheville.info – Chiropractic Neurology
Mills River Family Chiropractic
Facebook
Copyright © 2019 · Enterprise Pro Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in