Urinary Tract Infections
ACCOUNT CONTACT MY CART
Mary's Herbal Garden - your choice for preferred excelence
0
1-435-755-5874| Orders| My Account
0 Shopping Cart
Shopping Cart
Your cart is currently empty.
Shop
Categories
Candida Control
Yeast Away
Candida Treatment
Flora (Probiotics)
iFlora
Serratiopeptidase
Serra Enzyme
Serratiopeptidase Research
Serratiopeptidase Testimonial
Skin Nutrition & Beauty
HydraMe Skin Nutrition Lotion
HydraMe Testimonials
Humic & Fulvic Acid
Inner Vitality Concentrate
Immune Boost 77
Humic & Fulvic Acid Research
Cod Liver Oil & Butter Oil
Fermented Cod Liver Oil Capsules
Fermented Cod Liver Oil Liquid
X-Factor Gold High Vitamin Butter Oil Liquid
Butter & Cold Liver Oil Capsules
Cod Liver Oil Manufacturing
Fermented Cod Liver Oil Testimonials
Minerals & Electrolytes
Magnesium Glycinate
Magnesium Glycinate Research
Elete Electrolyte
Urinary Infection
Urinary Tract Control
Urinary Tract Infections Information
Prostate BPH Treatment
Prostate Control
Prostate BPH Information
Structured Water Info
What is Structured Water?
DE Structured Water Unit Technology
Structured Water Products
Portable Structured Water Unit
Compact Size (Mini) Shower Structured Water Unit
Standard Size (Super) Shower
Standard Size (Small) Garden Structured Water Unit
Under the Sink Structured Water Unit
Whole House Structured Water Unit
Commercial Structured Water Unit
Products
Butter Oil Liquid
Butter & Cod Liver Oil Capsules
Elete Electrolyte
Fermented Cod Liver Oil Capsules
Fermented Cod Liver Oil Liquid
iFlora
HydraMe Skin Nutrition/Lotion
Immune Boost 77
Inner Vitality Concentrate
Magnesium Glycinate
Serra Enzyme
Prostate Control
Urinary Tract Control
Yeast Away
Sales
iFlora
Research
Candida Treatment
Fermented Cod Liver Oil Manufacturing
Humic & Fulvic Acid Research
Magnesium Glycinate Research
Serratiopeptidase Research
Prostate BPH Information
Urinary Tract Infections
Testimonials
Fermented Cod Liver Oil Testimonials
HydraMe Testimonials
Serrapeptidase Testimonials
Home/
Research/
Urinary Tract Infections
Urinary Tract Infections
On a daily basis, millions of people deal with many issues that affect their bladder, kidney and associated organs known as the urinary system which includes the kidneys, which produce urine, the tubes carrying urine to the bladder called the ureters, the storage pouch for urine called the bladder and the urethra which carries urine from the bladder to outside the body. The bladder is located slightly differently in men and women. In men, the urethra runs through the prostate gland on its way to the penis which causes extra complications for males to urinate. In women, the bladder sits below the uterus and next to the vagina. In both men and women, the release of urine by the bladder is controlled by a pair of sphincter muscles at the base of “neck” of the bladder. One of these muscles is controlled automatically by your body and one of the sphincter muscles is controlled voluntarily. But, as we age, the physiological and biochemical mechanisms keeping these organs functioning well begin to decline and these muscles gradually lose their tone and we start to have difficulty controlling urination. We are now faced with urinary tract problems from incontinence to kidney stones. Disorders of the kidney are very serious and can result in death if not properly detected and treated. The kidneys are part of the body&apos;s detoxification system, as they process blood and filter waste products, toxins, and extra water via the production of urine, which flows to the bladder for storage before it gets released. Chronic kidney disease occurs when one suffers from gradual to permanent loss of kidney function over time. Some of the common issues affecting the kidneys are:
Diabetes - Diabetes is the most common cause of kidney failure as damage occurs to blood vessels and nerves that feed the kidney for it to function normally. Management of normal glucose levels is therefore a must.
High blood pressure - High blood pressure is another common cause of kidney failure. Left untreated, high blood pressure can shut down this organ as the increased pressure interferes with normal functioning.
Inflammation - Chronic inflammation can cause major damage resulting in loss of kidney function.
When bacteria such as E.coli invade your urinary tract which it does most often from your stool, then your ureters, urethra, kidneys, but most often, your bladder gets infected. This can happen to anyone, infants, children, men, but mostly women because of the proximity of the rectum to the urethra in women which allows for easier transmission of bacteria into the bladder.
UTIs refer to the presence of clinical signs and symptoms caused by one or more unhealthy micro-organisms in the urine that are localized to the bladder, urethra or kidney. UTIs are very common, and, if left untreated, can spread to the kidney and disrupt its normal functioning.
ISN&apos;T IT TIME THAT YOU REGAIN CONTROL?
To naturally and completely flush out your bladder, to relieve urgency and control overflow - use Urinary Tract Control
To flush irritants out of your urinary system and relieve that heavy feeling in your bladder - use Urinary Tract Control
To strengthen your bladder and urethra muscles for better control over your need to urinate - use Urinary Tract Control
To give you back the freedom you need to do what you want to do without worrying about losing control - use Urinary Tract Control
NATURAL INGREDIENTS ARE HELPING BOTH MEN AND WOMEN TO TAKE CHARGE OF THEIR OVERACTIVE BLADDERS TRY A NATURAL SOLUTION TRY URINARY TRACT CONTROL!
UTIs, which can sometimes cause high blood pressure, account for more than 11 million child and adult physician visits annually in the US. Women get the majority of UTIs because the female urethra is shorter and closer to the anus and provides less of a barrier to bacterial invasion than the male urethra. Women who have had more than three UTIs are likely to continue to develop recurrences within 18 months of a UTI. There is no vaccine to prevent recurrent UTIs.
Planning your day around having access to a restroom at a moment&apos;s notice is less than ideal, but for 25 million American adults it is a necessity.17 percent of women and 16 percent of men have overactive bladders. As we age, overactive bladder becomes more common. You can end the worry that every sneeze or laugh will cause you to wet your pants.
Don&apos;t let embarrassing incontinence, bedwetting, or the constant need to use the bathroom cause infections and loss of sleep throughout the night. Don&apos;t fear flying or going on long trips due to the need to go to the bathroom frequently or suffer from the constant urgency and pressure and decrease your quality of life.
While prescriptions and over-the counter medications may have been the only solution in the past with their many, many side effects including higher risks for dementia. You now have an all-natural-safe solution FOR MEN, WOMEN, AND CHILDREN - URINARY TRACT CONTROL
Urinary Tract Infections are commonly called a bladder infection because the majority of UTIs occur in the bladder. They can cause intense pain and suffering which sometimes can be relieved with acetaminophen.
Infection of the bladder, urethra, kidney, or ureters is considered to be a UTI.
UTIs can affect anyone, at any age and often can run in families. You&apos;re more likely to get one if you have multiple sexual partners - or are simply having sex frequently.
Or woman may start getting UTIs after menopause because of declining estrogen levels in their system. Estrogen promotes an acidic pH in the vagina which protects against the bacteria that cause UTIs.
What Does a UTI feel like? Most often, the classic symptom is a burning sensation during and after peeing or constantly feeling like you have to go and then only passing a small amount of urine. Women will have contractions that feel like early labor pains, wave-like contractions that feel like squeezing and because of the bladder&apos;s close proximity to the uterus, many women don&apos;t know what is going on. When they put their hand on their belly, they can feel rhythmic contractions that can go on virtually 24 hours a day. Sometimes these contractions are not really painful but they will keep you awake at night and they can persist for months. Even if you drink water and pee constantly, they still persist for months. Not only is sleep difficult, but forget about sex. Even ordinary, daily tasks, like driving, can be an enormous challenge. We suggest avoiding citrus and spicy foods, drinking lots of water to flush your urinary system and use Urinary Tract Control. It can quiet the overcharged nerves in an overactive bladder and end the pressure to urinate when there is only a small amount of fluid in the bladder. It is very likely that many of the bladder/incontinence problems people experience as they get older will be improved with Urinary Tract Control. What a wonderful feeling to wake up and not notice that your bladder is not the first thing you feel when you get out of bed. The tightness in the abdomen is gone. You no longer feel a burning sensation. You can go to the bathroom, stand up, and not feel as though you have to go again.
For Men and Women, the Problems Can Be Almost the Same
The need to urinate all the time - often less than 2 hours apart
Urgency - a strong need to urinate that cannot be postponed
Hesitancy - a hard time urinating despite a strong need to go
Straining - to forcefully expel urine
An intermittent stream - when your urine stream stops and starts
Waking to go to the bathroom - this happens several times each night
Leakage - before you can get to the bathroom
Retention - when you can&apos;t start urinating and your bladder fells full
Burning sensation - while urinating
UTIs can be detected by using a non-prescription dipstick which changes color when an infection is present and is 90% accurate. The dipstick detects nitrite which is formed when bacteria change nitrate in the urine to nitrite. A dipstick is used with the first morning urine specimen.
Caution: If these symptoms are left untreated for several days, then infection can spread to your kidneys causing permanent damage which will most likely require antibiotics, and if you&apos;re in agonizing pain, you&apos;ll probably require a bladder-numbing drug like Pyridium.
The Urinary System - The urinary system takes wastes from the blood and carries them out of the body in the form of urine. It is structured in a way that helps ward off infections. The ureters and bladder normally prevent urine from backing up towards the kidneys. The flow of urine from the bladder helps wash bacteria out of the body.
One woman in five develops a UTI during her lifetime. One man in seven develops a UTI in his lifetime. And once you have one, you&apos;re more likely to have another. Only respiratory infections occur more often than UTIs.
Overactive Bladder - Bladder Leakage - Urinary Incontinence makes you get a strong, sudden feeling that you need to go. The muscles in your bladder contract involuntarily. You have an immediate urge to pee. You might go as often as eight times a day, even if you&apos;re not drinking a lot. Doing kegels and/or pelvic-floor (these are the muscles that support your bladder, uterus, vagina, and bowel) physical therapy may help prevent urine from leaking out of your bladder. A doctor may recommend bladder training by delaying going to the bathroom when you feel the need to go. This may also help. There are also drugs that target the beta-3 receptors on the bladder muscle which relaxes the bladder allowing it to increase its capacity.The drug, VESICARE, is prescribed for bladder leakage but has the following side effects: dry mouth; blurred vision; and constipation. Leakage is not an unavoidable part of aging. Leaking when you laugh and constant urges to pee are incontinence problems that can be managed.
Overactive bladder spasms cause leaks and sudden urges and is a treatable condition. Stress or urge incontinence can be controlled with Black Cohosh, Soy isoflavones, D-Mannose, and Cranberry Extract that are found in Urinary Tract Control but only if the proper probiotics are present in the product to replace the bad bacteria with good bacteria and they are all there in Urinary Tract Control.
WHO CAN GET A UTI?
INFANTS: In infants, bacteria gain entry to the urinary tract via the bloodstream from other body sites.
CHILDREN: In children, especially under the age of 2, poor hygiene has been linked to an increasedfrequency of UTIs. Some children need to be evaluated for an abnormality in which urinemoves backward from the bladder up the ureters to the kidneys causing a UTI.
HOSPITALIZED RESIDENTS: Hospitalized residents who are catheterized are also more vulnerable to UTIs.
NURSING HOME RESIDENTS: Nursing home residents who are catheterized are also more vulnerable to UTIs.
MEN: Men can also get UTIs from a urethral obstruction or a kidney stone obstruction, or from a sexually transmitted disease or from a congenital defect requiring surgical correction. Males are also protected from UTIs from secretions from the prostate gland that retard the growth of bacteria. A healthy prostate gland is one of the best defenses against UTIs in men. An enlarged prostate (BPH) can result in a UTI. Men develop UTIs as they become older because BPH will slow the flow of urine. Men also can&apos;t fully empty their bladders as a result of BPH-Prostate enlargement and this urine can&apos;t remain sterile when it remains in the bladder for long periods of time and the prostate could become infected (prostatitis) which could require long term treatment. Prostate infections are hard to cure and even antibiotics are unable to penetrate infected prostate tissue effectively. In older men, urinary retention of a liter or more is very serious and has to be drained with a catheter. The BPH must be treated to relieve lower urinary tract symptoms in the bladder Otherwise, an overwhelming bacterial infection in the bladder, called Urosepsis will spread from the bladder into the bloodstream and could be fatal.
WOMEN: About one in four women leak urine when they&apos;re not actively trying to go. Pregnancy and labor are the most common culprits for starting a lifelong battle with urinary incontinence because the increased weight during pregnancy puts pressure on the pelvic-floor muscles and then childbirth stretches them out causing tears that can lead to urinaryincontinence. UTIs in a pregnant woman can bring about premature delivery of the baby and when some antibiotics are used to cure the UTI in a pregnant woman they can have serious effects on the fetus. But, women can be susceptible without ever having a child because as estrogen levels decline through menopause, the urinary tract muscles weaken making it more likely thatthere will be leakage. Also, running and exercises that require squatting and lifting can put stress on pelvic muscles and make the leakage worse. In addition to squatting and lifting, simple coughing, sneezing, and laughing also puts pressure on the bladder leading to leakage, as little as a few drops or as much as a geyser. An ob-gyn may recommend pelvic therapy to strengthen those muscles. If you&apos;re dribbling during exercise, your doctor can prescribe a device called a pessary which is inserted into the vagina. If the bladder still needs more support, the next step is surgery.
DIABETICS: Diabetics are especially susceptible to UTIs because spillage of glucose into the urine provides a good culture medium for bacteria to grow.
YEAST INFECTION or URINARY TRACT INFECTION?
One way to distinguish between a UTI and a yeast infection is by performing a urinalysis to determine if there are white blood cells present. A UTI contains white blood cells. A yeast infection doesn&apos;t. The urine which should be pure is also cultured for bacteria to prove that infection is present, usually E. coli bacteria found in the intestinal tract and which should not be in the urine.
The main cause of UTIs is from bacteria in the urine. Urine in the bladder should be sterile in healthy adults. However, bacteria in the large bowel and from the intestine is not sterile but when this bacteria passes into the bladder it colonizes and causes a bladder infection, cystitis, a UTI.
OTHER POSSIBLE ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS TO UTIs
A 6-month 2002 Norwegian study of UTIs suggests that monthly sessions of acupuncture treatment might be a viable alternative in the prevention and recurrence of chronic UTIs, especially of the bladder. Twice-weekly visits can halve the rate of recurrence.
Cortisone ointment and anti-histamines can temporarily relieve UTI symptoms.
WHAT CAUSES A UTI?
The main cause of UTIs is from bacteria in the urine. Urine in the bladder should be sterile in healthy persons. However, bacteria in the large bowel and bacteria in the intestine is not sterile and when this non-sterile bacteria passes into the bladder it colonizes and causes a bladder infection, “cystitis”, a UTI.
What the doctor is looking for when you give them a urine sample:
High protein levels - can indicate inflammation of the kidneys
Sugar and Ketone - signs of uncontrolled diabetes
Nitrites and/or Leukocytes - usually indicate a bacterial infection
A too-low PH level - indicates the urine is acidic which increases your risk of kidney stones
Red or White Blood Cells - indicates blood in the urine which usually indicates a UTI or even kidney disease
Smell - Normal urine has an odor like ammonia. It does not smell sweet. If you&apos;ve eaten asparagus, your urine will normally smell like rotten eggs or spoiled cabbage but it isreally smelly, think of infection, especially if asparagus isn&apos;t the cause. 99% of all smelly urine means infection and see a doctor.
URINE COLOR
WHAT YOUR URINE COLOR REALLY MEANS
Because urination is one of the most common body functions, people focus on it and look for meaning in their urinary habits. But most urine colors are of no concern. Still, urine color can give us a clue to health habits, diet, and serious conditions.
Transparent - Comes from drinking a lot of water which keeps you hydrated which is ok but you don&apos;t need to drink too much water. So don&apos;t force yourself to drink a lot of water. You can safely cut back a little. The lighter the color, the more hydrated you are. Light urine is no problem, except for over peeing.
Pale straw color or transparent yellow - You&apos;re well-hydrated. The yellow comes from bile produced by the liver and excreted in urine which is part of the elimination of body toxins. You should only be worried if it&apos;s a very light yellow which means you may be over hydrated which can lead to hyponatremia, which occurs when someone drinks so much liquid the body&apos;s balance of sodium to water goes off-kilter. This is dangerous and can be deadly but as long as you don&apos;t have a major condition, like kidney failure, it&apos;s not dangerous. Your body will just get rid of the extra fluid. The average healthy person needs about six to seven 8ounce glasses of water a day, so don&apos;t overdo how much you drink.
Honey or Amber - Your body isn&apos;t getting enough water
Brown - Eating fava beans, rhubarb or aloe might turn urine brown. So can some medications such as antimalarial drugs, antibiotics, laxatives and muscle relaxants. But brown urine could also suggest a liver problem such as hepatitis which is an inflammation of the liver caused by a virus or toxins or it may be cirrhosis, a condition that damages liver cells. A brown urine color can also be caused by dried blood from the kidney, bladder, or urinary tract or from an infection or tumor.
Syrup or Brown Ale - You may be severely dehydrated. Increase your water intake
Pink to Reddish - Could be from beets, rhubarb, or even from blueberries that you&apos;ve eaten recently. Or it can be from medications like laxatives, antipsychotics, but the most dangerous cause of pink, red, or bloody urine are from deadly toxins like lead or mercury. Also, reddish color in your urine could be from bruising of the kidneys from strenuous running or weight lifting. Kidney stones, tumors, a serious infection and kidney or bladder cancer can also cause blood in your urine. If not, it could indicate that you have a very treatable UTI. Red urine is the most serious flare your urine can send up. It could require X-ray, CAT scan of your kidneys or acystoscopic exam where a scope is inserted into your bladder through the urethra to check for infection and tumors. Bottom line - if you see red in your urine, let a doctor tell you why.
Orange - Foods, such as carrots will turn the urine orange but so will medications like the antibiotic rifampin (Rifadin), the blood thinner warfarin (Coumadin), some laxatives and chemotherapy drugs may also dye urine orange. So can the urinary drug hydrochloride (Pyridium) which is used for patients who have tubes in their bladder or urinary system. A dark orange color bordering on brown could mean too much bile is being excreted into your urine and that could be a gastro intestinal problem or liver problem. If you&apos;re not on Pyridium and your urine is dark orange, go see a doctor if the color is yellow/orange, it might simply indicate that you had too many carrots or too much vitamin C.
Green or Blue - This color usually indicates a dye in something you ate or in a medication like certain antidepressants and anti-inflammatory drugs, but it may also indicate a rare genetic disease. See the doctor if the color doesn&apos;t go away. Blue or greenish urine is also very common in over-the-counter drugs. If you have had medical procedures, such as X-rays or CAT scans that involve intravenous dyes, like methylene blue or indigo carmine, you might see a corresponding color in your urine. Some multivitamins may also turn urine blue or green. Taking too many B vitamins can tinge it bright green. However, if none of the above causes explain the color, you may have a bacterial infection called pseudomonas.
Foaming or fizzing - This is probably just excess protein in your diet or it could indicate a kidney problem if it&apos;s happening all the time.
Cloudy - If your pee color is cloudy and nothing else seems wrong, don&apos;t worry about the cloudy urine. But, if something does seem wrong, what you are looking for is a condition called phosphaturia which are phosphate crystals that form when the acidity of the urine is low. With chronically high levels of phosphate crystals, you may get kidney stones. If you are concerned, test your urine at home by collecting a small amount in a paper cup and adding a capful of vinegar. If the cloudiness is caused by phosphaturia, the urine will turn clear.
However, if your urine is chronically cloudy, see your doctor. It could be an infection without symptoms of a sign of other inflammatory conditions, and, rarely, cancer. Other causes of cloudy urine: a pocket of pus from an infection in the urethra.
Two types of UTIs - Lower & Upper UTIs
90% of women aged 50-80 suffer from a Lower UTI
Lower Urinary System consists of:
Bladder - The bladder is a hollow, muscular balloon-shaped triangle chamber in the pelvis, the lower abdomen, where urine that it collects from the kidneys is stored. It gradually expands to hold 1 and one-half to 2 cups of urine for a few hours, but problems to control the urine develop as we age. The stretching tells the brain when the bladder is filled to capacity and sends a signal that it&apos;s time to go to the bathroom. The brain then tells the bladder muscle to contract, to squeeze, and it tells the urethra to relax so the urine can then empty when you want it to through the urethra. This is called “bladder control”. Problems affecting the bladder include infections, incontinence, cystitis (inflammation) and bladder cancer which is the sixth most common cancer in the US.
Urethra - The bladder sends urine to the urethra tube which carries that urine to the urethra opening where it is emptied out of the body.A lower urinary tract infection will occasionally disappear without treatment or with Urinary Tract Control during the first 24-48 hours. After this time a doctor must be seen so the infection doesn&apos;t go to the kidneys. If a doctor prescribes antibiotics, then it is absolutely essential that the patient takes both Urinary Tract Control and Yeast Away at the same time to help avoid a yeast infection and to replace that good bacteria destroyed by the antibiotics. The use of antibiotics will most likely lead to a yeast infection unless you don&apos;t take both Urinary Tract Control and Yeast Away.
Upper Urinary System consists of:
Kidneys - The kidneys are a pair of purplish-brown bean-shaped fist-size organs located below theribs toward the middle of the back. They remove excess liquid (water) and wastes from the blood. Each day they will filter120-150 quarts of blood and turn it into 1 to 2 quarts of urine which is then stored in the bladder. The kidneys also keep a stable balance of salts and other substances in the blood and produce a hormone that aids the formation of red blood cells.
WATCH OUT FOR KIDNEY STONES - These are small, hard mineral and salt deposits that have to pass through the urethra and out of the body. Symptoms include serious pain in the lower back, in your side and /orlower abdomen. If the pain is intense go to the ER.
Ureters - These are the narrow tubes of muscle that carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder.
If a UTI persists more than 48 hours or if it is accompanied by chills, fever, vomiting, or pain in the kidneys near the middle of the back, see a doctor immediately because these symptoms suggest the UTI has spread to the kidneys. Usually upper UTIs occur as a complication of a lower UTI. However, UTIs may originate in the upper urinary tract as kidney stones or ureter tumors. In most cases, a UTI is very unpleasant but usually not dangerous if you get prompt treatment because untreated UTIs can lead to severe or chronic kidney infections (pyelonephritis) which could permanently harm your kidneys.
UTI Causes
UTIs are caused when your biological terrain allows at least one of 4 things to get out of control of the body&apos;s normal control functions:
Bacteria
Viruses (Herpes)
Fungi (Candida)
Parasites (Worms, Protozoa, etc.)
Normal urine is sterile and contains fluids, salts, and waste products but it is free of bacteria, viruses, fungi, and parasites. An infection occurs when one of these, usually bacteria from the digestive tract cling to the opening of the urethra and begin to multiply. The most common of these bacteria, causing 80% of UTIs, is Escherichia coli (E. coli) which normally lives in the colon in the stool and around the skin tissue of the rectal area. Adherence of E. coli bacteria to the walls of the urinary tract is a prerequisite for the colonization of E. coli bacteria. This bacterial infection if limited to the Urethra is called Urethritis, an inflamed urethra.
E. coli infections require treatment of only the infected person. Urinary Tract Control should help to correct this problem and keep it under control if Urinary Tract Control is also used for maintenance then on a daily basis.
If the bacteria move onto the bladder, the bladder infection is called Cystitis. Cystitis is the most common UTI in women. Cystitis is not really an infection at all. It just acts like a UTI and happens in women who get a lot of UTIs. The bladder gets so traumatized and irritated that women begin experiencing pain even when they don&apos;t have an infection. If you suddenly have to urinate every few minutes and it really burns even though almost nothing comes out, it&apos;s probably cystitis. A urine sample can rule out infection or a cystoscopy test may be necessary where a lighted scope is inserted into the urethra. Treatment usually involves avoiding foods that exacerbate the symptoms, such as caffeine or acidic foods. If these tactics don&apos;t work a doctor may prescribe a drug like Elmiron that helps repair the bladder lining. Approximately 30-50% of women with cystitis also have kidney infections. If the infection is not treated promptly, it may go to the ureters and infect the kidneys. This kidney UTI is called Pyelonephritis whose symptoms are chills, fever, vomiting, or pain in the kidneys near the middle of the back. Repeated pyelonephritis should be die-tested for kidney blockages on x-ray or ultrasound which can identify cysts and tumors.
E-coli infections require treatment of only the infected person
Other microorganisms (not the E. coli bacteria) called Chlamydia and Mycoplasma may also cause UTIs in both men and women but are usually limited to the urethra and reproduction system and because they may be sexually transmitted, Chlamydia and Mycoplasma infections require treatment of both partners because they are STDs (Sexually Transmitted Diseases).
The medical community uses antibiotics to clear UTIs rapidly. Due to the frequency of antibiotic use for UTIs and other infections, bacteria are developing a resistance to the antibiotics, making them less and less effective. THE “SMARTER” THE ANTIBIOTICS BECOME, THE “SMARTER” THE BACTERIA BECOME AS WELL. EVENTUALLY, THE BACTERIA WILL MUTATE TO AVOID THE EFFECTS OF THE ANTIBIOTICS.
Sometimes, women have bacteria in their urine without symptoms. This should be handled naturally with Urinary Tract Control or treated with antibiotics to prevent bladder or kidney UTIs.
If you suspect a UTI, in addition to taking Urinary Tract Control, you can also put 3 to 4 teaspoons of apple cider vinegar in a glass of water and drink it three to five times a day to flush your urinary tract. This can also be done when you have a UTI or periodically for UT health.
Symptoms of a Lower UTI
A burning sensation every time when urinating
Frequent urination - However, it is possible to frequently urinate and not have a UTI. This may be from drinking too much coffee or tea (both are diuretics) or it could be from premenstrual syndrome, food allergies, a vaginal yeast infection, or just from anxiety. Frequent urination can also come from irritation of the area from soap or douches which you should only do once a month just with warm water if at all. It is also possible to have a strong, sudden urge to go even when the bladder isn&apos;t full.
Blood or pus in the urine
Heavy urine odor
Pain just above the pelvic bone in the lower back
Symptoms of an Upper UTI
Pain in the kidney in the middle of the back
Chills
Fever
Vomiting
UTI Risk Factors
Sexual Activity - Frequent sex is more likely to cause a UTI than anything else because of unhealthy sexual activity including the following:
A sudden increase in sexual activity (nicknamed “honeymoon cystitis”)
Acute urethral syndrome- This is a negative culture in a blood analysis test of the urine for UTI which can mean a STD (sexually transmitted disease) if the urine contains white blood cells and may indicate a chlamydial infection
A new sex partner causing an inflamed Urethra (Urethritis)
By Irritating the urethra with sexual activity that spreads bacteria from the anus to the urethra and then to the bladder. Or a UTI could be caused by a bruised urethra during intercourse
By not cleaning hands and genitals with soap and water before and after sex. Both partners must do this
Take showers instead of baths
By not washing after contact with the anal area before touching the vagina or urethra
By not making sure the vagina is well lubricated before intercourse
By rigorous intercourse which tends to put stress on the urethra and bladder
By not emptying the bladder before and after sex
By not drinking a glass of water after sex
By using contraceptives. Women taking oral contraceptives have a higher rate of cystitis than those not taking the pill. Some diaphragm users find that the rim pressing against the urethra can contribute to UTIs. The use of spermicides, particularly in combination with a diaphragm, increases the risk of UTIs. After use, the diaphragm must be cleaned and rinsed thoroughly and carefully dried. Contraceptive foam or vaginal suppositories may irritate the urethra. Dry condoms may put pressure on the urethra and some condom dyes or lubricants may cause irritation.
Pregnancy - can cause a UTI because pressure on the growing fetus keeps some urine in the bladder and ureters allowing bacteria to grow. UTIs during pregnancy can cause premature births.
Childbirth - can cause nerve damage that affects bladder control. Also damage to the urethra during childbirth can cause UTIs.
Diabetes - Diabetics are prone to UTIs
Incontinence - Millions of women each year are affected by urinary incontinence. Under diagnosed, a tremendous number of affected people simply suffer in silence as they are either unaware that something can be done to help or they are too embarrassed to talk about it. Incontinence can be controlled by Kegels exercises and from a dietary perspective. An elimination diet would be tremendously helpful in detecting the culprits that make incontinence worse. Some of the well-known irritants include caffeine and caffeine containing beverages, alcohol, sugar, nicotine, citrus fruits, aged cheeses, tomatoes, spicy hot foods, artificial sweeteners such as aspartame, and vinegars. It also might be helpful to eliminate foods that contain high amounts of amino acids that increase urgency such as avocados, bananas, beer, cheeses, chicken livers, chocolate, corned beef, lima beans, mayonnaise, nuts, onions, prunes, raisins, rye bread, saccharin, sour cream, soy sauce, and yogurt.
There are 3 types of incontinence:
Stress incontinence - It first starts with a slight loss of urine as you cough, sneeze, laugh, or exert yourself during strenuous activities and is called Stress Incontinence.SI is caused by reduced estrogen which thins the tissues around the urethra and makes bladder control more difficult. Kegels exercises will help control this problem but consult a professional to be sure that you are doing them correctly. Otherwise, they may not work if done incorrectly. These tiny leaks of urine occur when motion stresses the bladder and cause general muscle weakness or tears.
Urge incontinence - This is an overactive bladder where you feel you “gotta go” but can&apos;t get there quickly enough. It is an uncontrollable urge to urinate followed by an involuntary loss of urine that often cannot be stopped and frequently occurs without warning. It is thought to be a pelvic nerve problem affecting the bladder.
Overflow incontinence - This is where a full bladder leaks, where the bladder doesn&apos;t empty properly and is always a little full. It usually relates to the bladder muscle not functioning properly or the pelvic floor being too spastic.
In Older Women-With aging, starting at the time of menopause, the environment in the vagina and urethra becomes less acidic leading to more UTIs, especially bladder infections which can cause temporary incontinence.
Other causes of incontinence
Other diseases can cause incontinence such as diabetes, multiple sclerosis, and even constipation
Medicines such as tranquillizers, diuretics, and blood pressure pills
Alcohol, colas, and chocolate
In women: pregnancy, childbirth, and menopause
In men: prostate problems
Non-sterile Catheters - Any catheter or tube that&apos;s placed in the bladder can cause a UTI. When a person cannot void or is unconscious or critically ill, they will need a catheter placed in the bladder. If the catheter is needed for a long time, such as when someone loses bladder control, this can cause a UTI because bacteria in the catheter can infect the bladder. Special care is needed so that the catheter remains sterile at all times.
Poor Diet, Not enough rest & Stress - These are real UTI infections even though a urinalysis will come up false-negative. If overweight, weight loss will help.
Smoking - irritates the bladder
Not enough water - Not drinking enough water can help bring on UTIs. If no infection, drink a glass of water every 2-3 hours. For an active infection, drink enough to pour out a good stream of urine every hour. This dilutes the bacteria in the urine. Do not drink much water within 2-3 hours of bedtime.
Not enough acid in body - Eat whole grains, meats, nuts, and fruit to add more acid to the urine.
Nervous System Damage - Sometimes damage to the nerves of the bladder or to the nervous system itself (spinal cord or brain damage) can cause UTIs.
Surgery - of the urethral opening (making a slit in the urethra) to help drainage can cause a UTI. Also surgery for a blocked bladder or urethra. Surgery sometimes can be avoided by doing Kegels exercises.
Sanitary Pad Hygiene - Blood on a sanitary pad provides a bridge for bacteria to travel from the anus to the urethra. For some women tampons or sponges put pressure on the urethra causing UTIs.
Clothing - Tight jeans, especially during exercising can cause UTIs. Wear cotton underwear and loose-fitting clothes.
Exercising - Wearing tight clothing during exercising, bicycling, or horseback riding may cause trauma to the urethra. Wear loose clothing and drink extra water.
Caffeine and Alcohol - Both irritate the bladder so if you must drink them dilute them with water. Also carbonated soft drinks will irritate the bladder.
Spices - Avoid strong spices such as Curry, Cayenne, Chile, and Black pepper. They irritate the bladder. Also tomato based foods such as Spaghetti sauce.
Refined Sugar - Reduce or avoid refined sugar. Avoid food and beverages high in sugar, including juices like grapefruit and orange juice.
Starches - Reduce or avoid starches such as white flour, white rice, and pasta
Not emptying your bladder completely
Holding your urine once your bladder feels full.
Constipation - will irritate the bladder and make the UTI symptoms worse
Not wiping correctly - from front to back after urinating or having a bowel movement. This keeps bad bacteria (mostly E. coli) in your bowels and anus and away from the urethra.
Not washing genitals - with plain water or very mild soapy water once a day.
Uncircumcised Men
Hormones - Any hormonal change especially in postmenopausal women can bring on a UTI
Child Bearing - An abnormal or fallen urethra or bladder in older women or in women who&apos;ve had many children can cause UTIs
Urinary Tract Abnormalities - Any abnormality of the urinary tract can cause UTIs such as valve leakage between the ureter and the bladder.
Past History - A history of urinary tract kidney infections can lead to more UTIs.
Can a Urinary Tract Infection be caused by other Diseases? YES
Multiple studies have shown that a high percentage people with Multiple Sclerosis (MS) experience bladder problems due to the damage caused to the nerves that control how the bladder contracts. Disruptions in these signals can lead to a number of problems including Urinary Tract Infections.
Is it a Urinary Tract Infection or Dementia?
Urinary tract infections can mimic the symptoms of dementia. Aging issues like prostate problems and menopause make seniors super-susceptible to UTIs. Unfortunately, many of these UTIs go undetected and untreated because, unlike younger people, seniors do not always have the classic symptoms of fever, or pain and pressure when urinating. Eventually, the urinary tract infection bacteria, the E-coli bacteria will enter the blood stream. The infection can then cross the blood brain barrier and trigger inflammation, cause confusion, and mimic the symptoms of dementia. Many people end up in a nursing home falsely diagnosed with dementia instead of being treated for the real cause of the problem, a urinary tract infection. Urinary Tract Control is specifically designed to treat this problem for what it is - a urinary tract infection, not dementia.
Start using Urinary Tract Control immediately. Do not wait until you have a UTI. To be of optimum value and to support reduced risk of UTIs and future UTIs, Urinary Tract Control should be taken twice daily, every day. Urinary Tract Control will not help if taken on an as-needed basis. If you stop taking Urinary Tract Control symptoms may return. It is embarrassing and costly to constantly have to consult a doctor for the same reason. If you already have a UTI, you may want to supplement with Urinary Tract Control immediately, and especially during the first 24 hours of the UTI, and continue daily thereafter whether it clears the UTI or not. Continued use of Urinary Tract Control will help maintain urinary tract health and thereby reduce the risk of getting another UTI. If the UTI persists after 24 hours, a physician must be seen immediately so the UTI doesn&apos;t spread to the upper urinary tract, to the ureters and the kidneys. Doctors will probably treat the UTI with antibiotics. If so, you may want to use Yeast Away to support normal immune system response to yeast along with Urinary Tract Control because of the likelihood of a yeast infection brought on by the antibiotics.
When using Urinary Tract Control for a UTI, be sure to also give it to your partner to support prevention of re-infection. Urinary Tract Control can be taken by pregnant or lactating women. Children under 12 years of age should use Urinary Tract Control at half dosage.
Urinary Tract Control Ingredients (can be taken with or without food)
The following ingredients are included to make the urine more acidic:
Vitamin C - Vitamin C makes the urine more acidic so bacteria can&apos;t grow easily. For very serious UTIs, consider taking an additional 1500mg of vitamin C. For chronic UTIs, consider using intravenous Vitamin C(50 grams) three times a week by a knowledgeable physician.
Cranberry Extract - Helps support the proper pH balance in the urinary tract.
The following ingredients are included specifically to relieve spasms of the urethra and the kidneys and to calm the bladder muscle:
Magnesium
B6 - Enhances the beneficial effect of the magnesium
Calcium
Black Cohosh
Soy Isoflavones
The following ingredients are included specifically for bladder health in the lower urinary tract. They help flush out the bladder and stop the burning sensation that occurs when urinating. They will also reduce the need for frequent urination and eliminate the feeling that you can&apos;t urinate even though you have the urge, and, very importantly, reduce your dependence on antibiotics:
Cranberry Extract &lpar;2.5% Proanthocyanidins&rpar; Cranberries have an antiseptic effect that flushes germs out the urinary tract so you don&apos;t feel you have to go to the bathroom all the time. Cranberry Extract prevents bacterial adherence throughout the urinary tract because it&apos;s rich in Tannis (Proanthocyanidins) that block adherence of E. coli bacteria to the lining of the urinary tract which helps prevent urinary wall disease especially in the bladder, which then allows this bad bacteria to be washed away. It also makes the urine more acidic which helps to destroy E. coli bacteria and it reduces the influx of white blood cells into the urine by 50%. It also improves skin conditions caused by UTIs and prevents the recurrence of many urinary problems. Cranberry extract is very stable and doesn&apos;t lose its bioactivity over time. Health professionals used to recommend drinking cranberry juice but don&apos;t anymore because it would take 75 glasses of cranberry juice to equal 1300mg of extract and because cranberry juice has 175 calories per 8-oz glass and will cause weight gain and diarrhea. Diabetics cannot use cranberry juice because of its high sugar content but they can use cranberry extract.
Green Tea (leaf) - The Catechin and polyphenol content (the amount of EGCG in the supplement) is a powerful antioxidant. Green Tea provides less than 1% of caffeine per serving. And should not cause the side effect of insomnia. It may also inhibit the growth of cancer.
D-Mannose - It is a simple sugar that doesn&apos;t interfere with blood sugar regulation so it&apos;s ok for diabetics. It flushes away bacteria during urination. It is a naturally occurring simple sugar closely related to glucose. After a small amount of D-Mannose is metabolized by the body the majority of it is excreted into the urine where it sticks to and removes the E. coli from the urinary tract where they are rinsed away with normal urination. D-Mannose doesn&apos;t kill bad bacteria. It just sticks to it and removes it from the body. It is safe long term use for everyone, even children.
The following ingredients are included to inhibit the colonization of bad bacteria, including E. coli, in the urinary tract and to aid the immune system by replacing that bad bacteria with good bacteria:
Lactobacillus acidophilus
Lactobacillus rhamnosus
Lactobacillus casei
Bifidobacteriumbifidum
Cellulase Enzymes
Fructooligosaccharides (FOS)
WARNING: There is a possible interaction between cranberry extract and warfarin (Coumadin), a blood thinner. Take Urinary Tract Control only under a physician&apos;s supervision if you are taking Coumadin.
Possible Side Effects: Peculiar urine smell & Urine coloring
Special Directions: Take an additional dose of Urinary Tract Control immediately after sex with a full glass of water.
The reason for using several strains of probiotics is that a combination of probiotic strains can undergo genetic changes during colonization and produce new strains that adapt to the environmental need. Therefore, a combination of many healthy strains can create the needed therapeutic effect. And, there are no known toxic side effects from probiotics.
* These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent disease.
Copyright © Peak Health Care Products. All rights reserved.
Categories
Candida Control
Minerals and Electrolyes
Prostate BPH Treatment
Research
Candida Treatment
Humic/Fulvic Acid Research
Magnesium Glycinate Research
Prostate BPH Information
Serratiopeptidase Research
Urinary Tract Infections
Cod Liver Oil Manufacturing
Sales
Serratiopeptidase
Skin Nutrition and Beauty
Testimonials
Urinary Infection
Structured Water Products
Stuctured Water Info
Flora - Probiotic
Green Pastures
Humic and Fulvic Acid
Our Story
Mary&apos;s Herbal Garden has been dedicated to helping people lead healthy lives. We started out as an herbal store which evolved into an online store. We started our online store in 1998 and a lot has changed over the years, but one thing has stayed the same; we care about our customers&apos; health and well being.
We are different in that we offer a lot of detailed information and research on the products we carry, so our customers can make an informed choice.
Categories
Candida Control
Flora/Probiotics
Fulvic & Humic Acid
Green Pastures
Research
Serratiopeptidase
Skin Nutrition/Beauty
Testimonials
Helpful Links
Home
About Us
Privacy Policy
Shipping and Return Policy
Site Map
Contact Us
Newsletter Signup
Sign up to receive coupons, discounts and product updates.
Contact
PO Box 308 Providence, UT 84332-0308
1-435-755-5874
Email Us
Copyright © 2019 Mary's Herbal Garden. | Ecommerce Shopping Cart Software by Miva, Inc.
HOME
SHOP
CART
LINKS
LINKS×
Home
About Us
Privacy Policy
Shipping and Return Policy
Site Map
Contact Us
Newsletter Signup
Sign up to receive coupons, discounts and product updates.