The Amazing Health Benefits of Carrots (With Delicious Recipes!)
Expand your Consciousness
A site dedicated to providing ways to achieve complete health and happiness
Home
Your Body
Your Mind
Your Spirit
Your Freedom
Your Planet
About Us
The Amazing Health Benefits of Carrots (With Delicious Recipes!)
June 28, 2015 by Admin Leave a Comment
It’s so easy to take carrots for granted. We all know that carrots are good for us; the carrot is arguably the most popular vegetable in the modern world, and it certainly does deserve a place in our daily cuisine. This article explores why. We’ll also bust a commonly held carrot myth or two along the way, whilst offering a delicious list of my favourite, easy, super-healthy recipe ideas, to inspire your carrot culinary adventures.
Carrots come in the orange, yellow, purple, white and red varieties, all with impressive health benefits. The original orange coloured carrots, with their sweet, earthy flavour, are thought to have come out of The Netherlands in the 16th century. These tasty root vegetables (along with parsnips, fennel, parsley, caraway and dill) belong to the Umbelliferae family (called so, because of the the umbrella-like flower clusters, that plants in this family produce).
advertisement
Vitamin A and Beta-carotene
One medium sized carrot (about 75g) is said to give you a whopping 210% of your daily recommended intake of vitamin A. Vitamin A is important for immune function, vision, reproduction, skin health and cellular communication. In the plant kingdom, carrots comes second only to sweet potatoes for their incredible vitamin A content. Carrots are an excellent source of provitamin A, containing the precursor to vitamin A in the form of carotenoids. The main provitamin A caroteoid, is beta-carotene, although alpha-carotene and beta-cryptoxanthin also play important roles. The body converts these elements into vitamin A, which is then metabolized into retinal and retinoic acid (the active forms of vitamin A) to support the vitamin’s important biological functions.
Antioxidant superstar
Antioxidants prevent cell damage from oxidative stress on the body. Carrots (of all varieties) contain very helpful levels of antioxidants, each with their own unique protective function. Beta-carotene is the most common, making an especially abundant appearance in orange carrots. You’ll also find antioxidants such as, alpha-carotene, lutein, caffeic acid, courmaric acid, ferulic acid and anthocyanindins in various admirable quantities in different varieties of carrots. What this impressive line up antioxidants really means, is that which ever variety of carrots you go for, you are giving yourself a super protective, antioxidant boost.
Is super-human carrot vision a myth?
Hands up if you grew up believing that eating lots of carrots will make you develop cats night vision? “Me!”…. like many of us. I grew up believing the carrots promoted super-human carrot vision. It turns out that the carrot vision myth started in world war 2. You’ll love this! The British press put out a story about the top night-time fighter pilot John ‘Cats Eyes’ Cunningham, claiming that his cats-eye precision at night, was due to carrots. So began the myth; so much so, that people started eating more carrots in the belief that they’d see better during the blackouts. It turns out that, it was actually a fabricated story to disguise the fact that they were using new radar technology to locate the bombers!
advertisement
Are carrots good for eye health at all?
Super-vision may well be a myth, however, it is true that carrots can promote healthy eyes. According to whfoods.com…
“researchers at the Jules Stein Institute at the University of California at Los Angeles determined that women who consume carrots at least twice per week – in comparison to women who consume carrots less than once per week – have significantly lower rates of glaucoma (damage to the optic nerve often associated with excessive pressure inside the eye).”
Various studies have also shown that eye deterioration due to vitamin A deficiency in developing countries can be rectified by vitamin A supplementation. In addition to that, vitamin A is known to be essential for vision function as a component of rhodopsin (a protein that absorbs light in the retinal receptors), and because it supports the functioning of the conjunctival membranes and cornea. There are lots of reasons to suggest that carrots do indeed support eye health.
Cardiovascular benefits of carrots
The most studied health benefits of carrots appears to be in relation to the cardiovascular system. Whfoods report some fascinating findings from a 10 year study in The Netherlands. The study clearing shows a greatly reduced risk in cardiovascular disease in people who consumed carrots on a daily basis. It is thought that the powerful antioxidant quantities in carrots is, at least in part, responsible for the cardiovascular protective nature of these vegetables.
Leukemia support
A study in 2011 showed that carrot extracts stopped the growth of leukemia cells, suggesting that carrot may be an excellent source of bioactive chemicals for the treatment of leukemia.
Carrots shown to be a promising deterrent for prostate cancer
According the the European Journal of Nutrition; studies spanning all over the world, show that men who include carrots in their diet, show a significant decrease in instances of prostate cancer. It is thought that this may be because of the high carotenoid content. A Harvard study also showed that diets rich in beta-carotene may play a protective role against prostate cancer.
The importance of organic carrots and not peeling away the skins
advertisement
Organic carrots almost always taste better than their non-organic cousins. They are richer in taste, nutrients and don’t come laden with harmful pesticides. The highest concentration of nutrients is found right under the skin, so just wash your carrots and leave the skins on. I always buy organic and never peel my carrots.
Delicious carrot recipes for optimal health
Carrots are so versatile. You can eat them raw in a salad, use them to dunk in a dip, bake them, add them to soups and stews or incorporate them into many tasty dishes. Here are some of my favourite ways to enjoy carrots. Click on the links or images to go to the recipes…
CARROT & SEED ROAST LOAF
This is a popular, surprisingly light, nut roast alternative, using carrots and sunflower seeds. A very healthy, gluten-free dish. Easy to make.
NO-BAKE CARROT CAKE
I’ve been making raw carrot cake as long as I can remember. This is based on an original recipe that I created over 15 years ago.
Everyone loves it. It’s an absolutely delicious way to use carrots. No baking required.
CARROT & GINGER WELLNESS SOUP
Carrots make the perfect ingredient in this soup. This is my favourite carrot soup recipe. It includes other super
health-affirming ingredients such as fresh ginger, coconuts and lentils.
CARROT FALAFEL BURGERS
Carrots play an exciting role in these falafel burgers. They complement the chickpeas, cumin, coriander and
garlic whilst acting to moisten and help bind everything together.
SUPER HEALTHY RAW-SLAW
I eat carrots in one way, shape or form on a daily basis.
They make such a valuable addition to a salad with a sweet, crunchy bite.
GINGER POWER DETOX JUICE WITH CARROTS
Juicing is an excellent way to unleash the potent benefits of carrots.
This juice is an excellent way to include these super healthy vegetables
into your weekly rhythm.
GINGER, BEET & CARROT SALAD
This is a very special salad with almond butter dressing. Jam packed with nutritional goodness and just the sort of thing I enjoy for lunch.
“Enlightenment by Carrot Cake” is a very special carrot cake recipe using spelt flour. It is also free from refined sugar and made without eggs or dairy. It has been tried and tested over many years on the retreats and courses that I have catered for, and is an all time favourite. It is deliciousness at it’s absolute finest! The recipe is available in my book Trinity’s Conscious Kitchen (available as a full colour printed book or ebook).
I do hope that this has inspired you to unfold into ever deeper levels of health and wellness.
Enjoy your carrots.
Trinity
x
This article is republished with full permission from Trinity’sConsciousKitchen. Do not republish without seeking and obtaining your own permission first. And, have a look around Trinity’sKitchen and continue to ExpandYourConsciousness.
Other resources:
Carrots & Night Vision: http://www.abc.net.au/science/articles/2005/10/26/1392430.htm
http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayAbstract?fromPage=online&aid=8425823
Nutrition of carrots: http://nutritiondata.self.com/facts/vegetables-and-vegetable-products/2383/2
http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?isbn=0309072794
A Quick Note from Our Founder
Have you been curious about losing weight eating Bacon and Butter? You're not alone!
Going "Keto" has helped so many of my friends drop weight and keep it off.
And it's the perfect time to try it because right now you can get a free copy of a brand new cookbook called The Bacon and Butter Cookbook
This cookbook is jam-packed with 148 delicious ketogenic recipes that will help you burn fat like crazy. Even stubborn belly and thigh fat won't stand a chance because your body will have NO CHOICE but to burn that fat for fuel!
If you've struggled to get rid of stubborn fat, you owe it to yourself to test-drive the keto diet and see how effective it really is. It'll be easy once you have this free cookbook...
HURRY, this FREE offer won't last long!
Get The Free Cookbook
sponsored advertisement
Filed Under: Your Body
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Google+.
Loading Facebook Comments ...
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Facebook.
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Math Captcha
57 + = 64
advertisement
Looking for something?
Facebook
Archives
December 2018 (12)
November 2018 (10)
October 2018 (1)
September 2018 (1)
July 2018 (1)
June 2018 (1)
May 2018 (1)
April 2018 (4)
March 2018 (5)
February 2018 (27)
January 2018 (12)
December 2017 (11)
November 2017 (11)
August 2017 (7)
July 2017 (28)
June 2017 (2)
May 2017 (1)
February 2017 (22)
January 2017 (13)
December 2016 (12)
November 2016 (11)
October 2016 (3)
September 2016 (2)
August 2016 (12)
July 2016 (12)
June 2016 (55)
May 2016 (56)
March 2016 (2)
January 2016 (1)
December 2015 (2)
November 2015 (34)
September 2015 (9)
August 2015 (27)
July 2015 (9)
June 2015 (25)
May 2015 (16)
April 2015 (31)
March 2015 (32)
February 2015 (41)
January 2015 (24)
December 2014 (8)
November 2014 (7)
October 2014 (12)
September 2014 (17)
August 2014 (16)
July 2014 (12)
June 2014 (43)
Expand your Consciousness
Categories
Uncategorized (21)
Your Body (366)
Your Freedom (208)
Your Health (70)
Your Mind (210)
Your Planet (206)
Your Spirit (177)
Copyright © 2018 · Magazine Pro Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in
Sign up now to Expand Your Consciousness!
Expand Your Consciousness
Copyright © 2017 | Expand Your Consciousness
This site is designed for educational purposes only and is not engaged in rendering medical advice, legal advice or professional services. If you feel that you have a medical problem, you should seek the advice of your Physician or health care Practitioner. DISCLOSURE: In order for me to support this website, I may receive monetary compensation or other types of remuneration for my endorsement, recommendation, testimonial and/or link to any products or services from this website. Full Disclaimer.