Why You Should Start Drinking Your Own Urine
A resourceful health blog for health awareness and healthy living.
Pages
Home
About
Archive
Advertise
Disclaimer
Write For Us
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Why You Should Start Drinking Your Own Urine
From the title of this post I know you're thinking how disgusting it would be to drink your own urine. You might also be thinking "Is there any good reason for drinking urine?" Advocates of drinking urine claims it is beneficial to one's health and it is a miraculous elixir while for most other people, it is bodily waste that should strictly confined to the toilet bowl.The question now should be if it is actually safe to drink urine. From my study of microbiology in the university, urine secreted from the kidney is sterile if the kidney is not infected. Uncontaminated bladder urine is also normally sterile. However, the urethra contains normal harmless bacteria, hence normal voided urine contain small amount of bacteria.
Image courtesy of Sura Nualpradid at FreeDigitalPhotos.net
Drinking urine for medicinal purposes can be traced to societies in ancient Egypt, China, Hindu and Aztec histories. Many believe that Proverbs 5:15 "Drink water from your cistern, and running water from your own well" (King James) is evident that urine was used in Bible times. Wrong! The Hebrew word bohr, translated as cistern means waterpit. It was an artificial underground cavity usually used for storage of water. They were to dug down to tap natural underground water, and are usually designed to catch and retain rainfall or run off from springs.
I do hear of urine therapy. Using urine to treat ailment. That is using your own urine internally or externally as a way to aid or sustain your heath. This may involves drinking, injecting, massaging with-, and/or bathing in- urine. It is an ancient practice that is used today, not only in times of sickness, but also in times of good health for preventive health maintenance. It has been claimed to have proven helpful in a great number of varying illnesses, ranging from a simple cold and a throat-ache, to tuberculosis and asthma, from minor skin problems such as itching to major skin problems such as eczema, psoriasis and even skin cancer.
There have been reports of individual who have use their own urine to sustain their health.
Sylvia Chandler, 63, mother of two, claims drinking a pint of her own urine every day for the last 20 years has kept her fit and sprightly. She swears in Closer that her own wee is the elixir responsible for her slim frame and youthful demeanor, and claims she hasn't needed to visit a doctor in over a decade.
UK Couple Drinks Own Pee To Treat Depression, Brighten Eyes, And Clear Skin. Couple Bex Long and John Dixon did the unimaginable on UK television show ITV. They drank their own urine. The couple believes that drinking their own urine has a myriad of health benefits, none of which have been scientifically proven. And they decided to prove what they say is true by downing a champagne flute of their own pee live on the air. The couples believes the liquid waste cures depression, and also clears their skin, brightens their eyes, and aids in the healing of cuts and burns.
During the NBC Nightly News on October 16, 1992, Tom Brokaw reported that, "In Egypt, rescue workers found a 37-year old man alive in earthquake rubble. He survived almost 82 hours by drinking his own urine. His wife, daughter and mother would not and they died."
British hiker Paul Beck was stranded in the Spanish mountains for six days - and survived by drinking his own urine. The 33-year-old slipped and dislocated his hip while walking. As he waited for rescuers to find him, he tried to exist on powdered chocolate and raw oats, but eventually resorted to urinating into a cup and drinking a few drops a day. He said:"It was pretty awful but in all I did it around five times to keep myself hydrated."
Yachtsmen Mark Smith and Steven Freeman spent 11 days stranded in the South China Sea after their boat capsized and put their survival down to urine.
These examples are few of the many people who so say have benefited health-wise from urine intake.
Scientists says "urine is just a byproduct of the filtering of blood. It's not just excess water. When blood cells, filled with oxygen and nutrients go through the liver, the poisons and toxins get pulled out and are eliminated with a bowel movement. This filtered and cleaned blood go to the kidneys where excess nutrients get taken out of the body. Plasma ultra filtrate (Urea) contains perfect ratios of nutrients, urea, enzymes, hormones, vitamins, antibodies and minerals.
Some the nutrients said to be found in urine are:
Alanine, total ..... 38 mg/day
Arginine, total ..... 32 mg/day
Ascorbic acid ..... 30 mg/day
Allantoin ..... 12 mg/day
Amino acids, total ..... 2.1 g/day
Bicarbonate ..... 140 mg/day
Biotin ..... 35 mg/day
Calcium ..... 23 mg/day
Creatinine ..... 1.4 mg/day
Cystine ..... 120 mg/day
Dopamine ..... 0.40 mg/day
Epinephrine ..... 0.01 mg/day
Folic acid ..... 4 mg/day
Glucose ..... 100 mg/day
Glutamic acid ..... 308 mg/day
Glycine ..... 455 mg/day
Inositol ..... 14 mg/day
Iodine ..... 0.25 mg/day
Iron ..... 0.5 mg/day
Lysine, total ..... 56 mg/day
Magnesium ..... 100 mg/day
Manganese ..... 0.5 mg/day
Methionine, total ..... 10 mg/day
Nitrogen, total ..... 15 g/day
Ornithine ..... 10 mg/day
Pantothenic acid ..... 3 mg/day
Phenylalanine ..... 21 mg/day
Phosphorus, organic .....9 mg/day
Potassium ..... 2.5 mg/day
Proteins, total ..... 5 mg/day
Riboflavin ..... 0.9 mg/day
Tryptophan, total ..... 28 mg/day
Tyrosine, total ..... 50 mg/day
Urea ..... 24.5 mg/day
Vitamin B6 ..... 100 mg/day
Vitamin B12 ..... 0.03 mg/day
Zinc ..... 1.4 mg/day
(http://www.all-natural.com/urine.html)
Advocates claim that urine cures a variety of ailments ranging from Arthritis, Cancer, Hepatitis, Multiple Sclerosis, Eczema, Psoriasis, Diabetes, Herpes and adrenal failure. And it is commonly used to combat venom from snakebites, jellyfish and beestings. If you don't know, urine is the main ingredient in infertility drugs.
Experts also proposed that urine treats Multiple sclerosis, colitis, lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, cancer, hepatitis, hyperactivity, pancreatic insufficiency, psoriasis, eczema, diabetes, herpes, mononucleosis, adrenal failure, allergies and so many other disease
Please note that bugs, rods and cocci live on any exposed external cells and as a result are likely to be caught and dragged in as urine leaves the body.
After reading this post to end, the question is do you have the guts to try it?
Posted by Anonymous
Share to TwitterShare to Facebook
Tweet
Subscribe to receive new blog posts directly in your Inbox
Labels: Natural health, Personal care
Related Posts: Natural health, Personal care
4 comments:
Me 27 February 2014 at 00:38
Hmmm...let me consult my oracle first
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
Aj Blessing 28 March 2014 at 15:56
Interesting
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
Chukwu JoyNdidi 18 June 2014 at 17:12
Is this for real?
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
Mazino Oyolo Kigho 6 July 2014 at 17:27
People drink their urine for survival when the need arises.
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
Add comment
Load more...
We like to read healthy comments on this blog. All comments on this blog are manually review by human. Inappropriate, irrelevant and spammy comments with hidden links will not be publish. If your comment is unrelated to this post, you should use the contact page. By submitting a comment you grant Healthliveblog perpetual license to reproduce your words and name.
HealthLiveBlog is for informational purposes and should not be considered medical advice, diagnosis or treatment recommendations.
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Sign Up in Seconds
Sign up with your email address to receive latest updates straight in your inbox.
Recent Posts On Foods
Recent Posts On Women's Health
Recent Posts On Skincare
Recent Posts On Diseases and Conditions
Categories
Diet and nutrition
Diseases and conditions
Family health
Foods
General health
Healthcare
Healthy living
Lifestyle
Men's health
Mental health
Natural health
Oral health
Personal care
Public health
Skincare
Sponsored
Wellness
Women's health
Recent Comments
Get this Recent Comments Widget
Trending
Refrigerator Bacteria And Their Harmful Effects To Human Health
Food That Increases Sperm Count
Three Practical Approach to Make Your Food Safe
Tomatoes And Skincare - For Acne, Sunburn, Glowing Skin And Sunscreen
Preventive Measures For Stretch Marks
How To Build Muscle Fast: Have You Tried These Tricks?
Recognizing The Causes And Signs Of Stroke
Prescription Drug Use And Abuse
How Important Is Sleep?
Agonizing Conditions Nursing Mothers With HIV Face
Mouth-to-mouth (with Dr.'Malik)
Health Save Blog
Healthable
Cliniconomy
© 2018 HealthLiveBlog . All Rights Reserved. All images are copyrighted to their respective owners.
About | Contact | Disclaimer | Privacy policy | Terms Of Use | Sitemap | Advertise