HImalayan Salt Lamp in Our Bedroom | Health Benefits | Lovingly Mama
Skip to content
Menu
Contact | About
Contact Lovingly Mama
Homeschooling
Schools
Family
Motherhood
Pregnancy
Breastfeeding
Parenting
Babies
Preschoolers
Home
Homecooking
Pets
Wellness
Products
Toys
Finances
Travel
Hotels
Fashion | Beauty
Events
Lovingly Mama
Family Travel | Homeschooling | Bacolod Mommy Blogger
— Wellness —
Himalayan Salt Lamp in Our Bedroom | Health Benefits
January 27, 2019
Spread the love
79
7
86
Shares
Owning a Himalayan Salt Lamp
The oddly shaped pale pink rock that turns a fiery amber when lit looks so lovely on the nightstand. But is the Himalayan salt lamp just a home decor? Here, discover its health benefits as well as my observations in my own family.
Our family how has a couple of Himalayan salt lamps.
Allergies in the Family
I have grown up with allergies, so many actually, that I strongly suspect my PCOS was caused by all the antihistamines I have taken in the past. Sadly, our eldest daughter Shawna, inherited my allergies. 🙁
She does not have asthma, however, she is very sensitive to triggers that would easily make her sneeze. A single sneeze would lead to a rhinitis attack that will eventually lead to an allergic cough within 24 hours. Sometimes, her coughing would last for three weeks, we get to rest for a week, then she gets another allergic reaction. It was a vicious cycle and it was very toxic for me, keeping up with her health requirements as well as cleaning up after she throws up. And she would throw up everywhere!
Avoiding Antibiotics
When we visit the pediatrician, Shawna would immediately be prescribed with antibiotics, antihistamines, cough, as well as cold medications. It’s a lot to think of, especially that I don’t have a babysitter or a helper. When we need to give her antibiotics, her Papa has to come back from work and help me. But most of the time, she would end up spitting the medicines, no matter the tricks we would employ.
I thought that enough was enough. Reading through some materials and asking around, I learned that allergies and immunity are interrelated. If our body’s immune system is down, we are more prone to allergy attacks when there are triggers (i.e. dust, pollen, smoke, smell of chemicals like paint or rugby, powder, etc. etc.)
We needed to find a way to boost Shawna’s immune system for better health.
Health Products
By boosting her immunity with supplements and super foods like malunggay capsules, Shawna became stronger and so our “rest periods” became longer.
However, we really wanted a good air purifier in the room. Living in a commercial area in Central Bacolod City, we have pollutants and dust 24/7. No matter how much you clean or hire professional home cleaning services, Shawna’s health cannot just catch up.
Even my husband is also developing allergies because of the constant exposure to allergens in our home. To keep our house meticulously clean would mean that we shouldn’t do anything but clean all day, every day. It’s just ridiculous!
We have bought many electric air purifiers of different forms and capacities, but after a while, they would give up. And maintenance can be tedious, like cleaning filters and all.
What is the Himalayan Salt Lamp
Himalayan salt lamps, according to many reading materials online, are made by simply placing a light bulb inside large chunks of the uniquely pink Himalayan salt. When lighted, the salt gives out a distinctive warming, orange glow when lit. Some say it’s pink, mine is orange. I think the kind of bulb used matters.
The pinkish Himalayan salt up close.
The genuine Himalayan salt lamps are made from the salt harvested from the Khewra Salt Mine in Pakistan. It is widely believed that the salt from this area is already millions of years old. While it’s chemical composition is similar to table salt, the minerals it contains give it a light pink tinge.
One Month with the Himalayan Salt Lamp
Last December, I got a 3.5-kg Himalayan Salt Lamp as a Christmas gift. Since our daughter has more allergy attacks than us, we decided to put the lamp inside the kid’s bedroom.
We went on a four-day New Year vacation at Cana Retreat in Negros Oriental and that was the only time we turned off the lamp. The salt melted or “sweated” a little bit because of the humidity.
That’s how much salt “melted” when we left the lamp off for 4 days. Make sure to put something under the lamp that catch the melted salt. But ever since we kept the lamp on, I no longer saw salt puddles on the saucer.
But ever since we came back home, the lamp has been kept on, even if we leave the house for a couple of days for events, and it remained dry. The salt won’t completely dissolve, as long as it won’t be submerged in water or exposed to too much moisture. That is why it lasts long so if you come to think of it, it’s quite cheap.
They say that keeping the light on all day increases its efficacy because the salt remains warm, does not melt, and it continues the purifying effect in the air. Don’t worry about the electricity harming your family budget, the light bulb for the lamp is only 10 watts.
The Himalayan salt lamp uses a 10-watt light bulb.
Anyway, I realized that throughout the month, we have not given Shawna medicine. If ever she sneezed, it would just go away. And if ever the sneeze develops into sniffles, I just rub some respiratory essential oil blends on her chest and back and she is good as new the following day.
I dunno if it matters regarding electric consumption, but you can adjust the brightness of the bulb.
Salt Lamp and Essential Oils
The essential oils have proven to be beneficial for our family because of its therapeutic effects for common ailments like my sciatica and back pains, carpal tunnel syndrome, migraines, stiff neck, and respiratory ailments.
And now, I am so happy that we have discovered the Himalayan salt lamp because these two have worked well together to bring health to our daughter. And now, hubby and I have a new lamp in our own room!
At more than a meter, the Young Living essential oils diffuser and the HImalayan salt lamp is still quite close to each other. But I don’t really have a choice because we have a small room.
But if you diffuse oils, it would be best to place the diffuser far away from the salt lamp. The diffuser throws moisture into the air, which could cause the salt to melt.
Update: Improved Sleep
The second Himalayan salt lamp that we have is in our bedroom. It has been two months now that we have kept it lighted. So far, aside from rhinitis, I have noticed that sleep quality has improved.
I am a light sleeper. Any little noise wakes me up and I have a hard time going back to sleep. Plus, from the time I sleep around 1am, I have to get up around four times until the morning comes because of my bladder. I keep peeing throughout the night.
But now, as soon as I hit slumber land, I don’t remember waking up anymore until morning. I really appreciate that because I am now at perimenopause and a good night’s rest surely helps in fighting anxiety and other emotional problems. I can say that the Himalayan salt lamp is an effective sleep aid, at least for me.
How do the Salt Lamps Work?
The Himalayan salt lamps are believed to be “natural ionizers,” which means that they change the electrical charge of the air circulating around the room.
To explain, ions are compounds that carry a charge because they have an unbalanced number of protons or electrons. They are produced naturally in the air when there are alterations occur in the atmosphere, such as the occurrence of waterfalls, storms, waves, natural radioactivity, and heat.
The Himalayan salt lamp is very easy to assemble. You just insert the bulb at the hole under the salt. Then position the wire by the groove of the stand so that the lamp will be balanced.
To replicate them, man has created air ionizers so that we can also have it anytime in our homes and offices.
When the Himalayan salt lamp is heated, they say that it produces negative ions and cleanses the air by attracting impurities.
Himalayan Salt Lamp Health Benefits
Here are the reported health benefits of the Himalayn salt lamp.
Improves the conditions of allergy, sinusitis, and asthma patients, even those with cystic fibrosis.
Can boost the mood and aid those who are suffering from depression.
Helps you relax and have a good night’s rest.
Reduces stress.
Boosts energy levels, probably because you get enough rest.
Here’s a short video I prepared about the Himalayan salt lamp in the kids’ bedroom.
Our Experience
When I first used the Himalayan salt lamp, I opened it, turned it on, and left it there. It was just on the whole time and didn’t mind it. It was only after a month that I realized that I was not able to give Cetirizine to Shawna. That is already very good for us and I hope this continues so that she can be cleansed from antihistamines.
Just peel off the plastic cover, install the light bulb, plug it in, and adjust brightness.
I am very happy that we have discovered the Himalayan salt lamp. It has improved our daughter’s health and coping mechanism to allergens. Hoping that Shawna will become stronger and no longer prone to coughs and colds due to allergies as she concentrates on her singing.
Pin this: Our family’s Himalayan salt lamp experience.
As for the sleep part, I am not very sure about that, as I also use a Snooze oil on the kids. But for the allergies, things have definitely lifted up around here.
Price
The Himalayan salt lamp is reasonably priced. In Bacolod, find the prices below:
3.5 kg – Php 1,800
2.75 kg – Php1,400
The Himalayan salt lamp kit comes with the salt with stand, the bulb, and power cord with dimmer control.
The price already includes the bulb. You can easily replace a busted light bulb with any 10-watt bulb. Shipping fees apply for orders outside Bacolod City.
For orders, contact Marie Jean Chua at 0923-1068224 or 0917-7172006
Follow their FB page: SaltofTheWorld
Contraindications
According to the pet website, wideopenpets.com, the Himalayan salt lamp may be potentially harmful to your beloved pet dogs and cats. But it’s not because of inhalation, but rather the risk of them licking the salt. Too much salt is not good for cats, as it may cause vomiting, diarrhea, seizures, lethargy, or even death.
If you can put the salt away from them, then they should be safe.
Read Similar Posts:
Protexin to Protect a Child from Travel Stress and a Bum Tummy
Teaching Kids About Grooming
Keeping Your Child's Hair Healthy
Field Trip for Kids to Visit an Eye Doctor
Free Activity Books for Kids from Nido 3+
Separate Beds: Ending Co-sleeping
Spread the love
79
7
86
Shares
January 27, 2019 March 12, 2019 Loving MamaWellnessallergic cough, allergy remedy, alternative medicine, alternative remedy, antihistamines, boost immunity, Cetirizine, essential oils, health benefits of Himalayan salt lamp, health benefits of Himalayan salt lamps, Himalayan salt lamp, Himalayan salt lamp health benefits, homeopathy, immunity, lamp, natural cures, night light, papa, perimenopause, rhinitis, salt of the earth, singing, sleep aid
33 thoughts on “Himalayan Salt Lamp in Our Bedroom | Health Benefits”
Julie Escalora
January 29, 2019 at 10:57 pm Reply
Wow mommy galing nman ng himalayan salt, lamp na rin pla sya,1 month lang po consume nyan? Bagay n bagay po yan sa mga anak ko para iwas sa sipon at ubo, kaya lang layo bacolod pa how much kya sf nyan😊
Loving Mama
January 30, 2019 at 1:16 am Reply
Mommy Julie, kahit 2 years na daw medyo malaki pa din ang salt, as long as it’s always lighted, kasi di natutunaw. I will ask the SF, kasi 3.5 kg din ito e. 🙂
BIANCA CAMILLE LOZANO
February 3, 2019 at 10:26 am Reply
Thanks for sharing Himalayan Lamp benefits Loving Mama.😊 Learned a lot.
Jordan Servilla
February 3, 2019 at 10:29 am Reply
Wow,! Amazing health benefits! I didn’t know that the Himalayan salt lamp can do all these things.
Angelie Namindang
February 3, 2019 at 10:56 am Reply
Wow!!! Himalayan Salt Lamp!!! Gara naman… Ngayon ko lang po narinig at nabasa na merun na pala nito.. Medyo pricey siya, pero kung good naman for the health.. Why not? plus shipping fee kasi medyo mabigat din tas for metro manila pa..
Hindi po ba siya malakas sa kuryente momshie? Syempre lage nakasaksak po siya..
Loving Mama
February 3, 2019 at 8:49 pm Reply
Hi moms! Worth it sya kasi pang matagalan and ang na save namin sa medicines, sobra2 pa. YUng shipping lang di ako sure. Mga 3.5 kilos kasi. siguro nasa P300. Di malakat sa kuryente. maliit na bulb lang. 24 hours on samin 🙂
Imelda Palad
February 3, 2019 at 11:09 am Reply
Wow! What a very informative and well detailed article about the Himalayan Salt Lamp…Sobrang dami palang health benefits ng lamp na’to at hindi lang pala for decoration purposes, I really learned a lot from this article…Thank you so much po 😊
Arriane barrera
February 3, 2019 at 11:10 am Reply
Sana matry ko din ang Himalayan salt lamp. Mtry kung effective tlg. Sigurado laking help dn Neto for my family
Imelda Palad
February 3, 2019 at 11:15 am Reply
Wow! What a very informative and well detailed article about the Himalayan Salt Lamp…Napakarami pala talagang health benefits ng lamp na ito at hindi lang for decoration purposes, I really learned a lot from this article…Thank you so much po 😊
pchi peach
February 3, 2019 at 11:29 am Reply
Akala ko display lang sya. un pla madami din nagagwa ang Himalayan salt lamp. Sbi din nila maglagay ng isang baso ng tubig na may asin sa loob ng bahay dhil meron din syang benefits sa health ng tao. prang same pala sila.
Loving Mama
February 3, 2019 at 8:42 pm Reply
Maybe moms, magaling talaga ang salt sa health natin–wag lang sobra na intake. I haven’t heard about the salt in a glass of water. All I know is that maganda ang sea breeze sa katawan natin. 🙂 The lamp kind of simulates the effect.
Jhenny Cleofas
February 3, 2019 at 1:37 pm Reply
Wow gusto ko rin po magkaroon neto himalayan salt lamp, super effective dw po nito tlga saka matagal dw po buhay neto, ngtingin ako neto sa mall sbi nla almost 5yrs dw bsta lagi naka lights on
Loving Mama
February 3, 2019 at 8:39 pm Reply
Yes sis try mo. 🙂 Just make sure authentic ang source. Siguro nga aabot ng 5 years. Yung light lang, might need replacement pag naging busted. Pero ang Himalayan salt lamp? Super worth it kasi pang matagalan. One-time expense lang and di naman sya mahal.
Jenelyn Cardoza
February 3, 2019 at 1:59 pm Reply
Thanks for sharing about the Himalayan salt lamp. This is very helpful..
Ana Silva
February 3, 2019 at 2:01 pm Reply
I have heard so much about himalayan salt lamp and i am wondering how much it is. I feel like we needed this one also.
Loving Mama
February 3, 2019 at 8:37 pm Reply
Mommy, di ba your daughter has allergies? May rhinitis ba? So far, this is good for Shawna. Sya kasi ang pinaka sensitive samin.
Jennifer Londe
February 3, 2019 at 2:49 pm Reply
WOw ang ganda nman ng himalayan salt lamp. Sakto sa panahon ngayon na madaming virus na lumalabas mommy. para iwas sakit sa mga anak natIn.
Loving Mama
February 3, 2019 at 8:35 pm Reply
So true mommy. Effective talaga sya, especially sa eldest ko. So happy that I have discovered the Himalayan salt lamp!
Jasmin
February 3, 2019 at 2:51 pm Reply
Wow. Maganda sana to i-try ang Himalayan salt lamp for the family’s health. kaya lang la pa budget….
Loving Mama
February 3, 2019 at 8:34 pm Reply
Ipon tayo mommy. Worth it talaga sya kasi we didn’t have to buy allergy, cough and cold medications pa. And wala pang effort. 🙂
Divine labbuanan-cabral
February 3, 2019 at 8:25 pm Reply
Woooowwww!!! Ang dami palang benefits neto… must have the Himalayan salt lamp a!!!
jenlynolasco
February 3, 2019 at 9:06 pm Reply
Must have ang Himalayan Salt Lamp. Lalo na ngayong napapanahon at maraming virus ang nagkalat.
Loving Mama
February 3, 2019 at 10:15 pm Reply
I agree. For those families na may allergy and asthma, the Himalayan salt lamp is really good. Mag 2 months na hindi naka take ng Cetirizine ang eldest daughter namin. 🙂
Jen Let
February 3, 2019 at 9:17 pm Reply
Wow daming health benefits ng Himalayan Salt Lamp. sana mag karoon ako nyan lalo mga anak ko sakitin…Dami pa namang virus ang nag kalat.
Loving Mama
February 3, 2019 at 10:17 pm Reply
True mommy. The initial investment of P1800 is so easy, as compared sa P2000 na puros sa botika lang napupunta kaka bili ng meds for cough and colds. Plus, di pa damaging sa system ng kids, giving them prescription medicines.
Stella Sesuca Velasco
February 4, 2019 at 5:35 am Reply
Wow salamat sa info madam I badly need that for us especially to my son na palaging hinihika, sana makaipon ako ng pera para makabili sna sa metro manila may mabilhan din, kse sf pa lang malaki na,
Thanks madam sa post nyo madami nko naririnig at pari nga un himalayan bracelet pro mahal din eh. Pro mas gusto ko ito unahing pag ipunan para sa aming ng pamilya ko.
Stella Sesuca Velasco
February 4, 2019 at 5:43 am Reply
Sabagay tama po kayo, sa dami ng binibili naming gamot, pag ipunan ko talaga ito madam para makabili na ako ng Himalayan salt lamp soon.
Fb name Sesuca Stella
Queenie Mance
February 4, 2019 at 8:33 am Reply
Wow sa Himalayan salt lamp na ito hindi lang sya basta lamp ang daming benefits lalo na sa mga may allergy at asthma patients, nakkarelax din sya dahil sa ion na narerelease nya. FB Queenie Mance
Emilyn S. Cañares
February 4, 2019 at 9:51 am Reply
Ok pala sya. Madami akong kakilala na bumibili ng Himalayan salt lamp, pinagiipunan nga lang hehehe.
Sherry ann gole cruz
February 4, 2019 at 10:00 am Reply
I really wanted to buy this Himalayan salt lamp because i’m really curious on how it can be beneficial to my family especially the virus nowadays can affect easily our health
Fb:sherry ann gole cruz
Mylene Onibmal
February 4, 2019 at 12:50 pm Reply
Thanks for sharing about the Himalayan salt Lamp benefits. i learned a lot that it’s really helpful to us
Allan Reyes
February 4, 2019 at 9:09 pm Reply
Very informative. I didn’t know that the Himalayan salt lamp has a lot of benefits!
Loving Mama
February 5, 2019 at 10:00 am Reply
Yes it does. That is why the cost of P1,400 or P1,800 for the different sizes of the Himalayan salt lamp is totally worth it. It will last for years anyway. 🙂
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
you MUST enable javascript to be able to comment
Post navigation
Previous Post Cha Misua | Chinese Birthday Misua Recipe
Next Post DIY Chinese New Year Field Trip for Homeschooling Kids
Subscribe via Email
Enter your email address:
Delivered by FeedBurner
Search Lovingly Mama
Search for:
Sponsored Links
Like Us on Facebook
Mommy Sigrid - Lovingly Mama
About The Blogger
Sigrid – Bacolod Blogger
Sigrid is a work at home mom and Bacolod mommy blogger who tries to juggle taking care of the kids, homeschooling in Bacolod, covering events, designing, writing, family travel, and blogging. After finishing her degree in Mass Communications from the University of St. La Salle, she went on to become a newswriter for a local daily and eventually pursued a career in advertising as copywriter and graphics designer. After her stint in the corporate world, she became a freelance writer, contributing to national and international publications covering a variety of topics. She was a contributing food writer to COOK Magazine before she became a food and mommy blogger.
Follow Lovingly Mama
Parenting and Family Blog
Lovingly Mama– Bacolod mommy blogger – This parenting and family blog accepts product features, sponsorships, blog collaborations, monthly advertising, and paid posting. If you would like to be featured or to advertise here, please email Sigrid Lo at sigroid75@gmail.com
Recent
Healthy Options Bacolod | Mom’s Top Health Picks for the Family
Traveling with a Pet: How Can a Family Do It?
Shane Finishes Kinder at Bright Kids Preschool Bacolod
A Better Healthcare System for Filipinos for a Progressive Philippines
Our Balsa River Cruise in Ilog Experience
Mermaids in Boracay Newcoast Summer Pictorial| Savoy Hotel Boracay
Dino Play by The Mind Museum Opens at Ayala Malls Capitol Central
Moms Dig Fit Flop and the Primer Crazy Sale
Promoting Healthy Digestion in Children with Probiotics
Delfin Ledesma Ancestral House with Pool | Silay Airbnb
Proud Member
Awards and Recognitions
What Do You Want To Read About?
bacolod city Bacolod preschool breastfeeding Bright Kids Preschool christmas family travel health homeschooling homeschooling in Bacolod homeschooling in the Philippines money Philippines SM City Bacolod swimming teaching kids The District North Point toys Unilab
Load More...Follow on Instagram
Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Anissa by AlienWP.