"Oil Pulling"... for better or for worse? - Toys on the floor toysonthefloor, toys on the floor, Mary Cutler, blog, mommy
Toys on the floor
Home
❤ Our Blog ❤
Spiritual and Uplifting
About Us
Contact
"Oil Pulling"... for better or for worse?
2/16/2015
0 Comments
I had no idea oil pulling was so popular until after I did more research after trying it. The woman who got me started was a fellow blogger named Trina Holden, with her post Healing Cavities (A True “We’ve-Done-It!” Story!). I was super excited! It's said to be ultra safe, detoxing, cures cavities and can even replace toothbrushing and flossing if you ask anyone besides the media and dentists, so I'm giving it a shot.
What is oil pulling? Its basically swishing coconut oil (or olive or sesame oil) in you mouth for a max of 20 minutes and then spitting it out. Pretty basic and easy to do once you get over the "gross" factor. Trina has her "Oil Pulling FAQs" here.
Hows it going so far? Well, not as I imagined. All you find plastered all over the web are nothing about the miracle cures and miraculous benefits. Night #1, I went hardcore and went through the full 20 minutes! Then I read it's best to do it in the morning, so I did 10 minutes first thing waking up. Both times, my teeth were sooooo smooth and felt so clean! But I kept thinking about my teeth and then wondered why I kept thinking about my teeth. They hurt. Oil pulling is suppose to cure sensitive teeth, not create them! By the end of the day they were killing me, but felt better after dinner. I asked my sister in law about it who knew about oil pulling and she was super confused about it and had never heard anything like it and says it was suppose to help it. I even got a light headache during the evening from it. I looked all over the web, and all the articles seemed to either say "miracle cure!" or "hoax! It's dangerous because it doesn't make any sense!".
As I continued to try to find ANYTHING to explain to me why on earth my teeth felt so tender and like they were going to fall out of my mouth I found this thread from curezone.org, of people having the exact same problem. Click here to see the thread. For some people, the sensitivity happened right away, and others, after several months. Many people really want to go through with oil pulling, an ancient practice from India, but just can't go through with it because their teeth hurt so darn much! Why? That's the scary thing, there's no concrete answer, only speculations. One person says that the detoxing might actually detox the good things from your body as well as the bad (hows do you control what the oil takes from your body? How does the oil or you decide?), and that if your not eating right (a mineral rich diet), it might be detrimental for the health of your teeth, and thus, why they hurt. If your body is giving you hints that something isn't good, it might be best to take breaks or not do it at all. For me, I felt like my body was telling me it was too much, and before I had done the 10 minutes for the next time within 24 hours, felt like my body was saying, "space it out! 10 minutes max, and no more than every three days!". Yes, your body speaks to you if you, it's important to listen to it. If your so out of touch with your body that you can't tell when it gives you warning signs, learn or don't try "experimental health practices".
For me, I'm going to try 10 minutes every three days and take my Greener Grasses supplement. I admit I'm not the healthiest eater, and I don't want it sucking what good nutrients I have in me that I do have. I'm breastfeeding and am not going to fool around with something that isn't good for me. If it still hurts after doing it every three days for 10 minutes at a time, I'm quitting OP (oil pulling). I'll post with an update below on what happens ;)
0 Comments
Leave a Reply.
Ms. Mary
Just one of those average amazing moms... Cause you know, mommy = amazing.
Archives
January 2017
December 2016
August 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
June 2014
May 2014
Powered by Create your own unique website with customizable templates.
Get Started