HIV Transmission Risk
FAQs Patient Login
Call Now to Book 000 800 1009 607 Lines are open 24/7 Or call our UK number +44 (0)207 099 0955
Better2Know
Contact Better2Know
000 800 1009 607
Lines are open 24/7. Click to call.
Or click to Book Online now
Home
Find Clinics
STI Info
What if I test positive?
Chlamydia Testing
Gonorrhoea Testing
Syphilis Testing
Herpes Testing
Hepatitis A Testing
Hepatitis B Testing
Hepatitis C Testing
Hepatitis E Testing
HPV & Genital Warts
Cervical Cancer
Torch Panel
HIV
10 Day HIV RNA PCR Testing
28 Day HIV DUO Testing
90 Day HIV Antibody Testing
HIV Certificate
HIV Testing - FAQs
HIV Symptoms
HIV Testing Locations
HIV Consent
HIV Consent Video
HIV Transmission
HIV India Statistics
STI Tests
Choose my STD test
Which STD test is right for me?
STI Screens
STI Tests
Counselling
Prices
Book Now
Book an Appointment
Book an appointment with a doctor at one of our 115 clinics across the UK.
For an appointment today, please call us using the number above, otherwise you can use our Book Online tool by clicking below.
Book an Appointment »
HIV Transmission
Home / HIV / HIV Transmission
HIV can be transmitted from an infected person in the following ways:
Bodily fluids
Many body fluids can transmit HIV. These are:
Blood
Semen and pre-seminal fluid (pre-cum)
Vaginal secretions
Breast milk
HIV cannot be transmitted in:
Saliva
Urine
Tears
Sweat
Faeces
The virus can be transmitted from one person who is already infected to another through sexual intercourse (vaginal, oral or anal intercourse) or non-sexually (such as through sharing needles).
Different ways of sexually transmitting HIV
Vaginal Sex
Anal Sex
Oral Sex
If an infected man has unprotected vaginal sex with a woman (which includes not using a condom) he can pass on the virus to her through the lining of the cervix, uterus and womb. If she has any cuts or sores (which may not even be visible) then the risk of transmission is higher as it makes it easier for the virus to get into the bloodstream. If an infected woman has unprotected vaginal intercourse with a man, she can transmit the virus to him through either a sore or cut on his penis, his urethra or the inside of his foreskin.
Anal sex has a higher risk of transmission than vaginal sex as the membrane (lining) of the anus is thinner and more delicate and so it is more likely to tear. For both vaginal and anal sex the receptive partner is at a higher risk of contracting any STI than the giving partner.
Oral sex is low risk for contracting and transmitting HIV. This is because saliva has enzymes which break down the virus, and because the lining of the mouth is tougher than the vagina or anus. There is a theoretical risk of transmission if sexual fluids come into contact with sores or ulcers in the mouth or if blood from the mouth comes into contact with any genital sores.
If you already have an STD or STI (Sexually Transmitted Infection) then your risk of getting another one, including HIV, is higher. There is also a higher risk if there is any blood present (such as during a woman's period or due to any cuts).
Non-sexual transmission
HIV can be transmitted in the following ways without sexual intercourse:
Sharing needles
Mother to child
Blood transfusions
Accidents involving blood
Tattoos or piercings
Sharing needles is a very high risk activity for many blood borne viruses as needles are an efficient way for one person's blood to enter another person's blood stream.
Mothers can transmit many STIs, including HIV, to their newborns during pregnancy, during the birth or by breastfeeding. If healthcare professionals know that the mother has HIV then there are drugs which can reduce the risk of transmission of these STIs significantly if a mother knows her status early enough in the pregnancy.
It is rare to contract the HIV virus through a blood transfusion when the blood or blood products have been thoroughly screened for any viruses. Transfusions in developed countries are routinely screened. In countries where blood supplies are not routinely screened blood transfusion poses a high risk for transmission.
Healthcare workers can become infected with the virus through a needle stick injury or by coming into any contact with infected blood or body fluids.
If tattoo equipment has been used on someone with the virus and has not been properly sterilized afterwards, there is a risk of transmission.
HIV
10 Day HIV RNA PCR Testing
28 Day HIV DUO Testing
90 Day HIV Antibody Testing
HIV Certificate
HIV Testing - FAQs
HIV Symptoms
HIV Testing Locations
HIV Consent
HIV Consent Video
HIV Transmission
HIV India Statistics
Services
Find a Clinic Near You
Book Online Now
Find a Clinic Near You
Find a Clinic Near You:
Here to Help
STI Info
Contact Us
Book an Appointment
About Better2Know
Company Information
Terms & Conditions
Confidentiality Policy
Privacy Policy
Site Map
Our Medical Director
Dr. Catherine Beech
M.B. Ch.B. OBE.
Better2Know is Proud to Support
Trusted by Our Customers
(2293)
Excellent
87%
Great
6%
Very Good
4%
Good
1%
Poor
2%
Better2Know
Better2Know Ltd is certified to the International Quality Standard ISO 9001:2015.
Copyright © 2019 Better2Know Ltd. All rights reserved.