How Long to Lower Triglycerides With Fish Oil? | Healthfully
x
healthfully
Search Glass
Diseases and Injuries
Family Health
Nutrition
Weight Management
Appearance
Mayo Clinic Triglyceride Diet
Foods to Eat to Increase Your HDL Cholesterol
How to Increase HDL Cholesterol Naturally
Beer & Triglycerides
Does Brown Rice Raise Triglycerides?
The Connection Between Vitamin D, Diabetes and Triglycerides
How Long to Lower Triglycerides With Fish Oil?
By Janet Renee, MS, RD ; Updated July 27, 2017
Related Articles
Mayo Clinic Triglyceride Diet
Foods to Eat to Increase Your HDL Cholesterol
How to Increase HDL Cholesterol Naturally
Beer & Triglycerides
Taking a therapeutic dose of fish oil under your doctor's supervision lowers your triglycerides in as little as month. This is because fish oil contains two heart-healthy polyunsaturated omega-3 fatty acids, EPA and DHA, which not only help lower triglycerides, but also reduce arterial plaque and improve the health of your arteries. Fish oil is used along with diet and lifestyle changes to bring triglycerides into a healthy range. Obtain the guidance of your health care provider before taking fish oil to treat high triglycerides.
Triglycerides 101
Triglycerides are the most common type of fat in your body, and many of the fats in your diet are in the form of triglycerides. In addition, your body converts excess calories, sugar and alcohol to triglycerides and stores them as fat. It's crucial to keep your triglycerides in a healthy range. A normal triglyceride level is under 150 milligrams per deciliter. Levels between 151 and 200 milligrams per deciliter are considered borderline high. Having levels above 200 milligrams per deciliter increases your risk for heart attack and stroke.
Fish Oil Triglyceride-Lowering Capacity
The triglyceride-lowering properties of fish are well-documented. Based on previous clinical data, fish oil lowers triglycerides on average 25 to 50 percent after just one month of taking a therapeutic dose, according to a review published in the May 2012 edition of the journal Molecular and Cell Biology of Lipids. The authors assert that the primary way fish oil reduces triglycerides is by lowering the amount your liver produces. Increasing the amount of bad fats your body eliminates is a secondary way fish oil reduces triglycerides, according to the authors.
Influence of Diet
It's particularly necessary to make dietary changes to manage your triglycerides levels long term. A diet rich in simple sugars is a major contributor to high triglycerides, and this includes sugary beverages. In fact, sugary beverages alone increase the risk of elevated triglycerides, according to a study of over 42,000 men published in the April 2012 edition of the journal Circulation. Swap out simple sugars like those in candy, cookies, potato chips, pizza, muffins and other pastries with healthier options like fresh fruit; low-sugar, reduced-fat yogurt; whole oats; whole-grain pasta; and brown rice.
Other Ways to Improve Triglycerides
Being overweight is a risk factor for high triglycerides, so work with your doctor to get your weight into a healthy range. Reducing the number of calories you eat and eating smaller portions is a good place to start. Lack of exercise is another risk factor. Getting physical activity helps your body use triglycerides, so aim to get at least 30 minutes of exercise most days of the week. Start with walking if you're not used to exercise. Walking is a gentle way to get exercise and a good way to get outdoors.
Video of the Day
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
References
Cleveland Clinic: Triglycerides
Biochemica et Biophysica Acta: Fish Oil -- How Does It Reduce Plasma Triglycerides?
Circulation: Sweetened Beverage Consumption, Incident Coronary Heart Disease, and Biomarkers of Risk in Men
University of Maryland Medical Center: Eicosapentaenoic Acid
About the Author
Janet Renee is a clinical dietitian with a special interest in weight management, sports dietetics, medical nutrition therapy and diet trends. She earned her Master of Science in nutrition from the University of Chicago and has contributed to health and wellness magazines, including Prevention, Self, Shape and Cooking Light.
More Related Articles
How to Unclog Veins & Arteries
Does Folic Acid Help Reduce Cholesterol?
The Difference Between Triglycerides and Blood Sugar
Related Articles
The Connection Between Vitamin D, Diabetes and Triglycerides
Read More
How to Reduce Serum Triglycerides
Read More
Get Fit!
Try our healthfully BMI and weight loss calculator!
Peanuts & Triglycerides
Read More
Peanut Butter & Triglycerides
Read More
About Us
Advertise
Contact Us
Copyright Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of the HEALTHFULLY.COM Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. The material appearing on HEALTHFULLY.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. HEALTHFULLY.COM does not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the website.