Taking medication Note: What medicines do not match grapefruit? - Zhejiang Tianlong Capsule Co.,Ltd
Gel Capsules Manufacturers,Capsule Shells Supplies,Vegetable Capsules Wholesalers
+86-575-86780330 tianlong@tljn.com
简体中文
Home
About Us
Company Profile
Corporate Culture
Sales Platform
Honour
Products
News
Company News
Industry News
FAQ
QUALITY
Production Process
Capsule Structure
Contact Us
Home / News / Industry News / Taking medication Note: What medicines do not match grapefruit?
news
Company News
Industry News
Taking medication Note: What medicines do not match grapefruit?
Update:19-01-2019
Summary:
The active ingredient in grapefruit can inhibit the act […]
The active ingredient in grapefruit can inhibit the activity of liver drug enzymes, and many drugs need to be excreted by the metabolism of liver drug enzymes. If you take this kind of medicine and eat grapefruit at the same time, the medicine can not be metabolized and accumulate in the body, which may cause too much effect, affect treatment, and even have adverse reactions.
What are the specific medicines and grapefruits that are not as follows?
Lipid-lowering drugs: If you eat grapefruit during the lipid-lowering drugs such as atorvastatin, lovastatin, and simvastatin, the patient may have muscle pain and rhabdomyolysis, and acute kidney failure may occur in severe cases.
Antihypertensive drugs: Since grapefruit itself also has antihypertensive effect, it can also increase the blood concentration of antihypertensive drugs. When taking antihypertensive drugs such as nifedipine, nimodipine, and verapamil, eat grapefruit or drink grapefruit. Juice, like overdose, causes a sudden drop in blood pressure, which can cause dizziness, palpitation, fatigue, and angina, myocardial infarction, or stroke.
Sedative sleeping pills: Grapefruit will increase the possibility of dizziness and drowsiness caused by drugs such as diazepam (diazepam) and midazolam. Special attention should be paid during the use of drugs by high-altitude workers and drivers.
www.tljn.com
PREV: How to identify fake drugs? (4) NEXT: Taking medication Note: What medicines do not match grapefruit?
For more than 30 years, the company has always adhered to the principle of “Integrity to expand the market, promote development through science and technology, strive for survival through quality, and increase efficiency through management”.
PRODUCT CATEGORIES
Gel Capsule
Gelatin Hollow Capsules
Capsule Shells
Vegetable Capsules
Empty Hard Gelatin Capsule
Pullulan Capsules
HPMC Capsule
Company Info
mandy@tlcapsule.com
86-575-86932977　86-575-86780330
+86 13600630777 (Mandy)
+86-18858565199（Shine）
86-575-86060447
tianlong@tljn.com
Follow Us
© Zhejiang Tianlong Capsule Co.,Ltd All Rights Reserved. Web support by :HWAQ