Healing Tips After Wisdom Teeth Removal (Must Read Or Lose Teeth)
Menu
Health
Treatments
Fat
Food & Nutrition
Follow
no comments
Share Tweet Share Pin it Share Stumble Email
Home
Health
Dental
Healing Tips After Wisdom Teeth Removal
Healing Tips After Wisdom Teeth Removal
Dental By CatchyScoop Team
Table of Contents
1 After Wisdom Teeth Removal
2 Immediate Care After Surgery
3 Gradual Care After Surgery
4 Recommendations By The Dentist
5 What To Do When Symptoms Call?
After Wisdom Teeth Removal
Pain, swelling and discomfort are considered normal after wisdom teeth removal. However, it will be wise of you to take steps in order to avoid any complications. The care and maintenance after wisdom teeth removal surgery is of utmost importance. According to Dr. Joseph Arzadon, it takes approximately 3-4 days for wisdom teeth recovery, however, depending upon how bad the impaction was it can take longer than this. (1)
Through this article, you will get to know some healing tips after wisdom tooth removal and all the things you can do to avoid minor symptoms, and in case some occur, we have also illustrated points to help tackle them. All of this you will find under the following headings.
Immediate Care After Surgery
1. The gauze placed on the operated area must be kept at its place for at least half an hour. After the required time, remove the gauze pad.
2. The blood clot formed on the wounded area may get dislodged due to frequent rinsing or touching it resulting in bleeding.
3. As the effect of anesthesia begins to fade, you will start feeling the discomfort. In this case, take the prescribed pain relieving drugs without waiting for pain to get worse. (2)
4. To reduce the swelling apply ice pack externally on the side of removed tooth.
Gradual Care After Surgery
No alcohol after wisdom teeth removal. Img by Catchyscoop.com
1. Avoid taking solid foods, alcohol, hot beverages for the first few days after surgery just as a precaution, so that you do not dislodge the blood clot. In fact, you must avoid brushing your teeth on the very first day of recovery. (3)
2. Plan on taking it easy for a few days. You don’t want to ruin your recovery by any mere incident. Slow down your activities and gradually start all over again.
3. You can start brushing your teeth gently and strictly follow all the instructions given by your dentist regarding oral hygiene.
Recommendations By The Dentist
Further in this article we are about to discuss what an oral health expert recommends to patients after wisdom teeth removal surgery. What diet should they follow, how are they supposed to maintain their oral hygiene, and what role does antibiotics play in the recovery. All these questions are answered step by step.
1. DIET : Immediately after surgery, for at least half an hour, nothing should be taken orally as the gauze pad is placed on the operated area. Following this, initially only liquids are recommended that too the patient is advised to drink water from the glass directly. Avoid the straw no matter what, because the wound is fresh, and the sucking motion would cause bleeding.
High protein intake is very important. You can take anything which is soft and chewy, just chew away from the surgical site. Fluids are of utmost importance not only initially but later too, they prevent dehydration. Besides, for the first few days solid food will be limited which you should and must compensate with increased fluid intake.
2. ORAL HYGIENE : As said above, avoid vigorous rinsing on the day of surgery. You are allowed to brush your teeth gently after the first recovery day. And adding to this, start rinsing your mouth at least 5-6 times a day with warm water mixed with a little salt. This process would help you keep your mouth clean and healthy by avoiding bacterial growth. (4)
3. ANTIBIOTICS : It is very important for you to follow the dosage given to you as directed by your dentist. If you are placed on antibiotics make sure you don’t miss a dose. These will help you to fight present infection and reduce the chance of further infection. (5)
What To Do When Symptoms Call?
woman at home after pulling teeth. Image by CatchyScoop.Com
Many patients get terrified on the occurrence of any symptoms. But actually it is a very normal phenomena to encounter after wisdom teeth removal surgery. Further in this article, we will explain to you on how you can tackle the most common symptoms after your surgery.
1. BLEEDING : A certain amount of bleeding in saliva or oozing of blood are expected to follow after surgery and it is not anything to be worried about.
If excessive bleeding occurs, here’s what you can do to stop the bleeding : rinse your mouth then take a clean gauze pad and place over the area that is bleeding, to quicken the healing bite the gauze pad firmly. If the bleeding still persists, gently wipe away the clot if formed any and bite similarly on a moistened tea bag this time. It helps in constricting the blood vessels.
2. SWELLING : A normal phenomena following surgery and sign of gradual repair. It can occur on face, cheeks, eyes, mouth. The swelling however can be minimized by simply applying the ice pack on affected area. If swelling or jaw stiffness still persists, there is no need to be alarmed, this is a normal reaction to surgery, and will decline all by itself.
3. DISCOLORATION : It means bruising, which is absolutely normal. Only advice for this symptom is just to avoid going out in sun. It can take up to 14 days to vanish completely, but as we said there is no need to be alarmed about it.
4. NAUSEA AND VOMITING : Commonly occurs as a side effect of intravenous sedation or oral pain medicines. If you experience such a symptom, do not take anything from mouth for at least one hour, even the pain medication is to be avoided. To get rid of nausea you can sip tea, coke, or ginger ale slowly. Sip till 15 minutes and once the nausea subsides, you can begin taking food and medicines. If the issue does not resolve, contact your dentist.
The recovery period can take few days to several days time, all depends on your surgery. And swelling and pain may persist in some cases. We advice you to not panic on such occurrences and be patient. These are normal reactions to surgery.
If you feel you are being affected abnormally, and you are unable to cope with these symptoms, then your dentist is just a call away, you can always seek help. Other than that, if you want a quick healing, the things mentioned above should be kept in mind and followed with dedication.
We hope this article provided you some useful information about what to do after wisdom teeth removal. Happy healing!
Jul 25, 2017 CatchyScoop Team
Related posts:
What To Eat After Tooth Extraction?
Why Smoking After Tooth Extraction is a NO! NO!
Related Posts
How to Cook Cabbage – From Picking ,Preparation to Cooking
CatchyScoop Team
How To Cook Fennel – From Preparing to Cooking Most Popular Recipes
CatchyScoop Team
Reply
Cancel reply
About Author
CatchyScoop Team
CatchyScoop.com is built by a team of different people , from different patches of life , to write with passion & provide the best-researched information pieces to our audiences . We hope you enjoy your time here and we're looking for all kind of feedbacks :) .
Related Posts
Where To Buy Fennel Seeds in US , Singapore & …
Where to buy bone broth ?
How To Store Leeks – Best Ways You Should Know
How Many Carbs In Cabbage ?And Some Easy Ways To …
Chin Reduction Surgery
Carbs in Apricots & Must-Know Apricots Health Benefits
Best Facelift Without Surgery Methods (4 Methods Inside )
Storing Cherry Tomatoes : The Best Ways To Preserve Tomatoes
Where To Buy Blueberry Bushes
Fried Brussels Sprouts Health Benefits & How To Cook It
As seen on
Site Map
HomePage
About Us
Privacy Policy
Amazon Affiliate Disclosure
Contact Us
Catchy Scoop , The Real Thing. Copyright © 2019.