Fish Oil and Cholesterol: What Effect and Does it Even Matter?
Fish Oil and Cholesterol
Before looking at the subject of fish oil and cholesterol, please know the cholesterol facts. Numerous scientific studies and even simple logic indicate that the epidemic of heart disease is not related to our cholesterol intake or blood levels. Consider the Good, the Bad and the Ugly of the topic of fish oil and cholesterol.
Fish oil will help and it does matter, but not in a way that you would imagine.
The Good
Fish Oil helps our bodies in several ways.
It increases the good HDL cholesterol
Lowers the non-HDL cholesterol
Lowers blood triglycerides (fat levels in the blood)
Reduces the risk of arrhythmia's (for some and in some cases)
Studies suggest it boosts glutathione levels
Reduces inflammation
The evidence points to the problem being the imprudent and overindulgent intake of pro-inflammatory omega-6 fatty acids. People still die from heart disease even with low cholesterol levels. Studies show that women actually need higher levels to maintain health than was previously thought.
In spite of the medical profession obsession with cholesterol levels, other levels are more effective at reducing the risk of heart attack.
Other Indicators Or Heart Disease Risk
Triglyceride levels
Platelet aggregation
Risk factors for arrhythmia's
The fish oil and cholesterol connection is not as important as the protection fish oil gives for other heart disease risk factors. Evidence shows that fish oil reduces the above risks.
The Bad
The cause of the problem is multifaceted. One dietary imbalance is the intake and exposure to toxic chemicals, preservatives, food dies and plastics leeching into the foods we eat.
Equally guilty of damaging our heart health is the pro-inflammatory omega-6 fatty acids.
On the bad list is...
Corn Oil
Soy oil
Safflower oil
Cottonseed oil
Canola oil
processed sugars
corn syrup
processed corn products
processed grain products
Trams Fats from hydrogenated oils
In Future Cardiology, the (They Don’t Want You to Know) Doctors looking at the science submitted a paper for publication: Delayed and indirect effects of antiarrhythmic drugs in reducing sudden cardiac death. Think of the study as: Drugs vs Fish Oil Future Cardiol. 2011 Mar;7(2):203-17.
In the Abstract the research indicated that two-thirds of sudden cardiac deaths were the result of sustained ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation. This is when lower chambers of the heart are moving fast but not actually pumping blood efficiently if at all.
The solution, implantable defibrillators or ICD’s have result in decreased deaths. Yet they do not stop the arrhythmia's. Enter the anti-arrhythmia drugs.
The types of medicines used depend on what is or has happened to the heart up to the time of prescribing the drugs. Some have a beneficial effect, some have a neutral effect and as the paper said, "while other class III drugs may increase mortality in certain subgroups of patients."
Then the paper referred to drugs that are not classified as anti-arrhythmia drugs or AAD’s. These can also prevent arrhythmia’ because they have a beneficial effect on cardiovascular remodeling.
It went on to say that the non-anti-arrhythmia drugs have both a delayed and indirect positive effect. And what was one of the non-drugs? Fish Oil.
The paper also spoke of the less than desirable effects of primary drugs because they can cause the thing they are supposed to prevent as well as the adverse side effects.
The fish oil was well tolerated there were no proarrhythmic complications.
It concluded that the benefit could outweigh the risks.
What risks? Fish oil, although having a number of benefits, does not work for everyone.
The Fish Oil and Cholesterol Ugly
Unfortunately, not all cardiologists are on board with this treatment modality. Because there is not a consensus on the use of fish oil, let alone on the subject of fish oil and cholesterol, it would be unwise to stop taking any medication with out having the guidance of a doctor.
Do not change your medication or start anything new with out first consulting with your doctor. If your doctor is not progressive in the use of complimentary alternative modalities, then consider finding one who is.
An even better step you can take is avoid the bad foods and improve your diet to have more of the good or heart healthy foods. If you are looking at fish oil LDL cholesterol, fish oil HDL or heart disease risk, then the important thing is to become an informed consumer.
Additionally, take steps to naturally boost glutathione levels in your body. This is perhaps the simplest heart healthy thing you can do.
More on Cholesterol
Boost Your Glutathione
Go to GlutathioneDiseaseCure.com Home
Lets Connect
Let The Sun Shine
Let us know what you would like to see next? Click here and fill out the form.
Need To Know
The Way to Make More GSH For Free
Glutathione has a high affinity for water. Simply put, if we are dehydrated our bodies may not make as much as they could. Or, what we do make may be less effective.
Usually there is something more than just being dehydrated. Often there is a condition called fluid and electrolyte imbalance, less than bodies needs. There is a simple, easy and inexpensive way to correct this, allowing your body to produce even more GSH.
The Water Cures Protocol really works. Give it a try today.
It is simple, easy, sustainable and affordable (the salt should cost less than $10 a year).
And like GSH, it will help with over 76 different diseases and conditions.
What are you waiting for? Go check it out