Does Drinking Grapefruit Juice Make Lortab Hit You Faster? | Healthfully
x
healthfully
Search Glass
Diseases and Injuries
Family Health
Nutrition
Weight Management
Appearance
Does Grapefruit Interfere With Amlodipine?
Most Common Benzodiazepine Prescriptions
List of Opiate Prescriptions
Caffeine Content in One Cup of Coffee Vs. One Shot of Espresso
Burdock Root Side Effects
Vodka & Grapefruit Calories
Does Drinking Grapefruit Juice Make Lortab Hit You Faster?
By Joseph McAllister
Related Articles
Does Grapefruit Interfere With Amlodipine?
Most Common Benzodiazepine Prescriptions
List of Opiate Prescriptions
Caffeine Content in One Cup of Coffee Vs. One Shot of Espresso
Lortab, a narcotic pain medication that contains both acetaminophen and hydrocodone, may sometimes be absorbed faster when you drink grapefruit juice. However, grapefruit juice is usually not likely to interact with Lortab; it is more likely to interact with medications prescribed for heart problems. Discuss drug interactions with your doctor.
Grapefruit Juice and Medication
Grapefruit juice can sometimes interact with certain medications, because it can change some of the reactions of enzymes in your digestive tract, notes the American Pharmacists Association. This can make the medicine enter your system more quickly, making you more likely to experience the medication’s side effects. Not all medications are affected by grapefruit juice, and other juices do not generally interact with medicines. Grapefruit juice can interact with your medications for up to three days after you drink it.
Grapefruit Juice and Lortab
Neither of Lortab’s two components, acetaminophen and hydrocodone, are considered to be medications that generally interact with grapefruit juice. Grapefruit juice typically interacts with drugs used to treat high cholesterol, high blood pressure and heart arrhythmias, particularly statins and calcium channel blockers. However, in some individuals, grapefruit might interact with Lortab, so talk to a pharmacist or doctor to make sure that grapefruit juice is safe for you. If the juice makes you absorb Lortab faster, you will be more likely to feel side effects from the medication.
Side Effects
If your body does absorb Lortab more quickly because you drank grapefruit juice, you are more likely to suffer from side effects like anxiety, dizziness, nausea and headaches. Less serious side effects also include blurred vision, drowsiness, constipation and dry mouth. If you have an allergic reaction, with symptoms like hives or swelling of your face, throat and tongue, immediately seek medical help. If you experience more serious side effects, like fainting, seizures or jaundice, call your doctor right away.
Interactions with Lortab
Lortab can affect your alertness, so be cautious when driving or doing anything that requires you to concentrate, and do not drink alcohol, which can further slow your reactions. You are more likely to sustain liver damage if you drink alcohol while taking medications with acetaminophen, notes Drugs.com. Lortab can also interact with medications like antidepressants, other pain medications, bladder medications, bronchodilators and other narcotics. Consult your pharmacist or physician before taking cold, allergy or sleep medications.
Video of the Day
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
References
American Family Physician: Medicine Interactions With Grapefruit: What You Should Know
Drugs.com: Lortab
About the Author
Joseph McAllister has worked as a writer since 2003. He has more than seven years of experience in training and coaching martial arts. McAllister writes for various websites on a variety of topics including martial arts, competition and fitness. He graduated from Liberty University on a full ride National Merit Scholarship with a Bachelor of Science in print journalism.
More Related Articles
Can I Drink Grapefruit Juice With Wellbutrin?
How Long Does Tylenol Stay in Your System?
How to Lose Weight With Phentermine
Related Articles
Vodka & Grapefruit Calories
Read More
Beer & Oxycodone
Read More
Get Fit!
Try our healthfully BMI and weight loss calculator!
Nuvigil for Weight Loss
Read More
Caffeine, Anxiety & Xanax
Read More
About Us
Advertise
Contact Us
Copyright Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of the HEALTHFULLY.COM Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. The material appearing on HEALTHFULLY.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. HEALTHFULLY.COM does not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the website.