Health& - Ask a question | Can I get cold sores from kissing someone with a cold sore? Navigation
LOG IN
Topics A-Z
Ask Questions
LOG IN
GET STARTED FREE
LOG IN
Topics A-Z
Ask Questions
About Health&
[TITLE]
[MESSAGE]
[BUTTONS]
[MESSAGE]
[BUTTON_LABEL]
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Content
Home
Diseases and conditions
Eye health
Healthy living
Men's health
Mental health
Oral and dental health
Parenting and child health
Pregnancy and birth
Procedures and treatments
Sexual health
Symptoms
Travel health
Women's health
Common health questions...
Beta
Content
Close settings panel
Ask settings
Enable/Disable "how ask works"
Save
Cancel
Can I get cold sores from kissing someone with a cold sore?
Yes, you can catch cold sores from kissing someone who has them. The virus that causes cold sores can be passed on through direct contact with the cold sores, or through contact with the saliva of an infected person, which can occur during kissing.
Author: Joanne Van der Velden
First answered: 22 Sep 2014
Last reviewed: 19 May 2018
Rating: 4.4/5 Votes: 1134
View the Cold sores report page.
Related questions
What is a cold sore?
Cold sores, sometimes referred to as oral herpes, are small blisters or lesions on the mouth, which are caused by the herpes simplex virus (HSV).
Are cold sores contagious?
The herpes simplex virus that causes cold sores is contagious. The viruses spread through contact with blisters or saliva from an infected person.
What causes a cold sore?
Cold sores are caused by an infection with a virus called the herpes simplex virus (HSV). There are two different forms of the virus that can cause cold sores, HSV1 and HSV2.
How are cold sores treated?
Medicated antiviral creams, solutions or tablets, containing acyclovir, famciclovir or valacyclovir, may help to reduce the severity and duration of cold sores. They work by preventing the virus from replicating, which gives the immune system a better chance of …
What can trigger a cold sore?
An outbreak of cold sores can be caused by stress, sunlight or wind exposure, having a cold, the flu or another infection, and menstruation.
How can I prevent getting cold sores?
To prevent contracting the herpes simplex virus that causes cold sores: Avoid kissing someone with a cold sore; Avoid oral sex if your partner has genital herpes; and; Avoid sharing food, cutlery and other personal items of people with cold sores.
Can cold sores cause genital herpes?
Yes, cold sores around the mouth can sometimes spread to the genitals during oral sex, resulting in genital herpes.
All Health&'s health information is accredited by international standards and approved by our world-class Health& Medical Advisory Board.
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on LinkedIn
Topics A-Z
Diseases and conditions
Eye health
Healthy living
Men's health
Mental health
Oral and dental health
More (7)
Ask Questions
Popular questions
About Health&
Corporate Sales
About us
Medical Advisory Board
Terms and policies
Privacy policy
FAQs
Blog
For more information or to provide feedback, please contact us at:
Copyright © 2019 Health& Pty Ltd. (ABN 45 153 743 643)
All rights reserved. Health& provides health information and is not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
Always ask your doctor or healthcare provider any questions you may have regarding a medical condition. In case of emergency, call your doctor or dial 911 (for USA & Canada), or dial 112 (for UK & Europe), or dial 000 (for Australia) immediately.
Disclaimer
Welcome to Health&. We aim to help keep you healthy and well.
We provide helpful information and guidance to manage your health. The information is personalised to allow you to make better decisions about your health. We use the latest medical guidelines and provide information that has been reviewed by doctors at Health&. It is important to note that we only provide information - we do not provide medical diagnosis, treatment or advice. The health information provided should not be a substitute for professional medical care. Before acting on the information, please consult your doctor to make sure it is right for you. In the event of a medical emergency, immediately call your doctor or emergency services - dial 000 (in Australia) or 911 (in the United States of America).
At Health&, you can securely store your health records. We respect the need for privacy and security of personal information. We are bound by legal requirements for privacy in Australia. Health& is also a registered Healthcare Provider Organisation (just like your doctor), so we will not share your personal information with anyone. We apply the highest levels of security for the storage, management and access of your personal information, using industry standards for encryption. To further safeguard your information, we recommend that you use a strong password and take care to protect it.
Health& is the first consumer-led population health study in Australia. We collect anonymous health data to support medical research and population health initiatives. The information contributes to major improvements in the health of communities. Your participation helps others to also benefit.
You need to be at least 18 years old to sign up. Please read the Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy before using Health&.
×
Content goes in here.