Himalayan Pink Salt - Health Benefits, Uses, and Side Effects - Ask Health News
Monday, April 22 2019
Trending
Vital Nutrients for Healthy Mind and Body
Gut Microbes Potential of Boosting the Immune system could Attack Melanoma Cancer Cells
Children Born via Cesarean Delivery Develops Increase Chances of Asthma and Allergies
Citrus Fruits – Nutritional Benefits for your Overall Health
CBD Benefits For Skin Health – Is It Worth Using?
Women with Gestational Diabetes Increase the Chances for their Children to have Diabetes
Blood Sugar Ultra – Is It Any Good?
Researchers Find 38 New Genes in Mice associated with Hearing Loss
27 Baby Gender Revealing Tests During Pregnancy – How Do Old Wives Prediction Methods Work?
Study Reveals how CBD can be Effective for Psychosis Treatment
Home
Contact Us
About Us
AHN Scholarship
Healthcare
Lifestyle
Medicine
Pharmaceuticals
Home/Nutrition/Himalayan Pink Salt – Health Benefits, Uses, and Side Effects
Nutrition
Himalayan Pink Salt – Health Benefits, Uses, and Side Effects
Hannah Cleese April 11, 2019
0
The Himalayan Pink Salt is known to be the best and purest salts available with several health benefits. This rock salt is found in the Punjab region lf Pakistan.
What is Himalayan Pink Salt?
The Himalayan Pink salt is similar to other salts chemically ans contains 98% sodium chloride with traces of other minerals including calcium, potassium, and magnesium. The pink color and different tasts of Himalayan salt comes from these mineral traces which makes it different to other table salts.
How is Himalayan Pink Salt Used?
The Himalayan pink salt can be used in the same way as other table salts. The similarity of this salt with others makes it suitable for use in cooking, preservation and seasoning of foods.
Salt has various functions in the body and is vital for contracting and relaxing muscles, preventing dehydration, sending impulses to the nervous system, and preventing low blood pressure. Salt can kill harmful bacteria in the body, fight infection and depression.
What are Health Benefits of Himalayan Pink Salt?
Mineral Rich Source
The Himalayan pink salt is rich in minerals as it contains traces of calcium, magnesium, and potassium.
Natural Salt
So, what actually makes the Himalayan pink salt better than any other salts is the fact that it minimally processed and it is only rinsed and cleaned before shipping.
Better Taste
The Himalayan pink salt tastes better and people even find it saltier than other salts. This makes them use less of the salt in cooking which is a great benefit as you will not tend to use more in any way.
Low Sodium Content
The salt is used in less quantity as discussed earlier because of its saltiness and crystal form. This eventually reduces the sodium intake as a teaspoon will contain less sodium as compared to one teaspoon of table salt which is fine and less salty too.
Hydration Aid
The Himalayan pink salt also helps in hydration with all its beneficial properties.
Himalayan Pink Salt – Side Effects
Less Iodine Content
The pink salt has less iodine content which makes it unsuitable for people with iodine deficiency. Iodine has a vital function in maintaining thyroid hormone production.
The Himalayan pink salt may only contain some traces of the mineral iodine but is still less as compared to other iodized salts.
Too Much Sodium Intake
Sodium is harmful for your health as it raises blood pressure. Hypertension patients should reduce their sodium intake from the normal 2300 mg to 1500 mg to stay safe. Again, it has almost the same quantity of sodium like any other table salt but the crystalized form may reduce the quantity you use. This will ultimately reduce your sodium intake.
Try not to overdose on Himalayan pink salt thinking that it will be better than other salts.
Too Much Chloride
Chloride can cause malfunctioning of the kidneys and make the body environment acidic. Insulin resistance and diabetes are other health issues to arise if you overdose in chloride intake.
However, the environment may turn alkaline if there is no chloride intake as the vegetables and fruits turn into bicarbonates in the body. It is essential to maintain a healthy acid base balance in the body for vital functioning of organs.
Radioactive Minerals are Dangerous
The radioactive minerals in Himalayan pink salt are dangerous for health. Such minerals include uranium, radium, and plutonium. However, this pink salt has very little quantities of such minerals which can barely cause any harm.
Can you Bathe in Himalayan Pink Salt?
Himalayan pink salt bathe can have detoxifying effects in the body. It can also rejuvenate and relax your body. Salt baths are usually taken to cleanse the body of all the toxins while energizing you with the mineral content.
Facebook Twitter Google+
Hannah Cleese
Related Articles
April 22, 2019
33
Vital Nutrients for Healthy Mind and Body
February 15, 2019
80
Research Links Ultra Processed Foods to Increased Risk of Death
December 6, 2018
284
Easy and Effective Home Remedies for Constipation
December 26, 2018
171
Fortified Cereals Facts for Overall Health
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Check Also
Close
Nutrition
Folate Deficiency can Lead you to Cancer, Study Says
December 18, 2018
Recent Posts
Vital Nutrients for Healthy Mind and Body
April 22, 2019
Gut Microbes Potential of Boosting the Immune system could Attack Melanoma Cancer Cells
April 19, 2019
Children Born via Cesarean Delivery Develops Increase Chances of Asthma and Allergies
April 17, 2019
Citrus Fruits – Nutritional Benefits for your Overall Health
April 17, 2019
CBD Benefits For Skin Health – Is It Worth Using?
April 16, 2019
Women with Gestational Diabetes Increase the Chances for their Children to have Diabetes
April 15, 2019
Blood Sugar Ultra – Is It Any Good?
April 15, 2019
© Copyright 2019, All Rights Reserved
Facebook Twitter WhatsApp Telegram
Close
Search for:
Close
Log In
Forget?
Remember me
Log In