Other – hippieonthegrid.com
Skip to content
hippieonthegrid.com
Green Families, Vegan Eats, and a Little Hippie Inspiration
Menu
Home
About
Contact
Blog
Category: Other
Zesty Vegan Nacho Cheeze
August 31, 2018 August 31, 2018 1 Comment
Over the weekend we held a birthday party for my son Logan who was turning 11, Logan is an appies kind of guy so he asked me to create something special for his party. I had just returned from shopping for the party when his request came in and I was not keen on having to leave the house again so I pulled open the cupboards in search of ingredient to create something new.
Cashews, spices, nutritional yeast… it looked like the makings of a great cheeze sauce! I had the tortilla chips so I figured I could try and pull together a vegan nacho cheeze, little could we have known that it would turn out amazing! Once the guests arrived this last minute nacho dip became the talk of the party… next to the birthday boy of course!
I’m absolutely thrilled to share this recipe with you! It’s truly one of my best creations and I hope you will love it as much as we did!
Holly xoxo
Zesty vegan Nacho Cheeze
Vegan Gluten Free Oil Free Sugar Free Prep: 10 minutes
INGREDIENTS
1 1/2 Cup Raw Cashew Pieces
1 Cup Water
2 Tbsp Chopped Red Pepper
1/4 Cup Nutritional Yeast
1 Tbsp Shiro Miso
1 Tsp Smoked Salt ( I used Alder Smoked Sea Salt by The San Francisco Salt Co.)
1 Tsp Turmeric
1 Tsp Smokey Paprika
1 Tsp Chili Powder
1 Tsp Lemon Juice
METHOD
Place all ingredients into high-speed blender and blend until smooth and creamy
Serve room temperature or warmed in a mini crockpot
Great for dipping tortilla chips and veggies in!
Garden Vegetable Salad Wraps with a Tahini Maple Tamari Dressing
June 11, 2018 June 13, 2018 Leave a comment
I was busy as a bee in my garden today and discovered so many beautiful early treats! Gorgeous heirloom radishes, lush arugula, a cucumber, and a few beets! I just knew a garden fresh lunch was in order so I pulled out some rice wraps and an avocado and started to play!
Once finished, the kids and I had made the most beautiful garden wraps with the treasures found in our own garden! I just had to share this recipe because it was delicious and will absolutely be added to my list of party appies or quick lunches!
Fresh, gluten free, and vegan this quick meal is both delicious as well as healthy!! 3 wraps are under 150 calories! You really can’t go wrong with this guilt free snack!
N.Holly D xoxo
Garden Vegetable Salad Wraps
Vegan Gluten Free Oil Free Sugar Free Prep time: 10 minutes
Ingredients per wrap:
1 Rice Wrap
3 slices roasted beet
2-3 slices of Avocado
4 slices of cucumber
4-5 slices of Radish
2-3 Arugula leaves
Method:
Soak rice wrap until its soft and rollable
layer vegetables in a row in the centre of the wrap
Fold the rice wrap ends over the foot of each veggie layer, then roll the wrap from the side securely.
Let sit for two minutes for wrap to seal
Can be placed in refrigerator for 24 hours
Serve with dipping sauce
Tahini Maple Tamari Dressing
Ingredients:
1/2 Cup Tahini
1/2 Cup Water
1 Tbsp Sesame Oil
2 Tbsp Tamari (or Soy Sauce)
2 Tbsp Rice Vinegar
2 Tbsp Maple Syrup
1 Clove Garlic, minced
1/4 tsp Paprika
Method
Mix all ingredients until smooth and creamy
Refrigerate for up to two weeks
Gluten Free Vegan Chipotle Cheezy Biscuits
May 31, 2018 May 31, 2018 Leave a comment
I’m a huge sucker for a good biscuit, so when I started to experience some gluten intolerance symptoms I was absolutely devastated. I was the girl who could eat an entire load of bread to herself…. in one sitting. I loved my GLUTEN!! I fought it for about two years as I was in complete denial, thankfully I’m not celiac but I am bothered by it enough that I usually try my best to avoid glutenous foods. So I needed to find a few hacks!
Suddenly I found myself trying to create the perfect gluten free biscuit that satisfied my savoury taste and was vegan as well! So after much playing around I am so happy to share with you my Chipotle Cheezy Biscuits!
Enjoy!!
Holly xoxo
Gluten Free Vegan Chipotle Cheezy Biscuits
Vegan Gluten Free Sugar Free Prep Time: 10 min. Bake Time: 15 min.
Ingredients
Dry:
1 1/4 Cup Brown Rice Flour
1 Cup Chickpea Flour
2 Tsp Gluten Free Baking Powder
1/4 Tsp Baking Soda
1 Tsp Himalayan Pink Salt or Sea Salt
1/2 Tsp Xanthan Gum
1/4 Cup Nutritional Yeast
1/4 Tsp Chipotle Powder
1 Tsp Paprika
7 Tbsp Vegan Margarine (I used Earth Balance)
Wet:
3/4 Cup Dairy Free Milk
2 1/2 Tsp Apple Cider Vinegar
Method
Combine all Dry ingredients in a large bowl
Cut in Margarine until the mixture looks grainy
Combine Wet ingredients
Pour Wet ingredients into dry ingredients and combine just until every thing is nicely moistened
Scoop nine biscuits onto a parchment lined baking sheet
Bake at 425°f for 15 minutes
Remove from oven and cool for 10 minutes
Enjoy!
Oh look, I made a video too!
Holly xoxo
Simply Refreshing Homemade Toothpaste!
May 25, 2016 May 11, 2018 Leave a comment
I know what you’re thinking, this is a bit too hippie for you but please hear me out I promise you won’t be disappointed! Now I know we’ve all heard about the magical qualities of coconut oil and how it can be used for pretty much anything, but did you know it’s truly the miracle dental oil?
My adventure with homemade toothpaste began with my toddler and baby, I didn’t feel comfortable using a fluoride toothpaste on them at such a young age. When I read the ingredients on the baby toothpastes I found I couldn’t identify most of the ingredients and that didn’t sit well with me. We so willingly put chemicals into our bodies with out fully researching what it is we are ingesting.
Up until that time I had used the standard Crest toothpaste on myself but hadn’t really thought about what was in it. I blindly accepted that it must be good for my teeth, after all it’s dentist recommended right? But as I found it wasn’t vegan-friendly which is incredibly important to me. Most toothpastes you will find in stores are tested on animals and contain Glycerine which is typically animal derived. I don’t know why it hadn’t occurred to me sooner but somehow that fact just slipped my mind when I made the transition to a plant-based lifestyle.
I started to research my options and came across some amazing information about the dental benefits of coconut oil pulling which has been know in some cases to reverse cavities. WHAT!? You can reverse cavities! Part of the process for reversing cavities involves oil pulling with coconut oil daily which is know to be extremely antibacterial and is lethal to dental bacteria.
Oil pulling is the process where you take a tablespoon of coconut oil into your mouth and allow it to melt, then you swish it around for twenty minutes to kill all off the bacteria. After the twenty minutes make sure to spit out the oil as its full of all the nasty bacteria that was in your mouth. This combined with dietary changes has been proven to regenerate tooth growth, but it takes commitment if its something you want to try. This isn’t an over night fix!
Stay tuned for future posts about how well this is working for myself and my husband with some before (scary) and after photos. It’s a work in progress for us at the moment and we can already see the signs of tooth repair as the area around a small cavity I chose to treat naturally as a “science” experiment is now becoming bright white as the heals. Cool!
Back to the toothpaste which is why you are here after all! I had found a recipe for a homemade toothpaste that looked worth trying but what I found odd was it called for sugar in it. I decided to play around a little bit with the basic ingredients minus the sugar and finally came to a texture I liked. At first, it took a little getting used to as I was used to conventional toothpaste and this was certainly nothing like that.
The funny thing I found was that the kids just loved it and would beg to use the homemade toothpaste over the natural children’s toothpaste I have bought for them. In fact, everyone in our house preferred it by far! I had the freshest breath I had ever had and could feel how clean my teeth were.
The real test would be at my dental visit about three months after switching to my homemade toothpaste. Wow, My dentist was impressed! Aside from the small cavity that was there during the last visit, that I had chosen to wait to fill until after my pregnancy was over; everything was looking amazing. There was no further deterioration of the cavity which was strange my dentist said. She asked me what I had been using and I told her about our homemade toothpaste, she was very surprised, to say the least. “If it works for you then stick with it!” she said, I thought that was very progressive of her.
So now over a year later we are still going strong with our homemade paste and are still loving it. I can honestly say I really look forward to bushing because it’s just so refreshing! The kids enjoy it too and love to help make a batch whenever we are getting low.
About six months after we made the switch we went on a holiday, for convenience sake and to use up what we had in our travel bag we took a small tube of crest along. Man, was it sweet! Way way too sweet, why on earth are we adding sweetener to toothpaste! Okay, I get it that it adds to the flavour but honestly people! After more research, we discovered this actual cane sugar that is used… the number one culprit for creating a bacteria breeding ground in our mouth. BLAH! So just think of how many chemicals are needed to stop the sweeter for doing damage…
If I haven’t sent you running for the hills yet then congratulations you have graduated to a new level of hippie! Your reward? My homemade toothpaste recipe! I hope you love it, and I can’t wait hear all about it. Please comment if you have any questions! Go on give it a try, you won’t be disappointed!
Homemade Coconut Oil Toothpaste
Ingredients
1/2 Cup of Coconut Oil
1/2 Cup of Aluminum Free Baking Soda
20 Drops of 100% Pure Peppermint Oil
Method
With a small whisk whip Coconut Oil and Baking Soda until smooth and fluffy, if the coconut oil is too hard you can always warm it until soft.
Add the Peppermint Oil drops, I use 20, but you can use more or less.
Whisk it all together and pour into a 250 ml glass container.
Place in refrigerator if you want it to be firm, or just seal with a lid and place in the bathroom.
It is amazing how easy this recipe is and how fast you can whip it up! It’s fool proof and teenager proof if you’d like to give them a task. After seeing the benefits I know I’ll never be happy going back to conventional toothpaste. I hope you love this recipe as much as I do. You can always alter the texture by adding either more coconut oil or baking soda, its very flexible.
For more info on natural dentistry check out Holistic Dental Care:The Complete Guide to Healthy Teeth and Gums by Nadine Artemis, it’s a fantastic and informative read.
Enjoy those happy healthy teeth!
Cheers Holly!
Search
Search for:
Categories
Breakfast
Dessert
Dinner
Gluten Free
Happiness
Lifestyle
Lunch
Other
Recipes
Uncategorized
Recent Posts
Zesty Vegan Nacho Cheeze
Cinnamon Peach Summer Scones
Creamy Vegan Broccoli Cheeze Soup
Rich Vegan Chocolate Cinnamon Loaf
Cheezy Broccoli Asparagus Sun Dried Tomato Vegan Quiche
My Picks
Amazon.ca Widgets
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Instagram
Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: sela by WordPress.com.