Can You Get Pregnant While Breastfeeding?
Getting Pregnant >
How To Get Pregnant
Symptoms
Body Care
Infertility
Pregnancy>
Pregnancy Week by Week
Food
bio-oil
Second Pregnancy
Safety
Fitness
Giving Birth
Health
Post Pregnancy
Baby>
Product Reviews
Choose Gentle
Breastfeeding
Food
Development
Sleep
Health
Products
Safety
Baby Names
Browse Names
Play & Activities
Himalaya Baby Care
Baby Dove
Toddler>
Fisher Price
Development
Food
Pediasure
Sleep
Safety
Health
Behavior
Education
Play & Activities
Coloring pics
Kid>
Development
Food & Nutrition
Health & Fitness
Safety
Products
Education
Behavior
Play & Activities
Style & Beauty Care
Teens>
Development
Food & Nutrition
Health & Fitness
Safety
Products
Education
Behavior
Play & Activities
Style & Beauty Care
For You>
New Parents
Single Parenting
Adoption
Relationships
Trending
Tools>
Baby Eye Color Calculator
Online Pregnancy Test
Chinese Gender Predictor
Implantation Calculator
hCG Calculator
Period Calculator
ovulation calculator
pregnancy due date calculator
Child Height Predictor
Pregnancy Weight Gain Calculator
Breast Milk Calculator
Child Growth Percentile Calculator
Baby Cost Calculator
BMI Calculator For Kids & Teens
Contraction Calculator
Immunization Scheduler and Chart
C-Section Checklist
Online Twin Pregnancy Quiz
Numerology calculator
Child Blood Type Calculator
Nakshatra Calculator
Diaper Bag Checklist
> हिंदी
गर्भावस्था
शिशु
×
Home » Pregnancy » Health
Can You Get Pregnant While Breastfeeding?
shreeja pillai Written by shreeja pillai
April 16, 2019 April 16, 2019
Image: Shutterstock
It is commonly believed that breastfeeding is the best natural contraceptive. The more you feed your baby, the longer it takes for you to start ovulating and get your menstrual cycle back on track. But, is there a chance to get pregnant even then?
In this MomJunction post, we tell you how breastfeeding affects pregnancy, the signs of pregnancy to look for while breastfeeding, and how safe it is to breastfeed when you are pregnant.
IN THIS ARTICLE
Can You Get Pregnant While Breastfeeding?
How Does Breastfeeding Affect Pregnancy?
Common Pregnancy Signs While You Are Breastfeeding
Is It Safe To Breastfeed While Pregnant?
Frequently Asked Questions:
Can You Get Pregnant While Breastfeeding?
Yes, you can get pregnant even when you are breastfeeding. Studies say that in the perfect scenario, breastfeeding as a contraceptive is as effective as a pill, which means there is still a 2% chance that it can fail (1).
In the remaining 98% of cases, breastfeeding can successfully prevent a pregnancy. So what happens inside your body when you breastfeed and how can it prevent or fail to prevent pregnancy? Keep reading and we’ll tell you.
How Does Breastfeeding Affect Pregnancy?
Sponsored
When you are breastfeeding, the baby stimulates the nipple and sends a message to the body to produce a hormone called prolactin, which prevents the release of eggs (2). When you breastfeed on demand at least four to six times a day, your body does not ovulate and your periods are delayed. For this reason, breastfeeding as a contraceptive is also referred to as the lactational amenorrhea method (LAM).
Once the frequency of breastfeeding goes down, the prolactin levels will start subsiding and your menstrual cycle is back to normalcy (3). Though exclusive breastfeeding lowers the chances, it does not prevent pregnancy. Note that ovulation cannot be prevented if you choose to express breastmilk using a pump instead of breastfeeding (4).
If you get pregnant while you are still nursing the baby, you’re likely to experience the symptoms of pregnancy. Find out more about that next.
Common Pregnancy Signs While You Are Breastfeeding
Here are the common pregnancy symptoms that you may experience while breastfeeding (5):
Excessive thirst: During pregnancy, the blood volume increases, and more water is expelled from the body through urination. Also, your body drains more fluid during breastfeeding. All this leads to excessive thirst.
Fatigue: The body is working twice as much to nurture the fetus and also nourish the nursing baby, leaving you fatigued.
Reduced/refusal of milk: If you get pregnant when you are still lactating, the production of milk will reduce and its taste changes as well. This becomes evident when your baby feels hungry immediately after a feed or starts refusing milk.
Sore and painful nipples: The nipples become tender and hurt when the baby feeds.
Vomiting and nausea: If breastfeeding is accompanied by vomiting or nausea, then it might be an indication of pregnancy.
Spotting: If you notice spotting while breastfeeding, then it might indicate pregnancy. Spotting happens when the embryo is implanted on the uterine lining.
So you are breastfeeding and could be pregnant too. Does this mean you should stop breastfeeding now? The section below elaborates on that.
Is It Safe To Breastfeed While Pregnant?
Yes, it is. If you have an uncomplicated pregnancy, then you can continue breastfeeding your little one for as long as you can (6).
You may worry that breastfeeding triggers the release of oxytocin that causes contraction of the uterus (7). But, these contractions are mild and safe during an uncomplicated pregnancy.
However, if there’s a history of miscarriage or a high-risk of preterm labor, or if you are carrying two or more babies, seek your doctor’s advice on the safety of breastfeeding during pregnancy.
Frequently Asked Questions:
1. Can breastfeeding affect a pregnancy test?
No. A pregnancy test comes out positive when the pregnancy hormone hCG is detected in the urine or the blood sample.
2. Can I get pregnant while breastfeeding even when I do not have my periods?
Yes, you can. It is difficult to determine when the female body starts ovulating after delivery. If the prolactin hormone starts to subside, the ovulation hormones (FSH and LH) will kick off triggering the release of eggs. The thickening of the uterine lining then follows due to the increased progesterone and estrogen levels (8). Thus, the possibility of pregnancy increases even before your first period starts.
If you have recently delivered and are not planning to have another baby soon, then make sure to use other contraceptives besides breastfeeding. Although breastfeeding is a natural method, it is not 100% effective. Using other contraceptives will prevent any unwanted pregnancy, and you can enjoy an uninterrupted sex life even post delivery.
Do you have any experiences to share? Tell us about them in the comments section below.
References:
1. Breastfeeding; Planned parenthood
2. Prolactin inhibits ovulation and thus decreases risk of incident endometriosis; BMJ (2019)
3. Breastfeeding and periods; Healthdirect
4. Lactational amenorrhea method (LAM); U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
5. What are some common signs of pregnancy?; NIH
6. Breastfeeding while pregnant; Healthdirect
7. Breastfeeding your baby; American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (2019)
8. How does my hormone cycle work?; Women in Balance Institute (2019)
×
How can we improve it?
This article contains incorrect information.
This article doesnt have the information Im looking for.
How helpful was it?
Change
Your Email
Your Name
Sign me up for Momjunction’s Newsletter
Done
We appreciate your helpful feedback!
×
How helpful was it?
This article changed my life!
This article was informative.
How helpful was it?
Change
Your Email
Your Name
Sign me up for Momjunction’s Newsletter
Done
We appreciate your helpful feedback!
The following two tabs change content below.
Latest Posts
Bio
Latest posts by shreeja pillai (see all)
Can You Get Pregnant While Breastfeeding? - April 16, 2019
Frozen Embryo Transfer: Why And How Is It Done? - April 1, 2019
Evaporation Line On A Pregnancy Test: How And When Does It Appear? - April 1, 2019
Molar Pregnancy: Symptoms, Causes And Treatment - March 29, 2019
What Causes Blurred Vision In Pregnancy And How To Deal With It? - March 28, 2019
Nuchal cord: Causes, Diagnosis And Management - March 28, 2019
Rh Incompatibility In Pregnancy: Symptoms, Diagnosis And Treatment - March 27, 2019
Cervical Position In Early Pregnancy: What To Expect? - March 27, 2019
Endometrial Thickness: What Is The Normal Range? - March 14, 2019
Ketones In Urine During Pregnancy: Causes And Prevention - March 5, 2019
shreeja pillai
Postgraduate in Chemistry and content writer. She has worked as a research analyst with a leading multinational pharmaceutical company and also holds a diploma in pharmaceutical regulatory affairs. Her interest in the field of medical research has developed her passion for writing research-based articles. She is a writer for MomJunction and aims at providing informative articles based on health and wellness. Apart from writing, she takes a great interest in music and traveling. know more about her at https://www.linkedin.com/in/shreeja-pillai/
Incnut Incnut Incnut
Hotpicks
101 Best Sweet & Cute Baby Names With Meanings
8 Reasons Why You May Be Put On Bed Rest During Pregnancy
19 Quick And Easy Finger Foods For Kids
8 Harmful Effects Of Eating Junk Food During Pregnancy
Is It Safe To Rebond Your Hair During Pregnancy?
Related Articles
10 Tips For Maintaining Good Posture During Pregnancy
Cardiovascular Changes During Pregnancy - What You Need To Know
Athlete's Foot During Pregnancy - Causes And Home Remedies You Should Be Aware Of
Glandular Fever During Pregnancy – 4 Causes, 8 Symptoms & 2 Treatments
Low Blood Pressure In Pregnancy: Causes, Symptoms And Treatment
About Us
Contact Us
Advertise with us
Doctors, Join Us
Mommy Influencer Network
Report Violation
Image Usage Policy
Privacy Policy
Editorial Policy
Disclaimer
Follow Us:
Our Sister Sites:
Copyright 2019 Mom Junction
MomJunction provides generic information on health for educational purposes only. It is not a substitute for professional health services, and cannot be used as a replacement for personalized health consultation. If you or your child has any health concerns, you should consult a healthcare professional. Please read our Disclaimer before proceeding to use our website.