Why You Need a Himalayan Salt Lamp in Your Baby’s Room
Himalayan Salt Shaker
Himalayan Sea Salt Health
Home
Cooking on a Salt Block
Himalayan Salt Lamps
Himalayan salt health and beauty
Affiliate Disclaimer
Why You Need a Himalayan Salt Lamp in Your Baby’s Room
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Himalayan Salt Lamps have a soothing, calming light and they work perfectly for your baby’ room or nursery. There are also many that swear by the health benefits as well.
This light omits a warm pinkish or orange glow, much like a sunset. You may also enjoy a Himalayan Salt Lamp when you have to get up in the middle of the night.
I have the little little night lights in my hall and bathroom. I don’t want to turn on the overhead light just to pee.
I don’t know about you, but I find bright full light in the middle of the night quite assaulting and studies show that exposure to bright lights at bedtime can interfere with your sleep. I would not want to get up for feedings in the middle of the night to have white light in my eyes.
I need my beauty rest.
Though your baby can’t talk or articulate this, I am sure bright white light is assaulting to her a well and may make going back to sleep more of a struggle.
Are Salt Lamps Safe for My Baby?
Yes, Himalayan Salt lamps are perfectly safe for your baby, providing they aren’t licking them. This is highly unlikely.
A few years back there was a major recall on one particular Himalayan Salt Lamp. It was sold at Michaels and was of poor quality from a cheap manufacture. It was in the wiring. Not all salt lamps are of high quality.
Some Himalayan Salt Lamps are flat out fakes.
This is why it is really important to buy your Himalayan Salt lamps from an authentic and reliable source. I have bought all of mine at the Himalayan Salt Shop.
Will Salt Lamps Bring Health Benefits to Baby?
This is a widely debatable topic. It’s a fact that Himalayan Salt does produce negative ions. They are claimed to improve the quality of air in your home. Does it produce enough to matter? Research is still being done in this area.
Negative ions are what is in the air when you are at the beach or on your front porch during a thunderstorm. You can’t see it, but you feel the calming properties. This is why we are more relaxed on a beach or near a waterfall perhaps.
Our day to day lives are full of items that produce positive ions. Things like tv, cell phones, laptops and appliances. We do know that this kind of energy is not good for us and can in fact mess with our sleep.
I am pretty sure a little night light, although the glow is wonderful, will not produce enough negative ions to make much difference. I would get one bigger. You need to get the right size for your room.
The Bottom Line on a Salt Lamp for your Nursery
They are beautiful and soothing. They give off a warm calming light and may even have some health benefits as well. You will love them just as much as your baby.
Posted in Uncategorized
« Beware of Fake Himalayan Salt Lamps – Zero Benefit in Fake
Leave a Reply
Click here to cancel reply.
Name (required)
Mail (will not be published) (required)
Website
Affiliate Disclosure
We are a professional affiliate marketing site that receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend. We use the same products we are recommending to you so you can be sure you are getting our honest feedback. We are independently owned and the opinions expressed here are our own.
Recent Posts
Why You Need a Himalayan Salt Lamp in Your Baby’s Room
Beware of Fake Himalayan Salt Lamps – Zero Benefit in Fake
How to Clean a Himalayan Salt Block
Himalayan Sea Salt and Honey – Magic Bed Time Tonic!
Himalayan Salt Lamps for Kids-Most Unusual Gift for Kids
Recent Comments
What Size Himalayan Salt Lamp Do I Need on Beware of Fake Himalayan Salt Lamps – Zero Benefit in Fake
Beware of Fake Himalayan Salt Lamps – Zero Benefit in Fake on Why is My Himalayan Salt Lamp Leaking
What Size Himalayan Salt Lamp Do I Need on Do Himalayan Salt Lamps Work to Improve Your Indoor Air Quality
Beware of Fake Himalayan Salt Lamps – Zero Benefit in Fake on What Size Himalayan Salt Lamp Do I Need
Make Gravlax Salmon with Himalayan Salt Blocks on Present Cold Food on a Salt Block!
Archives
November 2018
April 2018
September 2016
November 2015
August 2015
July 2015
May 2015
April 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
September 2014
August 2014
June 2014
April 2014
Categories
Cooking on a salt block
himalayan salt gift ideas
Himalayan sea salt health and beauty
Himalayan sea salt shot glasses
Himlayan Salt Lamps
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org