Morphine Detox: Addiction, Withdrawal Stages & Treatment Options
800-483-2193
Find Detox
Addiction
General Substances
Alcohol
Drugs
Stimulants
Opiates
Marijuana
Depressants
Opiates
Codeine
Demerol
Dilaudid
Duragesic
Duramorph
Fentanyl
Heroin
Hydrocodone
Kadian
Methadone
Morphine
Norco
Opana
Opium
Oxy IR
Oxycodone
Suboxone
Vicodin
Stimulants
Amphetamines
Cocaine
Concerta
Desoxyn
Dextroamphetamine
Methamphetamine
Depressants
Amobarbital
Amytal
Ativan
Butalbital
Carisoprodol
Clonazepam
DXM
Xanax
Treatment
Intervention
Interventions
When Should I Hold an Intervention?
Steps to a Successful Intervention?
Am I an Enabler?
5 Steps to Take if an Addict Refuses Detox
Treatment Options
Inpatient Detox
Outpatient Detox
Medication Assisted Detox
Aftercare
Extended Care
Dual Diagnosis
Treatment Therapies
Types of Therapy
Biofeedback
Cognitive
Dialectical
Experiential
Faith-Based
Holistic
Medication Maintenance
About Us
Community
Resources
Inspiration
Share Your Story
Join Our Private Facebook Group
Recovery Stories
Co-Occurring Disorders
ADHD and Addiction
Anxiety Disorder
Bipolar Disorder
Borderline Personality Disorder
Depression
Dual Diagnosis
OCD
PTSD
Schizophrenia
More
Community
Resources
Inspiration
Share Your Story
Join Our Private Facebook Group
Recovery Stories
ADHD and Addiction
Anxiety Disorder
Bipolar Disorder
Borderline Personality Disorder
Depression
Dual Diagnosis
OCD
PTSD
Schizophrenia
FAQ
Do I really Need Detox?
Am I Addicted?
Choosing a Detox Center
What Does it Cost?
Is Insurance Accepted?
What is Detox Like?
Who Addiction Impacts
College Students
Elderly & Retired
LGBTQ
Medical Professionals
Men
Pregnant Women
Teens
Veterans
Women
Workers on the Job
Contact Us
Close
Find Detox Addiction Treatment About Us Community
Contact
Call or Click for Help: 800-483-2193
Close
Popular Searches
Drug Detox Florida
Meth Withdrawal Timeline
Drug Detox Massachusetts
Home Morphine Detox
Morphine Detox
Morphine, one of the strongest opiate drugs in existence, provides effective relief for conditions involving moderate to severe pain. Morphine also carries a high potential for abuse and addiction. While most everyone has heard the phrase “addiction is a disease,” many people may not realize the far-reaching effects of addiction work in much the same way as diabetes and heart disease. Morphine detox becomes the first stage in treating the disease of addiction.
When used on a repeated basis for one to two weeks time, users start to experience how morphine has altered and damaged normal body functions. Discontinuing or reducing dosage amounts will send a person into withdrawal.
The morphine detox process takes the body through stages of withdrawal. Because of the damage that’s taken place, many recovering addicts require medication therapies to make it through the morphine detox process.
Even after a person successfully completes morphine detox, he or she will still have ongoing treatment needs. In the absence of ongoing treatment, the disease state of addiction will likely return.
Call 800-483-2193 to speak with a treatment specialist about your morphine detox options.
Morphine Effects
Morphine medications come in different strengths, which work to treat a wide range of conditions. Morphine comes in both generic and brand name varieties, some of which include:
Kadian
MS-Contin
RMS
Roxanol
Oramorph SR
MSIR
Though an effective pain reliever, unintended side effects from morphine induce feelings of euphoria and well-being, according to the National Institute on Drug Abuse. These side effects become one of the driving forces behind addiction.
With ongoing use, morphine alters brain cell receptor function causing widespread chemical imbalances within the central nervous system. Over time, the brain comes to depend on morphine’s effects to regulate body functions. These cell receptors undergo considerable damage in the process. Recovering addicts start to get a feel for these damaging effects during the morphine detox process.
Morphine Addiction
While uncontrollable drug use in the face of negative consequences is the primary indicator of addiction, addicts also experience other signs of morphine addiction, some of which include:
Problems breathing
Dizzy spells
Constipation
Low sex drive
Confusion
Memory problems
Seizures
Fainting
Once addiction sets in, morphine detox is the only way to break the body’s dependency on the drug. Morphine detox should be a medically monitored process as withdrawal symptoms can be severe and place a person’s safety at risk.
If left untreated, a cycle of addiction will continue to effect damage on brain and body functions. Ultimately, the longer a person delays morphine detox, the more severe his or her withdrawal symptoms will be. According to the Substance Abuse & Mental Health Services Administration, when morphine is no longer attainable addicts often resort to more dangerous street drugs such as heroin.
Learn about your morphine addiction treatment options by calling Detox.com.
800-483-2193
Morphine Detox
As the body adjusts to the absence of morphine in the system, brain neuro-chemical processes attempt to re-establish a normal chemical balance. Brain neurotransmitter chemicals, such as dopamine, serotonin and norepinephrine regulate essential body functions like breathing, emotions, digestion and cognitive abilities.
The process of re-establishing normal chemical levels in the brain takes considerably longer than the time it took to become morphine addicted. Brain chemical levels can remain out of balance long after a person completes morphine detox. In effect, going through a morphine detox marks the first stage in the long process of recovery.
While this may seem less than encouraging, the alternative to morphine detox is an ongoing deterioration of brain and body functions. Chronic medical conditions, chronic psychiatric conditions and even death are the inevitable result.
Morphine Withdrawal Stages
Morphine detox happens in stages where the severity of withdrawal effects can vary as a person progresses through the detox period. On average, a morphine detox period takes anywhere from two weeks to two months depending on the severity of the addiction. Within this time, a person will go through three stages of withdrawal with the potential for different detox symptoms at each.
Stage One is where the most acute or severe symptoms will occur. Symptoms begin around 12 hours after a person’s last drug dose. Stage One symptoms typically take the form of:
Nausea
Vomiting
Depression
Diarrhea
Insomnia
Symptoms usually peak around day three and last for up to five days total.
Stage Two marks the start of the brain’s work towards rebalancing its chemical levels. The symptoms most likely to develop include:
Chills
Leg cramps
Goosebumps
Feelings of anxiety
Stage Two symptoms can last for up to two weeks.
Compared to the other two stages, Stage Three lasts the longest, running anywhere from one week to two months in duration. Symptoms occurring during this stage are less severe than the previous stages. Stage Three symptoms may take form of:
Feelings of anxiety
Restlessness
Problems sleeping
Medication Treatments
People who choose to go through morphine detox in a treatment facility will be provided with medication treatments to help ease withdrawal symptom effects. As withdrawal effects and drug cravings account for why so many people avoid detox, medication treatments greatly increase the chances of a successful detox recovery.
Medications commonly used during morphine detox include:
Methadone
Suboxone
Subutex
Naltrexone
LAAM
Each of these medications is made from synthetic opiate materials. According to the Office of National Drug Control Policy, synthetic opiates produce the same effects as morphine without the high potential for addiction. These effects can greatly reduce the severity of withdrawal effects and also lessen the degree of drug cravings a person experiences. As each medication produces different effects in terms of eliminating cravings and/or reducing withdrawal effects, the severity of a person’s addiction determines which treatment will work best.
Ongoing Treatment Needs
Anyone who’s serious about breaking a morphine addiction must at some point go through the morphine detox process. While detox is a mandatory first step, maintaining abstinence for the long-term requires ongoing treatment. Eliminating the body’s dependency on the drug is only the beginning.
Treating the psychological aspect of addiction provides a person with the needed tools to manage daily life without the need for drugs. This type of treatment entails psychotherapy and ongoing support group work. Neglecting this aspect of the recovery process leaves a person at risk of relapse and resuming drug use once again.
We can help you begin the recovery journey. Call 800-483-2193 now to find the best morphine detox program for your needs.
Sources
National Institute on Drug Abuse. (n.d.). Opioids.
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. (2016). Opioids.
Office of National Drug Control Policy. (2012). Medication-Assisted Treatment for Opioid Addiction.
Questions about Detox?
Fast, Free & Confidential Help is Available 24/7.
Call now for:
Access to the Best Detox Centers
24 Hour Support when YOU need it
Free Drug & Alcohol Detox Programs
800-483-2193
Related Pages
What Medications are Used in Morphine Detox?
Why You Should Get Help During Morphine Detox
Reasons to Get Help During Morphine Detox
Signs of Morphine Addiction and the Need for Morphine Detox
Tips for Choosing a Morphine Detox Center
Our Centers
G&G Holistic Rehab
North Miami Beach, Florida
800-926-8043
Palm Partners
Delray Beach, Florida
800-923-2803
Orchid Recovery Center
Palm Springs, Florida
800-939-2891
Get Answers to Your Detox Questions
How Do I Choose a Detox Center?
What if My Loved One Refuses Detox?
How Much Will Detox Cost?
Can I Use Insurance to Pay for Detox?
Help Starts Here, Call Now 800-483-2193
Get Detox Help Now
Mission
Sitemap
Privacy Policy
Detox.com. All Rights Reserved.