Kentlands mosquito control in MD | Mosquito Squad of Maryland's Blog
Mosquito Squad of Maryland's Blog
Providing mosquito free, tick free and healthy outdoor living.
About
Contact Us!
Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery
301-444-5566
Visit our Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery website
email us
Search Our Blog
Site Categories
Site Categories Select Category All Natural Mosquito Control Asian Tiger Mosquito Canine Lyme Disease Chikungunya Chikungunya in Maryland Community Outreach and Special Events Diseases Eastern Equine Encephalitis Healthy Family Lyme Disease Malaria Malaria No More Campaign Support Mosquito control Mosquito Facts Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery Customer Reviews and Testimonials Mosquitoes and Mosquito-borne Illness Nuisance Insect Control Organic Mosquito Control Outdoor Events Outdoor Living Special Event Mosquito & Tick Control for Outdoor Events Stink Bug Protection Tick Control and Prevention Tick Tubes Montgomery Ticks and Lyme Disease Ticks and Tick-borne Illness Traditional Mosquito Control Program Uncategorized West Nile Virus
Posts tagged ‘Kentlands mosquito control in MD’
« Older Entries |
July 31, 2015
Outdoor Living in the Montgomery County area is a Dream
With a wet beginning to the summer it looked like a wash out was inevitable. While it’s hard to complain about rain when so many parts of the country and the world are suffering immense droughts, it was getting to be quite depressing.
Alas, Summer is Here
Luckily, it can’t rain all the time and the weather has given us some breaks. Between the tropical heat and humidity that has become part of the Montgomery County summer climate and the complete down pours, there are some really lovely days that are important to get out and enjoy. The fleeting clear warm days accompanied by cool nights feel like autumn is coming and I even needed a light jacket one day last week. I’d hate to hear of anyone losing the opportunity to be outside enjoying those perfect days due to mosquitoes and ticks.
Time to Get Outside
When a perfect day with low humidity and warm temperatures presents itself, now is the time to get outside. Go play ball in the yard with the kids. Invite your friends over for a barbecue. Take the dog for a nice long walk. Whatever you love doing, go do it outside, take full advantage of the weather as much as you can. With these gorgeous days being tucked in between rainy wet days and hot humid days it is vital that you have your yard treated for mosquitoes and ticks now, before these days arrive. If you wait until the weather is nice to call us, you’ll have already lost some outdoor time.
The Best Outdoor Living Is Pest Free
Outdoor living is best done with a bit of preparation. Being chased in by mosquitoes or having your dog come in covered in ticks is not something you want to worry about when your trying to make the most out of the beautiful weather. To really live outdoors without annoyance or dangerous bug bites, you need a mosquito control and tick control plan. Make your adventures outdoors spontaneous and without ridiculously smelly sprays, by eliminating the mosquitoes and ticks in your yard with Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery. With our traditional barrier spray eliminating 85-90% of the mosquitoes in your yard you can head outside any time day or night without having to spray yourself, light candles or torches or cover yourself from head to toe. When outdoor living can become this easy, you’re sure to take advantage of every moment of this beautiful Maryland summer.
Dangers of Not Controlling Mosquitoes and Ticks at your Home
Mosquitoes are multiplying rapidly thanks to the wet weather that has just recently let up. They carry and transmit diseases that can really make you sick. West Nile Virus has already been discovered in mosquito pools all around the North East this summer and there has even been a human case of West Nile Virus in Delaware.
With the number of deer loitering in our backyards from Darnestown and North Potomac to Derwood and North Bethesda, deer ticks are at an all time high — making Lyme Disease more widespread than ever. With West Nile Virus hitting so close to home and the increase in Lyme Disease, spread by ticks being heavily reported – protecting yourself, your family and your pets is crucial to living a carefree outdoor life.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery
Preventing your exposure to mosquitoes is your best weapons against West Nile Virus. At Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery we can eliminate 85-90% of mosquitoes and ticks in your yard with our traditional barrier. Contact Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery to learn more about protecting yourself and your family from the risks of tick-borne illnesses such as Lyme Disease in your backyard! Sign up today • (301) 444-5566 • email: westmontco@mosquitosquad.com
Advertisements
Posted in Mosquito control, West Nile Virus | Leave a Comment »
Tags: Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery MD, Raising awareness of mosquito borne illness in Rockville MD, Rockville MD mosquito control to reduce the risk of mosquito-borne illness
July 7, 2015
Rain, Rain Go Away So We Can Spray for Mosquitoes Today
We have a love/hate relationship with the rain and we’ve had a LOT of rain lately here in Montgomery County. For mosquitoes to breed and business to be good we need the rain. To be able to spray, successfully eliminating those rain produced mosquitoes we need it to stop raining sometimes. When a summer like this one comes along it is a double-edged sword, but you might be surprised at how uneven that double-edged sword really is.
Our Sticky Time-Released Formula
Our traditional barrier spray has a timed-released formula that allows it to last for up to 3 weeks even if it rains later that very same day. Before buying this franchise location, I had a really good chance to test the effectiveness of this product, even in rain. My yard was being sprayed every three weeks for the summer and the results were amazing. Then came an extended wet period. One July day despite very heavy skies my yard was treated and within one hour we had the heaviest torrential rain of that summer. My first inclination was to call and request a respray. But because I was considering buying this franchise, I realized I had a great opportunity to really test the product. Being the curious person I am, I decided not to ask for a respray. I am not kidding you, I had zero mosquitoes for the next three weeks. Given enough time to dry, our product really sticks.
If you see a chance of rain in the forecast you can still get treated with the regular product. As long as the mosquito spray has time to dry you should be good to go. If it does rain after an application don’t fret, hold off and see, it really does stick as long as it has dried first. With our traditional barrier spray sticking to leaves, grass and other foliage, mosquitoes that come along after the fact will be eliminated or repelled for up to 3 weeks.
How Long Does it Take for Mosquito Spray to Dry?
There is not an exact answer for how long it takes for mosquito spray to dry. I can’t say with certainty that after 31 minutes and 28 seconds you can turn on the sprinklers and do the rain dance. There are many variables. On a hot sunny day with low humidity it can be very fast. On a cool cloud damp day it can take a bit longer. Generally an hour is enough time to dry in most conditions. As always we guarantee our product, so if it does indeed rain shortly after your yard is sprayed and you find the effectiveness to be diminished in some way – we will come out and respray, no questions asked.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
We are crossing our fingers that we get some great summer weather to enjoy in between these bursts of rain, but even if we don’t get our wish you can still protect your family from mosquito bites and mosquito-borne viruses such as West Nile Virus. Protect your family and friends today by contacting Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery to schedule mosquito and tick protection for your special outdoor occasion and all season long! You can reach us at (301) 444-5566 • email: westmontco@mosquitosquad.com.
Posted in Mosquito control, Traditional Mosquito Control Program | Leave a Comment »
Tags: healthy outdoor living, Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention, Kensington MD tick control and prevention, Kentland mosquito control & prevention, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito Squad, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, Rockville MD effective mosquito control, Rockville MD mosquito control service, Rockville MD mosquito control to reduce the risk of mosquito-borne illness
June 25, 2015
Mosquito Eater? Mosquito Hawk? Giant Mosquito? What is this Huge Flying Daddy Long Legs Looking Thing?
Crane Fly
“You just sprayed my yard and it’s covered in giant mosquitoes! Please come back and spray again.” Receiving a call like this at Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery County is our worst nightmare. It is also something we are not accustomed to and we take it very seriously. We headed out to the house in question that very same day to see what possibly could have happened.
A Giant Mosquito Infestation
Sure enough, the back yard really was covered in large mosquito-like insects. Upon closer inspection however, they were not mosquitoes. They in fact were Mosquito Eaters. Often mistaken for giant mosquitoes these lovely creatures resemble a cross between a mosquito and a Daddy Long Legs with wings. They are also widely known in the south as Mosquito Hawks or Skeeter Eaters. But their proper name is actually Crane Fly.
What You Should Know About the Crane Fly
Crane flies do not eat mosquitoes. They were named after them because they look like large versions of them, not because they eat them.
Crane flies do not bite humans.
Adult Crane flies usually don’t eat at all, but their larvae will devour any decaying matter in the water where they live.
Adults only live for 10 to 15 days after hatching.
Living to reproduce, sometimes the female Crane fly will die immediately after laying her eggs.
Crane flies are known for their lazy flight, attraction to light and their dangly long legs. Many of us were under the impression that they were a natural form of mosquito control. If one would get in the house we might carefully shoo it out, realizing its value in eating mosquitoes was too important to squash. Carefully picking it up and trying to release it back in the wild was always a challenge with their fragile long legs often becoming victims to our good will.
Mosquito
Don’t Kill Mosquito Hawks
While you don’t have to “save” them for their mosquito control value, there is no need to eliminate these harmless flies. They serve as food for a large variety of other insects, birds and fish and their larvae provide a great service in munching away at the decaying matter in wetlands. There have been reports of larvae munching on the roots and destroying lawns when they show up in massive droves but that is the exception not the norm.
If you happen to be an angler you might be very familiar with The Crane Fly and its value. But you probably don’t call it a Crane Fly either, you quite likely call it great bait or fish food. Known to be a wonderful bait for catching Bass, the Crane Fly can be mighty useful to the fishing sportsman/woman.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
While we don’t advocate killing Crane Flies we do suggest you eliminate its smaller, much more dangerous, smaller name sake – the mosquito. Protect your family and friends today by contacting Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery to schedule mosquito (and tick) protection for your special outdoor occasion and all season long! You can reach us at (301) 444-5566 • email: westmontco@mosquitosquad.com.
Posted in Healthy Family, Mosquito control, Mosquito Facts, Outdoor Living | Leave a Comment »
Tags: A case of mistaken identity Crane fly vs. mosquito, Facts about Crane Flies, Facts about mosquito hawks, healthy outdoor living, Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Nuisance Insect Control, Rockville MD mosquito control service, Traditional Mosquito Control Program Kentlands mosquito control in MD
June 16, 2015
Don’t Let One Mosquito Turn into One Billion Mosquitoes in your Montgomery County Back Yard
The wet weather that has been occurring here in Maryland over past weeks presents the perfect mix of moisture and warmth, resulting in booming mosquito populations. In honor of Mosquito Awareness week, which is June 21-27, we want to do our part in making the public aware of the reality of mosquitoes we want to share with you the crazy, unbelievable facts about how fast mosquitoes can reproduce going from 1 to more than 1 billion.
You may think having an unprotected property means you will have a few pesky mosquitoes here and there. You will have to light a candle or spray some spray when you are going outside for the evening, no big deal. Right? Wrong. What you don’t know can hurt you, and your neighbors! It only takes one bite from one mosquito carrying West Nile Virus (WNV) or Eastern Equine Encephalitis (EEE) to make you, a loved one, or your neighbor very sick.
Only One Mosquito to Make you Sick. What Will a Billion Do?
Here at Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery County we like numbers. Numbers help us make sure we are doing our job. How many mosquitoes did you see in your yard before we treated it? How many did you see after? Numbers are a perfect measuring tool. Let’s look at the numbers to see how in the world mosquito populations get to be so big so fast.
Week One
That one female mosquito comes a takes a bite out of you. The blood you provided her allows her to develop viable eggs. This little lady goes and lays up to 300 eggs at one time! (She can lay 3 batches of eggs in her lifetime.) About half of these 300 eggs will become egg laying female mosquitoes, hanging out in your backyard waiting for a meal to help them produce their 300 eggs.
Week Two
Now you have 151 female mosquitoes flying around your back yard laying their eggs. Not only will these mosquitoes be gaining 300 new siblings as Mom lays 300 more eggs, but they are also making Momma mosquito a grandma to 45,000 grandbabies. Add the grandbabies and siblings up and you have 45,300 new mosquitoes during week two.
Week Three
It is safe to assume half of week two’s new mosquitoes are egg laying females, or 22,650. Do you want to do the math? 22,650 x 300 eggs each = 6,795,300 new mosquitoes and that is just from the mosquitoes that hatched from week 2. You still have to add their mothers’ new batch of eggs laid (for simplicity we will skip that part).
Week Four
Keep doing the math as we have before and week three’s 3,397,000 new female mosquitoes are laying their eggs in week four. We are talking about 1,319,250,000 mosquitoes in your yard (and your neighbors I am sure) in just four weeks. Four weeks is all it takes for 1 female mosquito to turn into 1.3+ billion mosquitoes.
Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery County wants to help you nip it in the bud when you are in week 1 or at the least, week 2. Doesn’t it make sense to eliminate 1-300 mosquito bites and avoid the whole math thing in the first place? Don’t fret if you are already in the thick of your mosquito multiplication problem, our traditional barrier spray eliminates mosquitoes on contact. With the time-released formula it keeps working for up to 3 weeks eliminating up to 90% of the mosquitoes in your yard.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
Protect your family and friends today by contacting Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery to schedule mosquito (and tick) protection for your special outdoor occasion and all season long! You can reach us at (301) 444-5566 • email: westmontco@mosquitosquad.com.
Posted in Healthy Family, Mosquito control, Mosquito Facts, Nuisance Insect Control, Outdoor Living | Leave a Comment »
Tags: healthy outdoor living, How quickly mosquitoes populate in an untreated area, Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito Awareness week, Mosquito control, Mosquito Facts, Nuisance Insect Control, Rockville MD mosquito control service, Traditional Mosquito Control Program Kentlands mosquito control in MD
June 5, 2015
Team Up against dangerous mosquitoes and ticks with your friends, family, and neighbors!
Do you want your neighbors to have their yard sprayed to help keep the tick and mosquito population down in your adjoining yards? Are you hoping for a pest free barbecue when you go to your sister’s house for her annual Fourth of July party? Do you want to earn a $25 gift card to your favorite store just for telling your friends how awesome we are? Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery is making it easy to share your pest free-living with others with our ShareTheSquad Referral Reward Program.
Build Your Mosquito Fighting Team
Mosquito Squad’s success in fighting Lyme Disease and West Nile Virus, by eliminating the number of ticks and mosquitoes in Montgomery County depends greatly on word of mouth. The more yards we treat, the more successful the battle. That’s why we made it easy to tell your friends, family, and neighbors about Mosquito Squad with just a few clicks at ShareTheSquad.com.
A Win-Win
When your neighbors are enjoying your backyard in the evening or at night are they curious as to why (and how) your yard is mosquito free? Tell them. By using ShareTheSquad.com to spread the word, everyone wins:
You earn a $25 gift card to your choice of retailers for every referral who becomes a client as a special thank you from us.
If your neighbors become a client, your success with Mosquito Squad spraying your yard will be even better than the 85-90% you are already accustomed to.
When you go to outdoor gatherings at your friends’ and families’ homes you will get to experience the same pest-free living you are used to.
When your friend, family, or neighbor signs up they will get $25 off of their first spray.
We get to spray more yards. Eliminating more ticks and mosquitoes. Lowering the risk for Lyme Disease, West Nile Virus and other tick-borne and mosquito-borne diseases.
Our goal is to make sure our customers hear “thank you for the referral” loud and clear and that making that referral is as easy as possible.
Sign Up Today to register. Just enter the email address you already have on file with Mosquito Squad. You will then get an email from ShareTheSquad with a confirmation code. Once you are confirmed you can log in and get your personalized share codes for popular social media sites, email, a printable form, and a personalized link that you can share anywhere.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
If you have any questions about the ShareTheSquad Referral Rewards Program give us a call. Contact Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery today to schedule mosquito (and tick) protection for your special outdoor occasion! You can reach us at (301) 444-5566 • email: westmontco@mosquitosquad.com.
Posted in Community Outreach and Special Events, Mosquito control, Outdoor Living | Leave a Comment »
Tags: healthy outdoor living, Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention, Kensington MD tick control and prevention, Kentland mosquito control & prevention, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, North Bethesda MD tick control program, Rockville MD effective mosquito control, Rockville MD mosquito control service, Rockville MD tick control, ShareTheSquad Referral Program, ShareTheSquad Referral Reward Program, ShareTheSquad.com, tick control montgomery county
April 3, 2015
Your Guardian Angel For Montgomery County MD Mosquito Control
The fresh, warm air has us all wishing we could sprout wings and fly out into nature! Birds call; creatures chatter, and flowers begin to bloom. It is a magical combination of warmth and sunshine that beckons us to once again get out in our yards and enjoy the world around us. The balmy spring weather; however, brings something else with it as well: mosquitoes and ticks coming out of hibernation. Hiding out all winter season in abandoned tires, woodpiles, and sheds, they rouse with the heat and are naturally ready to feast, like little vampires. How do you fight a vampire? With an angel, of course! Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery County is ready to help protect you, your family, and pets from pesky mosquitoes and ticks. To keep your yard from laying out the welcome mat to the pest kingdom, we have some divine tips you can take under consideration.
Mosquito Squad’s 5 Tips for Mosquito Control
Tip. Tip over those standing containers of water! Mosquitoes need only a bottle cap’s worth to breed in, so empty the water. This includes freshening bird baths and dog bowls at least every three days.
Toss. Toss out that old pile of leaves you’ve been meaning to get to. Adult mosquitoes use standing debris as their nesting ground, so keeping yard clutter to a minimum ensures fewer mosquitoes have a place to hang out.
Turn. Turn over any large items that may be holding stagnant water. This includes kiddie pools, toys like dump trucks, buckets, canoes, kayaks, or yard equipment, like your wheelbarrow.
Tilt. Double check all your tarps and gutters to ensure that they are water free. Sags equal pooling water, and that equates to a mosquito breeding sanctuary. It only takes 10 days for mosquitoes to hatch, and one adult female mosquito can lay up to 3,000 eggs in her lifetime. She is welcome to lay her eggs somewhere other than your yard, and by eliminating haunts for her, you reduce the mosquito population in your area automatically.
Treat. The best Montgomery County MD Mosquito Control is through the use of a proven, effective barrier spray. Our barrier spray places a boundary, or a “no fly zone” between your yard and mosquitoes. Unlike other companies who only spray around the perimeter of your house, we believe you are allowed to be in your entire yard, whenever you wish. Mosquitoes bites are painful and annoying, but it is the illnesses (like West Nile Virus and heartworms) that infected mosquitoes carry that make having a hedge of protection between you and them a smart idea.
Let Dread Skeeter and our trained service technicians be your family’s guardian angel when it comes to keeping 85% – 90% of mosquitoes at bay. Here at Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, we offer EPA-approved barrier spray protection for your entire landscape. We stand behind our work with a 100% satisfaction guarantee. Enjoy getting out in the beautiful warm weather and being a part of nature this Spring and Summer. We welcome your call for a free quote 301-444-5566 or email us at westmontco@mosquitosquad.com
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
Posted in Mosquito control, Mosquito Facts, Nuisance Insect Control, Traditional Mosquito Control Program | Leave a Comment »
Tags: Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Rockville MD mosquito control service
September 13, 2014
First West Nile Virus case recently reported in Maryland
According to an article published in The Washington Post, “Maryland’s health department reported the state’s first confirmed case of West Nile virus of 2014. The state’s survey period for West Nile virus lasts from July 1 to Oct. 31. Last year, the first three cases of the year were reported by mid-August. By the end of the year, 16 people had been infected. In 2012, Maryland hit a nine-year high of 47 cases.”
Here at Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, our goal is to keep residents protected from the dangers associated with mosquitoes and ticks. Though news of the recent report is concerning, we are keeping a positive outlook and are hopeful this will be the only confirmed case of the season. According to the state department of health, most people infected with the virus do not become sick. Those who do grow ill exhibit symptoms including fever, achiness, rash and swollen glands within two days to two weeks of being bitten by an infected mosquito. Less than 1 percent of people who are infected suffer more serious consequences.
A wheelbarrow of standing water, forgotten behind your garden shed serves as the perfect breeding ground for thousands of mosquito eggs.
The Labor Day week heatwave accompanied by the massive rainfalls are causing mosquitoes to be more active now than they have been all summer! It is a known fact that Asian tiger mosquitoes peak late August through September and we are seeing this come to fruition in our area and continuing with the trend. Keep in mind, even as temperatures start to grow a bit cooler as we welcome the arrival of fall in the coming weeks, it is important that residents stay vigilant with their mosquito control practices. As the health department continues to monitor and test for the virus here in Montgomery County region, and all across the state, here is a quick checklist for keeping mosquitoes away for the remainder of the season:
Enjoy being outdoors knowing you and your family are protected!
Common sense practices to reduce mosquito populations include keeping your lawn mowed and free of debris, this includes brush piles. Keep your landscape from becoming overgrown. Make sure all screened areas in and around your home are not damaged or torn to reduce the risk of mosquitoes becoming uninvited house guests. Clogged gutters are a refuge for mosquitoes as well as down spouts. Make certain these areas are kept free of debris. Other things to avoid are pooled water in sandboxes and swing sets or other outdoor kids play structures. Also avoid keeping tires outside.
In addition to removing the potential for mosquitoes to breed, it is also highly recommended to have your property treated by a licensed mosquito control professional to provide an invisible veil of protection from mosquitoes and the illnesses they carry. Since mosquito activity is still in full force, now is the time to be vigilant in mosquito control practices in your own backyard.
Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery offers an intensive mosquito control program that controls and prevents mosquitoes. Our highly effective barrier sprays are sprayed on a regular schedule throughout the mosquito season to ensure no gaps in your mosquito and tick control. We offer an organic mosquito control spray as well!
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
Our goal is to keep you, your family and your pets completely protected from mosquitoes and the many diseases they carry for the entire season. Contact Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery for a free estimate today • (301) 444-5566 • email:westmontco@mosquitosquad.com
Posted in Diseases, Mosquito control, Mosquitoes and Mosquito-borne Illness, West Nile Virus | Leave a Comment »
Tags: First West Nile Virus case recently reported in Maryland, Kensinton MD mosquito control, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito control, Mosquito Control to reduce the risk of West Nile Virus Rockville MD, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery MD, Raising awareness of mosquito borne illness in Rockville MD, Rockville MD effective mosquito control, Rockville MD mosquito control service, Rockville MD mosquito control to reduce the risk of mosquito-borne illness, Rockville MD organic mosquito control and prevention, The 5T's of mosquito control and prevention, the Washington Post., West Montgomery MD mosquito control and prevention
August 28, 2014
Learn how to keep mosquitoes and ticks away for Labor Day — and your special day!
Happy Labor Day from Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery!
The last hoorah for summer is right around the corner as residents and communities all over Montgomery County, MD plan their annual Labor Day festivities. With this holiday upon us, many households will be hosting backyard celebrations. All the preparations, guest lists and planning you are working on should also include mosquito and tick control and prevention. Outdoor parties are an important time to make certain that you and your guests don’t get bitten while attending your special event.
Mosquitoes and ticks are vectors for illness and disease, such as Lyme Disease and West Nile Virus just to name a few. Don’t put you or the health of your guests at risk. Even though fall is right around the corner, and you may feel that summer is coming to an end, we are actually in the height of mosquito and tick season. Now it is more important than ever to stay focused and keep your property protected from mosquitoes and ticks.
Special events are an important time to make certain that you and your guests don’t get bitten.
We are still receiving requests for our special event mosquito and tick control services as Maryland homeowners prepare to host other special outdoor events such as weddings, family reunions and birthday parties. Many of these events are larger in size than your average backyard barbecue and seating accommodations are sometimes placed near taller grasses or back up to the edges of your property or wooded areas. In these scenarios, it is crucial to treat your property to kill ticks as well as mosquitoes, since high grass and bushes are where ticks like to hide and tick activity peaks late summer into early fall.
Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery can help you and your family enjoy the remainder of the outdoor living season in your yard without the threat of being bitten. Even though the kids are back in school and vacations have come to an end, there is no reason you can’t enjoy the long afternoons outside with your family and friends. Anytime can be special, even the smallest moments.
Our barrier spray is exactly what you need for the perfect outdoor party!
About 24-48 hours prior to guests’ arrival, we’ll apply a barrier spray that includes effective protection against mosquitoes and ticks. It’s exactly what you need for the perfect party:
Eliminates or greatly reduces the number of mosquitoes that might otherwise bite guests or hover around food.
Dries in 30 minutes, leaving no odor or visible residue.
Is applied long before your food and dinnerware arrive, so there’s no opportunity for contamination.
Provides protection day and night through your entire event.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
Call Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery now to make sure your Labor Day outdoor celebration and other special outdoor event goes off without a hitch. Our convenient and effective barrier spray service kill mosquitoes and ticks and prevents mosquitoes from entering the treated area as well. Don’t delay call today. Call us today for a free quote (301) 444-5566 or email us at :westmontco@mosquitosquad.com
Posted in Healthy Family, Mosquito control, Outdoor Events, Outdoor Living, Special Event Mosquito & Tick Control for Outdoor Events, Tick Control and Prevention | Leave a Comment »
Tags: Kensington MD Mosquito Control for Special Outdoor Events, Kensinton MD mosquito control, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Kentlands Special Event Mosquito Control, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito control, Mosquito Control to reduce the risk of West Nile Virus Rockville MD, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery MD, Raising awareness of mosquito borne illness in Rockville MD, Rockville MC Labor Day Mosquito Control, Rockville MD effective mosquito control, Rockville MD Mosquito and Tick Control for Special Events, Rockville MD Mosquito Control for Outdoor Celebrations, Rockville MD mosquito control service, West Montgomery MD mosquito control and prevention
August 14, 2014
“Mosquitoes remind us that we are not as high up on the food chain as we think.”
In true fashion, reality is sometimes stranger than fiction. I recently read a quote by Tom Wilson that speaks more fact than much lengthier prose I have read on the subject of mosquitoes… “Mosquitoes remind us that we are not as high up on the food chain as we think.”
Simple and very poignant to say the least. How is it that such a tiny insect can strike such fear in us and remind us of our place in the big “scheme” of things — the circle of life? In order to understand the mosquito we must first go back, way back in fact, to the beginning. The oldest known mosquito with an anatomy similar to the modern species we deal with today was found in 79-million-year-old Canadian amber from the Cretaceous period. In addition, an even older sister species with more primitive features was found in Burmese amber that is 90 to 100 million years old. Two mosquito fossils have also been found that show very little morphological difference from modern mosquitoes against their counterpart from 46 million years ago.
Yes, indeed this would mean the tiny mosquito survived the ice age, even when the dinosaurs did not.
Scientists have even discovered evidence of bedding that was constructed from plant stems and leaves which contained a natural plant derived insecticide. This bedding would have served as much for mosquito control as for comfort at the time. The bedding was discovered in a rock shelter in Sibudu South Africa and is believed to be left by our early ancestors who slept in the shelter from 38,000 to 77,000 years ago. The use of these plants and leaves prove that the cavemen had knowledge of the specific insecticidal and medicinal uses of the plants within the world around them. Analysis of the bedding also concluded it was refurbished with the insecticidal plants and leaves on more than one occasion proving again, that the inhabitants of the Sibudu site were well aware of the properties and attributes of the plants and leaves they were choosing to “feather their beds” with at the time. Researchers also learned from excavation of the sight that the cavemen burned spent and used bedding in a way to possibly further mosquito control efforts within their living space and to maintain an insect free space for further occupation. This discovery is 50,000 years older than the most ancient preserved bedding we have found in the past — wow.
Now, for the skinny on where the mosquito ends up on the food chain: Even though there are over 3,500 species of mosquitoes on earth doesn’t mean they are higher up on the food chain than humans. To better explain this, I turn to the wonderful minds at National Geographic who explain the theory of the “food chain” in more detail. “A food web consists of all the food chains in a single ecosystem. Each living thing in an ecosystem is part of multiple food chains. Each food chain is one possible path that energy and nutrients may take as they move through the ecosystem. All of the interconnected and overlapping food chains in an ecosystem make up a food web.” Mosquitoes are part of many food webs. The female mosquito needs blood to feed her eggs. Humans make easy prey for mosquitoes because of many factors, including smell. Mosquitoes eat from plants as male mosquitoes are beneficial pollinators and do not feed from blood. Mosquito eggs too, are food to crayfish, dragonflies and frogs. Bass, pike, trout and perch are a few of the many fish that feed on mosquito larva. Flying mosquitoes are food for frogs, bats and birds, especially purple martins.
So you see mosquitoes, though they are vectors for illness and disease and get on our last nerve, are part of the circle of life — they eat plants, deposit eggs and become food.
I truly think the basis of this quote, in particular, comes from the track record of the mosquito as a predator. Earlier this year, Bill Gates made a reference to the mosquito being the world’s deadliest predator on his blog, gatesnotes. When it comes to killing humans, no other animal even comes close. Here is a look at the number of people each year killed by various animals, many of which you would assume more menacing than the mosquito: Sharks accounted for 10 deaths per year, elephants 100, dogs 25,000 , humans killing humans 425,00 and the mosquito came in at a whopping 725,000!
Bill Gates Deadliest Animal Mosquito Graphic
What makes mosquitoes so dangerous? Despite their innocuous-sounding name—Spanish for “little fly”—they carry devastating diseases. The worst is Malaria, which kills more than 600,000 people every year; another 200 million cases incapacitate people for days at a time. It threatens half of the world’s population and causes billions of dollars in lost productivity annually. Other mosquito-borne diseases include Dengue Fever, Yellow Fever, and Encephalitis and West Nile Virus.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
Even though many of these diseases are not in your backyard, the mosquitoes are. Our goal is to keep you, your family and your pets completely protect you from mosquitoes the entire season for comfort and safety. Contact Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery for a free estimate today • (301) 444-5566 • email:westmontco@mosquitosquad.com
Posted in Mosquito control, Mosquito Facts, Mosquitoes and Mosquito-borne Illness | Leave a Comment »
Tags: asian tiger mosquitoes, Bill Gates Deadliest Animal Mosquito Graphic, Kensinton MD mosquito control, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito control, Mosquito Control to reduce the risk of West Nile Virus Rockville MD, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery MD, National Geographic, Raising awareness of mosquito borne illness in Rockville MD, Rockville MD effective mosquito control, Rockville MD mosquito control service, Rockville MD mosquito control to reduce the risk of mosquito-borne illness, Rockville MD organic mosquito control and prevention, The 5T's of mosquito control and prevention, West Montgomery MD mosquito control and prevention, Why the mosquito is the deadliest predator on earth
August 6, 2014
The top 10 things you need to know about the Asian Tiger Mosquito in Montgomery County, MD
Asian Tiger Mosquito
The Asian tiger mosquito (Aedes albopictus) is an invasive mosquito species that is known to be a vector for a wide range of mosquito-borne illness and disease. These include Dengue Fever, which is predominant throughout Southeast Asia. The Asian tiger is also a potential vector for Yellow Fever and has now been identified as the main carrier of Chikungunya , a debilitating virus prevalent in Africa, Asia and as of December 2013, also in the Caribbean. This virus causes fever and joint pain among other symptoms. The first two cases of Chikungunya were contracted in Florida last week, according to the CDC. Here in Maryland the Asian tiger is to blame for the spread of West Nile Virus, Eastern Equine Encephalitis, Lacrosse Encephalitis and Canine heartworms.
The tire trade in the US is to blame for the rise of the Asian Tiger mosquito.
This mosquito is native to the tropical and subtropical regions of Southeast Asia. The tiger mosquito now thrives in both urban and suburban environments across Maryland. The initial discovery of Asian Tiger mosquitoes in the US occurred in Houston tow years prior to when their discovery Baltimore, MD in 1987 at a used tire processing plant. From there, it spread to nearby communities as buckets, cans, flower vases and many other artificial water holding containers have proved as suitable as tire casings for breeding sites. Many communities in Maryland which experienced very little mosquito annoyance in the past are now infested by these mosquitoes. The tiger mosquito prefers residential areas where shade and water-holding containers are common. This pest is found in all neighborhoods, from the poorest to the most affluent. Older residential areas with a good deal of shade are preferred sites. Areas near commercial establishments which store a large number of tire casings outside are often infested with the greatest number of Asian Tiger mosquitoes.
The Asian Tiger mosquito is colored like it’s namesake: the tiger.
Only two years after the arrival of this unwanted world traveler, the population had already spread into 17 states. Currently the Asian tiger mosquito’s realm extends from Texas all along the southern coast all the way to the Atlantic. This mosquito has now been identified in 25 states that range as far north as Iowa.
The Asian tiger mosquito was named for its distinct black and white markings, which resemble its namesake – the tiger. This mosquito was aptly named because it exhibits much of the same aggression as a tiger. It will return again and again, even as it’s pushed or swatted away, to gain a blood meal. It has even been reported to have swarmed homeowners in their backyard, being mistaken for bees.
One of the most distinct characteristics of this mosquito is that it is a day-feeder — when other mosquitoes are in their “down” time waiting for the sun to fade into the horizon, the Asian tiger is busy in search of an all-you-can-eat buffet! In an effort to educate Montgomery County homeowners on the unique traits of this mosquito, we have put together a list of the ten things you need to know about the Asian tiger mosquito:
Top 10 things your need to know about the Asian tiger mosquito
#1) Asian tiger mosquitoes are aggressive day feeders. Early morning and late afternoon are peak biting times.
#2) Tiger mosquitoes rest, fly and bite close to the ground.
#3) These mosquitoes are strongly attracted to bite humans, but will feed on cats, dogs and other mammals, as well as birds active on the ground.
The bloodthirsty Asian Tiger mosquito is just one of over species of mosquito here in MD.
#4) Asian tiger mosquitoes can breed in minimal amount of water including small puddles, crevices, knots in trees, planter reservoirs and even soda bottle caps.
#5) Female Asian Tiger mosquitoes lay 40 to 150 eggs after obtaining a blood meal.
#6) The cycle of blood feeding and egg laying will continue throughout the mosquito’s life span.
#7) Egg laying occurs about once per week.
#8) Adult tiger mosquitoes live from a few days to several weeks, largely depending on weather conditions. Hot, dry weather reduces life expectancy.
#9) During her lifetime, female Asian Tiger Mosquitoes will lay approximately 300 eggs.
#10) In Maryland, Tiger mosquito eggs are present year round. Larvae is present from April through October. Adult tiger mosquitoes are found May through October. The period of peak population is June through September.
You can enjoy your yard and eliminate Asian tiger mosquitoes by using the proven Mosquito Squad mosquito barrier spray program along with exercising safe-mosquito habits around your home!
Being able to use your yard more allows you to invite more friends and family over during the summer. Having the freedom to enjoy your yard also allows kids to play, explore nature and enjoy being a kid! Outdoor entertaining is also a plus this time of year, but, you also know getting your guests to come back for the next celebration will only occur if you provide them a safe and relaxing time while outside. Swatting and worrying about mosquitoes isn’t a memory you want guests taking home with them after a visit to your home.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
Our program will eliminate mosquitoes in your yard, including the Asian tiger mosquito, all season long. Our worry-free, effective barrier spray will get rid of mosquitoes present and prevent them from returning for up to 21 days. Eliminating mosquitoes reduces you and your family’s chances of contracting a mosquito-borne illness. Getting started is easy and our rotation program ensures mosquito control all summer long, with no gaps in service.
Take the tiger by the tail this season and contact Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery today to schedule a season free of mosquitoes, ticks and stink bugs!
Posted in Asian Tiger Mosquito, Mosquito control, Mosquito Facts | Leave a Comment »
Tags: Asian Tiger Mosquito Control in Kensington MD, Asian Tiger Mosquito Control in Montgomery County MD, asian tiger mosquitoes, Asian Toger Mosquito Control in Rockville MD, CDC Centers for Disease Control & Prevention, Controlling the Asian Tiger mosquito in MD, Kensinton MD mosquito control, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito control, Mosquito Control to reduce the risk of West Nile Virus Rockville MD, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery MD, Raising awareness of mosquito borne illness in Rockville MD, Rockville MD effective mosquito control, Rockville MD mosquito control service, Rockville MD mosquito control to reduce the risk of mosquito-borne illness, Rockville MD organic mosquito control and prevention, The top 10 things you need to know about the Asian Tiger Mosquito in Montgomery County MD, West Montgomery MD mosquito control and prevention
« Older Entries |
Tags
asian tiger mosquitoes biting mosquitoes Community outreach on mosquito and tick safety in Rockville MD healthy outdoor living Heightening awarness of Lyme Disease in West Montgomery MD How to prevent Lyme Disease carrying ticks in your MD backyard this season Kensington Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention Kensington MD tick control and prevention Kensinton MD mosquito control Kentland mosquito control & prevention Kentland mosquito service Kentlands mosquito control in MD Kentlands Tick control and protections Lyme disease Malaria No More maryland Md MD tick control & prevention montgomery county Montgomery County MD mosquito control mosquito Mosquito control Mosquito Control to reduce the risk of West Nile Virus Rockville MD mosquito repellent Mosquito Squad Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery discusses the misconception of the Polar Vortex's impact on mosquitoes Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery MD North Bethesda MD tick control program Nuisance Insect Control Protecting against the risk of Lyme Disease in Maryland Raising awareness of mosquito borne illness in Rockville MD Raising awareness of tick borne illness in Rockville MD rockville Rockville MD effective mosquito control Rockville MD mosquito control service Rockville MD mosquito control to reduce the risk of mosquito-borne illness Rockville MD organic mosquito control and prevention Rockville MD tick control The 5T's of mosquito control and prevention The truth about Lyme Disease in MD tick control montgomery county tick treatment West Montgomery MD mosquito control and prevention
Calendar
April 2019
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Aug
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30
Archives
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
August 2011
August 2010
July 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
Blogroll
WordPress.com
WordPress.org
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy