How to stop smoking weed | How to quit marijuana for good – A comprehensive guide – How to quit weed | How to stop smoking marijuana for good
Skip to content
How to quit weed | How to stop smoking marijuana for good
Wellness-group.org
Posted on April 2, 2018 April 2, 2018 by editor
How to stop smoking weed | How to quit marijuana for good – A comprehensive guide
Lots of men and women are deciding, for a variety of reasons, that they need to give up smoking weed. I lost my mother after I graduated and began smoking HEAVY merely to keep my sanity and to get a appetite but I am literally sick of this shit it’s taken over my life all I do is smoke and work I don’t see family or friends much it is all about marijuana for me.
But I am two days in and refuse to return yea I have a few headaches and I am wanting to smoke because I am tired but I am determined and will begin working out and finding a hobby or something but the most important thing I will do is PRAY.
“Is a learning resource for people who wish to enhance their lives by taking away the chains of marijuana dependence. Found cannabis helped prevent the urge to drink.” -A 69-year-old commercial fisherman.
If you put on weight once you quit smoking weed, avoid crash diets as these can further decrease your metabolism. Willpower is the means of finding strength within yourself. Dual-diagnosis experience. Malnutrition inhibits the body’s ability to clean up secondary infections.
Due to the gorgeous sensations associated with burning hashish, they will become dependent on it. I have a weak I used Viagra at first it was okay,now sometimes it’s not working,I just get a weak erection.
A within-subjects ABAC crossover study in which inpatient volunteers smoked cannabis ad-libitum (A), also abstained from cannabis (B/C).
Since there is less of a physical element of the withdrawal, it’s only recently that the medical establishment has acknowledged a marijuana withdrawal syndrome is present.
An effective form of punishment would be to take your child’s weekly allowance, for example.
There isn’t any drugs to treat THC addictions. He talked about the many adventures he had and that he was worried that a brief stay in rehab would not offer him the chance to find any type of relaxation or relief. You’ve flushed or given away your stash.
For men and women that find that they’re really struggling to take care of withdrawal symptoms or additional substance abuse, the best alternative may be to go to rehab.
Marijuana users might need to overcome temptations to go back to the medication during the withdrawal period. Having a comprehensive system which will make sure you stay on course is a excellent idea. You should do something which involves exercise as those feel good endorphins will need to be released.
The Three Best Ways To Quit Smoking Pot
A great deal of Americans do not understand how hard it can be to stop smoking marijuana, either because they do not think that it’s addictive or because they believe it to be a “minor medication.” Both of these reasons are in fact part of the problem which makes it so hard – but not impossible – to stop.
Yes, you are very clever, never a question. You’ve learned the normal therapeutic knowledge and procedures … no different than what I have experienced – and life was not working for me … kind of like memorizing the guide to ride a bike and getting on it and placing that intellectual group of advice to use – not – the application/experience is entirely different.
You have not been willing to perform the job – does not make you wrong or bad – it means your survival mechanisms do their job.
Cannabis withdrawal syndrome may occur when someone who has used marijuana heavily for a lengthy time period suddenly stops using. The symptoms typically appear within a week of cessation and feature a selection of unpleasant effects.
Withdrawal symptoms develop as a consequence of physical dependence on the medication. Whenever someone uses marijuana consistently for a protracted period, the body adapts to the presence of the chemical and might become desensitized to certain neurotransmitters in the brain, including its own naturally occurring endogenous cannabinoid (endocannabinoid).
Many withdrawal symptoms from bud can be treated at home. Oftentimes, it’s only a matter of changing a few of your patterns and habits. As an example, to help alleviate anxiety and sleeplessness, remove caffeine and try to remain as relaxed as you can.
Relaxation methods, such as breathing exercises or even a regular exercise regimen could be useful for this.
Headaches can be treated with over-the-counter pain drugs, and nausea may be treated with over-the-counter stomach medicine. Similarly, irritability or restlessness may be treated using consciousness practices like meditation.
Individuals who reach out, find support and join the herd of regaining stoners stand a better chance of keeping an herb-free lifestyle. Avoiding smoking and secondhand smoke can help stop your asthma attacks and wheezing from becoming worse.
Taking this type of activity is one of the best first steps of beating the weed habit. By entering your email address you are also requesting and agreeing to subscribe to additional email communications.
A step-by-step, guided online program like Quit Weed Today that will demonstrate how you can cleanse your body & mind from marijuana whilst offering a serene weed withdrawal.
2. Smokers cough. This treatment is used with individuals who lack a motivation to stop using marijuana.
3. Practice thought stopping and cravings
Work towards it. Will you reduce the amount you use each day until then? By how much? Setting yourself goals with manageable tasks will make quitting far more achievable than just winging it.
A good quitting weed program can really help fill this gap.
There are people who have been weed smokers for 28 years, and the only thing that helped them quit smoking weed FOR GOOD was this simple low cost online course.
Smoking marijuana can be just as unhealthy and addictive as smoking cigarettes, according to National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA).
Substance Abuse and Mental Health – 6 Habits Of Individuals Who Have Successfully Stop Weed
Most scientists agree there are particular advantages to smoking marijuana , such as relieving pain , anxiety, and PTSD But chronic smoking has adverse repercussions also, like a reduction in dopamine levels in the brain. However, as my life got more mature and more complex, my connection with pot intensified.
I began self-medicating and although I had no doubt my problem was enormous, everywhere I turned I found reason to justify my usage, if it was a medical-cannabis study online, a pro-pot op-ed at the New York Times or still another blunts-cure-all conversation with another user. For the worried stoner who suspects he or she’s in too deep, there is never a dearth of external encouragement to continue being a loser.
Stopping smoking is notoriously difficult precisely due to the addictive nature of nicotine, which, besides dopamine, affects other neurotransmitter systems in the brain. Only 25 percent of people successfully stop smoking without relapsing for at least one year, states the Tobacco Truth website.
Among the few medications that’s been proven to be effective in increasing the success rate is Bupropion, a compound that slightly increases the amount of dopamine in the brain. Using this method, researchers argue that the brain no longer requires the dopamine due to smoking, and smokers experience fewer cravings, according to the Tobacco-Related Disease Research Program.
If you are attempting to stop weed, consult your doctor for advice. Before that moment, I was making some small tweaks to my life for the sake of my mental health. I began seeing a therapist, exercising regularly, and getting acupuncture. The day after I smoked myself ill, I happened to get an appointment to the latter.
Once I sat in the waiting area for a while, my acupuncturist, Max, came out of reception to greet me. We exchanged pleasantries and he asked me if I had been enjoying the weather, which was sunny and warm for a couple of days despite it being winter.
I said yes, and joked about how I’d spent the day before shrouded in darkness and was making up for lost time. I then got serious, and the words kind of just fell from my mouth: “I really like weed… But I believe I want to stop?” As I said it, I scared myself.Sometimes these occur months after you really quit smoking weed.
In case you have repeatedly failed to give up the habit of smoking weed then you definitely want to be within an in-patient narcotics rehabilitation center to get treated. Sit back, relax and revel in this sample from “Morning Gratitude“.
By how much? You will find some microsleep probably, you may simply not notice dozing off because sleep is so mild. Do you understand how detrimental the publicity is to your career? We’re goal oriented, achievement oriented and growth oriented. The recovery process doesn’t finish as the remedy is. .
As soon as you commit to completely quitting, you will have to control your urges.
In a recent article in The New England Journal of Medicine. . Time, support and patience are the most effective means of tackling withdrawal symptoms when you quit smoking weed.
Should you hang around with friends who smoke marijuana, find others to do things with who are not using it.
Proven Methods I used to beat marijuana dependence in 30 days without withdrawal symptoms.
Stress, anxiety or paranoia can develop during marijuana intoxication. There can be intense feelings which cause the individual to exaggerate thoughts. Sometimes, someone might think of things that bring attention.
However, other times the feelings may trigger negative ideas that the individual has done something wrong or cause a distrust of people. Heavy marijuana use may exacerbate psychological difficulties, such as depression and anxiety, or cause them.
Marijuana may be utilised as a self-medication to ease problems, but might have the opposite effect of intensifying them.So this being said it’s possible to stop smoking marijuana without discomfort cravings or relapses and you aren’t fighting a compound need but a psychological requirement that may be overcome with willpower.
Although this may sound simple it can obviously be a good deal harder in practice as the habit can run quite deep particularly for people who have smoked for ages.
Quitting can be accompanied by anxiety and depression as you learn how to live life without the constant smoking that could appear soothing and reassuring but just because it was part of your regular routine.
The trick for some people is to find something to replace this dependence, obviously another dependence but something creative and satisfying. Something which makes you happy without an intense high you might attempt to move onto as an alternate.”Legalize it, do not criticize it,” sang Peter Tosh several decades ago.
You will need to make it as hard as possible to smoke.
This is defined as a reading of 140/90 mmHg or above. I stayed away from marijuna use for one month but must return to it since the redrawal symptoms were too heavy to endure without medical aid. Someone once said old age is like a bank account. The awareness program looks at a range of components that revolve. . They are generally called acid, blotter, and blooter acid, dots, pane, and zen. They generally react on the brain for about 12 hours within a period 30 minutes of administration.
Blood pressure increased significantly during times of cannabis abstinence compared with periods of cannabis use.
User reviews, comments and suggestions
Review 1
I know how you feel I was a chronic daily smoker for about 9 years. I haven’t smoked in almost 11 months which may not seem like a big deal but for me it is since I never thought I would be able to stop smoking.
The thing about weed is that (at least for me) it is psychologically addictive. I was addicted to the ritual of it, the smell, and the immediate sense of peace and euphoria that came when I hit the bowl. I tried many times to “cut down” or “reduce” my smoking. I would go for 2 weeks without getting high and then reward myself by getting high because I did so well! I would attempt to set limits on my smoking (I’m only going to smoke on the weekends….I’m only going to smoke at night…okay now I’m only going to smoke after work and then at night…and once when I wake up in the morning…etc). The truth is if you are truly psychologically and emotionally addicted to marijuana like I was you CANNOT control your use. Sorry, you just can’t. If you have ever been to an AA or NA meeting it is the same concept that they talk about there.
When I finally decided to stop 11 months ago I made the commitment to not smoke. I wrote down a list of all the negative consequences of my habit including
-lack of motivation
-poor memory
-isolating tendencies
-blunted emotions
-constantly feeling like I was in a haze
-a gross living environment
-sense of guilt/shame at not being able to cut down
Some practical steps I have taken to avoid smoking include:
telling my friends that I am no longer smoking (I know…this one is HARD especially since 90% of my friends are still pot heads…however if they are truly your friends they will respect your boundaries…ask them not to smoke around you at least in the beginning…if it really is an issue you might have to not see them for a while)
remembering what I felt like when I was getting high everyday. This is important. Because there will be times when you say to yourself “ah…it’s been 4 months..I really want to get high! It will be different this time…it’s only weed.” No. it will not be different. When I have cravings to smoke, which still happen, I remember what my life was like. I remember how unhappy I was, I think of all the failed attempts at controlling my use. I remember the time I went 6 whole months without smoking! And then I got high. And then I continued to get high every day for the next 3 months.
get rid of your weed and your paraphernalia
download a sobriety counter app on your phone. There is a marijuana anonymous app you can download that has a sobriety date counter as well as a lot of useful information and tools…
speaking of MA, consider going to meetings. There is a marijuana anonymous fellowship. There are not a lot around so there are also phone meetings that happen daily (you can find them on the app.) You can also go to AA or NA..a drug is a drug is a drug.
Know that just because you are addicted to weed doesn’t make you weak or any “less than” people with “real addictions” and fuck anyone who tries to tell you that.
Create new habits that will make you feel good. Start exercising, meditating, cooking, eating healthy, or anything else that is going to give you a sense of happiness and wellbeing
stay in today. “just for today.” Don’t think about how you are going to manage not smoking for the next 10 years. Think about not smoking today.
I hope this helps. Just know that you are not alone and you can do it!
Review 2
When you are addicted, you are possessed by an outside force (energy) literally. The addiction feeds that force. Your addictive thoughts are not you. It is that force. There is nothing personally that you CAN do to heal your addiction. You are not the one in control. That is why it feels impossible to stop. All addictions have a life (a beginning, a middle and an end). There is nothing you can do to speed it along. Be patient. Your soul has chosen this path to walk. There is much about yourself to be learnt. Observe yourself as if you are out of body. Listen to your addictive thoughts as they bombard you a thousand times a day. This outside force is not too original when you begin to understand its manipulative and repeatitive ways. It injects addictive thoughts into your ‘head’ so you will succumb and addict. The shame and guilt you feel afterwards is high voltage energetic food for it to recharge its batteries. Basically it is an energetic parasite living off the energies produced by your addictive turmoil or mind trash.
This force is known by many names. Echkart Tolle calls it the pain body, the Bible calls it the devil, spirituality calls it the dark or negative force.
Addictions are teaching humanity to understand that we are not our thoughts and that there does exist many energetic unseen entities that have the ability to sabotage our thoughts.
Good luck. Please don’t judge what you are doing. There is always a divine reason for everything that happens. Be cool with it.
God is in control, not you. Trust his wisdom.
Review 3
Others have given you great advice on the reasons behind why you might want to stop, I’ll give you some practical advice:
Step 1
Buy a Ksafe:
The Time Lock Safe
Step 2
Pick one day of the week, and organise events and activities where you are out of the house from the morning all the way through to the evening as close to bed time as possible. In the morning, put your weed in that safe and time lock it for 24 hours so the safe does not open. Congrats – you’ve done one day not smoking weed!
Step 3
Do Step 2 for another couple of weeks and you’ll have 1 weed-free day per week and you’ll remember what it’s like to not be stoned and think to yourself “it’s not that bad”.
Now try to have 2 weed free days per week. I recommend not doing two days in a row, so for example you may want to choose a Monday and a Friday. Stick with this for another few weeks and then try to increase to 3 days per week etc.
Step 4
Repeat until you’re happy with your levels of smoking. Should take 3 months or so.
The main thing about this method is that you are making progress each week and will therefore find it easier as you go along.
Editor’s note:- We recommend Quit weed program as the best comprehensive plan for quitting weed for good.
Review 4
I’m prefacing this by stating this is my opinion and my set of suggestions. This is suggestive only. You can take what you want from what I say and leave the rest:
I quit smoking pot 29 years ago and never picked up another joint again. Marijuana was my drug of choice and I used every single day from 18 to 31 yrs old. I could bong hit anyone I knew under the table – and I’m a woman. I also quit doing any drugs, pills, and drinking alcohol at the same time. I didn’t realize I had a problem with substances – I had started thinking I was just mentally ill or something. I couldn’t figure out what was wrong with me. I had preconceived notions of what it meant to be an addict and I knew that didn’t fit me, so I kept going forward on “automatic pothead woman pilot.”
Finally I got into rehab. I realized that I was mainly using marijuana, but I had to quit all substances and alcohol. Frankly, it was such a relief to find out I wasn’t flat out crazy that I gladly stepped up to go into Alcoholics Anonymous. Narcotics Anonymous has a lot of hard drug addicts and I didn’t feel as comfortable in those meetings. I started going to AA meetings and really felt at home. I immediately changed my attitude, realizing I was the one who needed to change. I needed to change my attitude, my actions, and my way of thinking. I threw myself into the program 100%.
When in rehab I heard a statistic. They said that of everyone who tries to get sober today, only 6% will still be sober 10 years from now. Other people might have gotten discouraged by that, but I looked around the room and I thought, “By God, I HAVE to be in that 6%. My entire future and the future of my child is relying on my being in that 6%.”
I stayed away from my old “friends,” ie, the people I used with. Do not go around anyone who smokes pot.
I went to AA meetings for 90 meetings in 90 days straight. Sounds impossible, but it was the perfect way to get immersed in the program.
I made up my mind that NOTHING was going to push me over that line. I was quitting everything mind altering and it was a permanent decision. I was going to do it one day, one hour, sometimes one minute at a time – but I was going to do this for the rest of my life.
I read the Big Book of AA from front to cover and got a sponsor in the program. A sponsor is a mentor specifically for the program.
I worked The Twelve Steps with my sponsor and continued to go to a number of meetings every week.
I stayed out of any relationships for the first year, which actually turned into 2 years. Unlike people who get sober and then move in with someone when they are 30 days sober, I waited and wound up madly in love with the man of my dreams, frankly. I met him at an AA dance 27 yrs ago.
I made up my mind that no matter what happened, I wasn’t going to use. I didn’t care if I was happy, sad, up, down, mean, sweet or in a bad mood. I wasn’t going to go back out no matter who died, who was born, if I had a man, if I was lonely and had no man, if I was horny, angry, had money or was flat broke – I was going to do it all sober. I don’t care if I run down the middle of the road screaming in the middle of the night – I’m going to do it sober. Meh – I have done all of the above and rutted out the driveway hauling out of there mad at my husband, in the early days of our marriage, but I did that sober. I also had to go back and apologize for my bad attitude quite a few times before I grew up and stopped acting like a child – all done sober.
Choose a sponsor who has what you want. Lets say you want to be a highly successful business person – get a sponsor who is a highly successful business person. If you want to be married and have children, find a sponsor who has a long, happy marriage and good relationship with his/her spouse and is a good parent.
Be willing to listen. Go sit in the meeting and just listen to what they have to say and be open minded and willing to stay sober.
Pray. Even if you don’t believe in God – that’s okay – pray anyway. It will make you feel better and stronger in your attempt to stay sober.
Stick with the winners. Hang around with the people who have mega years of sobriety.
Don’t be a chicken. I double-dog dare you to stay sober for one year.
The UN conducted a study about 1 1/2 years ago and found that the US has 5% of the world’s population – and 80% of the world’s substance abusers. We have about 70 million people in the US with a problem involving substance abuse. That includes 22 million heroin addicts, 50 million with a pot problem, 60 million alcoholics, 250 million prescriptions written yearly for anti-depressants alone, 259 million prescriptions written yearly for painkillers. Think about it – a large percentage of Americans are walking around all messed up on something. There really isn’t anything so bad about reality.
Living your life in reality is wonderful – it really is – and you’re so much better able to handle the ups and downs of a regular life. I know for myself that I don’t want to die someday having lived my life in a haze. I’m taking this thing on with all of my faculties. It’s a decision you make on your own – nobody can force you. By the way, AA is the only truly democratic society in the world. There is only one requirement for membership: A desire to stop drinking. So you can fit right in at AA by simply wanting to stay sober, including alcohol.
I’m assuming you are in the United States, but perhaps you are not. There is AA in every country around the world, I believe. If you are outside of the US, look online and type in “Alcoholics Anonymous meetings” and the name of your town. Nobody has to know you are going to the meetings. You can secretly begin to get well. Good luck. You can do this.
Review 5
One thing you must understand is that you are feeling a few emotions about stopping. The first is anxiety. To solve this: understand that your stopping for a day will not be the end all. You can do it. There dare others but we don’t know each other and I am not wanting to sound judgmental.
Step 1) Go on and finish what you have, or gift it to those around you. Weed is not highly addictive. If anything it is more habitual.
Step 2) Buy some CBD. If it has been done with THC there is a CBD version as well. This will help you recover from the extremely minor withdrawals.
Step 3) Use the CBD during the times in which you might have smoked. It will not get you high but there is CBD receptors and they bind to one that THC does.
Step 4) Do this for as long as possible, or for a month.
A note on THC withdrawals: the biggest concern is irritability and insomnia. Keep in mind that perhaps a coffee would help with the attitude, and some generic sleep-aid at night.
You say you have been smoking for 3 years. My suggestion is to try and keep these steps up for 3 months. Think of the money you will save once you don’t even need CBD anymore, that will happen at about day 3. Set this money aside for some investing or personal debt.
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Post navigation
Next PostNext 12 Steps Program for quitting Marijuana and Rehab
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
Is weed bad for you?
Marijuana Side Effects | Short term and Long term effects of smoking weed
Marijuana Anonymous Review: Does it help?
12 Steps Program for quitting Marijuana and Rehab
How to stop smoking weed | How to quit marijuana for good – A comprehensive guide
Recent Comments
Archives
April 2018
Categories
articles
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Proudly powered by WordPress