Unblemish Acne Review
Acne Tips & Product Reviews from Skin Care Professionals
Are Diet and Acne Related?
Cystic Acne – Causes & Treatments
How Acne is Influenced by Hormones
Nine Common Acne Myths
What are the Causes of Acne?
Acne Treatments that Work for You
Recently Reviewed
Proactiv
VN:RO [1.9.22_1171]
Rating: 3.0/5 (2 votes cast)
Exposed Skin Care
VN:RO [1.9.22_1171]
Rating: 5.0/5 (1 vote cast)
Clean & Clear
VN:RO [1.9.22_1171]
Rating: 3.0/5 (1 vote cast)
Acnease
VN:RO [1.9.22_1171]
Rating: 3.0/5 (1 vote cast)
Skin ID
VN:RO [1.9.22_1171]
Rating: 4.0/5 (1 vote cast)
Clearogen
VN:RO [1.9.22_1171]
Rating: 2.0/5 (1 vote cast)
Top Rated Acne Product
Join Us on Facebook
Search the Site
Follow Us on Twitter
Unblemish Acne Review
VN:R_N [1.9.22_1171]
Rating: 2.0/5 (1 vote cast)
Unblemish is a legitimate non-prescription treatment system for adult acne. It was designed by dermatologists and is marketed by Rodan and Fields. It includes a 3% sulfur cleanser, a choice of toners, a 2.5% benzoyl peroxide spot treatment and an SPF 20 sunscreen. The toner options include one that fades hyperpigmentation (acne scars) and one for the minority of customers who don’t have acne scars.
Has this product been scientifically studied?
Yes. In clinical studies Unblemish cleared up mild acne within a few days and moderate to more severe acne within a few weeks. It is effective against adult acne and helps reduce the appearance of acne scars. However, it won’t work for everyone. The Unblemish website advises seeing a dermatologist if you have cystic acne and scarring that doesn’t respond to treatment within eight weeks.
Once you see effects with Unblemish, you need to keep using it to maintain clear skin.
How does the Unblemish acne fader work?
The fading toner contains hydroquinone. Hydroquinone inhibits melanin production. It’s not necessarily a safe ingredient and might be carcinogenic. Hydroquinone has been banned in the European Union. In 2006 the FDA proposed banning hydroquinone in non-prescription products, but thus far the product is legal in the US. It is not approved for use by people aged 12 and younger.
What other ingredients are in Unblemish?
The acne treatment with SPF 20 contains benzoyl peroxide.
The face wash contains sulfur. Some people are concerned that because they’re allergic to oral sulfur drugs (such as Bactrim, Septra, Sulfamethoxazole and Trimethoprim), they shouldn’t use topical sulfur either. That’s not necessarily the case. You can try a patch test of the product or check with your doctor to find out if Unblemish is safe for you.
A full list of ingredients is available as a PDF on the Unblemish website. The ingredients are by no means all-natural. For example, there are artificial fragrances and colors that might irritate sensitive skin. Unblemish acne treatment products might not be safe during pregnancy and nursing.
How much does Unblemish cost?
The four-product regimen sells for $160. It includes 4.2 ounces of the Acne Treatment Sulfur Wash, 4.2 ounces of the Spot Fading Toner OR Clarifying Toner, and two one-ounce tubes of Dual Intensive Acne and Oil Control Lotion with SPF 20.
Would you recommend Unblemish?
We’d recommend Unblemish as a final try before visiting a dermatologist. Because of the concerns about hydroquinone though, we’d choose the regular toner instead of the scar-fading toner. It’s likely that the other steps of the treatment will help reduce the appearance of scars on their own.
Acne Guides
Are Diet and Acne Related?
Cystic Acne – Causes & Treatments
How Acne is Influenced by Hormones
Nine Common Acne Myths
What are the Causes of Acne?
Acne Treatments
A Teen’s Guide to Acne and Puberty
Acne Diets 101
Coping With Acne
Fitness, Acne, Alcohol, and More: Teen Health Issues
Healthy Living for Healthy Skin
Questions To Ask Your Dermatologist
Six Types of Acne
Acne Causes
Acne Laser Treatment
Acne Scarring Treatment & Causes
Acne Scar Treatment Options
Honest Reviews to Help You Cure Acne
Active Ingredients in Acne Treatments
© Copyright 2012 AcneTreatment.net | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer
﻿