Do Carrots Really Hurt Your Eyes? | Gould Vision
786-462-9500 [email protected]
REQUEST AN APPOINTMENT
Home
Our Services
Eye Exams
Contact Lenses
Pediatric Specialist
Frames & Glasses
Dry Eye Specialist
Medical Eye Emergencies
Lasik Surgery
About Us
Our Doctors
Insurance
CareCredit
Reviews & Testimonials
Blog
Contact
Request Appointment
Select Page
Do Carrots Really Hurt Your Eyes?
by Dr. Adina Gould | Apr 1, 2019 | blog, Eye Care
There are some people who try and avoid carrots because they have heard that they are not good for their eye health. However, your Miami Eye doctor will confirm that this couldn’t be further from the truth. Carrots actually contain beta-carotene and provide a source of Vitamin A, which are both crucial to the human body. Eating carrots is not going to cause harm to your eyes, but it won’t particularly help them as well. While many people believe that carrots can hurt their eyesight, there are also a large number of people who believe that carrots will improve their eyesight. The next time you are buying groceries or making a plate of food, don’t feel bad about getting a helping of carrots. You can always ask your Miami eye doctors to confirm anything you have heard about your eyes that you aren’t sure of.
What Should You Think About Carrots?
If you are someone who thinks that eating carrots will prevent the need for wearing eyeglasses in Miami Beach, then you need to learn more about carrots and what they actually do for your body.
Eating carrots is not going to be harmful or extremely helpful one way or the other, but they do contain things that people need to remain healthy at all times.
If you are someone who doesn’t like carrots just because they aren’t your personal preference, then you can get the nutrients and vitamins they provide from other food sources.
If you are a firm believer in the health benefits of carrots, then don’t be afraid to eat them regularly. A good serving of fruits and vegetables is essential to optimal health conditions.
What to Do About Carrots in the Future
If reading facts about carrots has not changed your opinion on them, then you should try speaking with your doctor in Miami Beach about them the next time you are in for an appointment. They will be able to explain to you in more detail how carrots are good for your health and won’t damage your eyes. You should definitely not be avoiding carrots because you think they are harmful to your health or eyes in any way, because this simply is not true. Before you believe everything you read or are told, be sure to check your facts with reputable sources of information–such as doctors who specialize in certain parts of the human body.
photo credit: wwarby Eye via photopin (license)
Originally posted 2017-04-22 08:40:36.
20% off
Designer Eyewear & Exam Fees
Use Code: GOULD20
Not to be combined with other discounts or insurance. Can't be used for Maui Jim or contact lens fitting exam.
Pediatric Specialist
Find Us On Facebook
GouldVision
Gould Vision - Dr. Adina Gould - 523 West 41st Street, Miami Beach FL 33140
Facebook
Twitter
Google
Copyright © 2019. Gould Vision. All rights reserved. | Privacy Policy