HIV: Transmission, symptoms, and treatment
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
HIV: What are the symptoms?
Last updated	 Wed 21 March 2018	 Last updated	Wed 21 Mar 2018
By Brian Wu
Reviewed by Daniel Murrell, MD
Table of contents
What is HIV?
Transmission
Symptoms
Diagnosis
Prevention
HIV is a condition that gradually attacks the immune system. There is currently no cure for HIV, but medications can control it to the point where it is not transmissible.
HIV can be considered a chronic disease state, like high blood pressure, for example, if a person takes their antiretroviral medication every day, as prescribed.
Once a person has been diagnosed with HIV, they have it for life.
In the past, HIV used to progress to AIDS within a few years, but the availability of effective treatment means that very few people now develop AIDS. With treatment, a person with HIV can now live almost as long as a person without the condition.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) report that there were 39,782 cases of HIV in the United States in 2016, down from 45,700 in 2008. From 2011 to 2015, new diagnoses fell by 5 percent.
What is HIV?
If untreated, HIV reduces the body's ability to fight infection and diseases.
HIV attacks the body's immune cells, specifically targeting the white blood cells called CD4 cells, which are an important subset of T cells.
CD4 cells help the body's immune system to fight infections.
If HIV is not treated, the body finds it difficult to fight disease.
People with HIV have a higher chance of getting certain infections and also immunodeficiency-related cancers, and these risks significantly increase when someone is not receiving treatment.
Transmission
HIV is classified as a sexually transmitted disease (STD), but it can be transmitted in other ways.
It is passed on through contact between some bodily fluids and mucous membrane or damaged body tissue.
These fluids are:
semen or preseminal fluid
vaginal fluid
blood
rectal fluid
breast milk
Transmission can happen as a result of:
vaginal, anal, or oral sex
contact with blood, semen, cervical, or vaginal fluids where the virus is present
a mother passing the virus to her child during pregnancy, labor, delivery, and breast-feeding
sharing of needles and other paraphernalia for injecting drugs or medications
accidental puncture by a needle that has the virus on it, for example, as a health worker
It cannot be passed on through:
air or water
saliva, sweat, tears, or kissing
insects or pets
sharing bathroom facilities, food, drinks, crockery, or cutlery
To acquire the virus, these bodily fluids must come into direct contact with a mucous membrane or damaged tissue. The rectum, vagina, penis, and mouth all contain mucous membranes.
To be transmitted by a needle or syringe, the virus must be directly injected into the bloodstream.
Symptoms
Symptoms of HIV can vary from person to person.
Some people develop a flu-like illness 2 to 4 weeks after the virus has been transmitted.
Others notice swelling of their lymph nodes, most commonly under the arms, around the throat, or in the groin area. There may also be a rash.
Some people do not experience any symptoms for many years. The only way to be sure is to undergo a test for HIV. Anyone who thinks they may have the virus should speak with a health provider.
The symptoms of HIV vary depending on the stage.
At stage 1, the acute stage, there may be symptoms of illness, as with other viruses. After this, the virus remains in the body, but it is dormant. With treatment, the person may not experience symptoms again.
The symptoms of each stage are as follows:
Stage 1: Acute
Within 2-4 weeks, people who have the virus may begin to experience the symptoms previously mentioned. This is often the body's natural response to an infection.
At this stage, the virus is rapidly replicating throughout the body. High levels of the virus will be present in the blood and other bodily fluids, and the virus is contagious at this time.
However, symptoms can be mild and may go unnoticed. People often do not realize they have the virus.
Specific symptoms include:
a fever or a rise in body temperature
a body rash that usually does not itch
additional flu-like symptoms such as muscle aches, severe tiredness, night sweats, and sore throat
swollen glands for instance in the throat, groin, and armpits
sores or ulcers in the mouth or the genitals
nausea, vomiting, or both
ulcers on the genitals or mouth
In this stage, HIV antibody detection tests may be negative.
This period of about 1 to 2 weeks, when a test is negative but HIV has been transmitted, is commonly referred to as "the window period."
Those who have HIV develop antibodies to HIV antigens anywhere from 3 weeks to 3 months after being contracting the virus. Even if tested, the antibodies may not give a positive test until 6 weeks.
Stage 2: Asymptomatic (dormant)
Stage 2 HIV symptoms include fever, tiredness, and weight loss.
This stage is also referred to as chronic HIV. The virus is still active but reproduces at lower levels. There may not be any visible symptoms, and the person may not get sick.
People who are regularly taking antiretroviral medication may remain in this stage for several decades. They may never experience any further symptoms.
Antiretroviral medication can now reduce the viral load until it is so small that it is undetectable.
Those who have undetectable levels of HIV in their blood will not transmit the virus.
Undetectable = untransmissable
People with HIV who take antiretroviral medication as prescribed by their provider have a better chance of having lower levels of HIV in their body.
Without treatment, the person may spend a decade or longer in the dormant phase. For some people, this phase may progress faster.
However, even without symptoms, the virus continues to multiply and destroy immune cells. Some people may develop mild infections or symptoms, including:
fever and night sweats
tiredness
swollen glands in the armpit, groin, and neck
weight loss
diarrhea
severe psoriasis
thrush
blood count abnormalities such as anemia or low white blood cell counts
People who take their medication regularly have dormant HIV, and they are unlikely to develop AIDS, which is a more dangerous condition.
However, according to the CDC, the complications of HIV-related illness can still be life-threatening.
What is AIDS?
Without treatment, HIV can lead to AIDS after around 10 years, or possibly before. AIDS is a severe syndrome. The complications can be fatal.
At this point, there is severe damage to the body's immune system and there may be complications with other organs like the liver, lungs, kidneys, or brain.
A number of severe illnesses and infections may occur that the person can no longer fight off because their immune system is compromised.
The likelihood of developing AIDS after HIV depends on a number of factors, including the use of antiretrovital medication, age, genetic factors, and the strain of the virus.
With antiretroviral medication a person can maintain a low viral load, and a normal life expectancy is possible.
Signs and symptoms of AIDS include:
frequent soaking night sweats
recurring fever
long-term diarrhea
unexplained, rapid weight loss
persistent unexplained fatigue
skin rashes
swollen glands in the armpit, neck, and groin
neurological changes, including memory loss and confusion
unusual spots and sores in the mouth or on the skin
Without treatment, people with AIDS can expect to survive for around 3 years.
Those with AIDS see their CD4-T cell counts drop below 200 cells per millimeter of blood. For reference, a person without HIV would normally have around 500 to 1,600 cells per millimeter of blood. As in stage 1, they often have a high amount of the virus in their blood and the virus can easily be passed on at this time.
Diagnosis of HIV
The best way to determine if a person has HIV is through a blood test. HIV blood tests work by detecting certain proteins called antibodies that are present in the blood. The body automatically makes these proteins in response to the presence of HIV. Some blood tests also detect proteins produced by HIV, called antigens.
Oral swab tests can also detect the presence of HIV.
People who have shared needles or had sex without a condom should be sure to get tested.
Some STDs can mimic HIV symptoms and increase the body's chance of contracting HIV. STDs that cause open sores on the genitals such as syphilis, herpes, or genital warts can increase the chance of developing HIV.
Preventing HIV
In 2015, the CDC estimate that 1.1 million people were living with HIV in the U.S. Around 1 in 7, or 15 percent, were thought to be unaware they had the virus.
People can protect themselves from HIV by learning about the dangers and how to avoid them.
Use a condom for protection from a range of STDs when engaging in sexual activity.
Remember that if a person uses their medication correctly and tests show that their viral load is undetectable, the virus cannot be transmitted.
Always use clean needles and never share them with others.
Related coverage
How is hepatitis C transmitted? Hepatitis C is a virus that infects the liver. It can be acute or chronic, but chronic hepatitis C can lead to liver failure. In this article, learn about how hepatitis C is transmitted, the types of hepatitis, their symptoms, and how to prevent transmission of the virus. Read on to learn more. Read now
Explaining HIV and AIDS Many may not know the difference between HIV and AIDS. HIV attacks immune cells and is transmitted through bodily fluids. AIDS is a condition that can arise from an advanced stage of infection with HIV. We look at symptoms, progression, transmission, medication, and management strategies. Read on for more information. Read now
What's to know about congestive heart failure? Congestive heart failure makes it difficult for the heart to pump blood through the body, causing the other organs to receive less blood than they require. Read now
How are swollen lymph nodes linked to HIV? The HIV virus can lead to flu-like symptoms, including swollen lymph nodes, in the early stages, as the body tries to fight the infection. Find out more about how swollen lymph nodes are linked to HIV, about other early symptoms, when to see a doctor, and the treatment options available. Read now
What are the early signs and symptoms of HIV? HIV is a virus that attacks the immune system and leaves the body open to other infections. The condition does not always show early signs, but it is vital to diagnose and treat the virus at a manageable stage to prevent complications. This article looks at the early signs, transmission, and the tests available. Read now
email email
print
share share
HIV and AIDS
Immune System / Vaccines Infectious Diseases / Bacteria / Viruses Sexual Health / STDs
Additional information
Article last updated by Yvette Brazier on Wed 21 March 2018.
Visit our HIV and AIDS category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on HIV and AIDS.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
About HIV/AIDS. (2018, March 16). Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/hiv/basics/whatishiv.html
About HIV & AIDS. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.avert.org/about-hiv-aids.
Basic statistics. (2017, December 18). Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/hiv/basics/statistics.html
Burgess, M. J., & Kasten, M. J. (2013, December). Human immunodeficiency virus: What primary care clinicians need to know [Abstract]. Mayo Clinical Proceedings, 88(12),1468-1474. Retrieved from http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24290121.
Fast facts. (2017, December 5). Retrieved from https://www.hiv.gov/hiv-basics/overview/data-and-trends/statistics
HIV/AIDS. (2011, July 1). Retrieved from http://www.womenshealth.gov/hiv-aids/what-is-hiv-aids/hiv-symptoms.html.
HIV & AIDS. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.plannedparenthood.org/learn/stds-hiv-safer-sex/hiv-aids.
HIV transmission. (2018, March 16). Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/hiv/basics/transmission.html
Maartens, G., Celum, C., & Lewin, S. R. (2014, June 4). HIV infection: Epidemiology, pathogenesis, treatment, and prevention [Abstract]. The Lancet, 384(9939), 258-71. Retrieved from http://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(14)60164-1/abstract.
Mayo Clinic Staff. (2015, July 21). HIV/AIDS - definition. Retrieved from http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/hiv-aids/basics/definition/con-20013732
Cohen, M. S., Gay, C. L., Busch, M. P., & Hecht, F. M. (2010, October 1). The detection of acute HIV infection. The Journal of Infectious Diseases, 202(2), S270–S277. Retrieved from https://academic.oup.com/jid/article/202/Supplement_2/S270/852813
Samji, H., Cescon, A., Hogg, R. S., Modur, S. P., Althoff, K. N., Buchacz, K, ... Klein, M. B. (2013). Increases in life expectancy among treated HIV-positive individuals in the United States and Canada. PLoS ONE, 8(12), e81355.. Retrieved from http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0081355
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Wu, Brian. "HIV: What are the symptoms?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 21 Mar. 2018. Web.
18 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/311323.php>
APA
Wu, B. (2018, March 21). "HIV: What are the symptoms?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/311323.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Breast cancer: Reducing this amino acid could make drugs more effective
New research in cell cultures and mice reveals a surprising link between the essential amino acid leucine and resistance to tamoxifen in breast cancer.
Could this brain stimulation technique reverse memory decline?
New research examines the effect of a noninvasive brain stimulation technique called transcranial magnetic stimulation on age-related memory decline.
Seaweed extract may help design new drugs
Drug resistance is a large and growing problem. On the hunt for fresh sources of drugs, scientists have turned to the seaweed in underwater forests.
Some brain functions may be restored after death, pig study suggests
Scientists have restored some brain function in a pig's brain 4 hours after the mammal has died. The findings open new avenues for researching the brain.
Stimulating brain with ultrasound can influence decisions
A study in macaques reveals that targeting a brain region with noninvasive, low-intensity ultrasound can alter a specific decision-making process.
Popular in: HIV and AIDS
What are the early signs of HIV in men?
What are the symptoms of HIV in women?
Causes of mouth sores in people with HIV
What is a 4th generation HIV test?
How to tell if a penis rash is from HIV
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/311323.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);