Vaccines Don't Cause Autism, Study Says - Chiropractic News by ChiroNexus
The latest chiropractic studies and news.
MENU
Chiropractic Wellness
Nutrition
Exercise
Weight Loss
Pediatric Health
Auto Injury News
Conditions
Back Pain
Neck Pain
Headache News
Sciatica
Joint, Hip, & Knee Pain
Fibromyalgia and Arthritis
Videos
Chiropractic Video of the Week Archive
Chiropractic News
Guide to Chiropractic Marketing
Search for:
Chiropractic News, Pediatric Health
April 17, 2013
Vaccines Don’t Cause Autism, Study Says
Author: Marissa Luck No Comments Share:
Photo by NHSE via Creative Commons
One in ten parents skip or delay vaccinations for their young kids, often fearing the potential risks of “too many shots too soon.” And approximately a third of parents have safety concerns over a perceived link between autism and vaccinations.
New research raises questions about the validity of such concerns however. A study from The Journal Pediatrics found that children who received the full schedule of vaccinations do not have an elevated risk of autism.
The research is the latest in a string of 20 similar studies showing that there is no link between autism and vaccinations. However this is the first study to examine not just the number of vaccines kids received, but their overall exposure to antigens; or substances in vaccines that cause the immune system to produce disease-fighting antibodies.
Simply counting the number of vaccinations received does account for the fact that every vaccine has a different number of antigens and that various vaccines can interact differently when combined. Calculating antigens may therefore provide a better picture of the effects of multiple vaccinations in one child.
The study included 256 children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and 752 children without ASD. Researchers calculated antigen numbers by adding up the maximum number of antigens in all vaccines received by a child in one day and in all vaccines given to a child for up two years of age. They discovered that children with autism were exposed to the same number of antigens as children without the disorder.
Although kids are getting more vaccinations compared to twenty years ago, the quality of the vaccinations has improved, according to the CDC. A press release from The Journal of Pediatrics explained, “An infant’s immune system is capable of responding to a large amount of immunologic stimuli and, from time of birth, infants are exposed to hundreds of viruses and countless antigens outside of vaccination.”
Still, misconceptions about autism and vaccine linger, leading to low vaccination rates in certain communities. This may be behind flare-ups of forgotten disease like measles, mumps, and whooping cough, experts contend.
Reference
DeStefano F, et al. Increasing exposure to antibody-stimulating proteins and polysaccharides in vaccines is not associated with risk of autism. The Journal of Pediatrics 2013; doi 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.02.001.
Written by: Marissa Luck on April 17, 2013.Modified on June 25, 2013.
Tags: pediatric health, vaccine
Previous Article
Chiropractic Thaws Frozen Shoulder Syndrome
Next Article
Migraine Drug May Increase Risk of Kidney Stones
Marissa Luck	View all posts
Marissa Luck is the former editor at ChiroNexus.net and Content Director at ChiroHosting.com. She has a B.A. in social sciences and political economy from The Evergreen State College.
You may also like
September 6, 2013
Degenerative Disc Disease Eased By Chiropractic
January 31, 2018
Chiropractic is a Cost-Effective Option for Older Adults with Neck Pain
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
You must be logged in to post a comment.
Recent Articles
8 Reasons Why Chiropractic Is Best for Back Pain
9 Risk Factors for Developing Sciatica
Chiropractic safe for kids, study finds
The Effectiveness of Chiropractic Maintenance Care
VA Study Finds Chiropractic Linked to Lower Opiate Usage
Chiropractic News by ChiroNexus