Tea Tree Oil For Skin Tags
TRENDING:
Verruca Plantaris
Skin Tags Causes And Treatment
What Causes Skin Tags?
Removal Guide
Reviews
Select Page
Tea Tree Oil For Skin Tags
Posted by Jennifer Trent | Jan 26, 2019 | Removal Guide | 0 |
Do you have a visible presence of skin tags on anywhere on the body or facial region? A lot of people have skin tags present on their skin and sometimes the reason can also be hereditary. However, the good news is that in most of the common cases usually the skin tags are non-cancerous and there have been very few recorded cases where a harmless skin tag was actually found out to have cancerous properties.
A Brief About Skin Tags
Skin tags resemble a tiny ball of flesh that feels painless and almost numb. It looks like a cluster of skin on the body and is commonly found in areas with a lot of friction or abrasion of the skin as well as on facial region in some cases. Skin tags are perfectly normal and it is a common skin condition that doesn’t pose any threat to your health in the long run.
It doesn’t possess any cancerous cells and till date, there have only been very few rare conditions in which a previously developed skin tag was confirmed to be cancerous much later. Some of the common features of a skin tag are:
It is painless and seems almost numb to a slight touch.
It’s not contagious. Skin tag cannot be transferred to another person with touch or physical contact.
Such skin tags are hereditary so there are chances that you might get skin tag if someone in the family has it too.
Skin tags can also be caused due to diabetes. Strange, but logical!
Solutions For Skin Tags
There are a lot of ways to get rid of unwanted skin tags that affect your appearance or confidence in any manner whatsoever. A lot of people feel very conscious and uncomfortable with the presence of skin tags on their body and consider it to be ugly and undesirable. Well, it is totally harmless and it’s just a small thing so it wouldn’t be justified it dominates your self-esteem however, if you feel like you want to get rid of it then there are multiple home remedies and surgical treatments as well as ointments and products available in the market to come to your aid. One common method of skin tag removal is to use tea tree oil on the affected area. Let us learn more about it.
Tea Tree Oil For Skin Tag Removal
There are many home remedies and easily available solutions for the removal of skin tags at home and one of them is to treat the skin tag with a constant and regular application of tea tree oil. Tea tree oil has a lot of benefits for the skin such as:
It has anti-bacterial properties.
This oil has anti-acne characteristics.
It has soothing and anti-inflammatory properties.
Tea Tree Application For Skin Tags
Tea Tree Oil And Water
Cleanse and pat dry the affected region where you want to get rid of the skin tag. Soak a small piece of cotton in water and squeeze out any excess. Then add 2 drops of Tea tree oil on the cotton piece. Pat this on the affected region. Massage in circular motions for less than five minutes and wash it off. Let the skin dry and do this home treatment twice a day regularly to see the results.
Tea Tree Oil And Olive Oil
Mix about 2 drops of tea tree oil with 1 tsp of olive oil. Dip a cotton ball in the mixture and lightly press it on the affected area. Massage it gently in circular motions for around 2 to 3 minutes. Later, wrap it with a bandage or hold the cotton on the affected area with the help of a band-aid. Leave it as it is for 5 minutes and then carefully remove.
These are some of the simple tricks with tea tree oil you may try to get rid of your skin tags. If your skin is allergic or sensitive to tea tree oil then please try a patch test before trying it. Also, consider only good tea tree oil before application. Make sure that it’s a facial plant-based tea tree oil and not essential oil and essential oils can be too strong for some skin types.
Click Here To Know About More Skincare Tips
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Summary
Reviewer
Jennifer Trent - skintagsremovalhelp.com
Review Date
2019-01-26
Reviewed Item
Tea Tree Oil For Skin Tags
Author Rating
5
Share:
Rate:
PreviousHow To Get Rid Of A Skin Tag
NextHow To Remove Skin Tags
About The Author
Jennifer Trent
Related Posts
Skin Tags On Face
February 5, 2019
Removing Skin Tags Yourself
January 21, 2019
Genital Skin Tags
January 26, 2019
Skin Tag On Dog
February 9, 2019
Leave a reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
COMMENT
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress
%d bloggers like this: