Hormones, Breast Cancer - EMFs, Cellphones
[ Tim's web ] [ Home ] [ Up ] [ Site map ] [ Contact ] [ Feedback ] [ Bioenergy links ] [ GOOGLE Search ] [ Energy Systems ] [ Human Tests ] [ Protection Products ] [ Research ] [ Mailers ]
WARNING! EMF radiation from this PC depletes your bioenergy! Get protection for your safety!
Cellphone Risks
Cellphone dangers - Industry knows
Mobile Cell Stress = Cancer
Acoustic Neuromas
Blood-brain barrier breached
Brain tumour from cellphones
Brain cancer Review
Cellphone excites brain cortex
Deadly Obsession cellphones
Ear tumours up 4x due cellphones
Loss of hearing due cellphones
DNA damage Cellphone Radiation
Endothelial stress to brain
Gliomas up 40% - 10 years CP use
GSM damages brain neurons
Video: Cellphones disrupt hospital equipment
Cellph Risks 2
Health fears - Cellphones
Mobile health implications
Infertility from cellphones
Sperm count reduced by cellphones
Mobiles damage DNA
Mobiles breach blood-brain barrier
Rural risk higher with cellphones
Scientists avoid mobiles
Alzheimer's triggered by phones
Sperm reduced by 1/3rd
US$30k payout -cellphone cancer
Visual damage from mobiles
Work absence up -mobiles
Mobiles interfere vital hospital equip
Child Risks
Radiation from Baby Monitor risky
Fetal exposure RF - Autism
Leukaemia 5x higher -Magnetic fields in homes
Cellphones hazardous 4 children
Emeritus Professor view cellphones as cigs of 21st C.
Cellphones endanger children more
Child brain effect shock -cellphone
Child brain tumour -cellphones
Child Warning over mobiles UK
Cellphones for Kids - Risks
Cellphone worse for child
Health fears - Mobiles
Sperm count reduced by cellphones
Mobiles damage DNA
Infertility from cellphones
Warning Cellphones UK study
UK & French warnings
Vienna Drs Warning: Child use Cellphones
Leukaemia -Power lines
Child autism from EMF
Dangers - EMF
Cordless phone high risk
Sensitive to things Electrical - a Chief Exec's warning
Electrosensitivity - Health Issues
Breast cancer EMF cause 2006
Breast cancer EMF in Home
Adverse effects of EMF
Cumulative effect from EMF
Screen use ups glaucoma
Visual damage from EMF frequencies
Video camera use -brain tumours
RF frequencies cause cancer
Fed. warning - cordless phones
What doctors warn: Freiburger links with illness
Benevento scientists caution
How radio frequency EMR harms you
What is your exposure to EMFs?
Danger articles
Safety regulations are inadequate
RF frequencies do cause cancer
Women & Children more Exposed
Hormone disruption from EMFs
Electropollution, Hormones, Cancer
Cumulative effect of EMF
EMF affects your Brain
EMF affects to humans
Range of health effects from EMF
EMR causes cancer
Visual damage from EMFs
Insurance risks
Reinsurers avoid cellphone risks
Human Tests
MSAS bioenergy test video
How radio frequency EMR harms you
Cellphone effect on you
Computer effect on you
Cordless phone effect on you
Television effect on you
Shaver's effect on you
Vehicle effect on you
MSAS bioenergy tests Auckland
MSAS bioenergy tests Toronto
Inst. Vital Energetics: Cellphones
Biolife body energy enhancer
Blood microscopy Stress reduction
Smart Card fluid energiser
Smart Card food energiser
Home-Office Harmoniser
Protection
Buy effective GIA Wellness protection
EMF Stress Effects Outline
Biopro Solutions to be Safe
Thermographic Imaging of Cell Chip Benefit
Amazing Biolife Pendant
Biolife blood micro. stress reduce
Smart Card drinks energiser
Smart Card food energiser
Bioproduce "star burst" vitality
Amazing Home-Office Harmoniser
News Shocks
Radiation from Baby Monitor risky
Radiation Risks Real
11% affected by phones
2 in 3 people now affected by EMFs
Cordless phone high risk
Respiratory Disease -Electrosmog
10th Breast cancer -ABC studio closes
9th Breast cancer -ABC Newsroom
Personal accounts of breast cancer sufferers in ABC
Breast cancer EMF cause 2006
Breast cancer -EMFs & Environ factors
Breast cancer - EMF in homes
Bee navigation disrupted
Benevento Statement of Concerned Scientists
Nth Sth ltr EMF hazard
BBC studio Video Cam brain tumours
Reinsurers avoid cellphone risks
WiFi Dangers
WiFi - Hi Tech Horrors caution
WiFi Health Time Bomb
WiFi health worries
Children at Risk from Electro Smog
WiFi Reasons for Health Concerns
WiFi Outline
WiFi myths debunked
Federal Govt warning on WLAN
EU watchdog WiFi warning
WiFi radiation 3x cell masts
Worried Families ditch WiFi
Salzburg Health against WLAN
UK Schools dismantle WiFi
WLAN - a Doctor's account
RF Mast Danger
Cellphone Masts - Awful Truth
Cell Masts Cancer Clusters UK
RMIT Top Floor Cancers - Masts on Roof
How Mast Radiation affects U -Hyland
ICRW Harm Mechanisms
Health & Environ effects RF Radiation
Cumulative effect from EMF
Masts - Sleep Disturbance
Fire Fighters refuse Masts
Pylons & Wiring
Leukaemia -Power lines
Draper Study: Cancer-Power lines
Breast: Cancer -HiVolt Power lines -Melatonin effect
Leukaemia 5x higher -Magnetic fields in homes
Pylons - Child Leukaemia
Pylons Caused Son's Cancer
Pwr Lines Double Cancer risk for Children
Pylons constant Radiation - Cancer
Pylons links to Disease
Pylons double Miscarriages
Pwr Lines Cancers in Massey
Pylon links to Cancers in Hunuas
Chronic Fatigue - Appliance EMF
EMF Research
LATEST -Science reveals Mech of Harm
LATEST Global Review: EMR Dangers verified
Safety regulations are inadequate - US views
Safety guidelines inadequate - UK perspective
Physics & Biology of Mobile Telephony -Hyland
Scientists Benento Caution
EMF affects to humans
Fetal exposure RF - Autism
How ICRW radio waves harm you
Dr Carlo discloses hazards
ERK activation cell harm
Inst. Vital Energetics: Cellphones
Studies on Microwave Radiation
Energy systems
About EMF - What is it?
Atoms - an EMF force holds them together
How EMF waves affect atoms
EMF disrupts your bioenergy -Kirlian images
Your Biofield - your body's energy system
Subtle Energy - your body's signals
Intellectual Energy
EMR - understanding effects
Environmental EMF basics
Schumann resonances of Planet & life
BioE mailers
Bioenergy Mailer Aug 2007
Bioenergy Mailer Feb 2007
Bioenergy Mailer Jan 2007
Bioenergy Mailer Nov 2006
Your body has an energy signalling system that's vital for its proper function. See Energy Systems. You need to protect it!
Don't exposure yourself to EMFs without protection. You wouldn't expose yourself to the sun for hours - you'd get skin cancer soon enough. EMF is invisible and every day EMF stress affects your body putting your health at risk; a wide range of symptoms result. Just read What Doctors warn. EMF radiation depletes bioenergy, compromising your immune system! There is a cumulative effect. Take advantage of my website to find out more about these modern day hazards.
An amazing new protection that really works is now available with GIA Wellness. You can avoid adverse health risks and enjoy a New Generation of Wellness in an increasingly electropolluted world. Electropollution is a real environmental toxin.
Especially don't expose your child to EMFs. They have a lifetime more to bear this and the full extent of risks is not yet known!
Hormones
Hormones are powerful substances. They pack a big wallop considering the tiny amounts that are produced by the endocrine glands. Most hormones, such as estrogen, progesterone, testosterone, insulin, and melatonin, are made in parts per billion or parts per trillion. Even small hormonal fluctuations can create major physiological changes. As profound orchestrators of all of life's processes, maintaining hormonal balance is imperative for optimum health. When delicate hormonal balance and rhythms are altered, the body's ability to regulate fundamental systems goes haywire.
Hormone Disrupter Overlooked
Our modern lifestyle poses many threats to optimal endocrine function. Stress, toxicity, poor quality food, lack of sleep, and pharmaceutical medications are all known hormone disruptors.
However, there is one particular kind of hormone disruptor that is often the most overlooked: electromagnetic energy fields generated from cellphones and a variety of electrical sources and devices.
Electromagnetic Fields - The 21st Century Smog
Modern physics has confirmed what Eastern philosophy has been based upon for thousands of years - the human body is fundamentally a coherent, highly sensitive electrical system, emanating its own electromagnetic field, known as a biofield. All physical matter, including the earth itself, radiates elec-tromagnetic energy. The electromagnetic frequencies (EMFs) found within the natural world are harmonious with and supportive of life.
On the other hand, artificially created EMFs are 100-200 million times greater than what existed just two generations ago. Every minute of every day, whether we are awake or asleep, we are exposed to a constant barrage of man-made electromagnetic frequencies. Constant interference with our natural energy fields from external sources of EMFs can eventually damage our own fields, resulting in many physiological imbalances, most notably the hardening of the cell membrane. When this happens, waste products can't get out and nutrients can't get in. This leads to free radical damage that alters the DNA and causes cell mutation.
Such serious imbalances will also adversely impact hormone production and neurological processes. This massive infusion of artificial energy overwhelms the system and leads to more rapid aging, elevated blood glucose levels, elevated lipid levels, high blood pressure, increased neuro-regulatory disturbances, and it compromises the central nervous, cardiovascular and immune systems.
Robert 0. Becker; M.D., researcher and author of "Cross Currents: The Perils of Electropollution", explains that our bodies and immune systems are being adversely affected by man-made electromagnetic fields from sources that include power lines, cellphones, radar, microwaves, satellites, ham radios, computers, video display terminals, electric appliances, and Wi-Fi hot spots. He believes that radiation, once considered safe, is now correlated with increases in cancer; birth defects, depression, learning disabilities, Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, and Alzheimer's disease.
Melatonin, Cancers & EMFs
Perhaps, one of the most serious consequences of EMFs exposure is its effects on our hormonal systems. The pineal gland is a light-sensitive gland about the size of a pea located deep within the center of the brain. Once dismissed as a useless gland, it is now considered to be perhaps the most important gland in the body. The pineal gland produces the hormone melatonin.
Researchers are increasingly surprised at the extent of the physiological processes that are either controlled or influenced by melatonin: it regulates our circadian rhythms (governing our waking/sleep cycle), and it is one of the most efficient destroyers of free radicals, thereby allowing DNA synthesis and cell division to occur. Melatonin not only inhibits the release of estrogen but also actually suppresses the development of breast cancer. Melatonin's other anti-cancer property is its ability to increase the cytotoxicity of the immune system's killer lymphocytes. It is even able to enhance the immune system and counteract stress-induced immunosuppression.
In 2001, Masami Ishido, at Japan's National Institute for Environmental Studies, showed that breast cancer cells treated with melatonin would resume growing when exposed to power-frequency EMFs. He found that magnetic fields disrupt the cells' signaling system, their internal communications network, which determines how they respond to their environment.
This mechanism has helped to explain why reduced melatonin levels from EMFs have shown to cause a number of cancers, including breast cancer, prostate cancer, melanoma, and ovarian malignancies.
It is now known that melatonin suppression occurs at frequencies not far above those of the common household ranges of 50-60 Hz. If we sleep next to a cordless phone base station or a digital clock, or we have faulty electrical wiring, enough continuous EMF exposures are emitted to suppress nighttime melatonin production.
Breast Cancer & EMFs
The correlation between breast cancer and EMFs continues to strengthen. Dr. Patricia Coogan, at the Boston University of Public Health, reported a 43 percent increased risk in women with a high likelihood of occupational exposure to magnetic fields such as those given off by mainframe computers. In fact, women who work in electrical jobs, including electricians, tele-phone installers, powerline workers, and electrical engineers, have a greater risk of dying from breast cancer.
This increased incidence has been directly linked to the suppression of melatonin from EMFs.
But it's not just women who should be concerned about EMFs' causal link to breast cancer. In five studies, elevated EMFs have been implicated in an increased incidence of male breast cancer. Men who worked as telephone linemen, in switching stations, or in the utilities industry were found to have as much as a sixfold increase in breast cancer.
More Hormone Disruption
Experimental physiologist, Charles Graham conducted research that found that magnetic fields had an effect on two other hormones: they increased estrogen levels and reduced testosterone, a risk factor for testicular and prostate cancer. He also believes that EMFs may actually fit the definition of an endocrine disrupter better than many hormone-mimicking environmental pollutants because magnetic fields appear to elicit their effects by acting on and through hormones rather than as hormones.
Tamoxifen, the most popular drug given to prevent recurrence of breast cancer, lost its ability to halt the proliferation of cancer cells when exposed to EMFs. The level of EMFs that produced this effect (12mG) is found in common sources, including hair dryers, vacuum cleaners, or appliances with large motors, such as refrigerators.
Neurotransmitters, a special class of hormones, include serotonin and dopamine. Neurotransmitters play a major role in moods, especially depression. Evidence has now shown a link between EMF exposure and altered serotonin and dopamine levels.
EMFs also increase the levels of adrenaline, the flight or fight hormone, released from the adrenal glands. B. Blake Levitt, author of "Electrical Fields", states: "Prolonged chronic stress is detrimental to every anatomical system, including the reproductive one. Subliminal stress may affect fertility and elevate blood pressure, which can lead to heart disease and strokes, as well as suppressed immune function. … Even short EMF exposures, like the use of a cordless phone on and off throughout the day, could cause spikes in such hormone levels."
What About Cellphones?
Cellphones present a double whammy to our body.
The microwave energy which radiates in a circular plume about 6-8 inches from the cellphone's antenna, penetrates directly into our brain, breaking down the protective blood brain barrier and causing DNA damage, free radical production and even brain tumors.
Since the master glands of the body are located in our brain, massive disturbances to the hormonal signaling capacities may be generated from continual cellphone use.
Then there's the electrical circuitry from cellphones, which generates a competing energy that interferes with one's own biofield, or energy field. This kind of pervasive, or ambient, EMF compromises many physiological processes.
When a cellphone is clipped onto the belt or kept in a pant pocket, this ambient field most powerfully affects the tissues and organs it is closest to, particularly the pelvic area.
One study has already shown a 30% reduction in sperm count of mobile phone users.
As more women clip their cellphone to their belts, female reproductive organs may also be at risk.
A word of caution also needs to be mentioned about the dangers caused by ambient radiation from headsets. It is now acknowledged that headsets, far from being protective, can actually increase radiation exposure into the brain by as much as 300%. Bluetooth technology is especially dangerous.
Solutions --- One, Two, Three
Protection from EMFs, whatever the source, involves a three-tiered approach. Ideally, all three layers of prevention should be utilized.
The primary intervention is to reduce exposure as much as possible. One excellent alternative is to use a safe, hollow air-tube headset when using a cellphone.
The secondary intervention is to minimize the effect of radiation. Biopro Technology is a company with proprietary proven technologies to address EMF pollution. One solution, the BioPro Harmonization chip, effectively "harmonizes" the stressful EMFs from cellphones. The BioPro Biolife pendant is also recommended to balance or strengthen one's biofield.
The third intervention is directed at strengthening the body systems. This is where a healthy, organic diet and balanced lifestyle is imperative.
In addition, antioxidant supplements improve the immune system and fight against free radical damage. Some of the most effective include melatonin, N-Acetylcysteine (NAc), SAMe, lipoic acid, green tea, lycopene, coenzyme Qio, acetyl-L-carnitine, selenium, and vitamins A, C and E. Ginkgo biloba is the first supplement to be tested against cellphone radiation. Pretreatment with this brain-protective supplement reversed cellphone-induced oxidative stress and depletion of antioxidant enzymes in rodents. Resveratrol and grape seed extract both protect against the type of oxidative stress induced by cellphones.
Our responsibility in an electronic age
Love them or hate them, cellphones, and the ever expanding and intrusive EMF world are here to stay. The responsibility lies with each of us to take proactive steps that will protect us, our family and future generations.
About the author
Sherrill Sellman, ND, is a naturopath, psychotherapist, international lecturer and women's health advocate, as well as the author of "Hormone Heresy: What Women MUST Know About Their Hormones".
Her website www.ssellman.com.
For a PDF file version of this article to print and show or send to others click - Hormones_BreastCancer_Cellphones_EMF.pdf
You have a sophisticated body electronics system that is vital to its function. So don't allow yourself to be exposed to health risks invisibly imposed by EMF radiation from electric & magnetic fields and pulsed microwave transmission signals, which are at frequencies that disrupt your brain and cellular functions. Cellphone and cordless phone use does carry well-established risks! EMF stress occurs with all other electric and electronic devices, too. There are adverse health effects - see What Doctors Warn. Scientific studies have shown that EMF exposure has a cumulative effect, increasing over time. Be sure to reduce the risks for your children who face a lifetime of exposure and those with poorer health conditions, they are especially at risk. For an appreciation of this start at Child Risks.
Depletion of your body's bioenergy causes a lowered energetic capability, at a fundamental atomic level. See Atoms & EMF. Disturbance of it's inherent bioenergetic system results in disruptions to cellular functions and a compromised immune system. Start at Energy Systems. Quite simply, your body systems are no longer able to work in the way that they would if such destructive interference from EMR was not imposed on you. To see how human energies are affected by common electronic devices see bioenergy test charts showing patterns typical of that experienced by everyone from Human Tests.
If you can't understand why the authorities are allowing you to be exposed to such risks, start at my Research page. So-called "safety" regulations only consider thermal (tissue heating) effects, but frighteningly disregard low frequency biological effects. Strong vested interests resist change to this in spite of mounting evidence. For your own health and safety, and sustainable wellness, you need to adopt the Precautionary Principle with some urgency to avoid the risks of the invisible hazard of EMR that do compromise your health. You can now make use of the amazing new GIA Wellness protection available to reduce the effects of EMR, and have the chance to enjoy sustainable wellness. See GIA Wellness Protection Products.
Find out more so you can immediately protect yourself and achieve optimal health in our increasingly electropolluted world.
GET PROTECTION to avoid ADVERSE HEALTH EFFECTS and the CUMULATIVE EFFECTS.
Health and safety needs to be treated seriously. Be sure to get GIA Wellness (formerly Biopro Technology) protection for others that you care about, too. Tell others about my website and the wealth of information it provides so they can avail themselves of this and the amazing new Biopro protection against the adverse health risks of increasing exposure to EMF in our modern technological world.
INTERESTING STUFF? GET THE LATEST BY ADDING YOURSELF & OTHERS TO MY MAILER LIST ON MY BIOENERGY MAILERS PAGE
Others to assist in worthwhile protection enterprise?
Do you know of any enterprising people who care about others and may like to join with me in this worthwhile undertaking of providing protection to others from this growing EMF radiation hazard? You'll enjoy an additional income stream, too.
* Free Bioenergy test subject to product purchase and reasonable proximity to me or you pay travel costs, all at my discretion.
Other sections - [ EMF Dangers ] [ Significant EMF News ] [ EMF Danger articles ] [ Energy Systems ] [ Human-Tests ] [ Protection Products ] [ Research ] [ Feedback ]
E mail Tim Leitch here or use my Feedback page. Any hyperlink issues, please let me know by email. Thanks.
Always being enhanced.
Copyright © 2005-2012 Tim Leitch. Last modified: 13 Jul 2011
Any use of material from this site must include a clear link back to this website.
To Top