Can I Get Can I Get Addicted to Marijuana??
Get a free, confidential consultation. Austin: 512-729-7757 Scottsdale: 480-210-0248
We can help. 844-876-5568
Promises Treatment Centers
Toggle navigation Menu
Search
Treatment Programs
Treatment Programs
Drug and Alcohol Detox
Residential Drug Rehab
Scottsdale Executive Program for Men
Professionals Drug Rehab
Men’s Mental Health Treatment
Women’s Mental Health Treatment
Addiction Aftercare
What We Treat
Locations
Locations
Austin
Scottsdale
The Experience
The Promises Experience
Why Choose Promises
Success Rates
Promises Staff
Therapies
Testimonials
For Clinical Professionals
Resources
Addiction Resources
Addiction Articles
Admissions
Admission Process
Insurance
Contact Us
Search Here
Search
Can I Get Addicted to Marijuana?
As more voters decide to make recreational marijuana legal, its safety naturally comes into question. At the top of the list is the question of addiction. Marijuana has long been considered non-addictive, especially when compared to drugs like heroin or cocaine, but is that really true? You may be surprised to hear that you can get hooked on marijuana. Smoking pot recreationally carries a real risk that you will become an addict.
Risks of Marijuana Use
Attitudes toward marijuana are pretty lax these days. The evidence is in the way voters have spoken on ballots. Four states and Washington D.C. have now voted to legalize recreational use of marijuana. Several other states have legalized it for medical use and even more municipalities around the country have decriminalized the drug. While it’s true that marijuana is not as harmful as some other drugs, its use does carry risks. It negatively impacts brain development in young people. It irritates the lungs and causes similar respiratory illnesses to smoking cigarettes. Lung infections are not uncommon in marijuana smokers. And, finally, marijuana is addictive. Those most at risk are people who smoke regularly when young.
Marijuana Addiction
Government statistics show that about 9 percent of people who use marijuana will become addicted. But if you look at those who started smoking at a young age and those who smoke every day, the rate goes up to 17 percent. There are several characteristics of any addiction: tolerance, withdrawal, being out of control and being unable to stop using. Regular marijuana users can begin to display some of these characteristics.
The most common sign of addiction for regular smokers of marijuana is withdrawal. This is especially true for those who have been using the drug regularly over a long period of time. Withdrawal symptoms that have been reported include mood swings, difficulty sleeping, irritability, a decreased appetite, restlessness, anxiety, cravings for marijuana and general physical discomfort. Addiction to marijuana is treatable, although there are no medications for it. Cognitive behavioral therapy and other types of psychotherapy have been effective for many people who wanted to quit.
Increasingly Potent Marijuana
Samples of marijuana that have been confiscated and tested over the last several decades suggest a troubling trend. The potency of the drug has been rising, and this can contribute to more cases of addiction and a greater likelihood that any individual will get hooked. The main compound in marijuana that is psychoactive is called THC. About 25 years ago, samples of marijuana had between 4 percent and 8 percent THC. Today the content is closer to 10 percent to 16 percent.
Another issue that increases potency is the fact that more people are using marijuana in different ways. Eating cannabis-infused foods and consuming the oil of the plant can deliver more THC more quickly, which also increases the risk of getting addicted. Researchers still need to learn more about how greater THC potency affects users, but the increased risk of addiction is a certainty.
Using any drug carries a risk of addiction. If you are in a state in which marijuana has become legal for recreational use or are considering visiting one of those states, think long and hard before you partake. You absolutely can become addicted to this drug. What will put you at a greater risk of addiction, in addition to using a product with a high potency, is having a mental illness, like depression or anxiety, and if you use the drug to relax or in response to any negative emotion. Using a drug is serious and requires serious thought before proceeding.
Posted in: Marijuana
Posted in Marijuana
Verify Insurance
We Work With Multiple Insurance Providers
Learn More About Using Insurance to Pay for Treatment
Recent Posts
Imprisoned by Addiction, Freed by Recovery
Becky R. believes in miracles. How else can she explain the change in her life from two years ago when she heard a judge say these words after her arrest for selling ecstasy to […]
How to Stop Smoking Weed
Despite weed’s social acceptance and legal status in some states, it’s still a substance with high potential for abuse and addiction. The main ingredient in weed is THC. It changes the brain in ways […]
How to Help a Meth Addict
Meth addiction often leads to disturbing symptoms that can make families feel helpless and put meth addicts at serious risk for health and legal problems. Families often describe noticeable physical changes in their meth […]
Common Street Names for Prescription Painkillers
Of the 63,600 drug overdose deaths reported in 2016, 42,249 were attributed to opioids. The effects on the brain of the two most commonly prescribed prescription opioids (hydrocodone and oxycodone) are virtually indistinguishable from those of […]
View All
Get a free, confidential consultation.
Call 844-876-5568 or fill out the form below.
Your Name * Required
Your Phone * Required
What is your timezone?
EST
CST
MST
PST
Other
Your E-mail
How did you hear about us?
Doctor/HospitalEmployeeInternet/Web AdInterventionistLegal/CourtMedia/NewsPrevious Client/AlumniPrint AdTherapist/ClinicianWord of Mouth/FriendTVRadioOther
How can we help?
Infinity VisitorID
Subscribe To Email
Yes, I'd like to receive emails with information that helps my journey to recovery.
Opt-Out
Timestamp - Opt-Out
Comments
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
Promises Austin
840 Co Rd 420
Spicewood, TX 78669
(512) 842-7060
Promises Scottsdale
12816 E Turquoise Ave,
Scottsdale, AZ 85259
(480) 320-3037
Facebook
Twitter
© 2019 Promises Treatment Centers. All Rights Reserved. 844-876-5568
Promises Alcohol & Drug Rehab
Careers
Elements Behavioral Health
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Photo Disclaimer
Sitemap
×