The Scary Link Between Vaccinations, Infant Death, Autism, Ovarian Cancer and Allergies – Nick Delgado
FacebookTwitterYoutube
ABOUT
EVENTS
SHOP
BLOG
SUPPORT
The Scary Link Between Vaccinations, Infant Death, Autism, Ovarian Cancer and Allergies
[Video] The Scary Link Between Vaccinations, Infant Death, Autism, Ovarian Cancer and Allergies
Tweet
Share
Reddit
LinkedIn 0
Email
America currently has the highest vaccination schedule of anywhere in the world and it’s no coincidence that we also have skyrocketing rates of neurological disorders (ADD, ADHD, autism, epilepsy etc.) and autoimmune diseases (allergies, IBS, diabetes, lupus etc.). Vaccines are loaded with chemicals, heavy metals, preservatives and other toxic additives and since they are injected intramuscularly, they bypass the body’s natural filters. This causes the toxins to get lodged directly into our organs, where they can lead to a multitude of different health disorders. Below is pertinent information on how vaccinations effect our infants, and contribute to autism, allergies and other diseases; as well as insight on one of the most useless vaccinations created to-date.
Vaccines in Infants
If you go through the inserts, you’ll see the safety science behind vaccinations are completely shady and we’re giving our babies 26 doses of vaccines in America all before the age of one. Vaccinations are especially damaging to infants because they don’ have a developed blood brain barrier or myelin insulation to protect their brains and nervous systems from the toxins that are being given to them. They also don’t have fully developed immune systems, or the proper liver pathways to filter out toxins; so the toxic vaccines are being delivered straight into their delicate brains and bodies.
Equally scary is the fact that there is a ‘universal dose’ that is used in vaccines and it is based on the minimum lethal dose that has been established for a 6-year child, weighing 50 lbs. This universal dose is given to 0-6 year olds; which means babies who may weigh as little as 10 lbs are given a dose that has been established as ‘minimally lethal’ for a 50 lb child. The DPT vaccine uses this universal dose to ‘protect’ against diphtheria, tetanus and whopping cough, and it’s injected into our infant’s multiple times (at the age of 2 months, 4 months, 6 months, 15 to 18 months, and again at 4 to 6 years of age). With the overwhelming amount of toxins going into our tiny infant’s bodies, it’s no wonder the DPT vaccine has been linked to severe nervous system damage and Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS).
Vaccines and Autism
The vaccination-autism connection is highly debated and controversial but far too many parents, families, independent journalists and medical professionals have linked vaccines to the onset of autism, to continue ignoring the connection. The fact of the matter is – unvaccinated populations (historically and globally) do not have autism. Autism started in the 1940’s at the same time as the introduction of the DPT vaccination and rates have continued to rise as more and more vaccines have become mandated. While genetics likely predispose a child to autism, the triggers for developing autism involve immune system dysfunction brought on by dietary deficiencies and/or environmental stressors and a high percentage of autism sufferers are victims of massive chemical toxicity, which vaccines contribute to.
Countless lawsuits have been brought forth against the MMR vaccine by parents whose children experienced brain damage, and/or full-blown autism post vaccination. The pharmaceutical companies have protected their interests by paying out massive monetary rewards to the victims in order to ‘compensate’ for the damage their vaccine caused; and more importantly, to buy their silence. Much of the media has been bought out too, so it is hard to find reliable information on the vaccination-autism connection. However, in 2012, vaccine manufactures, courts and governments quietly conceded that the MMR vaccine ‘most likely does cause autism and stomach diseases.’ Mercury is another contributor to autism. It is a severe neurotoxin, that is extremely difficult to eliminate from the body, and it still used in the flu vaccine. The delicate fetus may absorb mercury when their mothers get vaccinated and/or eat mercury contaminated seafood. Infants are also given mercury containing flu-vaccines and that combined with all the other immune-suppressing, toxic, vaccinations given to our infants, could be enough to activate autism in a predisposed child. There appears to be an age-related connection as well, with the younger the age of exposure to the vaccination, the higher the risk for autism. So parents, if you are being forced to vaccinate your child, try to delay the vaccination a long as possible.
Vaccines and Allergies
Americas epidemic of allergies and the recent growth of previously unheard of obscure allergies are caused (at least in part) by the overwhelming vaccination schedule. The reason being that for a period of time after each vaccination your immune system becomes confused and it goes into overdrive. Your immune system is activated to fight the virus or bacteria that is in the vaccine, and during that time anything you come into contact with, you can develop antibodies to, and become allergic to. Another interesting note is that peanut oil is used as a stabilizer in certain vaccines, which may explain the rampant spread of peanut allergies in America over the past few decades.
The Gardasil Vaccine
Gardasil is completely unnecessary (cervical cancer is rare in America) and it causes far more harm than good. About 90% of women who die from cervical cancer live in developing countries and the vaccination was developed for the purpose of being used in those countries where women don’t have access to pap smears. The vaccination contains 15 mcg of salmonella toxin and a high dose of the brain-damaging, toxic heavy metal — aluminum. There is also a very real possibility that it may activate or trigger genetic disorders, according to Dr. Diane Harper, the leading researcher who helped design and carry out Phase II and Phase III safety and effectiveness studies to get Gardasil approved.
The vaccination currently has over 17,600 reports of adverse reactions and some of the most common less serious side-effects reported include: nausea, dizziness, diarrhea, vomiting, fever, headache, insomnia and flu-like symptoms. More serious adverse reactions that have been reported include: seizures, strokes, joint pain, auto-immune problems, chest pains, hair loss, personality changes, shortness of breath, heart problems, paralysis, fainting, swollen lymph nodes, vision/hearing loss and ovarian failure…to name a few. Gardasil has actually been shown to increase the risk of cancer by 200%, when given to someone who has already been exposed to the HPV virus (many people have the virus without knowing); and over 100 deaths have been attributed to it, to-date. Many countries in Europe have removed Gardasil from the vaccination schedule due to undeniable safety and efficacy concerns and yet it’s still forced upon our children here in America.
Equally as appalling as the adverse effects, is the fact that Merck never actually had to prove that the Gardasil vaccination prevents cancer to the FDA. Instead, they had to prove that it prevented the 3rd level of dysplasia, which means that it helps prevent abnormal surface cell changes in cells that are not yet invasive. According to the Mayo Clinic, the abnormal cells usually disappear on their (about 90% of HPV infections resolve without treatment), and it is very rare for cervical dysplasia to develop into cancer. Also the Gardasil vaccination has not been proven to work long-term; it has shown efficacy against just one HPV strain (HPV 16) for not quite eight years. Since the majority of cervical cancer cases don’t occur until the age of 65+, giving the vaccine to our youth is completely futile.
The safety research is also dodgy at best. Although the death rates in those who received the vaccination and those who received the placebo were about the same, if you look closely at the data what it reveals is quite frightening. Those who died from the placebo, died within a 2-year period from random factors; while 75% of deaths in those who were vaccinated, occurred within 75 days’ post vaccination from things such as suicide, heart stoppage and fainting.
How Vaccines Cause Disease
One pro-vaccination argument is: “If vaccines are so bad, why don’t all people develop symptoms or diseases from them?” The answer to this is two-fold. Firstly, the damage caused is often cumulative, with each vaccine further burdening the immune system and contributing to a greater build-up of heavy metals and toxins in the body. Most autoimmune and neurological disorders develop overtime when the organs become too overburdened to function properly, so the symptoms may not show up until years later. Think of your body as a bucket, and each toxin that you are exposed to as drops of water. Your body can handle a certain amount, but once that bucket is full (not just from the toxins in vaccines but also from the toxins in our food, our water and our air), it will overflow and a full-blown disease may manifest. Also, some people have lower clearance rates, where their kidneys and liver can’t filter out toxins as effectively and those people are much more prone to the toxic effects of vaccinations because their ‘buckets’ will fill-up much faster.
The second reason why vaccines trigger diseases in certain individuals and not others, is that some people have genetic susceptibilities to the diseases that have been linked to vaccinations. When they get vaccinated, it triggers those genes and activates them. One example of this is minorities (especially African American boys), they appear to have a markedly greater risk for autism caused by the MMR vaccination.
What You Can Do From Here
Please help spread the word on vaccine dangers by sharing this article. Although many vaccines are mandated, you can help support your health by optimizing your immune system so that it can better handle the damaging effects of vaccinations. A wholefoods diet, regular exercise and an immunity boosting supplement such as “The Ultimate Immunity Pack” (https://unitynaturals.com/product/immunity-pack/) can all help. You may also want to work alongside a chelation specialist to help eliminate toxic heavy metals that have accumulated in your body. This may be especially helpful for children with autism, as anecdotal evidence has linked the removal of mercury from the body, to an improvement of autistic symptoms.
Further Reading and Research:
www.fightvaccines.com
www.stopmandatoryvaccination.com
www.Trackingvaccination.com
www.learntherisk.org
http://karenkain.com/
http://millionmamasmovement.org/
www.disease-reversal.com
Additional References:
http://www.cdc.gov/vaccinesafety/concerns/thimerosal/
http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/cervical- cancer/expert-answers/cervical-dysplasia/faq-20058142
http://www.globalresearch.ca/big-pharma-and-big-profits-the- multibillion-dollar-vaccine-market/5503945
http://www.ageofautism.com/the-vaccine-autism-link.html
http://www.know-vaccines.org/?page_id=410
http://articles.mercola.com/sites/articles/archive/2016/07/19/vaccine-rights- risks.aspx
http://www.activistpost.com/2013/09/22-medical-studies-that- show-vaccines.html
http://wearechange.org/courts-quietly-confirm-mmr-vaccine-causes-autism/
Nick Delgado	2016-10-31T15:19:43+00:00
Leave A Comment Cancel reply
Comment
© Copyright 2012 - | Nick Delgado
All Rights Reserved | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy
30 Day To Radiant Flawless Skin
Get It Free For A Limited Time
Download Ebook
x