Effektiv hjem retsmidler mod Opkastning under graviditeten – AskWomenOnline
Skip to content
AskWomenOnline
Guide to be Flawless Female
Effektiv hjem retsmidler mod Opkastning under graviditeten
Home » Herbs » Effektiv hjem retsmidler mod Opkastning under graviditeten
Last Updated on September 14, 2017
Morning sickness is characterized by nausea and vomiting. Though it is called ‘morning’ sickness, the problem could arise at any time in the day. The good thing is that the condition is restricted to the first trimester, and usually disappears after that. However, it is not easy to deal with the issue. AskWomenOnline supports you with some home remedies that can help.
How to keep morning sickness at bay with home remedies?
Here is our long list of natural remedies for nausea and vomiting during pregnancy:
1. Water
Drink lots of water as it keeps the body hydrated. Drinking water regularly improves digestion.
2. Ginger
One of the best herbal medicines for morning sickness, ginger works well on the digestive system by reducing the acidity in the stomach. The smell or the flavor of ginger helps you get over nausea or vomiting. Here are the various ways you can take ginger:
Your doctor may prescribe 1000mg ginger capsules.
Chew a ginger candy or eat a piece of ginger.
Add five drops of ginger juice to one teaspoon of honey and consume it early in the morning.
Make ginger tea by boiling one teaspoon of grated ginger in one cup of water and add honey to it. Have one to two cups of tea in the morning.
Ginger snap cookies made with real ginger are great to snack on.
3. Acupressure
Using acupressure wrists bands could help you with morning sickness.
Wear the acupressure wrist bands on each wrist.
As you feel nauseous, press the button on the band 20 times, at an interval of one second.
Repeat this on both the wrists for a few minutes, and it will subside nausea.
Studies have shown that daily pressure at the P6 point helps reduce the severity and frequency of vomits during pregnancy.
How to massage this pressure point:
Keep three fingers across the wrist.
Keep your thumb under the wrist below your index finger.
Rub this point firmly in a circular motion for two to three minutes.
Repeat the process on the other wrist too.
4. Peppermint
It has methanol, which produces an anesthetic effect to prevent vomiting during pregnancy.
Prepare peppermint tea adding one teaspoon of dried peppermint in a cup of hot water and steep it for five to ten minutes. Add honey or sugar and drink it after you wake up in the morning.
Chewing some peppermint leaves will aid in alleviating the vomiting symptoms.
Add a few drops of peppermint essential oil over a handkerchief and inhale the vapors to get over the vomiting sensation.
5. Aromatherapy
You can try aromatherapy of lavender essential oil and peppermint.
Put three drops of lavender essential oil with one peppermint in the diffuser and inhale the vapors. Spray some lemongrass or orange essential oil on your handkerchief and sniff it to prevent nausea.
6. Chamomile oil
Getting a soothing massage with chamomile massage oil will help relieve the discomforts of morning sickness.
7. Lemon
It has a soothing smell and a calming effect on your body.
Smell the fresh lemon peel to ease vomiting and nausea.
Add a few drops of lemon essential oil on your handkerchief and sniff it when you have the vomiting sensation.
Squeeze a lemon into a glass of water, add honey or sugar and have it every morning to prevent any bouts of vomiting. Sip it after vomiting or whenever you feel nauseated.
Make sure to take fresh lemon juice. Keeping it too long will make it bitter.
8. Wheat germ
Dissolve a few teaspoons of wheat germ in warm milk and have it in every one hour. This will help in reducing the morning sickness.
9. Apple cider vinegar
It is pH neutral and helps neutralize the gastric acid in the stomach.
Mix one tablespoon of honey with one tablespoon of apple cider vinegar (ACV) in cold water and have it before going to bed.
Add two or three teaspoons of ACV in warm water and have it as the first thing in the morning.
Mix one teaspoon of ACV in half a cup of water and use it as mouthwash after vomiting. This helps freshen your breath because the smell of vomit makes you nauseous.
10. Vitamin B6
Intake of sufficient amount of vitamin B6 during pregnancy can help reduce nausea and vomiting.
Take one teaspoon of molasses (which is rich in vitamin B6) every night before going to bed.
You can take vitamin B6 supplements during pregnancy. The recommended dose is 25mg, three times a day. However, consult the doctor before taking the supplements.
Eat foods rich in vitamin B6 such as brown rice, avocados, banana, fish, and nuts.
11. Fennel
The aroma of fennel seeds helps in reducing the vomiting sensation.
Prepare fennel tea by adding the seeds in a cup of hot water. Steep it for ten minutes and strain. Add honey and drink it as soon as you wake up in the morning.
Keep some fennel seeds with you and chew on them whenever you feel queasy.
12. Broccoli
It is enriched with folic acid that helps reduce nausea during pregnancy. Broccoli soup made with ginger, peppermint, and a pinch of red pepper helps reduce nausea and improves your immunity.
13. Yogurt
It is rich in vitamin B12 and helps reduce the nauseous feeling during pregnancy. The probiotics help regulate your digestive system.
Take fresh fruits added with yogurt to ease nausea.
14. Kiwi
Kiwi is an excellent fruit to reduce the vomiting sensation.
Prepare a kiwi fruit smoothie using kiwi, banana, and blueberries. Blend these fruits and add honey.
15. Cloves
It is rich in aroma and flavor and has a soothing effect on your stomach. Clove and honey tea reduces the vomiting sensation. Take a teaspoon of cloves and boil it with one cup of water for ten minutes. Add honey to it and consume.
Chew a few cloves throughout the day.
Fry a few cloves, add honey to it and have it.
16. Vegetable broth
Broth eases nausea and also provides nutrients. Go for an organic vegetable broth without added salts or oils. You can drink this at any time during the day or evening.
17. Non-caffeinated carbonated beverages
You can try organic ginger ale, 7-Up, and Sprite to get relief from nausea.
18. Raspberry leaf
Raspberry leaves are rich in B group vitamins.
Here is how you can make the herbal tea:
Add a teaspoon of dried red raspberry leaves in a hot cup of water.
Steep it for five to ten minutes and strain.
Drink it as you wake up in the morning.
Note: Consult your doctor before taking this herbal tea because it can lead to uterine contraction.
19. Spirulina The blue-green algae are high in protein and help in digestion.
Mix spirulina powder with mashed bananas or some other fruits. It offers good nutritional support during pregnancy.
It can be taken in the form of a tablet too.
20. Almonds
The high-protein snack helps soothe morning sickness. Eat almonds at night before going to bed.
21. Crackers
It is a good source of carbohydrates. Have a box of crackers beside your bed and snack on them as soon as you wake up. It can stave off morning sickness.
22. Pretzels
The salty snack is similar to crackers and helps in easing morning sickness.
23. Popsicles
Ginger peach green tea popsicles, lime mint ginger popsicles, watermelon popsicles, cucumber grape popsicles, etc. are also helpful.
24. Starchy veggies
Including vegetables, such as potato, winter squash, and turnips, that are rich in carbohydrates as they alleviate morning sickness.
25. Cinnamon
Chew on some cinnamon gum or add the sticks in your tea.
26. Fructose, glucose, and phosphoric acid
Available over-the-counter, the solution helps reduce muscle contractions in the wall of intestines and stomach. Also, this solution does not pose any risk to the fetus.
Take a tablespoon of this solution in each dose not exceeding five doses.
27. Onions
Onions contain sulfur, which helps in reducing the vomiting sensation. Extract fresh onion juice or mix it with ginger juice and have it as you feel nauseous.
28. Cumin
Cumin seeds work great in eradicating vomiting during pregnancy. Add a few seeds in water, boil, and drink.
These pregnancy vomiting remedies work if your condition is not severe. But if you are throwing up everything that you eat or drink, then these remedies may not be enough.
When to press the alarm bell?
If you are vomiting way too often than on regular days it could be a sign of food allergy or infection.
If you are tired or dehydrated after several episodes of vomiting, you may require medical intervention and some supplements.
If you feel that the color of your vomit is different than usual, maybe too dark or yellow in color, then talk to your doctor immediately.
Morgenkvalme er normalt under graviditet, da det ikke påvirker dit barn heller ikke har nogen langsigtede virkninger på dig. Det er midlertidig, men den følelse kan være frustrerende. Følg hjem retsmidler for kvalme under graviditeten og tage vare på dig selv.
Adhika Dibya
Nutritionist and Dietician based in Jakarta, with a demonstrated history of working in the health wellness and fitness industry. Skilled in Nutrition Education, Nutrition Consultation, Diet Planning, Food & Beverage, Content Creation and Public Speaking. Strong healthcare services professional with a Bachelor Degree in Nutrition from Gadjah Mada University.
Author Adhika DibyaPosted on September 14, 2017 September 14, 2017 Categories Herbs
97/100 : by 291 users
Herbs Review
Post navigation
Previous Previous post: סעד אפקטיבי עבור והקאות במהלך הריון
Next Next post: Tõhus Kodu õiguskaitsevahendeid Oksendamine Rasedus
Search for:
Search
Pages
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Categories
Beauty
Body Building
Diet
Fitness
Health
Herbs
Kids And Babies
Moms Food
Moms Health
Recent Posts
20 Naturlige anti-inflammatoriske Fødevarer, der reducerer inflammation
Cøliaki hos børn – årsager, symptomer og behandling
Bedste fødevarer til vægttab, Ifølge ernæringseksperter
Tofu: Skønhed, sundhedsmæssige fordele og bivirkninger
Er Castor Oil sikkert for babyer? De sundhedsmæssige fordele ved Castor Olie til babyer
De fordele og risici ved graviditet (prænatal) Massage
Insulin under graviditet – Anvendelse og Side Effects Du skal være opmærksom på
Hepatitis under graviditeten: Typer, årsager og behandling
Æteriske olier og sundhedsmæssige fordele, mens du ammer
Bedste Frugter du bør spise, mens Amning
Livmoderhalskræft under graviditet – Alt du behøver at vide
Kan Eating Tomater hjælpe dig tabe sig?
Snacks at spise mens du er gravid
Kan Stress under graviditet forårsage abort?
Kvalme Mens Amning – 10 Årsager & 5 Forebyggelsesfonden Du skal være opmærksom på
Er det sikkert at lade din baby sove på hendes mave?
Blyforgiftning hos spædbørn / småbørn – 6 Årsager, 7 symptomer & 2 Behandlinger
Ting, du bør gøre, mens forberedelse til graviditet
Når babyer kan have Soy Milk, og myter om Soy Formula
Mavesår under graviditet – årsager, symptomer, diagnose og behandlinger
Related Posts
Graviditet Efter Levering: Hvor længe skal du vente og svangerskabsforebyggende midler at bruge
Øvelser at undgå under graviditet
4 Faktorer, der kan påvirke din baby Bump Størrelse
Ektopisk graviditet – årsager, symptomer og behandlinger Du skal være opmærksom på
Tegn af kvindelig infertilitet du behøver at holde øje med
Mundtørhed under graviditeten: Årsager, symptomer og tips til at få nødhjælp
Den Graviditet Disorder at tre ud af fire kvinder har
Hvad er årsagen Kløende bryster Mens Amning og hvordan man kan håndtere det
Hvorfor er sengeleje Essential under graviditet?
Er det sikkert at køre i bil under graviditet?
AskWomenOnline AskWomenOnline.org. SITEMAP
CS / BG / DA / PT /NL / ET / IT / FI / FR / KA / HR /IW / HU / IS / KO / DE /LV / LT / MK / AR / NO / PL / RO / EL /RU / SR / JA /SK / SL / ES / SV / TR / UK
By continuing to browse this site you are agreeing to our use of cookies.OkRead more