Carrot Benefits | Health Benefits of Carrots
Steadyrun Learn and Educate Yourself
Home
About Us
Health Tips
Fruits
Vegetables
Dried Fruits
Nutrients
Foods
Liquids
Plants
Home Remedies
Others
Difference and Comparison
Educational Resources
Similarities Between the Two Things
General Science
Advantages
Lab Experiments
Physics Experiment
Puzzles
SEO Tips
Finance and Insurance
Wallpapers
Contact Us
Home » Health Tips » Health Benefits of Vegetables » Health Benefits of Carrots
Health Benefits of Carrots
The carrot is a root vegetable, usually orange in color. These delicious root vegetables are the source not only of beta-carotene but also of a wide variety of antioxidants and other health-supporting nutrients. It also contains fiber, Vitamin-K, potassium, folate, manganese, phosphorous, magnesium, Vitamin-E, and zinc. When eaten raw they are an excellent food. Here on this page, we will see some of the important facts, uses and health benefits of carrots
Why is Carrot Good for Your Eyes and Vision
There is an old saying, Eat carrots and you will always have good eyesight. Weak eyesight increases problem as age increases. Many people suffer from this at the early age. We can resolve these eyesight problems by including healthy food in our daily diet. Vitamin A is very important for our eyesight and carrots are rich in it. Carrots are rich in vitamin A, it is good for improving eyesight and preventing conditions like night blindness from developing as we age.
Carrot is one healthy vegetable which is rich in vitamins and the most good for the eyes as well as health. Varieties of dishes can be prepared through the carrot, this is one of the vegetables to eat in a fresh way without cooking. Carrot contains full health benefits for eyes which are also liked by all kinds of age groups. Carrot juice helps increase the eye power and also provides healthy glowing skin.
Carrot is enriched with beta-carotene which very helps fully in preventing night blindness. Carrot also helps in maintaining cornea healthy. Carrot also contains lutein which is also a good safeguard for eyes. Carrot is also well enriched with fiber and potassium.
It is the antioxidant beta-carotene that gives them their bright orange color. Beta-carotene is absorbed in the intestine and converted into vitamin A during digestion.
Health Benefits of Carrots
Protect Prostate Cancer: Beta-carotene-rich diet may also protect against prostate cancer.
Health Benefits of Carrots – Protects the Skin: Vitamin A and antioxidants protect the skin from sun damage. Deficiencies of Vitamin A cause dryness to the skin, hair, and nails. Vitamin A prevents premature wrinkling, acne, dry skin, pigmentation, blemishes, and uneven skin tone. Its oil is good for dry skin because it makes the skin softer, smoother and firmer. Furthermore, carrot juice improves stomach and gastrointestinal strength.
Reduces Risk of Chronic Disease: There’s good reason to include them in your regular diet, as the science is very strong that they may help reduce your risk of chronic disease.
Carrots Images, Photos, Pics, Picture
Improves Immune System: Health Benefits of Carrots include it as a rich source of vitamin C, which stimulates the activity of white blood cells and is one of the most important elements in the human immune system and protects your colon and stomach from various serious illnesses, including colorectal cancer.
Carrot extract may help to protect your liver.
There intake regularly reduces cholesterol and prevent heart attacks.
They have antiseptic qualities and also clean your teeth and mouth.
Carrot helps in increasing the menstrual flow.
Health Benefits of Carrots Juice
Taken regularly will nourish your body back to fertility.
Their juices are helpful for cleansing and filtering the kidneys.
Drinking its juice regularly during pregnancy, especially during the last few months, will reduce the chances of jaundice in baby.
Juice in the morning taken daily help clear up thread worms in children.
Its juice helps to eliminate excess fluids from the body.
Find Benefits of All Vegetables here: Click Here
1 comment(s) on “Health Benefits of Carrots”
Rebecca June 6, 2017 at 2:20 pm
I love carrots so that’s perfect for me!
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Copyright © Steadyrun.com
Sitemap
Contact Us
Facebook
Twitter