My Journey to A Cure Blog #1 Best Nutritional Products
My Journey to a CURE
Welcome
Special Thanks
Blog
My Favorite Products
Contact Email
Health Information
Zeotrex
Free Motivational & Inspirational E-Books
EMR Defender Cellphone Power Enhancer
Magic of Magnesium
Johns Journey to a Prostate Cure
Plant Therapy Essential Oils
Organa Intl Crystalline Nano Silver
Shells Creations by Debbie
Memories & Inspiration - Siesta Key FL
Red Tide Illness Remedies
Baking Soda and Maple Syrup History Benefits and How to Use
11/27/2015
Baking Soda and Maple Syrup History Benefits and How to Use
Baking Soda & Maple Syrup by John Austin
Over 150 years ago Dr. Austin Church formed a business to produce and distribute Baking Soda. Read about him Click Here
ARM & HAMMER® Baking Soda is derived from a natural occurring mineral called trona. It is 100% pure, safe, and natural. Baking Soda (also known as sodium bicarbonate) is a substance that is found naturally in all living things. Its purpose is to maintain pH balance in the bloodstream, which is necessary to sustain life.
Due to its chemical and physical properties, sodium bicarbonate has unique medicinal capabilities that every healthcare practitioner, doctor and patient needs to know about.
The only problem is that Arm & Hammer Baking Soda can replace many more expensive medicines and this does not make the medical industrial complex happy.
In today’s modern world of medicine the FDA just will not let companies that sell products make medical claims about them unless they have been tested at great expense and approved as a drug. This was not always the case and as we can see in the information in this chapter, which is from a 1924 booklet, [1] published by the Arm & Hammer Soda Company. On page 12 the company starts off saying, “The proven value of Arm & Hammer Bicarbonate of Soda as a therapeutic agent is further evinced by the following evidence of a prominent physician named Dr. Volney S. Cheney, in a letter to the Church & Dwight Company:
"In 1918 and 1919 while fighting the ‘Flu’ with the U. S. Public Health Service it was brought to my attention that rarely any one who had been thoroughly alkalinized with bicarbonate of soda contracted the disease (influenza), and those who did contract it, if alkalinized early, would invariably have mild attacks. I have since that time treated all cases of ‘Cold,’ Influenza and LaGripe by first giving generous doses of Bicarbonate of Soda, and in many, many instances within 36 hours the symptoms would have entirely abated. Further, within my own household, before Woman’s Clubs and Parent-Teachers’ Associations, I have advocated the use of Bicarbonate of Soda as a preventive for "Colds," with the result that now many reports are coming in stating that those who took "Soda" were not affected, while nearly every one around them had the "Flu."
Recommended dosages from the Arm and Hammer Company for colds and influenza back in 1925 were:
During the first day take six doses of half teaspoonful of Arm & Hammer Bicarbonate of Soda in glass of room temperature water, at about two hour intervals.
During the second day take four doses of half teaspoonful of Arm and Hammer Bicarbonate of Soda in glass of water, at the same intervals.
During the third day take two doses of half teaspoonful of Arm and Hammer Bicarbonate of Soda in glass of water morning and evening, and thereafter half teaspoonful in glass of water each morning until cold is cured.
"Well the sodium bicarbonate cure for colds and sore throats. A friend called as I was reading about it. She had just woken with it full on, was miserable, could hardly talk and was planning on missing work. I told her to try it. She is rapt!
Relief in a few hours, and she went to work the following day!"
End of quote.
Arm and Hammer can no longer make these claims, but the truth doesn't change. What worked then will work today.
Whether or not you have cancer, I would appreciate hearing from you and any experiences you have as a result of usingbaking soda. I personally had GREAT results and use it still.
If you are willing to perform your own case study, then start by writing down all of your symptoms; even the ones you have grown accustomed to and forgotten when you didn’t have them.
This includes all aches, pains, sleep patterns; condition of skin, eyes, hair, nails; texture, color and quality of stool, urine etc. As any of these things change, please make notes along with the date so you can track how quickly things have changed. Your experiences may be of benefit to someone else.
Dr. Tulio Simoncini, an oncologist from Italy used pure baking soda and water to cure many cancer patients. You may still be able to find some of his videos on YouTube. His method was to putbaking soda solution into a blood vessel that feeds a particular organ that was plagued by cancer. The purpose was to get the solution directly to the cancer. In other instances, like the colon or lungs, he would insert a tube and irrigate the cancer cells directly. He was often able to clear up cancer in as little as 3 treatments.
Eventually he was shut down by the courts under pressure from the medical association and drug companies, because he was taking too much business away from the profession.
Dr. Otto Warburg in his Nobel Winning research found that cancer cannot grow in a pH of 7.0. Dr. Simoncini found however that when cancer has taken hold, that a pH of at least 8.0 is required to kill it. That is why I recommend taking sufficient baking soda to boost the pH to 8.0-8.5. Anybody who has a pH of 5.5 for an extended period of time is guaranteed to get cancer and the vast majority of people are at that point right now.
If you already have cancer, you want to boost your pH from 5.5 to 8.5 rather quickly. Those who use methods that boost pH slowly, invariably see their cancer start to grow rather quickly. That is because cancer grows faster at 6.5 than it does at 5.5.
This is not a point of concern for anyone who understands and checks their pH first urine sample every morning. You can purchase pH test strips from some health food stores, chemical stores, universities or on the Internet.
In this short commentary, I will give you a simple recipe using baking soda and molasses than many people have used to eradicate cancer.
Mix 2 tsp. of baking soda (not baking powder) in 1 glass of warm water. Stir in 1 tsp. of black-strap molasses and drink first thing in the morning on an empty stomach.
Work your way up to doing this 3-times a day. The object is to get your pH up to 8.5 for a period of at least 7 days. I personally did this for 4 months, without any problems and I am not aware of any side effects from doing this.
I have seen stage-4 cancer completely gone from the bones in as little as seven days. I have seen success even with pancreatic cancer, which is perhaps the worst.
I can’t promise anything of course, but your odds are 99% better by attacking the cancer at its source, rather than further damaging your body through surgery, chemotherapy or radiation. Statistics show that people who refuse these procedures live an average of 5-years longer than those who don’t and most of them aren’t using this protocol.
The theory for mixing molasses with the baking soda is that cancer feeds on sugars and the baking soda attaches itself to the molasses. When the cancer feeds on the molasses, it is killed rather quickly by the baking soda.
Note: My personal preference is to take baking soda without the molasses because the evidence produced by Dr. Simoncini is that Candida is killed by direct contact with baking soda and therefore mixing it with the sugars found in molasses would appear to unnecessary and perhaps even counterproductive. Nonetheless, I will still report what others have had to say on the subject.
Molasses is also rich in Potassium and Magnesium. Often times when taking baking soda, the body needs extra Potassium and perhaps even Magnesium to maintain a proper balance.
Baking Soda and Pure Maple Syrup:
"There is not a tumor on God´s green earth that cannot be licked with a little baking soda and maple syrup." That is the astonishing claim of controversial folk healer Jim Kelmun who says that this simple home remedy can stop and reverse the deadly growth of cancers. His loyal patients swear by the man they fondly call Dr. Jim and say he is a miracle worker.
"Those other doctors told me that I was a goner and had less than six months to live as a result of my lung cancer,” said farmer Ian Roadhouse. “But Dr. Jim put me on his mixture and in a couple of months the cancer was gone. It did not even show up on the x-rays."
Dr. Jim discovered this treatment accidentally somewhere in the middle of the last century when he was treating a family plagued by breast cancer. There were five sisters in the family and four of them had died of breast cancer. He asked the remaining sister if there was anything different in her diet and she told him that she was partial to sipping maple syrup and baking soda.
Since then, reported by a newspaper in Ashville, North Carolina, Dr. Jim dispensed this remedy to over 200 people diagnosed with terminal cancer and amazingly 185 of them lived at least 15 more years and nearly half enjoyed a complete remission.
This treatment is a combination of pure, 100% organic maple syrup and baking soda. (Many of the nonorganic syrups are mixed with formaldehyde even though they say pure)
Cancer cells consume 15 times more glucose than normal cells. The cancer killing baking soda is dragged into the cancer cell along with the maple syrup, causing a very rapid shift in pH and oxygen levels, killing the cell.
The actual formula is to mix one part baking soda with three parts (pure, 100%) maple syrup in a small saucepan. Stir briskly and heat the mixture for 5 minutes. Research suggests taking 1 teaspoon daily, but one could probably do this several times a day or mix it with some of the other therapies for faster results.
The maple syrup apparently enables and increases penetration of bicarbonate into all compartments of body, even those which are difficult or impossible to penetrate by other means. These compartments include the central nervous system, the blood-brain barrier, joints, solid tumors, and perhaps even the eyes.
Another home remedy is 1/4 teaspoon apple cider vinegar and 1/4 teaspoon baking soda taken 2 or more times daily. Another treatment is lemon and baking soda , or lime and baking soda in water. Perhaps honey could be substituted for maple syrup or those who live in parts of the world where maple syrup is not available but to my knowledge no one has experimented with this. We do know that blackstrap molasses works.
Baking soda increases pH, which in turn increases oxygen levels in the body. Breathing exercises are also critical to increasing oxygen levels to the point of killing cancer cells quickly as well.
Nano Silver is a broad-spectrum preventative agent. It destroys yeast and bacteria in as little as 15 seconds and kills the viruses and mold that may also cause cancer.
Those suffering from cancer should drink four ounces of Nano Silver on day one and four ounces on day two, sipping it every hour. Drink two ounces daily for the next five days; take two tablespoons twice daily thereafter as a maintenance dose. Do not drink Silver and Baking Soda at the same time however. Separate the two by at least one hour.
In my opinion, MMF should be the companion product to all good foods and supplements. If I had cancer, it would be my first choice for a supplement that might make a difference in life or death.
SOURCE
Causes Of Over 200 Diseases
Health Researcher, Author and Certified Nutritionist
by John Austin
I only use Organic Baking Soda, Lemon, Apple Cider Vinegar - all links in this article are for the organic products I use.
DISCLAIMERS
The products and information are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease, and are not in any way a substitute for professional advice.
Before implementing any of this information, each individual is responsible for weighing the risks and benefits of this protocol. He or she may want to seek medical advice before and be monitored periodically by a doctor during the use of these practices.
This information is for educational purposes only and does not convey or warranty, either expressly or implied, as to outcomes, promises, or benefits from this protocol.
These statements have not been evaluated by the FDA.
Susan Andrews
11/28/2015 10:15:26 am
Good god, are these old wives remedies still being used. I say go ahead but go to the surgeon and oncologist and live!
Debbie
11/28/2015 11:26:30 am
I appreciate your belief that this is a old wives remedy, but as you can see I believe otherwise. When I had cancer, I had an oncologist and a good friend Rena Davis, who has her own Natural health clinic for 37 yrs. - Rena is the one who told me about the baking soda among other things. I washed my face with it, cleaned my house with it, along with so many other things and have been cancer free for yrs now. I continue to use Baking soda and many other natural remedies, oils, Witch Hazel, Coconut Oil, zeolites, Raspex and so many things it is too much to put here. So if it is a old wives tale, I will take it. Good luck. Have a Great Weekend.
Comments are closed.
Categories
All
Air Purification
Alkalinize PH
Alzheimers
Amazon
Anti-aging
Antioxidant
Arthritis
Artificial Sweeteners
Aspartame
Asthma
Auto Immune
Baking Soda
Beta Glucan
Birth Defects
Black Seed Oil
Books
Brain Function
Brain Mental Vitality
Breast Cancer
Broccoli
Burns
Cancer
Cancer Awareness Jewelry
Carrot Powder Organic
Cayenne Pepper
Cell Phone
Cell Phone Radiation
Chlorine Shower
Cleaning
Cleanses
Cleansing
Colon
Colonel Joe
Corpus Christi Water Contamination
Curcumin
Cyanobacteria
Dandelion Root
Depression
Detox
Diet
Digestive
EMR Defender
Energy
Environment Friendly
Enzymes
Essential Oils
Extra Virgin Olive Oil
FDA
Florida Eco Disaster
Flu
Fluoride
Free E Books
Free Mart Products
Global Healing
Glyphosate
Grape-seed-extract
Greens
Green-tea
Groupon
Hart Procedure
Headaches
Healthy Joints
Heart Disease
Herbicides
Himalayan Salt Lamps & More
Holidays
Immune Support
Immune System
Immunotherapy
Inflammation
Inspiration
Iodine
Johns Journey
Kidney Disease
Lemons
Liver
Liver Cleanse
L Serine
L-serine
Lycopene
Magnesium
Minerals
Monsanto
My Story
Natural Fertilizer
Nigella Sativa
Now We No Movement
Olive Leaf Extract
Oregano
Organic Health
Organic Teas
ORGANOPHOSPHATE
Pancreatic Cancer
Pesticides
Pet Health
Pets
Poisoning
Pomegranate
Precious Prills
Probiotic
Prostate Cancer
Radiation
Raspex
Red Tide Illness
Red Tide Illness Remedies
Red Tide TOXIC BACTERIA
Respiratory
Restore
Sanitary Napkins
Saving Money (Earning $)
Selenium
Sept 11
Shark Cartilage
Shiaqga
Shiaqga Free Mart
Shiaqga - Free-Mart
Shopping
Siesta Key Red Tide TOXIC Algae
Silver
Sinus
Special
Special Thanks
Sponsors Movies Websites
Sunburn
Sunscreen
Superfoods
TAKE ACTION
Thyroid Health
Toxic Metals
Tumeric
Turmeric
Veterans
Vitamin B12
Vitamin C
Vitamin D3
Water
Water Filtration
Weed Control
Weight Loss
Welcome
Zeolite DHQ
Zeotrex
ZNatural
Archives
March 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
July 2018
June 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
August 2017
July 2017
May 2017
April 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
February 2015
July 2014
June 2014
November 2011
RSS Feed
Click to set custom HTML
11 Free Tips to Reduce Your Fluoride Exposure
My Journey to A Cure Copyright 2010 - 2018