One Can Of Soda Per Day Raises Diabetes Risk | PA Foot and Ankle Associates
Make your next step pain free!
Search
PA Foot and Ankle Associates
Bunions
Heel Pain
Toe Pain
Sports Injuries
Foot Pain
Pediatric Foot pain
Diabetes
Running
Toenail Fungus
Stretching Exercises
About
RSS
One Can Of Soda Per Day Raises Diabetes Risk
1 May
“One can won’t kill me.”
© Joseph Cortes | Dreamstime Stock Photos
How many times have you used a phrase like that as an excuse to pour multiple ounces of sugar-laden water and flavorings into your body? Next time you’re reaching for that bottle of soda, think about this:
In a study conducted at the Imperial College of London, researchers found that drinking just one sugary soft drink each day raises your risk of contracting Type 2 diabetes by more than 20%. That’s not just soda – that also goes for energy drinks, sports drinks and juices with sugar added.
The finding is based on data collected from 350,000 people in eight European countries and is published in Diabetologia, the journal of the European Association for the Study of Diabetes.
The researchers found that each 336ml sugar-sweetened soft drink – just under 12 ounces – consumed each day increased the risk of contracting type 2 diabetes by 22 per cent. Previous studies conducted in North America came to similar conclusions, but put the increased risk at 25 percent.
Drinking pure fruit juice or nectar was not associated with increased diabetes risk.
“The increase in risk of type 2 diabetes among sugar-sweetened soft drink consumers in Europe is similar to that found in studies in North America,” said Dr Romaguera of the School of Public Health at Imperial College. “Given that people are drinking more and more sugary drinks, we need to give out clear messages about their harmful effects.”
The Better Choice
Next time you’re at the convenience store with a need to quench your thirst, reach for a better choice: Water, milk, unsweetened iced tea, black coffee, or pure (the label will say 100%) fruit juice. Beware of fruit juice labels that bear the word “cocktail”, as they’re loaded with added sugars.
There are lots of hidden sugars lurking in your food, and the only way to avoid them with certainty is to become a food label reader. Just remember to bring your reading glasses into the store, because that print on the side of the bottle seems to be getting smaller and smaller every day.
Share:
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Print
More
Reddit
Tumblr
Email
Pocket
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Tags: diabetes research, diet
Categories Type 2 Diabetes
← Shin Splints: Not Just For Runners
Jenny’s story of how her terrible heel and arch pain was cured →
PA Foot and Ankle Associates Offices and Info
Visit a PA Foot and Ankle Associates office in Allentown, Easton, Northampton, Lansford, or East Stroudsburg, PA.
Call to make an appointment: 610 330 9740
Click here to visit our website and for directions to our offices.
Most popular Today
Why Does My Ankle Hurt On The Inside?
5 Exercises to Relieve Hammer Toes
Lump On Your Foot or Ankle? It Might Be A Ganglion Cyst
What's that bump on the back of my heel?
My Foot Hurts On The Side Near My Big Toe
Pain in the ball of your foot could be Morton's Neuroma
Recent Posts
Introducing “Walk Away” Bunion Surgery
A Simple Probiotic Pill May Control Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes
Diabetic Tattoo Monitors Blood Glucose
How Peripheral Artery Disease (PAD) caused this man to almost lose his foot
How to make it through Thanksgiving with diabetes
Official Team Podiatrist of the Lehigh Valley IronPigs
WP Subscribe!
Share your email address with us to be updated by email whenever we post. We will not use your email for any other reason.
Join 963 other followers
Sign me up!
Like Us!
Like Us!
Featured Posts
Introducing “Walk Away” Bunion Surgery
A zero downtime bunion procedure is now a reality. PA Foot and Ankle Associates is the first podiatric practice in the Lehigh Valley (and one of only two on the U.S. east coast) to offer a revolutionary new bunion correction procedure called the FastForward System. FastForward offers minimal discomfort, minimal scarring and no downtime for […]
A Simple Probiotic Pill May Control Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes
Over the past few years, scientists have been intensely studying the flora (a.k.a. bacteria) of the human intestine to unlock the secrets it may hold in influencing our health. Scientists at Cornell University in New York have discovered a protein secreted by a particular form of bacteria which can shift control of insulin from the […]
Diabetic Tattoo Monitors Blood Glucose
Any diabetic will tell you that checking blood glucose readings is a real pain in the finger. Multiple daily “sticks” with a lancet and forcing a drop of blood onto a test strip connected to a blood glucose meter is to say the least, not appealing. It also can be difficult for some patients to […]
How Peripheral Artery Disease (PAD) caused this man to almost lose his foot
Gary Kautzmann of Orefield, Pennsylvania suffered with Peripheral Artery Disease for more than 10 years. P.A.D. is a condition in which arteries become blocked, restricting blood flow to certain parts of the body. In many cases, P.A.D. is caused by fatty deposits lodged in the arteries (atherosclerosis), but in Gary’s case, arteries behind his left […]
How to make it through Thanksgiving with diabetes
Oh it’s so tempting: the turkey, the gravy, the stuffing, the mashed potatoes, the carrots with brown sugar, and then of course,…. THE DREADED PUMPKIN PIE! The traditional Thanksgiving feast is basically a carb-fest, which is why we fall asleep on the couch and miss the last quarter of the Detroit game every year […]
Categories
Bunions (17)
Diabetes (77)
Foot Pain (103)
Heel Pain (50)
Pediatric Foot pain (8)
Running (62)
sports injuries (76)
Toe Pain (32)
Toenail Fungus (12)
Type 1 Diabetes (30)
Type 2 Diabetes (48)
Uncategorized (4)
Contact
2895 Hamilton Blvd
Suite 101
Allentown, PA 18104
610 330 9740
PA Foot and Ankle Associates also has offices in Easton, Northampton, and Lansford, PA.
Twitter Feed
Understanding Blisters dlvr.it/R2vDhh https://t.co/wqLJa1fMxu - 4 days ago
Causes of Cracked Heels dlvr.it/R2RjmN https://t.co/Ro5zW8laZv - 1 week ago
Having a Strong Body May Help to Prevent Running Injuries dlvr.it/R20bbl https://t.co/zszHYapwkZ - 2 weeks ago
Follow @eastpennfoot
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: