Nature's Pantry Cancer
Free Membership Offer! Receive free email newsletters about healthy living, our store and more.
Your E-mail:
My Account
Contact Us
Cancer : Six Ways to Reduce Your Risk of Colon Cancer
(HealthDay News) -- Half of the colon cancer cases in the United States could be prevented if people followed six proven steps to reduce their risk, a cancer and nutrition expert says.
Colon cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death, and the third most common type of cancer in the United States. This year, there will be over 134,000 cases of colon cancer, the U.S. National Cancer Institute estimates.
"Research now suggests that 50 percent of colorectal cancers in the United States are preventable each year through diet, weight and physical activity. That's about 67,200 cases every year," Alice Bender, head of nutrition programs at the American Institute for Cancer Research, said in an institute news release.
Bender outlined six evidence-based measures you can take to try to lower your risk of developing colon cancer:
Maintain a healthy weight and control belly fat, which has been linked to increased risk of colon cancer, regardless of body weight.
Get regular moderate physical activity, which can range from house cleaning to running.
Eat plenty of high-fiber foods. For every 10 grams of fiber (a bit less than a cup of beans) in your daily diet, your risk of colon cancer falls by 10 percent, Bender said.
Reduce red meat consumption and avoid processed meats, such as hot dogs, bacon, sausage and deli meats. Ounce for ounce, processed meats boost the risk of colon cancer twice as much as red meat.
Avoid alcohol or limit your intake to no more than two standard drinks a day for men and one for women, Bender advised.
Go heavy on the garlic. Evidence suggests that a diet rich in garlic reduces the risk of colon cancer, Bender said.
March is National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month, and the American Cancer Society recommends that people 50 or older talk with a doctor about colon cancer screening. Screening can detect the cancer before symptoms develop, when it's easier to treat and survival rates are more favorable.
-- Robert Preidt
Copyright © 2017 HealthDay. All rights reserved.
Search Site
Entire SiteReference RoomHealthy RecipesNews & Features
Home
Store Locations
Product Showcase
About Our Store
Reference Room
Health Calculators
News & Features
Find A Practitioner
Healthy Recipes
Ingredient Glossary
Allergies
Anti-Aging
Arthritis
Asthma
Blood Pressure
Bone Health
Cancer
Chronic Pain
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Eye Sight
Healthy Kids
Hearing
Heart
Lung Health
Men's Health
Menopause
Oral Health
Pregnancy
Senior Health
Sleep
Stress
Weight
Weight Management
Women's Health
Home | Store Locations | Product Showcase | About Our Store | Reference Room | News & Features | Find A Practitioner | Healthy Recipes | My Email Subscription | Contact Us | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use
All contents © Copyright 1999-2019 Genius Central and Nature's Pantry. All rights reserved. This internet site is hosted by Genius Central, a Web site service provider to natural health stores nationwide. Genius Central and Nature's Pantry have no means of independently evaluating the safety or functionality of the products offered by their suppliers and affiliates and thus can neither endorse nor recommend products. Information presented is of a general nature for educational and informational purposes only. Statements about products and health conditions have not been evaluated by the US Food and Drug Administration. Products and information presented herein are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent disease. If you have any concerns about your own health, you should always consult with a physician or other healthcare professional. Your use of this site indicates your agreement to be bound by our Terms and Conditions