Cell Phones Can Cause Cancer - Fact
Menu
Close
Store
Coaching
Overcoming Electrical Sensitivity – Long Term Coaching Program
FAQs
EMF meters
Trifield meter
Cornet meter
Acoustimeter
Gigahertz Solutions meters
Electromagnetic protection
Evaluate your exposure
EMF Protection Store
Cell phone protection
Computer radiation
Grounding
Dirty electricity
Protection tips
Protection devices
EMF facts
EMF consultants
Electrical sensitivity
Symptoms
Are you ES?
Nutrition
Healthy Living Solutions
EMF Protection Organisations
Cell phone radiation
Cell phone radiation danger
Cell phone danger and children
Cell Phone Towers
EMFs in your life
Bluetooth radiation
EMFs in your home
Power line EMFs
EMFs and travel
EMFs in schools
EMFs and x-rays
EMFs and Infertility
EMF Stories
EMF Books
EMF Studies
Smart Meters
Teleseminars
Lloyd
About Lloyd
EMF Forum
Donations
Administrative Contact
Lloyd On The Radio
Guest Post Guidelines
Need Help? Type What You Are Looking For Below
(examples: Is wifi safe? what is dirty electricity? cell phone protection tips, what is best emf meter? etc.)
Store
Coaching
Overcoming Electrical Sensitivity – Long Term Coaching Program
FAQs
EMF meters
Trifield meter
Cornet meter
Acoustimeter
Gigahertz Solutions meters
Electromagnetic protection
Evaluate your exposure
EMF Protection Store
Cell phone protection
Computer radiation
Grounding
Dirty electricity
Protection tips
Protection devices
EMF facts
EMF consultants
Electrical sensitivity
Symptoms
Are you ES?
Nutrition
Healthy Living Solutions
EMF Protection Organisations
Cell phone radiation
Cell phone radiation danger
Cell phone danger and children
Cell Phone Towers
EMFs in your life
Bluetooth radiation
EMFs in your home
Power line EMFs
EMFs and travel
EMFs in schools
EMFs and x-rays
EMFs and Infertility
EMF Stories
EMF Books
EMF Studies
Smart Meters
Teleseminars
Lloyd
About Lloyd
EMF Forum
Donations
Administrative Contact
Lloyd On The Radio
Guest Post Guidelines
Popular Posts
5G Radiation Dangers – 11 Reasons To Be Concerned
My 9 Tips To Cut Down On Exposure To Computer Radiation
Bluetooth What You Will Learn Nowhere Else – Is It Really Dangerous?
How To Protect Yourself From Cell Phone Radiation
WiFi Radiation – How To Protect Yourself
Cornet ED88T EMF Meter – My Review
Smart Meter Shielding Tips
iPad Radiation – How To Reduce Your Exposure
The Trifield TF2 EMF Meter – My Review
Cordless Phone Radiation: Cordless Phones Even More Dangerous Than Cell Phones?
4 Best Apps For Detecting EMF’s
EMFs in Your Home – My Protection Tips
44 Reasons To Believe Cell Phones Can Cause Cancer
Posted by Lloyd Burrell on November 10, 2014 under Cell phone radiation | 60 Comments to Read
facebook
30
twitter
1
pinterest
2
Cell phones can cause cancer. Here’s why.
Cell phones emit microwave radio-frequency radiation. Fact.
This radiation has the ability to penetrate our bodies. Fact.
Our governments do virtually nothing to protect us from these dangers. Fact.
And yet there is strong evidence, multiple peer reviewed studies, to indicate that cell phones cause cancer and other diseases.
Take a look for yourself at these facts.
But first let’s just consider what cancer is.
Cancer And DNA
The National Cancer Institute says,
“Cancer is a term used for diseases in which abnormal cells divide without control and are able to invade other tissues…..all cancers begin in cells……cells grow and divide in a controlled way to produce more cells as they are needed to keep the body healthy. When cells become old or damaged, they die and are replaced with new cells. However, sometimes this orderly process goes wrong. The genetic material (DNA) of a cell can become damaged or changed, producing mutations that affect normal cell growth and division. When this happens, cells do not die when they should and new cells form when the body does not need them.”
National Cancer Institute Image – click to enlarge
So cancer typically involves abnormal cell division and DNA damage and in some cases cells may form a mass of tissue called a tumor.
Types Of Brain Tumor
In the studies done to date cell phone radiation exposures are principally linked to two types of brain tumor, gliomas and acoustic neuromas.
Gliomas, a type of tumor that starts in the brain or spine are typically malignant. Gliomas are particularly deadly. Most people survive only 1 to 3 years after diagnosis.
Acoustic neuromas though non-malignant (low-grade cancer), are in many cases life threatening given that they are an intracranial tumor.
Free Download: thousands of studies link cell phone radiation exposures to many different types of cancer. That’s why I’ve put together this summary ‘Cell Phones Can Cause Cancer – 10 Good Reasons’ click here to download.
Cell Phones Can Cause Cancer – 44 Reasons
Here are 44 reasons why cell phones can cause cancer.
1. Cellular Damage: Telecoms giant T-Mobile in Germany commissioned an independent study to review all relevant research on the health risks from wireless telecommunications. It was concluded that,
“On the cellular level, a multitude of studies found the type of damage from high frequency electromagnetic fields which is important for cancer initiation and cancer promotion.”
Brain Tumors And Brain Cancers
2. Significantly Increased Risk of Glioma: Gliomas are becoming increasingly common. The $25 million Interphone Study found that:
“regular use of a cell phone by adults can significantly increase the risk of gliomas by 40% with 1640 hours or more of use (this is about one half hour per day over ten years).”
Image – Paul Dart MD (click to enlarge)
Source: Table 2 INTERPHONE Study Group. Brain tumour risk in relation to mobile telephone use: results of the INTERPHONE international case-control study. Int J Epidemiol (2010); 39(3):675-694.
3. Tumor Risk on Cell Phone Side of Head: Again from the Interphone Study – currently the big daddy of cell phone radiation studies it being the largest and longest study on the link between cell phones and brain tumors – it also found, “tumors were more likely to occur on the side of the head most used for calling”.
4. Harmful Association Between Cell Phone Radiation and Tumors: A review of 23 epidemiological studies by 7 scientists on the link between cell phones and cancer concluded, “harmful association“. One of the reports authors commenting the study results said, “although as a whole the data varied, among the 10 higher quality studies, we found a harmful association between phone use and tumor risk. The lower quality studies, which failed to meet scientific best practices, were primarily industry funded.”
5. Increased Risk For Glioma and Acoustic Neuroma: the studies performed by the Hardell Research Group are widely regarded as being amongst the best. This recent study finds, “A consistent pattern of increased risk for glioma and acoustic neuroma associated with use of wireless phones.” These findings are consistent with their earlier studies.
6. Temporal Lobe & Glioma Risk: A recent French study found evidence of an increased risk of glioma and temporal lobe tumors. The study found that, “risks were higher for gliomas, temporal tumours, occupational and urban mobile phone use. “. According to EMF watchdog Powerwatch this is an important paper, “that confirms existing studies and which should help move the IARC RF evaluation strongly towards a Group 2A – ‘probable human carcinogen’“.
7. Increased Risk of Acoustic Neuroma in Long-Term Users of Cell Phones: A recent study on 790,000 middle aged women in the UK found that, “women who used cell phones for ten or more years were two-and- a-half times more likely to develop an acoustic neuroma. Their risk of acoustic neuroma increased with the number of years they used cell phones.“
8. Increased Risk of Acoustic Neuroma: Research conducted by Lonn suggests, “an increased risk of acoustic neuroma associated with mobile phone use of at least 10 years’ duration.”
9. Brain Tumor Risk is Higher on ‘Cell Phone’ Side of Head: A research paper that reviewed 11 studies found, “a link between prolonged cell phone usage and the development of an ipsilateral [same side of head as cell phone] brain tumor”.
10. Meningioma: This Swedish study looked at adult brain tumor cases diagnosed over a two year period. Although the study concluded that, “no conclusive evidence of an association between use of mobile and cordless phones and meningioma was found“. The studies authors did say, “an indication of increased risk was seen in the group with highest cumulative use“.
11. Malignant Brain Tumors: Recent work by Hardell looked at long-term use of mobile and cordless phones. In conclusion it was found that, “this study confirmed previous results of an association between mobile and cordless phone use and malignant brain tumours. These findings provide support for the hypothesis that RF-EMFs play a role both in the initiation and promotion stages of carcinogenesis“.
Image: Hardell Research Group – click to enlarge
Other Cancers And Tumors
12. Cancer of the Pituitary Gland: The pituitary gland, considered by many to be the “master gland” of the body, is a pea sized organ located in the middle of the base of the brain that produces hormones that play a major role in regulating vital body functions and general well-being. This study (already referenced above) also found that,
“the risk of cancer of the pituitary gland more was more than twice as high among women who used a cell phone for less than five years as compared to never users“.
13. Thyroid Cancer: The thyroid gland is situated in the neck. Using a cell phone against your ear exposes your thyroid to cell phone radiation. A recent Israeli study observing that, “the incidence of thyroid cancer has been on the rise in Israel for more than a decade which matches the rise in the use of cellphones” collected human thyroid cells from healthy patients and subjected them to radiation. The study found, “evidence of changes in thyroid cells in response to electromagnetic radiation”.
A 2016 study from the Hardell research team in Sweden confirms that in recent years there has been a substantial increase in patients diagnosed with thyroid cancer in Sweden as well as in other Nordic countries. They note that this increase coincides with the growing use of smart phones.
14. Melanoma Risk: Melanoma is a cancer that starts in a certain type of skin cell. A Swedish study found “a very clear association between increasing use of mobile phones and increasing rates of head melanoma [ ] in Nordic countries“.
Image: Örjan Hallberg (click to enlarge)
15. Stem Cell Cancer: In a controversial US study on 29 cases of neuroepithelial tumors, cell phone users accounted for 11 of them. These initial results indicated a near tripling in the risk of neuroepithelial tumors through cell phone use. The published results were revised to reflect a doubling of risk and then reported as not ‘statistically significant’.
16. Oral Cancer: An Israeli study on 460 cases of parotid gland tumors found, “based on the largest number of benign PGT patients reported to date, our results suggest an association between cellular phone use and PGTs [parotid gland tumors].” The parotid is the salivary gland near the cheek where many users hold their cell phone.
17. Parotid Malignant Tumors: Another Israeli study analyzed deaths as recorded on the National Cancer Registry over a 36 year period found, “the total number of parotid gland cancers in Israel increased 4-fold from 1970 to 2006 , whereas other major salivary gland cancers remained stable“.
Image: Environmental Health Trust (click to enlarge)
18. Leukaemia: A comprehensive review of over a dozen studies including studies on exposures from cell tower radiation, TV and Radio broadcast towers concluded, “cancer, especially brain tumour and leukaemia, but all other cancers also“.
19. Lymph Node Cancer: In an Australian study one hundred mice were exposed to RF radiation for two 30-minute periods per day for up to 18 months. The authors called the increased incidence of lymphoma “highly significant”. They added that “it is very unlikely that the faster onset of cancer was due to chance“.
20. Multifocal Breast Cancer: American researchers studied four young women with breast cancer. They found that, “all patients regularly carried their smartphones directly against their breasts in their brassieres for up to 10 hours a day, for several years, and developed tumors in areas of their breasts immediately underlying the phones“.
Click to enlarge
21. Eye Cancer: A German Study has established a link between uveal melanoma and cell phone radiation and similar exposures. The study “found an elevated risk for exposure to radiofrequency-transmitting devices“. Another study found ocular symptoms and sensations in long term users of mobile phones.
22. Diverse Cancerous Tumors: A Brazilian Study established a direct link between various cancer deaths such as tumors in the prostate, breast, lung, kidneys and liver in Brazil’s third largest city, and cell phone tower radiation exposures. The study found that, “more than 81 percent of people who die in Belo Horizonte by specific types of cancer live less than 500 meters away from the 300 identified cell phone antennas in the city“.
Click to enlarge
Source.
This same study also lists more than a dozen other research papers that have found a link between different cancers and cell phone/cell tower radiation exposures.
Cell Phone Subscriptions And Brain Tumors
23. Cell Phone Subscription Link to Brain Tumors: A U.S. study analyzed the number of cell phone subscriptions and brain tumors in nineteen US states, they concluded,
“the very linear relationship between cell phone usage and brain tumor incidence is disturbing and certainly needs further epidemiological evaluation.“
24. Brain Cancer Incidence Increases Over Time (U.S): another U.S. study of brain cancer incidence trends in relation to cell phone use in the United States found, “there was a statistically significant increasing trend between 1992 and 2006 among females but not among males.The recent trend in 20–29-year-old women was driven by a rising incidence of frontal lobe cancers“.
25. Brain Cancer Incidence Increases Over Time (Europe): Studies carried out in Norway, Finland and the U.K. have identified a similar trend of an increase in the incidence of brain cancer over time. In the UK study the incidence of malignant brain tumors close to where you hold your phone was highlighted.
Click to enlarge
Source: Mobile Phone Use and Cancer Risk – Research on a Group 2B Carcinogen. Joel M. Moskowitz Ph.D.
Cell Phone Radiation – Other Effects On the Brain
26. Blood-Brain Barrier (BBB) Permeability: The BBB is a membrane which prevents toxic materials from the blood from entering the brain. It was first discovered in 1975 that RF radiation causes the BBB to leak, since then at least a dozen laboratories around the world have corroborated this effect. There’s no consensus on the link between BBB damage and cancer but some studies elude to this.
27. Brain Cell Loss: A Turkish study on adult female rats that were exposed to a 900 MHz electromagnetic field found that, “EMF exposure caused a significant decrease of the…….cell number…… additionally, cell loss can be seen……“. In their conclusions the researchers drew parallels between these exposures and teenagers’ brains that are exposed to cell phone radiation.
28. Brain Activity: Researchers in China exposed 18 participants to RF radiation (LTE) for 30 minutes which was well within international (ICNIRP) cell phone legal limits. They concluded that, “30min LTE RF-EMF exposure modulated the spontaneous low frequency fluctuations in some brain regions.“
Click to enlarge
29. Brain Blood Flow Affected: This Finnish brain imaging study found that “that the EMF emitted by a commercial mobile phone affects rCBF [regional cerebral blood flow] in humans“. This suggests that cell phone radiation affects neuronal activity.
30. Texting Affects Memory: An Australian study on young adolescents found “students who reported making or receiving more voice or SMS calls per week, and in particular more of both, demonstrated shorter response times on learning tasks, but less accurate working memory”.
Cell Phone Radiation Causes DNA Damage
One way cancer and other diseases are believed to develop is when the DNA (genetic information) in a cell becomes damaged. This damage mutates the DNA. There are many studies linking cell phone radiation exposures to different types of DNA damage. This is explains how cell phones can cause cancer.
31. Single and Double-Strand DNA Breaks: In pioneering work a University of Washington team found DNA single strand breaks from RF radiation exposures on rats in an initial study. A subsequent study found single and double-strand DNA breaks.
32. Various Genetic Effects: An Austrian study analyzed the results of 101 different published articles on the effects of radio frequency EMFs on DNA. The study concluded that, “there is ample evidence that RF-EMF can alter the genetic material of exposed cells“.
33. Increased Rates of Micronuclei: Micronuclei proliferation indicates a type of DNA damage strongly associated with cancer.A Brazilian study found that, “electromagnetic field irradiation [low level cell phone type exposures] during pregnancy leads to an increase in erythrocytes micronuclei incidence in rat offspring“. Several studies have found increased rates of micronuclei in the body following exposures to RF radiation.
34. Heat Shock Proteins (HSPs) Production Decreased: A U.S. study exposed chick embryo’s to RF radiation. They concluded that, “this EMF-induced decrease in HSP70 levels and resulting decline in cytoprotection suggests a mechanism by which daily exposure (such as might be experienced by mobile phone users) could enhance the probability of cancer and other diseases“.
35. Oxidative DNA Damage: the Guler study in Turkey exposed female and male infant rabbits to 1800 MHz radio frequency radiation and found, “GSM-like RF radiation may induce biochemical changes by increasing free radical attacks to structural biomolecules.” Free radical damage is associated with the development of cancer.
36. DNA Strand Breaks: this Austrian study exposed human and rat cells to mobile phone radiation and found, “DNA single- and double-strand breaks”.
37. Changes in Gene Expression: the Belyaev study found that, exposing the “rat brain to 915 MHz GSM microwaves induces changes in gene expression”. Other studies suggest that, “subtle changes of gene expression associated with [disease]”.
38. Genotoxic Effects: the Schwarz study exposed human cells to 1,950 MHz UMTS. It concluded that “UMTS exposure may cause genetic alterations in some but not in all human cells in vitro.”
39. Neurotransmitters Impacted: this Bavarian study followed 60 people over one and a half years following the installation of a new cell phone base station in their village. The study concluded that, “the effects showed a dose-response relationship“, that it had “occurred well below current limits for technical RF radiation exposures” and that these effects have “great relevance for health and [are] well known to damage human health in the long run“. In other words the more people were exposed to cell phone type radiation the bigger the impact on their health.
Click to enlarge
40. Chromosome Damage: a Belgian study reviewed 16 expert gene monitoring studies from around the world. In 13 of the 16 independent studies performed worldwide it was found that, “RF-exposed individuals have increased frequencies of genetic damage (e.g., chromosomal aberrations)“.
41. Central Nervous System: US based researcher Dr. Henry Lai comments that there are several studies which show that repeated RF exposure at relatively low power caused morphological changes in the central nervous system, “changes in morphology, especially cell death, could have an important implication on health. Injury-induced cell proliferation has been hypothesized as a cause of cancer.“
Cell Phone Radiation Time Bomb
The studies don’t tell all of the story. Here are some other things you need to know.
42. Latency Period Before Diagnosis: To put this in the words of researcher Dr. Martin Blank “cancers do not form overnight”. In almost all cases cancerous tumors take many years to form and metastasize” Dr. Martin Blank: Overpowered. This would suggest that we might be sitting on a cell phone radiation cancer time bomb.
43. Cell Phone Radiation Cancer Time Bomb: To give a sense to what this latency period could mean in terms of the incidence of brain tumors in the years to come, researcher Lloyd Morgan produced this alarming graphic showing that brain tumor cases could reach epidemic proportions within the next decade:
Click to enlarge
44. Flawed Research: Not all of the research points to a link between cell phone radiation and cancer. But then that’s hardly surprising given the lengths some researchers go to, to skew the results. This research paper also lays bare the phenomenon of study bias. This can take many different shapes and forms; insufficient latency time, incorrect definition of “regular” cellphone user, cell phones radiating higher power levels in rural areas not investigated, exposure to other transmitting sources not considered, exclusion of brain tumor cases due to death or illness, etc.
Brain Tumor Rates Double
The argument that gets bandied around by the naysayers is, “if cell phones cause cancer how come the cancer stats, and particularly brain cancer stats, don’t reflect that?” Part of the answer is due to the latency period and flawed research but a closer look at the research is even more revealing.
Analyzing data from the Netherlands of a study conducted over the 21 year period from 1989-2010, Dr. Louis Slesin of Microwave News notes, “while the total incidence of all types of brain tumors in the Netherlands rose at the rate of only about 0.7% per year, the increase in glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) was about 3.1% per year”.
That’s to say the incidence of the most aggressive and deadly type of brain tumors, GBMs, more than doubled. But because over the same period the rate of all the other types of brain tumors went down the higher incidence of GBMs is being masked by the lower rates of the other types of brain cancer.
Dr. Slesin notes that, “a similar trend is occurring in the U.S., according to a team from the University of Southern California Medical School in Los Angeles…….anecdotal evidence from Denmark also supports a rising incidence of GBMs”.
The Tip Of The Iceberg
There is lot of interest surrounding the link between cell phone radiation and cancer. But cancer is only the tip of the iceberg.
Microwave radio-frequency radiation exposures of the type emitted by cell phones are also linked to many other diseases and potentially life threatening illnesses, including:
sperm damage & male infertility
miscarriages
vaginal discharge
vascular system disease
tinnitus
childhood cancer
sleep problems
depression
irritability
memory loss
concentration difficulties
headaches
dizziness and fatigue
suicidal tendencies
arrhythmia
heart attacks
bone marrow interference
altered calcium level in cells
ADHD
reduction in night-time melatonin
suppression of the immune system
arthritis
rheumatism
skin symptoms
lymphatic diseases
autism
hearing problems
Make no mistake, cell phones can cause cancer.
This post was updated February 2018.
Free Download: thousands of studies link cell phone radiation exposures to many different types of cancer. That’s why I’ve put together this summary ‘Cell Phones Can Cause Cancer – 10 Good Reasons’ click here to download.
Save
Save
8822
Patti Zentara said,
Incredible article. thank you..This should be given ito anyone who
buys a cell phone. I have yet to see anyone stop cell phone use no
matter what I send them..
Our society is 100% addicted. Women run for mammograms, give
donations to cancer organizations and walk in fear of getting cancer.
They are giving it to themselves. It is difficult to know the dangers and
watch people keep using them. Especially children who do not know
any better.
I am sure the USA GOV knows thie dangers. But the financial gain to
them, supercedes health.
This is what I call mobile Ebola. But I do not know what to do to stop
it,..
There is no vaccine for this..Only seems people willingness to get a
tumor is more importance to them. Also, if the GOV says nothing, a
way to wipe out numbers of people and look innocent!
Patti Zentara
Chris said,
Show this article to just about anyone these days, and the response is likely to be a roll of the eyes and an emphatic, bore-into-you-straight-in-the-eye “I don’t care. No matter what you say, I’m NOT going to change.” I’ve been told that by one person,and that constantly having a cell phone on and in the hand “makes me feel safe.” Others use nothing but a cell phone to save money. Still others just like the convenience of a cell phone. We are becoming a nation ruled by fear – fear of real human contact and relationship, fear of being alone, fear of being harmed in a tragic event, fear of being stranded and needing help, and more. How to get across the abject terror of a cancer diagnosis; or of what happens to mind, body,and spirit when we’re mutilated by surgery, radiation, neuropathy, or when our brain and body no longer function properly and we’re unable to fend for ourselves or others in our care? How to get across the expense, the stress, the potential loss of property and security that not only the sufferer but also the extended family, friends, and community suffer in the face of cancer? The reply “I don’t care” from someone bound to be a leader in the future drops me to my knees in prayer and in as much fear as a cancer diagnosis. We need each other, face to face, hand in hand, to find our way back from the fear, and the weakness it brings, that all the terrorists in the world would love to see us in. We are stronger in love than in fear. I don’t deny that cell phones can in fact help generate and maintain loving connectedness and build friendships. That’s the trickery of the situation, the sugar coating that deceives us into thinking that shiny new toys are more palatable than the mundane. The mundane gets my vote.
keini said,
Thank you Lloyd for this fantastic load of information. I always pass on your info. and will also pass this one on.
How many people will take it on board and change their behaviour is any one’s guess. So long as people believe that the gov. will never allow any harmful gadgets to be sold, many will not believe that EMFs can and do harm people until it may be too late for some. If only people will think for themselves, listen to others and do some research on the subject! Thanks Lloyd for your caring and efforts to tell people the truth! Many heartfelt thanks.
Louise Brouze said,
Thanks Lloyd…a truly brilliant article!
Tino said,
Patti
You are right…I have seen pregnant women when I told them smoking would harm their unborn baby nod knowingly, but then go glassy eyed when I said cellphone use would do even worse!! I think the real problem is an emotional sickness that humanity has as outlined by DrCharlesKonia in his book TheEmotionalPlague. I have followed up many patients I worked with….eventually years later they literally hijack their own treatment and make themselves sick again…like Freuds ‘death wish’ almost. It is here that the real time bomb lies….an epidemic that no one acknowledges because it involves deep emotions…the driver of all human motivation and behaviour. Drugs are another case in point.
Vasanth said,
Thank you for your very useful info .
What about the exposure to WIFI as well as use of I pads ?
Patti Zentara said,
For Tino!
An epidemic for sure!
Thank you for the post about the book, too.
I have seen pregnant woman at eight months, using their bellies
as a rest for their cell phones. It freaks me out. I think mobile
devices have no place in a doctors office..
It endangers me, too.
This is worse than drugs to me. People are knowledgable about
drugs, rehab programs, etc 12 step programs.
This epidemic is way out of control. The public only wants more of it.
Like a larger dose of heroin!, And there is not a shopping channel
that is not in on snagging people into the dangerous world of cell
phones.
Like alcoholics, cell-a-holics live in that river of denial. They are deaf
and blind to information. And the USA GOV only wants more and
more wireless devices and all of us living on a grid.
Hard to see a TV journalist without a n iPad or cellphone. Even they
are unaware of the dangers. I fear the future.
Lienke Katz said,
Wonderful Compilation of all the reasons one should not use a cell phone!! Thanks Lloyd. I feel I should add to it but all the others have already said what there is to say. People do not want to listen.
I have wondered if semi-conduction by a cell phone (silicon)entrains the brain which also works by semi conduction (carbon)?? Which would explain it’s addictiveness.
Thanks again!!
Nancy said,
Thanks for this great compilation of facts! People only seem to notice what they’re ready to notice and many people don’t notice what they don’t want to notice. If the way I’ve phrased this sounds strange, I’m presently being bombarded by rf microwaves every 10 seconds by a not-so-smart meter. I’s hard to deal with remedying the situation while slowed down by all the symptoms – lethargy, confusion, headache, etc.!
Paul said,
Loyd you are just amazing… your site is one of the best explaining all these dangers – thank you so much for doing this
View All Comments
Add A Comment
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Name (required)
Email (will not be published) (required)
Website
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also subscribe without commenting.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Comments are welcome. Before you post a comment please read these guidelines.
Copyright © ElectricSense.com 2009 - 2019. All rights reserved.
Home
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
About Lloyd
Administrative Contact
Sitemap
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Reject Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy
Pin It on Pinterest
“Ten Uncommon Secrets for Living a Naturally Healthy Life in our Electromagnetic World”
​Overcome EMF problems from cell phones, ​WiFi, smart meters, and a whole host of devices which make our lives simpler…at a price!
chevron-circle-right
​Simple things you can do TODAY to begin making a dramatic difference in your symptoms…
chevron-circle-right
​Replace the single worst source of constant radiation in your home with a simple and cheap solution which emits NONE…
chevron-circle-right
​Do this one simple tip tonight and if you don’t get the best sleep you’ve had in month’s tonight email me immediately!
Yes, I Want to Get Access Now
x
Sign Up Below... and Get Instant Access ​NOW!
Get it Now
​You will also receive my free emails packed with EMF protection tips. Unsubscribe at any time.
Privacy
x