Commonly Missed Health Benefits Of Oil Pulling | Dr. Chris Barker
Skip to content
FacebookTwitterInstagramYouTubePinterest
Home
About
Videos
Articles
Testimonials
Shop
Search for:
Commonly Missed Health Benefits Of Oil Pulling
Commonly Missed Health Benefits Of Oil Pulling
Looking for a natural way to prevent disease? Want to boost your immune system and kill harmful bacteria? If so, include oil pulling into your routine! This practice helps remove bacteria from your body and improves immune function. It’s also a great way to keep your teeth and gums healthy, get rid of toxins, and ward off infections.
Brief History of Oil Pulling
Oil pulling is a natural detox aid that’s widely used in traditional Ayurveda. This ancient folk remedy has been around for over 3,000 years. It originates in India where it’s used for healing and cleansing the body. Basically, it involves swishing your mouth with oil for 10 to 20 minutes. The oral cavity is prone to bacteria that mix with saliva and reach the bloodstream, causing diseases.
This oral detox procedure was mentioned in ancient texts, such as the Charaka Samhita. In 1992, it was introduced in the United States by Dr. F. Karach, MD. Nowadays, it’s commonly used as a natural cleansing aid. According to Dr. Amala Guha, two sessions of four minutes is enough to produce major health benefits.
How Can Oil Pulling Benefit Your Health?
Oil pulling helps clean the oral cavity and ditch harmful bacteria. The oil absorbs toxins and dirt, leading to improved oral health. This treatment creates an antiseptic environment that keeps bacteria from spreading throughout your body. Depending on your preferences, you may use coconut, sesame, or olive oil.
In Ayurvedic medicine, oil pulling was used as a cure for inflammation, digestive disorders, tooth decay, cavities, acne, cracked lips, bleeding gums, sore throat, and even cardiovascular disease. It’s also a good way to whiten your teeth naturally. Studies indicate that oil pulling can cure over 30 different conditions, from diabetes to migraines.
Some Ayurveda practitioners recommend using honey, milk, or hot water with herbs for oil pulling. In general, coconut oil is the most widely used liquid. Gandusa, a popular oil pulling technique, involves holding the oil in your mouth for three to five minutes, rinse, and repeat. Kavala requires you to keep the liquid in your mouth for no more than four minutes, then rinse.
Health experts claim that sesame or coconut oil have mild abrasive properties and boast more health benefits than other liquids, making them ideal for oil pulling. These oils also kill disease-causing viruses, bacteria, and fungi. Coconut oil appears to be particularly effective against Streptococcus Mutans. The healthy fats in sesame and coconut oil reduce inflammation, speed up tissue healing, and help prevent cavities. A 2009 study conducted on 20 teenagers with gingivitis found that those who oil pulled regularly experienced a decrease in plaque and Strepto-coccus mutans, a bacterium that causes cavities.
Despite its beneficial effects, oil pulling is still a controversial practice. The research is mixed in what concerns its effectiveness. However, many of its benefits have been proven in studies and clinical trials. I encourage you to try it for a few weeks and chart any health changes!
Related
Search for:
Most Recent Hits
The Daniel Plan
Detox Your Body in 5 Easy Steps
Constipated? Try These Top 5 Natural Laxatives
Simple Steps to Build a Strong Immune System
How to Reduce Fibromyalgia in Five Steps
Dr. Chris Barker on Facebook
Latest Tweet
Tweets by DrChrisBarker
Latest Instagram
Follow Dr. Chris Barker!
Dr. Chris Barker on Pinterest
Article Categories
Detoxification
Food
Health and Beauty
Health and Fitness
Health Conditions
Healthy Recipes
Natural Remedies
Nutrition
Supplementation
Uncategorized
Weight Loss
Privacy Policy Terms Of Use Affiliate Disclosure Contact Us
These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. If you are pregnant, nursing, taking medication, or have a medical condition, consult your physician before using this product.
© , Barker Wellness, LLC | All Rights Reserved | Powered by Visual Web Group
FacebookTwitterInstagramYouTubePinterest