Health Benefits of Crystallized Ginger | Healthfully
x
healthfully
Search Glass
Diseases and Injuries
Family Health
Nutrition
Weight Management
Appearance
How to Make Ginger Preserve
Fresh Ginger Nutrition
How to Eat Ginger for Health
Nutritional Information on Forelle Pears
What Does Ginger Root Do for the Body?
Nutrition Facts for Cilantro Leaves
Health Benefits of Crystallized Ginger
By Bethany Lalonde
Related Articles
How to Make Ginger Preserve
Fresh Ginger Nutrition
How to Eat Ginger for Health
Nutritional Information on Forelle Pears
Ginger, with its spicy, warm aroma and taste, is most frequently associated with South East Asian cuisines, although it is now more widely consumed than ever. Rich in a number of essential nutrients, ginger also has several health benefits, especially for your digestive system. Crystallized ginger, also known as candied ginger, is made by boiling ginger in a simple syrup and then letting the candy dry out. While the health benefits of ginger are preserved, the sugar content is greatly increased. Pay attention to your consumption of candied ginger to avoid getting too much sugar.
Treating Motion Sickness
If you get motion sickness, eating crystallized ginger, or eating some ginger chews can help alleviate the symptoms. Ginger naturally helps prevent nausea, especially when it results from dizziness or motion sickness. If you have motion sickness regularly, try one or two small to medium-sized pieces of crystallized ginger before or during travel.
Treating Morning Sickness
In addition to nausea from motion sickness, crystallized ginger can also help with nausea and upset stomachs resulting from morning sickness. Morning sickness is no fun to deal with, and the same amount of ginger per day, one to two small to medium-sized pieces, may help reduce the vomiting or nausea that comes with pregnancy. If you have extreme morning sickness, or experience it over a prolonged period of time, speak with a medical professional as there may be other factors at play.
Helping with Muscle Pain and Inflammation
Consuming ginger every day or on a regular basis can help reduce muscle pain from exercise related effort or injury. In a 2010 study published in the "Journal of Pain," ginger was shown to help relieve some muscle pain due to exercise. A daily dose of 2 grams of ginger reduced pain and inflammation due to exercising. Ginger can also help reduce inflammation of the joints, which may be helpful also in treating conditions such as arthritis, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center.
Alternative Medicine
For over 5,000 years, ginger has been prized and used for its "warming" properties. In Asian medical practice, historically and in the current-day, ginger is used to treat a number of conditions, from arthritis and migraines, to sore throats. It is also used as a general health tonic, thought to help reduce overall body fat and improve circulation. In Ayurvedic medicine, the traditional medical practice of India, ginger has been used in the treatment of anorexia and cholera.
Video of the Day
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
References
University of Maryland Medical Center: Ginger
Herbal Medicine: Biomolecular and Clinical Aspects, 2nd edition; by Ann M. Bode and Zigang Dong (book)
The Journal of Pain: Ginger (Zingiber officinale) Reduces Muscle Pain Caused by Eccentric Exercise
Better Nutrition: Travel Gingerly
From Fatigued to Fantastic!; by Jacob Teitlebaum (book)
Plant Cultures: Ginger
About the Author
Bethany Lalonde has been a professional writer since 1997. She has published for CBS Health Watch, WebMD, the "Ann Arbor Daily News" and "Entertainment Weekly." She holds two masters degrees from the University of Michigan, in dietetics and nutrition as well as journalism.
More Related Articles
What Are the Treatments for Excessive Coughing?
How to Make a Ginger Drink
Crystallized Ginger Nutrition
Related Articles
Nutrition Facts for Cilantro Leaves
Read More
How Many Calories Are in McDonald's Apple Pies?
Read More
Get Fit!
Try our healthfully BMI and weight loss calculator!
How to Cure a Stomach Ache Fast
Read More
Heartburn & Honey
Read More
About Us
Advertise
Contact Us
Copyright Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of the HEALTHFULLY.COM Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. The material appearing on HEALTHFULLY.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. HEALTHFULLY.COM does not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the website.