One Glass Daily – Belly Fat Will Disappear
Skip to content
DemicZone
Zone of Demic
News
Health
Girl
Story
Video
Other
One Glass Daily – Belly Fat Will Disappear
Share on Facebook
February 6, 2019 DemicZone Other
The remedy we have for you today is ideal if you’d like to lose a lot of weight without dieting or exercise. These drink which provides numerous other health benefits besides helping you lose belly fat.
The mixture will improve your digestion, detoxify your body and accelerate your metabolism as well. It will too alkalize your body and assist in the breakdown of fat. Drinking this water won’t cause you to retain water. It will cleanse your body and leave you feeling refreshed.
How To Make Lemon Water For Weight Loss?
You Will Need
3 large lemons
1 Cucumber
20 mint leaves
1 tbsp ginger ground
1 gallon of water
What You Have To Do
Good wash all fruits and Vegetables and thinly slice the lemon and cucumber.(If you do not have a slicer, I suggest purchasing one if you plan on doing these a lot times a week. I use this slicer from target which works very well and does not take up much room in storage.)
Fill container with constituents and fill to the top with water.(I prefer to use this 1.25 gallon slim water jug in my fridge. I found it at The Container Store and they’ve multiple sizes.)
Soak in fridge overnight and enjoy within 2 days.
Drink 1 cup of lemon water in empty stomach early in the morning, and the results will be noticeable soon!
Why This Works
Lemon to help with digestion, wrinkles, weight loss. cucumbers to promote clear skin, flushing out water, and building healthy muscle tissue. mint to help keep your mouth clean and reduce headaches and stomach aches. ginger for circulation, clearing up sinuses, and promoting joint health.
NOTE: If you drink a gallon of water on day 1, you can refill it up and let it soak a second night with the same ingredients (just add more ginger). Mint leaves will start to go bad after about two days of soaking. Continue with the treatment until you get the figure you have always wanted.
Do not forget to SHARE with your friends. Thanks!
source: www.themilitarydietplan.com
Share on Facebook
Post navigation
Previous Post:Household Items You Never Knew Had Expiration Dates
Next Post:Thyme Destroys Strep, Herpes, Candida and Flu Virus
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
© 2018, Demiczone.com | DMCA Policy | Privacy Policy | Contact Us
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.OkRead more
Read previous post:
Household Items You Never Knew Had Expiration Dates
When we go shopping for groceries, the first thing we usually do is check the expiration dates on the products...
Close