What They Don't Tell You About Weed | Potent
Explore
Homelisthow tohealthindustrystrainshumanityfact or fictioncookingculturegrowingproduct reviewvintageinterview
All Tags
Potent is powered by Vocal creators. You support Eli Will by reading, sharing and tipping stories... more
Potent is powered by Vocal.
Vocal is a platform that provides storytelling tools and engaged communities for writers, musicians, filmmakers, podcasters, and other creators to get discovered and fund their creativity.
How does Vocal work?
Creators share their stories on Vocal’s communities. In return, creators earn money when they are tipped and when their stories are read.
How do I join Vocal?
Vocal welcomes creators of all shapes and sizes. Join for free and start creating.
To learn more about Vocal, visit our resources.
Show less
What They Don't Tell You About Weed
by Eli Will a year ago in culture
The Highs and The Lows
First of all, let me start by saying I am an avid marijuana consumer. This post is not anti-weed. I am simply compiling the things I have learned about the plant in the many years I have used it.
Weed doesn't make you lazy. In fact, if you smoke the right strain it can make you fairly productive. Sativa strains tend to give you energy and stimulate creativity, while Indica strains tend to stimulate appetite (aka Munchies) and make you sleepy. Choose your strain based on what you want to achieve (if anything) while high.
Weed can help with depression. Consuming marijuana causes you brain to release dopamine which makes you feel that euphoria of being high. When consumed regularly (daily, every other day) it can help balance your serotonin levels. That's the chemical that keeps you mood level. Not only depression but, anxiety too. When consumed responsibly it can help general anxiety.
There are studies that show that weed can prevent and cure seizures, Alzheimers, cancer, et al. This is just one example of the many benefits.
The reason stoners got the lazy, deadbeat stereotype is all because of the Nixon administration. Weed was the drug of choice for the counter culture of the 70s so the government stepped in and used the stereotypes to wrest legitimacy from anti-Vietnam War activists. As St. Pierre says, "Regardless of your political affiliation, if you were a Vietnam War protestor, ergo, you were a pot smoking, non-working hippie." Then the War On Drugs started and millions of people (especially people of color) were sent to prison for struggling with an addiction or simply smoking a joint.
One drawback is that you can, in fact, get addicted to marijuana. Not in an addiction in the traditional sense but, you become emotionally and psychologically dependent on it. In order for this to become an issue you would have to be abusing the drug for years so don't worry yet.
Another thing they don't tell you is that in theory you could overdose on marijuana. While there are still ZERO reported deaths from THC, overdose it is possible. If you're smoking concentrated forms of THC like wax, hash, dabs, etc. then make sure you aren't overdoing it and greening out.
Sex while high is just OK. Everyone makes sex while high sound like bliss. It's fine. Don't have your expectations set too high because you'll just be let down. You're slow and your mouth is dry and your partner will probably be annoyed at your pace and lack of coordination.
Weed is like super illegal in Pennsylvania. I'm from Maryland and I go to school in New York so I have to drive through Pennsylvania to get home. I wasn't aware that possessing weed is a criminal offense there. They can arrest you then and there and you'll have to post bail. Don't dutch cruise in PA!
People CAN tell if you're high. No matter how good you think you are at faking sobriety someone WILL notice. Don't panic though, no one really cares about it anymore. You're unlikely to be reported or anything.
These are just a few of the things I wish I had known when I started smoking. I'm hoping these tips and facts help someone out there!
culture
Read next: Blue Fire by 420 Natural
Tweet
Share
Eli Will
Eli hasn't written a bio yet :(
All posts by Eli →
Movies Everyone Thinks Were Made While High (But Weren't)
Anthony Gramuglia
You ever watch a movie, and ask yourself how high the director had to be to make a film like this? Well, what if I informed you that, perhaps, the director wasn't on anything at all? What if I informe...
How To Make Cannabutter For Beginners
Johnny Hash
When it comes to cooking with marijuana, there is one ingredient that reigns supreme—and you can make it in your own kitchen. Cannabutter is a quick and easy way to incorporate cannabis into any meal....
Best Bong Cleaning Products
Sophie Heller
A clean bong is severely underrated and keeping up on that cleanliness can make all the difference in your next smoke sesh. Nothing ruins the intricate flavors of that quality weed more than smoking t...
No, Jeff Sessions, Marijuana is Not as Bad as Heroin
Anthony Gramuglia
While many statesmen and philanthropists struggle to defeat the rising problem of heroin addiction in America, United States Attorney General Jeff Sessions showed how out of touch he is with reality b...
Presidents Who Smoked Weed
Brittany McSorley
There are some presidential facts that we all know by heart: the George Washington cherry tree story; the details of Abraham Lincoln’s assassination; the fact that William Howard Taft was fat and had ...
Analysis of Reefer Madness
Anthony Gramuglia
Few movies are as ridiculous as Reefer Madness, a 1936 "documentary" featuring fictionalized characters who, after smoking marijuana once or twice, behave in a manner that would only appear realistic ...
Now Reading
What They Don't Tell You About Weed
Tweet
Share
Read Next
Blue Fire by 420 Natural
ExploreContactPrivacy PolicyTerms of UseSupport
Powered by Vocal © 2019 Jerrick Ventures LLC. All Rights Reserved.