Morphine Street Names: What Do Other Terms Mean?
Free & Confidential Drug Hotline. Call NOW: (888)-459-5511
Menu
Addiction Guides
Addiction Facts
What is Addiction?
Recognizing Addiction
Drug Abuse Statistics
Substance Abuse Triggers
Polydrug Use: Get the Facts
Drug Testing
Addiction Stories
Meth Addiction Stories
Heroin Addiction Stories
Gambling Addiction Stories
Marijuana Addiction Stories
Cocaine Addiction Stories
People at Risk
College Students abd Drug Abuse
Dual Diagnosis
Teenagers and Students
Veterans and Addictions
PTSD and Addiction
Self-Assessment
Substances
Alcohol Addiction
Effects of Alcoholism
Alcoholism Treatment
Alcoholism Recovery
Alcoholism Resources
Street Names of Addictive Substances
Understanding Drugs
Types of Drugs
Illicit Drugs
Marijuana
Crystal Meth
Spice
Cocaine
Crack
GHB
Amphetamine
Speed
Prescription Medication
Ambien
Ketamine
Vicodin
Gabapentin
Accutane
Provigil
Morphine
Zoloft
Prozac
Trazodone
Barbiturates
Fioricet
Stimulants
Nicotine
Adderall
Kratom
Ecstasy
Ritalin
Benzodiazepines
Valium
Restoril
Midazolam
Librium
Klonopin
Halcion
Ativan
Xanax
Hallucinogens
LSD
AL-LAD
Peyote
DMT
Ayhuasca
Shrooms
Opioids
Opiates
Heroin
Opium
Opana
Suboxone
Vicoprofen
Methadone
Fentanyl
Dilaudid
Demerol
Codeine
Tramadol
Oxycodone
Hydrocodone
Norco
Percocet
Sedative-Hypnotics
Lunesta
Sonata
Other Substances
Sleeping Pills
OTC Drugs
Diet Pills
Inhalants
Painkillers
Narcotics
Antidepressants
NPC
Anxiety Medication
Cyclobenzaprine
Lexapro
Baclofen
Vyvanse
Phenibut
Kava
Celexa
Treatment Guides
Treatment Stages
Addiction Treatment: the Overview
1 ► Intervention
2 ► Inpatient and Outpatient Therapy
3 ► Lifelong Commitment
Treatment for Substance Abuse: An Overview of Addiction Recovery Programs
Resources
Relapse Prevention Plan
Support Groups: An Overview
When a Loved One Has an Addiction
Drug Addiction Medications
Addiction and Rehab Hotlines
Find AA meetings
Find NA Meetings
Addiction Treatment Facility Locator
Rehab Guides
Facilities
Best Drug Rehabs
Inpatient Rehabs F.A.Q.
Outpatient Rehabs F.A.Q.
Drug Rehabs Near You
Outpatient Rehabs Near You
Types
Court Ordered Rehabs
Free and State Funded Rehabs
Rehabs for Veterans
Dual Diagnosis Rehabs
F.A.Q.
Rehab Question Answered
Can I Beat an Addiction On My Own?
How Long Does Rehab Take?
Medicaid and Medicare
Addiction Recovery Costs
Substances
LSD Rehab
Heroin Rehabs
Cocaine Rehab
Crystal Meth Rehab
GHB Rehab
Ecstasy Rehab
About Us
Our Community
Scholarship
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Addiction Treatment Events
Recognizing Morphine Street Names and Their Meanings
Free 24/7 rehab helpline > (888)-459-5511
When drugs are sold illegally, whether they are street drugs or prescription drugs, they are often spoken about using special terms, often called slang, code, or street names. Street names for morphine and other drugs can develop for different reasons. In some cases, it is meant to reflect the subculture or subcultures that frequently partake in the drug; in other cases, it is meant to provide the users’ shelter from prying eyes and law enforcement. With morphine names, the origins are varied. However, if someone is worried that others around them might be talking in code about using the drug, they need to learn the street terms.
Hope Without Commitment
Find the best treatment options.Call our free and confidential helpline
Treatment Is Fully Covered by Insurance In Most Cases
(888)-459-5511
Table of contents:
What Do the Street Names Mean?
Common Morphine Slang Names
Why Do They Use Morphine Medication Names?
What Do the Street Names Mean?
Morphine is an addictive prescription medication and is also the primary chemical component in opium. When taken with medical supervision, it is used to treat severe pain. However, it is often abused due to the intense euphoria it causes. This drug is highly addictive and causes many side effects.
The origins of morphine names vary. Different subcultures and regions can have their street names for drugs like morphine, and as the street terms become more well-known, they are often changed. In most cases, the street terms for morphine are based on the actual name of the drug, describe the look of the drug, emphasize the manner in which the drug is taken, or are derived from the way morphine makes users feel.
For example, Miss Emma is one morphine name, arising because Emma sounds like M, which is the first letter in the drug’s name. White Lady is another street term for the medication, based on the white tablets the medication comes in. When ground to a powder, it can be called Salt and Sugar. And the street name Dreamer is due to the way it makes the user feel — as though they are in a dream-like state.
Common Morphine Slang Names
While morphine slang names are always changing and evolving, certain terms seem to endure over the years. There are also those that are somewhat newer but happen to have caught on, at least for the time being. Some of the most common street terms for the medication are M, Miss Emma, Monkey, and White Stuff. However, these are far from being the only names used. There are many other names for morphine. To help aid in understanding when people speak about the medication in code, here is a list of known street terms for morphine:
Aunt Emma
Auntie Em
Dreamer
Emily
First Line
God’s drug
M
Miss Emma
Mister blue
Monkey
Morf
Morpho
Salt and Sugar
Vitamin M
White Lady
White Stuff
Why Do They Use Morphine Medication Names?
Many wonders why sellers and users alter the names of drugs when sold on the street. Several factors contribute to this. The most common reason for using drug street terms is because it helps to disguise that someone has Morphine use signs. This makes it easier for users and dealers to speak about morphine or other drugs in front of parents, teachers, and even legal authorities without them understanding the discussion.
Because of this, many street drugs have human names. For example, using Emily to refer to morphine makes it appear to outsiders that people are merely discussing a friend or family member. If people hear someone asking a friend if they will be bringing Emily over tonight, it does not arouse suspicion.
However, there are less utilitarian reasons to use a street name for morphine and other drugs. For users who are embarrassed by their use, opting to use another term can take away some of the stigmas. Saying morphine may make them feel like an opioid addict while saying Vitamin M makes them feel almost as though they are taking part in self-care.
It can also help to bring a subculture of users together. When they create and use their term for the drug, it makes them feel bonded differently than if they used the word or phrases everyone else uses. It is a part of the community, and as a result, many street names for drugs vary by region.
Finally, there is the “cool” factor. Using proper medical terms feels stuffy to most recreational users, who often consume in social settings — at least at first. As a result, they turn to words that seem more relaxed and more fun than the official medical terms.
Ultimately, the reasons why street terms are used with morphine and other drugs isn’t as important as being able to recognize these street terms in conversation. Because of the different names for morphine in particular sound innocent when you hear them, it is hard to spot users without knowing the terms.
Knowing the Jargon Makes it Easier to Get Help
There are many barriers to getting help for someone abusing morphine, but understanding the jargon does not need to be one. Once someone knows the street names for morphine, it will be easier to understand what is being said and realize that the drug is being abused. Although morphine names are often changing, they tend to have certain features in common, making them easier to pick up on. Ultimately, a little education on the matter goes a long way.
Hope Without Commitment
Find the best treatment options.Call our free and confidential helpline
Treatment Is Fully Covered by Insurance In Most Cases
(888)-459-5511
Are you or a loved one concerned that someone in your life is abusing morphine and hiding behind code names? There is help available to you. Contact our addiction specialists at (888)-459-5511 to learn more.
Recognizing Morphine Street Names and Their Meanings
Rate this article
Addiction Resource » Addictive Substances: The Anatomy of Drug Addiction » Morphine Addiction and Treatment » Recognizing Morphine Street Names and Their Meanings
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Free 24/7 Treatment Helpline
(888)-459-5511
Speak confidentially with a compassionate counsellor.
Feel hope
without commitment.
Morphine Addiction Resources
Morphine Addiction: Overview
Morphine Street Names
How Long Does Morphine Stay In Your System
Morphine High
Morphine Withdrawal
Morphine Substance Interaction
Morphine Side Effects
Morphine Addiction Signs
Morphine Overdose
Morphine Street Prices
Morphine Dosage
Morphine Addiction Treatment
Drug Rehab Resources
Best Rehabs
Local Rehabs Locator
Free Rehabs
Court-Ordered Rehabs
Inpatient Rehabs
Outpatient Rehabs
Jewish Rehabs
Veterans Rehabs
Holistic Rehabs
LGBT Rehab Centers
Dual Diagnosis Rehab Centers
Alcohol Hotlines
Rehab Hotlines
Luxury Rehabilitation
Private Rehabs
Christian Rehabs
Women-Only Rehabs
Men-Only Rehabs
Rehabs for Couples
Family Rehabs
Teen Rehabs
State-Funded Rehabs
No-Insurance Rehabs
Executive Rehabs
Resort Rehabs
Drug Rehab Information
Speak to a representative concerning substance abuse treatment or request printed material on alcohol or drugs.
(888)-459-5511
The information available at AddictionResource.com is not a substitute for professional medical help.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here
© 2014 - 2019 Addiction Resource
Terms And Conditions
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
About Us
➤