Natural Salt Lamps | Khalid Maqbool & Sons
Email us at info@saltlampfactory.com
Category Archives: Natural Salt Lamps
Pink Salt Lamps
Posted on March 24, 2016 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Crafted Salt Lamps, Himalayan Salt, Natural Salt Lamps	Leave a comment
Pink Salt Lamps
Himalayan salt is a term for halite (commonly known as rock salt, pink salt, Himalayan pink salt from Pakistan which is the mineral form of sodium chloride (NaCI). This mineral rich salt is mined from the second largest mine in the world, called the Khewra Salt Mines which is located in the Jhelum District, Punjab, Pakistan. It is generally mined by hand to help preserve the chemical structure It is closely located (approximately 300 km) from majestic the Himalayan Mountains which are known to contain the purest form of salt on Earth, Himalayan salt. Historically, this rare salt has been used for centuries as a trading tool. Every spring the Himalayan people would transport the salt through sloping paths, mountain edges and narrow bumpy roads to the Nepalese valleys for trade. It was an extremely important commodity as it could be traded for anything.
Have you heard of salt therapy before? Also known as halotherapy, it’s an ancient practice that involves cleansing and purifying the air, and our bodies, using large pink Himalayan salt lamps placed in a space. It’s been shown to ease anxiety, skin conditions like psoriasis and eczema, congestion, colds, sinus infections, insomnia, bronchitis and ear infections, among many other issues.
How do Himalayan Pink Salt Lamps Work?
Water vapour is always circulating in the air of any room of your house. This water vapour carries with it allergens like dust, pollen, pet dander, smoke particles, and even bacteria and viruses.
Salt is hygroscopic, meaning it attracts water molecules from the surrounding air. A large block of rock salt, like a Himalayan pink salt lamp, is especially attractive to water vapour and its pollutants.
Once attracted to the pink salt lamp, these microscopic compounds remain on the salt and not floating in the air where you can breathe them in.
As Himalayan pink salt lamps slowly become saturated with water vapour they attract from the air around them, the heat, from the lamp inside or beneath, dries them, thus continuing the hygroscopic effect for as long as the light is on.
This heat also re-releases water vapour back into the air. Importantly, any airborne contaminants attracted to the pink salt lamp remain trapped there and will not become airborne again.
The Dangers of Positive Ions
Positive ions are created by electronic devices and have been dubbed ‘electronic smog’ or ‘electronic air pollution’. As we all know, we are increasingly surrounded by all sorts of computers, large screen TVs, telephones, microwaves and other appliances we now deem necessary for our survival and entertainment.Studies have shown that your brain gets bombarded by frequencies 20 times higher than its optimal frequency, which results in all sorts of problems, including insomnia, nervousness and allergies.
In short, positive ions are very harmful to us and need to be neutralized.
Role of Negative Ions
Negative ions are actually something that we need to help balance ourselves because we are bombarded with positive ions, especially from the electronics we’re surrounded by all day long. Having more negative ions in your environment actually has beneficial biochemical effects for us.
We want to have those negative ions within our space because it helps increase certain hormones in our physical body that actually benefit us in lots of ways like Serotonin. which alleviates depression if you’re Serotonin levels are balanced. It’s also been said that a healthy balance of negative ions can:
Freshen and deodorize indoor air
Remove airborne germs and contaminants
Promote better sleep
Reduce microscopic allergens like dust, pet dander, mold and mildew
Increase blood flow and oxygen supply throughout the body
How to care your pink salt lamp?
To clean, switch pink salt lamp off and wipe with a slightly damp sponge
Leave pink salt lamp on wherever possible as the heat from the light bulb will prevent the salt lamp absorbing moisture
If pink salt lamp gets wet leave in strong sunlight for 4 to 5 hours and brush off any excess crystals
When not in use for long periods, disconnect your power cable and remove from the salt lamp, and store the salt lamp and base in a plastic bag to help prevent the salt lamp absorbing moisture
In humid conditions we recommend placing your pink salt lamp onto a small tray or dish in the rare case they may pool water
Research results:
It’s a well know fact that, through scientific and empirical research, pink salt lamps exhibit biophysical characteristics, which demonstrate a positive effect on our well-being. From a scientific view there are three natural action principles at play: ionization, the electromagnetic oscillation and the transparent-crystalline structure developing the light waves.
Crystal Salt Lamps
Posted on March 17, 2016 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Himalayan Salt, Natural Salt Lamps, USB Salt Lamps	Leave a comment
Salt Lamps
Two thousand years ago, the Himalayan mountains revealed one of their oldest deepest secrets: a 260 million year old salt crystal deposit. The salt is traditionally mined reaching the depths of 700-1100 meters. This allows for all the natural benefits of the salt with a guarantee that there is no toxic contamination. The salt negatively ionize the air counteracting detrimental positive ionization.For decades the beneficial effects of the negative ions the salt emits has been known to alleviate symptoms related to medical ailments and psychiatric disorders. The salt also minimizes the effects of radiation from electronic devises placed by a television, computer, microwave, or any electronic equipment.
Crystal salt is one of the few minerals whose atomic structure is bound electrically, not molecularly.
This characteristic of the mineral structure enables the crystal to change back and forth from crystalline to liquid state.
The gentle heat of the lamp in the salt crystal creates a higher surface temperature than the surrounding air. This attracts the water molecules in the cooler surrounding air. The natural humidity in the air condenses on the crystal’s surface. This enables the electrically bound sodium chloride mineral to split into independent (positive) sodium and (negative) chloride ions.
The air we breath consists of ions that carry either a positive or a negative electrical charge. Computers, TV sets, air conditioners and many other by- products of modern living produce positively ionized air, which is detrimental to our health. Negatively ionized air is generated by environments such as mountains, the seaside and waterfalls, and by means such as thunderstorms, gentle heat and Crystal salt Lamps.
Crystal Salt lamps produce both gentle heat and negatively-charged ions. They make it easy for you to bring the benefits of famous health spas into your own home! In addition to the proven benefits of negative ionization, many people also experience a reduction in stress due to the gentle, soothing colours
The Healing Effect of Colors on our Body and Mind
Orange – Facilitates a feeling of security and is helpful to our nervous system and our mind and activates the kidneys and bladder.
Yellow – Encourages intellectual comprehension and activates the pancreas, liver and gall bladder.
Red – Strengthens the vital life force and activates the heart and circulation.
Pink – Supports the sense of partnership and love and opens your emotional body.
White – Has a cleansing and detoxifying effect and represents the healing aspect.
Brown – Helps to find ones own balance and supports earthiness
Crystal Salt lamps work well in most conditions, however as salt is hygroscopic. Crystal salt lamps should not be used outdoors or in areas of high humidity such as bathrooms. Nor should they be placed next to water features, fish tanks, evaporation coolers etc.
If your crystal salt clamp becomes dusty, gently wipe down with a damp cloth. Don’t wash with water as this will dissolve the salt. If your lamp gets wet, switch off the power source, remove the cord and bulb and dry with a cloth. You may lightly use a scorer on excessive dirt. Then allow the crystal salt lamp to dry naturally (indoors) or by replacing the globe and cord and activating the lamp.
As with any electrical device, if you believe that water may have entered the socket, switch, or power cable, proceed with caution. Switch off the crystal salt lamp at the wall and replace the cord and globe immediately.
When not in use, consider storing your crystal salt lamp in a plastic bag to help prevent weeping or sweating.
Crystal Salt lamp globes keep best if the lamp is in a stationary position and not subject to vibration. If the globe fails often, please check that it is screwed in firmly and that it is not touching the surface of the lamp.
Take care when placing crystal salt lamps on delicate surfaces, particularly if you have a lamp with a stone base.
Crystal Salt Lamps are hand carved salt crystals from the Salt Mine in Khewra Pakistan. The warmth and natural beauty of the glow provided by these crystal salt lamps makes them a wonderful accent for any room. They provide a natural ambiance that enhances home and office, and are a perfect answer for providing Feng Shui cures for buildings that have “stuck” energy.
Crystal Salt lamps make the perfect gift. Everyone is attracted to them and people naturally feel uplifted and happier in the presence of Crystal Salt Lamps.
Crystal Salt lamps already contains minute amounts of water dispersed throughout the extremely fine crystal structure, but it is looking for more. When using a Crystal Salt Lamp this “affinity” for water can be amplified many times in potency. The heat generated by the low wattage light bulb burning inside the Crystal Salt Lamp has the effect of “turning on” the crystal, so that it attracts the water vapor in the room at an even greater amount than when unlit. With the Crystal Salt Lamp now drawing larger quantities of vapor towards itself, the vapor, and anything hitching a ride on it (such as bacteria or pollen) will momentarily condensate on the surface of the Crystal Salt Lamp. This results in a microscopic pool of water, which then immediately dissolves the salt it contacts, forming a “salt solution.”
Benefits of Crystal Salt Lamp:
Prevention of allergy symptoms and improved air quality
Increased serotonin levels to aid in healthy sleep patterns
Improved energy and mood
Decreased blood pressure
Supported immune system, respiratory function, and vascular health
reductions in rheumatism, migraine, physical and psychological disorders, mild depression
for more information please visit our websites
www.khalidmaqbool.com
www.kmsexporters.com
Salt Lamps
Posted on March 16, 2016 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Crafted Salt Lamps, Himalayan Salt, Natural Salt Lamps	Leave a comment
Salt Lamps
Have you ever noticed how mentally and physically refreshed you feel after sitting by a gashing waterfall? Or how you experience a boost in energy after spending some time at an untamed seafront? What makes you feel so good in spots of this kind is the abundance of negative ions, which get produced in some natural places.
Now, there is a way to mimic these perfect circumstances in your own home and indoor places where you spend a lot of time. Himalayan Salt lamps have the ability to chemically and physically transform a room, and have unique healing effects.
What is a Salt Lamp?
Salt lamps are hand chiseled solid blocks of ancient crystal salts like this. They have a beautiful pink color, often pinkish orange, due to the high concentration of minerals.
Inside the hollowed out middle of the salt lamp is a light bulb to generate both light and heat. This is important for their reported benefits and salt lamps won’t work properly without a heat-producing light.
Salt lamps also come in decorative baskets of crystal salt, with a light and heat source underneath that creates a soft pink glow.
How do Himalayan salt lamps work?
Salt is hygroscopic, so the Salt lamps attract water molecules from the air; this means the salt lamps trap dirt, pollen, and smoke particles which are carried in water vapor.
Once these airborne contaminants have been locked in the salt, clean water is re-released and thus it has a purifying effect on the air. Theoretically that is.
Scientists know that salt does absorb water from the air but that it quickly reaches an equilibrium state. This is the same for silica packets. Both can be revitalized by drying, which a burning and warming lamp does. So there is merit to this claim.
What’s more is that the heat from the bulb inside that warms up the lamp releases negative ions. And there are the health-boosting effects of salt itself too.
8 Health Benefits Of Himalayan Salt Lamps
It is thought that the negative ions produced by Himalayan Salt Lamps may protect against airborne germs, preventing the development of coughs, sneezes and throat irritation. Here are some of the problems that salt lamps are thought to prevent:
Respiratory complaints
Allergic reactions
Skin problems
Insomnia
Mental disorders
Migraine and headaches
Rheumatism
Disorders of the vascular system
Himalayan Salt Lamps also have a positive effect when meditating and aid relaxation while resulting in an improvement in air quality.
Salt lamps are quite pretty. They give off a warm orange glow, whose ambiance is soothing, and restful which I suppose could reduce stress and improve general emotional well being. If you wish to buy a salt lamp for their beauty and relaxation qualities, it’s probably money well spent. But please have no illusions as to their health effects. It could never possibly replace hyper tonic, or even complement your respiratory treatments. It’s also probably not a good idea to lick them.
for details please visit our websites
www.khalidmaqbool.com
www kmsexporters.com
Rock Salt Lamps
Posted on March 14, 2016 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Himalayan Salt, Natural Salt Lamps	Leave a comment
Rock Salt Lamps
Himalayan salt, named for the Himalayan mountain range, is special because of the diversity of minerals in its composition as well as its purity. In addition to being mineral-rich, this particular salt mine was covered in lava for millions of years, which actually protected from pollution and environmental changes over time. Himalayan salt comes from the time when the earth was pristine. Himalayan salt is pure, chemically free and contains no impurities from environmental pollution. The composition of the salt has one of the world’s highest elemental concentration of 84 minerals and trace elements, the same nutritional elements our bodies need to survive.
Rock salt lamps is mined in Pakistan. When you bring a rock salt lamp into your home, you are creating a natural environment just as when you introduce house plants and water features. These things, by imparting clean, fresh air into our homes, leave us feeling refreshed, renewed and rejuvenated! By purifying the air in your home with one of our many designs of rock salt lamps, you will notice improvements in your families health and well being. We take pride that each of our fair trade rock salt lamps is original with its own distinctive shape and color. Clients who regularly use our rock salt lamps have said they have realized significant improvement in the air in their home and have also noticed an enhanced sense of well-being.They love the gentle, glowing light and beauty of our Himalayan rock salt lamps and rock salt candle holders. The beautiful glow from our Rock Salt Lamps will bring a tranquil ambiance to your home. Rock Salt lamps are best placed near televisions and computers, around smokers, in offices with air-conditioning, in fact anywhere you want to restore or preserve the natural air quality.
How do Rock Salt Lamps Actually Work?
Rock Salt lamps do not generate negative ions themselves. They are “hygroscopic,” which means that they attract moisture… humidity… airborne water molecules; it is a natural property of sodium chloride. Since they do not generate the negative ions, they need a heat source (in this case, heat from an incandescent bulb) to accelerate evaporation, which does produce negative ions. In more humid regions, an unlit rock salt lamp will eventually “cry,” even creating puddles of water at its base. It is this evaporation that generates the negative ions, which are beneficial to our health.
Himalayan Rock Salt Lamp Effects
There are natural phenomena that make us feel refreshed or revitalized. You know, simple things like sitting next to a huge waterfall, or being in front of rushing waves at the waterfront. If we were able to soar through the air like birds that would probably do it too.
What about these natural locations and events gives us the good goosebumps? Negative ions.
Negative ions are produced in nature and there’s even a way to mimic them in the walls of your home
Negative ions occur more often in nature and they are often created by things like lightening storms, sunlight, waterfalls, and ocean waves. This is one of the reasons people often report feeling renewed or refreshed after a storm or at the beach.
Positive ions are often created by electronic devices like computers, TVs, microwaves, and even vacuum cleaners and can often exacerbate problems like allergies, stress and sleep trouble. Negative ions can neutralize positive ions (they bond together) and help cleanse the air.
The unique combination of salt and a light source in rock salt lamps are what cause the negative ions. The negative ions are generated during the evaporation process. Since things like airborne mold, bacteria, and allergens often carry a positive charge, they can be neutralized by negative ions.
Rock salt lamps benefits:
Some of the benefits of Himalayan Rock Salt Lamps:
Removes humidity
Reduces sinus problems
Reduces migraine, stress & allergy problems
Eliminates air borne bacteria and germs
Improves sleep, air quality and immune system
Reduces electromagnetic fields (EMFs) / radiation
. Himalayan rock salt lamps chemically and physically transform a room – not just in colour and glow, but in its healthy benefits and effects.
for details please visit our websites
www.khalidmaqbool.com
www.kmsexporters.com
Himalayan White Salt Lamps
Posted on March 2, 2016 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Himalayan Salt, Natural Salt Lamps	Leave a comment
Take a glimpse of how these remarkable gleaming Himalayan white salt lamps are made! Crafted from the foothills of the Himalayas, these pure and untouched salt mineral aids in cleansing the air we breathe in addition to making our homes radiate calmness and shine with glamour! Khalid Maqbool & Sons products are meticulously hand carved by artisans from large salt crystals. A hollow space is left inside the carved salt crystal which is allocated for the light bulb to be placed into. Either a light bulb or a candle is then placed inside the x salt crystal. A thorough evaluation and series of quality tests which completes the set for it to be categorized as a high quality Himalayan salt lamp.The heat from a lighted salt lamp attracts moisture. The evaporation of water through salt emits negative ions. How many negative ions a salt lamp or salt candle holder can release depends on its size and how warm a match-lit candle or electric light bulb makes it. A night-light sized salt lamp would be effective for an office cubicle. Naturally, the larger an area means a larger lamp is needed so that more more negative ions will be emitted.
Himalayan salts are said to be the purest and cleanest salts found on the planet, hand mined & shaped they maintain the natural purist form. Relish a centerpiece that glows with warmth and overflowing artistry. Each white salt lamp is a symbol of creativity and hard work. Himalayan white salt lamps are more than pieces of light alternative, these gleaming lights are one of the epitome of art that portrays how limitless creativity can be. The calming glow of Himalayan white salt lamps, together with its striking shapes, will certainly enhance the overall ambiance of any room. Himalayan white salt lamps are one of the many beautiful things nature has given us. Its discovery set up a new standard for a stunning, health-enhancing decor. The use of Himalayan Salt Lamps within the home & office is known for their calming & balancing effects.
The glow of colour and production of negative ions influences our mind and emotions in a positive way helping to relieve stress related conditions, pain, headaches, tiredness, fatigue, insomnia, nervousness, lack of concentration, rheumatism, allergies, respiratory ailments, asthma, coughs, bronchitis, chest congestion, sinus problems, snoring, sleeplessness, high blood pressure, physical and psychological disorders, mild depression etc, it has also been proven that it helps the immune system. They also increase energy levels and contribute to a better mood while inducing relaxation and well-being during stressful times. They have even been used by health practitioners in Europe, Japan or North America for their proven benefits.
The grandeur, beauty, and constructive benefits of Himalayan White Salt Lamps are irrefutably fueling a rapid growth in their popularity among countless groups and individuals. Despite the positive differences majority of Himalayan White Salt Lamps make in comparison with ordinary lamps, not all White Salt Lamps yield the same beneficial results because unfortunately, not all Himalayan White Salt Lamps are created equal.
Just like other unregulated industries, the quality and feature of each product greatly differ from one supplier to another. Several factors like the lamp’s colour, clarity, shape, and fixtures can have significant variations which mark different impact on the overall quality and price of the Himalayan White Salt Lamps.
Khalid Maqbool & Sons has been selling Himalayan White Salt Lamps for some time now and has had the exceptional opportunity to examine and meticulously scrutinize the products offered by all of the world’s major Himalayan White Salt Lamps’ wholesalers. Hence, Khalid Maqbool & Sons knows what to look for before taking any commitment in relevance with your salt lamp purchase.
Benefits
Neutralizes the air by creating negative ions
Each Lamp is hand crafted, varies in colour, and is unnique in shape ad hue
Healing White Light
Good for everything, it’s the perfect colour because it combines all colours , red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet light. The innate intelligence of the body will take whatever colour it needs. White is associated with the seventh or crown charkra
Green Light
Supports love, communication and acceptance. Green is the colour of nature. Green links with and stimulates the forth or heart chakra promoting harmony & balance.
Blue Light
Increases calmness, peace, love, inner peace and devotion. Blue links with and stimulates the fifth or throat chakra promoting open communication.
Red Light
Increases physical energy, vitality, stamina and passion. It’s a grounding colour. Red links with and stimulates the first of root charkra, at the base of the spine, resulting in greater strength
for details please visit our websites
www.khalidmaqbool.com
www.kmsexporters.com
What is Natural Salt Lamps
Posted on January 11, 2016 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Natural Salt Lamps	Leave a comment
Have you ever noticed how me ntally and physically refreshed you feel after sitting by a gashing waterfall? Or how you experience a boost in energy after spending some time at an untamed seafront? What makes you feel so good in spots of this kind is the abundance of negative ions, which get produced in some natural places.
Now, there is a way to mimic these perfect circumstances in your own home and indoor places where you spend a lot of time. Himalayan natural salt lamps have the ability to chemically and physically transform a room, and have unique healing effects.
What is a Natural Salt Lamp?
Himalayan Natural Salt Lamp is an all natural product that comes directly from the earth. The salt is mined from the foothills of the Himalayan Mountains formed over 200 million years ago. It is so pure that it requires little or no refining.
Our Natural Salt Lamps are natural ionizers, generating healthy negative ions that purify the air, increasing your overall air quality and well-being.
These salt lamps are cut from natural salt from northern Pakistan.
How do Natural Salt Lamps work?
A natural salt lamp works by drawing water molecules from the air to the surface of the salt lamp, (known as hygroscopy) and as the lamp is warmed by the globe, a gentle chemical reaction takes place. Healthy negative ions are then released into the air, counteracting the positive ions from electrical equipment around the home and office. The air is purified which means airborne bacteria, mould, viruses and allergens as well as respiratory irritants and asthma triggers cannot survive in the negatively charged environment.
Himalayan Natural Salt lamps have a similar effect to an ionizer. However, natural salt lamps have many advantages in many aspects, including improving the general atmosphere of a room. The environment we live in today has far more sources of positive ions than in the past, creating an electrical imbalance in the air.
Various human activities and electrical appliances produce positive ions which are the reason for the deterioration of our physical and emotional well being;
eg discharge of voltage in high-voltage networks, heating and cooling systems, TVs, radios, transmitters, radar systems, computers, exhausts and cigarette fumes.
Scientific tests have revealed that the ratio of negative to positive ions should be between 1.02 to 0.98 and the air’s composition of negative ions should range
between 1000-1500/cm3.
Measurements have shown that the number of negative ions decreases to 200/cm3 in a closed room containing several people Salt lamps are known for emitting negative ions that are essential for our health and well being.
The warmth of the salt draws in moisture from the air and converts any damaging positive ions to negative ions in the surrounding area.
Today’s technology including computers, TV’s, microwaves, cordless phones, mobile phones etc all emit large amounts of positive ions. The potential outcome is physical and mental fatigue.
Health Benefits Of Natural Salt Lamps
1. Cleanse and deodrize the air
2. Reduce allergy and asthma symptoms
3. Eases coughing
4. Increase energy levels
5. Neutralize electromagnetic radiation
6. Better sleep
7. Improve mood and concentration
8. Treat seasonal effective disorder
9. Reduce static electricity in the air
10. Environmentally-friendly light source
Where to place Natural Salt Lamps?
Some great places you can use a Salt Lamp:
• Office/cubicle
• Allergy/sinus condition sufferers
• Children’s night lamp
• Convalescents
• Romance/mood lighting
• Hospital rooms
• Hotel rooms
• Environments with pets, high pollen counts, smoking, or other atmospheric inhibitors.
Place a natural salt lamp in your child’s room and watch him fall asleep with gentle ease or put it next to your computer and feel your stress dissipate as the negative ions counteract the electromagnetic fields bouncing off the computer. You can put it in your TV room, or your office.
It really doesn’t matter which room you choose, it is totally up to you where you want to place this unique gift of nature.
Salt Lamps
Posted on July 16, 2015 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Natural Salt Lamps	Leave a comment
Salt Lamps
These functioning electric lamps enclosed in a chunk of salt have been adding their pleasant glow to health fairs and mall kiosks for years. Unlike most light fixtures, illumination isn’t their main selling point. Salt lamps are touted as a natural source of “negative ions” that supposedly improve the health of anyone nearby.
Shopping over the Internet, you can quickly find salt lamps in many shapes, including pyramids, Tear and, appropriately enough for the season, Salt Bowl with Chunks.
The claims: According to one USA website, the negative ions released by salt lamps will relieve stress and “clean ambient air.” The cleansing power of the lamps supposedly makes them “especially helpful for relieving the symptoms of allergies and asthma.” The site also claims that the lamp’s soft orange color can boost mood and improve the focus of children with attention deficit disorder. Other sites claim that salt lamps can treat migraines, insomnia, depression, sinusitis and viral infections.
Bottom line: If glowing crystals fit the home décor of your friends and family, salt lamps might be a good present. But experts see two basic flaws behind the claim that users will ionize their way to good health. First, it’s not possible for a chunk of salt to release a significant amount of negative ions, says Victor Stenger, a professor emeritus of physics and astronomy at the University of Hawaii in Honolulu. There isn’t nearly enough energy in a lamp to break up the ionic bonds between the sodium and chlorine in salt. “If that were true, we’d have chlorine gas coming out our salt shakers.”
Gama Nadeem, a partner (at the Canadian company) says he has heard such criticisms before but believes that his lamps really do produce ions. “Believe” is the key word. “We haven’t done any studies,” he says. “But I’m sure that meters can measure the ions.”
Even if these salt blocks somehow released ions through a loophole in the laws of chemistry and physics, they couldn’t deliver on their health claims, says Michael Terman, director of the Center for Light Treatment and Biological Rhythms at Columbia University Medical Center in New York City. Terman’s studies have found that large doses of negatively charged oxygen ions generated by a machine can help ease depression in people with seasonal affective disorder — a finding touted on several salt lamp sites. But there’s a world of difference between oxygen streaming from a machine and chlorine supposedly trickling from a rock, he says. “I was dismayed to see my research touted by salt lamp companies. It’s disgraceful.” As for the claim that the color of the lamps can dramatically improve mood or treat ADHD — “that’s just nuts,” Terman says.
Other studies of negative ions (from machines, not salt) have had decidedly mixed results. For example, a review published in 2003 found no evidence that negative ions can improve symptoms of asthma.
The Canadian company owner says his salt lamps can’t really be compared to machine ionizers. “Salt lamp don’t produce as many ions as a machine,” he says. “In nature, things happen very slowly.” Or, some would say, not at all.
At Salt Lamp Creations (www.khalidmaqbool.com) you can read about how Salt Lamps are made and shop for Salt Lamps as simply things of beauty crafted from 250 million year old Salt (carbon dating fact!)
www.kmsexporters.com
What is Salt Lamp
Posted on July 15, 2015 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Natural Salt Lamps	Leave a comment
Our salt crystal lamps and candle holders are made from natural salt crystals, which are found hundreds of meters underneath the Himalayan,Pakistan. Each lamp and candle holder is carefully handcrafted, thus making it unique and creative. Our salt lamps are hand washed and sun dried making them natural and pure.
Himalayahas the largest salt deposits in the world with 1290 running miles and can last another 365 years by improving our air quality and healing many diseases. The natural color of these salt crystals blends from off white to apricot and orange to warm pink.
Rock salt crystals and lamps effectively improve the quality of air by producing negative ions – the “vitamins of the air”. Salt crystals naturally provide the powerful negative ions essential for our health which is severely affected these days by our hi-tech life style. They give the air its invigorating freshness, which is good for human beings.Crystallamps due to their illumination emit a higher number of ions.
Speleotherapy or underground climatotherapy is an alternative treatment for asthma used inEastern Europe.This treatment involves spending 2-3 hours a day underground in salt mines over 2-3 months. Process involves using the health enhancing effect of salt mines to cure asthma. Speleotherapy is carried out in salt mines where there is large number of healthy ions. These are the same ions that are given off by salt lamps. The amount of negative ions a salt lamp releases depends on its size and the heat absorbed by the lamp. The larger the salt crystal, obviously, the more amount of negative ions it can produce.
Even though they are not a medical device, Salt Crystal Lamps, by emitting negative ions, significantly reduce a numerous indoor air pollutants. Negative ions have many known benefits and may provide relief from sinus, migraine headaches allergies and hay fever, reduce the severity of asthma attacks, enhance the immune system, increase alertness, increase work productivity and concentration, increase lung capacity and reduce susceptibility to colds and flu.
Catagories
Bath Salt
Black Salt
Crafted Salt Lamps
Edible Grade Salt
Halite Salt
Himalayan Salt
Khewra Salt Mines
Lick Salt
Massage Stones
Natural Salt Lamps
Salt Inhalers
Salt Plates
Salt T-lights
Uncategorized
USB Salt Lamps
Return To Top
Copyright © 2019 Khalid Maqbool & Sons
1/20 Linkers Colony Saint John Park Cant Lahore Pakistan · Pakistan info@saltlampfactory.com
CyberChimps WordPress Themes
© Khalid Maqbool & Sons
Translate »