What is methanol (CH3OH)? definition and meaning - BusinessDictionary.com
Dictionary	Term of the Day	Articles	Subjects
BusinessDictionary
Business
Dictionary
Dictionary
Toggle navigation
Uh oh! You're not
signed up.
Sign Up
Close navigation
Home Dictionary
Term of the Day Articles Subjects
methanol (CH3OH)
Definition
+ Create New Flashcard
Popular Terms
Highly flammable and poisonous type of alcohol which, when ingested even in quantities as small as 10 milliliter (two tea-spoonsful), can cause permanent blindness, and 100 milliliter may be fatal. Made by catalytic oxidation of methane (from natural gas), methanol can be used as an alternative fuel or as a gasoline additive. It is miscible with water and most organic liquids such as gasoline. When mixed with gasoline, it lowers carbon monoxide emissions but increases hydrocarbon emissions. Used alone, its emissions are less ozone harming than those of gasoline. Its other uses are for organic synthesis, especially of formaldehyde (methanal).
Also called wood alcohol, its chemical name is methyl alcohol.
quality
process
production
backorder
procedure
fixed cost
marginal cost
equipment
overhead
goods
consumption
best in class
Use 'methanol (CH3OH)' in a Sentence
The astrometric precision will also enable proper motion studies, and accurate comparisions of OH masers with methanol, water and other species.
19 people found this helpful
If you are working with methanol you must make sure to always do it the right way because it can be a very dangerous substance.
18 people found this helpful
The methanol used by our research and development department was quite irritating so we did not take the group tour through there.
16 people found this helpful
Show More Examples
You Also Might Like...
Ravinder Kapur
How to Create a Disaster Plan
Small businesses suffer great losses whenever there is a natural catastrophe. In addition to damaging property, hurricanes and floods can lead to lost financial and customer records. Your business operations may be shut down for days on end, ... Read more
Jeffrey Glen
What is Alternative Staffing?
Lyndsey McLaughlin
How to Write a Cover Letter
Ryan May
The Top 5 Inventions of All Time
Karen Sorensen
Effective Sales Techniques for Small Business
Email Print Embed
Copy & paste this HTML in your website to link to this page
methanol (CH3OH)
Browse Dictionary by Letter: # A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	I	J	K	L	M	N	O	P	Q	R	S	T	U	V	W	X	Y	Z
© 2019	WebFinance Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Unauthorized duplication, in whole or in part, is strictly prohibited.
Privacy, Disclaimers & Copyright
COMPANY
About Us
Contact Us
Advertise with Us
Careers
RESOURCES
Articles
Flashcards
Citations
All Topics
FOLLOW US
OUR APPS