The Benefits of Crystals | RemedyGrove
MORE
RemedyGrove
Sign InJoin
RemedyGrove»
Bodywork & Energy Healing»
Energy Healing
The Benefits of Crystals
Updated on January 21, 2019
Anne Marie Carr
more
Anne is a writer and teacher. She also has an interest in crystals and has done extensive research on the subject.
Contact Author
Healing Powers
Crystals have been used since ancient times for their healing powers, included in amulets and rituals for protection and healing.
The Power of Crystals
Many people are skeptical about crystals and the healing qualities of crystals. Most people say it is “new age” and some form of “magic.” However, people are completely unaware that the power of crystals and using crystals for healing has dated back to some of the earliest times in history. Many of the crystals that we know of today actually have their roots in ancient civilizations and were revered and considered powerful in those times.
In the modern day, crystals are used by many for personal healing and to help the healing of others. Crystals are not some form of “witchcraft” or “magic,” but rather tools that we can use to make our lives better. A lot of people also question the use of crystals as conflicting with their particular religious beliefs or outlook on life. There really is no need to associate any type of religion to the use of crystals for healing of the body, mind, and soul. Think of using crystals as we do medicine and herbs—it is just another natural way for you to help yourself and others.
Here is some basic information about crystals to help you gain better understanding and insight into the healing properties of crystals.
Ancient Powers
"Many of the crystals that we know of today actually have their roots in Ancient civilizations as being revered and powerful in those times."
1. The Origin of Crystals
The word “crystal” comes from the Greek “krustallos,” meaning “ice.” Many ancient civilizations thought of these formations as something powerful, using the crystals in talismans and amulets to protect and heal.
Vibrations
All crystals vibrate at a certain frequency, according to their color. This benefits the mind and body in a variety of ways.
2. Good Vibrations
Crystals are said to have “vibrations” or “frequencies” at which they vibrate. These frequencies help balance the environment, and for people, can help in balancing the chakras, the basic fundamental aspects of our being.
Healing Crystals
"Amethyst can be used for pain relief when placing the stone on the source of pain."
3. Healing Properties
Crystals can be used to heal physical and mental ailments. Many crystals have properties that heal both of these areas. Some can heal specific parts of the body (based on which chakra the crystal is associated with), while others can also provide general healing such as pain relief.
For instance, Amethyst can be used for pain relief when placing the stone on the source of pain. (It is especially effective for headaches and migraines). In addition, crystals also heal mentally; they affect emotions, mental health, and can be used to get rid of negative energy and bring forth positive energy.
Placement Is Important
Picking a specific place in your home for your crystals is very important; it will help bring different types of positive energy to different places in your home.
4. Placement
Where the crystals are placed and used is an important aspect to consider when using crystals. They can be placed on specific parts of the body, worn as necklaces and other jewelry, placed in pouches or pockets, or they can be placed throughout a home to bring positive vibrations to the home space. It all depends upon how the person wants to use the crystals themselves.
In addition, crystal elixirs can also be made so you can benefit from the crystals by drinking water infused with the vibrations of the crystals. (This is something that you need to be very careful about, however, because some crystals are toxic and cannot be consumed while others are too soft and will break down in the water itself).
5. Meditation
Crystals also aid in meditation. Placed in the left hand or in specific chakra hand positions, these crystals help energize, align, and balance the body to bring it in harmony with all of its surroundings. It can also help you engage in deeper meditation and thought.
Crystals are also powerful tools for divination, and there are many methods in which to use crystals to look into past, present, and future events such as scrying, using a crystal pendulum, or actually using a divination board with the crystals.
Start With a Few
"You don’t have to start big; even just buying one crystal and keeping it in your pocket to notice the difference it makes in your life is enough."
Crystals Can Benefit All
There are many practical uses for crystals: they can be used in healing physically and mentally, as well as aiding in meditation, divination, and also creating a more positive environment in the home. If you are interested in crystals and benefiting their healing properties, I strongly suggest getting a beginner's set of crystals to start and see how that feels.
You don’t have to start big—even just buying one crystal and keeping it in your pocket to notice the difference it makes in your life is enough. The truth is, crystals are powerful, wonderful healers and can be beneficial to you in all aspects of your life if you are willing to give them a try.
Related
Energy Healing
Three Methods of Using Crystals to Ease Anxiety
by Claire6
Energy Healing
Crystal Healing: Selenite Stone Benefits, Properties, and Meaning
by Layne Holmes0
Energy Healing
Using Crystals in Colour Therapy
by Claire0
Energy Healing
Crystal Healing: Citrine Crystal Benefits, Properties, and Meaning
by Layne Holmes3
Energy Healing
Crystal Healing Properties of Malachite
by Nancy Yager34
Popular
Energy Healing
Scientific Evidence That Crystal Healing Works
by Marc Hubs21
Energy Healing
Seven Crystals to Help Ease Fears and Phobias
by Claire0
Energy Healing
Seven Crystals for ADHD
by Claire0
Comments
Sign in or sign up and post using a HubPages Network account.
0 of 8192 characters used
Post Comment
No HTML is allowed in comments, but URLs will be hyperlinked. Comments are not for promoting your articles or other sites.
sending
No comments yet.
About Us
Editorial Policy
Copyright
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Advertising
Copyright © 2019 HubPages Inc. and respective owners. Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners. HubPages® is a registered Service Mark of HubPages, Inc. HubPages and Hubbers (authors) may earn revenue on this page based on affiliate relationships and advertisements with partners including Amazon, Google, and others.
Sign InJoin
Bodywork & Energy Healing
Energy Healing
Massage
Yoga
Tai Chi
Show All Categories
Connect with us
About Us
Editorial Policy
Copyright
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Advertising
Copyright © 2019 HubPages Inc. and respective owners.
working
This website uses cookies
As a user in the EEA, your approval is needed on a few things. To provide a better website experience, remedygrove.com uses cookies (and other similar technologies) and may collect, process, and share personal data. Please choose which areas of our service you consent to our doing so.
Necessary
Features
Marketing
Statistics
Approve All & Submit
Approve Checked Only
For more information on managing or withdrawing consents and how we handle data, visit our Privacy Policy at: https://remedygrove.com/privacy-policy#gdpr
Show Details
Necessary
HubPages Device ID This is used to identify particular browsers or devices when the access the service, and is used for security reasons.
Login This is necessary to sign in to the HubPages Service.
Google Recaptcha This is used to prevent bots and spam. (Privacy Policy)
Akismet This is used to detect comment spam. (Privacy Policy)
HubPages Google Analytics This is used to provide data on traffic to our website, all personally identifyable data is anonymized. (Privacy Policy)
HubPages Traffic Pixel This is used to collect data on traffic to articles and other pages on our site. Unless you are signed in to a HubPages account, all personally identifiable information is anonymized.
Amazon Web Services This is a cloud services platform that we used to host our service. (Privacy Policy)
Cloudflare This is a cloud CDN service that we use to efficiently deliver files required for our service to operate such as javascript, cascading style sheets, images, and videos. (Privacy Policy)
Google Hosted Libraries Javascript software libraries such as jQuery are loaded at endpoints on the googleapis.com or gstatic.com domains, for performance and efficiency reasons. (Privacy Policy)
Features
Google Custom Search This is feature allows you to search the site. (Privacy Policy)
Google Maps Some articles have Google Maps embedded in them. (Privacy Policy)
Google Charts This is used to display charts and graphs on articles and the author center. (Privacy Policy)
Google AdSense Host API This service allows you to sign up for or associate a Google AdSense account with HubPages, so that you can earn money from ads on your articles. No data is shared unless you engage with this feature. (Privacy Policy)
Google YouTube Some articles have YouTube videos embedded in them. (Privacy Policy)
Vimeo Some articles have Vimeo videos embedded in them. (Privacy Policy)
Paypal This is used for a registered author who enrolls in the HubPages Earnings program and requests to be paid via PayPal. No data is shared with Paypal unless you engage with this feature. (Privacy Policy)
Facebook Login You can use this to streamline signing up for, or signing in to your Hubpages account. No data is shared with Facebook unless you engage with this feature. (Privacy Policy)
Maven This supports the Maven widget and search functionality. (Privacy Policy)
Marketing
Google AdSense This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Google DoubleClick Google provides ad serving technology and runs an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Index Exchange This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Sovrn This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Facebook Ads This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Amazon Unified Ad Marketplace This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
AppNexus This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Openx This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Rubicon Project This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
TripleLift This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Say Media We partner with Say Media to deliver ad campaigns on our sites. (Privacy Policy)
Remarketing Pixels We may use remarketing pixels from advertising networks such as Google AdWords, Bing Ads, and Facebook in order to advertise the HubPages Service to people that have visited our sites.
Conversion Tracking Pixels We may use conversion tracking pixels from advertising networks such as Google AdWords, Bing Ads, and Facebook in order to identify when an advertisement has successfully resulted in the desired action, such as signing up for the HubPages Service or publishing an article on the HubPages Service.
Statistics
Author Google Analytics This is used to provide traffic data and reports to the authors of articles on the HubPages Service. (Privacy Policy)
Comscore ComScore is a media measurement and analytics company providing marketing data and analytics to enterprises, media and advertising agencies, and publishers. Non-consent will result in ComScore only processing obfuscated personal data. (Privacy Policy)
Amazon Tracking Pixel Some articles display amazon products as part of the Amazon Affiliate program, this pixel provides traffic statistics for those products (Privacy Policy)
{{section}}
{{title}}
by {{author}} {{comment_count}}