Skin Tag Removal Products: Amoils – The Green Beauty Guide
The Green Beauty Guide
Look good while helping the planet!
Skin Tag Removal Products: Amoils
TheWebmistressJuly 25, 2015Uncategorized
Skin tags are common growths that look like tiny, soft balloons of hanging flesh. While unsightly, they are completely benign, and a single person can have anywhere from one to hundreds of individual skin tags. Men and women are equally likely to develop them. Skin tags are typically about 2 mm-5 mm in diameter, but may grow as large as a grape (1 cm in diameter) or even a fig (5 cm in diameter). They are most commonly found on the base of the neck, armpits, eyelids, groin folds, buttock folds, and under the breasts. Of these, the neck and the armpits are the most common.
Skin tags are believed to develop as a result of friction, either friction between skin and skin or between skin and clothing. Friction will also make existing skin tags worse. Try to avoid letting your skin tags rub against jewelry or clothing.
While they are sometimes confused for warts, skin tags are not related to warts, which are caused by the Human Papillomavirus, or HPV. Skin tags are not contagious, generally not cancerous, and do not generally cause pain or discomfort. However, they may occasionally require removal when they become irritated and red from bleeding or black from twisting to the point where blood flow to the tag is interrupted and the skin dies. If you are concerned about your skin tags, or just want to get rid of them for cosmetic reasons, read on to learn about the top over the counter treatments for the removal of skin tags. The best one, of course, is Revitol.
Amoils Skin Tag Remover
Amoils Skin Tag Remover is manufactured by Healing Natural Oils, LLC, a US-based company that sells products made only from natural ingredients. Their oils are designed to treat age spots, wrinkles, moles, warts, varicose veins, and, yes, skin tags. All of their products are 100% natural and gentle on the skin, manufactured in the United States, and come with a full 90 day money back guarantee. None of their products are tested on animals.
Amoils is also sold under the name H Skin Tags Formula and retails for $29.95 for an 11ml bottle. The manufacturer offers free shipping on orders of $50 or more. The active ingredients in the formula are Calendula officinalis 12C and Thuja occidentalis 12C, which are derived from the common marigold and the white cedar or arborvitae tree, respectively.
The formula works by rapidly absorbing directly into the skin tag and causing it to gently flake away. It’s safe to use on all sensitive areas, including under the arms and armpits, on the neck and face, the stomach, torso and groin area, and on the legs and feet. It can also be used on the eyelids provided the skin tag is not too close to the eye and you can apply the formula without getting it in your eye. It is painless and will not leave any scarring.
Amoils is applied directly to the skin tag using a cotton swab or your finger. Because it is so concentrated, only a few drops need to be used at a time. One 11ml bottle will yield approximately 120 applications. Complete instructions are provided with the product.
Results will appear in a week or two, though this varies from person to person. Some stubborn tags may take longer to respond, but as long as you are diligent in applying the formula according to the directions, you will see results. Skin tags may change in size, color, or appearance before they begin to flake away.
← Previous post
Next post →
Leave a Comment Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Currently you have JavaScript disabled. In order to post comments, please make sure JavaScript and Cookies are enabled, and reload the page. Click here for instructions on how to enable JavaScript in your browser.
Archives
September 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
Recent Comments
Kelly Mattlin on Violence At Schools Needs To Stop
Julie Knop on Violence At Schools Needs To Stop
Angelica Pitts on Sports And Beauty Needn’t Be Full-On Enemies
Cora Y. on Sports And Beauty Needn’t Be Full-On Enemies
Recent Posts
Tips For Choosing The Right Over The Counter Skin Tag Removal Products
Skin Tag Removal Products: Amoils
The 5 Best Anti-Snoring Devices
Safe Schools Remain Strongest
Violence At Schools Needs To Stop
A Great Story: Young Lifeguard Saves Child
Sports And Beauty Needn’t Be Full-On Enemies
Beauty Appliances To Take A Look At
Let’s Talk Beauty Tips