The Dangers Of Bleaching Your Skin
Promo Codes
Promo Codes Stores Store Features Articles
Shop
Find Promo Codes
Find a Store
Store Feature Finder
Military Discounts
Senior Discounts
Free Shipping
Free Returns & Exchanges
Takes Apple Pay
Takes Afterpay Financing
Shopping Guides
Compare
Compare Brands
"Best Brands" by Category
Discuss
Shopping Forums
+ Ask a Question
Explore
Discover New Products
Read Our Shopping Guides
Explore our "Best Brands" Lists
Browse our Brand Directory
Narrow Your Options
Compare Brands Side-by-Side
Get Brand Reviews
Find Alternatives
Buy at the Lowest Price
Find a Discount Code
Check Discount Policies
Join Sign in Ask
Discover New Products
Read Our Shopping Guides
Explore our "Best Brands" Lists
Browse our Brand Directory
Narrow Your Options
Compare Brands Side-by-Side
Get Brand Reviews
Find Alternatives
Buy at the Lowest Price
Find a Discount Code
Check Discount Policies
Shopping Tools
Promo Code Finder
Store Feature Finder
"Best Brand" Lists
Compare Brands
Shopping Forums
Shopping Guides
Store Directory
Top Categories
Wedding Websites
Fitness Trackers
Personalized Hair Care
Fashion Rentals
Smart Bathroom Scales
Furniture Subscription
View More >>
Top Retail Discounts
Military Discounts
Senior Discounts
Free Shipping
Free Returns & Exchanges
Takes Apple Pay
Takes Afterpay Financing
View More >>
Participate & Share
Shopping Forums
Ask a Question
Information & Links
What's Knoji?
Scholarship
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Editorial Disclosure
Social Pages
Instagram
Twitter
Pinterest
Facebook
LinkedIn
Medium
ⓒ 2019 ZipfWorks, Inc.
Join the best community for shopping-related discussion.
Register with Facebook Register with Twitter Register with email
Login with an existing account
Register with email
Register
Login with an existing account
Login
Login with Facebook Login with Twitter
or
Login
Create a new account
You need higher reputation to do that.
Increase your reputation by posting useful answers to people's questions and earning positive votes from trusted members of the community.
The Dangers Of Bleaching Your Skin
Skin & Body Care
June 5, 2013
Knoji reviews products and up-and-coming brands we think you'll love. In certain cases, we may receive a commission from brands mentioned in our guides. Learn more.
Many people want to get lighter skin, or to cover up a dark patch or blemish on one patch of their body, and there are many products out there to fill this need. However, some of these products can be very dangerous, or have side effects which can last a
Link copied
The first thing to work out if you are thinking of bleaching your skin is why do you want to do it? You may have a dark spot, or uneven patch of skin somewhere, or you may just want a complete change from your current skin color to an all white complexion.
In most cases, you will become completely white, and there are many chemicals which can do that, but you must be aware that it's not like bleaching clothes in a wash.
The human skin is very sensitive, and the right chemicals must be used, and applied in the right way, being very careful to avoid contact with sensitive areas such as the eyes.
Some of the dangerous chemicals you should avoid are any product containing trace amounts of mercury, (as the deadly effects of mercury are well known), and also anything containing hydroquinone, and any product that suggests you take a pill orally to get a whitening effect.
There may possibly be ways to stop your skin from producing melanin through taking a pill, but that would be very unhealthy, and not recommended at all. It's most likely that it just won't work at all.
The hydroquinone chemical was used in prescription creams, and still is, but it has been banned by many European countries including England, as it has terrible side effects such as ochronosis when used for long periods of time.
How Long Do You Need To Use A Skin Whitening Product?
You cannot avoid using a skin whitening products for a long period of time if you want the effects to last permanently, as the skin is always growing new layers and replacing itself.
Therefore, you need a chemical cream that is both safe, and effective when used in the right way over a lifetime. The best active ingredients are those which have been used over the counter for years without any huge problems.
They are arbutin and glycolic acid. There are some other chemicals like kojic acid, but that's in the same family, and not as effective.
Arbutin is a mild form of hydroquinone, or it is what hydroquinone is derived from, but in it's mild form, it does not have the same bad side effects, and when combined with glycolic acid, it forms the perfect mixture for safe skin bleaching without and troubles.
You still need to be careful to follow the instructions to the letter, and you don't want to get that stuff in your eyes, it's a powerful bleaching mixture, and it's a life changing decision to make the change from black to white, or light brown to white.
The important thing to remember is that you do your research on a company carefully, follow the instructions carefully, seek a second opinion from a doctor, and avoid those terrible products containing mercury and hydroquinone.
Safe skin whitening requires getting the best advice, the best products, and taking care to maintain and take care of your skin over time.
0 comments
Add a comment
About This Article
Rowan Casey
Health & Beauty >
Skin & Body Care >
Skin Care
See Related "Best Brand" Lists
The Top-Ranked Health & Beauty Brands
The Top-Ranked Skin & Body Care Brands
The Top-Ranked Skin Care Brands
Explore Top Skin & Body Care Brands
Glossier Review Compare Glossier vs. top competitors See 7 Glossier Coupon Codes Bath & Body Works Review Compare Bath & Body Works vs. top competitors See 108 Bath & Body Works Discount Codes Beautycounter Review Compare Beautycounter vs. top competitors See 19 Beautycounter Coupons Dollar Shave Club Review Compare Dollar Shave Club vs. top competitors See 1 Dollar Shave Club Promo Codes Dermstore Review Compare Dermstore vs. top competitors See 645 Dermstore Coupon Codes Young Living Review Compare Young Living vs. top competitors See Young Living Discount Codes Mercola Review Compare Mercola vs. top competitors See 3 Mercola Coupon Codes Jeunesse Review Compare Jeunesse vs. top competitors See 1 Jeunesse Coupons MUJI Review Compare MUJI vs. top competitors See 7 MUJI Coupon Codes Nu Skin Review Compare Nu Skin vs. top competitors See 1 Nu Skin Coupon Codes Rodan + Fields Review Compare Rodan + Fields vs. top competitors See 1 Rodan + Fields Discount Codes Soko Glam Review Compare Soko Glam vs. top competitors See 106 Soko Glam Coupons Raven's Edge Review Compare Raven's Edge vs. top competitors See 1 Raven's Edge Promo Codes Plant Therapy Review Compare Plant Therapy vs. top competitors See 66 Plant Therapy Discount Codes doTERRA Review Compare doTERRA vs. top competitors See 4 doTERRA Promo Codes Gillette Review Compare Gillette vs. top competitors See 2 Gillette Discount Codes Clinique Review Compare Clinique vs. top competitors See 46 Clinique Discount Codes Top-ranked skin & body care brands >>
Latest Guides
8 Standalone Smartwatches for Teens Without Phones
The Best Eco-Friendly Mattress: A Review of Avocado Green Mattress
The Best PMS Pain-Relief Products
The Best Smart Ovens
The Best Music Streaming Services for Audiophiles
More guides >>