1998 Study Linking Autism to Vaccines Was an 'Elaborate Fraud'
Wakefield was stripped of his medical license in May of last year by the British Medical General Council.
"Clear evidence of falsification of data should now close the door on this damaging vaccine scare," Dr. Fiona Godlee, BMJ editor-in-chief, said in a statement.
British journalist Brian Deer rebutted the original study with seven years' of his own investigative research; the BMJ subjected Deer's work to peer review before publishing his findings.
Wakefield's original study set off a wave of research to confirm the link between autism and the MMR vaccine, which contained the mercury-containing preservative thimerosal. The Food and Drug Administration recommended the removal of thimerosal from vaccines in 1999 as a precautionary measure, although studies by the administration were unable to find a link between vaccines and autism symptoms.
In the years since, a number of other studies have been published debunking the link between autism and MMR vaccines . A 2002 study in the New England Journal of Medicine, which followed more than 500,000 Danish children for seven years, found no association between autism and the vaccine.
A study published in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine in 2003 also found no link between autism and vaccines among children in Sweden or Denmark. Additionally, a 2007 study of 1,046 children in the New England Journal of Medicine found no link, nor did a 2008 study of 38 children in the journal PloS ONE.
Most recently, a study published in the journal Pediatrics in October 2010 that studied 256 children who were diagnosed with autism and 752 children who did not have autism found no link between vaccines and the onset of autism.
Pass it on: The BMJ has declared the 1998 study that linked autism with the MMR vaccine an "elaborate fraud."
5 Dangerous Vaccine Myths
10 Medical Myths That Just Wonâ??t Go Away
6 Foods That Are Good For Your Brain
Reach MyHealthNewsDaily staff writer Amanda Chan on Twitter @AmandaLChan.
You'd Also Like
Can You Still Get the Measles If You've Been Vaccinated?
LiveScience
Confirmed: No Link Between Autism and Measles Vaccine, Even for 'At Risk' Kids
LiveScience
The Real Fake News: Top Scientific Retractions of 2018
LiveScience
Are Anti-Vaxxers to Blame for Europe's Current Measles Outbreak?
LiveScience
Author Bio
Amanda Chan,
Amanda Chan was a staff writer for Live Science Health. She holds a bachelor's degree in journalism and mass communication from the Walter Cronkite School of Journalism and Mass Communication at Arizona State University, and a master's degree in journalism from Columbia University.
Amanda Chan, on
Science Newsletter: Subscribe
Submit
Follow Us
Most Popular
Lethal Listeria Outbreak: Why Is This Bug So Dangerous?
The Hubble Just Took a Gorgeous New Image of the Southern Crab Nebula's Wonky Gas Bubbles
What Is Passover?
This Tiny Knee Bone Had Nearly Vanished As Humans Evolved. It's Coming Back
This Quantum Computer Can See the Future — All 16 of Them
HomeAbout Us
Company
Company Info
About Us
Contact Us
Advertise with Us
Using Our Content
Licensing & Reprints
Terms of Use
Copyright Policy
Privacy Policy
Network
Top Ten Reviews
Tom's Guide
Laptop Mag
Tom's Hardware
Space.com
Live Science
AnandTech
Dignifyed
FOLLOW US
Subscribe
SUBMIT
Copyright © All Rights Reserved.