Top Bladder Infection Causes And Cures
Home
About
About Us
Disclaimer
Terms Of Use
Privacy Policy
Home Remedies Pro
Your Self-Help Guide To Home Remedies And Natural Cures
Beauty Natural Remedies, Tips and Products
Facial Care
Hair Care
Skin Care
Anti Aging
Diseases & Conditions
Allergies
Cancers
Other Illnesses
Visual Problems
Health
Diets
Sexual
Tips And Advice
Women’s Health
Highly Recommended
Product Review
Nutrition
Antioxidant
Vitamins & Minerals
Parenting & Pregnancy
Pregnancy
Remedies
Alternative Cures
Home Remedies
Weight Loss
Diet
Exercise
You are here: Home / Diseases & Conditions / Top Bladder Infection Causes And Cures
Top Bladder Infection Causes And Cures
by April Leave a Comment
Bladder infection or better known as cystitis in medical term, is a very common problem among women compared to men. There are many reasons as to what causes bladder infection in both men and women, and it is the inflammation of the bladder caused by the bacteria infections.
Although one in five women in the United States will get bladder infections some time in their life, infections among men in general, are rare. So, what’s the symptoms of a bladder infection? Normally burning sensation while urinating is a potential first sign of the onset of an imminent infection. Here’s a simple explanation on what causes bladder infection in both men and women, and how to relieve the burning sensation when urinating.
Causes Of Bladder Infection In Women
The causes of bladder infection among women being so common are largely due to the anatomical structure of the female body. The short urethra, the narrow tube that carries urine out of the bladder is the main reason behind bladder infection in women. Because the urethra is so short with merely one and a half inches long, bacteria can easily travel through the urethra and reach the bladder, therefore making women more prone to bladder infection risks compared to men.
Other top reasons include the close proximity of the vagina and rectum to the urethra, which are the common places where bacteria thrives. Improper cleaning of the anus after bowel movement as well as sexual activities such as sexual intercourse also greatly increases the risks of an infection.
Bladder infection causes and cures. How to relieve burning sensation while urinating
Bladder Infections In Men
Bladder infection risks in men on the other hand, increases with the men’s age. The top causes of bladder infections among men are not due to the length of the urethra, but rather the size of the prostate. Prostate size tend to increase with age in men especially for those over the age 40. And as such, the risks of urinary tract obstruction caused by the enlargement of the prostate increases too. When obstruction occur, urine is not completely drained from the bladder after urination thereby causing some residual amount of urine left in the bladder. Over the long run, bacteria growth in these residual urine poses significant risk of a bladder infection.
How To Take Care of UTI
Bladder infection if left untreated can lead to even more severe problems. Bladder infection back pain for example might indicate that the bacteria has infected the kidneys which often complicate matters. As such, it is important that you seek medical help as soon as possible if you suspect that you might have a bladder infection. You can read more about the symptoms of bladder infection here.
To deal with UTI at home, there are 2 potential bladder infection cures for men and women that you can try:
Over the counter bladder infection cures
Bladder infection cures without antibiotics
Urinary Tract Infection
Watch this video on YouTube
Share This Article :
More Readings
Get Rid Of Bladder Infection Instantly
Are you looking for ways to get rid of a bladder infection? Bladder infection is an infection commonly caused by a type of bacteria known as
Bladder Infection Test
Worrying about having a bladder infection? Urinary tract infection (UTI) or bladder infection test kits can help. Having a bladder infection
What Causes Bladder Infections In Females
Wondering what causes bladder infections in females? Bladder infection is in fact the most common type of urinary tract infection (UTI).
Burning Sensation When Urinating In Women
While burning sensation when urinating in women is particularly common in our society today, there are many reasons as to why it occurs so
Underactive Bladder
Underactive bladder is a condition often catergorized as difficulties in passing urine. The difficulty to void caused the urinary bladder to
Filed Under: Diseases & Conditions Tagged With: bladder infection, urinary system problems, urinary tract infection
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Select A Category
Select A Category Select Category Anti Aging Beauty Natural Remedies, Tips and Products Facial Care Hair Care Skin Care Diseases & Conditions Allergies Cancers Other Illnesses Visual Problems Health Diets Sexual Tips And Advice Women’s Health Nutrition Vitamins & Minerals Parenting & Pregnancy Pregnancy Remedies Alternative Cures Home Remedies Reviews Highly Recommended Product Review Weight Loss Diet Exercise
Popular Now
Home Remedies For Vertigo : Stop The Spin And Dizziness Now Do you know that there are plenty of home remedies for vertigo that ca...
Vitreolent Eye Drops For Eye Floaters Vitreolent eye drops can be a possible cure for the long prevailing pr...
Home Remedies For Sore Gums Having painful gums? Try these home remedies for sore gums and feel in...
How To Get Rid Of Vertigo Want to know how to get rid of vertigo? Unlike common dizziness, verti...
Bladder Infection Home Remedies : Get Rid Of UTI Fast And Easy Quick and effective bladder infection home remedies that can help you...
Home Remedies Pro · Copyright © 2019 · All Rights Reserved · Privacy Policy · Disclaimer