Excuse me sir, you get urine? ~ Mindplosive
Mindplosive
...PoeTry plus ProSe, MuSingS and MoRe
Search for:
Main menu
Skip to content
Saturday, 17 January 2015
Excuse me sir, you get urine?
Posted by Unknown on Saturday, January 17, 2015 in Healthy Living | 12 comments
Mr Salau would come to class ready to teach and remind us of certain benefits we were missing out on as a result of our deliberate refusal to sip urine...yeah you heard me, U.R.I.N.E!!! My Biology teacher back in ICHS was such a great advocate of the urine therapy and I always wondered if he was a living testimonial but I never garnered the courage to ask. He was a healthy man no doubt, quite active on the tracks and never burning out.
Fast forward 12 years later, I found myself on the same wavelength preaching the exact same to my fellow MBAs in our Management Communication class like I've ever tasted the thing *wrinkling my nose* but trust me I have heard and read so much about this therapy and some amazing health benefits it offers.
A long list of 175 known diseases have been claimed to be knocked off by this simple therapy. In fact, they say that urine therapy might be a remedy for polio, rabies, tuberculosis, AIDS, growths and cancers, fatigue, anemia, all sorts of urinary diseases, for weight-loss(hmmm...I am seriously considering starting this), colds and flu, candida, diabetes, heart disease, digestive problems, prostate trouble, arthritis, glaucoma, rheumatism, cataract, venereal disease, leukemia, malaria, diphtheria, chickenpox, scarlet fever, rheumatic fever, bronchial asthma, orchitis, bright's disease, jaundice, scurvy, dropsy, burns, rashes, warts, bed-wetting, menstruation trouble(guys please inform your girlfriends and wives who experience the bitchy cramps), kidney disease, mucus colitis, pyorrhea, gangrene, etc . A beautiful thing to be aware of for the health conscious pessimists is this, urine therapy advocates claim that to this day, despite the countless number of experiments performed using urine therapy, not a single case has been recorded finding adverse effects.
So what exactly is this urine therapy about? The basic definition of "urine therapy" is using (your own, not your boo's nor child's) urine internally or externally as a way to aid or sustain your heath. Urine therapy, which includes drinking, injecting, massaging with, and/or bathing in. This therapy is actually an ancient practice that is used today, not only in times of sickness, but also in times of good health for preventive health maintenance. You all are probably asking aloud, "how can your own urine benefit your health? Besides, isn't it toxic?"
Scientists say NAY. Our urine isn't toxic to our systems at all. Urine which is 95% water, 2.5% urea, and 2.5% mixture of minerals, salts, hormones, and enzymes, is not a toxic waste product. Urine is a blood byproduct and though it contains some body waste, it is non-toxic. They say the small amount of toxins that are found in urine are not abundant enough to be toxic to the body. When you drink your own urine, it does not go directly to the blood stream. First it goes into the digestive system where its ingredients are sorted out. Then, the useful ingredients are recycled while the toxins are rejected. When the level of toxins becomes too high, the toxins stimulate the intestines into flushing themselves out to eliminate any stagnated excrement accumulated in the colon. Although we could probably filter out the toxins before drinking the urine, the toxins are needed because they stimulate a cleansing reaction in the body. Urine, which remember, is a byproduct of our blood, becomes more purified the more it is recycled. Thus, the cleaner the blood is, the cleaner the urine is, and vice-versa. And this is how urine therapy advocates conclude that urine therapy has a cleansing effect on the blood.
In 1975, a Dr. A.H. Free, published his book Urinalysis in Clinical Laboratory Practice, in which he presents a few critical nutrients found in urine which include Alanine, Creatinine, Calcium, Glucose, Magnesium, Manganese, Zinc, Epinephrine, Biotin, Amino acids, Allanin, just to name a few so I don't bore you with all the scientific details. The occurrence of Epinephrine alone in this mix is good reason for me to start taking my urine, knowing the number of times I have ended up at the hospital for aminophylline (it is a bronchodilator which helps to free up the air passages of the lungs). This hormone i.e epinephrine is used chiefly as a stimulant in cardiac arrest, as a vasoconstrictor in shock, and as a bronchodilator and antispasmodic in bronchial asthma. Epinephrine is found in small amounts in the body and is essential for maintaining cardiovascular homeostasis because of its ability to divert blood to tissues under stress. So imagine being able to prevent all the brouhaha by just sipping something that is completely yours every morning...hehehehe
WHAT TO DO???
Just follow these basic rules and you are good to go:
1. Midstream urine should be used, the exception being in a fast where urine is being passed every ten to fifteen minutes. The first flow should always be midstream.
2. Urine should be sipped like tea and not drunk like water. This will prevent excessive problems in the form of loose stools and other elimination processes.
3. The first flow of the day is the most important and the best time of the day to drink it is between three and four a.m..
4. Drink at least one liter of water per day.
5. Pungent and salty food as well as excessive protein should be avoided.
6. Urine passed during the night before three a.m. should not be used.
7. The quantity used is left up to the individual.
MY SINCERE PLEA: PLEASE PREPARE TO ADJUST OOOOOO.
1. Prepare the mind by making a resolve to at lease attempt the process and examine your reactions, thoughts and feelings.
2. When you feel mentally prepared to attempt the actual practice,collect some fresh urine and start by rubbing your hands with it. Feel its texture, smell it, and see whether it can actually clean your skin as well as some people claim. After about five minutes wash it off with cold water and feel the skin to see whether the urine has had an effect. Do not use soap after rubbing.
3. The next phase of adjusting the body and mind is to put one drop onto the tongue. Taste and smell play an important part in assessing its nature.
4. Eventually you should build up the quantity you take in until you can drink a full glass of midstream urine and feel neutral in body and mind. Then you will be ready to start more advanced curriculum.
Go ahead, enjoy the natural healthy water you've been blessed with. Ask me in about six months what I did with mine...*winks*
Culled from Vanderbilt University, Psychology department page
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to Facebook
Reactions:
Newer Post Older Post Home
12 comments:
sheun akinbola 18 January 2015 at 12:16
chai! preggy women nko? my urine isnt as clear as it used to be.
ReplyDelete
Replies
Oyinlola Sobowale 20 January 2015 at 12:41
Lemme ask the Likita but...*consultation time*
Okay I'm back Dr says, "Do not use urine therapy if you are pregnant without a doctor's supervision:
Although pregnant women have been treated successfully with urine therapy for morning sickness or edema, the therapy should not be used during pregnancy without the supervision of a doctor familiar with the medical use of urine. Doctors have reported that they have used urine therapy for morning sickness in pregnancy with excellent results, but there are reports of two spontaneous abortions which occurred after urine therapy treatments (Dunne and Plesch), possibly because of the natural release of toxins which occur with urine therapy".
So my sister, Nehin, like our Indian folks would say. Do not use.
Delete
Replies
Reply
Reply
ESTHER NWAOMU 18 January 2015 at 16:12
I heard about this urine therapy a while ago.... don't think i'll be trying it anytime sha
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
OLUSHOLA OGUNSEMOWO 19 January 2015 at 11:42
Hmmm...Also heard it can be used for fueling your car too ...*covers face*
ReplyDelete
Replies
Oyinlola Sobowale 20 January 2015 at 12:42
Laughs. Let's begin with your car now Sola.
Delete
Replies
Reply
Duru Adolphus Jnr. 23 January 2015 at 07:41
hahahahahahahahhahahah @ Shola.. This is my comment of the month.. lmao! heheheh I am dead.. Rotfl...
Delete
Replies
Reply
Reply
Duru Adolphus Jnr. 23 January 2015 at 07:47
Haba Onyilola, why do me this way nah! So you want to make me vomit all the coffee i have been sipping since morning cause of the Urine Therapy.. Kai its not fair oh! Bubba, **Crying in French. Diarisgodooo. With all due respect yeah Lola, i am never.. and i mean NEVERRRRR gonna try this. Haba.! What happen ni?! i should stir it, play with it.. I mean I am even irritated imagining it sef.. nope, not me.. not gonna happen.. never. hmn hmnn.. Nope. I reject it. lmao. I mean who drinks his/her Urine?! Why!? Aha! it is official, the world is truly coming to an end.. Bet why Lola.. Should i use a Glass cup or a stainless cup.. i am imagining it in a transparent glass cup..**Shrieks..Oya Mr. Mind match brake dia.. Lmao. Cheers Bubba.. About this post ehn bubba, the lawd is your muscle oh! :) xx
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
Anonymous 24 January 2015 at 19:51
Can I be nice enough to share my urine with loved ones? Considering the possibility that they may have difficulty with urination.
ReplyDelete
Replies
Oyinlola Sobowale 24 January 2015 at 20:53
Only them can answer that question dear Anon but remember I said no urine sharing. The fact is your urine is coded with everything in your own system so it is solely for you. Even blood sisters, there are differences in their body composition and therefore not advisable to share but since you added that clause of not being able to unirate, please feel free to share but Withrow same sex though lest the drinker takes on male xteristics if you are male or female xteristics if u are female and he is male...imagine the rest.
Thanks for sharing your thoughts.
Delete
Replies
Reply
Reply
sheun akinbola 25 January 2015 at 20:52
Thanks love. I do not have any of the symptoms that would warrant me drinking my urine # dancing shoki
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
yourstrulyblogposts.blogspot.com 27 January 2015 at 18:25
I actually watched a documentary on to, and people said that it worked for them - unless you try, you may never know but I'm loath to try lol. Someone once said that it is used to treat conjunctivitis - how true is that?
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
Oyinlola Sobowale 27 January 2015 at 20:16
Only a trial will help me form that conclusion. It is just like you said, I also read about its healing efficacy...nothing is based on personal testimonials.
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
Add comment
Load more...
Facebook Twitter Google+ LinkedIn RSS
Very Juicy Posts
15-for15 Challenge03 - When the flared billows...
Yeah, which panties shall we find??? Welcome to my third piece in the 15-for-15 Challenge themed woman; her body, soul and spirit . ...
Dr Says...
1. What’s good for the heart is good for the libido 2. Doing chores with boo ensures a great sexual play 3. The antioxidant found in te...
The First Time
The first time I wrote a poem, it was for a boy. Typical you say? We were in JSS 3 going on SS 1. He was the poet; his pen always ca...
The Legendary Yoruba Hips
My father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name Thy kingdom come Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven Give me this day ...
15-for-15 Challenge04 - You are who Google says you are!
Ever heard of that saying before or you don't believe it? I recently attended a breakfast meeting where Clara Chinwe Okoro , the cur...
Categories
Content from 'Abroad'
Fiction
Guest Post
Healthy Living
Hearty Matters
Inspirational
Memoirs of Honiilols
Musings
non-fiction
Opinions
Poetry
Series&Stories
something close to funny
U&I
Uncategorized
What matters
Worth Blogging Experience
Blog Archive
2017 (3)
October (2)
August (1)
2016 (5)
June (2)
May (1)
February (1)
January (1)
2015 (27)
November (1)
October (3)
September (1)
August (3)
July (2)
June (3)
May (2)
April (3)
March (2)
February (3)
January (4)
Give it a title!!!
15-for-15 Challenge01 - Hey Woman!
15-for-15 Challenge
Excuse me sir, you get urine?
2014 (48)
December (5)
November (2)
October (2)
September (2)
August (9)
July (5)
June (11)
May (5)
April (1)
February (3)
January (3)
Get New Posts :-)
Blogs I luuuuurv
Adaezenwa
Retroviral Chronicles 10- Behind the counter.
Atilola's World
Death gives no hoot about your plans!
BLOGORATTI
16 Simple joys in life
Deserve Your Great Life.
The Employee No One Can Afford To Have
HomeWorth Interiors
Pictures From "Posh by Nature" Shop Opening
lohla's Melange
Fate, Or He Wasn't Into Her?
Ofilispeaks
The Right Side of The Bed (Humor)
The Young and Confused Gang...
Men, Wait. Women, Seek.
Thelma Thinks...
Telling Myself Some Hard Truths... (Latisha's Cool BTW).
Meet Oyinlola a.k.a Honiilols
Oyinlola Sobowale
Unknown
Contact
Name
Email *
Message *
Moi Faces
Home
Contact
Sitemap
Static Page
Menu
Mindplosive
Technology
Thanks for stopping by:-)
Copyright © Mindplosive | Powered by Blogger
Design by CitizenJournal.net | Blogger Theme by Lasantha - PremiumBloggerTemplates.com | Distributed By Gooyaabi Templates