Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention | Mosquito Squad of Maryland's Blog
Mosquito Squad of Maryland's Blog
Providing mosquito free, tick free and healthy outdoor living.
About
Contact Us!
Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery
301-444-5566
Visit our Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery website
email us
Search Our Blog
Site Categories
Site Categories Select Category All Natural Mosquito Control Asian Tiger Mosquito Canine Lyme Disease Chikungunya Chikungunya in Maryland Community Outreach and Special Events Diseases Eastern Equine Encephalitis Healthy Family Lyme Disease Malaria Malaria No More Campaign Support Mosquito control Mosquito Facts Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery Customer Reviews and Testimonials Mosquitoes and Mosquito-borne Illness Nuisance Insect Control Organic Mosquito Control Outdoor Events Outdoor Living Special Event Mosquito & Tick Control for Outdoor Events Stink Bug Protection Tick Control and Prevention Tick Tubes Montgomery Ticks and Lyme Disease Ticks and Tick-borne Illness Traditional Mosquito Control Program Uncategorized West Nile Virus
Posts tagged ‘Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention’
|
July 31, 2015
Outdoor Living in the Montgomery County area is a Dream
With a wet beginning to the summer it looked like a wash out was inevitable. While it’s hard to complain about rain when so many parts of the country and the world are suffering immense droughts, it was getting to be quite depressing.
Alas, Summer is Here
Luckily, it can’t rain all the time and the weather has given us some breaks. Between the tropical heat and humidity that has become part of the Montgomery County summer climate and the complete down pours, there are some really lovely days that are important to get out and enjoy. The fleeting clear warm days accompanied by cool nights feel like autumn is coming and I even needed a light jacket one day last week. I’d hate to hear of anyone losing the opportunity to be outside enjoying those perfect days due to mosquitoes and ticks.
Time to Get Outside
When a perfect day with low humidity and warm temperatures presents itself, now is the time to get outside. Go play ball in the yard with the kids. Invite your friends over for a barbecue. Take the dog for a nice long walk. Whatever you love doing, go do it outside, take full advantage of the weather as much as you can. With these gorgeous days being tucked in between rainy wet days and hot humid days it is vital that you have your yard treated for mosquitoes and ticks now, before these days arrive. If you wait until the weather is nice to call us, you’ll have already lost some outdoor time.
The Best Outdoor Living Is Pest Free
Outdoor living is best done with a bit of preparation. Being chased in by mosquitoes or having your dog come in covered in ticks is not something you want to worry about when your trying to make the most out of the beautiful weather. To really live outdoors without annoyance or dangerous bug bites, you need a mosquito control and tick control plan. Make your adventures outdoors spontaneous and without ridiculously smelly sprays, by eliminating the mosquitoes and ticks in your yard with Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery. With our traditional barrier spray eliminating 85-90% of the mosquitoes in your yard you can head outside any time day or night without having to spray yourself, light candles or torches or cover yourself from head to toe. When outdoor living can become this easy, you’re sure to take advantage of every moment of this beautiful Maryland summer.
Dangers of Not Controlling Mosquitoes and Ticks at your Home
Mosquitoes are multiplying rapidly thanks to the wet weather that has just recently let up. They carry and transmit diseases that can really make you sick. West Nile Virus has already been discovered in mosquito pools all around the North East this summer and there has even been a human case of West Nile Virus in Delaware.
With the number of deer loitering in our backyards from Darnestown and North Potomac to Derwood and North Bethesda, deer ticks are at an all time high — making Lyme Disease more widespread than ever. With West Nile Virus hitting so close to home and the increase in Lyme Disease, spread by ticks being heavily reported – protecting yourself, your family and your pets is crucial to living a carefree outdoor life.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery
Preventing your exposure to mosquitoes is your best weapons against West Nile Virus. At Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery we can eliminate 85-90% of mosquitoes and ticks in your yard with our traditional barrier. Contact Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery to learn more about protecting yourself and your family from the risks of tick-borne illnesses such as Lyme Disease in your backyard! Sign up today • (301) 444-5566 • email: westmontco@mosquitosquad.com
Advertisements
Posted in Mosquito control, West Nile Virus | Leave a Comment »
Tags: Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery MD, Raising awareness of mosquito borne illness in Rockville MD, Rockville MD mosquito control to reduce the risk of mosquito-borne illness
July 10, 2015
Mosquitoes and Ticks (stink bugs, fleas, gnats and other outdoor pests too) are All we do at Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery
Do you want your landscaper to be held responsible for the mosquito and tick control in your yard? How about the HVAC and plumbing company? We’ve come across a new trend here in Montgomery County that is intriguing to say the least. Other service industry businesses are going out and buying some products, arming themselves with a fogger machine and offering up mosquito control services as part of their product line.
You may have seen signs on the corner, or mailers that say $19.95 for your first spray (be careful, the fine print that says this is for a yard under 5,000 square feet.) We’ve also seen full season offerings that are priced so low we know that either 1.) They are operating at a loss and will soon be gone from the industry or 2.) They are not using the quality products and highly qualified and trained technicians we employ.
In an effort to keep our professional integrity and superior service we refuse to race to the bottom of the price wars. We know that our valued customers are aware of the difference between fly by night/non-specialty mosquito control services and what Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery is providing.
Quality in Product & Quality in Service
With Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery you know exactly what you’re going to get. We specialize in mosquito control and tick control making us the top choice for your outdoor pest control needs. Our products are the best of the best. We want you to know what your yard is being treated with so we share valuable information about those products on our Product Information page. Our knowledgeable staff is here if you should have any additional questions about the content of our mosquito and tick sprays.
Being the experts in mosquito and tick control our customer service is our number one priority. With our fully trained and registered applicators treating your yard you can be sure that the best work is done no matter what challenges your property presents. Our office staff is as knowledgeable as the technicians so that when you call with questions or concerns we can help you immediately. We are so confident in our mosquito and tick control treatment that if for any reason you are not satisfied, you just give us a call and we’ll come out and re-treat with no questions asked.
Mosquitoes on the Side
You may have called other services because you saw a special promotion. When they answer the phone you likely talked to someone who couldn’t answer any questions but just wanted to send someone out to inspect your property. Or if you’re lucky you may have gotten someone with a little bit of knowledge who could tell you the cost for a yard your size, but it seemed as if they were guessing and trying too hard sell you without an agreed upon price. Or you may have had the worst luck and been placed on hold by three different people before finally hanging up. Here at Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery if you don’t get through to one of our expert customer service representatives immediately, we let you leave us a message so we can pay special attention to every caller and get back to you right away with all of the answers you need.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery
The plumbers, HVAC, indoor pest companies and landscapers do it on the side. Mosquito and tick control is ALL we do. Protect your family from tick-borne and mosquito-borne viruses with our traditional barrier spray that eliminates 85-90% of mosquitoes and ticks in your yard. Contact the experts at Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery to schedule mosquito and tick protection for your special outdoor occasion and all season long! You can reach us at (301) 444-5566 • email: westmontco@mosquitosquad.com.
Posted in Mosquito control, Tick Control and Prevention | Leave a Comment »
Tags: Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery MD, Rockville MD mosquito control service
July 7, 2015
Rain, Rain Go Away So We Can Spray for Mosquitoes Today
We have a love/hate relationship with the rain and we’ve had a LOT of rain lately here in Montgomery County. For mosquitoes to breed and business to be good we need the rain. To be able to spray, successfully eliminating those rain produced mosquitoes we need it to stop raining sometimes. When a summer like this one comes along it is a double-edged sword, but you might be surprised at how uneven that double-edged sword really is.
Our Sticky Time-Released Formula
Our traditional barrier spray has a timed-released formula that allows it to last for up to 3 weeks even if it rains later that very same day. Before buying this franchise location, I had a really good chance to test the effectiveness of this product, even in rain. My yard was being sprayed every three weeks for the summer and the results were amazing. Then came an extended wet period. One July day despite very heavy skies my yard was treated and within one hour we had the heaviest torrential rain of that summer. My first inclination was to call and request a respray. But because I was considering buying this franchise, I realized I had a great opportunity to really test the product. Being the curious person I am, I decided not to ask for a respray. I am not kidding you, I had zero mosquitoes for the next three weeks. Given enough time to dry, our product really sticks.
If you see a chance of rain in the forecast you can still get treated with the regular product. As long as the mosquito spray has time to dry you should be good to go. If it does rain after an application don’t fret, hold off and see, it really does stick as long as it has dried first. With our traditional barrier spray sticking to leaves, grass and other foliage, mosquitoes that come along after the fact will be eliminated or repelled for up to 3 weeks.
How Long Does it Take for Mosquito Spray to Dry?
There is not an exact answer for how long it takes for mosquito spray to dry. I can’t say with certainty that after 31 minutes and 28 seconds you can turn on the sprinklers and do the rain dance. There are many variables. On a hot sunny day with low humidity it can be very fast. On a cool cloud damp day it can take a bit longer. Generally an hour is enough time to dry in most conditions. As always we guarantee our product, so if it does indeed rain shortly after your yard is sprayed and you find the effectiveness to be diminished in some way – we will come out and respray, no questions asked.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
We are crossing our fingers that we get some great summer weather to enjoy in between these bursts of rain, but even if we don’t get our wish you can still protect your family from mosquito bites and mosquito-borne viruses such as West Nile Virus. Protect your family and friends today by contacting Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery to schedule mosquito and tick protection for your special outdoor occasion and all season long! You can reach us at (301) 444-5566 • email: westmontco@mosquitosquad.com.
Posted in Mosquito control, Traditional Mosquito Control Program | Leave a Comment »
Tags: healthy outdoor living, Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention, Kensington MD tick control and prevention, Kentland mosquito control & prevention, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito Squad, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, Rockville MD effective mosquito control, Rockville MD mosquito control service, Rockville MD mosquito control to reduce the risk of mosquito-borne illness
June 25, 2015
Mosquito Eater? Mosquito Hawk? Giant Mosquito? What is this Huge Flying Daddy Long Legs Looking Thing?
Crane Fly
“You just sprayed my yard and it’s covered in giant mosquitoes! Please come back and spray again.” Receiving a call like this at Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery County is our worst nightmare. It is also something we are not accustomed to and we take it very seriously. We headed out to the house in question that very same day to see what possibly could have happened.
A Giant Mosquito Infestation
Sure enough, the back yard really was covered in large mosquito-like insects. Upon closer inspection however, they were not mosquitoes. They in fact were Mosquito Eaters. Often mistaken for giant mosquitoes these lovely creatures resemble a cross between a mosquito and a Daddy Long Legs with wings. They are also widely known in the south as Mosquito Hawks or Skeeter Eaters. But their proper name is actually Crane Fly.
What You Should Know About the Crane Fly
Crane flies do not eat mosquitoes. They were named after them because they look like large versions of them, not because they eat them.
Crane flies do not bite humans.
Adult Crane flies usually don’t eat at all, but their larvae will devour any decaying matter in the water where they live.
Adults only live for 10 to 15 days after hatching.
Living to reproduce, sometimes the female Crane fly will die immediately after laying her eggs.
Crane flies are known for their lazy flight, attraction to light and their dangly long legs. Many of us were under the impression that they were a natural form of mosquito control. If one would get in the house we might carefully shoo it out, realizing its value in eating mosquitoes was too important to squash. Carefully picking it up and trying to release it back in the wild was always a challenge with their fragile long legs often becoming victims to our good will.
Mosquito
Don’t Kill Mosquito Hawks
While you don’t have to “save” them for their mosquito control value, there is no need to eliminate these harmless flies. They serve as food for a large variety of other insects, birds and fish and their larvae provide a great service in munching away at the decaying matter in wetlands. There have been reports of larvae munching on the roots and destroying lawns when they show up in massive droves but that is the exception not the norm.
If you happen to be an angler you might be very familiar with The Crane Fly and its value. But you probably don’t call it a Crane Fly either, you quite likely call it great bait or fish food. Known to be a wonderful bait for catching Bass, the Crane Fly can be mighty useful to the fishing sportsman/woman.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
While we don’t advocate killing Crane Flies we do suggest you eliminate its smaller, much more dangerous, smaller name sake – the mosquito. Protect your family and friends today by contacting Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery to schedule mosquito (and tick) protection for your special outdoor occasion and all season long! You can reach us at (301) 444-5566 • email: westmontco@mosquitosquad.com.
Posted in Healthy Family, Mosquito control, Mosquito Facts, Outdoor Living | Leave a Comment »
Tags: A case of mistaken identity Crane fly vs. mosquito, Facts about Crane Flies, Facts about mosquito hawks, healthy outdoor living, Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Nuisance Insect Control, Rockville MD mosquito control service, Traditional Mosquito Control Program Kentlands mosquito control in MD
June 16, 2015
Don’t Let One Mosquito Turn into One Billion Mosquitoes in your Montgomery County Back Yard
The wet weather that has been occurring here in Maryland over past weeks presents the perfect mix of moisture and warmth, resulting in booming mosquito populations. In honor of Mosquito Awareness week, which is June 21-27, we want to do our part in making the public aware of the reality of mosquitoes we want to share with you the crazy, unbelievable facts about how fast mosquitoes can reproduce going from 1 to more than 1 billion.
You may think having an unprotected property means you will have a few pesky mosquitoes here and there. You will have to light a candle or spray some spray when you are going outside for the evening, no big deal. Right? Wrong. What you don’t know can hurt you, and your neighbors! It only takes one bite from one mosquito carrying West Nile Virus (WNV) or Eastern Equine Encephalitis (EEE) to make you, a loved one, or your neighbor very sick.
Only One Mosquito to Make you Sick. What Will a Billion Do?
Here at Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery County we like numbers. Numbers help us make sure we are doing our job. How many mosquitoes did you see in your yard before we treated it? How many did you see after? Numbers are a perfect measuring tool. Let’s look at the numbers to see how in the world mosquito populations get to be so big so fast.
Week One
That one female mosquito comes a takes a bite out of you. The blood you provided her allows her to develop viable eggs. This little lady goes and lays up to 300 eggs at one time! (She can lay 3 batches of eggs in her lifetime.) About half of these 300 eggs will become egg laying female mosquitoes, hanging out in your backyard waiting for a meal to help them produce their 300 eggs.
Week Two
Now you have 151 female mosquitoes flying around your back yard laying their eggs. Not only will these mosquitoes be gaining 300 new siblings as Mom lays 300 more eggs, but they are also making Momma mosquito a grandma to 45,000 grandbabies. Add the grandbabies and siblings up and you have 45,300 new mosquitoes during week two.
Week Three
It is safe to assume half of week two’s new mosquitoes are egg laying females, or 22,650. Do you want to do the math? 22,650 x 300 eggs each = 6,795,300 new mosquitoes and that is just from the mosquitoes that hatched from week 2. You still have to add their mothers’ new batch of eggs laid (for simplicity we will skip that part).
Week Four
Keep doing the math as we have before and week three’s 3,397,000 new female mosquitoes are laying their eggs in week four. We are talking about 1,319,250,000 mosquitoes in your yard (and your neighbors I am sure) in just four weeks. Four weeks is all it takes for 1 female mosquito to turn into 1.3+ billion mosquitoes.
Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery County wants to help you nip it in the bud when you are in week 1 or at the least, week 2. Doesn’t it make sense to eliminate 1-300 mosquito bites and avoid the whole math thing in the first place? Don’t fret if you are already in the thick of your mosquito multiplication problem, our traditional barrier spray eliminates mosquitoes on contact. With the time-released formula it keeps working for up to 3 weeks eliminating up to 90% of the mosquitoes in your yard.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
Protect your family and friends today by contacting Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery to schedule mosquito (and tick) protection for your special outdoor occasion and all season long! You can reach us at (301) 444-5566 • email: westmontco@mosquitosquad.com.
Posted in Healthy Family, Mosquito control, Mosquito Facts, Nuisance Insect Control, Outdoor Living | Leave a Comment »
Tags: healthy outdoor living, How quickly mosquitoes populate in an untreated area, Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito Awareness week, Mosquito control, Mosquito Facts, Nuisance Insect Control, Rockville MD mosquito control service, Traditional Mosquito Control Program Kentlands mosquito control in MD
June 5, 2015
Team Up against dangerous mosquitoes and ticks with your friends, family, and neighbors!
Do you want your neighbors to have their yard sprayed to help keep the tick and mosquito population down in your adjoining yards? Are you hoping for a pest free barbecue when you go to your sister’s house for her annual Fourth of July party? Do you want to earn a $25 gift card to your favorite store just for telling your friends how awesome we are? Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery is making it easy to share your pest free-living with others with our ShareTheSquad Referral Reward Program.
Build Your Mosquito Fighting Team
Mosquito Squad’s success in fighting Lyme Disease and West Nile Virus, by eliminating the number of ticks and mosquitoes in Montgomery County depends greatly on word of mouth. The more yards we treat, the more successful the battle. That’s why we made it easy to tell your friends, family, and neighbors about Mosquito Squad with just a few clicks at ShareTheSquad.com.
A Win-Win
When your neighbors are enjoying your backyard in the evening or at night are they curious as to why (and how) your yard is mosquito free? Tell them. By using ShareTheSquad.com to spread the word, everyone wins:
You earn a $25 gift card to your choice of retailers for every referral who becomes a client as a special thank you from us.
If your neighbors become a client, your success with Mosquito Squad spraying your yard will be even better than the 85-90% you are already accustomed to.
When you go to outdoor gatherings at your friends’ and families’ homes you will get to experience the same pest-free living you are used to.
When your friend, family, or neighbor signs up they will get $25 off of their first spray.
We get to spray more yards. Eliminating more ticks and mosquitoes. Lowering the risk for Lyme Disease, West Nile Virus and other tick-borne and mosquito-borne diseases.
Our goal is to make sure our customers hear “thank you for the referral” loud and clear and that making that referral is as easy as possible.
Sign Up Today to register. Just enter the email address you already have on file with Mosquito Squad. You will then get an email from ShareTheSquad with a confirmation code. Once you are confirmed you can log in and get your personalized share codes for popular social media sites, email, a printable form, and a personalized link that you can share anywhere.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
If you have any questions about the ShareTheSquad Referral Rewards Program give us a call. Contact Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery today to schedule mosquito (and tick) protection for your special outdoor occasion! You can reach us at (301) 444-5566 • email: westmontco@mosquitosquad.com.
Posted in Community Outreach and Special Events, Mosquito control, Outdoor Living | Leave a Comment »
Tags: healthy outdoor living, Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention, Kensington MD tick control and prevention, Kentland mosquito control & prevention, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, North Bethesda MD tick control program, Rockville MD effective mosquito control, Rockville MD mosquito control service, Rockville MD tick control, ShareTheSquad Referral Program, ShareTheSquad Referral Reward Program, ShareTheSquad.com, tick control montgomery county
August 25, 2014
Listen to what our happy Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery customers are saying…
Take back your outdoors with Mosquito Squad !
At Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, along with improving the time you and your family spend outdoors, customer service is our top priority. To ensure we’re doing our job and our service is really protecting our Montgomery County MD customers from mosquitoes and ticks, Mosquito Squad utilizes a third-party review system. The survey has only one question — how did it work? We are then emailed the results and our customers are confirming that our program is not only effective, they love it.
Read some of the reviews below. You may also read more reviews on our website.
“Getting rid of the bugs was a great treat for summer outdoor fun. Good communications and “on-time” service were outstanding.”
-David H. of Kensington, MD
“The mosquitoes are gone!”
-Natasha H. of Rockville, MD
“We just had our first service last week. What a difference! We got our yard back!”
-Elizabeth S. of Rockville, MD
“This my second summer with Mosquito Squad and I am very pleased with the service. The men are polite and work quickly.”
-Saundra P. of Takoma Park, MD
“It’s effective! I don’t get bit by mosquitos any more! Also, communication is good, and you come when you say you’ll come.”
“It works!”
– Doris L. of Kensington, MD
Read more great testimonials from Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery customers on our website.
Contact us today to keep mosquitoes and ticks out of your yard for the entire summer • (301) 444-5566• email: westmontco@mosquitosquad.com
Posted in Mosquito control, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery Customer Reviews and Testimonials, Outdoor Living, Tick Control and Prevention | Leave a Comment »
Tags: Community outreach on mosquito and tick safety in Rockville MD, Customer reviews for Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention, Kensington MD tick control and prevention, Listen to what our happy Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery customers are saying..., Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery MD, Rockville MD Mosquito and Tick Control, Rockville MD mosquito control service, Rockville MD tick control, Takoma Park MD mosquito & tick control, What customers are saying about Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery
June 26, 2014
Chikungunya Is Spreading Like Wildfire!
Chikungunya isn’t a new Caribbean dish discovered this summer by vacationers to the Islands. It IS being brought back to the US though. Twenty-four states have so far reported 88 cases of this mosquito-borne disease. The first case of Chikungunya in the Caribbean was reported in December 2013. The CDC currently reports there are more than 183,000 cases in the Western Hemisphere. It is spreading like a proverbial wildfire.
The disease had previously remained in Africa, the Pacific Islands and Asia until December when the Caribbean nation of St. Martin’s reported the first case. Chikungunya comes from a language in Tanzania meaning “bent over”. Symptoms of the disease include fever, headaches and joint pain. Symptoms occur within 3-7 days of an infected mosquito bite. After a week, the symptoms usually disappear; however, some victims are not so lucky. The arthritic-like joint pain of the disease can linger for some for months or years. Medication can be prescribed for the pain but there is no treatment for the illness. Fortunately, the disease is rarely fatal.
Although, no local transmissions from humans to mosquitoes have occurred in the US, CDC scientists believe it is only a matter of time before isolated outbreaks will occur here. So far, all of the US victims of Chikungunya acquired the disease during visits to the Caribbean.
The two species of mosquitoes that transmit this disease have been in the US for a number of years. With our increasingly warmer climate, both species can now be found as far north as Rhode Island. These mosquitoes are aggressive daytime feeders. They do not primarily look for a blood meal at dusk and dawn like other mosquito species.
Since this is summer traveling season, many US vacationers will plan to enjoy the sun and surf of the Caribbean. You can’t know whether a returning neighbor or family member from a Caribbean vacation will be the next Chikungunya case in the US. The best way anyone has of preventing mosquito-borne illnesses to themselves and loved ones is to prevent being bitten by a mosquito. Since you likely spend most of your time outdoors in your yard, there is an effective way to reduce the number of bites you and your family may receive this summer.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery MD provides an effective and proven barrier spray that eliminates 85-90% of the mosquitoes in your yard throughout the season. We will also help you mosquito-proof your yard by pointing out places mosquitoes like to breed and hide, like rain gutters clogged with organic debris, flowerpots with standing water, etc. Prior to treating your yard, we will confirm that we are on our way. We will also leave you a notice that your yard was treated. For continued protection all summer long, we recommend you treat your yard every 3 weeks during mosquito season. With 4th of July around the corner, this would be an excellent time for you to experience the effectiveness of our barrier spray and judge for yourself.
Contact Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery to learn more or sign up today • (301) 444-5566 • email:westmontco@mosquitosquad.com
Posted in Chikungunya, Chikungunya in Maryland, Eastern Equine Encephalitis, Mosquito control, Mosquitoes and Mosquito-borne Illness, Outdoor Events, Outdoor Living, West Nile Virus | Leave a Comment »
Tags: biting mosquitoes, Chikungunya, Chikungunya in Maryland, Community outreach on mosquito and tick safety in Rockville MD, healthy outdoor living, Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention, Kentland mosquito control & prevention, Kentland mosquito service, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, Raising awareness of mosquito borne illness in Rockville MD, Rockville MD mosquito control service, The Centers for Disease Control & Prevention (CDC)
|
Tags
asian tiger mosquitoes biting mosquitoes Community outreach on mosquito and tick safety in Rockville MD healthy outdoor living Heightening awarness of Lyme Disease in West Montgomery MD How to prevent Lyme Disease carrying ticks in your MD backyard this season Kensington Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention Kensington MD tick control and prevention Kensinton MD mosquito control Kentland mosquito control & prevention Kentland mosquito service Kentlands mosquito control in MD Kentlands Tick control and protections Lyme disease Malaria No More maryland Md MD tick control & prevention montgomery county Montgomery County MD mosquito control mosquito Mosquito control Mosquito Control to reduce the risk of West Nile Virus Rockville MD mosquito repellent Mosquito Squad Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery discusses the misconception of the Polar Vortex's impact on mosquitoes Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery MD North Bethesda MD tick control program Nuisance Insect Control Protecting against the risk of Lyme Disease in Maryland Raising awareness of mosquito borne illness in Rockville MD Raising awareness of tick borne illness in Rockville MD rockville Rockville MD effective mosquito control Rockville MD mosquito control service Rockville MD mosquito control to reduce the risk of mosquito-borne illness Rockville MD organic mosquito control and prevention Rockville MD tick control The 5T's of mosquito control and prevention The truth about Lyme Disease in MD tick control montgomery county tick treatment West Montgomery MD mosquito control and prevention
Calendar
April 2019
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Aug
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30
Archives
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
August 2011
August 2010
July 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
Blogroll
WordPress.com
WordPress.org
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy