virus | Live Healthy S.C. | Page 2
Live Healthy S.C.
DHEC's Health and Environment Blog
Menu
Skip to content
Home
About Us
Tag Archives: virus
You Can Help #EndRabies: Share the Message. Save a Life
Leave a reply
By Travis Shealy
SC DHEC Rabies Prevention Program Manager
Share the message. Save a life. World Rabies Day, Sept. 28, is an international event that seeks to raise awareness about rabies in order to enhance prevention and control efforts. Rabies is a deadly virus that kills humans, pets, and wildlife across the globe. Education and regular vaccinations are the key to #EndRabies. This year, SC DHEC is asking South Carolinians to submit photos of their vaccinated pets and livestock to be included in our World Rabies Day 2018 Photo Album. For more information on submission details, please visit our website.
What is Rabies?
Rabies is a virus (Lyssavirus) that can be transmitted when saliva or neural tissue of an infected animal is introduced into the body of a healthy person or animal. It infects cells in the central nervous system, causing disease in the brain and, ultimately, death. Any animal with rabies has the ability to transmit the disease to humans or pets. In South Carolina, rabies is most often found in wildlife such as raccoons, skunks, foxes, and bats. Keep in mind, pets are just as susceptible to the virus as wild animals.
Rabies in S.C.
Since 2013, South Carolina has averaged approximately 110 confirmed cases of rabies in animals a year. The SC Rabies by the Numbers Map provides statistics of rabies cases by county, species, and year. View rabies statistics from across the state here.
Rabies Prevention
Join us in the fight to #EndRabies by keeping your pets up-to-date on their rabies vaccination. This not only protects your pet, it protects you and your family from this deadly virus.
Another great way to safeguard against rabies is to avoid wild animals, particularly wild animals acting tame and tame animals acting wild, and to educate your children on the dangers of handling unknown animals. If you see an animal that appears sick, contact your local animal control office, wildlife control operator, rehabilitation group, or veterinarian for help. Never handle strays or wildlife, and make sure to keep them away from your family pets. You can learn more about rabies symptoms here.
Bats: Rabid bats have been known to transmit the rabies virus to humans and pets. People don’t always realize they’ve been bitten since bat teeth are tiny and bites are easy to overlook. Because of this, you should always assume a person has potentially been bitten when:
They wake up to find a bat in the room or tent;
A bat is found where children, pets, or persons with impaired mental capacity (intoxicated or mentally disabled) have been left unattended;
A person or pet has been in direct contact with a bat.
Any bat that could have had potential contact with people, pets, or livestock should be safely trapped in a sealed container and not touched. Contact your local DHEC Environmental Health Services’ office to report the incident. Never release a bat that has potentially exposed a person or pet. Once a bat is released, it cannot be tested for rabies. Similarly, never handle a bat or any wild or stray animal, alive or dead, with your bare hands.
Reporting Possible Rabies Exposure
If you’re bitten or scratched by a wild, stray, or unvaccinated animal care for the wound properly and contact your health care provider immediately. The health care provider is required by the Rabies Control Act to report the incident to DHEC.
If you or your child is bitten, scratched, or otherwise exposed and you do not seek medical treatment for the wound, you are required by the Rabies Control Act to report the bite to DHEC by the end of the following business day.
Contact information for the Environmental Health Services’ office in your area can be found on our website at www.scdhec.gov/ea-regional-offices.
For more information on rabies, visit www.scdhec.gov/rabies.
World Rabies Day is co-sponsored by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Global Alliance for Rabies Control (GARC).
This entry was posted in Disease Control, Prevention, Public Health and tagged #EndRabies, animals, bats, bites, central nervous system, child, DHEC, disease, foxes, humans, Lyssavrius, neural tissue, pets, Rabies, raccoons, saliva, SCDHEC, skunks, South Carolina, South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control, stray, virus, wild, World Rabies Day on September 26, 2018 by SC DHEC.
Avoiding Mosquitoes After Rain, Flooding
Leave a reply
Rain and flooding of the sort South Carolina has endured recently can saturate areas and leave standing water, which has the potential to become breeding grounds for mosquitoes.
Mosquitoes can carry viruses such as West Nile. That is why it is important that we all do our part to reduce mosquito populations and protect our families from exposure to these pesky, and potentially harmful, insects.
Reduce mosquito breeding habitats.
It only takes as few as five days for water in containers as small as a bottle cap to become active breeding sites for mosquitoes.
Routinely empty any containers on your property that are holding water:
Pool covers
Flower pots
Tires
Pet bowls
Toys
Tarps
Remove debris from gutters.
Trim back thick shrubbery and overgrown grass on your property.
Fix leaky outdoor faucets.
Protect you and your family from mosquitoes and possible exposure to mosquito-borne illnesses.
Repair damaged or broken doors and screens.
Wear light-colored clothes with long sleeves and long pants.
Close garage doors at night.
If you must be outside when mosquitoes are active, applying a mosquito repellent can help protect you from bites.
Visit the DHEC website for more information about protecting yourself against mosquitoes. You can also visit the site to find contact information for the local mosquito control program in your area.
This entry was posted in Emergency Preparedness, Prevention, Public Health and tagged bites, breeding, control program, diseases, flooding, grounds, habitats, illnesses, insects, mosquito, mosquito-borne, mosquitoes, prevention, protection, rain, repellent, sites, South Carolina, standing water, virus, West Nile on September 20, 2018 by SC DHEC.
DHEC in the News: Schools and e-cigarettes, trapping mosquitoes, opioid crisis
Leave a reply
Here’s a look at health and environmental news from around South Carolina.
40 percent of SC school districts don’t have tobacco rules that cover e-cigarettes
As e-cigarettes gain in popularity among teenagers, many South Carolina school districts have not updated policies to discourage their use.
More than 100,000 minors in South Carolina will one day die prematurely from a smoking-related disease, research shows. Eighty-three percent of South Carolinians who smoke started before they turned 18.
Don’t touch that cup! DHEC using special cups to trap mosquitoes
GREENVILLE, SC (FOX Carolina) – You may see some unusual looking cups popping up around your neighborhood soon, and South Carolina health officials say you need to just leave them be.
That’s because the cups are being used to trap mosquitoes for a special study conducted by DHEC to track a specific type of mosquito that’s capable of transmitting the Zika virus.
S.C. opioid crisis has not abated
South Carolina recently got bad news on the level of the opioid abuse crisis in the state.
For the third year in a row, the number of opioid-involved overdose deaths has increased in the Palmetto State, according to data collected by the S.C. Department of Health and Environmental Control. From 2014 to 2017, the total number of deaths related to opioid overdose increased by 47 percent, from 508 to 748 deaths.
This entry was posted in Disease Control, Prevention, Public Health and tagged abuse, crisis, cup, data, deaths, DHEC, disease, district, e-cigarettes, health, minors, mosquitoes, opioids, overdose, Palmetto State, policies, SCDHEC, schools, smoke, smoking-related, South Carolina, South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control, teenagers, tobacco, track, transmit, trap, virus, Zika on August 29, 2018 by SC DHEC.
World Mosquito Day: Protect Yourself And Your Family
Leave a reply
World Mosquito Day (August 20) isn’t a day off for the pesky insects that can transmit diseases. Neither should you take the day off from avoiding bites and ridding your homes and yards of areas where mosquitoes breed.
Mosquitoes can spread diseases such as West Nile. The most common diseases that could potentially be carried by mosquitoes in South Carolina, home to at least 61 different species, include: West Nile, Eastern Equine Encephalitis, La Crosse encephalitis, Saint Louis encephalitis virus, and dog/cat heartworm.
Although August 20 is the mosquito’s day, so to speak, DHEC urges residents to not feed or house the insects. Take precautions to avoid mosquito bites and rid your home and yard of areas where they breed.
Reduce the numbers of adult mosquitoes around your home.
Drain, fill or eliminate sites that have standing water.
Empty or throw away containers — from bottles and jars to tires and kiddie pools — that have standing water.
Keep mosquitoes outside: Use air conditioning or make sure that you repair and use window/door screens.
Avoid Mosquitoes: Most mosquito species bite during dawn, dusk, twilight hours and night. Some species bite during the day, especially in wooded or other shaded areas. Avoid exposure during these times and in these areas.
Wear insect repellent: When used as directed, the proper insect repellent is the BEST way to protect yourself from mosquito bites — even children and pregnant women should protect themselves.
Cover up: When weather permits, wear long-sleeved shirts and pants.
So, apply the repellent, empty or get rid of containers in your yard holding water and have a Happy World Mosquito Day.
Click here to learn more about protecting yourself and your home from mosquitoes.
Visit the DHEC website to learn more about mosquitoes and the diseases they can spread.
This entry was posted in Prevention, Public Health and tagged bites, breed, breeding grounds, breeding sites, insect, mosquito, mosquito control, mosquito-borne diseases, mosquito-borne illnesses, prevention, repellent, virus, water, West Nile, World Mosquito Day on August 20, 2018 by SC DHEC.
Protect Yourself Against Mosquito-borne Illnesses Such As West Nile Virus
Leave a reply
With DHEC announcing on August 1 that an individual in South Carolina was reported to be sick from West Nile virus — the first such occurrence in the 2018 mosquito season — it is important to protect yourself and your family against mosquito bites.
Be sure to pay attention to the most effective ways to prevent mosquito-borne illnesses:
Repellents help keep mosquitoes from biting. Apply insect repellent containing DEET, picaridin, oil of lemon eucalyptus, or IR 3535 according to label instructions.
Make sure that your doors and windows have tight-fitting screens to keep out mosquitoes.
Eliminate all sources of standing water on your property, including flowerpots, gutters, buckets, pool covers, birdbaths, old car tires, rain gutters and pet bowls.
Wearing light-colored clothing to cover the skin reduces the risk of bites.
“If you develop fever or other symptoms after being bitten by a mosquito, you should contact your health care provider,” said Dr. Linda Bell, SC State Epidemiologist.
What are the symptoms of West Nile virus disease?
Febrile illness in some people. About 1 in 5 people who are infected will develop a fever with other symptoms such as headache, body aches, joint pains, vomiting, diarrhea, or rash. Most people with this type of West Nile virus disease recover completely, but fatigue and weakness can last for weeks or months.
Severe symptoms in a few people. Less than 1% of people who are infected will develop a serious neurologic illness such as encephalitis or meningitis (inflammation of the brain or surrounding tissues). The symptoms of neurologic illness can include headache, high fever, neck stiffness, disorientation, coma, tremors, seizures, or paralysis.
For more information about preventing mosquito bites and the spread of West Nile virus and other mosquito-borne illnesses, go to www.scdhec.gov/mosquitoes. Learn more about West Nile virus at www.scdhec.gov/westnile.
This entry was posted in Prevention, Public Health and tagged bite, breeding grounds, breeding sites, DEET, dump, IR 3535, mosquito-borne diseases, mosquito-borne illnesses, mosquitoes, oil of lemon eucalyptus, Picaridin, prevention, protect, repellent, season, tip and toss, virus, West Nile on August 9, 2018 by SC DHEC.
Post navigation
← Older posts
Newer posts →
Search for:
Connect WIth Us
Recent Posts
No Butts on the Beach
Breathe Better (B2) for Businesses
This Earth Day, Let’s Tackle Food Waste Together
Midlands Rivers Coalition Kicks Off 3rd Year of Water Quality Monitoring
DHEC Presents 2018 Community Star Awards to Santee Cooper, Brandon Burke
Tags
cancer
CDC
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
children
deaths
Department of Health and Environmental Control
DHEC
diabetes
disease
drugs
Environment
EPA
Flourish
flu
food
health
heart
heart disease
HIV
hospitalization
hurricane
illness
immunizations
Influenza
mosquito-borne diseases
mosquito-borne illnesses
mosquitoes
nutrition
obesity
opioids
outreach
overdose
Palmetto Health
prevention
Public Health
Safety
SCDHEC
shot
South Carolina
South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control
USDA
US Department of Agriculture
Vaccination
vaccine
vaccines
virus
West Nile
WIC
women
Zika
Helpful Links
CDC
SC EMD
SC Hospital Association
SCale Down
Search DHEC Jobs
Archives
April 2019
February 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel