5 Awful Travel Illnesses (And How to Avoid Them)
Skip to content
Destinations
Travel Tips
Features
Publish
About
Books & Guides
Search for:
5 Awful Travel Illnesses (And How to Avoid Them)
View Larger Image
One of the most interesting emails I’ve ever received was while interning at Peace Corps headquarters. The writer relayed in excruciating detail his experiences with a broken leg and a parasite while on his tour in Western Africa. His conclusion went something like this:
I’d love to join the Peace Corps again! But if possible, could you send me anywhere other than Africa?
I’m not sure if he made it to another placement, but unfortunately, there are plenty of terrifying diseases you can pick up anywhere you go. Let’s look at a few of these awful travel illnesses—with some tips on how to prevent them!
1. Chagas Disease
Guatemala: Not the only place to pick up Chagas Disease. Via Creative Commons.
This disease usually occurs in Central and South America, particularly in poverty-stricken areas. This tropical, parasitic illness can result from insect bites, blood transfusion, organ transplantation, and contaminated food.
During the acute phase, which lasts for the first couple of weeks to months after the infection, travelers may notice fever, body aches, rash, loss of appetite, and other flu-like symptoms. Symptoms often resolve on their own, though the infection may still be there—be sure to visit a doctor for an antiparasitic medication.
What makes it really awful?
The chronic stage! This can last over a lifetime and may include heart disease and intestinal issues. So let’s say you’re back from your awesome, month-long hike around Mexico, and a couple weeks later you’re bedridden with the flu. Or at least you think it’s the flu…
How to prevent it
Staying indoors in a well-constructed hotel or house can certainly help, as the insects that carry this disease often infest low-quality buildings. We’d recommend bringing along a mosquito net and wearing insect repellant—and watch what you eat!
2. Sleeping Sickness
Not pictured: Sleeping Sickness. Via Creative Commons.
Sleeping sickness is caused by a parasite carried by the tsetse fly in rural areas of Africa. Symptoms include extreme headaches and fatigue, swollen lymph nodes, skin rash, and muscle and joint aches.
What makes it really awful?
Sleeping sickness, despite its amazing name, can be deadly if untreated. As the disease progresses, infected individuals may experience confusion, personality changes, and neurological issues until eventual death within months of infection.
How to prevent it
If you’re traveling through rural parts of the African continent—both west and east—be sure to wear medium-weight, long shirts and trousers with neutral coloring. While the number of tsetse flies carrying the parasite to the number without it is quite low, be sure to check for them in any room or vehicle you enter.
3. Creeping Eruption or Larva Migrans
He sure looks adorable! Via Creative Commons.
Unlike the other awful travel illnesses on this list, creeping eruption fortunately is not deadly—but it is annoying. Most commonly found in the Americas, this skin irritation is caused by hookworms found in dog and cat droppings. Symptoms include an itchy, “creeping” rash on the skin, and the infection is totally curable with oral and topical medications.
What makes it really awful?
You can get it on your face. Also, if you scratch enough, you can get a secondary infection from open sores.
How to prevent it
Wash your hands and wear shoes wherever you’re walking.
4. Sun Poisoning
Wear sunscreen! Via Creative Commons.
The good news: You’re not actually poisoned. The bad news: Symptoms include a severe sunburn, swelling, headache, dizziness, nausea, and dehydration. Travelers often neglect sun protection while on jaunts to the beach, so at best sun poisoning can ruin your day and at worst, well…read on.
What makes it really awful?
Repeatedly going without some kind of protection from harmful UV rays can lead to skin cancer. While one case of sun poisoning can make for a miserable weekend, having it repeatedly can cause blisters, scarring, and much worse.
How to prevent it
The top three ways to prevent sun poisoning are to stay out of direct sunlight, cover up, and wear sunscreen. Of course if you’re hitting the beach, you probably don’t want to stay in the shade and wear long sleeves—but play it safe! Find a waterproof sunscreen and reapply it as often as directed. And of course if you start to burn or feel a headache coming on, make your way to shade.
5. Dengue Fever
Volcano near Managua, Nicaragua. Via Creative Commons.
Dengue Fever is another tropical illness contracted through bites—specifically, mosquito bites. Symptoms include fever, headache, muscle and joint aches, and skin rash.
What makes it really awful?
In some cases, this disease can develop into what’s called Dengue Hemorrhagic Fever, which is as terrifying as it sounds. Travelers also can develop Dengue Shock Syndrome, characterized by low blood pressure. For mild versions, rehydration may be the only necessary treatment, while more severe cases may call for IVs and blood transfusion.
How to prevent it
Many areas at risk of Dengue Fever’s spread have begun attempts to curb mosquito populations by employing insecticides and biological control agents. As a traveler, we’d recommend you wear long sleeves and insect repellant, and covering your bed with a mosquito net at night.
So, fellow travelers—remember that anywhere you go, you’re at risk of some kind of illness. Taking preventative steps and being aware of your surroundings—and proactive on your treatment—can do a world of good while you explore the globe.
Now, anyone care to share some more tips and, dare I say it, awful travel illnesses to look out for?
Want to learn more about traveling like a pro? Join our community and start the conversation!
2019-04-04T15:03:11-04:00By Sarah Vandenberg|Categories: Travel Tips, Uncategorized|
Subscribe for Weekly Travel Inspiration!
Leave this field empty if you're human:
Join the Community!
We've created a brand-new Facebook group to discuss digital nomad lifestyle, travel tips, travel writing and blogging advice, and lots more. Check it out!
© Copyright Frayed Passport | All Rights Reserved | Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions
FacebookRssTwitterPinterest