3 Ways To Prevent Cataracts - Visiting Your Eye Doctor
3 Ways To Prevent Cataracts
15 June 2015
As we age, we all face the possibility of developing cataracts in our eyes. Fortunately, there are many different things that you can do in order to help prevent cataracts from forming.
1. Wear Sunglasses
One of the best things that you can do to help prevent cataracts is wearing sunglasses. Anytime you are planning on being outside for more then just a few minutes, you should make sure that you have sunglasses on.
However, not just any glasses will suffice. In order to get maximum protection from your sunglasses, choose ones whose product labels state that they block 99 or 100 percent of both UVA and UVB rays. It's best to avoid wearing yellow or rose tinted lenses while driving. The reason for this is that they can make it difficult to distinguish changes in the colors of the traffic lights. Also, wearing a wide-brimmed hat offers further protection from the damaging effects that the sun can have on your eyes.
2. Take A Good Multivitamin
Taking a good multivitamin every day is a great way to enhance your overall health and well-being. Taking a daily multivitamin is also really beneficial for your eyes. Many studies have shown that people taking a daily multivitamin are less likely to develop cataracts.
3. Stop Smoking And Reduce Alcohol Intake
Both smoking and excessive alcohol intake have been shown to greatly increase the likelihood of developing cataracts. Some studies have shown that smokers are more likely to develop cataracts than non-smokers are. If you are currently a smoker then you should get started on a smoking cessation program right away and try to quit smoking just as soon as possible. If you're not sure what the best way is to quit smoking, just ask your doctor and he should be more than happy to assist you with this.
A glass of wine or two can actually be beneficial to your overall health. However, if you tend to drink excessively then you should definitely try to cut back since this can also lead to cataracts. Most health professionals would classify drinking more then 4 drinks a day for men or more then 3 drinks a day for women as excessive.
There's no doubt that cataracts can be very unpleasant to have to deal with. Luckily though, trying even just one or two of these tips should go a really long ways in helping to prevent cataracts. If you already have cataracts, following these tips may at least help to prevent your cataracts from progressing and getting worse over time.
For more information on cataracts, contact a doctor from a place like Northwest Ophthalmology.
About Me
When I started feeling a lot of eye dryness, I knew that I needed to contact my optometrist right away. I have never been great at reaching out to medical professionals, but the problem was getting bad enough that I felt like I was using eyedrops all day long. I made an appointment with a professional in my area, and he was a lot of help. He discovered that I had a few clogged tear ducts, which were making my eye so uncomfortable. This blog is all about the importance of visiting your eye doctor and recovering from common eye issues.
Search
Tags
Archive
2015
2016
2017© Visiting Your Eye Doctor