INDIA: Its official now: Radiation from your cell phone may be killing you. (...) - Asociación Vallisoletana de Afectad@s por las Antenas de Telecomunicaciones - AVAATE
¿Qué es AVAATE? | Contacto | RSS 2.0 | Mapa del sitio | Conectarse | | Buscar
Asociación Vallisoletana de Afectad@s por las Antenas de Telecomunicaciones - AVAATE
Campañas
Contadores
Documentos
Electrosensibilidad
Fauna
Jurisprudencia
Prensa
Sitios web sobre telefonía móvil y salud
Portada del sitio > Prensa > INDIA: Its official now: Radiation from your cell phone may be killing you. (...)
INDIA: Its official now: Radiation from your cell phone may be killing you. VER EL EXCELENTE INFORME COMPLETO DEL Prof Girish Kumar, ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT IIT Bombay
Viernes 14 de enero de 2011 · 1416 lecturas
Its official now: Radiation from your cell phone may be killing you
Published: Sunday, Jan 2, 2011, 17:36 IST
By Priya Adhyaru Majithia | Place: Ahmedabad | Agency: DNA
After many years of debate over the health hazards posed by mobile phones, a recent report finally establishes it.
The exhaustive report has been submitted recently to the Department of Telecom by Prof Girish Kumar of IIT-Bombay’s department of electrical engineering.
Kumar, who has done extensive research on cell phone radiation and its effects warns against excessive use of cell phones as they put users, to increased risk of cancer, brain tumour and many other health hazards. More so in case of children.
The major health hazards of radiation from cell phones and cell towers are as given below:
_A 400% increase in the risk of brain cancer among for teenagers using cell phones. Children are more vulnerable to cell phone radiation. The younger the child, the deeper is the penetration of electromagnetic radiation as children’s skulls are thinner.
_Excessive use of mobile phones can also cause cancer in anyone. Use of cell phones for more than 30 minutes per day for 10 years increases the risk of brain cancer and acoustic neuroma.
_Cell phone radiation causes irreversible damage to male fertility. Studies have found 30% lower sperm count in intensive users of mobile phones.
_Cell phone frequencies can cause damage to the DNA of the body’s cells. Radiation causes ’free radical formation’ inside the body’s cells; the free radicals are known to be carcinogenic.
_Cell phone frequencies interfere with the functioning of other life-saving gadgets, including implanted pace-makers, and may, therefore, cause sudden death.
_Mobile phone exposure can activate the stress response in human and animal cells which causes production of stress proteins. This is proof enough that the body recognises radiations from cell phones as potentially harmful.
_Electromagnetic fields caused by cell phone and cell tower radiation degrade the immune system and stimulate allergic\inflammatory responses, including rashes, sores, biting sensations and lesions.
_People using cell phones for more than 30 minutes a day for more than four years are at a higher risk of hearing loss. Cell phone radiation can cause tinnitus and damage the auditory hair cells present in the inner ear. Once damaged, these cells can never regenerate.
_Frequent use of mobile phones can also damage the visual system in many ways. Cell phone frequencies (900, 1800 MHz and 2450 MHz) damage epithelial cells and increase the temperature within the eye.
_Cell phone emissions weaken bones and can cause reduction in melatonin (a type of antioxidant which is immune system enhancer) levels.
_An increased risk of salivary gland cancer is linked to the use of mobile phones.
_Exposure to electromagnetic fields can cause sleep disorders and neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease.
_Due to consistent electromagnetic background noise, bees and birds become disoriented and cannot return to their hives and nests. It has adverse effects on animals, plants and the environment.
VER EL EXCELENTE INFORME COMPLETO: REPORT
ON
CELL TOWER RADIATION
Submitted To
Secretary, DOT, Delhi
Prepared By
Prof. Girish Kumar
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
IIT Bombay, Powai, Mumai - 400 076
gkumar ee.iitb.ac.in
December 2010 AQUÍ
Ver la noticia original AQUÍ
Si quieres hacernos un comentario, por favor escribe un CORREO a avaate@avaate.org o utiliza este FORMULARIO DE CONTACTO. Muchas gracias.
Enviar un mensaje
Tu correo electrónico
Asunto
Por favor, deje este campo vacío :
Texto de su mensaje
Por favor, deje este campo vacío :
Recomendar esta página
Tu correo electrónico
Destinatario
Texto de su mensaje
Por favor, deje este campo vacío :
Buscar
Temas relacionados
Alzheimer (29 artículo/s )
Antenas (1713 artículo/s )
Fertilidad (52 artículo/s )
Genotóxico (57 artículo/s )
Inglés (901 artículo/s )
Noticia (1598 artículo/s )
Resto del mundo (585 artículo/s )
Síndrome de microondas (112 artículo/s )
Sistema inmunitario (21 artículo/s )
Teléfonos móviles (807 artículo/s )
Tinnitus (9 artículo/s )
Tumor cerebral (188 artículo/s )
Otros grupos de temas
Ámbito territorial
Asuntos
Autores
Campañas
Dolencias y síntomas
Edición
Idioma
Te interesa saber
Últimos artículos en la misma sección
LA QUIMERA DEL 5G
18·04·2019
FLORENCIA: Firenze frena sul 5G e applica il Principio di Precauzione. Approvata con voto (quasi) unanime la mozione in difesa della salute
11·04·2019
Brussels Becomes First Major City to Halt 5G Due to Health Effects
3·04·2019
Cuando tu hijo de 9 años te pida un móvil…
29·03·2019
EL GARCÍA QUINTANA CALIFORNIANO. Fourth Ripon student has cancer. Parents demand removal of cell tower from school
14·03·2019
ASTURIAS: Piden a Educación instalar interruptores para apagar el wifi del Hermanos Arregui
27·02·2019
Électrosensibilité• Un technicien reconnu en maladie professionnelle
15·02·2019
Finally, Health Effects Were Mentioned in 5G Senate Commerce Committee Hearing. Blumenthal: The American People Deserve To Know
8·02·2019
Un éleveur de lapins lance un appel. Après avoir perdu 200 000 bêtes, il soupçonne une antenne relais d’être à l’origine de cette hécatombe.
7·02·2019
Italian Court Orders Public Safety Campaign to advise the public of the health risks from mobile and cordless phones
17·01·2019
2005 - 2019 Asociación Vallisoletana de Afectad@s por las Antenas de Telecomunicaciones - AVAATE
2720 artículos. 53 enlaces. 9 redactor@s. | WEB by IVM