Category: Garage - Coffee Love
“Fear, uncertainty and discomfort are your compasses toward growth.” Unknown
Coffee Love
Home
My shoebox
A bit about me
Just for sharing >
Tips, ideas, hints ... and such
Stay the Course >
Tribute to our Military >
We do Remember
Hungry? >
Appetizers
Bread
Casseroles
Crockpot Love
Meats
Veggies
Desserts - oh my!
Various Links
Heart Blog
Coffee Thoughts
Our ^Angels^ >
My Sweetheart
^Angel^ Memories
Let's go! >
Where?
My Life List >
Less of Me
Calendar
Picture Albums
Genealogy
Memories
Kids & grandkids
Heart touches
Contact Me
WD-40
9/24/2018
0 Comments
In 1953, a fledgling company called Rocket Chemical Company and its staff of three set out to create a line of rust-prevention solvents and degreasers for use in the aerospace industry, in a small lab in San Diego, California.
It took them 40 attempts to get the water displacing formula worked out. But they must have been really good, because the original secret formula for WD-40®—which stands for Water Displacement perfected on the 40th try—is still in use today.
Convair, an aerospace contractor, first usedWD-40 to protect the outer skin of the Atlas Missile from rust and corrosion. The product actually worked so well that several employees snuck some WD-40 cans out of the plant to use at home.
A few years following WD-40's first industrial use, Rocket Chemical Company founder Norm Larsen experimented with putting WD-40into aerosol cans, reasoning that consumers might find a use for the product at home as some of the employees had. The product made its first appearance on store shelves in San Diego in 1958.
In 1960 the company nearly doubled in size, growing to seven people, who sold an average of 45 cases per day from the trunk of their cars to hardware and sporting goods stores in the San Diego area.
In 1961 the first full truckload order for WD-40 was filled when employees came in on a Saturday to produce additional concentrate to meet the disaster needs of the victims of Hurricane Carla along the U.S. Gulf coast. WD-40 was used to recondition flood and rain damaged vehicles and equipment.
In 1969 the company was renamed after its only product,
WD-40 Company, Inc.
In 1973, WD-40 Company, Inc., went public and was listed Over-The-Counter. The stock price increased by 61% on the first day of listing.
Since that time, WD-40 has grown by leaps and bounds, and is now virtually a household name, used in numerous consumer and industrial markets such as automotive, manufacturing, sporting goods, aviation, hardware and home improvement, construction, and farming.
In 1993, WD-40 was found to be in 4 out of 5 American households (it seems everyone has a can or two) and was used by 81 percent of professionals at work. Sales had grown to more than one million cans each week.
In 2003, the new WD-40 Big Blast can was introduced, featuring a wide-area spray nozzle that delivers WD-40 quickly and efficiently over large areas.
In 2005, as a commitment to offering consumers the easiest, most convenient way to get the job done, WD-40 Company introduced the WD-40 Smart Straw®, which features a permanently attached straw. The Smart Straw can solved the number one complaint about WD-40 products losing the little red straw.
In 2006, WD-40 Company introduced the WD-40 No-Mess Pen® to provide millions of WD-40 users a portable, precision-application delivery system of the famous multi-purpose problem solver. TheWD-40 Fan Club also reached an astonishing 100,000 members & a tribute to WD-40’s fanatical fan base around the globe.
In 2008, WD-40 Company listened to its consumers and converted its most popular-size WD-40 cans to WD-40 Smart Straw® cans. The official list of 2000+ Uses for WD-40 also grew for the first time, thanks to the help of WD-40 Fan Club members.
In 2009, WD-40 Company introduced WD-40 Trigger Pro® – a non-aerosol product with the same WD-40 formula – to better meet the needs of its industrial consumers.
In 2011, WD-40 Company introduced WD-40® Specialist® – a new line of best-in-class specialty products under the WD-40 brand geared toward trade professionals.
WD-40 Uses:
1. Protects silver from tarnishing.
2. Removes road tar and grime from cars.
3. Cleans and lubricates guitar strings.
4. Gives floor that 'just-waxed' sheen without making them slippery.
5. Keeps the flies off of Cows, Horses, and other Farm Critters, as well. (Ya gotta love this one!!!)
6. Restores and cleans chalkboards.
7. Removes lipstick stains.
8. Loosens stubborn zippers.
9. Untangles jewelry chains.
10. Removes stains from stainless steel sinks.
11. Removes dirt and grime from the barbecue grill.
12. Keeps ceramic / terracotta garden pots from oxidizing.
13. Removes tomato stains from clothing.
14. Keeps glass shower doors free of water spots.
15. Camouflages scratches in ceramic and marble floors.
16. Keeps scissors working smoothly.
17. Lubricates noisy door hinges on both home and vehicles doors.
18. It removes that nasty tar and scuff marks from the kitchen flooring.
It doesn't seem to harm the finish and you won't have to scrub nearly as hard to get them off.
Just remember to open some windows if you have a lot of marks.
19. Remove those nasty Bug guts that will eat away the finish on your car if not removed quickly!
20. Gives a children's playground gym slide a shine for a super fast slide.
21. Lubricates gearshift and mower deck lever for ease of handling on riding mowers...
22. Rids kids rocking chair and swings of squeaky noises.
23. Lubricates tracks in sticking home windows and makes them easier to open.
24. Spraying an umbrella stem makes it easier to open and close.
25. Restores and cleans padded leather dashboards in vehicles, as well as vinyl bumpers.
26. Restores and cleans roof racks on vehicles.
27. Lubricates and stops squeaks in electric fans.
28. Lubricates wheel sprockets on tricycles, wagons, and bicycles for easy handling.
29. Lubricates fan belts on washers and dryers and keeps them running smoothly.
30. Keeps rust from forming on saws and saw blades, and other tools.
31. Removes grease splatters from stove-tops.
32. Keeps bathroom mirror from fogging.
33. Lubricates prosthetic limbs.
34. Keeps pigeons off the balcony (they hate the smell).
35. Removes all traces of duct tape.
36. Folks even spray it on their arms, hands, and knees to relieve arthritis pain.
37. Florida's favorite use is: 'cleans and removes love bugs from grills and bumpers.'
38. The favorite use in the state of New York, it protects the Statue of Liberty from the elements.
39. WD-40 attracts fish. Spray a little on live bait or lures and you will be catching the big one in no time. Also, it's a lot cheaper than the chemical attractants that are made for just that purpose.
Keep in mind though, using some chemical laced baits or lures for fishing are not allowed in some states.
40. Use it for fire ant bites. It takes the sting away immediately and stops the itch.
41. It is great for removing crayon from walls. Spray it on the marks and wipe with a clean rag.
42. Also, if you've discovered that your teenage daughter has washed and dried a tube of lipstick with a load of laundry, saturate the lipstick spots with WD-40 and rewash. Presto! The lipstick is gone!
43. If you spray it inside a wet distributor cap, it will displace the moisture, allowing the engine to start.
And for the rest of the 2000+ uses ... visit HERE
Information here was taken from the WD-40 website ...
as well as from around the web ...
and from personal experience and uses.
0 Comments
Baking Soda ...
9/24/2018
0 Comments
1. Facial scrub. Make a paste of 3 parts baking soda to 1 part water. Rub on skin in a circular motion. Rinse clean.
2. Freshen your mouth. Put one teaspoon of baking soda in a half glass of water then swish, spit and rinse.
3. Treat insect bites. Make a paste out of baking soda and water and apply to affected area.
4. Clean brushes and combs. Remove oil build-up and hair products by soaking combs and brushes in a small basin of warm water with 1 teaspoon of baking soda in it. Rinse and allow to dry.
5. Soothe your feet. Dissolve 3 tablespoons of baking soda in a warm bath. Let feet soak and gently scrub.
6. Clean the microwave. Apply baking soda to a clean, damp sponge and scrub out the microwave. Rinse well with water.
7. Clean the oven. Sprinkle baking soda on the bottom of the oven. Spray baking soda with water and let sit overnight. In the morning, scrub and wipe away residue.
8. Hand wash dishes, pots and pans. Add 2 heaping tablespoons of baking soda (in addition to your regular detergent) to the dish water to help cut grease and remove foods left on dishes.
9. Clean sponges. Soak smelly sponges in 4 tablespoons of baking soda dissolved in 1 quart of warm water.
10. Polish Silverware. Make a baking soda paste with 3 parts baking soda and 1 part water. Rub onto silverware with a clean cloth or sponge and rinse thoroughly.
11. Clean floors. Add 1/2 cup baking soda to a bucket of warm water. Mop floor and rinse clean.
12. Clean furniture. Apply baking soda to a damp sponge and rub lightly. Wipe off with a clean, dry cloth.
13. Remove oil and gas stains. Sprinkle baking soda on stain and scrub with a wet brush.
14. Boost liquid laundry detergent. Add a 1/2 cup of baking soda to laundry to help clothes get cleaner, fresher and brighter.
15. Clean shower curtains. Sprinkle baking soda directly on a damp sponge. Scrub the shower curtain and rinse clean.
16. Clean cloth diapers. Dissolve 1/2 cup of baking soda in 2 quarts of water and soak diapers thoroughly.
17. Clean batteries. Baking soda can neutralize battery acid corrosion on cars, mowers, etc. because it is a mild alkali. To clean, disconnect the battery terminals. Make a paste of 3 parts baking soda to 1 part water and apply with a damp cloth and scrub corrosion from the battery terminal.
18. Freshen your fridge. Place an opened box of baking soda in your refrigerator to neutralize odors.
19. Deodorize trash cans. Sprinkle baking soda in the bottom of your trash can to help cut smells and odors.
20. Extinguish fires. For small cooking fires, turn off the gas or electricity if possible. Stand back and throw handfuls of baking soda at the base of the flame to help put out the fire.
21. Fruit and veggie scrub. Sprinkle a little baking soda on a damp sponge, rub on fruit/veggies and rinse.
22. Remove marks from walls. Create a paste with 3 parts baking soda to 1 part water and use to scrub walls and remove crayon and other marks.
23. Remove grunge from grills. Sprinkle baking soda on your grill and scrub with a brush. Wipe clean with a damp rag.
24. Septic care. Regular use of baking soda in your drains can keep your septic system flowing freely. One cup of baking soda per week will maintain a good pH balance in your septic tank.
25. Clean baby toys. Mix 4 tablespoons of baking soda with 1 quart of warm water. Soak toys and rinse well.
26. Clean counters. Sprinkle baking soda on your counter and scrub with a damp sponge. Wipe clean with a damp rag.
27. Deodorize and clean dishwashers. Sprinkle baking soda in the bottom of your dishwasher and run as usual.
28. Freshen rugs. Sprinkle baking soda on rugs and let sit for at least 15 minutes. Shake rugs clean or vacuum off.
29. Brighten dull floors. Dissolve 1/2 cup baking soda in a bucket of hot water. Mop and rinse for shiny floors.
30. DIY bathroom scrub. Mix 1/4 cup baking soda with 1 tablespoon liquid detergent. Add a little vinegar to give it a creamy texture and use to clean your tubs and sinks.
31. Brush pet teeth. Sprinkle baking soda on a toothbrush and use to safely brush your pet's teeth.
32. Sunburn relief. Mix baking soda with a little water and apply to sore areas to soothe pain.
33. Fight dandruff. Massage scalp with a handful of baking soda to slough off dry skin.
34. Deodorize garbage disposals. Pour baking soda down the drain while running warm tap water.
35. Freshen breath. Mix a little baking soda in a small cup of water and gargle to freshen breath.
36. Clean toothbrushes. Soak bristle end of toothbrushes in a mixture of 1/4 cup water and 1/4 cup baking soda. Let sit overnight and rinse.
37. Make fluffier omelets. Add 1/2 teaspoon baking soda for every 3 eggs.
38. Deodorize lunch boxes. Between uses, place a spill-proof box of baking soda in lunch boxes to absorb odors.
39. Repel rain. Sprinkle baking soda on your windshield and wipe away to help repel rain.
40. Remove insecticides. Fill your sink with water and mix in 1/4 cup of baking soda. Wash fruits and vegetables in the water to safely remove insecticides.
41. Fresh smelling drawers. Pour some baking soda into a sock and tie the top in a knot. Keep the filled sock in your drawer to help keep it fresh smelling.
42. Check soil acidity. Soil needs to be acidic for plants and vegetation to grow properly. To check if your soil is acidic enough, mix 1/4 cup of baking soda with 2 cups of water then stir in 1 cup of soil. If the mixture bubbles, then your soil is acidic enough.
43. Relieve itchy skin. Sprinkle baking soda in a bath tub filled with warm water and add 1/4 cup of baby oil to help soften and relieve itchy skin.
44. Deodorize drains. To deodorize sink and tub drains, pour 1/2 cup of baking soda down the drain while running warm tap water.
45. Freshen patio furniture. Sprinkle patio furniture and cushions with baking soda before storing them for the winter to help them stay fresh smelling until summer.
46. Resist split ends. Add a little baking soda to your conditioner and lather in your hair to clean and help prevent split ends.
47. Poison ivy relief. Mix baking soda with a little water and apply to affected area to soothe skin.
48. Unclog drains. Pour one cup of baking soda followed by one cup of hot vinegar to unclog a drain.
49. Keep away weeds. Sprinkle baking soda on cracks in your driveway and sidewalk to help prevent weed growth.
50. Deodorize the cutting boards. Sprinkle cutting boards with baking soda, scrub and rinse.
51. Razor burn relief. Rub a paste of baking soda and water on irritated area.
52. Clean finger and toe nails. Dip a nail brush in baking soda and scrub to clean nails and soften cuticles.
53. Make bubbling bath salts. Mix 2 1/2 cups baking soda, 2 cups cream of tartar and 1/2 cup cornstarch. Mix together and store in a container. Use 1/4 cup in each bath.
54. Remove calluses. Massage a paste of 3 parts baking soda to 1 part water on heels/feet to smooth rough calluses or heels.
55. Deodorize recyclables. Sprinkle baking soda on top as you add to the container. You can also sprinkle baking soda on a damp sponge, wipe clean and rinse.
56. Remove odor from hands. Remove the smell of fish, onion or garlic with a solution of 3 parts baking soda to 1 part water or liquid soap. Rinse off and dry.
57. Exfoliate elbows and knees. Make a paste with baking soda and water and rub on elbows and knees to remove dry skin.
58. Revitalize your feet. Soak tired feet in a basin fill with warm water and 3 tablespoons of baking soda.
59. Chlorine remover. Rinse hair with 1/2 teaspoon of baking soda in 1 pint of water to remove dullness or discoloration in hair caused by chlorine.
60. Remove odor from carpets. Sprinkle baking soda on the carpet. Let sit overnight and vacuum up in the morning.
61. Relieve body odor. Mix a cup of baking soda in a bathtub filled with cool water will help cause body odor causing bacteria. Bathe as usual.
62. Fill holes in the wall. Mix white toothpaste and baking soda together. Fill in the holes and allow to dry.
63. Freshen the smell of your car. Fill your ashtray with baking soda to neutralize and freshen the air in your vehicle.
64. Polish chrome. Make a paste of baking soda and water, dip a rag in it, rub it on chrome and wipe off for a shiny polished look.
65. Deodorize your wash. Smelly clothes can be neutralized with 1/2 cup of baking soda in the rinse cycle of your wash.
66. Remove water rings and spots. Make a paste with baking soda and water and combine with a little toothpaste. Dip a soft cloth in the paste and rub away rings and spots from wood.
67. Freshen up fireplaces. Clean all ashes out of your fireplace and place a bowl filled with baking soda inside of it to remove unwanted odors.
68. Remove bean bloat. Sprinkle a teaspoon of baking soda in your water when soaking beans to remove what causes gas and bloat when eating them.
69. Remove hair buildup. Mix a teaspoon of baking soda in with your shampoo and wash as usual to remove unwanted buildup.
70. Whiten teeth. Dip your toothbrush in baking soda before every brushing and brush teeth as usual to white teeth naturally.
71. Freshen closets. Place an open box of baking soda on a shelf to keep the closet smelling fresh.
72. Remove sauce stains. Make a paste of baking soda and water and scrub on plastic containers stained with red sauces to remove stains.
73. Melt the ice. Sprinkle baking soda on icy steps and sidewalk to help melt ice and provide traction.
74. Remove sweat stains. Make a paste of baking soda and water, spread on stain, let sit for an hour and wash as usual.
75. Acne clearing mask. Make a paste of baking soda and water, spread on face, let sit for 5-7 minutes and rinse off with warm water.
76. Clean retainers or dentures. Sprinkle baking soda on a toothbrush and brush retainers or dentures then rinse under water.
77. Clean burned on food off pots and pans. Fill pots and pans with hot water, sprinkle in a few teaspoons of baking soda, and let sit for 10 minutes before washing.
78. Remove odors from vacuum cleaners. Sprinkle baking soda on the carpet and vacuum up to remove odors inside your vacuum.
79. Remove grease stains from garage floors. Sprinkle baking soda on the grease to absorb the oils, scrub and rinse.
80. Clean marble. Add 3 teaspoons of baking soda to a quart of warm water. Dip a clean cloth in the water and wipe down marble.
81. Clean shoes. Make a paste of baking soda and water, apply to shoes, scrub with a sponge or rag and wipe off.
82. Freshen stuffed animals. Sprinkle baking soda on toys and let sit for at least 15 minutes before brushing or vacuuming off.
83. Deodorize cars. Eliminate odors settled into car upholstery and carpet by sprinkling baking soda onto fabric seats and carpets. Wait at least 15 minutes, and vacuum up.
84. Clean and deodorize toilets. Add a cup of baking soda to a toilet, let sit for and hour and flush to clean and freshen.
85. Clean stinky pets. Sprinkle baking soda on your pets fur and brush through to help deodorize fur and hair.
86. Sweeten tomatoes. Sprinkle baking soda in the soil surrounding your tomato plants to give them a sweeter flavor.
87. Repel bugs. Sprinkle baking soda along basement windows and under sinks to repel cockroaches and ants.
88. Deodorize kitty litter. Cover the bottom of the kitty litter pan with baking soda and fill as usual. You can also sprinkle baking soda on top of litter.
89. Protect your garden. Sprinkle baking soda around your garden and vegetables to keep rabbits and other animals from eating them.
90. Fix stiff brushes. Boil brushes in 1/2 gallon of water, 1/4 cup vinegar and 1 cup of baking soda.
91. Deodorize smelly dish rags. Soak dish rags in a warm container of water and baking soda.
92. Make modeling clay. Mix baking soda with 1/4 cup of water and 1 cup of cornstarch until it reaches a clay like consistency.
93. Deodorize pet bedding. Sprinkle bedding liberally with baking soda, wait at least 15 minutes then vacuum up.
94. Freshen the air. Mix baking soda with your favorite perfumed bath salts, place in small breathable fabric bags and place around your house.
95. Relieve jelly fish stings. Apply paste of baking soda and water to a jelly fish sting to draw out the venom.
96. Relieve diaper rash. Add 2 teaspoons of baking soda to baby's bath water to help relieve diaper rash.
97. Freshen up stinky shoes. Sprinkle baking soda into shoes when not in use. Shake out before wearing.
98. Longer lasting flowers. Add a teaspoon of baking soda to the water in your vase with fresh cut flowers to help them live longer.
99. Unclog stuffy noses. Add 1 teaspoon of baking soda to the water in your vaporizer to help clear stuffy sinuses.
100. Freshen linens. Add 1/2 cup of baking soda to the rinse cycle in your washing machine for fresher sheets and towels.
101. Relieve heartburn. Add 1 teaspoon of baking soda to 1/2 cup of water and drink to neutralize stomach acids.
0 Comments
Did you know???
7/3/2013
0 Comments
(borrowed from another poster ...)
1. Budweiser beer conditions the hair
2. Pam cooking spray will dry finger nail polish
3. Cool whip will condition your hair in 15 minutes
4. Mayonnaise will KILL LICE, it will also condition your hair
5. Elmer's Glue - paint on your face, allow it to dry, peel off and see the dead skin and blackheads if any.
6. Shiny Hair - use brewed Lipton Tea
7. Sunburn - empty a large jar of Nestea into your bath water
8. Minor burn - Colgate or Crest toothpaste
9. Burn your tongue? Put sugar on it!
10. Arthritis? WD-40 Spray and rub in, kill insect stings too
11 Bee stings - meat tenderizer
12. Chigger bite - Preparation H
13. Puffy eyes - Preparation H
14. Paper cut - crazy glue or chap stick (glue is used instead of sutures at most hospitals)
15. Stinky feet - Jello !
16. Athletes feet - cornstarch
17. Fungus on toenails or fingernails - Vicks vapor rub
18. Kool aid to clean dishwasher pipes. Just put in the detergent section and run a cycle, it will also clean a toilet. (Wow, and we drink this stuff)
19. Kool Aid can be used as a dye in paint also Kool Aid in Dannon plain yogurt as a finger paint, your kids will love it and it won't hurt them if they eat it!
20. Peanut butter - will get scratches out of CD's! Wipe off with a coffee filter paper
21. Sticking bicycle chain - Pam no-stick cooking spray
22. Pam will also remove paint, and grease from your hands! Keep a can in your garage for your hubby
23. Peanut butter will remove ink from the face of dolls
24. When the doll clothes are hard to put on, sprinkle with corn starch and watch them slide on
25. Heavy dandruff - pour on the vinegar !
26. Body paint - Crisco mixed with food coloring. Heat the Crisco in the microwave, pour in to an empty film container and mix with the food color of your choice!
27 Tie Dye T-shirt - mix a solution of Kool Aid in a container, tie a rubber band around a section of the T-shirt and soak
28. Preserving a newspaper clipping - large bottle of club soda and cup of milk of magnesia , soak for 20 min. and let dry, will last for many years!
29. A Slinky will hold toast and CD's!
30. To keep goggles and glasses from fogging, coat with Colgate toothpaste
31. Wine stains, pour on the Morton salt and watch it absorb into the salt.
32. To remove wax - Take a paper towel and iron it over the wax stain, it will absorb into the towel.
33. Remove labels off glassware etc. rub with Peanut butter!
34. Baked on food - fill container with water, get a Bounce paper softener and the static from the Bounce towel will cause the baked on food to adhere to it. Soak overnight. Also; you can use 2 Efferdent tablets , soak overnight!
35. Crayon on the wall - Colgate toothpaste and brush it!
36.. Dirty grout - Listerine
37. Stains on clothes - Colgate toothpaste
38. Grass stains - Karo Syrup
39. Grease Stains - Coca Cola , it will also remove grease stains from the driveway overnight. We know it will take corrosion from car batteries!
40. Fleas in your carpet? 20 Mule Team Borax- sprinkle and let stand for 24 hours. Maybe this will work if you get them back again.
41. To keep FRESH FLOWERS longer Add a little Clorox , or 2 Bayer aspirin , or just use 7-up instead of water.
42. When you go to buy bread in the grocery store, have you ever wondered which is the freshest, so you 'squeeze' for freshness or softness? Did you know that bread is delivered fresh to the stores five days a week? Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday. Each day has a different color twist tie.
They are:
Monday = Blue,
Tuesday = Green,
Thursday = Red
Friday = White
Saturday = Yellow.
So if today was Thursday, you would want red twist tie; not white which is Fridays (almost a week old)! The colors go alphabetically by color Blue- Green - Red - White - Yellow, Monday through Saturday. Very easy to remember. I thought this was interesting. I looked in the grocery store and the bread wrappers DO have different twist ties, and even the ones with the plastic clips have different colors. You learn something new everyday! Enjoy fresh bread when you buy bread with the right color on the day you are shopping.
Don't forget Gatorade for Migraine Headaches. PowerAde won't work.
Pass this information on to friends so they can be informed.
0 Comments
Archives
September 2018
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
July 2013
October 2012
September 2012
Categories
All
Apple Cider
Around The House
Baking
Baking Soda
Burns
Candles
Cinnamon
Cleaning
Coffee Filters
Cooking
Crafts
Critters
Cucumbers
Diet
Garage
Hair
Headaches
Health
Holidays
Honey
Hydrogen Peroxide
Kitchen
Olive Oil
Organization
Outside
Pets
Stains
Storage
Sunburn
Travel
Vinegar
WD-40
RSS Feed
Website designed & developed by Margaret McCoy
​
Learning to laugh, to love, to live ... again ... alone
Life goes on ... even when we don't want it to.
Great grief is indicative of a great Love.
Rick, my Sweetheart.
Margaret, his Beloved.
Always & Forever.
​