Cures
Republican Logo Change
Home
About
Prayer
FEMA
Counseling
News
Breaking World
China
Church
Finances
Mark of The Beast >
India Microchipped
Health & Nutrition >
Bill of Rights
Anti-Inflammatory
Cures
Home and Garden >
Cure Salmon
Honey Wine
Nutrition
Herb Maintenance
Videos
Police State
Obama’s America 2016 – Full Video >
Articles - Astronomy and Astrophysics Questions and Answers >
Prophecy >
Groups >
Covenants >
Ministry Tools >
Altered Bible Verses - Sample
Eternal Security
Salvation Message
Singles
Prophetic Signs
False Religions
Donate Today
Contact
Blog
Forum
Games
Covenants
Privacy Policy
Salvation Note
Great GIF's
CURES
China
Church
FEMA
Finances
Mark of the Beast - India Microchipped
Health & Nutrition
Nutrition
Police State
HOME & GARDEN
Cure Cancer with Baking Soda
Curing Cancer with Baking Soda:
What MD’s and Naturopaths Don’t Know
by Gregory Delaney
Wouldn’t the delusional physicians and the big pharmacology swindlers be embarrassed to find that cancer could be cured with nothing more complicated than ordinary baking soda? Well, no, they wouldn’t be embarrassed because they would be outraged. All of their billions in profits vanishing in a twinkle, would not have these betrayers of Mankind at all happy with such a simple cancer cure. And yet, cancer can be cured with nothing more complicated than ordinary baking soda. And I will explain how.
While the greedy physicians and the cancer industry robber barons have been using every imaginable method for treating the symptoms of cancer, and while millions of people have suffered and died under the most astounding variety of mechanical, chemical, bio-technological and radiological absurdities, little progress in curing cancer has actually been made. And why? Well, to understand why, you would have to understandwho is treating cancer before you can understand why it is not being cured. Who are these cancer physicians who claim to know so much yet fail to do anything useful?
Firstly, they are people who admit that they don’t know the cause of cancer or how to cure it. And yet they insist that they be allowed to “practice medicine” anyway! These oncologists admit that no matter what they do, you are going to die anyway, and so why not let them do something since they can make better use of your money than you can. Even though they admit that they don’t know what they are doing, they offer you just two (and only two) choices: (1) let them cut-poison-irradiate-and-transplant you which includes a free estimation of how long you will live or (2) do nothing at all which also includes a free, but much shorter, estimation of how long you will live. And so, with such limited choices, most people prefer to bequeath their savings account to the doctors for choice number one. At best, the physicians promise to drug you into unconsciousness so that you do not feel any pain either from your tumors or from their billing department.
But what happens if you don’t take their advice and choose alternative medicine, instead – you know, the choice that the doctors never mention to their patients? Since it has been proven that hospital patients live longer when the doctors go on strike, then alternative medicine is obviously better than a placebo. But they never mention that, either.
Secondly, these oncologists with all of their fancy degrees and years of microscopic confusion are really nothing more than disciples of fraud. This fraud is known as “symptomatic medicine”. And these cancer physicians prove their idiocy on a daily basis by classifying cancer as a “disease”. Would it be a joke on them if it was discovered that cancer really is not a disease at all but merely a “symptom” of something else? Hundreds of millions of dying cancer patients would certainly not be laughing. And millions of billionaire Big Pharma swindlers would not be laughing, either. Would it be a joke if it was discovered that cancer is not a disease at all and that these swindling greed-bags were actually mistaking the symptoms for the disease? I don’t think there would be much laughter in finding this to be true; but it is true. And here’s how this simple cure works.
The cancer quacks who are known as “modern physicians” (or oncology engineers), all know that there are many things that cause cancer. Does this ring a bell in their mighty brains? No, of course not. If there are many things that cause cancer, then how can cancer be classified as a disease? Isn’t it true, rather, that the many causative agents are the disease while the manifestations of tumors and malignancies are actually the symptom? This may seem strange but think about it a bit. And you alternative practitioners had better think about it a bit since the physicians have already proven that they are on the wrong track and haven’t thought about it enough.
If many things cause cancer (radiation, chemicals, viruses, sunlight, etc.) then even the dumbest physician knows enough to remove the primary cause. So, patients who work in the bright sun or in chemical factories are advised to avoid these situations. Hooray for the doctors who have common sense! But why are they so few?
Once you remove the primal cause, you are still left with a growing malignancy. (I am referring to the growing tumor and not to the doctors and the Big Pharma executives, themselves.) This cancerous growth has certain attributes that the idiot doctors overlook because they have been trained to use the most expensive methods possible for producing the largest possible profit for themselves and for their hospitals and for their drug suppliers. And after extracting all possible savings accounts, checking accounts, real property and insurance benefits, they send the dying patient home after saying, “We have done everything that we can do.” No, I don’t think many people will be laughing to discover that cancer can be cured with baking soda.
But even after the primary cause of the cancer is removed, why do the cancer cells keep growing? The doctors say because cancer is a disease. However, these practitioners of “symptomatic medicine” are mistaking the disease for the symptom. It is more accurate to say that the cancer is not the disease, itself, but is rather the symptom.
The maniac oncologists cut and radiate and poison and burn the cancer cells in an attempt to kill them. But the alternative practitioner prefers to let the powerful defenses of the body do all the work. And why? Because the body can take care of itself just fine as long as you provide it with what it needs to do the necessary healing. In this case, first remove the causative factors of cancer (such as the oncologists and Big Pharma robber barons) and then get to work on the underlying causes.
All cancer has some common denominators that the physicians think are inconsequential. But if you think about it a little bit, you will see that the oncologists are full of themselves and not full of knowledge. What they think is the disease, is actually the symptom. And what they think is inconsequential is actually the tiny, little cause for all of this suffering and disease. It’s a joke on the doctors, but nobody is laughing.
Here’s how it works. Normal cells that turn cancerous have specific jobs to do. Brain cells do brainy things, heart cells are on a bungee-jumper’s rush, liver cells strain today’s whiskey, kidney cells strain the beer and save the water, bladder cells hold the nasty stuff that the others strain, and skin cells enjoy a good suntan on a summer day. They all do different jobs. But when they turn cancerous, they throw all of that specialization aside.
Cancer cells do not evolve; they devolve. They do not perform the task specified in the blueprints of DNA, but they rebel and go it alone. Cancer cells give up being a high level technical worker in the body and become instead the lowest form of life. Worse than any truant teenager – all they do all day is eat, excrete, reproduce and do it all while holding their breath. While holding their breath? What is this little detail that is overlooked by the oncologists?
That’s right. Cancer cells don’t require a lot of oxygen to live. In fact, it is this low oxygen level that allows them to thrive. Or to put it in a way that even a physician can understand: Cancer cells become cancerous not because they are the disease but because they are normal cells reacting to the causative factors of disease. That is, cancer cells become cancer cells because they are normal cells that cannot live in any other way. They are following the First Commandment of Life: “Thou must live”. And in order for them to live, they must give up their specific functions in the body and devolve to a lower level of Life that is not so demanding of them. They become cancer cells in order to survive, not because they want to be cancer cells.
From this perspective you can say that cancer is normal. It is not a disease but rather it is the reaction of certain cells in the body to stress factors that cause these cells to choose de-evolution to a cancerous state as a means of cellular survival. They give up being highly advanced cells – brain, heart, liver, kidney, skin, etc. – and take a step downward to a lower function. They become cancerous as a survival strategy because nature only gives them this choice – or they must die. Cancer is the reaction of cells to various factors that will cause their death if they do not devolve to a lower, cancerous state.
Of course, the Big Pharma scoundrels and the physicians-for-hire want to “treat” cancer. Yes, they have devised a trillion “treatments” none of which do any good except to their bank accounts. There is a lot of money in “treatments”. You can talk about “treatments” for years. You can offer your customers … I mean, your “patients” … years and years of the latest and greatest of treatments. Treatments! Treatments! Treatments! Forever! And all of this time, while the victims are suffering and dying and giving the hospitals their last pennies in vain, the doctors can avoid ever, ever mentioning that most forbidden word of modern medicine – “cure”. And why? Because if they actually cure anyone of cancer, then they can’t get them back for any more treatments!
And yet, cancer is easily cured with nothing more complicated than baking soda. But before telling you how this is done, I want to review something that the Johns Hopkins Hospital has stolen from the alternative medical professionals. They sent out a newsletter in 2007 that has also been circulated by the Walter Reed Army Medical Center. Although their newsletter did not credit any alternative health practitioners or natural healing groups as to the source for their information, it was gratifying to see that what Naturopaths have been saying for over seventy years is finally being acknowledged by the swindlers of the Medical Monopoly. I will briefly review the main points of this newsletter below so that you Naturopathic Health experts and you idiots in the entrenched Medical Monopoly are all using the same language when you yell at each other.
All naturopaths already know these things but because it was new to the physicians and oncologists, here briefly is what the Johns Hopkins Hospital newsletter stated:
“Sugar is a cancer-feeder. By cutting off sugar it cuts off one important food supply to the cancer cells.
“Milk causes the body to produce mucus, especially in the gastro-intestinal tract. Cancer feeds on mucus. By cutting off milk and substituting with unsweetened soy milk cancer cells are being starved.”
5. “Cancer cells thrive in an acid environment. A meat-based diet is acidic and it is best to eat fish, and a little chicken rather than beef or pork. Meat also contains livestock antibiotics, growth hormones and parasites, which are all harmful, especially to people with cancer.”
6. “A diet made of 80% fresh vegetables and juice, whole grains, seeds, nuts and a little fruits help put the body into an alkaline environment. About 20% can be from cooked food including beans. Fresh vegetable juices provide live enzymes that are easily absorbed and reach down to cellular levels within 15 minutes to nourish and enhance growth of healthy cells. To obtain live enzymes for building healthy cells try and drink fresh vegetable juice (most vegetables including bean sprouts) and eat some raw vegetables 2 or 3 times a day. Enzymes are destroyed at temperatures of 104 degrees F (40 degrees C).”
7. Avoid coffee, tea, and chocolate, which have high caffeine. Green tea is a better alternative and has cancer-fighting properties. Water – best to drink purified water, or filtered, to avoid known toxins and heavy metals in tap water. Distilled water is acidic. Avoid it.”
8. “Meat protein is difficult to digest and requires a lot of digestive enzymes. Undigested meat remaining in the intestines become putrefied and leads to more toxic buildup.”
9. Cancer cell walls have a tough protein covering. By refraining from or eating less meat it frees more enzymes to attack the protein walls of cancer cells and allows the body's killer cells to destroy the cancer cells.
“Some supplements build up the immune system (IP6 , Flor-ssence , Essiac , anti-oxidants , vitamins , minerals , EFAs, etc.) to enable the body's own killer cells to destroy cancer cells. Other supplements like vitamin E are known to cause apoptosis, or programmed cell death, the body's normal method of disposing of damaged, unwanted, or unneeded cells.”
“Cancer is a disease of the mind, body, and spirit. A proactive and positive spirit will help the cancer warrior be a survivor. Anger, un-forgiveness and bitterness put the body into a stressful and acidic environment.
“Cancer cells cannot thrive in an oxygenated environment. Exercising daily, and deep breathing help to get more oxygen down to the cellular level. Oxygen therapy is another means employed to destroy cancer cells.”
And this ends the good advice that the Johns Hopkins Hospital tosses out … then forgets entirely about. Although they make some basic errors with their assertions because they don’t really understand natural nutrition, it does contain almost everything that naturopaths of all varieties have been practicing and teaching for many years. But it does not give credit where credit is due. The physicians purloin our knowledge and take it for their own discovery and then they bill their patients for the information that we freely give while pretending to be physicians of great learning. And so, let’s leave these medical maniacs and show how cancer is easily cured with nothing more than baking soda. You will need the above ten points to put the puzzle together. And I will leave you and the physicians to argue about the above data which they have plagiarized without fully understanding.
The newsletter makes much of the importance of avoiding acidic and seeking alkaline but they do not know how to put two-and-two together to make any sense out of the information that they have stolen from us. They do not understand the cheap and easy and effective Naturopathic Way because they follow the fraudulent and profitable and expensive way of symptomatic medicine.
One of the much-overlooked “minor” details of cancer cells is that they thrive in a low oxygen environment. When the body is not able to fully oxygenate, these cells must either die of asphyxiation and toxic build-up or they must devolve to a lower state of existence where they can live and grow without so much oxygen. They become cancerous because there is not enough oxygen for them to remain normally functioning.
In point #1, above, the physicians rightfully state that cancerous cells feed on sugar. Actually, all cells feed on glucose. They absolutely do not seem to understand the difference between what glucose and sucrose do to the blood. What the physicians are missing is that the sucrose table sugar, the white flour products, the red meats, dairy products, coffee, candy and soda pop that the hospital provides from the hospital kitchen and from the Coke and candy machines on every floor, are bad enough on their own. These are the junk foods that the patients, themselves, got sick on. What the physicians do not understand is the blood chemistry that these junk foods unbalance. Yes, they take the necessary chemical tests. But they do not understand their own data because they are looking for a complicated treatment when the simple cure is staring them in the face.
Everybody knows how to stick a toy balloon on the wall after rubbing it on your head. It will stick tightly during dry weather but maybe not at all during damp weather. This is because the electro-static charge is strong during dry weather but gets leaked away during damp weather. Well, the same principle applies to how oxygen sticks to the blood cells during oxygenation, but in an ionic fluid instead of in an electrostatic gas.
As blood cells pass through the lungs, there is a very delicate balancing act that takes place between their cell surfaces and the ionic charges of the surrounding plasma. As they pass through the lungs, these purple-colored blood cells have the ionic charge that they received when picking up carbon dioxide. In contact with lung oxygen, this charge gets reversed so that the carbon dioxide drops off and the reversed charge attracts and picks up oxygen molecules. As their ionic charge reverses as they pick up a full supply of oxygen and their color changes from purple to red, these oxygenated blood cells are carried along through the body until they get into the vicinity of body cells that have a surplus of carbon-dioxide and need some oxygen. At that point, the ionic charges again reverse as the oxygen drops off and the carbon dioxide is attracted and sticks to the blood cell which once again changes to a purple color and is carried to the lungs. Yin and yang, a changing balance of polarities.
But just like a toy balloon that cannot stick to the wall in wet weather, oxygen cannot stick to a blood cell if the ionic balance of the blood is acidic. This is what the physicians and oncologists are overlooking. Every damned one of them has observed the ringing alarm bell going off but have muffled their ears and closed their eyes because they are looking for some expensive and complicated cure for cancer when both the cause and the cure are actually very simple.
They observe that cancer thrives in an acidic environment but they feed their patients sugar, white flour, red meats, ice cream and cake for dessert at just about every meal. They observe that cancer dies in a high oxygen environment, but they treat their patients to a choice between Coke and Pepsi from the vending machine down the hall. It is either much too simple for them to understand or else they are a witless part of a greedy and voracious conspiracy against the health of all of Mankind. Those are the only two choices, Doctor; take your pick.
The ringing alarm bell that the physicians are overlooking is the blood pH. Every cancer patient that I have ever seen, all without exception, had an acidic blood pH. But while the oncologists are pumping the patient full of chemotherapy, pizzas, pancakes, cokes, ice creams, hamburgers and fries, sweet rolls and jams, followed by radiation and surgery, they are ignoring the fact that cancer thrives in a low oxygen environment.
Oxygen cannot stick to blood cells if the pH of the blood is acidic. And rather than do everything that they can to raise the pH back up to a normal pH of 7.4 so that the blood can function properly, they prefer surgery. All of the advice that they have stolen from naturopathic medicine about “deep breathing” will do them no good at all. You can breath pure oxygen until you catch on fire but if the blood pH is acidic, then the oxygen will not be able to be picked up by the blood cells. It is chemically impossible. The blood must be normal and normal blood has a pH of around 7.4 pH. Any vestigial traces of oxygen that the acid-drenched blood cells manage to pick up are stripped off early by the oxygen-starved cells along the way and never reach the deeper parts of the body where oxygen is most needed. And because the pH is acidic, carbon dioxide also is not transported efficiently and so builds up within the tissues leading both to cell death and to a cell-to-cancer de-evolution for survival.
So, yes, cancer can be cured with ordinary baking soda. Bicarbonate is found in the blood naturally for the very real purpose of neutralizing acids. Therefore, those who want to cure your cancers should first follow the stolen advise found in the above newsletter. Not that the oncologists understand or follow this advice, themselves, but since they stole it from naturopathic medicine at least we can all agree that it is good advice. So, go to the health food stores and change your diet immediately.
But also do this: Take a pinch of baking soda (sodium bicarbonate) into your mouth, run it around your teeth and gums with your tongue while being sure to reach into the deepest parts of your gums and teeth and swallow it three times a day – more or less depending on how you feel. Also, drink a glass of water containing a teaspoon of baking soda before going to bed each night. But don’t over do this. Baking soda can kill you if you take too much of it. Take just a little bit and see how it makes you feel. If you feel okay, then take some more. Don’t overdo it but don’t be afraid to experiment. After all, the doctors experiment on you every time you go to see them as they “practice medicine”. So, why not experiment on yourself and save the money and the pain. But by all means change your diet to a natural and alkaline diet. And make baking soda a part of that diet.
The physicians will charge you a lot of money to take a pH test of your blood, but you can start monitoring the pH, yourself, by purchasing some pH test strips from a pharmacy. Test your tongue pH in the morning as well as your urine pH. Practice some yoga or Tai Chi Chuan or other deep breathing exercises and go on long walks to enjoy fresh air and your days on Earth. As your blood pH moves back up to the alkaline side of the chart, your deep breathing will fully oxygenate your blood. The cancer cells cannot survive all of that fresh oxygen so they die. And your T-killer cells, being full of vigor, will kill the cancer cells that remain. It’s as simple as that.
This is not advice that a cancer doctor will give you but it is advice that you can take whether you accept his treatments or not. After all, the normal pH of your blood is 7.4 but if the doctor wants to treat you without regard to what is normal, then maybe you should put yourself in Nature’s hands rather than his. If cancer is normal, then it would be normal for everybody to have cancer. But since it is not normal and since it thrives in situations that are not normal, then doesn’t it make sense to seek the things that are normal so that the cancer just disappears? A physician or oncologist who ignores the pH of your blood and does not know how to make it normal once again, is not qualified to be treating you in any way whatsoever. Avoid such physicians for the idiots that they are.
And whoops, oh dear! I am afraid that tooth decay is also cured with this simple remedy because baking soda kills decay-causing germs on contact. Will the purveyors of toothbrushes and pastes and drilling and filling and billing be pleased? No, those greedy betrayers and swindlers will not be pleased at all. They want you to be sick. But the sweet, happy smile of good health is the natural state of Mankind.
Protocol
Protocol
Buy Arm & Hammer Baking Soda OR Bob's Red Mill Aluminum Free Baking Soda.
(Arm & Hammer is supposedly aluminum free also. Arm & Hammer was used in this protocol.)
Buy Black Strap molasses OR Organic Maple syrup, Grade B.
Buy pH test strips; strips don't run and are easy to use. Litmus paper may also be used along with the strips.
Buy a good brand of potassium.
Mix 1 teaspoon baking soda & 1 teaspoon molasses/syrup in 1 cup water.
(May be warmed in a pan for dissolving, but this isn't required; room temperature is fine. If you heat it, heat on low. Heat the water and baking soda together, turn off heat, and then add the molasses or syrup. Don't use a microwave!)
Drink this solution once a day for 5 days.
(Always drink the solution 2 hours before or after a meal.)
Test your pH often; both your saliva and your urine.
(The pH must be brought to the normal/alkaline level which is 7.2 - 7.5. This level should cause cancer cells to go dormant; and a level of 8.0 - 8.5 should kill them; and so it is advisable to bring your pH level to 8.0 - 8.5 for 4 to 5 days ONLY, and then lower again to normal.)
On day 6, mix 2 teaspoons baking soda & 2 teaspoons molasses/syrup in 1 cup water; drink twice a day. Continue this formula through day 7.
(You may begin to feel a little nauseous or queasy, and your stool may become yellowish. This is expected. Something good is happening in your body - something bad to the cancer. Also, your lips may tingle and you may get Oxygen Euphoria and even a slight headache. This is expected and may eventually lessen.)
On day 8, drink the mixture 3 times a day through day 11.
(You may get some diarrhea and feel a little weak. This is expected. But taking potassium daily while on this BAKING SODA CURE should lessen your loss of energy. You should take a high dosage of potassium daily with this cure. On day 9 or 10 of this dosage, you may get night sweats. This is expected.
What you are doing right now is getting your pH to 8.0 - 8.5 and (more or less) holding that for a few days. If you feel the side effects are too strong, you may always go back to taking the mixture twice a day, and when the symptoms lessen, go back to 3 times a day. Experimentation is fine - listen to your body; it will tell you when to back off.)
On day 12, if you believe you're cured, you can stop taking the BAKING SODA CURE. But if you think you ever need a "tune-up" for cancer at any time, repeat all the above steps.
If you're cancer free, it is advisable to use 2 teaspoons baking soda and only one teaspoon molasses/syrup in 1 cup of water once or twice daily for 7 days: i.e., if you're only trying to raise your pH to the alkaline range of 7.2 - 7.5.
Balance ph diet
ph Level ph Scale ph Balance
pH Scale, pH Level, pH BalanceWhat does 'body pH' mean?
The pH, which is an abbreviation for ‘power of hydrogen’, is a measuring unit of acidity and alkalinity of a solution. It is numerically equal to 7 for neutral solutions, increasing with increasing alkalinity (14 = maximum alkalinity) and decreasing with increasing acidity (0 = maximum acidity). The urine, blood, saliva, digestive juices and the fluids inside and outside the body’s cells each have an optimum pH level, whereby blood pH is the most telling of all.
At rest, the normal blood pH of a human being is slightly alkaline, with a pH around 7.4 on the pH scale. Anything above that value is considered alkaline; anything below is described as acidic. Both, in their extremes, are life-threatening for the human body; if the pH value drops below 6.8 or increases above 7.8, the cells of the body cannot function properly anymore and the human will die.
How does pH imbalance affect our body?
The pH level, the acid-alkaline measurement of our bodies, affects every cell in our body. A constantly imbalanced pH level won’t be tolerated by our internal system as well as our entire metabolic process. Both depend on a healthy alkaline environment through pH balance. By consuming too many unhealthy, acid forming or acidic foods, the growth of harmful bacteria, fungus, yeast and other micro organism is promoted within our body, which may result in obesity (we create fat cells to carry acids away from our vital organs), allergies (the absorption of undigested proteins due to an overly acidic body is a major cause of allergy conditions), fatigue (an over-acidified body produces toxins and weakens the body’s ability to produces enzymes and hormones) and many other unhealthy conditions.
How to achieve pH balance?
A diet, which consists of a proper acid alkaline balance of foods, will help to transform your body's pH balance from dangerously acidic to healthy (slightly) alkaline. Above that, you should add plenty of alkaline water to your daily diet.
A proper alkaline diet suggests taking in at least 80% of alkaline foods, like green vegetables or grasses, and never more than 20% of neutral and acidic foods. Eating green foods, vegetables and alkaline foods will help our internal fluids to achieve a natural pH balance as the acidic environment inside the body will be eliminated. That means, by eating vegetables all day long, or taking sprouted greens dietary supplements, and avoiding acid forming and acidic foods, the body’s pH level will gradually be balanced. When pH balance is achieved, your body will start to restore its overall health.
TIP:
Easily test your pH level at home, e.g. with the pH test stripes of InnerLight. These test stripes have a distinct color change for each half pH unit and work best for testing saliva and urine pH levels.
Alkaline and Acidic Foods
Alkaline Forming-* agar, ALFALFA(sprouts), almonds, APPLES(apple cider), apricots, artichokes,BANANAS, beets, beet tops, blackberries, blueberries, BROCCOLI(did you eat yours?), Brussel sprouts, burdock, cabbage,cantaloupe, carob, CARROTS, cauliflower, CELERY, celeriac, chard, cherries, chives, COCONUT, CRANBERRIES, cucumbers, currants (fresh), dandelion greens, DATES, dill, dock, endive, figs (dried), flaxseed, GARLIC, GRAPES, Grapefruit, greenbeans (fresh), guava, huckleberries, Irish moss, KELP, kohlrabi, leeks, LEMONS, lettuce, LIMA BEANS (fresh), limes, loganberries, loquats, mango, MELONS, millet, mint, molasses, mulberries, muskmelons, mustard greens, nectarines, okra, Olives, olive oil, ONIONS, ORANGES, papaya, parsley, parsnips, passion fruit, Peaches, Pears, persimmons, PINEAPPLE, plums, Pumpkin, radishes, RAISINS, Raspberries, rhubarb, Romaine lettuce, rutabagas, sea grass, sorrel, Soybeans, Spinach, squash, Strawberries, Swiss chard, tangerine, turnips, Vegetable oils, water chestnuts, watercress, watermelon. [* Take "Microhydrin"(Silica Hydride) to make your Blood pH ...Alkaline.]
Eating "ACID-FORMING" Foods(or DRUGS) is like putting a BUFFER(filter) in your Brain, that WILL restrict YOUR "Connection" to the God head ("DIVINE ENERGY SOURCE").
Acid Forming (Avoid)asparagus, barley, beans (dried), beechnuts, BEEF, BREAD, buckwheat, BUTTER, cashew nuts, Cereals, CHEESE, chestnuts, Chicken, CHOCOLATE, cider vinegar, clams, cod liver oil, Cottage Cheese, Cornmeal, cottonseed meal, cow peas, crab, cream, EGGS, farina, FISH, FLOUR, frog legs, Halibut, HAM, hazelnuts, hickory nuts, hominy, HONEY, horseradish, Jello, kohlrabi, lamb, lentils, lobster, mackerel, Macaroni, maple syrup, Margarine, MEATS, mussels, Mushrooms, OATS, pasta peanuts, Peas, pecans, pistachios, pomegranate, PORK, prunes, quinces, Rice, rutabagas, Rye, sauerkraut, SALMON, scallops, smelt, smoked herring, sole, spaghetti, SUGAR, syrups, tapioca, turkey, walnuts, WHEAT, wheat germ & WINE.
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
blog comments powered by Disqus
Cinnamon and Honey
Cinnamon and Honey
Drug companies won't like this one getting around
Facts on Honey and Cinnamon:
It is found that a mix of honey and Cinnamon cures most diseases. Honey is produced in most of the countries of the world. Scientists of today also note honey as very effective medicine for all kinds of diseases. Honey can be used without side effects which is also a plus.Today's science says that even though honey is sweet, when it is taken in the right dosage as a medicine, it does not harm even diabetic patients. Researched by western scientists:
HEART DISEASES: Make a paste of honey and cinnamon powder, put it on toast instead of jelly and jam and eat it regularly for breakfast. It reduces the cholesterol and could potentially save one from heart attack. Also, even if you have already had an attack studies show you could be kept miles away from the next attack. Regular use of cinnamon honey strengthens the heart beat. In America and Canada, various nursing homes have treated patients successfully and have found that as one ages the arteries and veins lose their flexibility and get clogged; honey and cinnamon revitalize the arteries and the veins.
ARTHRITIS: Arthritis patients can benefit by taking one cup of hot water with two tablespoons of honey and one small teaspoon of cinnamon powder. When taken daily even chronic arthritis can be cured. In a recent research conducted at the Copenhagen University, it was found that when the doctors treated their patients with a mixture of one tablespoon Honey and half teaspoon Cinnamon powder before breakfast, they found that within a week (out of the 200 people so treated) practically 73 patients were totally relieved of pain -- and within a month, most all the patients who could not walk or move around because of arthritis now started walking without pain.
BLADDER INFECTIONS: Take two tablespoons of cinnamon powder and one teaspoon of honey in a glass of lukewarm water and drink it. It destroys the germs in the bladder....who knew?
CHOLESTEROL: Two tablespoons of honey and three teaspoons of Cinnamon Powder mixed in 16 ounces of tea water given to a cholesterol patient was found to reduce the level of cholesterol in the blood by 10 percent within two hours. As mentioned for arthritic patients, when taken three times a day, any chronic cholesterol-could be cured. According to information received in the said Journal, pure honey taken with food daily relieves complaints of cholesterol.
COLDS: Those suffering from common or severe colds should take one tablespoon lukewarm honey with 1/4 spoon cinnamon powder daily for three days. This process will cure most chronic cough, cold, and, clear the sinuses, and it's delicious too!
UPSET STOMACH: Honey taken with cinnamon powder cures stomach ache and also is said to clear stomach ulcers from its root.
GAS: According to the studies done in India and Japan, it is revealed that when Honey is taken with cinnamon powder the stomach is relieved of gas.
IMMUNE SYSTEM: Daily use of honey and cinnamon powder strengthens the immune system and protects the body from bacterial and viral attacks. Scientists have found that honey has various vitamins and iron in large amounts. Constant use of Honey strengthens the white blood corpuscles (where DNA is contained) to fight bacterial and viral diseases.
INDIGESTION: Cinnamon powder sprinkled on two tablespoons of honey taken before food is eaten relieves acidity and digests the heaviest of meals
INFLUENZA: A scientist in Spain has proved that honey contains a natural 'Ingredient' which kills the influenza germs and saves the patient from flu.
LONGEVITY: Tea made with honey and cinnamon powder, when taken regularly, arrests the ravages of old age. Use four teaspoons of honey, one teaspoon of cinnamon powder, and three cups of boiling water to make a tea. Drink 1/4 cup, three to four times a day. It keeps the skin fresh and soft and arrests old age. Life spans increase and even a 100 year old will start performing the chores of a 20-year-old.
RASPY OR SORE THROAT: When throat has a tickle or is raspy, take one tablespoon of honey and sip until gone. Repeat every three hours until throat is without symptoms.
PIMPLES: Three tablespoons of honey and one teaspoon of cinnamon powder paste. Apply this paste on the pimples before sleeping and wash it off the next morning with warm water. When done daily for two weeks, it removes all pimples from the root.
SKIN INFECTIONS:Applying honey and cinnamon powder in equal parts on the affected parts cures eczema, ringworm and all types of skin Infections.
WEIGHT LOSS:Daily in the morning one half hour before breakfast and on an empty stomach, and at night before sleeping, drink honey and cinnamon powder boiled in one cup of water. When taken regularly, it reduces the weight of even the most obese person. Also, drinking this mixture regularly does not allow the fat to accumulate in the body even though the person may eat a high calorie diet.
CANCER: Recent research in Japan and Australia has revealed that advanced cancer of the stomach and bones have been cured successfully. Patients suffering from these kinds of cancer should daily take one tablespoon of honey with one teaspoon of cinnamon powder three times a day for one month.
FATIGUE: Recent studies have shown that the sugar content of honey is more helpful rather than being detrimental to the strength of the body. Senior citizens who take honey and cinnamon powder in equal parts are more alert and flexible. Dr. Milton, who has done research, says that a half tablespoon of honey taken in a glass of water and sprinkled with cinnamon powder, even when the vitality of the body starts to decrease, when taken daily after brushing and in the afternoon at about 3:00 P.M., the vitality of the body increases within a week.
BAD BREATH: People of South America, gargle with one teaspoon of honey and cinnamon powder mixed in hot water first thing in the morning so their breath stays fresh throughout the day.
HEARING LOSS: Daily morning and night honey and cinnamon powder, taken in equal parts restores hearing.
Remember when we were kids? We had toast with real butter and cinnamon sprinkled on it!
1998 2011 Amedeo Ministries
Web Toolbar by Wibiya
Powered by Create your own unique website with customizable templates.
Get Started