One Way That Hot Dogs Are Better For You Than Roasted Chicken | TIME.com
Time.com
MY ACCOUNT SIGN IN SIGN OUT SUBSCRIBE SUBSCRIBE
Home U.S. Politics World Business Tech Health TIME Health Entertainment Science Newsfeed Living Sports History The TIME Vault Magazine Ideas TIME Labs
Photography Videos The Goods Shop TIME Press Room TIME Guide to Happiness
The 100 Most Influential People American Voices The Breakdown Finding Home The Influencers Looking Forward Next Generation Leaders Person of the Year Top of the World
Subscribe Newsletters Feedback Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights Terms of Use Ad Choices
RSS TIME Apps TIME for Kids Advertising Reprints and Permissions Site Map Help Customer Service © 2019 TIME USA, LLC. All rights reserved.
Subscribe
Sign InSubscribe
Food & Drink
Are Hot Dogs Better For You Than Roasted Chicken?
By Meredith Melnick @meredithcmMarch 28, 2011
Share
Read Later
Send to Kindle
Cate Gillon/Getty Images
Email
Print
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Tumblr
LinkedIn
StumbleUpon
Reddit
Digg
Mixx
Delicious
Google+
Follow @TIMEHealth
Given the choice between a hot dog and a rotisserie chicken, any self-respecting health-conscious eater would choose the chicken. But according to a new study in the excellently named journal Meat Science, the chicken would be the riskier option, at least when it comes to cancer-causing agents.
The carcinogens in question are heterocyclic amines (HCAs), which are compounds found in meat that has been fried, grilled or cooked at high temperatures. Diets high in HCAs from meat increase people’s risk of stomach, breast and colon cancers, according to the National Cancer Institute. (More on Time.com: Health-Washing: Is ‘Healthy’ Fast Food for Real?)
Researchers from Kansas State University decided to test the HCA levels of eight popular ready-to-eat meat products: beef hot dogs, beef-pork-turkey hot dogs, deli roast beef, deli ham, deli turkey, fully cooked bacon, pepperoni and rotisserie chicken.
They prepared each item as they imagined a typical consumer would: bacon and hot dogs were microwaved, pepperoni was cooked on pizza (either in an oven or in a microwave), and the deli meats and rotisserie chicken were used straight from the package.
Pepperoni had the lowest levels of HCAs at 0.05 nanograms (ng) per gram. Hot dogs and deli meat came in second, with 0.5 ng/g each. Overall, these products were low in HCAs, researchers said.
Cooked bacon (1.1 ng/g) and rotisserie chicken meat (1.9 ng/g) had the highest levels of HCAs, but rotisserie chicken skin had even more than that: a whopping 16.3 ng/g, due to its high-fat, high-protein and low-moisture content (HCAs increase as moisture decreases), according to the researchers. (More on Time.com: Diet Soda May Lead to Stroke Risk? Really?)
But before you toss your low-fat chicken in favor of pepperoni, consider that its low HCA levels may have to do with processing — which is in itself a health hazard. According to a KSU statement:
The reasons for lower HCA content in some of the other ready-to-eat products may be because of the higher water content in the ready-to-eat products. More moisture prevents many HCAs from forming. Ready-to-eat products are often enhanced products, meaning they have a water solution with flavoring added to them.
But in a 2010 study by Harvard School of Public Health researchers, people who regularly ate processed meats, like cold cuts, sausage and bacon, were found to have a 42% higher risk of heart disease and a 19% higher risk of Type 2 diabetes than people who didn’t eat these products. The researchers found no such increase in health problems in people who ate unprocessed beef, pork or lamb.
Further, hot dogs and deli meats are full of nitrates, which were associated with an elevated risk of bladder cancer in a recent study.
Given the risks of processed meats and the separate risks of cooking them over high heat, your best bet may be to avoid ready-to-eat meat products altogether.
Related Links:
The Updated Egg: Less Cholesterol, But Is It a ‘Healthy’ Food?
Is School Lunch Making Your Kids Fat?
SubscribePopular Among Subscribers
Japan's Booming Sex Niche: Elder Porn
Young Kids, Old Bodies
Benedict Cumberbatch Talks Secrets, Leaks, and Sherlock
Obama's Trauma Team
Get all access to digital and printSubscribe
Most Popular
From Health & Family
5 Things You Should Know About Chicken Pox and Shingles
10-Year-Old in Spain Is Not the First or Youngest Child Mom
13 Reasons Tea Is Good for You
How Your Pulse Can Predict Your Risk of Death
Why BMI Isn’t The Best Measure for Weight (or Health)
From Time.com
Connect With TIME
Home
U.S.
Politics
World
Business
Tech
Health
Science
Entertainment
Newsfeed
Living
Ideas
Parents
Sports
History
The TIME Vault
Magazine
Subscribe
Give a Gift
The Goods
Shop TIME
Press Room
Newsletters
Customer Service
Site Map
Privacy Policy
Your California Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Advertising
Ad Choices
Careers
© 2019 TIME USA, LLC. All rights reserved.