Can Vitamin C help with colds? | VeryBreakfast
Skip to content
Toggle navigation
About
Recipes
VeryBreakfast Tribe
Search in https://www.verybreakfast.com/
Can Vitamin C help with colds?
by Justyna •
Vitamin C is very important to our overall health as it is essential for the growth and repair of tissues in all parts of your body.
Vitamin C is mainly associated with common cold so let’s tackle this topic. We tend to supplement Vit C to eliminate a threat of getting a cold or to reduce a duration of a cold if we catch it.
Does Vit C really help with preventing and reducing the duration of the common cold?
Unfortunately, the answer is not so positive.
Extensive trials show that Vitamin C is unable to reduce the frequency of colds.
Slightly better news is that supplementation with Vitamin C is able to reduce the duration of a cold by 8%-14%.
Not a big result but still worth pursuing. Being ill for less time is definitely a goal worth achieving even if it’s only 8%-14% less time.
Interestingly this work both when Vitamin C is taken daily to prevent the cold and when it’s taken at the beginning of the cold. So if your cold just started it’s worth to take Vitamin C.
An interesting fact is that when athletes supplement Vitamin C the chance of getting a cold is cut in half. Since Vitamin C is essential to our growth and repair of tissues making sure we get enough Vitamin C during the times of extensive stress, exhaustion, energy expenditure will be definitely beneficial.
Post navigation
<< Apple pancakes with peanut butter and berries
Avocado and grape smoothie >>
Leave a Comment Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Search in https://www.verybreakfast.com/
Hi, I'm Justyna and I believe cooking doesn’t have to be hard work to be healthy. With the right skills anyone can do it. Read more
© 2018 – Big Yellow Crate
Privacy and Cookies Policy
Terms of use
Contact me
By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information
Accept
The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this.
Close