Wat is HIV? – Orange Babies - Orangebabies
what we do
our mission
our fight against hiv
projects
news
about HIV
what is hiv
the facts
support
Donate
Start your own activity
become a volunteer
Tax free donating
Events
friends
founders
partners
ambassadors
contact
donate
Facebook
Twitter
youtube
Instagram
linkedin
Pinterest
What is HIV?
What is HIV
The facts
HIV (Human Immunodeficiency Virus) is the virus that causes AIDS (Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome). A person infected with HIV is called seropositive or HIV positive. When you are HIV positive your immune system doesn’t work properly anymore. You’ll speak of AIDS when the immune system can’t protect the body from all kinds of infections and diseases anymore. The body becomes weaker and without treatment a person will die from the consequences of AIDS.
How can you get HIV?
Everybody can become infected with the HIV virus: men, women and children. HIV is a sexually transmitted disease and it can also be transmitted through blood, from mother to daughter/son and while breastfeeding. You can NOT become infected through saliva, perspiration, tear fluid, urine and faeces unless it contains visible blood.
What can you do to prevent HIV?
By practising save (with a condom) sex you can prevent infection with the virus. If a pregnant woman has HIV, the virus can be transmitted from mother to child during the pregnancy or the delivery. After the delivery the mother can pass on the virus while breastfeeding. By treating the mother with medication during the pregnancy, delivering the baby with a caesarean and refraining from breastfeeding, the chances of transmission can be limited to 2%.
Will you ever be able to get rid of it?
Once you are infected with the HIV virus, you cannot get rid of it anymore. There are however, HIV inhibitors that can prevent or postpone AIDS.
How do you find out?
Through blood tests you can find out whether you are infected with the virus. Would you like to know what Orange Babies does to stop HIV in Africa? Check out what we do!
Upwards
About Orange Babies
Organization
Raad van Toezicht
Jobs
Annual Report and Results
General information
colophon
FAQ
Disclaimer
ANBI: 21286
RSIN: 8078.20.684
IBAN: NL96 INGB 0000 0011 05
Follow Orange Babies
Facebook
Twitter
youtube
Instagram
linkedin
Pinterest
Houd mij op de hoogte
Email address
Register