Ghana To Ban Sales Of Certain Skin Bleaching Products | The FADER
ON NEWSSTANDS
116
Spring 2019 Spring Style
Music
Style
Culture
Video
Feed
All Posts
Featured Posts
Trending Posts
Magazine
Events
Shop
Twitter facebook youtube instagram
US Edition
UK Edition
Canada Edition
Follow the Fader
Press Enter to Search
Music
Style
Culture
Video
Magazine
Events
Shop
US Edition
UK Edition
Canada Edition
culture / Politics
Ghana To Ban Sales Of Certain Skin Bleaching Products
The West African country’s FDA now says it has a zero tolerance policy for the products
By Jordan Darville
June 06, 2016
Share Tweet
SEYLLOU / Getty Images
(above: A Ghanaian woman displays the scars on her arm caused by skin-bleaching products with hydroquinone.)
Ghana's Food and Drug Authority will ban the sale of cosmetics made with the skin-bleaching ingredient hydroquinone in August 2016, The Ghana Star has reported, via Dazed.
ADVERTISEMENT
Hydroquinone, which is already banned in the United States, Japan, Australia, and the European Union, has been identified as a carcinogen in lab trials. Side effects of skin-bleaching products containing it include aggressive skin irritation, burning sensations, and even damage to the kidney, liver, or nerves.
Ghana FDA spokesperson James Lartey confirmed the ban in an interview with Ghana Star. “Concerning skin lightening products, we are saying that from August 2016, all products containing hydroquinone will not be allowed into the country. From 2016, the acceptance for skin lightening products is going to be zero.” It is unclear whether that means the government will eventually move to ban all skin-lightening products, which many feel encourage unrealistic beauty standards and colorism.
Skin bleaching remains hugely popular in Ghana and other African countries. 30% of women in Ghana admit to bleaching, while 70% of Nigerian women use the products, 59 percent in Togo, and 27 percent of women in Senegal.
Share Tweet
Ghana, Politics, Skin bleaching
Read full story
Trending
The man Nipsey Hussle was buying clothes for during fatal attack has been arrested for associating with the rapper
Offset and Cardi B’s “Clout” video is here
Tame Impala: because it’s always 4/20 somewhere
Supreme Court rejects First Amendment case involving Pittsburgh rapper Jamal Knox’s lyrics
Frank Ocean talks relationships, music, and hanging out with President Obama in new Gayletter cover story
culture / News
Ghana To Ban Sales Of Certain Skin Bleaching Products
Contact
Advertising
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Fader Label
Twitter
Facebook
Youtube
Instagram
Apple Music
Soundcloud
Spotify
RSS
Magazine
116
Spring 2019
Spring Style
Subscribe
Important stuff ahead. The FADER newsletter.
©2019 The Fader, Inc. All rights reserved.
Site By Wondersauce