Grapefruit and Prescription Medications - Drugsdb.com
Recommend this site on Google
Home
Prescription Drugs
OTC Drugs
Supplements and Herbs
Food
Blog
Home > Blog > Grapefruit and Prescription Medications
Grapefruit and Prescription Medications
by Carol Parker on March 11, 2012
Tweet
Fruit is an essential part of a healthy diet. While it is recommended to eat a few servings of fruit each day, it is also important to note that certain fruits can interfere with the pharmacological action of certain medications. Some of these interactions may have minor side effects, but unfortunately, others may cause side effects, which can be life threatening, or even fatal.
The FDA has recently issued a reminder that Grapefruit is one fruit that has the ability to interact with many prescription medications and according to a study one in five Americans eat or drink Grapefruit every day for breakfast.
Grapefruit May Increase or Decrease Drug Potency
Depending on the type of medication, grapefruit has the ability to either weaken or strengthen its pharmacological action. In other words, it can either result in the drug not working at all or it can cause the drug to be too potent, which can lead to devastating side effects either way.
With some medications, the active compound in grapefruit juice (bergamottin) prevents the enzymes in the small intestine from doing their job, leading to a higher dose of the medication being absorbed by the body. This can lead to an overdose, which can be fatal.
Other medications are moved into the body’s cells by means of transporter proteins. Grapefruit has the ability to prevent these transporters from doing their job, which can then reduce the effectiveness of the medication.
Today, many pharmaceutical manufacturers state that their medications should not be taken with fruit juice. Because of these interactions, the FDA requires certain prescription medications to carry a warning about consuming grapefruit or grapefruit juice during use. It is important to note that these warnings also apply to certain non-prescription medications. That is why it is always recommended that the patient read the package insert that comes with the medication. If no mention is made about grapefruit or grapefruit juice, it is always best to consult with a doctor before consuming it during your treatment. Patients also need to ensure that other foods and juices they consume do not contain grapefruit or grapefruit juice while using certain medications.
Grapefruit Affects a Variety of Pharmaceuticals
Many pharmaceuticals are affected by grapefruit or grapefruit juice. Even consuming it a few hours before or after taking the drug can affect the absorption rate of many medications. Types of pharmaceuticals that are affected include:
Organ transplant rejection medications like Neoral or Sandimmune
Anti-arrhythmia medications like Cordarone, Carvedilol
Antihistamines like Allegra, Claritin, Zyrtec
Statin drugs such as Simvastatin, Lipitor and Lovastatin. Crestor, Livalo and Pravastatin (Pravachol) are not included.
Blood pressure medications like Losartan and Afeditab
Anti-anxiety and Anti-psychotic medications like BuSpar, Zoloft, Valium, Seroquel and Abilify
Erectile Dysfunction Medications like Viagra (Sildenafil), Cialis (Tadalafil), and Levitra (Vardenafil).
Potent pain relievers such as Codeine and Tramadol and Hydrocodone, and over the counter medications containing acetaminophen and paracetamol such as Tylenol
Because it is impossible to list every single pharmaceutical here which may be affected by grapefruit or grapefruit juice, it is important to consult with your doctor if you are unsure about any possible side-effects or interactions. For a more complete list you can visit this Wikipedia entry: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grapefruit_drug_interactions
Should You Stop Grapefruit Use?
If any of the drugs or medications you take are mentioned above then you should talk with your doctor to receive his or hers advice. If your medication is known to interact adversely with Grapefuit, then your doctor may present you with other options. In most cases, though it might be best to cut back on your consumption of grapefruit and grapefruit juice during the course of your treatment.
If your medication is not known to adversely interact with grapefruit and grapefruit juice then there’s no reason to stop its consumption, especially since grapefruit is an excellent source fo Vitamin C and can have a positive impact on your heart health.
Share this page
Tweet
Back to Top
Add A Comment
5 Responses
Cancel reply
Required fields are marked *
Name *
Email *
Website
Comment
Shirley Skove
May 4, 2012 at 1:55 pm
I would like to know side effects on drug Jalyn
Andrea
May 16, 2012 at 2:48 pm
Grapes is good for the heart.But how much calorie does grapes had?
travel the world calendar ebay
March 6, 2016 at 12:15 pm
Ha-ha excellent old days of e-books, AdWords, and AdSense when you might plaster your DUY web site with banners, kick back and collect the cash:-RRB- ...
Affiliate marketing is probably the best option for newbie blog writers, especially Amazon (as long as you know how to
do it, and NOT greedy/sketchy ). But yeah, totally free sponsored trips and free gear (SWAG -shit we all get:
-RRB-)were the first things I was getting when I began.
toshiba satellite c55-a-1h1 drivers
March 17, 2016 at 5:17 pm
I have fun with, lead to I found just what I used to be looking for.
You've ended my 4 day lengthy hunt! God Bless you man. Have a great day.
Bye
https://howtocharmagirl83.wordpress.com/2016/10/25/6-ways-to-find-the-girl-of-your-wishes/
March 17, 2017 at 9:46 pm
You'll need to do a great deal of hoping and image repair work to obtain your sweetheart to even think about trusting you again.
« Prescription and OTC Options for Treating Allergy Symptoms | Drug Side Effects: The Role of the FDA »
Tools & Resources
Check out the best selling prescription drugs in the United States from 2007 to 2012.
A collection of Infographics and data visualisations on various topics in the Pharmaceutical and Healthcare industry.
From Our Blog
The 5 most profitable medications ever produced
Are medications safe during pregnancy? How are they assessed?
Seeing is Phoning: World Blindness Awareness Month and the Smartphone Revolution
Targeted Therapies and National Breast Cancer Awareness Month
The “Other” Drug Problem
Neiman Marcus Prices for Walmart Healthcare
We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here.
Copyright © 2011-2019 Drugsdb.com. All rights reserved.
Information appearing on Drugsdb.com is of a general nature and is not intended to diagnose or treat any health condition. It is compiled from sources such as the U.S National Library of Medicine and FDA Approved Product Labels.
About this site · Contact Us · Privacy Policy
Follow Us
Google+
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest