Study: MMR Vaccine Causes Autism | Vaccination Information Network Study: MMR Vaccine Causes Autism | Vaccination Information Network
Vaccines
Injuries
Childbirth
Health
Other
Videos
Information
0
Study: MMR Vaccine Causes Autism
A number of studies claim that there is no association between the MMR vaccine and autism, as e.g. this study:
Madsen et al.: A Population-Based Study Of Measles, Mumps, And Rubella Vaccinations And Autism. The New England Journal of Medicine 2002; 347 (19): 1477-1482HERE
The “no-link studies” however appear to have been designed or otherwise manipulated to come up with a predetermined result, namely that the MMR vaccine does not cause autism.
By contrast, other studies such as the study featured below did find a link between the MMR vaccine and autism.
An Investigation of the Association Between MMR Vaccination and Autism in Denmark
G.S. Goldman, Ph.D.
F.E. Yazbak, M.D., F.A.A.P.
Excerpts:
Longitudinal trends in prevalence data suggest a temporal association between the introduction of MMR vaccine in Denmark and the rise in autism.
Other historical studies concluding that there is no link between MMR vaccine and autism had insufficient follow-up time or inadequate statistical power owing to small sample size, utilized passive surveillance, demonstrated conflicts of interest, or had other limitations.6-16
Despite recent clinical and laboratory studies demonstrating the biological plausibility of an MMR-autism link,17-26 a recent decision of a special committee of the Institute of Medicine (IOM), which is likely to result in the denial of compensation to MMR-affected children, relied on epidemiological studies and in particular the Madsen study that claim a negative MMR-autism association.
Independent research supports a possible association between MMR vaccination and autistic encephalopathic regression (AE) in children who previously had been developmentally normal.1,22-26
The prevalence of autism among 5-9- year-olds increased by 3.8/100,000 between 1990 and 1991, from 7.8/100,000 to 11.6/100,000.
Three principal factors argue against the thesis that autism is wholly explained by genetic factors, including DNA mutation, polymorphisms, or unbalanced gene expression: (1) the increased prevalence of autism over 9 years from 1991 to 2000 and subsequent leveling off among children aged 5 to 9 years; (2) the adjusted 370% increase in autism from the pre- to post-licensure periods in the 5-9 cohort; and (3) diagnosis of autism at an estimated mean age of 4.7 years.
The cause of the rapid rise in autism in the 1990s remains unknown and controversial. If we assume that some environmental trigger causes autism in the first 1.5 years of life, and that Denmark’s rise is attributable to some abrupt event, then that event is likely to have occurred in the mid- to late-1980s. As MMR vaccine was introduced in 1987, we suggest that it was that trigger.
The results of the current analysis are strengthened by the fact that the U.K. and U.S. introduced MMR vaccine in different years, yet both showed the first appreciable increases in autism following MMR vaccine introduction. Wakefield cited an increased prevalence of autism in North West London after MMR vaccine was introduced in the U.K. in 1988 that was almost identical to that in California a decade earlier when MMR vaccine became widely used in the U.S.32 Because similar diagnostic criteria for autism are used in the U.K. and the U.S., it is unlikely that this finding reflects artifacts due to changing diagnostic criteria.
Interestingly, according to the U.S. Department of Education, the number of cases of autism among individuals aged 6 to 21 in U.S. schools increased from 12,222 in 1992-1993 to 118,602 in 2002-2003, for an overall increase of 870%.33 Similar increases have been reported in schools in England, Scotland and Canada.34
Autism rates in the U.S. have surpassed those of Denmark. Notably, in the U.S. the MMR vaccine was administered at the age of 12 months, often with two thimerosal- containing products, the Hemophilus influenzae B and hepatitis B vaccines, while it was usually administered alone in Denmark at the age of 15 months.
Additionally, by the age of 6 months, infants in the U.S. had been exposed to 12 vaccines and up to 187.5 micrograms of thimerosal, compared to 6 vaccines with no thimerosal in Denmark.
Supporting further investigation of the hypothesized link between the MMR vaccine and autism should have a high priority.
To read the entire study click HERE
RELATED:
– Vaccines Do Not Cause Autism
https://www.cdc.gov/vaccinesafety/concerns/autism.html
– CDC Statement Regarding 2004 Pediatrics Article, “Age at First Measles-Mumps-Rubella Vaccination in Children With Autism and School-matched Control Subjects: A Population-Based Study in Metropolitan Atlanta”
https://www.cdc.gov/vaccinesafety/concerns/autism/cdc2004pediatrics.html
– Deadly Deception
http://www.vaccinationinformationnetwork.com/deadly-deception/
– What the News Isn’t Saying About Vaccine-Autism Studies
https://sharylattkisson.com/what-the-news-isnt-saying-about-vaccine-autism-studies/
– First Fraud: Dr. Poul Thorsen and the original “Danish Study”
http://www.ageofautism.com/2010/03/first-fraud-dr-poul-thorsen-and-the-original-danish-study.html
– The astonishing TRUE story of a CDC criminal conspiracy and the international fugitive from justice who faked vaccine research
http://www.naturalnews.com/2017-04-09-the-astonishing-true-story-of-cdc-criminal-conspiracy-and-the-international-fugitive-who-faked-vaccine-research.html
– CDC vaccine scientist who downplayed links to autism indicted by DOJ in alleged fraud scheme
http://www.cdc.news/2016-05-06-cdc-vaccine-scientist-who-downplayed-links-to-autism-indicted-by-doj-in-alleged-fraud-scheme.html
– Dr. Poul Thorsen Still Funded While on “Fugitive” List
http://www.ageofautism.com/2016/02/dr-poul-thorsen-stil-funded-while-on-fugitive-list.html
– CDC Scientist: ‘We scheduled meeting to destroy vaccine-autism study documents’
https://sharylattkisson.com/cdc-scientist-we-scheduled-meeting-to-destroy-vaccine-autism-study-documents/
– CDC Held Meeting of Vaccine Scientists to Deliberately Destroy Evidence Linking Vaccines to Autism
http://realfarmacy.com/cdc-vaccine-meeting/
– VACCINES AND AUTISM – WHAT DO EPIDEMIOLOGICAL STUDIES REALLY TELL US?
http://www.rescuepost.com/files/vaccines-and-autism-epidemiology-rebuttal.pdf
– How the MMR Vaccine Caused My Son’s Encephalopathy, A.K.A. Autism
https://vactruth.com/2017/11/18/mmr-caused-autism/
https://www.downloadfreethemes.co/
Do You Want to Remain Inform﻿ed about the Latest Vaccine News?﻿﻿﻿﻿
I WANT TO BE INFORMED
0
Shares
Erwin Alber
08-Apr-2017
Vaccines
Related Posts
The Vaccine - Autism Link Revealed
Lesotho MMR Vaccination Campaign Causes Adverse Reactions, Measles
The MMR Vaccine, Autism And The Vaxxed Documentary
MMR vaccine shedding ruined my daughter's life
SV-40 Monkey Virus in Oral Polio Vaccine Causes Deadly Cancer
Vaccines, Brain Development and Autism - Dr. Russell Blaylock MD
The US Vaccine Court and Vaccine-Induced Autism
Dr. Stephanie Seneff on the Connection between Vaccines and Autism
Watch the cruelty of vaccines first hand, as this young Thai girl is brutalised by the medical establishment
Birth Trauma and the Dark Side of Modern Medicine - Jeanice Barcelo
FluMist & Other Nasal Spray Vaccines
Children's Addiction To Electronic Gadgets
Vaccination Primer For Parents Of Small Children
Vaccine Reactions, Injuries and Deaths
AAP: Breastfeeding makes moms anti-vaxxers!
Is Your Eye/Brain Switch Off Or On?
Mandatory vaccination incompatible with living in a free society
"Disaster Teams told months ago they would be activated in October"
What Happened To David Bellamy?
Featured Video
About Us
Vaccination Information Network (VINE) originally started as a Facebook page, where it grew into arguably Facebook's most popular source of reliable vaccination information.
As with many other unbiased vaccination organisations, VINE has also been under attack from Big Pharma, with censorship restrictions occasionally being enforced by Facebook.
The VINE website has been created in order to allow the public unrestricted access to the full range of vaccination information, including articles and videos.
Amazon
7ads6x98y