What to Tell Parents Concerned About Vaccines and Autism - Psychiatry Advisor
Skip to navigation Skip to main content
Menu
Close
Search...
Submit
Anxiety
Open Submenu
Anxiety
Back
PTSD
Mood Disorders
Open Submenu
Mood Disorders
Back
Bipolar Disorder
Depressive Disorder
Schizophrenia
Neurocognitive
Open Submenu
Neurocognitive
Back
Alzheimer Disease and Dementia
Parkinson Disease
Sleep-Wake
Open Submenu
Sleep-Wake
Back
Insomnia Disorder
Addiction
Open Submenu
Addiction
Back
Tobacco-Use Disorder
Cannabis-Use Disorder
Opioid-Related Disorder
More
Open Submenu
More
Back
ADHD
Autism Spectrum Disorders
Child/Adolescent Psychiatry
Eating Disorders
General Psychiatry
Geriatric Psychiatry
Neurodevelopmental Disorder
Practice Management
Toggle Search Menu
News
CME
Drugs
Meetings
Clinical Charts
Resources
Multimedia
Jobs
Login
Register
Home » Topics » Autism Spectrum Disorders
Publish Date February 9, 2015
What to Tell Parents Concerned About Vaccines and Autism
Tori Rodriguez, MA, LPC
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on LinkedIn
Share on Reddit
Print
Share by Email
Slideshow
Orphenadrine Injection
Though measles was declared eliminated in the United States in 2000, the CDC received reports of a record number of cases last year: 644 people in 27 states.1 Currently, an ongoing outbreak that started in December at Disneyland in California has grown to at least 102 cases in 14 states.1 The amusement park is a popular destination for international travelers, including those from countries where measles is still common.
Though the United States has an excellent vaccination program, the disease can spread when “it reaches a community in the U.S. where groups of people are unvaccinated,” according to the CDC.1
The fact that most of those affected in the current outbreak are, in fact, not vaccinated1 has reignited a heated debate centered on the anti-vaccination movement led by parents who choose not to immunize their children. Driving many of these cases is a concern that the growing number of diagnoses of autism spectrum disorders (ASD) is linked to childhood vaccinations.
“The original study that started the debate was a small study2 conducted by Andrew Wakefield, MD, that reportedly found a link between the measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine, and the appearance of autism and bowel disease which was published in the Lancet in 1998,” Guy Eslick, PhD, an associate professor of surgery and cancer epidemiology at the University of Sydney in Australia, told Psychiatry Advisor.
Though the paper was subsequently retracted after it was determined that Wakefield falsified the data, and despite the growing evidence showing no such link, the misconception persists.
“Unfortunately, for every paper that shows no relationship between vaccines and autism, there are also methodologically unsound papers that report some link between vaccines and autism. It is these unsound studies that make it more difficult for the public to distinguish fact from fiction, allowing the debate to continue,” Eslick added.
Eslick and colleagues recently conducted an analysis of methodologically-sound studies from around the world that explored the relationship between childhood vaccinations and autism.3 They included data from five cohort studies that involved 1,256,407 children, and from five case-control studies that included 9,920 children. Their findings were published in the June 2014 issue of the journal Vaccine.
Do you think there is any connection between vaccines and autism?
“Our data did not find any increased risk associated with having childhood vaccines and the subsequent development of autism,” Eslick said, and that also pertains to specific vaccine components, such as mercury and thimerosal, which have been cited as cause for concern by some vaccination opponents.
“Thimerosal is a mercury-containing preservative that was used in vaccines to prevent contamination. Since 2001, with the exception of some influenza vaccines, thimerosal has not been used as a preservative in routinely recommended childhood vaccines,” Frank DeStefano, MD, MPH, FACPM, director of the Immunization Safety Office at the CDC in Atlanta, said in an interview with Psychiatry Advisor.
In addition to the decreased use of thimerosal, numerous studies investigating the relationship between thimerosol and autism have found no connection. “Hundreds of thousands of children who received thimerosal-containing vaccines were compared to hundreds of thousands of children who received the same vaccines free of thimerosal. The results show that without a doubt, autism is not caused by thimerosal in vaccines.”
A 2013 CDC study that DeStefano co-authored is one of many showing that there is no causal link between vaccines and autism.4 Comparing data from 256 children with autism to data from 752 children without autism, the researchers examined the number of antigens from vaccines received during the first two years of life. Antigens are substances that cause the immune system to produce disease-fighting antibodies. The results show that the total number of antigens from vaccines was the same for both groups of children.
The findings also demonstrate that the number of vaccine antigens has declined in recent years because of changes in vaccines. For example, the older pertussis vaccine prompts the production of about 3,000 antibodies, while the newer version causes the production of six or fewer antibodies.
“The evidence is clear: vaccines do not cause autism,” said DeStefano. Autism advocacy organizations like Autism Speaks5 and the Autism Science Foundation6 support that conclusion and encourage parents to have their children vaccinated.
Clinicians can reassure patients that vaccines are safe and effective. The U.S. has a safety system that rigorously tests vaccines before they receive FDA approval and continuously monitors them after they become available to the public.
“Clinicians are patients’ most trusted source of information about vaccines, and should be prepared to answer questions about vaccine safety. Vaccines are our best defense against many serious, preventable diseases, and clinicians can help ensure that patients get recommended, live-saving vaccines,” said DeStefano.
Tori Rodriguez, MA, LPC, is a psychotherapist and freelancer writer based in Atlanta.
References
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Measles Cases and Outbreaks. Page updated February 2, 2015 http://www.cdc.gov/measles/cases-outbreaks.html
Wakefield AJ, Murch SH, Anthony A. RETRACTED: Ileal-lymphoid-nodular hyperplasia, non-specific colitis, and pervasive developmental disorder in children. Lancet. 1998; 351(9103):637-41.
Taylor LE, Swerdfeger AL, Eslick GD. Vaccines are not associated with autism: An evidence-based meta-analysis of case-control and cohort studies. Vaccine; 2014; 32(29):3623-9.
DeStefano F, Price CS, Weintraub ES. Increasing Exposure to Antibody-Stimulating Proteins and Polysaccharides in Vaccines Is Not Associated with Risk of Autism. Journal of Pediatrics; 2013; 163(2):561-7.
Autism Speaks: http://www.autismspeaks.org/science/policy-statements/information-about-vaccines-and-autism
Autism Science Foundation: http://www.autismsciencefoundation.org/autismandvaccines.html
Topics:
Autism Spectrum Disorders Child and Adolescent Psychiatry
Recommended For You
Recent Posts
Kidney Disorder Risk Examined Among Various Bipolar Disorder Drug Regimens
Parental Mental Disorders Linked to Poor Functioning in Children With Disruptive Behavior
CDC: Prevalence of Autism Increasing at 4 Years of Age
Effect of Antipsychotic Medication on Cardiometabolic Health in Children
Oral Contraceptives Offer Some Protection Against Bone Loss in Anorexia Nervosa
Want to read more?
Please login or register first to view this content.
Login
Register
Open
Next post in Autism Spectrum Disorders
Close
Kids With Autism Can Show Symptom Improvement By Age 6
Back to Top
Topics
Addiction
Alzheimer's Disease & Dementia
ADHD
Anxiety
Geriatric Psychiatry
Mood Disorders
Neurocognitive Disorders
Neurodevelopmental Disorder
Personality Disorders
PTSD Trauma and Stressor-Related
Schizophrenia and Psychoses
Sleep-Wake Disorders
More Topics
Features
News
Therapies
Opinion
Practice Management
Resources
Drug Database
Clinical Charts
CME
Submissions
Conferences
Site Information
About Us
Advertise
Contact Us
Other Haymarket Medical Websites
Cancer Therapy Advisor
Clinical Advisor
Clinical Pain Advisor
Dermatology Advisor
Endocrinology Advisor
Hematology Advisor
Infectious Disease Advisor
McKnight's Senior Living
Medical Bag
MPR
myCME
Neurology Advisor
Oncology Nurse Advisor
Pulmonology Advisor
Renal and Urology News
Rheumatology Advisor
The Cardiology Advisor
Copyright © 2019 Haymarket Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in any form without prior authorization.
Your use of this website constitutes acceptance of Haymarket Media’s Privacy Policy and Terms & Conditions.
Close more info about What to Tell Parents Concerned About Vaccines and Autism
Loading...
Close more info about What to Tell Parents Concerned About Vaccines and Autism
Loading...