House Cleaning Tips - Part One <!- Removed Meta Keywords per TDM recomendation 5/25/2015 -->
Menu
Home
Best of
Business
Fashion & Style
Accessories
Men
Personal Care
Teens
Women
How to
Cooking
Crafts
Home
Food & Drink
Cooking Basics
Entertaining
Wine
Health
Nutrition
Relationships
Kids & Parenting
Babies
Kids
People
History
Holidays
Parties & Entertaining
Teens
Travel
Shopping
More
Arts & Entertainment
Careers & Education
Cars
Computer
Gardening
Hobbies
Crafts
Games
Home
Decorating
Repair & Maintenance
Outdoor Life
Pets
Science & Tech
Earth Science
Technology
Spirituality
Sports
Weddings
Engagement
Wedding Traditions
Catalogs.com Home
Article Topics
Home
Repair & Maintenance
House cleaning tips - WD-40
Repair & Maintenance
House cleaning tips - WD-40
By Susan Crowley
Info Guru, Catalogs.com
Rate This Article:
Thank You For Voting
82
3.4 / 5.0
Why is it that when Spring is mentioned, cleaning comes to mind?
Share
Tweet
Email
There are many house cleaning tips available including many different cleaning solutions you can make yourself to save a lot of money as well as being environmentally conscious; however, we want to share with you the following email we received. You will probably be just as amazed as we were!
"WD-40 Well, Who Knew...? I had a neighbor who had bought a new pickup. I got up very early one Sunday morning and saw that someone had spray painted red all around the sides of this beige truck (for some unknown reason). I went over, woke him up, and told him the bad news. He was very upset and was trying to figure out what to do probably nothing until Monday morning, since nothing was open. Another neighbor came out and told him to get his WD-40 and clean it off. It removed the unwanted paint beautifully and did not harm his paint job that was on the truck. I'm impressed! WD-40 who knew? Water Displacement #40. The product began from a search for a rust preventative solvent and degreaser to protect missile parts. WD-40 was created in 1953 by three technicians at the San Diego Rocket Chemical Company. Its name comes from the project that was to find a "water displacement" compound. They were successful with the fortieth formulation, thus WD-40. The Corvair Company bought it in bulk to protect their atlas missile parts.
When you read the "shower door" part, try it. It's the first thing that has ever cleaned that spotty shower door. If yours is plastic, it works just as well as glass. It's a miracle! Then try it on your stovetop... Voila! It's now shinier than it's ever been. You'll be amazed. Here are some more house cleaning tips and other uses for WD-40 1) Protects silver from tarnishing. 2) Removes road tar and grime from cars. 3) Cleans and lubricates guitar strings. 4) Gives floors that 'just-waxed' sheen without making it slippery. 5) Keeps flies off cows. 6) Restores and cleans chalkboards. 7) Removes lipstick stains. 8) Loosens stubborn zippers. 9) Untangles jewelry chains. 10) Removes stains from stainless steel sinks. 11) Removes dirt and grime from the barbecue grill. 12) Keeps ceramic/terra cotta garden pots from oxidizing. 13) Removes tomato stains from clothing. 14) Keeps glass shower doors free of water spots. 15) Camouflages scratches in ceramic and marble floors. 16) Keeps scissors working smoothly, 17) Lubricates noisy door hinges on vehicles and doors in homes 18) It removes black scuff marks from the kitchen floor! Use WD-40 for those nasty tar and scuff marks on flooring. It doesn't seem to harm the finish and you won't have to scrub nearly as hard to get them off. Just remember to open some windows if you have a lot of marks. 19) Bug guts will eat away the finish on your car if not removed quickly! Use WD-40! 20) Gives a children's play gym slide a shine for a super fast slide. 21) Lubricates gear shift and mower deck lever for ease of handling on riding mowers. 22) Rids kids rocking chairs and swings of squeaky noises. 23) Lubricates tracks in sticking home windows and makes them easier to open. 24) Spraying an umbrella stem makes it easier to open and close. 25) Restores and cleans padded leather dashboards in vehicles, as well as vinyl bumpers. 26) Restores and cleans roof racks on vehicles. 27) Lubricates and stops squeaks in electric fans. 28) Lubricates wheel sprockets on tricycles, wagons, and bicycles for easy handling. 29) Lubricates fan belts on washers and dryers and keeps them running smoothly. 30) Keeps rust from forming on saws and saw blades, and other tools. 31) Removes splattered grease on stove. 32) Keeps bathroom mirror from fogging. 33) Lubricates prosthetic limbs. 34) Keeps pigeons off the balcony (they hate the smell). 35) Removes all traces of duct tape. 36) Folks even spray it on their arms, hands, and knees to relieve arthritis pain. 37) Florida's favorite use is: "cleans and removes love bugs from grills and bumpers." 38) The favorite use in the state of New York WD-40 protects the Statue of Liberty from the elements. 39) WD-40 attracts fish. Spray a LITTLE on live bait or lures and you will be catching the big one in no time. Also, it's a lot cheaper than the chemical attractants that are made for just that purpose. Keep in mind though, using some chemical laced baits or lures for fishing are not allowed in some states. 40) Use it for fire ant bites. It takes the sting away immediately and stops the itch. 41) WD-40 is great for removing crayon from walls. Spray on the mark and wipe with a clean rag. 42) Also, if you've discovered that your teenage daughter has washed and dried a tube of lipstick with a load of laundry, saturate the lipstick spots with WD-40 and re-wash. Presto! Lipstick is gone! 43) If you sprayed WD-40 on the distributor cap, it would displace the moisture and allow the car to start. "
The basic ingredient is FISH OIL. Ken East (one of the original founders) says there is nothing in WD-40 that would hurt you (unless you are allergic to fish oil!) Keep a can of WD-40 in your kitchen cabinet over the stove. It is good for oven burns or any other type of burn. It takes the burned feeling away and heals with NO scarring. "
Wor
Rate this Article
Click on the stars below to rate this article from 1 to 5
Thank You For Voting
Share
Tweet
Email
Suggested Cleaning Supply Catalogs:
Suggested Cleaning Supply Catalogs
Related Articles
House cleaning tips - WD-40
What does a mobile locksmith do
Installing bathroom safety equipment for seniors
What you can do to make your bedroom safer
Designing your bathroom for aging-in-place
Renovation tips for your Victorian fireplace
How to grow a prairie grass lawn
When to add trees to your landscape
Latest Articles
What is a push to talk communications plan
How to stop annoying snoring problems
What does a mobile locksmith do
How to accessorize a tunic top
What is the mystery of Oak Island?
How to prepare for a natural disaster
What is the Keto diet
How to make your own fruit preserves
Catalogs.com
About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Site Map
© 1997-2019 Catalogs.com. Reproduction of material from any Catalogs.com pages without written permission is strictly prohibited.