Joint Renew
×
Contact Us
Phone
888-840-7142
Toggle navigation
Home
FAQs
Clinical Studies
Order Now
Could this new joint formula be the solution to your aching joints?
Get the most complete joint health supplement on the market and find out why we are the only company able to offer a 1 year money back guarantee.
Learn More Below
Healthy Joints Shouldn't...
Constantly be in pain
Give you less mobility
Have continued swelling and inflammation
Make you feel weaker
You don’t realize it yet, but in the next couple of minutes, you’re going to discover an all-natural formula with patented ingredients backed by peer reviewed clinical studies.
I am going to show you how these innovations have been shown to deliver healthy inflammation response, muscle and joint support, often within just a few days, letting you return to a normal life.
Knee + Joint Renew® has set a new industry standard for joint health especially in the problem areas of knees, shoulders, hips, elbows and ankles.
My name is Wes Jones, and I’m the president of Life Renew®. We specialize in the research of natural ways to improve vitality and achieve optimal health after 50.
Our company has helped hundreds of thousands of individuals with joint health, nerve health, fatigue and low levels of B vitamins.
Please read about Jack, a fellow joint sufferer, and his story of overcoming his joint problems!
Jack didn’t know his plane was going to crash that day...
A career in Aviation as a Professional Contract Pilot… Jack’s career started after he graduated from the University of Utah in 1982 with a pilot slot in the US Air Force. He served our country until 1990 flying fighter jets.
Jack’s love of flying kept him in the aviation industry, becoming a Professional Contract Pilot, flying almost every kind of plane and logging thousands of hours.
A near fatal plane crash… In 2009, Jack took off from the Ogden Utah airport to deliver a single engine plane to Alaska. During the climb out, the plane’s engine seized up and Jack scrambled trying to glide the plane back to the airport. He came up just short of the runway and was forced to land in a field. Upon impact, he hit an irrigation ditch which stopped him cold.
Broken ankles, legs, knees, hips and pelvis, crushed wrists and arms and shoulders… Lucky to be alive and barely escaping burns from his full fuel tanks which had not yet exploded, Jack was rushed to the hospital where he underwent life saving surgery and was told he would probably be crippled for life.
The road to recovery took 5 long years as Jack underwent multiple reconstructive surgeries to regain the full use of his limbs, with his goal always to pass the required medical to keep his pilot license. Jack made a 95% recovery.
Severe arthritis and joint problems… His injuries left him with severe arthritis and joint pain in his ankles, knees, hips and shoulders and his mobility was severely restricted. His doctors could only prescribe painkillers and muscle relaxers which he stayed on for years. “You’ll just have to live with it” was his doctor’s diagnosis.
In desperation, Jack turned to the internet for alternatives… The medical community treats this condition with pain killers, anti-depressants, steroid and cortisone injections and lidocaine patches. His search turned up a promising natural supplement called Knee + Joint Renew®.
No other formula like this… Knee + Joint Renew® contains the most powerful, clinically proven, and the most bioavailable forms of patented ingredients on the market today. Jack showed the ingredients to his doctor and he recommended continued use since it was helping him so much.
The following is the letter we received from Jack...
Dear Knee + Joint Renew,
I can’t believe I went so long without your product. My mobility has increased substantially and the aches and pains I once experienced in my joints are almost gone. I feel as though this recovery is heaven sent.
My life has finally been returned to normal. I passed my pilot’s medical exam with flying colors and I’ve been able to get back to my active lifestyle of skiing, snowmobiling, river running and exercise.
I can’t thank you enough for this life-changing product. My highest recommendation goes to Knee + Joint Renew for anyone suffering like I was.
Best Wishes for much success,
Jack Lowrey
Jalowrey@aol.com
Speak with a specialist (888) 840-7142 Mon-Sat 7am-7pm MST Click here to order now!
What enables the ingredients in Knee + Joint Renew® to be so effective?
To begin with, it’s important to know that many over the counter joint supplements contain synthetic and generic forms of raw ingredients that aren’t optimized for absorption.
Knee + Joint Renew® uses patented ingredients that have been clinically proven over countless studies.
All of our ingredients are chosen for their ability to be absorbed and put to use by your body and we never scrimp on quality.
Knee + Joint Renew® is manufactured by Life Renew®, a highly trusted manufacturer that combines clinically researched ingredients with scientifically sound formulas under the supervision of nutritional and medical professionals. Life Renew has served over 260,000 customers since 2010.
Key Ingredients
UC-II® Collagen… 40mg.
UC-II® is a patented undenatured type II collagen made by Inter Health which is now part of Lonza. Collagen is the main structural component of the various connective tissues in humans, including tendons, ligaments, cartilage and skin. Type II collagen makes up 50% of all protein in cartilage and have been studied in relation to joint health.
A published 2016 study compared UC-II® against glucosamine and chondroitin in 191 subjects 40-75 years old with moderate to severe knee soreness for at least 3 months. Subjects consumed either 40 mg of UC-II®, a combination of 1500mg/day of glucosamine and 12oomg/day of chondroitin (G+C), or placebo for 180 days.
This 180 day randomized, double-blind trial of 191 subjects suffering from stiff, sore knees showed that UC-II is effective, resulting in significant reduction in discomfort during daily activities. The study concluded UC-II significant improved knee function compared to placebo and compared to G+C, and was well-tolerated.
Meriva® Bioavailable Curcumin (Tumeric) 250mg.
Meriva® is patented formulation of curcumin made by Indena. An innovative phytosome that combines curcumin with a phospholipid, so it passes through cell membranes more easily, making it nearly 30 times more bioavailable than traditional curcumin preparations.
Clinical studies have shown Meriva® to deliver nearly 30 times more curcuminoid absorption. Another study showed 45 to 50 fold increases in bioavailability of Meriva® with inflammation fighting curcumin.
Hyaluronic Acid… 100mg.
Hyaluronic acid (HA) is the primary component of synovial fluid. This thick, viscous fluid lubricates joints for smooth, friction-free movement, helps absorb shock, delivers nutrients to cartilage and carries away waste.
In one study, subjects who underwent knee surgery took a combination of 20 mg of HA and 400 mg of chondroitin daily for 90 days. They experienced improved joint function and recovery time.
In another study on 20 subjects with knee issues, daily supplementation with 80 mg of HA for eight weeks appeared to be effective for decreasing joint discomfort, improving physical function, and enhancing quality of life.
Boswellia Serrata… 200mg.
Boswellia serrata has long been used in traditional Indian medicine to help those with arthritis. Those suffering from rheumatoid and osteoarthritis may benefit from boswellia serrata supplementation since it's effects include a reduction in inflammation, swelling, and joint discomfort and pain.
Boswellia Serrata was given at a dose of 1,000 mg daily for eight weeks. The boswellia group experienced significant benefits in joint discomfort, swelling scores and range of motion compared to placebo.
Bioperine®…	5mg.
BioPerine® is a standardized piperine composition derived from black pepper extract. Made by Sabinsa, it contains 95 percent piperine, which not only increases gut health and cardiovascular health, it increases nutrient absorption.
Bioperine has been shown in numerous clinical studies to increase the absorption of nutrients in nutritional supplement formulations.
How Do We Guarantee That Knee + Joint Renew® Is The Best Supplement Money Can Buy?
Our manufacturing facility is FDA approved and adheres to Good Manufacturing Practices (GMPs) for supplement manufacturers. Our process guarantees the potency, purity and quality in 10 different ways:
1
The ingredients we use have been shown to be effective in clinical trials.
2
All of our ingredients match the levels used in clinical trials.
3
We only use proven growers and suppliers that we've known for years.
4
All ingredients are lab-tested using NIR (Near-Infrared) to ensure their potency, purity and quality.
5
All ingredients are screened for contaminants including pesticides and metals.
6
All ingredients come from natural sources.
7
Each ingredient goes through dissolution and disintegration tests ensuring that it will be absorbed into your stomach and intestines.
8
Every step of our manufacturing process is double checked and signed off by a quality control scientist.
9
Our manufacturing process conforms with or exceeds standards set by the U.S. Government. Our facility undergoes 2 audits per year by a 3rd party that certify that we meet GMP's.
10
Every bottle is immediately sealed after manufacturing and is marked with an expiration date to ensure freshness and potency.
Claim your free 2 week Trial of Knee + Joint Renew! Read More
How Fast Will I See The Results? Read What Our Satisfied Users Have To Say...
“Amazing, My Knee Pain Is Gone”
I have always been active without any problems with my knees. I turned 60 this year and helped my sons build a treehouse for my grandchildren. By the time I finished nailing the third floor down over about a period of 2 weeks, a severely sharp pain developed in my left knee and stayed for over a year. I tried cortisone shots that year and it wore off, and considered surgery. My friend recommended Knee + Joint Renew and after only 2 weeks I noticed a big reduction in the pain. It’s now been over 6 and amazingly, my knee pain is gone!
Jim Sparling | Boise, ID
“This Product Is Terrific”
After reading about this product on the internet, with much skepticism but not much to lose, I ordered the free 2 week trial. Before it was gone I noticed a substantial decrease in the pain I had been carrying for several years in my knee. Now after 6 months on the product my knee pain is gone. This product is terrific.
John Hawkins | Chicago, IL
“I Would Recommend This Product To Anyone With Joint Pain”
I had already scheduled my knee surgery when I gave it one last ditch effort and searched the internet for a natural solution. Thank God your product worked so quickly. Before my free 2 week trial was gone, my pain decreased substantially. Now after only a year, my pain is completely gone. I would recommend this product to anyone with joint pain.
Pamela Davis | San Jose, CA
“I Can’t Believe The Difference”
I wish I would have known about your product a year ago. I have been limping for the last year and quit going to the gym. A friend told me about Knee + Joint Renew and I ordered the trial bottle. Now, after only 2 months the pain is all but gone. I expect it to be completely gone in another month. I can’t believe the difference.
Ben Sasse | Reno, NV
“This Product Really Works”
I’ve always been skeptical ordering anything online. But after reading your website and being offered a free 2 week trial I thought what have I got to loose. I received my trial bottle and my first auto-shipment and have found that this product really works. Keep sending it please.
Linda Pavelitch | Buffalo, WY
“It Started Working After Only 7 Days”
I endured my shoulder pain for way too long. My doctor called it frozen shoulder and he wanted me to schedule an operation. I was getting sick and tired of the pain pills and was ready to give in. I found your product by mistake one day while surfing the web. I read every word of your website and it made total sense. Your free offer was to good to pass up and I ordered it. It started working after only 7 days. My pain is now completely gone after only 4 months, and I feel my old self again, prescription free.
Todd Dunche | Denver, CO
Our Ingredients Are Backed By Over 20 Clinical Studies
UC-II Type-II Collagen
Safety and efficacy of undenatured type II collagen in the treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee: a clinical trial.
Previous studies have shown that undenatured type II collagen (UC-II) is effective in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, and preliminary human and animal trials have shown it to be effective in treating osteoarthritis (OA). The present clinical trial evaluated the safety and efficacy of UC-II as compared to a combination of glucosamine and chondroitin (G+C) in the treatment of OA of the knee. The results indicate that UC-II treatment was more efficacious resulting in a significant reduction in all assessments from the baseline at 90 days; whereas, this effect was not observed in G+C treatment group. Specifically, although both treatments reduced the Western Ontario McMaster Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) score, treatment with UC-II reduced the WOMAC score by 33% as compared to 14% in G+C treated group after 90 days. Similar results were obtained for visual analog scale (VAS) scores. Although both the treatments reduced the VAS score, UC-II treatment decreased VAS score by 40% after 90 days as compared to 15.4% in G+C treated group. The Lequesne's functional index was used to determine the effect of different treatments on pain during daily activities. Treatment with UC-II reduced Lequesne's functional index score by 20% as compared to 6% in G+C treated group at the end of 90-day treatment. Thus, UC-II treated subjects showed significant enhancement in daily activities suggesting an improvement in their quality of life.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19847319
Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis with oral type II collagen. Results of a multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
Positive effects were observed with CII at the lowest dosage tested, and the presence of serum antibodies to CII at baseline may predict response to therapy. No side effects were associated with this novel therapeutic agent. Further controlled studies are required to assess the efficacy of this treatment approach.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9485087
Effects of oral administration of type II collagen on rheumatoid arthritis.
Rheumatoid arthritis is an inflammatory synovial disease thought to involve T cells reacting to an antigen within the joint. Type II collagen is the major protein in articular cartilage and is a potential autoantigen in this disease. Oral tolerization to autoantigens suppresses animal models of T cell-mediated autoimmune disease, including two models of rheumatoid arthritis. In this randomized, double-blind trial involving 60 patients with severe, active rheumatoid arthritis, a decrease in the number of swollen joints and tender joints occurred in subjects fed chicken type II collagen for 3 months but not in those that received a placebo. Four patients in the collagen group had complete remission of the disease. No side effects were evident. These data demonstrate clinical efficacy of an oral tolerization approach for rheumatoid arthritis.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8378772
Undenatured type II collagen (UC-II®) for joint support: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in healthy volunteers.
RESULTS: After 120 days of supplementation, subjects in the UC-II group exhibited a statistically significant improvement in average knee extension compared to placebo (81.0 ± 1.3º vs 74.0 ± 2.2º; p = 0.011) and to baseline (81.0 ± 1.3º vs 73.2 ± 1.9º; p = 0.002). The UC-II cohort also demonstrated a statistically significant change in average knee extension at day 90 (78.8 ± 1.9º vs 73.2 ± 1.9º; p = 0.045) versus baseline. No significant change in knee extension was observed in the placebo group at any time. It was also noted that the UC-II group exercised longer before experiencing any initial joint discomfort at day 120 (2.8 ± 0.5 min, p = 0.019), compared to baseline (1.4 ± 0.2 min). By contrast, no significant changes were seen in the placebo group. No product related adverse events were observed during the study. At study conclusion, five individuals in the UC-II cohort reported no pain during or after the stepmill protocol (p = 0.031, within visit) as compared to one subject in the placebo group.
CONCLUSIONS: Daily supplementation with 40 mg of UC-II was well tolerated and led to improved knee joint extension in healthy subjects. UC-II also demonstrated the potential to lengthen the period of pain free strenuous exertion and alleviate the joint pain that occasionally arises from such activities.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24153020
Meriva
Meriva® and the complementary management of bone and joint health
http://www.meriva.info/en/meriva-bioavailable-curcumin/scientific-support/ The treadmill performance (10% inclination, 3 Km/h speed) showed an improvement of 201% of the initial walked distance at two months, and a further improvement (+44%) at three months from the beginning of the study.
These positive results were complemented by secondary end-points, namely the decrease in supplemental therapy use (63% in the Meriva® group vs 12% in the treatment group) and the decrease in gastrointestinal complications (38% in Meriva® vs 15% in controls (p<0.05).
Overall, the management costs in the Meriva® group decreased by 49% compared to a non significant 3% decrease for the control group.
References
Felson D.T., et al., Arthr. Reum, 1987, 30: p. 914-918.
Belcaro G., et al., Panminerva Medica, 2010, 52(2 Suppl 1): p. 55-62.
Belcaro G., Cesarone M.R., Dugall M. et al., Altern Med Rev, 2010, 15(4): p. 337-44.
Belcaro, G., et al., Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci, 2014. 18(24): p. 3959-63.
Pajardi, G., et al., Evid Based Complement Alternat Med, 2014. 2014: p. 891310.
http://www.meriva.info/en/meriva-bioavailable-curcumin/scientific-support/
Hyaluronic Acid
Oral hyaluronan relieves knee pain: a review of 13 studies showing positive results
Abstract: Hyaluronan (HA) is a component that is particularly abundant in the synovial fluid. Randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trials carried out between 2008 and 2015 have proven the effectiveness of HA for the treatment of symptoms associated with synovitis, and particularly, knee pain, relief of synovial effusion or inflammation, and improvement of muscular knee strength. The mechanism by which HA exerts its effects in the living body, specifically receptor binding in the intestinal epithelia, has gradually been clarified. This review examines the effects of HA upon knee pain as assessed in clinical trials, as well as the mechanism of these effects and the safety of HA.
Hatayama T, Nagano M, Yamaguchi N, Kumagai S, Ohnuki K. The effect of a supplement on knee pain and discomfort evaluated by visual analogue scale(VAS): a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Kenko-shien. 2008;10:13–7.
Kalman DS, Heimer M, Valdeon A, Schwartz H, Sheldon E. Effect of a natural extract of chicken combs with a high content of hyaluronic acid (Hyal-Joint®) on pain relief and quality of life in subjects with knee osteoarthritis: a pilot randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial. Nutr. J.. 2008;7
Iwaso H, Sato T. Examination of the efficacy and safety of oral administration of Hyabest® (J)-highly-pure hyaluronic acid for knee joint pain. J Jpn Soc Clin. Sports Med. 2009;58:566–72.
Sato T, Iwaso H. An Effectiveness study of hyaluronic acid Hyabest® (J) in the treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee on the patients in the United State. J New Rem & Clin. 2009;58:551–8.
Möller I, Martinez-Puig D, Chetrit C. Oral administration of a natural extract rich in hyaluronic acid for the treatment of knee OA with synovitis: a retrospective cohort study. Clin Nutr Suppl. 2009;4:171–2. doi: 10.1016/S1744-1161(09)70394-1.
Nagaoka I, Nabeshima K, Murakami S, Yamamoto T, Watanabe K, Tomonaga A, et al. Evaluation of the effects of a supplementary diet containing chicken comb extract on symptoms and cartilage metabolism in patients with knee osteoarthritis. Exp Ther Med. 2010;1:817–27.
Yoshimura M, Aoba Y, Watari T, Momomura R, Watanabe K, Tomonaga A, et al. Evaluation of the effect of a chicken comb extract-containing supplement on cartilage and bone metabolism in athletes. Exp Ther Med. 2012;4:577–80.
Tashiro T, Seino S, Sato T, Matsuoka R, Masuda Y, Fukui N. Oral administration of polymer hyaluronic acid alleviates symptoms of knee osteoarthritis: a double-blind, placebo-controlled study over a 12-month period. Sci. World J.. 2012;doi:10.1100/2012/167928.
Martinez-Puig D, Möller I, Fernández C, Chetrit C. Efficacy of oral administration of yoghurt supplemented with a preparation containing hyaluronic acid (Mobilee™) in adults with mild joint discomfort: a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled intervention study. Mediterr J Nutr Metab. 2013;6:63–8. doi: 10.1007/s12349-012-0108-9.
Moriña D, Solà R, Valls RM, López de Frutos V, Montero M, Giralt M, et al. Efficacy of a Low-fat Yogurt Supplemented with a Rooster Comb Extract on Joint Function in Mild Knee Pain Patients: A Subject-level Meta-analysis. Ann Nutr Metab. 2013;63:1386.
Sánchez J, Bonet ML, Keijer J, van Schothorst EM, Mölller I, Chetrit C, et al. Blood cells transcriptomics as source of potential biomarkers of articular health improvement: effects of oral intake of a rooster combs extract rich in hyaluronic acid. Genes Nutr. 2014;9:417. doi: 10.1007/s12263-014-0417-3.
Nelson FR, Zvirbulis RA, Zonca B, Li KW, Turner SM, Pasierb M, et al. The effects of an oral preparation containing hyaluronic acid (Oralvisc®) on obese knee osteoarthritis patients determined by pain, function, bradykinin, leptin, inflammatory cytokines, and heavy water analyses. Rheumatol Int. 2015;35:43–52. doi: 10.1007/s00296-014-3047-6.
Jensen GS, Attridge VL, Lenninger MR, Benson KF. Oral intake of a liquid high-molecular-weight hyaluronan associated with relief of chronic pain and reduced use of pain medication: results of a randomized, placebo-controlled double-blind pilot study. J Med Food. 2015;18:95–101. doi: 10.1089/jmf.2013.0174.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4729158/
Boswellia Serrata
A double blind, randomized, placebo controlled study of the efficacy and safety of 5-Loxin for treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee
CONCLUSION: Boswellia serrata extract reduces pain and improves physical functioning significantly in osteoarthritis patients; and it is safe for human consumption. 5-Loxin may exert its beneficial effects by controlling inflammatory responses through reducing proinflammatory modulators, and it may improve joint health by reducing the enzymatic degradation of cartilage in osteoarthritis patients.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18667054
Clinical evaluation of Boswellia serrata (Shallaki) resin in the management of Sandhivata (osteoarthritis)
Abstract: Osteoarthritis is the most common degenerative joint disease that begins asymptomatically in middle age with progressive symptoms in advancing age. Majority of people by the age 40 years may develop osteoarthritis, especially in weight bearing joints. Females are prone with 25% prevalence, whereas males have a prevalence of 16%. In the present study, 56 patients fulfilling the diagnostic criteria of osteoarthritis, divided into two groups. Patients of first group were administered with 500 mg capsule of boswellia serrata, 6 g per day (in three divided doses) with lukewarm water (n=29) and the second group) capsule boswellia serratas above along with local application of boswellia serrata ointment on the affected joints (n=23). After a course of therapy for 2 months, symptomatic improvement was observed in both the groups at various levels with promising results in the patients of first group.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22661840
Bioperine
A clinical study done at St. John’s Medical College, Bangalore, India
A clinical study done at St. John’s Medical College, Bangalore, India and published in Planta Medica journal in 1997 provided clinical evidence of piperine’s role in increasing the bioavailability of Curcumin, and has become one of the most downloaded papers of that journal. BioPerine® significantly improved the uptake of Curcumin - the healthful extract from turmeric roots with clinically - validated efficacy in a wide range of health conditions ranging from inflammation to cancer.
Bioavailability of Curcumin (2000 mg) when co - administered with BioPerine® (20 mg) was enhanced by 20 - fold or 2000% compared to bioavailability of curcumin alone at doses that were devoid of adverse side effects.
References:
Rao VR, et al. Simultaneous determination of bioactive compounds in Piper nigrum L. and a species comparison study using HPLC-PDA. Nat Prod Res. (2011)
Shoba G, et al. Influence of piperine on the pharmacokinetics of curcumin in animals and human volunteers. Planta Med. (1998)
Han HK. The effects of black pepper on the intestinal absorption and hepatic metabolism of drugs. Expert Opin Drug Metab Toxicol. (2011)
Lack of Adverse Influence of Black Pepper, Its Oleoresin and Piperine in the Weanling Rat.
Srinivasan K. Black pepper and its pungent principle-piperine: a review of diverse physiological effects. Crit Rev Food Sci Nutr. (2007)
http://www.bioperine.com/index.php/researchhighlight
Knee + Joint Renew Gives You All The Support You Need At A Fraction Of The Cost
If you tried to purchase the individual ingredients in Knee + Joint Renew at your health food store, you could easily spend the following amounts for a 30 day supply:
UC-II® Undenatured Type II Collagen $38
Meriva® $39
Hyaluronic Acid $24
Boswellia Serrata $21
Bioperine® $7
TOTAL COST $129
What's more, there is no guarantee as to purity and bioavailability. It's so much easier to get these nutrients in one convenient supplement, rather than having to mix and match them yourself. All the work has already been done for you. It's great to know that in these tough economic times, you can count on Knee + Joint Renew® to keep this formula affordable.
Our 1 Year 100% Money Back Guarantee
1 Year Guarantee
We guarantee that if Knee + Joint Renew® hasn't helped you... or you are not fully satisfied for any reason... you will get 100% of your money back on your most recent order. (Minus the cost of S&H). That's right - that means you can try out Knee + Joint Renew® at my risk, and request a refund any time within 1 year of your most recent order!
30 days from now you can be nothing more than a month older, or you can be taking steps towards improving your wellbeing, you decide. You have nothing to fear, because you're protected by a full 1 year guarantee. You have nothing to lose by giving Knee + Joint Renew® a try. If it doesn't produce results, I honestly want you to ask for your money back! If it doesn't work, it costs you nothing. If it does, it can change your life forever.
I Want To Try This For Myself. What Do I Do Next?
If you were to try and buy all of the ingredients in Knee + Joint Renew®, you would spend over $129 and have to take 10 or more capsules per day.
For a limited time, we will send you a free 2 week supply of Knee + Joint Renew® and enroll you in our "Preferred Customer Program." You pay just $4.95 to cover shipping and handling.
That's right. You will receive a free trial bottle and membership into our preferred customer program which qualifies you to receive a full $20 discount on all your future bottles of Knee + Joint Renew®.
And so you don't go a day without Knee + Joint Renew® capsules, you'll automatically receive a fresh bottle every 30 days and your credit card will be billed the preferred member price of $47, plus S&H - not the $67 non-members have to pay.
Your trial bottle will give you a full 2 weeks to make sure the product is right for you. At the end of the 2 weeks, if you're not completely satisfied, you can cancel without obligation.
Of course, you can also order a single bottle at our regular price of $67 or a discounted 3 month supply without signing up for our Preferred Customer Program with automatic shipments.
Why Offer a Free Trial and 1 Year Guarantee?
3 reasons
We Believe: We spent countless hours developing this formula and we know you’ll see results, it's as simple as that.
We Understand: We know that this industry is filled with inflated promises and we want to take all the risk off of you.
We Care: If Knee + Joint Renew doesn’t change your life, we don’t want you to pay for it. Putting people first is the forefront of our mission as a company.
Right now, you have two choices...
1.
You can either continue living with joint discomfort and the swelling.
2.
Or you can take action today, right now, by looking at the research and ingredients in Knee + Joint Renew® and making the same choice that thousands of our satisfied customers have already made.
So order today, right now, while it's still hot on your mind. And be prepared to regain your life.
You’ve Got 3 Options For Ordering
1 Month Supply
Good Value
Rush me a 1 Month Supply of Knee + Joint Renew. No automatic shipments.
$67 + (S&H)
Add To Cart
3 Month Supply
DISCOUNTED GREAT VALUE
3 Month Supply of Knee + Joint Renew. Save $60 off Regular Price. No automatic Shipments.
$201 $141 + (S&H)
Add To Cart
FREE 2 WEEK TRIAL
BEST VALUE
After 2 weeks, a 30 day supply will be delivered at the discounted price of $47 each month. I can cancel monthly shipments at anytime.
FREE (JUST PAY S&H)
Add To Cart
Or Call 888-840-7142 to order by phone (Mon-Sat, 7am-7pm MST)
A Few More Reasons To Order Today
Get the most complete joint supplement on the market and find out why we are
the only company able to offer a 1 year money back guarantee.
World Class
Customer Support
Need help with your order? Questions about our formula? Our highly trained specialists would love to hear from you. Contact us anytime by phone or email.
1 Year Money Back Guarantee
Our industry leading money back guarantee covers your most recent order for up to 1 year! They said we were crazy for offering a 1 year guarantee but we stand behind our product. Try Knee + Joint Renew risk free.
Amazing Customer
Testimonials
Every testimonial on our site is a testament to the power of our formula. Don't take our word for it, read through the testimonials to learn how our formula has changed the lives of thousands of people.
Backed By Clinical Studies
Knee + Joint Renew only uses ingredients backed by clinical studies. You can find information about these studies on our "Clinical Studies" page and we encourage you to learn about the results for yourself.
Manufacturing Audited
and Certified
Our manufacturing facility follows all GMP's and undergoes voluntary 3rd party audits twice a year. Every ingredient is tested for potency and purity before it is mixed and bottled.
Highest Grade Ingredients
All of our ingredients are hand selected and tested to be of the highest quality. We always use the most bio-available forms of vitamins. Our lab uses NIR (Near-infrared) technology to test each ingredient that enters our facility.
Order Knee + Joint Renew Today
Contact Info
Mailing Address
3855 W. Lorenzo Ste. 100
Eagle, ID 83616
Phone
888-840-7142 (Mon - Sat 7:00AM thru 7:00PM MST)
E-mail
support@liferenew.com
About Life Renew
Our mission as a company is to not only impress you with how well our products work, but to wow you with our customer service and leave a lasting impression. Please feel free to contact us with any questions you have about our product or service.
Our offices are located in beautiful Boise, Idaho and our support team is second to none. We’re happy to answer your questions and help you any way we can. Our pledge to you is that we will read every comment and answer every question in a courteous and timely manner.
Navigation
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
If you don’t experience amazing results, we offer a 100% money back guarantee (minus S&H charges) for 1 year on your most recent order. There’s absolutely no risk to you
T&C
Privacy Policy
All Rights Reserved © 2018
THE STATEMENTS MADE ON OUR WEBSITES HAVE NOT BEEN EVALUATED BY THE FDA (U.S. FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION). OUR PRODUCTS ARE NOT INTENDED TO DIAGNOSE, CURE OR PREVENT ANY DISEASE. LIFE RENEW IS NOT AFFILIATED WITH ANY OF THE STUDIES MENTIONED ON THE WEBSITE. THE TESTIMONIALS ON THIS WEBSITE ARE INDIVIDUAL CASES AND DO NOT GUARANTEE THAT YOU WILL GET THE SAME RESULTS.