Show Posts - Nusrat Nargis
Daffodil International University
Welcome, Guest. Please login or register.
Did you miss your activation email?
1 Hour 1 Day 1 Week 1 Month Forever
Login with username, password and session length
News:
Daffodil International University Forum contains information about Open Text material, which is only intended for the significant learning purposes of the university students, faculty, other members, and the knowledge seekers of the entire world and is hoped that the offerings will aide in the distribution of reliable information and data relating to the many areas of knowledge.
Home
Help
Search
Calendar
Login
Register
Daffodil International University »
Profile of Nusrat Nargis »
Show Posts »
Topics
Profile Info
Summary
Show Stats
Show Posts...
Messages
Topics
Attachments
Show Posts
This section allows you to view all posts made by this member. Note that you can only see posts made in areas you currently have access to.
Messages
Topics
Attachments
Topics - Nusrat Nargis
Pages: [1] 2
1
BBA Discussion Forum / Financial concepts for all
« on: April 04, 2017, 03:25:26 PM »
9 Financial Concepts Every Functioning Adult Should Know:
1. Net worth
2. Inflation
3. liquidity
4. Bull market
5. Bear market
6. Risk tolerance
7. Asset allocation and diversification
8. Interest
9. Compound interest
Source: http://www.businessinsider.com/financial-concepts-to-know-by-30-2014-12
2
BBA Discussion Forum / health benefits of Mango
« on: June 06, 2016, 10:49:14 AM »
Health Benefits
1. Prevents Cancer:
Research has shown antioxidant compounds in mango fruit have been found to protect against colon, breast, leukemia and prostate cancers. These compounds include quercetin, isoquercitrin, astragalin, fisetin, gallic acid and methylgallat, as well as the abundant enzymes.
2. Lowers Cholesterol:
The high levels of fiber, pectin and vitamin C help to lower serum cholesterol levels, specifically Low-Density Lipoprotein (the bad stuff).
3. Clears the Skin:
Can be used both internally and externally for the skin. Mangos help clear clogged pores and eliminate pimples.
4. Improves Eye Health:
One cup of sliced mangoes supplies 25 percent of the needed daily value of vitamin A, which promotes good eyesight and prevents night blindness and dry eyes.
5. Alkalizes the Whole Body:
The tartaric acid, malic acid, and a trace of citric acid found in the fruit help to maintain the alkali reserve of the body.
6. May Help with Diabetes:
Mango leaves help normalize insulin levels in the blood. The traditional home remedy involves boiling leaves in water, soaking through the night and then consuming the filtered decoction in the morning. Mango fruit also has a relatively low glycemic index (41-60) so moderate quantities will not spike your sugar levels.
7. Improves Digestion:
Papayas are not the only fruit that contain enzymes for breaking down protein. There are several fruits, including mangoes, which have this healthful quality. The fiber in mangos also helps digestion and elimination.
8. Helps Fight Heat Stroke:
Juicing the fruit from green mango and mixing with water and a sweetener helps to cool down the body and prevent harm from overheating. From an ayurvedic viewpoint, the reason people often get diuretic and exhausted when visiting equatorial climates is because the strong “sun energy” is burning up your body, particularly the muscles. The kidneys then become overloaded with the toxins from this process.
9. Boosts the Immune System:
The generous amounts of vitamin C and vitamin A in mangos, plus 25 different kinds of carotenoids keep your immune system healthy and strong.
Nutrition by the Numbers
One cup (225 grams contain) contains the following. Percentages apply to daily value.
105 calories
76 percent vitamin C (antioxidant and immune booster)
25 percent vitamin A (antioxidant and vision)
11 percent vitamin B6 plus other B vitamins (hormone production in brain and heart disease prevention)
9 percent healthy probiotic fiber
9 percent copper (copper is a co-factor for many vital enzymes plus production of red blood cells)
7 percent potassium (to balance out our high sodium intake)
4 percent magnesium
Source: http://www.care2.com/greenliving/10-health-benefits-of-mangos.html
3
BBA Discussion Forum / Final exam improvement_Spring-16
« on: May 08, 2016, 11:07:33 AM »
Final exam improvement for spring-2016 will be held from May 16, 2016 to May 19, 2016. Please contact with BBA office for further information.
4
Business Administration / How can we keep our brain healthy
« on: April 18, 2016, 04:32:38 PM »
Tip 1: Don't smoke.
Tip 2: Follow your physician's advice.
Tip 3: Exercise regularly.
Tip 4: Reduce the overall calories you consume daily.
Tip 5: Socialize and have fun.
Tip 6: Develop your spirituality.
Tip 7: Engage in mentally stimulating activities.
Tip 8: Maintain your role and sense of purpose.
Tip 9: Seek financial stability.
Tip 10: Engage family and friends.
Source:http://www.paulnussbaum.com/tentips.html
5
Business Administration / water for weight loss
« on: May 18, 2015, 11:55:00 AM »
If you're looking for quick and easy ways to lose weight, look no further than your very own kitchen. Your water faucet can help shed the water weight and help you look healthier and thinner. According to the Food and Nutrition Board at the Institute of Medicine, healthy women should ingest about 11 cups (91 oz.) of water whereas healthy men should around 15 cups (125 oz.) of water a day, from all food and beverages. Your daily intake of water is affected by age, weight, activity level, and environmental factors such as altitude. With just drinking two cups of water before you consume all of your three meals, you can lose the weight and keep it off.
In a recent study published in The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, researchers reviewed 11 previous studies to examine the association between water consumption and body weight. Out of the 11 studies that were evaluated, three of them showed that an increased water intake among dieters was tied to greater weight loss. Brenda Davy, a professor at Virginia Tech and leader of some work in the review believes that drinking water before a meal contributes to significant weight loss. In Davy's group, a study found that middle aged and older adults who drank two cups of water before a meal reportedly lost four more pounds than the group that didn't drink the two cups of H2O. Water can suppress feelings of hunger by making the body feel full and therefore reduce an individual's calorie intake.
"It's best to consume the bulk of your water away from foods [and] meals," said Dr. Katrina Wilhelm, a naturopathic physician in Lake Oswego, Ore. "30 minutes both sides of a meal should do," said Wilhem, as separating the two will aid digestion by keeping the stomach acid concentrated so it can function efficiently. Drinking water, especially the right type of water, will help ensure that it is free from all harmful contaminants and preserves healthy minerals present in the water.
Increase your water consumption in your diet by following these quick-and-easy, cost effective ways to lose weight.
Drink Water Every Two Hours
Spacing out your water consumption throughout the day will ensure that your body is replenished and gets rid of excess water weight. If you only consume water when you are thirsty then your body will be depleted of necessary fluids and retain the water weight. According to Riverside Health System, a rule of thumb of how much water you need is based on the color of your urine. If you have a dark yellow-colored urine it is a strong indication that you need more fluids in your body. For healthy, light-colored urine, it is important to drink a glass of water when you wake up in the morning and then every two hours. Even after you use the restroom, drink another glass of water so that your body is plenty replenished.
Add Flavor To Your Water
Water is known for being tasteless and therefore it has a low popularity of satisfying taste buds. However, there are healthy alternatives to add some flavor to good, old-fashioned H2O. Wilhelm advises dieters to steer clear of fake sugars which are becoming popular as a zero calorie sweetener. "These compounds trigger the part of the brain that responds to sugar so we see clearly in research that people consuming these products don't lose weight, and in fact, tend to gain weight," she said.
Wilhelm uses an effervescent electrolyte power that tastes just like raspberry lemonade as her flavored water drink of choice because of its dual power. The minerals found in this flavored water can build bone density and overall improve the taste of plain water. "If someone is trying to cut down their soda intake, mineral water that is naturally flavored would be a great substitute," she said.
Opt For Green Iced Tea
Green tea is known to be rich in its antioxidants and flavonoids which can boost your metabolism while you get your water intake. For an easy summertime drink, prepare hot tea with boiled water as usual and then pour the hot tea water over a glass of ice. Refrain from adding any sweeteners to your iced tea as it can interfere with your overall health and weight loss goal.
For additional iced tea recipes that can boost your body's metabolism and can help you shed the pounds easily, look for iced tea varieties recipes on Dr. Oz's website.
Sparkling Water
Sparkling, also commonly known as carbonated water is an alternative to plain water for those who wish to satisfy their soda cravings without consuming in the high-sugar carbonated beverage. If you are on a low-sodium diet and would like to try sparkling water, it is important to take notice of the sodium content in your drink, especially if you are trying to lose weight. Drinking sparkling water may worsen the condition of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) due to the release of CO2 that can often cause bloating and gas. If you have IBS, it is best to stick to plain water.
Produce In Water
The addition of fruit and veggies to your water can add a lot of flavor. Fruit-infused water or agua fresca involves adding lemon, limes, grapefruit, oranges, raspberries, or even watermelon to a pitcher of water in the fridge to give it a zesty flavor. It is important to let the water and fruits simmer for an extended period of time before you consume water. Wilhelm believes the best alternatives to flavored water are slices of fresh fruits or vegetables. To avoid saturating your water with inorganic chemicals, use the Environmental Working Group (EWG) dirty dozen list will help you choose organic produce.
Eat Your Water
Fruits that contain a high percentage of water should be consumed to increase your water intake. Watermelon is made up of 92 percent water and approximately 6 percent sugar, says the University of Kentucky College of Agriculture. Other fruits that have high water intake include strawberries, grapefruit, and cantaloupe.
Water In Soup
Aside from consuming fruits, hot and cold soups can help boost your water consumption.
"Incorporate chilled soups such as melon soups, gazpacho as well as hot soups including vegetable, broths, minestrone, lentil and more," says Stacy Goldberg, MPH, RN, BSN and CEO Founder of Savorfull. "Aim for low sodium soups!"
An alternative to consuming soup through biting veggies is to have pureed soups that blend all the ingredients together. Take cooked vegetables, put them in a blender with the broth and you have pureed soup.
source: http://www.medicaldaily.com/7-ways-lose-weight-drinking-more-water-your-diet-247471
6
Business Administration / benefits of wood apples or Bel Fruit
« on: May 07, 2015, 10:29:23 AM »
The health benefits of Bel Fruit or Wood Apple include relief from constipation, indigestion, peptic ulcer, piles, respiratory problems, diarrhea, and dysentery.It also boosts the immune system, fights off bacterial and viral infections, reduces inflammation and various inflammatory conditions, prevent cancer, increases milk production for nursing mothers, cures diabetes, increases ocular health, and helps prevent various sexual dysfunctions.
The Bel fruit, in actuality, is an herb with the botanical name of Limonia acidissima. Bel fruit has other names like wood apple, elephant apple and monkey fruit. In some parts of the world, this fruit is called elephant apple because it’s a favorite food of elephants, while in other areas, it gets the name wood apple because of its hard wooden shell. It is actually considered sacred by Hindus, and is widely cultivated and eaten in India.
The wood apple tree is native to India, but is also found in Sri Lanka, Thailand, and various other regions in the southern part of Asia. The tree can grow up to 30 feet in height, and the edible fruits are 5-9cm in diameter. Their shells are tough, and the inside is brownish pulp and small white seeds. The pulp can be eaten raw, but it is popularly scooped out and frozen, or made into jam. It can also be mixed with coconut milk for a delicious, health beverage, or frozen into ice cream!
Health Benefits of Wood Apples:
Bel fruit also has great medicinal value for those who consume it, whether they are aware of these benefits or not! Let’s take a closer look at the extensive health benefits of this interesting fruit!
Good for Digestion: Bel fruit is great for digestion because it helps to destroy worms in the intestine, and is a good remedy for digestive disorders. It is also recommended as a remedy for chronic dysentery. The trunk and branches of bel trees contain a gum-like substance called ‘Feronia gum’. This is commonly used to curing diarrhea and dysentery. Bel fruit is also recommended for people with peptic ulcer or piles since bel leaves contain tannin, which is known to reduce inflammation. The laxative property of wood apple also helps to avoid constipation and the subsequent, pain, discomfort and associated health risks of that condition. This, combined with the antifungal and antiparisitic activities, make bel fruit ideal for increasing digestive health.
Blood Cleanser: As little as 50 mg of bel fruit juice mixed with warm water and sugar is recommended for blood purification and the removal of toxins that can cause extensive damage to the body. This reduces the strain on the liver and kidneys, which are the normal lines of defense against toxins.
Effective for Ear Aches: The root of the bel tree is integral in the management and treatment of ear conditions and pain.
Prevention of Scurvy: Deficiency of vitamin C (ascorbic acid) causes scurvy. Since Bel fruit is rich in vitamin C, it can guarantees that you do not develop scurvy, a potentially life-threatening condition. This high level of vitamin C also increases the strength and potency of the immune system, thereby protecting people who consume wood apples from a variety of microbial and viral infections.
Good for Diabetic Patients: The ‘Feronia gum’, contained in the trunk and branches of the bel tree, counteracts diabetes by reducing the severity of the condition and helps to manage the flow, secretion, and balance of sugars in the bloodstream. By managing the insulin and glucose levels, it is possible to prevent the spikes and plunges that can be so dangerous to diabetics.
Relief from Respiratory Problems: Leaves of the Bel fruit tree help people avoid chronic or recurring colds and related respiratory conditions. They also help in curing sore throat and treating chronic cough due to its function as an expectorant. It loosens phlegm and helps eliminate the buildup in the respiratory system.
Energy Booster: One hundred grams of Bel fruit pulp provides 140 calories, and the nutrients found in that amount boost organ activity and metabolic speed. This all results in additional energy and reserves in the body. The high protein content also means that the body can heal faster and the muscles can grow stronger, further boosting energy reserves.
Good for Kidney Conditions: Regular consumption of wood apple is recommended for people with kidney complaints. Considering the detoxifying powers of wood apples, the kidney and liver can be protected if the correct organic compounds from wood apples are kept at healthy levels.
Liver Health: As a good source of beta-carotene, wood apples also cure liver problems. They contain thiamine and riboflavin, both of which are known as liver health boosters, this fruit also functions as an ingredient in cardiac tonics.
Cure Snakebites: In Ayurvedic treatments, all parts of the wood apple plant are used to cure snakebites.
Protection Against Malaria: The pulp of bel fruit trees has also been used as a cosmetic component by women in Thai-Myanmar border area. This area is also frequently affected by dengue and malaria, but research studies have suggested that by applying the mixture of this pulp and repellents on the skin of pregnant women may be beneficial in protecting them against malaria.
Apart from the warming sensation upon application of this mix, the repellents are neutral and non-irritating. However, studies are underway to ascertain the mechanisms behind the benefits of this mixture on malaria.
Bel Fruit – How to Select and Consume
Bel fruits can be consumed as ripe fruits or in juice-form. The ripe bel fruit is sweet and can also be used for making a tasty drink known as wood apple milk. The ripe fruit is consumed as custard with sugar or honey in certain cultures. The raw bel fruit is sour to taste and is used to make chutney, while the leaves of the bel fruit tree are used as salad ingredients.
A Word of Caution
Like any other food/fruits, we have to take some precautions when consuming the Bel fruit. Excessive consumption of Bel fruit causes flatulence in the abdomen, so people with gastric troubles should be careful. Also, if you have never consumed bel fruit before, try a small amount and see how your body reacts. Anything can be an allergen, so it is better to start small and work your way up to larger portions once you know that your system handles it well.
Source: https://www.organicfacts.net/health-benefits/fruit/health-benefits-of-wood-apple-or-bel-fruit.html
7
BBA Discussion Forum / benefits of lemon water
« on: March 08, 2015, 11:01:50 AM »
1. Gives your immune system a boost.
Vitamin C is like our immune system’s jumper cables, and lemon juice is full of it. The level of vitamin C in your system is one of the first things to plummet when you’re stressed, which is why experts recommended popping extra vitamin C during especially stressful days.
2. Excellent source of potassium.
As already mentioned, lemons are high in potassium, which is good for heart health, as well as brain and nerve function.
3. Aids digestion.
Lemon juice not only encourages healthy digestion by loosening toxins in your digestive tract, it helps to relieve symptoms of indigestion such as heartburn, burping, and bloating.
4. Cleanses your system.
It helps flush out the toxins in your body by enhancing enzyme function, stimulating your liver.
5. Freshens your breath.
It also helps relieve toothaches and gingivitis (say wha?). Because the citric acid can erode tooth enamel, either hold off on brushing your teeth after drinking lemon water or brush your teeth before drinking it.
6. Keeps your skin blemish-free.
The antioxidants in lemon juice help to not only decrease blemishes, but wrinkles too! It can also be applied to scars and age spots to reduce their appearance, and because it’s detoxifying your blood, it will maintain your skin’s radiance.
7. Helps you lose weight.
Lemons contain pectin fiber, which assists in fighting hunger cravings.
8. Reduces inflammation.
If you drink lemon water on a regular basis, it will decrease the acidity in your body, which is where disease states occur. It removes uric acid in your joints, which is one of the main causes of inflammation.
9. Gives you an energy boost.
Lemon juice provides your body with energy when it enters your digestive tract, and it also helps reduce anxiety and depression. (Even the scent of lemons has a calming effect on your nervous system!)
10. Helps to cut out caffeine.
I didn’t believe this until I tried it, but replacing my morning coffee with a cup of hot lemon water has really done wonders! I feel refreshed, and no longer have to deal with that pesky afternoon crash. Plus, my nerves are thankful.
11. Helps fight viral infections.
Warm lemon water is the most effective way to diminish viral infections and their subsequent sore throats. Plus, with the lemon juice also boosting your immune system, you’ll simultaneously fight off the infection completely.
source: http://www.lifehack.org/articles/lifestyle/11-benefits-lemon-water-you-didnt-know-about.html
8
Public Health / Silicon free shampoo for hair care
« on: May 06, 2014, 04:03:15 PM »
The advantages of silicone in your hair are the shiny look, frizz free hair and the smooth feeling you get when you wash your hair.
The disadvantages are quite overwhelming. Every time you wash your hair with a shampoo that has silicone the coating of the silicone on your hair will build up and make it harder to get it out of your hair. Silicone can also lead to hair loss, extremely dry and itchy scalp and cancer. The dying your hair will be useless because it is going to fade very quickly, any hair treatment that will help your hair such as oils won’t work at all because the silicone is sealing up the hair.
source:http://makeupandbeauty.com/why-use-a-silicone-free-shampoo/
9
Nutrition and Food Engineering / Nuts for heart
« on: April 28, 2014, 01:33:38 PM »
Eating nuts as part of a healthy diet can be good for heart. Nuts, which contain unsaturated fatty acids and other nutrients, are a great snack food, too. They're inexpensive, easy to store and easy to pack when you're on the go.
The type of nut we eat isn't that important, although some nuts have more heart-healthy nutrients and fats than do others. Walnuts, almonds, hazelnuts almost every type of nut has a lot of nutrition packed into a tiny package. If anyone has heart disease, eating nuts instead of a less healthy snack can help him/her more easily follow a heart-healthy diet.
People who eat nuts as part of a heart-healthy diet can lower the low-density lipoprotein (LDL, or "bad") cholesterol level in their blood. High LDL is one of the primary causes of heart disease.
Eating nuts may reduce your risk of developing blood clots that can cause a fatal heart attack. Nuts also appear to improve the health of the lining of your arteries.
Besides being packed with protein, most nuts contain at least some of these heart-healthy substances:
Unsaturated fats. It's not entirely clear why, but it's thought that the "good" fats in nuts — both monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats — lower bad cholesterol levels.
Omega-3 fatty acids. Many nuts are also rich in omega-3 fatty acids. Omega-3s are a healthy form of fatty acids that seem to help your heart by, among other things, preventing dangerous heart rhythms that can lead to heart attacks. Omega-3 fatty acids are also found in many kinds of fish, but nuts are one of the best plant-based sources of omega-3 fatty acids.
Fiber. All nuts contain fiber, which helps lower your cholesterol. Fiber makes you feel full, so you eat less. Fiber is also thought to play a role in preventing diabetes.
Vitamin E. Vitamin E may help stop the development of plaques in your arteries, which can narrow them. Plaque development in your arteries can lead to chest pain, coronary artery disease or a heart attack.
Plant sterols. Some nuts contain plant sterols, a substance that can help lower your cholesterol. Plant sterols are often added to products like margarine and orange juice for additional health benefits, but sterols occur naturally in nuts.
L-arginine. Nuts are also a source of l-arginine, which is a substance that may help improve the health of your artery walls by making them more flexible and less prone to blood clots that can block blood flow.
source: http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/heart-disease/in-depth/nuts/art-20046635
10
Faculty Sections / Health benefits of jackfruit
« on: April 16, 2014, 01:46:45 PM »
Immunity: Jackfruit contains an excellent source of Vitamin C. With a high amount of Vitamin C, antioxidants it increases immune system function. It increases immunity to protect against common diseases like cough, cold and flu. Vitamin C also increases immune system function to protect from infections
Energy: Jackfruit contains high amount of carbohydrate and calorie. It contains a good amount of simple sugar like fructose and sucrose, thus provide a quick boost of energy. Also it has no cholesterol content. Thus it makes the jackfruit more safe and healthy food.
Protect from Cancer: Jackfruit is a rich source of antioxidants, phytonutrients and flavonoid that make it highly beneficial to protect from cancer. Jackfruit contains high amount of antioxidants which protects from oxygen free radicals. Free radicals are produced due to oxidative stress. These free radicals damages DNA of the cell and turns the normal cell into a cancer cell. But antioxidants neutralize these free radicals and acts as a shield to protect DNA from free radicals. Jackfruit protects from colon, lung and oral cavity cancer.
Maintain Blood Pressure: Jackfruit contains good amount of potassium. Potassium is required to maintain sodium level. Also high potassium is required to maintain fluid level i.e. to balance electrolyte. Thus it helps to lower high blood pressure and reduces the risk of stroke and heart attack.
Improve Digestion: Jackfruit contains good amount of dietary fiber which makes it bulk laxative. Thus it improves digestion and prevents constipation.
Colon Cancer: Jackfruit contains dietary fats which help to clean toxins from the colon. Thus it reduces the effects of toxin in the colon and protect from colon cancer.
Eye Health: Jackfruit contains Vitamin A, an important nutrient for eye health. It increases eye vision and protect from free radicals. As it is a rich source of other antioxidants, thus it is highly effective to prevent degeneration of the retina. So jackfruit protect from cataract and macular degeneration.
source:http://wiki-fitness.com/jackfruit-health-benefits-nutrition-facts/
11
Faculty Sections / Lets celebrate Pohela Boishakh-1421
« on: April 13, 2014, 10:47:14 AM »
The largest festival of bengali culture, Pohela Boishakh is just at our doorstep. The whole country is preparing for the big day. Boishakh is a day of our selfness and togetherness. The country will appear in a new look with lots of vibrant colors. You also need to look gorgeous on this day under the scorching heat. Here are some useful tips for you to stay fresh and beautiful all day long on Pohela Boishakh.
Before starting your makeup rub an ice cube on face to keep your face cool. Prepare the ice cube by mixing equal amount of rose water and regular water. Rose water ice cube will give you extra freshness. Rub the ice cube not only on the face but also around the neck and those areas which are more prone to get sweaty.
Start your makeup with an oil free moisturizer as a base. If possible use a makeup primer. ( Primers are makeup base, it is applied before foundation.)Primers will make your face as a good canvas for makeup and also keeps makeup to stay longer.
If you have oily skin avoid foundation for the day, because under the sun your makeup will start melting easily. Start your base makeup with a concealer. Cover the dark circles and flaws of your face by concealer.
Now apply some compact powder all over your face and neck. For oily skin choose matte compact powder.
For eye makeup choose waterproof products. Avoid applying any bold colors on eyes. Choose pink or brownish eye shadows. Apply waterproof eyeliner, kajal and Mascara. Try and apply an intense eyelining for a more dramatic look.
Avoid cream blush and choose powder blush. Apply pink or brown blush on the apple of your cheeks by a fluffy brush.
Choose a bold shade like blood red, Maroon as a lipcolor. A prominent and bright lipcolor will give a gorgeous look. After applying lipstick, sprinkle a little loose powder on lips to make it stay longer.
Keep your hair well tied. Do not let your hair untie on neck, this will make you feel uncomfortable. Do a traditional bun or plait. Push some red or white flowers like rose or rojoni gondha on hair and fix them on hair by bobby pins.
Last but not least , use a mild fragranced body spray or perfume . And keep one in your purse.Please remember that a well prepared purse/ handbag is very helpful on this day.Keep your necessities like tissues, compact powder, a little mirror in your purse. Keep some mint flavored chewing gum to avoid bad breath. Also keep a bottle of water to keep you hydrated under the sun. And don't forget the "kaacher churis"! Red and white or a pair of all the other vibrant colours of boishakh.
When you are ready, step outside with confidence and smile, combat the summer heat and enjoy the festival.
Source:http://www.maya.com.bd/en/articles/stay-fresh-and-beautiful-on-pohela-boishakh
12
Public Health / benefits of watermelon
« on: April 09, 2014, 11:45:42 AM »
Health benefits of watermelon:
Cardiovascular & Bone Health
The lycopene in watermelon is especially important for our cardiovascular health and is now being recognized as an important factor in promoting bone health. Consuming large amounts of watermelon has also been correlated with improved cardiovascular function because it improves blood flow via vasodilation (relaxation of blood pressure). Dietary lycopene (from foods like watermelon or tomatoes) reduces oxidative stress which normally reduces the activity of osteoblasts and osteoclasts (the two major bone cells involved in the pathogenesis of osteoporosis) – this means stronger bones for those consuming lycopene-rich foods. Watermelon is also rich in potassium which helps to retain calcium in your body, resulting in stronger bones and joints.
Reduces Body Fat
The citrulline in watermelon has been shown to reduce the accumulation of fat in our fat cells. Citrulline is an amino acid which converts into arginine with help from the kidneys. When our bodies absorb citrulline it can take the step of converting into arginine if so required. Citrulline, when consumed, has the ability to (through a series of steps) block the activity of TNAP (tissue-nonspecific alkaline phosphatase) which makes our fat cells create less fat, and thus helps prevent over-accumulation of body fat.
Anti-inflammatory & Antioxidant Support
Watermelon is rich in phenolic compounds like flavonoids, carotenoids, and triterpenoids. The carotenoid lycopene in watermelon is particularly beneficial in reducing inflammation and neutralizing free radicals. The tripterpenoid cucurbitacin E is also present in watermelon, which provides anti-inflammatory support by blocking activity of cyclo-oxygenase enzymes which normally lead to increased inflammatory support. Make sure you pick ripe watermelons, because they contain higher amounts of these beneficial phenolic compounds.
Diuretic & Kidney Support
Watermelon is a natural diuretic which helps increase the flow of urine, but does not strain the kidneys (unlike alcohol and caffeine). Watermelons helps the liver process ammonia (waste from protein digestion) which eases strain on the kidneys while getting rid of excess fluids.
Muscle & Nerve Support
Rich in potassium, watermelon is a great natural electrolyte and thus helps regulate the action of nerves and muscles in our body. Potassium determines the degree and frequency with which our muscles contract, and controls the excitation of nerves in our body.
Alkaline-forming
Watermelons have an alkaline-forming effect in the body when fully ripe. Eating lots of alkaline-forming foods (fresh, ripe, fruit and vegetables) can help reduce your risk of developing disease and illness caused by a high-acid diet (namely, meat, eggs and dairy).
Improves Eye Health
Watermelon is a wonderful source of beta-carotene (that rich red hue of watermelon = beta carotene) which is converted in the body to vitamin A. It helps produce the pigments in the retina of the eye and protects against age-related macular degeneration as well as prevents night blindness. Vitamin A also maintains healthy skin, teeth, skeletal and soft tissue, and mucus membranes.
Source:http://livelovefruit.com/2013/07/8-amazing-health-benefits-of-watermelon/
13
Faculty Forum / How to conrol diabetes???????????
« on: April 02, 2014, 12:17:28 PM »
1. Control Your Weight
Excess weight is the single most important cause of type 2 diabetes. Being overweight increases the chances of developing type 2 diabetes seven fold. Being obese makes you 20 to 40 times more likely to develop diabetes than someone with a healthy weight. Losing weight can help if your weight is above the healthy-weight range. Losing 7 to 10 percent of your current weight can cut your chances of developing type 2 diabetes in half.
2.Get Moving—and Turn Off the Television
Inactivity promotes type 2 diabetes. Working your muscles more often and making them work harder improves their ability to use insulin and absorb glucose. This puts less stress on your insulin-making cells. Long bouts of hot, sweaty exercise aren’t necessary to reap this benefit. Findings from the Nurses’ Health Study and Health Professionals Follow-up Study suggest that walking briskly for a half hour every day reduces the risk of developing type 2 diabetes by 30 percent. More recently, The Black Women’s Health Study reported similar diabetes-prevention benefits for brisk walking of more than 5 hours per week. This amount of exercise has a variety of other benefits as well. And even greater cardiovascular and other advantages can be attained by more, and more intense, exercise.
Television-watching appears to be an especially-detrimental form of inactivity: Every two hours you spend watching TV instead of pursuing something more active increases the chances of developing diabetes by 20 percent; it also increases the risk of heart disease (15 percent) and early death (13 percent). The more television people watch, the more likely they are to be overweight or obese, and this seems to explain part of the TV viewing-diabetes link. The unhealthy diet patterns associated with TV watching may also explain some of this relationship.
3.Tune Up Your Diet
Four dietary changes can have a big impact on the risk of type 2 diabetes.
1. Choose whole grains and whole grain products over highly processed carbohydrates.
There is convincing evidence that diets rich in whole grains protect against diabetes, whereas diets rich in refined carbohydrates lead to increased risk. In the Nurses’ Health Studies I and II, for example, researchers looked at the whole grain consumption of more than 160,000 women whose health and dietary habits were followed for up to 18 years. Women who averaged two to three servings of whole grains a day were 30 percent less likely to have developed type 2 diabetes than those who rarely ate whole grains. When the researchers combined these results with those of several other large studies, they found that eating an extra 2 servings of whole grains a day decreased the risk of type 2 diabetes by 21 percent.
Whole grains don’t contain a magical nutrient that fights diabetes and improves health. It’s the entire package—elements intact and working together—that’s important. The bran and fiber in whole grains make it more difficult for digestive enzymes to break down the starches into glucose. This leads to lower, slower increases in blood sugar and insulin, and a lower glycemic index. As a result, they stress the body’s insulin-making machinery less, and so may help prevent type 2 diabetes. Whole grains are also rich in essential vitamins, minerals, and phytochemicals that may help reduce the risk of diabetes.
In contrast, white bread, white rice, mashed potatoes, donuts, bagels, and many breakfast cereals have what’s called a high glycemic index and glycemic load. That means they cause sustained spikes in blood sugar and insulin levels, which in turn may lead to increased diabetes risk. In China, for example, where white rice is a staple, the Shanghai Women’s Health Study found that women whose diets had the highest glycemic index had a 21 percent higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes, compared to women whose diets had the lowest glycemic index. Similar findings were reported in the Black Women’s Health Study.
More recent findings from the Nurses Health Studies I and II and the Health Professionals Follow-Up Study suggest that swapping whole grains for white rice could help lower diabetes risk: Researchers found that women and men who ate the most white rice—five or more servings a week—had a 17 percent higher risk of diabetes than those who ate white rice less than one time a month. People who ate the most brown rice—two or more servings a week—had an 11 percent lower risk of diabetes than those who rarely ate brown rice. Researchers estimate that swapping whole grains in place of even some white rice could lower diabetes risk by 36 percent.
2. Skip the sugary drinks, and choose water, coffee, or tea instead.
Like refined grains, sugary beverages have a high glycemic load, and drinking more of this sugary stuff is associated with increased risk of diabetes. In the Nurses’ Health Study II, women who drank one or more sugar-sweetened beverages per day had an 83 percent higher risk of type 2 diabetes, compared to women who drank less than one sugar-sweetened beverage per month.
Combining the Nurses’ Health Study results with those from seven other studies found a similar link between sugary beverage consumption and type 2 diabetes: For every additional 12-ounce serving of sugary beverage that people drank each day, their risk of type 2 diabetes rose 25 percent. Studies also suggest that fruit drinks— Kool Aid, fortified fruit drinks, or juices—are not the healthy choice that food advertisements often portray them to be: Women in the Black Women’s Health study who drank two or more servings of fruit drinks a day had a 31 percent higher risk of type 2 diabetes, compared to women who drank less than one serving a month.
How do sugary drinks lead to this increased risk? Weight gain may explain the link: In both the Nurses’ Health Study II and the Black Women’s Health Study, women who increased their consumption of sugary drinks gained more weight than women who cut back on sugary drinks. Several studies show that children and adults who drink soda or other sugar-sweetened beverages are more likely to gain weight than those who don’t and that switching from these to water or unsweetened beverages can reduce weight. Even so, however, weight gain caused by sugary drinks may not completely explain the increased diabetes risk. There is mounting evidence that sugary drinks contribute to chronic inflammation, high triglycerides, decreased “good” (HDL) cholesterol, and increased insulin resistance, all of which are risk factors for diabetes.
What to drink in place of the sugary stuff? Water is an excellent choice. Coffee and tea are also good calorie-free substitutes for sugared beverages (as long as you don’t load them up with sugar and cream). And there’s convincing evidence that coffee may help protect against diabetes; emerging research suggests that tea may hold diabetes-prevention benefits as well, but more research is needed.
There’s been some controversy over whether artificially sweetened beverages are beneficial for weight control and, by extension, diabetes prevention. Some studies have found that people who regularly drink diet beverages have a higher risk of diabetes than people who rarely drink such beverages, but there could be another explanation for those findings: People often start drinking diet beverages because they have a weight problem or have a family history of diabetes; studies that don’t adequately account for these other factors may make it wrongly appear as though the diet soda led to the increased diabetes risk. A recent long-term analysis on data from 40,000 men in the Health Professionals Follow-Up Study finds that drinking one 12-ounce serving of diet soda a day does not appear to increase diabetes risk. So in moderation, diet beverages can be a good sugary-drink alternative.
3. Choose good fats instead of bad fats.
The types of fats in your diet can also affect the development of diabetes. Good fats, such as the polyunsaturated fats found in liquid vegetable oils, nuts, and seeds can help ward off type 2 diabetes. Trans fats do just the opposite. These bad fats are found in many margarines, packaged baked goods, fried foods in most fast-food restaurants, and any product that lists “partially hydrogenated vegetable oil” on the label. Eating polyunsaturated fats from fish—also known as “long chain omega 3” or “marine omega 3” fats—does not protect against diabetes, even though there is much evidence that these marine omega 3 fats help prevent heart disease. If you already have diabetes, eating fish can help protect you against a heart attack or dying from heart disease.
4. Limit red meat and avoid processed meat; choose nuts, whole grains, poultry, or fish instead.
The evidence is growing stronger that eating red meat (beef, pork, lamb) and processed red meat (bacon, hot dogs, deli meats) increases the risk of diabetes, even among people who consume only small amounts. The latest support comes from a “meta analysis,” or statistical summary, that combined findings from the long-running Nurses’ Health Study I and II and the Health Professionals Follow-Up Study with those of six other long-term studies. The researchers looked at data from roughly 440,000 people, about 28,000 of whom developed diabetes during the course of the study. They found that eating just one daily 3-ounce serving of red meat—say, a steak that’s about the size of a deck of cards—increased the risk of type 2 diabetes by 20 percent. Eating even smaller amounts of processed red meat each day—just two slices of bacon, one hot dog, or the like—increased diabetes risk by 51 percent.
The good news from this study: Swapping out red meat or processed red meat for a healthier protein source, such as nuts, low-fat dairy, poultry, or fish, or for whole grains lowered diabetes risk by up to 35 percent. Not surprisingly, the greatest reductions in risk came from ditching processed red meat.
Why do red meat and processed red meat appear to boost diabetes risk? It may be that the high iron content of red meat diminishes insulin’s effectiveness or damages the cells that produce insulin; the high levels of sodium and nitrites (preservatives) in processed red meats may also be to blame. Red and processed meats are a hallmark of the unhealthful “Western” dietary pattern, which seems to trigger diabetes in people who are already at genetic risk.
If You Smoke, Try to Quit
Add type 2 diabetes to the long list of health problems linked with smoking. Smokers are roughly 50 percent more likely to develop diabetes than nonsmokers, and heavy smokers have an even higher risk.
Source:http://www.hsph.harvard.edu/nutritionsource/preventing-diabetes-full-story/
14
Business and Economics / Benefits of strawberries
« on: March 27, 2014, 01:57:59 PM »
Strawberries are full of antioxidant which helps for alleviating inflammation, fever, kidney stones, bad breath, gout and more. If consumed regularly it can also help to reduce weight. Strawberries are rich in the essential nutrients vitamin C, potassium, folic acid and fiber. One cup of fresh strawberries contains 160% of our daily needs for vitamin C, for only 50 calories.
Source:http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/271285.php
15
Business Administration / High blood pressure
« on: March 23, 2014, 03:35:51 PM »
High blood pressure increases your chance (or risk) for getting heart disease and/or kidney disease, and for having a stroke. It is especially dangerous because it often has no warning signs or symptoms. Regardless of race, age, or gender, anyone can develop high blood pressure. Once high blood pressure develops, it usually lasts a lifetime. You can prevent and control high blood pressure by taking action.High blood pressure is dangerous because it makes the heart work too hard. It also makes the walls of the arteries hard. High blood pressure increases the risk for heart disease and stroke, the first- and third-leading causes of death for Americans. High blood pressure can also cause other problems, such as heart failure, kidney disease, and blindness.
source:https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/hbp/hbp/serious.htm
Pages: [1] 2
SMF 2.0.15 | SMF © 2017, Simple Machines
XHTML
RSS
WAP2
Page created in 0.151 seconds with 23 queries.