Omega 3 Fish Oil (100) - Chinese Natural Herbs
$0.000 items
Checkout
Search Products:
Chinese Natural Herbs
Your source to better health, the natural way!
² Navigation
Home
My Account
My Cart
Omega 3 Fish Oil (100)
$7.00
Discount: $5.95 each when you buy 2 or more
Natural triglyceride marine lipid concentrate providing a dietary source of Omega 3 polyunsaturates. Maintain normal cholesterol, maintain a healthy blood pressure.
Omega 3 Fish Oil (100) quantity
Add to cart
SKU: OME162 Category: Softgels Tags: blood circulation, blood pressure, cholesterol, fish oil, omega 3
Description
Description
Omega 3 Alaska Deep Sea Fish Oil
Natural Cold Water Fish Oil From Alaska Deep Sea
Mother Nature International Nutrition Center
1000 MG – 100 gelcaps
MNC™ is a natural triglyceride marine lipid concentrate providing a dietary source of Omega 3 polyunsaturates.
Fatty acids are the basic building blocks of which fats and oils are composed. Contrary to popular myth, the body does need fat. It must be the right kind, however.
The fatty acids that are necessary for health and that cannot be made by the body are called essential fatty acids, they must be supplied through the diet.
Essential fatty acids have desirable effects on many disorders. They improve the skin and hair, reduce blood pressure, aids in the prevention of arthritis, lower cholesterol, and triglyceride levels, and reduce the risk of blood clot formation.
Eloosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and Docosahoxaenoic acid (DHA) are Omega-3 essential fatty acids primarily found in the oil of cold water fish including salmon, Bluefish, Herring, Mackerel, Tuna, and the like. Studies indicates that they are capable of thinning blood and lowering blood fat and cholesterol levels. They have the therapeutic applications for heart disease, inflammatory conditions like arthritisKing Nutrition is formulated by a natural triglyceride marine lipid concentrate fortified with Lecithin, Garlic Oil, Royal Jelly providing a dietary source of Omega 3 polyunsaturates. , and psoriasis. Taken in excess, DHA can reduce blood clotting capability. It often has vitamin E oil added to prevent rancidity. They come in liquids and capsules.
Ingredients:
EPA (Eicosapentaenoic Acid) 360 mg
DHA (Docosahexaenoic Acid) 240 mg
Vitamin E 2.0 I.U
This product contains no starch, sugar, artificial preservatives and no chemical additives.
Actions:
Mainatin normal cholestrol
Maintain a healthy blood pressure
Indications:
High blood pressure, high cholesterol, poor blood circulation, etc.
Directions:
As a dietary supplement for take 2 capsules a day.
Discount: $5.95 each when you buy 2 or more
*These statements have not been evaluated by the FDA.
This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
Related products
Dogbane Combo Tablets – Apocyni Veneti Tablets
$5.00
Derma Care from within
$6.00
Ling Zhi – Reishi Mushroom
$69.00
Tin Tzat To Chung Pills
$8.50
Search for:
Search
Search website
Search for:
Service
Search Patent Herbs A-Z
Disorders/Illness
Disorders A to H
Disorders J to W
Shipping Chart
Return Policy
Checkout
Contact Us
Information
Bulk Herbs
Chinese Herbal Therapy
Mission
FAQ
Disclaimer
Your Privacy
Related Links
Cart
Text and Images Copyright 2016 by Chinese Natural Herbs - All Rights Reserved
If you are experiencing problems with your order: >> email us orders@chinesenaturalherbs.com >> or call us at 484-433-4979