How To Fight Marijuana Addiction | DIY Therapy For Cannabis Addiction
Menu
Home
Strains
Culture
Growing
Health
Products
Recipes
Videos
Quiz
Questions
CBD
THC
Detox
Cannabis
Vapes
Marijuana Leaf
Contact
Home
Strains
Health
Culture
Products
Growing
Questions
CBD
THC
Vapes
Marijuana Leaf
Detox
Cannabis
Videos
Quiz
Contact
Health
How To Fight Marijuana Addiction
in Health
Updated July 16, 2018
There are many rehabilitation clinics that offer services for marijuana addiction. Which brings us to the questions: Is marijuana addiction real? People who smoke marijuana regularly claim that you can’t get addicted to marijuana. Is this true or not?
The reality is; marijuana is a mind altering substance and similarly to sex…you can get addicted to marijuana.
With that being said, let’s look at the severity of marijuana addiction and whether or not it’s a problem we should be worried about post-legalization.
The severity of a marijuana addiction
First off, it is possible to be addicted to marijuana. The question is, how severe is the addiction?
Studies suggest that marijuana is 9% addictive, which places it at similar rates to coffee. 9% is also an inflated percentage. The real margin for addiction runs between 5%-9%.
Similar to a coffee addiction, a user would be able to quit cold turkey without the severe health risks [suppression] associated with harder drugs such as alcohol and heroin.
Users might be “cranky” for a day or two, however, once the cannabis leaves their system…they revert back to normal.
With respect to marijuana addiction, most users are ‘addicted’ to the psychotropic aspect of cannabis ( euphoria, uplifting, happy and calming effects). The truth is, this psychological addiction isn’t truly severe and weaning off cannabis is quite simple.
How to fight marijuana addiction
It’s very difficult to get addicted to marijuana…nearly impossible. However, this doesn’t mean that it would never happen.
If you feel you are getting addicted to marijuana, the first thing to do is :
Reach out to a marijuana addiction helpline
Find and treat the core issues that are making you addicted to marijuana.
Once you have established the core issues influencing your addition, treat and “detox“.
Join marijuana addiction support groups in your area
RELATED: Does GNC Detox Drink Work For Drugs Test?
Furthermore, you would need to :
Drink a lot of water and perhaps do some exercise to help with dopamine production.
The process can last less up to 30 days to completely remove the physical addiction. However, you would still need to work on the psychological aspect of your addiction. Otherwise, they would merely substitute one addiction for another.
Loneliness and fulfillment
Recent studies found that one of the strongest factors in addiction is “being alone”. Not being part of a community can lead to people wanting to take drugs at a higher rate.
Additionally, fulfillment is another aspect one needs to consider. People who feel like they don’t attribute to society or their direct social circles have a higher possibility of falling into addiction.
Thus, you need to keep yourself busy, keep yourself engaged with the community.
Should we be worried about marijuana addiction?
To be honest, marijuana addiction is nothing compared to alcohol, cocaine, heroin etc. There are far worse substances to be addicted to i.e. sugar. Cannabis addiction is mild compared to most drugs and it can be defeated quite easily.
In any case, if you 100% feel addicted to marijuana. Try to implement the points listed above to enable you slowly walk away from your addiction.
Conclusion
Furthermore, within a legal model, the government can implement prevention programs, drug education programs, and other social initiatives to address the core problem of addiction.
Rate Article
100%
Rated - 100%
Sending
User Review
0 (0 votes)
What are other people reading?
What Happens When You Smoke Weed
100%
How Does A Cannabis Breathalyzer Work?
CBD for Opioid Addiction
98%
How Cannabinoids Connects With Serotonin
About The Author
marijuanally
Leave a Reply
This comment form is under antispam protection
This comment form is under antispam protection
Subscribe
Notify of
new follow-up comments new replies to my comments
Buy us a cup of coffee
A ridiculous amount of coffee was consumed in the process of building this project. Add some fuel if you'd like to keep me going!
Categories
Cannabis (8)
CBD (14)
Culture (65)
Detox (3)
Dispensaries (2)
Grow (2)
Growing (6)
Health (73)
How Tos (4)
News (3)
Plant (3)
Products (14)
Questions (32)
Recipes (9)
Research (6)
Strains (30)
Tech (1)
Terpenes (2)
THC (3)
Vapes (10)
Videos (7)
Recent Posts
Weed Growing Kit: What Is It And …
February 7, 2019 0
Marijuana Delivery Service: How To Start Your …
January 30, 2019 0
Marijuana Business Blooming: Start Your Own Successfully
January 17, 2019 0
5 Misconceptions About Vaporizers
December 18, 2018 0
Newsletter
First Name:
Last Name:
Email address:
Comment | Message | Questions:
Leave this field empty if you're human:
© 2019 MARIJUANALLY. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy | Sitemap For Users | Terms & Conditons
wpDiscuz
Close
Buy me a cup of coffee
A ridiculous amount of coffee was consumed in the process of curating this article. Add some fuel if you'd like to keep us going!