Blog | Wolf Strength and Conditioning | Page 2
Blog
Home
About
Our Team
Training Philosophy
Locations
Services
Austin, TX
NYC: Semi-Private Personal Training
NYC: Starting Strength Technique Coaching
Online Coaching
Testimonials
Blog
Contact and Connect
Post navigation
Newer posts →
One Beer Coming Up!
Posted on March 14, 2013 by Wolf Strength and Conditioning
2
I officially owe one of my newer clients a beer. An expensive, fancy beer. “Why?” you ask. Because he did his first ever chin-up today. And his second, third, fourth, and fifth, too. Ever, as in EVER. In his entire life. He’s 26.
How did we get here? Well, Victor came to me about 6 weeks ago, weighing about 130lbs (including beard) and never having lifted before in his life. He started out squatting and deadlifting about 55lbs for 5 reps, pressing about 25lbs for 5 reps, and bench pressing about 45lbs for 5 reps.
In the past 5 weeks all we’ve done – and I mean literally ALL – is worked on those four lifts: Squat, Bench, Deadlift, and Press.
Squat: 55×5 —> 133x5x3
Bench Press: 45×5 —> 75x5x3
Deadlift: 55×5 —> 136×5
Press: 25×5 —> 59×5
Bodyweight: 133 —> 141 (not as much gain as I would like, we are adding more calories)
When we started, he couldn’t even pull himself up 2 inches on a chin up bar. Today, after squatting and pressing new PRs for sets of 5 (though he missed a couple reps on the press), we went back to the chinup bar.
He banged out a set of 3 like a mutherfucking BOSS.
I would like you all to take note of this: during these weeks, we did not work on chin-ups. At all. Not a single rep, other than one time in one of our early sessions testing to see if he could do one, and the same a few weeks later. But chin-ups were not trained at all, ever.
Now, the point here isn’t that chins aren’t important. They are, everyone should do them. But in the hierarchy of the lifts, they come after the big barbell lifts.
Simply because the big barbell lifts are more comprehensive in the stress and adaptation they produce, and sometimes doing them and them alone will enable you to do a chin-up. Not always, but it can happen.
Today, Victor demonstrated this very important training lesson. And earned himself a damn fine beer, Duvel, one of my absolute favorites.
The well-deserved reward
Congrats Victor, we’ll cheers to many PRs to come!
Posted in Uncategorized	| 2 Replies
The New York Times: Squats Are Good For Your Knees!
Posted on January 31, 2013 by Wolf Strength and Conditioning
3
You’re probably wondering to yourself: did I really read that right? The conventional wisdom has, for so long, been that squats are bad for your knees. Could a newspaper with such a large readership actually publish an article that goes so against the grain? That says squats are good for your knees?!? Before you get too excited, let’s look at what it says.
The article appeared in last Friday’s NYT, January 25th, entitled Ask Well: Squats for Aging Knees. A reader asks how he can keep up his workouts (dancing, weightlifing, and yoga) without continuing to hurt his knees. Within the answer, the author suggests squats and makes the following hopeful quote:
Although many of us have heard that squats harm knees, the exercise is actually “quite good for the knees, if you do the squats correctly,” Dr. Hart (previously identified as an assistant professor of kinesiology and certified athletic trainer at the University of Virginia, who often works with patients with knee pain) says.
Sounds good so far, right? Like maybe the rest of the world is catching up to what we already know, summarized well by Dan John: “Squats aren’t bad for your knees. How YOU squat is bad for your knees.”
I was hopeful at this point. A mainstream publication with the readership of the NYT publishing this seemed like a good step in the right direction in terms of awareness of the benefits of strength training generally, and squatting specifically.
Dr. Hart continues:
Simply stand with your legs shoulder-width apart and bend your legs until your thighs are almost, but not completely, parallel to the ground. Keep your upper body straight. Don’t bend forward, he says, since that movement can strain the knees. Try to complete 20 squats, using no weight at first. When that becomes easy, Dr. Hart suggests, hold a barbell with weights attached. Or simply clutch a full milk carton, which is my cheapskate’s squats routine.
Mark Rippetoe dedicates 64 pages to the squat in Starting Strength: Basic Barbell Training (3rd ed), so seeing someone attempt to break it down into a few sentences is, at best, an oversimplification. But considering this is a short newspaper piece, that’s not necessarily a problem as long as it’s acknowledged and the simplification doesn’t include anything incorrect. The problem is that Dr. Hart manages to mangle even those few sentences.
Let’s break it down and analyze the problems with this small part of the article. This will be useful not only to clarify proper squatting technique, but also to demonstrate how even people acknowledged as experts can be ill-informed about the basics of what is apparently their own profession. The latter is important because often arguments about this topic come down to authority. It’s important to realize that no matter how big a supposed authority someone is, if their position doesn’t make sense, it should be disregarded. Just because the US Ski Team does a lot of work with the Bosu ball, doesn’t mean the Bosu is useful. Let’s get to it!
Simply stand with your legs shoulder-width apart – seems sensible enough, right? Problem is, which part of your legs? If your heels are at shoulder width apart, your legs will make an angle inwards as they ascend up towards your hips, like an uppercase A. So is this shoulder width? But if you narrow your stance so your legs are straight, then they’re not shoulder width anymore. If you widen out so your knees are at shoulder width, then your feet are WAY outside shoulder width. So this statement is not very well thought out and essentially meaningless because it doesn’t actually tell you how to position your legs. It also doesn’t address your feet: should they be straight, slightly toe-out, in a plie’, etc…?
The correct stance (to start with, can be adjusted later if necessary) is heels at shoulder width and toes turned out about 30-35 degrees, give or take.
…bend your legs until your thighs are almost, but not completely, parallel to the ground. – Another meaningless statement. The position he describes is completely subjective. There are no specific, definable points by which you can judge if you’ve indeed gone down far enough or have gone too far. By definition then, the movement is not replicable. Which is ironic since his next comment is “Try to complete 20 squats.” That sounds like reps, doesn’t it? Reps is short for repetitions. You know, because you REPEAT the movement. But if the description of the movement is so vague as to be irreproducible except by subjective estimation, then it’s not exactly a repetition then, is it?
Further, and more importantly, you should NOT stop at this high point. Full squat depth is defined as the crease of the hip dropping below the top of the kneecap. Not only are these two easily visible and definable landmarks by which to ensure repeatable consistency in the movement, but stopping higher than this actually puts MORE stress on the knee joint. It seems counterintuitive but a thorough evaluation of the hamstrings’ structure and function reveals that the hamstrings can only fully engage and balance out the forces around the knee joint if the squat is completed to this full depth (see the squat chapter in Starting Strength for all the details, as such a thorough analysis is beyond the scope of this article).
So this short comment right here is good for not just one, but two really huge, glaring errors.
Keep your upper body straight. Don’t bend forward, he says, since that movement can strain the knees. – The problem here is that it’s impossible to actually squat this way. Try to squat using this advice: squat all the way down and keep your torso vertical. Did you fall back onto your ass? If you didn’t, then you either bent forward or barely went down at all, and we’ve already discussed how the latter is not really a squat. But Dr. Hart says this bending forward will strain your knees! On the other hand, we just demonstrated that it’s physically impossible to squat without bending forward. What gives?
This is so basic that it’s actually mind boggling how someone can be a professor of kinesiology and still get this so wrong. With very few exceptions of people who have ridiculous ankle mobility and/or are anthropometrical outliers, the human body literally cannot squat without the torso inclining forward (even assuming you wanted to – which is a longer discussion). If you try to squat with a vertical, unbent torso, too much of your bodyweight ends up behind your feet, and thus, you fall backwards. It’s just basic balance – you have to keep your center of mass over your base of support, your feet. If you don’t, you’ll fall. Yet Hart says you have to squat, somehow, violating this unbreakable law of physics. Weird.
So, do yourself a favor. Embrace the lean-over. You have to lean over to squat correctly. Stop thinking about your squat like this
See how the dude would fall if the wall weren’t there? THAT’S BECAUSE YOU CAN’T ACTUALLY SQUAT THIS WAY, WITHOUT LEANING OVER, IN REAL LIFE!
and start thinking of it like this
Image used with permission by The Aasgaard Company. Notice the torso lean? Necessary, neither evil nor bad for the knees.
Next: When that becomes easy, Dr. Hart suggests, hold a barbell with weights attached – really, it’s that easy, just like that? While we do teach the unloaded position first and then proceed right to the barbell, we actually, you know, teach you how to position, hold, and squat with the barbell. The advice right here (which in fairness may have been shortened for editorial purposes, and not representative of Hart’s full statement) is just to “hold a barbell with weights attached.” Huh? Could not be more vague. Especially to someone who has never done it before.
Finally: Or simply clutch a full milk carton, which is my cheapskate’s squats routine. – Now I suppose that squatting with some resistance is better than with none at all. But this statement, from a supposed expert, completely ignores everything we know about exercise physiology. The basic model from which all programming stems is Dr. Hans Selye’s General Adaptation Syndrome, which leads to the concept of Supercompensation. Others have proposed more complicated, perhaps more accurate models such as dual factor supercompensation and so forth. But the basic idea that the body adapts to the workload it’s given, and then needs a bigger workload to adapt further is sound and has been demonstrated hundreds of thousands of times in the last 80 years or so since it was first proposed.
So that milk carton thing will cause you to adapt a teeny, tiny bit (because it’s only a milk carton, after all), and then you’ll get no further benefit from it. Yet he essentially equates it to being just as good as a barbell. A barbell which you can load with an infinitely variable possibility of loads: an older woman can start with a 15lb barbell and make 1lb incremental jumps using a pair of washers. A 19 year old college football player starts with a 45lb bar and can probably add 10 lbs to every squat workout for the first two weeks, being 60lbs stronger in only two weeks.
The point is, the barbell is a more titratable tool by any stretch of the imagination. (See how I used a really sciency word, titratable, to prove how smart I am, and how I can write about this topic in a smart, sciency way, just like Dr. Hart? Cool, right?) So why insult our intelligence by saying you can just clutch a carton of milk and get the same results?
So ladies and gentlemen, this is why you must be very skeptical of what you read when it comes to fitness. Even a professor of kinesiology at a major university who is also a practicing athletic trainer can be no less than exceptionally misinformed when it comes to topics like exercise technique and progression. Given that, how likely is it that a personal trainer with a weekend course or self-study certification knows this material well enough to correctly teach and coach technique?
If you’re planning on engaging the services of a fitness professional for training purposes, I highly encourage you to find a Starting Strength Coach. As far as I know, the SSC Certificate is the only one in the industry that both teaches a through analysis of the correct movement for the most fundamental exercises to a fitness program and requires both practical and theoretical demonstration of that knowledge. You can find SS Coaches through the Starting Strength Coach Directory. There are other good coaches out there, but not a specific credential that reliably produces good coaches.
And as for the NYT article? Well, they were certainly right about one thing: squats – done correctly – ARE good for your knees!
Posted in Uncategorized	| 3 Replies
The Fitness Industry: Is It About The Experience or Results?
Posted on January 10, 2013 by Wolf Strength and Conditioning
Reply
My friend Kevin Dineen makes an incredibly accurate and insightful post this morning about the fitness industry:
The educated consumer is the newest weapon (for or against) in marketing.
Don’t believe me? I asked a few users of soul cycle to define and quantify their results from repeatedly going to class. Their answers – in their own words:
– I destroy calories there
– I sweat like crazy
– I feel better after leaving
– all my friends do it and they have great bodies
– you have to sign up at 12pm on Monday! It’s THAT good!
– they have a great business model
I then asked the same clients if they have ever seen a before and after picture of a soul cyclist. They said –
“No, but that’s not their business model”
What’s amazing though, is the lack of quantifiable responses to justify the experience. While I have heard nothing but great things about the Soul Cycle experience, I know that there are only so many trips to Disney World, roller coasters, theme parks, and even restaurants you can go before you are looking for the next entertainment venue.
Now, whenever someone asks me what my business model is, I say that I’m in the business of getting people results – specifically what they are paying me/us for. And when their friends ask why they train and what results they get, they can either deadlift a car, do 10 pull-ups, run a 6 minute mile, hit a golf ball 300 yarda, or simply lift and move whatever and whenever they want without pain.
In this instance, Quantity AND quality of results are important, Having excellent systems in place to deliver those results (as compared to bikes, music and spin instructors) is the most overlooked portion of new fitness businesses. Without the systems, all you are providing is an experience (which in this case, is excellent – don’t get me wrong – the Soul Cycle train is going to be full speed ahead for next few years).
One last thing: I’m terribly excited to share these new concepts with you, the newly-educated consumer. However, please don’t share with those people that don’t have systems. No need to start now;)
Thus far, the industry has been primarily about enterTRAINMent: you get some exercise, which is obviously better than being sedentary, but there’s no truly quantifiable results or progression.
Yes, this is better than not doing anything. But this isn’t tee-ball league where everyone gets a trophy. This is life. It’s perfectly OK to do something for the experience, the problem is because of slick marketing and a lot of momentum, people mistake their experience for fitness.
Fitness is about results. Changing your physical being in a tangible, definable incrementally increasable way. Most of the fitness industry doesn’t even attempt to do this because it’s hard and takes a long time – people get bored, they don’t stick with it. I understand WHY the industry has become what it has, but that doesn’t mean we should sit idly by and let it continue down that path.
People deserve better. YOU deserve better.
Posted in Uncategorized	| Leave a reply
Strength and Barbells: The Foundations of Fitness
Posted on October 10, 2012 by Wolf Strength and Conditioning
Reply
Not to toot my own horn, but well, I’m tooting my own horn. My first published article went live last week on Rip’s website, StartingStrength.com. You can read the article in full at this link – Strength and Barbells: The Foundations of Fitness.
Read it and let me know what you think in the comments.
Posted in Uncategorized	| Leave a reply
The Map of Athletic Performance
Posted on September 21, 2012 by Wolf Strength and Conditioning
Reply
If you want to understand an awful lot about strength training, including why barbell-based strength training is most appropriate for just about every sport and training application, read this. It’s one of the most thorough, cogent, and plain old correct arguments I’ve read on the subject. Just read it.
The Map of Athletic Performance
Posted in Uncategorized	| Leave a reply
Sleepy Muscles?
Posted on May 7, 2012 by Wolf Strength and Conditioning
3
An idea that has recently proliferated in the fitness world is “sleepy muscles.” The basic concept as I understand it is as follows:
Our muscles each have a role they’re supposed to play in movement. Due to a number of factors (though usually long-term inactivity, bad movement patterns, and poor posture) some of the muscles don’t ‘fire’ when they’re supposed to, and thus don’t contribute their proper share of the work to the movement. When this happens, the muscles and joints above and below the joint/muscles that don’t fire have to do things they weren’t designed to do, and this creates imbalances and an overall sub-optimal performance, that is also more apt to lead to any number of injuries.
When I was first introduced to this concept, I was a bit skeptical. I understand that in today’s physically inactive society, movement would have to be re-learned as an adult. Things we do naturally as kids, like the widely circulated picture below are often forgotten through lack of use, and have to be re-learned.
This idea is intuitive, and made sense to me regarding whole movement patterns – we need to use our brains to coordinate the use of the many muscles and joints that work together to produce correct human movement. This requires embedding the proper motor pattern, and that can be forgotten and take time to learn again. Continue reading →
Posted in Uncategorized	| 3 Replies
Post navigation
Newer posts →
Search
Recent Posts
Strength Matters: Why Starting Strength Is Not (Just) A Powerlifting Program
NYC Squat Camp: December 13th
Wolf Strength and Conditioning Has a New Home!
Next WolfStrength Semi-Private Training Event: Sunday, 9/21
More on Low Bar Squatting and Olympic Lifting
Recent Comments
Dan on More on Low Bar Squatting and Olympic Lifting
Keith Norman on More on Low Bar Squatting and Olympic Lifting
Wolf Strength and Conditioning on More on Low Bar Squatting and Olympic Lifting
Dan on More on Low Bar Squatting and Olympic Lifting
Wolf Strength and Conditioning on More on Low Bar Squatting and Olympic Lifting
Archives
Archives Select Month September 2015 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 October 2013 May 2013 March 2013 January 2013 October 2012 September 2012 May 2012
Categories
Uncategorized
Fitness Stuff I Read
Starting Strength
Dan John
EliteFTS
T-Nation
More About Me
Facebook
My Training Log