Do Carrots Really Improve Eyesight?
Skip to content
Menu
Home
About
Services
Eye Bank
For Patients
Our Hospitals
Contact Us
Blog
Posted on January 23, 2019 by Disha_Eye_Hospital
Do Carrots Really Improve Eyesight?
We have been told since childhood that eating carrots improves our vision. But is it true that eating the root vegetable will do wonders to our eyes?
The notion that eating carrots improve vision dates back to World War II when the British Air Force gunned down German aircraft in the dead of night. It is believed that the British Air Force popularised the carrot myth to keep its radar technology a secret.
1. Carrots are good for the eyes: There’s no doubt that carrots are indeed good for the eyes as it contains beta carotene. The body uses beta carotene to make Vitamin A which are antioxidant compounds essential to good vision. According to the World Health Organisation, Vitamin A deficiency is one of the most common causes of preventable blindness in children.
2. Eating carrots alone will not help you maintain overall good eye health: Although carrots are a rich source of beta carotene, relying only on the root vegetable will not help you maintain good overall eye health. A randomised trial of US physicians found out that long-term intake of beta carotene did not decrease or increase the risk of Age-related Macular Degeneration.
3. Combine carrots with other nutritional vegetables and fruits in your diet: The best way to ensure good eye health for yourself and your loved ones is to eat a diet that contains all the essential nutrients. Make sure to include fresh vegetables, fruits, farm-fresh eggs, nuts, and lean fish and meat in your diet.
4. Here are some of the food items, apart from carrots, that are beneficial for the eyes:
●Almonds: Almonds are a rich source of Vitamin E which maintains eye tissue health. Apart from being a great source of snack, almonds are also a nutritional addition to breakfast cereal and salads. Soak a handful of almonds in water overnight and consume them in the morning the way you want to.
●Salmon: Salmon is a storehouse of omega-3 fatty acids, or better known as healthy fats. Omega-3 fatty acids contribute to vision development. To get the most out of these healthy fats, include salmon in your meal plan for 2 to 3 days a week.
●Eggs: Eggs are another rich source of Vitamin A; it also contains zinc, zeaxanthin, and lutein, all of which improve eye health. The best part? Eggs are a versatile food item; you can eat them for your breakfast and in your lunch and dinner.
●Oranges: Oranges are loaded with Vitamin C which promotes eye blood vessel health. Eat oranges as snacks, or juice them for breakfast. Adding them to your fruit salad is also a great option.
Kale: Kale is hailed as one of the best eye superfoods. The carotenoids, lutein, and zeaxanthin, found in kale promote retina health and vision. You can prepare kale as a side dish or as snack chips.
See through the myth and get your eyes checked every year
Every step you take to improve your eye health goes a long way in maintaining proper vision in the long run. If you notice any changes in your vision and overall eye health, do not neglect it as it can be symptoms of serious eye complications.
Consult with one of our eye specialists at Disha Eye Hospital, one of the best eye hospitals in West Bengal. We provide high-quality and affordable treatment for serious eye complications, including Cataracts, Glaucoma, Corneal diseases, Squint, Uveitis, and Diabetic Retinopathy in Kolkata.
We have a team of experienced eye specialists who are well-versed with leading medical tools and technology. Book an appointment online at http://www.dishaeye.org/appointment.
CategoriesBest Eye Doctor, Diabetic Retinopathy, Dry Eye, Eye Care, eye health, Eye Hospital, Eye Specialists, Eye Treatments, Retina Specialist, Uveitis Tagsbest eye doctor in Kolkata, best eye hospital in Kolkata, best eye specialist in Kolkata, Diabetic Retinopathy in Kolkata, Disha Eye Hospital, eye care tips, eye doctor in Kolkata, eye health, eye hospital, eye hospital in West Bengal, eye specialist, eye specialist in Kolkata, eye surgeon in Kolkata, top eye hospital in kolkata
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Post navigation
Previous PostPrevious Eye Diseases Associated with Smoking
Next PostNext Top Causes of Eye Pain
Search
Search for:
Search
Categories
Best Eye Doctor
Burning Eyes
Cataract
Contact Lenses
corneal Disease
Diabetic Retinopathy
Dry Eye
Eye Care
eye donation
eye examination
eye health
Eye Hospital
eye irritation
eye pain
Eye Specialists
eye treatment for Kids
Eye Treatments
eye treatments for children
Facts
FAQ
glaucoma treatment
glaucoma treatment in Kolkata
Glucoma
Lasik
low vision
Ocular Melanoma
photophobia
Retina Specialist
Retina Surgery
Uveitis
vision problems
watery eye
Recent Posts
Ocular Melanoma: 10 Important Things to Know
Common Eye Injuries at Home, Prevention, And Treatment
10 Things to Know about Photophobia
What are the Differences Between eye Screening and a Comprehensive Eye Examination?
8 Common Signs of Vision Problems
Find Us
Address
88 (63A), Ghoshpara Road,
Kolkata- 700120. West Bengal
Email
dishaeyehospitals@gmail.com
Phone
(033) 2545-1233
Facebook
Twitter
Google Plus
Pinterest
Copyright © Disha Eye Hospitals. All rights reserved.