Cell Phone Radiation Can Increase Your Cancer Risk
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
Flash Sale ends in...
Join over 2,000,000 People as We Continue to Share The Truth About Cancer.
Subscribe to Our Newsletter and Get Your FREE eBook Today.
The Truth About Cancer
The Latest Cancer Fighting News
Home
About
Ty & Charlene Events
Cancer Causes, Prevention, Treatments
Cancer Causes
Cancer Prevention
Cancer Treatments
Nutrition
Food & Drink
Herbs & Spices
Supplements
Recipes
Vaccine Safety
Videos
Products
Login
You are here: Home / Cancer Causes / Why You Need to Stop Carrying Your Mobile Phone in Your Pocket or Bra
Primary Sidebar
Keto360 Unboxing Webinar NOW Live... Click below to join in
Special Q&A with Ty & Charlene...
It's All About You!
Christmas Hangout
FREE WEBINAR
Click here to join
NOW Live
Watch Featured Video
Spotlight on Charlene Bollinger, Founder
BREAKING: TTAC & Ancient Nutrition Alliance
Top Picks of the Week
FDA Rewards Johnson & Johnson’s Lies with...
Read »
By Ty Bollinger
30+ Natural Alternatives to Consider Before...
Read »
By Charlene Bollinger
FDA Supports Corporate Interests as Monsanto’s...
Read »
By Ty Bollinger
NYC Mayor Forces Citizens to Get Vaccinated… or...
Read »
By Ty & Charlene Bollinger
{DELICIOUS Vegetarian Keto Recipe} Konjac Noodles with...
Read »
By Charlene Bollinger
Print this article
Why You Need to Stop Carrying Your Mobile Phone in Your Pocket or Bra
By Tony Isaacs
June 13, 2016
Tweet
Share
Pin323
323 Shares
In a hurry? Click here to read the Article Summary...
If you’re a man and you carry your mobile phone in your pants pocket, or a woman who tucks her phone into her bra or bra strap… chances are you aren’t aware of the damage this practice may be causing. You’re not going to hear about it from the cell phone companies who are resisting mounting evidence about the dangers of mobile phone radiation.
Read on for some of the major areas of health concerns (including cancer!) and what cell phone studies have uncovered thus far…
Cell Phones and Infertility/Decreased Sperm Counts
Another recent study has demonstrated that cell phones are no friends of testes, the male reproductive organs in which sperm is made. It was shown that when cell phones were in talk mode and located in close proximity to the testes, sperm cells were damaged. The study is alarming because of two key problems…
First, damaged sperm can lead to birth defects and higher incidences of various disabilities, as is the case in a greater than average number of children of older fathers. Second, the scenario tested in the study is a common one. Males who chat using hands free headsets often leave their mobile phones resting in their pockets − in perfect range to cause the testes harm.
Ashok Agarwal, who led the study and is the Director of the Center for Reproductive Medicine at the Cleveland Clinic, states, “We believe that these devices are used because we consider them very safe, but it could cause harmful effects due to the proximity of the phones and the exposure that they are causing to the gonads.”
The study consisted of semen samples taken from 32 men who exhibited similar sperm health. The samples were kept at constant temperature and other similar conditions, while being split into a control group and a test group. The test group was placed for an hour within 2.5 cm of a cell phone in talk mode, at 850 MHz, which is perhaps the most common frequency.
The transmissions led to an apparent increase in oxidative stress, with free radicals and oxidants being created at a higher then normal rate and antioxidants being broken down. Agarwal says this stress equates to damaged sperm. Other factors which can cause it include environmental pollutants or infections in the urinary genital tract, he adds.
Mobile Phone Radiation and Cancer
Do cellphones cause cancer? This is perhaps the greatest area of concern when it comes to cell phone use. Mobile phone radiation has been linked to various forms of cancer. Evidence is mounting that prolonged exposure to radiation from cell phones carried on the body can lead to breast and other cancers − at earlier ages than ever.
The World Health Organization has classified mobile phones, and any wireless devices that use microwaves to communicate, as a group 2B risk − which means that they are “possibly carcinogenic to humans.” Many believe that the evidence is already strong enough to classify mobile phones as definite cancer causers. They point to the increased incidence of cancer in areas of the body closest to where cell phones are carried and used. For example, testicular cancer in men occurring more frequently in the testes closest to where cell phones are carried.
A pile of research has confirmed that non-ionizing communications radiation in the radio-frequency (RF) microwave spectrum has the same effect on human health as ionizing gamma wave radiation from nuclear reactions. It has been known for about 15 years that microwaves from cell phones and tower transmitters cause damage in human blood cells which results in nuclei splintering off into micronuclei fragments.
An industry study showed that human blood exposure to cell phone radiation had a 300% increase in genetic damage in the form of micronuclei. This suggests a health threat much greater than that of smoking or asbestos exposure. The development of micronuclei is a pre-cancerous condition that can quickly develop into full blown cancer.
Research studies have also reported that adults who have used mobile phones for at least ten years experience an increase in brain cancer, salivary gland cancer, and even rare eye cancers on the side of the head where the cell phone was predominantly held.
Carrying Your Cell Phone in Your Bra is a Bad Idea
A recent study completed at Breastlink in California has revealed a strong connection between cell phones placed in the bra and the development of breast cancer in young women. The research team noted that, in the absence of family history or genetic predisposition, breast cancer occurring in women under the age of 40 is uncommon.
The researchers examined the cases of four women, with ages from 21 to 39, who developed multi-focal invasive breast cancer. They focussed on the possible association of these cases with the radiation from electromagnetic field exposures from cellular phones. Each of the women regularly carried her smart phone directly against her breasts tucked into her brassiere for up to ten hours a day, and had been doing so for several years.
Each woman developed tumors in the areas of the breasts immediately underlying the phones. Notably, the women had no family history of breast cancer, tested negative for the BRCA1 and BRACA 2 genes associated with breast cancer development, and had no other known breast cancer risks.
A review of their breast images showed clustering of multiple tumor foci in the breast directly under the area of phone contact. The pathology reports of all four women revealed striking similarity:
All tumors were hormone-positive
All tumors were low-intermediate grade
All tumors showed an extensive intraductal component
All tumors revealed almost identical form and structure, and specific structural features
Breast surgeon Dr. John West told TV station KTVU that “young breasts in the early evolution are more sensitive to changes that might lead to cancer.” Dr. West and others have also pointed out that men too are getting breast cancer by carrying cell phones in their shirt pockets.
The Industry’s Cover-up of Damage Caused by Mobile Phones
The wireless phone industry has vigorously disputed every study indicating a link between mobile phones and health problems. They have even provided their own studies which purportedly show that cell phones are safe and present no health hazards. Of course, whenever there are huge profits and liabilities at stake, industries typically try to counter harmful evidence. One example is when industry labored for years to keep asbestos and fiberglass off the carcinogens list.
Another example is the tobacco industry disputing and denying for years that smoking caused cancer or other health problems. Stan Glantz, professor of medicine at the University of California at San Francisco and director of the Center for Tobacco Research and Education, compared the cell phone situation right now to the cigarette situation in the 1950s.
“There was enough evidence to be concerned [about cigarettes in the 1950s], but the details were not really nailed,” Glantz said. “Cell phone companies have learned from cigarette companies how to contest science, and they’re doing it.”
Then there is the Word Health Organization (WHO) that sponsored the Interphone Study. First the study was delayed for four years. Then a news embargo was placed on study participants. And finally, instead of reporting proof of cell phone dangers (as had been documented all the way up until just days before the study was finally released), the study instead reported that it found no evidence of cell phone dangers. The findings contradicted the study’s evidence as well as the opinions of some study scientists!
In actuality, the Interphone Study did discover that long-term mobile phone usage increased the chance of glioma by 40%, but dismissed the risk because of possible biases and errors. Six of eight Interphone studies found increased risks of glioma, the most common brain tumor, with one study finding a 39% increase.
An Israeli study found heavy users were about 50% more likely to suffer tumors of the parotid salivary gland. Two studies into acoustic neuroma, a tumor of a nerve between the ear and brain, reported a higher risk after using mobiles for ten years. A Swedish report reported the risk as being 3.9 times higher.
Contradicting the study’s conclusions, Dr Elisabeth Cardis of the Centre for Research in Environmental Epidemiology in Barcelona (who led the stud) said: “Overall, my opinion is that the results show a real effect.” Bruce Armstrong, another Interphone researcher from the University of Sydney, said: “There is evidence that there may be a risk; Interphone has made that a little stronger.”
Why did the study reverse itself at the end? Many observers believe that the study’s independence was compromised because the mobile phone manufacturers helped fund the project to the tune of around 5.5 million Euros.
In 2015, a landmark cellphone “Right to Know” law was passed with a unanimous 9-0 vote by the city council of Berkeley, California, home of the world renowned University of California Berkeley and arguably one of the most erudite cities in the world. This was the first safety ordinance of its kind in the United States and requires cell phone makers to include a city-prepared notice letting people know the minimum separation a cell phone must be held from the body to limit radiation exposure.
Measures to Help Minimize Cell Phone Health Risks
A good rule of thumb when it comes to cell phones: distance is your friend. In other words, the farther you keep a cell phone from your body, both when carrying it and when talking on it, the better. In other words, do not keep cell phones in your pockets, clipped to your belt, or stuffed into your bra. Likewise, do not keep a cell phone turned on and close by when sleeping.
Here are the five measures adapted from the Environmental Working Group (EWG) for safer cell phone use:
1. Use a headset or speaker instead of holding the phone up to your ear
2. When in use, hold phone away from your body − The amount of radiation absorbed by your head and body decreases dramatically with even a small distance. Don’t put the phone in your pocket or clip it to your belt, even when using your headset.
3. Text more and talk less − Phones emit less radiation when sending text rather than voice communications.
4. Call when the signal is strong − Fewer signal bars mean the phone must try harder to broadcast its signal. Research shows that radiation exposure increases dramatically when cell phone signals are weak.
5. Don’t store your phone in your pocket (or under your pillow) − When a phone is on and not in use, it still sends out an intermittent signal to connect with nearby cell phone towers, which means mobile phone radiation exposure is still happening.
We rely on health heroes like you to help us spread the word on important, life saving information. Please share with friends and family.
Article Summary
Carrying a cell phone on your body (i.e. pocket or tucked in a bra) puts you at risk from harmful mobile phone radiation.
For men, a recent study showed that when cell phones in talk mode were located in close proximity to the testes, sperm cells were damaged. This can lead to infertility and a higher incidence of birth defects.
For women, carrying a mobile phone in the bra or bra strap has been linked with the development of breast cancer.
The World Health Organization has classified mobile phones (and any wireless devices that use microwaves to communicate) as a group 2B risk − which means that they are “possibly carcinogenic to humans.” Many experts believe evidence is already strong enough to classify mobile phones as definite cancer causers.
Similar to other industries such as tobacco and asbestos, the wireless phone companies are campaigning hard to keep mobile phones from being classified as known carcinogens.
Here are the five measures adapted from the Environmental Working Group (EWG) for safer cell phone use:
Use a headset or speaker instead of holding the phone up to your ear
When in use, hold phone away from your body
Text more and talk less
Call when the signal is strong
Don’t store your phone in your pocket (or under your pillow)
[+] Sources and References
Cell phone usage and erectile function
5 Often Overlooked Cellphone Health Threats
Cell phone radiation - is your cell phone killing your sperm?
Cell Phone Radiation FAQ’s
Multifocal Breast Cancer in Young Women with Prolonged Contact between Their Breasts and Their Cellular Phones
Cell Phones Linked To Breast Cancer?
Mobile phone researchers disagree about cancer findings
Long-term use of mobile phones 'may be linked to cancer'
Interphone’s data on cell phones and cancer: The spin begins
EWG'S GUIDE TO SAFER CELL PHONE USE: 5 SAFETY TIPS FOR CELLPHONE USE
Looking for more life-saving content? Join our FREE email list now for exclusive content hand-picked just for YOU!
If Cancer Scares You, Do Not Miss This...
See the Truth About Cancer® here.
Over 20,000 people die each day from cancer. So if it scares you, that’s understandable.
However… whether you’re trying to avoid cancer or beat it if you’ve got it, there is one very powerful antidote to the fear, and to the disease itself: knowledge.
In “The Truth About Cancer: A Global Quest” you’ll discover the most powerful ways to prevent, treat, heal from, and beat the disease. Though you haven’t heard of most of these ways, you deserve to, so…
Click here now to conquer the fear, and find out what you really need to know.
←
Previous
The Amazing Cancer-Fighting Benefits of Curcumin
→
Next
4 Early Warning Signs of Prostate Cancer: Understanding Prostate Cancer Symptoms
About Tony Isaacs
Tony Isaacs is a member of the National Health Federation and the American Botanical Council. He is a natural health advocate and researcher and the author of books and articles about natural health including "Cancer's Natural Enemy." Mr. Isaacs articles are featured at The Truth About Cancer, the Health Science Institute's Healthiertalk website, CureZone, the Crusador, Health Secrets, the Cancer Tutor, the Silver Bulletin, the New Zealand Journal of Natural Health, and several other venues.In addition, he hosts the Yahoo Oleandersoup Health group of over 3500 members and the CureZone Ask Tony Isaacs - Featuring Luella May forum. Tony and his partner Luella May host The Best Years in Life natural health website where their motto is "It's never too late or too early to begin living longer, healthier and happier lives." http://www.tbyil
Reader Interactions
Comments
Silvia Logan says
June 13, 2016 at 2:35 PM
I have a cell phone, but I just put it in my purse. I only use my cell phone a few times, but not very often. It is not even good to go to close to a T.V. set, because of radiation exposure. Texting is probably better than just talking on the phone.
Reply
Evelyn says
June 18, 2016 at 9:41 AM
Can you please put more in your article about the reason kids should not watch movies with there iPod on there laps my grandchildren always do, there parents need to read something about.
Reply
christiane lemahieu says
June 18, 2016 at 9:45 AM
A few years ago, when I was repairing the (roof) gutters, I had put my cellphone in my bra during several weeks….& yes I got breast problems…which I cured naturaly before the last clinical research to find out if it was cancer or only inflammation. My doctor was very positive & said… when this happens again, try first what you’ve done now….if it doesn’t help you can always come ack to me.
Reply
Wendy Molina says
January 12, 2019 at 12:28 PM
What did you do naturally? I am in the same situation and would like to know
Reply
Thomas says
June 18, 2016 at 10:02 AM
I’m a man and I understand it’s bad to keep my phone in my pocket, but where could I keep it then?
Reply
Andy says
January 16, 2019 at 4:57 PM
You can probably store it in your back pocket or if you have a suit on your side pocket furthest always for your testes. This at least will provide a bone and skin barrier from direct radiation.
Reply
Paula Glidden says
June 18, 2016 at 10:25 AM
Nothing was said about the radiation blockers that can be attached to the phone.
Reply
admin says
June 20, 2016 at 12:31 PM
Hi Paula, The radiation blocker was mentioned in our Global Quest Series. It is called an MRET device and was developed by Dr. Igor Smirnov.
Reply
A says
June 18, 2016 at 11:58 AM
Use the speakerphone, that way you can keep the phone away from your head. A fannypack, though kinda gay, will keep the phone at least some distance from your body.
Reply
Sonica says
June 18, 2016 at 1:56 PM
What was the name of the device you mentioned in your TTAC series that you place on your mobile phone to reduce/interfere with radiation from your cell phone?
Reply
admin says
June 20, 2016 at 12:30 PM
Hi Sonica, It is called an MRET device. It was developed by Dr. Igor Smirnov.
Reply
Trevor says
June 18, 2016 at 3:10 PM
T. I have suffered from Parotid cancer, and I asked my surgeon if my mobile might be the cause, and he replied, anything is possible. I believe that I now have a recurrence, and am awaiting a further hospital appointment.
Reply
hedarts says
June 18, 2016 at 3:20 PM
Check out Orgonite, which is an attractor and deflector of EMF waves. It really converts the harmful waves into healthy energy. Wearing and using orgonite helps to restore coherence in the body via quartz’s natural Piezoelectric properties. See this link: youtube.com/watch?v=34eGCtCTLyw Strangely enough, the ad for TTAC ran right before the clip played on Youtube. There are no accidents. Orgonite also helps clear chemtrails, protect against scalar waves, clear pollution in water and earth, and much more. A further video facebook.com/tony.mayson/videos/10202949007765568/
Reply
Peter Marshall says
June 18, 2016 at 4:47 PM
I’d like to get the name of the gadget Ty uses on his phone, presumably to reduce the possible risks of cell phone radiation!
Reply
admin says
June 20, 2016 at 12:29 PM
Hi Peter, This is called an MRET device. It was developed by Dr. Igor Smirnov.
Reply
Sue says
June 18, 2016 at 8:20 PM
Does anyone know if carrying an iPod in your pocket is also dangerous in this way?
Reply
Gary says
June 18, 2016 at 10:55 PM
Wi fi is the main issue hear.
When at home, turn the wi-fi off. Turn it on Airplane mode if you want access to it quickly. Airplane mode deadens the signal and not radiation comes forth because their is no communication with the cell tower.
If in your bedroom at night…..keep at least(more is better) 5 feet from your body.
Reply
Ari Stefánsson says
June 18, 2016 at 11:38 PM
Can a microchip be placed in electronics to adapt wave signalling to human biology and function? Technology has surely come here to stay?
Reply
jen says
December 17, 2016 at 1:33 PM
I would also add to not use or turn on a cell phone in a vehicle with the windows rolled up as the phone is always searching for a signal while on, and gets intensified bouncing around in an enclosed vehicle.
Reply
Patti Mattfeld says
December 21, 2016 at 10:51 PM
A friend told me about a pong cell phone case you can get from Amazon.com. It is supposed to cut out 90% of the radiation from your cell phone. Is this true?
Reply
carol white says
May 26, 2018 at 5:38 AM
What happens if you carry a phone everyday in your pocket
Reply
Darrell Carnal says
September 24, 2018 at 4:25 PM
I have carried a smartphone in my “Tech Pocket” of my Wrangler cargo shorts for several years now. I had a MyxoFibroSarcoma (MFS) tumor removed from my leg in that approximate area back in May 2018. Just finished radiation and the prognosis is favorable but….I’m not sure I’ll be carrying it there anymore.
Reply
moz says
October 5, 2018 at 9:03 PM
For latest information you have to visit internet and on the web I found this web page as a most excellent web
page for most recent updates.
Reply
Josh says
October 17, 2018 at 11:52 AM
Doesn’t airplane mode make it safe to carry?
Reply
Greg says
October 25, 2018 at 10:40 AM
I am a 27 year old male and, like most, I often carry my cell phone in my pocket. I try to limit this exposure as much as possible but it is difficult. Sometimes I notice after extended periods of keeping it in my pocket I develop one or two boils on my leg very close to where the cell phone sits.
I’ve searched online to see if this happens to anyone else but the most I can find is people complaining about facial acne from cell phone use. Anyone else experience this?
Also, someone else above pointed out that WiFi is what is more harmful. I don’t think that is true. Cellular signals are more harmful which is why putting your phone in airplane mode (connecting to WiFi only) is safer.
Reply
Joe says
November 1, 2018 at 4:14 PM
I use airplane mode so the phone can glide in case I drop it.
Reply
Gary says
November 28, 2018 at 1:18 PM
Do a story on emf solutions and the people that created it at holidiumlabs.com
Reply
Customer Success says
November 28, 2018 at 7:37 PM
Hi Gary,
We have lots of articles about EMF on our website. All you have to do is search EMF in the search bar here: https://thetruthaboutcancer.com/
Reply
Jason says
January 19, 2019 at 10:05 PM
I’ve carried my phone in my front right pocket since phones came out and I have no current health issues. However I would love to figure out a different way to carry it. The back pocket is too risky for crushing it on a hard chair, and I don’t carry a man purse. I have been heavily exposed to screens of all kinds for over thirty years. I don’t know if that means that I’ve slowly just built up a tolerance for emf or what, but I do believe that DNA can become damaged from certain things. Back when World of Warcraft first came out I played it on my laptop, right on my lap for a Many hours every day that I was home for about a couple of years. The back of it would heat up so bad that it actually made my knee area noticeably reddish for sure, but once I stopped using it the redness slowly faded back to normal. Since then I’ve had no issues with fertility, two sons born to us. The youngest one actually did develop a deadly genetic brain disease called leukodystrophy, but there’s no cited link to emf. We were told it was nothing but pure genetic happenstance. A one in 10,000 chance of meeting a partner with the same gene defect as you. But yeah, would definitely like to figure out a different way to carry it.
Reply
Kal says
March 24, 2019 at 6:43 PM
That’s really educative
Thank for the info
Reply
Customer Support says
March 25, 2019 at 11:26 AM
Thank you so much for your feedback, Kal!
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR SUPPORT! YOUR PATRONAGE ALLOWS US TO SUPPORT THESE CHARITIES & MORE
Footer
About Us
Let’s end the cancer pandemic once and for all! Every single day, tens of thousands of people, just like you, are curing cancer (and/or preventing it) from destroying their bodies.
It’s time to take matters into our own hands and educate ourselves on real prevention and treatments. It could save your life or someone you love. Doctors, researchers, experts and survivors show you exactly “how-to” prevent and treat cancer in “The Truth About Cancer®: A Global Quest.”
Follow Us:
Top Picks
FDA Rewards Johnson & Johnson’s Lies with...
30+ Natural Alternatives to Consider Before...
FDA Supports Corporate Interests as Monsanto’s...
NYC Mayor Forces Citizens to Get Vaccinated… or...
{DELICIOUS Vegetarian Keto Recipe} Konjac Noodles with...
Explore
Global Health News
The Truth About Cancer: A Global Quest
Experts Info Sheet
Testimonials
Share Your Feedback
Find Us on Facebook
Google+
Twitter
YouTube
Join Our Mission
Careers
Contact us
Featured Articles
FDA Rewards Johnson & Johnson’s Lies with...
30+ Natural Alternatives to Consider Before...
The Importance of Emotional Clearing for Health &...
FDA Supports Corporate Interests as Monsanto’s...
The Dangers of High Estrogen Levels, Even for Women
Get the Latest News
Want to stay up to date with the latest news on cancer prevention and life-saving treatment methods for FREE?
TTAC Publilshing is a member of the Health and Wellness Business Association.
© Copyright 2014 - 2019 TTAC Publishing, LLC
297 Kingsbury Grade, Suite 100, Mail Box 4470 Stateline, NV 89449-4470
Returns Policy
The Truth About Cancer® and The Quest For The Cures™ are registered Trademarks of TTAC Publishing LLC. All rights reserved.
Disclaimer: The content of this website is based on research conducted by TTAC Publishing, LLC, unless otherwise noted. The information is presented for educational purposes only and is not intended to diagnose or prescribe for any medical or psychological condition, nor to prevent, treat, mitigate or cure such conditions. The information contained herein is not intended to replace a one-on-one relationship with a doctor or qualified healthcare professional. Therefore, this information is not intended as medical advice, but rather a sharing of knowledge and information based on research and experience. TTAC Publishing encourages you to make your own health care decisions based on your judgment and research in partnership with a qualified healthcare professional.
If you purchase anything through this website, you should assume that we have an affiliate relationship with the company providing the product or service that you purchase, and that we will be paid in some way. We recommend that you do your own independent research before purchasing anything.
These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. The information on this website is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
Contact Us | Privacy Policy | Terms and Conditions | Returns Policy