Smoking Marijuana and How to Quit | The Recovery Village
Contact Us
Insurance
Admissions
Teen Addiction
Search
352.771.2700 Recovery Is Possible
Drug Addiction
Drug Addiction Overview
Commonly Abused Drugs
Alcohol
Cocaine
Heroin
Marijuana
Meth
Xanax
Stimulants
Adderall
Amphetamines
Bath Salts
Crack
Ecstasy, MDMA
Spice, K2
Opioid/Opiates
Codeine
Fentanyl
OxyContin
Hydrocodone
Dilaudid
Lortab
Kratom
Morphine
Oxycodone
Vicodin
Benzodiazepines
Ativan
Klonopin
Valium
Librium
Prescription Drugs
Percocet
Methadone
Ambien
Tramadol
Suboxone
Subutex
Narcan
Ultram
Fioricet
Trazodone
Drug Index
Ayahuasca
CBD (Cannabidiol)
Kava
Peyote
Dealing With the Issues of a High-Functioning Alcoholic
Can You Become Addicted to Heroin the First Time?
Drug Abuse Hotline
Alcohol Hotline
Need help? Call us today. 352.771.2700
Mental Health
Anxiety Disorders
Anxiety
Generalized Anxiety
Panic Disorder
Social Anxiety
Personality Disorders
Antisocial PD
Borderline PD
Dissociative Identity Disorder
Histrionic PD
Schizoid PD
Stress Related Disorders
Adjustment Disorder
PTSD
Eating Disorders
Anorexia
Binge Eating
Bulimia
Restrictive Food Intake
Depression & Mood Disorders
Bipolar Disorder
Depression
Major Depressive Disorder
Postpartum Depression
Obsessive Compulsive Disorders
Body Dysmorphia
Gender Dysphoria
Impulse Control Disorder
OCD
Other Mental Health Issues
ADHD/ADD
Phobias
Psychosis
Schizophrenia
Sleep Disorders
Common Co-Occurring Disorders
Process Addictions
Anxiety and Substance Abuse
Borderline PD and Drug Abuse
Depression and Drug Abuse
Panic Disorder and Drug Abuse
PTSD and Substance Abuse
Schizophrenia and Drug Abuse
Mental Health First Aid
Need help? Call us today. 352.771.2700
Addiction Treatment
Drug Addiction Treatment
Alcoholism Treatment
Medical Detox
Medication-Assisted Treatment
Inpatient Rehab
Partial Hospitalization
Intensive Outpatient
Outpatient Rehab
Aftercare
Dual Diagnosis
Understanding Treatment
Our Treatment Philosophy
Drug Rehab
Drug Detox
Intervention
Friends & Family Portal
Treatment Therapies
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy
Dialectical Behavioral Therapy
Individual/Group Therapy
Intensive Therapy
Substance Abuse Treatment Centers and Rehab
Substance Abuse Counseling
Mental Health/Dual Diagnosis
Treatments for Anxiety
Bipolar Treatments
Treatments for Schizophrenia
Depression Treatments
PTSD Treatments
10 Tips to Help Family Members of Those Struggling With Addiction Cope
10 Signs You Need To Seek Professional Help
Heroin Hotline
Marijuana Hotline
Need help? Call us today. 352.771.2700
Our Rehab Centers
Locations Overview
Nationwide Adult Rehab Centers
The Recovery Village Umatilla (FL)
Orlando Recovery Center (FL)
The Recovery Village at Palmer Lake (CO)
The Recovery Village Columbus (OH)
The Recovery Village Ridgefield (WA)
Specialty Rehab Centers
Next Generation Village (FL)
IAFF Recovery Center (MD)
Aftercare
Next Step Village (FL)
Treatment By State
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
Resources
Sobriety Calculator
Friends and Family
Teen Addiction
College Students
LGBTQ+ Addiction
Active Duty Military
Military Veterans
Fitness & Nutrition
Spiritual Resources
Domestic Violence
Lawyers
Caregiver Resources
Cancer Patients
Elderly
Recovery Blog
Inside Addiction
Insurance
Contact Us
Admissions
Search
Don't wait another day. Help is a phone call away. 352.771.2700
close What To Expect
Seeking addiction treatment can feel overwhelming. We know the struggle, which is why we're uniquely qualified to help.
Your call is confidential, and there's no pressure to commit to treatment until you're ready. As a voluntary facility, we're here to help you heal -- on your terms. Our sole focus is getting you back to the healthy, sober life you deserve, and we are ready and waiting to answer your questions or concerns.
352.771.2700
Recovery Is Possible
Home Marijuana Addiction Marijuana Addiction Related Topics Smoking Marijuana and How to Quit
Smoking Marijuana and How to Quit
Weed is a popular mind-altering substance that people, especially teens and young adults, use regularly. Unfortunately, smoking weed can be harmful and addictive.
352-771-2700
Share
Tweet
+1
Share
By The Recovery Village
Editor Jennifer Kopf
Updated on04/05/19
Marijuana, also known as weed, is a popular mind-altering drug. Weed is the most commonly used illicit drug in the United States, according to the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA).
The herbal substance can be rolled up and smoked like a cigarette, smoked in a pipe, eaten as an edible or inhaled using a vaporizer or vaping pen. Some people also smoke weed to treat health conditions. Weed is most often used and misused by teens and young adults.
While the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved marijuana for treating specific medical problems, three individual components of marijuana – called cannabinoids – have been approved as drugs.
But while a 2017 report issued by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine noted several therapeutic effects of marijuana, it also summarized its many harmful effects and recommended more research be done to understand all the possible health effects associated with weed and its derivative products.
The recreational use of weed has been shown to lead to negative health consequences, including dependence and addiction, which can interfere with someone’s education, career and relationships.
What Is Weed?
Marijuana goes by many names, including weed, cannabis, grass, hash and pot. It is an herb that can be green, brown or gray.
Weed contains many different compounds known as cannabinoids. These cannabinoids affect someone’s central nervous system (CNS) which consists of the brain and spinal cord. One of the most well-known cannabinoids in weed is the mind-altering chemical tetrahydrocannabinol (THC).
As the main psychoactive chemical in weed, THC causes most of the intoxicating effects produced by the drug. The marijuana plant contains more than 500 chemical compounds overall.
Is It Legal?
Weed is classified as a Schedule I drug by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration. This means that it is an illegal substance with a high potential for abuse, per federal law, and offers no accepted medical use.
This designation remains despite the legalization of marijuana for recreational or medical use in certain states within the United States.
Effects on the Brain
Weed has direct short- and long-term effects on the brain. Weed specifically targets the parts of the brain responsible for memory, learning, attention, decision-making, coordination, emotions and reaction time.
When weed is inhaled, the THC compound enters the body through the lungs and then passes into the bloodstream. Once in the bloodstream, it is carried to organs throughout the body, including the brain.
The THC compound acts on brain cell receptors that ordinarily react to other naturally occurring THC-like chemicals, resulting in activation and overstimulation that leads to the high people feel after smoking weed.
It can also cause short-term effects including:
Altered senses
Changes in mood
Altered sense of time and space
Impaired body movements
Impaired memory
Lack of problem-solving skills, difficulty thinking, impaired decision-making
Hallucinations, delusions and psychosis (when used in higher doses)
Long-Term Effects on the Brain
Changes to the brain and its development associated with marijuana use are most significant during adolescence.
A study conducted in part by researchers at Duke University in New Zealand showed that when people started smoking marijuana heavily in their teens and developed a marijuana use disorder or addiction, they lost an average of eight IQ points between the ages of 13 and 38.
The mental functioning did not fully return even when the teens quit smoking weed as adults. This suggests that marijuana’s effects on attention, memory and learning may be permanent.
Effects on the Body
Marijuana can have several health benefits like relieving pain and inflammation, decreasing pressure within the eyes, relieving symptoms of glaucoma along with reducing nausea and vomiting.
But it can have negative effects on someone’s body, especially when used long-term. Health problems associated with marijuana use can include heart problems, coughing and breathing problems and a weakened immune system.
Cannabinoids in weed can raise resting heart rate, dilate the blood vessels and make the heart pump blood harder. Research shows that people with existing cardiovascular problems like heart disease who are also under stress, develop chest pain more quickly after smoking marijuana.
There is also evidence that suggests that someone’s risk of heart attack increases within the first hour after smoking weed.
Marijuana smoke can also irritate the lungs. Respiratory problems associated with smoking weed are comparable to someone’s risk from smoking cigarettes.
Smoking weed can cause bronchitis, a persistent phlegmy cough and an increased risk of lung cancer.
Dangers of Weed Resins
THC-rich extracts (also referred to as resins) from the marijuana plant can also be smoked. These highly concentrated resins come in the form of honey-like hash oil, waxy budder and a hard, amber-colored shatter.
The practice of smoking these extracts — called “dabbing” — has proven to be dangerous. Dabbing delivers large amounts of THC to the body, increasing someone’s risk of negative or harmful side effects. It also involves butane (lighter fluid), which can result in burns from fires and explosions.
Addiction to Smoking Weed
It is possible to get addicted to weed. About 30 percent of people who have used marijuana have some degree of marijuana use disorder, and 1 in 10 of those people will become addicted, according to NIDA and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Addiction to weed is especially likely when it is used often over an extended period.
Addiction is more likely to happen if someone starts smoking marijuana as a teenager. NIDA concluded that people who start using marijuana before the age of 18 are four to seven times more likely than adults to develop a marijuana use disorder. And the CDC estimated that approximately one in six people who smoke marijuana that begin using the drug before the age of 18 would become addicted.
Addiction is a chronic disease that causes a person to seek out and use drugs compulsively. People who have difficulty controlling these urges regardless of outcomes or harmful consequences. While 2015 data from NIDA showed that in 2015 about 4 million people in the United States fit the diagnostic criteria of a marijuana use disorder, only 138,000 voluntarily sought treatment for it.
Signs that someone might be addicted to weed include:
Unsuccessful attempts to quit using the drug
Giving up activities or hobbies that one used to enjoy in exchange for using weed
Continuing to use weed when it is known that it is causing problems with home, school and work
Weed Overdose
An overdose occurs when someone takes too much of a drug and is likely to cause dangerous symptoms that can become life-threatening.
There are no reports of deaths due to marijuana use alone. But using too much weed can lead to uncomfortable side effects, including psychosis. The risk for negative side effects and overdose is more significant when people use marijuana products with high THC levels, according to NIDA.
Symptoms reported by people who smoke large amounts of weed include anxiety, paranoia and psychotic reactions like delusions and hallucinations.
Sometimes weed is used simultaneously with other substances like alcohol or other drugs. Mixing weed with other illegal or prescribed substances can increase someone’s risk of overdose or adverse side effects.
Gateway Drug
Some research shows that using weed is likely to lead to the use of other illegal drugs as well. There’s also the risk of the possible development of addictions to these substances in addition to marijuana.
Since weed use is likely to come before the use of more potent, addictive drugs, it is sometimes considered a “gateway drug.” Gateway drugs are thought to come before the use of “harder” substances, like meth, heroin or cocaine.
Studies show that early exposure to addictive substances like THC or weed can change the way the brain responds to other drugs, according to the National Institute on Drug Abuse.
Research involving rodents shows that repeated early exposure to THC leads to an enhanced response to addictive substances in the reward centers of the brain. This area of the brain is paramount in the development and treatment of addiction.
But not everyone who uses marijuana goes on to use harder substances. In fact, NIDA concluded that the majority of individuals do not.
Also, some argue that marijuana is an effective “exit” drug for people who are dependent on harder substances, including opioids. Research cited in the journal Drug and Alcohol Dependence suggests that marijuana use reduces the severity of opioid withdrawal and improves treatment outcomes. It’s important to note that dronabinol was the weed compound used in the study. Always consult with your doctor before trying with detox from substances.
Deciding to Quit Smoking Weed
Understanding addiction and acknowledging an addiction to weed are the first steps to recovery.
Someone who smokes weed daily can become used to its effects both physically and psychologically. Deciding to stop using weed should, therefore, be approached with the proper guidance, monitoring and support.
Once someone who uses marijuana has consulted with their doctor about the best way to proceed with quitting the drug, they should be prepared physically and mentally for the challenge that lies ahead. People who use marijuana are more likely to successfully quit smoking weed when they know what to expect and have a plan.
Set a Date
It is important to set a date to quit using weed. This date should not be contingent on when a “stash” runs out nor should it be generic, like “tomorrow” or, “next week.” It needs to be a specific date.
Get Rid of the Reminders
Once the date comes to quit smoking weed, it is also time to toss out any paraphernalia used to smoke it. Cravings are more likely when there is a constant reminder of what someone is giving up. These are called triggers and should be avoided.
Be Prepared for Withdrawal
Knowing that it’s going to get tough before it gets better is an important part of staying focused on the end goal. Do research ahead of time and know what to expect. Be prepared for anxiety, jitters and irritability during the detox phase.
Weed Withdrawal
Withdrawal from weed occurs during the detoxification process. Detox is the body’s natural cleansing process.
As the body works to eliminate the substance it has become dependent upon, patients may experience uncomfortable symptoms. With weed, this occurrence is called marijuana withdrawal syndrome. This condition only recently became a recognized diagnosis by the American Psychiatric Association.
Marijuana withdrawal syndrome often does not result in serious physical symptoms as is the case when withdrawing from other drugs and substances. Instead, marijuana withdrawal is mostly characterized by several different psychological symptoms.
One study out of Massachusetts General Hospital’s Center for Addiction Medicine showed that teens especially were affected by symptoms of marijuana withdrawal. Of the approximately 40 percent of teens who experienced marijuana withdrawal symptoms, they were also more likely to meet the criteria for mood disorders.
The length of time someone experiences these symptoms and how severe the symptoms might become are dependent on many different factors including how long and how often they used weed. Symptoms of marijuana withdrawal typically begin less than 24 hours after someone stops using weed and can persist for about seven to 10 days, peaking in intensity around days two to four.
There are currently no medications available to treat marijuana withdrawal syndrome. If symptoms are severe, hospitalization or inpatient rehabilitation may be necessary. Outpatient programs are also available.
Symptoms of weed withdrawal might include irritability or aggression, anxiety, marijuana cravings, trouble sleeping, lack of appetite and major depression.
Physical symptoms might include upset stomach or pain, excessive sweating, shakiness or tremors, headache, or fever and chills.
Risk of Relapse
Some withdrawal symptoms can last for more than 30 days and up to three months after quitting weed.
Persistent withdrawal symptoms lead many users to experience setbacks. It is estimated that between 40 to 60 percent of people trying to stop smoking weed relapse.
The longer weed is used, the more likely a person is to suffer from marijuana withdrawal symptoms and thereby the more likely they are to have a setback. This is why a plan and an appropriate support system are paramount.
If you or someone you know struggles with quitting marijuana or has a marijuana use disorder, help is available. At The Recovery Village, a team of professionals can design an individualized treatment plan to address substance use and co-occurring disorders. Call and speak with a representative to learn more about which program could work for you.
Sources
Bisaga, A. (2015, September). The effects of dronabinol during detoxification and the initiation of treatment with extended release naltrexone. U.S. National Library of Medicine. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26187456
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (2018, February 27). Health Effects: Marijuana: How Can It Affect Your Health? Marijuana and Public Health. Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/marijuana/health-effects.html
Harvard Health Publishing. (2017, August). Marijuana and heart health: What you need to know. Harvard Medical School. Retrieved from https://www.health.harvard.edu/heart-health/marijuana-and-heart-health-what-you-need-to-know
Kouri, PhD, E. M. (2002, February 1). Does Marijuana Withdrawal Syndrome Exist? Psychiatric Times. Retrieved from http://www.psychiatrictimes.com/substance-use-disorder/does-marijuana-withdrawal-syndrome-exist
Meier, MH., et al. (2012, October 2). Persistent cannabis users show neuropsychological decline from childhood to midlife. U.S. National Library of Medicine. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22927402
Mental Health Daily. (n.d.). Marijuana Withdrawal Symptoms: What You May Experience. Retrieved from https://mentalhealthdaily.com/2013/03/02/marijuana-withdrawal-symptoms-what-you-may-experience/
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine. (2017). The Health Effects of Cannabis and Cannabinoids: The Current State of Evidence and Recommendations for Research. Retrieved from https://www.nap.edu/catalog/24625/the-health-effects-of-cannabis-and-cannabinoids-the-current-state
National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health. (2018, October 25). Marijuana and Cannabinoids. National Institutes of Health. Retrieved from https://nccih.nih.gov/health/marijuana
National Institute on Drug Abuse for Teens. (2015, April 2). Marijuana Withdrawal Is Real. National Institutes of Health. Retrieved from https://teens.drugabuse.gov/blog/post/marijuana-withdrawal-real
National Institute on Drug Abuse. (2018, June). Marijuana. National Institutes of Health. Retrieved from https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/drugfacts/marijuana
National Institute on Drug Abuse. (2018, June). Marijuana: Research Report Series. National Institutes of Health. Retrieved from https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/research-reports/marijuana/what-marijuana
National Institute on Drug Abuse. (2018, June). Understanding Drug Use and Addiction. National Institutes of Health. Retrieved from https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/drugfacts/understanding-drug-use-addiction
National Institute on Drug Abuse. (n.d.). Effects of Marijuana on Brains and Bodies. National Institutes of Health. Retrieved from https://easyread.drugabuse.gov/content/effects-marijuana-brains-and-bodies
National Institutes of Health. (2014, June 4). NIDA review summarizes research on marijuana’s negative health effects. Retrieved from https://www.nih.gov/news-events/news-releases/nida-review-summarizes-research-marijuanas-negative-health-effects
Partnership News Service Staff. (2014, September 4). Study: Marijuana Withdrawal Symptoms Common in Teens Treated for Substance Use. Partnership for Drug-Free Kids. Retrieved from https://drugfree.org/learn/drug-and-alcohol-news/study-marijuana-withdrawal-symptoms-common-teens-treated-substance-use/
Secades-Villa, R. (2015, February). Probability and predictors of the cannabis gateway effect: a national study. U.S. National Library of Medicine. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25168081
U.S. National Library of Medicine. (2018, November 7). Marijuana. National Institutes of Health. Retrieved from https://medlineplus.gov/marijuana.html
United States Drug Enforcement Administration. (n.d.). Drug Scheduling. U.S. Department of Justice. Retrieved from https://www.dea.gov/drug-scheduling
How Would You Rate This Page?
Share
Tweet
+1
Share
Marijuana Addiction
Signs, Symptoms & Side Effects
Withdrawal & Detox
Marijuana Addiction Treatment & Rehab
Have more questions about Marijuana abuse?
Q.
How Long Does Marijuana Stay In Your System?
Q.
Is Marijuana Addictive?
Q.
How Do I Know If Someone Is On Marijuana?
Q.
How Long Does Marijuana Stay in Your System?
Q.
Is Marijuana a Gateway Drug?
Read the most frequently asked questions
See also
Marijuana Edibles: 3 Dangers of Use and Abuse
Marijuana Abuse Hotline
Can You Overdose on Marijuana?
Does Marijuana Cause Schizophrenia?
Marijuana and Zoloft Interactions
See more topics
What is National Take Back Day?
April 19, 2019
Search
Speak to a Marijuana Intake Coordinator now.
352.771.2700What to expect when I call?
Seeking addiction treatment can feel overwhelming. We know the struggle, which is why we're uniquely qualified to help.
Your call is confidential, and there's no pressure to commit to treatment until you're ready. As a voluntary facility, we're here to help you heal -- on your terms. Our sole focus is getting you back to the healthy, sober life you deserve, and we are ready and waiting to answer your questions or concerns 24/7.
Speak with an Intake Coordination Specialist now.352.771.2700
Ready to start? We're here for you.
352.771.2700
The Recovery Village
633 Umatilla Blvd. Umatilla, FL 32784
(352) 771-2700
About Us
About
Our Team
Philosophy
Careers
Get Started
Admissions
Insurance
Locations
Contact Us
Legal
Notice Of Privacy Practices
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
© The Recovery Village at Umatilla All Rights Reserved.