What You Should Know About Weed Addiction - Medical Marijuana Blog
Saturday , 20 April 2019
Submit Article on OthersideFarms.com
Submit Article on Hemp and Cannabis Blog
Medical Marijuana Blog Otherside Farms – Medical Marijuana Information and News
Menu
OthersideFarms.com
Main Website
Otherside Farms Blog
News
In the News – News on Medical Marijuana
Medical Marijuana for Pets
Abusing Prescription Drugs Is No Joke: 6 Warning Signs of Oxycodone Addiction
You Can Now Smoke and Buy Weed in Canada
Cannabis for Asthma
Non-Smokers Can Still Benefit from Medical Marijuana
CBD Benefits for the Skin
Study Shows Cannabinoids Inhibit Tumor Growth
Cannabis Compound Found to Treat Schizophrenia
Marijuana News Feeds
Drug Policy Alliance
Law Enforcement Against Prohibition
Marijuana Policy Project
Americans for Safe Access
NORML
Disinformation
OtherSide Farms
OTHERSIDE FARMS News
Otherside Farms on Vice Documentary
#Hemp Radio Episode 63
Cannabis Indica: The Essential Guide to the World’s Finest Marijuana Strains; OTHERSIDE FARMS is in a book!
OtherSide Farms featured in the new issue of SKUNK Magazine!
Chadd McKeen on Hemp Radio!
Otherside Farms in Cannabis Now Magazine
Otherside Farms in Newsweek – Inside Obama’s ‘War on Weed’
OtherSide Farms Chadd McKeen on Hemp Radio – Episode 26 Keep it Simple Keep it legal….VOTE
Health
Microdosing: The Future of Cannabis?
5 Potential Healing Benefits of Cannabis
What’s the Difference Between Different Strains of Medical Marijuana?
5 Essential Benefits of Medical Marijuana Could Bring into Your Life
Why is Medical Marijuana Becoming So Popular in the Healthcare Industry?
Guide to CBD
Does Marijuana Affect Your Sex Life?
Medical Marijuana and Cancer: Finding the Most Effective Strains
Hemp/CBD
A Look into Production: Which 6 Factors Determine the Price of CBD?
5 Essential Benefits of Medical Marijuana Could Bring into Your Life
Why is Medical Marijuana Becoming So Popular in the Healthcare Industry?
Tips For Finding The Right CBD Extraction Service
Is Hemp CBD Oil Safe for Dogs, Cats & Other Pets?
How US Farm Bill Makes CBD Legal
Thought Cloud CBD Oil Review
Hemp Intro
Cannabis Blog & Info
Activism – Benefits for All
Economy
Politics
Health – Health & Other Uses
Health Uses
Granny Crow List
Benefits of Cannabis
Studies on Cannabis
Cancer Studies
Hemp/CBD
History – since 5000 BC
History of Cannabis
United States History of Cannabis
Law – Legal Information
Medical Marijuana States
Medical Marijuana Legal Information
Strain Encyclopedia – Strains We Have Grown
What is Cannabis Indica?
Indica
Indica Hybrid
What is Cannabis Sativa?
Sativa
Sativa Hybrid
Grow Blog
Video – Videos on Cannabis
Main Website Gallery
Blog Videos
Categories
Categories Select Category Cannabis Now Magazine Cooking with Cannabis Daily Pilot Devices General News Grow Blog Health Health Health – Featured Hemp Radio Hemp/CBD High Times History In the News Indica Indica Hybrid Infographics Investing for the Future Law Learn to Grow Los Angeles Times Marijuana News Feeds Medical Marijuana Blog Newsweek Nug Magazine OCLNN OCWeekly Orange County Business Journal Orange County Register OTHER Otherside Farms Grow Class Otherside Farms Information Center Otherside Farms Private Collective Politics Recommended Resources Sativa Sativa Hybrid SingTao Daily International Skunk Magazine Sponsors Sponsors – Level2 Sports Strain Encyclopedia Strains we have grown Strains we have grown – Featured Tips Twitter/Facebook Uncategorized Vice Video Weekly Plant Pics
Grow Products
Breaking News
Drug Policy Alliance
Law Enforcement Against Prohibition
Marijuana Policy Project
Americans for Safe Access
NORML
Disinformation
OtherSide Farms
Home » Medical Marijuana Blog » Health » What You Should Know About Weed Addiction
What You Should Know About Weed Addiction
Marijuana and alcohol are equally addictive. In fact, around 10% of people who smoke weed will become addicted to it. This means that 90% of people can use weed for recreational purposes, but for the other percentage of people, weed is not harmless.
People who are addicted to weed have a hard time controlling their usage. Although they know weed can impact their life in a negative way, they will still use it. There are many people who enter into luxury drug rehab to help them with their weed addiction.
In one study, 2,446 participants between 14-24 were followed for four years. About 10% met the addiction criteria for weed, while 17% experienced withdrawal symptoms when they stopped using the drug. Furthermore, 14% of those participants had a hard time control their marijuana usage. Around 13% still used weed even though they had issues with their health that was related to their use of weed.
Cross Addiction
Believe it or not, quitting weed is one of the hardest drugs to quit. It’s not because it’s more addictive. It’s because weed is often seen as a final vice, in the eyes of addicts.
If you want to have a successful recovery, then you have to quit weed. If you still use weed, then what you’re really saying is you are not serious about changing your life, and you aren’t interested in finding new ways to escape or relax. When this happens, then nothing has really changed.
Consequences Of Using Weed
In 18 to 25 year-olds, there were significant brain abnormalities present. They were found in those who smoked weed once per week, at the minimum. The parts of the brain that were affected was the emotion and reward areas. This means that casual weed use can actually increase your chances of picking up other addictions in the future, and you might have a harder time dealing with your emotions.
In another study, which followed 1,000 people who started using weed when they were adolescents, the results revealed that weed is neurotoxic. Researchers compared the participants’ IQ when they were 13 and when they were 38, a period in which the IQ would either remain stable or increase slightly. However, IQ among regular weed users declined on a average of 6-points.
Not only that, but quitting weed didn’t completely restore the damaged done. This lead to researchers claiming that the drug is neurotxic to adolescents’ brains. In short, weed can affect a person’s IQ.
One study revealed that users of weed are more likely to develop depression. In fact, they are four times more likely. In 16 years, researchers looked at over 1,900 people, and this is how they came to that conclusion.
In another study, just over 1,600 students (between ages 14 and 15) were followed for seven years. Around 60% of them already used weed by the time they turned 20 and seven-percent started using weed daily. The women were at a higher chance of developing depression.
Weed has been found to increase the chances of a person developing psychotic symptoms. This has been shown in a three year study. It followed over 4,000 people who were psychosis-free.
Republished by Blog Post Promoter
Share
tweet
Previous Modern Medicine is now the third leading cause of death in America!
Next Terpenes – What are They?
Related Articles
Microdosing: The Future of Cannabis?
April 20, 2019
The Opioid Crisis And Marijuana
April 19, 2019
6 Popular Natural Remedies for Rheumatoid Arthritis
April 19, 2019
5 Potential Healing Benefits of Cannabis
April 18, 2019
Medical Marijuana for Pets
April 15, 2019
Is CBD Oil Safe for Cats?
April 14, 2019
Check Also
5 Need-to-Know Facts You Didn’t Know About Drug and Substance Addiction
Dangers to society are not always agreed on. Perspective change over time and threats to …
Just another day at Otherside…
And This Just In
CBS Poll: Nationwide Support For Marijuana Legalization At All-Time High
Illinois: Cook County State’s Attorney To Expunge Thousands Of Low-Level Cannabis Convictions
Georgia: Governor Signs Law Licensing Low-THC Oil Production
Want A New Sticker For Your Laptop?
Study: Marijuana Provided For FDA-Approved Clinical Research Genetically Similar to Hemp
Subscribe to Blog
Enter your email address:
Delivered by FeedBurner
Thoughts or Inquiries?
Name
First Last
Email
Phone
Inquiry
Privacy*
By using this form you agree with the storage and handling of your data by this website. Privacy Policy
Find us on Facebook
Blog Roll & Recommended
VapeActive
Yocan Vaporizers
Buy Slick Vapes
The Seedling Truck
Pure Green Living
Hemp and Cannabis Blog
Cannabis Info
Activism
Economy
Health
Benefits of Cannabis
Studies on Cannabis
Cannabis Cancer Studies
Granny Crow List
History
History of Cannabis
United States History of Cannabis
Legal
Text of Prop. 215
Medical Marijuana States
Medical Marijuana Legal Information
Strain Encyclopedia
Indica
Indica Hybrid
Sativa
Sativa Hybrid
Categories
About Otherside Farms
The Otherside Farms team are teachers of growing Cannabis and educators on the various benefits of medical marijuana. Otherside Farms consisted of two entities, the Private Collective (now closed), and the Information Center.
The Otherside Farms Private Collective (a separate entity at a separate location opened late August 2011 and 100% State compliant, was raided by the Feds and has been closed down; visit their website and see how Otherside Farms Private Collective has helped patients).
Select Category Grow Blog (44) Learn to Grow (19) Otherside Farms Grow Class (9) Tips (14) Hemp/CBD (27) Infographics (4) Investing for the Future (8) Marijuana News Feeds (7) Medical Marijuana Blog (244) Cooking with Cannabis (5) Devices (41) Health (128) Health – Featured (46) History (28) In the News (66) General News (18) Health (24) Law (20) Resources (15) Sports (1) Politics (30) Medical Marijuana Photo Blog (2) Weekly Plant Pics (2) OTHERSIDE FARMS in the News (24) Cannabis Now Magazine (1) Daily Pilot (4) Hemp Radio (4) High Times (1) Los Angeles Times (5) Newsweek (1) Nug Magazine (2) OCLNN (1) OCWeekly (4) Orange County Business Journal (2) Orange County Register (3) OTHER (4) Otherside Farms Information Center (14) Otherside Farms Private Collective (9) SingTao Daily International (1) Skunk Magazine (1) Vice (1) Recommended (21) SocialNetworking (1) Twitter/Facebook (1) Sponsors (36) Sponsors – Level2 (5) Strain Encyclopedia (54) Indica (27) Indica Hybrid (27) Sativa (20) Sativa Hybrid (17) Strains we have grown (29) Strains we have grown – Featured (8) Uncategorized (3) Video (39)
Otherside Farms Copyright 2019
Do NOT follow this link or you will be banned from the site!