asthma – Himalayan Salt Lamps Philippines
Skip to content
Himalayan Salt Lamps Philippines
Direct Importer of Himalayan Salt Lamps, Pink Salt and other merchandise from Pakistan
Menu
Home
Products
Blog
Events
Testimonials
Contact Us
Tag: asthma
Posted on May 18, 2017 May 29, 2017
8 Benefits of Himalayan Salt Lamps
1. Cleanses and Deodorizes the Air
Himalayan pink salt lamps help clean the air through an operation called hygroscopy, which attracts and absorbs contaminated water molecules from the immediate environment and locks them into the salt crystal. The process has the amazing ability to remove cigarette smoke, dust and other contaminants from the air. This benefit is particularly popular, as salty air acts as an overall health booster and can help clear the air passages.
2. Reduces Allergy and Asthma Symptoms
Himalayan salt lamps are believed to filter dust, mold, mildew and pet dander from indoor air. Just as a nasal saline spray uses salt to clear airways, they help to relieve allergy symptoms of all kinds. Those who struggle with asthma also claim to benefit from Himalayan salt. It is such an effective breathing aid that certain manufacturers have produced Himalayan salt inhalers targeted toward sufferers of asthma, bronchitis and other respiratory issues.
3. Eases Coughing
When the Himalayan salt lamp heats up and begins its hygroscopic cycling of airborne particles, it also changes the charge of the molecules which are released. (Remember our chemistry lesson?) The majority of homes are filled with positively charged ions which aren’t particularly good for a person’s health. The positive ions are created by a number of things, but the primary source for most of us is from our electronics.
One of the health detriments of breathing lots of positive ions in the air is that the cilia (microscopic hairs) which line the trachea (aka: windpipe) become sluggish and don’t work as well to keep contaminants out of our lungs. As a Himalayan pink salt lamp absorbs water and particles from the air, it also takes positive ions with them. Then, when the heated salt releases cleansed water vapor back into the air, it also expels negative ions which have the opposite effect on our airways – increasing cilial activity to keep your lungs clear.
What all this means in a nut shell: Besides removing contaminants from the air, Himalayan pink salt lamps also help your body to filter air more efficiently so any foreign particles you do happen to breathe won’t make it into your lungs.
4. Increase Work Productivity and Concentration
Exposure to negative air ions reduces stress and enhances overall performance. Negative ions increase blood and oxygen supplies to the brain, making Himalayan salt lamps great at improving concentration. They also provide a boost of the neurotransmitter serotonin, which literally creates the feeling of happiness.
5. Neutralize Electromagnetic Radiation
Everyday appliances such as televisions, cell phones, computers and tablets release positive ions into the air constantly. These and other common electronics can cause an overflow of electromagnetic radiation (EM), which, although invisible, is believed to cause some serious long-term effects. Constant exposure to EM radiation is known primarily to cause fatigue, increase stress and weaken the immune system. Himalayan salt lamps emit negative ions and cancel out positive ones. Therefore, by neutralizing electromagnetic radiation, they help reduce artificial frequencies and even prevent static buildup.
6. Better Sleep
Over-exposure to positive ions reduces the brain’s blood and oxygen supply, which can lead to irregular sleeping patterns. The negative ions from a Himalayan salt lamp are said to reverse this effect, making them a popular sleep aid. Also, in direct relation to chromotherapy, the soothing light can help people who suffer from insomnia.
7. Boost Blood Flow
Particular studies have suggested that negative ions, such as those emitted by Himalayan salt lamps, can accelerate blood flow. This boost helps to improve several disorders of the vascular system and can prevent certain damage to the lungs.
8. Reduce Stress and Promote Relaxation
Himalayan salt lamps can be used as an aid in color therapy (chromotherapy), an alternative method of diagnosing and treating a large number of illnesses. They produce a soft light in hues of ambient orange, yellow and red that helps with stress, attention deficit disorder, and general relaxation, among others. The serene light is thought to balance physical, spiritual and emotional energies.
Search for:
Search
Social
View #’s profile on Facebook
View wordpressdotcom’s profile on Twitter
View #’s profile on Instagram
View #’s profile on Pinterest
View #’s profile on LinkedIn
Location
Marikina Heights Extension B, C&B Circle Mall, Liwasang Kalayaan Avenue, Marikina Heights, Marikina City, Metro Manila Philippines
Pages
EVENTS
Privacy Policy
Testimonials
Products
Contact Us
Blog
Home
Follow me on Facebook
Follow me on Twitter
Follow me on Instagram
Follow us on Dribbble
Create a website or blog at WordPress.com
Post to
Cancel