Do Cell Phones Really Cause Cancer?
Members Area
Sign Up | Account Recovery Sign In
Create Free Account
Sign In | Account Recovery Send
Account Recovery
Enter your email address here and we will send you your password recovery instructions
Sign In | Sign Up Recover
Constitutional Health Network:
1 (877) 542-4493 | Sign In | Sign Up
Home Brain Health Do Cell Phones Really Cause Cancer?
Do Cell Phones Really Cause Cancer?
You may have heard that there's a link between cellphones and brain cancer. You may even have ditched your phone over it. You may have put up with eye-rolling from your friends, or been called a crank. Or you might have been the one snubbing the idea. But whichever side of the question you've come down on, here's the truth:
Cell phones are strongly linked to some forms of cancer, and the risk just gets higher as cell phones get more powerful. And even cordless phones emit the same dangerous radiation.
The Science is in: Your cell phone really causes cancer
The fear that cell phones cause cancer has been around nearly as long as the phones themselves. Once considered a fringe idea, science is now backing this up.
Of course, the media seldom reports on this, but study after study comes to the same conclusions. Just last year, a Swedish study found that those who used their phones a lot were twice as likely to develop a malignant brain tumor as those who used rarely used them. It also found that people who used any type of wireless phone - including cordless house phones - for more than 25 years had triple the risk.
That's a pretty scary statistic. Even more scary is this: it's not just cell phones you need to worry about, but all wireless devices. Cell phones. Cordless phones. Your iPad. If it uses wireless technology, it puts out the same radiation as your phone and that's bad news.
Studies also show wireless technology is getting more dangerous. 3G phones cause more damage than older ones, and they do it much faster. Yesterday's phones caused cancer in 25 or more years. When 3G hit the scene, that dropped to only 5 to 10 years. So what can you do to protect yourself?
Ditch your cell phone
Just a few years ago, cell phones were for emergencies, or to stay in touch while traveling. Today our phones go with us everywhere. We're expected to be available at all times. This 24-hour exposure to our phones is bad for us - and for most of us, unnecessary. While it may seem like trading in your car for a horse and buggy, the simplest thing to do is get rid of your cell phone completely.
If you get Facebook withdrawals just thinking about it, cheer up. If you need your phone for business, or you just can't bear to part with it, there are still steps you can take to keep yourself safer.
Turn your phone off when you're not using it
Your phone is broadcasting even when you're not making a call. If it's turned on, it's putting out radiation. So if you're not actually using your phone, turn it off. While more and more people are dropping their house phones in favor of wireless, this is a bad idea if you value your brain. If you're at home or at work, stick to a land line.
Make sure you have a good signal before you make a call. The weaker the signal, the more power your phone has to use to make a call. The more power it uses, the more cancer-causing radiation it emits. Unless it's an emergency, don't make calls if you don't have full bars.
Don't hold your phone to your ear
This should go without saying, but let's say it anyway: If you must use a cell phone, or even a cordless house phone, use a headset instead of holding it to your ear. Holding it beside your head means the only thing between your delicate brain and some nasty radiation is a very thin bone. There's a reason that brain cancer is the type associated with cell phones.
Don't carry your phone on your body if you don't have to. The most dangerous place to be is within six inches of the antenna. And yes, even modern smartphones have antennae. They're simply built in instead of sticking out like the ones on old-school phones.
And if brain cancer isn't enough to discourage you, other studies have found that men who carry their cell phones in their pockets may have lower fertility than those who don't.
Don't sleep with your phone near your head. While it might be convenient to use your cell for an alarm clock, is it worth eight hours of steady radiation aimed straight at your brain?
Don't let your kids or grandkids use cell phones
Children are at even higher risk for phone-induced cancer than adults, thanks to the thinness of their skull bones. The time between exposure and the development of tumors can be ten years or more, so damage done while they're children might not be evident until they're adults.
Invest in a shielded headset. While headsets allow you to keep your phone away from your body, many of them still don't shield you from radiation. In fact, in unshielded headsets the wires actually act as an antenna sending the radiation directly to your brain. A shielded headset is a must. A simple Google search for "shielded headset" will turn up plenty of options, and air-tube headsets, which use tubes rather than wires for conducting sound, can reduce the amount of radiation reaching your brain by a whopping 98%.
Ditch your cordless house phone
Cordless phones, like cell phones, emit radiation. While some handsets don't broadcast when they're not making a call, the phone base does. There's really no way to be sure if it's a problem other than checking radiation levels in your house with an RF meter. A simpler, cheaper solution is to get rid of the cordless phone and opt instead for an old-school landline complete with cord.
Cell phones, tablets, and all the other wireless devices we surround ourselves with get more powerful with each passing year. Since their effects might not be visible for ten years or more, it makes sense to protect yourself starting now.
Related Articles
TV Hurts Mental Health If you turn on the TV to relax after a long day, you may want to re-think your strategy. This is ... READ MORE
These Simple Holiday Stress-Busters Will Give Your Brain a Break I can’t talk about stress often enough. It’s the 800-pound gorilla in the room when ... READ MORE
What They Found in “Superagers’” Brains SHOCKS Scientists A few weeks ago I told you about so-called “superagers”—people over 80 with the ... READ MORE
Relaxation Practice Actually Changes Your Genes Eastern practices like yoga and meditation have always been popular with a certain subset of the ... READ MORE
The Upside of Anger In the past few decades, we’ve developed some very odd—and rather ... READ MORE
Scientists Say “Superagers” Have Shrink-resistant Brains Are you a superager? Unless you’re over 80, you’ll have to wait to find out. ... READ MORE
Yet Another Reason to Reduce Stress: It Damages Memory If you’ve ever lived with chronic stress—and how many of us haven’t, at some ... READ MORE
Want to Live Longer? Read A Book If there were something simple and enjoyable—and even free—that would cut your risk ... READ MORE
The Sound of Silence is Good for Your Brain When was the last time you enjoyed some peace and quiet? If you’re like most people, the ... READ MORE
Home Most Popular Health Insurance Healthy Living Lifestyle Cardiac Medication and Treatments Drugs & Medicine Memory Focus Brain Foods
Fight Brain Disease Health Policy Medical Privacy Healthy Heart Lifestyle Heart Disease and Prevention Feel Energized Heart Healthy Foods Exposing Big Pharma Brain Tech
Privacy Policy Terms of Use Whitelist Us Refunds Policy Thank you! Advertise on this site Returns Shipping Policy Contact Us
Take back control of your health, which has long been under attack by overreaching government, and profit-hungry doctors and drug companies. It's your constitutional right to live a healthy lifestyle. Constitutional Health is not a medical services provider and does not render medical advice and does not diagnose any diseases or illnesses or propose treatment for any medical conditions. For medical advice, diagnoses, and treatment, please consult a physician or other qualified health care professional. **Results may vary from person to person, *References to diabetes only includes prediabetes and type-2 diabetes. This system does not work for Type-1 diabetes. As always, please consult with your doctor before taking any further action.
Please see our important terms here.
572 John Ross Pkwy Suite 107 #224, Rock HIll, SC 29730, United States
Call our excellent support team at: 1 (877) 542-4493
Send us your feedback at: support@constitutionalhealth.com
Sitemap
Your browser is out-of-date!
Update your browser to view this website correctly. Update my browser now
×