Baking soda and lemon for cancer treatment - medicclub.info
Articles about medicine
Medic Club
Search information
Home
Company
Services
Testimonials
Download
FAQ
Contact Us
Categories
Cancer-2
Baking Soda and Lemon Juice
Dr. Loyd Jenkins of the Budwig Center says, “If there is one thing you could do every day that would dramatically fight disease and increase your energy, consuming lemon juice combined with baking soda would be on the top of the list. Lemon in addition to being an effective internal cleanser and especially when combined with baking soda has also shown to contain anti-carcinogenic properties as it contains limonoides, which are phytochemicals found in a number of citrus fruits. Apparently the limonoides help strip off the protective layer coating the cancer cells. Lemon also has been shown to have strong anti-microbial effects, which has been tested in research exploring the idea that cancer is very much like a fungus within the body. When treating cancer as a fungus, various methods can be used and some have found that lemon and bicarbonate can help fight the fungus causing various types of cancer.”
Dr. Johanna Budwig was in favor of using as many natural substances as possible. Introducing more lemon into your diet is one of the easiest and natural ways to introduce high alkaline substances into the system. When you use the lemon and baking soda together, it helps to fight cancerous cells or other diseases in the body. Together they help increase the body’s ability to clean itself up of what may be causing the diseases in the first place, which is mostly high acidity and low oxygen conditions.
Some people claim that lemon is a cure for cancer and others say there is no proof. It is unreasonable to claim lemon as a standalone cure but that said, it would be even more unreasonable to not employ something has healthy as lemon when fighting cancer. Even more of the same can be said about sodium and potassium bicarbonate because there is plenty of evidence to suggest it is a prime cancer fighter that no patient should ignore.
Lemon in water is inexpensive to make, keeps the skin glowing, aids in digestion and can help you lose weight. Because lemon juice’s atomic structure is similar to the digestive juices found in the stomach, it tricks the liver into producing bile, which helps keep food moving through your body and gastrointestinal tract smoothly. Lemon water also helps relieve indigestion or ease an upset stomach. Lemon water benefits the enzyme functions in your body, stimulating the liver and flushing out toxins.
Lemon water does not just quench thirst better than any other drink – it also provides our bodies with plenty of vitamins, minerals and vital trace elements. It is also a great energy booster for when we wake up first thing in the morning, as our tissues are dehydrated and in desperate need of fluid to push out toxins.
“I go through 3lbs of lemons every 3-4 days. I juice the whole lemon…skin, seeds… everything. I mix 3/4 cup with 1.5 liters of distilled water and that is what I drink during the day and before bed. Lemon water is the first thing in my belly every morning. I have never felt better since I started doing this. Out of nowhere I dropped almost 10lbs and I have remained cold/flu free”
There are many benefits to drinking lemon water and with mixed with sodium bicarbonate becomes a super medicinal beverage. Nearly every type of ethnic cuisine uses its lemon juice as a flavor enhancer or tenderizer. While lemon juice is quite astringent, it is also very refreshing and contains compounds that help prevent and treat cancer. Researchers have found that citrus fruit has a protective role against cancers of the digestive and upper respiratory tract.
Though some cancer patients have found success with using maple syrup, honey or black strap molasses mixed with the bicarbonate I would choose lemons over any type of sugar for obvious reasons. Though oncologist Dr. Tullio Simoncini recommends sugar with his bicarbonate IVs it would be the exception rather than the rule to use sugar as part of any cancer protocol. Low sugar intake is the way to go when treating cancer and other diseases.
However many people drink lemon with honey for general health and honey has been reported to have its own anti-cancer properties. Honey possesses carcinogen-preventing and anti-tumor properties. One must remember that despite the warning to keep sugar consumption way down we do need glucose as we need air and water. Much of the concern is what form is used to get one’s glucose.
Dr. Alberto Halabe Bucay says, “All that I am trying to do is very simple: That patients with cancer take citric acid orally, as I recommended: 10 to 15 grams of pure citric acid with each meal (one small table spoon each 8 hours), and antacids like omeprazole or sucralfate. Today, more than 80 patients with cancer, most of them with terminal cancer, have improved after taking citric acid orally.”
Dr. Bucay claims that, “Citric acid inhibits glycolysis, which is the principal source of energy for the mitochondria. This is achieved by administering citrate to cancer patients, as the citrate inhibits the phosphofructokinase enzyme, the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex and the succinate dehydrogenase enzyme of Krebs cycle, thus, the mitochondria will be forced to limit their metabolism and, secondarily, will lower the reproduction capacity of the cell in general.
Dr. Michael Murry says, “Besides being high in Vitamin C Lemons, especially their peels are an excellent source of terpenes such as d-limonene. The term terpene probably conjures up images of cleaning solvents, but while naturally occurring terpenes are actually used as alternative to synthetic terpenes in many natural cleaning products, the primary health benefits of terpenes revolve around some impressive anticancer effects – both in prevention and possibly treatment.”
In a study conducted at the University of Arizona Cancer Center 43 women with newly diagnosed operable breast cancer electing to undergo lumpectomy (surgical excision) were given 2 grams of limonene daily for two to six weeks before surgery. Results showed that d-limonene was found to preferentially concentrate in the breast tissue, reaching high tissue concentration (average = 41.3 μg/g tissue). Results also showed that d-limonene supplementation resulted in a 22% reduction in the expression of tumor markers. Specifically, d-limonene reduced the expression of breast tumor cyclin D1.[1]
Consuming the entire lemon offers the best results. The peel contains 5 to 10 times more of the vitamins and
nutrients than just the lemon flesh and juice. Most of the plant world contains life-giving substances within the skin, seeds, and pulp. In Ayurvedic medicine, lemon peels are used to detoxify the liver. They also stimulate the appetite by encouraging the release of gastric juices, and contain limonene and at least 45 antioxidant flavonoids, pectin and vitamin C – all known for preventing and reversing cancer.
Using hydro-distillation, Chinese scientists extracted lemon essential oil and tested it on a series of human cervical adenocarcinoma cell lines. They found that the oil not only blocked the cancer cell lines from spreading, but also inhibited oxidizing free radicals from harming healthy cells.
Citronella Terpenes in Lemon
A study published in 2015 in the journal Archives of Biochemistry and Biophysics reveals that citronella terpenes in lemon essential oil stop the growth of cancers, including those of the liver, through olfactory activation. In other words, citronella terpenes activate certain smell receptors located throughout the body in order to prevent the spread of cancer.
“Terpenes can trigger signaling processes in cells by activating olfactory receptors,” wrote the authors of this study in a January 2015 press release. “Those receptors are mainly located in the nose, but they have been proved [sic] to occur in all types of human tissue, including skin, prostate, and spermatozoa. Carcinogenesis and cancer growth are likewise significantly affected by terpenes.”
Baking Soda is Sodium Bicarbonate
The Gerson Institute takes an opposite view about the use of bicarbonate in their cancer protocol. However, when we look at why bicarbonate is so good, why it works, we can see that it is more than helpful. It is essential for every cancer patient to understand and appreciate why something as inexpensive as baking soda can be their very best medical friend.
Bicarbonate gives the body a blast of oxygen because it is supplying the body instantly with more carbon dioxide (CO2) and this enables more oxygen to be delivered to the cells. The use of sodium and potassium bicarbonate is the practice of CO2 medicine. In a nutshell, when a patient raises CO2 levels by using bicarbonate or breathing retraining, they raise O2 levels as well as pH and cell voltage.
When we add lemon to sodium bicarbonate in our glass it starts to bubble because CO2 is formed. Same thing happens in the stomach when no lemon is used. The stomach acid does the job of lemon in the glass. Alternatively, the lemon does the job of stomach acid and that can be very important if there is a lot of stress or in aged patients when there is the possibility of hydrochloric acid deficiency. We need enough acid for bicarbonate to work just as we need acid to completely digest our food.
Dr. Alina Vasiljeva and Dr. David Nias wrote, “At the end of the 19th century, scientists Bohr and Verigo discovered what seemed a strange law; a decreased level of carbon dioxide in the blood leads to decreased oxygen supply to the cells in the body including the brain, heart, kidneys etc. Carbon dioxide (CO2) was found to be responsible for the bond between oxygen and haemoglobin. If the level of carbon dioxide in the blood is lower than normal, then this leads to difficulties in releasing oxygen from haemoglobin. Hence the Verigo-Bohr law.”
Under clinical conditions, low oxygen and low carbon dioxide generally occur together. Therapeutic increase of carbon dioxide, by inhalation of this gas diluted in air, is often an effective means of improving the oxygenation of the blood and tissues. Taking bicarbonate orally and in baths increases CO2 levels (bicarbonate) in the blood as does slow breathing.
Carbon dioxide is a neutral, nonpolar molecule, and can readily diffuse across membranes. Bicarbonate is a charged species of CO2, and does not cross membranes at a significant rate unless facilitated by trans-membrane channels like the magnesium calcium channel.
Baking soda (sodium bicarbonate) immediately reacts when it mixes with stomach acid. NaHCO(3) + HCl —> NaCl + H(2)0 + CO(2). That is: Sodium bicarbonate + stomach acid yields salt + water + carbon dioxide.
CO2, in the form of bicarbonate, is directly involved in “light reactions.” This “bicarbonate effect” influences molecular processes. The role of carbon dioxide (CO2) or bicarbonate in the photosynthesis was clear to researchers from the very beginning of the history of photosynthesis. Bicarbonate in plants probably links cell metabolism to photosynthetic electron flow.
Live Longer with Bicarbonate
Dr. Kalani Raphael found that low levels of bicarbonate is linked to an increased risk for premature death by 24 percent. “What we found was that generally healthy older people with low levels of bicarbonate had a higher risk of death,” Raphael said. The study’s findings assists clinicians in better assessing patient’s risk of premature death by analyzing their blood bicarbonate concentrations more closely, something doctors never do. What he is saying is that the secret to health lies with sufficient bicarbonate levels. Older adults who have low levels of bicarbonate in their blood are putting themselves at risk of premature death.
The body struggles to produce enough bicarbonate and it is a losing battle as we age. Carbon dioxide, as well as bicarbonate, is a nutrient as well as a product of respiration and energy production in the cells and its lack or deficiency is of itself a starting point for different disturbances in the body. When carbon dioxide deficiency becomes chronic, it can be responsible for serious diseases, ageing and cancer.
Sodium Bicarbonate is available as EBook, in Print, and in a Spanish edition in eBook form.
Conclusion
One is not likely to fall into a cancerous condition if one’s blood and tissues are in an alkaline state. To achieve a sufficiently healthy alkaline state, free from all sickness and disease, one must have alkaline nutritional sufficiency, which can be readily supplied by both lemon and baking soda taken on a consistent basis. In addition full hydration, ingestion of green foods rich in chlorophyll, plenty of healthy sun exposure and of course, slow breathing and plenty of exercise are going to help us avoid and treat cancer.
[1] Miller JA, Lang JE, Ley M, et al. Human breast tissue disposition and bioactivity of limonene in women with early-stage breast cancer. Cancer Prev Res (Phila). 2013 Jun;6 (6):577-84.
Category: Cancer-2
Similar articles:
Dr. Matthias Rath Cellular Solution - Alternative Cancer Treatments
What's New in Ovarian Cancer Research and Treatment?
Bone Cancer: Causes, Symptoms, and Treatments
6 Holistic Vets Explain: Natural Treatment Of Cancer In Dogs
Jim Kelmun Protocol - Alternative Cancer Treatments
E-mail: business365.info@mail.ru