Can The Knees Go Over The Toes? – Squat University
Skip to content
Squat University
The Ultimate Guide To Finding Your True Strength
Menu
Blog Articles
#AskSquatU
Podcast
Book
SquatU Apparel
Seminars
Upcoming Seminars
Testimonals
Clinic
Can The Knees Go Over The Toes?
Posted on January 29, 2016 July 8, 2017 by Dr. Aaron Horschig
Welcome back to Squat University. Last week we discussed the myth that squatting deep is dangerous for the knees. After looking into what actually happens at the knee joint we were able to debunk this misconception. Healthy athletes can perform the squat to full depth without worrying about hurting their knees given proper training methods. We should all feel free to squat ass-to-grass as long as correct technique is used and we don’t max out every day.
Today I want to tackle another common myth of the squat. There is a strong held belief by many that the knees should never go over the toes when squatting.
Just last week, I was guest lecturing to a class of physical therapy students at the University of Missouri. I asked a simple question, “How many people here think we should never have our knees go past the toes while squatting? Following my inquiry, every single student held their hand raised. The next thing I said was, “You’re all wrong.”
No one is certain where this myth started. However, it has become a mainstay in today’s fitness and medical world. The instruction is even a part of the National Strength and Conditioning Associations (NSCA) guidelines for how to teach a proper squat (1).
Yet, is it really all that dangerous? For over 10 years I have had the opportunity to watch and compete on the same platform with some of the best weightlifters in the United States. To lift the most amount of weight during the clean a weightlifter must catch the barbell in a deep squat position. In order to remain upright with the bar secured on the chest, the knees of many lifters will move past their toes. Are these weightlifters putting their knees in harms-way every time they lift the barbell?
Knees over Toes?
The cue to limit the knees from moving past the toes during the squat is really nothing more than a quick fix to a deeper problem. In hindsight the originators of the cue were likely well-intentioned strength coaches or physical therapists.
When an athlete squats poorly, they often move from their ankles first. As the ankles move it causes the knees to hinge forward. The weight of the body is then shifted forward on to the balls of the feet. This type of movement problem has been called the “knees first” approach. Moving in this way leads to greater shear forces on the knee joint and contributes to increased risk of injury and eventually to pain (2).
To many individuals, this issue would appear to be a problem of the knee. Athletes who squat poorly by moving their knees forward often develop pain. Therefore limiting this forward movement solves the problem…right? However, limiting the knees from moving only addresses the symptoms of a bigger problem.
The issue is actually with balance. The knee is only a hinge joint. It will only move forward based on what goes on at the ankle and hip. Instead of focusing so much on what is going on at the knee, we should really be focusing in on the hip and ankle joint when we squat.
One of the absolutes of squatting is that our center of gravity must remain over the middle of our foot. This allows our body to remain balanced and work efficiently to produce strength and power. During a bodyweight squat our center of gravity is located around our belly button. When weight training, the barbell now becomes our center of gravity. The efficiency of our movement is dictated by how well we can maintain this weight over the middle of our foot.
When the knees hinge forward early in the squat the athlete’s center of gravity is shifted forward onto the balls of their feet. Therefore the cue to limit the knees from moving forward is actually correcting for a weight shift problem. It has little to do with the knee joint itself and more to do with ensuring the athlete stays balanced.
Sitting Back in the Squat
So how do we correct for moving from the ankles first? The cue to “sit back” or to “push the hips back” allows the athlete to move from their hips first instead of their ankles during the descent of the squat. This engages the powerhouse of our body (the posterior chain). Doing so also limits pre-mature forward movement of the knees. This allows the athletes center of gravity to remain over the middle of their foot.
However, the cue to limit the knees from moving forward only works to a point. In order to reach full depth in the squat there comes a time when the knees must eventually move forward. The deeper we squat, the more our knees will have to move forward in order to remain balanced. This concept can be hard to understand for many in the medical community. Let me explain.
In order to reach full depth in the squat, the hips must eventually be pulled under the torso. This allows us to remain balanced and keep our chest upright. Because the knee is a hinge joint that moves based on what happens at the hip and ankle, it will be forced forward at this point.
It is very normal for athletes to have their knees move forward even past their toes. It all comes down to weight distribution and the ability to maintain our center of gravity over the middle of our foot.
We should be concerned on when the knees more forward past the toes, not if.
The Barbell Squats
In the sport of powerlifting, athletes will commonly use a low-bar back squat technique. This position secures the bar further down on the back over the middle of the shoulder blade (scapula). The athlete will use the “hips back” approach during the squat with an inclined trunk position in order for the bar to remain balanced over the middle of the foot. This allows the majority of the weight to be hoisted through the strength of the hips and minimal forward movement of the knees (5). Because our hips are extremely strong, athletes use this technique to lift over 1,000 lbs!
However, this squat technique can only descend to a certain point. If an “ass-to-grass” squat were to be attempted with the low-bar back squat, the athlete would eventually fold in half like an accordion!
In the sport of weightlifting athletes will commonly use the high-bar back squat, front squat and overhead squat techniques. These barbell movements resemble the positions an athlete will use during the competition lifts of the snatch and clean & jerk. These lifts require a more balanced approach between the hips and knees in order to maintain an upright trunk. Athletes must descend as deep as possible in order to effectively lift tremendous weights.
By allowing the knees to eventually move forward, the weightlifter can descend into a deep clean or snatch without falling forward. For this reason, the weightlifter cannot perform the front squat like the low-bar technique of the powerlifter.
While shear forces have been shown to increase in the deep squat position with forward knees, the body can handle them appropriately without risk for injury (2). If done properly with a “hip first” approach, the knees going past the toes is not only safe but necessary.
Take Away
The next time you watch someone squat, focus on what joint moves first. Someone who moves poorly will move with a “knees first” approach. On the other hand an athlete who moves with good technique will move with the hips back first.
Science has shown that the knees of healthy athletes are relatively safe in the bottom of a deep squat (2,6). There is no denying this research. As long as excessive loading is limited and good technique is used, the knees CAN and MUST move past the toes in the bottom of a squat in order to allow the hips to drop fully.
Strength coach Michael Boyle once wrote: “The question is not where does the knee go, as much as where is the weight distributed and what joint moves first” (3). Remember, the knee is only a hinge joint. As long as it is kept stable (in line with the feet) we should not worry about them. Proper squatting is all about moving at the hips first and staying balanced. The rest takes care of itself.
Until next time,
Dr. Aaron Horschig, PT, DPT, CSCS, USAW
With
Dr. Kevin Sonthana, PT, DPT, CSCS
Resources
1) Earle RW & Baechle TR. Essentials of Strength Training and Conditioning. Champaign, IL. Human Kinetics, 2008. Pp 250-351.
2) Schoenfeld BJ. Squatting kinematics and kinetics and their application to exercise performance. JSCR. 2010;24(12):3497-3506.
3) Boyle M. “Knees over toes?” Strengthcoach.com. Web. 25 Jan. 2016.
4) Fry AC, Chadwick Smith J, & Schilling BK. Effect of knee position on hip and knee torques during the barbell squat. JSCR. 2003; 17(4): 629-633
5) Swinton PA, Lloyd R, Keogh J WL et al. A biomechanical comparison of the traditional squat, powerlifting squat, and box squat. JSCR. 2012;26(7): 1805-1816.
6) Hartman H, Wirth K, & Klusemann M. Analysis of the load on the knee joint and vertebral column with changes in squatting depth and weight load. Sports Med. 2013;43:993-1008.
Share this:
Tweet
More
Email
Print
Share on Tumblr
Pocket
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Posted in Squat MythsTagged CrossFit, Dr. Aaron Horschig, Mobility, Movement, Olympic Weightlifting, Physical Therapy, Power Lifting, Rehabilitation, Sport Performance, Squat, Squat University, Strength, Weighlifting
Published by
Dr. Aaron Horschig
Doctor of Physical Therapy, CSCS, USAW coach and athlete.	View all posts by Dr. Aaron Horschig
Post navigation
Previous Post Are Deep Squats Bad For The Knees?
Next Post How to Teach a Perfect Squat
40 thoughts on “Can The Knees Go Over The Toes?”
Can The Knees Go Over The Toes? (Debunking Squat Myths) | GoAlliedAthletes	 January 30, 20161:16 am	 Reply
[…] Source: Can The Knees Go Over The Toes? (Debunking Squat Myths) […]
LikeLike
minwest	 January 30, 201612:03 pm	 Reply
Great info guys! What tips do you have for someone who experience knee pains whilst doing squats/lunges (particularly on the outside of the knee cap)?
LikeLike
Dr. Aaron Horschig	 February 2, 20163:31 pm	 Reply
Check out our article “knee stability pt 2” for some tools that can help with that. You need to find the source for why your having the pain. It could be a mobility issue, coordination problem, or both!
LikeLike
Dr. Aaron Horschig	 April 16, 20164:51 pm	 Reply
You’re welcome! For someone who’s having pain while doing lunges and squats we need to first look at technique. I’d check out our article https://squatuniversity.com/2016/01/07/the-squat-fix-knee-stability-pt-1/ to see if you have an issue with knee control. From there we have some great tools in part 2 of that article series on the knee!
LikeLiked by 1 person
minwest	 April 17, 201610:51 am
awesome, I will do so! 🙂
LikeLike
Dionizio Neto	 January 30, 20162:53 pm	 Reply
You are the best guys!
OSS
LikeLiked by 1 person
Dr. Aaron Horschig	 April 16, 20164:50 pm	 Reply
Thank you!
LikeLike
Dionizio Neto	 January 30, 20162:57 pm	 Reply
Reblogged this on Equipe Luiz Paulo JJ – Paulo Afonso/BA and commented:
Mitos sobre o Agachamento!!!
OSS.
LikeLiked by 1 person
Gonzalo	 February 5, 20167:10 pm	 Reply
I agree with what you are saying but when one starts working out at 12 and continues to 53, one realizes that repetition injuries are painful and can be irreversible. When one has been working out that long and the knees travel outside certain boundaries (bad form): shoulders, toes etc. it can be very painful and difficult to move around for a few weeks (and I am only in my 50s). Lunges have the same issue with the back foot. You should hang around athletes that are older and have been doing this for decades. Check out Dave Drapers articles as 70 is a whole other ball game. All of us aren’t in our 20s and 30s and for some this is a marathon not a sprint.
LikeLike
Dr. Aaron Horschig	 February 5, 20167:58 pm	 Reply
Gonzalo it is always a marathon and never a sprint. I agree with you that repetition injuries can be paniful and irreversible. The most important thing I tell every one of my athletes (young and old) is that pain should never be pushed through. Pain is like our cars warning light. If we continue to drive (squat in this case) with pain, we will develop overuse injuries that will last a lifetime. For this reason, the knees over the toes debate must always come with the line “you should never squat through pain.” If this motto is upheld you should be able to squat late into life!
LikeLike
How to Perfect the High-Bar Back Squat | Squat University	 March 18, 20166:25 pm	 Reply
[…] technique change will cause the knees to eventually move forward past the toes in order to reach full depth. This shift balances the load between the quads and glutes. It also […]
LikeLike
Weng Honn	 June 6, 20167:40 am	 Reply
Love your article gonna use it for my article reference.Tq so much:)
LikeLike
Dr. Aaron Horschig	 June 21, 20162:01 pm	 Reply
Glad you like the article! Let me know if you have any more questions for your article!
LikeLike
Useful Resources For Fitness & Related Topics – YouTube Channels & Videos	 June 13, 201610:31 am	 Reply
[…] first came across them on Twitter and saw this article Can The Knees Go Over The Toes? (Debunking Squat Myths) . Dr. Aaron Horschig & the rest of the crew always have great tips & suggestions […]
LikeLike
Achim	 September 7, 201612:59 pm	 Reply
Aaron, very good article. I am participating in a trainers licence course of the german olympic sports federation. I had the assignment to demonstrate the (bodyweight) squat. When I mentioned that it is no problem for the knees to go over the toes in a deep position, there was an uproar with the teachers and students who already had experience assisting in group training. They told us, you should never go knees over toes, but no satifactory explanation was offered, it is just bad. And by the reaction you would think the knee is going to explode or something…
So I started a research and among others came across your article. I also found the reason why the myth started in the first place.
According to the authors of ‘Literaturbasierte Belastungsanalyse unterschiedlicher Kniebeugevarianten unter Berücksichtigung möglicher Überlastungsschäden und Anpassungseffekte ‘ https://www.bisp-surf.de/discovery/Record/PU201406005893, german language paper but an abstract in engish…well according to them it all started with ‘Ariel B.G. (1974): Biomechanical analysis of the knee joint during deep
knee bends with heavy loads. In: Biomechanics IV, Nelson R., Morehouse
C. (eds.), University Park Press, Baltimore, pp. 44–52.’ http://www.arielnet.com/articles/show/adi-pub-01263/biomechanical-analysis-of-the-knee-joint-during-deep-knee-bends-with-heavy-load
This is so ridiculous, that a study on 12 subjects and an article with the data of only 3 of those can have such a big impact on sports associations and federations world wide for 42 years.
Achim
LikeLiked by 1 person
Dr. Aaron Horschig	 December 23, 201611:29 pm	 Reply
Thanks so much for the comment! Great work on the research as well! I 100% agree with you!
LikeLike
Nicola Shirlaw	 October 24, 20164:42 am	 Reply
This is such a relief, for years Iv’e been convinced I will never be able to do a squat properly and have really resented my inability to balance during a squat. Knowing I can safely put my knees over my feet means I can now add squatting to my workout routine with some understanding of the correct technique. Thankyou!
LikeLiked by 1 person
Dr. Aaron Horschig	 November 28, 20161:42 pm	 Reply
I’m glad you like the article! Remember its always about WHEN and not IF the knees move past the toes!
LikeLike
Sam Gillespie	 November 23, 20164:10 pm	 Reply
Hi there, I have just had a full argument with a lecturer at Moray College about 30 minutes ago about this topic and I am a bit slow, so I just need to know is it a necessity for your knees to be above your toes? Thanks
LikeLike
Dr. Aaron Horschig	 November 28, 20161:43 pm	 Reply
Sam, during a squat that requires an upright trunk position (high bar, front squat or overhead squat) or even a clean or snatch movement, the knees MUST move past the toes in order to maintain that upright trunk and squat to the deepest position possible.
LikeLike
The Top 5 Articles of 2016 | Squat University	 January 4, 20172:22 pm	 Reply
[…] #1: Can the Knees Go Over the Toes? (Debunking Squat Myths) […]
LikeLike
Carol Phillips	 January 6, 20173:53 am	 Reply
Thank you so much for this erudition. I have been teaching group exercise classes for a few years, and the basic instruction that I was given is that a squat is initiated from the hips but that the knees stay behind the toes. I recently did an squat in a boot camp class holding a weighted bar overhead and had a lot of trouble squatting deep but keeping my knees behind the toes. The trainer told me that I needed a much wider stance (presumably because of tight hips). I’m also a yoga teacher and my hips aren’t tight. So I have been obsessing about this for a while now, trying to figure out why I was having trouble with this movement. If I understand this correctly, the bar changes the center of gravity and the knees must come forward (along with the hips moving under the torso) in order to stay balanced.
If someone is just doing a body weight squat or a squat with dumbbells on the shoulders or held at the side is it still ok for the knees to come forward if someone lacks mobility in the hips?
LikeLike
Sam	 February 27, 20171:47 am	 Reply
that sit back picture is a little exaggerated isn’t it? i find breaking at the knees and hips simultaneously more efficient, because sitting too far back can also cause an imbalance.
LikeLike
Myths and misconceptions in physio – TPMP Students	 April 20, 20175:51 pm	 Reply
[…] there is a compelling reason, it’s fine for knees to go over toes, and for many squat patterns it’s essential. It’s going to happen when someone walks upstairs […]
LikeLike
Myths and misconceptions in physio | TPMP Students	 April 20, 20176:27 pm	 Reply
[…] there is a compelling reason, it’s fine for knees to go over toes, and for many squat patterns it’s essential. It’s going to happen when someone walks upstairs […]
LikeLike
Myths and misconception in Physiotherapy – sushovanmandal	 April 24, 20171:30 pm	 Reply
[…] there is a compelling reason, it’s fine for knees to go over toes, and for many squat patterns it’s essential. It’s going to happen when someone walks upstairs […]
LikeLike
Don't Let Your Knees Go Past Your Toes When You Squat	 May 8, 20172:15 pm	 Reply
[…] the squat. Knees driving forward initially may lead to increased knee joint stress. I like how Dr. Horschig puts it, “The cue to “sit back” or to “push the hips back” allows the athlete to move […]
LikeLike
خرافات ومفاهيم خاطئة حول العلاج الطبيعي – PTideas	 June 6, 20175:40 pm	 Reply
[…] فيها مجبرا على أن تتجاوز ركبك مستوى أصابع القدم . (راجع 1 […]
LikeLike
Top 5 Blog Articles of 2017 – Squat University	 January 1, 20185:56 pm	 Reply
[…] #2 Can the Knees Go Over the Toes? […]
LikeLike
Ryan	 February 8, 20184:21 am	 Reply
Weightlifters usually initiate the Squat with the knees first along with others who are predominately High Bar/Quad Dominant, ridiculous amount of Ankle Mobility etc but this article kind of goes against this.
Care to chime in? Thank you in advance.
LikeLike
Sumit	 February 15, 20185:46 pm	 Reply
Sir forward knee more active quad some power lifting said knee bend first thn squat to active more quad so quad is powerful muscle to take give strength to we up with weight so what u said
LikeLike
Jeffrey	 March 18, 20189:54 pm	 Reply
Pretty sure this is a knees first approach: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8Q5Tjc9zkWM
What are your thoughts here?
LikeLike
スクワットの正しいフォーム を徹底解説！膝や腰を痛めない方法 | 囚人筋トレ　徹底解剖！	 May 3, 20182:20 am	 Reply
[…] 参考記事1：CAN THE KNEES GO OVER THE TOES? 参考記事2：TOES FORWARD OR ANGLED OUT WHEN YOU SQUAT? […]
LikeLike
Balance Poses: (Please) Bend Your Damn Knee – Mindful MVMNT	 May 8, 20189:16 pm	 Reply
[…] https://squatuniversity.com/2016/01/29/can-the-knees-go-over-the-toes-debunking-squat-myths/ […]
LikeLike
Balance Poses: (Please) Bend Your Damn Knee – Yoga Lifestyle with Cristina	 May 9, 20187:22 pm	 Reply
[…] https://squatuniversity.com/2016/01/29/can-the-knees-go-over-the-toes-debunking-squat-myths/ […]
LikeLiked by 1 person
Squat Movement Dysfunction and How to Fix Them | wenghonnfitness	 July 13, 20182:35 am	 Reply
[…] The Proper Squat Transition By Squat University: […]
LikeLike
The Best 10 Exercises for Hamstrings and Glutes Without Equipment	 August 2, 20185:30 pm	 Reply
[…] can do a squat easily without a squat rack or weights. It’s important that your knees never go over your toes with a squat and keep your head straight and your head up. Start with 5 sets. You can start with […]
LikeLike
Beware of Chair! How Can We Keep Our Knees Safe in Utkatasana? | Pam Udell	 October 13, 20181:54 pm	 Reply
[…] If you want to see visuals of a “good” vs “bad” squat/Utkatasana, make sure to click on his reference article. […]
LikeLike
Can The Knees Go Over The Toes? – Squat University | Barbell Vitality	 January 31, 201911:57 pm	 Reply
[…] held their hand raised. The next thing I said was, “You’re all wrong.” Continue reading : squatuniversity.com/2016/01/29/can-the-knees-go-over-the-toes-debunking-squat-myths/amp/ […]
LikeLiked by 1 person
David Fabinyi	 April 10, 201912:16 pm	 Reply
If you have any back pain, it means that you have been doing too much and you need to concentrate on studying. I think studying is the most important thing for students. If you have difficulty learning, you can visit the excellent lab report writing service like this Paperial.com , where you can find help on the lab. I hope this helps you.
LikeLike
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Explore Squat University
Search for:
Blog Categories
Blog Categories Select Category #AskSquatU (3) Accessories (1) Ankle (3) Biomechanics (3) Book (1) Breathing (1) Common Squat Injuries (15) Core (2) Foot (2) Hip (6) Injury & Treatment (24) Knee (9) Low Back Pain (8) Mission Statement (1) Movement (4) Old Man Rants (1) Overhead Mobility (2) Podcasts (2) Scapula (2) Seminar (2) Shoes (1) Squat History 101 (1) Squat Myths (3) Technique (14) Top 5 of 2016 (1) Uncategorized (4) Warm-Up (3) Youth Weight Training (2)
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Follow Squat University on WordPress.com
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Follow
Learn
About Us
Clinic
Disclosure/Disclaimer
Search for:
Squat University
The Lifter’s Guide To Elbow Pain April 5, 2019
Squat University Seminar (Kansas City) February 22, 2019
Rehabbing Achilles Tendinopathy January 6, 2019
Most Viewed Aricles
The McGill Big 3 For Core Stability
Home
Blog Article Database
Fixing Patellar & Quad Tendon Pain
What Kind of Knee Pain Do You Have?
Social Media: Follow Squat University!
View @SquatUniversity’s profile on Twitter
View Squat_University’s profile on Instagram
View SquatUniversity’s profile on Pinterest
View Aaron Horschig’s profile on LinkedIn
View SquatUniversity’s profile on YouTube
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: