Too much water drinking
Too Much Of
Nutrients
Vitamins
Proteins
Fiber
Fats
Carbohydrates
Minerals
Vegetables
Water
Drugs
Food Additives
Pollution
Activity
Conditions
Therapies
Home » Nutrients » Water » Too much water drinking
Too much water drinking
Water (in its pure state) is a compound that exists in a form of liquid that has no odor, taste or color. Almost 70 percent of the planet is covered by water. Water can exist in four states – as liquid, gas, a solid ice substance and in a super-critical state when liquid and gas fuse together under high temperature and pressure.
Facts
Only ONE percent of water on earth can be used as drinking water by organic life
2/3 of the human body is taken by water. Seventy percent of skin is compiled from water
A human can only survive about a week without water
Water formula is H2O and it’s melting point is 32°F or 0.0°C
In chemical context, the systematic name of water is dihydrogen monoxide
The first decomposition of H2O into hydrogen and oxygen by electrolysis was done by William Nicholson – an English chemist in 1800.
Too much water drinking and dangers of water intoxication
Can we drink too much water? Yes, an excessive water intake within a short period of time can lead to water intoxication and inevitably death. Although a rare occurrence, there are plenty of documented cases each year where water intoxication is the primary reason for death.
Physiological mechanism
In the initial stage of water intoxication, the serum outside the cells becomes very low in concentration of sodium and other electrolytes in comparison to that inside the cells. This electrolyte imbalance causes the fluid shift via osmosis into the cells, causing progression of electrolyte imbalance and forcing the cells to swell. The resulting low levels of salt in blood serum becomes a condition known as hyponatremia, a.k.a., electrolyte disturbance.
Most common symptoms of water intoxication
Increased thirst due to electrolytes imbalance
Increased frequency of urination
Raised Intracranial pressure in the brain causing nervous system dysfunctions
Vomiting
Nausea
Headache
Fatigue
Muscle weakness & spasm
Seizures
Decreased mental consciousness
Coma
The severity of symptoms is expressed following levels of salt in blood, however, with mild cases, the hyponatremia often remains an undiagnosed condition.
Numerous illnesses of liver, kidney and heart have been associated with hyponatremia
Neurological expression of hyponatremia symptoms is usually occurred with extremely low level of blood serum sodium levels – below 120 mEq/L. The condition causes brain swelling and can lead to herniation and brain stem compression inevitably causing respiratory arrest.
A gradual drop in sodium levels to a very low level can be tolerated, however, if a rapid drop of sodium in blood serum occurs within under an hour, the condition may become extremely severe resulting in heart arrest and death.
How to avoid water intoxication known as hyponatremia
Do not drink too much water in a short period of time or more than your thirst demands
Avoid diuretics since they promote further electrolyte imbalance
Replace about 60-70 percent of sweat losses during strenuous exercise
Maintain the sodium intake to prevent excessive sodium dilution in blood
Do not rely on sports sodium containing drinks alone as mostly these drinks do not provide a proper amount of sodium
Do not rely on salt tablets as these do very little to prevent the hyponatremia
Arrest any physical activity that results in excessive sweating on the first onset of any hyponatremia symptoms
Replenishing more with water at the point of developing hyponatremia may cause a severe case of water intoxication that can potentially be fatal
Categories
Activity
Carbohydrates
Conditions
Drugs
Fats
Fiber
Food Additives
Minerals
Pollution
Proteins
Therapies
Vegetables
Vitamins
Water
Featured
Too much food additives (spices)
Too much MSG (Monosodium glutamate)
Too much cavities (tooth decay)
Too much root canal therapy (Endodontic therapy)
Too much garlic
Too much ice cream
Too much Milk of Magnesia (laxative)
Too much Acyclovir (antiviral drug)
Too much fish oil (omega-3 oil)
Too much oatmeal (white oats)
Too much red meat
Too much showering or bathing
Too much dust (in house)
Information Disclaimer
By using this website the user assumes all responsibility and risk associated with using the information provided herein.
Under no circumstances www.toomuchof.com, it’s contributors, employees and affiliated organizations that are involved in creating or maintaining this website shall be liable for any direct, indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages or any type of lost associated with using www.toomuchof.com
In jurisdictions which do not allow some or all of the usage exception provided, liability shall be limited to the maximum extend allowed by an applicable law.
Back to Top
© 2013 TooMuchOf.com. All Rights Reserved. All trademarks are the property of their respective owners.