What Does Vitamin C Actually Do? – Wicked Good Nutrition
Skip to content
Wicked Good Nutrition
Common sense nutrition & fitness content from a Boston RD
Menu and widgets
About Wicked Good Nutrition
Blog
Contact
Search for:
Recent Posts
7 Tips for Healthy Global Travel
It’s Time To Eat Ugly
What Does Vitamin C Actually Do?
If You Must Fast Food, Choose These 4 Go-Tos
I Don’t Write Meal Plans. Here’s Why.
Find more interesting stuff
academic performance athletic performance Breakfast Carbohydrates cocnut oil coconut water Dairy Diet Mistakes diets dining out exercise fasting fat Fish oils food food journalism grocery shopping Headlines health claims healthy carbs healthy fats healthy holidays high fructose corn syrup (HFCS) Holidays Kale myths Nutrition organic food Paleo Politics protein protein supplements Recovery Restaurant meals Running saturated fat sides sleep sugar supermarket supplements travel Vitamins Watermelon Whole Foods
Recent Comments
Mobiles below 10 000 on Grain Free “Spaghetti” with Bison Meat Sauce and Arugula
soy milk ingredients on Pros and Cons of Protein Powders
Alexandra Black on Paleo Southern Collard Greens
nouveau maillot Inter Milan on Paleo Southern Collard Greens
Nueva camiseta real madrid 2014 on Fish Oils
Archives
September 2015
August 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
October 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
Categories
diet
fast food
Motivation and Tracking
Nutrition and Health
Recipes
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
What Does Vitamin C Actually Do?
We see vitamin C a lot these days, mostly in the context of cold prevention (or treatment). Vitamin C is a water soluble vitamin found in certain foods and added as fortification to others. Humans don’t synthesize vitamin C, so it’s essential that we include it in our diet.
Roles of Vitamin C
Vitamin C is essential for the synthesis of collagen, L-Carnitine, and some neurotransmitters, and is also involved in some protein metabolism. It is also an antioxidant thought to help regenerate other antioxidants like vitamin E, helps the body absorb non-heme iron (meaning iron from plant based foods), and plays an important role in immune function. Vitamin C deficiency results in scurvy (often linked to pirates and sailors, who went long periods without fresh produce), which causes fatigue and connective tissue weakness.
Collagen synthesis and immune function are the most notable and widely recognized roles for Vitamin C. Collagen is the most abundant protein in the body, found in muscle, bone, and tendons among other important tissues.
When Do You Need Vitamin C?
Vitamin C has been linked to a few conditions over the years.
Cancer Prevention – numerous studies show that a diet high in fruits and vegetables lowers the risk of many cancers, although similar to vitamin A, there is no research that demonstrates vitamin C alone is responsible for this reduced risk or that supplementation would offer any benefit. It seems the pattern of eating fruits and vegetables is more important than single nutrients.
Cardiovascular Disease – research suggests that higher consumption of fruits and vegetables reduces the risk of heart disease, potentially due in part to the antioxidant content of these foods. This makes sense because oxidative damage is one of the causes of heart disease. One British study found that those with the top 25% in blood vitamin C levels had a 42% risk of cardiovascular disease, but the Physicians Health Study found no significant decrease after 5 years of supplementation. Most clinical interventions and several larger prevention studies have showed no benefit from supplements. As with cancer, you are better off eating a diet rich in fruits and vegetables than supplementing one single nutrient.
The Cold – evidence indicates that vitamin C intake greater than 200 mg a day does not prevent a cold. One study showed a small reduction in cold duration – 8% for adults and 14% for kids. Although if you think about the common cold lasting about 2 weeks, that adds up to about a day. Taking vitamin C after symptoms have already started provided no benefit. Research has shown vitamin C intake of 250 mg – 1 g/day to reduce the incidence of a cold by 50% among people exposed to large bouts of physical exercise and extreme cold – including marathoners, soldiers, and skiers. So, it would appear supplementation is mostly effective for people exposed to extreme environments.
How Much Do You Need?
According to recommended daily allowance (RDA) – a level that should be sufficient to meet the needs of 98% of the population – the average adult male needs 90 mg a day and the average female 75 mg a day. This is super easy to attain, and most people get way more than that. If you eat 1/2 cup of red bell pepper, a cup of broccoli, and a glass of OJ, you’re already well over 200% of your daily recommended intake.
My Recommendation?
Eat your fruits and veggies. If you ski a lot in the winter, consider taking a supplement if you get sick often. Once you are sick though, forget about the vitamin C. Consider taking a zinc lozenge instead. Or just sleep and drink a lot of fluids.
One caveat: I do often recommend – and take myself – EmergenC when sick. I know, I just said vitamin C does not good, why would I recommend a supplement with 1,000 milligrams of it right? Well, for one because it makes me feel better. It has other vitamins besides vitamin C (including B6 and B12), and because it makes me drink more water. I like it because it works for me, even if the Vitamin C isn’t the reason.
Source: http://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/VitaminC-HealthProfessional/
Image c/o Keith Williamson
Posted on June 10, 2015 August 6, 2015 Author Alexandra BlackCategories Nutrition and HealthTags supplements, vitamin c
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Post navigation
Previous Previous post: If You Must Fast Food, Choose These 4 Go-Tos
Next Next post: It’s Time To Eat Ugly
Proudly powered by WordPress