Vitamins and Ginger Pills to Help Nausea When You Are Pregnant | Healthfully
x
healthfully
Search Glass
Diseases and Injuries
Family Health
Nutrition
Weight Management
Appearance
Ginger Candy & Nausea
How to Ease Morning Sickness With Vitamin B6
One a Day Vitamins and Nausea
Can Ginger Help You Lose Weight?
Ginger & Heart Rate
Vitamin B6 for Nausea During Pregnancy
Vitamins and Ginger Pills to Help Nausea When You Are Pregnant
By Jessica Bruso
Related Articles
Ginger Candy & Nausea
How to Ease Morning Sickness With Vitamin B6
One a Day Vitamins and Nausea
Can Ginger Help You Lose Weight?
Pregnancy nausea can begin as early as four weeks into your pregnancy and last through your 24th week of pregnancy or longer. This nausea may make it hard for you to hold down food and go about your daily activities. Two natural remedies may help reduce some of your pregnancy nausea symptoms -- vitamin B-6 and ginger.
Vitamin B-6 and Pregnancy Nausea
Women who experience nausea during pregnancy tend to have low blood levels of vitamin B-6, according to a study published in the "International Journal of Gynecology & Obstetrics" in March 2012. Pregnant women who took a higher dose of 30 milligrams per day of vitamin B-6 for two weeks experienced slightly reduced symptoms of nausea during pregnancy than women who took the recommended dietary allowance of 1.3 milligrams. The American Pregnancy Association recommends a dose of 50 milligrams per day to reduce nausea symptoms.
Ginger and Pregnancy Nausea
A study published in the "Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine" in March 2009 found that taking 1,000 milligrams of ginger capsules per day caused an improvement in nausea symptoms, with a potential decrease in vomiting. This amount is sometimes divided into four 250-milligram doses spread throughout the day.
Comparing Results for Vitamin B-6 and Ginger
Evidence is conflicting on whether one of these treatments works better than the other. A study published in "Midwifery" in December 2009 found that vitamin B-6 and ginger were equally beneficial for reducing the number of vomiting episodes, but that ginger was more effective for relieving nausea. Another study, published in "Obstetrics and Gynecology International" in 2013, found that there wasn't a significant difference between the beneficial effects of ginger and vitamin B-6 for relieving nausea and vomiting. The second study used double the dose of vitamin B-6 as the first study, however, and this might explain the difference in results.
Safety Considerations
Speak with your doctor before using either ginger or vitamin B-6 for treating your pregnancy nausea. These substances can interfere with certain medications and high doses can cause adverse reactions. Pregnant women shouldn't take more than 1 gram of ginger per day, notes the University of Maryland Medical Center. High doses can cause diarrhea, heartburn and upset stomach. Ginger can interact with medications including those for treating diabetes and high blood pressure and blood thinners. The tolerable upper intake level for vitamin B-6 is 100 milligrams per day. High doses can cause loss of control over your movements, skin lesions, heartburn and light sensitivity.
Video of the Day
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
References
Baby Center: Morning Sickness: Causes, Concerns, Treatments
Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine: Effects of Ginger Capsules on Pregnancy, Nausea, and Vomiting
American Pregnancy Association: Morning Sickness Relief: Eating with Morning Sickness
Midwifery: Comparing Ginger and Vitamin B6 for the Treatment of Nausea and Vomiting in Pregnancy: A Randomised Controlled Trial
Obstetrics and Gynecology International: Comparing the Effectiveness of Vitamin B6 and Ginger in Treatment of Pregnancy-Induced Nausea and Vomiting
International Journal of Gynecology & Obstetrics: Vitamin B6 Supplementation in Pregnant Women With Nausea and Vomiting
University of Maryland Medical Center: Ginger
Office of Dietary Supplements: Vitamin B6
About the Author
Based in Massachusetts, Jessica Bruso has been writing since 2008. She holds a master of science degree in food policy and applied nutrition and a bachelor of arts degree in international relations, both from Tufts University.
More Related Articles
How to Eat Ginger for Health
Ginger as an Appetite Suppressant
Vitamin B6 Dosage for Hyperemesis Gravidarum
Related Articles
Vitamin B6 for Nausea During Pregnancy
Read More
What Is Ginger Root Good for in Health?
Read More
Get Fit!
Try our healthfully BMI and weight loss calculator!
How to Cope With Nausea & Food Aversions During Pregnancy
Read More
How to Lose Weight With Ginger
Read More
About Us
Advertise
Contact Us
Copyright Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of the HEALTHFULLY.COM Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. The material appearing on HEALTHFULLY.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. HEALTHFULLY.COM does not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the website.