Have you fallen for the cholesterol hoax that could damage your health
nontoxiclivingchoices.com
Menu
Immunity
Aging Young
Aging Youthfully
Anti Aging Products
Sex Drive
Overcome E.D
Can't Get Erection?
Nitric oxide erection
Hard Erection
Libido booster for females
Female Viagra Risks
Sleep Testosterone Connection
Dark chocolate and Nitric oxide
Nitric oxide foods
Smoking and Testosterone
Herbal Viagra Dangers
Chocolate and child labor
Nitric oxide health benefits
Libido naturally
Viagra ads target women
Testosterone Booster
Premature ejaculation
About me
Lose Weight
Lose Belly Fat
Total Body Cleanse
Ellagic acid
Healthy Naturally
Breastfeeding and Cancer
Heart disease and the young
Choose Organic
Natural Cosmetics
Erase Wrinkles
Blog
Blog
Eco-Green
Sitemap
This sitemap is the gateway to all the compelling content on this site
FREE E-Books
Where to download ebook
Green Super foods
clear acne fast
Get FREE e-book-"Secrets of People Who Never Get Sick" by signing up for our Newsletter
Email
Subscribe
Have you fallen for the cholesterol hoax that can ruin your health and send you to an early grave?
This cholesterol hoax has now been
exposed as a Boogieman disease!
Watch this video
Heart surgeon reveals secrets to a
healthy heart
Want to get your heart healthy?
Listen to a heart surgeon who got off the cholesterol band wagon
His regimen for a healthy heart is how you avoid being a victim of this cholesterol hoax
A heart healthy regimen that can save your life and the lives of your loved ones!
Good Nutrition-the Key to Heart Health
Good nutrition is one of the major keys to a healthy heart.
In that quest, there are some products to ensure that your body gets the nutrients it needs in food form-not synthetics
In that regard, there are 3 products that are-in my opinion, the best you can find anywhere.
Cholesterol Drugs are a money driven fraud. Build Fortress around your heart health
Artery Armor
Click the link above or the heart image below to access that healthy heart program by this renowned doctor!
Cholesterol drugs can trigger heart attacks, strokes and heart failure Cholesterol drugs are also risk factors for erectile dysfunction, brain impairment and liver damage. Cholesterol drugs are a massive profit driven hoax! It is maybe the most profitable scam ever sold!
The "New" cholesterol guideline of 2012
Suppose you can protect yourself against diseases, even as you get older? What if you can do this without dangerous drugs? And how about IF you can be vigorous at any age? Get FREE BOOK!
The profitable scam has been in full swing with new cholesterol lowering drug guidelines
Those guidelines would have more than doubled the number of people on Statins!
That was in 2012!
Here is the link to that cholesterol drug guideline
Unfortunately, that cholesterol hoax is still going strong!
Cholesterol IS good for You!
And lowering it with Statins could send you to an early grave!
Inconvenient truth about cholesterol drugs
Did you know authorities tried to ban the video above in Australia?
The truth it tells is just too inconvenient
There is a part 2 to this video too
Watch it below.
I hope the money mongers have not succeeded in pressuring the government to take that one down too!
Did you hear that?
These doctors say that the lower your cholesterol or die mantra, is a bold face lie-a money making scam!
Experts who have had enough of
the cholesterol hoax
These are experts who have decided to yank their brains from under
their feet
And drug companies have been working this scam for decades..
..at your expense!!
And I'll admit it's been extremely profitable too
But it is still a scam just the same!
Cholesterol Facts
People with higher cholesterol-preferably over 150-live longer
One thing common in Alzheimer's patients is low cholesterol
Every cell in your body needs cholesterol
25% of your body's cholesterol is in your brain
Your brain uses cholesterol to power electrical signals
Your muscles use cholesterol in the production of energy
Your liver uses cholesterol in the manufacture of hormones
Your liver uses cholesterol to manufacture bile salts for digestion!
80% of your body's cholesterol is made by your liver-not from your diet!!
And as admitted by the FDA, cholesterol drugs depletes your body's CQ10!
What is CQ10?
CQ10 is your heart's gasoline-its fuel
CQ10 is the nutrient your heart uses to generate energy, regulate heart rhythm etc.
Lowering it could give you a heart attack, heart failure!
Now, I ask you, a NUTRIENT this critical to health..
Why is it bad for you?
IT IS NOT!
If you think cholesterol is bad for you, you've just been had by the cholesterol hoax-and its intention is to pick your pocket.
That's bad enough, but it gets worse
Your health could be irreversibly damaged!
The New Cholesterol Drug Guideline
Then in 2013, the FDA put out yet another cholesterol drug guideline
It, the FDA, recommended Statins use to include children as young as 12!
The New, New Cholesterol Drug Guideline!
Then we are told in late 2015 that we do not really have to worry about our cholesterol after all
Oh boy, what a relieve!
The Brand New, New Cholesterol Guideline!
Then comes yet another New Cholesterol Guideline [Nov 2016] that now says EVERYONE over 40 should be taking statins!
Statins, low cholesterol and poor health
Within days of the fan-fare of the unveiling of this cholesterol hoax gospel, even some doctors have started voicing some strong reservations.
This skepticism is also shared by non-medical personnel who use common sense to reach the conclusion that..
A nutrient as beneficial as cholesterol cannot be as bad as statin manufacturers would have you believe
Cholesterol lowering drugs are a very profitable money making scam..
and this as it damages your health!
FDA Acknowledges Statins can trigger a heart attack
The FDA is all over the place regarding these boogieman drugs
While it [the FDA] acknowledges that Cholesterol lowering drugs can cause a heart attack, it nevertheless advises people to keep on taking them!
This, in spite of the fact that Cholesterol drugs are a profit driven hoax and are dangerous to your health
If you eat right and engage in moderate exercises, you would NEVER have to worry about ill health
And here is the best nutritional supplement I've had the luck to stumble upon
What are Statins?
Statins are drugs used to lower cholesterol
They have been a class of the most lucrative drugs ever!
The most popular and the one that has generated the most profits is
Pfizer's Lipitor!
An Important Cholesterol Fact!
Cholesterol drug can give you a heart attack/stroke
Cholesterol drugs depletes your body's CQ10 level
What is CQ10?
CQ10 is what heart muscles use for energy .
It is the nutrient your heart also uses to keep its rhythm
In other words, Co-enzyme Q10 is your heart's "gasoline"
This is the very nutrient cholesterol drugs deplete
A low level of CQ10 will give you a heart attack or stroke!
IRONIC, ISN'T IT?
A drug supposedly meant to benefit heart health can actually give you a heart attack!
Do you now see why statins are a cholesterol hoax masquerading as a beneficial drug?
Let's make another bold, shocking statement-a statement that the FDA now agrees with..
Your dietary fat intake has little or no correlation
with your blood cholesterol
Know why?
Because cholesterol is NOT made from fat, but from a protein
precursor.
About 80% of cholesterol in your body is made by the liver!
This fat intake-cholesterol connection, has been at the heart of the lower your cholesterol hoax
But it is a fallacy.
It has been discredited decades ago-but who was listening?
NOT the FDA!
So if this bankrupt narrative has been discredited, how come all cholesterol lowering drugs have not been banned?
Cholesterol drugs can cause Erectile Dysfunction
Cholesterol drugs can lower Testosterone
HOW?
Low cholesterol is a risk factor for low libido. Cholesterol is needed to synthesize testosterone, the male erection hormone
Well, testosterone, and anabolic hormones for that matter are made from cholesterol
If your cholesterol level had been lowered with cholesterol drugs, your body may not have enough raw material to synthesize testosterone.
Your may become a wet noodle in the bedroom, rather than a man of steel!
NOT GOOD!!
Cholesterol drugs can ruin your sex life..
Here is how to jack up your libido without drugs
If you suffer from limp dick syndrome, here's how you can boost your sex drive and get a hard dick
In fact, you can get the best natural erection booster
Click the link or banner to Give your woman toe curling orgasm
Why do you have to lower cholesterol?
If you put this question to cholesterol manufacturers, they would tell you it is to lower your risks of heart disease and strokes
Which is very ironic!
WHY!
Because according to the FDA:
One of the side effects of Cholesterol drugs is..
..are you ready for this?
Heart attacks, strokes and heart failure!
Remember the FDA is the agency that approved these drugs in the first place
This is why a lot of experts regard statins a money making cholesterol hoax
But this is not the only risk of cholesterol drugs
Now Let us make another bold statement..
Cholesterol drugs have NOT been proved to lower your risks of heart disease/heart attack!
In fact, the opposite is true!!
Why you may not want to lower your cholesterol with drugs
Here are some of the health risks of low cholesterol
One of the serious side effects of cholesterol drugs is memory loss
Low cholesterol is also a risk factor for poor memory!
Low testosterone is one of the health risks of low cholesterol.
If your cholesterol is too low, you might produce some weepy, wimpy sperm-you might not be able to have babies; because cholesterol is needed for the synthesis of testosterone.
Higher risk of Alzheimer's
Higher risks of cancer
Premature death
Higher risks of heart disease
Erectile dysfunction
Higher risks of fatigue
Infertility
Liver damage
Diabetes
Muscle damage
Infertility
Memory problems
Health Risks of cholesterol drugs
Yes, this cholesterol hoax can cost you dearly
Here are some of the risks of Statins [Cholesterol lowering drugs]
Memory loss
Erectile dysfunction
Confusion and disorientation
Joint pain
Muscle damage
Nerve Inflammation
Blurred vision
Kidney damage
Liver damage
Spike in insulin level
Cholesterol drugs and your liver
The chemical structure of testosterone is actually similar to that of cholesterol. Testosterone, the male erection hormone is synthesized from cholesterol. Low cholesterol by inference is a risk factor for low testosterone and erectile dysfunction
Here is where the FDA warns about the health risks of cholesterol drugs to your liver
Now, testosterone is synthesized from cholesterol
80% pf your body's cholesterol is manufactured by your liver
Your diet has little or nothing to do with your cholesterol level!
Now if your cholesterol level is low-maybe as a result of taking cholesterol lowering drugs, how is your body going to get the raw material to synthesize Testosterone?
It is now clear how statins ruin your sex life
But it is worse than that
The liver is the detoxifying factory in your body
It also manufactures vitamins, digestive enzymes, recycle red blood cells etc.
Are you one of those fooled by slick cholesterol scam advertising?
The barrage of ads in all of media say you have to lower your cholesterol level with their drugs or else..
Which leads to the next logical question: Why should you lower your cholesterol?
The drug companies answer...To lower your risk of cardiovascular diseases
Really!
Very noble of them, won't you say?
They are not even motivated by profits-only by a desire to make you healthy!
The healthiest heart in the world!
But this is what put a lie to cholesterol drug hype.
Did you know that the healthiest hearts in the world belong to the Tsimane people of Bolivia?
This people have never heard of, let alone use Cholesterol drugs before..
In fact, they do NOT use any synthetic drugs at all.
And yet, an 80 year Tsimane is the same biological age as a 50 year old American!
Think about that for a minute.
Nitric oxide and a healthy heart
Nitric oxide is a molecule that beat Viagra in head to head tests to treat ED It is a heart healthy nutrient that also improves brain health and boosts energy
Nitric oxide is the heart healthy molecule that was declared Molecule of the Year in 1992.
In fact, research into nitric oxide won the Nobel Prize in 1998
This natural molecule:
Regulates blood pressure and benefits the whole cardiovascular system
Boosts immune system
Boosts brain power
Boosts libido in men and women etc.
Read more about the awesome power of nitric oxide to dramatically improve your health
The folly of statins
Now, let's accept for the sake of argument that statins do lower cholesterol
But there are a few problems even if they do
For one, cholesterol lowering drugs have horrible side effects, AND..
Lowering your cholesterol level will NOT reduce your risks of heart attacks, strokes or other heart related diseases!
Their ads admit that, albeit in fine print. Read it!
Please read that again, because it is NOT a misprint.
Cholesterol is just the perfect boogieman for perpetual profits, that's all.
But here is something else in the cholesterol debate..
Low cholesterol is a risk factor for a lot of diseases.
Researches have borne this out in several countries
The cholesterol hoax is a profit driven engine of misinformation, lies and outright fraud!
These guidelines are how drug companies hope to turn millions of otherwise healthy people into perpetual patients, for the sake of perpetual profits
Where have you seen this movie before?
Oh, yes!
With that sweet poison, Aspartame, in all its incarnations.
A poison that political intrigue put on your dinner table
And who can forget GM [Genetically Modified] seeds, that seed companies want to use-and are actually using-to destroy natural foods, and substitute their harmful versions, for what nature has spent millions of years perfecting!
Those movies, in all their harmful takes, are still playing-to the detriment of your health
While the FDA regarded this as new guidelines, a lot of people regard it as..
THE ULTIMATE CHOLESTEROL HOAX!
A fraud, that is!!
Why do these people feel this way?
Maybe because researches over the years have documented the dangers of cholesterol lowering drugs..
Maybe because cholesterol lowering drugs are actually ineffective in enhancing people's health..
AND..
Maybe because the huge profits statins have generated-and are still generating-for their manufacturers make telling the truth impossible!
Low cholesterol is a risk factor for heart attack, Alzheimer's, and ill health in general!
Low cholesterol is a risk factor for poor health!
A cholesterol of 240, according to research IS actually a healthy level.
AND did you know low cholesterol level is actually a risk factor for heart attack and Alzheimer's disease?
The highest concentration of cholesterol in the body, is in the brain-in fact. 25% of the body's cholesterol is IN THE BRAIN!
Have you ever wondered why we are not all catatonic epileptics by now?
Cholesterol is what the brain uses to power electrical signals
If the brain needs cholesterol to function-and it does-, it follows then that a too low level would impair brain function, right?
This is simple common sense conclusion, except to some self serving experts, who have got their cholesterol levels too low to think properly.
Cholesterol Drugs damage the liver
If you lower cholesterol levels with medications..
..have you really enhanced the health of the patient?
So the liver says to itself:
This idiot is trying to undo the work I just did. So the liver makes some more cholesterol to undo that foolishness!
Know why?
Because the level may NOT be high in the first place!
Your liver monitors the amount of cholesterol in your body and makes more..
IF NECESSARY!
So cholesterol level goes up again, the medication is used to lower the level-a perpetual cycle of profits for the pill's manufacturer.
The liver, the cholesterol manufacturing factory, is now being overworked and may be damaged
This is one of the ways Statins damage the liver.
The liver, master organ damaged by this cholesterol hoax
The liver:
It is the primary detoxifying organ in the body
It synthesizes hormones. Guess what the liver uses to manufacture hormones?
That's right, CHOLESTEROL!
It manufactures digestive enzymes
It manufactures red blood cells
It manufactures vitamins etc.
Cholesterol, your liver and sudden death
From the forgoing, you can imagine the harm, that any damage to your liver, can do to your health
But this is the same organ that cholesterol lowering drugs can, and do damage!
And if it is severely damaged, your only options are..
A liver transplant
Or death
Even the FDA acknowledged Statins damage the liver
So, don't think the regulating agencies are not aware of the health risks of statins
THEY ARE!
This cholesterol hoax has just been too profitable, that's all!
The FDA issued warnings about the dangers of cholesterol drugs some years back.
I know what you're thinking.
If the FDA knew about these dangers, why not ban these drugs altogether?
And why haven't you heard about these warnings?
Well, ask the FDA!
Your children on drugs-Statin drugs, that is!
Remember I said earlier that the drug companies wanted to expand the pool of perpetual patients
In 2012, the FDA recommended that some teenagers be put on statin regimen
In the United States, it was recommended that 9-11 year olds be screened for cholesterol levels-this was in December 2011..
AND, if these kids are from families with histories of cardiovascular diseases, and their cholesterol levels are "deemed" to be high, they could be put on statin medications.
The idea was to expand the pool of perpetual patients on statins
That's what I call cholesterol hoax on steroid!
Can You Spell P-R-O-F-I-T-S?
I know you could!
That right there, is at the heart of this cholesterol hoax.
Get enough of us on it for more profits!
Perpetual patients for perpetual profits
But, these people are not just perpetual patients, they would be perpetual victims of this massive cholesterol hoax
Fortunately, ALL these guidelines have now collapsed under the weight of Truth about this cholesterol scam
Explosion of cholesterol drug prescriptions
There has been a dramatic increase of people on cholesterol drugs in the last decade
Except, a lot of these people are NOT really sick!
What do I mean?
Well, consider this..
Cholesterol hoax model-treat the symptom, not the underlying disease
If you are hungry, and you feel faint, eating would alleviate the problem, won't it?
Now, let me ask you a question:
Is the hunger or the fatigue you feel a disease that needs medication, or is it the lack of food in your system?
If some one had offered you a drug to treat your hunger, you would regard him/her as an idiot..
..or worse,
RIGHT?
That's because you know the fatigue is a symptom of hunger, and the hunger is a symptom of lack of food in your system
The simple solution is to eat!
Well, high cholesterol-IF it is high at all- IS a symptom.
And treating this symptom with drugs is as foolish..
AND fraudulent-as treating hunger with drugs!
This is NOT my opinion.
This is the opinion of experts who have actually done the research-experts who have not been corrupted by money and who have refused to fall for the cholesterol hoax
Low cholesterol is a risk factor for heart attacks-AND more.
Know the Facts Save your heart
The FDA issued warnings about the new cholesterol drug, PCSK9 inhibitors
"The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has become aware of cognitive adverse events related to a closely watched group of experimental anti-cholesterol drugs.."
English translation: If you take these drugs, your brain can become mush!
We've known this class of drugs such as Statins cause cognitive impairment, memory loss, amnesia confusion.
Yet Statins have not been banned, even in the face of the recognition of this cholesterol hoax
Cholesterol is needed by every cell in the body. This may be why Statins cause muscle damage
But more so, cholesterol is needed by the brain to transmit messages-in fact the brain is the site of highest, single concentration of cholesterol in the body...
A whopping 25% of it at that!
Remember earlier, the FDA acknowledged that Statins may cause brain impairment? Now we have some idea why
The truth is, that statin manufacturers have been perpetuating this cholesterol hoax for decades; and I must admit, it has been a lucrative scam. Unfortunately, you might have been one of those hurt by these drugs. But you now know better!
In the face of this cholesterol hoax..
Who can you trust?
Not the government
Not the drug companies!
Your doctor-make sure s/he is not on take by drug companies!
In Conclusion:
Subscribe to the Natural Health News on this site so you can be informed about the latest scams and shenanigans they are trying to pull
Remember, this cholesterol hoax lasted for decades..
Actually, it's still going on
Cholesterol drugs are still on the market..
..with billions of dollars in profits for drug companies
Where was the government all these years?
That's right!
Apparently on the side of the drug companies?
Like what you just read?
Then..
Like this page and site
Tweet this page
Share in your circle
Leave me a comment, suggestion, opinion or experience you have with this topic or anything to do with natural health
Related Posts
Nitri Oxide for erection
Aging young and healthy
Tsimane have the healthiest heart
Full Body Detox
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus
Follow @nontoxicchoices
artofknowing
References
http://www.thincs.org/Malcolm.choltheory.htm
http://www.jstage.jst.go.jp/article/yakushi/125/11/125_833/_article
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/27/opinion/27taubes.html?_r=1&
http://www.nbcnews.com/id/35058896/ns/health-heart_health/t/bad-cholesterol-its-not-what-you-think/#.U-Y7-mPGvSZ
http://healthimpactnews.com/2013/abc-australia-exposes-cholesterol-lowering-statin-drug-scam-and-pharmaceutical-criminal-activity/
Recent Articles
See how to get rid of acne, erase acne scars from the inside out
Mar 26, 19 11:18 AM
Here's how to get rid of acne fast. With a combination of Facial Cleansers, Creams and Herbal Supplement, it is the best way to get rid of body acne naturally. Regardless of what causes acne, remove a…
Read More
Use natural testosterone boosters regain your libido boost performance
Mar 09, 19 12:14 AM
The best natural testosterone boosters Restore your manhood so you can satisfy your woman in bed. Be the best lover she ever had when you give her toe curling orgasms over and over
Read More
Best anti aging products for a healthy life
Jan 12, 19 11:43 PM
Use these anti aging products to prevent diseases and get healthy for life
Read More
Disclaimer Privacy Policy About me