vape | ST. Paul Info
ST. Paul Info
Browse, Click, & Learn
Home
Automotive
Health
Home Improvement
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Our Crew
Reach Us
Tag: vape
All You Need to Know About Electronic Cigarettes – Good and Bad
By Lisa MorenoOn 09/24/2018 In Electronic Cigarette
Electronic cigarettes, better known as e-cigarettes, come in different names. Often they are referred to as e-hookahs, e-cigs, vape pens, mods, tanks systems, among other names. The come in different sizes and shapes – with others looking different.
Today, there is a ton of information on e-cigs, some true while others are not. Many ads or Internet stories say that these devices are harmless or are the new way for smokers to quit their habits. While e-cigs are less harmful than regular cigarettes, this in no way means they are harmless.
Description of Electronic Cigarettes
These devices are powered by batteries and heat liquids using aerosol that is inhaled and exhaled by users. The liquid contains nicotine, glycerin, propylene glycol, among other chemicals. Nicotine is the key ingredient in all tobacco products and is responsible for addiction. In that regard, the e-cig is no exception.
Some research show the harmful effects of aerosol e-cigs containing harmful substances, particularly their flavoring chemicals, metals, and other cancer-causing chemicals.
What Are the Regulations?
The companies that retail the e-cigs are to comply with FDA regulations fully. For instance, there will be no sales to anyone below the age of 18. Researchers are trying hard to collect information on the usage of e-cigarettes. This information has led to additional regulations that prove beneficial when informing the public about what is contained within. The disclosure includes the health risks posed by frequent consumption.
What Are Some of the Health Risks?
When compared to the traditional cigarette, e-cigs have been on the market for a much shorter time. We can safely say that they have gone mainstream for a decade now. Scientists are still trying to study the impact of their use on health. Here is what researchers and doctors know:
E-cigs have Nicotine
The addictive substance in tobacco is nicotine. In that regard, do not be misled by adverts that claim to be nicotine-free.
Pose Harm to the Youth and Expectant Women
Just as nicotine poses a threat to smokers of the old cigarettes, so is the case with e-cigarettes. They pose danger to developing babies, which can result in addiction and brain damage in young adults and children.
Users in their 20s are also exposed to their adverse effects. However, there is still lots of debate going on e-cigs, and a lot is yet to be authenticated. Nevertheless, consensus regulates that it should not be used by teenagers or young adults.
Presence of Harmful Substances
Unlike the regular cigarettes, e-cigs have fewer chemicals. Unfortunately, there are pockets of heavy metals, such as lead and flavorings that are associated with lung diseases. In some cases, the particles inhaled are carcinogenic.
In that regard, if you are frequently exposed to an individual who smokes it, you can bet that you are also inhaling the aerosol alongside its chemicals. The same can be said for secondhand smoking with the regular tobacco product.
Conclusion
An e-cig is a manifestation of modern technology in smoking. In that regard, it has its upsides and downsides. The decision to enjoy the product depends on your personal preferences and individual choice. As a legal product approved by FDA, you can go about your smoking with no worry whatsoever.
…
Read More
Search for:
Facebook
Facebook
Categories
Dabbing
Data Storage
Electronic Cigarette
Health
Home Improvement
Ladders
Law
Sports
Supplements
Technology
Uncategorized
Web Design
Workplace
Recent Posts
Important Things to Consider When Buying the Right Supplements for You
Factors to Consider When Looking for a Suitable Panel Sample Company
Tips for Choosing the Right Capacitor Type
Tips for Choosing Electric Hoist
Advantages Cloud Storage
How to Help Your Loved One who is Facing Rape Charges
All You Need to Know About Electronic Cigarettes – Good and Bad
Have a look
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WVp5a38WT_0
Tags
attorney Basketball capacitor capacitors certified chemicals Cloud storage co-working spaces coworking customers Dabbing data storage durability e-cig electric hoist electronic cigarette fitness flowers food health hoist house landscaping length Marijuana material network organic food plants rape rape charges service Smoking Sports staff strength supplements Tips types of websites vape web design website
Follow
Pinterest
Watch This
Pages
Common mistakes to avoid when repairing a vehicle
Mission
Our Crew
Privacy Policy
Reach Us
Sports and Fun at St. Paul’s
Terms of Service
The Faculty at St. Paul’s