Do Cell Phones Really Cause Cancer?
Toggle navigation
TUTORIALS
TECH
TRAVEL
THOUGHTS
EDUCATION
TOPXX
HEALTH
FINANCE
COOKING
FICTION
NEWS
ENTERTAINMENT
SPORTS
POEM
REVIEW
BEAUTY
FASHION
ENVIRONMENT
BUSINESS
CULTURE
ANIMALS
RELATIONSHIPS
KIDS
AUTOMOBILES
TELECOM
HOUSE
HERBS
MOTIVATION
ADD NEW
ENGINEERS EMPLOYEMENT
CLOTHING
DOLL
DRESSES
WATER
MEMORIES
REPAIR
NEW DENOMINATION
DYE
HISTORY
Write articles on oyewiki and earn per view | Click here to Know more
Do Cell Phones Really Cause Cancer?
Category : HEALTH Author : Sheryansh Jain Date : Sun May 13 2018
​
A lot of people worry that their cell phone would give them cancer, which isn't at all that surprising as you are holding a device that emits radiation next to your brain.
​Some kind of radiation can damage DNA, which can then cause cancer, but this is not the case with the cell phones.
Cell phones communicate with cell towers using a radiation form called radio frequency, which is non ionizing in nature which means that it doesn't have enough energy to knock off the electrons and tamper the DNA and hence is not cancer causing. It doesn't matter how strong the beam of radiation is, the ability to knock off electrons depends on it's frequency. It's like the microwave as however powerful it might be, it's never going to start emitting infrared radiation.
The cutoff between ionizing and non ionizing radiation is somewhat in ultraviolet, which is above infrared and the radio frequency the mobile phone operate on.
However doctors and scientists have taken numerous studies to determine out the cancer effects that might be caused due to prolonged use of cell phones.
For example, for a study conducted on a million woman in United Kingdom, a weak link between mobile phones and cancer was discovered and came to be known as Acoustic Neuroma, a tumor that leads from the ear to the brain. More frequent cell phone use was correlated for getting a higher risk for getting that tumor.
Another study from WHO suggested a substantial increase in Glioma, which is a nerve cell tumor that's responsible for most cases in the brain cancer cases and besides that there is no proper evidence of any study that could substantially determine the cause of cancer through use of mobile phones.
Some steps for better use of cell phones are as follows:
​Keep the cell phones at the lower pockets, rather than keeping it near the upper body.
Switch to Airplane mode during sleep. It switches off the mobile network and prevents out the radiation emission.
Use earpieces for communication rather than the proper headset.
So, at last it could be conferred out that cancer caused due to cell phones is a myth practically.
​
A lot of people worry that their cell phone would give them cancer, which isn't at all that surprising as you are holding a device that emits radiation next to your brain.
​Some kind of radiation can damage DNA, which can then cause cancer, but this is not the case with the cell phones.
Cell phones communicate with cell towers using a radiation form called radio frequency, which is non ionizing in nature which means that it doesn't have enough energy to knock off the electrons and tamper the DNA and hence is not cancer causing. It doesn't matter how strong the beam of radiation is, the ability to knock off electrons depends on it's frequency. It's like the microwave as however powerful it might be, it's never going to start emitting infrared radiation.
The cutoff between ionizing and non ionizing radiation is somewhat in ultraviolet, which is above infrared and the radio frequency the mobile phone operate on.
However doctors and scientists have taken numerous studies to determine out the cancer effects that might be caused due to prolonged use of cell phones.
For example, for a study conducted on a million woman in United Kingdom, a weak link between mobile phones and cancer was discovered and came to be known as Acoustic Neuroma, a tumor that leads from the ear to the brain. More frequent cell phone use was correlated for getting a higher risk for getting that tumor.
Another study from WHO suggested a substantial increase in Glioma, which is a nerve cell tumor that's responsible for most cases in the brain cancer cases and besides that there is no proper evidence of any study that could substantially determine the cause of cancer through use of mobile phones.
Some steps for better use of cell phones are as follows:
​Keep the cell phones at the lower pockets, rather than keeping it near the upper body.
Switch to Airplane mode during sleep. It switches off the mobile network and prevents out the radiation emission.
Use earpieces for communication rather than the proper headset.
So, at last it could be conferred out that cancer caused due to cell phones is a myth practically.
Disclaimer: The above content reflect author’s personal views and do not reflect the views of OYEWIKI. Neither OYEWIKI nor any person/organization acting on its behalf is liable to accept any legal liability/responsibility for any error/mislead in this information or any information available on the website. This website in no way accepts the responsibility for any loss, injury, damage, discomfort or inconvenience caused as a result of reliance on any information provided on this website.
If you want to add more comments to the article or you see any thing incorrect please write a comment below and we will surely get back to you.
Trending Articles
Benefits of eating a bowl yogurt
Know the 8 benefits of eating 1 apple every morning
5 Ways Turmeric can be Beneficial to you
Are We Poisoning Our Kids?
OBESITY- A friend or An Enemy
Are you Suffering from Headache?
Work and Fitness: Health Tips for Working Women
Punjabi beauty tips How to use tomato for skin care problem
Weight loss in 10 days
Author: Sheryansh Jain
My Stats:
Articles: 1, Views: 3
Earning Oppurtunity for you
Sheryansh Jain is earning by writing this article. You can also earn by writing articles.
For more info click here
Trending Articles
What is INTERNET? Who owns the internet? Is internet FREE??
Know the truth behind viral new Rs 1000 and Rs 350 note photo on social media
How to score 320 plus on the GRE | Preparation tips for GRE
Planning an MS in US : Top 3 things you need to know before starting your journey
Documents Required for USA F1 Visa
Top Viewed Articles
Benefits of eating a bowl yogurt
Know the 8 benefits of eating 1 apple every morning
5 Ways Turmeric can be Beneficial to you
Are We Poisoning Our Kids?
OBESITY- A friend or An Enemy
Recent Articles
Punjabi beauty tips How to use tomato for skin care problem
Health Tips for a better Health – 3
ਕਾਲੇ, ਬੀਟਰੋਟ: ਸਿਹਤਮੰਦ ਭੋਜਨ ਲਈ ਪੌਸ਼ਟਿਕ ਸਮੱਗਰੀ
ਚਮੜੀ ਦੀ ਐਲਰਜੀ 'ਚ ਖਾਓ ਇਹ 5 ਫਰੂਟ, ਜਲਦ ਮਿਲੇਗਾ ਲਾਭ
Meditation can Help Busy People
Copyright © www.oyewiki.com 2016
TUTORIALS TECH TRAVEL THOUGHTS EDUCATION TOPXX HEALTH FINANCE COOKING FICTION NEWS ENTERTAINMENT SPORTS POEM REVIEW BEAUTY FASHION ENVIRONMENT BUSINESS CULTURE ANIMALS RELATIONSHIPS KIDS AUTOMOBILES TELECOM HOUSE HERBS MOTIVATION ADD NEW ENGINEERS EMPLOYEMENT CLOTHING DOLL DRESSES WATER MEMORIES REPAIR NEW DENOMINATION DYE HISTORY
FacebookTwitter | SitemapDisclaimerPrivacy PolicyJobs @ Oyewiki