Cleaning with W-D 40 | Buckets & Bows Maid Service
Skip to content
FacebookTwitterYouTubeGoogle+
Call Us Today! 972-219-0400
Request a Quote
Home
Cleaning Services
Top-To-Bottom Deluxe Cleaning
Maintenance General House Cleaning
Gift Cards
Frequently Asked Questions
Meet Us
Our Team
Our Charities
Employment Opportunities
Rave Reviews!
Submit a review
Specials
Contact Us
Cleaning with W-D 40
Home/Maid Service/Cleaning with W-D 40
Previous	Next
Cleaning with W-D 40
What is the main ingredient of WD-40 ?
Before you read to the end, does anybody know what the main ingredient of WD-40 is?
Don’t lie and don’t cheat.
WD-40. Who knew; I had a neighbor who bought a new pickup. I got up very early one Sunday morning and saw that someone had spray painted red all around the sides of this beige truck (for some unknown reason). I went over, woke him up, and told him the bad news. He was very upset and was trying to figure out what to do…. probably nothing until Monday morning, since nothing was open.
Another neighbor came out and told him to get his WD-40 and clean it off. It removed the unwanted paint beautifully and did not harm his paint job that was on the truck. I’m impressed!
WD-40 who knew? ‘Water Displacement #40’. The product began from a search for a rust preventative solvent and degreaser to protect missile parts. WD-40 was created in 1953 by three technicians at the San Diego Rocket Chemical Company. Its name comes from the project that was to find a ‘water displacement’ compound.. They were successful with the fortieth formulation, thus WD-40. The Convair Company bought it in bulk to protect their atlas missile parts. Ken East (one of the original founders) says there is nothing in WD-40 that would hurt you…
When you read the ‘shower door’ part, try it. It’s the first thing that has ever cleaned that spotty shower door. If yours is plastic, it works just as well as glass. It’s a miracle! Then try it on your stove top … Viola! It’s now shinier than it’s ever been. You’ll be amazed.
WD-40 uses:
1. Protects silver from tarnishing.
2. Removes road tar and grime from cars.
3. Cleans and lubricates guitar strings.
4. Gives floors that ‘just-waxed’ sheen without making them slippery.
5.. Keeps flies off cows.
6. Restores and cleans chalkboards.
7. Removes lipstick stains.
8. Loosens stubborn zippers.
9. Untangles jewelry chains.
10. Removes stains from stainless steel sinks.
11. Removes dirt and grime from the barbecue grill.
12. Keeps ceramic/terracotta garden pots from oxidizing.
13. Removes tomato stains from clothing.
14. Keeps glass shower doors free of water spots.
15. Camouflages scratches in ceramic and marble floors.
16. Keeps scissors working smoothly.
17. Lubricates noisy door hinges on vehicles and doors in homes.
18. It removes black scuff marks from the kitchen floor! Use WD-40 for those nasty tar and scuff marks on flooring. It doesn’t seem to harm the finish and you won’t have to scrub nearly as hard to get them off. Just remember to open some windows if you have a lot of marks.
19. Bug guts will eat away the finish on your car if not removed quickly! Use WD-40!
20. Gives a children’s playground gym slide a shine for a super fast slide.
21. Lubricates gear shift and mower deck lever for ease of handling on riding mowers…
22. Rids kids rocking chairs and swings of squeaky noises..
23. Lubricates tracks in sticking home windows and makes them easier to open..
24. Spraying an umbrella stem makes it easier to open and close.
25. Restores and cleans padded leather dashboards in vehicles, as well as vinyl bumpers.
26. Restores and cleans roof racks on vehicles.
27. Lubricates and stops squeaks in electric fans
28. Lubricates wheel sprockets on tricycles, wagons, and bicycles for easy handling.
29. Lubricates fan belts on washers and dryers and keeps them running smoothly.
30. Keeps rust from forming on saws and saw blades, and other tools.
31. Removes splattered grease on stove.
32. Keeps bathroom mirror from fogging.
33. Lubricates prosthetic limbs.
34. Keeps pigeons off the balcony (they hate the smell).
35. Removes all traces of duct tape.
36. Folks even spray it on their arms, hands, and knees to relieve arthritis pain.
37. Floridaï¿½s favorite use is: ‘cleans and removes love bugs from grills and bumpers.’
38. The favorite use in the state of New York , WD-40 protects the Statue of Liberty from the elements.
39. WD-40 attracts fish. Spray a little on live bait or lures and you will be catching the big one in no time. Also, it’s a lot cheaper than the chemical attractants that are made for just that purpose. Keep in mind though, using some chemical laced baits or lures for fishing are not allowed in some states.
40. Use it for fire ant bites. It takes the sting away immediately and stops the itch.
41. WD-40 is great for removing crayon from walls. Spray on the mark and wipe with a clean rag.
42. Also, if you’ve discovered that your teenage daughter has washed and dried a tube of lipstick with a load of laundry, saturate the lipstick spots with WD-40 and rewash. Presto! The lipstick is gone!
43. If you sprayed WD-40 on the distributor cap, it would displace the moisture and allow the car to start.
P.S. The basic ingredient is FISH OIL.
By Buckets & Bows|2016-10-25T08:48:44-05:00March 22nd, 2010|Maid Service|0 Comments
Help Us Spread the Word! Share This Story.
FacebookTwitterLinkedInRedditGoogle+TumblrPinterestEmail
Leave A Comment Cancel reply
Comment
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Call Us! 972-219-0400
Shopping Cart
Request a Quote!
Now Available Online
Spring Cleaning Tips
2018-12-18
I have been using Buckets and Bows maid once-a-month service for 2 years, and they are fantastic!
Jennifer C.
View full review here
2018-10-29
She is excellent in every way. My home always looks clean and orderly because of the excellent job she does. She is always pleasant and kind.
Mary L.
View full review here
2017-01-20
I've been using Buckets N Bows for over a decade and couldn't be happier.
Chris B.
View full review here
2016-09-14
I love the friendly, professional and trustworthy service I receive from Buckets and Bows Maid Service. But more than that - I love the sparkling home that I...
Pauline A.
View full review here
2016-09-14
A truly great company. Very polite, kind, and professional. They are the only cleaning service I that I will use. Amazing Service. Thank you Buckets &...
Kris S.
View full review here
Latest News
What’s the difference between hiring an independent cleaner vs a professional cleaner with employees?
What questions are they going to ask me when I call a pro cleaning service?
Do I have to sign a contract?
What happens if I’m not satisfied?
Who furnishes the equipment and cleaning supplies?
Proudly Serving:
Argyle
Bartonville
Carrollton
Coppell
Corinth
Denton
Flower Mound
Frisco
Highland Village
Lewisville
Little Elm
Plano
Roanoke
The Colony
Request a Quote!
Join Our VIP Newsletter Today!
Subscribe Now For Deep Discounts & Specials!
And Get A 1st Time Savings Coupon!
Primary Email:
(We will never sell/share your information! This is only for
Buckets & Bows Maid Service VIP Club. Easy unsubscribe)
Quick Links
Refer A Friend – Get a FREE Gift
Blog
In The News
Cleaning Up! With Debbie Sardone Radio
Employment
Charities
Gift Cards
© 2006-2019 All rights reserved. Buckets & Bows Maid Service 496 East Purnell St., Ste 101 Lewisville, TX, 75057 USA | 972-219-0400
FacebookTwitterYouTubeGoogle+