MRIs in first trimester of pregnancy not associated with increased risk to fetus
Topics
Conditions
Week's top
Latest news
Unread news
Subscribe
Science X Account
Remember me
Sign In
Click here to sign in with or
Forget Password?
Not a member? Sign up
Learn more
Addiction
Alzheimer's disease & dementia
Arthritis & Rheumatism
Attention deficit disorders
Autism spectrum disorders
Cancer
Cardiology
Dentistry
Diabetes
Diseases, Conditions, Syndromes
Genetics
Gerontology & Geriatrics
Health
HIV & AIDS
Immunology
Inflammatory disorders
Medical economics
Medical research
Medications
Neuroscience
Obstetrics & gynaecology
Ophthalmology
Other
Overweight & Obesity
Parkinson's & Movement disorders
Pediatrics
Psychology & Psychiatry
Radiology & Imaging
Sleep apnea
Sports Medicine & Kinesiology
Surgery
Asthma
Breast cancer
Cardiovascular disease
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Colon cancer
Coronary artery disease
Dementia
Depression
Heart attack
Heart disease
High blood pressure
Influenza
Kidney disease
Leukemia
Lung cancer
Malaria
Melanoma
Multiple sclerosis
Myocardial infarction
Ovarian cancer
Post traumatic stress disorder
Rheumatoid arthritis
Schizophrenia
Skin cancer
Stroke
Type 2 diabetes
Full List »
share this!
1
Twit
Share
Email
Home
Obstetrics & gynaecology
September 6, 2016
MRIs in first trimester of pregnancy not associated with increased risk to fetus
by The JAMA Network Journals
Photo by Bianca de Blok.
In an analysis that included more than 1.4 million births, exposure to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) during the first trimester of pregnancy compared with nonexposure was not associated with increased risk of harm to the fetus or in early childhood, although gadolinium MRI at any time during pregnancy was associated with an increased risk of a broad set of rheumatological, inflammatory, or skin conditions and, possibly, for stillbirth or neonatal death, according to a study appearing in the September 6 issue of JAMA.
Concern has been expressed about the safety of MRI exposure in the first trimester of pregnancy due to the heating of sensitive tissues by radiofrequency fields and exposure to the loud acoustic environment. When indicated, MRI's diagnostic accuracy is improved with gadolinium, an intravenous contrast medium. Fetal safety of MRI during the first trimester of pregnancy or with gadolinium enhancement at any time of pregnancy is unknown.
With the use of universal health care databases in the province of Ontario, Joel G. Ray, M.D., M.Sc., F.R.C.P.C., of St. Michael's Hospital and the Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences, Toronto, and colleagues identified all births of more than 20 weeks from 2003-2015 to evaluate the long-term safety after exposure to MRI in the first trimester of pregnancy or to gadolinium at any time during pregnancy.
The study included 1,424,105 deliveries. In pregnancies that lasted a minimum of 21 gestational weeks, 1 in 250 had an MRI in pregnancy, including 1 in 1,200 in the first trimester and 1 in 3,000 with gadolinium contrast. Maternal MRI in the first trimester was not associated with a higher risk of stillbirth or neonatal death, congenital anomalies, neoplasm, or hearing loss.
Exposure to gadolinium-enhanced MRI at any gestation was not associated with a greater risk of congenital anomalies. Although a nephrogenic systemic fibrosis-like outcome was extremely rare, gadolinium-enhanced MRI was associated with an increased risk for a non-specific outcome of any rheumatological, inflammatory or infiltrative skin condition up to age 4 years, and for stillbirth or neonatal death, although there were just 7 events in the gadolinium MRI group.
"The current findings inform published recommendations about the safety of MRI in the first trimester of pregnancy," the authors write. "Until further studies are done, these findings suggest that gadolinium contrast should be avoided during pregnancy."
Explore further
No association found between contrast agents used for MRIs and nervous system disorder
More information: JAMA, DOI: 10.1001/jama.2016.12126
Journal information: Journal of the American Medical Association
Provided by The JAMA Network Journals
Citation: MRIs in first trimester of pregnancy not associated with increased risk to fetus (2016, September 6) retrieved 20 April 2019 from https://medicalxpress.com/news/2016-09-mris-pregnancy-outcomes-infants-children.html
This document is subject to copyright. Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research, no part may be reproduced without the written permission. The content is provided for information purposes only.
1 shares
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Feedback to editors
Featured
Last Comments
Popular
Researchers find number of mutations in human B lymphocytes increases with age
Apr 18, 2019
0
A possible blood test for early-stage Alzheimer's disease
Apr 18, 2019
0
Chinese researchers add human brain-related gene to monkey genome in controversial experiment
Apr 11, 2019
13
Researchers uncover how innocuous gut bacteria mutated to become deadly blood infectors
Apr 11, 2019
0
Study shows thousands of neurons becoming active during thirst and quench cycle
Apr 09, 2019
1
Study finds that quitting smoking during pregnancy lowers risk of preterm births
Apr 19, 2019
Light physical activity reduces brain aging
Apr 19, 2019
People with heart disease at risk when pharmacies close
Apr 19, 2019
Two-wave US flu season is now the longest in a decade
Apr 19, 2019
Discovery may help explain why women get autoimmune diseases far more often than men
Apr 19, 2019
Researchers discover critical RNA processing aberrations
Apr 19, 2019
Risk of congenital Zika syndrome greater than previously thought
Apr 19, 2019
Gut microbe helps thwart Salmonella
Apr 19, 2019
Metabolite may play a role in nicotine addiction
Apr 19, 2019
Researchers find correlation between blood type and susceptibility to severe malaria
Apr 19, 2019
Related Stories
No association found between contrast agents used for MRIs and nervous system disorder
Jul 05, 2016
Better contrast agents based on nanoparticles
Aug 03, 2016
Study raises questions about the safety of MRI contrast agent
Apr 06, 2016
Team finds direct evidence of gadolinium deposition in brain tissues
Mar 16, 2015
FDA wants MRI contrast agent warning
May 23, 2007
Study examines use of antipsychotics early in pregnancy, risk of birth defects
Aug 17, 2016
Recommended for you
Study finds that quitting smoking during pregnancy lowers risk of preterm births
Apr 19, 2019
3-D modelling identifies nutrient exchange in the human placenta
Apr 17, 2019
Additional routine ultrasounds benefit mothers and babies and could be cost-saving
Apr 16, 2019
Mother of 3-DNA baby praises new fertility treatment
Apr 12, 2019
Three-person baby born in medical 'revolution'
Apr 11, 2019
Healthy diet in pregnancy significantly reduces risk of having a small baby
Apr 11, 2019
User comments
Please sign in to add a comment. Registration is free, and takes less than a minute. Read more
Sign in
Forgot Password Registration
What do you think about this particular story?
Your feedback will go directly to Science X editors.
Your message to the editors
Your email (only if you want to be contacted back)
Send Feedback
Thank you for taking your time to send in your valued opinion to Science X editors.
You can be assured our editors closely monitor every feedback sent and will take appropriate actions. Your opinions are important to us.
We do not guarantee individual replies due to extremely high volume of correspondence.
E-mail the story
MRIs in first trimester of pregnancy not associated with increased risk to fetus
Your friend's email
Your email
I would like to subscribe to Science X Newsletter. Learn more
Your name
Note
Your email address is used only to let the recipient know who sent the email. Neither your address nor the recipient's address will be used for any other purpose. The information you enter will appear in your e-mail message and is not retained by Medical Xpress in any form.
Your message
Send
Newsletter sign up
Get weekly and/or daily updates delivered to your inbox. You can unsubscribe at any time and we'll never share your details to third parties.
Subscribe
More information Privacy policy
Phys.org
Phys.org internet news portal provides the latest news on science
Tech Xplore
Tech Xplore covers the latest engineering, electronics and technology advances
ScienceX
Science X Network offers the most comprehensive sci-tech news coverage on the web
Newsletters
Subscribe
Science X Daily and the Weekly Email Newsletter are free features that allow you to receive your favorite sci-tech news updates in your email inbox
Follow us
Top
Home
Search
Mobile version
Help
FAQ
About
Contact
Science X Account
Sponsored Account
Newsletter
Archive
Android app
iOS app
RSS feeds
Push notification
© Medical Xpress 2011 - 2019 powered by Science X Network
Privacy policy Terms of use Medical Disclaimer
Your Privacy
This site uses cookies to assist with navigation, analyse your use of our services, and provide content from third parties. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.
Ok More Information
E-mail newsletter
Subscribe
Follow us
It appears that you are currently using Ad Blocking software. What are the consequences?
×