Is Wi-Fi Safe for Children?Beware of Health Risks: Victoria School Board Trustee Speaks out on WiFi and Children, Calls for Precaution.
Is Wi-Fi Safe for Children?
Beware of Health Risks
Doctors and Scientists around the world have warned against unnecessary exposure of children to RF/microwave from wireless technology and recommend safer WIRED internet connection instead, both in school and at home. We are parents who fully support the use of computers and the incorporation of technology in education, and we believe that it must be implemented in a SAFE manner.
Sunday, October 14, 2012
Victoria School Board Trustee Speaks out on WiFi and Children, Calls for Precaution.
October 17: SD61 WiFi K-5 and the Precautionary Principle by Diane McNally, Victoria School Board Trustee (Oct 10, 2012):
Trust us. It’s perfectly safe.
I’m thinking of Health Canada, WHO (World Health Organization), and Dr. Perry Kendall, BC Provincial Health Officer. (For more on WHO and Kendall’s way of thinking, see this month’s Focus Magazine article “Will a flu shot keep you healthy? “ by Alan Cassels. About more than the flu shot, the article explores the often less than transparent way health policy is developed. Regarding WHO and the declared H1N1 “pandemic”, the committee that made the decision and thus caused billions to be spent on vaccine orders was “stacked with scientists who had ties to drug companies”. WHO is obviously a compromised and far from impartial agency.)
And remember these: Thalidomide. Vioxx. Fen-Phen. Asbestos. Electroshock. DDT. X-raymachines in children’s shoe departments. All “safe” – and the list is a lot longer – until they weren’t.
On October 17, School District 61′s Wifi Committee will reconvene after a long hiatus for one meeting only, apparently. GVTA teachers’ non-attendance at the meetings during job action has been pointed to as the reason for the long break. However, the Greater Victoria Teachers’ Association submitted a member ratified final document in January 2011, supporting the Precautionary Principle.
The Precautionary Principle states that if an action or policy has a risk of causing harm, in the absence of scientific consensus that the action or policy is harmful, the burden of proof that it is not harmful falls on those taking the action. In some legal systems, as in the law of the European Union, the application of the Precautionary Principle has been made a legal requirement.
The Toronto Sun reported on October 5, 2012: “Schools should not install wireless Internet systems because the technology is linked to learning disabilities, headaches and immune system deficiencies, according to an international association of physicians.The American Academy of Environmental Medicine, which is holding a conference on the brain and nervous system this week in Florida, says safer alternatives should be used instead of Wi-Fi.”
The Swiss Government has issued cautions in regard to wireless radiation emitted by baby monitors, cell phones, laptops, and tablets.
I am committed to implementation of the Precautionary Principle in SD61 in regard to WiFi in K-5 schools, as neighbouring Saanich School District has done after reviewing the research – no wifi K-5 for student use in Saanich Schools....
Read more: http://lined-paper.com/category/wifi/
A simple and important Video explaining Wi-Fi technology for parents, teachers and administrators
Oct 1, 2012
https://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=vJWFHYBGCSQ
Physician group adds weight to warnings of Wi-Fi in schools
Oct 5, 2012, Toronto Sun.
http://www.torontosun.com/2012/10/05/physician-group-adds-weight-to-warnings-of-wi-fi-in-schools
Italian consumer group warns of Wi-Fi health risks on trains
10 October 2012, CET News
"A survey conducted by Italian consumers association Condacons, conducted on Frecciarossa trains from Trenitalia and high-speed NTV trains, claims that Wi-Fi connections on trains represent a threat to the health of passengers. Exposure to magnetic and electromagnetic waves on Italian trains equipped with the internet system 'exceeds the limits set by law'. Electromagnetic waves detected on Frecciarossa exceeded the limit by 588 percent and on the Italo trains the situation is even worse, with an excess of 6,800 percent. Condacons has subsequently presented a complaint to prosecutors in Milan, Turin, Bologna, Florence and Rome."
http://www.telecompaper.com/news/italian-consumer-group-warns-of-wi-fi-health-risks-on-trains
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: 21st Century Learning, BCED, bcparent, BCSTA, BCTF, BYOD, children, education, health, Kids, learning, parenting, safe, safety, school, students, technology, wifi, wireless
Newer Post Older Post Home
Lastest Tweets
Tweets by @SafeinSchoolOrg
Quick Links
1) VIDEO: Pulsed Microwave of iPad
2) VIDEO: WiFi Router Radiation Measurement
3) 2012 Expert Witness Testimonies to U.S. Court concerning Removal of Wi-Fi in Public Schools
4) VIDEO: WiFi in Schools - The FactsWireless computer network in class simulation
5) VIDEOS: iPad iPhone Laptop Radiation Measurements
Pages
Home
中文网页: 电磁微波辐射与孩子健康
Reference for SD Trustees
Scientific Studies 科研报告
Practical Ways to Reduce EMF Radiation 下载传单 Flyers...
Frequently Asked Questions
The Precautionary Principle 预防原则
Microwave Exposure Limits - Countries Comparison
翻譯：请于以下按"Select Language"
然后选择 "Chinese Simplified" (简体中文)
或"Chinese Tradtional"(繁體中文) 翻譯
Select a language:简体中文Chinese Simplied繁體中文Chinese TraditionalEspañolDeutscheFrançaisItalianoPortuguêsArabicJapaneseKoreanRussianSwedishGermanRussianDanishGreekPolishHebrew
CONTACT
CLICK to Email us 按此电邮与我们联络 To connect with other Parents in your School District, email our Friends at Parents For Safe Schools or visit their Facebook Page
Search This Blog
Blog Archive
- Click on trangles next to months below to view all Titles
► 2014 (2)
► November (1)
► January (1)
► 2013 (23)
► December (1)
► November (1)
► June (1)
► May (1)
► April (3)
► March (7)
► February (7)
► January (2)
▼ 2012 (29)
► November (2)
▼ October (4)
Industry Canada Wi-Fi Case Study:Why do the radiat...
PLEASE COME to Greater Victoria SD61 WiFi Committe...
WiFi and Cellphone Radiation: Fast Track to Humani...
Victoria School Board Trustee Speaks out on WiFi a...
► September (1)
► June (4)
► May (3)
► April (7)
► March (2)
► February (4)
► January (2)
► 2011 (29)
► November (2)
► August (2)
► June (1)
► May (1)
► April (3)
► March (5)
► February (15)
Archived Articles
中文网页: 电磁微波辐射与孩子健康
Studies on Biological and Cellular Damage by Microwave & Radiofrequency Radiation
Israel's Position Paper on Electromagnetic Radiation in a School Environment
Dr. George Carlo speaks on Wi-Fi Radiation in Schools
LATEST WARNING: Wi-Fi Dangerous to Children and Pregnant Women
The Essential Message
Surprise! China's Safety Standard >100 times stricter than Canada's
International Warnings on Wi-Fi and Microwave Radiation
Removal of Wi-Fi from Schools and Libraries in Canada and Other Countries
Wi-Fi in the Education Environment
Protect your children from cell phone and WiFi radiation before it's too late
A letter to "Concerned Parent" on WLAN (Wi-Fi)
Children’s Exposure to Microwave Radiation - A letter to the Sooke School Board
Children are Particularly Susceptible to the Harm of Wi-Fi
Wi-Fi Concerns Should Lead to Updated Regulations - A Letter by Carol Hughes, MP
How to reduce Wi-Fi (Microwave) Radiation on our Children
Mobile Learning and Health Risks Slideshow by University of Tampere, Finland
The World Health Organization
We are not alone! Victoria School District is re-evaluating the safety of Wi-Fi
The current debate on Wi-Fi being installed in schools without Parents' consent
Electromagnetic Induction by Wi-Fi causes Human Tissue to Polarize at Twice the Frequency
At a Glance - The issue of Wi-Fi in School
SafeInSchool.org
Simple theme. Powered by Blogger.