Cancer And Family History
Contact Us
Building A Healthy Community One Individual At A Time
Home
Our Mission
Services
Jacksonville, FL
Orange Park, FL
Key Strategies
Healthy Living
Advice from our Docs
Bones, Muscles and Joints
Emergency 101
Fighting Cancer
For Seniors
For Women
Work Smart
Your Heart
Contact Us
Breaking News
Optometrist Palm Beach Gardens, Fl
Plastic Surgery Clinic Coral Springs, Fl
Optometrist Inverness, Fl
Home Health Care Service Palm Bay, Fl
Lasik Surgeon Parkland, Fl
Nail Salon North Miami, Fl
Crime Victim Service Miami Lakes, Fl
Dermatologist North Miami, Fl
Day Spa Parkland, Fl
Lasik Surgeon North Lauderdale, Fl
cancer
Cancer And Family History
family history, genes
Tweet
Contents
1 Hereditary Cancer
2 How it Happens
3 Inheriting Genes
4 Family History Counseling
5 Who Should Consider Genetic Counseling?
5.1 Healthy Living Article List
Hereditary Cancer
Cancer is a group of diseases characterized by uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells. We now know that cancer happens when something goes wrong in our genes. A certain percentage of patients inherit mutated, or changed, genes from their parent. This is known as hereditary cancer.
How it Happens
Scientists believe that cancer begins when cells are exposed to cancer-causing agents or carcinogens. Carcinogens cause genetic damage–mutations–in cells. Mutations in genes that regulate cell division can cause some genes to work when they should not and others to stop working when they should. This can lead to unregulated cell division and cancer. It is believed that it is an accumulation of genetic mutations that eventually leads to cancer.
Inheriting Genes
“Changed” genes can be inherited from one or both parents and can cause disease, or an increased risk for disease. Fortunately, not everyone who inherits a mutation, or changed gene will develop disease because the normal gene from the other parent is sufficient for the body’s needs. A family history study by a clinical genetic counselor can be beneficial for those who have a family history of cancer.
Family History Counseling
Because a family history of cancer can increase your risk of developing cancer, early identification can lead to intervention–and education–that may reduce the risk and mortality from cancer. With rapid advances in cancer research we can identify more that 120 hereditary cancer genes, and new genes continue to be found.
A complete evaluation determines the likelihood of inherited cancer and establishes an ongoing tailored prevention plan for health care depending on the risks. It includes an extensive review of family history, cancer risk assessment, identification and discussion of genetic testing, genetic and medical management and referrals to appropriate specialists, if necessary. It is a way for individuals to learn about the impact a family history of cancer has on his or her own health and the health of other family members. It provides high risk individuals with information for appropriate health care management. Some patients are reassured to find their personal risk is lower than expected.
Who Should Consider Genetic Counseling?
Anyone concerned about his or her risk for developing cancer can benefit from genetic assessment and counseling. If you have one or more of the following, genetic counseling is appropriate:
a cancer diagnosis at an early age, particularly breast, colon or ovarian cancers;
several family members with cancer;
relatives with more than one type of cancer;
bilateral breast cancer;
rare or unusual cancers.
The Hereditary Cancer Program
at
Children’s Hospital Medical Center
and
The University Hospital Cancer Center
This Hereditary Cancer Program takes a team approach. The team of hematology/oncology, pediatric oncology, and genetic specialists includes physicians, surgeons, genetic counselors and others who will work with you, providing evaluations of your risk and helping you understand and use the information for appropriate screenings and health management. Services include:
a complete evaluation of family history by board-certified genetic counselors and medical geneticists;
risk assessment for familial and hereditary cancers;
identification and discussion of genetic testing options;
genetic information to be used as part of your personalized plan for health care
Healthy Living Article List
For Women
For Seniors
Fighting Cancer
Your Heart
Emergency 101
Work Smart
Bones, Muscles and Joints
Nutrition News
Advice From Our Docs
Related Posts
cancer /
Staying Healthy
cancer /
Marrow Donors Can Be Lifesavers
cancer /
Time to Think About Breast Cancer
‹ Taking Care Of Your Feelings › Health Alliance Cancer Services
Welcome to the Health Alliance!
Achieving a healthier life is not as complicated or as impossible as others would perceive. With the proper guidance, tips and expert knowledge you would be smooth sailing your way towards a better you. At the Health Alliance we are dedicated to make a difference by building a community based on nutrition principles.
We’d like to educate one individual at a time and create a positive domino effect in the community. Whether you are searching for low-calorie recipes or itching to know the best tips to maintain a healthy weight, you’ve come to the right place!
Subscribe For Fresh Content!
Your Name (required)
Your Email (required)
To learn more about underwater basket weaving visit http://www.underwaterbasketweaving-underwater-basket-weaving.online#underwaterbasketweaving.
Quick Links
Select A Topic
Closing the Gap
College Recruitment
Guide to Heart Healthy Eating
Learn About
Nutrition News
Spectrum Rehabilitation
Back to Top
Home
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Sitemap
© Health Alliance 2018