New review demonstrates the benefits of collagen peptides on osteoarthritis
Blog Home
Nutrition Notes
Science Update
Research & Education
Search form
Search
Blog Home
Nutrition Notes
Science Update
Research & Education
Science Update
New review demonstrates the benefits of collagen peptides on osteoarthritis
November 2, 2018 - 08:10
facebook
twitter
linkedin
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a major cause of musculoskeletal morbidity and functional loss, and the most prevalent of the musculoskeletal conditions. At this time, there is no medical treatment effective for slowing down OA progression long term or for promoting disease reversal or prevention. The standard of care for OA management focuses primarily on partially and temporarily alleviating symptoms.
According to a review published recently in International Orthopaedics, researchers demonstrated the efficacy of collagen supplementation for improving osteoarthritis symptoms.
The review consisted of 5 randomized controlled trials (RCTs) published between 2009 and 2016, encompassing 519 patients. The duration of treatment ranged from 10 to 48 weeks. Treatment with collagen supplementation demonstrated a significant reduction of the total WOMAC index, and a significant reduction in stiffness and VAS score.
The possible beneficial effects of collagen for the treatment of OA have been controversial. It is essential to use collagen peptides that have a low molecular weight, which have demonstrated efficacy for specific applications, including osteoarthritis and osteoporosis.
Hydrolyzed collagen peptides, which are rich in proline and hydroxyproline, promote synthesis of hyaluronic acid from synovial cells. Upon digestion, collagen is mainly broken down into single amino acids and di-peptides. These enter the bloodstream and accumulate in joint cartilage. They stimulate the biosynthesis of cartilage extracellular matrix by increasing type II collagen and proteoglycan production.
The decrease of both total WOMAC index and VAS score shown in this meta-analysis demonstrates that collagen is effective for improving OA symptoms. Other benefits of collagen supplementation include improving skin elasticity, sarcopenia, osteoporosis, blood pressure, and insulin resistance.
By Michael Jurgelewicz, DC, DACBN, DCBCN, CNS
Source: Garcia-Coronado JM, Martinez-Olivera L, et al. Effect of collagen supplementation on osteoarthritis symptoms: a meta-analysis of randomized placebo-controlled trials. Int Orthop. 2018 Oct 27. doi: 10.1007/s00264-018-4211-5.
More Science Update
Science Update
New study demonstrates the effects of bacteriophage supplementation on the gut microbiome
Science Update
New study investigates the impact of low vitamin B12 and high homocysteine levels in Parkinson’s disease
Science Update
New study demonstrates the benefits of resistant starch in patients with chronic kidney disease
Load more
Search Designs for Health
Search form
Search
Designs for Health has been dedicated to being the most trusted source for superior quality, science-based nutritional products for nearly three decades. We’re committed to maximizing successful health outcomes by providing healthcare practitioners with comprehensive support through our extensive product line, ongoing clinical education, and practice development programs. The blogs we publish here cover a range of topics, including new and original approaches to diet and healthcare, analyses of the latest cutting-edge research, deep-dives into specific nutrients, botanicals, nutraceuticals and more, all fully referenced for those who want to dig deeper into the primary literature.
LATEST POSTS
Optimizing Micronutrient Status for Energy Metabolism
New study demonstrates the effects of bacteriophage supplementation on the gut microbiome
The Dual Power of Omega-3s and Cannabinoids
Subscribe with us!
Receive new blog posts in a weekly email!
I am a Health Care Professional
Tags
Vitamin D
Probiotics
Collagen
Cholesterol
Fish oil
Vitamin E
Stress
Tocotrienols
Children
Dementia
Exercise
Intermittent fasting
Alzheimer’s Disease
Parkinson’s Disease
Diabetes
Diet
GERD
Human Microbiome
Low Carb Diets
Aging