Voices « Safer Phone Zone
Safer Phone Zone
VISIT ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH TRUST
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Home
*Donate
Contributors
Resources
Evan Britton, Business Insider: Why I Downgraded My Cell Phone
June 23rd, 2011
The Samsung Haven was the lowest radiation phone that they offered for sale.
Posted in Voices | No Comments »
New Zealand Residents Speak Out About Experiences with EMF
June 23rd, 2011
An informal survey by one resident found many people were suffering similar symptoms, including joint pains, headaches, insomnia, fatigue and dizziness.
Posted in Voices | No Comments »
Dr. Mercola discusses the WHO classification of cell phones as possible carcinogens
June 22nd, 2011
Finally Experts Admit Cellphones Are a Carcinogen
Posted in Voices | No Comments »
Elizabeth Cardis: Increased risk of brain cancer with cell phone use
June 21st, 2011
Elizabeth Cardis, a research professor at the Centre for Research and Environmental Epidemiology, talks about the relationship between brain cancer and cell phone use.
Posted in Voices | No Comments »
Dr. Davis supports Mobilewise
June 14th, 2011
Learn more about our partner, Mobilewise, stationed in the UK.
Posted in Voices | No Comments »
Ali Velshi: Come clean, cell phone companies
June 13th, 2011
“My call to cell phone companies: Come clean on radiation…and use it to make money.
CNN’s Ali Velshi says: cell phone companies should view the cell phone radiation study as a growth opportunity.”
Posted in Voices | No Comments »
Watch Dr. Davis on Your Money with CNN’s Ali Velshi
June 13th, 2011
Devra Davis tells CNN’s Ali Velshi about steps consumers can take to protect themselves from cell phone radiation.
Posted in Voices | No Comments »
In Her Own Words – Ellie Marks’ personal story
May 19th, 2011
Spoken in Her Own Words(2)
Posted in Voices | No Comments »
Can Cell Phones Pop Popcorn?
April 20th, 2011
A popular viral video shows popcorn being popped by ringing cell phones. With over 7 million views on YouTube, there are probably plenty of others trying to copy this trick. This video is a fraud created by companies selling wireless headsets. It does reflect increasing awareness of cell phone radiation and its capacity to affect surrounding items – particularly humans.
Posted in Voices | No Comments »
Do Cell Phones Cause Cancer? An Article by Green American
April 20th, 2011
In a recent article, the Green American asks: Do Cell Phones Cause Cancer?
The telecom industry says no, the fine print on cell phone packaging says maybe and some leading scientists say we should be very concerned.
Read on before you dismiss the warnings about cell phones. There’s real cause for concern behind the industry smokescreen.
Click here to read the whole article in PDF
Tags: Brain-Tumor Risk, cell phone cancer, cell phone radiation, safer phone zone
Posted in Voices | No Comments »
« Older Entries Newer Entries »
Latest Research
Exposure Limits: The underestimation of absorbed cellphone radiation, especially in children
Worldwide Cell Phone Safety Recommendations and Policies
Mobile phones and head tumours. The discrepancies in cause-effect relationships in the epidemiological studies – how do they arise?
View All Research »
Latest Tweets
Please wait while our latest tweet loads.
This website is sponsored by the Environmental Health Trust (EHT). EHT is a non-profit organization that educates individuals, health professionals and communities about controllable environmental health risks and policy changes needed to reduce those risks. For more than three decades, advising some of the world's top health agencies, EH Trust has come up with effective strategies to curb harm from hormone replacement, tobacco, radon, asbestos and pesticides.
Donate Now »
Safer Phone Zone is a web portal dedicated to providing reliable information and educational tools to the public, health professionals and policy makers regarding the dangers of prolonged cell phone use, cell phone radiation and the links between cell phones, cancer and other health problems. Safer Phone Zone is intended to be an open source forum for information based on sound scientific research by recognized authorities. Due to the open source nature of this web portal all information is provided as is without any warranties expressed or implied.
Devra Lee Davis Charitable Foundation is a Registered IRS Public Charity Doing Business As (DBA) Environmental Health Trust
© 2019 Safer Phone Zone. All Rights Reserved.