Post Op Instructions
NEIL W. VANIK, D.D.S.
FAMILY & GENERAL DENTISTRY
Request Appointment
Menu
About You
What to Expect
Patient Forms
Post Op Instructions
Refer Our Office
Close
Services
Technology
Restorative Dentistry
Preventative Care
General Dentistry
Close
Just for Grins
About Us
Welcome
Philosophy
Dr. Neil Vanik
Meet the Staff
Testimonials
Close
Contact Us
Close
Post Op Instructions
Post Operative Instructions After Oral Surgery
IMMEDIATELY AFTER SURGERY
After an extraction, it is important to promote the formation of a blood clot to stop the bleeding and protect the healing process. This is why it is important to bite on a gauze pad until the bleeding stops, usually 1-3 hours after surgery. If bleeding persists, you may wet a plain tea bag and gently bite on it – the tannic acid in tea is a good clotting agent.
DO bite on gauze until bleeding stops, usually 1-3 hours after surgery.
DO take pain medication as soon as possible (before the novocaine wears off)
DAY OF SURGERY
These instructions have the goal of protecting the blood clot! After it has formed, it is important not to disturb the clot as it aids healing.
DO NOT suck through straws, smoke, drink alcohol or brush teeth next to the extraction site
DO ice the surgery site 10 minutes on, 10 minutes off. This keeps swelling to a minimum (wrap the ice pack in a towel – do not apply directly to skin!)
DO drink plenty of clear non-caffeinated fluids.
DO eat nutritious soft food. Avoid sharp food like chips and highly spiced food.
DO NOT exercise vigorously. This increases blood pressure and may cause more bleeding from the site.
DO sleep with your head elevated (3 pillows)
DO take pain medication as directed.
SECOND AND THIRD DAYS
Continue to protect the blood clot! It aids healing.
DO NOT suck through straws, smoke, drink alcohol or brush teeth next to the extraction site.
DO gently rinse with warm salt water (1 tsp of salt in 12 oz of water)
DO continue to drink plenty of clear non-caffeinated fluids.
DO resume your normal dental routine after 24 hours. This should include brushing and flossing your teeth at least once a day – avoid the teeth next to the extraction site for 72 hours.
After a few days you will be able to resume normal activities. If you have any questions or concerns, please call the office at 410-268-5046. After hours, call the voice mail at 410-693-3585. Please speak clearly and slowly when leaving your name and number.
Scaling and Root Planing Post-Operative Instructions
Scaling and root planing is a non-surgical treatment of periodontal disease. The purpose of the treatment is reach further beneath the gumline to clear away calculus (tartar) which harbors the toxins causing inflammation. The goal is to produce clean, smooth teeth and roots, which will promote healing of the inflammation and encourage re-attachment of the gum tissue.
After scaling and root planing, avoid eating anything on the area being treated for two hours or until the dental anesthetic has worn off completely. Avoid any hard “chippy” foods such as tortilla chips, potato chips, popcorn, or seeds for the next several days.
To help soothe the area, rinse your mouth 2-3 times a day with warm salt water rinses. Use one teaspoon of salt for every 12 ounces of water.
Resume your home care regimen immediately, but be gentle with the area recently treated.
Refrain from smoking for 24 to 48 hours after scaling and root planing. Tobacco will delay healing of the tissues.
You may take a non-aspirin pain reliever for any tenderness or discomfort. Take ibuprofen (Advil) or Tylenol unless you are allergic or have medical conditions that prevent taking these medications.
If you have persistent discomfort or swelling that occurs after scaling and root planing, contact the office for instructions as soon as possible.
WELL DONE! Root planing is not exactly a day at the beach – calculus is tough stuff! But you are now on your way to healthier gum tissue with firmer attachment to your teeth. Now it’s your turn. Home care – more than anything else – is the key to successful periodontal therapy.
Meet the Staff
Testimonials
From the Egg to the Apples
Back to School
Call 410-268-5046
Hours: 8am-5pm Monday-Thursday
Visit Us
Neil W. Vanik, D.D.S.
1610 McGuckian Street
Annapolis, Maryland 21401
Email
Sitemap
©2019 Neil W. Vanik, D.D.S.
Site by ECI!