eBook Sodium Bicarbonate – Rich Man’s Poor Man’s Cancer Treatment Archives | Dr. Sircus
0
Articles
Medical Articles
Magnesium »
Sodium Bicarbonate »
Cancer »
Diabetes »
Hydrogen Medicine »
Light and Heat »
All Medical Articles »
Need special Help? Get a consultation »
Protocol
Books
Consultations
About
Videos
FAQ & Contact
More
Consultations
About
Videos
FAQ & Contact
Tag: eBook Sodium Bicarbonate – Rich Man’s Poor Man’s Cancer Treatment
Recent Articles
Sodium Bicarbonate (Baking Soda) – Most Necessary Effective Medicine on Earth
A new medical study has reported indications of dampening of the inflammation that brings on autoimmune diseases. The study was published i...
May 24 2018
Living a Longer Life with Baking Soda
Research published recently in the Clinical Journal of the American Society of Nephrology found that having balanced bicarbonate levels in y...
May 26 2016
Baking Soda a Cure for Humanity
Nevada Assemblywoman Michele Fiore believes cancer is "a fungus" that can be cured by "flushing, let’s say, saltwater, sodium bicarbonate"...
April 7 2015
Medical Science Proves Sodium Bicarbonate (Baking Soda) Treats Cancer
It is not every day that one’s medical work is confirmed so utterly. On January 3rd of 2013 medical scientists published vindication...
January 28 2013
Bicarbonate/Carbon Dioxide Medicine
My medical revolution is simple. Replace dangerous, ineffective, expensive pharmaceuticals with more effective, safe and inexpensive basic m...
November 12 2012
Amazing Cancer Therapy Wipes Out Prostate and Bone Cancer
Well I am delighted every time I see anything from Vernon Johnson who managed to get his urinary pH up to 8.5 for five days and then within ...
August 15 2011
Older articles »
Join 90,000 others in my newsletter and get a free ebook!
Subscribe to Dr. Sircus's newsletter and receive for free an ebook and introductory articles that will guide you through his protocol and the medicinals that compose it..
Medical Articles
> Magnesium
> Sodium Bicarbonate
> Iodine
> Cancer
> Diabetes
scroll up
Join 90,000 others in my newsletter and get a free ebook!
Subscribe to Dr. Sircus's newsletter and receive for free an ebook and introductory articles that will guide you through his protocol and the medicinals that compose it.
My Account Articles Protocol About Dr. Sircus Consultations Books FAQ Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms
Magnesium Transdermal PH Medicine Iodine Medical Marijuana Oxygen Therapy Hydrogen Medicine Water Medicine Seed Nutrition Light and Heat Medicine
Legal notice: The Author specifically invokes the First Amendment rights of freedom of speech and of the press without prejudice. The information you will receive with our consultations is for informational purposes only under the rights guaranteed by the First Amendment of the Constitution for the United States of America, and should not in any way be used as a substitute for the advice of a physician or other licensed health care practitioner. The statements contained on my sites and in my books have not been evaluated by the FDA. The products discussed are not intended to diagnose, cure, prevent or treat any disease but are proven useful for health and life extension. We always recommend when and wherever possible that licensed local healthcare professionals be consulted.