After Exposure of an Impacted Tooth | CT Dental Implant Center
Follow Us x
Follow Us
!Follow Us aMenu
x
Home
Patient Information
Meet the Doctor
Appointments & Scheduling
First Visit
Financial Policy
Insurance
Forms
Procedures
Before Anesthesia
Apicoectomies
Bone Grafting
Dental Implants
Facial Trauma
Impacted Canines
General Tooth Extractions
Oral Pathology
Wisdom Teeth
Cancer Screening
Post-Operative
After Implant Placement
After an Extraction
After Exposure of an Impacted Tooth
FAQ’s
Contact Us
(203) 744-1240
Directions
After Extractions & Exposure of an Impacted Tooth
Do not disturb the wound. If a surgical packing was placed, please do not disturb it. The packing helps to keep the tooth exposed. If it gets dislodged or falls out do not get alarmed call the office at (203) 744-1240 for further instructions.
EXTRACTIONS:After tooth extraction, it is important for a blood clot to form to stop the bleeding and begin the healing process. That is why we ask you to bite on a gauze pad for 30-45 minutes after the appointment. If the bleeding or oozing still persists, place another gauze pad and bite firmly for another 30 minutes. You may have to do this several times.After the blood clot forms, it is important not to disturb or dislodge the clot as it aids in healing. Do not vigorously rinse, suck on a straw, smoke, drink alcohol or brush the teeth next to the extraction site for 72 hours. These activities will dislodge or dissolve the clot and retard the healing process. Limit vigorous exercise for the next 24 hours as this will increase blood pressure and may cause more bleeding from the extraction site.﻿
WISDOM TEEH EXTRACTIONS:The removal of impacted teeth is a surgical procedure. Post-operative care is very important. Unnecessary pain and the complications of infection and swelling can be minimized if the instructions are followed carefully.﻿
MULTIPLE TEETH EXTRACTIONS:A small amount of bleeding is to be expected following the surgery. If bleeding occurs, place a gauze pad directly over the bleeding socket and apply biting pressure for 30 minutes. Repeat if necessary. If you continue to bleed bite on a moistened tea bag for thirty minutes, the tannic acid in the tea bag helps to form a clot by contracting blood vessels. If bleeding occurs, avoid hot liquids. No exercising and elevate the head. Expect some oozing from around the side of the denture.﻿
Contact Us
Copyright © 2019 CT Dental Implant Center, all rights reserved.
93 West Street Suite 5, Danbury, CT 06810 (203) 744-1240