Cholesterol | Itrustallah's Blog ( Premium Collections from around the courtesy web)
About
Health
Islam
Jobs
Yoga
Itrustallah's Blog ( Premium Collections from around the courtesy web)
~ Covering the needs of human beings….
Search:
Category Archives: Cholesterol
How LOW Cholesterol Can Harm Your Health
06 Thursday Sep 2012
Posted by itrustallah in cancer topic, Cholesterol, control Your BP
≈ Leave a comment
How LOW Cholesterol Can Harm Your Health
Sayer Ji, Contributor
Activist Post
You’ve heard for decades about the dangers of high cholesterol, but did you know that LOW cholesterol can lead to violence towards self and others, and has been linked to premature aging, death and other adverse health effects?
In a world gone mad with anti-cholesterol anxiety, and where gobbling down pharmaceuticals designed to poison the body into no longer synthesizing it is somehow considered sane behavior, it is refreshing to look at some of the research on the health benefits of cholesterol, or conversely, the dangers of low cholesterol.
Benefits of Cholesterol…
Cholesterol Is Needed To Prevent Aggression: It has been known for almost 30 years that low serum cholesterol levels are associated with habitually violent tendencies of homicidal offenders under the influence of alcohol.[i] Since then, there are at least 8 other studies that have either confirmed or explored the cholesterol-violence link, including both violence towards self and other. One of the possible explanations for this association was discussed in an article published in the British Journal of Psychiatry in 1993: “One of the functions of serotonin in the central nervous system is the suppression of harmful behaviour impulses…Low membrane cholesterol decreases the number of serotonin receptors. Since membrane cholesterol exchanges freely with cholesterol in the surrounding medium, a lowered serum cholesterol concentration may contribute to a decrease in brain serotonin, with poorer suppression of aggressive behaviour”.[ii] Not surprisingly, several reports have now surfaced on cholesterol-lowering statin drugs contributing to irritability and/or aggression.
Cholesterol Is Needed To Fight Cancer: The inverse relationship between cholesterol levels and the risk for a variety of cancers, and mortality associated with cancer, has been known about since the late 80’s.[iii] Since then, the cholesterol-cancer connection has been confirmed over and over again. It is to be expected, therefore, that statin drug use would be linked with increased cancer incidence, which indeed it is.[iv] Even when you take so-called “bad” LDL-cholesterol and administer it to a culture of highly malignant, multi-drug resistant leukemia cells, the cells lose their resistance to chemotherapy. Not exactly what can be characterized as a “bad” substance, now is it? [v]
Cholesterol Is Needed To Prevent Hemorrhagic Stroke: There are two types of stroke: 1) Ischemic, associated with lack of blood flow and oxygen to the brain 2) Hemorrhagic, associated with the rupture of a blood vessel in the brain, and bleeding. The risk for the former, in theory, could be raised in the presence of excessive oxidized cholesterol. However, it is the risk for the second, hemorrhagic stroke, which is increased when cholesterol levels are low. Noted as far back as 1994 in the British Medical Journal, in an article titled, “Assessing possible hazards of reducing serum cholesterol,” researchers found “The only cause of death attributable to low serum cholesterol concentration was haemorrhagic stroke.”[vi] Other studies can be viewed that confirm this association on our stroke-cholesterol link page.
Cholesterol Is Needed for Memory: Low HDL cholesterol has been identified as a risk factor for deficit and decline in memory in midlife.[vii] Even in Parkinson’s disease, higher total serum cholesterol concentrations are associated with slower clinical progression of the disease.[viii]Statin drugs, which inhibit the production of cholesterol, hence severely affecting the brain, are now required by the FDA to display the black box warning that they may adversely affect the memory.[ix] We have indexed over 50 studies from the National Library of Medicine’s bibliographic database, Medline, on the neurotoxicity of statin drugs, with six of these specifically addressing statin-induced memory impairment.
Cholesterol is Needed for Longevity: In a fascinating study published in PLoS in 2011, telomere length – the shoestring cap-like ends of the chromosomes which prevent DNA damage associated with cellular aging – was linked to higher LDL and total cholesterol levels. The longer the length of these protective caps, the higher the cholesterol.[x] Indeed, several studies indicate that lower cholesterol is associated with increased mortality.
Cholesterol Helps Us Fight Infection: It has been observed that a cholesterol-rich diet improves patients with tuberculosis, leading researchers to suggest “cholesterol should be used as a complementary measure in antitubercular treatment.”[xi] Cholesterol-lowering drugs, incidentally, exhibit immunosuppressive and potent immunotoxic properties, likely in part due to their cholesterol depleting effects.
Given that cholesterol is essential for all animal life and that each cell is capable of synthesizing it from simpler molecules, we should not be surprised by examples provided above of cholesterol’s significant health benefits. Nor should it be surprising that cholesterol-lowering drugs have over 300 adverse health effects. For now, suffice it to say, that conventional medical practice would do well to receive instruction from basic principles of biology, rather than simply the drug-company marketing copy it increasingly falls prey to.
source;www.whatreallyhappened.com/
Health Benefits of Fish Oil
20 Sunday May 2012
Posted by itrustallah in Beauty Tips, Butt Acne Fast, cancer topic, Cholesterol, Diabetes, Health, Weight Loss
≈ Leave a comment
Health Benefits of Fish Oil
The health benefits of fish oil include its ability to aid in treatment of heart diseases, high cholesterol, depression, anxiety, AHDH, low immunity, cancer, diabetes, inflammation, arthritis, IBD, AIDS, Alzheimer’s disease, eye disorders, macular degeneration and ulcers. It is helps in weight loss, pregnancy, fertility and skin care (particular for disorders such as psoriasis, acne).
Most of the these health benefits of fish oil can be attributed to the presence of Omega 3 essential fatty acids such as Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA). Other useful essential fatty acids include Alpha-linolenic acid or ALA and Gamma-linolenic acid or GLA.
The various types of fish which can be a good source of fish oil are mackerel, rainbow trout, lake trout, halibut, herring, sea bass, sardines, swordfish, oysters, albacore tuna, blue fin tuna, yellow fin tuna, turbot, pilchards, anchovies and salmon. The most common names among these for obtaining fish oil are albacore tuna, herring, mackerel, sardines, lake trout and salmon. The type of fish used and the purity standards followed in refining the oil govern the quality of fish oil.
The health benefits of fish oil include the following:
Heart Disease: According to the American Heart Association (AHA), clinical trials have proved that omega 3 is effective in reducing the incidence of cardiovascular diseases (CVD). Fish oil, which is abundant in omega 3, therefore, reduces the risk of heart diseases and heart arrhythmias. It lowers the levels of LDL cholesterol, which is bad cholesterol, and increases the HDL levels, which is good cholesterol. Fish oil prevents accumulation of triglycerides and further reduces the levels of excess triglycerides. Preliminary research has also shown that fish oil can be used for preventing atherosclerosis in coronary patients. Thus fish oil is effective in treating heart strokes and regular usage of fish oil can help avoid numerous sudden cardiac deaths. According to the American Heart Association, these preliminary findings should be confirmed by detailed research.
Weight Loss: Fish oil also aids in weight loss process. Research conducted by Professor Peter Howe at the University of South Australia has shown that fish oil improves the efficacy of exercise in reducing weight. Volunteers who were given fish oil diet showed greater weight loss as compared to those who did not consume fish oil diet. Exercise combined with fish oil had a positive effect on the body shape and body composition of the patients.
Blood Circulation: It is believed that fish oil has the ability to improve blood circulation along with reducing triglyceride and serum cholesterol levels.
Immunity: It is believed that regular consumption of fish oil aids in increasing your immunity thereby enabling you to resist incidence of common diseases such as cold, cough and flu. Omega three fatty acids present in fish oil benefit the immune system by effecting cytokines and eicosanoids present in our body. Researchers have also studied the effect of fish meal and fish oil on the immune system of pigs and found that fish oil aided in the growth of the animals. Similar research conducted on mice at Taichung Veterans General Hospital, Taiwan, also gave positive results. Thus fish oil has the potential to enhance the immune system of humans. Fish oil is also beneficial to patients suffering from lupus, which is a disease characterized by the attacks of immune system of the body on various organs and tissues. Fish oil helps in reducing the pain and inflammation that may occur in joints, eyes, kidney, heart, blood vessels, lungs, nerves, etc. It also helps in reducing associated fever, skin rashes and fatigue.
AIDS: Research conducted by the Nutritional Sciences Program in Lexington has increased the promise of fish oil as a treatment of AIDS.
Inflammation: Fish oil has anti inflammatory properties; therefore, it is effective in reducing inflammation in blood and tissues. Regular consumption of fish oil supplements, tablets, pills and capsules is helpful to those suffering from chronic inflammatory diseases. Fish oil is effective in treating gastrointestinal disorders, sprue, short bowel syndrome and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) including Crohn’s Disease and ulcerative colitis, which are typical disorders of the intestine. Patients suffering from Crohn’s disease find it difficult to absorb vitamins, fats and essential supplements. Fish oil supplements are an effective diet for such patients. In ulcerative colitis, fish oil prevents the accumulation of leukotriene on the colon. It should be noted that the anti inflammatory properties of fish oil are limited to reducing inflammation. Fish oil provides little effect in preventing inflammation. Research is also being conducted to enhance the anti-inflammatory action of fish oil by addition of other dietary supplements and drugs.
Arthritis: Fish oil is useful in treating arthritis, rheumatism, Raynaud’s symptoms and similar conditions. Usage of fish oil can help reducing the dosage of NSAIDs (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). The Royal Adelaide Hospital, Australia, and University of Newcastle, Australia have reported that large quantities of fish oil have shown positive effect on the treatment of arthritis. In case of osteoarthritis, fish oil can be helpful in reducing the impact of enzymes that destroy cartilages. However, since the dosage of fish oil required for desirable effect in the improvement of a patient is unknown, the Arthritis Center, Department of Rheumatology, John Hopkins University, considers including omega 3 fatty acids and fish oil in the treatment of arthritis as controversial. The University also cautions that there may appear certain side effect due to the use of fish oil in arthritis patients. Read more about arthritis on the webpage of Arthritis Foundation and Arthritis Center.
Depression and Anxiety: Due to the presence of Omega 3 fatty acids, fish oil is good for relieving depression, sadness, anxiety, restlessness, mental fatigue, stress, decreased sexual desire, suicidal tendencies and other nervous disorders. Researchers at the Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine, Cleveland, Ohio in their research publication titled “Fish Oils and Bipolar Disorder: A Promising but Untested Treatment” state that fish oil can be useful in mood stabilizing and treating bipolar disorders. No wonder, it has been found that countries where fish is eaten often have low incidence of depression. Similarly research conducted on prisoners has shown that when prisoners were fed with sea food containing higher amount of omega three fatty acids, there was a significant drop in the homicide rate.
Alzheimer’s Disease: Research conducted at the Louisiana State University has shown that fatty acids are effective in treating Alzheimer’s disease. Since fish oil is one of the best sources of essential fatty acids including EPA and DHA, it helps in Alzheimer disease. Research conducted at the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) validates the usefulness of fish oil as a possible remedy for the disease. The Alzheimer’s Association recommends fish containing higher content of omega three fatty acids to patients as it acts as a protective diet during Alzheimer disease and dementia.
ADHD or ADD: Fish oil has the ability to treat Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) due to the high concentration of fatty acids. If your child suffers from hyperactivity, dyslexia, dyspraxia, inability to complete tasks, emotional instability, wavering attitude, poor coordination, short attention span, short term memory, low concentration, tendency to interrupt others, recklessness, hastiness, impetuosity, impulsiveness, low IQ, or learning disorders, fish oil supplements, tablets, pills or capsules are a proven remedy. Research conducted at the University of South Australia and CSIRO has shown that when children suffering from ADHD were given doses of fish oil and evening primrose capsules for 15 weeks, they showed significant improvement. Since brain consists of about 60% of fats, especially essential fatty acids such as omega 3 and omega 6, fish oil helps in improving the functioning of the brain. Further, it is believed that fish oil is useful in the normal development of the brain. It helps your kid concentrate on the studies better. It has been further found that when pregnant women are given regular doses of fish oil, the born toddlers show enhanced hand eye coordination. Facts about ADHD.
Eye Disorders: It is well known that fish oil is good for its ability to improve vision. It also helps in avoiding age related macular degeneration. The National Eye Institute at the National Institute of Health, US, plans to conduct a nation-wide study to evaluate the effect of fish oil in treating macular degeneration. This study will provide strong scientific evidence to the benefits of fish oil for eye care, thereby enabling government agencies and physicians to strongly recommend fish oil for macular degeneration.
Skin Care: Fish oil helps in improving the condition of poor and dry skin by making it shinny and glowing. It is useful in treating various skin problems such as eczema, psoriasis, itching, redness of skin, skin lesions, and rashes. In case of psoriasis, the EPA present in fish oil restricts the growth of pro-inflammatory agents by producing arachidonic acid. Fish oil can also be applied topically to obtain relief from psoriasis. Regular intake of fish oil capsules helps in reducing loss of moisture from the skin. It is also claimed by some people that fish oil helps in preventing sunburns.
Acne: Fish oil is effective for acne as well. EPA is known to inhibit androgen formation. Androgen can affect the formation of sebum in hair follicle.
Cancer: Fish oil is useful in delaying weight loss in patients suffering from pancreatic cancer. Fish oil supplements can also be helpful to patients suffering from cancer related hyperlipidemia.
Diabetes: Type II diabetic patients are more prone to cardio vascular diseases such as coronary heart disease, atherosclerosis, and stroke. As mentioned above, fish oil is helpful in treating various heart problems. Research conducted at the University of Oxford, UK, has proved that fish oil is useful in reducing triglyceride levels in diabetes as well.
Ulcers: The symptoms of peptic ulcer include pain in the abdomen, heartburn, indigestion, nausea, loss in appetite, weight loss, etc. Due to the presence of EPA and DHA, fish oil can be helpful in case of ulcers caused by NSAIDs.
Pregnancy: Fish oil is very useful for pregnant women as DHA present in it helps in the development of the eyes and brain of the baby. It helps in avoiding premature births, low weight at birth, and miscarriage. Research conducted in Denmark, which involved 8,729 pregnant women, concluded that diet with low amounts of fish resulted in higher risk of premature or preterm babies. It is also believed that women who do not have a sufficient intake of EPA and DHA in their diet suffer from depression after birth as there is transfer of some amount of brain mass from the mother to the child in the last stages of pregnancy. Moreover, as mentioned above, when pregnant women are given fish oil supplements, the born kids show enhanced coordination between eye and hand. Thus it is very beneficial to consume fish oil either by eating fish or taking fish oil supplements, tablets, capsules, or pills during pregnancy for the overall development of the child and well being of the mother. However, it should be noted that fish oil obtained from the liver of the fish, example – cod liver oil, should not be consumed during pregnancy as cod liver oil is rich in retinol and vitamin A.
Fertility: Preliminary research conducted on boar has shown that when male boars are fed with diet containing fish oil, the quality of the sperm is enhanced. After ejaculation, the sperms have increased survival against lipid peroxidative attacks in the female genital tract, thereby increasing the chances of conception. On the other hand, similar animal studies have shown inhibition in the synthesis of prostaglandin E and prostaglandin F, which are produced in large quantities by human seminal vesicles. The research found no impact in the count and mobility of sperm.
Hair Care: Fish oil helps maintain a good luster of the hair. Omega three has hair growing properties as it provides nourishment to the follicles. It therefore aids in faster development of hair and preventing hair loss. A good supply of proteins is also necessary for hair growth. Since most fish varieties are rich in protein, eating fish helps in keeping healthy hair.
It is also believed that fish oil helps in asthma and kidney failure. Many people also like to feed fish oil to their pets especially dog and cat as it enables in the growth of shinny hair and smooth skin. It also helps the dogs and cats deal with arthritis, which is a very common disease among pets.
The National High Blood Pressure Education Program, US, has cautioned against wrongful publicity of fish oil as an effective means of lowering high blood pressure in patients suffering from hypertension. According to its report, fish oil supplements lowers high blood pressure only to a small extent in hypertensive patients. Research conducted at the Channing Laboratory, Boston, US has revealed that moderate doses of fish oil supplements have little effect on the condition of high blood pressure in normotensive persons.
Should we replace vegetable oils with fish oil?
No. There are many websites which advice people to stop eating these vegetable oil and switch to fish oil for increasing the intake of omega 3 fatty acids. However, it should be noted that most of these websites take a bias towards fish oil to increase the sales of their products. There is no doubt that fish oil is one of the best sources of omega 3 essential fatty acids. However, other sources should also be consumed.
Here is a brief on Omega 3 fatty acids and Omega 6 fatty acids. There are three types of Omega 3 fatty acids, namely alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), and Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA). All three are important for the body. Vegetable sources including flax seed oil, soybean oil, hemp oil, canola oil, walnut oil, rapeseed, perilla, chia and tofu are rich in ALA. The human body has the ability to convert ALA to DHA and EPA, though there are limitations to this conversion. It has been found that ALA is also useful in treating heart problems; however, the exact mechanism is yet unknown.
GLA, an important Omega 6 fatty acid, shows promise in the treatment of cancer. It is believed that GLA is useful in treating various problems including arthritis, obesity, heart disease, high blood pressure, skin problems, breast pain, premenstrual syndrome and diabetes. The best source for GLA is evening primrose oil.
Caution on dosage: Excessive dosage of fish oil can have adverse allergies and side effects on the body. Further, fish oil can be problematic in many conditions and hence it is necessary to fish oil supplements cautiously. You should consult a doctor or physician for the exact dosage of fish oil you should take. Moreover, fish oil can be consumed in various forms. These include eating the fish directly by baking, roasting, frying, grilling, broiling, or smoking it or eating fish oil which is available in the form of concentrated dietary supplements such as liquid, tablet, capsule, pill, soft gel, etc. Also, there are various pharmaceutical grades of fish oil. You should also consult your doctor to check the mode of eating fish oil.
Fish oil purity
Purity of fish oil is also an important issue which one must pay attention to. Fish oil is obtained from fresh water, farm, ocean, deep sea and shallow sea fish. All these fish can be contaminated with toxic compounds such as mercury, arsenic, lead, forms of calcium, furans, dioxins, PCBs, and methyl mercury, and may affect the human body. Therefore, the fish oil should be pure. Many companies also sell ultra refined fish oil or distilled fish oil, but you should always check if the standards have been followed.
Fish oil and Vitamins
Vitamin A and Vitamin D: Fish oil, especially the one obtained from liver such as the cod liver oil, is a rich source of vitamin A and vitamin D. However, excessive dosage of cod liver oil can lead to Vitamin toxicity, accumulation of excessive vitamins in the body, which can cause side effects.
Vitamin E: There are various beliefs surrounding fish oil and vitamin E. These are:
Fish oil undergoes oxidation and can become rancid, leading to formation of free radicals. Addition of antioxidants such as vitamin E to fish oil can help prevent the formation of these free radicals.
Excessive dosage of fish oil leads to reduction of Vitamin E in the human body. This loss of vitamin E should be supplemented with external vitamin E supplements.
The combination of fish oil and vitamin E can have added benefit in the treatment of many cancers and heart diseases, than if they are used individually.
Preliminary research has been carried out which prove the above beliefs; however, these need to be substantiated with detailed research before drawing strong conclusions on the use of fish oil and vitamin E.
Further Reading.source;:http://www.organicfacts.net
What is Good or Bad Cholestrol?
31 Tuesday Jan 2012
Posted by itrustallah in Cholesterol
≈ Leave a comment
If you’ve been wondering about commonly used cholesterol terms like HDL and LDL, or good cholesterol and bad cholesterol, then you’ve come to the right place. For instance, did you know that cholesterol deposits in your lower body’s arteries could give you foot ulcers? Read what cardiologist, Dr. Rahul Gupta, has to say about the truth behind cholesterol:
What is Cholesterol? Cholesterol is a fat like substance essential to human health. It is an integral part of cell membranes and is used in the production of vitamin D, various hormones and bile acids in our body. Cholesterol is made in our liver and is also present in foods derived from poultry, like meat.
Ok, now that I know what cholesterol is, what is LDL and HDL? LDL or Low Density Lipoprotien and HDL or High Density Lipoprotien are essentially transport vehicles for cholesterol. LDL transports cholesterol to tissues and arteries where the cholesterol can create blockages and hence is bad. On the other hand, HDL transports the cholesterol back to the liver from tissues and prevents deposition in the arteries and hence is good.
So, if the amount of LDL is high and cholesterol gets deposited in your arteries, it is bad for you as it could make the arteries narrower. The effect of the narrowing depends on which artery is affected. The different complications that could take place as a result are: Angina, heart attacks, heart failure, stroke or kidney diseases. The narrowing of arteries in the lower limbs could also lead to ulcers in the foot.
When should I get my cholesterol checked? Due to increasing changes in our lifestyles and the junk-food culture, the incidences of heart attacks among younger generations have gone up. Therefore, it is recommended that you get your first cholesterol check done at 20 years of age, and then follow it up with cholesterol checks every five years. People who have raised levels of cholesterol and those who already suffer from conditions like hypertension, diabetes or have a family history of heart disease, and smokers should repeat it more frequently.
What a cholesterol test involves: The level of cholesterol is determined by a blood test done after 12 hours of fasting.
How can I keep my cholesterol levels in check? A combination of a healthy diet and lifestyle will keep cholesterol levels in check. This includes reducing your intake of saturated fats by reducing the butter, cheese, coconut oil, cream, egg yolks, poultry skin, red meat and whole milk in your diet.
MUFA (Mono unsaturated fatty acid) and PUFA (Polyunsaturated fatty acid) are heart healthy fats and their intake should be increased for better cholesterol levels. Almonds, canola oil, cashews, hazelnuts, olive oil , peanut butter, peanut oil, sunflower oil, avocados, soya bean and soya bean oil, walnuts, corn oil, tuna, pumpkin seeds etc. are good sources of MUFA and PUFA. Poultry without skin and fish are low in cholesterol. Cereals, fresh fruit, and vegetables contain no cholesterol.
Alterations in the diet should be combined with regular exercises like brisk walking, brisk cycling, running, and swimming to help keep cholesterol levels low. Medication for cholesterol is recommended only to those who are at a high risk of heart disease and who have been unable to control their cholesterol with diet and exercise.
Cholesterol Control Natural Herbal Remedies
17 Tuesday Jan 2012
Posted by itrustallah in Cholesterol, Home remides
≈ Leave a comment
Apple Malus domestica
Common Names
Apple , Apple cider vinegar, wine vinegar
Botanical Name
Malus domestica
Syn. M.sylvestris
Family
ROSACEAE Rose Family
Parts Used:fruit, flowers, bark
Constituents:acetic-acid,alpha-linolenic-acid, benzoic-acid, benzyl-acetate, caffeic-acid, calcium-oxalate, chlorogenic-acid , ferulic-acid, geraniol, hyperoside, isoquercitrin, lactic-acid,lutein,p-coumaric-acid, protocatechuic-acid, quercetin, rutin,sugar, ursolic-a
Apple Medicinal Uses & Benefits
Apples contain malic and tartic acids, and salts of potassium, sodium, magnesium, and iron. Regular consumption can even lower cholesterol and help prevent plaque buildup in your arteries, giving weight to the old saw ‘An apple a day‘. Herbalists consider apples to be cleansing and tonic to the liver and kidneys. The best of the medicinal compounds are contained in the apple peel ,so buy organic whenever possible and always wash throughly.84Apple cider vinegar is such a useful and versatile substance, truly no household should be without it. You can’t go wrong with something that is good to eat and cleans and disinfects the bathroom to boot. When it is made from whole, crushed apples vinegar contains all the nutrition of apples, with some added enzymes and amino acids formed by fermentation. 125 Vinegar is often touted for its alkalinizing effect as a balance to the many acid producing foods we tend to overeat, like meats and grains. There is some disagreement over whether vinegar, which is an acidic substance, makes the body more acidic, which acts to prevent food poisoning by killing harmful bacteria, 124or whether it indeed has an alkalinizing effect on the body. In any case, there is wide agreement that two or three tablespoons of vinegar as a daily tonic works to decrease inflammation, increase metabolism, and help to maintain a healthy balance in the body.The entire apple tree is useful in home and herbal medicine. In addition to the fruit of the apple tree, its bark, flowers, and leaves all have healthy properties. Herbalists use the apple tree much like its cousin the rose, for its astringent properties. The inner bark of the apple tree as well as blossoms are an astringent tonic, and can be used as an infusion for sore throats. The wild crab apple tree is considered better than modern cultivars for use in herbal medicine. 126
In the Kitchen: You can also buy vinegars infused with herbs and spices, but you can easily make your own infused vinegars at home using herbs, spices and fruits. It is a great way to preserve the best of the autumn harvest of herbs from your garden, and you end up with a much fresher, better product.
Apple Side Effects:
Apple seeds are toxic – try not to eat them with your apple, and never consume more than one apples worth of seeds.^ Top^
How to Use: Apple
Preparation Methods & Dosage :Eat organic apples! To help bulk up watery stools, bake an apple pie with the peel on, or make some homemade apple sauce. Use apple vinegar as a salad dressing and in sauces. Vinegar is used to preserve herbs, and herbs add healthy properties and taste to the vinegar. Strive for two tablespoons of vinegar a day in your diet. Add vinegar to baths and hair rinses. You can use vinegar for most everyday cleaning tasks. It is naturally anti-fungal and leaves the bathroom, windows, and glass ware clean and shiny. The best way to clean fresh produce is a solution of one part vinegar to three parts cold water, which removes 98 percent of the bacteria. Combine vinegar with baking soda, add a few drops of antibacterial essential oils and you can clean just about anything.
fresh ginger root
Common Names
Ginger Root , Luyang Dilaw
Botanical Name
Zingiber officinale
Family
ZINGIBERACEAE Ginger Family
Common Uses:Amenorrhea * Arthritis * Bruises * Cholesterol * Circulation * Colds * Cramps * Culinary * Digestion * Fibromyalgia * Flu * Gout * Heart * IBS * Lupus * Nausea * Rheumatoid_arthritis * Sprains *
Properties: Analgesic* Anodyne* Antioxidant* Antispasmodic* Aphrodisiac* Aromatic* Arthritis* Astringent* Cancer* COX-2 Inhibitor* Digestive* Muscle Relaxant* Stimulant* Vasodilator* Warm*
Parts Used:Root
Constituents:volatile oil,(mainly zingiberone and bisabolene), oleoresin (containing the pungent principles gingerols, shogaols and zingerone), fats, protein, starch, vitamins a and b, minerals, amino acids.
See Also:Long Pepper, Pippali *
Ginger Medicinal Uses & Benefits
Ginger may be one of the most important plants used in herbal medicine, it is certainly one of the most used. The cultivation of this plant extends so far back in human history that specific origins are hard to trace, however, ginger is mentioned in the eldest medical texts from both India and China. Ginger is one of the most prescribed herbs in TCM, Sheng-jiang (fresh ginger) is used in the treatment of colds for it’s ability to elimintate toxins and raise body heat. 107Ginger is also a blood thinner, which which may help reduce angina episodes by lowering cholesterol. White, 560 The increase in blood flow helps relieve abdominal cramps and open the pelvis to bring on menstruation. Gladstar 36Ginger can be used safely to treat such a wide range of health problems, from simple nausea 18 to arthritis. 17 The aspect I most appreciate about ginger is what a good supporting player it is in herbal formulas. Ginger combines well with many herbs, improving taste and potency. Ginger speeds up the delivery of healthy plant chemicals into the bloodstream. Make the firm, smooth skinned roots of fresh ginger root a household staple, and keep plenty of ginger on hand for both herbal medicine and healthy cooking.
Ginger oil has a warm, spicy-woody odor. Warms the body and relaxes tight and sore muscles.
Traditional Chinese Medicine
The Chinese names for ginger Gan-jiang dried ginger, and Sheg-jiang, fresh ginger, mean to defend, suggesting that ginger helps protect the body from cold. Pulverized fresh ginger applied as a poultice to the head two to three times a day was once used as a (Chinese) folk treatment for baldness, and fresh ginger rubbed on the affected area is a folk remedy for virtiligo. The juice squeezed from the fresh root has also been used in the treatment of burns. In modern China ginger is probably used in half of all Chinese herbal prescriptions. Chinese healers believe than even moderate amounts of ginger tea strengthen the lungs and the kidneys.
Ayurvedic Medicine
Ayruvedic Name: Sunthi, nagara (dry) Ardraka (fresh) * * Tastes (Rashas) : sweet,pungent * Energy (virya): heating * Dosha : VK- P+
Ginger is an important part of Ayurvedic medicine and cooking, and may have originated in tropical Indian.
Ginger Side Effects:
Ginger is a blood thinner, if you are taking prescription blood thinners, have a bleeding disorder, or have gallbladder disease don’t take medicinal doses of ginger. Pregnant women should be cautious in their use of ginger, it can stimulate the uterus.^ Top^
How to Use: Ginger
Preparation Methods & Dosage :The fresh grated ginger root, readily available at most food stores, is a great addition to herbal teas, adding a spicy, hot zest to your favorite dishes. The essential oil is marvelous in massage blends and aroma lamps. Ginger combines well with turmeric, which is also anti-inflammatory and pain-relieving.
Common Names
Garlic , Poor Man’s Treacle, Bawang, Bauang
Botanical Name
Allium sativum
Family
LILIACEAE Lily Family
Common Uses:Allergies * Asthma * Bronchitis * Burns * Cancer * Candida * Cholesterol * Colds * Colitis * Culinary * Flu * Fungus * Heart * Herpes * Insect_repellent * Parasites * Pests * Sinus * Smoking * Sore_throat *
Properties: Antibacterial* Antifungal* Antispasmodic* Arthritis* Diaphoretic* Emmenagogue* Expectorant* Galactagogue* Hypotensive* Stimulant* Vermifuge* Vulnerary*
Parts Used:bulb
Constituents:allicin, citral, geraniol, linalool, phellandrene, s-methyl-1-cysteine sulfoxide
Garlic Medicinal Uses & Benefits
Cooking with garlic is good for the heartScratch a home remedy, and you are likely to smell the the penetrating odor of garlic. In these hard economic times, readily available and inexpensive garlic may be the first line of defense in treating high blood pressure, and dealing with common skin and fungal infections like swimmers ear, athetes foot and acne. Garlic also provides a safe and effective way to kill intestinal worms and other parasites that has been confirmed by scientific studies.Dawson 138The common garlic, a member of the same family as the onion, is of such a antiquity as a cultivated plant, that it is difficult with any certainty to trace the country of its origin. Garlic is mentioned in several Old English vocabularies of plants from the tenth to fifteenth centuries, and is described by the herbalists of the sixteenth century from Turner (1548) onwards, and Garlic was a well respected antidote during the black plague. 105Today garlic has found new respect from the modern scientific community for use in serious illness as well. Garlic contains allicin, a most impressive broad-spectrum antimicrobial as well as over thirty other medicinal compounds. Garlic and onions have long been used to treat bronchitis, allergies and asthma by helping to open the lungs and ease breathing. The ingredients responsible include mustard oils and quercetin. Garlic belongs to the allium genus which includes onions, shallots, leeks, scallions, and chives. This group of herbs are important in improving the digestibility of meats and other heavy foods and well as adding other healthy antioxidant and antimicrobial properties to your home cooking. Garlic and its cousin onion contain substances that discourage platelets from sticking together and prevent blood clots, helping to naturally thin the blood. They also lower total cholesterol and triglycerides, another type of blood fat, all the while increasing HDL, “good cholesterol”. 11 Garlic may also lower blood-sugar levels in people with diabetes. 106
In the Kitchen: To maximize the health benefits, you should crush the garlic at room temperature and allow it to sit for about 15 minutes. That triggers an enzyme reaction that boosts the healthy compounds in garlic.To preserve the antimicrobial activity of garlic mix into cooked foods at the last minute.
Ayurvedic Medicine
Ayruvedic Name: Ransoon * * Tastes (Rashas) : sweet,pungent,bitter,astringent * Energy (virya): heating,drying * Dosha : VK- P+
Ransoon , meaning lacking one taste ( sour), works on all tissues. Garlic is a very popular herb in Indian medicine for many disorders and as a general tonic.
Garlic Side Effects:
Can cause a skin rash in sensitive people. Over consumption can cause heartburn and gas. Moderation is the key here.^ Top^
How to Use: Garlic
Preparation Methods & Dosage :Garlic can and should be used liberally in food, either powdered or freshly chopped. Two cloves or more a day are considered a medicinal dose. Eating 2 to 3 fresh garlic cloves a day has many health benefits including diabetes, arthritis and heart health. To make it more palatable, mash the garlic cloves with a spoonful of honey A simple garlic based broth may be more effective than chicken soup! Garlic and it’s close relatives (chives, leeks and onions) can be applied directly to burns in a poultice. Or cut an onion in half and squeeze the juice on the burn. Garlic infused oils can be used topically or in cooking. Crushed garlic is a good addition to any homemade insecticide spray. Garlic cloves, placed in the ground around plants will deter slugs. Garlic is a natural pesticide against mosquito larvae.source.http://www.anniesremedy.com
Natural Home Remedies for High Cholesterol
29 Thursday Dec 2011
Posted by itrustallah in Cholesterol
≈ 1 Comment
Natural Home Remedies for High Cholesterol
1. Add one teaspoon of honey and one teaspoon of lime juice in one cup of hot water. Take it daily in morning for natural lowering cholesterol
2. Take lecithin rich diet like egg yolk, vegetable oils, wholegrain cereals, soyabeans, and unpasturised milk. With proper intake of lecithin, cholesterol cannot build up against the walls of the arteries and veins. It is one of the most effective cholesterol lowering diets.
3. Take foods rich in Vitamin E like sunflower seeds, safflower, soyabean oils, butter, and sprouted seed and grains
4. Take Vitamins B6, choline and inositol rich diet such as wheat germ, yeast or vitamin B extracted from bran
5. Boil two tablespoons of dry seeds of coriander in a glass of water and strain the decoction after cooling. Take this decoction twice a day for lowering cholesterol
6. Take onion juice to reduce cholesterol, clean the blood, and regulate the heart
7. Add a teaspoon of methi powder in a glass of water. Take it empty stomach for one month
8. Take fenugreek seeds to control high serum cholesterol
High Cholesterol Causes Heart Disease
29 Thursday Dec 2011
Posted by itrustallah in Cholesterol
≈ 2 Comments
High Cholesterol Causes Heart Disease
Too much cholesterol in the blood, or high blood cholesterol, can be serious. People with high blood cholesterol have a greater chance of getting heart disease. High blood cholesterol on its own does not cause symptoms, so many people are unaware that their cholesterol level is too high.
Cholesterol can build up on the walls of your arteries (blood vessels that carry blood from the heart to other parts of the body). This buildup of cholesterol is called plaque (plak). Over time, plaque can cause narrowing of the arteries. This is called atherosclerosis (ath-er-o-skler-O-sis), or hardening of the arteries.
Special arteries, called coronary arteries, bring blood to the heart. Narrowing of your coronary arteries due to plaque can stop or slow down the flow of blood to your heart. When the arteries narrow, the amount of oxygen-rich blood is decreased. This is called coronary artery disease (CAD). Large plaque areas can lead to chest pain called angina (an-JI-nuh or AN-juh-nuh). Angina happens when the heart does not receive enough oxygen-rich blood. Angina is a common symptom of CAD.
Some plaques have a thin covering and burst (rupture), releasing fat and cholesterol into the bloodstream. The release of fat and cholesterol may cause your blood to clot. A clot can block the flow of blood. This blockage can cause angina or a heart attack.
Lowering your cholesterol level decreases your chance for having a plaque burst and cause a heart attack. Lowering cholesterol may also slow down, reduce, or even stop plaque from building up. Plaque and resulting health problems can also occur in arteries elsewhere in the body.
Healthy Cholesterol Levels
29 Thursday Dec 2011
Posted by itrustallah in Cholesterol
≈ Leave a comment
Healthy Cholesterol Levels
What cholesterol levels are healthy varies from persong to person. If you have several risk factors for heart disease, such as diabetes, smoking, or high blood pressure, you should find out from your doctor what your own target levels should be. If you have one or no such risk factors, a total cholesterol level below 200 is usually desirable, while a HDL level greater than 35 is also good. Most important, your LDL level should be less than 130. However, since no one’s numbers ever match up exactly with the textbook figures, it’s good to have your doc help you with the figuring and interpreting of your lab values.
What Causes High LDL Cholesterol Levels?
29 Thursday Dec 2011
Posted by itrustallah in Cholesterol
≈ 1 Comment
Some of the factors that can lead to high cholesterol are:
Overweight – Excess weight has been linked with high cholesterol levels.
Heredity – If cholesterol problems or heart disease run in your family, you are at a higher risk for having problems.
Diet – Remember the saying “you are what you eat”? Avoid foods that are high in cholesterol, saturated fat, and trans fat, all of which increase cholesterol levels and your risk of developing heart disease.
Physical activity – Exercise tends to increase HDL levels, which lowers your chance of developing heart disease.
Age – The risk of high cholesterol increases as you get older.
SOURCE;http://www.hindustanlink.com/
Tips to Lower Cholesterol Level
29 Thursday Dec 2011
Posted by itrustallah in Cholesterol
≈ Leave a comment
Tips to Lower Cholesterol Level
The only way to check your cholesterol is to visit your doctor and have a blood cholesterol test. This is a simple, painless procedure. If you are over 40, you should have your cholesterol level checked each year. High cholesterol levels are the result of three main factors. (a) Our genes. (b) Our diet. (c) Our lifestyle.
We can’t change our genes, but we can change our diet and lifestyle. To lower your cholesterol level, here are five simple tips:
Reduce your total fat-intake.
Eliminate your consumption of saturated fat.
Increase your consumption of soluble fiber. Unprocessed plant foods, like vegetables, dried beans, lentils, fruit (esp. berries, bananas, apples and citrus fruits) and oats or oat-bran are good sources of soluble fiber.
Stop smoking.
Take regular exercise.
Cholesterol:Over View
29 Thursday Dec 2011
Posted by itrustallah in Cholesterol
≈ Leave a comment
Cholesterol is a soft, fat-like, waxy substance found in the bloodstream and in all your body’s cells. It’s normal to have cholesterol. It’s an important part of a healthy body because it’s used for producing cell membranes and some hormones, and serves other needed bodily functions. But too much cholesterol in the blood is a major risk for coronary heart disease, which leads to heart attack. It’s also a risk factor for stroke. Hypercholesterolemia is the term for high levels of blood cholesterol.
You get cholesterol in two ways. Your body makes some of it, and the rest comes from cholesterol in animal products that you eat, such as meats, poultry, fish, eggs, butter, cheese and whole milk. Food from plants — like fruits, vegetables and cereals — doesn’t have cholesterol. Some foods that don’t contain animal products may contain trans fats, which cause your body to make more cholesterol. Foods with saturated fats also cause the body to make more cholesterol.
Cholesterol and other fats can’t dissolve in the blood. They have to be transported to and from the cells by special carriers called lipoproteins. There are two kinds that you need to know about. Low-density lipoprotein, or LDL, is known as the “bad” cholesterol. Too much LDL cholesterol can clog your arteries, increasing your risk of heart attack and stroke. High-density lipoprotein, or HDL, is known as the “good” cholesterol. Your body makes HDL cholesterol for your protection. It carries cholesterol away from your arteries. Studies suggest that high levels of HDL cholesterol reduce your risk of heart attack.
← Older posts
Subscribe
Entries (RSS)
Comments (RSS)
Archives
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
August 2010
Categories
– Salem al-Amry Videos
2012 Collection Suits
4 Human Rights & Liberation of Palestine!
4 Yoga Poses to Reduce Belly Fat
Acne
Advices before marriage for husband & wife
Al Ruqyah Al Shariah Full
Anti-Aging Tips
Apple Cider Vinegar
Arm Slimming yoga
Asthma Cures
Ayurvedic Diet for Heart Care
Baby Care Tips
Bad Breath
Beauty Tips
Benefits of Tulsi
Best Anti-Aging Superfoods
Best Dua to teach our childrens
Black Magic Topic
BRAIN DAMAGING HABITS
breast firm
BREASTFEEDING:
Bronchitis
Bust Booster Yoga
Butt Acne Fast
cancer topic
Cholesterol
CINNAMON SIDE EFFECTS AND BENEFITS
Clean Your Kidney With parsley
cold and flu
computer related
computer releated
control Your BP
Cooking
Diabetes
Digestive
Dreams in Islam
Dressing
Dry Cough
Dua
Dua for students
Dua'a for RIZQ
Educational videos…
English Grammer
Exam Tips
Eyesight Myths
Face exersice
fever
First Ten Days of Hajj
Friends
Gassy Baby/Colic
General Knowledge
Glowing Skin
Hair Remedies
Health
Health Benefits of Fennel Seeds
Healthy Breakfast For Weight Loss
Heart Problem
Herbal Remedies
Hijab tutorial
Hip-opening Yoga Poses for Beginners
Home remides
Hormone balance
How healthy is the tulsi?
How stress affects the body and mind?
How to choose a wife:
How to Dream of the Prophet (SAW)
How to get a good nights sleep…Hadith
Indian Gooseberry
Islam
Istikharah: How to and Why?
Jesus Christ in Islam
jokes
Kida Health Tips
kidney
Kids Health Tips
kids yoga
Kitchen tips
Lessons From Surah Al Kahf
Liver Cleanse
LOOK YOUNGER!
Marriage in islam
Memorize
MINT
Mouth-watering recipes from the bowls of India
My Personal Private
Natural Allergy Relief
Natural Brazilian Butt Lift Exercises
Natural Sound Peaceful Meditation Sleep
Never lose hope in the mercy of Allah
News
Power Yoga/by Bryan Kest – [1/14]
pregenancy related
Protecting Your Skin from the Sun
Quran Recetation
Safe Sleep for Babies
Science
Shiak Mohamed Salh Videos
Signs of a Death in Islam
songs
Stability Ball Exercises
story
summer heat…
sunscreen homeremides
Symptoms of Hormonal Imbalance
Teaching Ideas
Tecnology
The danger of jinns and black magic
The most efficient ways to memorize the Quran
The Qur'an Chapter 19 Mary [English]
The True Message of Jesus Christ (pbuh)
Thyroid
Tips
Top exotic fruits and vegetables list
Top Natural Hormone Balancing Foods
Uncategorized
Understands Papaya Benefits
Useful Links
weight loose
Weight Loss
weight on your face
womens problem
Workout
Yoga
Yoga for a Better Night's Sleep
Yoga for Children
Yoga For Men:
yOga To ReDuCe BELLY FAT
Youtube
zakath
Zakir Naik Videos
Meta
Register
Log in
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy