Unbelievable But True – Here Is How You Can Heal Cavities In A Natural Way
Menu
Animals
DIY
Food
Funny
Health
Home
Humanity
Places
Shocking
Home
Humanity
Unbelievable But True – Here Is How You Can Heal Cavities In A Natural Way
Humanity
Unbelievable But True – Here Is How You Can Heal Cavities In A Natural Way
4 years ago
Prev Article Next Article
It may sound quite amazing and perhaps unbelievable, but you can be rest assured that what you’re about to read is completely true. From now on, you can say goodbye to all those expensive and harmful toothpastes that contain dangerous ingredients that can cause CANCER! You do not need to use conventional toothpaste bought in stores anymore. Also, the best news is that your visits to the dentist will be much reduced. We found a great and completely safe solution how to treat cavities in natural way.
All you need is a simple ingredient which you may already have in your home. Believe it or not, you can heal and prevent cavities with COCONUT OIL! Latest studies have proven that coconut oil stops cavities by attacking bacteria that cause it.
If health authorities insist on adding chemicals to water in order to stop tooth decay, then you should use natural coconut oil, not fluoride chemicals, based on the results of a new study. Researchers at the Institute of Technology Athlone (AIT) in Ireland have discovered that coconut oil has a great effect on inhibiting the growth of harmful bacteria which can cause cavities and infections in the mouth without any harmful side effects.
For their study, a team of researchers from the school add enzymes and several other coconut oils to mimic how these oils are usually processed during digestion. The team then applied digested form of each of the oils on several bacterial strains, including Streptococcus Mutans, the main acid producing bacteria, which often occurs in the mouth, and Candida Albicans – a very problematic strain of yeast that can cause fungal infection in human mouth.
Famous Hollywood actresses Gwyneth Paltrow and Shailene Woodley drew the attention of the public with the new trend of beauty, which has roots in ancient Ayurvedic medicine.
It is a treatment with daily oral rinse or coating with oil, which supposedly removes toxins from the body, strengthens immunity, removes toothache and headache, bronchitis, diseases of the intestines, heart and kidney disease, female diseases, cramps and many other diseases. Besides all of this oil pulling with coconut oil is a great way to whiten your teeth.
This therapy originated in Ayurveda, according to which the oral cavity is causing many diseases.
So here is how to oil pull using coconut oil:
Take about 2 teaspoons of coconut oil and put it in your mouth.
You can chew or hold the coconut oil in your mouth until it melts down and becomes liquid. This process takes about half a minute.
Once the oil is melted start to swish and pull the oil back and forth as well as sideways covering all of your teeth. Do this for about 20 minutes and then spit the oil.
You can start oil pulling this day and in just a month the cavities in your teeth will be all removed! Don’t FORGET To SHARE This Valuable INFORMATION With ALL Your Friends And Loved Ones.
Prev Article Next Article
Heartwarming And Entertaining Stories Right To Your Inbox
Leave this field empty if you're human:
Trendzified Copyright © 2019. About | DMCA | Privacy Policy | Submit Content