Genetic Testing - MedStar Harbor Hospital
×
Improve your experience
You're using a web browser that we don't support
Try one of these options to have a better experience on the MedStar Health site.
Please upgrade to FireFox, Chrome or Safari Thank You!
Close
Skip to content
medstarhealth.org
For Healthcare Professionals
Philanthropy
Classes & Events
Newsroom
Visitor Info
Find a Doctor
Medical Education
MYMEDSTAR
It's How We Treat People
Find a Doctor
Medical Education
My Medstar
For
Patients
For
Physicians
Our
Services
Our
Hospital
For Healthcare Professionals
Philanthropy
Classes & Events
Newsroom
Visitor Info
For
Patients
For
Physicians
Our
Services
Our
Hospital
NEED ASSISTANCE? | CALL 410-350-3200
Home > Our Services > Cancer Care > Why Choose Us > Genetic Testing
Share this page:
Most cancers are sporadic, meaning they are dependent on environmental factors such as diet or tobacco usage/exposure and not heredity—less than 5 percent of 1.5 million annual cancer cases (predominantly breast, ovarian, and colorectal cancers) are based on heredity.
However, family members can pass inherited cancer gene mutations from generation to generation. MedStar harbor Hospital provides genetic counseling or testing (a simple blood test to detect the gene) to patients who believe they may be affected by a hereditary factor.
This knowledge can provide patient options—including close monitoring or surgery to preemptively remove the areas where cancer may develop—and it may lead to prevention for future generations.
How do I learn about my inherited cancer risk and what can I do about it?
Our certified genetic counselor specializes in genetically inherited cancers. She will meet with you to assess your inherited cancer risk. During your initial two-hour assessment:
A family medical history will be taken
The role of inherited gene mutations will be explained
The likelihood that cancer-causing genes may have been (or may be) inherited by members of your family will be estimated
Your likelihood of developing cancer (at some time in your life) will be estimated
Ways to diagnose cancer at an early stage will be discussed
Opportunities to lower your risk of cancer will be discussed
From that meeting, some patients may pursue further genetic counseling where psychological and financial concerns are explored before deciding whether or not to pursue genetic testing. The testing itself requires only that a small sample of blood be drawn and sent to a genetics laboratory for analysis.
If you are identified as high-risk, we recommend increased screenings and suggest you discuss other risk-reducing options with your physician.
Who should seek genetic counseling and possible testing?
Patients who have strong family histories of cancer, especially a diagnosis of cancer at an early age, or who are in treatment for breast or ovarian cancer - or who are breast or ovarian cancer survivors - should seriously consider genetic testing.
If you test positive for a cancer gene mutation, this information is of vital importance to all your blood relatives: sisters, brothers, nieces, nephews, cousins, children, grandchildren and other family members. Each family member has a 50:50 chance of having inherited the mutated gene.
Today, there is opportunity to practice good cancer prevention. Medical and surgical preventions are available as well as lifestyle changes and cancer screening. If your family members know that they are at increased risk of developing cancer, they can actually take action to protect themselves.
A personal choice
We recognize that genetic testing is a very personal choice. While the test itself usually involves no more than providing a blood sample, test results can be far-reaching. Our cancer risk assessment and counseling program is designed to answer your questions about:
Risk assessment procedures
DNA testing
Benefits and limitations
Psychological effect
Family issues
Insurance and privacy issues
Employment issues
Cancer education
Cancer risk reduction
Medical options
Physician referrals
Location Information
For a physician referral, please call
410-350-3386
For more information about our clinical trials, please call
410-350-3718
MedStar Harbor Hospital
The Cancer Center
3001 South Hanover St.
Baltimore, MD 21225
Cancer Care Specialists
Meet the Team
Learn More
Screening Programs
Screening Guide
What’s Trending Now
Waterfront Magazine
Ways to Volunteer
Community Health
Leadership
Why Work at MedStar Harbor?
Benefits
Mission, Vision and Values
Awards and Accreditations
Helpful Links
myMedStar
Contact Us
General Information
Our Locations
Directions, Maps and Parking
Billing and Insurance
Financial Assistance Policy
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Site Map
Tweets by @MedStarHarbor
View All Social Media
Waterfront Magazine
In Waterfront, you’ll learn tips to live a healthy and active life, as well as how we care for our community through free and low-cost screenings and programs. At MedStar Harbor Hospital, we’re focused on you and your good health. Learn more.
Ride with UBER
Careers
Quality and Patient Safety
Ways to Give
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Feedback
© 2019 MEDSTAR HEALTH
MEDSTAR HARBOR HOSPITAL 3001 S Hanover St Baltimore, MD 21225 410-350-3200