Urinary tract infection (UTI) - Illnesses & conditions | NHS inform
Skip to main content
Menu
Search
Search:
Search
Home
Illnesses and conditions
Symptoms and self-help
Tests and treatments
Healthy living
Care, support and rights
Scotland's Service Directory
Home Illnesses and conditions Kidneys, bladder and prostate Urinary tract infection (UTI)
Urinary tract infection (UTI)
About urinary tract infections
Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are common infections that can affect the bladder, the kidneys and the tubes connected to them.
Anyone can get them, but they're particularly common in women. Some women experience them regularly (called recurrent UTIs).
UTIs can be painful and uncomfortable, but usually pass within a few days and can be easily treated with antibiotics.
This page is about UTIs in adults. There is a separate article about UTIs in children.
This page covers:
Symptoms
When to get medical advice
Treatment
Causes
Prevention
Symptoms of UTIs
Infections of the bladder (cystitis) or urethra (tube that carries urine out of the body) are known as lower UTIs. These can cause:
a need to pee more often than usual
pain or discomfort when peeing
sudden urges to pee
feeling as though you're unable to empty your bladder fully
pain low down in your tummy
urine that's cloudy, foul-smelling or contains blood
feeling generally unwell, achy and tired
Infections of the kidneys or ureters (tubes connecting the kidneys to the bladder) are known as upper UTIs. These can cause the above symptoms and also:
a high temperature (fever) of 38C (100.4ºF) or above
pain in your sides or back
shivering and chills
feeling and being sick
confusion
agitation or restlessness
Lower UTIs are common and aren't usually a cause for major concern. Upper UTIs can be serious if left untreated, as they could damage the kidneys or spread to the bloodstream.
UTI self-help guide
Complete this guide to assess your symptoms and find out if you should visit your GP, pharmacist or treat your condition at home.
Self-help guide: Urinary infection
When to get medical advice
It's a good idea to see your GP if you think you might have a UTI, particularly if:
you have symptoms of an upper UTI (see above)
the symptoms are severe or getting worse
the symptoms haven't started to improve after a few days
you get UTIs frequently
Your GP can rule out other possible causes of your symptoms by testing a sample of your urine and can prescribe antibiotics if you do have an infection.
Antibiotics are usually recommended because untreated UTIs can potentially cause serious problems if they're allowed to spread.
Treatment for UTIs
UTIs are normally treated with a short course of antibiotics.
Most women are given a three-day course of antibiotic capsules or tablets. Men, pregnant women and people with more serious symptoms may need a slightly longer course.
Your symptoms will normally pass within three to five days of starting treatment. But make sure you complete the whole course of antibiotics that you've been prescribed, even if you're feeling better.
Over-the-counter painkillers such as paracetamol can help with any pain. Drinking plenty of fluids may also help you feel better.
Return to your GP if your symptoms don't improve, get worse or come back after treatment.
Pharmacy First: UTI treatment from your local pharmacy
Women with certain types of UTI can seek advice and treatment directly from their pharmacist through the Pharmacy First scheme. Find your local pharmacy on Scotland's Service directory.
Pharmacies
Causes of UTIs
UTIs occur when the urinary tract becomes infected, usually by bacteria. In most cases, bacteria from the gut enter the urinary tract through the urethra.
This may occur when wiping your bottom or having sex, for example, but often it's not clear why it happens.
The following may increase your risk of getting a UTI:
conditions that obstruct your urinary tract, such as kidney stones
difficulty emptying your bladder fully
using a contraceptive diaphragm or condoms coated in spermicide
diabetes
a weak immune system – from chemotherapy or HIV, for example
a urinary catheter (a tube in your bladder used to drain urine)
an enlarged prostate gland in men
Women may be more likely to get UTIs because their urethra is shorter than a man's and is closer to their anus (back passage).
Preventing UTIs
If you get UTIs frequently, there are some things you can try that may stop it coming back. However, it's not clear how effective most of these measures are.
These measures include:
avoiding perfumed bubble bath, soap or talcum powder around your genitals – use plain, unperfumed varieties, and have a shower rather than a bath
going to the toilet as soon as you need to pee and always emptying your bladder fully
staying well hydrated
wiping your bottom from front to back when you go to the toilet
emptying your bladder as soon as possible after having sex
not using a contraceptive diaphragm or condoms with spermicidal lubricant on them – you may wish to use another method of contraception instead
wearing underwear made from cotton, rather than synthetic material such as nylon, and avoiding tight jeans and trousers
Speak to your GP if these measures don't work. They may suggest taking a long-term course of antibiotics or they may give you a prescription for antibiotics you can use as soon as you experience symptoms of a UTI.
There's currently little evidence to suggest that drinking cranberry juice or using probiotics significantly reduces your chances of getting UTIs.
Share Tweet
Print
Source: NHS 24
Last updated:
05 February 2019
Home Illnesses and conditions Kidneys, bladder and prostate Urinary tract infection (UTI)
How can we improve this page?
Help us improve NHS inform
Don’t include personal information e.g. name, location or any personal health conditions.
Email e.g. you@example.com
Message Maximum of 128 characters
Send feedback
Also on NHS inform
Self-help guide: Urinary infection
Urinary tract infection (UTI)
Cystitis
Urinary tract infection (UTI) in children
Kidney infection
Other health sites
SIGN: Managing bacterial urinary tract infections in adults
Health Protection Scotland: Scottish UTI Network (SUTIN)
Community content from Health Unlocked
NHS inform
About NHS inform
Contact us
Webchat
Feedback
Media enquiries
Info for Me tool
Freedom of information (FOI)
Accessibility
Editorial policy
Privacy and cookies policy
Terms and conditions
© 2019 NHS 24 - v0.0.0.0
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on YouTube
Chat to an NHS operator in our Live Chat - opens a new window