Save Your Knees By Squatting To Parallel | Daily Fitness Tip
Daily fitness tips from industry experts!
Muscle Building
Workout
Health
Diet & Nutrition
Weight Loss
Fitness
Motivation
Food
Supplements
Women’s Fitness
Contact
Fitness • Muscle Building • Workout
Save Your Knees By Squatting To Parallel
6 years ago
by Chris
Add Comment
231 Views
Written by Chris
It’s a common belief that squatting to parallel is bad for the knees. Because of this it is not uncommon to see people half-squatting or quarter-squatting with a barbell or on a Smith machine. Unfortunately this is a myth. Squatting above parallel is actually one of the worst things you can do for your knees.
When you focus on squats above parallel, you keep the pressure on your anterior chain. Anterior chain muscles include quads and abs. This creates an uneven sheer force which causes the patella tendon to pull forward and grind on the femur. Needless to say, this is very bad for the knees.
By squatting to parallel you bring into play the posterior chain muscles, including the hamstrings, hips and glutes. This helps to balance this shear force, making the squat a much safer exercise.
Share this tip:
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Email
Tumblr
Form Gains Goals Muscle Squats Workout
Don’t Substitute A Volume Of Sets For Intensity of Sets
Maximize Muscle Building Via Proper Exercise Ordering
You may also like
Fitness • Health • Mental Health • Weight Loss
Improve Your Sleep Quality to Maximize Your Goals
Lists • Muscle Building • Weight Loss
6 Tips for Core Strengthening
Fitness • Muscle Building • Weight Loss • Workout
How to Improve Vasodilation & Get a Better Pump
Fitness • Health • Muscle Building
Best Exercises to Build Bone Density
Diet & Nutrition • Food • Health • Muscle Building • Supplements
7 Vital Supplements for Vegan Bodybuilding
Fitness • Muscle Building • Weight Loss • Workout
Your Guide to HiiT : High Intensity Interval Training
About the author
Chris
View all posts
Leave a Reply	Cancel reply
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
TIP CATEGORIES
Diet & Nutrition
Fitness
Food
Health
Lists
Mental Health
Motivation
Muscle Building
Sex
Supplements
Weight Loss
Women's Fitness
Workout
LATEST TIPS
How to Manage Wheat Allergy Symptoms
Intimacy Anorexia Explained
Seven Surprising Ways You Are Destroying Your Diet
10 Instant Stress Busters Without Medicating
Improve Your Sleep Quality to Maximize Your Goals
DISCUSSION
John on 7 Foods To Build A Healthy Brain
Frankie on 7 Vital Supplements for Vegan Bodybuilding
the ultimate fat camp on 3 Simple Ways To Prevent Weight Gain
Reene on 6 Mistakes When Trying to Build a Muscular Chest
Tamie on Tip #30: Understand How Much Cardio It Takes To Burn Off Your Snack Food
RSS - Posts
RSS - Comments
Pages
Privacy – Cookie Policy
Privacy Policy
Submit Your Fitness Tip
Social
View FreeDailyFitnessTips’s profile on Facebook
View DailyFitnessCom’s profile on Twitter
View dailyfitnesstip’s profile on Pinterest
Contact Us
Top Posts & Pages
Tip #107: Burn 200 Calories In Only 3 Minutes Using This Cardio Approach
7 Vital Supplements for Vegan Bodybuilding
Copyright 2016 DailyFitnessTip - Fitness Tip Of The Day | Healthy Eating Plans | Privacy Policy
Subscribe To Get AWESOME Daily Fitness Tips delivered direct to your inbox.
Leave this field empty if you're human:
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
Cookies
This site uses cookies: Find out more.
Okay, thanks