Why Everyone Should Switch to Pink Himalayan Salt Immediately
Pages
Home
Animals
Humanity
Healthy
Funny
Environment
Love
Beautiful Places
Powered by Blogger.
Why Everyone Should Switch to Pink Himalayan Salt Immediately
Have you heard about the amazing Himalayan crystal salt that comes directly from the Himalayan Mountains? It is packed with some pretty amazing benefits and is an amazing new staple to add to your pantry. It is an absolutely wonderful alternative to table salt, and soon I’ll explain why.Image credit: Jun Seita
The History
First of all, what makes Himalayan crystal salt so amazing? About 200 million years ago, there were crystallized sea salt beds that were covered with lava. Being kept in this untouched, pristine environment that has been surrounded with snow and ice for so many years means that the salt has been protected from modern day pollution. Many people believe that this pink salt from the Himalayas is the purest salt that can be found on the planet.
Minerals & Energy
Himalayan Salt contains the same 84 trace minerals and elements that are found in the human body, that alone is quite impressive! A few of these minerals include: sodium chloride, sulphate, calcium, potassium and magnesium. When using this salt, you are actually getting less sodium intake per serving than regular table salt because it is less refined and the pieces are larger. Therefore Himalayan salt has less sodium per serving because the crystals or flakes take up less room than the highly processed table salt variety. Another cool thing about this salt is that because of its cellular structure it stores vibrational energy. The minerals in this salt exist in colloidal form, which means that they are small enough for our cells to easily absorb.
What Exactly Are The Benefits?
Some of the benefits that you can expect by consuming this salt in place of regular table salt include:
Aiding in vascular health
Supporting healthy lungs and respiratory function
Promoting a stable pH balance within the cells
Reducing the signs of aging
Promoting healthy sleep patterns
Increasing libido
Prevents muscle cramps
Increases hydration
Strengthen bones
Lowers blood pressure
Improves circulation
Detoxifying the body of heavy metals
Comparing Himalayan Salt To Other Salts
Sea Salt
While still a better choice than table salt, sea salt is becoming increasingly over processed and let’s face it, our oceans are becoming more and more polluted each year, just think about the massive oils spills that have occurred. Because of the pristine conditions that the pink salt is kept in, it is said to be the purest salt available today.
Table Salt
Regular, commercial table salt is completely stripped of the majority of its minerals with the exception of sodium and chloride. It is then bleached, cleaned with chemicals and then heated at extremely high temperatures. The iodine that is added to table salt is almost always synthetic which is difficult for our bodies to properly take in. It is treated with anti-caking agents, which prevents the salt from dissolving in water and in the salt container. These agents then prevent the salt from absorbing in our own bodies, which leads to a build up and deposit within the organs. This can cause severe health problems. Studies have shown that for each gram of table salt that is consumed that the body cannot process, your body will use 20 TIMES the amount of cellular water to neutralize the amount of sodium chloride that is present in this chemically treated salt.
This is large in part of how salt has gotten such a bad name. It is not necessarily salt that is unhealthy for us, it is refined table salt that is inferior for our health. Aside from that, many of us are consuming way too much processed food. These foods contain astronomical amounts of salt, and it isn’t the good kind. It’s not about limiting our amount of salt; it’s about consuming more natural, homemade whole foods. This way we can add salt while cooking or sprinkle some on our meals without having to worry about high blood pressure and so on.
You should be able to find this amazing Himalayan Crystal Salt at your local health food store, or easily online!
Source
Share this article
Newer Post Older Post
You Might Also Like
Newer
Stories
Older
Stories
Popular Posts
Yes, You Can Own A Fluffy Mini Cow. And They Make Great Pets!
You Haven’t Lived Until You’ve Heard Baby Sloths Having A Conversation
This High School Cross-Country Team Takes Lonely Shelter Dogs On Their Morning Runs
29 Pictures That Prove Cats Are Master Thieves
Trophy Hunter Who Kills Endangered Elephants and Lions 'Eaten By Crocodiles'
Watch This German Shepherd's Reaction When He Realizes His Owner's Not Behind Him
Ohio Judge Is Fed Up With Animal Abusers, Decides To Give Them A Taste Of Their Own Medicine
National Geographic’s Newest Issue Breaks Hearts With Photos Of The Harsh Reality Of Plastic Pollution
‘Dirt is Good’: Why Children Need More Exposure To Germs
Template Created By ThemeXpose | Distributed By Gooyaabi Templates. All Rights Reserved.
Back to top