Recovering quickly from the extraction of wisdom teeth – Care Video
Responsive Menu
Monday, April 22 , 2019
Care Video
Dental Videos and Information
Responsive Menu
Search
Oral Health: Common mistakes
Blog
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Recovering quickly from the extraction of wisdom teeth
Blog
Recovering quickly from the extraction of wisdom teeth
9 March 2017
ileanaT
Wisdom teeth are located behind your molars in the back end of the jaw. Due to changes in diet and anatomy , these wheels tend to be affected, which means they cannot leave the gum line and begin to interfere with the proper alignment of other teeth . In these cases, the dentist will recommend the removal of these wheels. The recovery of the extraction of wisdom teeth usually take a week, especially it was a complicated or difficult extraction.
Repose
The most important part of recovery of such extractions is sure to make proper rest. You can order a few days off or schedule surgery for a Friday afternoon, so that you can recover for the weekend. Avoid strenuous activities that can drop points or dislodge a blood clot in the tooth cavity at least for a week.
Hemorrhage
Leave the gauze dentist or surgeon used to cover the wound in place for at least 30 minutes. Change it as you have indicated. Do not spit blood, as this could dislodge a clot. If minor bleeding persists, you can use a bag of warm or cold as a poultice tea. The tannin in tea will help reduce inflammation and bleeding and also will help relieve discomfort.
Inflammation
Raise your head while you sleep to reduce swelling overnight. Use ice packs during the day.
Drink and food
Soft foods are best suited for your recovery. Wheat flour, yogurt, mashed potatoes and applesauce are good choices. Spicy foods irritate your mouth and hard or crunchy foods can dislodge clots. Meanwhile, stay hydrated will also speed up your recovery. Drink water most of the time and especially avoid caffeine, alcohol and hot drinks. Do not use a straw to drink, because the action can dislodge clots slurp.
Oral hygiene
After 24 hours you can wipe brush and floss, but you should avoid the affected side of your mouth if you are sensitive. Do not use mouthwash, especially if it contains alcohol. You can inhibit coagulation and prolong bleeding. Instead, use a rinse with salt water every so often and after meals.
Pain medications and treatment
Take pain medication, whether prescription or nonprescription, as directed by your doctor and make sure you meet all the antibiotics that you have indicated. Ice or a cold compress against your jaw in principle used to reduce inflammation, can also help reduce pain. If complications arise or if you experience a severe or prolonged pain, see your dentist or oral surgeon immediately.
Tobacco
If you smoke, abstain for at least 24 hours or more, if you can. The act of smoking may involve the shedding of blood clots. Smoking also interferes with blood flow to the area of ​​healing, delaying recovery. If chewing snuff, refrain from doing so for at least a week.
PreviousPrevious post: How to treat gum disease with vinegar
NextNext post:The salt water as a rinse after oral hygiene
Copyright © 2019 Care Video | Theme by: Theme Horse | Proudly Powered by: WordPress