Mosquito Bites: Everyone is at Risk! | CDC Online Newsroom | CDC
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People
Search
×
Submit
For a full list of topics: A-Z Index
CDC Newsroom
Section Navigation
home4 TP Docs Home
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Syndicate
Mosquito Bites: Everyone is at Risk!
Minus
Related Pages
The most effective way to avoid getting sick from viruses spread by mosquitoes is to prevent mosquito bites.
Almost everyone in the world has been bitten by a mosquito. Although most kinds of mosquitoes are just nuisance mosquitoes, some kinds of mosquitoes spread viruses that can cause disease. For most viruses spread by mosquitoes, no vaccines or medicines are available. Mosquitoes bite during the day and night, live indoors and outdoors, and search for warm places as temperatures begin to drop. Some will hibernate in enclosed spaces, like garages, sheds, and under (or inside) homes, to survive cold temperatures. Except for the southernmost states in North America, mosquito season starts in the summer and continues into fall.
Aedes aegypti mosquitoes spread viruses like chikungunya, dengue, and Zika.
Aedes albopictus mosquitoes are also known as the Asian tiger mosquito.
The Culex quinauefasciatus mosquito spreads West Nile virus.
Mosquito larvae from Culex species in standing water.
Remove places where mosquitoes lay eggs. Mosquitoes lay eggs in or near water.
When used as directed, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)-registered insect repellents are proven safe and effective, even for pregnant and breastfeeding women.
Mosquito bites can make you sick
Disease epidemics from viruses spread by mosquitoes are happening more often, including the recent Zika (2015-2017) and chikungunya (2013-2014) epidemics. West Nile virus is the most common virus spread by mosquitoes in the continental United States. In the United States, people can also get sick from less common viruses spread by mosquitoes, like La Crosse encephalitis or St. Louis encephalitis. From 2004 to 2016, most US cases of dengue, chikungunya, and Zika were reported in US territories.
Protect against mosquito bites
Use insect repellent: When used as directed, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)-registered insect repellents are proven safe and effective, even for pregnant and breastfeeding women. Use an (EPA)-registered insect repellentExternal with one of the following active ingredients:
DEET
Picaridin
IR3535
Oil of lemon eucalyptus (OLE)
Para-menthane-diol (PMD)
2-undecanone
Cover up: Wear long-sleeved shirts and long pants.
Keep mosquitoes outside: Use air conditioning or window and door screens. If you are not able to protect yourself from mosquitoes inside your home or hotel, sleep under a mosquito bed net.
For more information: https://www.cdc.gov/chikungunya/pdfs/fs_mosquito_bite_prevention_us.pdfCdc-pdf
Planning a trip?
Make a check list of everything you’ll need for an enjoyable vacation and use the following resources to help you prepare.
Learn about destination-specific health risks and recommendations by visiting CDC Travelers’ Health website.
Pack a travel health kit. Remember to pack insect repellent and use it as directed to prevent mosquito bites.
See a healthcare provider familiar with travel medicine, ideally 4 to 6 weeks before your trip.
Go to the Find a Clinic webpage for help in finding a travel medicine clinic near you.
Do your homework before you travel
For most viruses spread by mosquitoes, no vaccines or medicines are available. However, vaccines are available for viruses like Japanese encephalitis and yellow fever. Travelers to areas with risk of those viruses should get vaccinated.
After traveling
Even if they do not feel sick, travelers should prevent mosquito bites for 3 weeks after their trip so they do not spread viruses like dengue, Zika, or chikungunya to uninfected mosquitoes.
If you have been travelling and have symptoms including fever, headache, muscle and joint pain, and rash, see your healthcare provider immediately and be sure to share your travel history.
What can state and local public health agencies do?
Build and sustain public health programs that test and track diseases and mosquitoes that spread them. .
Train vector control staff on five core competenciesExternal for conducting prevention and control activities.
Educate the public about how to prevent control mosquito-borne diseases in their communities.
What is CDC doing?
Funding states and territories to detect and respond to infections from mosquitoes, ticks, and fleas and report cases to CDC.
Partnering with local and tribal health departments, industry, universities, and international groups to detect and respond to diseases from mosquito .
Supporting five regional centers of excellence to address emerging diseases from mosquitoes and ticks.
Developing and improving laboratory and diagnostic tests for these diseases.
Educating the public about protecting themselves from diseases caused by the bite of an infected mosquito.
Remember, everyone can help control mosquitoes. Take action to protect yourself, your family, and your community: use insect repellent, cover up, and keep mosquitoes outside. For more information about CDC’s work on vector-borne diseases, please visit: https://www.cdc.gov/ncezid/stories-features/browse/subjects/vectorborne-diseases.html
Contact Information
CDC Media Relations
(404) 639-3286
media@cdc.gov
Janet McAllister, PhD
Biography
“Mosquito control is much more than just spraying. To be effective, we need to use all the tools available to us in order to design and implement mosquito control programs that work at the community level.”
Janet McAllister, PhD – Medical entomologist , Arboviral Diseases Branch, Division of Vector-Borne Diseases
Christopher Gregory, MD, MPH
Biography
“We know mosquito-borne diseases are not going away. There will be another outbreak in the United States. How soon, which disease, and how big are unknown. We must be prepared for the unexpected and ready to respond anytime and anywhere.”
Christopher Gregory, MD, MPH – Chief, Arboviral Diseases Branch (ADB), Division of Vector-Borne Diseases
Lyle R. Petersen, MD, MPH
Biography
“Vector-borne diseases are on the rise. Disease cases from mosquito, tick, and flea bites more than tripled in the United States from 2004 to 2016.”
“Infected travelers can spread pathogens, like Zika, across the world in a day. Mosquitoes and ticks move into new areas of the United States, causing more people to be at risk.”
“Local health departments and vector control organizations are the nation’s main defense against this increasing threat. Yet, 84% of local vector control organizations lack 1 or more of 5 core vector control competencies. Better control of ticks and mosquitoes is needed to protect people from these costly and deadly diseases.”
Lyle R. Petersen, MD, MPH – Director, Division of Vector-Borne Diseases, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
Related Links
Most Relevant
CDC Related Links
Additional Resources
Multimedia
Mosquito Feature
CDC Disease Maps
Prevent Mosquito Bites
Control Mosquitoes at Home
Estimated potential range of Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus in the United States, 2017*
Mosquito Control
Communication Resources: Zika
Mosquitoes & Hurricanes
Find the Right Insect Repellent External
NACCHO Mosquito Control Capabilities in the USCdc-pdfExternal
Vital Signs: Vector-Borne Disease
Video
CDC B-Roll
Page last reviewed: May 1, 2018
Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
home Newsroom Home
Press Materials expand
CDC Newsroom Releases expand
Archived Releases
Digital Press Kit expand
Cancer
Cardiovascular Disease
CDC Works for you 24/7
Child Development
Disease & Conditions
Food Safety
Healthy Living
HIV-AIDS
Injury, Violence & Safety
Prescription Drug Overdose
Journal Summaries expand
MMWR Summaries
EID Summaries
PCD Summaries
Digital Media expand
CDC B-Roll
CDC Press Briefing Archives
Image Library
CDC Spokesperson expand
Michael J. Beach, PhD
Michael Bell, MD
John T. Brooks, MD
Inger K. Damon, MD, PhD
Debra E. Houry, MD, MPH
Daniel B. Jernigan, MD, MPH (CAPT, USPHS)
Katherine Lyon-Daniel, PhD
Jennifer McQuiston, DVM, MS (CAPT, USPHS)
Eric Pevzner, PhD, MPH (CAPT, USPHS)
Stephen Redd, MD (RADM, USPHS)
Daniel Sosin, MD, MPH, FACP
Arjun Srinivasan, MD (CAPT, USPHS)
Contact Media Relations expand
Frequently Asked Questions
Connect with CDC Media
Social_round_rss RSS Subscribe to RSS Feeds
Social_round_govd govD Subscribe to e-mail
Social_round_syndicate syndication Syndicate on Your Site
CDC Quick Links
CDC In The News
Data & Statistics
Freedom of Information Act Office
Public Health Image Library (PHIL)
CONTACT CDC-INFO
Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY: 888-232-6348
Email CDC-INFO
CDC INFORMATION
About CDC
Jobs
Funding
Policies
File Viewers & Players
Privacy
FOIA
No Fear Act
OIG
Nondiscrimination
Accessibility
CONNECT WITH CDC
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
Instagram
Syndicate
CDC TV
RSS
Email
U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
USA.gov
CDC Website Exit Disclaimer
Facebook
Twitter
Email
PDF file_external
Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy
Close
Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
Cancel
Continue