Camping | Great Ghillies & Graphics.com Weblog
Great Ghillies & Graphics.com Weblog
YOUR Source for Rear Window Decals: Deer, Elk, Birds, Fishing, Hunting, Wildlife, Wolves, Firefighters, Military, Horses, Harley-Davidson + Ghillie Suits & Camo, Truck Tents! All with a bit of Humor!
Camp Cooking: Some Lunch Tips
∞
Lunch is often a quick meal because campers are busy with other activities. Here are a few quick tips!
~
Some Quick Tips for Lunch While Camping
Don’t make camping lunches the night before.
Substitutes for a sandwich: a couple of hard-boiled eggs (with salt & pepper), left-over roast or fried chicken.
When boiling eggs, white vinegar added to the boiling water will keep the white part from running out of the cracked shell.
Gamey-smelling lunch boxes (or bags) will smell sweet if you place a slice of bread (dampened with vinegar) in the lunch container overnight.
~
Today’s Recipe
Food just tastes better while camping! Maybe it is because camp cooking takes longer and we are ravenous by the time it’s ready!
~
Dutch Oven Biscuits
This is a very simple recipe! It serves 6 to 10.
Mix Bisquick-type mix according to recipe directions on the box. DO NOT OVER-STIR THE MIX!
1) Put the hot coals outside of the fire pit. Oil a large Dutch oven inside thoroughly.
2) Set the Dutch oven on the coals to heat for about 10 minutes.
3) Spoon the mixture into the Dutch oven and cover with the lid.
4) Shovel hot coals onto the Dutch oven’s lid. Cook for 20 -30 minutes, depending on how hot the coals are.
5) After 20 minutes, check the biscuits. They are ready when they are lightly browned.
~
‘Secret Lake‘ – used by permission of Vantage Point Graphics
~
This blog is a companion to my website: GreatGhilliesAndGraphics.com
~*~
Advertisements
Published in:
Camping
on July 13, 2011 at 12:01 am Comments (2)
Tags: Camping, camping tips, cooking in camp, family camping, outdoor camping
Camp Cooking: Breakfast Cooking Tips
♦
Outdoor cooking can be a challenge! Here are a few tips.
These tips are tried-and-true … hope they help you!
~
Pancakes
Making pancakes? Rub the griddle with cut potatoes instead of grease. There will be no odor after cooking.
Turn the pancakes when the bubbles (in the batter) start to break or pop.
Using an aluminum griddle for your hotcakes? Don’t use grease on your griddle, add melted shortening or oil to the batter. Use fine steel wool to polish your griddle.
Serve pancakes and eggs immediately, do not stack and hold them on the griddle.
Cook bacon in a baking pan in the oven.
~
Today’s Recipe
This recipe is for breakfast, lunch or a trail snack. They are nutritious and very tasty. Bake some to take on your next outing.
♠
Hunter’s Take-Along Biscuits
Pre-heat oven to 425 degrees.
2/3 cup water
2 and 1/4 cups complete pancake or baking mix (Bisquick-type)
1 cup rolled oats, uncooked
1/4 cup margarine or butter
1/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 cup chopped nuts: walnuts or pecans
1/2 cup raisins
Mix all dry ingredients together (pancake mix, oats, sugar, cinnamon, nuts, raisins) completely.
Add liquid ingredients together (water, butter or margarine) and add to dry mixture.
Continue mixing until everything is well-moistened.
Drop by heaping tablespoonfuls on greased cookie sheet. Bake for 12 to 14 minutes, or until light golden brown.
Makes about 12 delicious biscuits.
~
‘Evening Call’ is used by permission of Vantage Point Graphics
~
This blog is a companion to my website: GreatGhilliesAndGraphics.com
~*~
Published in:
Camping
on July 6, 2011 at 12:02 am Comments Off on Camp Cooking: Breakfast Cooking Tips
Tags: Camping, camping tips, cooking breakfast while camping, cooking in camp, outdoor camping
Do You Know? Quick Outdoor Water Safety Tip
You are hiking in an unfamiliar area and are running low on water. You find a meandering stream of water.
You put some sand and charcoal in a sock and allow the river water to seep through the sock — to remove the impurities.
Is it safe to drink now?
Assume all the Water You Find in the Outdoors is Contaminated
No. It must be boiled — or chemically treated.
How long should it boil before you know the water is safe to drink?
Clean Water = Life!
Suspect water must be boiled or chemically treated.
The rule of thumb is:
Boil water for 1 minute plus 1 minute for each 1000 feet over sea level.
Thus, if you are 2000 ft. above sea level, you must boil the water for a total of 3 minutes: 1 minute for sea level and 1 minute for each 1000 ft. above sea level!
This is the absolute minimum.
If you have the fuel, boil longer.
~
This blog is a companion to my website: GreatGhilliesAndGraphics.com
More than 1050 Rear Window Graphics in 28 Categories!
Published in:
Camping
Fishing
Hiking
Important Issues
on March 7, 2011 at 12:05 am Comments Off on Do You Know? Quick Outdoor Water Safety Tip
Tags: drinking water safety
Want to Try Camping (On the Cheap)? Here’s How!
Where are the Campers?
States have noticed that ‘going camping’ is a dying art. State parks especially, have noticed the down-turn in campsite usage. And some states are doing something about it!
{This article is about Texas parks. I’ll give suggestions: how to see if your state has a program.}
The New Wrinkle in Camping: Your Tent Attached to Your Vehicle!
Texas Outdoor Family Program
Chris Holmes, director of the program, Texas Outdoor Family, explains. “We’ve recognized that fewer and fewer people are camping, especially in state parks.
People are becoming more and more disconnected from the environment, and they view the outdoors as a scary place. This new generation of parents never went camping themselves, so they just don’t know how to camp.”
Texas Parks & Wildlife has created a program for folks interested in giving camping a try … but don’t know where to start.
What to Expect
This weekend adventure includes camping equipment, expert help and learning activities. What does the $55 charge include?
Individual car camping site for each family (up to 8 persons),
the camping equipment needed for the weekend,
professional park ranger-led programs and instruction,
a curriculum developed specifically for use and enjoyment of a state park,
state park junior ranger certification programs,
a “Leave No Trace” certified program,
restrooms with hot showers and
overnight state park police officer and security.
Before You Arrive
After signing up for the adventure, you receive checklists:
a suggested packing list for personal items and
special shopping list and menu
What Will You Do When You Get There?
Instructors will teach you how to
choose a good camp site
set up a camping tent
start a safe fire and
enjoy family camp cooking
Things that Vary According to Park
Everyone learns the basic skills. However, parks offer different amenities. They may include:
fishing
kayaking
equestrian skills
wildcrafting: the art of finding useful and edible plants
“geo-caching” a game involving the use of a GPS device to track down a “cache” or a supply box filled with “treasures” for the kids
programs are available for minority or special-needs groups
Sounds Great … Where Do I Sign Up?
Check www.tpwd.state.tx.us/outdoorfamily for dates, locations.
Call the Texas P&W Reservations Center: 512- 389-8903. Operators answer questions & make reservations.
After registration, a confirmation packet will arrive with directions and more details.
~
How about your state?
Google: (your state) programs + family camping
(ie: ) Virginia programs + family camping
∞
Remember
the Month of February
My NRA Graphics are on Sale!
~
This blog is a companion to my website: GreatGhilliesAndGraphics.com
Published in:
Camping
Fishing
on February 21, 2011 at 12:08 am Comments (1)
Tags: Camping, family camping, outdoor camping, Texas Outdoor Family Program, Texas Parks & Wildlife
10 Tips for Hiking in the Wilderness
Hiking in a Wild Area
The tough thing about venturing into a wilderness is that there are no convenience stores handy, if you forget something critical. Thus, planning and making lists are critical.
Things in the Wilderness are Rarely as Easy as This Scene Suggests
~
The First 5 Tips
Cell Phones: Although you should make sure that your phone is fully charged & bring along a spare, be aware that getting a signal (to use your phone) is spotty, at best.
The further you are aware from a major highway or urban center, the less likely your cell phone will work.
Safety Through Communication: Make sure someone knows where you are going and when you expect to return.
“Wilderness” implies things that are unknown. It is foolhearty to assume that nothing can happen while you are away from your support system.
Personal Items: Even if you are hiking in winter, take sunscreen, a hat and sunglasses. If you are wondering why you might need them year-round, refer to yesterday’s article, ‘How Can You Help Someone Suffering from Snowblindness?’
Protect Your Feet: You won’t get very far if you don’t take care of your transportation system – your feet! Take extra socks and a pair of waterproof shoes.
It’s better to use 2 thin pair of socks, not 1 thick pair. Layering your clothing is a smart way to conserve heat, yet release perspiration. This method prepares you for whatever weather arrives.
Packing: Place the heaviest items you are carrying in the middle of the backpack, close to your back. This balances the load.
The Second 5 Tips
Basic Equipment: Hikers need a compass and a pocketknife.
Getting Around: A map of the unknown territory where you will hike is important. If you have a GPS (Global Positioning System) receiver, now’s a great time to use it.
Fire Supplies: You never know when you will need a fire. Be sure to bring a lighter and/or waterproof matches & lint from your clothes dryer.
Keep Everything Safe: Zippered plastic bags are great for hikers. They protect items from water, damp and other mishaps.
Water: Either be ready to bring your own water or bring a method of purification (iodine tablets, a filtering system, etc.).
~
I’m aware a hiker needs food, clothing and other necessities. These items are better covered in a more comprehensive list.
Need a Camping Checklist? Use ours!
~
‘Morning Glow’ is used by permission of Vantage Point Graphics
~
This blog is a companion to my website: GreatGhilliesAndGraphics.com
Published in:
Camping
Hiking
Hobbies
Safety
on February 3, 2011 at 12:01 am Comments Off on 10 Tips for Hiking in the Wilderness
Tags: tips for hiking in the wilderness
Outdoor Situations: How Can You Help Someone Suffering from Snowblindness?
With the wild weather outside, today might be a great time to talk about …
Snowblindness
You and some friends have had a great day out in the snow! It’s late in the
'Fun in the Sun' Calls for Quality Sunglasses Year Round!
afternoon when suddenly, Jim calls out that his eyes feel like he has grit in them and he is seeing red.
The group soon realizes that Jim is experiencing snowblindness. It will be dark soon; what should you do?
Your Choices
For the conditions outlined here, which of these 3 possibilities is the best solution?
1) Someone offers to stay with Jim while the rest of you go back and get help.
2) Cover Jim’s eyes and lead him back home as quickly as possible.
3) Wait until Jim’s snowblindness passes.
A Few Facts About Snowblindness
Snowblindness is an eye injury that can be serious and can be permanent!
It is caused by the reflected sunlight off of ice, snow or water.
Essentially, it sunburns the cornea of the eye.
Symptoms include: dry eyes, headaches, seeing red, dizziness, swelling of the eyelids, pain.
The Solution
Snowblindness Occurs Most Often on Sunny Days, But Can Happen on Cloudy Days Too!
Jim’s snowblindness is not going to pass as long as he is out in the sun. Therefore, waiting won’t help. So neither 1 or 3 will work.
He needs to get inside quickly; into a darkened room until his eyes recover. Covering his eyes while he travels home is important; his eyes can start to recover because he is no longer looking at the reflected light from the snow and ice.
How to Avoid Snowblindness
Wear quality sunglasses with at least 90% UV absorption.
Reduce glare by smudging the area under the eyes with charcoal (think football players).
Another Tip
Use a cool, damp cloth on the eyes. Applying a hot, damp cloth to the eyes only increases the pain!
~
Tomorrow: 10 Tips for Hiking in the Wilderness
~
Occasionally: I’ll pose another ‘Outdoor Situation’ with Some Tips
~
This blog is a companion to my website: GreatGhilliesAndGraphics.com
Published in:
Camping
Hiking
Safety
The Weather
on February 2, 2011 at 12:01 am Comments Off on Outdoor Situations: How Can You Help Someone Suffering from Snowblindness?
Tags: snowblindness
Camping: Choosing a Great Campsite!
Factors to Consider
Choosing a great campsite isn’t as easy as it sounds. Various factors are important to your choice.
The season,
The weather,
The wind direction and strength,
What amenities are available in the area you want to use?
What do you want to do while camping? (hiking, fishing, geocaching, exploring, etc.)
Prepare for Unwelcome Visitors!
Taking Stock of the Situation
High on everyone’s list is choosing a scenic spot. However, high winds and/or damp weather will be more important factors in choosing a site.
Experienced campers recommend a fairly flat area, with some shelter from gusting winds and damp. Make use of a gully, a clump of bushes or trees, a low wall or even a rain fly — when wind and rain bear down on your site.
In case of rain, make sure that your site is not a low place where rain will settle. Depending on the weather and your cooking plans, do you need to find a locale near wood?
Water Issues
During hot weather, each person will need 6 quarts of water per day. Will you be bringing that with you?
In colder weather, 3 quarts of water per person, per day will suffice. What do you know about the area where you will camp? Is the water there drinkable?
I recently read an article by a ranger who stated that campers should assume any water source available in America is polluted.
That means you will need to have a way to decontaminate the water: iodine, a means to boil water or a filtering system.
Make sure your water bottle is safe; once opened, bacteria and mold grow in bottles of water (I’m referring to using bottled water from the grocers) .
Locate your site some distance from a water source, so you do not contaminate it.
Wild Animals
Most animals are happy to scavenge for a free meal. Raccoons love to show you how fast they can open the snaps on any Igloo container!
Leaving food in the camping area is an open invitation to night-time dining guests. Go online for directions on constructing a ‘food cache’ — a way to hang your food up high — between 2 trees — at some distance from your sleeping tents.
If you are camping in bear country, be sure to decide on your ‘escape tree’ — a way for you to get away from an over-friendly (or aggravated) bear!
Still want to go camping? 😉
~
Need a Camping Checklist? Use ours!
~
This blog is a companion to my website: GreatGhilliesAndGraphics.com
Published in:
Camping
Hiking
Hobbies
on February 1, 2011 at 12:08 am Comments (1)
Tags: Camping, camping checklist, camping tips
What is the main ingredient of WD-40?
(The fishing danger article is going to take a bit more work; I expect it to be ready soon.)
Before you read to the end, does anybody know what the main ingredient of WD-40 is?
A neighbor had a new beige truck. Overnight, someone had sprayed it with a can of red spray paint.
Give WD-40 a Try When You Have a Problem!
Another neighbor knew to spray over the new paint with WD-40. It removed all the messy red paint and the truck was beige again! It didn’t harm the original paint!
WD-40 = ‘Water Displacement # 40.’
The product began from a search for a rust preventative solvent and degreaser to protect missile parts.
WD-40 was created in 1953 by three technicians at the San Diego Rocket Chemical Company. Its name comes from the project that was to find a ‘water displacement’ compound. They were successful with the fortieth formulation, thus WD-40.
The Convair Company bought it in bulk to protect their atlas missile parts.
Ken East (one of the original founders) says there is nothing in WD-40 that would hurt you…
Uses for WD-40 That You May Not Know About!
Fishing and Outdoor Uses
WD-40 attracts fish. Spray a little on live bait or lures and you will be catching the big one in no time. Also, it’s a lot cheaper than the chemical attractants that are made for just that purpose. Keep in mind though, using some chemical laced baits or lures for fishing are not allowed in some states.
Use it for fire ant bites. It takes the sting away immediately and stops the itch.
Removes dirt and grime from the barbecue grill.
Keeps ceramic/terra-cotta garden pots from oxidizing.
Keeps rust from forming on saws and saw blades, and other tools.
Gives a children’s playground gym slide a shine for a super fast slide.
Lubricates gear shift and mower deck lever for ease of handling on riding mowers.
Rids kids rocking chairs and swings of squeaky noises.
Lubricates wheel sprockets on tricycles, wagons, and bicycles for easy handling.
Cars and Vehicle Uses
Removes road tar and grime from cars.
Bug guts will eat away the finish on your car if not removed quickly! Use WD-40!
Restores and cleans padded leather dashboards in vehicles, as well as vinyl bumpers.
If you sprayed WD-40 on the distributor cap, it would displace the moisture and allow the car to start.
Restores and cleans roof racks on vehicles.
Home Use
Protects silver from tarnishing.
Gives floors that ‘just-waxed’ sheen without making them slippery.
Removes stains from stainless steel sinks.
Keeps glass shower doors free of water spots.
Camouflages scratches in ceramic and marble floors.
Removes splattered grease on stove.
Loosens stubborn zippers.
Untangles jewelry chains.
Keeps scissors working smoothly.
Cleans and lubricates guitar strings.
Lubricates noisy door hinges on vehicles and doors in homes.
It removes black scuff marks from the kitchen floor! Use WD-40 for those nasty tar and scuff marks on flooring. It doesn’t seem to harm the finish and you won’t have to scrub nearly as hard to get them off. Just remember to open some windows if you have a lot of marks.
Lubricates tracks in sticking home windows and makes them easier to open.
Spraying an umbrella stem makes it easier to open and close.
Lubricates and stops squeaks in electric fans
Lubricates prosthetic limbs.
Keeps pigeons off the balcony (they hate the smell).
Keeps bathroom mirror from fogging.
Removes all traces of duct tape.
Folks even spray it on their arms, hands, and knees to relieve arthritis pain.
WD-40 is great for removing crayon from walls. Spray on the mark and wipe with a clean rag.
Laundry Uses for WD-40
Removes lipstick stains.
Removes tomato stains from clothing.
Lubricates fan belts on washers and dryers and keeps them running smoothly.
If you’ve discovered that your teenage daughter has washed and dried a tube of lipstick with a load of laundry, saturate the lipstick spots with WD-40 and rewash. Presto! The lipstick is gone!
Unusual Uses
Keeps flies off cows. (I love this one!)
Restores and cleans chalkboards.
Some States Use Lots of WD-40
Florida’s favorite use is: ‘cleans and removes love bugs from grills and bumpers.’
The favorite use in the state of New York: WD-40 protects the Statue of Liberty from the elements.
Now, What is WD-40’s Main Ingredient?
Fish Oil!
~
This blog is a companion to my website: GreatGhilliesAndGraphics.com
Published in:
Camping
Fishing
Interesting Facts
on January 24, 2011 at 9:22 am Comments (1)
Tags: fishing uses for WD-40, Uses for WD-40, WD-40 uses
How to Use Animal & Insect Behavior to Predict Weather!
Weather can change in a matter of minutes. If you want to maximize your time outdoors, you need to learn to read the signs.
Sometimes, it is as simple as looking at the wild life around you!
These Horses are Reacting to the Gathering Storm (Used by Permission of Vantage Point Graphics)
Domesticated Animals
Horses and cattle respond to a storm by gathering together in their own groups. They turn their backs to the storm and lower their heads.
Instinctively, they understand that they should leave the tops of hills — or any place that is elevated and open.
Wild Game: Deer, Elk, Sheep
Like their domesticated brethren, wild game move off higher terrain and down into the more protected areas of valleys.
As they sense the passing of a storm, they return to grazing and foraging in the higher regions.
Sea Gulls
When a hurricane is heading to our shores, sea gulls move inland to local vacant parking lots. They ride out the winds and rain on the ground, patiently waiting for the storm to pass.
Actually, they do this when any large storm heads our way! It is amazing to see thousands and thousands of sea gulls standing silently on acres of empty parking lots.
Wild Geese
Biologists theorize that birds (including geese and sea gulls) stay on the ground because a gathering storm causes the air pressure to drop. As this happens, birds find it more difficult to stay aloft on the thinning air currents.
Frogs
An increase in frog serenading indicates that a storm is on its way! Why? Generally, frogs must stay in water to keep their skin moist.
However, when a storm is approaching, the heavy humidity in the air protects the frog’s skin. Thus, he can sit on the shore and sing!
Flies and Mosquitoes
Want to know when you can avoid flies and mosquitoes? The short answer is: Go fishing 1 hour before the start of a storm!
When flies and mosquitoes sense the coming of a storm, they dash around madly, trying to eat enough to carry them through the storm. Generally, they start this mad noshing about 12 hours before the storm’s start.
However, they spend the last hour before the onset of the storm finding good hiding places!
Crickets
Biologists measure some of the strangest things! Want to know the outdoor temperature where you are? Count the number of cricket chirps for 14 seconds + add 40. That is the temperature in Farenheit! Try it; it works!
~
This blog is a companion to my website: GreatGhilliesAndGraphics.com
Published in:
Camping
Fishing
Hunting Topics
The Weather
on January 12, 2011 at 1:00 am Comments Off on How to Use Animal & Insect Behavior to Predict Weather!
Tags: predicting weather with animals, predicting weather with birds, predicting weather with insects
Predicting Weather for Outdoor Hunting, Fishing, Etc.
Learning to Predict Weather
With all the wizardry that modern science offers meteorologists, it still seems impossible to offer accurate long-range forecasts. There are just too many variables involved in weather.
It is one occupational path I’ve never wanted to follow. One has to have a very thick hide to take all the ribbing and griping directed at the weather-man (or woman).
However, to engage in outdoor activities, it is helpful to learn some basic weather facts. If you recall, a few weeks ago, I wrote about a careful angler who was struck by lightning, during light rain with thunder sounding many miles away.
Sometimes, you can rate the weather with these facts — so you can take a
Cumulus Clouds are Fluffy and Aren't High in Altitude
quick hunting, camping or fishing trip (even when weather folks can’t give a clear prediction). Also, these hints may help you decide when to abandon your activity.
Fair Weather Needs
You can expect fair weather when early morning fog burns off by noon
Wind is blowing from the west or northwest
The barometric pressure remains steady or rises slowly
Cumulus clouds are in the sky
Cold Temperatures Need
The night is clear, with no clouds or wind
The barometric pressure is rising in winter or
The pressure rises before a front blows into the area
Rain and/or Snow Needs
Clouds Darken, the Air Feels Saturated with Moisture, Winds Shift & Strengthen
The sky grows darker
The barometric pressure is falling
Winds from the south get stronger
Cumulus clouds darken, thicken and get taller
The wind shifts counterclockwise
Weather Will Clear When
The barometric pressure starts a quick rise.
Wind direction shifts from south to west
Watch Those Cloud Formations!
Clouds are important indicators of weather changes. As you see from the two pictures above, as the clouds get larger and thicker, the weather is changing — for the worse.
Watch the speed of the cloud’s movement. As clouds move faster, they are telling you 2 things: the wind is changing and the barometric pressure is changing. This can be an early warning of a storm.
Finally
If you are observant, you can maximize your time outdoors. Learning certain truisms of cloud formations and how weather changes, will help you make better camping, hunting and fishing decisions!
~
Soon: How Does the Weather Affect Wild Game & Their Terrain?
~
This blog is a companion to my website: GreatGhilliesAndGraphics.com
Published in:
Camping
Fishing
Hunting Topics
The Weather
on January 10, 2011 at 12:54 am Comments (2)
Tags: fishing and cold weather, weather conditions and camping
« Older Entries
Get the Latest from Great Ghillies & Graphics Blog
RSS - Posts
Email Subscription to GreatGhilliesAndGraphics Blog
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 43 other followers
Sign me up!
April 2019
S
M
T
W
T
F
S
« Dec
1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 18 19 20
21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30
@ MEMBER OF PROJECT HONEY POT
Spam Harvester Protection Network
provided by Unspam
Blog Articles of Great Ghillies & Graphics
Camping
Fishing
Fishing – Species
Fishing and Kids
Fishing Basics
Fishing in Fresh Water
Fishing in Salt Water
Making Your Own Bait/Lures/Flies
Getting Personal
Great Photos!
Great Story!
Great Video
Hiking
Hobbies
Hobbies – Bird Watching
Holiday Info
Humor
Humor – Blonde Jokes
Humor – Cat Humor
Humor – Church Humor
Humor – Doggie Humor
Humor – Lawyer Joke
Humor – Today's Joke
Hunter's Clothing/Ghillie Wear
Ghillie Suits for Hunters
Using Borax on Hunter's Clothing
UV Brighteners & Hunter's Clothing
Hunting Topics
Cleaning Wild Birds
Deer Hunting
Duck Hunting
Using Decoys
Goose Hunting
Gun Care & Maintenance
Hunting – Archery
Javelina Hunting
Kids and Hunting
Moose
Squirrel Hunting
Turkey Hunting
Important Issues
Hunting & Angling Issues
More Bother from Washington!
Interesting Facts
Knife Info
Knife Info – Blades
Monthly Round-Up
My Online Store: GreatGhilliesAndGraphics.com
New Store Items
Store Items
Tools
News You Can Use
Safety
Going Tubing
Snake Info
Taxidermy Tips
The Weather
Uncategorized
Using Optics
Video
Weapons
Wild Game Recipes
Boar Recipes
Dove Recipes
Quail Recipes
Venison Recipes
Wild Duck Recipes
Wild Geese Recipes
Wild Turkey Recipes
Wolves
Recent Posts on GreatGhilliesAndGraphics
Things Continue to Spiral Downward …
Conditions Are Grave ….
How Drought Affects Your Pets … and You!
Things Aren’t Going Well ….
Info Pages About GreatGhilliesAndGraphics Blog
About Marylouise & GreatGhilliesAndGraphics.com
Blog Policy
Recent Comments
GreatGhilliesAndGrap… on Camp Cooking: Some Lunch …
Jennifer Ward-Pelar on Camp Cooking: Some Lunch …
When a Moose Calf Gr… on Moose: Giants of the Nort…
When a Moose Calf Gr… on And Another Thing about Moose…
Most Popular Posts of GreatGhilliesAndGraphics
Keeping UV Brighteners Out of Hunting Clothes
Talkin' Turkey: The Rio Grande & Merriam's Subspecies
Blogroll
Alpha Inventions
Blogiche
Dave Richey Outdoors
Hunting Life
Missouri Outdoors
Othmar Vohringer Outdoors
OutdoorsForHer.com
Prairie State Outdoors
TalkHunting.com
US Hunting Forums
WordPress.com
Blog at WordPress.com. RSS 2.0Comments RSS 2.0
Post to
Cancel
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy