Can Coffee Increase Your Metabolism and Help You Burn Fat?
Newsletter
Nutrition
Evidence Based
Can Coffee Increase Your Metabolism and Help You Burn Fat?
Written by Kris Gunnars, BSc on May 4, 2018
Coffee contains caffeine, which is the most commonly consumed psychoactive substance in the world.
Caffeine is also included in most commercial fat-burning supplements today — and for good reason.
Moreover, it’s one of the few substances known to help mobilize fats from your fat tissues and increase metabolism.
But does coffee really help you lose weight? This article takes a close look at the evidence.
Coffee Contains Stimulants
Share on Pinterest
Many biologically active substances found in coffee beans find their way into the final drink.
Several of them can affect metabolism:
Caffeine: The main stimulant in coffee.
Theobromine: The main stimulant in cocoa; also found in smaller amounts in coffee ().
Theophylline: Another stimulant found in both cocoa and coffee; has been used to treat asthma ().
Chlorogenic acid: One of the main biologically active compounds in coffee; may help slow the absorption of carbs ().
The most important of these is caffeine, which is very potent and has been studied thoroughly.
Caffeine works by blocking an inhibitory neurotransmitter called adenosine (, ).
By blocking adenosine, caffeine increases the firing of neurons and release of neurotransmitters like dopamine and norepinephrine. This, in turn, makes you feel more energized and awake.
In this way, coffee helps you stay active when you would otherwise feel tired. In fact, it may improve exercise performance by 11–12%, on average (6, ).
Summary Coffee contains a number of stimulants, most importantly caffeine. Not only does caffeine increase your metabolic rate, it also makes you more alert.
Coffee Can Help Mobilize Fat From Fat Tissue
Caffeine stimulates the nervous system, which sends direct signals to the fat cells, telling them to break down fat (8).
It does this by increasing blood levels of the hormone epinephrine (, ).
Epinephrine, also known as adrenaline, travels through your blood to the fat tissues, signaling them to break down fats and release them into your blood.
Of course, releasing fatty acids into your blood does not help you lose fat unless you are burning more calories than you consume through your diet. This condition is known as a negative energy balance.
You can reach a negative energy balance by either eating less or exercising more. Another complementary strategy is to take fat-burning supplements such as caffeine.
Caffeine can also speed up your metabolism, as discussed in the next chapter.
Summary By raising blood levels of epinephrine (adrenaline), caffeine promotes the release of fatty acids from fat tissue.
Coffee Can Increase Your Metabolic Rate
The rate at which you burn calories at rest is called resting metabolic rate (RMR).
The higher your metabolic rate, the easier it is for you to lose weight and the more you can eat without gaining weight.
Studies show that caffeine can increase RMR by 3–11%, with larger doses having a greater effect (, ).
Interestingly, most of the increase in metabolism is caused by an increase in fat burning ().
Unfortunately, the effect is less pronounced in those who are obese.
One study showed that caffeine increased fat burning by as much as 29% in lean people, while the increase was only about 10% in obese individuals ().
The effect also appears to decrease with age and is greater in younger individuals ().
For more fat-burning strategies, check out this article on 10 easy ways to boost your metabolism.
Summary Caffeine increases your resting metabolic rate, which means it increases the number of calories you burn at rest.
Coffee and Weight Loss in the Long Term
There is one major caveat: people become tolerant to the effects of caffeine over time ().
In the short term, caffeine can boost the metabolic rate and increase fat burning, but after a while people become tolerant to the effects and it stops working.
But even if coffee doesn't make you expend more calories in the long term, there is still a possibility that it blunts appetite and helps you eat less.
In one study, caffeine had an appetite-reducing effect in men, but not in women, making them eat less at a meal following caffeine consumption. However, another study showed no effect for men (17, ).
Whether coffee or caffeine can help you lose weight in the long term may depend on the individual. At this point, there is no evidence of such long-term effects.
Summary People may build up a tolerance to the effects of caffeine. For this reason, drinking coffee or other caffeinated beverages may be an ineffective weight-loss strategy in the long term.
The Bottom Line
Even though caffeine can boost your metabolism in the short term, this effect is diminished in long-term coffee drinkers due to tolerance.
If you're primarily interested in coffee for the sake of fat loss, it may be best to cycle your coffee drinking habits to prevent a buildup of tolerance. Perhaps cycles of two weeks on, two weeks off is best.
Of course, there are plenty of other great reasons to drink coffee, including the fact that coffee is one of the single largest sources of antioxidants in the Western diet.
Written by Kris Gunnars, BSc on May 4, 2018
related stories
How to Lose Weight Fast: 3 Simple Steps, Based on Science
10 Easy Ways to Boost Your Metabolism (Backed by Science)
20 Weight Loss-Friendly Foods You'll Want on Hand
12 Healthy Foods That Help You Burn Fat
26 Weight Loss Tips That Are Actually Evidence-Based
READ THIS NEXT
How to Lose Weight Fast: 3 Simple Steps, Based on Science
Written by Kris Gunnars, BSc
A simple 3-step plan to lose weight fast, along with numerous effective weight loss tips. All of this is supported by science (with references).
READ MORE
10 Easy Ways to Boost Your Metabolism (Backed by Science)
Written by Helen West, RD (UK)
Your metabolism determines how many calories you burn each day. Here are 10 easy ways to boost your metabolism, backed by science.
READ MORE
20 Weight Loss-Friendly Foods You'll Want on Hand
Written by Kris Gunnars, BSc
Some foods can reduce appetite, cravings and help you burn more calories. These are the 20 most weight loss-friendly foods on the planet.
READ MORE
12 Healthy Foods That Help You Burn Fat
Written by Franziska Spritzler, RD, CDE
Several natural foods and beverages have been shown to increase metabolism and promote fat loss. These 12 healthy foods can help you burn fat.
READ MORE
26 Weight Loss Tips That Are Actually Evidence-Based
Written by Kris Gunnars, BSc
Most weight loss methods are unproven and ineffective. Here is a list of 26 weight loss tips that are actually supported by real scientific studies.
READ MORE
The 14 Best Ways to Burn Fat Fast
Written by Rachael Link, MS, RD
Whether you're looking to improve your health or lose weight, burning off extra fat can be hard. These are the 14 best ways to burn fat — fast.
READ MORE
6 Simple Ways to Lose Belly Fat, Based on Science
Written by Kris Gunnars, BSc
Belly fat is the most harmful fat in your body, linked to many diseases. Here are 6 simple ways to lose belly fat that are supported by science.
READ MORE
Do Ab Exercises Help You Burn Belly Fat?
Written by Arlene Semeco, MS, RD
Some people believe that ab exercises like crunches and sit-ups can help you burn belly fat. But do they actually work?
READ MORE
8 Ways to Make Your Coffee Super Healthy
Written by Kris Gunnars, BSc
Coffee, despite having been demonized in the past, is actually good for you. Here are a few tips to make sure your cup of coffee is as healthy as…
READ MORE
What is Caffeine, and is it Good or Bad For Health?
Written by Alina Petre, MS, RD (CA)
Caffeine is a natural stimulant consumed throughout the world. This article reviews caffeine and its health effects, both good and bad.
READ MORE
CMS Id: 128090 Client Version: 478d73e1dd9c5e778a40d69f42568223020523ba Build Number: 26877