HIV AIDS Facts | HIV AIDS Blog
Skip to content
HIV AIDS Blog
A dating blog from HIVDatingSites.biz
Menu and widgets
Home
HIV AIDS Blog
Dating & Relationship
About
How it Works
Search for:
Recent Posts
Facts About HIV AIDS That Everyone Should Know November 26, 2015
Living with HIV AIDS：Complications You May Face November 9, 2015
Dating Someone with HIV: What You Need to Know October 19, 2015
Busting the Top HIV AIDS Myths September 28, 2015
How to Date an HIV Positive Person? September 28, 2015
Category: HIV AIDS Facts
Facts About HIV AIDS That Everyone Should Know
No matter how you look at it, HIV AIDS is definitely the world’s most feared disease, and it is important that everyone is educated about important facts regarding the disease. Awareness of HIV AIDS can not only help save lives but prevent transmission as well. A man was admitted to a hospital in 1981, with a rare blood disease, which had confounded them. 6 months passed before another man was admitted with a similar case and this alarmed doctors even more. As it turns out their concerns were entirely justified. The doctors didn’t realize at that moment in time, but the HIV AIDS epidemic had already began.
However, even those who were tasked with researching and finding cures for the disease couldn’t have imagined that some 30 years later, there would be around 40 million people in the world who would be living with HIV AIDS. The 21st century has seen massive strides made in medical science and today, AIDS is no longer seen as an immediate death sentence. However, millions of people around the world today are still getting infected and dying from HIV AIDS.
Awareness about HIV AIDS is considered to be the best way to counter the disease or to prevent getting infected by it. So brush up your knowledge on the deadliest disease on the planet and check out the facts about HIV AIDS that you should know:
Anyone Can Get HIV AIDS
The immune destroying disease is known as AIDS, which is an acronym for Auto Immunodeficiency Syndrome. The virus that causes it is known as HIV, which is an acronym for Human Immunodeficiency Virus. However, when AIDS was first discovered, it was labeled as a ‘Gay disease’ and was given names such as ‘Gay Cancer’ and GRID (Gay-related Immune Deficiency). That is entirely wrong, since HIV AIDS is not only a disease that affects gays, anyone can get infected with it.
The HIV AIDS Death Toll Is Astronomic
The exact death toll from HIV AIDS, ever since the epidemic began in 1981 is simply astronomical. More than 40 million people have died from HIV AIDS around the world with more than 800,000 HIV AIDS deaths in the United States alone.
You May not Know that You Have HIV AIDS
The scariest fact about HIV AIDS is that you may have it and not know about it. HIV can remain undetected for more than a decade and during that time the person infected can transmit it to others. The only way to know if you or your partner has HIV AIDS is to get tested.
Protection Is the Key
HIV AIDS is generally transmitted through the exchange of bodily fluids, and the best way to prevent it is to use protection when having sex. You can also get infected if you inject yourself with drugs or share needles with someone. If you have multiple sexual partners and have unprotected sex, then it is recommended that you should get tested for HIV after every 6 months.
HIV AIDS Is a Huge Problem
It has been found in a study that only 1 in 5 people in the United States are aware that they have HIV AIDS and there is someone who gets infected by the disease every 10 minutes! It clearly shows that HIV AIDS is still a huge problem in the United States and awareness about the disease holds the key for prevention from it.
Posted on November 26, 2015 Categories HIV AIDS FactsLeave a comment on Facts About HIV AIDS That Everyone Should Know
Busting the Top HIV AIDS Myths
Even though technology and science has advanced by leaps and bounds in recent times, there is still an abundance of myths surrounding HIV (Human Immunodeficiency Virus) and AIDS (Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome). That is the reason why we have decided to break down the myths that are surrounding HIV/AIDS, since everyone needs to know the truth about these two STDs.
Enhancement in technology has meant that more research has been done and there is more information about HIV and AIDS. Check out some of the top myths about HIV and AIDS and their reality:
Myth 1: HIV/AIDS can be transmitted through mosquito bites
The reality regarding this myth is that, there is no way that a mosquito can transmit you with HIV/AIDS. The transmission can only happen if you are exposed to semen, blood, mother’s milk or vaginal fluid of an infected person. As of yet there is no evidence that suggest that HIV/AIDS can be transmitted though sweat, tears, urine or saliva of an infected person.
Myth 2: Getting infected by HIV/AIDS is a death sentence
Although, there is no cure for HIV/AIDS it is by no means a death sentence, since with treatment and proper medication a person can have a strong and productive life for many years.
Myth 3: Women who are infected shouldn’t have kids
It has common knowledge that mothers can easily transmit the infection to their kids but with advancement in medical science the child can still be cured of the infection before they born. So there is no need to stop women who have HIV/AIDS from giving birth.
Myths 4: People who have HIV shouldn’t have sex with anyone
It is true that HIV can be transmitted from one person to the other when having sex. However, there are treatments and medications available today that can greatly lower the chance of a person transmitting HIV to their partner by around 96%, which ensures a happy and fulfilling life.
Myth 5: If both people are HIV positive they can have unprotected sex
Unprotected sex should never be encouraged, since even if you have HIV, you can get re-infected and worsen your original condition. This can greatly affect your quality of life and become fatal for you.
Myth 6: HIV is generally a drug users or gay person’s disease
This is a common misconception in society, which discriminates on the fact that only drug users and gay people are liable to contract HIV/AIDS. It should be noted that HIV is a virus that can be transmitted when you have unprotected sex and can happen to anyone, no matter how healthy they are. This is why you should always use protection whilst having sex with someone.
Myth 7: You can’t get infected if you use birth control methods
The HIV virus can be transmitted through bodily fluids, which means that birth control pills will not prevent the disease. Their only job is to prevent pregnancy, not to provide protection against STDs like HIV/AIDS.
Myth 8: You can’t have more than one STD
Any person can be infected with more than STD, which means that even if you have herpes, you can still contract HIV from an infected person. This is why proper precautions should be taken whilst having intercourse and if you have an STD then you should follow the proper treatment and medication in order to stop the virus from spreading.
Posted on September 28, 2015 October 19, 2015 Categories HIV AIDS FactsTags HIV facts, HIV mythsLeave a comment on Busting the Top HIV AIDS Myths
HIV Dating Sites © | All Rights Reserved