RoniLynnFitness Blog - Roni Lynn Fitness​​
My title
Roni Lynn Fitness​​
Home
Blog
About Roni
Products &plus; Programs
The Ultimate Push-up Program
RoniLynnFit BLOG
Knee Injury Prevention {Part 1}
10/12/2018
Comments
​*Disclaimer: I am not a medical professional. My advice in this post comes solely from the personal research I’ve done and clinical experience I have. If you experience knee and joint pain, please consult a trained medical professional. Always consult a doctor or medical professional before attempting any exercise program.
I’ve recently heard from many women who are interested in learning more about how to prevent knee injuries. I personally love this topic because it was a knee injury that got me passionate about my upper body strength. I have a Baker’s Cyst or Popliteal Cyst, which is a pocket of fluid located on the back of my knee that swells and causes overall knee swelling. The cyst itself is not painful, but the swelling is very painful and causes severe mobility restrictions. I learned to manage the symptoms of the cyst with the help of an orthopedic surgeon and have found a lot of success in my methods. This blog is not specifically about treating a Baker’s Cyst, it’s about general knee health and helping women prevent knee injury on a broad level.
Women are up to eight times more likely than men to have an ACL injury or tear. The ACL is a diagonal ligament in the back of the knee which helps control the forward and back movement of the knee as well as provides rotational stability. Most ACL injuries are caused from a bad landing when jumping, a forceful twist in the knee or a lateral blow to the knee. Women are predisposed to ALC injuries because we have wider set hips than men and many women (myself included) have a valgus angle to our knees. A valgus angle is where the knee bones are more narrow set than the hips, the common term for it is “knock kneed”. This valgus angle tends to put more stress on our knees and the ligaments supporting our knees.
Sometimes, our knee is the weak link in the chain and sometimes it’s a supporting muscle, in either case, overall strengthening of the hips, quadriceps, hamstrings, glutes and core will help prevent knee injuries. It’s important to strengthen our knees from a multi-angle perspective, this means, doing exercises that move our bodies in multiple planes of motion.
Most women are more “quad dominant”, meaning their quadriceps are stronger and more active than their hamstrings. This is part of my issue with having a Baker’s Cyst, my hamstrings are often under used because they’re tight and immobile.
It’s common for our hamstrings and glutes to be weak and under-used because of the amount of time we spend sitting. When we sit for extended periods of time, our glutes and hammies “go to sleep”, they stop being active because they’re not needed when we’re sitting down. The issue arises when we sit all day, every day and our glutes and hammies completely shut down, even when we’re trying to make them work. This is when our quads take over and cause a front-to-back muscle imbalance, which can cause strain on our knees. If our quads are stronger than our hamstrings, our knees will feel more pressure from the front and when this type of imbalance becomes exaggerated, our risk of knee injury is more likely.
You’ll notice in the exercises given, I explain more about what the hamstrings are doing in the movement, this is because I want you to focus on your hamstring involvement in each exercise. When we’re training for knee health, we want to wake up our sleepy hamstrings and glutes.
Below, I give you six exercises to help strengthen your legs, hips, glutes, hamstrings and core, these are not the end-all-be-all of strengthening exercises. If you currently experience knee pain and discomfort, many of these exercises might not be meant for you.
This blog is about injury prevention, if you think you have an injured knee, see a doctor. If any of these exercises hurt, don’t do them! All knee issues are unique and only a doctor can truly help you understand your condition.
Proper form is a MUST with these exercises. Poorly executed squats or lunges (or anything!) will do more harm than good for your knees, so if you need additional resources, please email me: roni@ronilynnfitness.com
Squats:
It’s a common misconception that squats are bad for the knees. As I said, poorly performed squats can be damaging for our knees, but that’s true for most exercises. A “back squat”, where the weight rests on the back, is the preferred squat version for our knees, but bodyweight squats and goblet squats (shown here) are beneficial too.
A properly performed squat, with hips parallel or below the knee line and knees tracking outward, loads both the quads and the hamstrings. When we go into that parallel or below squat, our hamstrings stretch and then contract to power us up out of the bottom position.
If you’re doing “quarter squats” or squats well above parallel, you’re only loading the quads and that’s not our goal here! Drop it low, girl.
Always remember to push the knees out in a squat. There is a tendency to have that valgus angle when we come up from the bottom, use the power of your hips to drive your knees outward.
Reverse lunges:
When we step back into a lunge, rather than step forward, our hamstrings take more of the load in the exercise. The common issue I see in a reverse lunge is taking a step back that’s too small and it causes the front foot rock forward rather than stay flat. The entire front food needs to push into the ground throughout the movement.
There can also be a tendency with lunges to have an inward knee angle. Keep the knee position in alignment with the foot.
Lateral lunges:
We notice more hip and glute activation in the lateral lunge than a front to back lunge. The key thing to remember with this exercise is to push the hips backward, even if you don’t get to parallel with your thigh. Think of hinging at the hips and trying to get your butt to touch the wall behind you.
It's also important to keep both feet planted fully on the ground in this exercise. The lunging foot should not rock up onto the toes (that a big red flag for the knees) and the foot of the stretched leg shouldn’t tilt onto the ankle bone.
Check out this super helpful video for a visual of some common mistakes and how to fix them.
Glute bridges:
While they might seem like their own category, the glutes are part of the entire core system (read more about core strength and training here), so in working them, we’re also strengthening our lower back, spine and hips. A glute bridge is not the same thing as a yoga bridge pose, if you’re familiar with that exercise.
In a glute bridge, we need to keep our upper back pinned to the ground, so we don’t hyperextend our lower back.
I have a super quick video here, if you need a better visual explanation.
​Lying leg raises:
This exercise is important for strengthening the hips. The biggest thing to pay attention to is having the hips stacked on top of each other during the movement, we don’t want our top hip to be either in front or behind our bottom hip. When we go to raise the leg, think about pointing the toe toward the ground, so the heel leads the movement, this will help keep everything in alignment and work the glutes more.
Also think about tightening the abs in this exercise to avoid swaying in the torso, the only movement should come from the leg.
Seated quad flex:
This is a great strengthening exercise if your knee mobility is lacking. I place a towel under my knee to prevent hyperextension and the main focus is contracting and releasing the quadriceps.
This exercise isn’t included in the workout below because it’s the most valuable for those with limited mobility. If that’s you, try 3 sets of 30 contractions; this can be done on a daily basis.
Workout (intermediate): weights are optional for any of these exercises, if you’re new to training, try only bodyweight at first and gradually add weight as you gain strength.
1) Squats: 3 x 12 reps
2) Reverse lunges: 3 x 8-10 reps each leg
3) Lateral lunges: 3 x 8-10 reps each leg
4a) Glute bridge: 3 x 20 reps
4b) Lying leg raise: 3 x 12 reps each leg
(these exercises are a superset)
Next week, I’m going to put out Part II of this blog, wherein I want to talk about the importance of stretching and how mobility plays a big role in our knee health.
If you’re looking for some simple, yet effective strength workouts you can do at home, grab a copy of my new FREE download. You’ll instantly get six at-home strength workouts, which include some of the exercises I detailed above. :)
Comments
4 Exercises for a Stronger Core
9/12/2018
Comments
​Core strength is often misunderstood. When people hear the word “core” they think “abs” and the fitness industry has done a poor job of helping us understand otherwise. I’ve seen plenty of “core blasting” workouts that focus on crunches and leg lifts, while completely ignoring the other muscles that make up our core.
In short, our core does include our ab muscles (there are four main ones) as well as our spinal muscles, our diaphragm, pelvic floor and glutes. There’s whole lot to strengthen there that crunches and leg lifts don’t even touch!
I’m going to give you a quick four exercise core workout you can do anywhere, but first I want to explain why we need to strengthen our core in the first place.
The core got its name for a reason, it’s the foundation of 99% of our movement. Whether we’re bending, twisting, reaching, picking something up, squatting down, putting something overhead, all of it uses our core strength to stabilize our body and protect our spine from injury.
Creating a strong core makes us a more functional human being. We can move more efficiently put our back at less injury risk when we engage our core. Core strength helps us lift, run and play sports better, but it also helps us pick up grocery bags and kids easier. It’s all about creating stability and maintaining safe positions for our spine. If you’ve ever injured your back, you know how quintessential its mobility is to your everyday life!
We’re strengthening our core to stabilize our spine and this makes us better at lifting weights because we can then consciously engage our core muscles while lifting to make us more powerful. I love core training specifically for upper body strength because the most common mistakes I see people make are overarching their low back and thrusting their chest in the air. Building core strength teaches us to keep those areas of our torso in alignment.
The workout below is meant to accompany some of your current lifting. If you're not already doing these four exercises, now's the time to start! Building more core strength is going to dramatically improve your ability to lift heavy weights and get stronger everywhere.
​
​Deadbugs
Glute bridge
Side plank
Bird dogs
If you want to get more workouts and fitness advice from me, sign up for my email list in the box at the top of the page!
Comments
Summer Ready Arms: The real way to train for tank season.
2/21/2018
Comments
Spring is just around the corner and soon enough all the magazine covers will have titles like, “Tank Top Ready Arms in Two Weeks!”. Usually the workouts involve some bicep curls and triceps kickbacks with 5lb weights, but if you do the work out, no matter what, you’ll “sculpt and define” tank ready arms in no time.
I’m trying to beat the punch with this post because most of those articles are useless and I want you to get real results with upper body training. If you actually want tank ready arms, unfortunately, it’s going to take longer than two weeks, more like eight, but if you apply the protocols in this post, you’ll be successful at building arms you want to show off.
There are three main components of training when you’re trying to increase muscle density in a particular area: frequency, muscle groups and big movements.
Frequency:
Train upper body a lot. The main issue I see with women who want to have more defined arms, is they don’t train their upper body enough. When I made the most progress on my arms and upper body was when my knee was injured and I didn’t train anything but upper body for close to three years. That’s unrealistic for most people and unless your injured, I suggest being more well-rounded in your training, but the point is, upper body training needs to be the focus.
I suggest three days a week of upper body training with at least one rest day in-between each session. This is basically what I do now and my in-between days are lower body focused with two-ish rest days per week.
Muscle Groups:
Don’t neglect muscle groups. I often see women skipping chest workouts because they don’t want a muscular chest or they think it’s not necessary because they have “boobs, not pecs”. I’m here to advise you to stop skipping chest exercises, especially if your goal is to get more defined and muscular arms. While an exercise can be claimed a “chest” exercise, it usually works more muscles than just those of the chest, like the shoulders, biceps, triceps and even back. For balanced upper body training, we need to train all the muscles. When we put effort into only building certain muscles and neglect others, it causes imbalances in strength, it can change our posture and lead to injury. Choose a training protocol that challenges all aspects of upper body strength to see the best results.
Big Movements:
Use compound movements in upper body training. The problem with those programs for “Tank Top Ready Arms” are usually the types of movements they prescribe. Instead of “larger”, compound movements, they call for accessory moves. In order to get the most out of our training, we need to focus on compound lifts that work multiple body parts at once.
Compound lifts are often referred to as multi-joint exercises because they require more than one joint to perform, like squats, bench press, deadlifts, push-ups and overhead press. Big movements build total body strength that’s functional. The exercises translate into other movements we do in our daily lives and support our overall strength. Accessory movements are often isolating and only focus on strengthening one muscle, like a bicep curl or triceps extension only focuses on building and strengthening one muscle in the arm. We can get more done in less time by choosing compound lifts for the majority of our workouts and sprinkle in accessory movements as necessary to support our overall training goals.
Now that we’ve got the philosophy down for how to train upper body and actually get results, here’s a workout from my next program that will debut in April. This is a "push" workout, it might feel chest focused, but it's really focused on pushing exercises for the upper body. Enjoy!
Floor Press 3 sets x 10 reps
Thruster 3 sets x 12 reps
Close grip push-up 2 sets x 10 reps
Dumbbell Farmer’s Carry 2 sets x 20 steps
Not sure the best way to do these exercises? Join my FREE Upper Body Badass Course to learn 5 different upper body exercises in just 5 days!
Comments
<<Previous
RSS Feed
Train with me!
1stPhorm Products
Categories
All
1st Phorm
Body Image
Books
Confidence
Exercises
Exercise Spotlight
Fat Loss
Fitness
Flexibility
Food
Goals
Gratitude
Healthy Eating
HIIT
Injury
Interview
Mindset
Moderation
Online Personal Training
Post-workout
Pre-workout
Product Review
Protein
Push Ups
Push-ups
Q&A
Recipes
Self Love
Strength Training
Women
Women's Fitness
Women's Health
Workout
Proudly powered by Weebly
Home
Blog
About Roni
Products &plus; Programs
The Ultimate Push-up Program