5 best essential oils for nausea and how to use them
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Which essential oils help with nausea?
Last reviewed	 Tue 5 June 2018	 Last reviewed	Tue 5 Jun 2018
By Aaron Kandola
Reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Table of contents
Five essential oils for nausea
How to use essential oils
Risks
Takeaway
Nausea can be difficult to treat and cause considerable discomfort. Natural remedies, such as essential oils, can offer an alternative method of treating nausea.
Essential oils come from plants. The extraction and distillation of the oils create a highly concentrated form of the plant. It is possible to inhale essential oils using a diffuser or to dilute them in a carrier oil before applying them directly to the skin.
The research underlying the efficacy of essential oils for treating nausea is still inconclusive, but it is possible that specific oils may have some benefits.
Five essential oils for nausea
There are five essential oils that may be beneficial for people with nausea.
1. Ginger oil
Ginger essential oil may help to relieve nausea and digestive issues.
Many people use ginger oil to relieve digestive issues and treating nausea is one of its most common uses.
The authors of a review paper in 2012 concluded that ginger oils reduce the occurrence and severity of nausea.
The results of a more recent study in 2017 showed that ginger oil helped to reduce nausea and vomiting following abdominal surgery.
2. Peppermint oil
Mints and mint teas may help manage the symptoms of colds and illnesses, including nausea. It is possible that a more concentrated form of peppermint oil will provide more effective relief from nausea symptoms.
One study in 2004 found that inhaling peppermint oil was effective in reducing post-operative nausea, although this may have been due to the slow breathing motion rather than the specific aroma.
A later review paper in 2012 suggested that peppermint oil may reduce nausea symptoms, but the researchers acknowledged that they were unable to fully confirm this on the basis of the existing research.
3. Lavender oil
Lavender has relaxing properties and is an ingredient in many products.
Researchers have tested it as a treatment for anxiety disorders and as a pain reliever. It is possible that lavender oil could also help to reduce nausea symptoms, particularly if anxiety or pain is responsible for causing them.
4. Fennel seed oil
Many people associate fennel seeds with aiding digestion and treating an upset stomach. Fennel seed oil may also be helpful for reducing bloating and gas.
These properties are likely to be due to the phytoestrogens that the oil contains, as these are a digestive aid. It is possible that fennel seed oil could relieve nausea symptoms by easing digestion and settling the stomach.
5. Lemon oil
Lemon oil is beneficial for skin health, and some people believe that it also aids digestion. It could have benefits for reducing nausea too, especially if a digestive issue causes this symptom.
A study in 2014 found that pregnant women who inhaled lemon oil experienced less nausea and vomiting than those in the control group who took a placebo instead.
How do you use essential oils?
A diffuser will allow for safe inhalation of essential oils.
Essential oils are an aromatherapy treatment. There are a few different ways to use them.
Diffusers
Usually, people will use a diffuser to inhale essential oils. A diffuser will gradually release essential oils into the air at room temperature and those present in the room can inhale them.
Steam inhalation
Another method is to use steam inhalation. This involves mixing a few drops of essential oil into a bowl of hot water.
The individual should dip a hand towel or handkerchief into the bowl, wring it out and then place it over the nose and mouth.
By breathing normally, they can gently inhale the essential oil.
Topical applications
It is also possible to apply essential oils topically, but it is vital to dilute them with a carrier oil, such as jojoba oil, coconut oil, or almond oil, before massaging them into the skin. This is because some essential oils, including lavender oil, may cause skin irritation.
The essential oil should only represent 2–3 percent of the mixture, which is about 3–5 drops of essential oil for 0.5–1 ounce (oz) of carrier oil.
If skin irritation does occur, it is best to discontinue use. Some people are allergic to certain essential oils.
Essential oils for a sore throat: Lemon, peppermint, and more
Another condition that essential oils may help to treat is a sore throat. Learn more about the best essential oils for a sore throat here.
Read now
Risks and considerations
There is still a need for additional evidence supporting the use of essential oils for treating nausea.
In 2018, the Cochrane Collaboration investigated the efficacy of all the essential oils that researchers had systematically tested for treating nausea.
The authors concluded that no oil was significantly effective in reducing nausea, but that the available evidence was of low quality.
Therefore, it is not possible to make any firm recommendations regarding the effectiveness of essential oils until results from additional, well-designed studies become available.
Addressing the underlying cause
Essential oils may provide temporary relief from mild nausea, but treating the cause of this symptom remains the most effective treatment. For this reason, it is best to only use essential oils alongside regular medications.
Takeaway
There is some evidence to suggest that certain essential oils offer a natural and low-risk alternative method of treating nausea, but there is a need for more research to confirm this.
Most essential oils should be safe for use by the majority of people and do not have severe associated health risks. Pregnant and breastfeeding people should talk to their doctor before using essential oils though. It is also crucial to speak to a doctor before allowing children to use them.
Even if people decide to try using essential oils, they should continue treating the cause of their nausea using traditional medications.
The essential oil products listed in this article are available for purchase online.
Shop for ginger oil.
Shop for peppermint oil.
Shop for lavender oil.
Shop for fennel seed oil.
Shop for lemon oil.
Shop for essential oil diffusers.
We picked linked items based on the quality of products, and list the pros and cons of each to help you determine which will work best for you. We partner with some of the companies that sell these products, which means Healthline UK and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link(s) above.
Related coverage
What are the best essential oils for sunburn? We look at the eight best essential oils for sunburn. Vitamins E and C may help, as well as lavender, tea tree, and others. Included is information on what the scientific studies say, and the side effects to be aware of. We also suggest some other home remedies for sunburn. Always check the safety advice first. Read now
What to know about nausea after eating Feeling nauseated after eating is an unpleasant sensation and can indicate one of several conditions. These can range from food poisoning or allergy to pregnancy, migraine, or a problem with an organ involved in digestion, such as the gallbladder or pancreas. Find out here about these causes and when to see a doctor. Read now
Types and side effects of antiemetic drugs Antiemetic drugs help ease symptoms of nausea or vomiting. Learn about what medications are available to treat different causes of nausea. Read now
What are the best ways to get rid of nausea? A look at how to get rid of nausea, a common complaint with a range of potential causes. Included is detail on physical changes to make to reduce nausea. Read now
Lavender: Health benefits and uses Lavender is an herb that is used in skin and beauty products. Its potential health benefits include action against fungi, wounds, and anxiety. Uses include applying it as an oil to enhance sleep or drinking it as a tea to help with digestion. It may also help with premenstrual emotional symptoms. Find out more. Read now
email email
print
share share
Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine
GastroIntestinal / Gastroenterology Pregnancy / Obstetrics Surgery
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Tue 5 June 2018.
Visit our Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Anderson, L. A., & Gross, J. B. (2004, February). Aromatherapy with peppermint, isopropyl alcohol, or placebo is equally effective in relieving postoperative nausea [Abstract]. Journal of PeriAnesthesia Nursing, 19(1), 29–35. Retrieved from https://www.jopan.org/article/S1089-9472(03)00307-1/abstract
Hines, S., Steels, E., Chang, A., & Gibbons, K. (2018, March 10). Aromatherapy for treatment of postoperative nausea and vomiting. The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. Retrieved from http://cochranelibrary-wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD007598.pub3/full
Lua, P. L., & Zakaria, N. S. (2012, June). A brief review of current scientific evidence involving aromatherapy use for nausea and vomiting. The Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine, 18(6), 534–540. Retrieved from https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Pei_Lua/publication/229073607_A_Brief_Review_of_Current_Scientific_Evidence_Involving_Aromatherapy_Use_for_Nausea_and_Vomiting/links/58aceeaa4585155ae77added/A-Brief-Review-of-Current-Scientific-Evidence-Involving-Aromatherapy-Use-for-Nausea-and-Vomiting.pdf
Ri, L.Y. & Sook, S. H. (2017, March 1). Effectiveness of ginger essential oil on postoperative nausea and vomiting in abdominal surgery patients [Abstract]. The Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine, 23(3), 196–200. Retrieved from https://www.liebertpub.com/doi/10.1089/acm.2015.0328
Yavari kia, P., Safajou, F., Shahnazi, M., & Nazemiyeh, H. (2014, March). The effect of lemon inhalation aromatherapy on nausea and vomiting of pregnancy: A double-blinded, randomized, controlled clinical trial. Iranian Red Crescent Medical Journal, 16(3), e14360. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4005434/
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Kandola, Aaron. "Which essential oils help with nausea?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 5 Jun. 2018. Web.
25 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322032.php>
APA
Kandola, A. (2018, June 5). "Which essential oils help with nausea?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322032.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Study explores the neuroscience of overindulging
A recent study in mice identified a new brain circuit that appears to play a part in an animal's drive to overeat high-calorie foods.
How the brain adapts to hear better after vision loss
Researchers look at what happens in the brains of people with vision loss to understand what allows them to hear better than their fully sighted peers.
Study reveals how general anesthetics affect the brain
For the first time, scientists have shown that general anesthetics activate the same small group of cells in the brain as that which induces sleep.
Ginkgo seeds may help keep skin blemish-free, but there's a catch
Ginkgo seed extracts can fight bacteria that harm the skin, but researchers are still a long way from developing them into safe products.
How ketamine can change the brain to fight depression
New research in mice pinpoints some of the key mechanisms that ketamine triggers in the brain to fight the symptoms and characteristics of depression.
Popular in: Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine
Benefits of black seed oil
How to relieve itching
How do you boost testosterone naturally?
Hemp oil benefits list
What are the benefits of maca root?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322032.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);