My Health and Business: Vitamin C Benefits
Sunday, February 16, 2014
Vitamin C Benefits
Vitamin C, without a doubt, is the most famous vitamin. We all know it cures colds and does so much more wonders. Interestingly, now, those wonders have been given due background.
Scientific studies on vitamin C confirm that they indeed reduce intensities of colds. They do this through acting as an antihistamine. In that light, the vitamin can also be used to control allergies. Without a doubt, Vitamin C boosts the immune system. However, there is still no sufficient evidence to prove that large doses of it can completely prevent colds.
What most of us don’t know is that vitamin C can also be very useful in healing wounds. It’s essential in production of collagen, making it ideal for healing of cuts, fractures, burns, oral wounds and even surgical wounds. The said vitamin can also be applied to the skin to minimize effect of ultraviolet rays.
The super-vitamin helps prevent cancer, as well. As an antioxidant, it serves as a protection for cells and DNA, especially from mutation. Vitamin C, as support to the immune system, stands on the first line against cancer and prevents the formation of compounds that cause the said ailment. Just to be clear, it’s not a cure that attacks cancer cells. On the other hand, it’s a prevention that keeps the immune system healthy.
Its antioxidant properties enables the vitamin to pose a good fight against cataracts – an eye disorder that happens mostly to adults. Our eye lenses need vitamin C to serve as protection against the sunlight. When there’s lots of vitamin C in your system, some of it concentrates on the lenses, thus protecting the eye from damage. Get this: 1,000 mg of vitamin C a day can even stop cataracts.
Vitamin C also serves as prevention from heart diseases. It does this by blocking the free radicals that damage the walls of nerves. Even more so, the vitamin keeps the cholesterol in the blood from oxidizing – another one of the main causes of heart diseases. Conditions of highblood pressure have also been observed to improve upon intake of this vitamin.
For the asthmatics, be joyous because this vitamin has something in store for them too. Its antioxidant properties improve symptoms and lessens the histamine in the body – that compound that leads to inflammation. Diabetics need not feel bad because vitamin C has something for them also. Levels of blood sugar can be improved through the nutrient.
Indeed, there are so much benefits from this beautiful vitamin. These aren’t even all of them yet. Preeclampsia in pregnant women can be improved through the vitamin. Sperm counts can be improved. Parkinson’s disease can be treated.
Nonetheless, it’s been made clear. You need to get as much vitamin C as you can to keep you healthy and to protect you from ailments. Vitamin C up!
Learn more vitamin c benefits @ ShopDealofTheDay.com
Posted by Unknown at 8:11 PM
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: benefits of vitamin c, health, healthy, nutrition, vitamin c, vitamin c benefits, vitamin c foods, vitamin c serum, what does vitamin c do
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Search This Blog
Translate
Popular Posts
Argan Oil For Hair
Fixx personal care products are solution-oriented products created for men and women. Enhance your appearance and style with superior p...
Detox Cleanse
The TLS Detox Kit combines four of our most popular products to support your health, wellness and weight loss. Shed pounds and bodily was...
Auto Accident Attorney
Annually in the world, 1.3 million people lose their lives in car accidents and another 50 million remain with serious injuries forever. ...
Isotonic
Isotonic, which means “same pressure,” bears the same chemical resemblance of the body’s blood, plasma and tears. All fluids in the body...
A Look AT Zeotrex Cleanser For Metal Detox
A Look AT Zeotrex Cleanser For Metal Detox Millions of people are feeling the signs of aging. They may see wrinkles, grey hair,...
Astaxanthin Benefits
There are many cardiovascular health supplements available, but only Prime Astaxanthin Cardio & Visual Vitality Formula gives you the...
What Vitamins Should I Take
There’s nothing more important than taking care of yourself on a daily basis. With the Isotonix Daily Essentials Kit, you can be sure th...
10 Hotels That Make for an Affordable NYC Vacation
10 Hotels That Make for an Affordable NYC Vacation It’s okay to stay outside of Manhattan Although everyone wants to stay in the ...
9 Must-Haves When Looking for a Forex Broker
9 Must-Haves When Looking for a Forex Broker If you're interested in trading currency in the Forex market, then the first thing y...
BCM-95 Curcumin
There are many curcumin products on the market, but Curcumin Extreme with BCM-95® has superior bioavailability and absorption. BCM-95 Cu...
Blog Archive
► 2017 (1)
► September (1)
► 2016 (6)
► November (1)
► May (1)
► March (2)
► February (2)
► 2015 (18)
► December (3)
► November (1)
► October (1)
► September (1)
► August (1)
► July (3)
► April (2)
► March (2)
► February (1)
► January (3)
▼ 2014 (96)
► December (2)
► November (2)
► October (3)
► September (5)
► August (7)
► July (8)
► June (7)
► May (11)
► April (12)
► March (10)
▼ February (12)
Detox Cleanse
Little Things You Can Do to Reduce Stress
Knowing More About Vitamin D Deficiency
Testosterone Booster
Vitamin C Benefits
So Much Potential in Resveratrol
Isotonix OPC3
Auto Insurance For A Worry-Free Life
Awake Energy Drink
How Can I Know My Credit Score?
BRUNO MARS Red Hot Chili Peppers 2014 SUPER BOWL X...
How Many Calories Do I Need a Day
► January (17)
► 2013 (3)
► December (3)
Pinterest
Links
Total Pageviews
Simple theme. Powered by Blogger.