Tooth Extraction Archives - Authority Dental
Home
About Us
Dental Blog
History of Dentistry
Contact Us
Tag - Tooth Extraction
Knowing Whether Tooth Extraction Blood Clot Has Formed
Authority Dental
Dental Information
3 min read
Tooth extraction blood clot if not fully treated can lead to dry socket. Blood clots are considered to be very crucial when it comes to the healing process after a successful tooth extraction.
Loss of blood clot can trigger an infection after the extraction. If the blood does not clot quickly, the healing process after tooth extraction can be prolonged.
It is highly advisable for a doctor to be contacted as soon as possible when this happens as the blood clot can easily be dislodged within the first twenty four hours after the tooth extraction.
This can be achieved by rinsing vigorously. The process of suctioning via a straw can as well help in dislodging a blood clot. On the other hand, it is believed that hot fluids e.g. coffee can easily dissolve the blood clot.
How to Tell if Blood Clot Formed After Tooth Extraction
There are various ways that one can use to know whether a blood clot has formed after tooth extraction.
Read on to learn these ways.
One way that you can use to determine whether tooth extraction blood clot is keeping the gauze over the tooth extraction area is to apply some pressure for a duration of about an hour. Some people would ask where the gauze will come from. Well, in most cases, once you have been done a tooth extraction, the dentist will provide you with gauze in your mouth over the area that has been treated.
After an hour, you are free to remove the gauze keenly to find out whether the bleeding has stopped or not.
The next step that you will be required to do in knowing whether tooth extraction blood clot has formed is applying more gauze that will aid in controlling any bleeding for the first twenty four hours. In most cases, people use a tea bag that has moistened which is considered to work effectively.
This can be used as a substitute and at the same time it helps in the formation of clotting because of the presence of tannic acid(1). In case the bleeding persists after the twenty four hours are over, it is worthwhile to contact your dentist as soon as possible.
The formation of tooth extraction blood clot starts once you notice a dark, red like substance. At times, it may feel like a soft piece of chocolate once you touch it. When touching the site, you are highly advised to be very careful and ensure that you touch it if you find it quite daunting to see the blood clot.
Conclusion
However, this will greatly be determined with the locality where the extraction has been done. While doing this, it is important to utilize the services of a dental mirror to help you during this process. In case you find it necessary to touch the spot, you should do it briefly but if you cannot see the dark clot, you shouldn’t do it. Avoid brushing your teeth but instead rinse it gently using a solution of salty and warm water for the following consecutive days
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9759559 ↩
Tooth Extraction Complications
Authority Dental
Dental Information
3 min read
There are several tooth extraction complications that are requiring ample precaution to avoid them from causing adverse effects. It is important for a patient to note that with this type of surgery, there can be complications or even problems thereafter. In addition to this, a patient is supposed to know that the teeth located in the bottom jaw tend to have more extraction complications as compared to the top teeth.
While this is the case, patients should stay prepared for any complications that may occur in order to know how well you can be able to curb them. Once the extraction has been carried out, you will experience some swelling, pain as well as bleeding. However, all these become a problem if they persist. When this happens, it is important to contact or see the doctor as soon as possible. In addition, in case you experience the provided complications below, be on the alert to contact your doctor as soon as you can for the necessary precaution to be taken.
One of the major tooth extraction complications is dry socket which is pain that persists for several days. It usually takes place when there is blood clot dislodged from the socket. When this happens the bone underneath is exposed which n return causes severe pain. While this takes place, your doctor will be prompted to restitch the region and at the same time prescribe antibiotics that you will use to guard against infection.
Allergic reaction is one of the major tooth extraction complications which occur when the jawbone, tongue or throat happens to swell to the point where it causes difficulty in breathing. This is a clear indication that you have an allergic reaction which requires you to call your dentist immediately.
In case you experience bad breathe a week shortly after receiving the extraction as you may have some infection. It is the obligation of the doctor to provide you with an antibiotic that will help in preventing the infection. You can as well use warm salt water to rinse the mouth in order to reduce the chances of infection.
Excessive bleeding is one other major tooth extraction complications. In case you experience severe bleeding without ceasing it simply implies that there is a damage done on the blood vessel during the procedure and this means that you require further treatment from your dentist as soon as possible.
However, in case you are involved in smoking or drinking directly from a straw, you will experience minor bleeding for a few days. It is therefore important to avoid this so that your dentist may not end up restitching and packing the extraction area for it to heal.
Alveolar nerve damage is yet one of the major tooth extraction complications. In most cases, this is evident when your bottom teeth tend to lose sensation once a tooth extraction has been done. This simply implies that maybe your dentist has damaged the alveolar nerve. In most case, the nerve sensation should basically come back in 3 months.
Tooth Extraction Aftercare
user
Toothache
3 min read
A lot of people have had a tooth extracted for one reason or the other and as such, it is important to have the best tooth extraction aftercare. However, as you do this, you should be prepared to experience some pain, swelling as well as bleeding for one day or even two after the extraction.
The idea of taking proper medication as well as proper care will ensure that all the above named occurrences are reduced and with time you will be able to get back to your normal routine in a very fast way. To learn more, keep reading the article.
One of the best tooth extraction aftercare is taking all the prescription that is prescribed by your dentist. In addition to this, the dentist may prescribe an antibiotic to you and as such, you will be required to take it for the reason of clearing up an infection you may already have or simply preventing the extraction region from becoming infected as well.
Tooth Extraction Recovery
When you get home after your tooth has been extracted, it is imperative for you to relax. This is simply because if you happen to engage yourself in a physical activity, it can result to bleeding in the extraction region. As such, it is highly advisable to avoid disturbing the extracted area at all times so that it can heal fast. This is the best tooth extraction aftercare simply because through relaxation, the extracted area will heal faster.
The other alternative that you can use for caring for tooth extraction is making salt water mix. Simply take about eight glasses of warm water and mix it with salt. Us this to rinse your mouth as much as possible on daily basis. The main reason for using salt water mixture is simply because it will help you in reducing swelling as well as pain thus making it possible for the extraction area to heal fast.
The other tooth extraction aftercare is simply brushing your teeth as well as tongue on daily basis as soon as the tooth has been removed. Use gentle and soft motions to brush the area of tooth extraction to prevent any infection that may lead to severe consequences.
Alternatively, you can use ice packs on the side of your face as a way of reducing the swelling. The swelling as well as the bleeding should diminish within two days of extraction.
Make sure you do not rub the area of tooth extraction using your tongue. The reason behind it simply because you can easily spread bacteria to that particular area. In addition to this, give a red flag to hard foods and as such, it is important to strictly stick to eating soft foods and drinks as well e.g. gelatins, soups, pudding etc.
Lastly, the best tooth extraction aftercare is to simply give a red flag to smoking as well. This is simply because smoking can cause some discoloration as well as other chemicals on the extraction area thus harboring the healing process.
Categories
Bad Breath5
Braces9
Cavities3
Dental Implants2
Dental Information28
Gum disease9
Root Canal1
Teeth Whitening10
Toothache13
Wisdom Teeth26
Featured Posts
Keeping Your Teeth For Life
How to Tell if you Need your Wisdom Teeth Removed?
Dental Sedation Information
Swollen Gums around Wisdom Teeth
Why Wisdom Teeth Hurt
DMCA Protected
Medical Disclaimer
Authoritydental.com is only for information purposes only. Always get guidance about a medical condition from a health care professional.
Stay With Me
Copyright © 2018. AuthorityDental.com
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Medical Disclaimer
SiteMap
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy