Why You Should Ditch The Regular Table Salt And Switch To Pink Himalayan Salt
Community Courses
Join the Tribe
Free Resources
Green Juice
Protein
Inflammation
Gut Health
Thyroid
Keto Diet
Fitness
Meal Prep/Planning
Shop
Blog
Product Blog
Nutrition
Weight Loss
Fitness
Digestion
Detox
Inflammation
Energy
Sleep
Recipes
Seasonal
Videos
Mindset Mondays
Saturday Strategy
About
Why You Should Ditch The Regular Table Salt And Switch To Pink Himalayan Salt
POSTED ON December 1, 2014 BY Drew Canole
Why You Should Ditch The Regular Table Salt And Switch To Pink Himalayan Salt
Salt is salt, right? What’s the big deal? Why choose another kind? Well, it turns out, there are lots of different kinds of salt, and that pink Himalayan crystallized salt is pretty much the best one for you. It’s natural of course, comes from the Himalayan mountains as you might have guessed and is packed with powerful health benefits.
Pink Himalayan salt contains 84 trace minerals and elements. Even more impressive, each one of the minerals is found in the human body. Pink salt is rich in chloride, sulphate, calcium, potassium and magnesium. Its sodium level is also lower than regular table salt because it’s less refined and the pieces are larger. In addition to containing minerals useful for the body, pink Himalayan salt:
Improves vascular health
Supports a healthier respiratory system
Promotes good pH balance
Reduces the ravages of time
Promotes healthy sleep
Increases the libido (bow chicka bow wow)
Helps prevent cramping
Hydrates the skin and organs
Strengthens your bones
Helps to lower blood pressure
Eliminates heavy metals from your body
Improves your cardiovascular health
Seems like a set of good reasons to make the switch! Give it a try and let us know what you think.
Source: Higher Perspective
Make use of this information to hype up your very own detoxification! Start now!
The detoxification process can also take in the form of a juice fast. Here at FitLife.TV, we recommend people to try the Alpha Reset (AR). The Alpha Reset is a 5 Day Juice Fast. It is part of the Juice with Drew System. This is the first step in your detoxification process. If you are just starting out with juicing, do not jump right into a juice fast right away. Just try 1 juice per day along with the rest of your nutrition and see how your body responds. If your body responds well to juicing, then ramp up the number of juices per day. These healthy, nutrient-dense juices can replace that coffee you reach for in the morning or that soda in the afternoon. Here are some of our followers that have tried the Alpha Reset!
Disclaimer: The techniques, strategies, and suggestions expressed here are intended to be used for educational purposes only. The author, Drew Canole, and the associated www.fitlife.tv are not rendering medical advice, nor to diagnose, prescribe, or treat any disease, condition, illness, or injury. It is imperative that before beginning any nutrition or exercise program you receive full medical clearance from a licensed physician. Drew Canole and Fitlife.tv claim no responsibility to any person or entity for any liability, loss, or damage caused or alleged to be caused directly or indirectly as a result of the use, application, or interpretation of the material presented here.
About
Latest Posts
Drew Canole
CEO at Fitlife.tv
Drew Canole is a rockstar in the world of fitness, nutrition and mindset, with a huge heart for others and doing his part to transform the world, one person at a time.
As the founder and CEO of Fitlife.TV, he is committed to sharing educational, inspirational and entertaining videos and articles about health, fitness, healing and longevity. He is also a best selling author and the founder of Organifi, an organic, incredibly delicious greens powder, chock-full of superfoods to make juicing easy no matter your busy schedule.
Latest posts by Drew Canole (see all)
Putting All The Pieces Of The Puzzle Together - November 13, 2018
How To Create Community & Connection Daily - November 7, 2018
Simple And Amazing Full Body HITT Workout - October 24, 2018
Share18K
Pin141
Tweet
Share1
+1
Shares 18K
SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS
Download Now!
Sunrise to Sunset Power Box
Wake up with Green Juice!
What Our Clients Say*
Glenn was in an accident with a hockey puck that made it so his mouth had to be wired shut! While he was going through recovery he found that Organifi Protein sustained him in a healthy way where he was able to maintain his muscle mass while still be able to loose weight.
-Tragedy Turns to Opportunity, Weightloss and Holistic Health
Glenn was in an accident with a hockey puck that made it so his mouth had to be wired shut! While he was going through recovery he found that Organifi Protein sustained him in a healthy way where he was able to maintain his muscle mass while still be able to loose weight.
-Tragedy Turns to Opportunity, Weightloss and Holistic Health
View More Testimonials
*Results may vary by individual
AS SEEN ON
Join The Tribe
Heal the WorldCommunity SupportHealth & Nutrition
Join Now
Our mission is to create a movement positively impacting communities around the world through education, inspiration, and empowerment.
We are committed to transforming over a billion lives…and we won’t stop there!
RECENT POSTS
Putting All The Pieces Of The Puzzle Together November 13, 2018
6 Things That Happen To The Body After Walking Every Day November 9, 2018
Reasons Not To Use Canola Oil Anymore November 9, 2018
LINKS
Home
About
Recipes
Product Blog
Videos
FAQ
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Contact
Shop
Events
Get Involved
Member Login
Transformations
Stories
Advertise With Us
© Copyright Fit Life All Rights Reserved