Muscle cramps-Nighttime’s leg cramps-Treating Blood Pressure and Grapefruit Juice – Paranormal Zone,The Haunting Dimensions- PZHD
Skip to content
Paranormal Zone,The Haunting Dimensions- PZHD
Investigation of paranormal activities and haunting – Cleansing using wide range of methods since 1986. Now serving in Alberta.
Paranormal Zone,The Haunting Dimensions- PZHD Facebook
Paranormal Zone,The Haunting Dimensions- PZHD Twitter
Paranormal Zone,The Haunting Dimensions- PZHD Google+
Paranormal Zone,The Haunting Dimensions- PZHD Linkedin
Paranormal Zone,The Haunting Dimensions- PZHD YouTube
Search
Menu
Primary menu
Home – Steve Ramsey PhD -Paranormal Expert ,Researcher, and investigator
About the investigator
Our team
Services
Blog
Donation
Muscle cramps-Nighttime’s leg cramps-Treating Blood Pressure and Grapefruit Juice
By Steve Ramsey
December 27, 2018
1 Comment
What are muscle cramps?
A muscle cramp is a strong, painful contraction or tightening of a muscle that comes on suddenly and lasts from a few seconds to several minutes. It often occurs in the legs. A muscle cramp is also called a charley horse.
Nighttimes leg cramps are usually sudden spasms, or tightening, of muscles in the calf. The muscle cramps can sometimes happen in the thigh or the foot. They often occur just as you are falling asleep or waking up.
What causes muscle cramps?
The cause of muscle cramps isn’t always known. Muscle cramps may be brought on by many conditions or activities, such as:
Exercising, injury, or overuse of muscles.
Pregnancy . Cramps may occur because of decreased amounts of minerals, such ascalcium and magnesium , especially in the later months of pregnancy.
Exposure to cold temperatures, especially to cold water.
Other medical conditions, such asblood flow problems (peripheral arterial disease), kidney disease , thyroid disease, and multiple sclerosis .
Standing on a hard surface for a long time, sitting for a long time, or putting your legs in awkward positions while yousleep .
Not having enoughpotassium , calcium , and other minerals in your blood .
Beingdehydrated , which means that your body has lost too much fluid?
Taking certain medicines, such as antipsychotics,birth control pills , diuretics , statins , and steroids .
How can you stop a muscle cramp when it happens?
You may need to try several different ways to stop a muscle cramp before you find what works best for you. Here are some things you can try:
Stretch andmassage the muscle.
Take a warm shower or bath to relax the muscle. A heating pad placed on the muscle can also help.
Try using an ice or cold pack. Always keep a cloth between yourskin and the ice pack.
Take an over-the-counter pain medicine, such asacetaminophen (Tylenol), ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), or naproxen (Aleve). Be safe with medicines. Read and follow all instructions on the label.
If your doctor prescribes medicines for muscle cramps, take them exactly as prescribed. Call your doctor if you have any problems with your medicine.
Drink plenty of fluids. Sports drinks, such as Gatorade, will often help leg cramps.
walk exercise stretch and drink water, take multi vitamins
Leg cramps can occur because elevated blood sugar causes excessive urination and subsequent dehydration. … Leg cramps are not just a sign of dehydration. In combination with pain in the arms and legs, they are a sign of diabetic neuropathy, which is damage to nerves as the result of high blood sugar levels
1. Calgary Co-op Pharmacy – Treating Blood Pressure – calgarycoop.com‎
Adwww.calgarycoop.com/‎
This ad is based on your current search terms.
Visit Google’s Why This Ad page to learn more or opt out
Calgary Co-op offers blood pressure management services. Come in today!
Free Medication Delivery · Prescribing Pharmacists · Travel Health Services · Customized Packaging
Highlights: Help You Monitor And Manage, Free Of Charge…
Find a Pharmacy
Book An Appointment
Search Results
People taking prescription medications should be careful about consuming grapefruit, however, as grapefruit can interfere with the clearance of some drugs, including those used for high blood pressure, increasing the side effects of this medication. Sep 11, 2015
People also ask
Why is grapefruit not good with medicine?
Grapefruit contains compounds known as furanocoumarins that block the CYP3A4 enzymes. When grapefruit juice is consumed, the enzyme’s ability to break down the drug for elimination is decreased. Blood levels of the drug may rise, resulting in the risk for new or worsened side effects.
Common Grapefruit Juice Drug Interactions – Drugs.com
What medications should not be taken with grapefruit?
Fun Facts About Fruits and Vegetables
Statins (cholesterol-lowering drugs): lovastatin (Mevacor), atorvastatin (Lipitor), simvastatin (Zocor, Vytorin)
Antihistamines: ebastine.
Calcium channel blockers (blood pressure drugs): nitrendipine, felodipine (Plendil), nifedipine (Adamant, Procardia)
Commonly reported side effects of metformin include: lactic acidosis, diarrhea, nausea, nausea and vomiting, vomiting, and flatulence. Other side effects include: diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, asthenia, and decreased vitamin b12 serum concentrate. See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
For the Consumer
Applies to metformin: oral solution, oral tablet, oral tablet extended release
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by metformin. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
Major Side Effects
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking metformin:
More common:
Abdominal or stomach discomfort
cough or hoarseness
decreased appetite
diarrhea
fast or shallow breathing
fever or chills
general feeling of discomfort
lower back or side pain
muscle pain or cramping
painful or difficult urination
sleepiness
Less common:
Anxiety
blurred vision
chest discomfort
cold sweats
coma
confusion
cool, pale skin
depression
difficult or labored breathing
dizziness
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
feeling of warmth
headache
increased hunger
increased sweating
nausea
nervousness
nightmares
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
seizures
shakiness
shortness of breath
slurred speech
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
wheezing
Rare
Behavior change similar to being drunk
difficulty with concentrating
drowsiness
lack or loss of strength
restless sleep
unusual sleepiness
Minor Side Effects
Some of the side effects that can occur with metformin may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:
More common:
Acid or sour stomach
belching
bloated
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
full feeling
heartburn
indigestion
loss of appetite
metallic taste in the mouth
passing of gas
stomachache
stomach upset or pain
vomiting
weight loss
Less common:
Abnormal stools
bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
change in taste
difficulty with moving
discoloration of the fingernails or toenails
flu-like symptoms
joint pain
rash
a runny nose
sneezing
stuffy nose
swollen joints
STEVE RAMSEY
——————————————–
http://www.moleopedia.com/muscle-cramps-nighttimes-leg-cramps-treating-blood-pressure-and-grapefruit-juice/
To help your readers even further, you should also add a link to our Fully Accessible Guide to Flying With Physical Disabilities. Our guide provides accessibility information for the top 15 U.S. airports and the types of services provided for disabled travelers, such as: •Accessible Restrooms
•Service Animal Relief Areas
•Handicap Parking
•Wheelchair Service
Our entire article was published in conformance with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines to allow easy interpretation for readers with disabilities.
You can view the guide here: https://millionmilesecrets.com/guides/how-to-make-flying-with-disabilities-less-stressful/
Would you consider adding this resource to your website?
All the best,
Kelley King
Million Mile Secrets
1101 Red Ventures Drive | Fort Mill, SC 29707
Tags: blood pressure, cramps, Grapefruit Juice, muscel, nightmare
1 Comment
steve says:
December 3, 2018 at 3:03 pm
http://www.moleopedia.com/muscle-cramps-nighttimes-leg-cramps-treating-blood-pressure-and-grapefruit-juice/
To help your readers even further, you should also add a link to our Fully Accessible Guide to Flying With Physical Disabilities. Our guide provides accessibility information for the top 15 U.S. airports and the types of services provided for disabled travelers, such as: •Accessible Restrooms
•Service Animal Relief Areas
•Handicap Parking
•Wheelchair Service
Our entire article was published in conformance with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines to allow easy interpretation for readers with disabilities.
You can view the guide here: https://millionmilesecrets.com/guides/how-to-make-flying-with-disabilities-less-stressful/
Would you consider adding this resource to your website?
All the best,
Kelley King
Million Mile Secrets
1101 Red Ventures Drive | Fort Mill, SC 29707
Log in to Reply
Leave a Comment Cancel reply
You must be logged in to post a comment.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Categories
Africa ghost stories
ARABIC AND ISLAMIC SCIENCE
Arts and Game
ASIAN GHOST STORIES
ASTRONOMY AND ASTROLOGY
BIRDS
CANADA GHOST STORIES
cats and dogs
children stories
CHINA GHOST STORY
Cleansing ghost report , our home visits stories
COMPUTERS AND IT
Cryptozoology- Monesters Beast,
CULTURE AND SOCIETY
DISEASE AND SYNDROMES
DREAMS
EARTH AND GEOLOGY
Emergency and disaster
Environment
EUROPE GHOST STORIES
Exams
Faith
Bible Study
Quran
Fashion and clothes
FICTION
fishing
Food and recipes
Future Trends
Technology
garend and flowers
Greek Ghost stories & mythology
Halloween
Health and Remedy
HINTS AND TIPS
HISTORY
HORROR
Horror Movies- scary videos and paranormal fils
Hot Line
Humanity
Items for sale , advertisement
JAPAN GHOST STORIES
Job Corner
KINGDOMS AND EMPIRES
Latin America Ghost stories
Leadership
Team Work
MONEY AND FINANCE
Movies and videos
Paranormal
CASE FILE
Haunted Place
True Ghost Stories
Pets & Wild Life
Philosophy
PHYSICS AND BIOLOGY
pictures and out of ordinary stories
Politics
Psychology
Positive Thinking
PUBLIC HEALTH ISSUES
Questions FROM OUR READERS & my ANSWERS
ROMANTIC SECTION
Russian phenomenon , ghost and paranormal events
Science and Culture
SEA AND OCEAN
Social
SPI ULTRASOUND PHYSICS
Spirituality
sport
sport cars and mechanics
supernatural
SUPPORT GROUP
TOURIST AND PICTURES
Travel
U.F.O and unexplained mysteries
UK GHOST STORIES
Ultrasound
ULTRASOUND INTERESTED CASES
Universe
USA GHOST STORIES
VOLCANO AND EARTHQUAKES
Donate with PayPal
Recent Comments
Red on cider vinger table spoon a day and one banana must
Steve Ramsey on Most Haunted Places In India And Their Real Ghost Stories
Amit Kumar on Most Haunted Places In India And Their Real Ghost Stories
Steve Ramsey on CENTRAL NEW YORK GHOST HUNTERS – one of the best in USA
Steve Ramsey on CENTRAL NEW YORK GHOST HUNTERS – one of the best in USA
Steve Ramsey on Most Haunted Places In India And Their Real Ghost Stories
Steve Ramsey on CENTRAL NEW YORK GHOST HUNTERS – one of the best in USA
Steve Ramsey on Foods can control diabetes
Yang on Foods can control diabetes
Andrea Williams on CENTRAL NEW YORK GHOST HUNTERS – one of the best in USA
Copyright © 2019 Paranormal Zone,The Haunting Dimensions- PZHD . All Rights Reserved.
Powered by: WordPress | Theme: Simple Catch