HIV AIDS Blog | A dating blog from HIVDatingSites.biz
Skip to content
HIV AIDS Blog
A dating blog from HIVDatingSites.biz
Menu and widgets
Home
HIV AIDS Blog
Dating & Relationship
About
How it Works
Search for:
Recent Posts
Facts About HIV AIDS That Everyone Should Know November 26, 2015
Living with HIV AIDS：Complications You May Face November 9, 2015
Dating Someone with HIV: What You Need to Know October 19, 2015
Busting the Top HIV AIDS Myths September 28, 2015
How to Date an HIV Positive Person? September 28, 2015
Facts About HIV AIDS That Everyone Should Know
No matter how you look at it, HIV AIDS is definitely the world’s most feared disease, and it is important that everyone is educated about important facts regarding the disease. Awareness of HIV AIDS can not only help save lives but prevent transmission as well. A man was admitted to a hospital in 1981, with a rare blood disease, which had confounded them. 6 months passed before another man was admitted with a similar case and this alarmed doctors even more. As it turns out their concerns were entirely justified. The doctors didn’t realize at that moment in time, but the HIV AIDS epidemic had already began.
However, even those who were tasked with researching and finding cures for the disease couldn’t have imagined that some 30 years later, there would be around 40 million people in the world who would be living with HIV AIDS. The 21st century has seen massive strides made in medical science and today, AIDS is no longer seen as an immediate death sentence. However, millions of people around the world today are still getting infected and dying from HIV AIDS.
Awareness about HIV AIDS is considered to be the best way to counter the disease or to prevent getting infected by it. So brush up your knowledge on the deadliest disease on the planet and check out the facts about HIV AIDS that you should know:
Anyone Can Get HIV AIDS
The immune destroying disease is known as AIDS, which is an acronym for Auto Immunodeficiency Syndrome. The virus that causes it is known as HIV, which is an acronym for Human Immunodeficiency Virus. However, when AIDS was first discovered, it was labeled as a ‘Gay disease’ and was given names such as ‘Gay Cancer’ and GRID (Gay-related Immune Deficiency). That is entirely wrong, since HIV AIDS is not only a disease that affects gays, anyone can get infected with it.
The HIV AIDS Death Toll Is Astronomic
The exact death toll from HIV AIDS, ever since the epidemic began in 1981 is simply astronomical. More than 40 million people have died from HIV AIDS around the world with more than 800,000 HIV AIDS deaths in the United States alone.
You May not Know that You Have HIV AIDS
The scariest fact about HIV AIDS is that you may have it and not know about it. HIV can remain undetected for more than a decade and during that time the person infected can transmit it to others. The only way to know if you or your partner has HIV AIDS is to get tested.
Protection Is the Key
HIV AIDS is generally transmitted through the exchange of bodily fluids, and the best way to prevent it is to use protection when having sex. You can also get infected if you inject yourself with drugs or share needles with someone. If you have multiple sexual partners and have unprotected sex, then it is recommended that you should get tested for HIV after every 6 months.
HIV AIDS Is a Huge Problem
It has been found in a study that only 1 in 5 people in the United States are aware that they have HIV AIDS and there is someone who gets infected by the disease every 10 minutes! It clearly shows that HIV AIDS is still a huge problem in the United States and awareness about the disease holds the key for prevention from it.
Posted on November 26, 2015 Categories HIV AIDS FactsLeave a comment on Facts About HIV AIDS That Everyone Should Know
Living with HIV AIDS：Complications You May Face
There are millions of people who are living with HIV/AIDS in the United States at this current moment in time. The number of reported deaths caused by HIV/AIDS is somewhere in the high hundred thousands, which is definitely cause for concern for the masses that are currently living with HIV/AIDS. The biggest threat to people is that HIV/AIDS basically weakens the immune system and makes the body vulnerable to deadly and opportunistic infections.
People who have been infected by the HIV/AIDS virus face many complications and are at high risk to get infected by a range of viruses, which include parasites, bacteria and fungi. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the most common opportunistic infections that people with HIV/AIDS generally experience are:
Candidiasis
Coccidioidomycosis
Cryptococcosis
Cryptosporidiosis
Cytomegalovirus
Herpes simplex virus infection
Isosporiasis
Histoplasmosis
Tuberculosis
Septicemia
Toxoplasmosis
Pneumonia
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy
Neurological Complications
People who are living with HIV/AIDS will experience virus related inflammation damages and may experience other symptoms such as headaches, weakness, behavioral issues, forgetfulness, confusion and extreme numbness. The neurological complications caused by HIV/AIDS are one thing, but you can also get complications from the drugs that are used to treat the condition. These include:
Coma
Vision loss
Fever
Depression
Anxiety
Problems with swallowing
Spinal cord problems
Seizures
Pain
Shingles
Coordination issues and gait disorders
In addition to the infections that are listed above, people who are currently living with HIV/AIDS may also suffer from other microbes and viruses that affect the central nervous system.
Other Complications
People who are living with HIV/AIDS have got it rough because the amount of complications that they have to deal with is immense. It probably goes to show how vital our immune system is and how it prevents our body from being affected by other complications. However, people with HIV/AIDS don’t have the luxury of a fully functioning immune system, and are therefore likely to experience:
Lymphomas or cancer of the lymph nodes
Kaposi’s sarcoma: A blood vessel cancer
Wasting syndrome: an involuntary loss of around 10 percent body weight and is accompanied by diarrhea, fever, and weakness.
HIV-associated nephropathy or kidney disease
Living with HIV AIDS
There are millions of people living with HIV/AIDS today and all of them have to face numerous complications as a result of the disease. It is not easy to survive with HIV/AIDS and the number of people who die from complications caused by the virus is numbered in the hundred thousand every year. However, with advancement in medical science, there are some medications that can help with the complications caused by the HIV/AIDS today and greatly help people to survive with the virus.
If you are currently living with HIV/AIDS you should make sure that you’re getting the proper medication and the support to deal with the complications caused by the virus.
Posted on November 9, 2015 Categories Living with HIV AIDSLeave a comment on Living with HIV AIDS：Complications You May Face
Dating Someone with HIV: What You Need to Know
Over the past century, there is no disease that has caused as much fear and concern as the HIV/AIDS virus. It has become a global killer and there is no cure for the virus, which is why there are so many misconceptions and confusions about how HIV/AIDS is transmitted. Social stigma about STD is extremely harsh and this has created a lot of problems for people who have the disease when it comes to dating and relationships. This is why we have decided to provide you with the knowledge that you need when you are dating someone that is HIV positive.
Test Yourself First
Whenever you become sexually intimate with a new partner, you should make sure that you have the proper tests first in order to ensure that you have not contracted HIV. This is important, since you want to make sure that you are taking the right steps when you enter into a relationship with someone who has got the virus. Having the knowledge that you don’t have the virus will allow you to make the right choices in the relationship or when you should start your treatment if it is required.
Learn The Facts
The more information you have about the HIV virus the more at ease you will be when you are dating someone that has got the infection. You need to learn how it acts, where it starts, and how it is transmitted, which will all help you decide the next course of your relationship. The HIV virus also has different strains, which should be studied as well, since the virus can be transmitted even if you have been infected. Having the proper knowledge and facts about HIV will allow you to have a healthy relationship with your partner.
Dating Casually Is Not Dangerous
There is no harm in dating casually, since the virus can only be transmitted between people when they engage in sexual activities and there is an exchange of certain body fluids. You don’t have to worry about being infected by the virus if you hold hands, walk with your partner or even embrace them. You don’t have to worry about sharing your food and eating in the same plate as your partner. You will have to ensure that your partner doesn’t smoke and avoids certain foods when they are getting treatment for the virus. So make sure that learn about the restrictions and the activities that can be dangerous for your partner.
To Kiss Or Not To Kiss
This is a hotly debated topic, since HIV transmission can only occur when bodily fluids are exchanged it has brought the attention firmly on open mouth kissing. There are studies that have shown that during open mouth kissing, if the infected person has got bleeding gums, the transmission of the virus can be done through the saliva. However, closed mouth kissing is completely safe, and there is no reason to worry about getting intimate in that way with your partner.
Posted on October 19, 2015 Categories Dating & Relationship3 Comments on Dating Someone with HIV: What You Need to Know
Busting the Top HIV AIDS Myths
Even though technology and science has advanced by leaps and bounds in recent times, there is still an abundance of myths surrounding HIV (Human Immunodeficiency Virus) and AIDS (Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome). That is the reason why we have decided to break down the myths that are surrounding HIV/AIDS, since everyone needs to know the truth about these two STDs.
Enhancement in technology has meant that more research has been done and there is more information about HIV and AIDS. Check out some of the top myths about HIV and AIDS and their reality:
Myth 1: HIV/AIDS can be transmitted through mosquito bites
The reality regarding this myth is that, there is no way that a mosquito can transmit you with HIV/AIDS. The transmission can only happen if you are exposed to semen, blood, mother’s milk or vaginal fluid of an infected person. As of yet there is no evidence that suggest that HIV/AIDS can be transmitted though sweat, tears, urine or saliva of an infected person.
Myth 2: Getting infected by HIV/AIDS is a death sentence
Although, there is no cure for HIV/AIDS it is by no means a death sentence, since with treatment and proper medication a person can have a strong and productive life for many years.
Myth 3: Women who are infected shouldn’t have kids
It has common knowledge that mothers can easily transmit the infection to their kids but with advancement in medical science the child can still be cured of the infection before they born. So there is no need to stop women who have HIV/AIDS from giving birth.
Myths 4: People who have HIV shouldn’t have sex with anyone
It is true that HIV can be transmitted from one person to the other when having sex. However, there are treatments and medications available today that can greatly lower the chance of a person transmitting HIV to their partner by around 96%, which ensures a happy and fulfilling life.
Myth 5: If both people are HIV positive they can have unprotected sex
Unprotected sex should never be encouraged, since even if you have HIV, you can get re-infected and worsen your original condition. This can greatly affect your quality of life and become fatal for you.
Myth 6: HIV is generally a drug users or gay person’s disease
This is a common misconception in society, which discriminates on the fact that only drug users and gay people are liable to contract HIV/AIDS. It should be noted that HIV is a virus that can be transmitted when you have unprotected sex and can happen to anyone, no matter how healthy they are. This is why you should always use protection whilst having sex with someone.
Myth 7: You can’t get infected if you use birth control methods
The HIV virus can be transmitted through bodily fluids, which means that birth control pills will not prevent the disease. Their only job is to prevent pregnancy, not to provide protection against STDs like HIV/AIDS.
Myth 8: You can’t have more than one STD
Any person can be infected with more than STD, which means that even if you have herpes, you can still contract HIV from an infected person. This is why proper precautions should be taken whilst having intercourse and if you have an STD then you should follow the proper treatment and medication in order to stop the virus from spreading.
Posted on September 28, 2015 October 19, 2015 Categories HIV AIDS FactsTags HIV facts, HIV mythsLeave a comment on Busting the Top HIV AIDS Myths
How to Date an HIV Positive Person?
There are a lot of reasons why you shouldn’t turn down an HIV positive person once they reveal their condition to you. A lot of people are scared when they hear that their date is HIV positive, which is brought on by social stigma and lack of information about HIV. However, there is nothing inherently wrong with a person who has contracted HIV and they can even turn out to be your potential soul mate. Judging someone based on their HIV status is harsh, especially if they have the courage to tell you about it. There are lots of different variables that should be taken into account, like whether you are an emotional and physical match.
You should only focus on whether there is mutual sexual attraction, similar taste and a comfort level whilst being around that person. Letting STD condition get in the way is wrong, since with the right amount of support and knowledge you will learn that dating an HIV positive person is not wrong and certainly not dangerous. However, if you are worried about their condition, here are some of the things that you should know if you are currently in a relationship with an HIV positive person. Breaking up with someone over HIV is not something that you should do, which is why we are going to tell you how you can date an HIV positive person.
Don’t Assume That You Are The Only One That Is Scared
You shouldn’t make assumptions based on the fact that simply because they chose to tell you about their STD, it means that they are okay with dating whilst being HIV positive. They may have a lot of concerns and reservations as well and you need to take that into account. Never assume that if a person is sharing something intimate with you, it is because they are comfortable with it. They are the ones living with the STD and they are likely more scared than you are.
Don’t Think About What Others Will Say Or Think
You shouldn’t let others decide what you are saying or thinking. If you start worrying about what will people will say or think about you dating an HIV positive person then you will never be able to find true love. The only thing that you should be concerned about is whether that person makes you laugh, smile, makes you happy and satisfies you in bed. People will always talk negatively about others who are in relationships, which is why you shouldn’t let your happiness get affected by what others say or think.
Be Honest About Your Feelings
When you are dating someone, communication between the two of you has to be solid. This means that you have to take into account their feelings as well as yours. Be committed towards the relationship and honest about your feelings when you are dating an HIV positive person. You have to remember that they are a normal person and you aren’t necessarily going to get HIV by dating them, and you will have a glorious relationship in spite of their HIV condition.
Posted on September 28, 2015 October 19, 2015 Categories Dating Tips & AdviceTags dating an HIV positive person, HIV dating advice, HIV dating tips3 Comments on How to Date an HIV Positive Person?
The 4 Must Know HIV AIDS Dating Tips
The number of STD dating websites has been growing steadily over the past few years and now people who have been infected with STDs such as herpes and HIV/AIDS can find love online. Dating can be difficult for people who have been infected with HIV/AIDS but that doesn’t mean that their life is over. There are lots of HIV/AIDS dating websites that are offering people with the chance to find other people who have been infected and are looking for love as well.
However, people who have been infected with HIV/AIDS still find it difficult to open up to other people due to the fear of the social stigma surrounding AIDS and the fear of rejection. Those things were in the past, and as more information is available about HIV/AIDS today, the stance of many people has changed as to how they view those who have been living with HIV/AIDS.
Therefore, if you are looking to get your life back on track and want to start dating again, we have got the 4 must know HIV/AIDS dating tips for you. Before you start dating someone, you need to make sure that you are completely honest with yourself and are emotionally stable after your diagnosis. A lot of people have trouble valuing themselves after learning about their disease, but if you are able to accept it and move on past it, you will increase the chances of finding someone.
These tips are not only going to help you but will provide you with a better chance for finding your soul mate.
1. Practice Protection
Just because you have been infected with HIV/AIDS and are dating someone with the same STD doesn’t mean that you can have unprotected sex. You can be re-infected with the STD, since your partner may have a different strain of the STD than you currently have. Therefore, always practice safe sex and this will build trust between you and your partner and will protect them from further risks of infection.
2. Talk About It First
If you are thinking about dating someone, you should first sit down and have a serious talk about your STD first. This can be quite hard for some people, but this needs to be dealt with before the relationship begins, as it allows your partner to make up their mind about whether they should invest their time and energy into the relationship.
3. Discuss What You Want
Communication is important in any relationship, but when you are dating with HIV/AIDS it is even more important. You need to be honest and up front about your condition to your partner and let them know about what you are expecting to gain from the relationship. Do you just want a casual relationship? Or are you hoping for something more serious and long-term? These are all questions that you need to address with your partner before you two start dating.
4. Be Yourself
Accepting yourself is the first step to getting over your HIV/AIDS infection. If you are not valuing yourself, then you can’t expect someone else to do it as well. It is important to have a positive attitude and positive outlook on life, since this will make you much more desirable to others.
Posted on September 14, 2015 October 19, 2015 Categories Dating Tips & AdviceTags AIDS dating, dating advice, dating tips, HIV datingLeave a comment on The 4 Must Know HIV AIDS Dating Tips
Online HIV AIDS Dating：All that You Will Ever Need to Know
The purpose of life is to spend it with someone special, who you love. That is how life is seen by most people, and the first step towards finding that special someone is dating. However, once you are diagnosed with HIV/AIDS, you can say goodbye to your chances of ever finding the love of your life. This is because of the common myth that people with HIV/AIDS shouldn’t date other people, since they are likely to spread the virus.
That may be true to some extent, but with honesty and the right precautions, people who have been infected by HIV/AIDS can date others. Enter into the world of online HIV/AIDS dating, which is designed specifically for people who have been infected by the deadly virus and are looking for their special someone. When you are diagnosed with HIV/AIDS, your whole world may come crashing down, but this doesn’t mean that it is the end for you, since online HIV/AIDS dating websites offer you with the solution to find the love of your life easily.
Benefits of Online HIV/AIDS Dating
There are plenty of benefits of online HIV/AIDS dating, since it allows people that are infected with the virus with a chance to date other people suffering a similar fate as them. They can not only find someone special, but also learn to live with their infection after talking with other people who are going through the same experience. This allows people to accept their condition and be much more positive about living with HIV/AIDS in their daily lives.
The majority of people will find it much easier to date other people who are infected with the same virus, since there is less stress involved. However, both partners should be honest with each other and should still practice safe sex even though they are both diagnosed with HIV/AIDS.
What is HIV/AIDS Dating Website?
There are loads of online HIV/AIDS websites that are around these days. They are designed specifically for people that are suffering from the HIV/AIDS virus, who can date other people with the same condition. This gives them with a shot to find someone to spend the rest of their lives with and not worry about any judgment or fear of spreading the infection to anyone else.
Online HIV/AIDS dating websites offer people with the chance to not only find other people that are living with HIV/AIDS but also to have sexual relationships with them. However, they must be careful when engaging in sexual activities and always practice safe sex, since there is still a threat of re-infection and making their condition even worse.
How to Choose the Right Online HIV/AIDS Dating Website?
When you are looking for the right online HIV/AIDS website, there are certain key elements that you should look for in it. Here are some of the key components for a good online HIV/AIDS dating website:
Look for a reputable website
Check out the reviews and ratings of the website
Choose between free or paid websites
The security and anonymity options offered
There are hundreds of online HIV/AIDS dating websites, and you should look to ensure that you are using the best one for finding that special someone.
Posted on September 14, 2015 October 19, 2015 Categories Dating & RelationshipTags AIDS dating, AIDS dating website, benefits, dating online, HIV dating, HIV dating website1 Comment on Online HIV AIDS Dating：All that You Will Ever Need to Know
HIV Dating Sites © | All Rights Reserved