Chiropractors Kanata, Kanata, Stittsville and Richmond ON
711
Skip to content
REQUEST APPOINTMENT
Email Us
Office Hours
Office Hours
Morning
Afternoon
M
6:30 - 12:00
2:30 - 6:00
T
6:30 - 12:00
-------
W
6:30 - 12:00
2:30 - 6:00
T
6:30 - 12:00
2:30 - 6:00
Call (613) 831-9665
CALL US (613) 831-9665
Hazeldean Family Chiropractic Clinic
Hazeldean Family Chiropractic Clinic
8 - 484 Hazeldean Road
Kanata, ON K2L 1V4
Phone: (613) 831-9665
Menu
Home
About Us
Chiropractic for Children
The 40-Day Challenge
Chiropractors with Compassion
The Doctors
Dr. Erin McLaughlin
Dr. Pierre Paradis
The Team
Corporate Wellness
We Can Help
Asthma
Fibromyalgia
Headaches & Migraines
Herniated Disc
Neck Pain
Pinched Nerve
Sciatica
Sports Injury
Backpack Safety
Proper Pillow
Helpful Videos
What To Expect
FAQ
Online Paperwork
Our Blog!
Testimonials
Patient Cases
Case #1
Case #2
Case #3
Case #4
Case #5
Case #6
Contact Us
Referrals
Those information inserts aren't just for making paper airplanes
Published on August 28, 2018
Whenever you fill a prescription, it comes nicely packaged in a white paper bag with your receipt stapled on top. Inside, in addition to your medication, there will be two or three neatly folded pages of information.
Or buy a medication off the shelf. It could be for cold and flu, allergies, or muscle pain – it doesn’t really matter. The package includes a little paper insert, crammed with blocks of text few of us can read without squinting, or reaching for a magnifying glass.
Whether it’s the pharmacist’s information package, or that little paper insert, how often do you actually take the time to read it?
Be honest. Most of the time, we pop that pill with a swallow of water and get on with our lives.
We run with whatever the pharmacist told us during the consult at the counter or the basic dosage information on the bottle.
Often, that’s enough. But unless you are an experienced pharmacologist or medical doctor, how can you be sure that you are taking the medication safely and appropriately? With any medication, whether it’s by prescription or not, there is almost always some risk of side effects. These include the risk of a harmful interaction with another medication, or even food.
Remember grapefruit juice?
A few years back, we had the health scare about the risks of drinking grapefruit juice with some prescription medications.
The issue rested with chemicals in the grapefruit and some other citrus fruits that can interfere with how the body breaks down and absorbs the medication. At best, this might make the medication less effective. At worst, it could allow the medication to build up in your body to dangerous levels and increase the risk of other harmful side effects.
This makes certain citrus fruits a bad choice to drink/eat with various medications to fight infection, reduce cholesterol, treat high blood pressure and heart problems, and prevent organ rejection in transplant recipients.
It’s always best to assume nothing about the medications you take.
Case in point
We have a patient at our Kanata chiropractic clinic who had been taking a heartburn medication for the past 20 years. He came to suffer symptoms that were diagnosed as possible neuropathy.
Neuropathy – more specifically, peripheral neuropathy – typically results from damage to the peripheral nerves. These are the nerves throughout your body to which signals are relayed to and from the brain via the spinal cord. Neuropathy often causes weakness, numbness, pain, and reduced function in different parts of the body, most often in the hands and feet.
This condition can arise from traumatic injuries, infections, metabolic problems, inherited causes, and exposure to toxins. One of the most common causes is diabetes. It can also arise from lifestyle habits, such as alcoholism.
All of which makes it easy to understand why our patient found this diagnosis alarming.
He brought this up with his pharmacist and they talked about that heartburn medication. It turned out that neuropathy is a known side effect and that he should have stopped taking the medication after five years!
What you should always do
This patient’s case should serve as a wake-up call for all of us. To which we offer the following:
Always ask about potential drug and food interactions with any medication you are taking.
Consult with your doctor or pharmacist immediately if you experience any unusual symptoms upon starting a new medication.
Avoid falling into the rut of routine – it’s wise to periodically revisit why you are taking a certain medication. Does it still make sense to continue taking it in light of changes to your health, other medications you are taking, or the availability of new treatment options? Have this conversation at least once a year with your family doctor and pharmacist.
And lastly, read that paper insert that comes with the medication!
Share This Post:Share on TwitterShare on FacebookShare via Email
« Back to Blog
Add Your Comment (Get a Gravatar) Cancel reply
Your Name
Mar 4th, 2019
9:22pm
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Leave this field blank
Leave this field blank
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *.
Email Hazeldean Family Chiropractic Clinic
Comments, Requests, Questions, or Suggestions
First Name
Last Name
Respond to me via:
Email
Phone
No Response
Email Address
Phone Number
I consent to having this website store my submitted information so they can respond to my inquiry. For more info, read our privacy policy.
Leave this empty:
Send Message
Request Appointment (pending confirmation)
Patient Type
New Patient
Current Patient
Returning Patient
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Phone Number
Respond to me via:
Email
Phone
Preferred Day/Time:
Date
Appointment Hour H 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
Appointment Minute M 00 15 30 45
AM or PM
AM
PM
Comments or Questions
I consent to having this website store my submitted information so they can respond to my inquiry. For more info, read our privacy policy.
Leave this empty:
Send Message
Share on TwitterShare on FacebookShare via Email
Request Appointment
Email Us
Copyright
Legal
Privacy
Accessibility
Sitemap
Chiropractic Website by Perfect Patients.