Meth and Weed | Meth Laced Weed Symptoms
Contact Us
Insurance
Admissions
Teen Addiction
Search
352.771.2700 Recovery Is Possible
Drug Addiction
Drug Addiction Overview
Commonly Abused Drugs
Alcohol
Cocaine
Heroin
Marijuana
Meth
Xanax
Stimulants
Adderall
Amphetamines
Bath Salts
Crack
Ecstasy, MDMA
Spice, K2
Opioid/Opiates
Codeine
Fentanyl
OxyContin
Hydrocodone
Dilaudid
Lortab
Kratom
Morphine
Oxycodone
Vicodin
Benzodiazepines
Ativan
Klonopin
Valium
Librium
Prescription Drugs
Percocet
Methadone
Ambien
Tramadol
Suboxone
Subutex
Narcan
Ultram
Fioricet
Trazodone
Drug Index
Ayahuasca
CBD (Cannabidiol)
Kava
Peyote
Dealing With the Issues of a High-Functioning Alcoholic
Can You Become Addicted to Heroin the First Time?
Drug Abuse Hotline
Alcohol Hotline
Need help? Call us today. 352.771.2700
Mental Health
Anxiety Disorders
Anxiety
Generalized Anxiety
Panic Disorder
Social Anxiety
Personality Disorders
Antisocial PD
Borderline PD
Dissociative Identity Disorder
Histrionic PD
Schizoid PD
Stress Related Disorders
Adjustment Disorder
PTSD
Eating Disorders
Anorexia
Binge Eating
Bulimia
Restrictive Food Intake
Depression & Mood Disorders
Bipolar Disorder
Depression
Major Depressive Disorder
Postpartum Depression
Obsessive Compulsive Disorders
Body Dysmorphia
Gender Dysphoria
Impulse Control Disorder
OCD
Other Mental Health Issues
ADHD/ADD
Phobias
Psychosis
Schizophrenia
Sleep Disorders
Common Co-Occurring Disorders
Process Addictions
Anxiety and Substance Abuse
Borderline PD and Drug Abuse
Depression and Drug Abuse
Panic Disorder and Drug Abuse
PTSD and Substance Abuse
Schizophrenia and Drug Abuse
Mental Health First Aid
Need help? Call us today. 352.771.2700
Addiction Treatment
Drug Addiction Treatment
Alcoholism Treatment
Medical Detox
Medication-Assisted Treatment
Inpatient Rehab
Partial Hospitalization
Intensive Outpatient
Outpatient Rehab
Aftercare
Dual Diagnosis
Understanding Treatment
Our Treatment Philosophy
Drug Rehab
Drug Detox
Intervention
Friends & Family Portal
Treatment Therapies
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy
Dialectical Behavioral Therapy
Individual/Group Therapy
Intensive Therapy
Substance Abuse Treatment Centers and Rehab
Substance Abuse Counseling
Mental Health/Dual Diagnosis
Treatments for Anxiety
Bipolar Treatments
Treatments for Schizophrenia
Depression Treatments
PTSD Treatments
10 Tips to Help Family Members of Those Struggling With Addiction Cope
10 Signs You Need To Seek Professional Help
Heroin Hotline
Marijuana Hotline
Need help? Call us today. 352.771.2700
Our Rehab Centers
Locations Overview
Nationwide Adult Rehab Centers
The Recovery Village Umatilla (FL)
Orlando Recovery Center (FL)
The Recovery Village at Palmer Lake (CO)
The Recovery Village Columbus (OH)
The Recovery Village Ridgefield (WA)
Specialty Rehab Centers
Next Generation Village (FL)
IAFF Recovery Center (MD)
Aftercare
Next Step Village (FL)
Treatment By State
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
Resources
Sobriety Calculator
Friends and Family
Teen Addiction
College Students
LGBTQ+ Addiction
Active Duty Military
Military Veterans
Fitness & Nutrition
Spiritual Resources
Domestic Violence
Lawyers
Caregiver Resources
Cancer Patients
Elderly
Recovery Blog
Inside Addiction
Insurance
Contact Us
Admissions
Search
Don't wait another day. Help is a phone call away. 352.771.2700
close What To Expect
Seeking addiction treatment can feel overwhelming. We know the struggle, which is why we're uniquely qualified to help.
Your call is confidential, and there's no pressure to commit to treatment until you're ready. As a voluntary facility, we're here to help you heal -- on your terms. Our sole focus is getting you back to the healthy, sober life you deserve, and we are ready and waiting to answer your questions or concerns.
352.771.2700
Recovery Is Possible
Home Crystal Meth Addiction Meth Laced Weed Symptoms
Share23
Tweet
+1
Share
23 Shares
Meth-Laced Weed Symptoms
Marijuana is a drug that’s part of a lot of changes in terms of how it’s viewed and its legal status. For example, the use of marijuana is losing a lot of its stigma, it’s increasingly explored for its therapeutic benefits, and it’s even becoming recreationally legal in some states.
With that being said, this change in the perception of marijuana doesn’t mean it’s without risks and concerns.
One of the risks of using marijuana, particularly when it’s purchased off the streets, is that it can be laced with other substances, which are often very harmful.
One area of concern people have specifically involves meth and weed, and meth-laced weed symptoms. Is meth-laced weed a thing, or is it an urban myth? If it is a true concern, what are the meth-laced weed symptoms?
What is Meth?
Before looking at meth and weed, what is meth on its own?
Meth is an illegal drug that acts as a stimulant, by increasing the amount of available dopamine in the user’s brain. It’s incredibly dangerous not only because of its effects on the brain but also because it’s made from toxic substances, which can include various chemicals and other substances that can erode the brain and vital organs.
Meth can be made in home-based laboratories, and it’s very long-lasting. It often has effects that last for up to 24 hours, and its half-life is around 12 hours on average.
Comparing Meth and Weed
Before looking specifically at meth-laced weed symptoms, how do meth and weed compare to one another?
First, with meth and weed, meth is highly addictive, while weed isn’t considered as addictive. Many people become addicted to meth after only using it once, while with weed, people are more able to use it recreationally or occasionally without becoming addicted in many cases. Also, meth creates a physical dependence very quickly, while marijuana doesn’t. To put it simply, when comparing meth and weed, meth is one of the most addictive drugs there are, and weed is one of the least addictive, although there is some risk of addiction with weed.
Meth is also a stimulant, while weed isn’t. Meth speeds up vital functions like heart rate and causes a rise in body temperature. When someone uses meth, they’re going to feel a euphoric rush or high, that includes side effects like energy and a lack of appetite.
Weed is very much different in how it affects the user. For example, when you use weed you’re more likely to feel calm, relaxed or sleepy. It can also increase your appetite.
A few other ways meth and weed are different from one another include:
Marijuana comes from the Cannabis plant, while meth is made from toxic chemicals and household ingredients.
As was touched on above, marijuana is a depressant, while meth is a stimulant.
Some of the side effects of weed include increased sensory perception, drowsiness, slowed reaction time, and in some people anxiety or panic. With meth, side effects include increased energy and physical activity, increased blood pressure and breathing, and irregular heart rate.
There are many possible long-term effects of meth, many of which can be severe or deadly and these aren’t a risk with weed. For example, long-term effects of meth can include violence, paranoia, delusions, severe dental problems and extreme weight loss, itching that leads to skin picking and sores, and psychotic symptoms.
So, since meth and weed are two very different drugs, what would it be like if you were to experience meth-laced weed symptoms?
Meth-Laced Weed
Is meth-laced weed a real concern, or a myth?
In general, laced weed can be a real concern if you’re buying it off the streets. Of course, laced weed isn’t necessarily common because it would actually cause drug dealers to lose money, but it is possible. Many times if a drug dealer is going to sell weed laced with other things, they let the buyer know and charge a higher price for it. There aren’t a lot of advantages for drug dealers to sell laced weed without letting the buyer know because they wouldn’t be able to charge a premium for it.
Certain drug tests can be used to determine if weed is laced with anything else, and if you’re worried about meth-laced weed, you may be able to notice a chemical-like smell when it’s burned. There shouldn’t be any crystallized substances in weed either.
Rather than looking for meth-laced weed symptoms, it’s more beneficial to look out for weed being laced with something like glass. Crushed glass can be added to weed to make it heavier, therefore allowing a dealer to sell it at a higher price. That’s something that would be significantly more common than combining meth and weed.
The only real reason it would seem drug dealers would sell meth and weed laced with one another would be to increase their meth customer base, but it doesn’t seem to be a huge problem across the nation. Unfortunately, most drug dealers can get buyers for their products without tactics like lacing weed.
If it were to happen, meth-laced weed symptoms would likely look like the opposite of what happens when you normally smoke weed. For example, meth-laced weed symptoms could include a rush of energy or hyperactivity as compared to feeling relaxed and drowsy. You might also smell the chemical smell of meth when using the marijuana, or you might feel like your heart rate or body temperature were rising if you were to use meth and weed.
Crystal Meth Addiction
Signs, Symptoms & Side Effects
Withdrawal & Detox
Crystal Meth Treatment & Rehab
Have more questions about Meth abuse?
Q.
How Long Does Crystal Meth Stay in Your System?
Q.
How Do I Know If Someone Is On Crystal Meth?
Q.
How Does Meth Affect the Brain?
Q.
What Does Crystal Meth do to You?
Q.
What is Shake and Bake Meth?
Read the most frequently asked questions
See also
Crystal Clear: Stories of People Who Faced Meth Addiction
How to Safely Detox From Meth
Meth Mouth: the Hows and Whys
Crystal Meth Hotline
Crystal Meth and Overdose
See more topics
Giving Back: How to Become an AA Sponsor
March 26, 2019
Search
Speak to a Meth Intake Coordinator now.
352.771.2700What to expect when I call?
Seeking addiction treatment can feel overwhelming. We know the struggle, which is why we're uniquely qualified to help.
Your call is confidential, and there's no pressure to commit to treatment until you're ready. As a voluntary facility, we're here to help you heal -- on your terms. Our sole focus is getting you back to the healthy, sober life you deserve, and we are ready and waiting to answer your questions or concerns 24/7.
Speak with an Intake Coordination Specialist now.352.771.2700
Meth Laced Weed Symptoms
5 (100%) 1 vote
Share23
Tweet
+1
Share
23 Shares
Latest Related Posts:
Crystal Meth Hotline
Crystal Meth Detox
Crystal Clear: Stories of People Who Faced Meth Addiction
Crystal Meth: Signs, Symptoms and Side Effects
Crystal Meth Treatment and Rehab
Meth Addiction Related Topics
Meth Addiction FAQ
The Dangers of Methamphetamine: Ingredients and How It’s Made
Ready to start? We're here for you.
352.771.2700
The Recovery Village
633 Umatilla Blvd. Umatilla, FL 32784
(352) 771-2700
About Us
About
Our Team
Philosophy
Careers
Get Started
Admissions
Insurance
Locations
Contact Us
Legal
Notice Of Privacy Practices
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
© The Recovery Village at Umatilla All Rights Reserved.