Alcohol poisoning – Know when to stop! | Health care Medicine
Home
About Healthy Blog
DoctorHelps
Beauty Diet & Fitness
Psychology
Dentistry
Children Health and Development
Gynecology and Obstetrics
General Medicine
Dermatology
Health care Medicine
Medical Blog about health, medicine and healthy living. DoctorHelps.com provides latest information about: doctors, hospitals, health insurances, medical procedures, and a variety medical topics and more, Website Daily updated.
Alcohol poisoning – Know when to stop!
March 16, 2016
Alcohol poisoning is from acute toxic effects of alcohol consumption. Directly impacting the Central Nervous System, it slows breathing, heart rate, gag reflex, cause gastritis and severe gastrointestinal bleeding to respiratory arrest and death. When the gag reflex is slowed, there is danger of asphyxiation. This occurs when the person is unconscious from excessive alcohol intake vomits and then chokes.
A common cause of alcohol poisoning is binge drinking (for women, 4 or more drinks in a short period of time; men, 5 or more drinks in a short period of time.) It can also come from intentionally or accidentally ingesting products that contain alcohol.
Poisoning caused by the ingestion of any of several alcohols, of which ethyl, isopropyl, and methyl are the most common. Ethyl alcohol (ethanol) is found in beverages, hairspray, and mouthwashes; ordinarily, it is lethal only if large quantities are ingested in a brief period. Isopropyl (rubbing) alcohol is more toxic. Methyl alcohol (methanol) is extremely poisonous: in addition to nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain, it may cause blindness; death may follow the consumption of only 2 oz. Treatment for alcohol poisoning may include gastric lavage and other supportive interventions.
Symptoms of alcohol poisoning include:
Confusion or stupor;
Cold, clammy, pale or bluish skin;
Breathing is slow (less than 8 breaths per minute) or irregular, with 10 seconds or more between breaths;
Vomiting while passed out, not waking up after vomiting, or incoherent while vomiting;
Seizures;
Weak pulse, very rapid pulse, or very slow pulse;
Loss of consciousness: Inability to awaken a person with loud shouting, or inability of a person to remain awake for more than 2-3 minutes or to carry on a coherent conversation when awake (semi-conscious).
Treatment for alcohol poisoning
A person who has lost consciousness and cannot be awakened is in danger of dying. Help is needed immediately.
When you are with a group of people drinking, it is important to look out for the signs of alcohol poisoning and know what to do when someone has had too much to drink.
If you believe somebody is suffering from alcohol poisoning you should call for an ambulance, and provide the following assistance until it arrives:
Don’t give them coffee, it will worsen their dehydration;
Do not give them any more alcohol to drink;
Do not lie them on their back;
Try to keep the individual awake;
Try to keep them in a sitting position, not lying down;
If the person is unconscious put them in the recovery position and check they are breathing;
If they are able to take it, give them water;
Do not make them walk.
Hospital treatment
When someone has alcohol poisoning, they need to be taken to hospital. Medical staff at hospital will monitor the person’s state until all the alcohol has left their system. They may also need to:
Insert a tube into their windpipe to help them breathe;
Fit an intravenous drip (which goes directly into a vein) to top up their water, blood sugar and vitamin levels;
Fit a catheter (tube) to their bladder to drain urine straight into a bag so they do not wet themselves;
Pump their stomach by flushing fluids through a tube inserted into their nose or mouth.
If the patient (adult or child) has unintentionally drunk methanol or isopropyl alcohol and has alcohol poisoning they may need kidney dialysis to speed up the removal of toxins from their system.
Advertisements
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Posted by helpdoctorhelps in Toxicology
← Previous
Next →
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Categories
Allergic and Immunological diseases (4)
Alternative Medicine (7)
Beauty Diet & Fitness (15)
Cardiology (4)
Children Health and Development (14)
Cosmetology (4)
Dentistry (4)
Dermatology (9)
Diagnosis of Diseases (3)
Endocrinology & Diabetes & Metabolism (11)
Find a doctor (6)
Gastroenterology (10)
General Medicine (4)
Gynecology and Obstetrics (6)
Infectious Diseases (3)
Nephrology & Urology (4)
Neuropathology (3)
Neuropsychology (4)
Neurosurgery (2)
Oncology (3)
Ophthalmology and Vision (4)
Otolaryngology (2)
Physical Therapy (1)
Pregnancy and Childbirth (7)
Psychiatry (5)
Psychology (14)
Pulmonology (2)
Rheumatology (2)
Sports Medicine (2)
Toxicology (3)
Uncategorized (1)
Articles Archive
March 2017 (4)
February 2017 (4)
January 2017 (2)
December 2016 (1)
November 2016 (1)
October 2016 (2)
July 2016 (2)
June 2016 (2)
May 2016 (7)
April 2016 (11)
March 2016 (16)
February 2016 (9)
January 2016 (20)
December 2015 (25)
November 2015 (18)
October 2015 (6)
September 2015 (4)
November 2014 (2)
Main menu
About Healthy Blog
March 2016
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Feb Apr »
1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 18 19 20
21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30 31
Instagram Posts
There was an error retrieving images from Instagram. An attempt will be remade in a few minutes.
Page Facebook
Page Facebook
Follow on Twitter
My Tweets
Opinion Polls
Take Our Poll
Advertisements
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: