Genetic Disorders with Increased Risk of Cancer in Children - Together
Welcome to
Logo
Together is a new resource for anyone affected by pediatric cancer - patients and their parents, family members, and friends.
Learn More
Together Logo
Skip Navigation
About Pediatric Cancer
Diagnosis and Treatment
Care and Support
For Families
Life After Cancer
Back
About Pediatric Cancer
Leukemia
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL)
Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML)
See more types of leukemia
Lymphoma
Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
Hodgkin Lymphoma
Brain and Spinal Cord Tumors
Medulloblastoma
Astrocytoma / Glioma
See more brain and spinal tumors
More Cancer Types
Neuroblastoma
Soft Tissue Sarcoma
See more types of pediatric cancer
Pediatric Cancer Care Team
Inherited Risk and Genetic Testing
Understanding Cancer
Role of Cancer Research
Teen & Young Adult Survey
Learn More About Pediatric Cancer
Diagnosis and Treatment
Diagnosing Childhood Cancer
Lab Tests
Reading a Pathology Report
Questions to Ask after Diagnosis
Imaging Tests
CT (Computed Tomography) Scan
MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging)
PET Scans (Positron Emission Tomography)
VCUG (Voiding Cystourethrogram)
See more imaging tests
Cancer Treatments
Chemotherapy
Radiation Therapy
Bone Marrow / Hematopoietic Cell Transplant
Immunotherapy
See more treatment options
Procedures
Central Venous Catheters
Bone Marrow Aspiration and Biopsy
Lumbar Puncture
Biopsy
Find more procedures
Side Effects
ANC and Neutropenia
Peripheral Neuropathy
Posterior Fossa Syndrome
See more side effects of cancer treatment
List of Medicines
Medication Management
Clinical Trials
Find a Clinical Trial
Learn more about clinical trials
Find a Treatment Center
Explore More Diagnosis and Treatment
Care and Support
Rehabilitation Services
Occupational Therapy
Physical Therapy
See more rehabilitation services
Skin Care
Diaper Dermatitis (Diaper Rash)
Skin Protection
Learn more about skin care
Dental Care
Relapse - When Childhood Cancer Comes Back
Immunity, Illness, and Infection
Preventing Infection
Central Line Associated Bloodstream Infections
Learn more about the immune system
Psychology and Mental Health Services
Mental Health in the Cancer Journey
Anxiety
Learn more about psychology and mental health services
Clinical Nutrition
Enteral Nutrition (Tube Feeding)
Parenteral Nutrition
Nutrition and Side Effects
See more about clinical nutrition
Complementary Therapies
Palliative Care
Communicating with the Palliative Care Team
Planning for End of Life Care
Learn more about palliative care
Learn More About Care and Support
For Families
Navigating Health Care
Waiting for Test Results
Paying for Cancer Care
Learn how to navigate the healthcare experience
School Support
Classroom Accommodations
Homebound Services
Learn more about school support
Support for Parents
Support Networks for Parents
Supporting Marriages
Parenting Siblings
Find more support for parents
Building Better Communication
Asking for Help
Offering Help to Families
Talking to Your Child about Cancer
Child-Friendly Definitions
Age-appropriate Information
Spirituality and Faith
After the Loss of a Child
Video Library
Find More Support for Families
Life After Cancer
Be Your Own Health Care Advocate
Survivorship Care Plans
Katie's Story: Building Relationships with Health Care Providers
Learn more about being your own health care advocate
School and Work
Financial Aid and College Scholarships
Workplace Training and Services
Find more school and work resources
Long-Term and Late Effects
Cognitive Late Effects
Cardiac (Heart) Late Effects
Bladder Late Effects
Dental Late Effects
Find more late effects
Healthy Living
Physical Activity After Cancer
Healthy Eating After Cancer
Learn more about healthy living
Post-Treatment and Beyond
Transition Off Treatment
How to Make the Transition from Pediatric to Adult Health Care
Learn more about post treatment
If I Had Cancer, Will My Children Get Cancer?
Emotional Well-Being
Survivor Stories
Learn More About Life After Cancer
Genetic Disorders
Together Home
About Pediatric Cancer
Inherited Risk and Genetic Testing
Genetic Disorders
Some children are born with genetic conditions that may lead to cancer.
Most childhood cancers are not believed to be inherited (passed down through the generations). A study by the St. Jude-Washington University Pediatric Cancer Genome Project found that about 8.5 percent of childhood cancer cases occur because of an underlying genetic condition.
Having one of these genetic conditions does not mean that person will develop cancer. It means the person has an increased risk of developing it because of his or her genetic makeup.
These genetic conditions include:
Ataxia-Telangiectasia
Ataxia-telangiectasia is a rare inherited disorder that affects the nervous system, immune system, and other body systems. Children with this condition have progressive difficulty in coordinating movement and often have difficulty walking, problems with balance and hand coordination, involuntary jerking movement, muscle twitches, and disturbances in nerve function. They also have an increased risk of developing cancer, particularly leukemia and lymphoma. People with ataxia-telangiectasia are very sensitive to radiation exposure, including medical X-rays. Learn more about ataxia-telangiectasia.
Beckwith-Wiedemann Syndrome and Isolated Hemihypertrophy
Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome is a genetic disorder that can cause overgrowth of body parts (hypertrophy.) It may be limited to one area of the body, or it may involve several parts of the body. When it is only on one side it is called hemihypertrophy. Children with Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome are at an increased risk of developing cancers, particularly a form of kidney cancer called Wilms tumor and a form of liver cancer called hepatoblastoma. Tumors develop in about 10 percent of people with this condition and almost always appear in childhood. Learn more about Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome.
Carney Complex
Carney complex is a disorder marked by an increased risk of several types of tumors, including noncancerous (benign) tumors in the heart known as cardiac myxomas. Myxomas may also appear on the skin and internal organs. People with Carney complex may also develop cancers of endocrine (hormone-producing) system, such as adrenal glands, thyroid, testes, ovaries, and pituitary gland. Affected individuals also usually have changes in skin coloring (pigmentation). Signs and symptoms of this condition commonly begin in the teens or early adulthood. Read more about Carney complex.
Constitutional Mismatch Repair Deficiency Syndrome
Constitutional mismatch repair deficiency syndrome is a rare condition that makes a child more likely to develop several different forms of cancer, including brain tumors, leukemia, lymphomas, abnormal growths in the intestinal tract, gastrointestinal, and female reproductive organs (such as uterus and ovaries). Children may also develop certain skin conditions, such as café-au-lait spots (flat brown colored areas on the skin) or patches of skin that are lighter than the overall skin tone. A child with constitutional mismatch repair deficiency syndrome can develop more than one type of cancer at a time or more than one cancer during his or her lifetime. Read more about constitutional mismatch repair deficiency syndrome.
DICER1 Syndrome
DICER1 syndrome is an inherited disorder that increases the risk of a variety of cancerous and noncancerous (benign) tumors. Certain types of tumors that occur in the lungs, kidneys, ovaries, and thyroid are most common. Affected people can develop one or more types of tumors. Members of the same family can have different types. Learn more about DICER1 syndrome.
Familial Adenomatous Polyposis (FAP)
Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) is a condition that mostly affects the digestive system. People with familial adenomatous polyposis typically develop abnormal tissue growths called polyps in the large and small intestines. Some polyps can become cancerous if they are not removed. People with familial adenomatous polyposis are at high risk to develop colon cancer and other digestive system cancers at a young age. People with familial adenomatous polyposis are at increased risk to develop other tumors, cancers, or physical issues. Learn more about familial adenomatous polyposis.
Hereditary Neuroblastoma
Neuroblastoma is a type of cancer that grows from immature nerve cells called neuroblasts. It mainly affects children before the age of 5 years and rarely occurs in adults. A neuroblastoma develops when neuroblasts grow uncontrollably to form a tumor. Most of the time, the tumor begins in the nerve tissue of the adrenal glands. Sometimes neuroblastomas begin in the nerve cells of the abdomen, chest, neck or pelvis. Learn more about hereditary neuroblastoma.
Hereditary Paraganglioma-Pheochromocytoma Syndrome
Hereditary paraganglioma-pheochromocytoma syndrome is a condition in which tumors develop in structures called paraganglia. Read more about hereditary paraganglioma-pheochromocytoma syndrome.
Hereditary Retinoblastoma
Retinoblastoma is an eye cancer most often diagnosed in young children before the age of 5. The cancer develops in the part of the eye called the retina. The hereditary form of retinoblastoma usually affects both eyes, but in some cases it may only develop in one eye. Individuals with hereditary retinoblastoma may be at increased risk for tumors in other parts of the body, including the skin, bone, soft tissue, and brain. Learn more about hereditary retinoblastoma.
Li-Fraumeni Syndrome (LFS)
Li-Fraumeni syndrome (LFS) is a rare condition that makes an affected person more likely to develop one or more cancers during his or her lifetime. It is usually inherited from a family member.
The most common cancers associated with LFS are: soft tissue sarcoma, osteosarcoma, brain and central nervous system (CNS) tumors, adrenocortical carcinoma, acute leukemia, and breast cancer.
Learn more about Li-Fraumeni syndrome.
Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 is a genetic condition that increases the risk of developing cancerous and non-cancerous tumors. Most of these tumors develop in the endocrine system. Learn more about multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1.
Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2
Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 is a genetic condition that increases the risk of developing cancer in the endocrine system. People with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 have an increased risk of developing medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) and pheochromocytomas, which are tumors of the adrenal gland. People with this condition may also develop other types of abnormal growths in endocrine tissues or glands. Learn more about multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2.
Neurofibromatosis Type 1
Neurofibromatosis type 1 is an inherited disorder that can affect many areas of the body. These areas include the skin, eyes, bones, blood vessels, and the nervous system. People with neurofibromatosis type 1 also have a higher risk of developing certain kinds of cancerous and non-cancerous tumors. These conditions include neurofibromas, central nervous system tumors, pheochromocytomas, leukemias, and gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST). The severity of the condition and which body areas are affected can vary from person to person. Learn more about neurofibromatosis type 1.
Neurofibromatosis Type 2
Neurofibromatosis type 2 is a genetic condition that mainly affects the nervous system. People with neurofibromatosis type 2 are at increased risk to develop tumors within their nerves. The most common type of tumor in people with neurofibromatosis type 2 is vestibular schwannoma (also known as acoustic neuroma). In patients with neurofibromatosis type 2, vestibular schwannomas usually develop on both auditory nerves at an average age of 18-24. Almost all patients with neurofibromatosis type 2 will develop bilateral vestibular schwannomas by age 30. Learn more about neurofibromatosis type 2.
Nevoid Basal Cell Carcinoma Syndrome (Gorlin syndrome)
Nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome is a condition in which people have a higher risk of developing certain kinds of cancerous and non-cancerous tumors. Tumors may develop in the skin, jaw, heart, ovaries, and brain. People with nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome may also have physical differences such as large head size sometimes caused by too much fluid in the brain, tiny white bumps on the face, extra fingers and toes, cleft lip and palate, and mental and learning challenges. Learn more about nevoid basal cell carcinoma.
Noonan Syndrome
People with Noonan syndrome are at a slightly increased risk of developing some types of cancers and blood disorders. These conditions include myeloproliferative disorder, juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia, neuroblastoma, and embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma. People with Noonan syndrome are also at a slightly increased risk of developing certain noncancerous tumors such as giant cell lesions and granual cell tumors. Learn more about Noonan syndrome.
Peutz-Jeghers Syndrome
Peutz-Jeghers syndrome is a genetic condition that increases a person’s risk of developing certain types of cancer. These cancers include stomach, esophageal, intestinal, pancreatic, colon, rectal, breast, uterine, cervical, lung, ovarian, and testicular. People with Peutz-Jeghers syndrome also have a higher risk of developing non-cancerous growths called polyps in the digestive system. Cancerous and non-cancerous growths may also appear in the kidneys, lungs, gallbladder, nasal passages, bladder or ureters. People with Peutz-Jeghers syndrome often also have small, dark-colored spots that look like freckles on some parts of their skin. Learn more about Peutz-Jeghers syndrome.
PTEN Hamartoma Tumor Syndrome
PTEN hamartoma tumor syndrome is a genetic condition in which non-cancerous growths, called hamartomas, develop in different areas of the body. In addition to hamartomas, patients can have other physical findings, including larger-than-average head size, abnormal skin growths, and learning differences. People with PTEN hamartoma tumor syndrome are at higher risk of developing breast, thyroid, kidney, uterus, colorectal, and skin cancers. Read more about PTEN hamartoma tumor syndrome.
Rhabdoid Tumor Predisposition Syndrome
People who have rhabdoid tumor predisposition syndrome have an increased risk of developing a rhabdoid tumor. These fast-growing tumors often occur in the brain, spinal cord, and kidneys. Cancers may also develop in the soft tissues, lung, skin, and heart. These tumors are most common in children. People with rhabdoid tumor predisposition syndrome may also be at increased risk of developing non-cancerous tumors that grow in the nerves, called schwannomas. These tumors are more common in adults. Learn more about rhabdoid tumor predisposition syndrome.
Tuberous Sclerosis Complex
Tuberous sclerosis complex is a genetic disorder that may cause noncancerous tumors to occur in the skin, brain, kidneys, and other organs. Sometimes these tumors lead to significant health problems. Tuberous sclerosis complex also causes developmental problems. The signs and symptoms of the condition vary. Almost all affected people have skin abnormalities, including patches of unusually light-colored skin, areas of raised and thickened skin, and growths under the nails. Tumors on the face called facial angiofibromas are also common beginning in childhood. Read more about tuberous sclerosis syndrome.
Von Hippel Lindau Syndrome
Von Hippel-Lindau syndrome is a rare condition that makes a person more likely to develop certain non-cancerous and cancerous tumors. People with von Hippel-Lindau syndrome may develop central nervous system and retina tumors called hemangioblastomas, tumors of the inner ear called endolymphatic sac tumors, kidney cysts or cancer, pancreatic cysts or cancer, adrenal gland tumors known as pheochromocytomas, and genital tract tumors called papillary cystadenomas. Read more about Von Hippel-Lindau syndrome.
WT1-Related Syndromes
WT1-related Wilms tumor susceptibility syndromes are conditions that can affect the kidneys. People with these conditions have a greater risk of developing a cancerous tumor of the kidney known as Wilms tumor. People with WT1-related syndromes may have other medical issues. These may include problems with the reproductive organs, eyes, and sometimes with behavior or development. Read more about WT1-related Wilms tumor susceptibility syndromes.
X-linked Lymphoproliferative Syndrome
X-linked lymphoproliferative syndrome (XLP) is a very rare disorder in which the immune system does not work properly. People with XLP have an increased chance to develop a severe reaction called fulminant infectious mononucleosis (FIM). With FIM too many immune cells become activated and build up in different parts of the body, including the liver, spleen, bone marrow and brain. This reaction is sometimes also called “hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis” (HLH). People with XLP are almost always male. The condition is diagnosed in fewer than 1 out of 1,000,000 boys or young men per year. Read more about X-linked lymphoproliferative syndrome (XLP).
Xeroderma Pigmentosum
Xeroderma pigmentosum, which is commonly known as XP, is an inherited condition characterized by an extreme sensitivity to ultraviolet (UV) rays from sunlight. This condition mostly affects the eyes and areas of skin exposed to the sun. Some affected individuals also have problems involving the nervous system. People with xeroderma pigmentosum have a greatly increased risk of developing skin cancer. Without sun protection, about half of children with this condition develop their first skin cancer by age 10. Most people with xeroderma pigmentosum develop multiple skin cancers during their lifetime. These cancers occur most often on the face, lips, and eyelids. Cancer can also develop on the scalp, in the eyes, and on the tip of the tongue. Studies suggest that people with xeroderma pigmentosum may also have an increased risk of other types of cancer such as brain tumors. Also, affected individuals who smoke cigarettes have a significantly increased risk of lung cancer. Read more about xeroderma pigmentosum.
—
Reviewed: December 2018
Genetic Counselors and Understanding Risk
A genetic counselor, a health care professional with advanced training and experience in medical genetics and counseling, can help families find answers.
Learn more about genetic counselors
If I Had Cancer, Will My Children Get Cancer?
If I had a cancer as a child, will my children be at risk for cancer? Childhood cancer survivors often worry they will pass on abnormal gene or condition that could cause their children to develop cancer.
Learn More
Genetic Predisposition in the News
Drug Combination Reduces Number of Colorectal Polyps in Patients with Hereditary Cancer Syndrome
Source: National Cancer Institute
View Full Article
This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead
Share through
Facebook
Twitter
Email this page
Share Close
Together powered by St. Jude Children's Research Hospital
About Pediatric Cancer
Diagnosis and Treatment
Care and Support
For Families
Life After Cancer
Glossary
Video Library
Locate A Clinical Trial
Find A Treatment Center
About
Our Mission
Our Team
Contact Us
© 2019 St. Jude Children's Research Hospital. All rights reserved.
Medical Disclaimer
Nondiscrimination Notice
Privacy Policy
Terms
Sitemap
If you speak another language, assistance services, free of charge, are available to you. Call 1-866-278-5833 (TTY: 1-901-595-1040)
Español
العربية
中文
Tiếng Việt
한국어
Français
ພາສາລາວ
አማርኛ
Deutsch
ગુજરાતી
日本語
Tagalog
हिंदी
русский
فارسی