WD-40 | Uses For Everyday Things WD-40"/>
Search for:
Uses For Everyday Things
1000's of Uses For Brand Name Products
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
Y
Z
WD-40
Uses for WD-40
Arthritis Relief
While it might sound a little odd, many arthritis sufferers swear that WD-40 rubbed into knees or other affected arthritic joints can provide temporary pain relief and can help make movement easier.
Baseball Glove Lubricant
WD-40 works great when it comes to softening up or breaking in a new baseball glove. Spray the glove (always in a well ventilated area) then place a baseball in the palm of the glove. Place a rubber band around the glove and let it sit overnight. This will help form a perfect ball pocket in the glove. The next day remove the rubber band and wear the glove for awhile so it will also begin to custom fit around your hand.
Bee Hive (Wasp Nest) Removal
For safer removal of a beehive or wasp nest, spray the hive or nest liberally with WD-40 first. It will kill all the inhabitants, making the knocking down or removal sting free
Bee Stings
Strangely enough WD-40 can help relive the pain and itch from bee stings and other bug bites. Simply spray a little on the stung area and pain and itch will disappear.
Chewing Gum Removal
Dentures – If you have gotten gum stuck in your dentures, WD-40 will do the trick in removing it. Simply spray some on the gum and it will slide right off. Be sure to brush the dentures thoroughly with toothpaste afterwards however before placing dentures back in your mouth.
Hair – WD-40 works wonderfully for removing gum from hair because the solution dissolves the gum. Spray the wad of gum fairly generously, then easily comb it out. Follow up by shampooing hair well to ensure all the WD-40 has been washed out.
Glue Removal
WD-40 can be used to remove glue from many surfaces, but it is especially effective for removing glue from fingers (even super glue). Simply spray some on the ares and rub fingers or hands together until the glue is no longer sticking. Follow up by washing hands thoroughly.
Grease Removal
WD-40 is perfect for removing grease from hands. Simply spray it on your hands then wipe them clean with a paper towel. Follow up by washing hands with soap and water.
Insecticide
WD-40 works great in a pinch when it comes to killing many insects. In most cases it will kill them instantly. Simply spray on roaches, bees, wasps, or spiders. Be careful not to inhale, and clean up area thoroughly after the deed is done.
Oil Stains in Driveway
A quick and easy way to remove oil stains from a driveway is to spray WD-40 liberally on the affected area and follow up by hosing the area down thoroughly.
Paint Removal
To remove paint from hands, simply spray some WD-40 on hands, then wipe off with a clean paper towel. Follow up by washing hands with soap and water once all paint has been removed.
Ring Removal
Having a hard time removing a ring from your finger, WD-40 is a fast and easy solution. Spray a little on the ring and finger and the ring should slip right off.
Scuff Marks
If you have a hard surfaced floor that is prone to getting scuff marks, WD-40 can save you a lot of time and effort because it works amazingly well at removing scuff marks and tar from floors. Simply spray some on the marks and wipe clean (be sure to keep area well ventilated).
Shovels
Here is a neat trick. To keep extra heavy or sticky snow from sticking to your shovel and slowing you down, spray the shovel with some WD-40 and wipe down with a cloth. The snow will easily slide off your shovel from then on.
Sticker Removal
Nothing is more frustrating than trying to remove stubborn stickers such as price tags or registration stickers with a razor blade or by other means. Luckily WD-40 is awesome at dissolving the glue on the stickers making removal a breeze. Simply spray the sticker liberally, wait a few seconds for it to absorb, then easily remove. Also works on bumper stickers, decals and cellophane tape.
WinterProof/Waterproof Boots and Shoes
WD-40 works great for waterproofing boots and shoes, because it acts as a barrier against water penetrating the material. Just spray it on then wipe it down with a clean rag. Can also help remove salt stains on boots.
Wooden Tool Handle Moisturizer
One of the biggest down sides of having tools with wooden handles is that the handles eventually dry out and can cause splinters. Luckily WD-40 can keep those wooden handles splinter free. Simply spray a generous amount onto the handles and work in well. One application is usually all that is needed to keep your handles splinter free for the life of the tool.
Zipper (Loosen)
WD-40 works great for loosening up stuck zippers. Simply spray a little on the tough zipper and slide up and down a few times so the solution is evenly distributed. The zipper should glide easily from then on.
Be Sure to Visit Our Sister Sites
Tags: cleaning uses for WD-40, many uses of WD-40, other uses for WD-40, unique uses for WD40, unusual uses for WD40, uses for WD-40, uses of WD40, ways to use WD-40, ways to use WD40, WD-40 uses
Posted in WD-40 | No Comments »
Home Page
Categories
Aloe Vera
Antacid Tablets
Apple Cider Vinegar
Baby Oil
Baking Soda
Bar Keepers Friend
Coffee
Coffee Filters
Cooking Spray
Denture Tablets
Dishwashing Liquid
Dryer Sheets
Epsom Salt
Gatorade
Hot Sauce
Hydrogen Peroxide
Jell-O
Kool Aid
Lemon Juice
Lip Balm
Listerine Mouthwash
Magic Eraser
Meat Tenderizers
Mustard
Noxzema
Oats
Olive Oil
Orajel
Oven Cleaner
Pain Relieving Creams
Petroleum Jelly
Rice
Soap
Straws
Sugar
Tea Bags
Toothpaste
Vodka
WD-40
Uses For Everyday Things is proudly powered by WordPress and the Simplicity theme.
Entries (RSS) and Comments (RSS).