A-2-Z GK: Famous Therapie
skip to main | skip to sidebar
Home
Sitemap
Contact ME
A-2-Z GK
A perfect portal for Study lovers
Home
Practice Paper
Bank
AIEEE
BE
CBSE
World
World Geography
7 Wonders
World's Great Personalities
India
Indian History
Modern India
Indian Economy
Hindu Temples
All Countries
Sample Papers
Quiz
Competitive papers
Questions and Answers
GK
Showing posts with label Famous Therapie. Show all posts
Showing posts with label Famous Therapie. Show all posts
Thursday, February 24, 2011
Modern Therapies
12:43 PM Ankur Dubey No comments
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook
Modern Therapies
Angiography: x ray, catheterize heart, inject radio-opaque dye to outline it: an invasive technique.
Non-invasive: nuclear medicine, a _ camera, technetium-99, radioactive emissions, image blood pool.
Also, echocardiography, CT, MRI imaging.
Surgical methods: pacemakers to correct arrhythmias, valve prosthetics, coronary artery bypass (double, triple), balloon angioplasty, laser surgery, transplantation, ventricular assist devices (LVAD).
Courtesy From : http://www.earthmends.com/learn_cancer/modern_therapy/moderntherapies.htm
The goal of standard modern therapy is to remove or kill cancerous cells. The three most common forms of treatment are Medical Oncology/ Chemotherapy, Radiation Therapy and surgery. Within each of these categories are specialized forms of treatment such as Prostate Seed Implants and Gamma Knife surgery.
The form of treatment you receive will largely be dependent upon your age, your general health and the location, type and/or stage of cancer you may have.
In any event, millions of people living today have been cured of cancer. The sooner you can detect it and treat it, the better your chances are of a cure. Be comfortable with your doctor, his office, hospital and staff. And do get a second opinion. There is always a choice in the treatments recommended, so review your options. Be informed. You are your own best advocate.
Read more »
Posted in: Famous Therapie
Ancient Therapies
12:42 PM Ankur Dubey No comments
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook
Ancient Therapies
For thousands of years, certain civilizations , notably, the Egyptians, Greeks and Chinese , have revered herbal remedies for their beneficial healing properties. But in many countries, especially the U.S., twentieth century medicine has put herbal healing on the back burner, making pharmaceuticals the primary form of medical treatment. It's only in the last decade that renewed interest in alternative therapies and preventative health care has brought attention back to herbs and their beneficial activities.
In Europe, herbal medicines have played a more significant role in health care. Regulations support clinical research into phytomedicines (plant medicines), and countries such as Italy, Germany and France have already integrated herbal medicines into their health care systems. Commission E - a committee which includes physicians, pharmacologists and toxicologists assembled by the German government - has compiled the most accurate information available on the safety and efficacy of herbs and phytomedicines called, the commission E Monographs. This, along with the results of other European research studies, will significantly impact the use of herbs in the U.S.
Much of this research, which has focused on identifying and purifying active herbal constituents and understanding their specific actions - has revealed the benefits of standardized herbs.
A standardized herb is created by extracting a selected active herbal constituent or constituents from the whole herb and concentrating it into set amounts of key active compounds. Standardization guarantees that consumers receive reliable, repeatable amounts of the active constituent in every tablet or capsule.
But standardization alone is not enough. Traditional herbal medicine teaches that the whole herb is more valuable than its component parts. Herbs contain a host of important ingredients, including pharmacologically active constituents, phytochemicals and compounds not yet identified. By isolating and standardizing only one or two components, the herb's effectiveness may be reduced or lost.
Blending standardized herbal constituents with the whole herb produces a potent herbal supplement with consistent and reliable levels of the active components, plus the important synergistic herbal components found in nature.
Read more »
Posted in: Famous Therapie
Wednesday, February 23, 2011
Vastu & Therapy
11:08 PM Ankur Dubey No comments
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook
Vastu & Therapy
Various alternative therapies in vogue eg. Allopathy, Homeopathy, Ayurved, Unani, Naturopathy, Acupuncture, Acupressure, Yoga, Magnetic healing, Reki and many other methods (132 on record) are in process of establishing themselves scientifically in the world. In spite of all the controversies in ways and modes of treatment there is relief palliation, suppression of some time cure, why so? it means some hidden principle should be there by which all different methods giving benefit to mankind. this secret is nothing but balance of Bioenergy.What is Bioenergy ?
The time tested quote by famous Writer and Philosopher Dr. Johnson, "Preservation of heath is a moral and religious duty, for health is the basis of all social virtues, we can be no longer useful when not well", in recent times has attracted due attention. Individuals have started trying different modes of activities and therapies to maintain their health. In last couple of decade's diseases like coronary diseases, cancer and many other chronic diseases are increasing. Deterioration in overall health status generated an enthusiasm to find out various new means and modes to facilitate individuals to preserve health.
Ayurveda, the indigenous science, also lays emphasis on self-healing tendency provided by nature. Ayurveda, the science of life, gave us the principle of panchmahabhuta of five elements - earth, water, fire, air and space. These five elements are present around in the environment in different proportion from different organs responsible for bodily functions. Another school is Naturopathy, which is complimentary to Ayurved or vice versa. In both the pathies panchkarm is the basis. In Ayurved Vaman, Virechan, Sweden, Shehan & Vasti are known as panchkarma. In Naturopathy kunjal, shankh, prachalini, neti, pranayam, Asan etc. detoxify the body.
In Naturopathy patients remain healthy till they follow their instructions of diet, yoga, and natural treatment of water and mud. As soon as patient changes that routine he develops the same problems again. It means Bioenergy remains unbalanced.
In Homeopathy by action of potential drugs we stimulate vital force, which in turn result in palliation, aggravation, discharge and cure. The main problem in Homeopathy is selection of a remedy. If medicine is right and potency is very high it will result in aggravation. When potentised Homeopathy balances medicine bio-energy patient get relief. But when this imbalance of bio-energy is more unbalanced by homeopathy medicine, patient gets no relief and he gets aggravations with different sets of symptoms. This problem of selection of medicine and potency is first time solved by French scientist Dr. Rene Naccachian. By different medicines (which were selected already by repatriations or basis of similium), he balanced the body energy of the patient, which results in relief, and cure of illness.
In Allopathy the treatment is based on pathological investigation like x-ray, sonography, CT scan, and other different tests, disease is decided and drugs are given, which give immediate relief to the patient. But due to side effects on other organ of the body or there is temporary relief. Here again Bio-energy does not get balanced and hence disease continues in one form or other.
According to Chinese Acupuncture and Acupressure theory, the energy in body channels called meridian, are discretely organized in microscopic ducts representing individual’s organ. The energy flow in it represents the functional status of that organ. An individual receives energy by food he eats, air he breaths, light he sees, vibrations he hears of feels, taste, though and two very important energies cosmic energy from space and telluric energy from earth he gets through chakras.
Sound Therapy
Music
A POWERFUL TOOL FOR ENERGY BALANCING AND THERAPY FOR CORRECTING PHYSICAL DISORDER
In modern time every body is living in stress of one kind or other. With the course of development of science has changed natural harmony of environment, which is deteriorating day by day. Various man-made energy fields are being created by man without thinking of their effects on human body.
Modern equipments and inventions such as satellite TV, telecommunication, computer fast moving vehicles etc. made our livelihood very comfortable, but they have created more environmental misbalancing and disturbed natural energy and ecological harmony resulting increased psychometric disorders and stress which has become main killer out of all today.
Although population of the world has been increased tremendously but stress have increased loneliness in man vitality has gone down. Man in search of sensual pleasures has gone berserk.
Human physical body is composed of 5 elements, prithvi (earth), apah (water), agni (fire), vayu (air) and akasha (space/ether). These five elements form tree dasha or basic humans in body, they are vatt- wind ( a form of air element), pitta (a form of fire element), kapha (a combination of water and earth).
Human body is also encircled with these energy fields i.e. physical energy, magnetic and cosmic energy. In the same way there are seven aspects of every person which must be recognized and evolved in harmony with natural laws. These seven aspects are, (1) sound, (2) touch, (3) sight (4) taste, (5) smell, (6) defection, and (7) sex.
The physical body also make up by, (1) raja- clay, earth, (2) Rasa- fluids, (3) rakta- blood (4) manas- flesh, Nerve fiber, tissues,(5) medha-fat, (6) asthi- bone, (7) majjah- bone marrow.
There are also seven types of desire (for security, protection, longevity, sharing, knowledge, self- realization and union) are seen in the trunks in seven colors.
As per the Aurveda, the definition of a healthy person is told that the person who has all dosha, dhatu in harmony and man (mind) pure is healthy. Ayurveda also says that most of the diseases are the cause of restless mind and brain. New discoveries link with brain to the immune system and suggest that state of mind can effect us right down to our cells.
An American psychologist named Sheldon Cohen also has carried out a research project in Salisbury, UK and come to the conclusion that we catch cold more readily when we are feeling threatened alone. He says that mental abstraction like loneliness or sadness can have impact on human bodies. Investigations are demonstrating that emotional states can translate into astride response in the immune system. The complex array of organs, glands and cells that comprise the body's principle mechanism for repelling invaders.
Emotions and their Effect on Health
There is a direct linkage of state of mind. Altered immune response and illness. It has already been established that illness among those people who have recently lost a spouse, are occurring at higher rates because Bereavement significantly affects their immunity. In the same way mortality has been found three times higher among those people who feel socially isolated or having fewest close relationship.
The reverse is also true. A positive mental state seems to bear favorable on health and longevity. A psychologist sandra lavy at the pittsburgh cancer institute this year has found that a factor called "joy" meaning mental resistance and vigor was the second survival time for a group of patients with recurrent breast cancer.
Neurologist Karen Bulloch (San Diego, California) has trailed direct neurological pathways between brain and immune system. The two are joined in an intricate "feed back" loop by which each influences the others. This denotes that there is a kind of shared consciousness in the mind and body. Immune system is a congestion of white cells or lymphocytes that reside in thymus glands, spleen, bone marrow and lymphnodes and monitor blood stream.
Mental Stress and Health
We are talking about mental stress resulting misbalance of bio-energies. What are they? Sign for mental stress are shown as below:
1. A constant feeling of uneasiness.
2. Constant irritability with family and work associates.
3. Boredom with life.
4. A recurring feeling of being unable to cope with life.
5. Anxiety about money.
6. Morbid fear of disease, specially cancer and heart disease.
7. Fear for death, you're own and others.
8. A sense of suppressed anger.
9. An inability to have a good laugh.
10. A feeling of being rejected by your family.
11. A sense of despair at being an unsuccessful parent.
12. Dread as the weekend approaches.
13. Reluctance to take a vacation.
14. An inability to concentrate for any length of time or to finish one job before
beginning another one.
15. A feeling you cannot discuss your problem with any one.
16. A terror of heights, enclosed spaces, thunderstorms or earthquake.
These are mental signs of stress. These may be resultant of various aspects such as personal, family, society, environmental, ecological and work condition, what may be the cause but it affects adverse as has already been discusses.
To avoid adverse effect of these stresses one will have to attain good mental health. What is this? Mental health is a sum total of-
1. Emotional stability.
2. Maturity of character.
3. Ability to cope with stresses of life.
4. Ability to judge reality accurately.
5. Ability to foresee and to evaluate things with foresight.
6 Ability to work cheerfully.
7. Ability to a gratify hunger, thirst and sex in such a way as not to hurt others and
others and oneself.
8 Having an effective conscience.
How to Manage Stress
Changes in dietary pattern, subtler exercises, swadhyay, positive mental attitude promotion, proper relaxation, proper meditation, music therapy and mantra chikitsa, agnihotra becoming a part of society are means of managing stress. Out of which we are discussing here the use of music as a tool for energy balancing and stress management.
Music and its Relation with Energy and Body
The bip-bip-bip of a tiny fetal heart, the muffled syncopation of a mother's pulse, oscillating brain waves, the ebb of flow of hormones, the cadence of death. These countless other organic rhythms make up the biological drum beat of life. If we go further we find that whole universe is rhythmic. There exists particular frequency relation among all particles.
The sound is first sign of universe. As per vedic methodology, the three lords are Khalve (matter), nad (sound) and akhar (alphabet). The first tanmatra of chetna or life is sound.
Even in deep meditation a person hear sounds such as,
1. The chirping of birds.
2. The sound of crickets.
3. The sound of bells.
4. The sound of conch.
5. The sound of the ring (an Indian lute).
6. The sound of mridanga (barrel drum).
7. The sound of flute.
8. The sound of pakhavaj (another type of drum).
9. The sound of trumpet.
10.The roar of a lion.
As per narad sanhita (an ancient book of music and drama) It is said:
Birds, crickets, dear etc, each animal sings. Therefore, it is proved that music exists is all our environment.
Maharshi Panini in his book "paniniya shiksha" describes the origin of sound as follows:
When soul wishes to express the means of mind of wisdom then it stimulates fire of the body and that fire forces air which generates basic sound. This sound as per the place of origin i.e. heart, throat, and vocal is known as mandra (slow), Madhya (medium) and tivra (loud). The sound multiplies and become audible by ear and called shruti (which can be heard). These shruti are 22 on which seven swar are based. At present we have 7 basic and 5 secondary, total 12 swaras.
We know very well that sound is a kind of energy and human body is encircled by physical and etheric (cosmic, magnetic, and telluric) energies. The change in harmony of environmental energy effects on the mind of a human and resulting misbalance and stress which is seen in the form of various mental and physical illness.
Therefore, use of music can be a tool for balancing human energy.
How music can be used ?
A particular type of sound generates a particular type of energy-waves, which can be measured by its frequencies whose unit is Hertz, which is effecting a particular sense of our body.
The music has seven basic chord and similarly body has 7 chakra, 7dhatus (constituent), 7sensory organs, 7desires and obstacle. These all are in harmony with each other. Even the sound and color of the chakra are 7 and also there exists so many
combination of 7 in universe i.e. 7 seas, 7 continent.7 lokas etc.
Now we shall see the correlating swar (base chord) with chakra and their emotional sequences as per the chart.
Effect of Sound
As per the sound scientist world has been created by sound. Rains, flood, storm. Earthquake comes because of occasional change in frequencies and current of sound. All the momentum of earth and space is based on sound. Here we will discuss some of experiment on sound.
During First World War Germany used one machine which could generate/million hertz per second sound which used to disturb all sensory nerves of man and they were died.
Crystals
CRYSTALS AND ENVIRONMENTAL BALANCE
The energies from crystals (Lead Crystals, gems, stones, and minerals) react from our Aura of energy, energy in the area (office, home, and vehicle) and make the balance of energies. The most important of the many Fengshui and other enhancements to life that crystals perform is bringing each of us closer by removal of obstacles, so blockages are neither in use nor in environments.
The Tibetans and Chinese observed this and for the past 5000 years have been refining a system of Geomancy to assist us in feeling our lives. This System known as Fengshui also brings the wonderful energy present in the beauty of nature into our living environments.
Crystals have the ability to radiate healing energy travels and crystals help in balancing the same according to need of house and person.
Crystals can be used as pendulum, antenna for yes/no answer to problem also with practice.
Crystal's energies are the area with rainbow effects and so it is desirable to put some in windows or with lights.
CRYSTALS USED IN BALANCING
(1) Crystals are used by hanging / placing in the room for energizing and for dispersing negative energy.
(2) Crystals by hanging in window of N/E of the house or living room is overall beneficial to family for Education & Knowledge. It is also advisable to place crystal in N/E corner of room or even on study table of children which increases energy
level, concentration and alertness.
(3) Crystals in S/E helps in relationship and partnership. So for better relationship it is advisable to place crystals in S/W of bedroom &living room with natural light or with low voltage bulbs. Like this, we can put up in offices and chambers for good
relationship and undertaking between partners staff & boss.
(4) Placement of crystals in west of children room also helps in children education and overall development.
(5) For missing area, we can place crystals and lamp in the area to increase and for dispersing the energy.
(6) For toilets in unwanted place, we can place it between the toilet door and passage area, and bedroom and toilet door.
Crystals can be placed in N/E or S/W toilets to neutralize the bad effects.
(7) Crystals are also used instead of wind chimes in various areas to slowdown the energy flow-
(a) Whenever, we can see straight out from main door to window, we can use bugua shape (Eight direction shape)
crystals.
(b) Whenever, we see the front door opens straight towards the staircase, we can use crystals by hanging between main
door and staircase.
(c) If poison angle points into room from beams, overhead ducts, bulkheads, cupboards, columns which adds harshness.
It can be also softened by placing crystals on them. (This is tested by Mr. Pankaj and others as I have not tested).
(8) Placement of crystals near the computer or above the computer, microwave oven, TV and other instruments helps in
neutralizing the bad effect of Electromagnetic radiation.
(9) Hand in car near mirror also energies the vehicle & increases alertness and positive attitude.
(10) Crystals activate water in a manner similar to magnets placed on water bowl.
Type & Use of crystals:
1. Better use natural crystals in raw form i.e. stone, gitti, boulder etc.
2. As natural stones are not available everywhere, we are using lead crystal. Lead crystals are of various varieties can be used i.e. imported or local, good cut, zerricone (American Diamond) sarwoski, etc. At present, Lead crystals of good cut of
chandeliers or sarwoski are in main use.
3. After Dr. Rene speech and discussions, we can also make useful crystals, gemstone kits with the help of a Rene Antenna
and I am glad that Mr. Pankaj Agrawal has started in testing the same and to make research on the same for better
environment, help in human health
4. Crystals used by Fengshui Experts are Lead crystals, semi Precious Stones in raw form, Mineral deposit stones such as:
a) Pyratie (Silver Pyrite/ Ruby Pyrite) for North West & West.
b) Hematite (Black stone with red masses) Iron Oxide for North, Northwest & West.
c) Copper Stones
d) Quarter with titanium
e) Silver Ore
f) Copper Ore
But due to non-availability, good shape formation (artistic to keep in house/office) they are very costly.
Semi precious stones are also used such as Ruby for South West, Amethyst - North, Southwest, South, Emerald in East, Sapphire in Northeast, etc. But, we can use Lead Crystals of any type anywhere and get more results as we use Coloured ones as per directions.
Rose Quartz
1. Pink/ Ruby - Southwest
2. Pink/ Ruby - South, If missing corner or toilet
3. Green - Southeast, East
4. Green - South - If missing corner or toilet.
5. Blue - North
6. Orange/ Calcite - South, Northeast
7. White - Anywhere, we feel needed and B.S.
8. Beige - East, Southwest
9. Purple - Southwest
Semi Precious Stones
We are travelling together,
The path is long
It is strewn with
Bones and Precious Stones.
Since ancient times, stones have been believed to have psychic power. These exert a great influence upon all aspects of our lives. The stone are alive- entities pulsating, radiating, and vibrating at different rates. They create strong energy fields, which enable us to be charged with their energies; they activate our abilities, soothe and comfort, heal and balance through the purity and directness of their beams. They express through their facets our infinite variety of aspects.
Illumination is the key word for the stones
They illuminate the earth as stars do
They have light and shine, even when unpolished
They contain the seed of light, the point of light
The center of the cosmic sea.
The colors are rays of love. Each has its own particular vibration. By understanding the unique properties of each of seven rays we will be able to apply these same qualities to the stones. The study of colors is a preparation to using stones in a healing and spiritually transformative way. The stoned emits the magnetic power of the ray of light contained within. The aura is benefited and the whole being feels more harmonious. Let us review:
Reds and oranges are stimulating and invigorating to the physical body;
Yellows vitalize and accelerate mental activities;
Greens are calming and soothing to the nervous system;
Blue and indigo are inspirational, giving spiritual tone;
Purples accelerate and sublimate all processes of body, mind and spirit.
COSTUME JEWELLERY
Beauty aids, creams and cosmetics were made from a paste of stones. They were used to paint the eyes, mouth and face. Malachite, Egypt's favorite stone was used by the high priestesses as a cosmetic for their eyes and hair. Also the ruby was used to redden the mouth or face. The deep blue of the lapis was used on eyelids.
The beauty of precious stones is incomparable- which is why they are so prized in jewelry. Since the beginning of time on this planet, stones have been used to enhance and adorn the body, the clothes and the environment. In many cultures, the stone cutters (the lapidaries) were knowledgeable about the hidden and mystical properties of stones. Many were apothecaries, alchemists or high priests who used their powers to make jewelry to protect, to symbolize, to represent, to attract, to dispel or to heal. Unfortunately as the wise ancient ones were replaced by less knowledgeable people these secrets were forgotten or put aside. The stones kept their beauty, of course, but they stopped talking because we stopped listening. They lay dormant waiting to be reawakened to their true purpose and mission.
The high priests and priestesses of Egypt, who were usually also healers, wore many stones on their bodies, heads and hands, to charge themselves or to beam power at their patients. From Egypt comes this ancient poem:
My god thoth is of precious stones
He lights up the earth with his sparkle
The moon disc on his head is of read jasper
His phallus is of quartz-
Thoth I fear nothing
Since you became my strength.
Precious stones and gems of great beauty are used in the crowns of kings, queens, and religious leaders for the same purpose of charging them as a battery. These leaders were believed to be symbols of divinity on earth. The Tibetan Buddhist believes in five sacred stones: the crystal for light: the turquoise for infinity of sea and sky; the coral for life and form; gold for the golden ray of the sun; and silver for the light of the moon. Amber and the carnelian are often used in their jewelry or charm boxes. The American Indian also has great reverence for these stones. The turquoise is worn for protection and is believed to hold the atmosphere of the world. The coral is worn for life and blood force. It is amazing to me that these two cultures (the Tibetan and the American Indian), which are located so far from each other have so many of the same customs. They both respect and love the earth. They are connected to the magic and power of everything that is alive, knowing that everything has soul and a vibration. They believe and trust that the elements in nature are our ancestors, and that they should be consulted for advice.
The records of the early Christian writers reveal a belief that the stones in the breastplate of the high priest were so highly magnetized by their respective planetary rulers that the stones were capable of responding to questions in flashing color language.
During the reign of Charlemagne, there was great mystical movement in existence. Those connected with it saw the light of the stones as symbol of spirit in matter. Charlemagne's crown was covered with precious stones so that his crown chakra would receive energy and is charged with the power of the stones. As a king he was believed to represent God on earth. Another example of the mysticism with stones is St. Stephan's rosaries. This purse, or box, is completely covered with gems. It contains earth mixed with the blood of this martyr-saint who was stoned to death.
GEMS AND THE ZODIACAL RULERS OF THE DAYS OF THE WEEK
The Hermetic brotherhood observed strict rules relating to the use of precious stones. Table 3 shows the days and their corresponding planetary affinities. Like the Hermetic brotherhood, you may wish to work with certain stones on certain days. You may also be drawn to a stone that represent the day of the week on which you were born.
Table 3 Correlations of Gems to the Days of the Week
Day
Planetary Ruler
Gem
Sunday
Sun
Gold and yellow gems (amber, gold topaz)
Monday
Moon
All white stones (pearls, moonstones)
Tuesday
Mars
All red stones (rubies, garnets, etc.)
Wednesday
Mercury
All blue stones (turquoise, sapphire, lapis lazuli)
Thursday
Jupiter
All purple stones (amethysts)
Friday
Venus
All green stones (emeralds, malachite)
Saturday
Saturn
All black and white stones (diamonds, smoky quartz, etc
EFFECTS OF WEARING GEMS
The more precious stones you wear, the more strongly you will be charged with cosmic forces, which radiate out into your surroundings. Sometimes the stones draw disease, pain and misfortune out of the etheric body of the person who wears them. Ruby and Coral fade when people have anemia. Other stones, such as turquoise, lose or change color when the wearer is not well (either physically or psychically). Sometimes other stones give their power to their wearer- such as topaz, emerald, and diamond. Some stones have vibrational frequencies, which can inspire spiritual awakenings, or which help us become more responsive to the concept - such as the amethyst or the indigo sapphire.
Wear your stones. Don’t shut them away in a safe or jewelry box. Don’t deprive your soul and your body of this tremendous power that has been bestowed upon us.
If you wear rings, please make sure that stones are set directly on skin, as they give you more power that way.
People often ask me about the value of the difference between cut and polished stones, and stones in their raw state. Some serve well both ways- cut or uncut. However, some need to be cut and polished to bring out their functions. The garnet truly serves when it is cut, polished and sometimes glazed. Contrary to this, the amethyst serves best in its raw crystal forms. There are no rules; one needs to be with the stone, and to experience the stones, in order to really understand it. Polishing is an art. The artisan must be an artist in order to bring out the most light and beauty from the faceted of the stone. The diamond is proof of the sensitivity required in faceting a stone.
When you purchase a stone, try not to worry too much about its cost. It is better to spend money to prevent sickness, or to align and balance yourself than to spend it on medications and doctor bills once you become ill! You can also achieve great benefits from semi-precious stones, which are not as costly as rare gems. However, we need to realize that precious stones, such as rubies emeralds, and sapphires, have particular magical properties.
The following alternative stones, which are sold in mineral shops, are all capable of bestowing the qualities and properties of the ray needed. Examples are:
Crystal quartz can replace diamonds
Garnets can replace Rubies
Lapis lazuli or sodalite can replace blue sapphires
Turquoise or chrysocolla can replace aquamarine
Citron can replace topaz
Carnelian can replace topaz
Carnelian can replace the fire opal
Rhodochroite can replace rubellite (the pink tourmaline)
Malachite or chrusoparse can replace emeralds
Azurite can replace the indigo sapphire
Please be open and receptive about the stones. Let the stones pick you, and let your highest guidance direct you to do what you need to do at that moment.
Chakra
There are several ways to discern the state of the charkas. In the beginning you will need to explore which practice is easiest and most useful for you.
The best way I have found to start sensing the states of the charkas is to use a pendulum. This device helps increase your sensitivities to the energy flow because it acts as an amplifier. The best pendulums I have found for this purpose are made of beechwood and are pear-shaped. They are one inch in diameter and one and a half inches long. Their energy field is diffused, easily permeated, and also pear-shaped. It is symmetrical around its vertical axis, which is important for this type of measurement. (Beechwood pendulums can be purchased from the Metaphysical Research Group, Archer`s Court, Stonestile Lane, Hasting, Sussex, England.)
If you have developed some sensitivity in your hands, or enjoy touching, you can practice sensing the energy flowing in and out of the charkas through filling in and out of the charkas through feeling in them with your hands. This helps to get a sense of whether the energy is free flowing or clogged, weak or strong. You can do the same thing with an acupuncture point by simply placing your fingertip over it. In this type of sensing, you may even get certain physical feeling responses in your own body that give you the information you wish to know.
Eventually, after you develop your High Sense Perception to a greater degree, you may be able to simply look at the charkas to see how they are spinning (regularly or irregularly) and what their colors are (dark and clogged, washed out and weak, or clear, bright and of a strong tone). You may also be able to see if, and specifically how, they are disfigures. You may eventually be able to perceive them on each layer of the auric field.
Discover the Pyramids
The beneficial effects of the Pyramid are directed towards the body’s astral sphere, thus connecting the disharmony between the mind and spirit levels. This secret of the Pyramids -- their great healing power-- is being revealed only recently
The Pyramids. Those magnificent and massive stone structures that have been looking down upon man for the last 5000 years. Mysterious, enigmatic and awe-inspiring. There have been diligent efforts to rise open their secrets; there have been adventures who set out for Egypt to steal the wealth of gold and other valuables tucked away in their chambers; and there have also been genuine scholars who were fascinated by the Pyramids and went the whole hog to unlock their secrets.
They believed that the Pyramids held not one but many secrets in their portals. The stunning accuracy of the measurements of the angles and sides of the pyramids forced them to conclude that they were built for some complicated calculations, such as those for measuring the circumference of the earth, predicting the eclipse, or forecasting floods in the Nile. Only the priests knew these secrets. But one of the greatest secrets of the Pyramids --their great HEALING POWER-- is being revealed only recently.
The efficacy of the pyramid models to heal the patients whose maladies have been cured and their physical and mental well-being re-established.
Types of Pyramid Yantra
Many types of Pyramid Yantra are available in the market, there are also some with specific purpose like one for energizing bed in 'Vastu Sleep', 'PyraCap' for meditation, 'Protect 9 x 9 for door and 'PyraCap' as a pocket tool for all round progress. Also one of the popular and multi-purpose Pyramid Yantra is 'Multier 9 x 9'.
Installation of Pyramid Yantra
Installation is very simple. For land, dig a pit 1 ft. deep and of appropriate size (keep 1 ft. between two pyramids). Personal programming to all the pyramid yantra is must. Set all pyramids in magnetic axis and fill the pit. For fixing on wall use double adhesive tape. Take care that bottom must stick with wall or ceiling. Base line of 'Multier 9 x 9' must be parallel to the wall.
Availability
Pyramid Yantra are available with all-leading Vastu experts, Reiki masters, holistic healers and promoters of new age energy products.
Read more »
Posted in: Famous Therapie
Urine
11:07 PM Ankur Dubey No comments
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook
Urine
Drink water from your own cistern, flowing water from your own well. (The Book of Proverbs 5:15)Urine therapy refers to one of several uses of urine to prevent or cure sickness, to enhance beauty or to cleanse one's bowels. Most devotees drink the midstream of their morning urine. Some prefer it straight and steaming hot; others mix it with juice or serve it over fruit. Some prefer a couple of urine drops mixed with a tablespoon of water applied sublingually several times a day. Hip New Agers no doubt prefer to take their dose with their evening salad tossed with Piss & Vinegar dressing, available at alternative specialty shops. Some wash themselves in their own golden fluid to improve their skin quality. Many modern Japanese women are said to engage in urine bathing. The truly daring use their own urine as an enema. Urine is not quite the breakfast of champions, but it is the elixir of choice of a number of holy men in India where drinking urine has been practiced for thousands of years. The drink is also the preferred pick-me-up for a growing number of naturopaths and other advocates of "nature cures." The main attractions of this ultimate home brew are its cost, availability and portability. It is much cheaper than that other "water of life," whisky (uisge beatha), which also has been hailed for its medicinal qualities. Unlike whisky, however, urine is always available, everyone carries a supply at all times, and, for most people, there are no intoxicating side effects. Furthermore, the urge to overindulge is almost absent when drinking urine. The same can't be said for good single malt such as Highland Park or a good whiskey such as Black Bush.
Many advocates claim that urine is a panacea. There is practically nothing it won't cure. Urine is said to be effective against the flu, the common cold, broken bones, toothache, dry skin, psoriasis and all other skin problems. It is said to deter aging and is helpful with AIDS, allergies, animal and snake bites, asthma, heart disease, hypertension, burns, cancer, chemical intoxication, chicken pox, enteritis, constipation, and pneumonia. Urine is said to be effective against dysentery, edema, eczema, eye irritation, fatigue, fever, gonorrhea, gout, bloody urine, small pox, immunological disorders, infections, infertility, baldness, insomnia, jaundice, hepatitis, Kaposi's sarcoma, leprosy, lymphatic disorder, urticaria, morning sickness, hangover, obesity, papilloma virus, parasitoses, gastric ulcer, rheumatism, birth marks, stroke, congestion, lumbago, typhus, gastritis, depression, cold sore, tuberculosis, tetanus, Parkinson's disease, foot fungus, diabetes and other endocrine related diseases. Some enthusiasts see urine therapy as a divine manifestation of cosmic intelligence. They use urine to unleash their kundalini, sending it straight into the third eye, bringing instant enlightenment.
With such wondrous properties, it is amazing that science bothered developing medicine when it had the key to good health already in the bottle, so to speak. Each of us is a walking pharmacopoeia. Homer Smith (Man and His Gods) once wrote that "man is a machine for turning wine into urine." Little did he know that man is a machine for turning just about anything into a medicinal tonic.
Despite the claims by authors of books on urine therapy, the scientific evidence which would recommend that we all start drinking our own urine is piss poor. According to urninophiles, the medical establishment has conspired to keep us ignorant of the wonder drug we all carry in our bladders. One self-proclaimed expert on the subject claims
...the medical community has already been aware of [urine's] astounding efficacy for decades, and yet none of us has ever been told about it. Why? Maybe they think it's too controversial. Or maybe, more accurately, there wasn't any monetary reward for telling people what scientists know about one of the most extraordinary natural healing elements in the world.
This is a common argument from defenders of alternative therapies: the greed of medical doctors leads them to conspire against chiropractors, chelation therapists, etc. The evidence for this conspiracy wouldn't fill a specimen beaker. Part of the alleged conspiracy to keep us ignorant of the wonders of our own wee wee is the fact that many people think urine is poisonous. Urine is generally not toxic and you will not die of uremic poisoning if you start your day off with a cup of your own golden fluid. However, it hardly seems fair to blame the medical establishment for the general public's ignorance on this matter. In any case, just because something is not toxic does not mean it is good for you. Hair is not toxic, either, and even though it might be a good source of fiber, it is generally not desirable to put hair in food.
Furthermore, while it is true that some of the constituents of urine are being used and tested for their potential or actual therapeutic value, it does not follow that drinking one's urine is therapeutic. It may be discovered that one of the chemicals in human urine is effective for fighting cancer. However, drinking one's own urine is not likely going to supply enough of any cancer fighting substance to do any good. It is also true that some of the substances in urine are good for you. For example, if you are ingesting more vitamin C (a water soluble vitamin) than your body needs or can process, you will excrete it in your urine. It doesn't follow that drinking your urine is a good way to get vitamin C into your body. An orange or a tablet might be preferable. However, if you are urinating excess vitamin C, what do you think your body will do with the vitamin C you ingest with your urine? If you guessed that it would get rid of it, you guessed right. The reason your urine contains vitamins and minerals is because your body didn't need them or couldn't use them. You might as well pour water into a full glass as reuptake your excess vitamins and minerals. Even urea, which can be toxic in very high doses, occurs in such minute quantities in the average person's urine that there is very little chance of poisoning from drinking one's own urine.
The origin of this unusual practice seems to be in certain religious rites among Hindus, where it is called amaroli in tantric religious traditions. The tantric tradition is known for its flouting of conventional behavior as a means of establishing the moral superiority of its practitioners. It is also possible that this practice is related to superstitions based on sympathetic magic. Since urine is emitted from the same bodily organ used in sex, perhaps it was thought that by drinking one's urine one was swallowing some sort of sexual energizer. In any case, it is unlikely that Indians some 4,000 years ago had scientific reasons for drinking their own urine.
Another rather unscientific notion which seems to be accepted by urinophiles is that urine is really blood, since it is the byproduct of blood filtering by the kidneys. It is unlikely that if you need a blood transfusion that urine will work just as well.
Another misleading claim being made by urninophiles is that amniotic fluid is nothing but urine: fetal urine. If it is good for the fetus, it should be good for all of us. Here is what urine expert Martha Christy has to say on the subject:
. . . the amniotic fluid that surrounds human infants in the womb is primarily urine. Actually, the infant "breathes in" urine-filled amniotic fluid continually, and without this fluid, the lungs don't develop. Doctors also believe that the softness of baby skin and the ability of in-utero infants to heal quickly without scarring after pre-birth surgery is due to the therapeutic properties of the urine-filled amniotic fluid.
Some of the chemicals found in amniotic fluid are not going to be found in most urine samples. It is misleading, to say the least, to claim that amniotic fluid is "primarily" urine. It would be more accurate to say that they are both primarily water. I don't know what doctors she is talking about, but most parents will tell you that when their babies came out of the womb their skin was anything but beautiful. Comparisons to wrinkly prunes are quite common. So is comparison to one's skin after being in the swimming pool for a long time. The baby's skin becomes soft only after it has been out of its liquid environment for some time. There is a reason for that, according to Kim Kelly, a naturopathic doctor and nurse from Seattle. Newborns don't produce oil from their sebaceous glands until several weeks after their birth, which is why they often appear to have dry, flaky skin. Rather than amniotic fluid contributing to soft skin, according to Kelly, babies in the womb are protected by vernix, a creamy substance that serves as a barrier between the baby and the amniotic fluid. So, unless your urine is full of vernix, using it as a skin lotion is unlikely to work as a moisturizer.
What is urine? Urine is usually yellow or clear, depending upon a person's health and diet. It usually has an ammonia-like odor due to the nitrogenous wastes that make up about 5% of the fluid (the remaining 95% is water). It is a slightly acidic fluid which carries waste from the kidneys to the outside world. The kidneys have millions of nephrons which filter toxins, waste, ingested water and mineral salts out of the bloodstream. The kidneys regulate blood acidity by excreting excessive alkaline salts when necessary. The chief constituent of the nitrogenous wastes in urine is urea, a product of protein decomposition. Urea is, among other things, a diuretic. Average adult urine production is from one to two quarts a day. The bladder, where urine is stored for discharge, holds on average about 16-20 ounces of fluid, though the average discharge is about half that amount. In addition to uric acid, ammonia and creatine, urine consists of many other waste products in minute quantities.
Being a waste product does not mean that a substance is toxic or harmful. It means that the body cannot absorb the substance at the present time. We might think of many of urine's constituents as if they were leftovers from a meal. We could throw the excess food away or we could eat it later after diluting it substantially with water and putting it in the blender. With urine, unfortunately, we cannot ingest waste products in the form they had when first ingested.
For most people most of the time, one's own urine is not likely to be harmful. However, it is not likely to be healthful or useful except for those rare occasions when one is buried beneath a building or lost at sea for a week or two. In such situations drinking one's own urine might be the difference between life and death. As a daily tonic, there are much tastier ways to introduce healthful products into one's blood stream.
Also, unfortunately not everybody can just jump right in and start drinking their own urine without negative side effects. The Chinese Association of Urine Therapy warns that
Common symptoms include diarrhea, itch, pain, fatigue, soreness of the shoulder, fever, etc. These symptoms appear more frequently in patients suffering long term or more serious illnesses, and symptoms may repeat several times. Each episode may last 3-7 days, but sometimes it may last one month, or even worse over 6 months. It is a pity that many give up urine therapy because of such bad episode [sic]. Recovery reaction is just like the darkness before sunrise. If one persists and overcomes the difficulty, one can enjoy the eventual happiness of healthy life.
These same people advise that "All kinds of throat inflammation can be helped by gargling with urine to which a bit of saffron has been added" and "drinking one ounce of urine . . . is more beneficial to the average person than a fully staffed multi-billion dollar medical center." I was unable to find their evidence for these claims. Perhaps the evidence was produced at the First World Conference on Urine Therapy which took place in India In February 1996. Or maybe it came up in 1998 during the Second World Conference on Urine Therapy held in Germany.
Why do alternative therapies such as urine therapy become popular? Probably the main reason is that they seem to work. For any popular alternative therapy, there will always be a good number of testimonials from people who know they work. They know this because they have tried it and it "helped" or "cured" them of some malady. It does little good to point out to true believers that most of their ailments would have cured themselves and gone away had they done nothing at all to treat themselves. One's tooth pain or facial pimples may have gone away after drinking a cup of one's golden fluid, but that is not strong evidence that there was any causal connection between two events. (See the post hoc fallacy.) Likewise, you are not likely to dissuade a true believer by noting that many diseases go into remission for unknown reasons and that just because the remission occurred after drinking urine for a month, does not mean there is any causal connection. And you waste your breath trying to get a true believer to consider the possibility that to begin with they were misdiagnosed by their alternative practitioner. Thus they were never cured because there was never anything wrong with them.
Probably the most common reason for the "effectiveness" of alternative therapies is the placebo effect. Many maladies have a behavioral component, often connected to the subjective evaluation of one's pain. Belief affects behavior and behavior affects the body. Hence, if one believes in a therapy, it is often the case that one will feel better, or think one feels better and act as if one is better, even though there is no objective evidence in the form of urine or blood tests, x-rays, etc., which would prove that one is better. Furthermore, acting in a healthy way could cause objective, measurable improvements. In such cases, it would be misleading to say that the therapy was useless. However, it was not the therapy as such that led to improvement, but one's belief in the therapy. Some might say, what difference does it make since a cure is a cure? It might make all the difference in the world. First, there may not have been a cure after all. Just because one's mood improves does not mean one has been cured. Secondly, there might be a better therapy one is avoiding by using the "alternative" therapy. Thirdly, the relief might be temporary, while the better therapy might produce permanent or long-term relief. Fourthly, for those who are not helped by the alternative therapy, there might be grave consequences which could have been avoided had they been properly treated in the first place.Finally, many people who use "alternative" therapies, use them in conjunction with traditional scientific medicine. They give credit to the "alternative" therapy if they improve and blame traditional medicine if they do not.
Read more »
Posted in: Famous Therapie
Toning
11:06 PM Ankur Dubey No comments
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook
Toning
Toning is rapidly gaining recognition as a simple and effective means of restoring balance, joy and well-being to anybody with enough curiosity and courage to explore and rediscover this ancient practice. All the so-called 'lost' civilisations practised healing through sound in one form or another. All religions to this day have retained the use of the voice as a means of upliftment. Singing is a powerful means of raising our frequency. Find your voice and start using it!
The process of toning can be described simply as a vocalised meditation using vowel sounds as mantras. When colour visualisations and focused intent are included in the process we have a powerful, readily available tool which is capable of dislodging dense stagnating energy (i.e. fear) and releasing it from our body. In effect, we are utilising the three main healing modalities available to us; light, sound and breath - in essence what we are made of. We use energy to move energy. The best things in life are free!The human body is a perfect musical instrument designed to receive and transmit energy vibration. Our every cell is surrounded by an electromagnetic field which transmits a frequency particular to its energetic composition. The effect of dissonant frequencies such as negative thoughts, words or loud noises, is an imbalance and depletion of energy. Holding these energies in our bodies eventually causes cell mutation and ultimately, disease.
The focused use of sound in the form of music or our own voice creates a message on a cellular level. Sound moves through any substance and when that substance is a human body, i.e. water, we are presented with some amazing results. Sounds travels through water five and a half times faster than it does through air. Water amplifies sound. When we combine our breath, voice and body, we become the musician and the instrument.
This brings us to the dynamic of choice. Do you choose to play a love song or a fear song? Once again as important component of the toning process pops up. INTENT. Every moment in life is a choice of energy manage
Read more »
Posted in: Famous Therapie
Touch for Health
11:06 PM Ankur Dubey No comments
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook
Touch for Health
The TTouch is a training and healthcare system developed by internationally known animal expert, Linda Tellington-Jones. Based on co-operation and understanding, these revolutionary techniques promote optimal performance and health without fear or force. Recognized worldwide, this systematic method is easy to learn and brings quick, lasting results. It is used by animal owners, breeders, veterinarians, animal shelters, zookeepers, Olympic teams and universities in over 30 countries. If you have an animal whose behaviour or temperament needs improving, if you are caring for an older animal who is in pain, if you want injuries and surgery to heal more quickly, then you are a candidate to learn the TTouch.
The TTouch can deepen the bond between you and your companion animal. It has been proven to calm animals and alleviate their pains, fears and tensions. TTouch can contribute positively towards improving a wide variety of attitude, behavioural and health problems. It offers a new form of communication, training and healing for you and your animals. TTouch is not difficult to learn and brings quick rewards. You can build communication, trust, respect, and most importantly, joy with your animal.
The History of TTouch
Linda Tellington-Jones is an internationally recognized animal expert. She is the author of The Tellington TTouch, A Breakthrough Technique to Train and Care for Your Favorite Animal. Since childhood, Linda has worked with horses and animals, and by the time she was sixteen, she had amassed some 400 ribbons and trophies. It was in 1978, whilst she was finishing a four-year course in Feldenkrais holistic therapy for humans, that she wondered if the same principles could be applied to teaching horses. These principles involve using non-habitual movements to activate new neurological pathways in the brain. She found that it indeed turned unco-operative animals into willing partners. That in turn evolved into the TTouch.
By 1983, she had perfected the TTouch and it's been proven to be effective on more than 30 species of animals, including dogs and cats. She then developed the TTouch course for "Companion Animals". All animals, Tellington says, hold fear and tension in their bodies. It's easy to see. Dogs and horses tighten their hindquarters; people hunch their shoulders and clench their jaws. Traditionally, we try to soothe the animal and then expect the body to follow suit. TTouch works the other way around. It starts by displacing the physical tension, so that the attendant emotions follow. Because aggression or neurotic habits are generally manifestations of fear, they go too.
What TTouch can do for you ?
TTouch is an innovative method of communicating with animals. It offers solid, practical help to common behavioual and health related problems in dogs, cats and other animals:
Fear and shyness
Excessive barking and chewing
Jumping up and leash pulling
Ageing problems, arthritis and dysplasia
Fear biting and aggressive behaviour
Car sickness
Nervousness, tension or stress
Hyper excitability
By learning to know the simple techniques of touch, we can give both our animals and ourselves far more rewarding, stress-free lives.
What others are saying about TTouch ?
The list of endorsements for the Tellington-Jones technique of helping animals through touch is lengthy and impressive, and grows longer each year: the ASPCA in New York City; the zoo keeper at the San Diego Zoo; the head veterinarian at the Zurich Zoo. Aquarist Marl Verbin at the National Aquarium in Baltimore uses it to acclimate giant pacific octopuses to their new lives in captivity. Scientists at the research facility of the Sloan-Kettering and Cornell University Medical College say it's making them rethink the way they handle their primates. It may not be an exaggeration to say that the Tellington-Jones' hands are quietly revolutionizing the way humans interact with other species.
"In the 15 years I've worked in zoos, I've never seen anything like the way animals respond to this method of handling. The TTouch reduces stress and pain, alters negative behaviour patterns and speeds up healing of injuries in animals that haven't responded to other treatments."
Art Goodrich; San Diego zookeeper
"The TTouch profoundly alters the mental state and body awareness of animals. I have observed: 1. That TTouch works.
2. The effects are lasting.
3. After brief instructions, others can easily achieve results."
Read more »
Posted in: Famous Therapie
Time Line
11:05 PM Ankur Dubey No comments
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook
Time Line
Time Line Therapy is a collection of techniques that allow you to gain emotional control over your life. Inappropriate emotional reactions, such as bursts of anger, periods of apathy, depression, sadness, anxiety and chronic fear, are responsible for preventing people from achieving the quality of life they desire. Limiting decisions such as I''m not good enough" or "I'll never be rich" or "I don't deserve a great marriage" create false limitations and hamper your ability to create reachable and attainable goals and outcomes.
Throughout history, humankind has been aware of the passage of time. Aristotle was the first to mention the "stream of time" in his book Physics IV. William James spoke of linear memory storage as early as 1890. In the decades to follow, the concept all but faded into obscurity. It was finally revived in the late 1970s by the developers of Neuro-Linguistic Programming (NLP). Drs Tad James and Wyatt Woodsmall then combined these ideas of time being an internal storage system with therapeutic processes and the result was Time Line Therapy"!.In a nutshell, TLT works with our knowledge of how people actually store their memories and the effect that the system used for the storage of memories has on the personality of the individual. The suggestion is that the concept of Time Line or the notion of time that you have stored in your mind, shapes and structures your experience of the world and therefore shapes your personality.
We now believe that the way people talk about their internal experience (including their gestures) of time is a literal (as opposed to metaphorical) description of the composition of their experience. How people talk about time is an actual representation of what they do mentally. Use of temporal language is just a description of how they store time.
What's the difference between aIl these:
"You're going to look back on this and laugh"
"Put it behind you"
"Time is on my side"
"I just don't see how I'm going to get it done in time."
TLT works on the presupposition that there are basically two different KINDS of time: what James calls through Time and In-Time. The former is based on the kind of white, western, industrialised notion of time where we ring bells or klaxons to say "time to start" and "time to stop" and punish people for not keeping inside the parameters. In-time is more laid-back and "manana" like - an appointment is something that goes against the grain and a personal appointment can include several people.
Your personal "time-line" is how you unconsciously store your memories and how you unconsciously know the difference between a memory from the past and a projection of the future. It has been established that behavioural change takes place at an unconscious level and releases the effects of past negative experiences and changes "inappropriate" programming in minutes. This is deep, lasting change, documented by two decades of research and experience and some 20 "Approved Institutes" of TLT throughout the world.
What is Time-Line Therapy ?
Time-Line Therapy"! is a branch of Neuro-Linguistic programming (NLP) which has evolve into an independent discipline.
TLT was developed by Drs Tad James and Wyatt Woodsmall from the groundwork of NLP co-founders Richard Bandler and John Grinder.
In addition, Dr Tad James drew on the reflections of the Greek Philosopher Aristotle, the turn-of-the-century American Psychologist William James and ancient Hawaiian culture to produce a distinct and profoundly effective form of psychotherapy now known world-wide as TLT.
TLT works with how the unconscious mind organises time and memories. TLT practitioners can use learning at the unconscious level to assist clients to release deep-seated negative emotional baggage and limiting beliefs from the past without having to relive painful events - or even consciously know what they are. It is an astonishingly powerful yet gentle form of brief therapy.
TLT techniques are also the most powerful means we have yet found of setting goals so that your unconscious mind knows they are in the future and works to make them real. They can be used in therapy, for business coaching, goal-setting and team building, as a different approach to time mangement and for personal development.
What can you achieve with TLT ?
discover how your unconscious mind organises time
learn why conventional time management courses don't work for everyone
improve your own time management
release emotions attached to past events
remove old, inappropriate limiting decisions and beliefs
dispel anxiety about future events
clear the way for a brighter future
create achievable outcomes in tune with who you are and who you want to be
learn how to shift your personal time-line so that you can be relaxed or highly motivated, as is most appropriate for the situation
Read more »
Posted in: Famous Therapie
Older Posts Home
Facebook Badge
Ankur Dubey
Create Your Badge
Help us with Donation
Follow US
Blog Archive
2014 ( 3 )
December ( 1 )
List of Bank Slogans and Punchlines
November ( 2 )
2013 ( 5 )
December ( 2 )
October ( 3 )
2012 ( 5 )
July ( 2 )
March ( 3 )
2011 ( 790 )
May ( 131 )
April ( 312 )
March ( 100 )
February ( 242 )
January ( 5 )
2010 ( 346 )
December ( 346 )
2009 ( 1 )
April ( 1 )
Subscribe
Follow Us
Labels
10th ( 1 ) 1300 ( 1 ) 2013 ( 3 ) 2014 ( 1 ) Abbreviations ( 1 ) Accounts ( 11 ) Admission Test ( 2 ) Admit card ( 1 ) AIEEE ( 8 ) Alarm home system ( 7 ) alarm systems ( 4 ) Amazing facts ( 30 ) animals ( 23 ) ASI ( 1 ) Assam ( 1 ) Assistant ( 1 ) Australia university ( 3 ) Award ( 20 ) B.COM ( 2 ) Bank ( 27 ) Basics ( 1 ) BE ( 13 ) BEd ( 4 ) Biology ( 9 ) Birds facts ( 3 ) BITS-Pilani ( 3 ) Books and Authors ( 4 ) botany ( 3 ) Bridges ( 1 ) Buildings ( 2 ) Calling ( 1 ) Careers ( 59 ) CBSE ( 9 ) Chemistry ( 9 ) cities ( 7 ) Civil engineering ( 9 ) CLAT ( 7 ) Collage ( 1 ) collages ( 46 ) Commerce ( 4 ) Commerce Colleges ( 1 ) Companies ( 1 ) computer ( 21 ) Contract Jobs ( 4 ) countries ( 191 ) CURRENT AFFAIRS ( 9 ) Defence and Police Jobs ( 6 ) Economics ( 9 ) Education ( 4 ) electronic circuit ( 16 ) Engineering Colleges ( 26 ) English ( 15 ) English Dictionary ( 26 ) English Vocabulary ( 2 ) ENTRANCE ( 2 ) Europe ( 3 ) facts ( 46 ) Fake Universities ( 1 ) Famous Therapie ( 62 ) Fashion Technology ( 1 ) First in India ( 1 ) Flowers ( 1 ) freedom fighter ( 1 ) Full Form ( 2 ) fun ( 3 ) General Awareness ( 1 ) General Science ( 7 ) general tips ( 30 ) Geography of India ( 3 ) gk ( 122 ) Government ( 1 ) Grammer ( 12 ) Great Personalities ( 9 ) gsm ( 1 ) Gujrat ( 1 ) Highway And Roads ( 1 ) Hindu Temple ( 33 ) History ( 2 ) Hotel Management ( 1 ) humor ( 3 ) ICAR ( 2 ) IIT-JEE ( 1 ) Important Days ( 2 ) Improve ( 1 ) india ( 30 ) Indian Economy ( 8 ) Indian history ( 38 ) Industries ( 1 ) info ( 8 ) information technology ( 4 ) international ( 2 ) Interview ( 20 ) Intresting Fact ( 1 ) inverter ( 2 ) jobs exam ( 16 ) jobs info ( 50 ) Law Colleges ( 2 ) Learning English ( 16 ) life ( 6 ) Lighting ( 3 ) MAJOR WEAKNESSES ( 1 ) Mass Communication ( 1 ) Mathematics ( 3 ) MBA ( 1 ) MCA ( 1 ) Medical Colleges ( 3 ) MISTAKES ( 1 ) mobile ( 4 ) Model paper ( 26 ) Modern India ( 65 ) Mpboard ( 1 ) Music History ( 12 ) Natural Disastors ( 1 ) News ( 3 ) News Agencies ( 1 ) november ( 1 ) october ( 1 ) Organisations ( 5 ) Panchayat ( 1 ) PET ( 6 ) physics ( 2 ) PMT ( 8 ) Popular Quotations ( 1 ) Power Amplifier ( 2 ) power supply ( 2 ) Practice paper ( 32 ) prizes ( 5 ) punchlines ( 1 ) Question and Answers ( 115 ) quiz ( 94 ) Quotes ( 3 ) Radio ( 1 ) Reasons ( 1 ) Recruitment ( 20 ) religious ( 17 ) result ( 3 ) Resume Tips ( 5 ) Rivers Bank ( 1 ) Rural Development ( 1 ) salary ( 1 ) Sample Paper ( 30 ) science ( 26 ) Science and Technology ( 3 ) Science Colleges ( 1 ) Seven Wonders ( 8 ) SI ( 1 ) Skills ( 6 ) slogan ( 1 ) solutions ( 1 ) sports ( 8 ) SSC ( 1 ) strange creatures ( 1 ) Sub inspector ( 1 ) Syllabus ( 2 ) Synonymous ( 1 ) Tax Collector ( 1 ) Technical ( 1 ) Technology ( 3 ) Tele-comunication ( 1 ) TELEPHONE ( 1 ) Terminology ( 6 ) tes' ( 1 ) test ( 92 ) test' ( 1 ) Time Table ( 2 ) Tips ( 33 ) TNEA ( 1 ) TOP ( 16 ) Tsunami ( 1 ) Unique ( 1 ) UPSC IES ( 5 ) Vitamins ( 6 ) Weather ( 3 ) wildlife ( 9 ) women ( 1 ) word power ( 1 ) World ( 28 ) World Geography ( 14 ) world top university ( 3 ) Zoology ( 5 )
Copyright © 2010 - 2014 A-2-Z GK | Powered by Blogger