Marijuana Addiction and Abuse | What Is Marijuana?
tel:+18555202898
About Us
24/7 Help
855-520-2898
Menu
Addiction
Alcohol Abuse & Addiction
Alcohol Abuse & Addiction
Effects of Alcohol
Casual Drinking
High Functioning Alcoholic
Alcohol Rehab
Alcohol Detox
Alcohol Recovery
Popular Pages
How Long Does Alcohol Stay in Your System?
How to Stop Drinking
Alcohol Blackouts
Drug Addiction
Illicit Drug Addiction
Cocaine
GHB
Heroin
LSD
Marijuana
Meth
Popular Pages
How Long Does LSD Stay in Your System?
How Long Does Marijuana Stay in Your System?
How Long Does Cocaine Stay in Your System?
Prescription Drug Addiction
Prescription Drug Addiction
Adderall
Benzodiazepines
Fentanyl
Hydrocodone
Opioids
Xanax
Popular Pages
How Long Does Adderall Stay in Your System?
How Long Do Amphetamines Stay in Your System?
How Long Do Benzos Stay in Your System?
How Long Do Opioids Stay in Your System?
Co-Occurring Disorders
Co-Occurring Disorders
Eating Disorders
Depression
PTSD
Using Substances to Mask Your Feelings? We provide integrated treatment for mental health disorders and addiction.
Who Addiction Affects
Who Addiction Affects
Teens
Nurses
Firefighters
Doctors
Stories of Recovery: Carly Benson Read Carly’s story of recovery and self-discovery.
Signs and Symptoms
Signs and Symptoms
Withdrawal Symptoms
Developing an Addiction
Other Addiction Topics
Addiction Hotlines
Stats & Trends
Am I an Addict?
Addiction
DrugRehab.com provides information regarding illicit and prescription drug addiction, the various populations at risk for the disease, current statistics and trends, and psychological disorders that often accompany addiction. You will also find information on spotting the signs and symptoms of substance use and hotlines for immediate assistance.
Treatment
Types & Levels of Treatment
Types & Levels of Treatment
Detox
Inpatient
Outpatient
Levels of Addiction Treatment
Medication Assisted Treatment
Types of Addiction Counseling
Treatment Tailored to Your Needs Get personalized treatment now.
Paying for Treatment
Paying for Treatment
Insurance
Aetna Insurance Coverage
Cigna Insurance Coverage
Humana Insurance Coverage
How Much Does Rehab Cost?
Does Your Insurance Cover Rehab? Don’t let cost prevent you from seeking treatment.
Rehab Treatment Process
Rehab Treatment Process
Keeping Your Job During Rehab
Court-Ordered Treatment
How Long Does Rehab Take?
You’re Not Alone We’re here to answer your questions.
Treatment
Treatment for addiction takes many forms and depends on the needs of the individual. In accordance with the American Society of Addiction Medicine, we offer information on outcome-oriented treatment that adheres to an established continuum of care. In this section, you will find information and resources related to evidence-based treatment models, counseling and therapy and payment and insurance options.
Active Recovery
12-Step Programs
12-Step Programs
Alcoholics Anonymous
Narcotics Anonymous
Co-Dependents Anonymous
Crystal Meth Anonymous
Marijuana Anonymous
Get Your Free Copy Today Techniques for long-term recovery
Faith & Religion
Faith & Religion
Treatment for addiction takes many forms and depends on the needs of the individual. In accordance with the American Society of Addiction Medicine, we offer information on outcome-oriented treatment that adheres to an established continuum of care. In this section, you will find information and resources related to evidence-based treatment models, counseling and therapy and payment and insurance options.
Sober Living Homes
Sober Living Homes
Three-Quarter Houses
Halfway Houses
Sober Living: Next Step Village Supporting your transition to a substance-free life
Support for Family & Friends
Support for Family & Friends
Interventions
Al-Anon
Are You Helping or Enabling?
Substance Abuse Guide for Parents Find out what you can do to protect your children.
Relapse
Relapse
Sobriety
Relapse Triggers
A Relapse Isn’t a Failure Let us put you back on track.
Active Recovery
The recovery process doesn't end after 90 days of treatment. The transition back to life outside of rehab is fraught with the potential for relapse. Aftercare resources such as 12-step groups, sober living homes and support for family and friends promote a life rich with rewarding relationships and meaning.
Advocacy and Support
Community
Community
Collegiate Recovery Communities
Real Talk
Recovery Stories
Feature Stories
Recovery Podcast
Podcast: Love More for Julius Recovery through creative expression
Resources
Resources
News
Blog
Guides
The Naloxone Guide Learn how to administer this life-saving opioid antidote.
Our Community
Our community offers unique perspectives on lifelong recovery and substance use prevention, empowering others through stories of strength and courage. From people in active recovery to advocates who have lost loved ones to the devastating disease of addiction, our community understands the struggle and provides guidance born of personal experience.
About Us
Marijuana Addiction & Abuse
Marijuana abuse makes people lose coordination and have trouble thinking. Repeated use often leads to dependence, and some people can become addicted to marijuana.
AddictionDrugsMarijuana
Topics on this Page
What Is Marijuana?
Effects & Symptoms
Dependence & Addiction
Quitting Marijuana
Topics On this page
What Is Marijuana?
Effects & Symptoms
Dependence & Addiction
Quitting Marijuana
Author: Chris Elkins, MA | Last Updated: 6/01/18 | 10 sources
Marijuana is the most commonly used illicit drug in the United States. Many people mistakenly believe it’s harmless. Few associate it with addiction or other serious health consequences.
Fast Facts: Marijuana
Abuse Potential
High
Scientific Name
Tetrahydrocannabinol
Street Names
Pot, Weed, Grass, Ganja, Mary Jane
Side Effects
Memory Loss, Dizziness, Breathing Problems, Lung Infection, Depression, Psychosis, Increased Heart Rate
How It's Used
Smoked, Swallowed
Legal Status
Schedule I
But hundreds of thousands of people seek treatment for marijuana addiction each year. With repeated use, the drug changes the way the brain works.
Related Pages Marijuana
Marijuana Addiction & Abuse
Laced Weed
Forms of Marijuana
Is Marijuana Addictive?
Marijuana Symptoms of Use
Marijuana Withdrawal
Marijuana Addiction Treatment
Marijuana and Mental Health
Marijuana FAQs
Marijuana Statistics and Facts
What Kind of Drug Is Marijuana?
How Long Does Marijuana Stay in Your System?
Marijuana Related Topics
Weed and Alcohol
Teens and Kids Smoking Weed
Section Menu
“Over time, cannabis users begin to crave the drug,” Dr. Deborah Hasin, professor of epidemiology at Columbia University, told DrugRehab.com. “If they go a day or two without using it, they can become depressed and irritable. They begin to find that using [marijuana] is taking priority over other activities that are important to them.”
Unlike alcohol and heroin, marijuana isn’t associated with overdose deaths. However, it can cause serious side effects, including paranoia and anxiety. Marijuana laced with other drugs can cause unexpected symptoms.
Like people who try alcohol, most people who use marijuana don’t become addicted. Many never experience serious health problems. But some people do get addicted to marijuana. Even though the drug may not kill these people, it can cause serious mental health and behavioral issues that disrupt their lives.
What Is Marijuana?
Marijuana is a drug made from parts of the cannabis plant. It’s also known as pot, weed and other street names. Marijuana contains several chemicals that affect the body in different ways. THC is the chemical in marijuana that makes people high.
The drug can be consumed in multiple forms. Traditionally, marijuana was smoked through hand-rolled paper cigarettes, cigar wraps, pipes or bongs. Other forms are used today.
Multiple forms of marijuana exist, including:
Cannabis
The dried flower of the cannabis plant that people smoke
Oils
Extracts from cannabis that can be eaten, smoked, vaporized or mixed with alcohol
Edibles
Foods containing marijuana that people eat
Topicals
Balms, lotions and patches that can be rubbed on the skin
Each form of marijuana affects the body in similar ways, but the duration and strength of effects may differ depending on how the drug is used.
Marijuana is a type of drug that can cause effects similar to depressants, stimulants and hallucinogens. It’s classified as a Schedule I controlled substance by the Drug Enforcement Administration. That means it has a high potential for abuse and addiction and no medical use recognized by the federal government.
Effects of Marijuana
Marijuana affects parts of the brain in charge of pleasure, memory, concentration, coordination and perception of time. It overwhelms the pleasure system, making a person feel high. Memory loss caused by marijuana is also common.
Other symptoms of marijuana use include:
Trouble thinking
Coordination loss
Altered sense of time
Mood swings
In high doses, marijuana can cause hallucinations, delusions and psychosis. These symptoms cause thousands of emergency department visits each year, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. But marijuana doesn’t cause deadly overdoses.
Some people experience weed hangovers that include headache and fatigue. In general, these effects are mild compared to hangovers caused by alcohol.
Mental Health
People with mental health problems or mood disorders can be more susceptible to the effects of marijuana. The drug can temporarily relieve depression or anxiety. But when the high fades, the symptoms of these disorders usually worsen.
Learn more about marijuana and mental health
Brain Development
Marijuana is called a gateway drug because of its effects on the developing brain. The drug has more significant effects on the adolescent brain than the adult brain. Regular marijuana use during teenage years can make the brain more vulnerable to addiction and experimenting with other drugs later in life.
Learn more about the dangers of kids smoking weed
“There are suggestions that cannabis can have a longer-lasting impact on the health of adolescents given that their brains are still developing.”
— Deborah Hasin, professor of epidemiology at Columbia University
Dependence and Addiction
Most people who regularly use marijuana develop some form of dependence. Dependence is a physical adaptation that occurs when a person repeatedly uses a drug. The brain begins to rely on the drug to function.
Some people can be dependent on marijuana but not be addicted. Marijuana addiction occurs when a person experiences problems related to the drug and is unable to quit.
Tolerance
Tolerance to marijuana increases as a person becomes dependent on the drug. The person needs more weed or more potent pot to achieve the same high. Tolerance is a sign of dependence, and it’s one of several criteria for drug addiction.
Cravings
People who are dependent on marijuana experience cravings when marijuana leaves their bodies. The cravings caused are one example of how marijuana can be addictive. Cravings can cause physical and psychological symptoms, such as tightness in the stomach or thoughts about needing marijuana.
Withdrawal
Marijuana withdrawal is a common obstacle for people addicted to the drug. The symptoms are not as painful or unsettling as withdrawal from many other drugs. But they can make it difficult to quit using marijuana. Withdrawal symptoms include fatigue, irritability and anxiety.
Seeking help for weed addiction?
We have programs designed specifically for you.
Get Help Now
Quitting Marijuana
Some people can quit smoking marijuana on their own. Unlike those with alcoholism or a heroin addiction, people addicted to weed don’t experience withdrawal symptoms that require supervised detox.
That doesn’t mean that marijuana addiction is an insignificant disease. People who are severely addicted to the drug may be unable to quit using it without help. They require marijuana addiction treatment at a professional rehab facility.
Marijuana hotlines can provide information about treatment and support services for people in recovery from marijuana addiction. During rehab, people detox from marijuana in a comfortable environment that’s free from external triggers and stressors. Rehab also includes counseling and therapy to teach people how to live without pot.
Some people try support groups before seeking rehab. Others transition to these groups for continued support after treatment. Marijuana Anonymous is a popular 12-step program for people in recovery from marijuana addiction.
Marijuana addiction is a debilitating disease. It can cause serious changes to the brain and wane a person’s mental health. Some people can stop using the drug on their own, but those who are addicted to weed should attend rehab to recover.
Author
Chris Elkins, MA,
Senior Content Writer, DrugRehab.com
Chris Elkins worked as a journalist for three years and was published by multiple newspapers and online publications. Since 2015, he’s written about health-related topics, interviewed addiction experts and authored stories of recovery. Chris has a master’s degree in strategic communication and a graduate certificate in health communication.
[email protected]
@ChrisTheCritic9
editor
Joey Rosenberg,
Editor, DrugRehab.com
View Sources
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (n.d.). Emergency Department Visits for Substance Abuse. Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nhcs/ED_Substance_Abuse_Factsheet.PDF
Hasin, D.S. et al. (2013, August 1). DSM-5 Criteria for Substance Use Disorders: Recommendations and Rationale. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3767415/
National Institute on Drug Abuse. (2018, February). Marijuana. Retrieved from https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/drugfacts/marijuana
National Institute on Drug Abuse. (2018, February). How does marijuana produce its effects? Retrieved from https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/research-reports/marijuana/how-does-marijuana-produce-its-effects
National Institute on Drug Abuse. (2018, February). What is marijuana? Retrieved from https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/research-reports/marijuana/what-marijuana
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. (2005). Brief Counseling for Marijuana Dependence: A Manual for Treating Adults. Retrieved from https://www.integration.samhsa.gov/clinical-practice/sbirt/brief_counseling_for_marijuana_dependence.pdf
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. (2007). The Motivational Enhancement Therapy and Cognitive Behavioral Therapy Supplement: 7 Sessions of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Adolescent Cannabis Users. Retrieved from https://store.samhsa.gov/shin/content//SMA08-3954/SMA08-3954.pdf
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. (2016, November 21). Marijuana (Cannabis). Retrieved from https://www.samhsa.gov/atod/marijuana
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. (2017, September 7). Results from the 2016 National Survey on Drug Use and Health: Detailed Tables. Retrieved from https://www.samhsa.gov/data/sites/default/files/NSDUH-DetTabs-2016/NSDUH-DetTabs-2016.pdf
Zhu, H. & Wu, L. (2016, November-December). Trends and correlates of cannabis-involved emergency department visits: 2004 to 2011. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5083207/
Ready to make a change?
Get cost-effective, quality addiction care that truly works.
Start Your Recovery
Home
Understanding Addiction
Substance Abuse Treatment
About Us
Terms and Conditions
Notice of Privacy Practices
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
© 2019 DrugRehab.com. All rights reserved.
1 S. Orange Ave., Suite 503, Orlando, FL 32801
Last modified: June 1, 2018. Questions? Contact [email protected]
Who am I calling?
Calls will be answered by a qualified admissions representative with Advanced Recovery Systems (ARS), the owners of DrugRehab.com. We look forward to helping you!
855-520-2898
Who am I calling?
Phone calls to treatment center listings not associated with ARS will go directly to those centers. DrugRehab.com and ARS are not responsible for those calls.
Find Rehab by Location
State Colorado Florida Georgia Maryland New Jersey New Mexico New York Ohio Oregon Pennsylvania Washington Washington, D.C.
Go
Our Rehab Centers
The Recovery Village Columbus
The Recovery Village at Palmer Lake
The Recovery Village Ridgefield
The Recovery Village Umatilla
Orlando Recovery Center
IAFF Center of Excellence
Next Generation Village
Popular Destinations
Orlando, FL
Miami, FL
Colorado Springs, CO
Columbus, OH
Portland, OR
Vancouver, WA