Honey and Baking Soda: An Amazing Cure For The Deadliest Disease in the World! - MoreThanHealth
Skip to content
MoreThanHealth
Providing the best advice for a healthy and happy life.
Main Navigation
Home
Health
Remedies
Beauty
Fitness
Slim Down
Relationship
Honey and Baking Soda: An Amazing Cure For The Deadliest Disease in the World!
By MoreThanHealth On octubre 5, 2018 In Health, Home Leave a comment
facebook
tweet
google+
Millions of people suffer from cancer all across America. Modern cancer treatment is expensive, ineffective, and dangerous! Try this home remedy instead.
The benefits from honey and baking soda are basically unlimited. Honey has been used for its medicinal properties for centuries, and Baking soda can be used for basically anything! I can’t imagine what powerful abilities would be unveiled by combining these two together. But wait! Someone already has, and it showed to be an excellent method of treatment for cancer! Yes, you heard me right! Mixing baking soda and honey have powerful disease-fighting abilities.
Baking soda prevents the growth of cells. It works perfectly on cancer cells too. Honey keeps health cells working at their peak. It has natural antioxidants that stimulate the immune system. It makes your body an excellent warrior against diseases. Honey also helps the baking soda get into the cancer cells. The two work together fantastically, and they fight diseases like they’re nothing! Here is the recipe to use honey and baking soda in fighting cancer.
Ingredients:
1 tablespoon baking soda
3 tablespoons honey
Directions:
Put 1 tablespoon baking soda in one small bowl.
Add 3 tablespoons honey and mix it well to create a paste.
The paste needs to be heated on low temperature for 1-2 minutes.
Take 3 tablespoons of this remedy in a day, for 30 days in a row. You can use it after breakfast, lunch, and dinner. You need to take it regularly without even one day break. Make sure to take care of your diet while you are using this remedy.
Comparte esto:
Haz clic para compartir en Twitter (Se abre en una ventana nueva)
Haz clic para compartir en Facebook (Se abre en una ventana nueva)
Haz clic para compartir en Google+ (Se abre en una ventana nueva)
Related Posts
The TOP 27 Alkaline Foods On The Planet! (Eat More To Prevent Cancer, Obesity And Heart Disease)
One Simple Mineral we take for Granted Prevents Diabetes, Asthma, Heart Diseases and Depression
10 Medicinal Plants Native Americans Used To Cure Everything (From Joint Pain To Cancer)
Post navigation
THROW AWAY YOUR GLASSES! ONLY USING THIS ONE INGREDIENT WILL HELP YOU INCREASE YOUR VISION BY 97 %!
12 Ways To Lose 3 Inches Off Your Stomach In 14 Days
Deja un comentario Cancelar respuesta
Tu dirección de correo electrónico no será publicada. Los campos obligatorios están marcados con *
Comentario
Nombre *
Correo electrónico *
Web
Recibir un email con los siguientes comentarios a esta entrada.
Recibir un email con cada nueva entrada.
Buscar:
Entradas recientes
The TOP 27 Alkaline Foods On The Planet! (Eat More To Prevent Cancer, Obesity And Heart Disease)
One Simple Mineral we take for Granted Prevents Diabetes, Asthma, Heart Diseases and Depression
10 Medicinal Plants Native Americans Used To Cure Everything (From Joint Pain To Cancer)
Here Is How To Use Tennis Ball To Relieve Your Sciatic Nerve Pain And Back Pain
8 Habits You Should Never Ignore If You Want to Avoid a Heart Attack or Stroke
Privacidad y cookies: este sitio utiliza cookies. Al continuar utilizando este sitio web, aceptas su uso.
Para obtener más información, incluido cómo controlar las cookies, consulta aquí: Política de cookie
Entradas y Páginas Populares
The TOP 27 Alkaline Foods On The Planet! (Eat More To Prevent Cancer, Obesity And Heart Disease)
SuperAds Lite powered by ThemeCountry
Acciones