It's Cholesterol Stupid: How To Lower Fatty DepositsHealthy Body, Healthy Lifestyle – Get Well, Fit and Happy
Infographics
Videos
Health
Conditions & Diseases
Cancer
Diabetes
Mental Health
Sleep Health
Stop Smoking
Fitness
Food and Nutrition
Training & Workouts
Fitness Tips
Weight Loss
Diets & Food
Weight Loss Tips
HCG Weight Loss
Sports & Recreation
Beauty
Skin Care
Makeup & Hair
Acne & Wrinkles
Anti-aging
Dental Health
LifeStyle
Money & Style
Dating & Relationships
Sexual Health
Baby & Pregnancy
Pregnancy
Baby Health
It’s Cholesterol Stupid: How To Lower Fatty Deposits
0
Posted by Guest Author
The number of times that I write down the term ‘helps lower cholesterol’ in articles means my hand almost has muscle memory when scribing the phrase. We all know that bad cholesterol of the LDL kind causes all sorts of heart and circulatory issues and eventually leads to heart disease and stroke – not ideal.
Obviously, lowering cholesterol is part and parcel of a healthier lifestyle, but let’s be more specific and look at the things that directly impact on it.
Fat
The most obvious thing and one you most likely are aware of already. Eating the right sort of fats will help lower cholesterol; it’s almost an irony isn’t it. Fats from almonds and avocados are known as HDL fats and reduce the level of cholesterol in the blood. This fat can also be found in salmon and flaxseeds among other fish and nuts.
Low GI Carb
Foods that are high on the GI index generally also are low in HDL cholesterol, meaning most of them don’t get the benefit of this chemical. Switching from a diet that’s high in bread, pasta and other high GI foods for one with beans and wholemeal will help lower cholesterol and balance sugar levels too – great for keeping them full. Fibre helps as it ensures you don’t eat as much LDL filed foods and is generally only found in healthier fare.
Exercise
The simple ones are the best and exercise is a sure fire way to impact positively on cholesterol levels. High intensity exercise raises the HDL level and in turn lowers cholesterol. This HDL chemical removes cholesterol to the liver where it is broken down or excreted. HDL levels are impacted upon by only half an hour of moderate exercise a day, meaning most of us can lower it with exercise with only a little bit of effort.
Of course, being aware of the levels is the best way of knowing how healthy you are and there are numerous factors that mean even the most unlikely of us have cholesterol problems – so get checked.
Smoking
What doesn’t it do? Smoking raises cholesterol levels through the lowering of HDL levels. Stub it out and quit and not just for cholesterol reasons – we don’t have to go into it do we?Even switiching to a cheap e-liquid e-cig may help with these heart issues as they don’t tend to have all the issues full cigarettes have.
Stress
This is another major factor in cholesterol levels and if you find yourself in a stressful situation then try and chill. Otherwise HDL levels are lowered. Exercises such as yoga, meditation and others can impact positively on these levels and prevent issues in the long term.
Cholesterol is a slow killer but one that we have to be aware of, so eat the right foods, educate yourself about it and we implore you to take a cholesterol test.It’s important to do so as otherwise you may end up with a significant issues sooner or later.
Derek Devlin has written for a number of health magazines in his time. He has switched to ecigs. He loves being active and getting out and about.
Related articles
Good vs. Bad Fats: What’s the Difference? (epicahealth.com)
Do Heart Patients Get Too Many Cholesterol Tests? (webmd.com)
What’s The Fuss With Elevating HDL? (enlightenedlotuswellness.com)
Bill Clinton or Bill Kushner, Doctors do make boo boos! (veganfatloss.wordpress.com)
0 Comments
Be the first to comment!
Leave a Response Cancel reply
Comment
Name (required)
Email (required)
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Recent
Comments
Tags
What Dress Should You Choose As A Plus Size Woman?
Why Do I Need To Go On A Course On Food Safety?
Horse Riding Accessories That Can Save Your Life
Help Your Child Get A Better Night’s Sleep
Feeling A Little Stressed Out? It’s Time To Give Yourself Some Time Out!
Mold Has Been Proven To Increase The Risk Of Asthma In Babies
"The pain is "psychologically placed"? How can you make such a blanket statement? I have had two c-sections ..." - Patt Hayes Heise
"here are however many individuals who see GP locum rates as being either bang on or on the high side. Deali..." - https://goo.gl/sRuz4Y
"They left out Pink" - Nanette Valencia
"I think the cost associated of professional teeth whitening can be quite an obstacle for some people. At Ra..." - RapidWhiteSmiles
"A nice column there and some great tips. I personally recommend an initial visit to the dental hygienist fo..." - RapidWhiteSmiles
Balanced Diet Beauty Body Shape Calories Cancer Diet Diet Plan Eating Effective Weight Loss Exercise Exercises feat featured fitness Food Food And Drug Administration Fresh Fruits Fruits And Vegetables Fruits Vegetables Hcg Weight Loss Health Health Experts High Blood Pressure Home Remedy Losing Weight Lt Mental health Muscle Natural Diet Nbsp Nutrition Person To Person Physical exercise Physical fitness Pregnancy Pregnant Women Proper Diet Protein Skin Sleep spot Stress Time Period Tooth Weight Loss Weight Loss Diet Weight Loss Products Weight Loss Program Weight Reduction Weight training
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Write For Us
Terms and Conditions
Copyright Notice
Disclaimer
Sitemap
RSS Feed
What's Hot Now
Getting Older Is Inevitable, B...
Here’s How To Relieve St...
How Termites Undermine Health...
Women! How To Turn Heads And M...
How To Remove Brassy and Orang...
Dress Up Smart And Be The Cyno...
Help Your Child Get A Better N...
Famous Celebrity Moles
Are Men’s Rooms Really C...
Mums – You Work Hard! It...
Copyright © 2019 Healthy Body, Healthy Lifestyle - Get Well, Fit and Happy, All Rights Reserved.
top