√ Where to Buy Himalayan Salt Lamp Online? | Himalayan Salt Lamp Guide
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Himalayan Salt Lamp Guide
FAQ about Salt Lamps
Himalayan Salt Lamp Guide > Salt Lamp > Where to Buy Himalayan Salt Lamp Online?
Where to Buy Himalayan Salt Lamp Online?
05/27/2017 04/15/2019 Ratna Salt Lamp Salt Lamp
Where can I buy a real and certified Himalayan salt lamp online? Buying a Himalayan Salt Lamp is not easy if we do not have the guide. We need to know the standard color, size, shape, and quality of the lamp prior buying. It is crucial to have the guide on hands so we can invest well on the lamp.
Himalayan Salt Lamps are stunning pieces of interior decors. Yet, we need to know that the lamps provide health benefits as well.
Based on researches and various sources, Himalayan salt lamps can benefit our health and life in the following ways:
The lamps create negative ions from the light bulb or flames that affect the salt.
Polluted air and the interior environment will be neutralized with the negative ion productions.
Fresher air circulation.
Electronic devices side effects such as electro-smog will be combated with the negative ions from the lamps.
The lamps can help to relieve respiratory illness such as asthma, allergies, and many others.
The lamps provide better health due to the purified air.
The Himalayan Salt Lamps at night help relieving stresses due to certain reasons.
There are very few scientific researches showing the real effects of Himalayan salt lamps. However, many customers and users show positive feedbacks on the products. Besides providing an excellent atmosphere in the interior, the lamps are reported to leave all of the aforementioned health impacts.
In addition, the lamps also help customers to reduce some allergies. Additionally, the customers obtain better sleep quality and get cured of some sleep disorder such as sleep apnea.
Learn more about Do salt lamps really work?
How to choose and purchase the best Himalayan salt lamp?
Only after that can we go straightforwardly to the Himalayan Salt Lamp buying guide:
1. Colors
The salt colors utilize for creating Himalayan Salt Lamp are varied. The colors are different based on the layer deep inside the Himalayan Mountains. The salts are excavated from the foothills so the colors are white, pink, orange, and red. The foothills areas are vast and so the colors will be different in shades.
White: Himalayan Salt Lamp with white salt is the most expensive one. This is so because the white salt crystal is rare and hard to mine. In addition, the white salt can provide maximum light emission. However, some people find this type of salt lamp is less special because of the strong illumination. Most people love Himalayan Salt Lamp due to the mild ambiance the lighting produces and white seems to have the brightest shine among all colors.
Pink and Purple: Pink lamps fall between white and orange color scheme. This one of the best seller colors because customers tend to love pink and cute colors.
Orange: This might be the best seller among all. Customers love to obtain a warm and romantic atmosphere in their interior. The orange colors are not too bright and too dark. This color represents balance and thus many customers prefer to purchase this color.
Red: This color can be attractive and romantic for a room. However, this color scheme provides a little darker shade compared to others.
Blue: This one of the best seller colors because represents feel a sense of calm if we lie on our backs and look into a bright blue, just like a sky.
Learn more about Himalayan salt lamp colors, sizes, and shapes
2. Sizes
small bedroom: 5-7 lbs. salt lamp (small Himalayan salt lamp) — 10×10 sq. feet
large bedroom: 9-11 lbs. salt lamp — 12×12 sq. feet
living room: 12-15 lbs. salt lamp — 14×14 sq. feet
joined rooms & commercial spaces: 40-50 lbs. salt lamp (large Himalayan salt lamp) — 30×30 sq. feet.
3. Shapes
The Himalayan Salt Lamps are offered in two basic shapes
Natural Shapes
Crafted Shape
Where can I buy a real and certified Himalayan Salt Lamp?
It is necessary that we use a trusted online store for buying high-quality Himalayan Salt Lamps. We check the customers’ review and return policy in order to check whether the supplier is reliable.
1. Himalayan salt lamp Amazon
2. Himalayan salt lamp WBM
3. Himalayan salt lamp at Bed Bath and Beyond
4. Himalayan salt lamp at Walmart
5. Himalayan salt lamp at Target
6. Himalayan salt lamp at Alibaba
7. Himalayan salt lamp at AliExpress
8. Himalayan salt lamp at Home Depot
9. Himalayan salt lamp at Mercola
10. Himalayan salt lamp at Himalayan Salt Lamps store
WhatsAppFacebookTwitterPinterest
Related Posts
How to use Himalayan Salt Lamp in Bedroom
A lot of people ask how to use Himalayan Salt Lamp? How is the best…
Himalayan Salt Lamp Colors, Sizes, Shapes
There are several color options of Himalayan Salt Lamp available in the market; coral pink,…
8 Signs of Authentic Himalayan Salt Lamp
Natural health gadgets cover many kinds of products including the Himalayan Salt Lamp. We might…
Himalayan Salt Lamp Room Size Guide
What size salt lamp do I need? How to choose the right size salt crystal…
How to Clean Salt Lamp (Himalayan salt lamp care)
Himalayan Salt Lamp can be a wonderful accessory for the interior design. This lamp produces…
Himalayan rock salt lamp Where can I buy a Himalayan salt lamp Where to buy Himalayan salt lamp
One thought to “Where to Buy Himalayan Salt Lamp Online?”
Pingback: Some Selections of Small and Large Himalayan Salt Lamp | Himalayan Salt Lamp Guide
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Post navigation
8 Signs of Authentic Himalayan Salt Lamp
Is Himalayan Salt Lamp Hoax and Scam?
Random Posts
Agate Lamp: Facts, Metaphysical & Decorative Functions
Blue Kyanite Lamp: Properties, Meanings & Uses
Lapis Lazuli Lamp: Meaning, Healing Properties & Uses
Citrine Lamp Meaning, Facts and Healing Properties
Onyx Lamps Etymology, Healing Properties, and Facts
Persian Salt Lamp: The Majestic Lamp from Iran
About Us
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Contact Us
Theme by Colorlib Powered by WordPress
This site uses cookies to improve your experience. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies : More.
Accept