Ab Exercises | Ultimate Guide To Fat Loss
Ultimate Guide To Fat Loss
Skip to content
Home
Contact Us
Disclosure
Category Archives: Ab Exercises
Sit-Ups Vs Crunches: Why Are These Ab Exercises Bad For You?
Sit-ups and crunches are the 2 most commonly performed ab exercises. Since almost everyone who wants a flat stomach or 6-pack abs does them, they should be effective, right? Yes, for damaging your back. No, for training your abs. Let’s take a look at each of these 2 ab exercises, to see how they cause… Read More »
Category: Ab Exercises
Do Sit-Ups Burn Belly Fat? Are There Effective Ab Exercise?
Sit-ups and crunches are two of the most overused ab exercises. Most people would have probably done hundreds of sit-ups, only to discover that they don’t burn belly fat. Those who train the rectus abdominis (six pack muscle) with excessive sit-ups can end up with a protruding belly. Dangers of performing repeated sit-ups Sit-ups involve… Read More »
Category: Ab Exercises
3 Best Standing Ab Exercises
Standing ab exercises can add a variety to your abdominal workout routine. They work your core in a functional way, which simulate your daily movements. When performing standing ab exercises, there are more muscles being recruited. Instead of training the rectus abdominis or six pack muscle only, you are strengthening all core muscles and training… Read More »
Category: Ab Exercises
Ab Exercises That Really Work
Whether you are a man who wants six pack abs or a woman who wants a lean sexy abs, there are 2 things you should know: – your body fat must be low enough for your abs to be visible, and – ab exercises that really work to shape your core muscles. Personally, I don’t… Read More »
Category: Ab Exercises
How To Get Rid Of Belly Pooch
What is a pooch belly? A pooch belly is where the belly protrudes outward even though you are not overweight. This is common in women, but also occurs in men too. What causes pooch belly? According to David Grissafi, author of Firm & Flatten Your Abs: Pooch belly is caused by neurological problems. Basically, the… Read More »
Category: Ab Exercises Ab Training
Why almost everyone is wrong about stomach exercises and abdominal muscles
(This is a guest post by David Grisaffi, author of Firm And Flatten Your Abs) “Stomach exercise” is the most frequently asked about and searched on (via internet) yet misunderstood subject in the entire field of health, fitness and exercise. And it’s no wonder. Regardless of age, experience or gender, everyone wants a flat “stomach”… Read More »
Category: Ab Exercises Ab Training Back Pain
4 Common But Useless Fat Burning Exercises
(This is a guest post by Jon Benson) You may be wasting your time in the gym or at home if you are trying to shape your body or get rid of body fat. Most people are. That is when it comes to exercise for getting rid of belly fat and getting into better shape.… Read More »
Category: Ab Exercises Cardiovascular Training Muscle Building Nutrition Weight Training
Lower Ab Workout: Here’s how to challenge your lower abs
Here’s a quick lower ab workout tip by Jeff Anderson, author of Muscle Specialization Secrets… ************************ Most people are especially challenged with hitting their LOWER ABS. Don’t worry – this will do the trick… Find yourself a DECLINE BENCH and a bath-sized TOWEL. Roll the towel up into about a cylinder, about 6 inches high.… Read More »
Category: Ab Exercises
10 Best Ab Exercises…that don’t include crunches!
Here are Men’s Health expert Craig Ballantyne’s 10 best abdominal exercises that you can do without cables, ab crunches, or sit-ups. 1. Plank with your arms on the Ball (30% more effective than plain ol’ planks, according to Men’s Health magazine) 2. Ball Rollouts (probably my favorite ball ab exercise) 3. Hanging Knee Raises (classic… Read More »
Category: Ab Exercises
Ab Workouts: Challenge your abs with 8 medicine ball ab exercises
Men’s Health magazine Medicine Ball Ab Workout Challenge from the December 2008 issue: Modified version of the original Medicine Ball Ab Workout Challenge for people with bad backs (exclude sit ups and crunches): These are some tough medicine ball exercises for your abs!!! Personally, I love stability and medicine ball exercises as they are very… Read More »
Category: Ab Exercises Ab Training
Post navigation
← Older posts
FREE Big Fat Lies ebook
Discover The Truth About Losing Belly Fat That Diet, Supplement & Weight Loss Industries Do Not Want You To Know in the...
"Big Fat Lies" ebook
Simply enter your name and primary email address below to receive a copy of this ebook & Fat Loss Tips Newsletter for FREE.
First name Email address
Recent Posts
3 Tips to Eat Carbs & NEVER Store Them as Fat
#1 Natural Energy & Fat Burning Drink
5 Reasons Sleep Trumps Exercise For Fat Loss (& Optimal Health)
Macadamia Oil: 7x Healthier Than Olive Oil?
3 Tips to Deplete Carbs & Reverse Damage of Food Binge
Categories
Ab Exercises (15)
Ab Training (17)
Back Pain (3)
Body Transformation Pictures (2)
Cardiovascular Training (11)
Fat Loss For Mothers or Busy Women (10)
General (9)
Holiday Weight Loss (2)
Interval Training (12)
Motivation (10)
Muscle Building (4)
News & Current Events (3)
Nutrition (76)
Reviews (2)
Vegetarian/Vegan (4)
Weight Loss Plateau (3)
Weight Loss Supplement (5)
Weight Training (31)
Workout Videos (1)
Reviews
The Truth About Six Pack Abs
Firm and Flatten Your Abs
The Fat Burning Kitchen
Eat Stop Eat
Turbulence Training
Enjoying Weight Loss Hypnosis
Eat Fat, Lose Fat
The 4 Cycle Solution (Strategic Carb Cycling)
More reviews coming soon!
Copyright 2015 shedthefat.com
Custom Text Right
Iconic One Theme | Powered by Wordpress