Exercising Regularly Could Reduce Your High Cholesterol Levels | Heart Health
Diseases
Children Health
Men's Health
Women's Health
Cancer
Heart Health
Diabetes
Other Diseases
Miscellaneous
Diet & Fitness
Weight Management
Healthy Diet
Exercise Fitness
Yoga
Alternative Therapies
Mind and Body
Ayurveda
Home Remedies
Grooming
Fashion and Beauty
Hair Care
Skin Care
Pregnancy & Parenting
New Born Care
Parenting Tips
Know Baby Name
Search Baby Name
Relationships
Marriage
Dating
Cheating
Health A to Z
Videos
Slideshows
Health News
Baby Names
Experts
QNA
Menu
Diseases
Diet & Fitness
Grooming
Pregnancy & Parenting
Relationships
Health A to Z
Videos
हिंदी
✖
Health
health diseases
Heart Health
Exercising Regularly Could Reduce Your High Cholesterol Levels
Heart Health By Sharanya Manola , Onlymyhealth editorial team / Mar 09, 2018
Quick Bites
Being overweight is symptomatic of high cholesterol levels
Exercising can help you lose or maintain weight and keep a constant check on your cholesterol levels
Exercise in any form such as cleaning the backyard can significantly lower cholesterol in numerous ways
Being overweight is symptomatic of high cholesterol levels. Exercising can, however, help you lose or maintain weight and keep a constant check at your cholesterol levels. Exercise, in fact in any form, be it everyday activity like cleaning the backyard or a structured exercise regime can significantly lower cholesterol in numerous ways.
Exercise increases HDL or good cholesterol level in the body and simultaneously works on reducing bad cholesterol or LDL that cause artery clogging and increase the risk of developing heart diseases
Exercise helps one lose and maintain a healthy weight
Exercise tones your whole body and promotes circulation of body fluids. Moreover, it also helps in clearing clots in blood vessels to make our heart stronger
Read: Ways to Lower Your Cholesterol
Earlier, researchers weren’t too sure about whether exercise can lower bad cholesterol levels. A major cause of confusion was arising from the fact that studies conducted focused on the effects of both dietary patterns and exercise on cholesterol levels. And, it subsequently became difficult to determine which out of the two was actually lowering bad cholesterol. But recent studies, on careful examination, have found out that exercise does reduce bad cholesterol level.
Read: Myths about Lowering Cholesterol
How does exercise lower cholesterol level:
Exercise expels LDL from your body by stimulating enzymes to move LDL from blood and blood vessels to the liver. Once LDL reaches the liver it is converted into bile or is excreted. So, if you want to get rid of life-threatening health conditions and mobilize LDL for a utitilty purpose, then don’t laze around
Exercise increases the size of protein particles. Combination of cholesterol and protein particles is known as a lipoprotein. Some combinations are dense while some are quite big and equally dangerous. Smaller ones can actually squeeze into the lining of the heart and blood vessels and cause an apparent damage i.e. clogging the blood vessels. But once you start exercising, the size of smaller protein particles increases and thus fails to enter blood vessels and the lining of our heart
So, now that you know that exercising reduces cholesterol levels you better chart out an exercise regime. If you like then keep in mind the following guidelines:
The American Heart Association recommends that you work out for at least 30 minutes per day. But, if you are looking at shedding those extra kilos then an hour
You may choose from these moderate intensity exercises such as walking, cycling, swimming or jogging. Jogging on a tread mill at a low speed can also do good to your heart
Find an activity that you love whether it is taking your dog for a walk or playing with it for half an hour in the playground
Now, what are you waiting for? Don’t be a spoil sport. Put on your tracksuit and exercise with your buddies!
Read more on Heart Health.
For more such articles, Download OnlymyHealth App.
Written by: Sharanya Manola
Source: Onlymyhealth editorial team Mar 09, 2018
All possible measures have been taken to ensure accuracy, reliability, timeliness and authenticity of the information; however Onlymyhealth.com does not take any liability for the same. Using any information provided by the website is solely at the viewers’ discretion. In case of any medical exigencies/ persistent health issues, we advise you to seek a qualified medical practitioner before putting to use any advice/tips given by our team or any third party in form of answers/comments on the above mentioned website.
Trending Topics
Reduce Cholesterol Levels
Exercises to Control Your Cholesterol
Exercise To Lower Cholesterol Level
Related Article
Ayurvedic Remedies to Reduce High Cholesterol
7 Things to be Blamed For Your Cholesterol Problems
The Perfect 3-Step Plan to cut Down the Unwanted Cellulite from your Body
Your Complete Fact Sheet to Know about "Bad Cholesterol"
80 Percent of Strokes are Preventable, Start Today
Eat These 9 Foods That Do Not Raise Cholesterol
Trending Article
Ayurvedic Remedies to Reduce High Cholesterol
7 Things to be Blamed For Your Cholesterol Problems
Ways to keep your bad cholesterol down and prevent heart diseases
Diet Therapy for High Blood Cholesterol
Eat your Way to Lower Cholesterol
Know how you can make your low cholesterol food tasty!
Loading...
Is Your Cholesterol Under Control
Eating these 5 foods can help you keep uric acid at normal levels
7 Steps to Stick with your Fitness Plans
80 Percent of Strokes are Preventable, Start Today
Reasons why you should not consume eggs daily
Awards and Recognition
Drivers of Digital 2018
Best Healthcare Website
Indian Content leadership Awards 2018
Best Content in a Healthcare/ Fitness Website
Global Digital Marketing Awards 2017
Best Digital Publication (Health/ Medical Industry)
Digipub Award 2017
Website of the Year (Lifestyle Infotainment) - Gold
Digixx 2019
Digital Marketing Excellence in Healthcare/Pharma – Gold Winner
Featured Health Topics
Dental Health
Hepatitis
Dengue
Allergy
Asthma
Hypertension
Subscribe Our Newsletter
Creativity happenes everywhere.
I have read the Privacy Policy and the Terms and Conditions. I provide my consent for my data to be processed for the purposes as described and receive communications for service related information.
Copyright © 2019 MMI ONLINE LTD
Home
About us
Management
Contact us
Privacy
Cookies Policy
Terms of Use
Sitemap
This website uses cookie or similar technologies, to enhance your browsing experience and provide personalised recommendations. By continuing to use our website, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy. OK