Magnetic therapy for knee pain, arthritis pain relief
Your knees and legs are at serious risk of permanent and irreversible damage if you have any if these 4 medical conditions
Read how to radically reduce the permanent damage to your knees in just 33 days
Dear pain sufferer,
I am almost certain that if you have any of the conditions listed below, you will more than likely be experiencing swelling, pain or burning in your knees, and may be, even in your lower legs.
The 4 medical conditions in question are:
1. Arthritis - caused by bone wear and tear in the feet and ankle joints.
2. Osteoporosis - caused by weakening and porosity in the bone structure.
3. Cruciate ligament injury – caused by sporting or work related injury.
4. Bursitis - caused by a swelling around the tendons and the back of the knee.
Announcing the only way to ensure that your knees do not suffer from further permanent damage by one of these 4 conditions
In brief your knees will almost definitely be feeling sore, swollen, painful or numb because the blood supply in your knees is not as good as it should be. Your medical condition has reduced the blood supply to the knees and lower leg, which causes you to suffer with some or may be all of these symptoms.
Fortunately there is an incredibly simple and easy to use tried and tested solution that will almost totally guarantee to rid you of all of the pain, swelling, burning or numbness knees and lower legs for good. I’m certain that you can achieve these results by using a combination of extra super strength knee straps, magnetic insoles and by drinking magnetised water.
Many clients who use knee straps are asking if they should be using greater strength magnets and if the exposure to higher strength magnets will reduce the damage to their knees faster and more effectively
The answer is yes but let me be clear, knee straps will noticeably reduce the pain, swelling and burning in your knee when worn throughout the day. BUT if you have quite severe and constant knee pain greater strength magnets have shown to reduce even severe pain much quicker.
Save your knees and lower legs from future permanent and irreversible damage, plus relieve all of your painful symptoms in just 33 days or less.
The truth is wearing both super strength knee straps and magnetic shoe insoles together plus drinking magnetised water is the best therapeutic magnet treatment you can have for knee problems. The super strength knee straps contain 6 x 2,600 gauss magnets (3 times stronger than standard knee straps) hidden inside a soft, flexible and comfortable strap that is just 1 inch wide, the narrow band fits snugly above or below your knee without restricting the movement of the knee.
Each insole contains over 50 x 800 gauss magnets. That’s an astounding 40,000 gauss per foot. The fact is that Magnopain magnetic insoles are composed of a soft, flexible, rubberised material which does not compact under your body’s weight. You will immediately feel the soothing support and begin to feel the total relief in just a few days. Best of all the layer of 50 magnets which is discreetly moulded into the fabric of each insole is the secret key as to why these advanced insoles almost instantly and permanently relieves you of almost all of your foot and lower leg pain for good.
Essentially when you drink magnetised water you are tackling your problem from inside and outside at the same time. Magnetised water is absorbed into the blood steam through the bowel wall. It is then very rapidly distributed around the whole body. Of course the magnetic field that is circulating around the body has the same effect on the inside as the magnetic field has on the outside of the body. It will reduce inflammation with in the body plus increase blood flow and oxygenation of the tissues, especially around any damaged areas. This 2 sided approach will most definitely increase the strength of the magnetic field at the point of pain plus it will also speed up the healing process by increasing the absorption rate of the magnetic field by an amazing 10 times.
What this means is the circulation to your knees and lower legs will be radically improved, so much so that almost all the excess fluid (puffiness and swelling) in your knees, ankles and feet will be drawn away and safely excreted, plus the increased blood flow will provide any damaged areas with all the essential healing nutrients needed to repair it.
The magnetic water wand is 14cm (5¾ inch) long and looks like a pen with a ball at the end. The long lasting, lime scale resistant rhodium coating protects the 2, negative pole, magnets inside, totalling 2300 gauss (230 m Tesla, super strength magnets). Because you are actually placing the magnets directly into the water the magnetic field penetrates the water extremely quickly. This is the fastest and most efficient way to magnetise water.
Frankly the effects of the extraordinary Magnopain insoles when used in-conjunction with the super strength knee straps and water wand are astonishing; they will create a super strength magnetic field around your foot and lower leg that all of your lower leg from the knee to the tips of your toes. Not only will your pain and swelling be reduced but the circulation in the whole of your lower leg will be dramatically improved.
I used to suffer with knee pain just like you, but not anymore— Here’s how I got rid of ALL my knee and leg pain and why it hasn’t come back again.
The fact is I developed osteoarthritis 9 years ago. Most of my load baring joints have been affected and in particular, my knees. I was suffering form chronic pain day in and day out. I couldn’t work or drive the car and walking was almost impossible, every single step I took was excruciating, the pain was unbearable. BUT I don’t live with pain anymore. I’m able to get out and about and do all the things that I want to do. I achieved this phenomenal turn around in just a few short months.
In brief, I started wearing magnetic knees straps which did reduce some of my pain, but not all, so I tried drinking magnetised water as well. After a few weeks nearly all my pain had gone, however I was still getting pain at night and when I walked for more than 10-15 minutes. To further boost the strength of my magnets I started to wear magnetic insoles.
The results speak for themselves. I am back working again, and I walk without pain, I can now do any activity (within reason, I won’t be climbing any mountains) that I want to do. I would never have been able to live this way without magnets. I still use them today.
Words cannot describe how I felt when I was finally able to drive the car and get out of the house. Being able to just do the simplest of tasks for myself, like walking my dog, plus go back to work gave me the most amazing feeling of FREEDOM
If I said that I’m almost positive that I can help you get rid of your knee pain for good would you want to?
Wouldn’t it be great if I could help you get to a point where you could go back to doing all the things you have had to give up?
I’m certain that I can help you regain control over your life, plus achieve the same freedom that I gained 7 years ago and still have today.
Your problem areas suggest that you would benefit significantly from a super strength knee strap, magnetic insoles and a water wand so I have arranged for you to receive a preferential discount of 17.5% (we will pay your VAT) off the super strength knees straps, Magnopain magnetic insoles and a water wand.
In a nutshell I want you to be able to gain the same tremendous results from using magnets that I have received. I know that your knee and lower leg pain can be completely resolved and you can return to all of the activities that you have had to give up. Your special preferential discount entitles you to try super strength knee straps, magnetic shoe insoles and a water wand at these reduced prices.
For just £44.51 you can try the complete knee and lower leg package
If you are at all serious about combating and erasing your knee and lower leg pain for good, you can save 17.5% off when you purchase the complete knee and lower leg package. You will receive a knee strap, 1 pair of Magnopain advanced insoles and a water wand, all for just £44.51, that’s a total saving of £9.44
Click here to buy>>
And remember you can try super strength knee straps, magnetic shoe insoles and a water wand without any risk or future obligation
Quite simply all I ask of you is to try the knee straps, shoe insoles and water wand if you do not improve the circulation in your knees and lower leg, plus resolve the pain in your knees during the first 12 weeks of use, you can return your knee straps, shoe insoles and water wand and I will send you a prompt 100% refund.
So don’t hesitate try a super strength knee strap, magnetic insoles and water wand today and remember you can’t lose anything, our unique RISK FREE guarantee is your safeguard.
Dee Parsons
Pain nurse specialist/
Magnetic Therapist
Don't Waste Another Minute Of Your Life Suffering With Pain. You Don't Have To. Act Now! Discover how these Back, Hip, Sciatica, Neck & Shoulder, Elbow, Wrist & Hand, Knees & Thigh, Feet & Lower Leg, Insomnia and Depression and All Over Body Pain Treatments Can Get Rid Of All Your Pain And Improve Your Well Being...
privacy | security | testimonials | delivery | terms |FAQ
New to Magnetic Therapy? Claim your FREE information pack
Like This Site
Tell a Friend About it
magnet therapy is a natural alternative pain relief treatment for fibromyalgia, gout, arthritis, sciatica and many other chronic painful conditions.
[close]
Your FREE Complimentary Magnetic Therapy Magazine "Magnetic Health Matters"
Click Here Now...This message will self destruct in 10 secs...