November is Diabetes Awareness Month | BC Blueberry Council
Skip to main content
Main navigation
Why Buy BC Blueberries?
Recipes
Featured Recipes
Beverages
Breakfasts
Salads & Appetizers
Entrees
Desserts
Sauces
Blueberries 101
Health Facts
Where to Buy
Trade & Food Professionals
About BC Blueberries
Packers/Processors
Farm Direct Sales
Organic Blueberries
U-Pick Blueberries
Utility
Contact Us
Events
Media
Featured Articles
Field Guide
Members Login
November is Diabetes Awareness Month
Find BC Blueberries
Whether it's fresh, frozen or processed BC blueberries that you're seeking, we can help you find what you're looking for.
Consumer
Farm Direct
Organic
U-Pick
Frozen
Trade
Fresh
Frozen & Value Added
According to the Canadian Diabetes Association, one in three Canadians lives with either diabetes or prediabetes. November is Diabetes Awareness Month, and the association aims to raise the profile of this disease, which often goes undiagnosed.
Diabetes occurs when the body can’t produce insulin – the hormone that controls the level of glucose in our blood. High blood sugar levels can damage organs, blood vessels and nerves. There are three types of diabetes: type 1, where the body releases very little insulin; type 2, where the body can’t use the insulin that it produces; and gestational diabetes which is a temporary version that occurs during pregnancy. While type 1 diabetes is always controlled using insulin, all three types of the disease can benefit from careful meal planning.
In fact, consuming blueberries may lower the risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Researchers in Boston found that eating whole fruit – specifically blueberries, lowered the incidence of developing the disease. Interestingly, they found that drinking fruit juice increased the risk. Research conducted at Louisiana State University indicated that consuming blueberries may increase insulin sensitivity among those who already have type 2 diabetes.
Luckily, there are plenty of tasty, healthy ways to incorporate blueberries into your diet throughout the year. These mini meatloaves are the ultimate winter comfort food, with both the benefits of blueberries and low-GI lentils. A Blueberry Superfood Salad is packed with healthy ingredients including quinoa, kale and beets. For dessert or a healthy snack, try these Blueberry Cocoa Bites, which get all of their sweetness from fruit.
For more healthy ways to include blueberries in your meals, check the Recipes section of our website. For more information about diabetes, visit Diabetes.ca.
Research
Recipes
Blueberry Pocket Pies
Try this Recipe
Blueberries have the power to protect your cardiac muscle. Beat that!
Read the study
and learn about
the health powers
of this natural
superfood.
Learn more
Blueberries 101
Your starter guide and tips for choosing, washing and using varieties of BC blueberries.
Share fresh recipes and
blueberry updates!
Sign up to receive tips, recipes and more!
First Name
Email Address
About BC Blueberry Council
The mission of the British Columbia Blueberry Council is to enhance the viability and strategic development of the blueberry industry through promotion, research, industry education and relationship building.
Contact Us
#275 32160 South Fraser Way,
Abbotsford, BC V2T 1W5 Canada
Tel: 604 864 2117
Fax: 604 864 2197
info@bcblueberry.com
Connect with us
Media
Footer menu
Contact Us
Members Login
Sitemap
© 2019 BC Blueberry Council, all rights reserved.
Close