Homestead Healthy Foods - Health and Food
Skip to content
Homestead Healthy Foods
Health and Food
Scroll down to content
Posts
Posted on December 11, 2016 June 22, 2018
Ascorbic Vitamin C Guarantees A Better Longer Life
Ascorbic Vitamin C is well known for its antioxidant activity. This wonder nutrient touches every cell in the body to provide protection for the immune system. It enhances the body’s resistance against a wide range of diseases, including bacterial and viral complications, which can shorten and put an end your life. Click here for more vitamins to grow hair.
Ascorbic vitamin C prevents many infirmities, including the common cold, and the more serious diseases like cancer. Moreover, ascorbic acid promises better living a great deal longer, throughout the duration of your natural life.
Most people take vitamin C only when they are coming down with a cold. When the symptoms stop, so does the ascorbic vitamin C intake. Their knowledge about the benefits of ascorbic vitamin C does not surpass the suppression of the common cold.
Humans depend on ascorbic acid for many biochemical functions. Yet unlike most species, except for primates and guinea pigs, humans cannot synthesize or produce their own supply of ascorbic acid. It must be obtained from a dietary source.
Since humans cannot synthesize their own ascorbic vitamin C, and lack good dietary habits, can you think of a better reason for taking an adequate amount of vitamin C?
I dare you to read this entire page and not change your perception of this miracle working antioxidant, which strengthens and protects the immune system.
Sources of vitamin C
Fruits and vegetables contain large concentrations of vitamin C. Oranges, grapefruits, lemons, and mangoes are some of the fruits loaded with the ascorbic vitamin C. Broccoli, tomatoes, red bell peppers, lettuce, beans and legumes are vegetables crammed with ascorbic acid.
Make sure that your intake of vitamin C comes from a wide and varied assortment. Don’t restrict your intake to any single source. Eat a multi-color serving of the dark greens, along with the light greens, yellows and reds, along with whites and blacks.
These are the recommended sources of ascorbic vitamin C. But they oftentimes only provide adequate nutrition for young healthy adults.
The elderly and people with physiological and environmental health problems, may have increased requirements that necessitate supplements.
Therefore, additional vitamin C from supplements may be necessary to protect the immune system against infectious diseases, thereby preserving a better quality of life.
Vitamin C supplements
There are many types of vitamin C. Choose the one that is compatible with your particular situation…
Vitamin C as Ascorbic… the crystals are the most potent form of vitamin C (about 4 grams per level teaspoon). It’s high in acidity, and may be rough on the stomach. But it’s the least expensive form of ascorbic vitamin C available. This is the type use by Dr. Linus Paulin used in his research studies at the Linus Paulin Institute.
Vitamin C as Ascorbate is low in acidity, and has a refreshing taste. Ascorbate is slightly more expensive, and supplies badly needed minerals, along with vitamin C.
Calcium Ascorbate has a bitter taste, but is a good source of calcium. Sodium ascorbate has a slightly salty taste, and is not recommended for people with hypertension.
Dr Paulin recommended getting the least expensive form of ascorbic vitamin C, if your stomach is not too sensitive to the acidity. Ester C, Rose Hip, and other fancy types of vitamin C, will cost you extra money for little extra medical benefits.
Vitamin C is water-soluble and the body can’t store it. So whatever the body does not utilized immediately is wash away. By taking smaller doses at different intervals throughout the day, more is absorbed and less is wasted.
Some people take supplements daily, and are still deficient. One good reason could be the lack invaluable consumer directions.
Vitamin C deficiency
Vitamin C is readily absorbed by the body, and so the main cause of ascorbic deficiency is poor diet, and or an increased requirement. A deficiency in ascorbic acid, the active ingredient in vitamin C, can lead to the disease scurvy.
Scurvy is distinguished by easy bruising of the skin, decreased wound healing and increased hemorrhaging, soft and spongy gums, muscle fatigue, osteoporosis, and anemia.
Enough ascorbic vitamin C is needed to prevent breakdown of the protein collagen, which is required for connective tissue maintenance, and wound healing. Collagen contains a binding factor, which, in the event of an opened wound, causes the tissue to glue together forming a scar, thus facilitating the healing process.
Another major reason for deficiency is severe stress. This causes rapid depletion of not only adrenal vitamin C, but from others areas as well.
Recent studies revealed that ascorbic vitamin C might improve production of nitric oxide. Nitric oxide facilitates blood vessels dilation to improve blood flow to sexual organs.
Smokers are usually deficient in ascorbic vitamin C, since increased amount of the antioxidant properties is needed to reduce the upshot of free radials.
Deficiency in the vitamin may increase the risk of heart disease, by leaving good cholesterol (LDL) exposed to free radical damage.
It’s also believed that decrease in overall levels of the vitamin, may be due to redistribution of ascorbic acid to the areas that need it most.
How much vitamin C is enough?
This is one question most often asked about vitamin C. But there are so many different answers to this question.
If you concur with the USDA (US Department of Agriculture) recommendations, you are taking 60mg of vitamin C per day. This is the amount found in standard multivitamins.
If you check with your physician, the answer may also be 60 mg per day, since most general practitioners adhere by FDA standards when prescribing medication.
I asked my physician about vitamin supplements, and she recommended multivitamins with a 60 mg RDA (recommended daily allowance) of ascorbic vitamin C.
But is this enough?
Studies have shown that while FDA recommendation is indeed adequate for strong young healthy males, 60 mg of ascorbic acid a day is most inadequate for older people, especially those who are sick and suffering from chronic diseases.
Vitamin C affects every living cell in the human body. Extensive damage to cells requires more ascorbic vitamin C to correct the defects… such as from smoking and alcohol abuse.
The Alliance for Aging Research, a U.S. Government sponsored organization, recently recommended that all healthy adults increase their intake of ascorbic vitamin C intake to 250 – 1000 mg per day. A minor deficiency of the C vitamin can have a profound effect on your sexual health, especially in older males who are now producing less of the nutrients needed for stellar performances.
European studies have shown that low plasma vitamin C concentration is associated with an increase risk in angina and hypertension. An adequate intake of ascorbic vitamin C provides sufficient protection against strokes and heart attacks.
This is an important message for the elderly, and others people who require additional intake. In the end, adequate intake supports a better quality life much longer.
Most species, except humans, produce ascorbic acid in the liver. Humans must get ascorbic acid from a dietary source. This is the important reason for adequate daily intake of ascorbic vitamin C.
Optimum Daily Requirement of Vitamin C
This depends largely on the source of information. Every research study shows different numbers, but they all support new increased recommendations regarding the optimum daily requirement.
B>Dr Linus Pauling, two-time Nobel Prize winner, was the first to recommend increasing the daily intake of ascorbic vitamin C, to protect and maintain the immune system.
His method provides a simple, practical, and inexpensive way to add quality years to your life through adequate nutrition. Dr Pauling confronted every scientific principle, using his vast scientific knowledge to set a new standard for healthier longer living. Ascorbic vitamin C protects and strengthens the immune system by activating antibodies to resist the onslaught of diseases, including infections and cancers
Dr Pauling recognized the RDA of 60 mg was just enough to avoid scurvy, so he recommended 1000 mg daily intake of ascorbic vitamin C. Base on his research findings, a minimum of 1000 mg a day was required to saturate the blood plasma with ascorbic acid.
This amount of ascorbic vitamin C, said Dr. Pauling, would not only be adequate to protect smokers and chronic alcohol abusers, but also provide adequate antioxidant protection for everyone from damage by free radicals, by stimulating the immune system. Free radicals are release by the body, during combat with bacterial and viral infections.
New research studies has confirmed Dr Pauling’s innovative conclusion… Higher doses of ascorbic vitamin C are not only necessary to reduce the symptoms of the common cold, but also to prevent complications cause by bacteria and viruses. These complications prevent you from living longer and feeling better.
There are other sources of powerful antioxidants that could well be your natural alternative to prescription drugs…
Different lifestyles need different dosage
There are many documented clinical studied on people with different health problems, ranging from the common cold to cancer. The findings not only revealed the necessity of ascorbic vitamin C for the enrichment of the quality of life, but more importantly, they provide some answers to the question… how much is enough?
The studies show that people with different lifestyle, ailments or diseases require different amounts of ascorbic vitamin C supplement to prevent invaders form weakening the immune system.
Researchers believe, that some people including the elderly, alcohol abusers, diabetics, smokers, and workers exposed to toxins need higher doses of ascorbic vitamin C. While others who suffer heart diseases, breast cancers, atherosclerosis, and glaucoma can reduce the risk by consuming even larger doses of ascorbic vitamin C.
What’s the right dosage for you?
The answer, by now, should be quite obvious… “Take as much as you want”. Ascorbic vitamin C is water-soluble, and so the body does not store it to cause any toxicity.
There are no harmful side effects. If you suffer any type of stomach problems, make sure you take ascorbic acid as calcium ascorbate. The lower acidity in ascorbate is easier on sensitive stomachs. Read the Supplement Facts label.
Vitamin C is frequently referred to as the “wonder worker”. It prevents many ailments, from the simple common illnesses to the more complex devastating diseases.
And don’t forget, ascorbic acid increases the production of nitric oxide, which improves blood flow to sexual organs to enhance sexual health.
Start taking ascorbic vitamin C today, and everyday, and live a more invigorating life much longer.
Posted on December 11, 2016 December 11, 2016
Healthy Food
Healthy Food
Healthy Food is something that everyone should try to eat more of. Eating Healthy Food is a goal all of us should strive to try and make. Sometime it seems easier, quicker, and cheaper to eat fast food or other unhealthy food, but in the long run that food will catch up to you one way or the other.
Healthy Food includes things like fruits and vegetables. Whole grain bread is another great option to go with over just plain white bread. Skim milk is another option that should be explored.
Healthy Food not only can taste good, but it can make you feel good too. Try breads such as whole-wheat, bagels and pita. Spaghetti and oatmeal are also in the grain group. Bananas, strawberries and melons are some great tasting fruits. Try vegetables raw, on a sandwich or salad.
Healthy Food Recipies
Healthy Food Recipes are recipes that cut out the fat and taste great too. With people looking to lose weight, healthy food recipes are popping up more and more. Not only are they healthy, they taste good too.
Healthy Food Recipes can include things for breakfast, lunch and dinner. Making the switch to a healthy lifestyle begins with changing your eating habits. Bad foods can do numerous things to your body that are harmful.
Healthy Food Recipes can conjure up images of food that is bland. But in reality this is not true. There are so many delicious healthy foods out there.Discover hundreds of easy, healthy and delicious cake & dessert recipes,click here.
Healthy Food Snacks
Healthy Food Snacks are snacks that not only taste good, but are good for you. They can include many things like fruits, veggies and whole wheat bread. They can have a great impact on your lifestyle.
Healthy Food Snacks can be anything you can think of. Replace potato chips with crunchy baby carrots and celery. Replace candy with almonds, sunflower seeds and other nuts.
Healthy Food Snacks are one step in the process to lose weight. Taking these steps can lead you to a healthier life. Not only will you be healthier, you will be happier too.
Healthy Food for Children
Healthy Food for Children is something every grownup should be providing. Providing healthy portion sizes children like fruits, vegetables and protein-rich foods for meals and snacks. These are great options for kids.
Healthy Food for Children is not always an easy task though. A lot of times kids do not want to eat that stuff. So getting them accustomed to eating healthy at an early age is important.
Healthy Food for Children is something every parent should strive to make happen. With childhood obesity on the rise, it only makes sense to give them better options. So make the change today, and give your kids the right stuff.
Healthy Vegetarian Food
Healthy Vegetarian Food is food that is rich in nutrients and vitamins, designed for people who don’t eat meat. Vegetarians are another group of people who does not eat very healthy sometimes. Because they do not eat meat, vegetarians often end up eating junk food like candy and chips because there is no meat in them.
Healthy Vegetarian Food can include things like Hummus and falafels. Even things like veggie chips and soy beans. Just eating Doritos and candy is not a good option.
Healthy Vegetarian Food is an option that many people have switched to in the last decade. It makes you look and feel better. So try out some healthy vegetarian food today.
Healthy Food FAQs
What are some easy to get Healthy Foods.
They would include items like fruits and vegetables. Whole grain bread is another great option to go with over just plain white bread. Skim milk is another option that should be explored.
What are some healthy Vegetarian options?
Healthy Vegetarian Food can include things like Hummus and falafels. Even things like veggie chips and soy beans.
What do I need to do to eat healthy?
Limit your fired and greasy foods, as well as your high sugar foods. Exrecising is a must too.
Healthy Food Books
Healthy Food Books are books that contain helpful info on healthy food. A great option for many people is Healthy Food Books. They have tons of info and fun and great tasting recipes to use.
There are many Healthy Food Books right now, so pick one that appeals to you. They can include recipes for Vegetarians and Meat eaters alike. There are tons of info, recipes and guides in these books.
Healthy Food Books will continue to see growth, because we as a people are becoming more aware of what we are eating. With that awareness comes more info, and with that comes books. So check out a healthy food book and see what you can find for yourself.
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
Ascorbic Vitamin C Guarantees A Better Longer Life
Healthy Food
RopesSupplement.com is about helpful sex health information and ropes supplement reviews. Click here for more details.
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Contact Info
Proudly powered by WordPress