Cancer and genes - Macmillan Cancer Support
Close
Find information, articles and activities relevant to you.
I've just been diagnosed
I'm having treatment
I've finished treatment
Older people
Teens and young adults
Children's cancer
Someone I know has cancer
I'm looking after someone with cancer
Cancer and other conditions
Cancer and pregnancy
Home
How can we help you today?
Online Community
Online Community
Login My Macmillan
Create Account
Create Account
Information and support
Get involved
In your area
About us
Search
Search
Go
Donate
Cancer type: General information
Cancer type search
Submit
Back
<
>
General information
Anal cancer
Bile duct cancer (cholangiocarcinoma)
Bladder cancer
Blood cancers
Bone cancer
Bone cancer, secondary
Bowel cancer
Brain tumours
Brain tumours, secondary
Breast cancer
Breast cancer, secondary
Cancer of unknown primary (CUP)
Cervical cancer
Children's cancer
Colon and rectal (colorectal)
Eye cancer (ocular melanoma)
Fallopian tube cancer
Gall bladder cancer
Head and neck cancers
Kaposi's sarcoma
Kidney cancer (renal cancer)
Larynx cancer
Leukaemia
Liver cancer, primary
Liver cancer, secondary
Lung cancer
Lung cancer, secondary
Lymph node cancer, secondary
Lymphoma
Melanoma
Mesothelioma
Multiple endocrine neoplasia 1 (MEN1)
Multiple endocrine neoplasia 2 (MEN2)
Myeloma
Neuroendocrine tumours (NETs)
Oesophageal (gullet) cancer
Ovarian cancer
Pancreatic cancer
Parathyroid gland tumours
Penis cancer
Peritoneal cancer, primary
Prostate cancer
Pseudomyxoma peritonei (PMP)
Skin cancer (non-melanoma)
Soft tissue sarcomas
Spinal cord tumours
Stomach cancer
Testicular cancer
Thymus cancer (thymoma & thymic carcinoma)
Thyroid cancer
Trachea (windpipe) cancer
Uterus
Vagina cancer
Vulva cancer
Womb (endometrial) cancer
Not found what you're looking for?
If you're struggling to find what you need, call our Support line on 0808 808 0000 (7 days a week, 8am-8pm)
More ways to contact us
Understanding
Understanding overview
What is cancer?
Cancer and cell types
Signs and symptoms of cancer
Getting diagnosed
How is cancer treated?
Why do cancers come back?
Diagnosing
Diagnosing overview
How cancers are diagnosed
Causes and risk factors
Organising
Organising overview
Your finances
Benefits and other financial support
Practical issues before and after treatment
Work and cancer
Travel and holidays
Planning for the future with advanced cancer
Make money one less worry
Treating
Treating overview
Decisions about treatment
Surgery
Chemotherapy
Radiotherapy
Hormonal therapies
Targeted therapies
Stem cell and bone marrow transplants
Supportive and other treatments
Clinical trials
Life after cancer treatment
Coping
Coping overview
Getting support
Your emotions
Maintaining a healthy lifestyle
Side effects and symptoms
Changes to appearance and body image
Relationships and sex
Talking about cancer
Advanced cancer
At the end of life
Complementary therapies
Resources
Resources overview
Publications
Other languages and formats
Cancer information videos
Research and evidence
Stories
Tools and toolkits
Information for teachers and schools
Training
Other sources of support
More
Home ›
Information and support ›
Diagnosing ›
Causes and risk factors ›
Family history and genetics ›
Cancer and genes
Cancer and genes
Need to talk? 0808 808 00 00 7 days a week, 8am-8pm Call us free*
Some genes control when new cells are made and old cells die, and repair damaged DNA. Changes (mutations) in these genes can increase the risk of cancer developing.
There are two types of mutations, called acquired mutations and inherited mutations. Acquired mutations happen during a person’s lifetime, and can’t be passed on to their children. They can happen by chance when a cell is multiplying or because a gene is damaged. Some substances, such as cigarette smoke, can increase the chance of gene mutations.
Most cancers are caused by a build-up of acquired mutations during a person’s lifetime. These are called sporadic cancers.
Inherited mutations are gene mutations that you are born with. They can be passed on to your children. Inherited gene mutations that make a cancer more likely to develop are called cancer susceptibility genes. If you inherit these genes, it doesn’t mean you’ll definitely get cancer, but you may be at an increased risk of developing it.
There are inherited cancer genes for some cancers, including breast, bowel, ovarian and womb.
Other cancers, including prostate, pancreatic and testicular, happen in some families more than usual. But specific inherited cancer genes haven’t been found for these cancers yet.
Reviewed: 31 Aug 2015 Next review: 2018
How we write our information and the sources we use
Show more
Genes and how they work
Genes and inheritance
Inherited cancer genes
Low-risk genes
Genes and how they work
Our body is made up of tiny building blocks, called cells. Cancer develops when some cells are damaged and our body can’t repair them. The damaged cells keep growing out of the body’s control. These are cancer cells.
Cells forming a tumour
View a large version
Read a description of this image
There are genes in every cell. All cancers are caused by changes (mutations) in genes. Genes contain the information a cell needs to work properly. This information is in a code called DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid).
Our body needs to make new cells to replace old or damaged ones. Genes control this process. They also tell cells how to repair damage. If a cell can’t be repaired, or is not needed, genes inside the cell tell it to die.
The genes that control cell growth, repair and death are called oncogenes and tumour suppressor genes. Mutations in these types of gene can increase the chance of cancer developing.
Oncogenes
These genes encourage cells to grow and multiply. A mutation in an oncogene can lead to a cell growing and multiplying out of control.
Tumour suppressor genes
These genes help protect against cancer. They control cell growth. They also repair damage to DNA.
If a cell has a mutation in a tumour suppressor gene, it may lose the ‘brakes’ on its growth. The cell can then multiply out of control.
Some tumour suppressor genes repair damage to DNA. Doctors call them DNA repair genes or caretaker genes.
When there is a mutation in a DNA repair gene, the cell can’t repair damage to itself. So cancer is more likely to develop.
Acquired mutations
Most cancers develop because of gene mutations that happen during a person’s lifetime. Doctors call these mutations acquired mutations.
Acquired gene mutations happen in the part of the body where the cancer later develops. For example, gene mutations happen in the lungs before lung cancer develops.
Many things can cause gene mutations. These include:
getting older
things in our environment such as tobacco and sunlight
our hormones
our diet.
Doctors call substances that increase the chance of gene mutations carcinogens. Radiation and the chemicals in cigarette smoke are examples of carcinogens.
Usually, several gene mutations must happen in a cell before cancer develops. This can take many years. This is why cancer is more common in older people. Cancers caused by gene mutations that happen during someone’s lifetime are called sporadic cancers.
Back to contents
Genes and inheritance
We inherit our genes from our parents. Everyone has two copies of each gene; one from their mother and one from their father.
Some people are born with a gene mutation that puts them at higher risk of getting cancer. Inherited mutations that make cancer more likely are called inherited cancer genes. Doctors may also call them cancer predisposition genes or cancer susceptibility genes.
If you inherit a gene mutation, it is in all your cells. This includes the sperm cells in men and the egg cells in women. So there is a 50% (1 in 2) chance of passing the gene mutation on to any children.
Inheriting a cancer gene doesn’t mean you have cancer. But, it does mean you have an increased risk of developing certain types of cancer. Further gene changes (acquired mutations) need to happen for a cancer to develop.
How genes are passed on
Cancer genetics family tree
View a large version
Read a description of this image
Doctors call cancers that develop in a family because of an inherited cancer gene inherited cancers or hereditary cancers.
Inherited cancers often develop at a younger age than sporadic cancers. Most inherited cancer genes don’t increase cancer risk until people are adults. But a few inherited cancer genes increase the risk of cancer in children. We have more information about genetic testing in children.
Can cancer genes ‘skip’ a generation?
Cancer genes cannot ‘skip’ a generation. There is a 1 in 2 (50%) chance of inheriting the gene from one of your parents. So you either inherit it or you don’t. If you don’t inherit the gene, you can’t pass it on to your children. But not everyone with the mutation develops cancer. So it can seem that the cancer skipped one generation.
The gene mutations for female cancers such as breast or ovarian cancer can pass through the father’s side of the family. Men who have the cancer gene for breast and ovarian cancer often don’t develop cancer. But they still have a 50% chance of passing the cancer gene on to their children.
If a daughter inherits a cancer gene from her father and develops breast cancer, it can seem as if the cancer gene has skipped a generation. But this isn’t the case. The mutation can’t skip a generation.
Back to contents
Inherited cancer genes
If a particular type of cancer occurs in a family more than in the general population, some people in the family may have an inherited cancer gene.
Scientists have found inherited cancer genes for some common cancers. These include cancers of the breast, bowel, ovary and womb.
There are other cancers that happen in some families more than usual. These include prostate, pancreatic and testicular cancers. But doctors haven’t found specific inherited cancer genes for these cancers yet.
Sometimes, there are many different types of cancer in a family. Usually, these are sporadic cancers (see above) and are due to risk factors such as age, lifestyle and the environment. But some inherited cancer genes can increase the risk of more than one type of cancer.
When cancers happen together
There are two main patterns where cancers happen together:
breast and ovarian cancer
bowel and womb cancer (sometimes with cancers of the ovary, stomach or kidney).
Other rare patterns of cancers can happen.
Back to contents
Low-risk genes
Not all families with more cancers than usual have an inherited cancer gene. But some families may share several genes, which increase their risk of certain cancers. These genes have a weaker effect on the risk of cancer than inherited cancer genes. They are sometimes called low-risk or low-penetrance genes.
Scientists have found several of these genes. But the effect of each gene on its own is small. And there aren’t tests available to check for them. Researchers are trying to find out how these genes interact with other risk factors to affect cancer risk.
Back to contents
Back to Family history and genetics
Cancer risk and family history
Assessing your risk of cancer is complicated. A family history only affects risk in a small proportion of people.
If you are worried about cancer in your family
Your GP can assess your risk of cancer using information about cancer in your family.
You might also be interested in
Booklets and advice about genetics
Related
Information can help if you're worried about cancer in your family. Find out about risk, genetic testing and what you can do.
be.Macmillan
Talk about genetics
Related
Family history and genetics can be complicated. If you'd like to talk it through together we're here to help. Talk to us.
Talking to us
Donate
Get involved
We want to make sure we're there when you're diagnosed, through treatment, and beyond. Because life with cancer is still life, and we'll help you live it.
Donate
In your area
Local area
What's happening near you? Find out about support groups, where to get information and how to get involved with Macmillan where you are.
In your area
Latest from the Online Community
Blog post
Mental health and coping with your emotions
Read about ways in which our Community users managed their emotions following their diagnosis. They talk about yoga, meditation and counselling.
Featured group
Emotional issues
Cancer can be emotionally draining, but sharing your feelings can help you and others in your situation. Talk about it here.
Latest posts in Emotional issues
Handson replied to Sudden feelings of anger and despair
Hi Cooper11 wow you have made me feel so much better. I am trying to take things a week at a time and have my 2nd Herceptin injection...
In Emotional issues
K13 joined the group Emotional issues.
Safe payments by:
Donate
About this site
Cookies
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Accessibility
Sitemap
Make a donation
Leave feedback
Macmillan sites
be.Macmillan
Community
Macmillan Shop
Learn Zone
Careers
Right there with you
We’re here to provide physical, financial and emotional support. So whatever cancer throws your way, we’re right there with you. Contact us.
Follow us
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Watch us on Youtube
Follow us on Pinterest
© Macmillan Cancer Support 2019
© Macmillan Cancer Support, registered charity in England and Wales (261017), Scotland (SC039907) and the Isle of Man (604). Also operating in Northern Ireland. A company limited by guarantee, registered in England and Wales company number 2400969. Isle of Man company number 4694F. Registered office: 89 Albert Embankment, London SE1 7UQ. VAT no: 668265007
Share
Click for previous items
Macmillan Cancer Support Facebook share
Macmillan Cancer Support Twitter share
Pinterest
Print this page
Export this page as a PDF
Bookmark this page
Click for next items
Top
Top
Thanks
We rely on a number of sources to gather evidence for our information. If you’d like further information on the sources we use, please feel free to contact us on: bookletfeedback@macmillan.org.uk
All our information is reviewed by cancer or other relevant professionals to ensure that it’s accurate and reflects the best evidence available. We thank all those people who have provided expert review for the information on this page.
Our information is also reviewed by people affected by cancer to ensure it is as relevant and accessible as possible. Thank you to all those people who reviewed what you're reading and have helped our information to develop.
You could help us too when you join our Cancer Voices Network – find out more at: http://www.macmillan.org.uk/cancervoices
Reviewed: 31 Aug 2015 Next review: 2018
How we write our information and the sources we use
Need to talk? Call us free* 0808 808 00 00 7 days a week, 8am-8pm
© Macmillan Cancer Support 2019
© Macmillan Cancer Support, registered charity in England and Wales (261017), Scotland (SC039907) and the Isle of Man (604). Also operating in Northern Ireland. A company limited by guarantee, registered in England and Wales company number 2400969. Isle of Man company number 4694F. Registered office: 89 Albert Embankment, London SE1 7UQ. VAT no: 668265007
We make every effort to ensure that the information we provide is accurate and up-to-date but it should not be relied upon as a substitute for specialist professional advice tailored to your situation. So far as is permitted by law, Macmillan does not accept liability in relation to the use of any information contained in this publication or third party information or websites included or referred to in it.
<% if (results.length !== 0) { if (parentNodes > 0) { %>
Top matches
<% if (childNodes > 0 || grandChildNodes > 0) { %>
More cancer types:
<% if (item.depthLevel > 1 && !item.isSynonymMatch) { %>
<% if (synonymNodes > 0) { %>
See also
()
We're sorry, we don't have any matches for that.
Browse all cancer types
Search the whole site for
Not found what you're looking for?
If you're struggling to find what you need, call our Support line on 0808 808 0000 (7 days a week, 8am-8pm)
More ways to contact us
<% if (item.brands.length > 0) { %> ( ® , )
<% if (item.brands.length > 0) { %> ( ® , )
® (brand name for )
<% if (item.brands.length > 0) { %> ( ® , ) (also known as )
No matches
(also known as )
No matches
Can't find what you were looking for?
Browse A-Z list