Does Coffee Help You Lose Weight? | COACH CALORIE
Coaching
Archives
Resources
COACH CALORIE
Mindset ∙ Nutrition ∙ Training
Does Coffee Help You Lose Weight?
by Tony Schober - NASM CPT · 20 Comments
As a proponent of weight loss through smart nutrition and exercise, I tend to look the other way when it comes to weight loss supplements. I know they can be effective, but they tend to be used as a crutch for a poor diet.
Coffee is different though. It’s a natural caffeinated drink derived from the coffee bean. It’s been shown to have many health benefits, but what about weight loss? Does coffee help you lose weight?
What are the Effective Fat Loss Ingredients in Coffee?
Caffeine – Caffeine is a stimulant found in coffee that acts on the central nervous system (CNS). It causes a release of the neurotransmitters dopamine and epinephrine (adrenaline). The latter causes an increase in the mobilization of fatty acids. Caffeine intake is associated with weight loss through thermogenesis and fat oxidation [1].
Chlorogenic Acid – Chlorogenic acid is a polyphenol antioxidant found in coffee. This antioxidant reduces blood glucose and insulin levels after after a meal [2] [3]. By slowing the release of glucose and keeping insulin levels low, you create a more favorable metabolic environment for releasing fatty acids.
Quinides – Quinides are just one of potentially dozens of beneficial chemical compounds in coffee. Quinides have a positive impact on blood glucose disposal, and they make your cells more responsive to the effects of insulin – effectively improving your insulin sensitivity [4].
How Does Coffee Help You Lose Weight?
Fat Oxidation – Fatty acids are sent to your mitochondria to be oxidized and converted to ATP so they can be used for energy. Coffee causes an increase in fat oxidation [5].
Thermogenesis – Thermogenesis is the production of heat in the body. The creation of heat uses calories and causes an increase in energy expenditure. The caffeine in coffee causes a thermogenic response that leads to additional calories burned over time [6].
Appetite Suppression – Controlling hunger is one of the major goals when undergoing a weight loss program. Coffee causes a reduction in hunger and an increase in satiety after a meal [7] [8]. This appetite suppression leads to a decrease in calories consumed over the course of the day, and lowers the chances of binge eating.
Health Concerns and Benefits of Drinking Coffee
Cardiovascular Risk – Since coffee has stimulatory effects, it would be prudent to look into the potential negative side effects to your cardiovascular health. The good news is that coffee has actually been shown to provide cardiovascular benefits. Among other benefits, it inhibits inflammation, which reduces the risk of cardiovascular and other inflammatory diseases [9] [10] [11].
Type II Diabetes – Type II diabetes is caused by long-term high blood glucose and insulin levels. This usually stems from a lack of exercise and a diet full of processed foods. There is an inverse relationship between coffee consumption and type II diabetes. Coffee drinkers have a significantly lower risk for type II diabetes [12].
Anxiety – One of the few health concerns of drinking coffee comes from individuals that have general anxiety disorder (GAD). People with GAD are more sensitive to the effects of caffeine [13]. Coffee ingestion can also lead to a greater state of anxiety when presented with a stressful situation [14]. If you are prone to anxiety, or if you have knowledge that you’ll be confronted with a high stress situation, it might be best to abstain from coffee use.
Don’t Take a Good Thing and Make it Bad
Does coffee help you lose weight? I think this heavily cited article shows that it does. However, you can easily turn a good thing into something bad if you plan to load up your coffee with sugar or other artificial sweeteners.
Avoid the artificial sweeteners, and if you must add something to your coffee, opt for just a small amount of sugar or honey. Coffee (or even tea) can have a positive influence on your weight loss and your health if used responsibly.
There's a better way to lose weight…
So many people go about trying to lose weight in the wrong way.
For starters, their goal is to lose weight, which stacks the odds against you before you ever take action.
I didn't even focus on weight loss with my 12-week transformation above.
Do you want to know the process I followed?
I'll show you how to…
eat fun foods every single day and still get lean
choose the most effective exercise for your transformation
not care what other people think of your body - starting from day 1
find what drives you to stay motivated for life
avoid the 5 most common mistakes nearly everyone makes on their journey
I'll be coaching all this and more in a free 5-day email course. All you need to do is click the button below to get it…
20 Comments
Tony Schober
Hey Everyone,
Just wanted to let you know that if you need more help losing weight you can download my ebook The 10 Forgotten Rules of Weight Loss absolutely free.
You'll find out:
why you're probably not eating enough to lose weight
how much fat, carbs, and protein you should eat to lose weight
why weight loss shouldn't be your goal at all
the #1 type of exercise that supercharges your fat loss
Click here to download your book
Di Henderson
May 5, 2012 at 5:18 pm
Hi, Tony thanks for all your input, I have found it very wholesome (a refreshing change) and beneficial. How many cups of (normal strength) coffee (without milk or sugar) a day would be responsible?
Coach Calorie
May 10, 2012 at 9:54 am
I think 1 or 2 cups would be just fine. If you start going higher I might be concerned with developing a physical/mental dependency.
Chelsey
November 1, 2012 at 3:32 pm
Are all of these benefits from the caffeine or can some of these be gained through drinking decaf, as well?
Coach Calorie
November 16, 2012 at 5:20 pm
There are plenty of health benefits from the rest of the coffee too. You might not get all of the weight loss benefits, but you would get the majority of health benefits.
Lisa Long Franssen
May 24, 2013 at 5:25 am
I use coconut sugar in my coffee, is this better than regular sugar in your opinion?
Dani
May 24, 2013 at 5:26 am
Hi coach calorie! Thanks for posting. I’ve also read that drinking black tea after a high fat tea prevents as much fat storage: “In a small study, Takanami and colleagues evaluated the effects of two high-fat meals in 10 healthy volunteers aged 21 to 38. The meals contained equal amounts of fat (79%) but during one meal participants drank black tea, while during the other they drank water.
Results showed that forearm blood flow was strongest following the meal that included the tea, suggesting that the antioxidants in tea helped to keep blood vessels functioning properly, Takanami told Reuters Health.”
Dawn
May 24, 2013 at 4:58 am
Hi Tony, I recently signed up for your newsletter and am really enjoying all your articles. Thank you.
Monika
May 24, 2013 at 7:48 am
Hi 🙂 What about coffee with milk? Is it still ok? I don’t need sugar but love coffee with milk.
Coach Calorie
May 28, 2013 at 9:41 am
If you tolerate dairy, I see no problem. Just understand the health benefits come from the coffee bean.
Coach Calorie
May 28, 2013 at 9:43 am
Hi Dani, I didn’t read anywhere in that study that drinking black tea prevented fat storage. Am I missing something?
Coach Calorie
May 28, 2013 at 9:44 am
The less processed the better. I personally have never used coconut sugar, however.
Luisa
June 20, 2013 at 10:53 am
was just wondering about the effects of coffee on nutrient absorption?
Coach Calorie
June 25, 2013 at 12:36 pm
It’s not something I’ve looked into Luisa, so I can’t give you an educated answer. Sorry.
Luisa
June 26, 2013 at 7:35 am
Hi. Have started reading out if interest. I haven’t gone to the source info but this article seems quite balanced.. http://nutrition-now.com/2011/01/health-risks-and-benefits-associated-with-coffee/
Luisa
June 26, 2013 at 7:37 am
By the way, many thanks for your very sensible, balanced advice and focus on healthiness. It is very refreshing not too see diet as “what can I get away with eating for x no. of calories per day?”!
Mariam
July 1, 2013 at 6:30 pm
how about using 3 or 4 table spoons of flavored creamers in coffee e.g Caramel Machiato Creamer. Does that make coffee bad or still helpful
Coach Calorie
July 1, 2013 at 6:32 pm
I suppose it depends on the ingredients in the creamer. If it has a bunch of processed stuff, I’d avoid.
CCS
July 23, 2013 at 9:32 am
Hi Tony, find fasted cardio after a black coffee really got me to the next level for my training. I try only have one coffee first thing, thanks for this helpful article
Jono
March 11, 2014 at 11:03 am
However, according to some research…
Coffee is extremely acid-forming in the body. We want to choose foods that will help us raise the alkalinity of our blood and our bodies. Coffee does the opposite!
Coffee is one of the most heavily pesticide sprayed crops. Much of our coffee comes from South America, and specifically Colombia, and uses pesticides such as heptachlor, chlordane and deiedrin. These pesticides are toxic to our body!
Coffee stresses the adrenals. Anyone exasperated by their chronic undereye circles?? That would be adrenal exhaustion. Since coffee contains an acid-based oil it irritates the lining of the stomach and promotes gastric acidity. This encourages our body to secrete adrenaline, which then stimulates insulin secretion, and this in turn can fuel hypoglycemia. What does that mean?? The bottom line for us can be craving for sweets a few hours later, having crazy dips in energy, and moodiness!
Poppy
August 25, 2014 at 4:50 pm
Does decaf coffee have the same effect?