Autism
Autism
On May 11, 2002 and again on Dec 14, 2005 the Zetas stated that the rise in autism was not due to vacinations but an adjustment to the increasing tensions in the world due to the Earth changes and the pending pole shift.
Why the upsurge in autism in recent years, in parallel with the mercury in vaccines? Where the evidence against pharmaceutical companies and the government agencies leaned on to exclude any data that would pave the way for litigation against them in no way makes them heroes, here the link is not failsafe. If the vaccine melts the brain of a child, then why have all such children so vaccinated between 1989 and 2003 been so affected? What else has been on the rise since 1989? Beaching whales; mad cow disease and the wildlife equivalent, a wasting disease; dead fish washing up on beaches; the red tide, an algae bloom; flesh eating bacteria; chronic fatigue syndrome; depression among adults; suicide among children; adults and teens going postal and murdering their families and then themselves.
ZetaTalk: Autism Rise, writen May 11, 2002
On May 4, 2006 Reuters reported that Autism was indeed on the increased, steadily so, rising between 1996 and 1998, and stating of the vaccine link that 'studies in several countries have discounted such a link.' Autism is on the rise even where vacinations are not occurring.
US Survey Shows Autism Very Common
May 4, 2006
http://today.reuters.com/
The first national surveys of autism show the condition is very common among U.S. children - with up to one in every 175 with the disorder, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said on Thursday. The 1996 Metropolitan Atlanta Developmental Disabilities Surveillance Program survey showed autism had been diagnosed in 3.4 per 1,000 of the 3- to 10-year-olds included, or one in every 296. The 1998 Brick Township, New Jersey survey showed a rate of 6.7 per 1,000 children of the same age, or one in every 166. None of the surveys pointed to a cause for autism -- a matter of deep controversy in the United States. Some groups have accused the CDC of covering up data that would link autism with vaccines, although studies in several countries have discounted such a link. Both surveys indicated that boys were nearly four times more likely to have been diagnosed with autism than girls. Both surveys indicated that Hispanic children were less likely to have an autism diagnosis.
On January 1, 2008 results showed that autism has increased steadily even as mercury in vacinations has dropped, a reverse of what was expected.
Research Reaffirms: No Vaccine-Autism Link
January 1, 2008
http://abcnews.go.com/Health/story?id=4099059&page=1
A new study may be the latest nail in the coffin of a theory that draws a link between the mercury-containing vaccine additive thimerosal and autism. The research is the latest to contradict concerns over childhood vaccinations as a possible cause of autism -- concerns that have gained publicity in the past decade as the number of children diagnosed with the disorder climbs steadily in the United States. Because vaccinations are mandatory for all children at a certain age, some parents and doctors believe that the mercury once found in many childhood vaccines may contribute to the development of autism. However, so far a number of large scientific studies have shown no association between thimerosal and autism. And the most recent research to nullify this association, published Monday in the journal Archives of General Psychiatry, reveals that the prevalence of autism for children ages 3 to 12 continued to increase in California even after 2001 -- when all but trace levels of mercury had been removed from most childhood vaccines.
In July 1999, the U.S. Public Health Service implemented a precautionary measure removing thimerosal -- which contains 49.6 percent ethylmercury -- from all childhood vaccines. To determine whether reduced exposure to thimerosal led to a decrease in autism cases, researchers at the California Department of Public Health analyzed data from the California Department of Developmental Services on the prevalence by age and birth cohort of children with autism between 1995 and 2007. But instead of finding a decrease in autism following the elimination of thimerosal from most vaccines, researchers found that for each quarter from 1995 to the end of 2003, the prevalence of autism in children between the ages of 3 and 5 years increased from 0.6 to 2.9 per 1,000 births. From 2004 to 2007, when exposure to thimerosal from childhood vaccinations vastly declined, the prevalence of autism in children between the ages of 3 and 5 years increased from 3.0 to 4.1 per 1,000 births. The findings bolster the position that has been steadfastly held by the Institute of Medicine, and many doctors worldwide, that no link can be established between thimerosal and autism. Some researchers say that the absence of a link has already been demonstrated in Denmark, where thimerosal was removed from all vaccines in 1992. Despite this move, autism rates in that country continued to rise until 2004.
Yet another 2008 article states that genetic links to autism have been noted.
Chromosome Abnormality Linked to Autism
Jan 9, 2008
http://www.businessweek.com/technology/content/jan2008/
The abnormalities were linked with certainty to only 1% of autism cases. Using a very large genome scan, the researchers also discovered that the genetic abnormalities-either a deletion or a duplication of a section of chromosome 16-were not directly inherited from either parent. Instead they developed spontaneously during the embryonic stage of development, possibly due to interplay of various genetic factors inherited from the parents. Autism spectrum disorder, as it is formally known, is a profound developmental disease that affects speech, behavior, and cognition. Doctors know the disease runs in families-90% of cases may be genetic-but the genetic pathways have been extremely difficult to identify, likely because more than one is the culprit. Only in 10% of cases can it be linked to specific and well-known genetic anomalies, such as fragile-X syndrome.