Is Vaping Bad for You? - MyFinalSmoke.com
Home
News
About Us & Contact Us
MyFinalSmoke.com
Quitting the Habit
Know Your Smoking Triggers!
Getting-Personal Series: How Did You Quit Smoking?
Getting-Personal Series: Why Did You Quit Smoking?
Quit Smoking Hypnosis
The Best Quit Smoking Apps
Life after Quitting – Dealing with Smoking Cravings
What Does Nicotine Do to Your Body?
E-Cigarettes
Smoking Alternatives
Nicotine Patches and Lucid Dreams
The Best E-Juice for Every Taste
Vaping vs. Smoking
Herbal Cigarettes
Is Vaping Bad for You?
Vaping
Vaping 101: Everything You Need to Know about Vaping
Finding Support
Tips to Quit Smoking
The Comprehensive Quitting Smoking Timeline
What to Do if Your Child Starts Smoking
How to Help Someone Quit Smoking
Rise of the Anti Smoking Revolution
Celebrities Who Quit Smoking
Health Risks
The Effects of Smoking on Sex (and Sex Appeal)
The Questionable Link between Cannabis and Psychosis
Is Rolling Tobacco Healthier than Cigarettes?
The Hidden Dangers of Third Hand Smoke
Hookah Health Risks
Smoking Weed While Pregnant
Smoking While Breastfeeding: Worth the Cost?
Information about Smoking
Smoking in the Media: Interviews
Smoking and Personality Traits
Smoking and Distress
Stages of Smoking
Smoking and Society: How Social Norms Affect Smoking Behaviors
Smoking and Self-Image
Getting-Personal Series: Why Are You Smoking?
Home / E-Cigarettes / Is Vaping Bad for You?
Is Vaping Bad for You?
E-Cigarettes, Smoking Alternatives 971 Views
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Google +
Stumbleupon
LinkedIn
Pinterest
Related Articles
Nicotine Patches and Lucid Dreams
What Is an Atomizer?
What Is an E-Cig Mod?
Contents
Smoke Vs. Vapor
What Are the Side Effects of Vaping?
What Effect Does Vaping Have on the Body?
The Device Itself
Too Many Flavors?
Is Vaping Too Convenient?
Should There Be an Age Limit?
Everyone is asking the question, “Is vaping bad for you?” It depends on which side of the fence you sit as to whether or not you believe vaping is harmful. Most supporters of e-cigs and vape pens are those who consider them an effective way to quit smoking. For some, it may be effective, but for others it leads to increased usage, mainly because of its convenience and the fact that you don’t have to actually “light up.”
Smoke Vs. Vapor *
One of the main points of contention is the difference between cigarette smoke and vapor. Cigarette smoke is actually a solid. This is part of the reason it leaves behind an intense odor and can discolor skin, clothing, fabrics and painted areas. Smoke also can contain upwards of 7,000 different chemicals, depending on the brand and the amount of flavor in the cigarette. Full flavor cigarettes, for example would introduce more than ultra light, in theory. Vapor on the other hand, is just that, vapor. It is thought to be much less dangerous than cigarette smoke, but more studies are being performed to find out for sure. The vapor a person breathes in is thought to contain relatively few chemicals and contaminants. It also smells better due to the many flavors of e-liquids that are now available in the market.
What Are the Side Effects of Vaping? *
Vaping affects the body in much the same way as cigarette smoking, only to a much lesser degree. Vape pens and e-cigs may or may not contain nicotine, depending on what type is used. One of the most common side effects of vaping is cotton mouth. Cotton mouth is characterized by extremely dry mucus membranes in the mouth. This is caused by the abundance of propylene glycol found in the vapor. Propylene glycol is known for its ability to draw water from its surrounding environment. This means that as the vapor is inhaled and exhaled, it collects water from the mouth drying out tissues and causing irritation. There are many other possible side effects associated with vaping. A few of them include:
Dry Skin
Rash/burning sensation in and around the mouth
Itchiness
Puffy/dry eyes
Caffeine sensitivity
Minor nose bleeds
Vapor has also caused minor irritation to the lungs and nasal passages as well. Most problems resolve themselves after a few days. Individuals who have nasal irritation can avoid it by not exhaling the vapor through their nose.
What Effect Does Vaping Have on the Body? *
Unlike cigarettes, vaping does not have a huge impact on the body. Most of the harmful effects of cigarettes and cigars are attributed to the tobacco. If an e-cig or vape pen uses an e-liquid that contains nicotine, a person will experience the same type of effects as do cigarette users. Nicotine is extremely addictive. People who use vaping pens can actually boost the amount of nicotine they consume by increasing the power of the device and generating more heat. The more heat that is created, the more nicotine that is released.
The Device Itself *
Both e-cigs and vape pens are relatively new. The first e-cigarette was created in China in 2002 by a Chinese pharmacist. The intended goal was to create a device that helps a person stop smoking gradually without many of the unpleasant side effects. Also referred to as personal vaporizers or ENDS (electronic nicotine delivery systems), e-cigs and vape pens seem to offer a safer alternative to cigarette smoking. The problem is they are still in the testing stages, and even though many people are becoming passionate about their use, the FDA is still evaluating their effectiveness. There is also the issue about the hundreds of different eliquid blends. Because they are not regulated by the FDA, there is little way of knowing what each flavor or blend contains.
Too Many Flavors? *
E-liquids and the flavors for vaping pens are in the thousands with more and more being created everyday. Many vaping shops make their own unique blends which continues to raise the numbers. Unlike e-cigs that use cartridges that are approved by the FDA and manufactured by the tobacco companies, e-liquids and vaping flavors are mostly unregulated and contain many unknown substances. Most are made with a vegetable glycerin base which does not retain flavor well. Many manufacturers are choosing to use propylene glycol because it is lighter weight than vegetable glycerin and will hold flavor much longer, providing a more satisfying experience.
At this time, it is estimated that over 7,000 vaping flavors exist. Even though the vapors seem to be safe for human use, they still produce toxic chemical reactions that are similar to cigarette smoke. It is important to remember that even though something is safe for a person to eat, it may not be safe for them to inhale. Vaping flavors can unknowingly include allergens that trigger allergic or asthma-like attacks. Because they are not regulated in any way by the FDA or any other health agency, people have no idea what their favorite flavors may contain.
Is Vaping Too Convenient? *
One of the drawbacks of vaping, especially if the flavor contains nicotine, is the convenience. Because they do not have to be lit or produce smoke, they can be used indoors, even in areas where smoking is prohibited. The convenience of an e-cig or vape pen means they can actually be used more frequently. For individuals who truly want to stop smoking and take the time to use the vape pens correctly, it may help to cut down nicotine usage. Others may find themselves more reliant on nicotine, especially if the vape pen is allowed to be used everywhere they go.
Some vape pens also have an adjustable mechanism that will increase the level of nicotine as desired. Being able to boost nicotine levels combined with the increased usage may lead to addiction, especially in individuals who have never smoked before. This is becoming increasingly more common in teens and young adults who have never smoked cigarettes, but have started to explore the world of vaping. Because there is no FDA regulation, there has been no age limit set on who can buy the product. Because products that contain nicotine are regulated, minors cannot buy them as easily.
Should There Be an Age Limit? *
In 2013, it was estimated that almost a quarter of a million teens were regularly using vape pens without ever having smoked a regular cigarette. It has been proven that the introduction of nicotine to the developing brain of an adolescent can dramatically increase their chances of addiction. With no formal regulations to be found against the use of vaping pens by minors, most teens have easy access to both the pens and the flavors that do not contain nicotine.
A teenager is more susceptible to irritation in the lungs and nasal passages because their bodies are still developing. Studies have shown that individuals, including teens, that use vaping pens have a decreased immune response that leaves them more susceptible to airborne bacteria and various types of cold and flu viruses. Because e-cig and vaping vapors slow down the response of smooth muscles in the heart and lungs, the tissues’ resistance to contaminants, allergens, bacteria and viruses is minimal.
With teenagers starting to use vape pens without ever having been a smoker, researchers are curious to find out just how the vapors will impact their lungs and other organs. Relatively few studies were performed on vape pens before they became an overnight sensation. With few studies to show just how vaping will affect the body, very little is known about the long term damage it may cause to both the lungs and heart. Until all of the questions are answered, the question, “Is vaping bad for you?” will remain at the top of most users’ heads.
Comments
E-Smoking Health Smoking Facts	2016-02-29
MFS MFS
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Google +
Stumbleupon
LinkedIn
Pinterest
Tags E-Smoking Health Smoking Facts
Previous Hookah Health Risks
Next Vaping vs. Smoking
Check Also
Know Your Smoking Triggers!
ContentsSmoking TriggersAfter DinnerWith CoffeeLong RidesOther SmokersDrinkingOpen AirBreaksStressHow to Handle Smoking TriggersOur attachment to the cigarette …
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Follow Us!
Fresh Articles!
Know Your Smoking Triggers! February 25, 2017
Smoking in the Media: Interviews February 24, 2017
The Effects of Smoking on Sex (and Sex Appeal) February 23, 2017
Smoking and Personality Traits February 22, 2017
Smoking and Distress February 22, 2017
Categories
Categories Select Category E-Cigarettes (15) Finding Support (6) Health Risks (19) Information about Smoking (37) News (5) Quitting the Habit (16) Smoking Alternatives (19)
Home
News
About Us & Contact Us
© Copyright 2019, MyFinalSmoke.com