WiFi; The Invisible Killing Fields | TABU; Towards A Better Understanding
TABU; Towards A Better Understanding
Why this Blog?
Prepped and Prepared
Everything Nuke 2Day
Health, Food and Farms
Food/Beef Prices To Soar in CA
Food Prices Set to Soar
Recent Farm/Food News
Recent Water News
CA Water Drought Timeline
Water Facts in CA
Archived Water News
Mind Controlling Our Children
Revisionist History
Astrology
Naturally Healing All Cancers With Hemp Oil
Teenage News and Views
Great Speeches by Teenagers and Children
Solutions are here now!
Fourth grade student sounds off on state testing
Hell No! to Mandatory Forced Vaccinations
Jesuits; Rulers of Evil
The Lighter Side
Best of Alt-News Links
Never Give Up
There is NO More Important Subject Matter in Our Time Than This
Other Author Weblinks
Contact
WiFi; The Invisible Killing Fields
Big Brother, Business, Conspiracy, Education, Energy, Health, Radiation January 18, 2014 Comments: 2
“There are no safe levels of radiation”
Barrie Trower, Physicist and former Military expert on Microwave Radiation
Summary:
The mass rollout of Wifi over the past decade has been phenomenal as to how integrated it has become in all facets of our society and our personal lives. Yet few have asked the most important of all questions, ‘Is it Safe?’At what levels does ever increasing Wifi become dangerous to human health? Can or is it affecting our electronic bodies, our well being and our abilities to think? And to what degree, if any, does invisible radio and microwave frequencies begin to affect our own DNA structures?
Over the past few years, and secretly for decades, scientific and medical evidence shows conclusively that the low frequency pulsed radio and microwave frequencies are causing significant damage to our cells resulting in extreme increases in autism, heart irregularities, brain wave changes, cancer and generational fertility destruction in males but even more significantly in females. The most prominent changes due to WiFi radiation though is with our children and teenagers due to their developing immune systems and thinner skeletal structures:
“As stated by University Researchers, Government Scientists and International Scientific Advisors; a minimum of 57.7% of schoolgirls exposed to low-level microwave radiation (Wi-fi) are at risk of suffering stillbirth, foetal abnormalities or genetically damaged children, when they give birth. Any genetic damage may pass to successive generations.” (source)
Federal and Global regulations only deal with thermal heat exposure caused by laptops and such.They completely ignore the real dangers of low frequency radiation. An example to compare the two is that you can microwave your food yet the inside of the box stays cool because radiation only cooks the food at the cellular level as opposed to a regular oven that heats the whole box with conventional heating. This is one of the major Big Lie’s being perp’d on us with WiFi radiation to omit critical measurement to assure us WiFi is safe.
The near future plans by our Federal government and Big Telecom are for mass increase in Wifi with estimated profit potential of $3.2 Trillion (summary) and (power point presentation). Everything to monitor vital signs in our bodies to run our traffic signals to provide remoteless control of our homes through Wifi waves to read our body language to turn on and off our home systems and conveniences. (source) as Google is implementing ‘Project Loon’ to install balloons around the globe to wirelessly connect all 7 billion people. (source)
The Big WiLie: The U.S. Navy has known for decades, since at least 1976, of the significant inherent dangers in using Wifi but only summarized the results in military terms of ‘who can we harm’ and ‘can we be attacked’ (source). The Telecom Industry buried the effects by claiming that only heat can causes problems with wifi, when in fact study after study after study has shown that it is the low wave, pulsed, non-ionized radiation used in RF and Microwave lenghts that is disrupting our systems at the molecular level. Cell phone and other low frequency Wifi affect and alter our human cells as filmed in this blood analysis when exposed to RF/Microwaves. (here)
Governments and Big Telecom have gotten away with foisting Wifi on all knowing the deep health risks yet due to the difficult legal connections between invisible radiation, the length of time it takes to get sick from WiFi exposure and the legality escape clause of ‘plausible deniability’ they have continued on with blanket immunity.
Additionally, in Big Business where no one goes to jail and the regulators are in bed with the corporations, they can hide inconvenient truths from the public, free from fear of prosecution (see Banksters).
Sadly, a brand new ‘silent’ dis-ease has developed due to our brave new Wifi’d world called Electromagnetic Hypersensitivity Disorder (EHS). This is where peoples basic vibrational frequencies have been altered due to too much exposure to WiFi and are forced to move into the country or develop extreme shielding methods to not be in pain and suffering from Wifi.These new ‘EMF (Electromagnetic Frequency) Refugees’ that have been ‘tweaked’ by Wifi have not been able to reverse their new disability. It is yet to be seen how this new disease is going to be impacting youth, but there is much evidence that WiFi is causing distinct behavior modifications in our youth today. (source)....and healthcare insurance companies and even Lloyds of London will not insure against wifi expousres…and they insure everything! that should tell us all something very important to know and understand. (source)
The Obama Administration is making sure that no regulatory oversight will be taking place in the future with his recent appointment of Big Cell Phone and Telecom lobbyist, David Wheeler, to the post of Top wireless government regulator. (source)
***Solutions:
The global Wifi buildout is most likely unstoppable at this point so we must take protection and precaution as best we can. (source)
Many parents are bringing this critical information to their schools and demanding the schools get wired. In our homes we can get wired, return to land lines and keep cell phones off and away from your bodies when in use.For a couple hundred bucks you can have an expert in EMF (Electromagnetic Frequencies) come and do a reading at your home and office and check your home wiring, which also emits radiated energy, often right next to our beds where we sleep. (source)****
Cherish the friend who tells you a harsh truth, wanting ten times more to tell you a loving lie. ~Robert Brault
In the previous TABU, ‘Your Mind, Their Control’, we covered serious issues relating to powers being used covertly to access our minds through the subliminal use of radio or microwave frequencies to sell products and possibly social engineer large groups of people (make us fear, have anxiety, be lethargic and unquestioning to the PTB, impulse shop, etc.) without the individual even knowing deliberate programming has taken place.
All that are exposed to WiFi (who isn’t?) need to read a critically important secret document entitled ‘Silent Weapons for Quiet Wars‘ at the end of this piece.
from the SWQW document: “When a silent weapon is applied gradually, the public adjusts/adapts to its presence and learns to tolerate its encroachment on their lives until the pressure (psychological via economic) becomes too great and they crack up. Therefore, the silent weapon is a type of biological warfare. It attacks the vitality, options, and mobility of the individuals of a society by knowing, understanding, manipulating, and attacking their sources of natural and social energy, and their physical, mental, and emotional strengths and weaknesses.”
In this document, that was allegedly put together by our shadow government (source), there are plans being enacted under all our radar screens to reduce populations, to keep us unhealthy, of balance and dumbed down while keeping our lives distracted with sex ads, 24 hour sports and consumerism through the use of slow killing technology, foods and vaccines that cannot be traced back to the source. The SWQW document describes in cold, hard detail how to manipulate and control us ‘useless eaters’, as Dr. Kissinger has called us, using exactly the type of silent weapon technology like Wifi radiation to diminish population growth and create a ‘more maleable society’.Please never forget that this silent group of shadow people have been in power for a very long time, who still remain relatively anonymous and who have spent big bucks, time and energy to etch in the finest of granite what is being called ‘The American Stonehenge’ just north of Atlanta, GA. The first ‘commandment’ of the ten etched in stone is to “Maintain humanity under 500,000,000 in perpetual balance with nature.” That is a 84% reduction from our current global population. To dismiss this action by a secret cabal who had very clear intentions and put it on display for all to see for time eternal is a very dangerous assumption to make given documentation like SWQW that describes how this population reduction could be achieved. (source).***
Electromagnetic Spectrum – This diagram shows the electromagnetic spectrum, ionising and non-ionising sections, and typical sources of electromagnetic fields.
Just as a refresher course — electromagnetic radiation consists of an electrical field plus a magnetic field which each oscillate perpendicular to one another as they travel through space. Amplitude is the height or breath of the wave. As said above, frequency is the waves per specific time frame, usually seconds, from extremely low frequency radiation (ELF) which have longer wavelengths (longer wavelengths are measured in megahertz) up to short gamma rays where the wavelengths are extremely close together. Rays with shorter wavelengths can carry more information and more energy.
There are two factors to be aware of in regard to wireless technologies. There is the radiation between handset and base station and then there is the information-carrying radio wave (ICRW). Microwave radiation carries the voice/data information by means of modulations. Scientists are now observing that pulsed information transfer by microwaves triggers biological effects. (2) Even the lowest pulsed frequency might not be safe. Wireless technologies pulse radiation in an organized fashion and these pulses interfere with the various biochemical processes going on in the body. (2) Just as electromagnetic interference from wireless technologies interferes with an airplane’s or a hospital’s equipment — so too with our inner processes. We are electrochemical/electromagnetic creatures, as can be experienced when hooked up to a electroencephalogram (EEG, a test that measures and records the electrical activity of the brain) or an electrocardiogram (EKG or ECG, a test that checks for problems with the electrical activity of the heart).
Since Wifi is everywhere and everyone has sold out to its use it is difficult to mitigate the effects. One way is to wire your homes with ethernet cables, switch your phones back to old land lines or order wireless phones that broadcast less radiation (source), look on the website Antenna Search (source) to see what cell towers are in your area and get your home, office and schools to have a EMF (electro magnetic frequency) reading done.
Watercress seeds not exposed to Wi-Fi radiation
Watercress seeds placed next to Wi-Fi router
(source)
. The amazing story of Dr. George Carlo’s team of blue ribbon panel experts in 1999 conducting the largest study ever for wifi radiation in cell phones FOR the communications industry and found significant radiation impacts, mostly affecting children. The results were buried by the Big Telecom Industry in 1999 so Dr. Carlo wrote a book about this coverup called: Cell Phones.
“George Carlo, PhD, JD, is an epidemiologist and medical scientist who, from 1993 to 1999, headed the first telecommunications industry-backed studies into the dangers of cell phone use. That program remains the largest in the history of the issue. But he ran afoul of the very industry that hired him when his work revealed preventable health hazards associated with cell phone use.
Today there are more than two billion cell phone users being exposed every day to the dangers of electromagnetic radiation (EMR)—dangers government regulators and the cell phone industry refuse to admit exist. Included are: genetic damage, brain dysfunction, brain tumors, and other conditions such as sleep disorders and headaches.1-9 The amount of time spent on the phone is irrelevant, according to Dr. Carlo, as the danger mechanism is triggered within seconds. Researchers say if there is a safe level of exposure to EMR, it’s so low that we can’t detect it.
The cell phone industry is fully aware of the dangers. In fact, enough scientific evidence exists that some companies’ service contracts prohibit suing the cell phone manufacturer or service provider, or joining a class action lawsuit. Still, the public is largely ignorant of the dangers, while the media regularly trumpets new studies showing cell phones are completely safe to use. Yet, Dr. Carlo points out, “None of those studies can prove safety, no matter how well they’re conducted or who’s conducting them.” What’s going on here? While the answer in itself is simplistic, how we got to this point is complex.” (source)
****
“Let’s deal with the most important question first,” he said as he stood behind a pile of documents neatly grouped and tied with string. “With low level microwaves, and lower level is actually more dangerous than a high level, with low level microwaves is there any proof? Let’s deal with the proof argument first. More than you would probably imagine – there are 8,300 military papers proving microwaves cause severe neurological and physiological damage. There are seven high court cases now against the industry showing that they will cause this. There are 12 epidemiological studies. There are another 19 legal judgements around the world – by mayors, magistrates or people who have the ability to make a legal judgement. The industry themselves, this is what they say about the microwaves that children are walking around using.” Barrie Trower (source)
Here is another one…
September 2013; ‘WiFi – A Thalidomide in the Making. Who Cares?’ (source)
Over the past few years a true hero, Barrie Trower has endured the attacks of global corporations, media and governments to bring out his scientific findings about the harmful affects of LMF radiation. His focus has been on the effects of Wifi in schools with children and it is absolutely chilling what he is finding.
In the report he found the following:
“As stated by University Researchers, Government Scientists and International Scientific Advisors; a minimum of 57.7% of schoolgirls exposed to low-level microwave radiation (Wi-fi) are at risk of suffering stillbirth, foetal abnormalities or genetically damaged children, when they give birth. Any genetic damage may pass to successive generations.”
Professor John R Goldsmith, International / Advisor Consultant for R.F. Communication, Epidemiology and Communications Sciences Advisor to the World Health Organisation, Military and University Advisor, Researcher; wrote concerning the low level exposure of microwave irradiation (below thermal level) incident upon women:
“Of the microwave-exposed women, 47.7% had miscarriages prior to the 7th week of pregnancy….”(1)
A distinction here must be made and a very important one: schoolgirls are not women. Schoolgirls are children and children are both neurologically and physiologically different from adults. A child’s brain tissue / bone marrow has different electrical conductivity properties than adults due to the higher water content (2) (this renders the Specific Absorption Rate obsolete). Children’s absorption of microwave radiation can be ten times higher than adults. Permanent low-level microwave exposure can induce chronic nitrosative and oxidative ‘stress’ thence, damage the cellular mitochondria (mitochondropathy). This ‘stress’ can cause irreversible mitochondrial DNA damage (mitochondrial DNA is ten times more susceptible to oxidative and nitrosative ‘stress’ than the DNA in the cell nucleus). Mitochondrial DNA is irreparable due to its low histone protein content, therefore any damage (genetic or otherwise) can be transmitted to all successive generations through the maternal line. (3)
Hence, we are subjecting each successive female generation to harm. Whether these two ten-fold increases ‘merge’ to become 57.7% or are additional, thence equal 67.7% of those to suffer, is a moot point. Either way we are facing the equivalent of a pandemic. I was invited to present a lecture at Brighton University recently and one Doctor commented on a +60% foetal birth rate damage from exposed farm animals. All mammalian species will of course suffer the same consequence resulting from low-level microwave irradiation. There is very little difference ‘biologically’ between our embryonic cells.
The problem is that these developing follicle cells do not have the cellular protection of mature adult cells. Consequently your ‘Grandchild’ may have had every single follicle cell irradiated and damaged prior to its conception. Therefore when your child becomes an adult (with its irradiated follicles) there is a greater likelihood of its child (your Grand-daughter) suffering the ailments previously mentioned, during conception / embryonic and foetal development stages.
Beyond Belief
The shocking truth is, not only was all of this known and documented long before wi-fi was ever put in front of children, but the dangerous biological effects were concealed (as they are to this day) from the general public, in order to protect the industries profit.
I invite the Reader to peruse my diagram and / or read my simple explanation concerning the microwaving of the ovarian follicles in schoolgirls. (source) and for a more detailed account of Mr. Trower’s lecture on the dangers of wifi on children and his body of work see here
****
Schools Beginning to rebel against Wifi in schools:
Martha Herbert, PhD, MD of Harvard Medical School, a neurologist and neuroscientist who is also on the staff at Massachusetts General Hospital, cautions Los Angeles Unified School District on the use of WiFi in schools. (Source)
Dr.Herbert says:
“Current technologies were designed and promulgated without taking account of biological impacts other than thermal impacts. We now know that there are a large array of impacts that have nothing to do with the heating of tissue. The claim from wifi proponents that the only concern is thermal impacts is now definitively outdated scientifically.”
“EMF/RFR from wifi and cell towers can exert a disorganizing effect on the ability to learn and remember, and can also be destabilizing to immune and metabolic function. This will make it harder for some children to learn, particularly those who are already having problems in the first place.”
“Powerful industrial entities have a vested interest in leading the public to believe that EMF/RFR, which we cannot see, taste or touch, is harmless, but this is not true. Please do the right and precautionary thing for our children. I urge you to step back from your intention to go wifi in the LAUSD, and instead opt for wired technologies, particularly for those subpopulations that are most sensitive.”
Dr. Herbert also directs the Cure Autism Now Foundation’s Brain Development Initiative and is the Co-Chair of the Environmental Health Advisory Board of the Autism Society of America. Her recent compilation of the science potentially associating EMF exposure with autism, a chapter in the recent BioInitiative Report, can be found here
Schools are now opting out of Wireless to get Wired around the globe:
http://whyfry.org/a-tale-of-two-countries-wired-vs-wireless-internet-in-schools/
http://whyfry.org/switzerland-teachers-vote-to-keep-wi-fi-out-of-school/
http://whyfry.org/45000-la-teachers-protect-schools-from-electromagnetic-radiation/
http://www.independent.co.uk/environment/green-living/germany-warns-citizens-to-avoid-using-wifi-401845.html
****
Live Analysis of Blood being Altered by Wifi Radiation.
****
Female Mortality Rates on Big Upswing
(though there is no mention of Wifi, it fits with the overall timing of the buildout of the wireless network)
Researchers increasingly track variations in health outcomes across counties in the United States, but current ranking methods do not reflect changes in health outcomes over time. We examined trends in male and female mortality rates from 1992–96 to 2002–06 in 3,140 US counties. We found that female mortality rates increased in 42.8 percent of counties, while male mortality rates increased in only 3.4 percent. Several factors, including higher education levels, not being in the South or West, and low smoking rates, were associated with lower mortality rates. Medical care variables, such as proportions of primary care providers, were not associated with lower rates. These findings suggest that improving health outcomes across the United States will require increased public and private investment in the social and environmental determinants of health—beyond an exclusive focus on access to care or individual health behavior.
***
WiFi from Laptop can Damage Sperm DNA
Using a laptop with the WiFi turned on may damage sperm, according to a landmark study on the effects of microwave radiation on sperm. The study was presented at the meeting of the American Society for Reproductive Medicine in Denver, Colorado.
“This is the first scientific study showing that a laptop computer connected by WiFi may damage DNA and decrease sperm mobility in only four hours,” said Conrado Avendano, Research Director at the Nascentis Reproductive Medical Centre in Argentina.
Previous studies on microwave radiation from cell phones found that the radiation from a cell phone can decrease sperm quality, and advised against men carrying cell phones in their pant pocket. This new study is the first to investigate the impact of microwave radiation from wifi-enabled laptops on sperm. In four hours of exposure, the scientists found decreased sperm motility and DNA damage.
****
WiFi Alters Heartbeats Studies Find
In public schools across Canada, some children are reporting racing heart rates while in school. The Safe School Committee has received letters from parents who are frightened and confused. Their children are undergoing extensive medical testing but getting no answers from doctors. In Simcoe County, one young student was scheduled for exploratory heart surgery at Sick Children’s hospital in Toronto to find out why she was having heart problems. Once the girl was out of school for the summer, the symptoms disappeared and the surgery was cancelled.
A recent peer reviewed study in the European Journal of Oncology proved again that microwave radiation can alter people’s heart rate. An investigative news report on Global Television demonstrated these sudden changes at microwave radiation levels far below Health Canada`s Safety Code 6.
Click here for a Global News report demonstrating how people’s heart rate can change when exposed to microwave radiation from devices such as WiFi.
Click here for the most recent study proving low-level microwave radiation can affect the heart.
Click here to watch a video presentation of the study.
****
Current Safety Standards
The regulators of our health and safety as to the transmission of wireless energy waves has been given to globally acceptable standards by the International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protefction (ICNIRP) with full approval by our Federal Communications Commission (FCC). These standards do not even cover the long, low wave micro and radio frequencies except for the industry standard of if someone feels warmth from their laptop for over one hour they should stop. I kid you not. Additionally, microwave pulsed alternating current energy does not even heat (its not hot when you stick your hand in a microwave but is when put in an oven), so in effect there is no standard at all set for the safe use of wifi low magnetic frequency use!!!!
The ICNIRP (International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection) is responsible for monitoring and creating guidelines for radiation technologies. The ICNIRP guidelines focus exclusively on high frequency radiation and thermal activity. But many scientists have been pointing out that pulsed microwaves at low frequencies are also cause for alarm. Yet there are no guidelines for non-thermal, low-frequency radiation. In other words, the only tests performed for these technologies are thermal (testing whether the radiation can heat an object and cause harm due to that heating) or for frequency and height (if the wave length is high and close together radiation causes immediate harm). Gamma waves are high frequency as they are generated by radioactive atoms in nuclear explosions. So, heat and frequency/height are the only two criteria the commission tests for. (Source)
What our daily bath in WiFi radiation looks like if we could see it.
The Big WiLie; Has anyone asked “Is It Safe”???
As you can read below the health safety standards that were set for wifi, cell phones, smart meters, etc. only deals with high frequency radiation and thermal radiation. Doctors and scientists are screaming to disclose the fact that it is the non-ionizing low wave, non thermal radiation that is causing cellular destruction in our bodies that are resulting in severe increases in autism in children and low fertility rates. At the end of this you can read a document entitled ‘Silent Weapons for Quiet Wars’ which is alleged to penned in secret as to hidden agenda by our Shadow Government (source) to depopulate the world’s population using exactly these type of means.
The FCC, EPA, NIH and the International Governing bodies have refused to examine the plethora of medical and scientific evidence showing that cellular destruction of our bodies is being caused by low magnetic frequencies, not heat and not by higher frequency waves. It is the canary in the coal mine that
***
Thermal Heating vs. Low pulsed non-ionized radiation.
(it helps to think of how a microwave works to heat food vs. an oven. After microwave heating you can stick your hand inside and feel no heat but your food has been zapped and cooked. An oven heats the entire box. We are being zapped but it is not caused by the heat of the WiFi)
Thus, with the new ‘safety level’, effects were recognized only if they showed ‘heating’ or ‘thermal effects’ This is the stance of Big Telecom, Military, Industry etc. Heating does occur at much higher levels than what a cell phone etc. can typically cause you to notice. However, heating still occurs at low levels as cells are being oscillated back and forth millions or billions of times per second, from multiple devices at multiple frequencies, 24/7. Even if heat is not detectable at all, you are causing great destruction.
The stance of advocates against this technology, science, the laws of electricity and physics say we are vulnerable at levels far below ‘thermal effects’, this being called ‘non-thermal’. That is your controversy right there explained. They say nothing happens until you heat up, ‘we’ say you are disrupting every cell, frequency, signal and nerves of the body.
Remember admitting this would instantly hold the military and telecoms accountable for untold numbers of deaths and diseases that have occurred. Liability is being avoided for the sake of profit, which in the end is the true driver of this technology.
**
Federal Communications Comission (FCC) Health Non-Standards
The FCC completely punts any question of health safety on LMF transmissions and defers to privately funded agencies and corporate lobbyist organizations to monitor any effects:
“While there is no federally developed national standard for safe levels of exposure to radiofrequency (RF) energy, many federal agencies have addressed this important issue. In addition to the Federal Communications Commission, federal health and safety agencies such as the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) have been actively involved in monitoring and investigating issues related to RF exposure. For example, the FDA has issued guidelines for safe RF emission levels from microwave ovens, and it continues to monitor exposure issues related to the use of certain RF devices such as cellular telephones. NIOSH conducts investigations and health hazard assessments related to occupational RF exposure.
Federal, state and local government agencies and other organizations have generally relied on RF exposure standards developed by expert non-government organizations such as the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) and the National Council on Radiation Protection and Measurements (NCRP). Since 1996, the FCC has required that all wireless communications devices sold in the United States meet its minimum guidelines for safe human exposure to radiofrequency (RF) energy. The FCC’s guidelines and rules regarding RF exposure are based upon standards developed by IEEE and NCRP and input from other federal agencies, such as those listed above. These guidelines specify exposure limits for hand-held wireless devices in terms of the Specific Absorption Rate (SAR). The SAR is a measure of the rate that RF energy is absorbed by the body. For exposure to RF energy from wireless devices, the allowable FCC SAR limit is 1.6 watts per kilogram (W/kg), as averaged over one gram of tissue.
Some health and safety interest groups have interpreted certain reports to suggest that wireless device use may be linked to cancer and other illnesses, posing potentially greater risks for children than adults. While these assertions have gained increased public attention, currently no scientific evidence establishes a causal link between wireless device use and cancer or other illnesses. Those evaluating the potential risks of using wireless devices agree that more and longer-term studies should explore whether there is a better basis for RF safety standards than is currently used. The FCC closely monitors all of these study results.However, at this time, there is no basis on which to establish a different safety threshold than our current requirements.(source).
***
Every organ of our bodies operate with their own polarized frequencies. Our brains, our hearts and our nervous systems all operate using magnetism and the electrical transfer of energy. Doctors attempt to bring someone back to life when their heart has stopped, athletes use biorhythmic pulses to help induce faster twitch muscle action and psychiatric hospitals use mental shock to alter brain waves in patients.
There is also pulsed frequencies, like what makes a heart beat and the continuous electrical flows which allow our operating system to stay within a certain range of frequency. Alter that frequency and the cells in our body begin to mutate and perform sporadically altering everything from our moods to our abilities to think and act clearly to our reproduction systems. Physics now tells us that if we can change either the magnetic field or the electrical field of the atom, we literally change that atom and its elements within our body.
Just last year San Francisco tried to be the first city to make cell phone manufacturers publish their radiation readings or Specific Absorption Rates (SAR) but in the 11th hour Big Wireless shut it down. (Note that they were not even talking about towers, just specific rates of radiated energy on individual cell and ‘smart’ phones.)
***
Earlier this year, the BioInitiative Working Group, a body of 29 independent scientists and health experts from 10 countries, launched a scathing attack on the inadequacy of the current standards. The report’s authors, re-iterating their position as published five years earlier, concluded, “The clear consensus of the BioInitiative Working Group members is that the existing public safety limits are inadequate for both ELF (extremely low frequency electromagnetic fields) and RF (radio frequency radiation).”
BioInitiative 2012 Report Issues New Warnings on Wireless and EMF
University at Albany, Rensselaer, New York / Embargoed until January 7, 2013
A new report by the BioInitiative Working Group 2012 says that evidence for risks to health has substantially increased since 2007 from electromagnetic fields and wireless technologies (radiofrequency radiation). The Report reviews over 1800 new scientific studies. Cell phone users, parents-to-be, young children and pregnant women are at particular risk.
There is a consistent pattern of increased risk for glioma (a malignant brain tumor) and acoustic neuroma with use of mobile and cordless phones” says Lennart Hardell, MD at Orebro University, Sweden. “Epidemiological evidence shows that radiofrequency should be classified as a human carcinogen. The existing FCC/IEE and ICNIRP public safety limits and reference levels are not adequate to protect public health.”
A dozen new studies link cell phone radiation to sperm damage. Even a cell phone in the pocket or on a belt may harm sperm DNA, result in misshapen sperm, and impair fertility in men. Laptop computers with wireless internet connections can damage DNA in sperm.
Based on strong evidence for vulnerable biology in autism, EMF/RFR can plausibly increase autism risk and symptoms.
While we aggressively investigate the links between autism disorders and wireless technologies, we should minimize wireless and EMF exposures for people with autism disorders, children of all ages, people planning a baby, and during pregnancy,” says Martha Herbert, MD, PhD.
Wireless devices such as phones and laptops used by pregnant women may alter brain development of the fetus. This has been linked in both animal and human studies to hyperactivity, learning and behavior problems.
According to David O. Carpenter, MD, and co-editor of the 2012 Report:
There is now much more evidence of risks to health affecting billions of people world-wide. The status quo is not acceptable in light of the evidence for harm.“
This study covers EMF from powerlines, electrical wiring, appliances and hand-held devices; and from wireless technologies (cell and cordless phones, cell towers, ‘smart meters’, WI-FI, wireless laptops, wireless routers, baby monitors, and other electronic devices). Health topics include damage to DNA and genes, effects on memory, learning, behavior, attention, sleep disruption, cancer and neurological diseases like Alzheimer’s disease. New safety standards are urgently needed for protection against EMF and wireless exposures that now appear everywhere in daily life.
The BioInitiative 2012 Report is available at: www.bioinitiative.org.Growing calls for improved wireless safety standards
A growing number of public health bodies are asking that the current wireless safety standards be reviewed. In 2011, the World Health Organization (WHO) classified radio frequency electromagnetic fields as a Group 2B possible carcinogen. Doctors groups are sounding the alarm. In its 2012 position paper, the American Academy of Environmental Medicine stated, “Multiple studies correlate RF exposure with diseases such as cancer, neurological disease, reproductive disorders, immune dysfunction, and electromagnetic hypersensitivity.”
Similarly, the International Society of Doctors for the Environment (ISDE) and Irish Doctors Environmental Association (IDEA) state that “there is sufficient scientific evidence to warrant more stringent controls on the level and distribution of electromagnetic radiation.”
http://govtslaves.info/nomination-top-government-wireless-regulator-job-subverted-research-cell-phone-radiation-dangers/#sthash.qkon0Liz.dpuf
*****
Timeout for Sidebar that makes one go WTF??
What is the real agenda??
with making big hunking football players, refs, et. al wear pink in a very violent sport of warriors watched by gazillions each week to be entertained …
..for the sole reason to ‘bring awareness’ to breast cancer’??, which everyone is already well aware of??
…yet hundreds of billions have been spent so far for ‘a cure’ by ACS, NHI, et. al over the past decades and cured nunca, nada, nothing…yet mass promo and marketing conintues unquestioned…where CNN Doctor Sanjay Gupta has come on TV saying, after further review, Hemp is curing many forms of cancer ???(source)
(We’ll know Big Sport is really on the side of ‘The Cure’ when all players are wearing Hemp leaves on their sleeves, cheerleaders costumes are made from hemp and 4″ hemp plants are distributed to all fans in attendance to ‘grow your own cure’ while Bob Marley is played aloud at every intermission)
*****
Holy ‘*$*$, Cell tower being hid inside a cross…see other disguises here
We have ever more powerful (more radiating) ‘smart’ cell phones on our person, wireless phones and wifi throughout our homes and office. Blue tooth wireless in our cars and even your keyless remote car and garage door opener’s that operate in these same frequency bands of long wave radio and micro waves. Most of these devices are always in search pulse mode sending out low magnetic waves.
Additionally our military and government have placed their own network of cell towers called the Worldwide Interoperability of Microwave Access (WIMAX) and the GWEN Towers (Ground-Wave Emergency Network) that the military has installed to operate separate from all other WiFi systems. The GWEN system alone transmits ground level waves for 250-300 miles and there are over 300 such stations installed and in use. (Source)
Additionally, in 1985 there were only 900 cell phone towers in the U.S., now we are at 1.6 MILLION, all constantly transmitting RF and microwave energies as you drive your car on all highways and byways. And as you can read below the government has serious plans in partnering with Google and Microsoft to more than double the available towers as well as boost more power for better transmission and data transfer. To see the number of cell towers in your area click here
Add to that the planned final installation of 57.9 million ‘Smart Meter’s’ that are currently being installed in the U.S. along with the next phase of the planned national ‘Smart Water’ meters to monitor and control our home water supplies. (Source)
And don’t forget the ‘newest’ fads of WiSee gesture recognition devices that can remotely control your audio, tv, lighting by wireless radiation that is constantly scanning you (source) and the Google Glass, set directly next to the temple to your brain emitting radiation (source) and Wireless ‘Smart’ watches that will monitor your bodies like taking your pulse and reading your vital signs. (source).
(hint: If you see the word ‘Smart’ in any product it is a really dumb product for those that use it but really ‘smart’ for those selling it and those who wish to monitor and control others with it.)
The new Apple 3G Ipad has 5 Antennas (source) and surely we will be seeing 5G, 6G, etc. until we reach critical mass of ‘Oh Gee, look at everyone with cancer” moment when the masses figure out all the latest tech they tote and wear is killing them.
“The new iPad boasts five antennas in all, two for cell reception, two for Wi-Fi/Bluetooth connectivity and one more for GPS. In fact, iFixit says Apple is using the whole LCD frame as an antenna.”
…and plans are well underway to wireless our roadways to ease congestion and monitor traffic, again we see the same players, Google and Microsoft driving the wireless buildout globally.to encompass every square inch of land on the planet (source):
“Plans to use wireless technology to ease traffic congestion, regulate motorway speeds and monitor people’s personal health were set out on Wednesday by the broadcast regulator Ofcom. In a briefing, the Ofcom chief executive Ed Richards set out plans for the future use of radio spectrum, which he said was of “vital” importance to the UK economy, contributing an estimated £52 billion a year. Explaining that spectrum supply was under pressure from rising demand from smartphone and tablet use he outlined futuristic projects for maximising the resource. Over the next six months, partners including Microsoft, BT and Google are to take part in road-testing “white space” technology to exploit currently unused spaces in the broadcasting frequency band.
Radiating Children
The rollout of smart meters proceeds alongside increased installation of wireless technology and cell phone towers in and around schools in the US. In 2010 Professor Magda Havas conducted a study of schools in 50 US state capitols and Washington DC to determine students’ potential exposure to nearby cell towers. A total 6,140 schools serving 2.3 million students were surveyed using the antennasearch.com database. Of these, 13% of the schools serving 299,000 students have a cell tower within a quarter mile of school grounds, and another 50% of the schools where 1,145,000 attend have a tower within a 0.6 mile radius. The installation of wireless networks and now smart meters on and around school properties further increases children’s RF exposure.[15]
Many school districts that are strapped for cash in the face of state budget cuts are willing to ignore the abundance of scientific research on RF dangers and sign on with telecom companies to situate cell towers directly on school premises. Again, the FCC’s thermal effect rule is invoked to justify tower placement together with a disregard of the available studies.
****
They Know! Major Russian Scientific Study: The Biological Effects of Weak Electromagnetic Fields*****
Microwaves, Mutations and the Military ~ They’ve Known for Decades it is Unsafe:http://bcfreedom.wordpress.com/2012/10/15/microwaves-mutations-and-the-military-part-2/
Keep in mind, the military has 2 objectives: to understand “Can we hurt people with this?” and “How do we protect our side if the other side has this weapon?” So ALL sides and ALL militaries (Russia, UK, USA, Canada etc.) after learning a thing or two started to play around with this technology and as they went further, most of the projects went underground. Why? This happened because they figured out that this may be the greatest weapon known to man, if not at that time, certainly in the future. It is invisible, can travel large distances, costs very little, is tasteless, odourless, you can’t hear it and when being hit by it, the enemy has no idea it is even happening. If you want to dig into this further, a great, possibly the best source for data on all of this is here:http://jenniferlake.wordpress.com/2012/06/21/emf-killing-fields/Recall why military docs are so important. They only want to know exact specifics, no lawyers, no lobbyists etc. “Can they kill us? Can we kill them?” That’s it. Here is some more of what they found. Part 1 http://bcfreedom.wordpress.com/2012/09/24/death-lies-and-mutations-what-the-military-kept-from-the-public-on-microwave-radiation/ had a lot to do with pregnancy and babies. Take a look down at the part of the doc here referencing “Genetic and Chromosomal Changes”; To even see one thing in this column is alarming. But look at #3.
#3Mongolism. Don’t know what that is? (keep in mind this doc is from 1976 so ‘terms’ change over time) Simply put, this is Down’s Syndrome. Yes, that’s right, the military is fully aware that microwave radiation can cause these types of birth defects. Of course, so is industry, but they say nothing, too much money to be made. Note as well # 2 “Mutations” See this link on Autism:
http://www.foodsmatter.com/es/dect_smart_meters/articles/smart_meters_autism_2011_goldsworthy.pdf
****
****
Secret Plans for Massive Private/Public Further Wireless Buildout
Recently released secret documents have been revealed that the government, along with mega companies Google, Microsoft, et. al and the elite universities plan to roll out a entirely new private/public spectrum of significantly more radiated power that will net them $3.2 TRILLION dollars over the next decade.
They met in secret in July 2012 at the White House and the meeting was titled ‘ Realizing the Full Potential of Government-Held Spectrum to Spur Economic Growth. The newly doubled wireless spectrum, that Obama has already signed off on, will be put under government control and supervision for private corporation profit…$ 3.2 Trillion worth. The buildout will also significantly increase wifi radiation. (summary) and (power point presentation)
It is nearly impossible to escape wifi radiation, yet the evidence is overwhelming that it is making us very ill and even killing us by attacking us at the molecular cell level, especially our children, as you can read below.
Science has shown that we have heightened senses of awareness, intuition, integrity and a general feeling of well being when our energy fields are clear, in normal operating ranges and working properly. This fact is beautifully expressed in this you tube talk by Manly Hally some 40 years ago In this speech he explains how our electromagnetic fields are critical to keep our physical, mental and spiritual states of being active. He states that when our natural vibrational frequencies get out of sync we are prone to get more mental and physical illness’, become more lethargic and have increased organ failures like heart attacks. (Source).
****
Solutions:
In the Bay Area there is an excellent service offered by Mike Neuert in Santa Rosa, CA at the EMF Center. He also does phone consultations (source)
Become a EMF Superhero! Ways to healthify your home, school and office. (source)There are 3 Phases to your Superhero Training. Take them in order for the most ease or skip ahead if a step peaks your interest. Print this page as paper emits considerably less EMF pollution than your computer, and you will then have a hard copy of one of the most comprehensive solution guides in the Universe at your fingertips.As you master each step, you will reduce one of the most potent sources of pollution on the planet. Few people realize it yet, but man-made EMF pollution will be the health and environmental crisis of the 21st century – likely eclipsing Global Warming. It is and will continue to affect nearly every family and community on the planet. The effects are just now starting to appear.As is the case with most Superheros, you are ahead of your time. But, you are exactly what the world needs right now. (It is also critical to get this critical information to the schools where you live.)
***
Electromagnetic Hypersensitivity Disorder (EHS) and the EMF Refugees wireless networking is creating in our Society
Ever increasingly adults are getting ‘tweaked’ by being exposed to too much wireless radiation. I have several friends who have moved, or are trying to move up into our area because they have EHS and it makes them physically ill to be around any EMF. This does not bode well for the children who are being exposed with same radiation but with much less developed immune and skeletal structure.
In addition to numerous other health problems, electromagnetic pollution has been associated with an increase in the number of individuals suffering from a condition known as electrohypersensitivity (EHS). EHS is defined by the World Health Organization as: “…a phenomenon where individuals experience adverse health effects while in the vicinity of devices emanating electric, magnetic, or electromagnetic fields.”In Sweden, it is classified as a disability and health care facilities with low levels of exposure to electromagnetic fields and radiofrequency radiation are available. The Canadian Human Rights Commission report also acknowledges environmental sensitivity attributed to electromagnetic exposure. (28) Researchers estimate that approximately 3% of the population has severe symptoms of EHS, and another 35% of the population has moderate symptoms such as an impaired immune system and chronic illness (Havas, 2007).SYMPTOMS OF EHS
The biological effects from exposure to EMF/EMR include both adverse health effects and loss of homeostasis and well-being. Symptoms vary from patient to patient depending on their physical biology and exposure intensity and duration. Symptoms quickly improve when away from EMF/EMR sources, particularly when the patient moves away from computers, fluorescent lighting, transformers, wireless antenna, cell and cordless phones, appliances and out of proximity to cell phone towers, electrical substations and power lines. All these are potential sources of higher than normal EMF/EMR exposure. Symptoms recur on returning to the irradiated environment. Over time, sensitivity is increased to smaller and smaller EMF/EMR exposures. (Sage, 2001)
The Stories of EMF Refugees
Former telecommunications engineer is now forced to live in the woods: http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2010-02/disconnected
Surgeon who became an EMF Refugee: http://www.electrosensitivesociety.com/2010/06/01/the-dr-carlos-sosa-m-d-story/
Young French woman who is an EMF Refugee goes on a hunger strike to bring attention to EHS: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/mobilfunk_newsletter/dIcFwCYxRjw
CEO of a $1 Billion UK company speaks out on EHS: http://emfsafetynetwork.org/?p=6138
TV Producer has to give up career and home because of EHS: http://emfsafetynetwork.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/10/Daily-Mail-Weekend-27.6.09-dacrepdf-1.pdf
34-year-old mother can no longer even run errands because of EHS: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-2158015/Allergic-modern-life-Pregnant-mother-sensitive-electromagnetic-waves-use-iPad-make-mobile-phone-trip-town.html
Former famous Ibiza DJ can no longer be in public spaces because of EHS: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-1201896/Allergic-wi-fi-How-electrosmog-leaves-Afterlife-DJ-agony.html
EMF Refugees in Sweden: http://emfsafetynetwork.org/wp-content/uploads/2009/09/Forced-to-Disconnect-Electrohypersensitive-fugitives.pdf
Child with EHS is forced from school because of Wi-Fi: http://electroplague.com/2013/07/30/jeske-family-langford-bc/
School Principal forced from school/career because of Wi-Fi sickness: http://www.heraldsun.com.au/technology/dr-marietherese-gibson-resigns-from-tangara-school-for-girls-over-wifi-health-worries/story-fni0byb4-1226729172333
Family forced from their home by a smart meter: http://www.heraldsun.com.au/news/victoria/smart-meter-shock-forces-family-out/story-fn7x8me2-1226181915461
Former sound technician now lives in the woods to escape EMF pollution: http://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2012/jul/20/man-living-alone-woods-escape-wifi-mobiles
Computer Programmer discusses what it is like to be EHS: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=izwY-cO_qoY
Cancer survivor is now EHS after chemotherapy: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-1387972/Woman-allergic-electricity-Cancer-survivor-sensitive-gadgets-lives-candlelight.html
Attorney with EHS is forced to move to the woods: http://ehsfighback.blogspot.com/2012/06/article-about-dafna-tachover-ehs.html
EMF Refugees in Arizona being interviewed: http://www.kpfa.org/archive/id/95056
43-year-old German judge is forced to live in Black Forest valley to escape cell phone towers: http://www.buergerwelle.de:8080/helma/twoday/bwnews/stories/3682/
Australian Scientist forced from work by Wi-Fi sickness – receives compensation: http://www.news.com.au/technology/csiro-scientist-dr-david-mcdonald-wins-compensation-for-wifi-pain/story-e6frfrnr-1226729178281
Parent keeps children out of school because of Wi-Fi installation: http://www.news.com.au/technology/louise-brosnan-pulled-her-boys-out-st-kevin8217s-primary-school-at-geebung-after-wifi-was-installed/story-e6frfrnr-1226729175598
***
Swinging Door between the Lobbyist, Corporations and the Regulators
(this is why no serious regulations on the industry is in place today.)
(Lloyd Burrell, Contributor) Tom Wheeler, former head of the Cellular Telecommunications & Internet Association (CTIA) and frontrunner nominee to become the next Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), allegedly suppressed and biased research from the nation’s largest cell phone health research project while he served as head of the CTIA.
Timing critical – safety standards under review
Wheeler’s nomination comes at a critical time. The FCC is responsible for setting the U.S. safety standards that are supposed to protect people from radiation emitted by cell phones, cell towers and other wireless technologies. These safety standards, widely considered to offer little protection to the general public, are currently under review.
Tom Wheeler’s poor track record in protecting the public interest
In 1993, a gentleman named David Reynard appeared on the Larry King Show announcing he was suing the wireless industry. Mr. Reynard alleged that the fatal brain tumor suffered by his late-wife had been caused by cell phone radiation. The deceased woman’s doctor gave a vivid and visual demonstration using an x-ray of the tumor showing that the location of the tumor corresponded exactly with the location of the cell phone’s antenna.
The public’s fears were aroused, Telecoms shares took a hit and the cell phone industry started looking for solutions. In his capacity as president for the wireless industry’s trade association, Wheeler struck a deal with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The industry would fund and conduct a major study on the safety of cell phones; in return, the FDA would agree not to regulate cell phones until this research was complete.
A $28 million research program was set up and funded by mobile phone carriers and manufacturers from 1993 to 1999 with the epidemiologist, Dr. George Carlo, at its head. According to the industry publication, RCR Wireless News, right from the outset, Wheeler had very clear expectations of what he wanted the research program to show. At a 1993 meeting, when Carlo was asked what he had concluded to date, Wheeler, dissatisfied with Carlo’s reply, spoke up and said, “We need to say phones are safe…”
No more biased research
Enough of the biased research. The public deserves to know about the dangers of wireless and similar technologies in addition to proper protection from them.
Sources for this article include:
http://www.prlog.org
http://www.bioinitiative.org
http://www.wifiinschools.com
http://www.rcrwireless.com
****
“Traditionally it has been possible to suppress individual freedom through the application of physical coercion through the appeal of ideologies through the manipulation of man’s physical and social environment and more recently through the techniques, the cruder techniques of psychological conditioning. The Ultimate Revolution, about which Mr. Huxley will speak today, concerns itself with the development of new behavioral controls, which operate directly on the psycho-physiological organisms of man. That is the capacity to replace external constraint by internal compulsions. As those of us who are familiar with Mr. Huxley’s works will know, this is a subject of which he has been concerned for quite a period of time.” Opening remarks for Mr. Huxley’s speech in Berkeley, 1962.
“It seems to me that the nature of the ultimate revolution with which we are now faced is precisely this: That we are in process of developing a whole series of techniques which will enable the controlling oligarchy who have always existed and presumably will always exist to get people to love their servitude”. ~ Aldous Huxley, Author of Brave New World (full speech transcript)
(Aldous Huxley’s grandfather was a partner with Charles Darwin. In fact there was interbreeding between the two families as they sought to control the hierarchy of their bloodlines. It was also Huxley and his brother, Julian, helped in starting one of the largest mind control operations in history, which we will cover in Part III (source)
Silent Weapons for Quiet Wars– Planned Genocide by the Wealthy Elite?
http://www.lawfulpath.com/ref/sw4qw/
“It is patently impossible to discuss social engineering or the automation of a society, i.e., the engineering of social automation systems (silent weapons) on a national or worldwide scale without implying extensive objectives of social control and destruction of human life, i.e., slavery and genocide.This manual is in itself an analog declaration of intent. Such a writing must be secured from public scrutiny. Otherwise, it might be recognized as a technically formal declaration of domestic war. Furthermore, whenever any person or group of persons in a position of great power and without full knowledge and consent of the public, uses such knowledge and methodologies for economic conquest – it must be understood that a state of domestic warfare exists between said person or group of persons and the public.The solution of today’s problems requires an approach which is ruthlessly candid, with no agonizing over religious, moral or cultural values.”Energy
Energy is recognized as the key to all activity on earth. Natural science is the study of the sources and control of natural energy, and social science, theoretically expressed as economics, is the study of the sources and control of social energy. Both are bookkeeping systems: mathematics. Therefore, athematics is the primary energy science. And the bookkeeper can be king if the public can be kept ignorant of the methodology of the bookkeeping.
All science is merely a means to an end. The means is knowledge. The end is control. Beyond this remains only one issue: Who will be the beneficiary?
Consequently, in the interest of future world order, peace, and tranquility, it was decided to privately wage a quiet war against the American public with an ultimate objective of permanently shifting the natural and social energy (wealth) of the undisciplined and irresponsible many into the hands of the self-disciplined, responsible, and worthy few.
In order to implement this objective, it was necessary to create, secure, and apply new weapons which, as it turned out, were a class of weapons so subtle and sophisticated in their principle of operation and public appearance as to earn for themselves the name “silent weapons.” Everything that is expected from an ordinary weapon is expected from a silent weapon by its creators, but only in its own manner of functioning.
It shoots situations, instead of bullets; propelled by data processing, instead of chemical reaction (explosion); originating from bits of data, instead of grains of gunpowder; from a computer, instead of a gun; operated by a computer programmer, instead of a marksman; under the orders of a banking magnate, instead of a military general.
It makes no obvious explosive noises, causes no obvious physical or mental injuries, and does not obviously interfere with anyone’s daily social life. Yet it makes an unmistakable “noise,” causes unmistakable physical and mental damage, and unmistakably interferes with the daily social life, i.e., unmistakable to a trained observer, one who knows what to look for.
The public cannot comprehend this weapon, and therefore cannot believe that they are being attacked and subdued by a weapon. The public might instinctively feel that something is wrong, but that is because of the technical nature of the silent weapon, they cannot express their feeling in a rational way, or handle the problem with intelligence. Therefore, they do not know how to cry for help, and do not know how to associate with others to defend themselves against it.
When a silent weapon is applied gradually, the public adjusts/adapts to its presence and learns to tolerate its encroachment on their lives until the pressure (psychological via economic) becomes too great and they crack up. Therefore, the silent weapon is a type of biological warfare. It attacks the vitality, options, and mobility of the individuals of a society by knowing, understanding, manipulating, and attacking their sources of natural and social energy, and their physical, mental, and emotional strengths and weaknesses.”
*****
“In our dreams…people yield themselves with perfect docility to our molding hands. The present educational conventions [intellectual and character education] fade from our minds, and unhampered by tradition we work our own good will upon a grateful and responsive folk. We shall not try to make these people or any of their children into philosophers or men of learning or men of science. We have not to raise up from among them authors, educators, poets or men of letters. We shall not search for embryo great artists, painters, musicians, nor lawyers, doctors, preachers, politicians, statesmen, of whom we have ample supply. The task we set before ourselves is very simple…we will organize children…and teach them to do in a perfect way the things their fathers and mothers are doing in an imperfect way.”
1906 General Education Board statement, founded and funded by J. D. Rockefeller(source)
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Tagged: Big Brother, Business, Energy, Healthcare, Radiation, Revisionist History
Post navigation
← Revisionist History #1; False Flags and Bankster Wars
Cure All Cancers with Medical Hemp Oil!! →
2 thoughts on “WiFi; The Invisible Killing Fields”
Cell Phones/Towers: Microwave Radio Frequency Radiation | OUR GREATER DESTINY November 1, 2015 at 5:08 PM Reply
[…] Scientific and medical evidence show conclusively that low frequency pulsed radio and microwave frequencies are causing significant damage to our cells resulting in extreme increases in autism, heart irregularities, brain wave changes, cancer and generational fertility destruction in males, and even more significantly in females http://tabublog.com/2014/01/18/wifi-the-invisible-killing-fields/ […]
LikeLike
Doreen Agostino November 1, 2015 at 6:20 PM Reply
To keep safe ourselves and children requires awareness to minimize harmful health effects of microwave radio frequency radiation and wireless technology. https://ourgreaterdestiny.wordpress.com/2015/11/01/cell-phonestowers-microwave-radio-frequency-radiation/
LikeLike
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Search
New Postings via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Follow
Recent Posts
Who WE Are ~ And Where WE are Heading ~ Buddha and Christ The Sphere of the Bodhisattvas A Lecture by Rudolf Steiner March 9, 2019
Hey Fellow Truther! How Awake Are You ? October 11, 2018
Excellent Pro Choice Vaccine Data Base September 30, 2018
Click Bait September 18, 2018
Boston ‘Burbs DEW Attacks Subplot ~ Blame It On the Union Gas Strikers September 18, 2018
Boston Suburbs ~ Had to be DEW ~ All About Space Based Power 2020 September 18, 2018
China AND USA Building Re-Education Camps for All “Idealogical Dissidents September 18, 2018
End of Suffering ~ Community vs. Government September 18, 2018
Flat Earth MVD ~ Loud Machine September 18, 2018
Excellent Proof ~ Flat Earth TheoCosmogony Throughout History Whirled Wide September 18, 2018
A Beautiful Awakening to Flat Earth Truth by Martin Kenny September 18, 2018
Cern + Dwave Supercomputer = AI Mind Control of the Masses September 18, 2018
Schooled Like Fish ~ Does Anyone Ever Ask Why? September 18, 2018
Flat Earth Cosmos ~ “The Norb Theory” September 18, 2018
Parents Remove Their Children From WiFried School ~ A Lesson for All September 18, 2018
Deep Wifi Radiation Intensity Measured; Where We Live, Shop and Travel September 18, 2018
Trump and Palantir Predicted in 2002 September 18, 2018
Excellent Resource of Doctors Against Vaccination September 18, 2018
Best of Vaccine Videos August 17, 2018
Astro-NOT Buzzed Aldrin Comes Clean ~ “We Never Went to the Moon” July 27, 2018
Activist in Action Tool Kit July 17, 2018
U.S.A. We’re # 1; Far and Away the Best in the World June 25, 2018
Aaron Swartz; Requiem for the Suicided ~ Reload June 25, 2018
Activist Speak Out; Deborah Tavares, John Knox, Jamie Lee, Peter Valentino and more June 25, 2018
2018 ~ The End of Food as We Have Known it Since Time Began…Kind of a Big Deal June 25, 2018
“Break America First” The Long Planned Foreign Takeover of Jobs in the US. June 25, 2018
Seriously ~ Re-Think! …. Why College ?!? June 25, 2018
Manmade Manipulated Weather Gone Chaotic, Extreme & Wild Worldwide June 25, 2018
No Nukes ~ Hiroshima to Fukushima June 25, 2018
2018 ~ The End of Food as We Have Known it Since Time Began…Kind of a Big Deal June 25, 2018
The Most Important Subject of Our Times June 25, 2018
Election Voting is For Your Enslavement and Entrainment to Obedience June 25, 2018
The Science of Grounding June 25, 2018
There Has Never Been a Successful Environmental Movement ~ Monsanto GMO Goes “Away” June 25, 2018
iMind Wetware Meat Puppets June 25, 2018
Recent Comments
Spiney Norman on Hey Fellow Truther! How Awake…
wysiwyg on Hey Fellow Truther! How Awake…
H on The World Wide Web = “666” — T…
hyperbarictech on No Nukes Were Dropped on Hiros…
hyperbarictech on No Nukes Were Dropped on Hiros…
Towards a Better Understanding
Who WE Are ~ And Where WE are Heading ~ Buddha and Christ The Sphere of the Bodhisattvas A Lecture by Rudolf Steiner
Hey Fellow Truther! How Awake Are You ?
Excellent Pro Choice Vaccine Data Base
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com
Categories
5G
Amerika
battery
Big Brother
big pharma
Black Goo
bombing brown people
breatharian
british royalty
Business
CA Fires
child pedophilia
chips
climate chaos
Conspiracy
Die Off Watch
Directed Energy Weapons
dome
drought
Education
Energy
Flat Earth
fracking
freegive.me
Geoengineering
Heads Up
Health
hemp oil
Heroes
hhhelpandassistance@gmail.com
Higher Consciousness
Hurricane Harvey Help
Jesuit
language
lithium
love
mind control
money
nano bot
nanofood
NASA Hoax
oil
pedophillia
Police brutality
presidents
Psyops
Racism
Radiation
resistance
Revisionist History
scientism
sex slaves
shadow government
silent weapons for quiet wars
solar
solar power
Transhumanism
Uncategorized
vaccination
vatican
waste
water
weather wars
wisdom
WWIII
Archives
March 2019
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
Blogroll
Acivist Post
Astrology; Free 6 month personal forecast
Blacklisted News
Corbett Report; Alt News Podcast
Cryptgon
Esoteric Astrolgy; Your Natal Sign
Farm Wars
Food Freedom
GeoengineeringWatch.org
Global Research
Natural News
Nature Bats Last
Philosophers-Stone
Red Ice Radio ~ Alt. News Podcast
Rense Daily News
Simply Fukushima Information
Ukiah Blog
Veritas ~ Alt news Podcast
Waking Times
Want To Know Info
Goodreads
Blog at WordPress.com.
%d bloggers like this: