Ginger – A Tremendous Antiemetic Agent | HolisticCarePros.com
Skip to content
Home
Top Holistic Treatments
Natural Health Blog
Find Holistic Care Professionals
Blog Home > Cancer > Ginger – A Tremendous Antiemetic Agent
Ginger – A Tremendous Antiemetic Agent
Posted on July 15, 2013 by Shantha Kalia
Ginger has many uses. For thousands of years ginger has been widely used as a spice in many South Asian countries like China, Japan, and India. Its use spread to other regions of the world like Africa and the Caribbean. In the United States, ginger is mostly used in beverages and some desserts. It is also widely used as a natural medicine to cure many illnesses like indigestion, nausea, and morning sickness. Ginger tea is a popular beverage to relieve symptoms of flu, cold, cough, and chest congestion. The zingy flavor of ginger comes from gingerol, a powerful component that has anti-inflammatory properties and is used in treatment of osteoarthritis.
Ginger is the wonder spice in Ayurvedic medicine and a popular ingredient in many Ayurvedic preparations for digestive health. It is pungent and spicy, yet aromatic and loaded with flavor, making its way into stir-fries and stews, desserts and beverages.
Antiemetic Properties of Ginger
Ginger (Zingiber officinale) has been used as an antiemetic agent in Asian cultures for many years. Since the scientific and medical community took notice of the benefit of ginger, numerous research studies have reported the effects of ginger.
Although chemotherapy is an effective treatment for cancer, the side effects of nausea and vomiting (emesis) is sometimes so severe that patients are unable to adhere to their treatment regimen. In a double-blind study conducted by researchers at University of Rochester Medical Center showed that doses of ginger reduced acute nausea significantly compared to the control group on day 1 of chemotherapy. The study showed that ginger supplementation of a dose of 0.5g to 1.0 g significantly reduced the severity of chemotherapy-induced nausea in cancer patients.
Women who underwent gynecological surgery found that use of ginger drastically reduced the use of other antiemetic agents compared to women in the study control group. Ginger was an effective prophylactic antiemetic for the study participants.
Pregnant women often have to deal with bouts of nausea and vomiting during the course of their pregnancy. Ginger helps relieve nauseous symptoms successfully for most pregnant women. An Australian randomized controlled study on pregnant women who were less than 16 weeks pregnant showed that the use of ginger early in pregnancy relieved symptoms of nausea, dry retching, and vomiting.
Ginger is used in various forms such as pills, capsules, extract, syrup, powder, and juice. Because ginger is pungent, many people are unable to tolerate its potency. For such people, ginger syrup can be mixed with a beverage and consumed to relieve nausea. Ginger powder was found to be effective in reducing severe acute and severe chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting in children and young adults.
Recipe for Ginger Tea
Ginger tea is a common home remedy for indigestion, nausea, and vomiting. It is also used to provide relief from colds, flu, and sore throats.
Ginger tea is refreshing and soothing, and very easy to prepare. To prepare ginger tea, you need a two-inch piece of fresh ginger root and 4 cups of water. Honey and a fresh slice of lemon are optional.
Peel the ginger root and slice it into thin slices. In a pan, bring the water to a boil. Once the water is boiling, add the ginger slices. Cover the pan and reduce to a simmer for 15 minutes. Strain the tea. Add honey and lemon to taste, if desired.
Sources for this article include:
Phillips S et al. Zingiber officinale (ginger) — an antiemetic for day case surgery. Anaesthesia. 1993 Aug;48(8):715-7.
Smith C et al. A randomized controlled trial of ginger to treat nausea and vomiting in pregnancy. Obstet Gynecol. 2004 Apr;103(4):639-45.
Ryan JL et al. Ginger (Zingiber officinale) reduces acute chemotherapy-induced nausea: a URCC CCOP study of 576 patients. Support Care Cancer. 2012 Jul; 20(7):1479-89.
Pillai AK et al. Anti-emetic effect of ginger powder versus placebo as an add-on therapy in children and young adults receiving high emetogenic chemotherapy. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2011 Feb;56(2):234-8.
www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/pdq/supportivecare/nausea/HealthProfessional/page6#Section_381
About the Author: Shantha Kalia is a health care professional at a New York City hospital. She completed her masters in Public Health, and has worked in various capacities in health care for over 15 years. She is a freelancer and contributes articles to various websites on various medical and health-related topics. Her interests include health and wellness, diet and nutrition, and maintaining a healthy lifestyle. To read more articles by Shantha, please visit HolisticCarePros.com.
Email this page
Share this article
Related posts:
Terrific Turmeric
Music Therapy Heals More Than Just The Heart
The Top 3 Herbs to Turn Your Aging Clock Back
Ancient Healing Explored: Acupuncture
View all posts/articles by Shantha Kalia »
This entry was posted in Cancer, Diet, Health and Wellness, Healthy Recipes and tagged Antiemetic, Ayurvedic Medicine, Cancer Treatment, Chemotherapy, Ginger, Gingerol, Nausea Prevention, Osteoarthritis, Pregnancy, Prophylactic. Bookmark the permalink.
Disclaimer: This blog post/article is written by a guest writer or professional in our directory and does not necessarily state the views of HolisticCarePros.com or any of its affiliates.
Learn More About
These Specialized Therapies:
Bio-Identical Hormone Replacement/Balancing
Bio-Oxidative Therapies
Biopuncture Therapy
Chelation Therapy
HCG Weight Loss
Programs
IV Therapy
Low-level Laser Therapy (LLLT)
Metabolic Detoxification
Myofascial Release
Neural Therapy
Osteopathic
Manipulation
Ozone Therapy
PRP - Platelet-Rich Plasma Injections
Posture and Gait
Assessment
Prolotherapy
Prolozone
Trigger Point Injections
Click here to view more treatments...
Find Holistic Care
Professionals in Your Area
Select your State... Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming
Search for:
Subscribe via RSS
Categories
Select Category Allergies Alternative Therapies Alzheimers Anti-Aging Anxiety Arthritis Asthma Autism Back Pain Blood Pressure Cancer Cardiovascular Disease Chiropractic Diabetes Diet Disease Exercise Fatigue Food Health and Wellness Healthy Recipes Heart Disease Illness Immune System Infertility Joint Pain Meditation Neck Pain Nutrition Pain Relief Parkinson’s Disease Pregnancy Skin Sleeping Disorders Stress Stroke Vitamins and Minerals Weight Loss
Recent Articles
Why Calories Don’t Really Matter
Natural Ways To Reduce Blood Sugar
4 Amazing Food Combinations That Can Boost Your Health
How To Get A Better Night’s Rest By Changing Your Sleep Environment
Healing Cracked And Dry Heels Naturally
Top 5 Superfoods To Boost Your Immune System
6 Ways To Get The Most From Your Walk
Why You Should Eat Fermented Foods
Do You Know What’s In Your Drinking Water?
Saw Palmetto For Prostate Health
The Truth About Saturated Fat – Is It Really The Enemy?
8 Green Foods For Great Health
Cardamom – The Wonder Spice Full Of Medicinal Properties
Need Energy? 4 Ways To Boost Your Energy Naturally
Garlic: The Ultimate Heavy Metal Detoxifier
Why Steamed Meats, Fruits And Vegetables Are So Good For You
Watch Your Lunch: Five Foods That May Contribute To Cancer
Do You Know What’s In Your Makeup And Personal Care Products?
Ayurveda – A Holistic Approach To Well-Being
Does Olive Oil Help Prevent Alzheimer’s Disease?
Archives
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
Home | Holistic Treatments | Blog/Articles | Find Holistic Care Professionals
© Copyright 2015 HolisticCarePros.com. All Rights Reserved. Third Party materials included herein protected under copyright law.