How to Stop Receding Gums With Natural Home Remedies | Pick a Remedy
Menu
Home
Blog
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Find Remedies
Health
Cleansing
Cold, Flu & Allergies
Diet
Digestive Health
Diseases & Conditions:
Ears
Eye Health
Feet
Hair
Men’s Health
Mental Health
Oral Care
Pain Relief
Skin
Skin Care
Skin Conditions/Disorders
Sleep
Wellbeing
Woman’s Health
X
Now Trending
Top Reasons Why Wheatgrass is The Ultimate Superfood
Why You Need to Add Spirulina to Your Health Arsenal
5 Surprising Advantages of Having a Whiter Smile
How to Stop Receding Gums With Natural Home Remedies
Receding gum lines are often the first indication that you may be suffering from gum disease.
This is often followed by the formation of a gap between the teeth and the gum, creating space that permits the entry of germs, therefore predisposing an individual to gum disease.
On the tooth’s surface, this will be evidenced by a larger than normal area of the tooth being visible.
Other symptoms include tooth sensitivity, which results from exposure of the tooth’s root, and toothache. There are a number of factors that can cause gums to recede, so if you want to learn how to fix receding gums, you need to first understand what’s causing it. These include bacterial infections of the gum, over-brushing one’s teeth so that the aggression causes the enamel to thin out, and this makes gums recede as well as poor oral hygiene.
In some cases, patients with receding gum lines have genes that predispose them to the condition, making this a hereditary factor. For some women, hormonal changes have also been linked to it. These changes cause the gums to become vulnerable, and therefore more likely to recede. Poor lifestyle choices such as smoking also increase the probability. In some cases, oral piercings are to blame. The jewelry on the piercing may cause abrasion against the gums, causing the tissue to wear out.
While medical treatment is available for those for whom gum recession poses health challenges, there are patients who prefer natural home remedies. The advantage of the latter is that the remedies are easily available, and certainly more affordable.
It is important to mention that even though natural home remedies for receding gums are available, gums which have receded extensively may require medical intervention to prevent bacterial infection. At an advanced stage, immediate dental attention may be required; otherwise a receding gums remedy should be good enough to see noticeable results.
Below are some of the most effective home remedies to treat receding gums:
1. Drinking Green Tea:
Time Required: 5 min
What You Need: Green tea
Difficulty: Easy
Green Tea has numerous health benefits for the body, so it is not surprising that it is also beneficial for receding gums. This is because it has a high concentration of antioxidants that keep diseases at bay by combating the action of free radicals. Additionally, Green Tea has catechins. Catechins are an important antioxidant effective in managing periodontal and gum diseases. When used as a receding gums treatment, green tea helps bond the gums and teeth thus preventing it from receding. The anti-inflammatory properties also aid in reducing redness and swelling, thus speeding the process of healing.
Directions:
Prepare a cup of green tea daily and enjoy the benefits of this refreshing tea.
2. Oil Pulling:
Time Required: 5 min
What You Need: Sesame oil or virgin coconut oil.
Difficulty: Easy
Oil pulling has long been used as an effective natural remedy for a myriad of oral conditions. Popular for its efficiency in healing cavities, oil pulling is a simple method that works just as well for receding gum lines. Sesame oil used with this technique is loved for its ability to eliminate toxins from the oral cavity, thus preventing the formation of plaque. By creating a sheer coat on the surface of your teeth, the oil not only prevents gums from receding, it also enables the reversal of the condition (in acute cases) over a period of time.
Virgin coconut oil can also be used in the oil pulling technique for its super antimicrobial traits. The presence of Vitamin E in coconut oil also makes the oil an excellent antioxidant. Lauric Acid, one of the active ingredients in coconut oil also has great antibacterial properties that prevent the proliferation of bacteria in the oral cavity. The choice of either coconut or sesame oil makes for a great home remedy for receding gums.
Directions:
Place any of the oils in a hot bath to warm. Avoid heating the oil directly as this reduces its integrity.
Carry out your usual brushing routine and take some of the warmed sesame oil in the mouth.
Swish the oil in your mouth, taking care not to swallow the oil-saliva mixture.
Since this may need some getting used to, you could do with the technique for a minute at the start, then work your way upwards so that as you are more confident of swirling oil in your mouth, you can easily manage 10 minutes.
Spit the oil-saliva mixture in the bin and rinse with mouthwash. This home remedy can be used daily.
3. Aloe Vera:
Time Required: 5 min
What You Need: Fresh gel from the Aloe Vera plant.
Difficulty: Easy
Aloe Vera is perhaps the most popular home remedy, thanks to its excellent antibacterial and anti inflammatory properties. Aloe is helpful in preventing gum infections by getting rid of bacterial population in the oral cavity, thus promoting the healing process.
Directions:
Make a fresh cut on the Aloe plant, and squeeze the plant’s gel on your toothbrush.
Brush as you would normally, before rinsing with warm water.
Alternatively, clean your hands and squeeze some of the Aloe gel onto your hands. Use this gel to gently rub the gum region for pain relief. Use this remedy daily for improved results.
4. Myrrh:
Time Required: 5 min
What You Need: Resin from the Myrrh Tree, and 1/2 glass of drinking water.
Difficulty: Easy
Resin from the Myrrh tree has been used since ancient civilizations to treat various diseases of the oral cavity. Its properties make it an effective remedy for treating this condition. This resin creates a harsh environment for bacteria in the oral cavity, therefore hastening the healing process of receding gums. The resinous substance also reduces the swelling and redness, making it a great option for reversing receding gums.
Directions:
Crush the Myrrh resin so that you have a granular powder of the compound.
Add some water to the powder and make a consistent paste.
Massage your gums in gentle motions using the paste.
Alternatively, apply the paste on your toothbrush and brush normally. Use this remedy daily for best results.
5. Sage Leaves:
Time Required: 5 min
What You Need: Sage leaves
Difficulty: Easy
Sage leaves are a handy remedy for receding gums, thanks to their tonic properties. They are also superb in the treatment of the gum surfaces as the leaves create a harsh environment for the survival of bacteria in the oral cavity. The concentration of vitamins and minerals also enhances dental health, improving the condition of the gums.
Directions:
Clean the fresh sage leaves and pound them using a pestle and mortar.
Use the crushed leaves to massage your gums in gentle motions, taking care in the affected gum regions.
The other alternative to using freshly pounded sage leaves is making sage tea. Simply strain boiling water through the crushed leaves and allow to cool.
Use the sage tea as gargle for an effective remedy.
6. Clove Oil:
Time Required: 5 min
What You Need: 2 drops of clove oil or fresh cloves.
Difficulty: Easy
Clove oil has been in use for a long time, and has been shown to be particularly helpful for a wide range of oral conditions. The oil is a preferred remedy because of its superb disinfectant properties. As a strong anti-bacterial, the oil ensures that the gums are free from bacteria that cause infections. Add to this clove’s anti-inflammatory properties and it is easy to see why this home remedy is recommended for receding gums.
Directions:
Dab 2 drops of clove oil on your forefinger and apply it to your gums.
Massage gently for about 5 minutes, making sure that the oil is well spread
The other option for using this remedy involves chewing fresh clove after meal times. It is important to chew thoroughly so that the active ingredients within the clove are able to reach every part of the gums. This is best done thrice a day.
NB: It is extremely important to get professional help from a certified doctor if you are using medication that affects blood clotting. This is because clove oil can have adverse effects in such conditions.
7. Eucalyptus Oil:
Time Required: 5 min
What You Need: Eucalyptus oil
Difficulty: Easy
Eucalyptus oil is also a popular option due to its array of properties that include antiseptic, antibacterial and anti-inflammatory among others. These properties not only reduce the receded gum lines, they also offer pain relief and prevent the accumulation of bacteria in the oral cavity, a factor which has been shown to lead to receding gums.
Directions:
Place two drops of eucalyptus oil on your forefinger and massage the gums, slowly and gently. Do this for 5 minutes, ensuring that every surface is covered. This remedy can be used on a daily basis.
8. Changing Your Diet:
Time Required: Varies depending on specific foods as discussed below.
What You Need: Raw fruits and vegetables.
Difficulty: Easy
Diet change is also a typical home remedy for many conditions, simply because for the most part, this is the source of nutrition. Indulging in fresh and clean raw fruits and vegetables constitutes a great form of exercise for teeth. The vigor of chewing not only enhances blood circulation to the gums, it also helps eliminate the accumulation of bacteria in the mouth.
Examples of these fruits include citrus fruits, pears, bananas, pineapples and strawberries. Vegetables on the other hand include kale, broccoli, asparagus and cantaloupe. Leafy vegetables are rich in Vitamin C which has the capacity to promote gum healing, thus reversing acute receding. Foods that contain flavanoids have also been shown to be quite efficient in treating receding gum lines. Ginkgo bilobo is also helpful in this regard as it enhances blood circulation to the gums, speeding up the cure of the same.
Directions:
The process of diet change is largely dependent on the specific food types. As a general guide, it is important to ensure that food is handled in a clean manner, and that the foods are washed well before eating or cooking. Additionally, such a healthy diet ought to be used regularly if receding gums are to improve, and changes noticeable.
While there are natural remedies available, it is important for individuals to understand that proper oral hygiene is the first step to preventing gum diseases and conditions. When this is accompanied by a proper diet and positive lifestyle changes such as reduced smoking, drinking adequate amounts of water and regular dental checkups, you will be well on your way to preventing your gum lines from receding.
Infected gums however require medical attention at the dentist, so look out for the specific state of your gums before embarking on the natural remedies. Overall, being keen on one’s dental state is enough to be able to pinpoint when your gum health starts to falter, and therefore the ideal time to start on natural remedies.
Related Articles:
Finding The Best Home Remedy For Toothache
Best Natural Home Remedies For Bad Breath (Halitosis)
Best Home Remedies For Sensitive Teeth
Stay Connected With Us
Popular
Recent
Comments
Copyright © 2019 Pick a Remedy