Looking for Morphine Addiction Treatment? - CALL TODAY!
Welcome
Mission Statement
Staff
Our Facility
Facility
Gallery
Our Program
Treatment
Addiction Treatment
Affordable Drug Rehab
Alcohol Rehab
Ambien Addiction
Ambien Rehab
Barbiturate Addiction
Cocaine Addiction
Cocaine Rehab
Crystal Meth Addiction
Crystal Meth Rehab
Designer Drug Addiction
Designer Drug Rehab
Drug Addiction
Drug Rehab
GHB Addiction
Heroin Addiction
Heroin Rehab
Marriage Counseling and Drug Addiction
LSD Addiction
Marijuana Addiction
Marijuana Rehab
Methadone Addiction
Morphine Addiction
Opiate Addiction
Opiate Rehab
OxyContin Addiction
Oxycontin Rehab
Prescription Drug Addiction
Prescription Drug Rehab
Substance Abuse And Suicide
Valium Addiction
Valium Rehab
Vicodin Addiction
Vicodin Rehab
Xanax Addiction
Xanax Rehab
Detoxification
Insurance
Contact Us
Blog
Morphine Addiction
At PVRC’s Morphine Addiction Rehab, we find it helpful to the recovery process to let our clients know as much as possible about morphine. Morphine is a member of the opioid family of drugs, which is most commonly prescribed by physicians to help manage moderate to severe pain in patients who are suffering from chronic illnesses such as cancer. But, of course, there are also those who use the drug purely on a recreational level. Morphine and other opioids act by attaching to specific proteins called opioid receptors, which are found in the brain, spinal cord, and gastrointestinal tract. When these compounds attach to certain opioid receptors in the brain and spinal cord, they can effectively change the way a person experiences pain. Morphine affects regions of the brain that mediate what we perceive as pleasure, resulting in initial feelings of euphoria. Morphine can also produce drowsiness, constipation, and, depending upon the amount taken, depress breathing.
Morphine Addiction Symptoms at PVRC
As time goes on, a person who continues to take morphine develops a tolerance, requiring increasingly higher doses to achieve the same effect. Along with an increased tolerance, the user will also become physically and psychologically reliant on morphine. Once an individual becomes addicted to morphine, the drug is then needed to avoid serious withdrawal. Some withdrawal symptoms include sweats, chills, muscle aches, diarrhea, vomiting/nausea, high blood pressure, fatigue, restless leg syndrome (leg aches), insomnia, severe depression, heightened sensitivity to pain, dysphoria, and muscle spasms. They generally last for 5-10 days, with some symptoms lasting longer (insomnia, depression, fatigue). Long-term effects resulting from opiate abuse include: bacterial infection, arthritis, contracting an infectious disease like HIV/AIDS or Hepatitis C due to needle sharing, kidney disease, liver disease, cell death in vital organs, brain damage, and ultimately death. Scientists have also identified a biochemical trigger within morphine that sets off a chain reaction which inhibits an immune cell vital in fighting viruses and cancer. To learn more about the inhibition of immune cells, please visit http://www.drugabuse.gov/news-events/nida-notes/2008/06/morphine-induced-immunosuppression-brain-to-spleen.
Morphine Addiction Rehab at PVRC
Treating morphine addiction is most successful when done on an inpatient basis and started before the withdrawal symptoms begin. If begun early enough, the withdrawal symptoms may be avoided entirely, or at the very least, reduced to a manageable level of only mild discomfort. Treatment of the type we provide at PVRC consists of two main stages. The first stage is morphine detoxification. During the detox period, the drug is flushed from the user’s body, removing the body’s physical dependence on it in the process. The next stage consists of treating the psychological aspects of the morphine addiction. Treatment programs generally include educational and therapy sessions focused on getting sober and preventing relapse. Individual or family counseling with a psychologist, psychiatrist or addiction counselor may help you resist the temptation to resume using addicting drug. Twelve-Step programs such as Alcoholics Anonymous and Narcotics Anonymous are also necessary to help attain long-term sobriety and prevent future relapse. If you are suffering from morphine addiction, your recovery can begin today. Contact one of our admissions specialists at 866-737-4962 to find out if PVRC’s morphine addiction rehab is the right program for you.
Categories
Alternative Treatments
Designer Drugs
Drug Treatment Center
Heroin
Marijuana
Prescription Drugs
Santa Monica
Treatment Plans
Archives
December 2014
November 2014
April 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
October 2013
July 2013
June 2013
Calendar
April 2019
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Dec
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30
Meta
Log in
Entries (RSS)
Welcome
Mission Statement
Staff
Our Facility
Our Program
Insurance
Contact Us
Blog