Full Moon And 14 Other Crazy Pregnancy Old Wives Tales | BabyGaga
www.babygaga.com
Categories
news
Incredible
What?
Pregnancy
More
Did You Know…
Baby Names
Videos
BG Resources
Follow Us
More
Write For Us
Home
Contact Us
Terms
Privacy
Copyright
BG Resources
About Us
Press Kit
Full Moon And 14 Other Crazy Pregnancy Old Wives Tales
by Tabitha Steffes
– on Jan 12, 2017
in Pregnancy
Is it possible to predict when the baby will arrive, based on the moon? Answers to questions like this will get thrown at you the instant the pregnancy is announced. Once word gets out about the expected arrival, you will get to hear all the old wives tales, theories, and myths that friends and family members will bombard you with. They will claim to have ways that reveal everything from the sex of the baby to when exactly your baby will arrive.
These stories have been around since ancient times, and have been passed down from generation to generation. Some are so far-fetched, that you wonder how anyone can believe them, but some might actually have some truth to them. So how are you supposed to know what is fact and what is fiction? We attempt to shed some light on some of the craziest pregnancy prediction claims. Find out for sure what is make-believe, and what is actually true. The answers may surprise you. As always, if you have any questions about what is happening to you or your growing baby, be sure to contact your doctor or midwife. They can provide you with the advice that is most beneficial to you and your situation.
We’ve compiled 15 of our favorite crazy pregnancy old wives tales for you to indulge in. Find out for sure if what your grandmother told you is true or not. You may even be relieved to read the final one!
Continue scrolling to keep reading
Click the button below to start this article in quick view
Start Now
Share
Tweet
Comment Email
Copy Link Copied
15 A Full Moon Will Put You Into Labor
A full moon is believed to be the cause of many things. We claim it can bring us good luck, turn people into werewolves, and even make people go crazy. For many years, we have all heard the old wives’ tale that if there is a full moon out, expect a lot of babies to be born. The claim is that the moon’s gravitation affect can cause a mom’s water to break. Many baby nurses swear by it, even going as far as to stock up and prepare for busy nights when the moon is full.
The truth is, there is no connection between a full moon and an increase in deliveries. In fact, a physicist and astronomer by the name of Daniel Caton published a study in 2001 to disprove this theory entirely. His research included about 70 million U.S. births over a twenty-year period. He was unable to find any truth to the idea that more babies will make their appearance on the night of a full moon. Studies dating back as early as the 1950s have also been unable to find any truth to the old wives tale.
What you can count on, is that most babies will arrive within 2 weeks of their estimated due date.
14 Heartburn Causes Hairy Babies
Have you ever been told that if you have a lot of heartburn, your baby will be born with a head full of hair? Surprisingly there is some truth to this predictor. Researchers at the well know John Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland, had a study published in Birth that stated there is a connection between the amount of hair a newborn has at birth, and the severity of its mother’s heartburn during pregnancy. The reason is that while pregnant, women produce higher levels of estrogen and progesterone, both hormones that stimulate fetal hair growth. These same hormones also relax the esophagus, allowing stomach acid to creep back up, causing heartburn.
Heartburn usually strikes in the third trimester, although it can arrive earlier. The good news is as soon as the baby is born, most heartburn disappears completely. Until that happens though, you can help curb the pain by talking to your physician about using over-the-counter medications such as Tums. You can also try avoiding spicy foods and foods with citric acids, both of which are known to cause gastric reflux.
13 Girls Steal Their Mother's Beauty
Per this crazy myth, if during your pregnancy, you have people telling you how beautiful you are, and how you are just glowing, you can be sure to thank the baby boy growing inside of you. This is because, of course, baby girls drain all the beauty from their moms. This highly untrue prediction was probably started to explain the acne that many moms get during pregnancy.
The truth is that expecting moms become exhausted by morning sickness, changing hormone levels, and an ever-expanding belly. They often get plagued by acne and stretch marks, and sometimes even spider veins. These things, in no way, have anything to do with the gender of the baby she is carrying.
So, ignore this highly chauvinistic myth and enjoy every stage of your pregnancy. You are creating life, and for that reason alone, are absolutely beautiful!
12 A Ring And A String Can Predict Boy Or Girl
This gender prediction trick has been used for years. You basically tie your wedding ring to a string and hang it over your belly. If it swings in a circle, you are having a girl. If it swings back and forth, you are having a boy. There are different variations to the test. Some moms like to use a strand of hair instead of a string. Some hang the ring over their wrist instead of belly.
A problem with this test, is you may subconsciously make the string move in the direction which will produce the results you are hoping for.
Whichever way you choose to try, this gender test is harmless and fun. The results aren’t accurate, and are only as good as your best guess. Bottom line is you can do this for entertainment, but don’t base your nursery theme on the results.
11 Can't Get Pregnant While Breastfeeding
I'm sure you can find people within your own circle that will introduce the child they conceived while breastfeeding. The theory that you can’t get pregnant while breastfeeding is entirely FALSE! Even if you are have not gotten your period back yet while still breastfeeding, you can absolutely get pregnant.
Many breastfeeding mommies experience lactation amenorrhea which simply means they have no period. They can still be ovulating, resulting in a sibling for their child much sooner than they had planned on.
There are other signs, besides a menstrual cycle, that can tell you that your fertility has returned. You may only receive small amounts of brown discharge instead of the normal bright red blood during your cycle. You might also notice an increase in vaginal discharge during ovulation. Thin, stretchy mucous generally signals a woman's fertile time, and you may also want to keep track of your temperature, as your bodies temp rises during ovulation. If you don't want another baby so soon, take control of your fertility by talking to you doctor about using contraceptives. They can help you decide which form is the best for you and your lifestyle.
10 Carrying High Or Low Determines Gender
The myth states that if you carry high, it's a girl, and low means you should plan on buying blue. And it is absolutely true...fifty percent of the time. In reality, if you are carrying high, it probably just means that this is your first pregnancy. The muscles that hold your uterus high above the pelvis stretch with each pregnancy, allowing the baby to hang lower each time you carry. This is also the reason you may show earlier with subsequent pregnancies. How you carry the baby has just as much to do with genetics as well. It's extremely possible you will carry the exact same way your mother did regardless of the gender of the baby in your belly.
Carrying high or low has more o do with the position of the uterus. If a mom is carrying high, then the baby is sitting right up under her breasts. Usually first time moms, younger moms, or moms who are very fit carry high. This is because her abdominal muscles are much tighter. Carrying low means, she is carrying the baby bump closer to her pelvis. The older a woman is, or one who has had previous pregnancies, tend to have looser abdominal muscles, resulting in babies sitting lower in their pelvis.
9 Natural Deliveries After Cesarean Sections Are Risky
Not that long ago, doctors worried that a woman's scar from a C-section incision might cause uterine rupture, endangering mom and baby's lives, so they wouldn’t allow vaginal deliveries after previously having a cesarean. While a C-section incision scar is more likely to give way during a VBAC (vaginal birth after Cesarean), the risk is low. If it does happen to rupture, a C-section is performed right away. However, because of this risk, some hospitals and insurance companies began to restrict VBAC's. Fortunately, the guidelines for VBAC were revised in 2010 by the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. They determined that VBAC's are in fact safe for most women.
If you want to attempt a vaginal birth after cesarean, it is vital that you talk with your health care provider before going into labor. They can discuss the factors that might affect your chances of having a successful VBACs. They can also go over the risks, and help you determine what is best for you and your unborn child.
8 Eat Vegetables So The Baby Will Like Them
There is some truth in this pregnancy predictor. Your baby begins swallowing in the second trimester, and the foods you eat flavor the amniotic fluid that they are drinking. Babies are born to love sweet things, but science shows that growing children develop a preference to vegetables when they are exposed to them in utero. Fetuses begin using their senses of taste and smell around 21 weeks. Amniotic fluid is their first "food" that contains chemicals that have taste and smell. Babies will become familiar with the flavors, as the fond memories of them are created before leaving the womb.
Eating fruits and vegetables during pregnancy not only provides essential vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants, but it also promotes a lifetime of healthy eating for mom and baby. You can set an example of good choices, even while your baby is growing inside of you.
if you can't seem to stomach more than dry crackers during most of your pregnancy, don't worry. You can still shape your child's appetite for vegetables when they are out of the womb. Offer healthy choices, introduce new foods, and make exercise a priority to guide your child towards a healthy lifestyle.
7 Intercourse Can Induce Labor
Sex - it's what got you into being pregnant, but can it also get you out of it?
By the end of your pregnancy, you are often feeling huge, tired, and ready to be done being pregnant. You may even google ways to induce labor to get the ball rolling faster. Some sites and doctors alike often suggest inducing labor by having sex. Men’s sperm contains prostaglandins, which are hormones like the medications used to induce labor. these prostaglandins stimulate the cervix and can lead to contractions. orgasms can also cause uterine contractions, as can nipple stimulation.
Having sex may not sound too exciting at the end of your third trimester, and is easier said than done. Try different positions such as spooning, or lying at the foot of the bed while your partner stands in front of you. Having sex benefits you in other ways too, such as lowered blood pressure, improved sleep, a boost in happiness, and increased intimacy with your partner.
Sex is safe as long as your water hasn't broken. If that happens, sex increases the risk of infection. Also, avoid it if you have a low-lying placenta or have experienced vaginal bleeding. If you are unsure ask your doctor.
6 Prevent Stretch Marks With Cocoa Butter
Stretch marks appear when the skin stretches, which usually happens during pregnancy or when you quickly gain weight. Your body is growing faster than your skin can keep up. The middle layers of your skin have little elastic fibers, which break resulting in stretch marks. They are often found on your belly, breasts, thighs, buttocks, and upper arms. These marks are a form of a scar, and like all scars, they cannot be removed completely. There isn't any cream that can prevent stretch marks, including cocoa butter. Stretch marks are often determined by genes, and by how much a women's skin can stretch. And over 90 percent of women will get them at some point during her pregnancy. Cocoa butter doesn't absorb deeply enough to affect stretch marks.
Stretch marks start out looking red or purple, but begin to fade over time to a white or gray color. Make sure you are drinking plenty of water to keep your skin hydrated. You can also use a lotion with Vitamin E to keep your skin looking smoother, and ease the itchiness. There are solutions to reducing stretch marks that a dermatologist can prescribe. Most of these solutions are not safe while pregnant or breastfeeding though, so it is best to wait. Time, patience, and acceptance are the best solutions to dealing with stretch marks.
5 Don't Fly While Pregnant
The first trimester has your body going through many changes. You may be plagued with morning sickness, fatigue, weird food cravings, and swollen feet or hands. Even with all of these changes, most doctors don’t prohibit you from flying during this time. It just may not be that appealing to fly while you are already feeling miserable.
Most doctors will advise you to try to do your traveling during the second trimester. Your energy levels are up, morning sickness has passed, and you generally feel your best.
While flying during your third trimester isn’t necessarily prohibited, it is often discouraged. OB’s want their patients to be close to home as their due date approaches, so they aren’t stuck delivering in a strange place with an unfamiliar doctor.
If you do need to fly during your third trimester, be sure to okay it with your physician first. Many airlines also require a doctor’s note to verify that it is safe to travel. Keep a copy of your prenatal records. If you do need to visit another doctor while traveling, it will be helpful to have a record of things like your blood work, ultrasounds, and blood pressure history.
You can help make the flight easier on yourself during all trimesters by keeping sick bags near, bringing snacks that help settle your stomach, wearing comfortable clothing, and moving around frequently.
4 Do Not Dye Hair During Pregnancy
The research is fairly limited, but it indicates that hair dyes are not highly toxic and are safe to use during pregnancy. If you color your own hair, be sure to follow the directions on the package carefully, and wear gloves while applying. Keep the area well ventilated and rinse your scalp thoroughly after use. Highlights are often a better choice to avoid having the chemicals directly touch your scalp. When using a salon, try getting the earliest appointment to minimize exposure to chemicals in the room.
You may want to wait to color your hair until you reach your second trimester. Hair dyes are chemical substances, and even though very little of it gets absorbed into your system, it’s best to wait until after the critical development stages of your baby are complete. Pregnancy hormones are racing through your body during the first trimester, resulting in your hair having a different texture than you are used to. If you do decide to color your hair, try a test strand first so you don’t end up with a color you weren’t hoping for.
3 Don't Take A Bath During Pregnancy
When you are feeling exhausted, sick, and achy nothing sounds better than a long soak in a hot tub. But is it safe to do while pregnant? Many people believe that bath water can actually get into the uterus and harm their growing baby. This is untrue, as our baby is protected within an amniotic sac, and no bath water can enter in. So, unless your water has broken, it safe to take a bath while pregnant as long as you follow this advice:
Do not soak in water that is hot enough to raiser your body temperature above 102.2 degrees. Having a body temperature that high for longer than ten minutes can cause a drop of blood pressure, which can deprive your baby of oxygen and nutrients. It can cause you to become dizzy, and can cause birth defects. Hot tubs, saunas, and even very hot baths are not safe during pregnancy. Also, be sure to be extremely careful getting in and out of the tub to avoid any falls.
2 Lifting Your Arms Up Will Tangle The Umbilical Cord
Another popular, but crazy, pregnancy old wives tale is the claim that if a pregnant woman raises her arms up in the air, the umbilical cord will knot or wrap around the baby’s neck, legs, or arms This is a false claim. Your actions do not influence what happens to the umbilical cord. It’s your baby’s actions in the womb that can affect the cord. A very active baby can become entangled in the umbilical cord, especially if it is very long. There is nothing you can do to prevent it, but doctors will keep an eye on it through ultrasounds and wellness checkups. If the umbilical cord is wrapped around the baby’s neck during delivery, the doctor can flip a finger under the cord, and lift in back over the baby’s head. It’s more common than you think, and not something you should stress over.
1 Drinking Coffee Will Harm The Baby
You have a lifetime habit of waking up to a cup of hot steaming coffee, but think you must give it up while pregnant? Think again! You can keep on enjoying your cup of java; you just need to limit the amount your drink. Try having a two-cup limit, to avoid too much caffeine. Caffeine is a stimulate and can cross the placenta to your baby. Too much caffeine can keep you and baby awake, cause birth defects, preterm delivery, and can even cause miscarriages.
Caffeine is found in other substances such as tea, soda, and chocolate so keep in mind the amount of caffeine you ingest during the day along with your daily dose of coffee.
Sources: WebMD, Baby Center, Mayo Clinic, The Bump
Share
Tweet
Comment Email
Copy Link Copied
Leave A Comment
More in Pregnancy
20 Things Doctors Don’t Tell Soon-To-Be Dads About Labor
10 Postpartum Tricks To Help Recovery
10 Reasons Being Super Pregnant In The Summer Is Amazing (And 10 That Make It Hazardous)
20 Pics Of The Kardashians Right Before They Were About To Pop
Newly Pregnant Women Should Avoid Doing 20 Of These 25 Things In The First Trimester
Gyno's POV: 20 Reasons They'll Put Pregnant Moms On Bed Rest
10 Self Care Tips Every New Mom Must Know
20 Physical Signs The Baby Wants To Come Out Now
20 Photos Of Carrie Underwood Pregnant (That Mike Fisher's Obsessed With)
Trending
20 Pics Of Mariah Carey Before She Became A Mom
WOW!
Living Amish: 20 Ways They're Raising Their Kids Differently
Did You Know...
20 Surprising Things Moms Can't Do The First 6 Weeks With The Baby
Did You Know...
20 Parenting Styles We'd Only See From The Spears Sisters
Did You Know...
20 Revealing Details About Courteney Cox And David Arquette's Marriage
Did You Know...
What Most People Don't Know About Mom Farrah Abraham (20 Facts & Pics)
Did You Know...
Trending Now
20 Common Things New Moms Opt Out Of (That Pediatricians Say They Shouldn't)
10 Years Later: What The Girls From 'Toddlers & Tiaras' Look Like Today
20 Things Pregnant Women Shouldn't Do In The Summer
Write For Us
Home
Contact Us
Terms
Privacy
Copyright
BG Resources
About Us
Press Kit
Follow Babygaga on Facebook Follow Babygaga on Instagram Follow Babygaga on Twitter
Explore Our Brands
Our Brands
Copyright © 2019 BabyGaga.com
Unique lists featuring pop culture, entertainment and crazy facts. Covering the hottest movie and TV topics that fans want. The most LOL-worthy things the Internet has to offer. A fresh take on sports: the biggest news and most entertaining lists. The only place to satisfy all of your guilty pleasures. The go-to source for comic book and superhero movie fans. Pregnancy and parenting news, given to you in a way nobody else has. The Most Entertaining Quiz Site In The World. The World's Most Entertaining Car Website A one-stop shop for all things video games. Website for moms seeking advice, community, and entertainment. Simply the World’s Most Interesting Travel Site.