Open Petition - FTC - Obesity, Death From Aspartame
Back to...
GET VISIBLE! Advertise Here. Find Out More
Share Our Stories! - Click Here
Open Petition - FTC - Obesity, Death From Aspartame
By Dr. Betty Martini, D.Hum
12-30-16
Petition To Federal Trade Commission
For years scientific peer reviewed studies have shown without a shadow of a doubt aspartame makes you fat. Even in the congressional record Dr. Richard Wurtman admitted that it makes you crave carbohydrates so you gain weight. Dr. Sandra Cabot went into specific detail.
http://www.mpwhi.com/aspartame_makes_you_fatter.htm
In 2005 Dr. Sharon Fowler's study showed aspartame makes you gain weight. http://www.wnho.net/new_aspartame_studies.htm
Day after day more studies and articles come in. Here's a new study on aspartame and weight gain with this article today: https://www.oliveoiltimes.com/olive-oil-health-news/aspartame-guilty-time-weight-gain/54153
In 2015, "US Right to Know" people filed a petition because aspartame is labeled "diet" which misleads the public, and is obviously deceptive to anyone researching the subject. The subject is a matter of life and death. In one case, a woman by the name of Kovac died of methanol poisoning which aspartame causes big time. The lady who died used aspartame to lose weight but instead she gained weight.
She couldn't understand why she kept gaining so she decided to use "only" all aspartame products and died. They went after the spouse even though there was no methanol found. Of course, it was in the aspartame products she used. The New York attorney handling the defense was Robert Altchilerlic. Whether the spouse was imprisoned I do not know but you can check with the attorney. See the documentary: "Sweet Misery: A Poisoned World." https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_KjdApUovUw Diane Fleming, a Sunday School teacher has been falsely imprisoned for 15 years because her husband was an aspartame addict.
The methanol in aspartame triggers rosacea and he had so much methanol in his body he was on two rosacea products. Methanol is classified as a narcotic. It causes chronic methanol poisoning which affects the dopamine system of the brain and causes the addiction. Chronic methanol poisoning was also found on his autopsy. The detective on the Fleming case told me before the documentary was made that Diane was innocent and had taken three lie detector tests.
This issue does not end. Here is another case: http://www.rense.com/general74/deatjb.htm
I spoke to Merry Kay who told me while she was in the hospital with acute methanol poisoning she heard a policeman outside her door saying: "When she dies we will go after her husband."
At this point she told the police that her husband had nothing to do with the acute methanol poisoning, she was diabetic and used a lot of aspartame. She fortunately didn't die in the hospital. However, the damage was done and she died 9 months later. No one was charged as now they knew it was aspartame. She was a heavy user of aspartame because she was diabetic. No doubt aspartame has caused the diabetic epidemic as well.
Aspartame not only precipitates diabetes but simulates and aggravates diabetic retinopathy and neuropathy, destroys the optic nerve from the methanol, causes diabetics to go into convulsions and interacts with insulin. The methanol also causes diabetics to lose limbs. ("Aspartame Disease: An Ignored Epidemic" by the late Dr. H. J. Roberts, diabetic specialist and world expert on aspartame"}
Naturally obesity can cause diabetes 2
http://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=39840
Aspartame raises fasting blood sugar
http://www.mpwhi.com/aspartame_confession_at_diabetic_conference.htm
How does methanol get in the blood stream? Dr. James Bowen says: "Only after longer aspartame usage does liver damage cause blood methanol levels to measurably rise because the liver mitochondria are so damaged that the liver no longer quickly processes either methyl or ethyl (drink) alcohol. Then the acute methanol poisoning is directly measurable from lab results, as the blood methanol level elevates.
This entire sequence or "toxic axis" begins with your very first dose of aspartame. Both acute and chronic poisonings from this methanol toxic axis, and other additive and synergistic aspartame poisonings, steadily accumulate in the aspartame consumer. There is an excellent medical text on aspartame and methanol called "While Science Sleeps: A Sweetener Kills" by Dr. Woodrow Monte, www.whilesciencesleeps.com You will notice most texts on aspartame have the word "kill" on the cover like "Excitotoxins: The Taste That Kills" by Dr. Russell Blaylock, www.russellblaylockmd.com
Here is a letter I wrote you in 2005: http://www.wnho.net/stop_murdering_children.htm You did nothing.
With regard to the "Right To Know" petition FTC you declined to probe whether ads for diet products are deceptive based on enforcement priorities and limited resources.
http://www.mcclatchydc.com/news/nation-world/national/article39182577.html
Explain to me what enforcement priorities are more important than obesity, death and betrayal. This is your job and there is nothing more important . This is standard propaganda of the FDA (Fatal Drugs Allowed). It's their modus operandi to postpone important issues, but tomorrow never comes. Are you telling me you've have had more important things to do since 2015 when the petition was filed with FTC? Just exactly what priorities are more important?
If you can't answer this what you are saying is you simply don't want to fight the power of the aspartame industry and are cowards. If you do not have the funds to do your job, than close down the commission so others who won't betray the people will take over. Nine FDA scientists did admit they were broken. They are just an extension today of Big Pharma. What about the FTC?
The last time I wrote you, you had the audacity to refer me to a web site on how to lose weight. I don't use aspartame and at 117 lbs I'm not overweight. The hospital once gave me prescription drugs with aspartame unknowingly and I not only gained a few lbs which I lost when I abstained, but also stopped me from breathing three times and almost cost me my life. Aspartame damages the mitochondria and interacts with drugs and vaccines.
Mission Possible World Health International is petitioning for action on the same issue as the "US Right To Know", deceptive advertising. This open petition is hereby being spread the world over and will continue to alert the public until you are willing to do your job. All independent scientific peer reviewed studies on aspartame and obesity have proven the issue beyond a shadow of a doubt. Only the manufacturers and companies using aspartame for profit would disagree.
Originally, the FDA tried to have the manufacturer indicted for fraud but both US Prosecutors hired on with the defense team and the statute of limitations expired. Aspartame was approved through the political chicanery of Don Rumsfeld. Industry couldn't prove it safe then and it can't do it now. Dr. Ralph Walton's research: http://www.dorway.com/peerrev.html There is a front group known as ILSI that provides research funds. You just have to be willing to say its safe.
I have written you for years and you simply ignore the issue or do something stupid like referring me to a web site on how to lose weight. If you're not part of the solution you are part of the problem. You can't just dismiss the issue because you don't want the responsibility. That's what you are paid to do. You say your principal mission is the promotion of consumer protection and you have shown no willingness in this regard.
Dr. Betty Martini, D.Hum, Founder
Mission Possible World Health Intl
9270 River Club Parkway
Duluth, Georgia 30097
770 242-2599
www.mpwhi.com, www.dorway.com, www.wnho.net, www.holisticmed.comaspartame
Disclaimer
Donate to Rense.com Support Free & Honest Journalism At Rense.com Subscribe To RenseRadio! Enormous Online Archives, MP3s, Streaming Audio Files, Highest Quality Live Programs