Beat the sun with our prescription sunglasses range | Optometrist - Glasses - Spectacles | Greenlane Penrose Optometrist
Home
About
What we do
Contact Lenses
Eyewear
News
Book Now Online
Select Page
Beat the sun with our prescription sunglasses range
by Jenny
Jul 20, 2018
Not only can you look stylishly good, but sunglasses serve as eye disease protection.
Did you know:
UV radiation increases your odds of getting cataracts, or clouding over the lens of one’s eye. This makes the use of sunglasses an important factor for prevention of cataracts.
Glaucoma, a chronic eye condition in which pressure can cause damage to the optic nerve, can make eyes highly sensitive to light. This makes sunglasses a go-to for people who suffer from Glaucoma.
Like glaucoma, people with Macular Degeneration (AMD) are also very sensitive to light. While providing sun protection, sunglasses can also help prevent the acceleration of this disease.
Enjoy the sun throughout the year by following these 3 easy steps:
Step 1: Choose your designer sunglasses from the range.
Step 2: Select your tinted prescription lenses. Single vision from $299, progressive lenses from $529.
Step 3: Optional lens upgrade to polarised plus for $120.
Now available: Kool Kids prescription sunglasses
Prevention now will save your child from vision loss later in life. It’s never too early to teach them good habits!
Choose from brands like Owlet and Lacoste, and complete the look with tinted prescription lenses from $129 to $239. Upgrade to polarised lenses available.
Look good and see well! If you would like to try on a pair of our prescription sunglasses, please don’t hesitate to email Jenny at jenny@gp-optom.co.nz or visit us in the shop.
Featured Posts
Your guide to kids vision
by Jenny | Feb 27, 2019
As a parent, you want to make sure your children are happy, healthy and developing in the best way possible. Being educated about their health is one of the best ways you can support them, and eye health is no exception! To help you care for your little...
How to prevent sun damage to your eyes
by Jenny | Nov 29, 2018
Our tips for keeping your eyes protected this summer With summer upon us, Kiwis are heading outdoors, firing up the BBQ and enjoying the sunny weather. But as the days are getting longer and sun stronger, it’s important to check in with our eye health and...
« Older Entries

Address
Cnr Great South Road & Rockfield Road, Greenlane 1051

Phone
09 525 1516

Hours
Mon to Fri: 9am – 5pm
Sat to Sun: Closed
Holidays: Closed
Facebook
Book an Appointment Now Online
Secure Online Appointments Powered by MyHealth1st
Name
Email Address
Phone Number
Preferred Appointment Date
Message
2 + 6 =
SEND
Facebook
Twitter
Google
RSS
Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress