13 | October | 2012 | Cell Phone Radiation News
Skip to content Skip to main menu
Cell Phone Radiation News
Menu
Mobile menu toggle
Home
ACOUSTIC NEUROMAS
BIOPRO CELL CHIP HOME HARMONIZER
BIOPRO CELL CHIP PREOTECTION
CANCER PROTECTION
CELL PHONE HAZARDS
CELL PHONE RADIATION
CELL PHONES PROTECTION
CELL TOWER DANGERS
CELL TOWER HEALTH
CELL TOWER PROTECTION
CELL TOWER SAFETY
ELECTRICAL HYPERSENSITIVITY
ELECTRICAL SENSITIVITIES
ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION
ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION PROTECTION
EMF PROTECTION DEVICES
HEALTH RISKS
HYPERSENSITIVITY SYMPTOMS
Q LINK PENDANT
Q-LINK BRACELET GOLF
Q-LINK PENDANT AND CELL PHONE RADIATION PROTECTION
Q-LINKS PENDANT PROTECTION
QLINK PENDANT
QLINK PENDANT EMF PROTECTION
QLINK PENDANT REVIEWS
WIFI RADIATION PROTECTION
Home › 2012 › October › 13
Daily Archives: October 13, 2012
Mobile Phone Radiation And Health
Posted on October 13, 2012 by liza sabado	— No Comments ↓
http://www.emfnews.org/store/
Envi Headsets
Home Radiation Protection
From bedraggled beggars on the streets to the suit clad brokers on Wall Street – the ubiquitous cell phone is everywhere, in every pocket irrespective of the rich / poor status of its owners. It is no longer an item of luxury albeit it’s a must have today, a necessary evil. For technology comes with a price and the technology behind mobile phones is sure to make mankind pay a heavy price – the price of health and safety.
The recent furore created in the media worldwide over the possible hazareds of mobile phone radiation has made us sit up and take note of the pros and cons of using the innocent looking mobile handset which had till date so surely and surreptitiously taken over our lives. We have learnt to live with the cacophony of ringtones emanating from every purse and every pocket, it has become a way of life. So much so that we run the risk of going into depression if we do not hear its tinkle. Professionals are dependent on it, parents rely on it to keep a tab on their wards and their whereabouts, stay-at-home moms swear by it for the juicy gossip etc it helps to disseminate and the youth – well it is their life line without which all would come to a standstill. The increasing number of cell phone users is a jawdropping figure and so are the mobile phone towers coming up everywhere to cater to the needs of the various network services. These towers are scattering an invisible net of radiation risking the lives of all and sundry.
What is radiation one may ask. One can define radiation as energy travelling through space in the form of waves or particles. It occurs naturally and has always been around, we’ve evolved with it and we’re bombarded with it in one form or another every day of our lives from various sources such as the earth, from space and even within our own bodies. Some experts suggest a little radiation is a good thing and it is used in medical science to combat and diagnose certain illnesses.
There are different types of radiation but lets concern ourselves with the radiation in mobile phones.The type of radiation emitted from mobile phones is electromagnetic radiation. It’s present in mobiles because they use radio frequency (RF) waves to make and receive calls. The doses are considered to be very small as the emissions are low power (short range). Nevertheless, researchers say that there are ways in which one can reduce exposure to these waves.
Here the important question that arises is how much radiation is safe for us if at all it can be termed safe. Many of us keep our ears glued to the mobile phones 24 X 7 – by compulsion or by choice. How much damage has already been done already? Despite extensive research on the subject, there has been no conclusive evidence that using a mobile phone causes long term harmful effects in humans. Yet there are instances when many have complained of headaches, migraines even cancer due to the extensive use of mobile phones or radiation from mobile towers. The debate is on regarding the validity of such instances.
According to the group of 31 scientists from 14 countries meeting at the World Health Organization’s International Agency for Research on Cancer (WHO/IARC) using a mobile phone may increase your risk for certain kinds of brain cancers.These researchers completed a review of the available scientific evidence on cell-phone radiation and brain tumors. The group, which is working on a research monograph classified cellphones in the carcinogenic category 2B, similar to chemicals like the pesticide DDT and gasoline engine exhaust. In layman’s terms it means cell-phone radiation is “possibly carcinogenic” to human beings. “A review of the human evidence of epidemiological studies shows an increased risk of glioma and malignant types of brain cancer in association with wireless-phone use,” stated Dr. Jonathan Samet, the chairperson of the IARC working group.
Other harm that it can cause apart from the above are the lowering of bone density, causing infertility in men, slightly raised blood pressure at the time of use, direct brain warming after prolonged use, which disperses as soon as you stop using your phone and causes no harm,mild fatigue after prolonged use etc.A recent study in Sweden suggested that acoustic neuromas (benign tumours of the acoustic nerve) are twice as common in mobile phone users than in those who do not use mobiles.
The pace of mobile phone technology is advancing by leaps and bounds luring the consumer with newest developments and technologies but sadly the same is not with the case of researches required into the study of potential harm that they can cause. Other studies have shown no adverse health effects associated with cell-phone use, but many researchers believe those results will change as time passes for future studies would show the long-term effects of cell-phone use by a significant number of people.Despite the mixed research results, many people are increasingly concerned about the possible health effects of frequent, long-term exposure to cell-phone radiation.
More serious and urgent research is needed before we can know for certain the effects they have on human health before the scenario worsens. Will it be too late before we take cumulative steps in this regard.
As for now it is confirm that mobiles do emit low doses of radiation and since we have become aware of it we need to take precautions when using them. Mobile towers are a common sight these days and that too in very close proximity of our living quarters. Is such proximity too close for comfort, probably not. Is the common man on the street aware o the health hazard that these towers are creating putting them at risk of catching unwanted ailments as dangerous as cancer? Certainly not.
As of now the health risk is considered to be very, very small, although some individuals may be more susceptible to radiation than others. Whilst it’s true that excessive exposure to RF waves causes heating, the rumours that claim about being able to cook an egg using a mobile phone are entirely false.
In December 2007, Israeli researchers reported in the American Journal of Epidemiology that long-term cell-phone users who live in rural areas face a “”consistently elevated risk”” of developing tumors in the parotid gland compared with users who live in urban or suburban locations. The parotid gland is a salivary gland located just below a person’s ear.
And in January 2008, the French Health Ministry issued a warning against excessive cell phone use, especially by children, despite the lack of conclusive scientific evidence linking cell-phone use with cancer or other serious health effects. In a public statement, the ministry said: “”As the hypothesis of a risk cannot be entirely excluded, precaution is justified.””
The common man on the street who are exposed to such radiation day in and day out is mostly unaware of the possible dangers of mobile usage. In such a situation we need to generate awareness and educate everyone on the safety measures that is to be taken to keep disasters in abeyance. Children especially should never be allowed to come in contact with the danger emitting gadget as their developing brains and bodies are far more susceptible to radiation effects than adults, absorbing radiation at three times an adult’s rate. Moving your phone 20cm away from your head reduces radiation doses by about 98%. Use hands free headsets which dramatically reduce radiation emissions into the brain, indulge in short chats. There are certain devices available in the market that you can fit to your phone that reduce the emissions of radiation or allow the body to neutralise the effects, but beware of over-hyped promotions by these manufacturers using scare tactics to market their products.
Putting your cell phone on speaker mode, using a wireless Bluetooth headset or earpiece, which emit radiation at far lower levels than cell phones, carry your cell phone away from your body—in a purse, briefcase or computer bag—instead of your pocket where it is pressed up against you. Send text messages as then you hold your phone away from your body, and far away from your head, which reduces your exposure to radiation.
When your cell phone has a weak signal, it has to work harder to transmit and receive, and that equals higher bursts of radiation. You face the same problem when you are moving quickly—riding in a car, bus or train, for example—because your cell phone is forced to repeatedly emit new bursts of radiation as it connects to different cell towers along your route. Therefore finish your conversation by staying put at the area where the signal is strongest.Most cell phones emit the most radiation when they first connect with the cell tower. One way to reduce your exposure to cell-phone radiation is to wait until your call has been connected before you put the phone to your ear. These are simple ways that is in our means to avoid radiation to some extent.
The world is waking up to the monster i.e, mobile phone radiation but is our country getting any wiser? India is said to have the worst cellular tower radiation norms in the world. However, steps has been taken and new guidelines are being implemented to curb the hazards. According to new rules cellular towers will have to reduce the amount of radiation they emit to 1/10th of the current level. But the picture seems bleak as given that most countries in the world have radiation levels 1000 to 10,000 times lesser than India.
An IIT Bombay study done two years ago concluded that people living within 10 meters of cell phone towers receive 10,000 to 1 crore times more radiation than required for mobile signal strength. With the government ordering radiation from cell phone towers to be cut down to 1/10th of the existing level, will this be sufficient to prevent health hazards?
HOD Electrical Engineering, IIT Bombay, Professor Girish Kumar said, “”It should have been reduced 1 by 1000 to even 1 by 10,000 because the health problems happen at even 1 by 10,000 level. Health problems do happen in 5 to 7 years, at 1 by 1000. So we have to take a strict health based guidelines not convenience based guidelines.””
Current radiation limit in India is so high that within two years, the health of one crore Indians could be affected, IIT Bombay research found. Clearly even with these new guidelines, the Indians are not in the safe zone. Most countries in world have 1/100th to 1/1000th permissible levels of mobile tower radiation.
Statistics reveal that people of our country is at a high risk of sustaining damages due to being exposed to radiation by mobile phones and we are in a catch 22 situation even after the so called new norms. But being a third world country probaly our lives are not as precious as those of developed countries. What do we do now? Should we hit the streets demanding protection and safety from the labyrinth of mobile phones or should we take a backward leap and switch to the landline era of phones discarding the technologically advanced but dangerous cell phones? For as far as health is concerned I presume it is better to be safe than sorry.
Libya, Tripoli
Iran, Teheran,
Cuba, Havana,
Croatia, Zagreb
Laos, Vientiane,
Pakistan, Islamabad,
Albury, Australia
Solomon Islands, Honiara
El Salvador, San Salvador
Russian Federation, Moscow City
Q-Link Pendant Review
Trifield Meter Ghosts
Click on any of the pictures below
to learn more
Anti-Radiation Air-tube Headset
Q-Link Products
EMF Harmonization Products
Tagged with Appliances, Cell phone danger, Cell phone frequencies, cell phone health, cell phone health hazards, cell phone health risk, cell phone radiation, Cell Phone Radiation Danger, Cell Phone Radiation Exposure, cell phone radiation health, cell phone radiation protection, cell phone radiation studies, Cell Phone Safety, cell phone tower health risks, cell phones and cancer, cell phones and health risks, Cell phones Cancer, cell phones cause cancer, Cell-Phones Health Risks, cellular phone radiation, cordless phones brain cancer, cordless phones brain tumors, cordless phones danger, cordless phones ghz, cordless phones harmful, cordless phones radiation, cordless phones safe, dect cordless phones, dect safety, Electrical hypersensitivity, Electrical Sensitivity, Electrohypersensitivity, electromagnetic electrical radiation, Electromagnetic energy, Electromagnetic Fields, Electromagnetic Frequencies, Electromagnetic Radiation, electromagnetic radiation danger, electromagnetic radiation emission, electromagnetic radiation health effects, electromagnetic radiation phones, Electromagnetic Radiation Protection, Electronic device, Electropollution, ELF radiating devices, emf, emf protector, emf radiation, emf radiation detector, emf radiation effects, emf shielding, EMFields, EMR exposure, EMR safety, Extremely low frequency, headset cordless phones, Health Risks Cell Phones, health risks of cell phones, Highest Radiation Phones, Hypersensitivity, Interior electric wiring, Lowest Radiation Phones, Microwave energy, Microwave exposure, Microwave radiation, Microwave Radiation Protection, Microwave transmitter, mobile phone radiation, mobile phone radiation shield, Personal protection, Phones radiofrequency emissions, Power Lines, powerful EMF protection, radiation cordless phones, radiation from cell phones, Radiation safety tips, Radiation Shielding Devices, Radiofrequency, Radiofrequency emissions, RADIOFREQUENCY RADIATION, Safer headset technology, Wi-fi internet cancer, Wireless device, Wireless devices, Wireless Internet networks, Wireless phone radiation, Wireless phones, wireless radiation
Cell Tower Radiation Effecting Health of Children
Posted on October 13, 2012 by liza sabado	— No Comments ↓
http://www.emfnews.org/headset.html
Radiation Detection Meters
Cell Phone Radiation Protection
Having mobile towers in your neighborhood can also pose health problems like severe headache, sleep disturbance, constant body pain, memory problems, joint pains etc. The more severe health effects noted include infertility, miscarriage, neurodegenerative disorders (Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, etc.), heart problems and cancer.
Children are more vulnerable due to a developing immune system and thinner skulls which allows radiation to penetrate deeper. Women run the risk of health problems like hormonal imbalances and miscarriages as they tend to spend more time at home and are exposed continuously.
There are several national and international studies where scientists have found a strong correlation between health problems and exposure to microwaves from mobile phones and mobile towers.
Till 2009, the Indian government had not adopted any standards for safe exposure from mobile phone and mobile towers. In 2009, India adopted radiation norms specified by ICNIRP (International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection) guidelines of 1998. However, ICNIRP guideline is outdated as it is only intended to protect the public against short term gross heating effects and NOT against ‘biological’ effects such as cancer and genetic damage from long term exposure. Also these safety standards are based on 6 minutes per day exposure, without accounting for people who live close to cell towers 24/7.
In Jan 2011, the report by Inter – Ministerial Committee mentioned several health hazards at levels thousand to ten thousand times below the ICNIRP standards and made recommendations to reduce the exposure to 1/10th of what ICNIRP had earlier recommended. However, even that has not been implemented yet.
There are several epidemiological studies done in various countries, such as, Germany, Austria, Brazil, Israel, etc. where they have reported increase in cancer cases in 5 to 10 years, where radiation level was more than 1 mW/m2. Cancer is the last stage and before that people living close to mobile phone towers have reported sleep disturbance, headaches, memory loss, lack of concentration, fatigue, joint pains, vision distortion, miscarriage, heart problems, etc. There are cluster of cancer cases in India also, which occurred after a few years of installation of mobile towers, and where radiation levels were around 10 mW/ m2.
Lots of other benefits of reducing the power – cooling of the amplifier will not be required, and then it may not require Air conditioner. Total power requirement will be reduced, so Diesel Generator is not required and solar panel can meet this requirement. Operators can claim carbon credit and it truly leads to Green Telecom.
Maldives, Male
Palestinian State
Cape Verde, Praia,
Yonkers, New York
Brazil, Brasilia,
Uruguay, Montevideo
Slovenia, Lujblijana,
Victorville, California
City of Ryde, Australia,
Congo, Democratic Republic of the Kinshasa
Air Tube Headsets
Magnetic Field Meters
Click on any of the pictures below
to learn more
Anti-Radiation Air-tube Headset
Q-Link Products
EMF Harmonization Products
Tagged with Appliances, Cell phone danger, Cell phone frequencies, cell phone health, cell phone health hazards, cell phone health risk, cell phone radiation, Cell Phone Radiation Danger, Cell Phone Radiation Exposure, cell phone radiation health, cell phone radiation protection, cell phone radiation studies, Cell Phone Safety, cell phone tower health risks, cell phones and cancer, cell phones and health risks, Cell phones Cancer, cell phones cause cancer, Cell-Phones Health Risks, cellular phone radiation, cordless phones brain cancer, cordless phones brain tumors, cordless phones danger, cordless phones ghz, cordless phones harmful, cordless phones radiation, cordless phones safe, dect cordless phones, dect safety, Electrical hypersensitivity, Electrical Sensitivity, Electrohypersensitivity, electromagnetic electrical radiation, Electromagnetic energy, Electromagnetic Fields, Electromagnetic Frequencies, Electromagnetic Radiation, electromagnetic radiation danger, electromagnetic radiation emission, electromagnetic radiation health effects, electromagnetic radiation phones, Electromagnetic Radiation Protection, Electronic device, Electropollution, ELF radiating devices, emf, emf protector, emf radiation, emf radiation detector, emf radiation effects, emf shielding, EMFields, EMR exposure, EMR safety, Extremely low frequency, headset cordless phones, Health Risks Cell Phones, health risks of cell phones, Highest Radiation Phones, Hypersensitivity, Interior electric wiring, Lowest Radiation Phones, Microwave energy, Microwave exposure, Microwave radiation, Microwave Radiation Protection, Microwave transmitter, mobile phone radiation, mobile phone radiation shield, Personal protection, Phones radiofrequency emissions, Power Lines, powerful EMF protection, radiation cordless phones, radiation from cell phones, Radiation safety tips, Radiation Shielding Devices, Radiofrequency, Radiofrequency emissions, RADIOFREQUENCY RADIATION, Safer headset technology, Wi-fi internet cancer, Wireless device, Wireless devices, Wireless Internet networks, Wireless phone radiation, Wireless phones, wireless radiation
Pages
ACOUSTIC NEUROMAS
BIOPRO CELL CHIP HOME HARMONIZER
BIOPRO CELL CHIP PREOTECTION
CANCER PROTECTION
CELL PHONE HAZARDS
CELL PHONE RADIATION
CELL PHONES PROTECTION
CELL TOWER DANGERS
CELL TOWER HEALTH
CELL TOWER PROTECTION
CELL TOWER SAFETY
ELECTRICAL HYPERSENSITIVITY
ELECTRICAL SENSITIVITIES
ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION
ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION PROTECTION
EMF PROTECTION DEVICES
HEALTH RISKS
HYPERSENSITIVITY SYMPTOMS
Q LINK PENDANT
Q-LINK BRACELET GOLF
Q-LINK PENDANT AND CELL PHONE RADIATION PROTECTION
Q-LINKS PENDANT PROTECTION
QLINK PENDANT
QLINK PENDANT EMF PROTECTION
QLINK PENDANT REVIEWS
WIFI RADIATION PROTECTION
Recent Posts
Fukishima Plutonium Contamination Into Pacific is Greatest Threat of All
Explosion and Blaze at the US Nuclear Plant Protected Area in Arkansas
Unknown Toxic Algae Happening on California Coast Killing Squids and Other Animals
Cell Phone Radiation Damages Sperm, Studies Show
Should Pregnant Women Ditch SSRIs, Microwaves and Cellphones?
Blogroll
Cell Phone Radiation Ebook
EMF Facts
Hyperbaric Chambers and Heavy Metal Detox Products
Internet Marketing / Web Design / Intenet Video
Microwave News
October 2012
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Sep Nov »
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30 31
Archives
December 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
Tags
air-tube headset are cordless phones dangerous dangers bluetooth emf emissions blue tooth radiation bluetube headset Cell-Phones Health Risks cell phone cell phone air-tube headset cell phone antenna Cell phone cancer Cell phone danger Cell Phone Dangers cell phone protection cell phone radiation Cell Phone Radiation Danger cell phone radiation protection cell phones cell phone tower radiation cell phone towers cell sites cell tower cell tower lease cell tower leases cell tower location cell tower locations cell tower locator cell tower radiation cell towers cellular phones cellular towers emf EMF Exposure emf protection EMF Protection Devices emf radiation Microwave radiation Microwaves mobile phone mobile phone radiation radiation cancer radiation protection radiation safe airtube headset telecommunication towers Wireless devices wireless radiation
© 2019 Cell Phone Radiation News
Responsive II powered by WordPress
↑