Type 2 diabetes: Having THIS with your morning breakfast could increase risk of condition ~ protein-barscheap.info
Protein Barscheap
Protein
Barscheap
Home » Daily-Express-Health » Type 2 diabetes: Having THIS with your morning breakfast could increase risk of condition
Type 2 diabetes: Having THIS with your morning breakfast could increase risk of condition
By Unknown November 30, 2017
Drinking fruit juice increases the risk of developing type 2 diabetes, according to US scientists.
Fruit juice’s lack of fibre and high sugar content may be increasing the risk, they claimed.
Diabetes patients shouldn’t replace high-sugar beverages with fruit juice, in an attempt to cater toward their condition, the researchers said.
Caution should be applied when counting 100 per cent fruit juice as one of our five a day, they added.
“Intake of fruit juices was positively associated with incidence of type 2 diabetes,” said the scientists, from Harvard and Tulane universities.
“The rapid delivery of a large sugar load, without many other components that are a part of whole fruits, may be an important mechanism by which fruit juices could contribute to the development of diabetes.”
But eating whole fruit and leafy green vegetables reduced the risk of developing the condition, they found.
That’s because they have a low energy density, and are rich in fibre and micronutrients.
Diabetes UK said it was a good idea to drink only one small glass of fruit juice a day.
Fruit juice has most of its fibre removed when being manufactured, which makes it easy to drink large quantities in one sitting, the charity added.
“We know that too much of our sugar intake is coming from juices and smoothies, so it makes sense to cut down,” said Diabetes UK.
“The good news is that we are not eating enough fruit, so this is something you can eat more of.”
Type 2 diabetes is caused by the pancreas not producing enough insulin, or by the body’s cells not responding to insulin.
Symptoms of the condition include having an unquenchable thirst, feeling very tired, unexplained weight loss, and blurred vision.
It may be possible to control the condition by making lifestyle changes. That includes losing weight, exercising more often, and eating a healthy, balanced diet.
Diabetes patients are up to five times more likely to develop cardiovascular disease, according to the NHS.
from http://www.protein-barscheap.info
via http://www.protein-barscheap.info/search/label/Daily-Express-Health
← Newer Post Older Post → Home
Total Pageviews
Popular
Tags
Blog Archives
How to live longer: Doing THIS will add YEARS to your life
Every year spent studying, beyond school, adds almost an extra year to your lifespan, according to researchers form the University of Edin...
Faculty Forum on Strategic Planning #1
Following are notes from a forum held on Sept 8 for faculty members of the Strategic Planning Committee to meet with their faculty constit...
IBS diet news: Food might NOT be main cause of symptoms
IBS affects one in five people in the UK at some point in their lives, and can cause a number of debilitating symptoms including stomach p...
Heart attack deaths to rise as obesity EPIDEMIC takes hold of UK
Falls in cardiovascular deaths over the past 50 years are threatened as dietary “indiscretions” and physical inactivity drive a rising tid...
‘Phenomenal’ new treatment could help to save thousands at risk of heart disease
The tablet, when taken with aspirin, slashes the death rate for people with known heart conditions by 15 per cent. And it stops all attack...
Stomach cancer symptoms: Frequent heartburn is sign of deadly condition
Stomach cancer is often diagnosed at an advanced stage, because symptoms rarely show at the start, according to the National Cancer Instit...
Type 2 diabetes: Supplements containing this enzyme could help manage condition's symptoms
Supplementation with the co-enzyme Ubiquinone Q10 can “significantly improve” blood sugar control in Type 2 diabetics, as well as helping ...
Cough - 10p a day supplements could relieve dry and chesty symptoms
Coughs usually go away by themselves within three weeks, according to the NHS. The best way to get rid of a cough is to get plenty of res...
The magic vitamin that'll give you back your glow
Diabetes warning: Sufferers TWICE as likely to have a deadly stroke
The number of type 2 diabetes sufferers experiencing a serious - and potentially deadly - heart problem is on the rise, experts have warne...
Labels
countryliving.com Daily-Express-Health Protein Science Trends und.edu vuongbao
Blog Archive
► 2018 (604)
► March (13)
► February (258)
► January (333)
▼ 2017 (1117)
► December (271)
▼ November (265)
New generation cancer drug 'holds hope for HIV cur...
A piece of cheese a day keeps the doctor away: Eat...
How many hours should you sleep a night? THIS numb...
Obesity WARNING: Being overweight is MORE dangerou...
Stomach cancer symptoms: Frequent heartburn is sig...
Type 2 diabetes: Having THIS with your morning bre...
Rheumatoid arthritis symptoms: Do YOU have this un...
Kellogg’s Ricicles SCRAPPED over sugar levels - an...
Ear infection symptoms: Earwax build-up could be c...
How to live longer: THIS much exercise could boost...
Why it’s time to try a new super facial
Going bald or grey from young age 'could RAISE you...
Back pain agony cure: One-off 10minute treatment h...
Migraine misery OVER? Simple jab could HALF number...
Bupa launch exclusive service for people who think...
Alzheimer's BREAKTHROUGH: Wonder drug moves step c...
Malaria WARNING issued by World Health Organizatio...
Best supplements: Beat winter colds and flu by tak...
MAPPED: How does UK’s high blood pressure rate com...
Pneumonia symptoms could fought off by eating GARL...
Is dementia linked to organ failure? Alzheimer’s R...
Parkinson's disease: Symptoms to watch out for of ...
CRITICAL child's hearing test could be developed w...
Diabetes is key factor in WORLDWIDE cancer surge
Dementia symptoms: MARRIAGE could reduce the risk ...
Dementia cure? MARRIAGE could lower the risk of si...
Viagra will be available to buy over the counter i...
Rheumatoid arthritis symptoms: Reduce joint pain w...
Prostate cancer symptoms: If you have THIS sign yo...
Scarlet fever: Signs every parent MUST know about ...
Headache WARNING: Adding extra SALT to your meals ...
Heart attack risk: Having FAT in this part of the ...
‘Mr Jolly’ Slade guitarist Dave Hill opens up abou...
Liver cancer symptoms: These are the eight signs o...
Best supplements for sex: Taking THESE 10 nutrient...
Premature births: The simple test that could stop ...
Heart attack deaths to rise as obesity EPIDEMIC ta...
High blood pressure symptoms: 49p herb could lower...
Arthritis symptoms: Eating FIVE prunes daily could...
Dementia symptoms: Could Vitamin D supplements pre...
Diet for weight loss: Adding more of THIS 49p spic...
Men DO urinate more frequently with age – but THIS...
High blood pressure: What is the 'silent killer' c...
FLIES could be infecting humans with bacteria that...
Pensioner care crisis: Home visits could be 'a thi...
Sex warning: These THREE health problems could by ...
Bed bug breeding ground: ‘Life-saving’ mattress co...
British birth rate at RECORD LOW & women opt out r...
Kidney failure: Symptoms of condition that killed ...
High blood pressure symptoms: Eating THIS diet is ...
Slapped cheek syndrome: What is infectious conditi...
Measles warning: NHS urges people to STAY AT HOME ...
Cancer breakthrough: Potential cure could be ready...
Diabetes warning: Using THIS unlikely product ever...
Back pain? THREE common signs YOU have a bone infe...
Arthritis: ‘Clicking’ and ‘popping’ joints could b...
High blood pressure: More than half of people with...
Dementia diet: Drinking THIS unlikely JUICE could ...
Cancer symptoms: Shoulder pain could be a sign of ...
Best supplements for sex drive: Take THIS 4p vitam...
Black Friday 2017 health WARNING: Stress deals cou...
Irritable bowel syndrome: THIS 9p vegetable could ...
Dementia symptoms: Could your optician DIAGNOSE al...
REVEALED: How commuting on public transport 'could...
Coffee health benefits: Drinking THIS much could p...
Bad breath warning: These FIVE hidden health probl...
Dementia: The 10-step diet that could PREVENT Alzh...
High blood pressure symptoms: Erectile dysfunction...
Flu WARNING: Shock level of winter DEATHS sparks f...
Diabetes: Why eating PEANUTS could be the key for ...
Asthma UK hails Government’s £220 million Clean Ai...
OAPs should tale gentle exercise to keep heart hea...
Cancer symptoms: 10 early signs of the disease in ...
High blood pressure diet: Taking THIS 14p suppleme...
Dementia news: VIRUSES may play a role in Alzheime...
Cancer, diabetes and heart disease diet: Is THIS t...
WARNING: Increased risk of death in Alzheimer’s di...
Diabetes drug 'could be used to end agony of trans...
Coffee warning: FIVE ways drinking a regular cuppa...
How to reduce high blood pressure: THESE drugs cou...
Black mould and condensation: Could your house be ...
Prediabetes symptoms: Condition on the rise could ...
Anti-ageing skincare: Office workers risk prematur...
Sore throat remedies: Taking THIS to tackle the vi...
Diabetes symptoms: Could THIS vaccine PREVENT the ...
Why the craze for clean eating could make you ill
Stroke: Brain attack left policewoman unable to mo...
Rheumatoid arthritis symptoms could be PREVENTED b...
Vince Hill: 'How I got through my grief after Anni...
Liver cancer symptoms: These are the eight signs o...
Diabetes symptoms: Do NOT ignore these warning sig...
Rheumatoid arthritis symptoms eased using THIS uni...
High blood pressure: ‘Real advance’ in combating c...
Sex warning: Having diabetes could trigger THIS pr...
Acne and eczema symptoms? SIX ways to ease skin co...
Cancer treatment: Chemotherapy is particularly eff...
Can you predict a heart attack? Sudden DEATH odds ...
Diet warning: Eating SLOWLY could prevent these TH...
Spots on your teeth? Signs of THIS condition that ...
Diabetes warning: Type 2 sufferers more at risk of...
► October (267)
► September (266)
► August (48)
Wego Casa Blanca
Bleaching Skin
News C10MT
Online Dapoxetine Buy
TamGa ADS
Popular Posts Last 30 days
How to live longer: Doing THIS will add YEARS to your life
Every year spent studying, beyond school, adds almost an extra year to your lifespan, according to researchers form the University of Edin...
Faculty Forum on Strategic Planning #1
Following are notes from a forum held on Sept 8 for faculty members of the Strategic Planning Committee to meet with their faculty constit...
Type 2 diabetes: Supplements containing this enzyme could help manage condition's symptoms
Supplementation with the co-enzyme Ubiquinone Q10 can “significantly improve” blood sugar control in Type 2 diabetics, as well as helping ...
IBS diet news: Food might NOT be main cause of symptoms
IBS affects one in five people in the UK at some point in their lives, and can cause a number of debilitating symptoms including stomach p...
Cough - 10p a day supplements could relieve dry and chesty symptoms
Coughs usually go away by themselves within three weeks, according to the NHS. The best way to get rid of a cough is to get plenty of res...
The magic vitamin that'll give you back your glow
Song couple presents home appliances to "Descendants of the Sun" co-star
Kim Min-seok revealed his " Descendants of the Sun " co-stars Song Joong-ki and Song Hye-kyo bought him a refrigerator and washin...
Eye test: Third of adults ADMIT being overdue for an examination
More than half (59 per cent) do not know what the pupil does and 42 per cent have no idea of the purpose of the retina. The research, by ...
Piles: This common cold symptom increases your chances of haemorrhoids - are you at risk?
Piles, also known as haemorrhoids, are swollen blood vessels that are found inside or around the anus, according to the NHS. Symptoms of ...
Daily dose of aspirin ‘beats diabetes and heart disease’
vuongbao
countryliving.com
Und.edu
Daily Express Health
Protein
Science
Copyright © protein-barscheap.info | Powered by Nguyen Thanh Tam Google Search Box