Morphine Dosage: How Much Morphine Can You Take at Once?
Free & Confidential Drug Hotline. Call NOW: (888)-459-5511
Menu
Addiction Guides
Addiction Facts
What is Addiction?
Recognizing Addiction
Drug Abuse Statistics
Substance Abuse Triggers
Polydrug Use: Get the Facts
Drug Testing
Addiction Stories
Meth Addiction Stories
Heroin Addiction Stories
Gambling Addiction Stories
Marijuana Addiction Stories
Cocaine Addiction Stories
People at Risk
College Students abd Drug Abuse
Dual Diagnosis
Teenagers and Students
Veterans and Addictions
PTSD and Addiction
Self-Assessment
Substances
Alcohol Addiction
Effects of Alcoholism
Alcoholism Treatment
Alcoholism Recovery
Alcoholism Resources
Street Names of Addictive Substances
Understanding Drugs
Types of Drugs
Illicit Drugs
Marijuana
Crystal Meth
Spice
Cocaine
Crack
GHB
Amphetamine
Speed
Prescription Medication
Ambien
Ketamine
Vicodin
Gabapentin
Accutane
Provigil
Morphine
Zoloft
Prozac
Trazodone
Barbiturates
Fioricet
Stimulants
Nicotine
Adderall
Kratom
Ecstasy
Ritalin
Benzodiazepines
Valium
Restoril
Midazolam
Librium
Klonopin
Halcion
Ativan
Xanax
Hallucinogens
LSD
AL-LAD
Peyote
DMT
Ayhuasca
Shrooms
Opioids
Opiates
Heroin
Opium
Opana
Suboxone
Vicoprofen
Methadone
Fentanyl
Dilaudid
Demerol
Codeine
Tramadol
Oxycodone
Hydrocodone
Norco
Percocet
Sedative-Hypnotics
Lunesta
Sonata
Other Substances
Sleeping Pills
OTC Drugs
Diet Pills
Inhalants
Painkillers
Narcotics
Antidepressants
NPC
Anxiety Medication
Cyclobenzaprine
Lexapro
Baclofen
Vyvanse
Phenibut
Kava
Celexa
Treatment Guides
Treatment Stages
Addiction Treatment: the Overview
1 ► Intervention
2 ► Inpatient and Outpatient Therapy
3 ► Lifelong Commitment
Treatment for Substance Abuse: An Overview of Addiction Recovery Programs
Resources
Relapse Prevention Plan
Support Groups: An Overview
When a Loved One Has an Addiction
Drug Addiction Medications
Addiction and Rehab Hotlines
Find AA meetings
Find NA Meetings
Addiction Treatment Facility Locator
Rehab Guides
Facilities
Best Drug Rehabs
Inpatient Rehabs F.A.Q.
Outpatient Rehabs F.A.Q.
Drug Rehabs Near You
Outpatient Rehabs Near You
Types
Court Ordered Rehabs
Free and State Funded Rehabs
Rehabs for Veterans
Dual Diagnosis Rehabs
F.A.Q.
Rehab Question Answered
Can I Beat an Addiction On My Own?
How Long Does Rehab Take?
Medicaid and Medicare
Addiction Recovery Costs
Substances
LSD Rehab
Heroin Rehabs
Cocaine Rehab
Crystal Meth Rehab
GHB Rehab
Ecstasy Rehab
About Us
Our Community
Scholarship
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Addiction Treatment Events
Morphine Dosage: A Delicate Balance Between Helpful and Harmful Doses
Free 24/7 rehab helpline > (888)-459-5511
Morphine, a member of the opiate class of drugs, is a potent drug used in the management of chronic pain. Its potency and substantial risk of addiction make it a last-line treatment when other drugs have failed to manage pain successfully. It is a scheduled drug meaning it is a controlled substance available only as a prescription from a qualified medical professional. Morphine dosage relies on the severity of the pain and the level of tolerance the patient has. In patients either starting with it for the first time or with low tolerance, a low morphine dose is used and is usually effective. As tolerance builds, higher quantities may be required.
Hope Without Commitment
Find the best treatment options.
Call our free and confidential helpline
Treatment Is Fully Covered by Insurance In Most Cases
(888)-459-5511
Morphine Dosage Guide Contains:
About Morphine Dosage in General
The Highest, Normal and the Lowest Dose of Morphine
The Dosage of Morphine by Age and Condition
Morphine Dose for Occasional and Preventative Use
About Morphine Dosage in General
Initial Dosing
Morphine dosing must be carried out only by a healthcare professional with experience working with potent opioids. As it is used as a last-line treatment for pain, starting off must first take into consideration the prior history of the person. It is important to note that use of other opioid drugs does not constitute a precedent. That is why in all cases, the initial dosage of morphine must be the lowest possible. This is in most cases 1 mg every 8-12 hours. Keen observation is required over the first 25-72 hours of administration to look out for any adverse reactions.
Dose Titration and Maintenance
As this initial dose may not have the desired effect, dosing always follows a titration path to get the correct dosing for the person. Different persons have several factors that may affect dosing, so the final level reached will vary. The quantity will have to factor in the analgesic effects and the minimization of adverse effects. If the person develops tolerance, then their prescription will have to be titrated further upwards. Dose maintenance in persons with low tolerance can remain at the same level of years. However, due to its high-risk nature, most patients tend to develop tolerance and as such, must have their morphine dosages titrated upwards to the maximum possible dosage.
The Highest, Normal and the Lowest Dose of Morphine
Lowest Dose of Morphine
The lowest dose of morphine varies from person to person but in general, is about 1 mg or less of morphine administered every 8-12 hours. Because of its potent nature, this is the indicated initial level for any patient starting off on it, use of other opioids notwithstanding.
Average Dose of Morphine
The average or median effective dose is about 5 mg per administration. At this quantity, pain relief is expected to reduce to levels lower than 3 on a 1-10 rating scale. This level, however, must be arrived at via titration as adverse effects must also be controlled for when arriving at the ideal dose.
Maximum Dose of Morphine
Depending on the formulation, maximum dose ranges from 120mg per day to as high as 400mg per day in patients with enhanced tolerance. It must be noted, however, that even in patients with a known tolerance, titration must be performed as it is better to administer a low ineffective dosage than a high one which causes life-threatening side effects.
Morphine Overdose
A Morphine overdose can cause respiratory arrest and death. In general, overdose levels vary from person to person. While one person may suffer overdose symptoms from taking 60 mg (in hypersensitivity cases), another may have to take over 3000 mg to suffer the same effects (in extreme tolerance and addiction cases). As such, extreme caution must be exercised due to the ambiguous nature of its overdose effects.
The Dosage of Morphine by Age and Condition
Dosage by Age
Age remains the most effective means of determining the ideal dose. As different age groups respond differently, this provides a general standard or reference point for the administration. The neonatal administration is the lowest (<1 mg) as compared to other age groups. Adults tend to have the highest dosages to manage pain while geriatric patients have a lesser dosage. Factors that affect the amount to give across different ages is the mode of administration. For instance, a morphine drip dose may range from 12-120 mg per day while morphine IM dose would range from 5-20 mg every 4 hours.
Dosage by Condition
The condition also plays an important part in dose determination. Conditions that affect dosage may include post-operative pain, pain from myocardial infarction, and chronic pain from terminal cancer. These three situations will merit different quantities and will also factor in issues like tolerance. In post-operative pain, median quantity is 12 mg with sedation being considered an expected adverse effect, especially of morphine IV dosage. In myocardial infarction, a median dosage of 5mg is administered while in terminal cancer, continuous administration of between 0.2 and 1 mg/ml may be recommended. In all cases, however, titration is still required to arrive at the correct dose.
Morphine Dose for Occasional and Preventative Use
Occasional Use
If a person has chronic or recurrent pain, their doctor may prescribe occasional use. When prescribed this way, it is important to stick within the morphine safe dose level provided by the doctor. If the effects begin to diminish, the person must stick to the maximum daily dose of morphine or return to the doctor for titration to an effective dose. They must resist the urge to increase the dose themselves
Preventative Use
In some cases, it may be used to prevent pain when a person is about to undergo a painful procedure. In such cases, it will be administered as an analgesic together with a numbing agent. Morphine doses for pain in these situations are difficult to titrate since the pain has not yet occurred.
Approach Morphine Dosage with Extreme Caution
Morphine doses are arrived at by an experienced healthcare professional after careful titration and observation of the patient. As it can have adverse effects that may culminate in death, it is essential that any person using it must do so according to the strict guidelines supplied with the prescription. While recreational use to get Morphine high is also prevalent, it may be worth noting that in this context, extreme caution must also be observed when taking it to avoid accidental overdose, which can lead to death.
Hope Without Commitment
Find the best treatment options.
Call our free and confidential helpline
Treatment Is Fully Covered by Insurance In Most Cases
(888)-459-5511
If you or a loved one recognizes the effects of morphine dependence and addiction in your life, talking about it can help you find help. Call (888)-459-5511 today to speak with a knowledgeable representative.
Morphine Dosage: A Delicate Balance Between Helpful and Harmful Doses
3 (60%) 1 vote
Addiction Resource » Addictive Substances: The Anatomy of Drug Addiction » Morphine Addiction and Treatment » Morphine Dosage: A Delicate Balance Between Helpful and Harmful Doses
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Free 24/7 Treatment Helpline
(888)-459-5511
Speak confidentially with a compassionate counsellor.
Feel hope
without commitment.
Morphine Addiction Resources
Morphine Addiction: Overview
Morphine Street Names
How Long Does Morphine Stay In Your System
Morphine High
Morphine Withdrawal
Morphine Substance Interaction
Morphine Side Effects
Morphine Addiction Signs
Morphine Overdose
Morphine Street Prices
Morphine Dosage
Morphine Addiction Treatment
Drug Rehab Resources
Best Rehabs
Local Rehabs Locator
Free Rehabs
Court-Ordered Rehabs
Inpatient Rehabs
Outpatient Rehabs
Jewish Rehabs
Veterans Rehabs
Holistic Rehabs
LGBT Rehab Centers
Dual Diagnosis Rehab Centers
Alcohol Hotlines
Rehab Hotlines
Luxury Rehabilitation
Private Rehabs
Christian Rehabs
Women-Only Rehabs
Men-Only Rehabs
Rehabs for Couples
Family Rehabs
Teen Rehabs
State-Funded Rehabs
No-Insurance Rehabs
Executive Rehabs
Resort Rehabs
Drug Rehab Information
Speak to a representative concerning substance abuse treatment or request printed material on alcohol or drugs.
(888)-459-5511
The information available at AddictionResource.com is not a substitute for professional medical help.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here
© 2014 - 2019 Addiction Resource
Terms And Conditions
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
About Us
➤