The Benefits of Himalayan Pink Salt Lamps
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
Home
DIY
DIY Beauty
DIY Home
Recipes
Weekly Meal Plans
Brunch Recipes
Casserole Recipes
Dessert Recipes
Gluten Free Recipes
Low Carb Recipes
Paleo Recipes
Primal Recipes
Home & Garden
Gardening Tips
Homesteading
Home Improvement
Home & Garden
Natural Remedies
Health & Beauty
Healthy Living
Healthy Pets
Beauty Tips and Tricks
Natural Remedies
Safer Skincare
Mattify Skin Finishing Powder
Lengthening Mascara
Round Ups
Essential Oils
Resources
Get Started with Essential Oils
Essential Oil Articles and Recipes
Meal Plans
Search this website
Healthy Living In Body and Mind
Helping you improve your mental and physical health
March 2, 2014 By Kyndra Holley Leave a Comment
The Benefits of Himalayan Pink Salt Lamps
The Benefits of Himalayan Pink Salt Lamps
Himalayan Crystal Salt lamps – provide ambient, soothing light and homeopathic health benefits – the most immediate and dramatic benefits being for those suffering from respiratory, allergies and asthma. Salt lamps naturally cleanse the surrounding indoor air, whether directly or indirectly. This is scientific fact based on properties inherent to this salt. It’s important to breathe good air, free of pollution, germs, and the “floaties” like pollen, dander, and dust. Unfortunately, the most polluted air which we are exposed to is usually indoors. Homes, offices, and businesses both large and small are often neglected in the area of indoor air and environmental quality. Homes are especially important when it comes to air quality because this is where we live, eat and sleep. With all the time we spend breathing in our homes, does it not make logical sense to make sure our air, at the very least, is healthy? Be sure to check us out on Facebook for more amazing healthy living articles.
How do they work?
The air is filled with negative and positive ions. To maintain a healthy atmosphere, these negative and positive ions must remain in balance. However, technology today, like electronic devices, motor vehicles and our heating & cooling systems produce so many positive ions that our air is thrown off balance; resulting in stress, sleep disorders, migraine headaches and allergies to name a few. For example, most of our televisions run on a frequency of about 100-160 Hz. However, our brainwaves only vibrate at around 8 Hz. The television vibrates at a rate of more than twenty times faster than our brainwaves! Is it any wonder why we have so many diagnosed with ADHD, nervousness, and insomnia? It also causes the body to produce free radicals that can cause cancer, among other things. Placing a salt lamp besides the television and other electronics will help increase the amount of negative ions (which are the good ones). I remember when I first put salt lamps throughout the house, my mom came to visit and asked if I had drugged the kids! She couldn’t believe that the lamps had made that much of a difference. Trust me, in a house full of eight kids, you notice when they calm down. Three of them had a diagnosis of ADHD and it really did make a difference in their behaviors and their ability to concentrate.
Himalayan Crystal Salt Lamps, besides having a warm, ambient glow, produce negative ions naturally. Negative ions are known to help alleviate symptoms caused by allergies, sleep disorders, migraine headaches and depression. Negative ions help alleviate common indoor air pollutants such as dust, mildew, humidity and electromagnetic fields from TV’s computers and other devices. When I first bought a salt lamp, I wasn’t quite sure about them. I purchased a couple to try and figured if they didn’t work, they would make really cool night lights. As a mother of eight, you can image I was busy and just didn’t get around to giving them a try. When my son, Ryan, was 5 years old, he suffered from migraines daily. He lived with constant pain. This particular migraine was going on four days long. He was in a dark room for days, just lying in bed screaming. We went round and round with our pediatrician and nothing would alleviate his symptoms. We were giving him doses ten times the normal dose and he was still hysterical.
Finally, I realized at this point I just had to get him to calm down. I had read that Himalayan salt baths were calming, but had never tried one. So I threw him in the tub with some Himalayan salt and plugged a salt lamp in his room. After a few minutes in the bath, he calmed down. After twenty minutes, his migraine was completely gone. He got dressed and came bounding down the stairs screaming, “Mommy, I can see again!” I felt so bad, I didn’t even know he had lost his vision. That was almost four years ago. To this day, he’s not had one migraine. He’s only had two small headaches while on travel, which we were able to treat with giving him some edible Himalayan Salt to eat.
Salt lamps are ideal for your den, office, or even a small bedroom. All of our high quality Himalayan Salt Lamps come complete with a rosewood base, stainless steel screws, a UL listed cord with On / Off toggle switch, and two light bulbs. Salt lamps last forever…you never replace the lamp, only the light bulb!
Do I have to Plug them in to make them work?
Salt lamps work all by themselves. However, researchers found that if they warmed the salt, it would cover a larger area consistantly. Therefore, the salt was made into lamps and candle holders. We leave our lamps on 24/7. However, some people don’t like to sleep with light; that’s fine too. Simply turn the lamp on during the day and turn it off at night. It will work to clean the air all day. Too much work? Try buying a $5.00 timer from the store and plugging it into the timer. Set it to come in in the morning and go off just before bed. When I put a lamp beside my husband’s side of the bed he stopped snoring. I make sure his lamp never gets turned off!
How do I pick the right lamp?
Salt lamps come in many different shapes and sizes. The rule of thumb is, the heavier the lamp, the more area it will cover. The smallest size lamp is a mini lamp, which will cover about an eight foot radius. Lamps are sold in weight classes, much like wrestlers. Each size is given a weight range that you can expect your lamp to fall in. Shape is a matter of preference. People have different likes. With the many different shapes that the lamps come in, it should be pretty easy to find one that suits you. Grab yours here.
Article republished with permission.
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Like this:
Like Loading...
About Kyndra Holley
Hi! I'm Kyndra! Thanks for stopping by my blog. I'm just a girl on a personal journey to health and wellness, sharing my stories with the world. I am a cookbook author, a blogger, a world traveler, a dog rescuer, a wife, a hiker, a crossfitter, a PNW native, and a nice person. I believe we should all throw kindness around like confetti. Do more! Be more! Love more! WE CAN DO IT!!
Follow me around the web: Facebook | Instagram | Pinterest | Peace Love and Low Carb
Peace, Love and Low Carb - Low Carb and Gluten Free Weekly Meal Plans
Are you ready to take the guesswork out of that stressful weeknight meal planning? Peace, Love and Low Carb - Low Carb and Gluten Free Weekly Meal Plans are low carb, gluten free, and keto friendly. All recipes include a color photo and complete nutritional analysis. Comes with a printable grocery list, snack list, tips for meal prepping and suggestions for substitutions.
Every recipe is less than 10 grams of carbs per serving. Most are much less. All recipes are gluten free and made only from whole, real, easy to find foods. There is nothing that you won't be able to find at your local grocery store. New resources are added to the plans every week. All the best information to help keep you on track with your low carb, ketogenic lifestyle. It even includes a food/feelings/fitness journal where you can track what you eat, how much you moved and how you are feeling over all. It is definitely the most comprehensive low carb meal plan out there. And for only $4.99 per week, you simply cannot beat the price.
Click HERE to order!
Reader Interactions
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Current ye@r *
Leave this field empty
Primary Sidebar
Order my NEW COOKBOOKs!
Site Search
Search this website
DIY
Footer
FOLLOW us
Follow
Email
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
RSS
YouTube
SEARCH our POSTS
Search this website
JOIN our MAILING LIST
E-Mail Address
Copyright © 2019 HEALTHY LIVING IN MIND AND BODY · DISCLAIMER · GRITS DESIGN · Log in
%d bloggers like this: