Adventures in Autism: The Attack on Big Mac
Adventures in Autism
News and commentary on the autism epidemic and my beautiful boy who is living with autism.
March 5, 2008
The Attack on Big Mac
Across the blogesphere this week John McCain has been attacked for making the comment, "It’s indisputable that autism is on the rise among children. The question is, What’s causing it? And we go back and forth, and there’s strong evidence that indicates that it’s got to do with a preservative in vaccines." (David Kirby could not have been more right when he told McCain to watch out for incoming).
Political blogs that have never touched on the vaccine/autism issue have used words like 'lunatic' and 'crackpot' in discussing now Republican Nominee for President John McCain. Even conservative bloggers who support him for president are being critical.
And the truly bizarre thing about these attacks is that they have all sprung from this account by Jake Tapper which includes, right at the top, a mention of the bombshell news that the US Government has just conceded the first vaccine/autism case to come to a conclusion in the Federal Vaccine Court.
These attacks either make no mention of the case, or give it a cursory mention, as Tapper did, and then pretend it was never said. They then move on to make their arguments predicated on the now legally false claim that 'There Is No Link Between Vaccines And Autism'.
Yesterday I submitted some version of the following comment on at least 4 different blog posts that were attacking McCain:
I want to call everyone's attention back to the question that actually elicited this response from John McCain in the first place.
In that meeting in Texas, another autism mom who believes as I do asked him about the revelation last week that The US Government, in the Federal Vaccine Court, had finally come to a decision on the FIRST vaccine/autism case, that that decision was...
...and I am gonna bold the hell out of this because this is very, very important...
THE GOVERNMENT CONCEDED THAT THE PLAINTIFFS AUTISM WAS THE RESULT OF A VACCINE INJURY AND SHE WILL NOW BE PAID DAMAGES FROM THE VACCINE INJURY COMPENSATION FUND!!!!!
There are 4,900 autism/vaccine cases in the pipeline, and in case #1 the verdict has just gone to the family that alleged that vaccines made their child autistic.
In other words, at the current time, 100% of all the vaccine/autism cases tried in the Federal Court finds a causal link between vaccines and autism.
And apparently the family whose burden it was to prove that their child's autism was triggered by her vaccines had such a good case, that the Department of Justice, which is fighting like hell in the two other cases currently under way, decided it was not even worth trying to fight.
...And yet these attacks on John McCain are are reporting the forgone conclusion that there is no link?
Respectfully, could it be that John McCain is actually paying closer attention to the issue than they are?
So that everyone may investigate this for themselves, here is the info to get started (from another piece I wrote):
In November the US Government conceded that a little girl's autism was brought on by her vaccines and she will be paid out of the Vaccine Injury Compensation Fund. Her case was one of the first three test cases chosen to put the vaccine/autism theory under the microscope at the Vaccine Omnibus Hearings. This is only the first of 4,900 cases before the Federal vaccine court to get a decision.
The case was supposed to go to trial this coming May, but was instead settled and subsequently sealed by the court, who claimed that it was for the protection of the child's privacy. Except that the family has waved their right to privacy and apparently wants the fact of the case and the ruling known.
Journalist David Kirby obtained the court documents and published them last week. The family of the girl is planning a press conference this week in Atlanta some time.
No major US news outlets have run the story on the bombshell court ruling, and in fact in the past week several 'experts' have been in the news repeating the now legally false claim that there is no link between vaccines and autism. ABC News looked at doing a story on the government court concession, it but then didn't.
Despite the fact that the both the blogesphere and the autism community are going crazy with the story... the only mainstream news outlet to report thus far has been the Sunday Herald in Scotland.
So what we have here is the government and the medical community publicly telling parents that vaccines have no relationship to autism while privately admitting the link and paying damages to a family for vaccine induced autism. And apparently hoping that no one will notice.
Which in this case is actually kind of working.. because blogs like this and the ones mentioned above, actually quote that the case went to the vaccine/autism plaintiff, and then ignore it and slap McCain?
It is just bizarre to me!
Why does your blog post say something to the effect of, "WTF!? The government admitted that a vaccine caused autism in one of the test cases to test the theory that vaccines cause autism? And they are voluntarily paying damages? Why do they keep telling us that here is no link then? What the hell is going on?!"
All of the blogs had moderated comments, except for one. None of the blogs with moderated comments posted it.
It is as if I were watching "Cloverfield" and all the news reports that we see interspersed through out the film when the main characters run by a TV were stories about how things were exploding and buildings were falling down and thousands were dead all over town, but made no mention that all this was happening because there was a 20 story monster stomping through Mid-Town. Because everyone knows there is no such thing as monsters, so even when one appears right before our eyes, best just to ignore it really. But do go on to report the impact of the monster, because that is dramatic stuff.
I reiterate... WTF?
It is not just as if they missed the big story here, it as if they are FIGHTING to ignore the big story. Political bloggers across the country are collectively sticking their fingers in their ears and singing the, "La La La... I'm Not Listening" song.
So my next question is this... how many of the Vaccine Court cases have to go in favor of the petitioners until main stream American media and the political blogesphere begins to give the link between autism and vaccines serious consideration? Not even believe that it is conclusive fact, but just merely worthy enough of consideration to stop mocking people who discuss the matter publicly?
One definitive court case, an actual legal precedent, is apparently not enough. If either of other two of the three test cases currently under way in the Vaccine Omnibus Hearings, the ones that were chosen to represent many of the 4,900 cases that are in the pipeline, go to the plaintiffs, is that enough to make everyone sit up and pay attention?
Or will the media actually be able to keep their fingers in there ears if all 4,900 cases end with the verdict that gets these kids paid for their children's regression into autism due to vaccines?
UPDATE: Cudos to The New Scientist for getting to the heart of the matter, and giving the Government Concession the weight it deserved! Although they are wrong in their statement that, "decades of research have failed to find any link between vaccines and autism", they are asking the very important question...
If there is no link, then why pay Hanna?
They seem earnestly confused by the move and one pediatrician interviewed said he was 'stunned'.
Read my thank you/challenge to them and go encourage them to demand that HHS return their call and get the government to explain there contradictory stances.
Posted by Ginger Taylor at Wednesday, March 05, 2008
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Eve, Hanna Poling, Hannah Poling, John McCain, Jon Poling, Media, Mitochondrial Disorder, Thimerosal, Vaccine Omnibus Hearings
2 comments:
hoonew said...
Ginger, here's what I posted on an unmoderated (apparently) blog:
McCain is right. There is plenty of evidence that mercury is especially dangerous to babies and small children, and a non-biased review of the science (try PubMed) will show this. Why do journalists make ridiculous sweeping statements about vaccine mercury metabolizing quickly and leaving the body? Pharma-sponsored junk science can be found to support any position. Meanwhile, the National Academy of Science says 1 in 6 women have dangerous levels of mercury in their blood, the CDC says pregnant women should limit our consumption of tuna due to mercury, and the EPA limit of mercury from ALL sources is 0.1 mcg/kg/day which means a typical flu shot puts even adults way over the limit. Which influenza shot do you want for your children, Mr. Levin?
11:55 AM
Jeffrey Dach MD said...
The Most Bitter Debate
There is no greater rancor in medicine than the autism-vaccine debate, and this debate has reached the federal vaccine court where 5000 autistic kids and their families are requesting compensation for vaccine injury.
In California it is a illegal to inject newborns with the mercury containing vaccines (such as the thimerisol Hep-B Shot), and it should be made a crime in all other states as well.
Hepatitis B is transmitted with IV drug abuse, or via sexual transmission, both of which are somewhat impossible for newborns. It is much safer to wait until the child is 3 years old to give the shot.
Hopefully, the injection of mercury into newborns will soon become a relic of the ancient past, taking its rightful place in the museum along with bloodletting and leeches. Until then, there is much work to be done to remove mercury from our vaccinations. As a nation, we can’t afford not to.
Read more at:
Autism and Mercury Vaccines by Jeffrey Dach MD
Jeffrey Dach MD
4700 Sheridan Suite T
Hollywood Fl 33021
954-983-1443
my web site
11:14 AM
Post a Comment
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Wanna Help?
Follow Me
The Highlights
Why I no longer participate in the US Immunization Program
Extended, Fair, Balanced, Live, Unedited, Mainstream Media Vaccine Debate Happens
Julie Gerberding Tells CNN that Vaccines Trigger Autism
Looking For Information on How To Vaccinate More Safely?
An Introduction to Chandler: Birth to Diagnosis
The History of Thimerosal
Here's Why the Disdain...
"No Evidence of Any Link"
Autism in God's Economy
Maine CDC Autism Conference
Contradictory Rulings in Vaccine Court
Head of AAP Lies About Vaccine Safety
Irresponsible Journalism in Autism
Matt Lauer, Anderson Cooper and George Stephanopoulos Adopt Skeptic Community/Science Media's Failing Tactics
Revisiting James Murdoch, Brian Deer, The Sunday Times, GlaxoSmithKline and the Attack on Andrew Wakefield
Bill Gates Attacks Andrew Wakefield and the Vaccine Safety Community
My Testimony to the Maine Legislature on Two Informed Consent Vaccine Bills
The Most Dangerous Question in Public Health: "What can you tell me about vaccine encephalopathy?"
The Canary Party: Done With Bad Faith
Search This Blog
About Me
Ginger Taylor
Autism Mom, Writer, Speaker, Advocate, Activist, Therapist, Conservative, Christian.
View my complete profile
E-mail Me
email
AT
adventuresinautism
DOT
com
Subscribe
Posts
Atom
Posts
Comments
Atom
Comments
Subscribe Via Email
Enter your Email
My Blog List
AGE OF AUTISM
The Pro-Life Church in America is Waking Up to Loss of their 1st Amendment Religious Rights
5 hours ago
autism's gadfly
Problems with Adult autism and Prevalence: John Elder Robison to the rescue
2 weeks ago
The Refusers
The Refusers Refuse To Be Dumbed Down, A Refreshing Release – Black Velvet Magazine
2 years ago
Facing Autism in New Brunswick
October 18, 2003: Andy Scott Called for a Strong National Autism Strategy; Will October 19, 2015 Deliver A Government That Will Make It Happen?
3 years ago
The Vaccine Machine
Not a fan of Pan
4 years ago
Autism Jabberwocky
The End of the Beginning
4 years ago
My Socrates Note
Vaccines and Religion…Just Not How you Think
5 years ago
Inside Vaccines
About The Vaccine Injury Compensation Program
5 years ago
Injecting Sense
CHANGING THE PERCEPTION: DADS ARE WARRIORS TOO
6 years ago
Blog Archive
► 2018 (8)
► October (1)
► September (2)
► August (2)
► July (1)
► June (2)
► 2017 (24)
► November (4)
► October (13)
► September (2)
► April (1)
► February (1)
► January (3)
► 2016 (2)
► October (1)
► January (1)
► 2015 (12)
► December (1)
► November (1)
► September (1)
► June (1)
► May (3)
► April (4)
► March (1)
► 2014 (8)
► December (1)
► November (1)
► October (1)
► September (2)
► July (1)
► April (1)
► January (1)
► 2013 (12)
► December (1)
► August (2)
► July (3)
► June (1)
► April (1)
► March (2)
► February (2)
► 2012 (35)
► December (1)
► November (1)
► October (1)
► September (1)
► August (1)
► July (2)
► June (2)
► May (4)
► April (6)
► March (5)
► February (1)
► January (10)
► 2011 (84)
► December (4)
► November (2)
► September (5)
► August (2)
► July (2)
► June (2)
► May (5)
► April (25)
► March (15)
► February (9)
► January (13)
► 2010 (87)
► December (2)
► November (5)
► October (5)
► September (10)
► August (12)
► July (12)
► June (12)
► May (7)
► April (5)
► March (9)
► February (2)
► January (6)
► 2009 (112)
► December (7)
► November (2)
► October (13)
► September (10)
► August (10)
► July (26)
► June (6)
► May (13)
► April (10)
► March (4)
► February (2)
► January (9)
▼ 2008 (296)
► December (15)
► November (20)
► October (12)
► September (13)
► August (16)
► July (55)
► June (13)
► May (13)
► April (38)
▼ March (79)
Julie Gerberding Admits on CNN that Vaccines can T...
Ken Stoller Files Complaint Against Anne Schuchat
Wait! Did Julie Gerberding Just Admit that Vaccin...
An Invitation to Julie Gerberding to Help Her Find...
More on Mitochondrical Disorders from the Clevland...
Cornelia Read: A Shot In The Dark
Autism: The Musical
Wakefield and Colleagues Should Be Knighted, Not P...
The Study That FINALLY Got The CDC to Pay Attentio...
David Kirby Drops Another Bomb: Autism Risk May B...
CDC Offers Another Non Response on Autism and Vacc...
The Gardasil Hoax
My Friend's Pediatrician: Jenny McCarthy's Son Ne...
HHS Public Vaccine Safety Meeting in DC April 11
Autism: The Musical - David Kirby's Review
Pamela Felice on Actually Having a Vaccine Debate
CFL Mercury Light Bulbs or Landfills Full of Mercu...
Horton Hears An "Ow", And Swats It Down Right Quic...
Today Was A Very Good Day
Happy Easter Mainers!
Web Gives Autism a Global Stage
Drunk Moms Cause Autism
David Kirby on Ring of Fire
The Spectator: Another Piece in the Jigsaw
The Wakefield Witch-Hunt
Serious Concerns Over Hepatitis B Vaccine
A-CHAMP Action Alert - Call Congress
Jenny McCarthy on The Hour
Kirby in AJC: Give Us Answers On Vaccines
Mark Blaxill and Boyd Haley Respond to Pichichero ...
Vaccine Omnibus Hearings Test Case #3 Concludes
Like Its Predecessor RotaShield, Offit's Rotateq M...
Mito/DNA/Autism/GFCF/Glutamate Thoughts From A Foo...
The Responsible Government Fantasy
AIA: Now With Email Subscriptions
Jenny In Canada
Cute Baby Alert!
Pharma Insider?
Can I Get The Flu Shot While Pregnant?
The Effects of Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy on Oxidat...
MMR + Chicken Pox Vaccine = More Seizures
NAA: Offering Grants For Marriage Counseling For ...
The Beginning of the End of Vaccine/Autism Secrecy...
Today Show Part 1: Autism Mom and Meningitis Mom ...
Today Show Part 2: AAP President Tells Giant Easi...
CJR: The Wrong Debate Over Autism
Dr. Poling Responds To Autism/Vaccine Nay Sayers
Happy 6th Birthday Chandler!
Boyd Haley Comments On Thimerosal and Mitochondria...
Pray for Nate Tseglin Today
The New York Times Wakes Up!
Bush Administration Does Not Want VCIP Cases Made ...
My Letter To The Whitehouse
Toxic Levels of Mercury in Chinese Infants Eating ...
"A well placed source high up in the DC power elit...
Phil and Misty Hiatt: "We Were Compensated Too!"
Evidence of Mitochondrial Dysfunction in Autism an...
Its Not Just The Mercury: Aluminum Hydroxide In Va...
CBS: Sharyl Attkisson speaks to Rep. Dave Weldon A...
Jenny McCarthy Calls For Julie Gerberding's Resign...
The Polings on Good Morning America
Diedre Imus On Autism On Imus
9 Other Families Compensated???!!!
Spinning the Hannah Poling Case
The Polings Press Conference LIVE on CNN Now!
Meet Hannah Poling
Developmental Regression and Mitochondrial Dysfunc...
Hannah Will Be On Larry King Tomorrow Night!
And We Have A Winner!
Breaking News: Vaccine Injury Damages Winning Fam...
The Attack on Big Mac
David Kirby On Imus On The Government Vaccine/Auti...
News Max Reports On The Government Vaccine/Autism ...
David Kirby on Imus Tuesday
Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney's Office Corrects Ti...
An Update on Helping Nate
The First Newspaper Reports On The Goverment Conce...
ABC's Dr. Tim Johnson Tells A Big Mis Truth on TV
Critical Mass: John McCain, Thimerosal, The Gover...
► February (17)
► January (5)
► 2007 (196)
► December (8)
► November (3)
► October (7)
► September (5)
► August (5)
► July (38)
► June (68)
► May (26)
► April (24)
► March (2)
► February (5)
► January (5)
► 2006 (150)
► December (10)
► November (19)
► October (41)
► June (2)
► May (5)
► April (32)
► March (5)
► February (20)
► January (16)
► 2005 (314)
► December (87)
► November (48)
► October (36)
► September (23)
► August (55)
► July (13)
► June (23)
► May (14)
► April (3)
► March (1)
► February (11)
► 2004 (45)
► December (1)
► November (3)
► October (5)
► September (5)
► August (15)
► July (16)
Followers
Recommended Reading
Awesome Inc. theme. Powered by Blogger.