Daily Mail How Grapefruit Can Seriously Affect Your Medication.
020 8675 4036 emma@firstaidforlife.org.uk
Facebook
Twitter
Google
Facebook
Twitter
Google
Visit our other sites:
Online First Aid
First Aid for Pets
StaySafe.Support
Menu
Home
Why Choose Us?
About Us
Prices and Locations
In the Press
Our Trainers
First Aid Shop
Charities We Support
Work With Us
Emma Hammett: Expert Author and Speaker
Close
Scheduled Dates
Courses
Home
Emergency First Aid for All Ages
First Aid for Babies
First Aid for Teenagers
First Aid for Children
Parents & Grandparents
Dog First Aid
Online and Blended First Aid Courses
Blended Learning – Fully Regulated
Work
Emergency First Aid at Work (EFAW)
First Aid at Work (FAW) – Regulated Blended Learning
Paediatric First Aid
Corporate First Aid
Small Businesses and Office Workers
First Aid for Building & Construction Industry
First Aid for the Beauty Industry
First Aid for Hospitality Industry
Charities & Local Authorities
Children & Youth organisations
Home Carers & Care Homes
Nannies, Au Pairs & Childminders
Blended Learning – Fully Regulated
Schools
Paediatric First Aid
Teachers & Staff
First Aid for Children in School
First Aid for Special Educational Needs (SEN)
Nurseries and Early Years Workers
Blended Learning – Fully Regulated
Sports
Emergency First Aid – All Ages (3 hours)
Emergency First Aid at Work (EFAW) – for Sports
Personal Trainers & Coaches
Sports Clubs & Organisations
Physios & Sport Massage therapists
Blended Learning – Fully Regulated
Health
Emergency First Aid – All Ages (3 hours)
Doctors, Nurses & GP Practices
Dentists & Dental Practices
Pharmacists
Physios, Therapists & other health professionals
Blended Learning – Fully Regulated
Close
Reviews
Free Resources
First Aid Resources & Blog
Free Books
Free CPR Posters
Free School Resources
Emergency Check List
Newsletter Sign Up
Sites We Like
Watch Us In Action
What to Put in Your First Aid Kit
Close
First Aid News
FAQs
Contact
Select Page
Daily Mail How Grapefruit Can Seriously Affect Your Medication.
In The Press
How GRAPEFRUIT can seriously affect your medicine: Expert reveals 53 drugs that are made dangerously strong or weak by eating the fruit
Grapefruit is able to disrupt a chemical in the intestine which breaks down drugs
This means it can change the way the body absorbs vital medications
Statins, cancer drugs and medicines for the heart and anxiety are on the list
By EMMA HAMMETT FOR THE HIPPOCRATIC POST
PUBLISHED: 16:31, 10 October 2018 | UPDATED: 19:34, 10 October 2018
Have you ever seen the instruction on your medication ‘do not take this medicine with grapefruit juice’ and wondered why? You’re not alone.
At least 53 medications can be made less effective by the citrus fruit and people taking certain drugs should take extra care when deciding whether to eat it.
Grapefruit contains a compound which interferes with an enzyme in the small intestine, which is responsible for breaking down nearly half of all medicines.
As a result, the fruit can make medicines too strong or not strong enough by affecting how well your body absorbs them.
Nurse and first aid trainer Emma Hammett, of First Aid For Life, explains in a piece for the Hippocratic Post how grapefruit could affect your medicines, and when to take extra care.
Some medicines have instructions for patients to avoid eating grapefruit or drinking the juice when they’re taking them because a chemical in the fruit can disrupt how well the body absorbs drugs
Grapefruit can seriously affect the way your medicines work, especially if you are taking some of these common medicines for high blood pressure, cardiac arrhythmia, a statin to reduce your cholesterol, or fexofenadine for allergies such as hay fever.
The extent of the interaction can be different depending on the person, the drug, and the amount of grapefruit juice you drink or fruit you eat.
Most commonly the presence of grapefruit juice leads to more of the medication being able to enter the blood stream.
AVOID GRAPEFRUIT IF YOU’RE TAKING ANY OF THESE 53 MEDICATIONS
Budesonide corticosteroids
Cancer drugs
Crizotinib
Dasatinib
Erlotinib
Everolimus
Lapatinib
Nilotinib
Pazopanib
Sunitinib
Vandetanib
Vemurafenib
Infection drugs
Erythromycin
Halofantrine
Maraviroc
Primaquine
Quinine
Rilpivirine
Statins
Atorvastatin
Lovastatin
Simvastatin
Heart/blood vessel drugs
Amiodarone
Apixaban
Clopidogrel
Dronedarone
Eplerenone
Felodipine
Nifedipine
Quinidine
Rivaroxaban
Ticagrelor
Drugs for anxiety or the nervous system
Oral alfentanil
Buspirone
Dextromethorphan
Oral fentanyl
Oral ketamine
Lurasidone
Oxycodone
Pimozide
Quetiapine
Triazolam
Ziprasidone
Nausea drugs
Domperidone
Immunosuppressants
Cyclosporine
Everolimus
Sirolimus
Tacrolimus
Urinary tract medications
Darifenacin
Fesoterodine
Solifenain
Silodosin
Tamsulosin
Viagra
Fexofenadine (an anti-histamine)
For example, if you drink a lot of grapefruit juice alongside certain statin drugs (used to lower cholesterol), too much of the drug can be released into your bloodstream and takes longer to metabolise, therefore remaining in your body for longer.
The higher dose in your bloodstream increases the risk of liver and muscle damage and can lead to kidney failure.
Grapefruit contains a compound called furanocoumarin which inhibits a vital enzyme in the small intestine responsible for breaking down nearly half of all medicines.
Many drugs are broken down with the help of a vital enzyme called CYP3A4 in the small intestine.
The furanocoumarins within grapefruit frequently block the action of CYP3A4.
Instead of being broken down, more of the drug enters the blood and stays in the body longer. The result: too much drug in your body for a longer period.
The amount of the CYP3A4 enzyme in the intestine varies from person to person. Some people have a lot of enzymes and others just a little.
Therefore, grapefruit juice may affect people differently even when taking the same medication.
It doesn’t take much grapefruit juice to boost the levels of drugs that are susceptible.
Just a single glass of juice can reduce the production of the intestinal enzyme that regulates absorption by up to 47 per cent.
The furanocoumarins take a while to be removed from your system and so a third of their impact is still evident after 24 hours.
It will therefore have a continuing effect on the potency of your medication.
Seville oranges (often used to make orange marmalade), pomelos, and tangelos (a cross between tangerines and grapefruit) often have the same effect as grapefruit juice.
Avoid these fruits if your medicine interacts with grapefruit juice.
Furanocoumarins are not present in varieties of sweet orange, such as naval or Valencia oranges and so these could be an alternative option for you.
Grapefruit can work both ways. Sometimes it blocks the metabolism and allows too much of the drug to enter the bloodstream.
Sometimes it has the opposite effect and with some medication it reduces the amount of drug in the blood stream.
For example, with Fexofenadine (commonly taken for allergies), grapefruit juice can cause less fexofenadine to enter the blood, decreasing the potency of the medication and how well it works.
Fexofenadine is also affected by orange or apple juice, so the drug label states ‘do not take with fruit juices.’
This opposite effect is caused by grapefruit juice affecting specific proteins in the body known as drug transporters.
These proteins help move drugs into our cells for absorption.
If the drug transporters are affected by the fruit juice, then less of the drug will enter the blood and the drug is not likely to be as effective.
When drugs are swallowed, they are usually metabolised by enzymes and/or absorbed using transporters in cells found in the small intestine.
Grapefruit juice can cause problems with these enzymes and transporters, causing too much or too little drug in the body.
+2
Grapefruit contains a compound which can stop the body absorbing enough of a medication or slow down the process so the drug stays in the bloodstream for too long, producing the effects of a higher dose and potentially causing side effects, Emma Hammett says
Some drugs are broken down by a specific enzyme CYP3A4. Grapefruit juice can block the action of this enzyme.
This leads to an increase in the amount of drug in the body and can cause more side effects.
Grapefruit juice blocks the action of these transporters, decreasing the amount of drug in the bloodstream. This means the drug does not work as well.
Despite this, some people may not experience any problems with it at all.
Grapefruit is a healthy option, packed full of Vitamin C so, before banishing your beloved grapefruit from the breakfast table, find out if there are any reasons not to grapefruit juice while taking your medication.
Your doctor, pharmacist or healthcare provider should be able to advise how much, if any, grapefruit juice or fruit is advised, which other fruits or juices may also affect your drug in a similar way to grapefruit juice.
Or read the patient information leaflet that comes with your prescription drug to find out if grapefruit juice affects your drug.
This article originally appeared on the Hippocratic Post and has been reproduced with their permission.
To read the full article click here
← BritMums – the Sandwich Generation Health Medicine Network – Grapefruit can seriously affect your medicine. →
Submit a Comment Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
I accept the Privacy Policy *
First Aid for Life featured on Sky News
Search our site and blog
Search for:
Award Winning
Voted number one Feedspot best blogs
Never miss out on vital updates – sign up here for our weekly newsletter
Freeindex TOP RATED Highly Recommended:
First Aid for Life Featured on SKY News
Supporter of London’s Air Ambulance
Newsletter
First Aid for Life produce weekly educational newsletters covering specific injuries, illnesses and first aid related topics. Our subscribers find the content an invaluable resource.
Please submit your email address to benefit from this too. You are able to easily unsubscribe at any point.
Subscribe
You have Successfully Subscribed!
From the blog
Top tips for those watching the London Marathon
Opioids – how to prevent an American-style crisis in Britain.
Driving and the law: twelve critical hazards you may not know
Elder abuse: spotting the signs and advice for carers
Seizures, convulsions and epilepsy – a complete guide
Monica Costa interviews Emma Hammett for London Mums
Long-term health problems in schools – what parents and teachers should know
First aid training to be taught in schools and free teaching resources to help
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Equality and Diversity Policy
Customer Service Charter
Facebook
Twitter
Google
Designed by SMA Digital | Powered by WordPress
Pin It on Pinterest
This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. More info
No problem