NHS provision for cancer, inherited disease and infectious diseases – East Genomics
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
East Genomics
Bringing together genomic medicine across the East Midlands and East of England
Home
About Us
News
News and Events
Recent News
Ask
Ask a Question
Your Questions Answered
100,000 Genomes Project
Confidentiality and Ethics
Genetics and Genomics
Genetics and Inheritance
Genetic Manipulation
Governance around supporting Patients and the Public
Impact of environment and behaviour on cancer
NHS provision for cancer, inherited disease and infectious diseases
Talking to Families
When testing identifies variations…
100,000 Genomes Project
100,000 Genomes Project
East of England NHS Genomic Medicine Centre
Healthcare Professionals
Participants
Genomic Tests
Genomic Tests
Genomic Laboratory Hub
Jobs
For Professionals: Testing
Patient Choice (Consent)
Cancer Testing
Rare Disease Testing
Cystic Fibrosis
Prenatal & Newborn Testing
Drug Response Testing
Education
Education
Cambridge Genomics
Cambridge CPPD Modules
Gateway to Genetic Counselling
National Programme
Careers in Genomics
Online Courses
Regional Opportunities
Schools
Care
Cambridge/East Anglia
Leicester
Norwich
Nottingham
Patient Groups
Resources
Genetic Test Guide
Films and Books
Leaflets,Posters & Flyers
Genetic Test Resources
East of England Genomics Services
Laboratories
Cambridge Laboratories
Biochemistry
Genetic
Haematology Oncology
Histocompatability
Microbiology
Thrombo
Leicester (CytoGenetics)
Norwich (Molecular Genetics)
Nottingham
Research
Innovation
Policy
Next Generation Children Project
NHS provision for cancer, inherited disease and infectious diseases
You are here: Home / Ask a Question / Your Questions Answered / NHS provision for cancer, inherited disease and infectious diseases
Why are cancer, rare diseases and infectious diseases the principle targets of the 100,000 Genomes Project?
Is cancer genetic or inherited?
How can cancer be inherited?
What are the approaches involved in managing familial cancer?
What test does cancer genomics principally involve?
What three other approaches are also used?
Why are cancer, rare diseases and infectious diseases the principle targets of the 100,000 Genomes Project?
In February 2015 it was announced that an estimated 50% of Britons will get some form of cancer at some stage in their lives. Also three million people, half of them children, suffer from rare diseases. Genome sequencing is a new technology, which we want to use to maximize medical insights alongside new scientific discoveries as early on as possible. We want to understand how genomics influences diseases and how it can be applied within a healthcare setting.
Is cancer genetic or inherited?
Cancer is not purely a case of cells dividing too fast; it is caused by the loss of control of the balance between cell growth, cell maturity (called differentiation) and cell death. As a result it is usually due to the accumulation of changes (mutations) in a number of different types of genes involved in regulating the division of cells. The vast majority of these gene changes are not inherited and approximately 10% overall have a strong inherited component. This involves mistakes in processes such as cells growing, cells dividing, cell death, repair of DNA damage, development of own blood supply, ability to invade and attach to new tissues.
How can cancer be inherited?
Up to 20,000 different mutations can be present within the tumour. The vast majority of these are not inherited and therefore cancer can be described as a genetic condition but only 5-10% is inherited. Occasionally an inherited alteration in a gene can greatly increase the risk of cancer. As we have two copies of each of our genes and pass one on to each of our children, the risk of passing on the gene change to any child is 50%. Without intervention, the risk of cancer in these situations can be over 80%. A tumour is more likely to be inherited if it occurs at a young age or if there is already a family or personal history of the same or related tumours. Overall 5-10% of patients with cancer have a single high-risk gene alteration and this equates to about 1% of the population.
What related tumours should you be aware of?
Breast, ovarian or prostate cancer
Stomach and breast cancer
Melanoma and pancreatic cancer
Stomach, bowel and gynaecological cancer
Kidney and nervous system
Any combination of hormonal gland tumours
Breast, thyroid and womb cancer
What are the approaches involved in managing familial cancer?
Taking a personal and family history of symptoms and cancer
Determining if genetic or genomic testing is indicated, which is usually possible if the likelihood of identifying a significant gene alteration is calculated to be at least 10%
Using empirical evidence and results to calculate future risk
Offering risk reducing strategies, which may involve lifestyle changes, medication (often offered at 4% ten year risk) or surgical options (often offered at 10% ten year risk)
Offering advice on early detection and screening (usually offered at more than 3% ten year risk)
Framing advice within context of personal experience and cultural background to ensure patient is supported through their cancer journey, both within the healthcare department and in providing opportunities to take part in research and link with stakeholder groups.
What test does cancer genomics principally involve?
Carrying out a blood test to look at the 100 genes that have been associated with an increased risk of inherited cancer.
What three other approaches are also used?
Assessing the tumour to identify new non-inherited mutations in the DNA code that might be driving the tumour and may make the tumour vulnerable to specific targeted therapies
Identifying circulating free DNA in the blood, which had been released into the bloodstream that can help with decision-making around timing of or need for chemotherapy
In time looking for patterns in the DNA of tumours or blood from cancer patients to identify common patterns that may tell us more about the causes of cancer or help predict response to treatments.
If your question has not been answered in this section, please visit our Ask page and submit your question there. Our team of experts will seek to find an answer and reply to you within one month.
Go top
Primary Sidebar
Our Newslettter
We have a newsletter packed with interesting news and events about genetics in our region.
Subscribe
Previous newsletters
Recent News
We celebrate as 100,000 genomes sequenced December 13, 2018
Government target to map 5 million genomes October 10, 2018
CUH wins tender for regional NHS genomic hub October 10, 2018
Nurses: Free one day primer in Genetic Counselling October 10, 2018
Streamlining Cystic Fibrosis Carrier Testing in East Anglia July 24, 2018
Genetics News from the University of Cambridge
Discovery of genetic variants that protect against obesity and type 2 diabetes could lead to new weight loss medicines April 18, 2019
Scientists have known for several years that genes can influence a person’s weight. One of the genes that is known to play a key role in regulating weight is MC4R, which codes for the melanocortin 4 receptor. This receptor acts like a switch in the brain to suppress appetite. People who have genetic variants that […]
Butterflies are genetically wired to choose a mate that looks just like them February 8, 2019
A team of academics from the University of Cambridge, in collaboration with the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama, observed the courtship rituals and sequenced the DNA from nearly 300 butterflies to find out how much of the genome was responsible for their mating behaviour. The research, published in PLOS Biology, is one of […]
Slim people have a genetic advantage when it comes to maintaining their weight January 24, 2019
More than six in ten adults in the UK are overweight, and one in four adults is obese. By age five, almost one in four children is either overweight or obese. Excess weight increases the risk of related health problems including type 2 diabetes and heart disease. While it is well known that changes in […]
East of England NHS Genomic Medicine Centre
Terms and Conditions
Website Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Copyright © 2019 · Showcase Pro on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in