Risk Factor :: Beyond The Shock®
Tweet
English English Spanish French Chinese/Mandarin Portuguese
English
Spanish
French
Chinese/Mandarin
Portuguese
Beyond The Shock(R)
Learn about breast cancer
Ask questions and get answers
Hear real stories from people
Sign Up
Login
loading... close
Topic information for: Risk Factor
follow
Related Questions
Can breast cancer be passed down from mother to daughter?
Asked by anonymous
Learning About Breast Cancer
over 6 years 4 answers •
follow
View all 4 answers
anonymous
Survivor since 2007
Anonymous:
Some types of breast cancer have a familial/genetic component. If there is breast cancer in your maternal side, you should probably get tested for the particular gene. If you have it, you have a chance to look into the future and have prophylactic measures taken now.
I had no...
more
Anonymous:
Some types of breast cancer have a familial/genetic component. If there is breast cancer in your maternal side, you should probably get tested for the particular gene. If you have it, you have a chance to look into the future and have prophylactic measures taken now.
I had no history of breast cancer on either side of my family and still was diagnosed. Family history is just one piece of the puzzle of breast cancer. Take care, Sharon
Comment 1
anonymous
Stage 2A Patient
Women who have inherited the breast cancer genes BRCA1 or Brca2 can inherit from either parent, not just mother's side. A very small percentage of breast cancer is inherited tho'. There're is so much research being conducted for breast cancer, that scientists are discovering all sorts of new...
more
Women who have inherited the breast cancer genes BRCA1 or Brca2 can inherit from either parent, not just mother's side. A very small percentage of breast cancer is inherited tho'. There're is so much research being conducted for breast cancer, that scientists are discovering all sorts of new areas involved in the development of BC.
Comment 0
Related Topics
Daughter
Genetic Disposition
Heredity
Mother
Risks
Looking for another topic?
Use the search box in the top right.
“Inspire hope by becoming an advocate for breast cancer prevention.”
spread the word
View Mobile Version?
About Beyond The Shock®
Beyond The Shock is a comprehensive online guide to understanding breast cancer.
It is a resource for women who have been diagnosed with breast cancer, a place for loved ones to gain a better understanding of the disease, and a tool for doctors to share information.
Beyond The Shock is a collaborative breast cancer guide created by the National Breast Cancer Foundation, Inc. (NBCF) with the support of the finest medical experts, doctors, and researchers in the world. NBCF utilized ground-breaking technology and the resources of the global medical community to create an accessible platform for understanding a diagnosis of breast cancer.
More Information
Family and Loved Ones
About Beyond The Shock®
Our Founder
Donations
Partner with us
Corporate Sponsorships
Spread the Word
Social Media
Media Room
Website Feedback
Contact us
Access breast cancer education right from your favorite devices. More »
New breast cancer questions are anonymously pushed to @BreastCancerQA on Twitter. More »
Help provide mammograms for uninsured women in need, and tools for breast cancer education. More »
Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | Sitemap | Medical Disclaimer
"Copyright © 2011 - BeyondTheShock.com\r\n®\r\n. All Rights Reserved." BeyondTheShock.com ® is operated by the National Breast Cancer Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization with a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt status. Oven Bits