baking soda solution – Breast Cancer Authority
Breast Cancer Authority
Breast Cancer Authority on breast cancer health, wellness and recovery through personal shares, complementary therapies, gardening and much more.
Home
About Us
Advertise
Become a Contributor
Bestseller List
Blog Articles
Breast Cancer Yoga
Donate
Diana’s Desk
Resources
Breast Cancer
Breathing/Pranayama
Cancer-Related Fatigue
Chemotherapy
Lymphoedema
Personal Stories
Radiation
Physical Therapy
Psychological Healing
Spirituality
Yoga
Breathing/Pranayama
Meditation
Philosophy
Yoga
Yoga Poses
Complementary Therapy
Aromatherapy
Botanicals/Herbs
Cancer Therapies
Reiki
Sound Healing
Nutrition/Diet
Detox
Doctor’s Advice
Recipes
Vegan
Gardening
Community Gardens
Gardening Tips
Contributors
Ruth Baillie, M.A., M.S.
Holly Bertone
Lesley Ronson Brown
Chef Robair
Omnia Raza Mir Chishti
Bonnie Coberley
Gai Comans
Jean Di Carlo-Wagner
Regina M. Dlugokencky
Dr. Adem Gunes
Dr. Christina Grant
Dr. Kate Killoran
Dr. Robin B. Dilley
Andrea Garvey
Michael Greger M.D.
Lisa Iacona
Rika Keck
Neeva Kedem
Tabs & Beth Garver Beha
Jenni Hewster
Patricia Kyritsi Howell
Yogini Kaliji
Ellen Kamhi
Margot Malin
Beverly McKee
MokshaPriya
Dinndayal Morgan
Kathleen O’Keefe-Kanavos
Rachel Pappas
Adrienne Razon
Lisa Robbins
Kelli Roberts
Diana Ross
Louise Scalza
Cynthia Shankman
Linda Sheele
Laura Sposato-Record
Elaine Silver
Rhonda M. Smith
Denise Stewart
Christine Taylor
Suzanne Strisower
Ryan Vollmer
Irina Wardas
Michelle Whitmer
You are here: Home / Archives for baking soda solution
Cancer Treatment With Self-Oxygenation Therapies
October 3, 2018 by Breast Cancer Authority Staff Leave a Comment
Medical research suggests that cancer is based and caused by low oxygen levels in cells or tissue hypoxia. Of course, there are other factors like smoking that can lead to lung cancer, heredity that increases chances of breast cancer or prostate cancer or blood cancer, diet that can lead to throat or stomach or colon cancers and so forth. These factors are also important in understanding cancer causes and search for cure for cancer.
However, body oxygenation is the key factor Note that I am talking about body oxygenation since it is not just tumors, but the whole body hypoxia is required for appearance of cancer cells. Hence, cancer sure requires normal body oxygenation.
Free Download
How could baking soda or sodium bicarbonate influence body and tumor oxygenation? It releases CO2 or carbon dioxide. CO2 is dilator of blood vessels or vasodilator. It is also crucial for release of oxygen in cells due to the Bohr effect.
More information about cancer research, cancer causes, and natural alternative therapies for cancer cure: http://www.normalbreathing.com/diseases-cancer.php .
These are the key factors that increase oxygen transport to cancer cells in case when Dr. Tullio Simoncini (Italy) injects baking soda solution into the artery leading to the tumor. Therefore, baking soda cancer treatment therapy works due to increased CO2 levels in the blood that increase oxygen delivery to the cancer cells.
Cancer patients breathe much more than both norms. Furthermore, respiratory rate (breathing frequency) of cancer patients, as many studies have found, is an independent predictor of their mortality. Over breathing or hyperventilation in people with cancer causes low CO2 levels in the arterial blood and reduces oxygen levels in their bodies and tumors.
Other natural alternative treatment therapies are based on increased body oxygenation due to breathing retraining techniques, such as the Oxygen Remedy, Buteyko method, Frolov breathing device, and some other techniques that can be used for cancer cure. Find more about them since they are much more effective in treatment of cancer than foods and diets.
What about diets and foods to cure cancers? You can eat tons of supplements, vitamin B17 and super-foods, drink canisters of herbal drinks, have hundreds of colonic irrigation procedures, and practice yoga for many hours every day, but if your body oxygen level remains the same, you will suffer from the same symptoms and require the same dosage of medication.
Experience of hundreds of people using the Buteyko breathing therapy suggests that cancer tumors naturally disappear, if one gets more than 40 seconds for the body oxygen test 24/7.
Here is the link to the clinical trial on metastasized breast cancer with breathing retraining :
http://www.normalbreathing.com/diseases-cancer-1-clinical-trial.php .
Other types of cancer, like prostate cancer, blood cancer, stomach cancer, throat and lung cancers can also be addressed with these techniques.
Dr. Artour Rakhimov (NormalBreathing.com)
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BxKCUODTuPI
Share this:
Twitter
Pinterest
Facebook
LinkedIn
Email
Tumblr
Like this:
Like Loading...
Filed Under: Breast Cancer, Breathing/Pranayama, Cancer Therapies, Complementary Therapy, Featured Articles, Home Tagged With: alternative cancer treatments, baking soda cure for cancer, baking soda solution, Breast Cancer, Breast Cancer Authority, breast cancer authority blog, breast cancer healing, breast cancer tumors, Buteyko method, Cancer survivor, cancer tumors, Conditions and Diseases, Dr. Tullio Simoncini, Frolov breathoing device, oxygen therapy
Search
Follow Us:
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 17,820 other followers
Follow
Subscribe To Breast Cancer Authority RSS
RSS - Posts
Diana's Desk
Tribute To Diana Ross
Follow Our Blog
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 17,820 other followers
Follow
Become A Contributor
Follow Breast Cancer Authority on WordPress.com
Top Posts & Pages
Baked Vegan Coconut Burger Recipe For A Cancer-Free Lifestyle
Comfort During Cancer - Radiation Burn Relief - Lots To Live For Cancer Side Effect Solutions
How to Use Castor Oil Packs to Help Dissolve Growths and Heal Scar Tissue
Herbal Spring Detox Recipes For Cancer Prevention And Treatment
Free Compost Bin - The Cardboard Box
Mastectomy Scar – What You Need To Know
Rye Bread Recipe For Cancer Diet
The Magic of Dandelions and Breast Health
Easy Warrior Pose For Breast Cancer And Lymphedema
Disclaimer
Statements contained on this website have not been evaluated by the FDA. Information is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent disease nor take the place of professional medical advice. If you are struggling with a serious health concern and are interested in utilizing a holistic method of healing, please contact a qualified health professional.
Return to top of page
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: