Himalayan Rose Pink Salt 1Kg (Fine)
Home Shop Blog
HomeShopBlog
Shop Himalayan Rose Pink Salt 1Kg (Fine)
PreviousGiant Grinder Gift Set Himalayan Giant Grinder 380g and Chili Lover Giant Grinder 165g NextHimalayan Rose Pink Salt Pouch 1KG (Coarse)
Himalayan Rose Pink Salt 1Kg (Fine)
Himalayan Rose Pink Salt 1Kg (Fine)
12.99
Following the ancient trade roads through Asia and the Middle East, Silk Route Spice Company imports the highest quality spices from across the world. Silk Route's beautiful rose coloured Himalayan Pink Salt is mined from the ancient pink salt deposits below the Himalayan Mountains. Himalayan Salt is an unrefined, raw salt containing no additives or chemicals. It remains in the same pure form today as when it was formed over two hundred and fifty million years ago.
Quantity:
Add To Cart
Facebook0 Twitter Pinterest0
Himalayan Pink Salt naturally contains over 80 essential minerals and trace elements used by the body for maintaining good health and well-being. To detoxify, simply add 500g to a hot bath and soak away the stresses of the day. For therapeutic and general well-being purposes, use approximately 250g. For Cooking, Pink Salt is a great option as a healthier alternative to processed white salt and helps food taste amazing. Use for cooking the same way you would regular table salt. For convenience, all our salt comes in a resealable stand up pouch and needs no additional container storage.
Himalayan Pink Salt helps promote hydration and helps maintain electrolyte balance.
Himalayan Pink Salt contributes to lowering blood pressure and improving circulation.
Himalayan Pink Salt naturally contains over 80 essential minerals and trace elements used by the body for maintaining good health and well-being.
For cooking - Pink Salt is a great option as a healthier alternative to processed white salt and helps food taste amazing. Use for cooking the same way you would regular table salt.
For convenience, all our salt comes in a resealable stand up pouch and needs no additional container storage.
To detoxify - Simply add 500g to a hot bath and soak away the stresses of the day. For therapeutic and general well-being purposes, use approximately 250g.
PrivacyTerms of UseContact
Powered by Squarespace