Cholesterol Treatment – A Natural Cure to High Cholesterol
The Natural Path
Cholesterol Treatment Plan
The goal of this cholesterol treatment plan in general is lowering cholesterol. Specifically, we want to lower your LDL cholesterol and increase your HDL cholesterol – in other words getting the right balance of cholesterol in your system. Remember, LDL cholesterol damages arteries in a few ways and HDL cholesterol helps to fix your arteries to some degree.
This cholesterol treatment provides some common sense guidelines on getting the right balance in your LDL and HDL cholesterol levels. I used this plan to lower my total cholesterol from 280 to 194, and to increase my HDL cholesterol and lower my ratio of total cholesterol / HDL cholesterol from over 6.0, down to 3.5. Normal cholesterol level provides a simple description of what these numbers mean.
What are the cholesterol treatment steps you need to take to get your cholesterol in the proper balance?
Perform a liver cleanse
Exercise, exercise, exercise
Reduce sharp spikes in your blood sugar level through proper diet choice and eating smaller meals regularly.
Eat foods that lower cholesterol and avoid foods that increase cholesterol
Liver Cleanse
A liver cleanse is an important part of a natural cholesterol treatment plan. Your liver creates 3 to 8 times the cholesterol that a normal diet contains. If you cut your cholesterol intake completely, you would still be getting 75% to 95% of the cholesterol you are getting today. Performing a liver cleanse will make your liver more efficient and effective at performing all its functions, including making cholesterol. Therefore, cleansing your liver is one of the best things you can do to regain balance of your cholesterol. With one liver cleanse, I was able to lower my LDL cholesterol by 10 mg/dL (in addition to what I was able to accomplish with all of the other steps). By lowering your LDL cholesterol level, a liver cleanse helps you achieve one of the goals of your cholesterol treatment plan.
The Many Benefits of Exercise
You probably know that exercise helps you increase your muscle mass and reduce your body fat levels. Aerobic exercise in particular helps you improve your cardiovascular health. As you learned, another of benefit of exercise is that it aids in your whole body detox and cleansing program.
In addition to all of these benefits, exercise also helps you increase your HDL cholesterol and lower your LDL cholesterol – the very goal we are trying to accomplish in your cholesterol treatment plan. Getting 20 – 30 minutes of aerobic exercise every day is sufficient to better balance your HDL and LDL cholesterol. What is even more amazing is that the benefit to helping you achieve normal cholesterol levels is gained even if this exercise is broken down into smaller events – such as walking for 15 minutes in the morning and another 15 minutes at lunch time. I started walking my dog once a day for about 30 minutes - fortunately, my dog likes brisk walks. The pros and cons of various types of aerobic exercises that should be part of your cholesterol treatment plan are provided in exercise benefits.
Blood Sugar Changes and LDL Cholesterol
Controlling your blood sugar is increasingly recognized as a key element in a cholesterol treatment plan. Rapid changes in your blood sugar and the presence of excess insulin in your blood increase the LDL cholesterol levels in your blood.
Foods such as simple sugars that rapidly raise your blood sugar are said to have a high glycemic index. Foods such as complex carbohydrates that take longer to digest, and thus do not as quickly affect your blood sugar level, are said to have a low glycemic index.
Recent studies have found that high glycemic index foods tend to raise your LDL cholesterol level. High glycemic index foods cause your body to generate excess insulin. This excess insulin causes your cells to generate cholesterol, rather than consume it from your bloodstream. This leads to an increase in LDL cholesterol in your blood.
Therefore, eating low glycemic index foods is a key part of a cholesterol treatment plan.
Food to Lower Cholesterol
Avoiding high cholesterol food completely will likely not be an effective cholesterol treatment plan to lowering cholesterol levels. Remember, your liver makes far more cholesterol than you induce in your diet. Moreover, so-called high cholesterol foods contain nutrients that help you fight other ailments. Completely eliminating these foods deprives you of these essential nutrients. Therefore, eating certain high cholesterol foods in moderation is good for you and will not adversely affect your cholesterol levels.
Instead of avoiding high cholesterol foods completely, a better alternative for your cholesterol treatment plan is to eat foods that lower cholesterol. Certain foods, such as soluble fiber, have properties that have been proven to increase your HDL cholesterol and also lower your LDL cholesterol. For example, I recently ran across a fiber supplement that has been clinically trialed and proven to lower LDL cholesterol twice as effectively as oat fiber (25 mg / dL vs. 11 mg / dL). It also helped control blood sugar spikes in Type 2 diabetics. If you do nothing else recommended on this page, I suggest that consider this product and the science behind it.
Eating food to manage your cholesterol is an integral part of your cholesterol treatment. A simple guide to lowering your LDL cholesterol, raising your HDL cholesterol and minimizing oxidation of LDL cholesterol can be found in food that lowers cholesterol
A natural cholesterol treatment plan is
The Natural Path to good health.
Top of Cholesterol Treatment Plan
Return to Lowering Cholesterol
Home >> Natural Cures >> Cholesterol Treatment Plan
BY USING THIS SITE YOU ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE TO THIS MEDICAL
DISCLAIMER AND COPYRIGHT NOTICE
Home
What's New? / RSS
Good Health
Toxic Cleansing
Whole Body Detox
Natural Food Diet
Juicing
Super Foods
Natural Cures
Healing Crisis
Other Resources
Contact Us
Tell your story