Blog
Unfiltered Perspectives
Home
About Admin Shauna
Blog
Unfiltered Wellness
Looking for a Web Writer?
Contact
Unfiltered BLOG
The amazing health benefits of Ginger
1/28/2018
0 Comments
Feeling nauseous? Read on to find out how Ginger can benefit you!
​
​Ginger, known the world over as a spicy ingredient, is the underground rhizome of the ginger plant. The ginger plant produces bright red flowers that come in various shapes and sizes, such as honeycomb and torch. Also known as Zingiber Officinale, it is native to lush, tropical settings, such as Indo-Malaysia.
Not only does this ingredient spice up your meals, it is also known to be a natural health remedy.
Ginger can alleviate nausea Ginger has been known to cure nausea without the side effects of medication. Anything from morning sickness to motion sickness, add a little ginger to your tea, and you will begin to feel better.
Ginger is good for your bones
Ginger has been known to boost bone health and alleviate joint pain.
Ginger helps the immune system
The effects of ginger help reduce the body's alarm to damaged cells in the body. Ginger acts like a barrier to higher levels of protastaglandin, which produce fever and headaches.
Interesting fact: In the 16th century, Queen Elizabeth I of England was a fan of ginger. She was actually the person who invented the gingerbread man. Soon after, she began to introduce it at the Royal ball. The gingerbread men were made to look like those in the royal family.
With all the added benefits of ginger, it is definitely worth stocking it in your household
0 Comments
Leave a Reply.
About the Author
​Unfiltered Perspectives is a blog full of unfiltered opinions and ideas, mainly pop culture-based. We also add a touch of business, social media, WWE, health, parenting and more into the mix. Stop by, look around, and say hello!
Archives
April 2019
February 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
Categories
All
RSS Feed
Powered by Create your own unique website with customizable templates.
Get Started
Home
About Admin Shauna
Blog
Unfiltered Wellness
Looking for a Web Writer?
Contact