Nausea during cancer and chemotherapy treatment
Cooking for Chemo
Empowering you to take control one bite at a time.
Menu
Skip to content
Home
Buy Cooking for Chemo …and After!
Get Help, Start Here
What is Cooking For Chemo?
Purchase Copies of Our Books
Cooking for Chemo …and After!
Cooking for Kids With Cancer
Chef Ryan Callahan’s Tasting Journal
Bulk Book Orders
Cooking for Chemo Tips and Techniques Lessons 1-15
L1: Cooking For Chemo Basics
L2: Why Does Everything Taste Weird? – *Trending!*
L3: Smell and Chemotherapy
L4: Loss of Appetite During Chemo
L5: Techniques for Building Appetite
L6: How to Cook for a Friend with Cancer
L7: Metallic Taste During Chemo
L8: Mouth Sores During Chemo
L9: Nausea During Chemo
L10: Chewing and Swallowing Issues
L11: Cooking For Kids Going Through Cancer Treatment
L12: What Goes In, Must Come Out (Bowel Movements)
L13: Groceries on a Budget During Chemo
L14: Kitchen Cleanliness During Cancer Treatment
L15: Holiday Cooking During Chemo
Cooking for Chemo Videos
Our Delicious Recipes
Holiday Recipes
Big Meals and Entrees
Small Meals, Snacks, and Sides
Sauces
Soups and Stews
Smoothies – *Trending!*
Printable Resources
BOOK a LIVE Event
More About Us, Contact and More
Contact Information
Our Story
Chef Ryan Callahan: The Cancer Chef
Cooking for Chemo in the News
Additional Services
More Cancer Resources
Nausea During Chemo
How to Combat Nausea when Cooking for Cancer and Chemotherapy
By Chef Ryan Callahan -The Cancer Chef
Not only is nausea obnoxious, it can also be completely unbearable leading to full blown vertigo during cancer treatment. Don’t let yourself get topsy-turvey on an overturned stomach.
There are many well established ways to combat nausea that range from herbal traditional remedies to modern prescription medications. In addition to this, I teach in my cookbook, Cooking for Chemo …and After! about the sensory and taste changes that occur for cancer patients during chemotherapy. I talk about how these changes can cause nausea if you are not careful to take them into consideration when cooking. For ease and convenience, I have broken these various remedies and techniques down for you for personal consideration.
Combating Nausea the scientific way:
Talk to your oncology doctor about your nausea. More than likely they can prescribe a variety of medications that treat a variety of nausea intensities. When my mom went through chemotherapy treatments, she had two pills she could take: one for moderate nausea and one emergency pill for severe nausea. Remember though, that all medications have interactions and undesired side-effects so make certain to cover these with your oncologist to choose the best selection.
Combating Nausea the traditional way:
There are many options for herbal and folk remedies that have been time tested to combat mild nausea during cancer and chemotherapy treatments. Here are a few of my recommendations that worked for us.
Peppermint: Available in the form of tea and candy, peppermint has long been used as a folk remedy for nausea. I can say that it does work for mild to moderate nausea. For us, it seemed to be that the peppermint candies or breath mints worked a little better than the peppermint teas.
Ginger: A classic sore stomach soother. Ginger, which originated in east Asia, has been in use for thousands of years to sooth a sore stomach. Available as a fresh root, a dried powder, a tea or in soda form; Ginger does in fact work for mild to moderate nausea. Be warned in advance though, ginger is in fact a warm spicy flavor, not a mild sweet flavor. Its warm spicy taste often takes people by surprise!
Sipping liquids: For mild nausea, a warm cup of soup broth to sip can help to set you right. In addition to this, soup broth has a caloric value which can be extremely helpful for those having trouble getting necessary nutrients into their bodies during chemotherapy treatment. You can also slowly sip water, which can help with mild nausea. Make certain not to quickly drink the liquids, as the upset and sudden influx of fluids can cause the inverse of the intended effect and cause you to become extremely nauseous!
Rubbing Alcohol (isopropyl alcohol): This is a technique that a post-surgical nurse taught me. When you are extremely nauseous take a cap full of rubbing alcohol and smell it. Do not snort it! Do not drink it! But take a few sniffs of the fumes, and it will immediately settle your nausea. This technique does not work for everyone, but for those whom it works, it does work extremely well.
Techniques to avoid nausea when cooking during cancer and chemotherapy treatment:
As the old expression says “an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.” So is this still true today? While not all nausea can be avoided, here are a few ideas and techniques that you can try to employ in your everyday life.
Avoid Pungent Smells: Pungency is a principal that has to do with the strength of odors. Whereas smell describes the character of an odor, pungency has to do with the strength irregardless of the pleasantry. For example: Roses have a low pungency and it can be hard to detect their scent. Inversely rotting fish has a very high pungency. Foods that have high pungency can induce nausea more easily than foods with a low pungency. The perfect example of this is canned tuna. During chemotherapy the smell of canned tuna, even from a great distance, would make my mom nauseous.
Use soothing herbs in your cooking: Rosemary, sage, thyme, basil, and parsley all have soothing scents that can help to keep nausea from occurring while eating.
Hopefully these tips and techniques will get you started on the right path to not only combating nausea but avoiding it entirely. For more information on the cooking techniques, you can purchase my cookbook, Cooking for Chemo …and After! by going to Amazon or Barnes and Noble.
Grab a Copy of Cooking for Chemo ...and After! Second Edition!
Join our FREE Cooking Club and Receive Exclusive Content, Tips, Videos, Recipes, and Our LIVE Show Recaps Straight to your Inbox!
Email Address	 First Name	 Last Name
Join the Fun!
Stay Up To Date
Keep up to date with Chef Ryan and everything Cooking for Chemo!
Ihadcancer.com Top Blogger
Chef Ryan is a 2x Gourmand Award Winner!
Contact Us!
Email Us: info@cookingforchemo.org
Call Us: 720-388-4063
Cooking for Chemo focuses on teaching you how to make your food taste great during and after cancer and chemotherapy treatment. The flavor and cooking techniques contained within our easy to make recipes will help improve your quality of life as you go through cancer and chemotherapy treatments. Our cooking and flavor techniques can be integrated with any diet regimine. All of our recipes can be made with organic ingredients if you choose. Our holistic approach to cooking will help you not only be able to eat but to also enjoy the taste of your food again during and after cancer and chemotherapy treatments. We have many healthy recipes, crockpot recipes, chicken recipes, dinner recipes, shrimp recipes, pasta recipes, soup recipes, vegan recipes, salad recipes, vegetarian recipes, breakfast recipes, and even a great chili recipe. Talk with your oncologist and dietitian to come up with a quality nutrition plan. This site is not to be taken as or used instead of professional medical advice. Please consult your doctor, oncologist, and dietitian before starting any new diet. All Content Copyright 2013-2017 Callahan Publishing