Alzheimer's and Statins | Spacedoc.com
Toggle navigation
Home
General Health
Breast Cancer Myths
Asleep at the Wheel - TGA
Cancer Survival and Treatment
Endogenous Hormones
Folic Acid Levels Subnormal
Hormone Replacement Therapy
Laparoscopic Prostatectomy
Prostatitis
Radiation Exposure and Health
Aging
Aging and L-Carnitine
Aging and CoQ10
Aging and Mitochondrial Mutations
Aging and Vitamin C
Aging and Magnesium
Aging and Selenium
Alpha-Lipoic Acid and Aging
Vitamins B2, B3 and Aging
Aging and Lecithin
A Recipe for Alzheimer's
Guidelines are not Commandments
Post Menopausal Iron Supplementation
Diet
Altitude Sickness Research
Heart Disease and Low Carb Diets
Kilmer McCully Heart Diet
Why Butter is Healthier than Margarine
Joel Kauffman Low-Fat Diet Myth 1
Joel Kauffman Low-Fat Diet Myth 2
Uffe Ravnskov Saturated Fat 1
Uffe Ravnskov Saturated Fat 2
Uffe Ravnskov Saturated Fat 3
Traditional Diabetic Diet is Wrong?
The Food Pyramid, Revisited
Transcending Diabetes
Best Weight Loss Diet
Diet and Mortality
Primacy Low Carbohydrate Diet 2
Primacy Low Carbohydrate Diet 1
Obesity, Cholesterol & Death Rates
Obesity, Cholesterol & Death Rates 2
Obesity, Cholesterol & Death Rates 3
Why Fried Foods Can Be Harmful
Alzheimer's and Parkinson's - Diet
Possible Prevention Alzheimer's 1
Possible Prevention Alzheimer's 2
Drug Studies Don't Lie - 1
Drug Studies Don't Lie - 2
Drug Studies Don't Lie - 3
Supplements
Tocotrienols
Cannabidiol to Statins - Heart Protection
PSA Remains the Best Test
Earthing - 1
Earthing - 2
Earthing - 3
Earthing - 4
Earthing - 5
Stress
How Stress Causes Heart Disease
Stress More Important than Cholesterol
Stress Induced Coronary Heart Disease
Earthing - Q and A 1
Earthing - Q and A 2
Orthostatic Hypotension
Electrons Fundamental to Good Health
Orthostatic Hypotension 2
Earthing - Dr. Duane Graveline
Hypothyroidism
Hypothyroidism - Holistic Diagnosing
Hypothyroidism - Treatment
Earthing and the Nervous System
Philip Blair bio
Prostate Cancer Breakthroughs
Prostate Cancer Breakthroughs QandA
Earthing Remedy Diabetes?
Earthing Remedy Diabetes? 2
Flu, SARS, Ebola and Cytokine Storms
Heart Health
Aspirin and Heart Attacks
Atherosclerosis and Heart Attacks
A Cardiologist Looks at CoQ10
Alcohol and Heart Disease
Biomarkers of Heart Attack Risk
Blood Pressure and Heart Disease
Chelation and Heart Disease
Cholesterol
Cholesterol Levels - Cardiovascular
Cholesterol - Early Dementia
Cholesterol - Fetal Alcohol Defects
Cholesterol - Friend or Foe?
Cholesterol: The Good and the Bad
Cholesterol - Older Adults
Cholesterol Levels - Science?
Cholesterol Lowering
Cholesterol Lowering Supplements
Cholesterol - Making the Synapse
The Great Cholesterol Scam
Cholesterol and Lipoprotein(a)
Low Cholesterol - Cognitive Effects
Low Cholesterol and Behavior
The Misguided War on Cholesterol
What About HDL?
Cholesterol Enhances Memory
The Cholesterol Delusion
Heart Failure - Cholesterol Levels
LDL Cholesterol - Neuromuscular
Cholesterol Not Factor Heart Disease
Cholesterol and Tuberculosis
Dr. Sinatra - Cholesterol
Kilmer McCully - Cholesterol - Pt. 2
Cholesterol and Statins
Dr. Malcolm Kendrick - Cholesterol
Why Lower Cholesterol Anyway?
Kilmer McCully - Cholesterol - Pt. 1
Cholesterol Articles
Cholesterol Relevant to Heart Disease?
What Should Your Cholesterol Be?
Familial Hypercholesterolemia
Familial Hypercholesterolemia - Statins for Children?
Why the 'Cholesterol Causes Coronary Heart Disease' Dogma has Persisted
Cholesterol Levels and Depression
The Truth About Cholesterol
Eggs and Cholesterol
Cholesterol and Heart Disease
The Cholesterol Delusion - Pt. 2
Dr. Sinatra - Busting Cholesterol Myth
Dr Sinatra - Q&A Cholesterol Myth
Benefits of Cholesterol
Eggs are Good for You
Evidence Against Cholesterol Causing Atherosclerosis
Defining Coronary Heart Disease Risk � What About Cholesterol?
Dental Health and CV Disease
Fetal Atherosclerosis
The Homocysteine Debate
Homocysteine and Heart Disease
Progress in Omega 3 Availability
Lp(a) and Heart Disease
Omega-3s and Heart Disease
C-reactive protein
Peter Langsjoen
CoQ10 and CHF Mortality
CRP and Statins
Dr. Sinatra, M.D. - Bio and Books
Dr. Sinatra - CoQ10, and Carnitine
Dr. Sinatra - Do You Need a Statin
D-ribose
Kilmer S. McCully M.D. Bio
Kilmer McCully - Homocysteine - 1
Kilmer McCully - Homocysteine - 2
Kilmer McCully - Vulnerable Plaques - Pt.1 of 2
Kilmer McCully - Vulnerable Plaques - Pt.2 of 2
BP, Personality, and Heart Attack
Treating High Blood Pressure - Any Good?
Treating High Blood Pressure - Any Good? 2
Blood Pressure: How Low is Too Low?
CRP Now a Heart Risk Marker
Inflammation Key to Heart Disease / Obesity Link
Stephen Sinatra Heart Health
Malcolm Kendrick - Heart Health
Cardiovascular Risk Factors
Graveline - Heart Health and Cholesterol
CoQ10 and Statins
Saturated Fat and Cholesterol - Heart Disease
Depression, Anxiety and Heart Disease
What Causes Atherosclerosis?
Saturated Fat and Heart Disease
Uffe Ravnskov - The Real Cause of Heart Disease?
Uffe Ravnskov - The Real Cause of Heart Disease? 2
Uffe Ravnskov - The Real Cause of Heart Disease? 3
Uffe Ravnskov - The Real Cause of Heart Disease? 4
Chronic Total Occlusion
Fetal Origin of CHD
The Truth About Trans Fats
Dr. Fred Kummerow Bio
Atrial Fibrillation - Use of Coumadin
What You Eat Can Prevent Heart Disease
50 Facts on Statins, Cholesterol and Heart Health
Fat and Cholesterol Don't Cause Heart Attacks 1 of 3
Fat and Cholesterol Don't Cause Heart Attacks 2 of 3
Fat and Cholesterol Don't Cause Heart Attacks 3 of 3
Tools
Lipid Converters
Site Search
Blood Glucose Converter
Statin Drugs
Statin Side Effects
Behavior and Mood
Depression and Statins
Depression, Statins and Cardiologists
Aggression and Statins
Behavioral Change and Statins
Statins, PLS, ALS and PN
My Statin Story - Personal Experiences 1
My Statin Story - Personal Experiences 2
My Statin Story Personal Experiences Main Menu
My Statin Story - Personal Experiences 3
My Statin Story - Personal Experiences 4
My Statin Story - Personal Experiences 5
My Statin Story - Personal Experiences 6
My Statin Story - Personal Experiences 7
Myopathy - Muscles
Benefits CoQ10 in Myopathy
Genetic Predisposition to Myopathy
Genetic Basis of Statin Myopathy
Muscle Pain and Statins
Myopathy - Lipitor / Zetia Combo.
Rhabdomyolysis and Statins
Rhabdomyolysis
Statins and Muscle Damage
Muscle Damage Without Pain
Statins Diminish Muscle Repair
Statins Chronic Muscle Weakness
Permanent Statin Myopathy
Statin Associated Myopathy and Exercise
Neuropathy - Nerves
Chronic Neuromyopathy Triggered by Statin Use - part 1 of 2
Neuropathy and Statins
Neuromyopathies
Peripheral Neuropathy Crisis
Chronic Neuromyopathy Triggered by Statin Use - part 2 of 2
Peripheral Neuropathy - Statins
Mitochondrial
Statins, Mitochondria, and Aging
Statins and Mitochondrial Mutations
Mitochondrial Damage - Oxidation
Statins - Mitochondrial Mutations
Mitochondrial Damage
01. Introduction
02. Statin Drugs Side Effects Review 1
03. Statin Drugs Side Effects Review 2
04. Statin Drugs Side Effects Review 3
05. Magic of Cholesterol
06. Special Importance of CoQ10
07. Why L-Carnitine
08. CoQ10 Inhibition to Mitochondrial Mutations
09. Anti-oxidation and Mitochondrial Damage 1
10. Anti-oxidation and Mitochondrial Damage 2
11. Mitochondrial Damage Conclusion
Mitochondrial Mutations and Statins
Memory - Cognitive
Memory, Cognition, Confusion
Selenium, Statins and Cognition
Short Term Memory Loss
Amnesia and Statins
Statin-Associated Memory Loss
662 Cases Memory Loss
Transient Global Amnesia
Statins and Post-Operative Delirium
Social Impact TGA
Other Side Effects
Cancer Risk and Statins
Heart Rhythm and Statins
ALS and Statins
Chronic Rhabdomyolysis
Lack of Energy and Statins
Libido and Statins
Neurodegenerative Diseases
Pancreatitis and Statins
Polymyalgia Rheumatica
Pulmonary Hypersensitivity
Sexual Side Effects of Statins
Skin Rashes and Statins
Brain Cell Damage and Statins
Chronic Fatigue and Statins
Gout and Statin Drugs
Hair Loss and Statin Drugs
Immune System and Statins
Insomnia and Statins
Vitamin D Deficiency and Statins
Tendonitis and Statins
Fibromyalgia and Statins
Eyes and Statins
Cancer and Statins
Thyroid and Statins
Statins and Multiple Sclerosis
Sleep Apnea and Statins
Statins and Erectile Dysfunction (ED)
Statins and Asthma
Statins and Mitochondrial Side Effects
Side Effect Articles
The Dark Side of Statins
Doctors and Statins
My Life After Statins
Lipid Lowering - Statin Side Effects
Management of Statin Side Effects
The Netherlands Radar Survey
Pneumonitis and Statin Therapy
Post Polio Syndrome and Statins
My Statin Story
Statin Adverse Effects
Statins and the Mevalonate Pathway
Statin Mechanism of Damage
Statins and Doctors
Permanent Side Effects - Statins
The Warning Signs of Statins
Statin Drug Linked to a Death
Verapamil and Statins
Causes of Statin Side Effects
Statin Drug Side Effects - Main Menu
EU New Statin Warnings
Seniors, Statins, and Side Effects
Statins Impair ATP Production
Graveline - Statin Side Effects
Many Faces Statin Damage
Pain Relief Vital for Statin Damaged
Statins and Ulcerative Colitis
Statins, Diabetes, Heart Failure
Dolichols Vital to Cell Function
Rhabdomyolysis - From the London Blitz to Statins
FAERS Statin Review
Ten Common Myths about Statins and Cholesterol - 1 of 3
Ten Common Myths about Statins and Cholesterol - 2 of 3
Ten Common Myths about Statins and Cholesterol - 3 of 3
Statin Drugs
Advicor
Baycol
Crestor Side Effects
Crestor and Rhabdomyolysis
Lipitor - Cognitive Side Effects
Lipitor Amnesia - Medwatch
Lipitor Side Effects
Lipitor - Transient Global Amnesia
Mevacor Side Effects
Pravachol Side Effects
Vytorin Concerns
Vytorin Side Effects
Zocor Side Effects
Zocor and Mouse Stem Cells
Simcor
Why ENHANCE Failed
Crestor, Omega 3 and Heart Failure
Crestor - JUPITER study
Zocor - UK Side Effect Reports
Statin Drugs List
Pitavastatin
Generic Statins
Graveline - Statins and Cholesterol
Statin Articles
Alcohol and Statins
Alzheimer's and Statins
A Case for Low Dose Statins?
Dolichols, Glycoproteins, Statins
The Five Faces of Statins
Genetic Susceptibility Statins
Glyconutrients and Statin Damage
High Dose Statins
Interview with Duane Graveline MD
Medwatch and Statin Reports
Pharmageddon
Statins - Fitting the Pieces Together
Selenium Inhibition and Statins
Statin Alternatives
Statin Dialogues
A Critical Review
Statins - Beta Endorphins
Statins and CoQ10 Deficiency
Statins and the Elderly
Statins and the Flyer
Glyconutrients and Statins
Inflammation and Heart Disease
Statins Interview
Low Dose Statins
Stopping Statins
Women and Statins
Anti-Inflammatory Effect of Statins
Medwatch Lipitor Reports
Statins - Not Ready for Marketing
Spacedoc and the Statin Beanstalk
Statins and Personalized Medicine
Gulf War Illness and Statins
Statins Healthcare Professionals
Pregnancy and Statins
Statin Use and the Elderly
Statins Bone Fractures
Statin Damage Crisis
Statins, Cholesterol and Stroke
Inflammation, not Cholesterol
Parkinson's Disease and CoQ10
Statins Suppress PSA
Statins Prevent Thromboembolism
Statins and DNA Damage
Selenium - Impact of Statins
Statins and Rheumatoid Arthritis
Statins Work by Anti-Inflammation Now?
Are Statins Changing the Dynamics of Death?
The Statin Gravy Train
Dolichols, Personality Change and Statins
Mechanism of Statin Benefit
PQQ and Statin Damage
Statin Scam
Cholesterol, Statins and CoQ10
Why Statins Do More Harm Than Good
Benefits of Statins 1
Benefits of Statins 2
Medwatch Lipitor 2012
Statin Damage Gene
Aging, Statins, Mitochondrial Mutations
Unusual Epidemics and Statin Use
Inflammation, Statins and CVD
Statins - A Drug of Many Faces
Statin Associated Diabetes Increasing Heart Disease Risk
Why Some Statins and Grapefruit Do Not Mix
Cholesterol Lowering
CETP Cholesterol Drug Fails
PCSK9 Inhibitors: Injectable Cholesterol Reducers
Natural Products
Red Yeast Rice and Statins
Alzheimer's and Statins
by Duane Graveline, M.D., M.P.H.
Nowhere are conflicting scientific views better illustrated than in a literature review on the subject of etiology (causation) of Alzheimer's Disease (AD).
There is debate within the AD research community as to what develops first in AD, amyloid plaques or neurofibrillary tangles. Many scientists in the field of Alzheimer's research believe that this disease is purely genetic in origin. Others believe that amyloid buildup causes a state of chronic inflammation.
In addition there is debate that the blood-brain barrier may be abnormal in persons with AD. To this mix has recently come a compelling new theory that cholesterol lack may be the primary etiologic factor.
A book, 'Alzheimer's Solved' by Henry Lorin, is a must read for every student of this subject. Lorin states that in the majority of cases, Alzheimer's disease is caused by long-term shortages of cholesterol in the elderly brain. He finds only two exceptions to this rule: Down syndrome and those with a history of brain injury or surgery.
His interest in the subject of the relationship began over ten years ago with his observation of the very low incidence of Alzheimer's disease in those people with type-2 diabetes. He noted that as a general rule this form of diabetes is associated with obesity and high blood cholesterol levels.
He found that Cree Indians, with their genetically predisposed diabetes of this type and high cholesterol levels, have very low likelihood of Alzheimer's disease. He wondered could a high blood level of cholesterol offer some protective effect against the development of Alzheimer's disease? He lists an impressive 2500 references in his decade of study.
Lorin's book carries the reader from cholesterol's role in brain structure and function to the process of subtle semi-starvation in the elderly with secondary low serum cholesterol levels and elevated cortisol levels reflecting low-grade stress. From this he takes the reader to a compelling case for amyloid deposition as a substitute for insufficient cholesterol, neuronal degeneration, brain shrinkage and the progressive evolution of Alzheimer's disease.
It is a fascinating read based on known observations, for most cases of this dreaded disease are malnourished with low serum cholesterol and high serum cortisols.
The body is under stress. Cholesterol manufacture and replacement is compromised. Amyloid is Mother Nature's band-aid according to this author, a poor substitute for cholesterol in the lay-down of myelin and in synaptic formation and function, leading to impaired neuronal function and death.
I have reported before on the cognitive impairment that those with naturally low cholesterol and statin users are more likely to experience. These complaints range from transient global amnesia, to aggravation of pre-existing senility to forgetfulness, disorientation and confusion. The mechanism of this side effect of statins is clearly rooted in the biosynthesis of cholesterol and likely is relevant to Lorin's observations about the predisposition to Alzheimer's disease of those with low serum cholesterol.
Only in the past several years have we learned the importance of cholesterol in brain function. Cholesterol has now been proven to be absolutely vital in the formation and function of the trillions of synapses in our brains. Now Lorin suggests that diminished bio-availability of cholesterol may be the key to Alzheimer's disease.
On 9 November 2001, Dr. Frank Pfrieger (and others) of the Max Planck Society for the Advancement of Science announced to the world the discovery that adequate cholesterol bioavailability was the key to both the formation and function of the billions of synapses in our brain supporting neuronal transmission. (1) In the absence of sufficient cholesterol for synaptic support, neuronal transmission fails.
The so-called glial cells of the brain, long suspected of providing certain housekeeping functions, were shown to produce their own supply of cholesterol for the specific purpose of providing nerve cells with this vital synaptic component. Since the brain cannot tap the cholesterol supply in the blood because the lipoproteins that mediate the transport of cholesterol are too large to pass the blood-brain barrier, the brain must depend upon its own cholesterol synthesis, which the glial cells provide.
The highly lipophilic statin drugs such as Lipitor®, Mevacor® and Zocor® far more easily cross the blood-brain barrier and interfere with glial cell synthesis of cholesterol than their hydrophilic counterparts such as Pravachol®.
The results of studies to see whether statins have any benefit for Alzheimer's have been mixed. How, one asks, can statin drugs possibly be of help to those with Alzheimer's disease? The answer no doubt lies in the fact that inflammation is part of the Alzheimer's disease process and statins are effective anti-inflammatory agents. The cholesterol inhibiting effects of statins, which according to Lorin should aggravate Alzheimer's disease may be offset, at least in part, by the anti-inflammatory benefit of these same drugs.
In a study published in 2005, Thomas D. Rea, M.D., M.P.H., of the University of Washington, Seattle and his colleagues studied 2,798 participants 65 years or older in a Cardiovascular Health Study by first establishing their dementia free status by baseline magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and standardized mental testing. (2)
At follow-up, years later, there were 480 cases of dementia in this group, including 245 attributable to Alzheimer's disease alone. The researchers found that patients using statins had no reduction in their risk of developing dementia from any cause (Alzheimer's disease, mixed Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia or vascular dementia alone) compared with those who had never used statins. "In this investigation, statin therapy was not associated with a lower risk of dementia," the authors concluded.
A lack of benefit for Alzheimer's with statin use was also the conclusion of another study (Lipitor's Effect in Alzheimer's Dementia - LEADe) (3). Dr. Howard Feldman and others reported that in a study of 640 patients ages 50-90 with mild to moderate AD, using Lipitor 80 mg for 72 weeks did not benefit cognition or global function compared with placebo.
Duane Graveline MD MPH
Former USAF Flight Surgeon
Former NASA Astronaut
Retired Family Doctor
References:
1. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11701931
2. http://archneur.ama-assn.org/cgi/content/abstract/62/7/1047
3. http://www.neurology.org/content/74/12/956.abstract
Updated October 2011
Related Articles on spacedoc.com
Alzheimer's Solved
A Recipe for Alzheimer's
Books From Amazon
The Dark Side of Statins
The Statin Damage Crisis
Cholesterol is Not the Culprit
Statin Drugs Side Effects
Lipitor, Thief of Memory
Over 12,000 reader posts:
spacedoc Forum
© This article is copyrighted and may not be reproduced in any form without written permission from spacedoc.com
Statements on this site are those of the credited author of the article or message and the expressed opinions are not necessarily those of the site owners, operators, developers, or hosts.
Articles and messages on this site are for information and education purposes only and should not be used to diagnose or treat any illness, disease, or other medical condition.
Recommendations, statements and other opinions expressed on this site have not been evaluated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Products, including vitamins, minerals and other dietary supplements, and any statements made about those products on this page and throughout this site have not been evaluated by the United States Food and Drug Administration and are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent disease.
Always consult with a qualified medical professional before making medication, diet, dietary supplement, exercise, or lifestyle changes or decisions.
Trademarks and service marks (including, without limitation, the individual names of products and companies) are the property of their respective owners.
Read the full Terms and Conditions, Privacy Policy and Disclaimers before using this site.
Contact
To contact site administrator regarding technical or other aspects of this site, e-mail to site@spacedoc.com
Note that no personal medical questions of any kind can or will be answered.
© 2008 - 2019 All material on this site http://www.spacedoc.com/ is copyrighted and may not be used or reproduced in any form without written permission
spacedoc.com
____
Useful Links
Events
Spacedoc Forum
Over 12000 reader posts
Spacedoc Forum
© 2008 - 2019 Spacedoc Media LLC Privacy Policy | Terms of Service | Sitemap