The Ancient Ritual of Oil Pulling - Recess LV
I Feel Pretty…..Amy Schumer’s New Movie May Be the Perfect Law of Attraction Movie
Why You Should Not Let Your Child Take the Common Core SBAC Test
Easy & Healthy Halloween Treats
7 Questions To Ask Yourself About Your Business Website
Gluten Free & Vegan Halloween Treat: Pistachio Chewy Popcorn Balls
How Mobile Technology Can Help You Live A Healthy lifestyle
Fall in Town Square
Recess Reads – October
Traditional Meatloaf With Twice-Baked Cheesy Potatoes
5 Simple Steps to Clean Eating
Contact
About
Business Directory
Contributors
Events
Select a PageContact About Business Directory Contributors Events
Family
Cafe Mom
Family Events
Daily Deals
Just For Dads
Health
Fitness
Weight Loss
Eating Healthy
Fashion & Beauty
Fashion Fridays
Shopping
Trends
Entertainment
Books
Movies
Restaurants
Happy Hour
Fun
DIY
Holiday
Party Planning
Community
Charity
Downtown Project
Education
Green Living
Travel
Las Vegas Visitors Guide
Leaving Las Vegas
Food
Recipes
Women
And Guys Too
Technology
Social Media
Tech Toys & Tools
For Bloggers
Select a PageFamily - Cafe Mom - Family Events - Daily Deals - Just For Dads Health - Fitness - Weight Loss - Eating Healthy Fashion & Beauty - Fashion Fridays - Shopping - Trends Entertainment - Books - Movies - Restaurants - Happy Hour Fun - DIY - Holiday - Party Planning Community - Charity - Downtown Project - Education - Green Living Travel - Las Vegas Visitors Guide - Leaving Las Vegas Food - Recipes Women - And Guys Too Technology - Social Media - Tech Toys & Tools - For Bloggers
The Ancient Ritual of Oil Pulling
Published On June 1, 2014 | By Nancy S. Mure | Health
The Ancient Ritual of Oil Pulling – It Can’t Hurt But it Doesn’t Help
Oil pulling, an Ayurvedic folk remedy dating back thousands of years, is being hailed as the cure-all for oral disease and has even been suggested effective in treating systemic diseases such as diabetes or asthma, according to Wikipedia.
The process involves swishing your mouth with a cold-pressed virgin oil of your choosing (coconut, olive, sesame) for 15-20 seconds, then rinsing it out with salt water. By doing this, it has been said, you will “pull” harmful toxins from your mouth. It is suggested Oil pulling may efficently reduce oral plaque, bad breath and gingivitis when included in a regular oral healthcare program.
Before you head to the store for your array of rinsing oils consider what real healing is from an holistic point of view.
Healing a cavity is an inside job. While cavities can be healed naturally, they cannot be healed by the ancient ritual of Oil Pulling. The reason for this is simple: A cavity cannot be healed or caused by anything external or topical. Cavities are caused over all bad nutrition, also by sugar but they are not caused by topical sugar. They are caused by ingested sugar. Overall poor nutrition leaches nutrients from the bones and teeth which then cause decay. This means if the teeth are decayed there’s a strong chance the bones are decaying too. The only thing that can heal teeth is removing sugar from the diet and proper nutrition.
Bad breath is also and inside job. Bad breath is directly related to the stomach and what we eat. What we eat has everything to do with how our breath smells. Take garlic for instance. We eat it, it goes through the process of digestion and oozes out of every pore in our body, including our mouth. As for gingivitis, the salt rinse that’s done after oil pulling will most probably benefit us more.
Diabetes, another ‘sugar related’ disease on the increase in countries where sugar consumption has mounted to such high figures. According to Natural Hygienists, Diabetes cannot be cured or managed by oil pulling but by the elimination of sugar and again … proper nutrition.
Asthma, is a chronic disease of the lungs that is complicated by sinusitis, hay fever and bronchitis. However, Asthma’s cause is linked to enervation and poor nutrition, say Natural Hygienists. Therefore, it is not linked to nor be healed by ‘pulling’ bacteria from the mouth. Asthma can only be healed by removing the cause of the disease. This includes, as a priority, proper nutrition, restoring nerve energy of the lungs and by correcting the mode of living: lowering levels of stress, exercising and getting natural Vitamin D.
From an holistic perspective, Oil-pulling is basically useless and is definitely not a cure. While there are no proven benefits to the trend of Oil pulling there is certainly no harm in taking the time to swish oil if you have a spare twenty minutes each day. The temporary effects of Oil pulling, if there really are any, will only manage a symptom but they will not remove the cause of any oral or systemic disease.
To effectively heal any condition in the human body, there must be a complete and through removal of the cause of disease. Only then, will you see a permanent removal of symptoms. I’d put my money on proper nutrition.
Do you Oil Pull?
The Ladies of RECESS would love to hear about any results (or lack of) from the The Ancient Ritual of Oil Pulling. Please leave any questions or comments below or visit our Facebook page to join the discussion.
oil pulling
Like this Article? Share it!
Tweet
Pin It
About The Author
Nancy S. Mure PhD. is a Board Certified Holistic Nutrition and Natural Healing Practitioner and author of the book EAT! coming December, 2015. Learn more at www.loseridiculousweight.com
← Previous post
Next post →
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also subscribe without commenting.
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Home
Contributors
Business Directory
Advertise
Badge Bar
Media
Jobs
Contact
Copyright 2015 RecessLV in partnership with LimeCuda