Ginger | Migraine.com
Skip to Accessibility Tools Skip to Content Skip to Footer
Menu
SearchSearchCreated with Sketch.
GO
Community
Q&A
Stories
Forums
Member Search
Community Advocates
Holly Baddour
Bill Bartlett
Lisa Robin Benson
Nancy Harris Bonk
Alene Brennan
Gretchen Church
Kelly Crabb
Maria De Leon
Janet Geddis
Katie Golden
Sarah Hackley
Tonilyn Hornung
Marci Kallick
Joanna Kempner, PhD
Kyky Renee Knight
Khalid Moomand
Tom Picerno
Olivia Rehberger
Elizabeth Roberts-Zibbel
Jaime Sanders
Kerrie Smyres
Amanda Workman
Steven Workman
William B. Young, MD, FAHS
Editorial Team
Community Rules
Basics
What Is Migraine?
Migraine Statistics
Migraine Types
Abdominal Migraine
Acephalgic Migraine
Basilar-Type Migraine
Cyclic Migraine Syndrome
Familial Hemiplegic Migraine
Gastric Stasis Migraine
Hemiplegic Migraine
Infantile Colic
Hormonal Migraine
Migraine Aura Without Pain
Migraine with Aura
Migraine with Brainstem Aura
Migraine with Typical Aura
Migraine Without Aura
Ocular Migraine
Retinal Migraine
Seasonal Migraine
Silent Migraine
Sinus Migraine
Stress Migraine
Tension Migraine
Vestibular Migraine
Migraine Diagnosis
Causes & Triggers
Migraine Causes
Migraine Triggers
Emotions & Stress
Environmental
Exercise
Food & Drinks
Hormonal Changes
Sexual Activity
Migraine Phases
Chronic Migraine
Exertion Headache
Hangover Headache
Hypertension Headache
Other Headache Types
Living with Migraine
Children & Teens
Disability
Applying for Disability
Family Medical Leave Act
ADA & the Workplace
Getting Help
Health Insurance
Insurance Denials
Insurance Limits
Prescription Drug Insurance
Quality of Life
Avoiding a Migraine
Sleep
Social Life
Work
Risk of Stroke
Transient Ischemic Attack
Women's Health & Migraine
Menstrual Headaches
Hormonal Changes
Migraine & Menopause
Infertility & Migraine
Migraine During Pregnancy
Migraine During Labor
Migraine After Childbirth
Symptoms
Aura
Diarrhea & Constipation
Difficulty Concentrating
Fatigue
Feeling Lightheaded
Fever
Food Cravings
Hives
Mood Changes
Nausea
Neck Pain
Numbness & Tingling
Pain on One Side of the Head
Puffy Eyelid
Sensitivity to Light
Sensitivity to Smells
Sensitivity to Sound
Throbbing Pain
Vertigo
Vision Changes
Weakness
Symptom Checker
Treatment
CGRP: A New Direction for Migraine Treatment
Complementary Therapies
Acupressure
Acupuncture
Biofeedback
Chiropractic Therapy
Cold Therapy
Darkness & Rest
Exercise
Heat Therapy
Massage
Migraine Diet
Seeking Quiet
Yoga
Medication Relief
OTC Medicine
NSAIDs
Natural Remedies
Butterbur
Caffeine
Coenzyme Q10
Feverfew
Fish Oil
Flaxseed
Ginger
Ginkgo Biloba
Magnesium
Medical Marijuana
Peppermint Oil
Potassium
Riboflavin
Tea
Valerian
Vitamins
Prescription Drugs
What are CGRPs?
Alsuma™ (Sumatriptan Injection)
Amerge®
Anticonvulsants
Axert®
Antidepressants
Beta Blockers
Botox®
Depakote®
Calcium Channel Blockers
Ergomar®
Fioricet®
Frova®
Imitrex®
Maxalt®
Narcotic Analgesics
Nasal Spray
Onzetra™
Propranolol
Relpax®
Sumavel®
Topiramate
Triptans
Treximet®
Trokendi XR™
Zecuity™
Zembrace®
Zomig®
Prevention Medications
Migraine Research
Clinical Trials 101
Mental Health & Migraine
Migraine Effects on Mental Health
Depression
Psychotherapy
Medications
Suicide Prevention
Complementary & Alternative Therapies
General Resources
Recovery from Mental Health Conditions
Myths & Misconceptions
Frequently Asked Questions
Special Sections
Register
Log In
SearchCreated with Sketch.
Search
Accessibility
A
A
A
T
T
T
T
Reset
Subscribe
Forums
Natural Remedies
Ginger
SHARE
Email Created with Sketch.
Heart
By admin October 25, 2010 at 8:22 pm
Welcome to the Ginger Forum
reply
By laurahill June 30, 2011 at 8:11 am
I also have been heard that Ginger is good for the treatment of headache.Drinking boiled water added with ginger is good for preventing migraine headache.Also drinking ginger tea is helps to reduced headache.
Regards
reply
By Ellen Schnakenberg July 7, 2011 at 3:06 pm
Ginger is actually a good anti-inflammatory. Additionally, it does a pretty fair job of helping nausea problems. This is why Ginger Ale is often given when we get sick. There are many ways you can take ginger. One favorite is candied ginger found in most grocery and health food stores. Freshly ground ginger in food or steeped in tea is also very helpful. Ginger has a strong flavor though, and those already in the throngs of a bad Migraine may not be able to handle it well. Even ginger snaps are helpful to a degree. There are also capsules of ginger that can be bought at most drug stores that bypass the whole taste factor. If ginger helps your Migraine issues, you may want to discuss it with your physician, as this may indicate you have an inflammatory issue going on elsewhere that may need to be addressed. Sometimes finding these other issues and fixing them can really help our Migraines as well.
reply
By livingtosing October 10, 2011 at 3:50 pm
I have used ginger off & on with decent results. But, until increasing to 3 550mg capsules 2-3 times a day it was not impressive. It has really helped.
reply
By Camassia December 17, 2014 at 4:30 pm
I also find ginger very helpful. I use candied ginger for nausea or to abort an attack. Do you know by any chance how much candied ginger is safe to consume in a day? It seems ginger can increase heart rate and raise blood pressure. I eat 1-2 pieces of candied ginger on a day when I really need it.
reply
By Anna January 27, 2015 at 1:36 pm
Camassia — if you’re really worried, I would ask a doc, but my guess is that you’re fine. Ginger has been a dietary staple in many culture for quite some time now and I’ve never heard of anyone poisoning themselves with it, and 1-2 pieces of candy is a minuscule compared to the amount of ginger in certain dishes. I think one of the reasons ginger is so beloved as a natural remedy is because it has so few unsavory side effects. It’s the only thing that gets me through long car trips
reply
By RockyMtnGuy September 17, 2016 at 10:17 am
Some doctors said some dubious things to me about the dangers of sumatriptan. The insurance companies want you to believe it is dangerous because they don’t want to pay for it. Naturally, I don’t believe them so I checked the medical research for myself.
In researching this, I ran across a paper comparing 500 mg of ginger powder (1/8 teaspoon) to 100 mg of sumatriptan (the standard pill) which found they were equally effective in stopping migraines. I tried it the next time I had a migraine, and darned if it didn’t work. I used 1/4 teaspoon because ginger powder is cheap and as close as your kitchen spice rack.
I also found that putting it under your tongue is the fastest way it works. It’s called sublingual application. If you put 1/4 teaspoon of ginger powder under your tongue, your tongue will absorb it, and it will hit your bloodstream in about 8 minutes vs. 1 hour if you just swallow it.
It has a few side effects, but not all the wild and crazy ones that sumatriptan has. Burning in your mouth, maybe a little nausea. The main drawback is that it doesn’t last very long, so I still use sumatriptan pills for long-term migraines. Often, when I get a migraine, my stomach shuts down (sometimes for 3 days) so when the pills don’t work, I have to use an auto-injector, and that gets expensive. However, sublingual application of ginger will get my stomach working again, and then the sumatriptan pills will work for the long term without using an auto-injector.
The lethal dose of ginger powder is about 1 pound, but 1/4 teaspoon is effective for migraines. The lethal dose of sumatriptan might be 1/2 pound, or about 2500 pills. Maybe – they don’t really know. Nobody has ever eaten 2500 pills at once.
reply
By Fmarian October 13, 2016 at 11:17 am
I always eat ginger candy even though it has a lot of sugar on it I get the classic migraines but I have not had one in almost five months because I started taking magnesium and B complex vitamins every morning I also drink a cup of warm Himalayan salt water every day and if I start to get the aura or feel like it’s in Aura I drink warm salt water I always keep a bottle of water and Himalayan salt in my purse 2 teaspoons to one cup of water it stops the aura immediately and I have not had a headache in 5 months I also believe that my headaches are contributed to my menstrual cycle so I have started eating a raw organic carrot everyday for the last 5 months this is a good way to get rid of extra estrogen in the body that causes migraines for women with all of these combinations I was able to take myself completely off of any medicine that the doctor had prescribed and I do not have to knock on wood take any pain relievers my headache never get started I do still get a flash of light or a wavy line in my eye close to my menstrual cycle but as soon as I drink the salt water it is gone and does not come back until the next month hope everyone or someone can find this helpful good luck
reply
By brooke w. November 24, 2016 at 10:35 am
Daily ginger tea is easy to make and very worthwhile for anti-inflammation & gut health. Buy the ginger root at any store (organic is best) and grate just enough (1 teaspoon-1 tablespoon). Put in a tea strainer or tea pouch (get these paper pouches online or in natural food stores). Steep and enjoy. I like to mix my ginger tea with other herbal teas like Celestial Seasonings Bengal Spice or Apple Cinnamon. Delish!
Reminder, never use caffeine teas. Caffeine may help initially with migraine but becomes a trigger causing rebound.
reply
Join the conversation! Log in or create an account.
Sign up for emails
Subscribe
By providing your email address, you are agreeing to our privacy policy. We never sell or share your email address.
Thanks! You're all set!
Good news - you're already subscribed! Need help? Let us know at contact@Migraine.com.
Something's not right... Try again or let us know at contact@Migraine.com.
Follow us
About Us Contact Us Terms Of Use Privacy Policy Community Rules Help Center Ad Choices
© 2010–19 Health Union, LLC. All rights reserved. This information is not designed to replace a physician’s independent judgment about the appropriateness or risks of a procedure for a given patient. Always consult your doctor about your medical conditions. Migraine.com does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Use of the site is conditional upon your acceptance of our terms of use.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.