Himalayan Salt Lamp Benefits: Do Salt Lamps Really Work?
Himalayan Salt Lamp Benefits – Do Salt Lamps Really Work?
What are the Himalayan salt lamp benefits and why they recently become so attractive to many people worldwide?
Do salt lamps really work? Some think that Himalayan salt lamps are a hoax and others believe in the science behind them. But if you are new to this topic, probably the best way to start know this topic is first answering the question “What is a salt lamp?“.
What is a salt lamp?
The real Himalayan salt lamps are made of pink Himalayan salt. The solid block of ancient salt crystals come from the Khewra Salt Mine in Khewra, Jhelum District, Punjab. It is situated in the foothills of the Salt Range hill system in the Punjab province of the Pakistan Indo-Gangetic Plain.
People are attracted to them because they emit soft and natural light. Due to the natural orange-golden glow, they create an elegant accent and relaxing atmosphere in every room. The glow resembles the sunlight at sunrise and sunset. Therefore it directly affects your emotional and spiritual state, bringing a feeling of warmth and coziness.
When the bulb under the lamp is lit, it immediately shows the beautiful and rich colors it is know for. They create a warm and welcoming atmosphere in every home. Except that there are number of health benefits.
Numerous Himalayan salt lamp benefits
The Himalayan salt lamps health benefits are numerous. First know that this is the best natural air ionizer in the world. Not only this but it also can boost your immunity, improve your sleep and relieve your migraine. For example, if you place a it next to a TV or monitor (do not place it on), its effect through the electromagnetic field is approximately in the 100-160Hz zone. However, our brain waves produce only 8Hz, depending on Schumann’s resonance frequency. As a result we expose our bodies to up to 20 times higher frequency patterns. And the effects of this exposure are nervousness, insomnia and lack of concentration. In addition, more free radicals accumulate in the body. But the negative ions connect with excess positive ions and neutralize them.
The salt lamps can generate negative ions which improve mood and energy levels. The soft , natural they give off is close enough to the warm glow of sunshine. This is one of the reasons that they can even help to relieve the symptoms of SAD (Seasonal Affective Disorder).
Here are more examples. If you place a lamp in your room, it will clean your sinus while you sleep. This can happen because our body’s protective powers are at rest and are most susceptible to the its influence. It can also reduce the amount of electromagnetic pollution that is invariably contained in the air in your work rooms, the dust content and the airborne viruses and bacteria. Or you can place it on your desk when you need a higher concentration at work.
Bio-energy therapists and homeopaths recommend them to aid in the treatment of allergies, respiratory and circulatory diseases, and rheumatism. Because of their color they are also used in chromotherapy. The soothing light helps people suffering from neurosis and insomnia.
Note: It might take you a week before you notice the results of the negative ions.
As I said in the previous text – the health benefits are many. And they are becoming more popular as people realize that. I am going to introduce you to the most important ones as I think they are.
Purify the air and reduce the symptoms of allergy and asthma
One of the most known Himalayan salt lamp benefits is the air purification. Himalayan salt lamps have the ability to remove dust, cigarette smoke and other pollutants from the air. This happens thanks to its hygroscopic characteristics. Or in other words it collects the moisture from the air. The salt crystal attracts and absorbs water molecules from the environment where it is placed. These water molecules and all other particles from the air are absorbed as well. The salt crystal is heated by the heat of the bulb, the water molecules evaporate back into the room, but the dust particles remain “locked” in the salt.
This feature of the salt lamp helps with reducing the allergy and asthma symptoms. Just place one or more lamps in the rooms where you spend the most time. Even people who suffer from asthma will be able to notice a big difference after one or two weeks.
Increase body energy
It is well known that positive ions suppress our energy levels. And this is something we should not deny. Here is an example. Each of us feels good when you spend time at the beach or walk in the mountains. Even when we bathe in the morning, we feel energetic. But that’s no accident. These activities place us in an increased concentration of negative ions and low concentration of positive ions.
And the next time you feel tired and there is no obvious reason for that, remember to place a Himalayan salt lamp in your room. We believe that in about a week, you and the others around you will notice a difference in your mood.
Neutralize the electrosmog
Today, almost all of us live in a sea of ​​electromagnetic radiation emanating from the electronics we serve daily (television, computer, mobile phone, tablet, etc.). While they may be invisible, the long-term effects of electromagnetic waves can be quite serious. Permanent exposure to electromagnetic radiation is known to increase stress levels, cause chronic fatigue and reduce immune system, among other things. “When they release negative ions in the air, Himalayan salt lamps work to neutralize electromagnetic radiation. Put a Himalayan salt lamp or candle to your computer, TV, and other electrical devices that you use often to reduce the potential danger to you and your family.
Give us a better sleep
Another side effect that results from excessive exposure to positive ions in the air is the lack of quality sleep. This happens because these positively charged particles can actually reduce the blood supply and the supply of oxygen to the brain, leading to incomplete sleep. The salt rock lamps benefit us as natural negative ion generators, thus helping to overcome this problem. Keep one or two around your bedroom to improve air quality. As a result, you will feel that you have a better and healthy sleep.
Keep in mind that if you can not fall asleep when there is even a dim light in the room, you can always turn the lamp off before going to bed. Just let it shine and do your job during the day.
Salt lamps are able to improve your mood! Beautiful Himalayan salt lamps are able to improve your mood and make you relax, especially at the end of a busy day (like most of us). And something else – they can improve concentration when you’re at work. This is again due to the effect of negative ions on the body. Improves blood circulation and supply of oxygen to the brain and other organs. It provides a boost to serotonin – a neurotransmitter that makes us happy.
According to this study, serotonin plays an important role in regulating aggression, body temperature, mood, sleep, vomiting, blood clotting, sexuality, and appetite. Low levels of serotonin may be the cause of aggressive behavior, clinical depression, migraine, irritable stomach, fibromyalgia and various nervous disorders, but high doses of serotonin in the blood may be a symptom of osteoporosis. “
Find Relief For Your Anxiety
Here is an important benefit from the salt lamp. If you suffer from anxiety or panic attacks, that you know how your life can be miserable. There are many reasons why the panic attacks and the anxiety come out of nowhere. But what if it is actually because of the too many positive ions and the air quality? And what if salt lamps help people with anxiety?
Improve Seasonal Affective Disorder
We already know that salt lamps generate negative ions. And that they improve our mood and energy levels. Here’s what you need to know also. The soft and natural light that Himalayan salt lamps emit is close enough to sunlight, which can be used to relieve the symptoms of Seasonal Affective Disorder.
How do they work?
In every room in your house there is a water vapour that is always circulating in the air. It carries along with it harmful particles like dust, pollen, and even bacteria and viruses.
Salt lamps work by absorbing water and particles from the air. And by doing so they take all harmful particles from the air with them. When the lamp is switched on, the salt rock heats and releases cleansed water vapour back into the air. It also expels negative ions which have opposite effect on our breathing.
Most salt rock lamps work in a similar manner to an air purifier or an ionizer. They kill bacteria and remove dust, allergens, smoke, odors, germs and mold spores. But how does this happen? When the bulb under the salt rock is lit, it warms it up and a process of absorbing the moisture in the air starts. We call this “hygroscopicity“. Therefore, the crystal becomes wet on the surface. Then it evaporate. This creates an negative ion field, sometimes called “air vitamins”. That way the positively charged atmosphere of the room is being neutralized.
Occasionally it is recommended to turn the salt lamp off for a short time and gently wipe the crystal with a damp (not soaking wet) towel or sponge in order to clean it. Once cleaned, dry it with a paper towel or turn it on for a while.
Where to place your lamp to get the most of its health benefits?
When it comes to choosing a Himalayan salt lamp, the area it should be placed of ​​action is determined by the size of the rock. Smaller ones are suitable for an average bedroom. Larger ones are more suitable for rooms such as the living room or the office. Sometimes people can not find the right size for their room. But always remember that you can use several smaller salt lamps with the same effect. For small rooms or if you want to have a variety in your collection, consider adding salt candles as well.
You can place the lamps in many different places throughout the home. Here are just a few of the most common and recommended locations:
Bedroom
Placing a lamp inside your bedroom will help to purify the air of dust and many other impurities. It is important to have fresh clean air inside your bedroom because it is the place you spend most of your day (or night). Apart from the air purification, it also helps to counteract harmful ions that may be released in your bedroom if you have things like computer monitors or televisions running. If you study in your room, the negative ions help to increase concentration, boost work productivity and reduce fatigue.
Living Room
Placing them inside of your living room helps to purify the air and counteract the harmful positive ions released from your television. The beautiful, orange glow they emit also help to provide everyone with a more relaxing atmosphere.
Near an Allergy Sufferer
Placing the salt rock lamps beside someone with allergies helps to reduce their symptoms. The negative ions released from the lamp neutralize allergy causing particles. This include dust, pollen, animal dander, cigarette smoke, air-borne pollutants, etc.
Child’s bedside
For a baby or young child, a nice, orange glowing salt rock lamp is very healthy to have by their bedside while they sleep.
Places to avoid placing your lamp
Remember that the salt crystals will begin to melt if you expose them to high humidity. So, avoid placing your lamp in any place with an excessive amount of moisture, including your bathroom or outside. Also, do not place your lamp on top of any electrical appliances including your television.
Shape, colour and size of the salt lamps
The Himalayan salt lamps can be different in shape, colour and size. There are several most common shapes that you will see on the market:
natural shape
pyramid shape
sphere shape also known as planet
cube shape
bowl shape
crafted
The rock they are created of is salt, that is pink in color. However they can emit white, yellow, orange and red color. According to color therapists, these colors have a particular impact on the different systems in the human body:
Red warms and stimulates the body as a whole.
Orange activates the reproductive and excretory system
Yellow normalizes the digestive system.
White is a neutral color that has a harmonizing effect on the whole human body.
In size a pink salt rock lamp can vary from 2-3kg to 25-30kg. Depending on their size they have different perimeter of action.
Perimeter of action
Different pink salt rock lamps sizes will have different optimal perimeter of action. Before you buy yours make a quick calculation what size you need depending on the place you have to put it. Of course this doesn’t mean that it will not work for your whole room. It will because the negative ions will spread. The chart below shows the optimal perimeter of action of the lamp when it is switched on and when switched off. Alternatively, if you do not want to buy large salt lamp, you can combine several small salt rock lamps or salt candle holders in a room.
Should you keep it on all of the time?
For optimal results, we recommend you to keep it running all of the time. That way it can continue to ionize the air throughout the day and night. However, it is very dangerous to leave electricity running while being unattended. For this reason, it is recommended that you do not keep your lamp turned on if you leave the house or have to leave your lamp unattended for a long amount of time.
Is it expensive?
The pink salt rock lamps use a very low wattage bulb (approx. 7-15 watts, or 40 watts for extra large sizes). The new energy-efficient light bulbs actually operate at approximately 15 watts, which is very insignificant compared to the regular bulbs most people still use in their homes today. Since this is a very insignificant amount of energy being used, you should not notice any increase in your electrical bill if your they are kept running throughout most of the day.
I sometimes taste salt when I lick my lips. Does this commonly occur and is it safe?
There have been a few people who have told us this. All of these people have a water fountain or humidifier near their salt lamp and therefore have a greater circulation of water particles throughout the air. This is not unhealthy and should not cause any problems, unless of course you do not like tasting salt on your lips!
Is it safe to leave it running beside my bed throughout the entire night?
We recommend leaving the lamp running as long as possible, however just like any electrical device, it is not advisable to leave running while unattended.
We recommend you to place a lamp beside your bed while you sleep. It is one of the most effective ways to take advantage of the benefits it can provide. Leaving the lamp running in your bedroom while you sleep is an excellent and natural way to purify the air with a similar scent to that of a thunderstorm. Apart from the natural purification benefits natural salt lamps provide, the negative ions that are released also help to energize our bodies and at the same time provide a calm and relaxing mood due to the beautiful, warm orange glow the lamp emits.
Place a natural gift from Mother Nature over 200,000 years ago! The Himalayan salt lamp benefits will help you if you need. Put it in the office next to the computer, during massage or meditation, in smoky places, in the nursery. Or wherever you want a fresh air, a soothing atmosphere where you want to enjoy the beauty of the pink salt rock crystals.
Do you need large or small salt lamp for your room
Benefits of the edible Pink Himalayan salt and Sole
Negative Ions and their importance for our health
What is Ion?
Electrosmog and sources of harmful positive ions
Is ionic air purifier worth buying it?
Wholesale suppliers
Inhaler
Home | About me | Contact | Privacy | FAQ
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.Ok