Do You Have a Vitamin C Deficiency? - Cathe Friedrich
Search for:
From
Email Address
Message
Email sent!
There has been an error, please check the information you entered and try again.
Skip to content
Cathe Friedrich
If It Doesn't Challenge You It Doesn't Change You
Home
About Cathe
About Cathe dot Com
Press Room
Shop
DVDs
Coupons
Daily Deals
Gift Certificates
Cathe Downloads
User’s Guides
Reviews
Blog
Fitness Tips
Nutrition
Weight Loss
Health
Success Stories
Monthly Rotations
Newest Workouts
Behind The Scenes
Healthy Recipes
Streaming
Log In
Sign Up
Cathe Live
Cathe OnDemand
Workout Blender
Tutorials
Roku Instructions
User’s Guides
Apps & Tools
Workout Manager
Cathe OnDemand and Cathe Live Apps
Tapatalk Forums App
Social
Cathe Forums
Facebook
Pinterest
YouTube
Instagram
Flickr
Twitter
Contact Us
Customer Service
Report Illegal DVDs
Other
Privacy Policy
Stickers
Crossword Puzzles
Do You Have a Vitamin C Deficiency?
Do You Have a Vitamin C Deficiency?
(Last Updated On: April 10, 2019)
When cold and flu season arrives, the focus turns toward vitamin C in the hope that getting more of it will prevent the common cold and other pesky viral infections. Unfortunately, the evidence that vitamin C prevents colds is weak. Still, getting enough vitamin C is important for a healthy immune system, your body’s defense against cold and flu viruses. But, this doesn’t mean that mega-doses offer additional benefits. In defense of vitamin C and its role in cold prevention, it does based on studies, slightly shorten the duration of a cold. You might feel better a day sooner if you increase your vitamin C intake if you have a vitamin c deficiency.
However, vitamin C is more than a one-trick pony. You need sufficient amounts of it for a variety of functions in the human body including:
· Synthesis of collagen for healthy skin and joints
· To fight oxidative stress
· To prevent a serious disease called scurvy
· To recycle other antioxidants, including vitamin E
· For wound healing
· To help absorb iron from plant-based foods. Vitamin C boosts its absorption
· To synthesize the neurotransmitter norepinephrine
· To make carnitine, an important cellular component for converting fat to energy
Humans, along with primates and guinea pigs, are the only animals that can’t make vitamin C and must get it through diet to avoid a deficiency. The U.S.D.A. recommends that males get a minimum of 90 milligrams of vitamin C daily and women 75 milligrams.
How easy is it to get this quantity of vitamin C through diet? If you eat a large orange each day, you’ll almost meet your vitamin C requirements. But, oranges aren’t the best source of vitamin C. A large orange has around 75 milligrams, but a cup of strawberries has 85 milligrams. Pineapples, mangos, kiwis, and Brussels sprouts are also excellent sources. Most fruits and vegetables contain at least modest amounts of vitamin C. However, cooking can destroy 15 to 55% of the vitamin C content of a vegetable. So, all in all, fruit is a better source of vitamin C because you typically don’t cook it.
Is the Recommended Intake of Vitamin C Too Low?
The vitamin C guidelines were developed to lower the risk of developing scurvy, the classic vitamin C deficiency disease. Before the link between vitamin C and scurvy was discovered, sailors who ate no plant-based foods for many months developed classic symptoms of this disease, bruising, poor wound healing, bleeding gums, and anemia due to vitamin C deficiency. Many of them died. Although the quantity of vitamin C needed to prevent scurvy is lower than the U.S.D.A. recommendations, the guidelines are still based on the amount needed to prevent scurvy, not to maximize health. If you could ask Linus Pauling, he would tell you that you need substantially more. In fact, he himself took mega-doses of vitamin C.
What would be the benefits of getting more? Some studies link diets higher in vitamin C with a lower risk of some types of cancer, but it’s hard to show cause and effect. The reduced risk of vitamin C could be because people who get lots of vitamin C in their diet also eat more fruits and vegetables. Yet we know vegetables and fruits contain other components that help ward off cancer. There’s also some evidence that consuming more vitamin C reduces the risk of age-related eye problems such as age-related macular degeneration and cataracts.
All in all, there’s no strong evidence that getting high doses of vitamin C helps prevent the common cold or other diseases, with the possible exception of age-related eye diseases. But, the recommended daily intake is still on the conservative side as these guidelines are based on the prevention of scurvy. If the link between cancer risk and vitamin C is real, there would certainly be an incentive to get more than the current recommendations. But, at this point, there’s little justification for taking mega-doses or a high dose supplement, especially when fruits and vegetables contain substantial quantities.
Reasons You Might Have a Vitamin C Deficiency
Is vitamin C deficiency common? A 2009 study placed the incidence at around 13%. You might surmise that folks who are deficient don’t eat their fruits and vegetables – likely true, but certain lifestyle habits and medical problems increase your body’s need for vitamin C. For example, smokers have levels, of vitamin C in their tissues, as much as one-third lower than non-smokers. Stress and physical illness also increase the demand for vitamin C since vitamin C is an antioxidant vitamin and gets used up faster when your body is under stress. Athletes may need slightly more as exercise is a form of stress on the body, although taking a vitamin C supplement prior to exercise may interfere with some of the adaptations to exercise, based on some research. If you have certain diseases that reduce absorption of vitamin C, you may become deficient despite consuming vitamin C through diet.
Are There Downsides & Side Effects associated with Increasing Your Vitamin C Intake?
You’re unlikely to have side effects from vitamin C if you consume it exclusively through diet. vitamin C supplement can cause digestive symptoms, like diarrhea. It also stimulates the excretion of oxalate and may boost the risk of oxalate kidney stones. Plus, vitamin C at high doses can interfere with the activity of some medications. The risk of side effects goes up as vitamin C consumption exceeds 500 milligrams daily.
Finally, your body doesn’t take up all of the vitamin C when you take high doses. You absorb it best at between 30 to 180 milligrams daily. As you increase the dose above this daily quantity, absorption drops by as much as half. Since vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin, the excess is excreted in the urine. So, you lose a portion of the vitamin C you take in and the loss is higher when you consume high amounts.
The Bottom Line
It’s important to get meet the daily recommended value of vitamin C, but since these guidelines were based on preventing scurvy, most of us can benefit from consuming more than the minimum, particularly smokers, athletes, and anyone else under stress – and who isn’t? This doesn’t mean you should take a vitamin C supplement. Instead, get vitamin C from eating 5 or more servings of fruits and vegetables daily and make sure at least one of those servings is a piece of raw fruit. By doing this, you’ll easily get double the recommended amount and will enjoy the other nutrients and phytonutrients that fruits and veggies offer.
References:
Am J Clin Nutr November 2009. vol. 90 no. 5 1252-1263
NY Times. Ask Well. “Ask Well: Does Boiling or Baking Vegetables Destroy Their Vitamins?”
Mayo Clinic. “Vitamin C”
Related Articles:
Does Vitamin C Mimic Some of the Effects of Exercise?
Post navigation
Canned, Fresh, and Frozen Vegetables: Are They Equally Nutritious?
Three Types of Foods We Crave and Why
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Search Our Entire Library of Over 3000 Fitness, Health, Nutrition and Weight Loss Articles
Search for:
View Our Reviews On TrustSpot
Fitness Magazine
Consumers Digest
The Wall Street Journal
Oxygen Magazine
CBS News
QVC
The New York Times
Fox Business
Shape Magazine
The Philadelphia Inquirer
Dicsovery’s Fit TV
Self Magazine
The Dallas Morning News
Follow Cathe on Social Media
Follow Cathe for all her most recent news and photos!
Shop by DVD Category
Beginner Workouts
Intermediate Workouts
Boot Camp Workouts
Circuit Workouts
High Step Workouts
HiiT and Interval Workouts
Kickbox Workouts
Low Impact Cardio Workouts
Newest Workouts
Step Aerobic Workouts
Strength and Toning Workouts
Stretch and Yoga Workouts
Zero Impact Cycle Workouts
Shop by DVD Series
LITE Workout Series
Fit | Split Series
Strong and Sweaty Series
ICE Series
Ripped With HiiT™
XTrain Workout Series
Low impact Workout Series
STS Workout Series
Shock Cardio Workout Series
Hardcore Workout Series
Body Blast Workout Series
Intensity Workout Series
4-Day Split Workout Series
Cross Train Xpress Workout Series
Search Cathe’s Site
Search for:
Copyright Cathe Dot Com 2018
Home
Shop
Blog
Streaming
Apps & Tools
Forum
Privacy Policy
Contact Us