Six Natural Cold Remedies that Can Help You Quickly Recover | Better Innovations
Better Innovations
Better Living Through Innovation
Wellness
Health
Exercise
Therapy
Back Pain
Funny
Six Natural Cold Remedies that Can Help You Quickly Recover
By Angela Leave a Comment
Now that the summer swelter has slowly transitioned into the crisp cool air of fall, it’s time to unpack the winter coats and prepare for the return of cold and flu season. Considering that every common cold causes working adults to lose an average of 8.7 work hours (5.9 hours of on-the-job loss and 2.8 hours of absenteeism), according to the National Institutes of Health, and it’s little wonder why so many people dread the sniffle and cough.
While no cure exists for the common cold, studies have shown that a number of natural cold and flu remedies provide temporary relief, and may actually help you get back on your feet in less time. Here are a few of the more promising natural cold and flu remedies to try the next time you feel a little under the weather.
Echinacea
An herbal supplement that researchers believe helps to boost the immune system’s ability to fight infection, echinacea may help you recover from a cold in less time. While research doesn’t indicate that taking echinacea can help prevent a cold, evidence does seem to suggest that taking the supplement can reduce your symptoms by one or two days. For the greatest effect, try using echinacea for seven to 10 days, beginning shortly after your cold symptoms start.
Zinc
A number of studies have indicated that taking zinc has a positive effect against cold viruses. Some evidence suggests the mineral helps to prevent the formation of specific proteins cold viruses use to replicate themselves. Even though zinc does not appear to prevent colds, studies have shown that it can reduce the duration and severity of a cold when taken within 24 hours after first exhibiting symptoms. However, the Food and Drug Administration recommends against using nasal zinc products to treat a cold due to reports of permanent loss of smell.
Vitamin C
Probably the most popular natural cold remedy, vitamin C’s reputation as a premiere cold and flu fighter may be a little overstated. While researchers haven’t been able to conclusively prove vitamin C’s ability to fight off a cold, a few studies have shown that it can help to reduce the length of a cold by roughly 24 hours. In a recent study, participants were 50 percent less likely to develop a cold when exposed to high levels of stress and cold temperatures after taking vitamin C. The ideal amount of vitamin C to take when fighting a cold is around 2,000 milligrams, but such a high dosage can cause nausea and diarrhea.
Chicken Soup
Not just the stuff of old wives tales and grandma’s best intentions, eating chicken soup while sick may actually help you overcome a cold. Breathing in the steam from a piping hot bowl of soup can help ease nasal congestion, and drinking chicken broth can prevent dehydration. Some research even suggests that chicken soup can help reduce inflammation, though these results were only found in the lab and have yet to be established against an actual cold.
Hot Tea
Just as with chicken soup, the steam from a cup of hot tea can help to reduce congestion, while drinking the tea can prevent dehydration and soothe a sore throat. Tea, especially green tea, also has the added benefit of being loaded with natural antioxidants that help to prevent disease.
Garlic
The bane of vampires and colds alike, studies have shown that garlic has a number of germ-fighting traits. One study even showed that taking daily garlic supplements could help to prevent developing a cold. While more research on the effects of garlic still needs to be completed, it’s highly nutritious and can help to improve the flavor of food when a cold makes everything you eat taste rather bland.
Timothy Lemke writes about natural health alternatives for Dr. Melissa Beadnell, a Portland dentist at Beadnell Family Dentistry.
Click to Share:
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
More
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to print (Opens in new window)
Filed Under: News and Information Tagged With: colds flu wellness
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Security Question:
What is 13 + 10 ?
Please leave these two fields as-is:
IMPORTANT! To be able to proceed, you need to solve the following simple math (so we know that you are a human) :-)
Popular Posts
Review: Weider X-Factor Home Gym – Door Mounted
Comparison Review: Comparing PowerLung with…
Best Before Bed Snacks To Keep You Lean
Motivational Health, Wellness, and Fitness Quotes
Review: DPL Therapy System – Deep Penetrating…
DPL Nuve Handheld Light Therapy System Review
The Best Brain Exercise Apps for Your iPhone
About Us
Blog Archive
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Disclosure
Contact Us
Copyright © 2019 · Tawnle Marketing Incorporated
We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.