Methanol Test: Risks, Procedure & Results -->
Medical Health Tests Pathology Test Methanol Test
Risks, Procedure & Results For Methanol Test
Submitted on March 27, 2012
Tweet
Methanol Test
Allergen Specific Immunoglobulin E
Alpha Fetoprotein Amniotic
Alpha 1 Antitrypsin Test
Amino Acids Plasma
Amino Acids Urine
Amiodarone Test
Ascorbate Test
Bacterial Antigen Detection Urine
Barbiturates Plasma or Serum
Arsenic Hair
Arsenic Nail
Caeruloplasmin Test
Calcitonin Test - plasma or serum
Bicarbonate Plasma Test
Brucella Antibodies Test - Serum
Arbovirus Antibodies Test - Serum
Cholinesterase Test - Plasma
Chorionic Gonadotrophin Test
Human Chorionic Gonadotrophin Test
Clostridium Difficile Toxin Faeces
Coagulation Factors Test
Cold Agglutinins Test
Colorectal Biopsy
Clonidine Suppression Test Plasma
Cyst Fluid Cytology Test
Cystatin C Test Plasma
Cystine Test
Csf Rhinorrhoea Testing
CRP Test
Cortisol Test - Serum
Cryptococci Antigen Serum
Cyclic Amp Urine Test
Apolipoprotein B Test
Apolipoprotein E Test
Apolipoproteins Serum Test
Beta 2 Microglobulin Urine Test
Beta 2 Microglobulin Test - Serum
Catecholamines Urine Test
Chloride Sweat Test
Cytomegalovirus Test
Delayed Hypersensitivity Skin Test
Cytokine Profile Testing
Cytokines Assay
Cervical Cytology
Erythropoietin Test
Ferritin Test - Plasma Or Serum
Factor V Leiden Test
Carnitine Test - Serum
Cardiolipin Antibodies Test - Serum
Chlamydia Tests - Serum
Ceruloplasmin Test - Serum or Plasma
Delta Aminolaevulinate Test
Deoxypyridinoline Urine Test
Dexamethasone Suppression Test
Endometrial Biopsy
Electrolytes Urine Test
Drug Screening Assays
Drug Screen Urine Test
Skin Culture Test
Wound Culture Test
Fungal CultureTest
Lipoprotein Subfraction Test
Porphyrin Test
VMA Test
Methylene Blue Test
Mental Status Tests
GTT Test
Huntington Disease Test
Indirect Antiglobulin Test
Human Papillomavirus Testing
Lupus Band Test
Pentagastrin Stimulation Test
Water Deprivation Test
Antibiotic Assay
ASOT Test - Serum
Aldolase Test
Aldosterone Test
Albumin Urine Test
Albumin Serum Test
Alcohols Plasma Test
Acute Phase Reactants Test
Activated Protein C Resistance Test
Activated Clotting Time Test
Adenosine Deaminase Test
Adenovirus Antibodies Test
Adrenal Antibody Test
Adrenaline Test
Acid Phosphatase Test
Acid Phosphatase Serum
Acidification Test
Alkaline Phosphatase Test
Blood Alkaline Phosphatase Test
Alkaline Phosphatase Isoenzymes
Direct Antiglobulin Test
Donath Landsteiner Test
Disaccharidases Analysis
Copper Urine Test
Serum Copper Test
Staphylococcus Gram Stain Test
Direct Coomb's test
Influenza Tests
Sputum Culture
Stool Culture
Throat Culture Test
Urine Culture
Urine Total Protein
Coombs Test
Preoperative Testing
West Nile Virus Test
CLO Test
CK-MB Test
Prealbumin Test
RAST Test
Proctoscopy
Pericardial Tap
Salivary Gland Scan
Sestamibi Scan
Spinal Tap Test
Liver Spleen Scan
Sputum Cytology
Pleural Tap
Pericardiocentesis
EMG Nerve Test
Spinal Muscular Atrophy Testing
Tumor Marker Test
Acid Fast Stain
Gout Test
Test for Methanol
Methanol or methyl alcohol is toxic, light colorless alcohol which is flammable and may cause blindness or even death if it is ingested. On account of its toxic properties, methanol is often used as a denaturant additive in the industry. Methanol is produced from the destructive distillation of wood and is sometimes referred to as wood alcohol for this reason. The test for methanol is carried out to measure the amount of methanol in your body.
Risks Involved While Conducting The Methanol Test
The risks included in the test for methanol are similar to any other blood test, like excessive bleeding, feeling faint or feeling lightheaded. Hematoma, a condition where blood accumulates under the skin is another risk factor. Also, multiple attempts may be required to locate veins depending upon the size of veins, which differ from one person to the next. And there is a slight risk of infection where the skin is broken. Methanol is very toxic and as little as two tablespoons of methanol in a child may prove to be deadly. While anything between 2-8 ounces can be deadly for an adult. Methanol poisoning mainly affects the gastrointestinal tract, the nervous system, and the eyes.
Procedure
A test for methanol is done much in the same way as any other blood test. An elastic band is wrapped around the upper arm in order to increase the blood pressure in the lower arm. Then a needle is inserted usually on the inside of the elbow or the back of the hand. Before this however an antiseptic is used to clean and make the area of the puncture germ free. The blood is collected into an airtight vial and the elastic band is removed. Post this the puncture site is covered by dabbing a little cotton dipped in an antiseptic solution to stem the blood flow. In the case of children and infants, a lancet which is a sharp tool is used to puncture the skin and make it bleed. The blood sample is then collected in a pipette or on a slide and the area from which blood is drawn is then covered with a bandage. In most cases patients feel moderate pain, or a stinging sensation and no special preparation is required before doing the test.
Test Results
Absolutely no presence of methanol is normal after a test for methanol has been performed. If there are any traces of methanol found, a medical practitioner must be consulted because methanol is extremely poisonous. Accidently ingesting methanol or even intentionally drinking it as a substitute for grain alcohol must be strictly avoided.
Tweet
ADVERTISEMENT
advertisement
Articles
Questions Asked
Blog
FacebookTwitterRss
Medical Health Test
Home
Medical Tests
Pathology Tests
Blood Tests
Diseases & Tests
Procedure & Surgeries
Scans & X-Rays
Copyright © 2017 Mac Millan Interactive Communications, LLC Terms and Conditions for the Usage of this Site www.medicalhealthtests.com does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information. | Sitemap