How To Protect Your Family's Health With Kids Armour - Twins In Tow
Top
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
Home
Work With Me
Cookie Policy
Privacy Notice
Disclosure Policy
About
Food + Drink
Food Recipes
Drink Recipes
Lifestyle
Advice
Home Decor
Pregnancy + Parenthood
Mental Health
Travel
Our Family
Kubsch Twins
Baby Kubsch
Life In Review
Style
Shop My Instagram
Outfits & Sales
Twins In Tow
A Family, Fashion + Lifestyle Blog by Christin Kubsch
You are here: Home / How To Protect Your Family’s Health With Kids Armour
June 6, 2018 / Uncategorized
How To Protect Your Family’s Health With Kids Armour
Share
Tweet
Pin
0shares
As a parent, we strive to protect our family. Did you know that there are items in your household that could be compromising this? WIFI syncing devices, such as cell phones, tablets, laptops, routers and even baby monitors, all emit electromagnetic radiation. This radiofrequency energy exposure has been shown to be harmful to your health. Unfortunately, children are at the greatest risk for negative side effects, like headaches, cognitive issues with memory and learning. Children are even at a greater risk for cancer. So, how do we reduce exposure? I’m here to show you how to reduce exposure and protect your family’s health with Kids Armour! Kids Armour is an easy-to-use microchip device that emits frequencies, which mitigates the effects of radiation on the body.
Keep reading to learn how you can try Kids Armour for free!
How does electromagnetic radiation work?
For example, in order for your cell phone to work, it sends and receives signals to cell phone towers, releasing radiofrequency energy. This energy is sent out from the phones “antenna”, which goes in all directions, including to the head and body of the person uses the phone.
Why is electromagnetic radiation (EMR) a cause for concern?
First things first, you can’t see it. You don’t know how much you’re actually exposing yourself to, and radiation is in everything. It’s in soil, in your household items, in the air, etc. Think about the last time you were at the dentist, you may have had a dental X-Ray. While the exposure is minimized, you are still allowing some radiation to your body. The exposure can lead to cell mutation, which may lead to cancer. Radiation exposure can change our DNA, which can also lead to the negative health effects discussed before.
What is Kids Armour and how can Kids Armour help?
Kids Armour is a way to combat the risk of high exposure. It is a ready-to-use microchip that sticks to your devices, meaning you peel the paper off the back and stick to the device of your choice! Kids Armour does not shield or block, but rather emits a frequency to generate communication between a vector (aka your cell phone) and the body (If you are a fellow science lover, read about EQCCT- Energetic Quanta Cymatic Communication Technology). Kids Armour is clinically proven to not only keep the heads tissue cooler, but also keeps the blood to remain in a normal state when using a device, such as a cell phone. Neat, right?
PS. In order to ensure that the microchip does not lose effectiveness, do not move it from device to device!
Earlier, you used the example of an X-Ray. How is this similar to WIFI emitting devices and how does this relate to what Kids Armour does?
Both release electromagnetic radiation. X-Ray’s may be at a stronger level than a WIFI device, but they are both releasing a harmful frequency. When you get X-Ray’s, you wear a lead vest. This is to protect yourself, because the radiation exposure from the X-Ray can penetrate the vital organs it is nearest to. The concept is same with Kids Armour- The device protects parts of your body, like your head, when you put your phone to your ear.
Along with Kids Armour, how can I reduce radiation exposure?
While Kids Armour does help, it’s important to reduce as much exposure as possible. One way to do this is to live an “unplugged” lifestyle, which means less using less technology. To learn more on how to reduce exposure to radiofrequency energy, read more here.
How do I try a Kids Armour microchip?
You can get one here for free (Just pay $5 in shipping)! Want to try more than one? You can purchase extra microchips for your devices at a discounted rate here!
<?php }} </p>
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
Pinterest
More
Print
Like this:
Like Loading...
Reader Interactions
Leave a Reply	Cancel reply
Primary Sidebar
Follow Us
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
StumbleUpon
Facebook
Search + Hit Enter
Hi, I’m Christin!
Welcome to the Twins In Tow blog! Here you will find advice, #twintalk, home decor, great sales, clothing I love, and yummy food recipes! Click here to learn more about me!
Shop My Instagram
LIKEtoKNOW.it
Instagram
Load More...Follow on Instagram
Twins In Tow Blog
Twins In Tow Blog
Disclosure
The Twins In Tow blog is a part of several affiliate advertising programs. This means that if you click and/or make a purchase through certain links on this site or any related social media platforms (including twitter, facebook and pinterest), I may make a commission from that click and/or purchase. All opinions are my own, and I only share brands with you that I love.
Follow me on Twitter
My Tweets
Recent Comments
The Ultimate List of… on The Ultimate Baby Registry Che…
Hadley's Birth… on One Labor, Two Deliveries: My…
The Ultimate List of… on 10 Postpartum Survival Tips
The Ultimate List of… on How to Soothe a Crying Baby
10 Postpartum Surviv… on How to Soothe a Crying Baby
Archives
Archives Select Month April 2019 March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 April 2018 March 2018 February 2018 January 2018 December 2017 March 2017 February 2017 December 2016 October 2016 June 2016
Categories
Categories Select Category Advice Baby Kubsch Drink Recipes Food + Drink Food Recipes Home Decor Lifestyle Our Family Outfits + Sales Pregnancy + Parenthood Style
Footer
Twins In Tow Blog
E-mail: twinsintowblog@gmail.com
FAVORITE SHOPS
Nordstrom
Express
American Eagle
Target
Lulu’s
BaubleBar
Alex and Ani
Stay Updated
Email Address
Subscribe
Copyright © 2019 · Twins In Tow · Designed by Bella Creative Studio
0shares
%d bloggers like this:
This site uses cookies: Find out more.
Okay, thanks