Articles About Urinary Tract Infections - Health Articles 101
Articles About Urinary Tract Infections
Urinary Tract Infection Home Remedy – What to Use?
October 13, 2010 Urinary Tract Infections
A bacterial infection affecting the urinary tract is called a urinary tract infection. Cystitis is one of the most common urinary tract infections which involves the lower urinary tract. When the upper bladder is infected with bacteria, this is known as pyelonephritis, the more serious of the two. Urinary tract infections are more common to women. However, a male urinary tract infection is also possible, especially in cases when an enlarged prostate is present. There are many symptoms of urinary tract infection, the most common being the urgency to urinate accompanied by pain and burning.
0 0 0 0
Read More
Top 10 Symptoms of Urinary Tract Infection
October 11, 2010 Urinary Tract Infections
A urinary tract infection originates in the kidneys, ureters, urethra, or bladder, all components of the urinary system. There is a possibility of any area of the urinary system becoming infected. However, most often this condition is within the lower urinary tract area, which is the urethra and bladder. Women are more prone to urinary infections than men. Urinary tract infection antibiotics are the standard treatments for a urinary tract infection. Some may choose to use a urinary tract infection home remedy such as drinking pure cranberry juice along with consuming plenty of water. Although some are more common than others, there are some distinct symptoms of urinary tract infection.
0 0 0 0
Read More
Yeast Infection in Men Signs and Symptoms
September 8, 2010 Urinary Tract Infections
We have all heard of yeast infection itching and we automatically assume that it’s strictly a lady’s malady and has nothing to do with the manly part of the society. Alas, yeast infection in men does happen and more often that we might all realize.
Have you ever experienced jock and rectal itching, sensitivity and redness on the tip of your penis after an especially sweaty jog on a hot day? This could be a mild form of yeast infection in men due to these yeast organisms favoring humid and warm environments to multiply under perfect circumstances.
0 0 0 0
Read More
Urinary Tract Infection Antibiotics: Pros and Cons
May 5, 2010 Urinary Tract Infections
When you suffer from symptoms of urinary tract infection, you may visit your doctor and get a prescription for urinary tract infection antibiotics<. These medications have both benefits and drawbacks, and are not always the best possible choice in some circumstances. Home remedies and natural treatments may be preferred and tried first, but in some cases an antibiotic may be required by your physician if the infection is severe.
0 0 0 0
Read More
Top 10 Causes of Urinary Inconsistency
April 28, 2010 Urinary Tract Infections
Urinary inconsistency can be caused by many things:
1. Bacterial Infections
These are the main causes of UTI infections, which can cause inconsistency in urination as well as pain and burning.
2. Muscle Weakness
Weakness in certain pelvic muscles can affect your urinary frequency, and the ability to eliminate your urine completely.
0 0 0 0
Read More
Cranberry Juice UTI Treatment: Pros and Cons
April 13, 2010 Urinary Tract Infections
Cranberry juice UTI treatment has both pros and cons when it comes to treating both female and male urinary tract infection symptoms. For decades this juice has been a home remedy for any urinary problems, but especially for UTIs. There is scientific evidence that backs up the treatment properties of cranberry juice when urinary tract infections are involved.
A cranberry juice UTI remedy has been shown to lower the number of bacteria in your urine, and less bacteria means a lower chance of infections and the related symptoms.
0 0 0 0
Read More
Unable to Urinate – What Should I Do?
March 28, 2010 Urinary Tract Infections
If you find yourself unable to urinate even when you feel the urge to go there are some steps you can take to resolve this issue. Urinary inconsistency can occur for many reasons, and this inconsistency can range from varying amounts being released to a complete inability at all.
If you are worried about your urinary frequency then it may be a good idea to see a doctor to determine the cause. If you notice that you feel the urge to go more often as you age that is probably normal and no cause for concern, but if you suddenly are unable to urinate and this problem lasts for more than an hour or two you may need to seek immediate medical attention.
0 0 0 0
Read More
Male Urinary Tract Infection – How to Treat It?
March 15, 2010 Urinary Tract Infections
A male urinary tract infection can be common, although not as common as this infection is in women simply because of the difference in anatomy. If you have any of the symptoms of a UTI then there are some steps that you can take to eliminate this problem and stop the symptoms before they become worse. The first step is often a urinary tract infection home remedy regimen, to try and cure the infection without drugs or medical treatments.
UTIs are common cloudy urine causes, and can also result in pain and burning during urination.
0 0 0 0
Read More
Related Links
Recent Articles
Ankylosing Spondylitis Diagnosis and Treatment Options
Liver Fibrosis Symptoms and Alcoholism
Root Canal Alternative Treatments: Pros and Cons
Lower Blood Pressure Fast Naturally – What Products To Use?
Online Menstrual Cycle Calculator – Which One Is The Most Accurate?
Our Facebook Page
Our Google Plus Community
Health Topics
Heart Health
Digestive Health
Immune System
Ear, Nose and Throat
Bronchi and Lungs
Neurology
Mental Health
Blood Disorders
Cancer Types
Vision Problems
Dental Health
Speech Pathology
Skin Care
Rheumatic Diseases
Rectal Pain
Urinary System
Kidney Diseases
Glands and Hormones
Womens Health
Foot Problems
Orthopedic Surgery
Plastic Surgery
Stem Cells
Substance Abuse
Weight Loss
Healthy Diets
Dietary Supplements
Alternative Therapies
Herbal Remedies
Disclaimer
The information provided herein is intended for a general knowledge only and is not a substitute for medical advice or a treatment for specific medical conditions. You assume full responsibility for how you choose to use this information. Always consult with your doctor or other professional healthcare provider for a medical advice.
Popular Articles
Top 10 Cloudy Urine Causes
5 Reasons Why You May Be Coughing Up Yellow Mucus
Rooster Comb Injections vs. Knee Replacement
Blood on Toilet Paper after Bowel Movement – What Is Causing It?
Torn Labrum Surgery – 10 Things You Need to Know
Top 10 Foods that Increase Blood Circulation
7 Things to Know about Rotator Cuff Surgery Recovery
Top 10 Natural Blood Thinners for Thick Blood
Top 10 Best High Protein Low Carb Foods
Blurry Vision After Cataract Surgery – What to Do?
About
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
© 2019 Health Articles 101