40 Weird and Wonderful Uses for WD-40 | Lifehacker UK
UK Stories
Life
Work
Business Tech
Tips and Tricks
Dealhacker
Money
Search
Follow
UK Stories
Life
Work
Business Tech
Tips and Tricks
Dealhacker
Money
Twitter
Facebook
Google+
Search
Follow Lifehacker UK Twitter
Like Lifehacker UK Facebook
Recommend Lifehacker UK Google+
home
40 Weird and Wonderful Uses for WD-40
By Lou Hattersley on at
That can of WD-40 in the garden shed is brimming with possibilities: we all use WD-40 to loosen screws, nuts and bolts, and protect tools from moisture, but that’s just for newbies. Those in the know use WD-40 in a myriad of weird and wonderful ways.
Fans of the "water displacing" spray have been discovering new tips and tricks for WD-40 for over 50 years; and some suggestions are truly astonishing. Did you know that WD-40 is an amazing cleaning and stain remover; or that it is used by gardeners, or can be an incredible lure when fishing? WD-40 itself offers a list of other 2,000 suggested uses for WD-40, although it says you “should exercise common sense” so you follow these at your own risk.
Check out the latest posts from Lifehacker UK
Follow Lifehacker UK on Twitter and Facebook
“All of life's problems can be solved with two things: duct tape and WD-40” a wise, but sadly, unknown, man once said. So if you’re feeling adventurous, here are the top 40 weird and wonderful uses for WD-40:
1. Make a spade dig faster
Spray a little WD-40 onto your garden spade before digging to make it slide easier into the ground.
2. Quickly remove crayon from walls
WD-40 makes a great cleaning product. If you have kids you’ll love WD-40’s ability to quickly remove crayon scrawl from walls, table surfaces and TV screen. Spray the WD-40 onto a sponge or flannel and wipe off the crayon.
3. Remove tea stains from a kitchen counter
You can quickly scrub away tea stains from a kitchen counter by spraying WD-40 on a sponge and using it to wipe away tea stains.
4. Shine the leaves of plastic plants
If you have plastic plants in the office then you can make the leaves look shiny and healthy by spraying WD-40 on to them. Please check they are plastic first, and don’t spray WD-40 onto real plants.
5. Remove blue ink from stained jeans
We’ve all had a ballpoint pen leak in a pocket. Spray it on to the stain, wait a few minutes and then rinse the clothes.
6. Clean dog dirt from trainers
Yuck! Getting dog dirt on a brand new pair of trainers is a disaster, and cleaning trainers with dog muck on them isn’t much fun. But the WD-40’s “water displacement” function makes the dirt just slide off. spray your trainers with WD-40 and give it a few minutes before starting to clean.
7. Remove adhesive price tags from CD/DVD cases
If you have a plastic case, such as a CD or DVD with a price sticker stuck to it; WD-40 can be used to help remove it. Spray a little on, and wait, then rub off the sticker.
8. Clean off chewing gum
WD-40 is fantastic if you have chewing gum stuck to your shoes, or walked into your carpet, or even your hair. Spray a little WD-40 on the gum, wait a few moments, and then pull the gum off.
9. Clean your hairbrush
WD-40 unclogged matted hair from hair brushes. Spray a little WD-40 onto the hairbrush, wait for it to sink into the hair and pull the hair free.
10. Waterproof your shoes
You can spray WD-40 onto your shoes to waterproof them for the winter months.
11. Free stuck LEGO blocks
If you have stuck LEGO blocks a little WD-40 can help you price them apart.
12. Remove toothpaste stains
Toothpaste stains in the bathroom can be a pain to get rid off, but WD-40 shifts them quick spot.
13. Clean a clogged inkjet nozzle
This one is a bit controversial (and as a rule we don’t suggest using WD-40 on electrical products because of the residue). But if you’re careful a tiny blast of WD-40 can unstick a clogged inkjet. It’s worth doing on a cheap, old printer that you might otherwise throw away (we’d be wary about using it on a brand new £400 inkjet.)
14. Remove candle-wax or glue from carpet
If you have candle wax, or glue, on your carpet then you can remove it with WD-40. Spray a little WD-40 onto the wax and leave it to dry, and then rub it out with a sponge.
15. Spray on trees to prevent beavers from chewing on them
We don’t have many beavers in the UK, but one of the more innovative uses is to protect trees from beavers. It can be used to repel many a small animal, so if you have other animals causing trouble with your trees try spraying WD-40 on the affected area.
16. Clean dead insects from car
During the mid summer you can get plenty of bugs and insects covered from your car window. Spraying WD-40 onto your car can help quickly remove the stuck bugs.
17. The world’s best fishing lure
If you like fly-fishing then you could use WD-40 to polish your lures, which helps you when fishing. Here’s the thing: this isn’t recommended by WD-40 because they don’t want to pollute rivers, so we don’t recommend it. But it’s good to know.
18. Prevent mildew growth outdoors
Spray a little WD-40 into a spot to prevent mildew growth in your garden. This is often used on outdoor fountains, which are prone to mildews.
19. Stop wasps from nesting
Spraying WD-40 can repel a lot of insects and bugs, and because it’s waterproof it tends to stick around. If you have trouble with wasps nesting under your roof, then spraying that area with WD-40 once a year can keep them away.
20. Clean bathroom tiles
If you’ve got mascara, nail polish or paint on a bathroom tile you can use WD-40 to remove it.
21. Protect a bird feeder from squirrels
Another crazy one, but if you spray a birdhouse with WD-40 it’ll keep squirrels off it but birds will still be able to get at the food. Just make sure the bird feeder doesn’t have food in it when you spray it with WD-40.
22. Clean fake snow spray from windows
If you like to use fake snow on your windows at Christmas, you’ll appreciate the powers of WD-40 for removing it.
23. Remove oil spot from driveway
Leaky car? Use WD-40 to remove the oil spots from your driveway.
24. Keep a lawn mower grass free
Spray the underneath of your hover lawn mower with WD-40 to prevent grass from sticking to the underneath and jamming up the mower.
25. Fix squeaky shoes
It sounds like a joke but WD-40 can be good for some kinds of squeaky shoes; so give it a try.
26. WD-40 is a great slug and snail repellent
Use WD-40 to keep slugs and snails from eating your pot plants. Spray the outside of the pot with WD-40 and it will keep the crawlers away. WD-40 is waterproof, so you can do this and it’ll keep working even after it rains.
27. Keep spiders out of your shed
You can also use WD-40 to keep spiders away from a garden shed. But it’s not recommended for indoor use because of the fumes, especially if you have small children.
28. Spray chalk lines to keep them from washing away
Spray chalk lines on the ground with WD-40 to waterproof them. The WD-40 will prevent the chalk from washing away in the rain.
29. Remove stuck rings from fingers
You can use WD-40 to remove stuck rings on your finger. Just give it a quick spray with WD-40 and pull the ring off. Wash your hands straight away afterwards.
30. Remove glue from hands
You can also use WD-40 to quickly remove glue from your fingers. Wash your hands afterwards.
31. Loosen stuck zippers
WD-40 is great for loosening stuck zippers on clothes (but be careful to spray the zip and not the clothing).
32. Removes stains left from silly string
You can use WD-40 to remove the stains left by silly string.
33, Lubricate vinyl records to prevent skipping
One use for WD-40 is to lubricate vinyl records to prevent skipping. We should point out that when WD-40 evaporates it leaves a small residue behind, so we wouldn’t do this on our prize vinyl. But it’s a neat trick.
34. Shine surfaces for stock photography
You can shine surfaces with WD-40 prior to photographing objects on them. The surface shine will improve the look of your products. It’s great for taking shots to put on EBay.
35. Remove old duct tape
You can remove old duct tape by spraying it with WD-40.
36. Clean off car sticker residue
Spray WD-40 onto stickers placed onto your car to remove the sticker residue. This is great if you have sticker residue on your car window.
37. Keep a bicycle mud free
There is some arguments about whether WD-40 should be used bicycle chains (instead of grease), but it’s great for keeping mud off bikes. Spray the bike frame with WD-40 before heading into the wilderness.
38. Expert-level Twister
We’re not kidding. One of the suggested uses for WD-40 is to spray a Twister mat to make the game more challenging. Do this at your own risk and use it outside (don’t let children inhale the fumes) and wash your hands afterwards.
39. Snake charmer
A bus driver in Asia used WD-40 to remove a python, which was coiled around the undercarriage of his bus.
40. Cocaine use preventer
Bars in Bristol were advised by police to spray WD-40 onto the rears of toilet seats to prevent people from using the seat lids to snort cocaine. The WD-40 turns the drug to mush.
Is WD-40 a cure for arthritis?
Finally, here is one that’s not true. There’s an urban myth that WD-40 can be used to cure arthritis. According to WD-40 this isn’t the case. Sorry. Also, did you know that WD-40 isn’t actually a lubricant, it’s a solvent. While it can be used to loosen and clean just about anything, it’s worth also getting a good spray lubricant like GT85 for your door hinges, bicycle chains and any gears. The full list of over 2,000 suggestions can be seen on the WD-40 website.
Liked this? Why not read How to Maximise Electricity Use From Your Solar Panels
Check out the latest posts from Lifehacker UK
Follow Lifehacker UK on Twitter and Facebook
Creative Commons Image credit: Gum Shoe by Mahalie
Tags:
diy
home
life
clever hacks
lifehacker uk
hot
in depth
Lou Hattersley
Twitter
Google+
0
shares
0
Tweet
0
Like
0
+1
comments
View & comment
Join the discussion
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus
Popular this week
etiquette
By Staff on at
How to Say No to Meeting Up With an Acquaintance
how to
By Staff on at
How to Manage Your ADHD While at Work
sleep
By Staff on at
How to Look More Awake
sleep
By Staff on at
In Defence of the Snooze Button
Back to top
Popular tags
UK Stories
Life
Work
Business Tech
OS X
iOS
Windows
Windows Phone
Linux
Android
Downloads
Tips and Tricks
Home
Food
DIY
Productivity
Ask Lifehacker
Hive Five
From The Tips Box
Dealhacker
Planhacker
Windows 10
Money
Health and Fitness
IFA 2015
Get in touch
Contact us
Send us a tip
About us
International
Lifehacker US
Our Network
Gizmodo UK
Kotaku UK
TechRadar