Is an MRI safe during pregnancy? Yes, under most conditions
Pregnancy
Labor & Delivery
Baby
Breastfeeding
Podcasts
SUBSCRIBE
Buyer’s Guide
Search for:
Pregnancy news
Is an MRI safe during pregnancy? Yes, under most conditions
By Pregnancy Editors
Facebook
Twitter
Yes, as reported by the New York Times, having an M.R.I. (magnetic resonance imaging) or MRI during pregnancy poses no risk either to mom or baby.
An MRI is a medical imaging technique used in radiology to form pictures of the anatomy and the physiological processes of the body in both health and disease. Unlike an x-ray, which uses radiation, MRI scanners use magnetic, electrical, and radio waves to generate images of the organs in the body.
While a study shows an MRI is safe during pregnancy, there are increased risks when a “contrast agent” is used during the MRI to make the MRI image clearer.
Researchers tracked 1,424,105 deliveries of live and stillborn infants in Ontario from 2003 to 2015. Among them were 5,654 women who had M.R.I.s and 397 who had an M.R.I. with a contrast agent called gadolinium, which can enhance the image. The study was published in JAMA.
While the study was not large enough to show a link to a risk for specific outcomes, it did show a slightly higher risk for stillbirth, neonatal death, skin diseases and inflammatory conditions among moms who had an MRI during pregnancy during which a contrast agent was used.
For pregnant moms who had first trimester MRIs without using the contrast agent gadolinium, the incidence of congenital abnormalities was not higher than those who had an MRI without use of the contrast agent. The study followed children up to age four.
Ask your doctor: Is use of an MRI safe during pregnancy?
The study will reassure new moms who are told by their doctor that they will need an MRI. However, if a contrasting agent is required, pregnant women should ask their doctor about the risks and benefits of using a contrast agent if needed.
Source: Regular M.R.I. Is Safe During Pregnancy – The New York Times
By Pregnancy Editors
The Editors at Pregnancy are constantly scouring the news and best information to provide readers with the most accurate advice and latest trends in pregnancy and new motherhood. Together we’ve experienced most of the ups and downs of the pregnancy journey and are here to share and help you along the way.
You May Also Like
In Pregnancy
Win: “My first Easter” Celebrity Baby Boy Gift Bag
In Pregnancy Questions
What vaccines are safe during pregnancy? Which are recommended?
In Pregnancy
The good news about bad behavior…
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Post navigation
Prev Post
Is a lunar eclipse harmful during pregnancy?
Next Post
The Benefits of ‘Tummy Time’
Leave a Comment Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Name *
Email *
Website
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Latest Podcast Episodes
Touring Your Hospital Before Delivery
It's always a good idea to tour your hospital before you deliver your baby. Who typically gives these tours and what important information can you learn to improve your overall childbirth experience? Plus, learn how touring a hospital can benefit you if you're planning to deliver at home or at a birth center.Learn more about…
https://traffic.megaphone.fm/POD4234370846.mp3
Choosing Your Health Care Provider: Lactation Consultants
You're planning to breastfeed your baby once he arrives. But what happens if your breastfeeding experience doesn't happen as perfectly as you planned? How can a board-certified lactation consultant help you on your journey? What services does a lactation consultant typically provide? What are some of the benefits in adding one to your team of…
https://traffic.megaphone.fm/POD4235220787.mp3
Introducing Motherhood Sessions from Gimlet
Julia was born in South Korea, but was adopted and raised by a white family. Now that she has her own child—the first biological relative she’s ever known—she’s rethinking her relationship with her own family, and on a search to find her birth mother.Learn more about your ad choices. Visit megaphone.fm/adchoices
https://traffic.megaphone.fm/POD9025990042.mp3
Common Bacterial Infections In Pregnancy
When you're pregnant, you can easily become a breeding ground for bacterial infections. Today we're discussing some of the most common infections such as yeast infections, urinary tract infections, bacterial vaginosis and Group B Strep. How are these infections diagnosed and treated in pregnancy? Our mamas share their personal experience!Learn more about your ad choices.…
https://traffic.megaphone.fm/POD7890551657.mp3
Sponsored
Recent Posts
Pregnancy Questions
How does Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) affect fertility?
5832 views
Pregnancy Questions
How is an IVF pregnancy different than a “regular” pregnancy?
5084 views
Baby
Guess what – your baby doesn’t have days and nights mixed up!
4517 views
Trending Posts
What every woman needs to know to master the Kegel exercise
Top 6 pregnancy beauty tips for Valentine’s Day
8 fun things to do if you’re pregnant on Valentine’s Day
Top 3 Valentine’s Day date night ideas to keep the romance alive during a pregnancy
Tags
Baby baby carrier Baby Sleep birth bottle breastfeeding Breastfeeding News Breastfeeding Support Breast Milk c-section car car seat Celebrity Celebrity Pregnancy Cesarean Childbirth delivery diet exercise food Infant infants labor Labor and Delivery Milk Supply Natural Childbirth newborn Newborns nutrition partner Postpartum Postpartum Depression pregnancy Pregnancy Health Pregnancy Lifestyle Pregnancy Weekly Pumping seat sex sleep stroller Toddlers travel Twins Work
Follow Us
Copyright 2019 Pregnancy Magazine Group Emails powered by Wishpond: PregnancyWishpond Dedicated Wordpress hosting: PregnancyFlywheel Wordpress Theme: PregnancyTheme This website provides information of a general nature and is designed for educational purposes only. It is not a substitute for an examination by your healthcare provider. If you have any concerns about your own health or the health of your child, you should always consult with a physician or other healthcare professional. Please review the Terms of Use before using this site. Your use of the site indicates your agreement to be bound by the Terms of Use.
Subscribe to Pregnancy Magazine today
Terms of Use
Sign up for our weekly newsletter!
Pregnant Dad issue
Pregnancy information for dads
↑