Skin treatment in jaipur | Rejuvenate Clinic
Rejuvenate Skin Hair & Laser Clinic
Dr. Nitin Kumar Saxena
Dermatologist Trichologist and Cosmeto-Aesthetic Surgeon
Member of Cosmetic Dermatology Society of India,
IADVL member
G-2 Plot No 95,
Anupam Apartments Shiv Shakti Nagar,
Kings Road, Nirman Nagar, Jaipur - 302019,
Mobile No - +91- 9461464768 / 9950851764
Email - nitinkumar24@gmail.com.
Menu
HOME
About us
Gallery
skin diseases
acne
pigmentation
melasma
under eye dark circles
hair loss
eczema
vitiligo
psoriasis
laser treatments
hair removal
tattoo removal
birthmark removal
acne scar removal
facial rejuvenation
hair disease
hair treatment
male hair loss
female hair loss
alopecia areata
dandruff
prp therapy
hair transplant
mesotherapy
cosmetic treatments
chemical peels
acne
pigmentation
melasma
radiofrequency ablation
Moles
warts
skin tags
microdermabrasion
fairness & glow
fineline & wrinkles
dermaroller
Acne scar
stretch marks
botox for wrinkles
Contact us
Skin Tags
Anal skin tags, or rectal skin tags, are common and usually harmless growths that hang off the skin around the outside of the anus. They may be mistaken for warts or piles (haemorrhoids). Anal skin tags may also be called hypertrophied papillae or fibro epithelial polyps. They are not contagious, but may be due to inflammation, a lesion, anal injury or skin left behind after treatment for a haemorrhoid. Although anal skin tags are not a risk to health, they may cause problems in maintaining cleanliness after using the toilet. Skin tags may also trap moisture and cause irritation. They may also become irritated through contact (rubbing) with clothing or the movement associated with sitting.Anal skin tags may be checked by a doctor to make sure they are harmless and not a malignant or cancerous growth. It is possible to remove skin tags at home by tying a piece of dental floss or fine cotton around the base of the skin tag. This cuts off the blood supply to the skin tag causing it to drop off.
Anal skin tags can be removed by a GP through burning or freezing therapy. Occasionally they may need to be removed using a surgical procedure using a local anaesthetic. Treatment may not be available on the NHS as it may be seen as a low clinical priority and more of a cosmetic procedure. Recovery should be quick after the procedure without much pain afterwards. Hygiene is important afterwards because of where the tags were and the obvious risk of infection from faeces. Aftercare may include the use of laxatives, painkillers and sitz baths to help soothe the area and give pain relief.
SKIN & HAIR
HAIR TRANSPLANT CENTRE
LASER HAIR REDUCTION
DERMAL FILLERS
BOTOX TREATMENT
MESOTHERAPY
LASER SKIN RESURFACING
Home
about us
Skin Treatment
Hair Treatment
Cosmetic Treatment
Gallery
Ask the Doctor
Contact us
© 2015. All Rights Reserved. Rejuvenate Skin Hair & Laser Clinic