autism studies – VAXOPEDIA
Skip to content
an A to Z guide to Vaccines
Search
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
VAXOPEDIA
Menu
Home
A-Z Index
Blog
Categories
Vaxopedia
History of Vaccines
Immunization News
Immunization Schedules
Vaccine Advocates
Vaccine Education
Vaccine Ingredients
Vaccine Misinformation
Vaccine Preventable Diseases
Vaccine Safety
Vaccine Side Effects
Vaccines
About
Contact
Tag: autism studies
Ask 8 Questions Before You Skip a Vaccine
As anti-vaccine folks get more attention because of the rise in outbreaks of vaccine-preventable disease, in addition to more folks getting vaccinated, we are seeing some of the leaders of the anti-vaccine movement get more vocal.
Are measles outbreaks a sign that the anti-vaccine movement is “winning?”
Meetings, dinners, rallies…
They are doing everything they can to get their misinformation and propaganda out so that you don’t vaccinate and protect your kids.
Ask 8 Questions Before You Skip a Vaccine
If you see any of these folks, ask them a few questions…
If Andrew Wakefield was right, and the MMR vaccine is associated with autism, then why are you worried about thimerosal? The MMR vaccine never contained thimerosal…
If Robert F. Kennedy, Jr is right, and it is all about thimerosal, then why are you worried about the MMR vaccine? The MMR vaccine never contained thimerosal…
If you are worried about thimerosal and aluminum, then why are you worried about the MMR vaccine? Not only has it never contained thimerosal, as a live vaccine, but it has also never contained aluminum.
If vaccines are associated with autism, then why don’t the counties with the highest immunization rates have the highest rates of autism?
If better hygiene and sanitation got rid of vaccine-preventable diseases, then why didn’t it do it for all diseases at the same time? And why hasn’t it gotten rid of RSV, Ebola, Zika, HIV, Norovirus, and all of the diseases that we don’t have vaccines for?
If measles is so mild, then during the measles epidemics from 1989 to 1991 in the United States, why were 11,000 people hospitalized and why did 123 people die?
If you are concerned about vaccines that have a distant association with abortion, then why don’t you vaccinate your kids with all of the vaccines that don’t use WI-38 and MRC-5 cells lines?
If your arguments are so solid, then why do you need to keep moving the goalposts (it’s autoimmune diseases they are worried about now, not autism) and why are they so easy to refute (vaccines aren’t associated with autoimmune diseases either)?
The answers will be predictable.
They will revolve around three basic core beliefs of the anti-vaccine movement.
The belief that vaccines are toxic, full of poison, and always cause damage and injuries.
The belief that vaccine-preventable diseases are mild and you are better off getting natural immunity.
The belief that vaccines don’t even work.
Is that what you believe?
Will you let those kinds of beliefs scare you away from vaccinating and protecting your kids?
Are you going to put our kids at risk because you believe those things?
Are you really making an informed choice to skip or delay a vaccine when all of the scary things that people are telling you about vaccines aren’t even true?
More on Questions to Ask Before You Skip a Vaccine
VAXOPEDIA – Anti-Vaxxers Should Be Able to Answer These Questions Correctly
VAXOPEDIA – How Do Anti-Vaccine Folks Think?
VAXOPEDIA – Dear Anti-Vaxxers,
VAXOPEDIA – This Is the Modern Anti-Vaccine Movement
VAXOPEDIA – The Moral Outrage of the Anti-Vaccine Movement
VAXOPEDIA – Answers To Frequently Asked Questions About Immunizations
VAXOPEDIA – 100 Myths About Vaccines
VAXOPEDIA – Making Sense of Anti-Vaccine Arguments
VAXOPEDIA – What Are the Pro and Con Arguments for Vaccines?
VAXOPEDIA – Challenging the Concept of Herd Immunity
VAXOPEDIA – Vaccine Analogies and Metaphors
VAXOPEDIA – Show Me the Vaccine Insert!
VAXOPEDIA – Personal Stories About Vaccine-Preventable Diseases
VAXOPEDIA – The Myth That Measles Isn’t Deadly
VAXOPEDIA – What Are the Demands and Goals of the Anti-Vaccine Movement?
VAXOPEDIA – Answers to Anti-Vaccine Talking Points
VAXOPEDIA – 50 Ways to Get Educated About Vaccines
VAXOPEDIA – Anti-Vaccine Points Refuted A Thousand Times
Share this:
Tweet
Print
More
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Vincent Iannelli, MD
March 2, 2019 March 3, 2019
abortion
aluminum
Andrew Wakefield
answers
arguments
autism
autism studies
Bob Sears
Del Bigtree
goalposts
graphs
hygiene
misinformed consent
morals
myths
propaganda
questions about vaccines
Robert F Kennedy
talking about vaccines
thimerosal
vaccine choice
vaccine myths
Vaccines – Year in Review 2018
Another year has passed and although anti-vaccine folks keep talking about those 300 vaccines in pipeline, there were few new developments in the vaccine world in 2018.
This happened in 2018.
Well, maybe that’s not entirely true.
Vaccines – Year in Review 2018
So what can we say about 2018 when it comes to vaccines?
Well, we did get some new ones!
approved by the FDA in late 2017, a new hepatitis B vaccine for adults, Heplisav-B, the formal recommendation for its use from the ACIP came on February 21, 2018
although it was both approved by the FDA and formally recommended by the ACIP in late 2017, Shingrix, the new shingles vaccine, became more widely available in 2018 – well kind of – there have been a lot of shortages due to high demand for the vaccine
Vaxelis, a hexavalent vaccine that combines DTaP-IPV-Hib-HepB into one shot was FDA approved on December 21, 2018, but likely won’t be available for a few more years
FluMist, the nasal spray flu vaccine, returned
And we lost one… Last year was the first full year that Menomune, an older meningococcal vaccine, was no longer available. It was discontinued because of low demand, as we began to use the newer vaccines, Menactra and Menveo instead.
In other immunization news:
a 2017 shortage of yellow fever vaccine continued into 2018
a shortage of monovalent pediatric hepatitis B vaccine will continue into 2019 (doesn’t affect combination vaccines with hepatitis B)
Gardasil 9 received an expanded recommendation – women and men between the ages of 27 and 45 years can now get vaccinated and protected with this HPV vaccine
the hepatitis A vaccine got a lower age recommendation – at least in special situations – “HepA vaccine be administered to infants aged 6–11 months traveling outside the United States when protection against HAV is recommended.”
the recommendation to use a third dose of MMR to control outbreaks of mumps was formally approved
the WHO updated its recommendations for use of the dengue fever vaccine (Dengvaxia) to makes sure that only dengue-seropositive persons are vaccinated, as they found an increased risk of severe dengue in seronegative people who were vaccinated
Of the 163 million to 168 million doses of flu vaccine that will be distributed in the United States for the 2018-2019 season, more than 80% will be thimerosal free.
China had an issue with substandard DTaP vaccines made by one company in one part of the country
India had an issue with contaminated polio vaccines made by one company in one part of the country – bivalent oral polio vaccines (two strains) still contained all three strains of polio vaccine virus
Measles cases and deaths spiked globally because of gaps in vaccination coverage
If you didn’t hear about any of those things in the news, you may have heard about the death of two young children in Samoa after they received an MMR vaccine. That tragedy almost certainly was caused by an error in administering/mixing the vaccines, and not because there was anything wrong with the vaccines themselves.
Need help getting educated about vaccines? Despite continued outbreaks, 2018 was a good year for vaccine advocates and vaccine education.
Several good books about vaccines were published, including:
Between Hope and Fear: A History of Vaccines and Human Immunity
Bad Advice: Or Why Celebrities, Politicians, and Activists Aren’t Your Best Source of Health Information
Vaccines Did Not Cause Rachel’s Autism
And in case you missed it, we found out that:
Repeat vaccination is safe for most kids with mild to moderate reactions
Bots and Russian trolls influenced vaccine discussion on Twitter, research finds
Measles vaccine increases child survival beyond protecting against measles
Immunization in the early third trimester provided newborns with protection against pertussis
Tdap Vaccination for Pregnant Women Does Not Increase Risk of Autism
A large US VAERS study finds DTaP vaccine safe
Getting vaccinated prevents flu hospitalization in pregnant women
The use of the Prevnar and Hib vaccines have dramatically cut pediatric mortality
There was no increased risk of intussusception after use of the Rotarix rotavirus vaccine
The human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine does protect young women from developing cervical cancer
Flu vaccines are not associated with an increased risk of epilepsy
Study finds no immune overload for US kids’ vaccine schedule
Many parents who initially decline HPV vaccination for their kids, later accept it when they learn more about the vaccine
Children with autism and their younger siblings tend to be undervaccinated
The incidence of shingles is declining in kids getting vaccinated with the chicken pox vaccine
Of course, for most of us, none of this is really news. We know that vaccines are safe, effective, and necessary.
And sadly, Betty Bumpers died. We can honor her legacy by continuing her work and helping to make sure that every child gets vaccinated and protected.
More on Vaccines Year in Review 2018
In Memory of Betty Bumpers
Betty Bumpers, Campaigner for Childhood Vaccinations, Dies at 93
The official 2018 top ten list from the Skeptical Raptor
Gates Foundation – Year in Review 2018
Official Vaccine Releases: View All by Date 2018
FDA – Biological Approvals by Year > 2018
Immunization News and Information
WHO – Immunization News
CIDRAP Vaccine News
ECDC – Immunization News
Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices for Use of Herpes Zoster Vaccines
FDA – Vaxelis
FDA – HEPLISAV-B
MMWR – Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices for Use of a Hepatitis B Vaccine with a Novel Adjuvant
FDA – Gardasil 9
MMWR – Update: Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices for Use of Hepatitis A Vaccine for Postexposure Prophylaxis and for Preexposure Prophylaxis for International Travel
MMWR – Recommendation of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices for Use of a Third Dose of Mumps Virus–Containing Vaccine in Persons at Increased Risk for Mumps During an Outbreak
ACIP Recommendations
WHO – Revised SAGE recommendation on use of dengue vaccine
CDC – Current Vaccine Shortages & Delays
Study – Very Low Prevalence of Vaccine Human Papillomavirus Types Among 18- to 35-Year Old Australian Women 9 Years Following Implementation of Vaccination
CDC – Seasonal Influenza Vaccine Supply for the U.S. 2018-2019 Influenza Season
Antivaccine pediatrician Dr. Bob Sears finally faces discipline from the Medical Board of California
Lessons From California’s Discipline of a Popular Physician for Vaccination Exemptions Without Medical Cause
Share this:
Tweet
Print
More
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Vincent Iannelli, MD
December 31, 2018 January 9, 2019
2018
autism studies
benefits
Betty Bumpers
Bob Sears
booster doses
cervical cancer
Dengvaxia
epilepsy
FluMist
hepatitis A
hepatitis B
Heplisav-B
immunization schedule
intussusception
mumps outbreaks
pertussis
Samoa
Shingrix
too many too soon
travel vaccines
vaccine hesitancy
vaccine news
Vaxelis
year in review
Who Is Mark Green?
Have you heard of Mark Green?
For those of us who grew up watching ER, Mark Green is a household name.
But that’s not the Mark Green I’m talking about…
Who Is Mark Green?
Mark Green is a soon-to-be congressman, recently elected for Tennessee’s Seventh Congressional District.
A Republican, he is also a doctor. Specifically, he became a Army special operations flight surgeon after completing a residency in emergency medicine.
Of note, Dr. Green has also made horrible statements about transgender people, saying that they have a disease and that they are an evil that must be crushed.
Although his previous statements led him to withdraw as Trump’s pick for Army Secretary, that didn’t keep folks in Tennessee from sending him to Congress.
And now we have his comments about vaccines and autism…
At a recent town hall meeting in Tennessee, Green said:
“Let me say this about autism,” Green said. “I have committed to people in my community, up in Montgomery County, to stand on the CDC’s desk and get the real data on vaccines. Because there is some concern that the rise in autism is the result of the preservatives that are in our vaccines.
“As a physician, I can make that argument and I can look at it academically and make the argument against the CDC, if they really want to engage me on it,” Green said.
Has he apologized?
Mark Green’s statements will hurt autistic families.
Despite some saying that he has walked back those claims, his main response has been that his comments had been “misconstrued” and that “I’ve vaccinated my kids and let others know they need to vaccinate theirs too.”
Nothing about vaccines and autism.
“There appears to be some evidence that as vaccine numbers increase, rates of autism increase,” Green said. “We need better research, and we need it fast. We also need complete transparency of any data. Vaccines are essential to good population health. But that does not mean we should not look closely at the correlation for any causation.”
Except for when he doubled down on his statements trying to associate vaccines with autism…
So just what did Rep Mark Green mean to say about vaccines and autism?
Statements which seemed to cause the Tennessee chapter of the AAP and the Tennessee Department of Health to issue statements of their own.
“Vaccines do not cause autism.”
Tennessee Department of Health Statement on Immunizations
So, is he going to really apologize for his comments, and perhaps learn a bit more about vaccines, vaccine-preventable disease, and autism?
More on Mark Green
VAXOPEDIA – Does Congress Really Agree About Vaccines?
VAXOPEDIA – What Ronald Reagan Can Teach Us About Vaccine Policy
VAXOPEDIA – Vaccines and the Latest Autism Prevalence Report
VAXOPEDIA – Explaining the Correlation of Autism After Vaccines
VAXOPEDIA – Has the CDC Been Hiding and Destroying Evidence About Vaccine Safety?
VAXOPEDIA – Expert Statements on Vaccines and Autism
VAXOPEDIA – Dan Burton on Vaccines and Autism
Who is Mark Green Representing in Tennessee, Exactly? Not His Autistic Constituents, That’s For Sure
Tennessee U.S. Rep.-elect Mark Green alleges vaccines may cause autism, questions CDC data
Tennessee Department of Health Statement on Immunizations
‘Vaccines save lives.’ Sen. Lamar Alexander states scientific facts after Mark Green comment
Mark Green uses Bible verse to call transgender people “evil”
Mark Green, the Heartless Man Who Would Be Army Chief
Sen. John McCain: Army secretary nominee’s past comments ‘very concerning’
Rep.-Elect Mark Green: A new antivaccine crank goes to Congress
New GOP Congressman Mark Green Rejects Science, Claims Vaccines May Cause Autism
GOP Senator Opposes Medicaid Expansion Because It Prevents People From Finding God
In which Rep. Bill Posey hits most of the autism-vaccine bingo points at the Congressional autism hearing
Antivaccine legislators are at it again
Vaccines Aren’t Partisan
How Congress Brought the Measles Back
Share this:
Tweet
Print
More
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Vincent Iannelli, MD
December 17, 2018 December 19, 2018
autism
autism epidemic
autism hearings
autism studies
autism-vaccine hoax
autistic
Bill Posey
causation
CDC
correlation
Mark Green
Peter Hotez
politics
preservatives
Alleged Fraud in the Vaccine Court Omnibus Autism Proceedings
Have you heard about the alleged fraud in the Vaccine Court Omnibus Proceedings?
Alleged by who?
Guess?
Alleged Fraud in the Vaccine Court Omnibus Autism Proceedings
Yup. The usual suspects.
Most folks remember that the Vaccine Court Omnibus Autism Proceedings were a series of cases that were used to test theories that vaccines could contribute to or cause autism.
The conclusion?
Vaccines are not associated with autism.
So what’s the problem?
“Robert F. Kennedy Jr., Chairman of Children’s Health Defense (CHD), and Rolf Hazlehurst, parent of a vaccine-injured child, petitioned the Department of Justice (DOJ) Office of Inspector General (OIG), and the Senate and House Judiciary Committees today to investigate actions taken by federal personnel during the “Vaccine Court” Omnibus Autism Proceedings (OAP).”
Kennedy and Hazlehurst claim to have evidence of “obstruction of justice and appallingly consequential fraud by two DOJ lawyers who represented the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) in 2007.”
What evidence?
Kennedy and Hazlehurst claim that “that the leading HHS expert, whose written report was used to deny compensation to over 5,000 petitioners in the OAP, provided clarification to the DOJ lawyers that vaccines could, in fact, cause autism in children with underlying and otherwise benign mitochondrial disorders.”
Who is this expert?
It is Andrew Zimmerman, MD, a pediatric neurologist.
There is also a claim that Dr. Zimmerman, along with Dr. Richard Kelley, who was also an expert witness in the Vaccine Court Omnibus Autism Proceedings, served as expert witnesses in a medical malpractice case against a pediatrician who vaccinated a child, supposedly causing him to become autistic.
Which child?
Yates Hazlehurst, who was the second test case in the Vaccine Court Omnibus Proceedings.
Confused?
Dr. Zimmerman settles any fraud issue when he answers this clear question in his deposition in a malpractice against Yates Hazlehurt’s pediatrician.
Dr. Zimmerman admits that there is no evidence that vaccines cause autism, but also believes that there are some exceptions, and that vaccines can cause regressive autism in some kids with mitochondrial disorders.
Dr. Zimmerman also clarified that it is not just immunizations, but infections, fever, and other inflammatory responses that can lead to regressive autism.
Dr. Zimmerman clarified that infections can lead to regressive autism too – not just vaccines.
And Dr. Zimmerman would have testified to it in the Cedillo case (the first test case in the Vaccine Court Omnibus Proceedings), if he had been allowed to.
Except that upon review of the Cedillo case, Dr. Zimmerman had concluded that “there is no evidence of an association between autism and the alleged reaction to MMR and Hg, and it is more likely than not, that there is a genetic basis for autism in this child.”
Apparently, he had changed his mind later, even though he continues to say that all evidence points to the fact that vaccines don’t cause autism.
“Dr. Zimmerman subsequently submitted a second expert opinion on behalf of Hannah Poling, which in effect states that she suffers autism as a result of a vaccine injury. The same government officials, who submitted and relied upon Dr. Zimmerman’s first expert opinion as evidence in the O.A.P., secretly conceded the case of Hannah Poling and placed it under seal so that the evidence in the case could not be used in the O.A.P. or known by the public.”
Memorandum Regarding Misconduct By The United States Department Of Justice And The United States Department Of Health And Human Services During The Omnibus Autism Proceeding As To The Expert Opinions Of Dr. Andrew Zimmerman
But what about the “second expert opinion” from Dr. Zimmerman?
According to Poling’s mother, “Dr. Zimmerman was not an expert nor was he asked to be an expert on Poling’s case. The government conceded her case before ANY opinion was rendered or given.”
What about Dr. Richard Kelley?
“As noted above, an important consideration for treatment of AMD is that “normal” inflammation can impair mitochondrial function. Although most infections cannot be avoided, certain measures can limit the risk of injury during infection or other causes of inflammation… We believe it is much better to immunize with DTaP than risk infection with highly inflammatory and potentially damaging community-acquired pertussis.”
Dr. Richard Kelley on Evaluation and Treatment of Patients with Autism and Mitochondrial Disease
While he seems to believe that vaccines can trigger regressive autism in some kids with mitochondrial disease, he admits that other kinds of inflammation can do it too, including vaccine-preventable diseases.
“We believe it is much better to immunize with DTaP than risk infection with highly inflammatory and potentially damaging community-acquired pertussis.”
Andrew Zimmerman
And again, so does Dr. Zimmerman, to the point that in many cases, he thinks that even kids with mitochondrial disorders should be vaccinated.
“…the MMR vaccine has been temporally associated, if rarely, with regressions — with regression in AMD and other mitochondrial disease when given in the second year. Doubtless some of these regressions are coincidental, since the usual age for giving the MMR falls within the typical window of vulnerability for AMD regression.”
Andrew Zimmerman
If rarely associated…
Coincidental…
That doesn’t sound very convincing.
Although a lot of Dr. Zimmerman’s deposition makes it into J.B. Handley’s new autism book, what’s missing is that there were many other experts that testified against the idea that vaccines could be associated with autism during the Vaccine Court Omnibus Proceedings and that their testimony and their reports were relied upon more than Zimmerman’s.
“The undersigned has reviewed and considered the filed reports from these experts and finds that the opinions of the experts lend support to the conclusions reached in this decision. In reaching the conclusions set forth in this decision, however, the undersigned relies more heavily on the testimony and reports of the experts who were observed and heard during the hearings.”
Hazlehurst v. Secretary of HHS
So where is the fraud in the Vaccine Court Omnibus Proceedings?
Is it that the Poling case files have been kept under seal and hidden from public view?
“Finally, and perhaps for purposes of Rolf’s request that Poling’s records be released to the public, Jon and I have not allowed the release of Hxxxx’s records nor will we ever willingly allow third parties to tear apart her medical history which includes other close family members as well as things that should have never been in the record to begin with.”
Terry Poling
While we should all care about fraud in our court system, we should all also care about folks who push misinformation about vaccines and try to scare parents away from vaccinating and protecting their kids, especially when they use autistic kids to do it.
Don’t believe them.
It is telling that Dr. Zimmerman, the hero in this story, discredits the other heroes of the anti-vaccine movement, from the Geiers to Andrew Wakefield.
“I do think that — that there was much information — misinformation brought about by Dr. Wakefield and it’s — this has set the field back. I think that — that we — we have worked very hard to try to reassure the public and I agree with doing that because I am very supportive of vaccinations, immunizations in general.”
Andrew Zimmerman
While Dr. Zimmerman truly believes that future research might find a way to identify a very small subset of kids with mitochondrial disorders that worsen after they get their vaccines (or infections or other types of inflammation), this doesn’t apply to the great majority of autistic kids or even the great majority of kids with regressive autism.
Different answers to a very similar question? They are from different lawyers in the Zimmerman deposition…
Even Dr. Zimmerman only seems to speak of an “uncommon relationship” that “is not evident in studies that have been done to date.”
And none of the researchers he mentions, including Richard Frye, Shannon Rose, Joe (Jill?) James, or Dmitriy Niyazov seem to have actually studied vaccines, only possible relationships between autism and mitochondrial conditions.
“The claims by RFK Jr. and Handley draw on something that was not, in fact, a fraud, that is misrepresented as having a dramatic impact on the Omnibus Autism Proceedings when it had little to no effect.”
Plus ça change – anti-vaccine activists revive the Hannah Poling case
So there is nothing really new here.
And while it might be news to folks like Bob Sears, vaccines are safe and necessary and still don’t cause autism.
More on the Alleged Fraud in the Vaccine Court Omnibus Proceedings
Plus ça change – anti-vaccine activists revive the Hannah Poling case
Omnibus Autism Proceeding | US Court of Federal Claims
Court Clarifies: Hannah Poling case “does not afford any support to the notion that vaccinations can contribute to the causation of autism”
Andrew Zimmerman Deposition
Rolf Hazlehurst On VICP at Congressional Briefing
Evaluation and Treatment of Patients with Autism and Mitochondrial Disease
The Omnibus Autism Proceeding: effectively over
Using and Misusing Legal Decisions: Why Antivaccine Claims About NVICP Cases Are Wrong
Critiques of Holland et al., Unanswered Questions From The Vaccine Injury Compensation Program
2 ½ Studies: Autism Prevalence and the “Hidden Horde”
Decisions in the Omnibus Autism Proceeding
Rulings in cases testing MMR/thimerosal-autism link
Court Clarifies: Hannah Poling case “does not afford any support to the notion that vaccinations can contribute to the causation of autism”
Vaccines and Autism Revisited — The Hannah Poling Case
Court Rulings Don’t Confirm Autism-Vaccine Link
Why Was Hannah Poling Compensated?
Vaccine Critics Claim Court Paid for Autism Cases
MMR and Autism Rises from the Dead
Is The Vaccine Injury Compensation Program Covering-Up An Autism-Vaccine Link?
Autism Omnibus: Hazelhurst appeal denied
An Open Letter To The Poling’s
Andrew Zimmerman Finally Speaks
David Kirby on mitochondral autism
Politics of Mitochondrial-PDD
Evidence of Misinformation
Vaccines, Autism and the Concession
Is the end of the Omnibus Autism Proceeding near?
Another appeal heard in the Autism Omnibus
Omnibus: the decisions are decisive
Are you a petitioner in the Omnibus Autism Proceeding?
Daubert and the Autism Omnibus
Omnibus Expert: Patricia Rodier
Stephen Bustin: Why There Is no Link Between Measles Virus and Autism
Dr. Johnson testifies in the Autism Omnibus Hearing
Elizabeth Mumper – Autism Omnibus, Dwyer vs HHS
Omnibus Autism hearing: Dr. Lord on autism and regression
Autism Omnibus: Vera Byers the, uh, expert
Autism Omnibus – Vas Aposhian
Autism Omnibus – Liz Mumper
Omnibus Autism Proceeding: More of the closing statement by Mr. Matanoski
Alexander Krakow – The Next Bombshell
Omnibus Expert: Patricia Rodier
Dean Jones PhD- oxidative stress and the Omnibus Autism hearing
Dr. Brent – Toxicologist at the Autism Omnibus hearing
Autism Omnibus and David Kirby
Dr. Rust testifies in the Autism Omnibus Hearing
Autism Omnibus: Snyder appeal denied
Autism Omnibus and shrinking hypotheses
Evaluation and Treatment of Patients with Autism and Mitochondrial Disease
Share this:
Tweet
Print
More
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Vincent Iannelli, MD
October 18, 2018 January 11, 2019
Andrew Zimmerman
autism hearings
autism shot
autism studies
Bob Sears
Cedillo
Del Bigtree
Hannah Poling
Hazelhurst
JB Handley
mercury
MMR vaccine
regressive autism
Richard Kelley
Robert F Kennedy
Rolf Hazlehurst
thimerosal
Yates Hazlehurst
What is Mitochondrial Autism?
Ready for latest autism controversy?
Wait, are we done with any of the previous ones?
Vaccines? Biomed treatments?
Nope. But get ready for a new one.
Well an old that has come back yet again…
What is it?
It is autism secondary to mitochondrial disease or AMD.
What are Mitochondrial Diseases?
Since the mitochondria are considered the power houses of our cells, when you have a problem with them, your cells may not have enough energy to do their jobs.
“The parts of the body, such as the heart, brain, muscles and lungs, requiring the greatest amounts of energy are the most affected. Mitochondrial disease is difficult to diagnose, because it affects each individual differently. Symptoms can include seizures, strokes, severe developmental delays, inability to walk, talk, see, and digest food combined with a host of other complications. If three or more organ systems are involved, mitochondrial disease should be suspected.”
What is Mitochondrial Disease?
It is important to understand that there are actually many different kinds of mitochondrial diseases or mito and they cause many different symptoms. Some even cause different symptoms in the same person over time.
There also isn’t one quick and easy test that you can do to diagnose someone with mito.
And for most people, mitochondrial disorders are thought to be genetic.
A genetic condition that causes a range of symptoms, ranging from mild to severe – a spectrum if you will, which usually begin to appear in toddles and preschoolers, at least when they affect children.
Starting to understand that mito disorders might be caught up with an autism controversy?
What is Autism Secondary to Mitochondrial Disease?
Especially since the Poling decision, some folks have gotten the impression that it has been confirmed that vaccines are associated autism, at least for kids with mito.
“As of now, there are no scientific studies that say vaccines cause or worsen mitochondrial diseases. We do know that certain illnesses that can be prevented by vaccines, such as the flu, can trigger the regression that is related to a mitochondrial disease. More research is needed to determine if there are rare cases where underlying mitochondrial disorders are triggered by anything related to vaccines. However, we know that for most children, vaccines are a safe and important way to prevent them from getting life-threatening diseases.”
Mitochondrial Disease – Frequently Asked Questions
It hasn’t.
Dr. Zimmerman who believes that vaccines can cause autism in some specific cases clarified that infections can lead to regressive autism too.
Even those who are actively studying mitochondrial disease and regressive autism admit that any inflammation can lead to regression and that it is better to get vaccinated and protected, so that these kids don’t worsen after they get a vaccine-preventable disease.
“As noted above, an important consideration for treatment of AMD is that “normal” inflammation can impair mitochondrial function. Although most infections cannot be avoided, certain measures can limit the risk of injury during infection or other causes of inflammation… We believe it is much better to immunize with DTaP than risk infection with highly inflammatory and potentially damaging community-acquired pertussis.”
Dr. Richard Kelley on Evaluation and Treatment of Patients with Autism and Mitochondrial Disease
In fact, in one of the few studies on vaccines and autism secondary to mitochondrial disease, Fever Plus Mitochondrial Disease Could Be Risk Factors for Autistic Regression, the authors found that the great majority of children either regressed after fever WITHOUT vaccination or regressed without fever.
Very few regressed with fever and vaccination.
“In our patients with mitochondrial disease and autistic spectrum disorders, the vaccines did not appear related to the neurologic regression.”
John Shoffner et al on Fever Plus Mitochondrial Disease Could Be Risk Factors for Autistic Regression
And despite some folks saying that all kids should be tested for mito and treated with supplements, it is very important to keep in mind that most autistic kids and adults do not have a mitochondrial disorder.
“Most patients who have autism have a genetic non-mitochondrial etiology for their symptoms.”
Understanding Mitochondrial Disorders
What about the UC Davis study that so many folks use to say that 80% of children with autism enrolled in their study had blood tests that showed mitochondrial disease? There were only 10 kids in the study…
So why do we continue to see so many people pushing the idea of autism secondary to mitochondrial disease is so common and that it could be triggered by vaccines?
For one thing, it gives them a chance to scare folks away from vaccinating and protecting their kids.
Plus, they get to sell more supplements, mito cocktails, and lab tests…
Mito was in the news “again” ten years ago. The above post was on August 13, 2008. Why is it back now?
And many people have forgotten that this was all old news ten years ago…
More on Autism Secondary to Mitochondrial Disease
CDC – Mitochondrial Disease – Frequently Asked Questions
Mitochondria and vaccines – the science
Mitochondrial Mutations and Autism
Mitochondrial Disorders Common in the General Population, But What About for Autism?
What is Mitochondrial Disease?
Understanding Mitochondrial Disorders
Mitochondrial Diseases
About Mitochondrial Disease – Mito FAQ
Myths and Facts About Mitochondrial Diseases
Mitochondria, autism and thimerosal
Mitochondrial Dysfunction and autism. Brief Q and A with lead author
Evaluation and Treatment of Patients with Autism and Mitochondrial Disease
Study – Fever plus mitochondrial disease could be risk factors for autistic regression.
Study – Genetic Evidence for Elevated Pathogenicity of Mitochondrial DNA Heteroplasmy in Autism Spectrum Disorder.
Study – Reassessing the role of mitochondrial DNA mutations in autism spectrum disorder.
Reassessing the role of mitochondrial DNA mutations in autism spectrum disorder.
Bad mitochondrial DNA may increase risk of autism in kids
Mitochondrial Disease and Autism: Linked?
Mitochondrial Disease in the news again
Court Clarifies: Hannah Poling case “does not afford any support to the notion that vaccinations can contribute to the causation of autism”
Fever Plus Mitochondrial Disease Could Be Risk Factors for Autistic Regression
Mitochondrial Dysfunction and autism. Brief Q and A with lead author
Vaccine injury compensation and mitochondrial disorders
Why the whole “mitochondrial disease plus vaccines = autism” argument is nonsense
This Whole Mito Thing (My Final Vent…Hopefully!)
Vaccines and Autism Revisited — The Hannah Poling Case
The Hannah Poling case and the rebranding of autism by antivaccinationists as a mitochondrial disorder
Reassessing the role of mitochondrial DNA mutations in autism spectrum disorder.
Court Rulings Don’t Confirm Autism-Vaccine Link
Why Was Hannah Poling Compensated?
Vaccine Critics Claim Court Paid for Autism Cases
Mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes
MMR and Autism Rises from the Dead
Is The Vaccine Injury Compensation Program Covering-Up An Autism-Vaccine Link?
Autism Omnibus: Hazelhurst appeal denied
An Open Letter To The Poling’s
Developmental regression and mitochondrial dysfunction in a child with autism
Andrew Zimmerman Finally Speaks
David Kirby on mitochondral autism
Politics of Mitochondrial-PDD
Evidence of Misinformation
Vaccines, Autism and the Concession
Hope and False Hope
Share this:
Tweet
Print
More
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Vincent Iannelli, MD
October 7, 2018
AMD
Andrew Zimmerman
autism
Autism Secondary to Mitochondrial Disease
autism studies
Hannah Poling
John Shoffner
MAPS doctor
mito
mitochondrial disorders
regressive autism
Richard Kelley
Does Japan have the Lowest Infant Mortality Rate Following a Ban on Mandatory Vaccinations?
Vaccines don’t affect infant mortality rates as much as you would expect, because there are many other things that kill infants besides vaccine-preventable diseases. Things like birth defects, prematurity, injuries and complications during pregnancy.
Unfortunately, that gives anti-vaccine folks lots of opportunities to misuse statistics about infant mortality rates.
Does Japan have the Lowest Infant Mortality Rate Following a Ban on Mandatory Vaccinations?
The latest propaganda about vaccines and infant mortality rates relates to Japan.
“It may come as no surprise to many that the Japanese Government banned a number of vaccines that are currently mandatory in the United States and has strict regulations in place for other Big Pharma drugs and vaccines in general.”
Jay Greenberg on Anti-Vaccine Japan Has World’s Lowest Child Death Rate, Highest Life Expectancy
Most folks will understand why this is simply propaganda.
Japan never banned any vaccines.
The 2016 routine (Hib, Prevnar, hepB, DTaP, IPV, BCG, MR, Varicella, Japanese Encephalitis, DT, and HPV) and voluntary (mumps, rotavirus, hepA, meningococcal) immunization schedule in Japan.
Japan is not anti-vaccine. Although their immunization schedule is certainly a lot more complicated than ours, they give many of the same vaccines as every other developed country.
“Following a record number of children developing adverse reactions, including meningitis, loss of limbs, and even sudden death, the Japanese government banned the measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine from its vaccination program, despite facing serious opposition from Big Pharma.”
Was the MMR vaccine banned in Japan?
The MMR vaccine was introduced in Japan in 1989, and four years later, the government withdrew its recommendation for the vaccine.
Why? Reports of aseptic meningitis. This was likely due to the Urabe strain of the mumps component in their MMR vaccine, which was not used in the United States.
“The data up to now have revealed low rates of aseptic meningitis and no cases of virologically proven meningitis following the use of Jeryl–Lynn and RIT 4385 strains.”
WHO on Safety of mumps vaccine strains
They didn’t ban the vaccine or vaccination though.
They returned to giving children separate measles, rubella, and mumps (optional) vaccines. Tragically, because many kids didn’t get vaccinated against mumps, the rate of aseptic meningitis from people who actually got mumps was 25 times higher than the rate from the MMR vaccine!
When comparing risks vs benefits, it clearly favored getting vaccinated.
“Due directly to these gaps in ‘herd’ immunization resulting from politicized transitions in vaccination policy by the government, there were outbreaks of rubella with 17,050 cases reported between the years of 2012 and 2014, and 45 cases of congenital rubella syndrome reported to the National Epidemiological Surveillance of Infectious Diseases from week 1, 2012 to week 40, 2014.”
Yusuke Tanaka on History repeats itself in Japan: Failure to learn from rubella epidemic leads to failure to provide the HPV vaccine
The switch over also lead to outbreaks of rubella and increased cases of congenital rubella syndrome.
That’s no surprise to those who remember what happened in 1975, when routine pertussis vaccinations were halted in Japan following the deaths of two children. That eventually lead to epidemic cases of whooping cough in the country and at least 41 deaths in children (in 1979) before the vaccine was restarted.
Unfortunately, once they moved to DTaP vaccines, they started to see an increase in allergic reactions after kids got their MMR vaccine. Why? Their version of the DTaP vaccine contained poorly hydrolyzed bovine gelatin, which likely sensitized infants, who then developed an allergic reaction after getting an MMR vaccine with gelatin. While gelatin was removed from their DTaP vaccines, these extra side effects likely scared some folks in Japan.
Japan’s Vaccine Problem
Japan has more vaccine-preventable diseases than many other industrial countries.
Is it because Japan is anti-vaccine?
Of course not.
By impulsively halting and withdrawing vaccines, the Japanese government has done a good job of scaring folks though. They have also been very slow to introduce new vaccines, although they are catching up, as hepatitis, B, rotavirus, Hib, pneumococcal, meningococcal, HPV, and the chicken pox vaccine are all now available in Japan.
Have there been any benefits?
Nope.
They might have lower infant mortality rates, but that has nothing to do with vaccines.
There is no correlation between the number of vaccines that a country gives and their infant mortality rate.
If infant mortality rates are linked to vaccines, how do you explain Finland?
Just look at the immunization schedules in Finland, Portugal, and other countries.
What about autism?
Rates of autism have increased in Japan, just as they have in other countries. So much for the idea that the MMR vaccine is associated with autism, right?
It should be obvious now that if anti-vaccine folks did any research at all, they wouldn’t use Japan as an example when they talk about vaccines.
With higher rates of vaccine-preventable disease and deaths from vaccine-preventable diseases, especially right after they impulsively halt a vaccine, Japan’s vaccine history simply demonstrates that vaccines work and that they are still very necessary.
One thing is true though. Japan’s infant mortality rate has been dropping, but then so has the infant mortality rate in almost all other countries, including the United States, which is at record low levels.
It certainly isn’t true that Japan’s infant mortality rate started to drop following a ban on mandatory vaccinations. How do we know that? Like many other countries, Japan has never had mandatory vaccinations. And not surprisingly, their infant mortality rate has continued to drop as they have added more vaccines and improved their immunization rates.
More on Vaccines and Infant Mortality Rates
Vaccination Schedule Recommended by the Japan Pediatric Society
Routine/Voluntary Immunization Schedule in Japan (October 1, 2016)
Japan’s backward vaccination policy
Vaccines and infant mortality rates: A false relationship promoted by the anti-vaccine movement
Japan and HPV vaccine – debunking myths
International Comparisons of Infant Mortality and Related Factors: United States and Europe, 2010
Study – No effect of MMR withdrawal on the incidence of autism: a total population study.
Japanese study is more evidence that MMR does not cause autism
Study – History repeats itself in Japan: Failure to learn from rubella epidemic leads to failure to provide the HPV vaccine
Study – Acellular pertussis vaccines in Japan: past, present and future.
Study – A comparative study of the incidence of aseptic meningitis in symptomatic natural mumps patients and monovalent mumps vaccine recipients in Japan.
Study – Impact of anti-vaccine movements on pertussis control: the untold story.
Mortality rate, infant (per 1,000 live births)
WHO – Mumps Vaccines
WHO – Safety of mumps vaccine strains
Study – Mumps vaccine virus strains and aseptic meningitis.
Share this:
Tweet
Print
More
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Vincent Iannelli, MD
September 29, 2018 September 30, 2018
aseptic meningitis
autism studies
ban
banned vaccines
deaths from vaccine-preventable diseases
Finland
immunization schedule
infant mortality rate
Japan
mandatory vaccinations
mumps
mumps outbreaks
pertussis deaths
Portugal
Urabe strain
vaccine myths
Why Are You Still Worried About the MMR Vaccine?
We know why most folks got scared of the MMR vaccine.
Who’s to blame for low immunization rates and continuing outbreaks?
And most of us remember when most folks welcomed the MMR vaccine the end of endemic measles in the United States.
Why You Were Worried About the MMR Vaccine
Of course, that all changed when Andrew Wakefield spoke at the press conference for his 1998 Lancet paper and said:
“And I have to say that there is sufficient anxiety in my own mind of the safety, the long term safety of the polyvalent, that is the MMR vaccination in combination, that I think that it should be suspended in favour of the single vaccines, that is continued use of the individual measles, mumps and rubella components… there is no doubt that if you give three viruses together, three live viruses, then you potentially increase the risk of an adverse event occurring, particularly when one of those viruses influences the immune system in the way that measles does. And it may be, and studies will show this or not, that giving the measles on its own reduces the risk of this particular syndrome developing… the risk of this particular syndrome developing is related to the combined vaccine, the MMR, rather than the single vaccines…. People have been saying for some time, people on the periphery of autism, have been saying for some time that this may well be related to bowel damage.”
Although there was no evidence for any of that, vaccination rates went down and measles rates went up – the Wakefield Factor.
MMR vaccination rates had dropped below 80% by 2003, when the first measles outbreaks in the UK began. They didn’t fully recover until 2012.
But no, it wasn’t one person at a press conference that us lead down a decade of worry about the MMR vaccine.
“And then the nurse gave my son that shot. And I remember going, “Oh, God, no!” And soon thereafter I noticed a change. The soul was gone from his eyes.”
Jenny McCarthy on Oprah
Andrew Wakefield had plenty of help!
Not only from anti-vaccine celebrities, but from the media and their scare stories.
Why Are You Still Worried About the MMR Vaccine?
But that is all old news.
Over and over again, we see new studies that show that the MMR vaccine is safe and is not associated with autism.
Andrew Wakefield’s work was never replicated.
The MMR vaccine never contained thimerosal and doesn’t even contain aluminum, which I mention only because those are ingredients that some folks get scared about, not because they are harmful.
Vaccines are safe. The MMR vaccine is safe.
And more and more, as predicted, we are seeing why vaccines are necessary – more and more outbreaks. Outbreaks that are proving to be deadly.
Why are you still worried about the MMR vaccine?
Because anti-vaccine folks are still scaring you away from vaccinating and protecting your kids!
Don’t listen to them!
More on MMR Vaccine Fears
MMR vaccine—worries are not justified
Is the MMR vaccine safe?
Should I still worry about the MMR vaccine?
Ask the Experts about the MMR Vaccine
CDC – Understanding MMR Vaccine Safety
Parents’ concerns about MMR
Study – Parental decision-making in uptake of the MMR vaccination: a systematic review of qualitative literature
Andrew Wakefield’s many statements that MMR causes autism
Is It True That Andrew Wakefield’s Research Never Claimed Vaccines Cause Autism?
How the case against the MMR vaccine was fixed
Wakefield’s article linking MMR vaccine and autism was fraudulent
Andrew Wakefield GMC Charge Sheet
Andrew Wakefield – the fraud investigation
BMJ series on the Wakefield fraud
Andrew Wakefield’s Harmful Myth of Vaccine-induced “Autistic Enterocolitis”
Is It True That Andrew Wakefield’s Research Never Claimed Vaccines Cause Autism?
The media’s MMR hoax
The MMR story that wasn’t
Andy Wakefield exonerated because John Walker-Smith won his appeal? Not so fast there, pardner…
Surprise, surprise! Andrew Wakefield was paid by lawyers to undermine the MMR vaccine
Antivaccine hero Andrew Wakefield: Scientific fraud?
The Lancet retracts Andrew Wakefield’s article
Andrew Wakefield’s many statements that MMR causes autism
Andrew Wakefield “Acted Unethically”
Andrew Wakefield: paid $316k to administer $80k in grants by the Strategic Autism Inititiative
Andrew Wakefield’s vaccine patent
Andrew Wakefield Tortures History
Andrew Wakefield discredited – a collection of his attacks on vaccines
The Wakefield birthday party blood draw story
20th anniversary of the Andrew Wakefield vaccine fraud – no celebrations
Andrew Wakefield: Recognized as the Great Science Fraud that he is
Andrew Wakefield, the MMR, and a “mother warrior’s” fabricated vaccine injury story
Andrew Wakefield – dishonest attempt at self-justification
May 24, 2010: Andrew Wakefield Struck off the UK Medical Register. He’s Still Harming Autistic People
Refuting one of the tropes that Andrew Wakefield was wronged
Andrew Wakefield: Don’t try to blame me for the results of what I said and did
Andrew Jeremy Wakefield, Litigious Bully
Studies ‘supporting’ Andrew Wakefield
On The Lancet’s Retraction of Wakefield’s 1998 Paper Alleging A Connection Between the MMR Vaccine and Autism
BREAKING: BMJ calls Andrew Wakefield a fraud
Share this:
Tweet
Print
More
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Vincent Iannelli, MD
September 25, 2018
aluminum
Andrew Wakefield
autism
autism shot
autism studies
delaying vaccines
false balance
fraud
Jenny McCarthy
journalism jail
media
Oprah
scared
Sharyl Atkisson
thimerosal
tweets
vaccine scare stories
Wakefield factor
Posts navigation
Older posts
Categories
Categories Select Category Blog History of Vaccines Immunization News Immunization Schedules Vaccine Advocates Vaccine Education Vaccine Ingredients Vaccine Misinformation Vaccine Preventable Diseases Vaccine Safety Vaccine Side Effects Vaccines Vaxopedia
Follow Vaxopedia via Email
Enter your email address to follow Vaxopedia and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Follow Vaxopedia
Vaxopedia RSS Feed
RSS - Posts
Follow me on Twitter
My Tweets
Recommended Sites
Aetiology
Epidemiological
Harpocrates Speaks
I Speak of Dreams
Just the Vax
Left Brain Right Brain
Logic of Science
Moms Who Vax
NDS for Vaccines
NeuroLogica
Nurses Who Vaccinate
Respectful Insolence
Shot of Prevention
Skeptical OB
Skeptical Raptor
The Poxes Blog
The Thinking Persons Guide to Autism
The Vaccine Blog
The Vaccine Mom
Vaxopedia Tags
advocacy autism benefits Bob Sears conspiracy theories deaths from vaccine-preventable diseases exemptions herd immunity History of Vaccines immunization schedule ingredients measles deaths measles outbreaks natural immunity propaganda quotes risks safety side effects toxins unvaccinated vaccine injury vaccine myths Vaccine Preventable Diseases VAERS
Shot of Prevention
Ethan Lindenberger Wants to Help Stop the Lies About Vaccines
Just The Vax
False Balance in the Media
Left Brain Right Brain
Acceptance
Respectful Insolence
In Singapore, the TCM Practitioners Board shows why quacks shouldn’t self-regulate
Ginger Taylor, MS dubiously invokes “religious freedom” to argue against vaccination
Epidemiological
Epi 101: Indirect Age Adjustment by Hand and in R
Skeptical Raptor
MMR vaccine is safe and effective according to powerful FDA statement
The Poxes Blog
Won’t Someone Think of the Antivaxxers?
I Speak of Dreams
Who is Mark Green Representing in Tennessee, Exactly? Not His Autistic Constituents, That's For Sure
A WordPress.com Website.
VAXOPEDIA
A WordPress.com Website.
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: