Can Cold Sores Cause Genital Herpes?
Home
About
About Us
Disclaimer
Terms Of Use
Privacy Policy
Home Remedies Pro
Your Self-Help Guide To Home Remedies And Natural Cures
Beauty Natural Remedies, Tips and Products
Facial Care
Hair Care
Skin Care
Anti Aging
Diseases & Conditions
Allergies
Cancers
Other Illnesses
Visual Problems
Health
Diets
Sexual
Tips And Advice
Women’s Health
Highly Recommended
Product Review
Nutrition
Antioxidant
Vitamins & Minerals
Parenting & Pregnancy
Pregnancy
Remedies
Alternative Cures
Home Remedies
Weight Loss
Diet
Exercise
You are here: Home / Health / Can Cold Sores Cause Genital Herpes?
Can Cold Sores Cause Genital Herpes?
by Edward Daniel Leave a Comment
The same question has risen more commonly within the last decade. Can cold sores cause genital herpes? Even though it is technically the same virus, known as Herpes Simplex Virus (HSV), both the viral infections are caused by two different strands namely HSV Type-1 and HSV Type-2.
The HSV-1 strand affects the mouth area (the cold sore virus) while the HSV-2 is found in the genital area. There was a time when these two strands were thought to have nothing to do with each other, but times have changed. Researches have proved otherwise.
Can Cold Sores Cause Genital Herpes?
Doctors understood that someone who carries one of these viruses has the ability to give it to someone else, but it wasn’t until recently that one can cause the other. This is typically due to oral sex. There have been multiple cases to prove that if someone who carries the mouth form of herpes engages in oral sex with someone during a breakout, then the chances of giving genital herpes is apparent.
But, the problem arises when someone is unaware that they carry the virus at all! One out of five Americans suffer from the herpes strand and more than half of them aren’t aware of any breakouts. In fact, a typical cold sore often goes unnoticed! Read also do most people get cold sores?
This is one of the major reasons why cold sores are able to cause genital herpes. And to add to it, more than 60% of the new genital herpes cases popping up have been caused by the HSV-1 strand.
Now, can cold sores spread? Is it a guarantee that you will contract the HSV-2 strand while engaging in oral sex with someone that has a cold sore? There isn’t a guarantee and a lot has to do with the strength of your immunity and age. The fact is that the younger a person is, the weaker their immune system is causing havoc when trying to fight off this virus.
There isn’t a cure, as of yet, but there are many medications that can help with controlling outbreaks that often cause the issue to begin with. So, can cold sores cause genital herpes? The answer is yes and something that should be aware of.
Find out more about cold sores treatment, how to get rid of cold sores and home remedies for genital herpes.
Watch this video on YouTube
Share This Article :
More Readings
How To Get Rid Of Cold Sores Fast
Well, how can you get rid of cold sores? But before you can begin getting rid of it, you have to first understand where do they come from,
Home Remedies For Cold Sores Through Quality Sleep
If you are wondering what is the best remedy for cold sores, you will be surprised to know that the best solution is to get yourself some
Natural Cures For Genital Herpes
Looking for natural cures for genital herpes? Are you facing the full effects of the symptoms that these genital herpes cause? You are
Home Remedies For Genital Herpes
If you are looking for some relieves for blisters in your genital area, then these home remedies for genital herpes might be good for you.
Why Do Most People Get Cold Sores All The Time?
Do most people get cold sores? The answer is Yes. Cold sores is a very common condition among the society today and it is caused by a virus
Filed Under: Health, Sexual Tagged With: genital herpes, herpes, skin problems
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Select A Category
Select A Category Select Category Anti Aging Beauty Natural Remedies, Tips and Products Facial Care Hair Care Skin Care Diseases & Conditions Allergies Cancers Other Illnesses Visual Problems Health Diets Sexual Tips And Advice Women’s Health Nutrition Vitamins & Minerals Parenting & Pregnancy Pregnancy Remedies Alternative Cures Home Remedies Reviews Highly Recommended Product Review Weight Loss Diet Exercise
Popular Now
Home Remedies For Vertigo : Stop The Spin And Dizziness Now Do you know that there are plenty of home remedies for vertigo that ca...
Vitreolent Eye Drops For Eye Floaters Vitreolent eye drops can be a possible cure for the long prevailing pr...
Home Remedies For Sore Gums Having painful gums? Try these home remedies for sore gums and feel in...
How To Get Rid Of Vertigo Want to know how to get rid of vertigo? Unlike common dizziness, verti...
Bladder Infection Home Remedies : Get Rid Of UTI Fast And Easy Quick and effective bladder infection home remedies that can help you...
Home Remedies Pro · Copyright © 2019 · All Rights Reserved · Privacy Policy · Disclaimer