Cell Phone Towers Fears | Stop Dirty Electricity
702-845-5794 bill@stopdirtyelectricity.com
0 Items
Home
Order The Book!
Services
Home Inspections
Phone Consultations
Video Packages/DIY
Business and School Inspections
Audit Report
Order The Book!
About Us
About Bill
Press
Testimonials
Newsletter Sign Up
Common Concerns
Electric & Magnetic Radiation
Dirty Electricity
Wireless / WiFi / RF
The Cadwallader Protocol
Videos
Meters/Filters
Electric & Magnetic Radiation Meters
Dirty Electricity Meter/Filters
Wireless/WiFi Meter
Contact Us
Blog
SHOP
MEMBER LOGIN
Select Page
Cell Phone Towers & Your Health Problems?
by Bill Cadwallader | Sep 16, 2015 | Cell Phone Towers Fears
Many people have wondered if all of the Wireless / WiFi devices and cell phone towers are a problem. Could there actually be harmful consequences. That is what Carolyn Burkhardt wondered also.
In the June 19, 2015 edition of the Methow Valley News, Ann McCreary wrote a story about how one cell tower could bring devastating effects on one person – Carolyn Burkhardt.
Her remodeled cabin is in one of the remotest parts of Washington State – near Mazama. I should know, I have visited this area many times over the years because relatives have built a cabin there also. I could never get good reception because of the lack of cell towers in the area.
But Verizon has fixed that.
They build a huge, 120 foot tower (almost the height of a 10 story building) just 150 yards, across an open field, from Carolyn’s part-time residence. She was told that the cell tower would not be a problem. But shortly after she moved there … “she experienced a racing heart, tinnitus (ringing in her ears) and a tingly feeling overall…”
Is Your Cell Phone Giving you Headaches?
A retired nurse practitioner, she was also very concerned with “the rapid heart rate — tachycardia” — while she was in bed – only at the cabin and not at her permanent residence. She also experienced …“buzzy feeling — imagine a lightning bolt not too far away… and found her temperature was about one degree higher…”
Since this was a part-time residence, she suffered none of these symptoms at her other residence.
She originally bought the property for hikers to stay at who were in the middle of hiking the Pacific Crest Trail, calling it the “Ravensong’s Roost.” She had hiked the entire trail herself at age 20.
Burkhardt was told that the cell tower was harmless. Now 60, she recalled how years ago they considered X-rays harmless as well.
If this was not bad enough, Verizon placed a request to upgrade the tower built in 2010 from six to nine antennas – increasing the electromagnetic radiation by 50%.
Pacific Crest trail, with Mount Adams in background
A State Environmental Protection Act (SEPA) checklist conducted in 2009 did not include evaluation of RF (wireless radiation) emissions from the tower before Verizon had built the tower.
Carolyn has appealed to the County to stop Verizon from upgrading the tower based on her health problems.
All Carolyn wanted was to relocate the tower to a “less populated” area – on a hillside. Take it from me, there are many “less populated” areas near Mazama.
But in the July 30, 2015 edition of the Methow Valley News, Ann McCreary reported that unfortunately, Burkhardt lost her appeal.
“…Dan Beardslee, the county hearing examiner, cited Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regulations that prohibit state and local governments from regulating wireless service facilities like the Verizon tower “on the basis of the environmental effect of radio frequency emissions” if facilities comply with FCC emissions regulations…”
BioInitiative 2012 Report
I believe this is just the tip of the iceberg. As the cellular network becomes even larger, with more and more powerful antennas, people will start to notice health issues at one location but not at another location – like Burkhardt. This should alert us that electromagnetic radiation from cell towers could be the cause. One exhaustive report that supports this is called the BioInitiative 2012 Report. You can learn more about this at:
www.bioinitiative.org/
with over 3,900 peer reviewed, scientific articles. It has been compiled by 29 authors from ten countries, ten holding medical degrees (MDs), 21 PhDs, and three MsC, MA or MPHs. It concluded that these levels of electromagnetic radiation, at levels lower than the antiquated FCC regulations, can have many detrimental biological effects on human, animals and even the environment.
If you are having unexplained health problems or just for precautionary reasons, go to
www.antennasearch.com/
This site will tell you how many towers, antennas, and who they are operated by, within a 4 mile radius of an address. Inexpensive, homeowner meters can be used to determine how strong a particular cell tower is. You yourself can determine how close the antennas are and if they could be causing significant health problems – like Carolyn Burkhardt who is now living with them:
https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/meters-filters/
France & Electromagnetic Radiation in Schools
by Bill Cadwallader | Sep 15, 2015 | Cell Phone Towers Fears, Cell Phones Children Risks, WiFi Risk, Wireless Risk
France Bans WiFi in Nursery Schools & Day Care
What does France know that WE don’t want to believe?
In an extraordinary move, France recently passed a bill that limits WiFi exposure for children and everyone else.
On January 29, 2015, the French National Assembly made history by passing a new national law to reduce exposures to wireless radiation electromagnetic fields.
The bill includes 14 major points that should raise concern about the safety of our children.
The article might be a bit long, but well worth the read.
Here it is. Go to the bottom for my comments.
Professor Annie Sasco, MD, DSc former Cancer Prevention Chief of the International Agency for Research on Cancer and a distinguished science adviser to Environmental Health Trust has this report about France’s new national law regulating electromagnetic field exposure.
1. WiFi Banned in Nursery Schools: WIFI and Wireless devices will be banned in “the spaces dedicated to home, to rest and activities of children under 3 years”.
2. WiFi Minimized in Schools: In schools for children up to 11 years, WiFi routers should be turned off when not in use for teaching purposes.
3. Schools Will be Informed: The board of the school should be informed when any new tech equipment is being installed in schools.
4. Cell Tower Emission Compliance Will Be Verified: A decree will define the limits of emission of equipment for electronic communications or transmission to which the public is exposed. These values can be verified by accredited organizations and results will be made accessible to the public through a National Radio Frequency Agency.
5. Citizens Will Have Access to Environmental/Cell Tower Radiation Measurements Near homes: Every resident may get access to the results of measurements for their living space. Conditions of information of the public as well as involvement of the local authorities are specified as are the steps to follow in case of disagreement.
6. Cell Antenna Maps For the Country: A description and map of the places with atypical (higher than the limits) places will be conducted at regular intervals with follow up of the actions being taken to limit the exposure. A map of all antennas will be produced for each town.
7. Continued Evaluation of Health Effects: The National Radiofrequence Agency will be in charge of surveillance and vigilance, evaluating potential risks and setting up scientific research, including information on health effects.
8. SAR Radiation Labeling Mandated: The SAR of cell phones must be clearly indicated on the package.
9. Information on Reducing Exposures Mandatory: Information on ways to reduce exposure will be detailed in the contents of the cell phone package. .
10. WiFi Hotspots will be Labeled: Places where WIFI is provided should be clearly marked with a pictogram.
11. Advertisements Must Recommend Devices That Reduce Radiation Exposure to the Brain: Advertising for cell phones should clearly indicate the recommendation of hand free kits for protection of the head of the user and it will be included in the package. Advertising for cell phone not accompanied by such a kit is forbidden. Companies in violation will be fined 75,000 Euros ($83,850 US).
12. Children Must Be Provided Protection: At the request of the buyer, equipment reducing cell phone radiation exposures to the head for children less than 14 years should be provided.
13. The Public Will Be Informed: Within a year, a policy of information on awareness and information on a responsible and reasonable use of cell phones and other apparatus emitting radio frequencies will be set up.
14. Electrohyper-sensitivity Report To Be Submitted: Within a year, a report on electrohyper-sensitivity must be given to the Parliament.
I don’t know where to start.
We must take steps to protect our children from harmful radiation exposure whether or not the government or industries recognize the danger.
France has taken the first steps to reducing their Electromagnetic Radiation and improve their health. The updated Bioinitiative Report of 2012,
http://www.bioinitiative.org/
has over 3,900 scientific articles and papers which support what France has done.
There are many things you can do right now to reduce exposure to Electromagnetic Radiation and we would love to help you do that.
The Cadwallader Protocol was specifically designed with YOU in mind, to train and empower YOU to take control of this largely neglected health issue.
Check out our Do It Yourself Video Package or contact us regarding Professional Packages:
https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/professional-packages/
Welcome to Stop Dirty Electricity
by Bill Cadwallader | Sep 10, 2015 | Baby Monitors Risk, Bill Cadwallader, Bluetooth Risk, Cadwallader Protocol, Cancer EMF, Cell Phone Risk, Cell Phone Towers Fears, Cell Phones Children Risks, CFL Concerns, Computer Radiation, Cordless Phone Radiation, Dimmer Switches Threat, Dirty Electricity, Dirty Power, Electric Radiation, Electromagnetic Radiation, EMF, EMF Radiation, EMF Sensitivity, Energy Saving Light Concern, Fluorescent Mercury, Health Concerns EMR, Health EMF, IPad Danger, iPhone Danger, La Quinta Middle School, Laptop Risk, LED Hazard, Magnetic Fields Health, Magnetic Radiation Risks, Microwave Risk, Mobile Phone Risk, Mobile Phone Tower Risks, Power Line Risk, RF Risk, Smart Meter Risk, Solar Power Risk, Stop Dirty Electricity Concern, Tablet Risk, Testimonials, The Bio Initiative, Uncategorized, WiFi Risk, Wireless Risk
Hey, this is Bill Cadwallader with StopDirtyElectricity.com.
I have many things to chat with you about Electromagnetic Radiation.
You say, what is Electromagnetic Radiation?
This harmful radiation is caused by our modern day lifestyle and the myriad of electronics that surround us today.
We will be discussing the sources of this radiation and how you, in most cases, can reduce over 90% of this radiation by taking some simple, easy-to-do steps to protect your home, family, kids, environment and yes, even your pets – please don’t forget your pets.
Before I forget, if you have not received my free report on
10 Things You can do NOW to Minimize Radiation Exposure in your HOME
Please do that now – it’s on the Home Page right below the Welcome Video:
https://stopdirtyelectricity.com/
So stay tuned. If you find it helpful, please share this with your friends.
The first radiation is Electric.
This Electric Radiation is now present in almost all homes. A major source of Electric Radiation is the wiring in your walls and any visible wires.We can reduce the effect of this radiation with a few, easy steps.
Recently we did an home audit for a couple where the man was very skeptical.
When I followed up with the wife a few days later, she had to admit, she had the best night’s sleep – in as long as she could remember! The next time I spoke with her, her husband – you remember the skeptic – had to admit, he couldn’t remember when he had slept so well.
Boy, am I happy to hear this common result again, and again.
Another type is Magnetic Radiation.
Magnetic Radiation is produced any time electricity is flowing through a wire.
Many articles have been written about Magnetic Radiation and the effects are normally reduced just by moving 2 to 6 feet away.
A third type of radiation is Wireless / WiFi / RF radiation. This is caused by many modern electronics like cell phones, tablets, baby monitors, cell towers, etc.
If you’re not using a wireless electronic device then just turn it off or put it into airplane mode turned ON and Bluetooth & WiFi turned OFF.
The free report –
10 Things You can do NOW to Minimize Radiation Exposure in your HOME
deals with quick and easy ways to reduce your exposure to Wireless / WiFi / RF radiation.
Finally, the 4th type of Electromagnetic Radiation is termed Dirty Electricity.
It is sad, but La Quinta Middle School had off-the-chart high Dirty Electricity levels. Unfortunately, 16 teachers had 18 cancers at the school and several have died.
I know one teacher personally, she said the very day she started, she found out that one teacher had died of cancer and 2 others had cancer. After teaching there for 3 years, she realized nothing was going to be done and she moved on to a different school.
And if that is not bad enough, at last count, we know up to 37 students attending that school who developed cancer starting in their 20’s – with one student at age 15.
We will be discussing all of these radiations and how to get rid of them on this site.
Thanks again for finding the Website
www.StopDirtyElectricity.com
And if you find it helpful, again please share these blogs with friends and relatives.
Hope to hear your own comments when you begin to follow these tips.
Search for:
Recent Posts
Are Wireless Earbuds Dangerous? 250 Scientists Think So
EMF Quiet Zones
Video – Cancer in Your Kitchen-Microwave
Which light bulb should I use?
Are Smart Meters really SMART ?
Archives
Archives Select Month April 2019 June 2016 May 2016 March 2016 February 2016 November 2015 October 2015 September 2015
Blog Categories
Blog Categories Select CategoryBaby Monitors RiskBill CadwalladerBluetooth RiskCadwallader ProtocolCancer EMFCell Phone RiskCell Phone Towers FearsCell Phones Children RisksCFL ConcernsComputer RadiationCordless Phone RadiationDimmer Switches ThreatDirty ElectricityDirty PowerElectric RadiationElectromagnetic RadiationEMFEMF RadiationEMF SensitivityEnergy Saving Light ConcernFluorescent MercuryHealth Concerns EMRHealth EMFIPad DangeriPhone DangerLa Quinta Middle SchoolLaptop RiskLED HazardMagnetic Fields HealthMagnetic Radiation RisksMicrowave RiskMobile Phone RiskMobile Phone Tower RisksPower Line RiskRF RiskSmart Meter RiskSolar Power RiskStop Dirty Electricity ConcernTablet RiskTestimonialsThe Bio InitiativeUncategorizedWiFi RiskWireless Risk
About Us
Bill Cadwallader, MBA, EMRS
Certified Electromagnetic Radiation Specialist
Stop Dirty Electricity
702-845-5794
bill@stopdirtyelectricity.com
Stop Dirty Electricity provides EMF consulting, video packages, home, school, and business inspections in the Las Vegas, Nevada, Arizona, Utah, San Diego and Orange County areas to protect you from electromagnetic radiation.
Our Disclaimer
Stop Dirty Electricity does not claim to diagnose, treat or cure any medical condition or disease. Stop Dirty Electricity.com shall not be liable for incidental or consequential damages, lost profits or revenues to the fullest extent such liability may be disclaimed by law.
EMF Inspection Areas We Serve
– Southern Nevada, Las Vegas, Henderson, North Las Vegas, Boulder City, Mesquite, Laughlin and Pahrump
– Southern Utah, St. George and surrounding areas
– Northern & Eastern Arizona Including Flagstaff, Kingman, and Havasu
– San Diego County California
– Orange County California
Facebook
Twitter
RSS
Copyright © 2018 · Stop Dirty Electricity · Website by SMH Design Solutions