Pus Cells in Urine: Causes, Symptoms, Treatment and Prevention | IYTmed.com
Pains
Bones
Pregnancy
Diets
Abdomen
Skin
Women
Heart and Blood
Eyes
Pus Cells in Urine Test in Adults: Causes, Symptoms, Treatment and Prevention
A UTI is the most common cause of pyuria, as bacteria in the urinary tract can lead to pus being excreted out in your urine test.
Existence of pus cells in urine is a certain sign of some type of infection. Pus is a whitish or yellowish or somewhat green compound which is thick like glue. Pus in urine represents that the body is combating an infection in the lower or upper urinary tract. Pus includes dead skin cells, bacteria and white blood cells. The medical term for the pus in urine condition is referred to as Pyuria and it is a common sign of different medical conditions.
The most common factor for Pyuria is the presence of urinary tract infection. Women are more vulnerable to urinary tract infections. The condition can be quite serious if it impacts a guy. The urinary tract infections are triggered by germs entering the urinary tract. The track includes the kidneys, urinary bladder, ureters and urethra. The infection can occur in any part of the track and typical infections happen in the lower parts such as the urethra and urinary bladder.
Causes Of Pus Cells In Urine
The two most common causes for the presence of pus cells in urine are
Urinary tract infection or UTI
Sexually transmitted diseases
Urinary Tract Infection
Pus in the urine makes the urine appear cloudy, frothy or as brown discharge. Pus is produced in the body as the immune system aims to fight the infection. Diseases such as diabetes increase the opportunity of urinary tract infection. UTI prevails in women as the urethra in women is much shorter than in men. This makes it simpler for the microorganisms to go into the female urinary tract and cause infection. Twenty percent of the women who have established UTI will see a reoccurrence in the future.
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Sexually Transmitted Disease’s can activate pus cells in the urine. Men and women are prone to STD’s if they have an active sex life and are not cautious in their sexual relationships. Mycoplasma and Chlamydia are the cause of STD’s, which in turn trigger the existence of pus cells in urine.
Other Causes
Some of the other causes for pus seen in urine are
Viral infections
Anaerobic bacterial infection
Fungal infections
Chemical poisoning
Kidney stones
Fastidious germs
Tuberculosis of the urinary tract
Infection in prostate glands in men
Cancer of the urinary organs or genital organs
In some cases pus cells in urine also result from old age and pregnancy. Specific medications likewise cause the condition of pus in the urine.
The Symptoms Of Pus In Urine
Often there will not be any symptoms of urinary tract infection or the presence of pus in the urine. When the symptoms happen they are as follows
Foul smelling urine
Cloudy urine
Fever
Frequent urination
Pain or discomfort while urinating
Vomiting
Stomach cramps
If the pus in urine is caused by UTI the pain may be felt deep inside the bladder or at the pointer of the urethra through which the pus cells exit the body. If the pus is formed by STD’s, there will be fever, weakness and there will be a general sensation of being ill.
Problems Associated With Pus Cells In Urine
Depending upon the cause of the pus in the urine there are different complications that can take place in a person.
If the urinary tract infection is left unattended, the infection might reach the kidneys.
When the infection impacts the kidneys the patient ends up being dehydrated, as they can not keep anything down.
This scenario will cause kidney problems
Though UTI’s are rare in men, they are vulnerable to more issues.
Thus it is essential to understand about the symptoms of UTI in addition to pus cells present in the urine and get it dealt with by the right method.
Treatment For Pus In Urine
A urinalysis is the beneficial and inexpensive diagnostic test for any unexpected substance in urine. Treatment for pus cell in urine depends on the underlying cause.
According to the underlying cause for the condition, the treatment will vary.
To manage infections, physicians might recommend antibiotics
If the condition is caused by kidney or bladder stones, it is needed to get rid of the stones by dissolving it or utilizing any other method
Drinking lots of water and fluids will assist in eliminating the pus cells out of the urinary tract
To get relief from symptoms such as burning feeling while urinating, consume an alkaline mix
You can utilize various natural home remedy to manage the symptoms such as pain, inflammation, vomiting and so on and to get rid of the pus cells
Ways to Prevent The Condition?
Take adequate water, fluids in any type such as juices without sugar, coconut water lemon water and so on helps to remove the infection from urine.
Avoid spicy foods, coffee, tea and so on if you believe urinary tract infection
Germs that impact the urinary system travel through stools. So, clean the rectum from front to back after defecating
Another mode of transmission of the bacteria from one person to the other is through sexual intercourse. So, it is required to pass urine prior to and after sexual intercourse and keep the genital areas clean.
Avoid withstanding the urge to urinate. Holding the urine for long keeps the harmful bacteria inside the bladder.
Home Remedies For Pus Cells In Urine
The main problem associated with pus cells in urine is an extreme pain or burning feeling while urinating and the urine that looks cloudy with pus cells. At early stages, it is possible to treat the urinary tract infections using home remedies. Neglect will lead to infection of the kidneys which may cause throwing up, chills, back pain, fever etc. There are multitudes of home remedies readily available for UTI infections and for sexually transmitted diseases, which will assist to get rid of the pus cells from urine.
Cranberry Juice
This is among the most popular natural home remedy to control the pus cells in the urine triggered by the UTI. The juice of cranberry is acidic in nature and this makes it tough for the germs to endure in the body of an individual routinely taking cranberry juice. Another component in cranberry called proanthocyanins avoids the germs from the sticking to the walls of the urinary tract. Hence the germs get removed from the body in addition to urine. It is required that you take unsweetened juice to obtain faster results. The sugar content in the juice will minimize the level of acidity of the juice. It is required to consume at least 400 ml of juice every day.
Uva Ursi
This herb has antiseptic property. The active part which offers the antibacterial property is called arbutin. This herb works in decreasing urinary tract infections and therefore minimizing the pus in the urine. This herb has tannin material hence pregnant women must prevent taking this herb. To treat UTI the herb can be used in capsule form or along with tea.
Consume Plenty Of Water
This is one of the most inexpensive and the easily readily available remedy to reduce the problem of pus in the urine. Drinking water regularly will assist to clean down the germs and its removal through urine. This will lower the infection of the urinary tract. Apart from lowering infection, water dilutes the urine and for this reason there will be less pain while urinating. To obtain best result beverage 2-3 glass of water every hour.
Prevent Douching
Women should avoid douching if the pus in urine is caused by sexually transmitted diseases. Douching changes the normal pH balance of the vagina and it can flush the infection in the uterus and Fallopian tubes and this will lead to pelvic inflammatory disease.
Golden Seal
This herb works in dealing with Chlamydia which is a cause of pus cell in urine. If you believe Chlamydia is the factor for your condition you can take this herb in the capsule type. You can take in one or two pills daily. This herb is capable of promoting the immune system and improve the defence of the body this will decrease the infection and the development of pus.
Echinacea
This herb has antimicrobial property and it helps to enhance the body immune system. You can consume it in the form of a pill to treat Chlamydia infection.
Garlic
Garlic is practical in the treatment of various health conditions. It can be also utilized in the treatment of Chlamydia as it has a natural antibiotic impact. You can either consume it in the raw type or you can use as an additive in your food. There are also garlic capsules readily available in the market that makes it easy for you to swallow it.
Wild Oregano
This is another natural home remedy to deal with Chlamydia. This herb is thought to have anti-bacterial properties and thus used for the treatment.
Baking Soda
If you are having first signs of urinary tract infection which can result in the development of pus in urine, try utilizing a mixture of 1/2 tsp baking soda with eight ounces of water. Drink this mix to keep the acid-base balance and to prevent the growth of bacteria in the urinary tract.
Cucumber Juice
Cucumber will cool your body and increase the amount of urine expelled from the body. Take 25ml of cucumber juice 3 times a day to get rid of a UTI.
Coriander Seeds
Take 10 grams of coriander seeds and soak it overnight in one glass of water. In the early morning grind the seeds in addition to water stress it and drink the infusion mixed with sugar sweet. This will help to decrease the infections.
Cinnamon Powder
If you are struggling with pus in urine take 2 grams of cinnamon powder with a glass of water. This will lower the pain and pain during passing the urine
Switch To Healthier Diet
It is better to prevent saturated and trans fat in the diet. Consume more vegetables and fruits that will help to enhance the body immune system.
Practice Good Hygiene
It is necessary to have a hygiene lifestyle to prevent infections and to obtain rid of the infections. Take daily showers and use natural items to clean up the body. Do not use chemicals or harsh soaps to clean up the genital location.
Pomegranate Juice
Like cranberry juice, pomegranate juice likewise lowers the chances of infection. Drink pomegranate juice on a daily basis to prevent UTI’s and to lower the UTI.
Stop Alcohol And Smoking
Quiting alcohol and smoking will improve the resistance power of the body and the body will be able to fight the infections better. This will reduce the pus development.
Vitamin C
Vitamin C plays a crucial function in the resistance of the body to various diseases and infections. Include vitamin C containing fruits and vegetables in your diet like oranges, strawberries, melons, grapes etc.
Yoghurt
Yoghurt includes excellent bacteria called lactobacilli. Consuming yoghurt will increase the excellent bacteria in our urinary tract and avoids the bacterial infections of the vagina and urethra.
Green Tea
Green tea is an antioxidant and it will enhance the resistance of the body and prepares the body to combat infections.
Fiber-Rich Foods
Fiber-rich foods like beans, entire grains, nuts, vegetables and fruits avoid irregularity and for this reason prevent faecal contamination leading to infections.
Pineapple
Pineapple is another reliable treatment for decreasing the inflammations triggered by UTI. When the pineapple is consumed frequently, the enzyme present in it called Bromelain will decrease the urinary tract infection. This enzyme is popular for its anti-inflammatory property. It is necessary to use fresh pineapple pieces or juice to obtain the best impact.
Tea Tree Oil
The antibacterial properties of tea tree oil help to lower the infections. Mix 1 tsp of tea tree oil in your bath water and use this water to wash the opening of the urethra to minimize the infection. Repeat the treatment 3 to four times a day to get faster outcomes.
Are you a person suffering from pain and pain due to pus cells in the urine? Are you looking for some ways to manage the pain and pain? Then attempt the above remedies. Some infections are difficult to cure with home remedies and if the symptoms persist or intensify get medical attention.
Commonly Asked Questions & Answers
What does pus cells in urine test indicate?
Whenever there is an infection or obstruction in the urinary tract, the urine returns to the uterus and kidney. This forms a thick layer of the kidneys and results in bacterial growth in the urinary tract and a yellow mucus is observed in the urine.
What is the meaning of pus cells in stool?
Stool travels through the mucous membrane of the large intestine. So, smaller sized or we can state the undetectable quantity of yellow or clear mucus prevails in a stool. If the quantity of mucus is increased then, it can be the result of bacterial infection, anal fissure or in serious cases it may lead to Crohn’s disease.
What are the pus cells in sperm?
The increased concentration of WBC in the semen results in pus in the semen. This condition is called pyospermia. The WBC concentration below 5 per high power field is considered as a normal condition. Further, this might lead to low sperm count and is among the major factor for male infertility.
How long does it require to clear up a urinary tract infection?
It depends on the intensity of the infection. If it is in the beginning stage, then taking proper medication for 1 to 3 days will suffice to clean up the infection. It is serious, then it might take a long period of time to clear up. It is better to consult the physician when you observe any sign such as burning feeling in the UTI, less urine and so on.
What is the normal variety of RBC in urine?
The normal range of RBC in the urine is 4 red cell per high power field. In some cases, this worth might vary slightly from individual to individual depending upon their health condition.
What is a normal pH in urine?
The normal pH in urine is 6. If it is more than 6, then it is increasing the quantity of alkaline in the body. If it is below 6, then your urine is acidic.
What is the normal value of pus cells in human urine?
In the normal female, the pus cells are in the variety from 0 to 4 p.v.f. If you have any sign of high fever, vomiting, stomach cramps then, it is better it is better to opt for urine culture. If the pus cells are more than 100/HPF then, it shows serious infection in the kidneys or urinary tract. This may cause pyuria which causes organ failure.
Please, share this article
Share on Facebook Share
Share on Pinterest Pin it
Share on TwitterTweet
Share on Google Plus Plus
Send To Devices Send
Written by Reyus Mammadli, HealthCare Advisor,
Bachelor of Science in Medical Technology
Last modified: July 18, 2018
References
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Categories
Abdomen
Brain & Neurology
Cancer
Diet Tips
Ear-Throat-Nose
Heart and Blood System
Infection
Kidneys & Urinary System
Medications
Men's Health
Miscellaneous
Muscules-Bones-Joints
Ophthalmology
Oral Health
Pain Management
Pregnancy
Respiratory system
Skin problems
Test & Procedures
Women's Health
List of Painkillers from Strongest to Weakest 105 views
Large Bumps on Back of the Tongue 99 views
What is a Normal Heart Rate in Your Age? 91 views
Small Raised Bumps on Elbows 83 views
Blood Clots in Lung 53 views
What Causes Thickening Of Toenails 44 views
Roof of Mouth Hurts 43 views
Red Spots on Roof of Mouth 38 views
How to Soften and Cut Hard Toenails 37 views
Pain in One Side of Throat 37 views
All information is provided for reference only. Diagnosis and treatment prescribed by the attending doctor.
About Us | Legal Disclaimer | Privacy Policy