Cancer Causes Heredity or Environment - Cancer - Doctor Steve Abel
Doctor Steve Abel
» Cancer
Cancer Causes Heredity or Environment
Last Updated on Mon, 03 Dec 2018 | Cancer
It has been established by experts that cancers can be familial, or inherited, or sporadic, occurring at random in the population. Although most tumors arise in people with no family history of the disease, there is good reason for researchers to study both causes.
Damaged or mutated genes can be inherited. When doctors establish a patient's medical history, they ask about close relatives who have had cancer and what kind of cancer they had. Doctors know that some types of mutated genes can be passed from parents to children. They are aware that patients with a family history of certain cancers are more vulnerable to that type of cancer. But they also know that although patients with a family history of cancer are at higher risk, they are not destined to develop cancer.
Sometimes cancers that occur in several family members are just coincidental. They might also be caused by something in the shared environment. Compared to tumors that occur sporadically, the actual number of cases of familial cancer is quite small. There are, however, certain types of cancer that occur more often in families. These include some cancers of the breast, prostate cancer, ovarian cancer, cancer of the colon, skin cancers, and an eye cancer called retinoblastoma.
Genetic testing for the more common oncogenes is possible today. But this kind of testing is controversial. Although genetic tests can predict whether or not a person is at risk for certain familial cancers, many people prefer not to know. And even those who discover that they do not carry an abnormal gene mutation are still at risk for developing cancers that occur sporadically.
Those whose genetic tests indicate they have inherited an abnormal gene can choose to have more frequent tests for cancer, or they can opt for more drastic procedures. Experts have found that those who carry the breast cancer gene BRCA have an 80 percent chance of developing breast cancer. Consequently, some women who have tested positive for the BRCA gene have more frequent mammograms. Still others choose to have their
Women who are at a higher risk for breast cancer may choose to have more frequent mammograms to check for the disease.
breasts removed surgically to eliminate the risk, even if they do not have cancer.
Genetic testing can cost thousands of dollars; however, some cancer centers offer free testing in connection with research studies. Some insurance plans will pay the costs of genetic testing that is recommended by a person's doctor. But some people fear that those who have a known risk of cancer may have difficulty being hired for jobs or obtaining health or life insurance.
10 Ways To Fight Off Cancer
Learning About 10 Ways Fight Off Cancer Can Have Amazing Benefits For Your Life The Best Tips On How To Keep This Killer At Bay Discovering that you or a loved one has cancer can be utterly terrifying. All the same, once you comprehend the causes of cancer and learn how to reverse those causes, you or your loved one may have more than a fighting chance of beating out cancer.
Get My Free Ebook
« Previous Page
Next Page »
Recommended
Breast Cancer Survivors
Related Posts
Breast Cancer Survivors
Post a comment
Name...
Email...
Website...
Comment it up...
Get Instant Access
Popular Articles
Is Agent Orange or Gulf War
Design Enzyme Inhibitors As Drugs
Chemo Hair Loss: Its Psychological
Preservatives Food Chemistry
Differences between ketamine
Death life in Japan Near Death
River flow analysis Hydrology
Hyptis suaveolens Linn Poit Indian
The Transport Road Research
Australopithecus Jay Matternes
My partner has PD Were both worn
DMFS index Dental Caries
What is downward drift Behavioral
Introduction Parkinson Disease
Confidence Appearance Stereotypes
Categories
Human Nutrition
Dietary Reference
Health and Wellness
Well Being
Burn the Fat
Childhood Leukemia
Personality Psychology
Child Development
Herbal Medicine
Fibromyalgia
Healthy Pregnancy
Depression Therapy
Homeopathy
Dry Needling Techniques
Systemic Disease
Diets and Dieting
Addictive Behavior
Children Rheumatic Disease
Flour and Breads
Child Psychology
Cognitive Psychology
Prostate Cancer Advances
Anatomy and Physiology
Vitamins
Natural Supplements
Weight Control
Adolescent Rheumatology
Body Massage
Nuts and Seeds
Herbs and Spices
Auricular Acupuncture
Medicinal Plants
Teach Children
Cancer Metastasis
Group Therapy
Asperger Syndrome
Infectious Diseases
Gallbladder Disease
GERD Answers
In vitro fertilisation
Parkinson Disease Questions
Medicinal Plants
Reversing Gum Disease
Midwives
Hydrology
Breast Cancer
MRI of the Liver
Cancer Therapy
Cognitive Sciences
Food Consumption
Depression Treatment
Dental Caries
Life in Old Age
Sjogrens Syndrome
Microbial Endocrinology
Cancer Survivorship
Drug Design
Molecular Embryology
Behavioral Science
Romantic Love
Genetic Disease
Everyday Life Psychology
Cell Therapy
Parkinson Disease
Self Help Therapie
Clinical Chemistry
Herbal Medicine
Morphine
Bipolar Disorder
Methods in Psychology
Nutrient Metabolism
Herbal Remedies
After Cancer Treatment
Diabetes Answers
Food Chemistry
Hypertension Treatment
Osteopathic Technique
Pharmacology of Asthma
Anxiety and Depression
Food Technology
Ovarian Cancer
Nutrition Almanac
Autism
Oral Drug Delivery
Treatment of Obesity
Genomics and Disease
Homoeopathic Medicine
Binge Eating Disorder
Spinal Stabilization
Grounding Cognition
Indian Medicinal Plants
Safety of Meat
Pancreatic Cancer
Fatigue in Cancer
Nutrition Support
Sleep Disorders
Skin Diseases
Alcohol Heart Disease
Childhood Obesity
Back Sufferers
About | Contact | Write For Us | Shop | Privacy Policy | Resources