Can vitamin C thwart a cold? - CBS News
News
US
World
Politics
Entertainment
Health
MoneyWatch
Technology
Science
Crime
Sports
Sri Lankan official says bombings were "retaliation" for Christchurch attack
Militia allegedly trained to assassinate Obama, Hillary Clinton
Pressure on Phoenix police over spike in officer-involved shootings
New details emerge about teen's fatal fall at Yosemite National Park
Myanmar journalists jailed for reporting on Rohingyas lose appeal
Trump, first lady to head to U.K. to meet with queen
Video shows deputy pounding teen's head into ground
Woman who allegedly threw 7 puppies into dumpster arrested
Luke Walton, NBA head coach, sued for alleged sexual assault
Shows
CBS This Morning
CBS Evening News
60 Minutes
Face The Nation
Sunday Morning
48 Hours
CBSN Originals
Live
Latest headlines
Latest headlines
CBSN New York
CBSN New York
CBS Sports HQ
CBS Sports HQ
ET Live
ET Live
LIVE
More
Latest
Video
Photos
Podcasts
In Depth
Local
Log In
Alerts
Mobile
RSS
Shop
Live
Watch CBSN Live
Can vitamin C thwart a cold?
By Tia Ghose
November 10, 2015 / 10:50 AM / Livescience.com
Ah, autumn: Time for leaf-peeping, pumpkin spice lattes, turtlenecks... and the sniffles.
Fall and winter are peak seasons for colds. And almost everybody from Aunt Gladys to the cashier at the grocery store wants to tell you about their magic bullet for fighting wintertime bugs. One of the most popular word-of-mouth cold remedies is to dose up on vitamin C.
But does boosting your vitamin C intake do anything to prevent or shorten colds?
Some studies suggest taking vitamin C has a modest effect on the common cold, but don't expect miracles, one expert says.
"It's fair to say that vitamin C supplementation both shortens duration of cold and offers some protection against colds, though it's not very dramatic," said Stephen Lawson, a researcher at the Linus Pauling Institute at Oregon State University, who studies micronutrients. [Myth or Truth: 7 Ancient Health Ideas Explained]
Vitamin C
Vitamin C gained its reputation as an almost miraculous substance after two-time Nobel Prize winner Linus Pauling first touted the benefits of the micronutrient in a series of books, with titles such as "Vitamin C and the Common Cold," (W.H. Freeman, 1976) and "How to Live Longer and Feel Better" (W.H. Freeman, 1976).
Pauling suggested that taking large doses of vitamin C could do everything from fight cancer to prevent heart disease. But many of Pauling's more dramatic claims were not borne out in research done since then, and by the time he died in 1994, some in the medical establishment had labeled him a quack.
Today, the Institute of Medicine recommends that adult males get 90 milligrams of vitamin C daily in their diet, women get 75 mg daily and children consume between 15 and 75 mg daily, depending on their age and sex. Lawson's institution, which was founded by Pauling, recommends taking 400 milligrams of vitamin C a day to promote optimal health.
But whether vitamin C is a reasonable way to treat the common cold remains a more open question. The American Association of Family Physicians says the vitamin is unlikely to shorten the duration or severity of colds, while the American Academy of Nurse Practitioners suggests it could be effective at reducing the duration of a cold, but not its severity.
A 2013 review of dozens of studies found that vitamin C reduces the duration of colds by 8 percent in adults, and 14 percent in children. Considering that the average cold lasts about a week, that reduction translates to about one less day of symptoms.
For people in the general population, vitamin C didn't ward off colds, the researchers also found. But among people under intense physical stress -- such as marathon runners, skiers and soldiers exercising in the Arctic -- those who took vitamin C supplements were about half as likely to get colds as those who did not, the researchers found. Most of the studies that the researchers reviewed were double-blinded, meaning that neither the participants nor the doctors who ran the study were told which participants were getting a sugar pill and which were taking the vitamin supplement.
Dosage question
The protocols of the studies in the review involved different amounts of vitamin C, with a minimum daily dose of 200 milligrams, and the vitamin was taken for different durations. Some studies also looked at continuous use of the drug at moderate levels, not the "mega-dosing" that has become popular among natural-remedy proponents.
But Lawson said that studies haven't looked at whether mega-dosing works for colds. "I don't think that there's sufficient evidence or understanding of the molecular mechanisms to really establish a dose-response relationship," Lawson told Live Science.
In any case, recent results from lab tests by one independent testing company, LabDoor, which were not peer-reviewed, found that for most vitamin C supplements, the true dosage of vitamin C in the pills matches closely with the dosage listed on the label.
Lawson noted that the source of the vitamin doesn't matter. "The body doesn't distinguish between vitamin C in a tablet, and in oranges or other fruit or vegetables," Lawson said.
As for the flu, there are no modern studies suggesting that the vitamin can help prevent the flu, though research from the 1940s and 1950s hints at a protective effect, Lawson said.
Biological activity
Though it's not clear how vitamin C might ward off the common cold, one possibility is that it activates white blood cells in some way, Lawson said.
Another possible mechanism, which researchers investigated in a 2008 study in the Journal of Electroanalytical Chemistry, is that vitamin C may both reduce and boost production of compounds called reactive oxygen species, which are harmful chemical byproducts of metabolism that can damage DNA and tissue. That finding suggests it's possible that the vitamin reduces inflammation, Lawson said.
A small study published in the Journal of the American College of Nutrition found that vitamin C may dampen the inflammatory response caused by the chemical histamine. This antihistamine effect could reduce the symptoms of a cold, such as runny noses, that occur when the body ramps up its inflammatory response, Lawson said.
Side effects
Taking a daily vitamin C pill at normal amounts is unlikely to cause serious side effects, Lawson said.
It would be hard to "overdose" on oral vitamin C, Lawson said. The molecules that line the gut that move the vitamin from the digestive tract into the bloodstream tightly regulate how much vitamin C makes it into the blood stream. And, in addition, vitamin C is water-soluble, meaning the kidneys can flush any extra vitamin C out of the body.
However, people taking very high doses (more than 2,000 mg) may be prone to diarrhea or stomach cramps, and men who have had kidney stones in the past that are high in a chemical called oxalate should avoid supplementing with vitamin C, as the drug may enhance the formation of those types of stones, Lawson said.
In short, vitamin C could have some modest benefit for people seeking to avoid colds, but it's no miracle cure. There are other measures more likely to have a noticeable effect on colds, such as regular hand-washing and getting enough dietary zinc, according to a 2014 study in the Canadian Medical Association Journal.
Follow Tia Ghose on Twitter and Google+. Follow Live Science @livescience, Facebook & Google+. Original article on Live Science.
Does Vitamin C Really Help Colds?
Sniffle Detective: 5 Ways to Tell Colds from Allergies
6 Superbugs to Watch Out For
First published on November 10, 2015 / 10:50 AM
Livescience.com. All rights reserved.
U.S.
More U.S.
Larry Hogan says he won't launch "suicide mission" against Trump
Hogan, a Republican, may mount a primary challenge against the president -- so long as there's a "path to victory"
5M ago
DNC chair asks GOP to condemn use of stolen data in campaigns
DNC Chair Tom Perez told RNC Chair Ronna McDaniel Democrats will not encourage theft of private data, and asked her to promise the same
23M ago
New details emerge about teen's fatal fall at Yosemite National Park
New details have emerged about an Israeli teen who died last year at Yosemite National Park
46M ago
Target recalls almost half a million wooden toys for choking risk
The wooden toy vehicles have wheels that can become detached, posing a safety risk for children
1H ago
"Game of Thrones" merchandise fuels a bonanza for HBO and retailers
The blockbuster series may be in its final season, but the product spinoffs aren't about to stop when the show does
1H ago
More in U.S.
Politics
More Politics
Larry Hogan says he won't launch "suicide mission" against Trump
Hogan, a Republican, may mount a primary challenge against the president -- so long as there's a "path to victory"
5M ago
DNC chair asks GOP to condemn use of stolen data in campaigns
DNC Chair Tom Perez told RNC Chair Ronna McDaniel Democrats will not encourage theft of private data, and asked her to promise the same
23M ago
Trump, first lady to head to U.K. to meet with queen
Trump will meet with the queen, Prime Minister Theresa May before departing to France to mark D-Day
updated 2M ago
Supreme Court hears arguments on 2020 census question
The question could affect how many seats states have in the House of Representatives and their share of federal dollars over the next 10 years
3H ago
Kamala Harris vows to take executive action on guns as president
The California senator previewed the plan during a town hall Monday night, and her campaign plans to unveil the full proposal Tuesday
9H ago
More in Politics
World
More World
Member of IRA splinter group arrested over journalist's killing
Female member of New IRA arrested under Terrorism Act over shooting of Lyra McKee
3M ago
What Kim Jong Un wants out of his summit with Vladimir Putin
With direct U.S. talks on denuclearization stalled, the North Korean leader has myriad reasons to try and bolster his ties with Moscow
updated 50M ago
Meghan and Harry not the first to buck royal baby tradition
Their decision to ditch decades of etiquette has come as a surprise to some but it's certainly not the first time a "new" royal has broken with tradition
1H ago
Trump, first lady to head to U.K. to meet with queen
Trump will meet with the queen, Prime Minister Theresa May before departing to France to mark D-Day
updated 2M ago
Myanmar journalists jailed for reporting on Rohingyas lose appeal
Supreme Court gives no reason for rejecting final appeal of Reuters journalists Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo, upholds 7-year sentences
3H ago
More in World
Entertainment
More Entertainment
Luke Perry's final "Riverdale" episode to air this week
"This week's #Riverdale is the last episode Luke filmed," ​the drama's showrunner revealed on Twitter
9H ago
PlayStation 5: Everything we know from Sony so far
Sony has begun to take the wraps off its next generation of gaming hardware, kick-starting the console race all over again
12H ago
Jenna Bush Hager announces 3rd pregnancy
"We weren't really trying to get pregnant," Bush Hager said. "So, it's a little bit of a shock, but it's such great news"
13H ago
Abigail Disney calls CEO Bob Iger's compensation "insane"
Happiest place on Earth may not be so happy for its 200,000 lesser-paid employees, Walt Disney's granddaughter says
15H ago
Star-studded climate change music video drops
The song and video were created to raise awareness and money for environmental causes
20H ago
More in Entertainment
Technology
More Technology
PlayStation 5: Everything we know from Sony so far
Sony has begun to take the wraps off its next generation of gaming hardware, kick-starting the console race all over again
12H ago
Samsung Galaxy Fold launch delayed over screens breaking
Set for a Friday public launch, the $2,000 foldable smartphone will undergo more tests instead
15H ago
"Mind-blowing": A younger generation pushes South Africa's solar power revolution
With a national electricity grid close to collapse, widespread blackouts and energy shortages are spurring a new generation of entrepreneurs
Apr 22
Earth Matters: Devices working around-the-clock to combat ocean pollution
Researchers are deploying new technologies to filter plastics and other debris that is threatening the viability of our oceans
Apr 22
Sri Lanka blocks social media after attacks
Following a series of bombings in Sri Lanka on Easter Sunday, the government blocked apps like Facebook and WhatsApp to stem the spread of misinformation. Jennifer Grygiel, an assistant professor of communications at Syracuse University, joins CBSN's David Begnaud to discuss the government's decision.
Apr 21 03:16
More in Technology
Science
More Science
Science
How to reduce your carbon footprint
Scientists worldwide have renewed their calls to fight climate change with greater urgency, beginning with reducing greenhouse gas emissions. For Earth Day this year, Irina Ivanova joins CBSN's Errol Barnett with a closer look at some of the myths about reducing your carbon footprint and their more eco-friendly alternatives.
11H ago 07:42
"Marfa Martians" sending their science experiment to space
The team, made up of 10 and 11-year-olds, want to find a way to kill bacteria in space
15H ago
"Marfa Martians" win science contest
A group of 10 and 11-year-old students from Marfa, Texas, decided to reach for the stars and enter a nationwide science contest. Now the "Marfa Martians," as they're known, will be sending their experiment to space. Omar Villafranca has their story.
14H ago 01:57
The fight against Amazon deforestation
Scientists say our planet's levels of carbon dioxide are on the rise, partly because so many trees have been cut down in the world's largest tropical rain forest. Vladimir Duthiers reports from Brazil.
15H ago 02:25
John Kerry: Climate change "life & death" issue
As part of our Earth Matters series on this Earth Day, "CBS This Morning" co-host Norah O'Donnell speaks with former Secretary of State John Kerry in our Toyota Green Room. As secretary of state under President Barack Obama, Kerry was instrumental in the international Paris climate agreement, which was signed in 2016.
13H ago 15:44
More in Science
Health
More Health
Officials investigate measles outbreak in Southern California
Some of the locations where people may have been exposed include two college campuses around L.A. and the international terminal at LAX Airport
12H ago
FDA approves 1st generic nasal spray to treat opioid overdose
It will be the first generic nasal spray version of Narcan, a drug that reverses opioid overdoses
12H ago
Abortion will be illegal in these states if Roe v. Wade is overturned
Abortion would be automatically illegal in six states if Roe vs. Wade were overturned.
20H ago
Fake meat maker plans real IPO
Best known for its plant-based vegan burgers, Beyond Meat hopes to sell its stock on Nasdaq for around $20 a share
19H ago
Measles nears record in U.S. as cases continue to soar
This is the second-greatest number of cases in a single year since the disease was eliminated in the United States in 2000
21H ago
More in Health
MoneyWatch
More MoneyWatch
Elizabeth Warren's student loan plan: Could it super-charge economy?
The senator says wiping out college debt could create an "enormous middle-class stimulus." Economists agree -- with caveats
16H ago
Target recalls almost half a million wooden toys for choking risk
The wooden toy vehicles have wheels that can become detached, posing a safety risk for children
1H ago
"Game of Thrones" merchandise fuels a bonanza for HBO and retailers
The blockbuster series may be in its final season, but the product spinoffs aren't about to stop when the show does
1H ago
Medicare and Social Security on insolvency paths, report warns
The bedrock retirement programs for middle- and working-class Americans are in shaky financial shape, report shows
16H ago
Don't let bogus internet bank sites suck you in
As online-only banks spread, so are the frauds pretending to be one, with the sole purpose of stealing your money
5H ago
More in MoneyWatch
Crime
More Crime
Militia allegedly trained to assassinate Obama, Hillary Clinton
Larry Hopkins, whose militia has been detaining migrants near the U.S.-Mexico border, is charged with felony possession of a firearm
2H ago
Luke Walton, NBA head coach, sued for alleged sexual assault
Kelli Tennant, former L.A. area TV sports reporter, claims new Sacramento Kings and ex-L.A. Lakers coach assaulted her in hotel room
updated 36M ago
Woman who allegedly threw 7 newborn puppies into dumpster arrested
Video shows her cavalierly tossing sealed bag into bin, leading to likely charges of felony animal cruelty
5H ago
Search for missing Illinois boy
Police are searching for a 5-year-old boy who went missing last week. Now officials say the boy's mother has stopped cooperating. Dean Reynolds has the latest.
15H ago 01:57
Officials warned about possible Sri Lanka attack
Another explosion went off Monday in Sri Lanka, as police diffused a bomb that didn't go off in the Easter Sunday suicide attacks. Several other bombs went off as planned the day before, leaving at least 290 people dead. Elizabeth Palmer has the latest.
15H ago 02:52
More in Crime
Space
More Space
"Marfa Martians" sending their science experiment to space
The team, made up of 10 and 11-year-olds, want to find a way to kill bacteria in space
15H ago
SpaceX suffers Crew Dragon engine test anomaly
SpaceX suffers engine "anomaly" in Crew Dragon test vehicle during Cape Canaveral engine test
Apr 20
Evidence found for first molecule in the universe
"This molecule was lurking out there, but we needed the right instruments," a top NASA scientist said
Apr 17
Watch: Rocket launches cargo to space station
An Antares rocket blasted off from the Wallops Island Flight Facility in Virginia carrying a Cygnus cargo ship loaded with supplies for the International Space Station.
Apr 17 01:45
Rocket launches with cargo for space station
Loaded with 3.8 tons of supplies and equipment, the Cygnus cargo ship will need two days to reach the space station
Apr 17
More in Space
Latest Galleries
More Latest Galleries
Jason Corbett murder: A look at the evidence
In August 2015, former FBI agent Tom Martens and his daughter Molly Corbett admitted killing her Irish-born husband Jason Corbett, insisting they beat him in self-defense with a brick paver and a baseball bat because Jason was choking Molly and threatening to kill her
Apr 20 11 photos
Photos: Fire burns Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris
On April 15, 2019 flames erupted at the landmark cathedral, the most-visited landmark in the French capital
Apr 16 46 photos
Star Wars Celebration 2019
The four-day convention for fans of the Star Wars saga, held in Chicago, included cosplayers, panels with the filmmakers, and the debut of the trailer for Episode IX of the series
Apr 13 39 photos
Awkward Easter Bunny photos
Children love the Easter Bunny – until they meet him
Apr 12 35 photos
The folk art of Bill Traylor
Born into slavery, the self-taught painter who began his artistic life in his 80s is the focus of a retrospective at the Smithsonian American Art Museum
Apr 7 24 photos
More in Latest Galleries
Popular
More Popular
Popular
Samantha Bee on WHCD alternative, Trump
For the first time in years, the annual White House Correspondents' Dinner this Saturday will not have a comedian as its featured speaker. A historian, Ron Chernow, will be the featured speaker. Meanwhile, comedian Samantha Bee will be hosting an alternative for the second time: Not the White House Correspondents' Dinner. Bee joins "CBS This Morning" to discuss how political comedy has changed over her career and the Trump presidency.
1H ago 05:55
Brené Brown on vulnerability, Netflix special
Brené Brown, a New York Times best-selling author with two decades of experience researching courage, shame and empathy, hopes to spread her message about embracing our vulnerabilities in her new Netflix special, "Brené Brown: The Call to Courage." Brown joins "CBS This Morning" to discuss the power of vulnerability.
1H ago 08:22
Sen. Mike Lee on Mueller report, new book
Republican Sen. Mike Lee of Utah, member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, says it would be a mistake for Democrats to impeach President Trump in response to the Mueller report. Lee joins "CBS This Morning" to discuss his new book, “Our Lost Declaration: America's Fight Against Tyranny from King George to the Deep State.”
updated 15M ago 07:54
All that matters in 90 seconds
A look back at what we've been covering on "CBS This Morning." Subscribe to get the Eye Opener delivered straight to your inbox.
1H ago 01:18
Spike in Phoenix officer-involved shootings
A new report recommends changes to police training in Phoenix, Arizona, after the city had the most officer-involved shootings in the country in 2018 with 44 police shootings. Jeff Pegues spoke with the Phoenix police chief, who commissioned the study of her own department after a troubling increase in the use of deadly force.
2H ago 05:24
More in Popular
Copyright © 2019 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
Ad Choice
Terms of Use
Mobile User Agreement
About
Advertise
Closed Captioning
CBS News Store
Site Map
Contact Us
Help