AIDS started in chimps | The Rational Response Squad
Home
Forums
My Account
Videos
Link to us!
Contact
Download Shows
Rules
The Rational Response Squad
A place for activist atheists to unite
Login/Register
Username: *
Password: *
To prevent automated spam submissions leave this field empty.
Create new account
Request new password
Navigation
Forums
Create Content
Recent Posts
Blogs
Google SEARCH this site!
Rational Content
RRS Extras
atheist news feeds
Buy American
Famous Atheists
Am I Agnostic or Atheist?
The Rational Response Squad is a group of atheist activists who impact society by changing the way we view god belief. This site is a haven for those who are pushing back against the norm, and a place for believers of gods to have their beliefs exposed as false should they want to try their hand at confronting us.
Buy any item on AMAZON, and we'll use the small commission to help end theism, dogma, violence, hatred, and other irrationality. Buy an Xbox 360 -- PS3 -- Laptop -- Apple
Brian Sapient
Celebrity Atheists
List of atheist sites
Ask the atheist
Antiques and Art
Payroll and Benefits Services
Home » Forums » The Sciences » Evolution of life
AIDS started in chimps
Posted on: May 26, 2006 - 10:20am
StopEvangelists
Posts: 51
Joined: 2006-04-14
Offline
AIDS started in chimps
AIDS started in chimps
Researchers point finger at chimps in West Africa
By Lauran Neergaard, Associated Press
WASHINGTON - Solving the mystery of HIV's ancestry was dirty work. But researchers now have confirmed that the human AIDS virus really did originate in wild chimpanzees -- in a corner of Cameroon.
Scientists have long known that captive chimps carry their own version of the AIDS virus, called SIV or simian immunodeficiency virus. But it was extraordinarily hard to find in wild chimpanzees, complicating efforts to pin down just how the virus could have made the jump from animal to humans.
Fitting that final piece of the puzzle required seven years of research just to develop tests to genetically trace the virus in living wild chimps without hurting the endangered species. Then trackers had to plunge through the dense forests of West Africa and scrape up fresh ape feces, more than 1,300 samples in all.
Until now, "no one was able to look. No one had the tools," said Dr. Beatrice Hahn of the University of Alabama at Birmingham. She led the team of international researchers that reported the success in Friday's edition of the journal Science.
"We're 25 years into this pandemic," Hahn said. "We don't have a cure. We don't have a vaccine. But we know where it came from. At least we can make a check mark on one of those."
Hahn's team tested chimp feces for SIV antibodies, finding them in a subspecies called Pan troglodytes troglodytes in southern Cameroon.
Chimps tend to form geographically distinct communities. By genetically analyzing the feces, researchers could trace individual infected chimps. The team found some chimp communities with infection rates as high as 35 percent, while others had no infection at all.
Every infected chimp had a common base genetic pattern that indicated a common ancestor, Hahn said.
There are three types of HIV-1, and the "M" strain is responsible for most of the worldwide epidemic. Genetic analysis let Hahn identify chimp communities south of Cameroon's Sanaga River, especially in the country's southeast corner, whose viral strains are most closely related to that most common HIV-1 subtype.
"The genetic similarity was striking," Hahn said.
So how did the jump happen?
The first human known to be infected with HIV was a man from Kinshasa in the nearby country of Congo who had his blood stored in 1959 as part of a medical study, decades before scientists knew the AIDS virus existed.
Presumably, someone in rural Cameroon was bitten by a chimp or was cut while butchering one and became infected with the ape virus. That person passed it to someone else.
Waterways were the highways for transporting hardwood, ivory and other items to urban areas. Infected people probably traveled via a second Cameroon river, the Sangha, south to the Congo River and on to Kinshasa.
"How many different transmission events occurred between that initial hunter and this virus making it to Kinshasa, I don't know. It could have been one, it could have been 10, it could have been 100," Hahn said. "Eventually, it ended up in an urban area, and that's where it really got going."
The chimps originally acquired SIV, by the way, from similar viruses infecting monkeys in west-central Africa.
Somewhere in all that spread, the virus became more deadly to people than it is to chimps, who seldom are bothered much by SIV.
The research seems to settle any question of HIV's origin, said Dr. Anthony Fauci, the National Institutes of Health's AIDS chief.
When tracing a virus' evolution, "it's important to get as close to the source as you can," he said. "It's of historic interest."
"Religion is like a badly written contract - most people don't read most (much less all) of it, believe what the other party says, and execute with the best of intentions and naivety."
- Me
Bookmark/Search this post with:
‹ Metamorphosis Human-chimp split took 4 million years ›
Login or register to post comments
Posted on: May 26, 2006 - 1:16pm #1
MattShizzle
Posts: 7966
Joined: 2006-03-31
Offline
AIDS started in chimps
And all this time I thought it was God's punishment against the sin of homersexuality! :shock:
Matt Shizzle has been banned from the Rational Response Squad website. This event shall provide an atmosphere more conducive to social growth. - Majority of the mod team
Login or register to post comments
Posted on: May 26, 2006 - 1:41pm #2
LeftofLarry
Posts: 1199
Joined: 2006-02-12
Offline
AIDS started in chimps
MattShizzle wrote:
And all this time I thought it was God's punishment against the sin of homersexuality! :shock: :lol:
well if people stopped having gay sex with monkeys this woudln't be a problem. :smt119
Atheist Books, purchases on Amazon support the Rational Response Squad server which houses Celebrity Atheists.
Login or register to post comments
Posted on: May 31, 2006 - 5:05am #3
Yellow_Number_Five
Posts: 1390
Joined: 2006-02-12
Offline
AIDS started in chimps
This has always been suspected, and generally accepted. Humans and chimps share the same blood chemistry and typing (both humans and chimps have ABO types). It has been known for quite some time that blood diseases are readily transferable between the species.
This is an earlier instance than I personally would have suspected though. It will be interesting to see a detailed genetic analysis of the virus, and what mutations have occured.
I am against religion because it teaches us to be satisfied with not understanding the world. - Richard Dawkins
Atheist Books, purchases on Amazon support the Rational Response Squad server.
Login or register to post comments
Copyright Rational Response Squad 2006-2017.