Is Weed Addicting?
Marijuana Rehab
Call 1 (888) 460-6556
any time to discuss treatment options
Get Help Now
Seeking Treatment For:*
Your First Name:*
First
Your Last Name:*
Your Email Address:
Your Phone Number:
Use This Format Only: (###) ###-####
Contact Me By:
Email
Phone
Receive Palm Partners email updates
Yes
No
Phone
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
Home
About Marijuana
Marijuana Addiction
Marijuana Rehab
Advice
Is Weed Addicting?
Weed, or marijuana, is an addictive substance. In the past, there was some speculation about this fact, but under certain circumstances, weed can be very addictive. If you are a chronic user and are concerned about the possibility of addiction, it is important to know the facts about weed.
Is Weed Addicting?
According to the NIDA, “contrary to common belief, marijuana is addictive.” It is stated that “about 9 percent of users become addicted to marijuana.” Addiction occurs when a person’s use of a drug begins causing issues in most or every area of life. When a person becomes addicted to a drug, it consumes his or her entire life and also changes the way the brain functions. Many drugs can be addictive and may cause these issues. Marijuana is one of them.
How Do People Become Addicted to Weed?
Weed, marijuana, pot – whatever you call it it’s still potentially addicting.
The NLM states that “some people get addicted to marijuana after using it for a while.” Usually, the people who become addicted to the drug are those who began smoking it at a young age. These users have often started as teenagers and continue to smoke into their adult lives. As stated by the NIDA, the number of people who become addicted to marijuana “increases among those who start young (to about 17 percent, or 1 in 6).”
Those who use the drug more are also at a higher risk. Someone who smokes marijuana chronically, every day and in large amounts, is more likely to become addicted than someone who uses the drug more occasionally. “25-50 percent” of those who use marijuana daily will become addicted to the drug. The more you use marijuana or the younger you were when you began to smoke, the more likely you are to experience marijuana addiction.
Is Weed Addiction Dangerous?
All drug addictions can be dangerous. People who are addicted to drugs will often behave differently, causing problems in their work, home, and social lives. Marijuana is also illegal in many states, and an addiction to the drug may cause someone to break laws in order to obtain more of it. Marijuana addiction also causes withdrawal which can result in symptoms of:
Sleeplessness
Insomnia
Anxiousness
Irritability
Anger
Cravings
Decrease in appetite
Depression
Marijuana addiction may not seem as dangerous as addictions to other types of drugs, but it can still cause problems in your life and create issues that are not easily fixable.
How Do I Know if I Am Addicted to Weed?
If you begin to ask yourself how marijuana affects your life, you may be surprised to find that many of your problems stem from marijuana abuse and addiction. Because marijuana is a relatively mild drug, people do not always realize what is occurring in their lives when they become addicted to it. Consider what problems in your life are in some way related to your addiction to the drug, and ask yourself if you might need help. Going to a detox clinic or rehab center to fight your marijuana addiction may be an incredibly helpful option for you. Marijuana addiction is real, and it can take a larger toll on your life the longer it goes untreated.
Marijuana Rehab
10 Tell Tale Marijuana Addiction Symptoms
5 Alarming Marijuana Health Effects
5 Signs You Need Marijuana Addiction Help
Could My Son Have Marijuana Addiction?
Do I Have a Marijuana Dependence?
Effects of Marijuana on the Brain
Is My Loved One Addicted to Marijuana?
Is Weed Addicting?
Marijuana Addiction Eating Effects
Marijuana Addiction Long Term Effects
Marijuana Addiction Social Effects
Marijuana Psychological Effects
Marijuana Withdrawal
Does Weed Withdrawal Exist?
Marijuana Withdrawal Timeline
Symptoms of Marijuana Withdrawal
What Does Withdrawal from Marijuana Feel Like?
Who Experiences Withdrawal from Marijuana?
Mental Effects of Marijuana Addiction
Signs and Symptoms of Marijuana Addiction
What are the Effects of Marijuana Addiction
Who Needs Help for Marijuana Addiction?
MARIJUANAREHAB.COM. © 2017 All Rights Reserved.
Home
About Marijuana
Marijuana Addiction
Marijuana Rehab
Advice
Privacy Policy
Call 1 (888) 460-6556 anytime to speak with an addiction specialist.