Genacol® 180 Capsules
Email Sign Up | Help | Contact Us | Returns | Privacy Policy
| Log In or Register
Shop by Brand
Shop by Brand
Bluebonnet®
Dr. Wilson's Original Formulations
Enzymatic Therapy®
Enzymedica™
Garden of Life®
KAL®
Kyolic®
Michael's Naturopathic®
Nature's Plus®
Nature's Way™
New Chapter™
Nordic Naturals
NOW® Foods
Pain & Stress Center™ Products
ReNew Life®
Solaray®
Terry Naturally™
Ultra Aesthetics™
See All Brands
Shop from A to Z
Best Sellers
New Products
Coupon Codes
Phone: 281.257.3043
Home > Joint Support > Genacol® 180 Capsules
Genacol® 180 Capsules
SKU: GEN00002
UPC Code: 770070000025
Weight: 0.38
Write a review | No reviews for this product.
$29.99
Quantity:
Product Details
Supplement Facts
Reviews
Share with Friends
Helps the body reverse cartilage damage
Addresses the pain associated with arthritis
Assists in increased mobility and range of motion
Is a safe, natural ingredient that's recommended by doctors world-wide.
A Great Alternative to Glucosamine-Chrondroitin! Genacol is a molecular-enhanced Bio-Active Collagen Complex complex formula which contains crucial structural porteins that our body requires to repair and rejuvenate itself; structural proteins not found in Glucosamine/Chondroitin. By using the complete collagen molecule in Genacol, you get 100% of the protein chain required to help restore joint mobility and reduce overall pain and joint discomfort.
Collagen is the fibrous structural protein that makes up the white fibers (collagenous fibers) of skin, tendon, bone, cartilage, and all other connective tissues. It is also found dispersed in gels of the body to provide stiffening, such as in the vitreous humour of the eye. Collagen is the natural protein that composes most of the body’s structural support and is the primary substance of connective tissue.
Collagen is part of the natural make-up of tendons, ligaments, joints, muscles, hair, skin, and vital organs. When the body’s essential supply of collagen is reduced, the body is affected. Weakness, fatigue, aches, pains, and an overall lack of performance are frequent symptoms of the problem – symptoms that increase as we get older.
Besides its many structural properties, collagen serves as the major catalyst for growth and repair of nearly all the body’s tissues.
The body's production of collagen diminishes dramatically with aging. Collagen production begins to slow somewhat in our mid-twenties, decreasing more in our thirties and forties, then throughout our fifties and sixties, collagen production slows to a crawl.
We may first notice it on the outside of our bodies, as tiny lines and wrinkles appear. By that time, the lack of collagen production is already affecting the inside of our bodies. Collagen damage gets our attention as strains and sprains become more severe. Things we have always done, like walking, running or jumping, may suddenly seem more painful. Injuries that have never proven serious before begin to hurt a lot more. Joint pain becomes more problematic. These are all signs that a collagen supplement could be very beneficial.
Daily use of Genacol has been shown to reduce pain in joints from injury, strain or collagen deficiency related diseases such as arthritis, osteoarthritis and bursitis, and other degenerative diseases such as carpal tunnel syndrome and tendonitis.
Two conditions that show the greatest response to a collagen supplement are rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis. If you experience any of the symptoms associated with these conditions, Genacol will help. If you lack mobility in your hands, arms, shoulders, hips, knees or other joints, or if you experience joint pain or inflammation, then Genacol is for you.
3 Capsules Contain:
Collagen Hydrolysate - 1,200 mg
Suggested Usage: Take 3 Genacol® capsules or 1 capsule for each 70 pounds of body weight every night at bedtime with water.
Other Ingredients: Gelatin (capsule), vegetabel magnesium stearate, titanium dioxide.
There are no side effects associated with Genacol (though it is recommended children under 12, pregnant and lactating women not use Genacol or other collagen products).
Reviews
Write a review | No reviews for this product.
Navigation
Shop by Brand
Shop A to Z
Best Sellers
New Products
Coupon Codes
Customer Service
Help
Shipping
Returns & Cancellations
Security and Privacy
Other Links
Home
About Us
Contact Us
Health Resources
Sitemap
Connect with Us
1.800.916.7662
The information presented by Nourishing Foods, Inc. is intended for educational purposes only, and is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any specific health conditions or symptoms. The statements made about the products on this web site have not been evaluated by the United States Food and Drug Administration. You should not use the information on this site for diagnosis or treatment of any health problem or for prescription of any medication or other treatment. You should consult with a healthcare professional before starting any diet, exercise or supplementation program, before taking any medication, or if you have or suspect you might have a health problem.
Not responsible for typographical errors or misprints. Product availability, pricing, and promotions are subject to change without notice.
Copyright © 1999-2019 Nourishing Foods, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
E-Commerce Web Design by ePura.com