Dentist Centurion Talks About The Pros and Cons of Chewing Gum
Tel: 012 665 1631/5
dentmed@mweb.co.za
Welcome to Smiles for All Dentist in Centurion
Home
About
Services
Community
Specials
Mouth Guards for Kids
Blog
Contact Us
Dentist Centurion Talks About The Pros and Cons of Chewing Gum
Home Blog Posts Dentist Centurion Talks About The Pros and Cons of Chewing Gum
NextPrevious
Dentist Centurion Talks About The Pros and Cons of Chewing Gum
By smilesforallcoza | Blog Posts | Comments are Closed | 15 November, 2018 | 0
Many people enjoy some chewing gum every once in a while, besides those sugar-free ones are great after a meal. However, what are the consequences of chewing gum and do they have any advantages at all? Your recommended dentist in Centurion discusses the need to know about chewing gum.
Here’s the good news, choosing the right chewing gum (sugar-free) actually does have some good advantages for your teeth.
Dentist Centurion Discusses the Pros and Cons of Chewing Gum
Pros
Good for weight loss
If you haven’t heard of this before then here it is, chewing gum can help you lose some weight. Why? Weight gain can be a mental issue, as some people tend to “graze” when they are bored, but instead of opening that pack of crisps, have some gum instead.
Ease up heartburn
Nobody likes heartburn, but did you know that it’s not only anti-acids that can help relieve this problem? Yes, chewing gum for 20minutes can help neutralize stomach acid. Do you see why gum is good to chew after meals?
Fresh breath
The team study funded by Wrigley has scientifically proven that chewing gum flavoured with natural plant oils can cut down bacteria and freshen breath.
Cons
Wears down teeth at a faster rate
Popping a refreshing chewing gum stick is great for many things, but it has its cons such as wearing down your teeth.
Tooth decay
Chewing gum with sugar can lead to tooth decay.
Jaw dysfunction irritability
People who suffer from “Temporomandibular disorder” will irritate their condition by chewing gum. An older jaw may not be able to take the strain of chewing gum on a regular basis.
Your dentist Centurion is highly skilled and can assist you and your family to restore and improve your smile.
Do you enjoy chewing gum? Let us know about your experiences.
Other articles that might interest you
How To Prevent Cracked Tooth Syndrome: Tips from your Dentist
8 Interesting Facts On Fluoride from your Dentist
Understanding Same Day Dental Implants: Your Centurion Dental Care
Are You Suffering from Bruxism? Let your Dentist in Centurion Help
Can your Dentist Centurion Help you Combat Periodontal Disease?
0
Related Posts:
Adult Orthodontics: Need to know from your Centurion…
5 Reasons To Ensure Your Child’s Baby Teeth Stay…
What Are Dental Fillings? Get professional service…
How To Prevent Cracked Tooth Syndrome: Tips from…
No tags.
NextPrevious
Polls
Do You Find Our Content Useful?
Yes
No
Other
View Results
Loading ...
Polls Archive
Facebook Feed
Facebook Feed
Trending Video – Dentist in Centurion
https://www.smilesforall.co.za/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/27286689_1508307772619307_3684713637932433408_n.mp4
Popular Posts
What is Oral Cancer? – Dentist in Centurion (29)
A 101 Guide to Dental Implants – Dentist in Centurion (26)
Bleeding Gums: Causes, Symptoms and Treatment | Dentist in Centurion (22)
The Importance of Mouth Guards in Contact Sport – Dentist in Centurion (21)
How to Reduce Receding Gums – Recommended Dentists in Centurion (20)
Client Reviews on Smiles for ALL
Leave us your review below
Health 4 You – Smiles for ALL
Google reviews – Smiles for ALL
Copyright 2019 | Smiles For All, Dentist in Centurion | All Rights Reserved | Website Designed by Digital Online Marketing
Home
About
Services
Community
Specials
Mouth Guards for Kids
Blog
Contact Us
How can we help you TODAY?
Powered by