What are the ginger health benefits?
Home
Latest articles
Contact us
Sitemap
facebook
twitter
myspace
people online
Diseases & Disorders
Eating
Alcohol
Eating habits
Pregnancy & Children
Pregnancy
Medicine
Cardiology
Hormones
Medicines
Skin & Hair
Aging
Everyday life
Life habits
Other
Sex
Addictions
Alternative medicine
Home ·
Eating habits ·
What are the ginger health benefits?
12Aug
What are the ginger health benefits?
4
Ginger is stem which grows underground. This herb is used as a spice in various food dishes. Because of its health benefits, ginger is also used as a medicine. It is available as fresh ginger, dried and powdered, also as paste or oil.
Ginger health benefits
Ginger is used for treatment of many intestinal ailments. It prevents nausea associated with motion sickness. It is very effective in morning sickness which occurs during early months of pregnancy. It relieves stomach upset, abdominal bloating due to gas and diarrhea. It improves appetite. It is also used for treatment of nausea caused by cancer treatment with chemotherapy. In patients who develop post-operative nausea and vomiting, ginger is very effective.
Ginger is very effective in relief of chronic pain associated with arthritis, low back pain and muscle cramps. People with menstrual cramps find it very useful. It has a soothing effect in upper respiratory infections, cough, chest pain and bronchitis.
Ginger lowers blood cholesterol. It prevents deep vein thrombosis due to its blood thinning properties.
In patients with diabetes, ginger prevents glycation of proteins and prevents occurrence of cataract.
Ginger extract may be applied to skin in case of minor burns. Ginger oil in such cases provides relief from pain. Ginger is also known to reduce growth of cancer.
Ginger is used as a flavoring agent in many health drinks and beverages like shakes and tea. Its fragrance also finds a place in soaps and cosmetics.
How ginger works
Ginger contains many chemicals which have anti-inflammatory properties. These include zingerone, shogaols and gingerols. It also contains volatile oils responsible for its typical fragrance. Gingerols increases the intestinal motility, improves digestion and prevents bloating or gas formation. It also provides pain relief, reduces fever, kills bacteria responsible for infection and has sedative action. Experimental studies have shown that gingerols inhibits the growth of cancer cells in ovary. Ginger stimulates secretion of salivary glands in the mouth which makes swallowing easier.
Ginger contains many chemicals which have anti-inflammatory properties.
The fragrance of ginger extract is due to volatile oils which includes sesquiterpenoids like zingiberene, β-sesquiphellandrene, bisabolene and farnesene. Other volatile components include β-phelladrene, cineol, and citral. The bitter taste is due to non-volatile compounds like gingerols and shogaols.
Precautions
Ginger is safe and useful. In some conditions, precautions should be taken and its consumption may have to be cut down.
1. In some cases it may cause heartburn.
2. Pregnancy: Though it is safe for morning sickness, use of ginger during pregnancy has many controversies. There are reports of early abortion. It also influences fetal sex hormones though it does not cause any fetal malformations. Ginger may increase bleeding during childbirth due to its blood thinning properties. It is therefore recommended that nearing delivery date, use of ginger should be stopped.
3. Breast feeding: The effect of ginger on breast milk and infant is not known. One may consult physician or avoid this during lactation.
4. Bleeding disorders: Avoid ginger consumption in any form as it has blood thinning properties. Its use in such conditions should be avoided.
5. Diabetes mellitus: Ginger tends to lower blood sugar. This may require adjustment of antidiabetic medications. Consult your endocrinologist for suitable dosage of oral hypoglycemic drugs or insulin.
6. Heart diseases: Ginger in higher dose may cause palpitations and aggravate already existing heart disease. Ginger lowers blood pressure and may cause irregular heartbeat. Use it in moderation or avoid if not tolerated.
Ginger is a powerful herb with many medicinal benefits. Since it is very commonly used in many countries, one should be aware of its properties as it may interact with many drugs and may enhance their actions which may require dose adjustment. Always consult your physician in such situations. Ginger is useful and should be consumed in moderation.
Anna L.
It’s all about health!
I have academic background in drugs related Chemical Technology, as well as extensive professional experience in pharma and medical companies. My main area of interest is everyday life medicine. The goal of my articles is to give people informative answers to the questions that bother them, to dispel doubts and some common misbeliefs and also to inspire everyone to keep healthy lifestyle.
More Posts
By Anna L. in Eating habits · Z All 5 Comments »
Discussion 5 Responses
Patty
October 27, 2014 at 12:24 am
Anna, How would one best ingest it? Tea, stir fires? eggs? How does one consume it… it is rather strong.
Reply
Anna L.
October 28, 2014 at 12:09 pm
Hi Patty :) I love ginger in a tea and stir fried with noodles or rice. It is indeed spicy when eaten dried but some people really like it ;)
Cheers!
Reply
Medicine in simple answers | Reviews of cool websites!
January 3, 2015 at 12:49 am
[…] What are the ginger health benefits? […]
Reply
Sarah Aboloy
February 26, 2016 at 10:09 am
please send me some ginger treatment in Africa Liberia
Reply
Sarah Aboloy
February 26, 2016 at 10:29 am
I also want to be your partner in treating my family and patients. I am a Physician Assistant.
Reply
Share your thoughts about the article
Cancel Reply
Cancel reply
← Why should you clean your dentures?
Is prevention of knee injuries possible? →
Like us on Facebook
Categories
Diseases and Disorders (58)
Eating (34)
Pregnancy and Children (16)
Skin and Hair (15)
Alternative medicine (3)
Aging (16)
Everyday life (53)
Medicine (34)
Sex (7)
Addictions (6)
Z All (160)
Miscellaneous (8)
Popular
Recently
Comments
Tags
What are the long term effects of smoking weed?
Jul 31, 2013
Does smoking kill brain cells?
Dec 6, 2012
What are the ginger health benefits?
Aug 12, 2014
How to prevent premature ejaculation?
Oct 11, 2012
Liver transplantation – when is it done?
Apr 12, 2019
3 Facts About Vegan Snacks & Weight Loss
Mar 30, 2019
Can exposure to cold be dangerous?
Mar 15, 2019
Are cosmeceuticals good for the skin?
Feb 15, 2019
DEEP MEHTA said : Very well explained for a non-medical person. God..
guga said : I HAD NONE OF THOSE SIDE EFFECTS and I've BEEN ON..
Akhil Arya said : good job..
said : Thanks!..
Biggi Sajiwa said : Eye-opening article. prevention is better than cur..
ageing
aging
alcohol
Aspirin
birth control pills
blood circulation
breast cancer
cancer
cardiovascular diseases
contraception
diabetes mellitus
diet
drugs
eating
happy hormones
health
healthy food
hormonal therapy
hormones
men's health
menopause
mental health
metabolism
minerals
obesity
obesity complications
obesity management
obesity risk
pain
painkillers
pregnancy
pregnant
relationship
sex
sexuality
sleep disorders
smoking
sport
stroke
sun
sunburn
sun exposure
Vitamins
wine
women's health
Related Posts
Effects of UV rays on skin – what effect does the Sun have on our skin?
What are the best medicines for acne?
Is honey healthier than sugar?
Are vitamins essential for us?
What are the health benefits of fish oils?
Archive
2019
2018
2017
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
Flickr Photostream
Medicine in Answers
The goal of this website is to help you and motivate you to lead a healthy and vibrant lifestyle!
We are here to tell you everything you ever wanted to know about medicine but were afraid to ask!
Happy browsing!
Disclaimer
The information provided on this website is for educational and informational purposes only. It should not be used as a substitute for the advice of qualified and licensed physician.
In case of doubts, do always contact your doctor and ask for professional help.
Copyright © 2012-2018, All rights reserved.
privacy policy · contact