5 Wi-Fi damage to the body you may not be knowing
The Ayurveda
Menu
Home
Ayurveda
Yoga
Health Tips
Videos
Home
Ayurveda
Yoga
Health Tips
Videos
General Awareness, Health Tips
5 Wi-Fi damage to the body you may not be knowing
Dr. Shalini Jaiswal 3 years ago No Comments
Prev Article	Next Article
Sending
User Rating 4.2 (5 votes)
In the present era, which is known as the ‘world of technologies‘ we use several communication methods, that are quite advanced. Wi-Fi is one of them, it is the most commonly used and advanced method of communication.
As every thing as two aspects, same thing relies with wi-fi too. If it connects people, from two corners of the world, then it also has some disadvantages in it.
First let us see what is Wi-Fi actually.
Wi-Fi is a wireless connection of network, which connects several devices especially the mobile phones. It emits invisible, high-frequency rays, which makes an electromagnetic field.
How does it affects our health? Let us take an example of ‘radiotherapy‘ which is usually done in malignant cancers. It uses high-frequency rays which kills the developing cancer cells. It also kills some of the healthy cells, that is why indulged with several harmful effects too.
Same case is there with wifi rays. It is not so harmful and allergic, but can be very fatal for future references.
Today we will be telling you the 5 harmful effects to using Wi-Fi:
Harmful effects of using Wi-Fi for health:
Effects of WiFi on health
1. Increases the chances of Infertility-
These kinds of wireless frequencies may prevent egg plantation and also results in several damage reproductive system. Especially among males, it reduces thee formation of sperms or forms weaker ones.
The heat generated from such devices kills the sperm, and in future references also leads to infertility.
2. Development of Cancer–
The high frequency radiation in wifi routers, can be the possible cause of cancer. These electromagnetic radiations, increases the risk of tumor development.
The frequent waves of wi-fi commonly causes breast cancer. According to the studies, it has been concluded that 6 out of 10 those who were using wifi, suffered from breast cancer.
3. Distracts Child growth-
Childhood is a very beautiful phase of overall development. Many times, without our knowledge some unwanted things affects those developing lives. The frequencies from cellular phones, disrupt normal growth and even leads to various psychological problems.
Wi-fi increases developmental issues which can be very fatal.
4. Delays Brain development-
Over using of such wireless connections, can be the foremost cause of delayed brain development. It has been found that people exposed to wireless networks, specially the 4G, always have lesser brain alertness and development.
It reduces brain activity and makes you affected of several mental disorders.
5. Contributes in Insomnia–
Sleeplessness or Insomnia is a very common problem, seen in today’s person. In this the person gets unable to sleep which results in several other health disorders. Do you know, your routers, laptops, cellular phones etc can be doing this. The high frequency rays, damages your nervous system which slowly makes you unable to concentrate and sleep even.
In this way we saw, how WiFi can be hazarding your health. Still, what can we do? For some, using such devices becomes very important and a kind of job.
If you can’t stop it, then simply minimize its effects. Following are some of the tips which may help you to stay safe and protected from such rays.
Tips to minimize the effect of Wi-Fi-
Wifi for health
Never place your wi-fi router in bedroom or in kids room. Placing it at living rooms and drawing-room doesn’t do harm.
When not using, turn off the connection so that the effect gets reduced.
Make sure you are 10-12 ft away from the direct device for maximum of the time.
Allow the sunlight and fresh air to enter the room of wi-fi device. It reduces the harmful effect making it comfortable for your lives.
Hope you like the article, and it was informative to you all. Our lives is in our hands, it is on you how you care it. Take care and live well!
Read More:
Origin of Ayurveda- How Ayurveda came to Earth
Healthy Diet for an Underweight person
5 Simpler ways to get rid of House Lizards
5 Wi-Fi damage to the body you may not be knowing
5 Simpler ways to get rid of House Lizards
AMAZING HERBS TO IMPROVE LIVER FUNCTIONS
4 Refreshing Diabetic Drinks to quench Thirst and Dryness
Miracle Elixir to clear Lungs: A Boon for smokers
Benefits of Afeem (Papavar Somniferum)
Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension – Symptoms, Causes, Diagnosis &amp; Treatment
What is Acupressure treatment and how it effects your body
Vertigo – symptoms, causes and its natural cure
7 Reasons Telemedicine created a stronger bridge between Stressed patients and their doctors
Dr. Shalini Jaiswal
She is a learner and health conscious person. She is always interested in seeking knowledge regarding Ayurveda, herbal medicine and Yoga to cure any health ailments naturally.
She holds a Bachelor Degree in Alternative Medicine and interested in Naturopathy.
https://www.theayurveda.org/
Facebook
Prev Article	Next Article
Tags:harmful effects of Wi-Fi, health awareness, health tips, Healthy living, radiations for health, Wi-Fi
Related Posts
Miracle Elixir to clear Lungs: A Boon for smokers
Dr. Shalini Jaiswal May 4, 2016
Quick and Healthy meals for busy people
Dr. Shalini Jaiswal October 13, 2015
Remove your Heart Blockage with Peepal leaves
Dr. Shalini Jaiswal March 30, 2016
What is your opinion?	Cancel reply
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Subscribe to Blog via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 35,679 other subscribers
Email Address
Subscribe
Recent Replies
Sanjeev Jaiswal on Desk Yoga – 5 Simple Desk Yoga Asanas to do in office
Shalini Jaiswal on MahaMrityunjai Mantra: A Spiritual healing for Health and Wellness
Sanjeev Jaiswal on MahaMrityunjai Mantra: A Spiritual healing for Health and Wellness
Sundar on 15 Health benefits of Banyan tree
renu on How Stress can be Managed Naturally?
Top Posts & Pages
5 Medicinal benefits of Sheesham tree you must know about
15 Medicinal uses and benefits of Tesu flower plant
15 Health benefits of Banyan tree
10 Health benefits of Drumstick plant
10 Health benefits of Bryophyllum for Kidney and Urinary disorders
12 Medicinal benefits of Acacia Tree or Babool Tree
Medicinal Benefits of Malkangni Oil
12 Yogasanas that you should exercise daily
12 Health benefits of Medicinal plant- Cluster Fig plant
12 Medicinal Benefits of Bauhinia plant
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
The Ayurveda Copyright © 2019. | Managed with care.
Disclaimer
Term Policy
Suggest a topic
Privacy Policy
Advertise with Us
Contact Us
About Us
Herbal Medicine Herbs Vegetables and Fruits
Health Benefits of Flaxseed and its Uses
5 Health Benefits of Dragon Fruit which is incredible!
How to treat Common Cold in 2 days for kids and adults?
Asanas Meditation Pranayam
MahaMrityunjai Mantra: A Spiritual healing for Health and Wellness
Awake the Treasure of Gems inside your body: Kundalini Jagran
Desk Yoga – 5 Simple Desk Yoga Asanas to do in office
Beauty Tips Child Care Diet Tips Pregnancy Tips Weight Loss Tips
Benefits of offering water to Sun Scientific reason and Procedure
5 Health Benefits of Dragon Fruit which is incredible!
5 Natural ways to Beat the Heat