These Drinks Will Help You Lose More Weight Than Apple Cider Vinegar
FITNESS
HEALTH
WEIGHT LOSS
SEX & LOVE
EVENTS
Login
Register
Fitness
Health
Weight Loss
Sex & Love
Workouts
FitMama
Food & Nutrition
Recipes
Beauty
Style
Life
Follow us on
LOGIN
REGISTER
x
Login to your account.
Lost Password?
Remember Me
Login
Create an account today and benefit from a bunch of awesome things.
Register
Weight Loss
Weight Loss
These Drinks Will Help You Lose More Weight Than Apple Cider Vinegar
Save that ish for your salads.
Korin Miller | 24 April 2018
SHARE THIS ON
Photograph by Nathan Dumlao/Unsplash.com
If you like the taste of apple cider vinegar, then by all means, drink up! But if you are a normal human being who prefers not to chug pure acid, then you should know there’s zero evidence that drinking the nasty stuff can actually help you drop kilos (or impart the laundry list of health benefits the Internet seems to associate with it, for that matter).
READ MORE: Can Apple Cider Vinegar Really Help You Lose Weight?
That said, if you were tempted by the get-in-shape claims about ACV, you should know that there are other beverages that actually do help promote healthy weight loss, especially when you combine them with a nutritious diet and regular exercise.
How much weight each of these can help you lose varies based on you, your body composition and your other lifestyle habits, says dietician Jessica Cording — but adding these to your hydration rotation can definitely help up your weight-loss potential.
1. Water
Sure, water may be kinda meh, but it really is your best bet, says Cording. At a really basic level, your cells need water to do their job — and being well hydrated can help your body work more efficiently. Other weight-loss bennies of water: It helps expand the fibre you eat to make you feel full. It takes up volume in your stomach and makes you feel more satiated without adding extra kilojoules. Since it’s easy to mistake thirst cues for hunger, drinking enough H2O helps ensure that you’re not eating when you’re not actually hungry.
READ MORE: These Are Officially The 3 Best Teas For Weight Loss
Everyone’s water needs are different, but the US Mayo Clinic recommends that most people aim to drink eight 240ml glasses of fluid a day. “That’s a good jumping off point, but a lot of people do better with more,” Cording says. That doesn’t mean you should guzzle gallons of water a day, but having an extra glass or two could make a big difference.
2. Coffee
Drinking a daily cup of coffee or two alone isn’t going to magically make you drop a few sizes, but it might help a little. The caffeine in coffee increases your body’s energy use, even when you’re sitting on your bum, so you end up burning more kilojoules after drinking it, the Mayo Clinic points out. The caffeine in coffee may also help you feel less hungry, lowering the odds you’ll overeat, the organisation says.
READ MORE: This Is The Best Alcohol To Drink If You Want To Lose Weight
That doesn’t mean you should take up a coffee habit if you don’t already have one. “It’s a mild stimulant and too much can cause jitters and heart palpitations,” Cording points out. “You want to hit that sweet spot but don’t want to overdo it.” She recommends having less than 400mg of caffeine a day (which translates to about four 240ml cups of coffee) to see results.
3. Mint Tea
Mint is a natural appetite suppressant, says Beth Warren, author of Living a Real Life with Real Food. Even better, it’s instantly effective — even if you just smell it, she says.
4. Lemon Water
Some celebrities swear by lemon water, and there’s something to it, Cording says. Not only does it primarily consist of water, but the lemon can help get your digestion moving and, well, help you poo, she says. It’s part of why citrus can help you de-bloat, she says.
READ MORE: What You Need To Know If You’re Drinking Lemon Water For Weight Loss
5. Whatever You Want
Hear us out here: Diets can be restrictive, and you’re less likely to stick with one if you feel like you’re depriving yourself. While Cording swears that water is the absolute best thing you can drink for weight loss, she says it’s also helpful to incorporate one non-water beverage into your repertoire a day so you don’t feel like you’re missing out. That might be kombucha, a cocktail, or a latte — it’s your choice. “It seems to be a more manageable approach than saying you should just drink water,” she says.
The bottom line: Drinks alone aren’t going to get you to your weight-loss goals, but they can definitely give you a solid assist when you add them to a healthy eating plan and regular trips to the gym.
This article originally appeared on www.womenshealthmag.com
READ MORE ON: Weight Loss Weight Loss Tips
RELATED ARTICLES
“This Was My Secret Weapon For Losing Over 115 Kilos”
These Nuts Might Actually Help You Lose Weight
Should You Take Laxatives For Weight Loss?
5 Ayurvedic Tips To Speed Up Your Metabolism And Flush Toxins
“I Raised Money For A Charity And Lost 16 Kilos In The Process”
SHARE THIS ON
Copyright © 2019 Rodale Inc.
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Advertise With Us