After Wisdom Tooth Removal Chico CA | Home Care Instructions
Skip to main content
Website Menu Call 530-343-1685
Murray Oral & Facial Surgery
call us today 530-343-1685
Home
Patient Information
Introduction
First Visit
Schedule an Appointment
Financial Policy
Insurance
Privacy Policy
Online Videos
Write A Review
Testimonials
Blog
Procedures
Dental Implants
Replacing Missing Teeth
Overview of Implant Placement
Missing All Upper or Lower Teeth
Teeth-in-an-Hour
Bone Grafting for Implants
Implant Supported Overdenture
After Implant Placement
Cost of Dental Implants
Wisdom Teeth
Impacted Wisdom Teeth
Wisdom Teeth Removal
After Extraction of Wisdom Teeth
Bone Grafting
Jaw Bone Health
Jaw Bone Loss and Deterioration
About Bone Grafting
Ridge Augmentation
Sinus Lift
Nerve Repositioning
Socket Preservation
Impacted Canines
Facial Trauma
Jaw Surgery
Oral Pathology
Anesthesia
Cosmetic Procedures
Botox and Dysport
Cosmetic Facial Fillers
Juvederm and Restylane
Brow Lift & Forehead Lift
Customized Facial Implants
Eyelid Surgery
Facelift
Fat Transfer
Otoplasty
Rhinoplasty
Submental Liposuction
Specials
Medical Spa
Facials
Trinity Microdermabrasion
Skin Care
Skin Resurfacing
Photofacials
Skin Tightening
Chemical Peels
Instructions
Before Anesthesia
Dental Implants
Wisdom Teeth
Exposure of Impacted Tooth
Extractions
Multiple Extractions
Meet Us
Meet Dr. Murray
Meet the Team
Office Tour
Online Forms
Oral and Maxillofacial Registration
Cosmetic Registration
Referring Doctors
Referral Form
Links of Interest
Contact Us
Chico Office
After Wisdom Tooth Removal
The removal of impacted teeth is a serious surgical procedure. Post-operative care is very important. Unnecessary pain and the complications of infection and swelling can be minimized if the instructions are followed carefully.
Immediately Following Surgery
The gauze pad placed over the surgical area should be kept in place for half an hour. After this time, the gauze pad should be removed and discarded.
Vigorous mouth rinsing or touching the wound area following surgery should be avoided. This may initiate bleeding by causing the blood clot that has formed to become dislodged.
Take the prescribed pain medications as soon as you begin to feel discomfort. This will usually coincide with the local anesthetic becoming diminished.
Restrict your activities the day of surgery and resume normal activity when you feel comfortable.
Place ice packs to the sides of your face where surgery was performed. Refer to the section on Swelling for an explanation.
Bleeding
A certain amount of bleeding is to be expected following surgery. Slight bleeding, oozing, or redness in the saliva is not uncommon. Excessive bleeding may be controlled by first rinsing or wiping any old clots from your mouth, then placing a gauze pad over the area and biting firmly for 30 minutes. Repeat if necessary. If bleeding continues, bite on a moistened tea bag for 30 minutes. The tannic acid in the tea bag helps to form a clot by contracting blood vessels. To minimize further bleeding, sit upright, avoid exercise and do not become excited. If bleeding does not subside, call for further instructions.
Swelling
The swelling that is normally expected is usually proportional to the surgery involved. Swelling around the mouth, cheeks, eyes and sides of the face is not uncommon. This is the body’s normal reaction to surgery and eventual repair. The swelling will not become apparent until the day following surgery and will not reach its maximum until two to three days post-operatively. However, the swelling may be minimized by the immediate use of ice packs. Two plastic bags filled with ice or ice packs should be applied to the sides of the face where surgery was performed. The ice packs should be left on continuously while you are awake. After 36 hours, ice has no beneficial effect. If swelling or jaw stiffness has persisted for several days, there is no cause for alarm. This is a normal reaction to surgery. Thirty-six hours following surgery, the application of moist heat to the sides of the face is beneficial in reducing the swelling.
Pain
Pain medication will be discussed at the time of the consultation. Certain prescribed pain medicine will make you groggy and will slow down your reflexes. Do not drive an automobile or work around machinery. Avoid alcoholic beverages. Pain or discomfort following surgery should subside more and more every day. If pain persists, it may require attention and you should call the office.
Diet
Drink liquids after general anesthesia or IV sedation. Do not use straws. The sucking motion can cause more bleeding by dislodging the blood clot. You may eat anything soft by chewing away from the surgical site(s). High calorie, high protein intake is very important. Try to maintain a normal diet. You should prevent dehydration by taking fluids regularly. Your food intake will be limited for the first few days. You should compensate for this by increasing your fluid intake. At least five to six glasses of liquid should be taken daily. Try not to miss a single meal. You will feel better, have more strength, less discomfort, and heal faster if you continue to eat.
CAUTION: If you suddenly sit up or stand from a lying position, you may become dizzy. If you are lying down following surgery, make sure you sit for one minute before standing.
Keep The Mouth Clean
No rinsing of any kind should be performed until the day following surgery. You can brush your teeth the night of surgery but rinse gently. The day after surgery you should begin rinsing at least five to six times a day with a cup of warm water mixed with a teaspoon of salt especially after eating.
Discoloration
In some cases, discoloration of the skin follows swelling. The development of black, blue, green, or yellow discoloration is due to blood spreading beneath the tissues. This is a normal postoperative occurrence, which may occur two to three days post-operatively. Moist heat applied to the area may speed up the removal of the discoloration.
Antibiotics
If you have been placed on antibiotics, take the tablets or liquid as directed. Antibiotics are given to help prevent infection. Discontinue antibiotic use in the event of a rash or other unfavorable reaction. Call the office if you have any questions.
Nausea & Vomiting
In the event of nausea and/or vomiting following surgery, do not take anything by mouth for at least an hour including the prescribed medicine. You should then sip on Coke, tea, or ginger ale. You should sip slowly over a 15-minute period. When the nausea subsides, you can begin taking solid foods and the prescribed medicine.
Other Complications
If numbness of the lip, chin, or tongue occurs there is no cause for alarm. As stated before surgery, this is usually temporary in nature. You should be aware that if your lip or tongue is numb, you could bite it and not feel the sensation. So please be careful.
A slight elevation of temperature immediately following surgery is not uncommon. If the temperature persists, notify the office. Tylenol or ibuprofen should be taken to reduce the fever.
You should also be careful going from the lying down position to standing. You were not able to eat or drink prior to surgery. It was also difficult to take fluids. Taking pain medications can make you dizzy. You could get light headed when you suddenly stand up. Before standing up, you should sit for one minute first.
Occasionally, patients may feel hard projections in the mouth with their tongue. They are not roots; they are the bony walls, which supported the tooth. These projections usually smooth out spontaneously. If not, they can be removed by Dr. Murray.
If the corners of your mouth are stretched, they may dry out and crack. Your lips should be kept moist with an ointment such as Vaseline.
Sore throat and pain when swallowing are not uncommon. The muscles can get swollen. The normal act of swallowing can then become painful. This will subside in two to three days.
Stiffness (trismus) of the jaw muscles may cause difficulty in opening your mouth for a few days following surgery. This is a normal post-operative event that will resolve in time.
Finally
Sutures are placed in the area of surgery to minimize post-operative bleeding and to help healing. Sometimes they become dislodged. This is no cause for alarm. Just remove the suture from your mouth and discard it. The sutures will dissolve 7-10 days after surgery.
The pain and swelling should subside more and more each day following surgery. If your post-operative pain or swelling worsens or unusual symptoms occur, call the office for instructions.
There will be a socket where the tooth was removed. The socket will gradually fill in with new tissue over the next month. In the meantime, the area should be kept clean especially after meals with salt-water rinses or a toothbrush.
Your case is individual. No two mouths are alike. Do not accept well-intended advice from friends. Discuss any issues with the persons best able to effectively help you: Dr. Murray or your family dentist.
Brushing your teeth is okay just be gentle at the surgical sites.
A dry socket is when the blood clot gets dislodged prematurely from the tooth socket. Symptoms of pain at the surgical site and even pain to the ear may occur two to three days following surgery. Call the office if this occurs.
If you are involved in regular exercise, be aware that your normal nourishment intake is reduced. Exercise may weaken you. If you get light-headed, stop exercising.
Instructions
Before Anesthesia
Dental Implants
Wisdom Teeth
Exposure of Impacted Tooth
Extractions
Multiple Extractions
Murray Oral & Facial Surgery
2525 Ceanothus Ave
Chico, CA 95973
Tel: Murray Oral & Facial Surgery Phone Number 530-343-1685 Fax: 530-343-6365
Office Hours
Monday through Tuesday: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM
Wednesday through Thursday: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM
Friday: 8:00 AM - 2:00 PM
Serving Chico and the surrounding areas, including:
Paradise CA
Oroville CA
Redding CA
Yuba City CA
Sacramento CA
Orland CA
Red Bluff CA
Corning CA
Durham CA
Magalia CA
Willows CA
Chester CA
Oral & Facial Surgery Treatments
Dental Implants
Wisdom Teeth
Bone Grafting
Impacted Canines
Facial Trauma
Jaw Surgery
Oral Pathology
Anesthesia
Botox and Dysport
Cosmetic Facial Fillers
Brow Lift & Forehead Lift
Customized Facial Implants
Eyelid Surgery
Facelift
Contact Us
Send Message
Find Our Reviews Online!
Google - Yelp - Review Us!
Home
Patient Information
Procedures
Cosmetic Procedures
Medical Spa
Instructions
Meet Us
Online Forms
Referring Doctors
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Sitemap
Oral Surgery Website Design by PBHS © 2009 - 2019
Scroll to Top
Click to open and close visual accessibility options. The options include increasing font-size and color contrast.