All About UTI, its Various Symptoms and Treatment Information
About UTI( Urinary Tract Infection), and its Treatment Information
Urinary tract infection is caused by bacteria in one of the tracts through which urine passes. The infection can occur in the urethra, ureters, or the urinary bladder. Women are mostly affected due to UTI than men, but no specific reason has been found out till date. Men can also be affected by UTI with the infection causing greater level of discomfort. Urinary tract infections initially develop in the lower urinary tract which involves the urethra, and the urinary bladder. If UTI in the lower uriniary tract is not treated properly, then the infection can progress to the upper urinary tract which involves the ureters and kidneys.
One of the common urinary tract infections is bladder infection. Cystitis is the other name for bladder infection. Urethritis is the name of a condition when the infection occurs in the urethra. Pyelonephritis is the name of a condition when the infection occurs in the kidneys. This type of UTI requires urgent treatment, as it can lead to the malfunctioning of the kidneys and can also lead to death if not treated properly. A type of bacteria called Escherichia coli (E. coli) which normally lives in the colon, is one of the major cause of most of the urinary tract infections. Chlamydia and Mycoplasma are some of the other micro-organisms that causes UTIs in both men and women. Usually these micro-organisms cause urinary tract infections in the urethra and reproductive system only.
Some of the common symptoms of urinary tract infections include a frequent urge to urinate and a painful, burning feeling in the area of the bladder or urethra during urination. Sometimes, lotions that are used to get quick errection and better sex spermicidal condoms can lead to irritation. Also, feeling an uncomfortable pressure above the pubic bone is one of the symptoms of urinary tract infection in women. Experiencing fullness in the rectum is one of the symptoms of urinary tract infection in men. One of the other symptoms of urinary tract infection is that the urine may look milky or cloudy, and reddish at times due to the presence of blood. Fever can be one of the symptoms of urinary tract infection, when the infection affects the kidneys.
| Bladder Infection Remedies | Bladder Infection Remedy | Bladder Infection Treatment | Causes of Urinary Tract Infection | Cure Bladder Infection | Cure Urinary Tract Infection | Cure UTI | Curing Bladder Infection | Natural Remedies for Urinary Tract Infection | Prevention of Urinary Tract Infection | Treatment for Urinary Tract Infection | Urinary Tract Infection Bleeding | Urinary Tract Infection Cause | Urinary Tract Infection Cure | Urinary Tract Infection Home Remedies | Urinary Tract Infection Home Remedy | Urinary Tract Infection in Children | Urinary Tract Infection in Dogs | Urinary Tract Infection Medication | Urinary Tract Infection Medicine | Urinary Tract Infection Natural Remedies | Urinary Tract Infection Remedies | Urinary Tract Infection Symptoms | UTI Natural Treatment | UTI Remedies | UTI Remedy | UTI Treatment |
Main Menu
UTI
ADD
ADHD
Acne
Warts
Moles
Cancer
Herpes
Asthma
Eczema
Snoring
Arthritis
Candida
Shingles
Thyroid
Hair Loss
Insomnia
Asperger
Bronchitis
Heartburn
Anti Aging
Baby Colic
Cold Sores
Bedwetting
Bad Breath
Depression
Hemorrhoids
Child Anxiety
Child Autism
Athlete Foot
Hair Removal
Stretch Marks
Child Tantrums
Chronic Fatigue
Child Sleep
Disorder
Natural Treatment
Contact
FREE Subscription
Signup for Our Newsletter and Receive up to Date Details on Important Issues Affecting your Health.
Name:
Email:
Note : We never rent, trade, or sell our email lists to anyone. We assure that your privacy is respected and protected.
Disclaimer : All the material contained on this page is been just provided for educational and informational purposes only and not intended to any type of consultation. Please consult with your physician or appropriate healthcare personal for any kind of opinions or recommendations with respect to your symptoms or medical condition. The author is not responsible to any person or entity with respect to any kind of damage, loss, or injuries, caused or alleged to be caused directly or indirectly by the information contained in this report. Also, the logos, trademarks, and brand names, if any, depicted on this site are exclusive property of their respective companies.
Copyright - © 2004 - 2019 - All Rights Reserved.
|Privacy Policy | Disclosure | Contact |