Services
0800 554 555
Home
About
Services
Syndromes
Lynch Syndrome
Serrated Polyposis Syndrome (SPS)
Familial Adenomatous Polyposis (FAP)
MYH Associated Polyposis (MAP)
Patients
Contact
Search
What is Familial Gastrointestinal Cancer?
Gastrointestinal cancers are those that occur in the digestive system – that is the oesophagus, stomach, small bowel, pancreas and the large bowel – also called the colon and sometimes colorectum. The most common of these is bowel cancer.
Familial Gastrointestinal Cancer is the cancer that runs in families. Some types of Familial Gastrointestinal Cancer are inherited, this is where there is a known cancer syndrome.
Everyone has a risk of developing cancer but most cancer is not familial, ie it does not run in families. A small proportion of cancer (about 10-15 %) is thought to be due to inherited factors. In New Zealand the chance of developing bowel cancer by the time you are 75y of age is 6%.Sometimes there is a family history but the diagnosis occurred at an older age and there is no clear pattern from parent to child. Although the cancer may appear to be more common than you would expect to see in these families this may not be due to inherited factors. It can be due to chance and shared environmental factors – such as diet, smoking and exercise as families tend to have similar habits.
Sometimes there is a really clear family history with more than one generation affected and diagnoses occurring at a young age (in genetics under 50y is considered young). Having a parent, brother, sister or child with cancer may increase your chance of developing a cancer, particularly if they were young when first diagnosed. In a small number of families there is an inherited mutation (gene problem) that increases your chance of developing cancer.
Many people over estimate the chance of developing cancer and it is important that if you are concerned you seek expert advice as to the likelihood of developing cancer for you and other family members.
HNPCC Information Sheet
Who is Referred
Individuals at potentially high risk of developing bowel or other gastrointestinal (GI) cancers
Why you may have been referred?
You may have a history of a number of family members over two or three generations being affected with bowel or other gastrointestinal cancers eg stomach, pancreas
You or a close family member have been diagnosed with bowel or other gastrointestinal cancer at a young ag
There is concern that you and your family may have a genetic bowel or gastrointestinal cancer syndrome
There is a known genetic gastrointestinal cancer syndrome in your family
Potentially at high risk for developing bowel cancer as defined in the guidelines for surveillance and management of groups at increased risk for CRC guidelines 2012
What We Do
Offer assessment of bowel cancer risk for people with a family history of GI cancer
Facilitate the diagnosis of hereditary cancer by confirming the family history
Offer surveillance recommendations
Co-ordinate surveillance for high-risk families
Offer specialist management advice
Provide information for families on familial GI cancer
Who can join
Who can join the Surveillance reminder Programme
Anyone whose family has been assessed to have an increased risk of developing a GI cancer and who is identified to be an at risk individual within that family ie those with
A clinical diagnosis of classic or attenuated Familial Adenomatous Polyposis (FAP)
Known or possible Hereditary Non Polyposis Colorectal Cancer (HNPCC)
Known Lynch Syndrome
Multiple small or large bowel polyps where a familial syndrome is suspected eg Peutz – Jeghers syndrome,hyperplastic polyposis
Family history of other GI cancer syndromes eg diffuse gastric cancer, pancreatic cancer
Potentially at high risk for developing bowel cancer as defined in the guidelines for surveillance and management of groups at increased risk for CRC guidelines 2012
Participation in the Service is by written consent
You may opt out at any time without it affecting your future healthcare
How Will The Service Help Me
We offer specialist management advice to assist in your care
We will clarify your family’s level of risk for developing bowel or other gastrointestinal cancers by confirming your family history
We will facilitate genetic testing where appropriate
We will determine if you and your family would benefit from regular screening to prevent cancer
If you are identified to be at high risk of developing gastrointestinal cancer we will offer to co-ordinate your bowel screening because research has shown that this can save lives
We are able to provide information for families on familial GI cancer
AUCKLAND OFFICE
Auckland City Hospital
Private Bag 92024
Auckland 1142
Freephone: 0800 554 555
Phone: 09 307 8991
Fax: 09 375 4359
Email: NZFGCS@ADHB.govt.nz
CHRISTCHURCH OFFICE
Christchurch Public Hospital
Private Bag 4710
Christchurch 8140
Freephone: 0800 023 445
Phone: 03 378 6148
Fax: 03 378 6569
Email: FBCR@cdhb.govt.nz
WELLINGTON OFFICE
Wellington Hospital
Private Bag 7902
Wellington South 6242
Freephone: 0800 262 780
Phone: 04 9186893
Fax: 04 385 5441
Email: NZFGCR@ccdhb.org.nz
NATIONAL OFFICE
Freephone: 0800 554 555 Email: NZFGCS@ADHB.govt.nz
Enquiry
© Copyright 2018 New Zealand Familial Gastrointestinal Cancer Service. All Rights Reserved.
Website Design: RedSpark Creative. Website Development: NetPotential | Login