The Effects of Drinking Too Much Water - When Drinking Water Causes ...
Skip to content
Search for:
Home
Lifestyle
Health
Wellness
Beauty
Home Decor & DIY
Small Talk
About & Contact
Search for:
The Effects of Drinking Too Much Water
Posted on July 1, 2017 January 17, 2018 by Klaudia
The Effects of Drinking Too Much Water
When Excessive Drinking Water Causes More Harm Than Good
According to experts’ advice, drinking 4 litres of water a day is good and beneficial for our health. Have you ever poured 4 litres of water into glasses? How many glasses of water will you get?
Okay, supposed the experts are right, all this water is good for our look and body shape, doesn’t it make you wonder who will ever get to see the improvement!? Wouldn’t we be spending most of the day on the toilet, looking fresh, fabulous and fit, but invisible to others as the bladder will be in charge of our daily routine?! What goes in, has to come back out!
Nobody will deny the benefits of drinking water, we all know about the importance of drinking plenty of water. Water is essential, no water – no life. But is this matter not overrated? Do you really believe, when celebrities trying to tell us, only with drinking at least 4 litres water a day, they look young and keep fit forever? No Botox, no surgery, water only does the trick! Yeah, how many beauty docs would be jobless?
The effects of drinking too much water – ©klaudiascorner.net
• Could Drinking Too Much Water Not Cause More Harm Than Good?
People should only drink when they are thirsty, says Prof. M.Whiteley one of the leading experts on hyperhidrosis in the UK. (Source: MailOnline) We’re constantly told drinking plenty of water will lead to clear skin and alert mind.
But experts now warn drinking too much fluid is unnecessary and could actually be harmful.
The effects of drinking too much water – ©klaudiascorner.net
Early symptoms of drinking too much water will occur in kidney problems, but also something particularly embarrassing such as excessive sweating can be early symptoms of drinking too much water.
Professor M.Whiteley, a consultant vascular surgeon at The Whiteley Clinic London, is one of the leading experts in the condition, known medically as hyperhidrosis. Hundreds of patients visit him each year suffering so badly they are considering surgery to remove their armpit sweat glands. But in many cases, they are simply drinking way too much fluid.
“In fact, the first and most important thing I ask them is how much water they consume”, he told MailOnline. “Lots of advertisers advertise water and say you have to drink two or three litres a day. That’s medically incorrect. If you go to intensive care you will be put on 1.5 litres of fluid per 24 hours” he explained.
• So, How Much Water is Good For You?
“If a doctor came along and gave you 2 litres you’d get heart failure and they’d be sacked” Around half a litre of fluid is metabolised from food every day, and most people drink tea and coffee on top of that intake. However, Professor Whiteley says there are people who suffer from hyperhidrosis which is not linked to their average fluid intake per day, who will require treatment beyond cutting down on liquids.
“It is normal to sweat in heat when exercising, or in stressful situations”, he said. You can read more about hyperhidrosis here: MailOnline
Recently I read about this young American woman, who died of water intoxication! A woman who competed in a radio station’s contest to see how much water she could drink without going to the bathroom died of water intoxication.
Jennifer S. 28, from Sacramento California, was found dead in her home hours after taking part in the “Hold Your Wee for a Wii” – contest in which she could win a Wii video game system.
She said, that she was on her way home and her head was hurting her real bad, she was crying and that was the last that anyone had heard from her. It was not immediately known how much water she consumed.
A preliminary investigation found evidence “consistent with a water intoxication death”. Initially, contestants were handed bottles of water to drink every 15 minutes. They were small little half-pint bottles, so they thought it was going to be easy.
One participant said he quit after drinking five bottles. “My bladder couldn’t handle it anymore” he added. After he quit, he said, the remaining contestants were given even bigger bottles to drink.“I was talking to her and she was a nice lady,” another contestant said.”She was telling me about her family and her three kids and how she was doing it for kids, to win a Wii Video Game .”
• Water is good, water is healthy, water is essential, no question…?
Stop listening to every new release of ‘experts’ advice’ …. don’t torture yourself by pouring down that big amount of water, if your body does not demand it just because of all these wise bits of advice. Some people may need a few litres daily to feel fit, others might be okay with only half as much.
The effects of drinking too much water – ©klaudiascorner.net
We are all individuals. What’s good for you, can be really bad and harmful to somebody else. Always listen to your body, your body knows what’s needed.
What’s your personal ideal water intake on a daily base, would you be able to drink 4 litres of water every day, at all? Feel free to tell us about below in the comment area. Oh, and if you enjoyed reading through, please make use of the share buttons. Remember, it’s your clicks that keep us going! Thanks a bunch 🙂
Take good care of yourself!
Klaudia
The effects of drinking too much water ©klaudiascorner.net
Is Your House Making You Sick ? Health Check For A Dry Healthy Home
Moving Home Checklist – Is A Move The Change You Need ?
Weird Wonderful Healthcare Insights
How To Save Money On Your Monthly Water Bill
Some more great reads for you
Posted in Health & Fitness, LifestyleTagged excessive drinking water, The Effects of Drinking Too Much Water
4
Leave a Reply
2500
4 Comment threads
0 Thread replies
1 Followers
Most reacted comment
Hottest comment thread
1 Comment authors
Recent comment authors
2500
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Subscribe
newest oldest most voted
Notify of
new follow-up comments new replies to my comments
HEALTH AND FITNESS EXERCISE | Interval Training Exercises
[…] 6. Drink 8-12 glass of water per day. […]
Vote Up0Vote Down Reply
2 years ago
Stay Fit During Summer | Interval Training Exercises
[…] lots of water during summer to stay hydrated and energised. This is especially important if you’re out in the […]
Vote Up0Vote Down Reply
2 years ago
Stay Fit During Summer | Weight loss with diet
[…] lots of water during summer to stay hydrated and energised. This is especially important if you’re out in the […]
Vote Up0Vote Down Reply
2 years ago
Tania
A few months ago I went for an EI Scan, that runs a current through your body and one of the results said that my cells were over hydrated. It certainly gave me food for thought. Too much water is not necessarily a good thing.
Vote Up0Vote Down Reply
2 years ago
wpDiscuz
Translate Site
© Copyright
This site and its content are copyright protected. You may not use/copy any text or images from this site without written permission!
Stay up to date
Have 'Klaudia's Corner Lifestyle Magazine' delivered via email. Please read & agree to our Privacy Policy before subscribing to our free email service.
Join 1,208 other subscribers
Your Email Address
ENTER
Disclosure
Archives
Archives Select Month March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 April 2018 March 2018 February 2018 January 2018 December 2017 November 2017 October 2017 September 2017 August 2017 July 2017 June 2017 May 2017 April 2017 March 2017 February 2017 January 2017 December 2016 November 2016 October 2016 September 2016 August 2016 July 2016 June 2016 May 2016 April 2016 March 2016 February 2016 January 2016 December 2015 November 2015 October 2015 September 2015
Most Popular
The Best Eyelash Extensions For Girls Who Wear Glasses
Let's Move! - How Long Should You Date Before Moving In Together?
The Best City Breaks In Europe - That's Your Travel Bucket List Sorted!
Faithful Friends Are Hard To Find - Shakespeare Already Knew!
Memorial Diamonds Created From The Ashes Of Your Loved One
Follow
Recent comments
A Mom's Guide to Summer Vacation Packing on The Best Shoes For Healthy Feet – Improve Your Health By Wearing Quality Footwear
Nadya Jones on DIY Cheap Curb Appeal Ideas To Make Your Home Stand Out
Lamontagne on World of Flowers -The Beauty of Flowers and their Meanings
Tips for Effortless Chic Style – Marshion Style on 5 Tips on How to Use Trendy Fashion Accessories
©Copyright Protection
All rights reserved. You may not take any images or content from this site without written permission!
Planner
April 2019
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Mar
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30
Terms of Service:
Cookie Policy
Privacy Policy
Privacy Policy Page
TERMS OF SERVICE
Theme Designed by InkHive. All rights reserved ©Klaudias Corner
OK
wpDiscuz