Neptune Krill Oil Better than Fish Oil for Lowering Cholesterol
TRENDING:
Guide to Using Oregano Oil for Herpes
Is Kirkland Fish Oil the Best Fish Oil?
Is Walmart Spring Valley Fish Oil the Best Fish Oil?
HOME
About Me…
Choose An Oil
Coconut Oil Digest
Emu Oils
Tea Tree Oil Informer
22 Benefits of Fish Oil
Oil of Oregano Guide
Guide to Cod Liver Oil
Flaxseed Oil Facts
Latest Updates
Contact
Select Page
Neptune Krill Oil Better than Fish Oil for Lowering Cholesterol
A recent study shows patients taking 500 mg. of Neptune kill oil per day lowered elevated cholesterol levels up to 19% and was more effective than fish oil.
The study published in the 2004 issue of Alternative Medicine Review concluded that 1 – 3 grams a day of Neptune krill oil was more effective at reducing total cholesterol, triglycerides, glucose, LDL and HDL, compared to both fish oils and a placebo.
Below is a summary the actual study results:
Montreal, Canada – Researchers took a group of one hundred and twenty (120) patients and randomly assigned them to 4 groups.
Each group received either krill oil (2 different dosages), fish oil or a placebo.
Group 1 – took 0.5 – 1.5 grams/day of Neptune Krill Oil (NKO)
Group 2 – received 2 – 3 grams/day of Neptune Krill Oil
Group 3 – received Fish Oil (FO) containing 180 mg of EPA (eicosapentaenoic acid) and 120 mg of DHA (docosahexaenoic acid) at 3 grams/day
Group 4 – received a placebo of crystalline cellulose
The Neptune Krill Oil and cholesterol study lasted for 3 months.
Primary parameters tested at baseline and 90 days were:
Total Blood Cholesterol
Triglycerides
LDL cholesterol
HDL cholesterol
Glucose
Results of Neptune Krill Oil and Cholesterol Study
1. Patients taking 3 grams/day of Fish Oils:
Total cholesterol dropped by 6%
LDL (unhealthy cholesterol) decreased by 4%
HDL (healthy cholesterol) increased by 4%
These results confirmed earlier reports that fish oils may help lower cholesterol and improve blood lipids.
However, researchers found that Neptune Krill Oil was more effective for the management of hyperlipidemia by significantly reducing total cholesterol, LDL and triglycerides and increasing HDL levels.
2. Patients taking 500 mg/day of Neptune Krill Oil:
Total cholesterol decreased by 19%
LDL decreased by 44%
HDL increased by 33%
Researchers learned that a single 500 mg dose of Neptune krill oil resulted in a 300% improvement in cholesterol compared to fish oils; and there was also a substantial difference in the LDL and HDL cholesterol levels.
3. Patients taking 3 grams/day of Neptune Krill Oil also experienced similar results:
Total cholesterol decreased by 18%
LDL decreased by 39%
HDL increased by 60%
The researchers discovered that increasing the dosage of Neptune krill oils by almost 6 times (to 3 grams a day) also produced an effective reduction on high cholesterol blood levels.
Summary of Neptune Krill Oil and Cholesterol Study:
This study appears to indicate that Neptune krill oil is almost 3 times more effective than using a standard fish oil to lower elevated cholesterol levels.
Researchers were not able to explain why krill oil was more effective than fish oils for lowering cholesterol, but they did state:
“The exact mechanism of action for krill oil’s lipid-lowering effects is not yet entirely clear. However, krill oil’s unique biomolecular profile of omega-3 (EPA/DHA) fatty acids already incorporated into phospholipids has exhibited a lipid lowering effect on the level of the small intestine, which distinguishes krill oil from other known lipid-lowering principals.”
Neptune krill oils appear to be an effective treatment for enhancing cardiovascular health in individuals with elevated cholesterol levels.
While additional research is needed to assess for any potential long-term health benefits, krill oils appear to offer the following:
May lower elevated cholesterol levels
Can reduce LDL (unhealthy cholesterol)
Appears to lower high triglyceride levels
Increases HDL (healthy cholesterol)
May be more effective than fish oils for managing high lipid levels in the blood.
Surpasses fish oils for a greater reduction in LDL (the bad cholesterol).
A lower dose of 500 mg. krill oil appeared to offer more noticeable health benefits compared to fish oils and placebo.
The exact brand of krill oil used in this cholesterol study is called Neptune Krill Oil.
These types of natural health products can be purchased at most health food stores or online retailers.
It’s recommended you consult with your physician before considering using this product.
Research References:
Alternative Medicine Review. 2004 Dec;9(4):420-8. Evaluation of the effects of Neptune Krill Oil on the clinical course of hyperlipidemia. Bunea R, El Farrah K, Deutsch L. Department of Internal Medicine, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
Influence of the physicochemical form of polyunsaturated fatty acids on their in vivo bioavailability; Cansell M, Moussaoui N, Denizot A, Combe N. 94th Annual AOCS Meeting & Expo PHO1: Phospholipids for Improving Bioavailability Chair: Michael Schneider, Consultant, Germany.
Search for more Krill Oil Products at Amazon.com:
Home Page > Krill Oil Home Page > Neptune Krill Oil Cholesterol Study
Author Details
Author Details
Contact
Kevin Lee
Author Details
Kevin is a full-time blogger with a passion for functional, whole food nutrition. A former Registered Respiratory Therapist with over 25 years experience in Intensive Care and Emergency Medicine, he also has additional training as a Certified Natural Products Advisor. He enjoys a vibrant lifestyle that includes healthy foods, workouts focusing on core strength with flexibility and longboarding to stay fit and agile.
info@healthy-oil-planet.com
Kevin Lee
Your message has been sent successfully!!
Share:
PreviousGuide to Using Fish Oil for Depression
NextGuide to Using Oil of Oregano on Toenail Fungus
Related Posts
Using Coconut Oil for Fibromyalgia: Natural Cure or Scam?
May 26, 2018
Guide to Using Fish Oil for Depression
May 26, 2018
Guide to Using Oregano Oil for Herpes
August 31, 2018
Studies show Cod Liver Oil can Reduce Joint Pain
May 26, 2018
Search for:
Follow Us
Facebook
Pinterest
About this Site:
Healthy-Oil-Planet.com began as a one page blog back in 2006.
This site has now grown to hundreds of pages featuring in-depth research and articles for health-conscious consumers.
We want to be your preferred destination for factual and accurate information on the use of healthy oils and natural health products.
Please visit our Site Map to see our entire world or learn more About Us.
Most Popular Pages
Guide to Using Oregano Oil for Herpes
About Me…
Studies show Cod Liver Oil can Reduce Joint Pain
Using Coconut Oil for Fibromyalgia: Natural Cure or Scam?
How to Use Tea Tree Oil for Back Acne
Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress