Mosquito Protection for the Summer
Mosquito Info. Learn How to Get Rid of Mosquitoes.
About Mosquitos
Get Rid Of Mosquitoes
Mosquito Bite Treatment
Mosquito Diseases
Mosquito Repellent
Mosquito Protection for the Summer
Protecting against mosquito bites is one of the first things that should be on your mind when it comes to planning for outdoor summer activities. The peak of mosquito season, late summer, is nearly among us. Now is the time to get your ducks in a row regarding the best mosquito protection.
First, it is useful to know when and where mosquitoes are likely to thrive. Mosquitoes can be found in warm months especially in areas with humid or wet climates. Typically, the closer you are to a forest or wildlife setting, the more likely it is mosquitoes will be present. Protecting against mosquitoes is especially important for summer camping trips.
If you choose not to use an insect repellent spray and prefer an all-natural approach to fending off pesky mosquitoes, you have plenty of options. The best thing you can do is wear long sleeves. Cover as much of your exposed skin as possible. Even in times of high temperatures, loose-fitting, light-colored, long-sleeved clothing is great for decreasing your exposure to mosquitoes.
Additionally, avoid wearing fragrances or scented lotions. The chemicals in these products attract mosquitoes. Also, since mosquitoes find their targets visually, wearing clothing that blends into the background can help make you less of a target.
Do not dwell around standing water; such places are prime breeding grounds for mosquitoes. It is useful to note that mosquitoes tend to feed in the early morning and late evening hours. Avoid being outdoors during these times when possible.
Citronella candles are very useful when spending time outdoors in a static location. These work much more effectively than bug zappers which are pretty overrated as a mosquito repellent device.
The odds of receiving an illness such as the West Nile virus from a mosquito are very low. In general, the real threat of mosquito-borne diseases have been blown out of proportion by media outlets. However, although diseases transfered via mosquito bites are rare, they still happen. Consider that a person who receives 20 mosquito bites over the course of the summer is 10 times more likely to receive a mosquito borne illness than someone who is only bitten twice and you can see that taking some basic steps to prevent mosquito bites can prove fruitful.
Popular Articles
How to Build Your Own Mosquito Trap
Diseases Transmitted by Mosquitoes
Watch Out For Bed Bugs
Dengue Fever
Myths of Mosquito Prevention
Mosquito Protection for the Summer
Dealing with Pesky Mosquito Bites
Mosquitoes Throughout History
Understanding the Life Cycle of the Mosquito
Get Familiar with the Different Types of Mosquitoes
Mosquitoes – Fact and Fiction
Which Areas are Prone to Mosquitoes?
Using Natural Predators to Control Mosquitoes
The Interesting Mosquito
Mosquitoes: The Good, Bad, and Ugly
Overview of Mosquito Diseases
Mosquitoes and DDT – Understanding the History
Using Mosquito Nets to Protect Yourself
Five Plants that Naturally Repel Mosquitoes
Home Remedies for Mosquito Bites
Make Your Own Natural Mosquito Repellents
Mosquitoes and Dengue Fever
The Life Of A Mosquito
Different Species Of Mosquitoes
Basic Info About Mosquito Repellents
Pets and Mosquitoes
Using Pesticides to Control Mosquitoes
Mosquitoes and Malaria – What You Should Know
How to Treat Mosquito Bites
How to Control Pond Mosquitoes
Are You a Mosquito Magnet?
Using Misting Systems to Get Rid of Mosquitoes
Interesting Facts About Mosquitoes
How to Trap Mosquitoes
How to Get Rid of Mosquitoes
How Mosquitoes Carry and Transmit Disease
Eliminating Mosquito Breeding Grounds – Take Back Your Yard!
DEET-Based Repellents
Mosquito Hawks
West Nile Virus
Mosquito Basics
Electronic Mosquito Repellent
Best Ways To Keep Mosquitoes From Biting You
Mosquitos- One Of The Deadliest Creatures Alive
Coping With Mosquito Bites
Home Remedies For Insect Bites
Mosquito Bites- Stop The Itching
Copyright © 2008 Mosquito Info. Learn How to Get Rid of Mosquitoes. | All rights reserved
Template by 1800blogger and iThemes