Eating Ginger For Nausea Brings You Back on Track
Eating Ginger For Nausea Brings You Back on Track
Home » Herbal Remedies » Ginger »
One of the most common uses for ginger is nausea, and while some studies are conflicted as to its effectiveness, there are more than enough studies that show some evidence that ginger for nausea can be a useful treatment. Particularly for expecting mothers who frequently experience nausea, ginger health benefits can include reducing the unpleasant discomfort associated with this affliction. Chemotherapy caused nausea has also been remedied in some studies, showing that ginger root benefits for nausea can soothe tumultuous tummies from many causes.
You can use dried or fresh ginger, or even the oil to obtain ginger for nausea benefits. However the fresh and dried versions of this herb are easier to obtain and use or even integrate into cooking. Adults should not take more than 4g of ginger per day whether derived from supplements or tasty meals. The regular dose of ginger for nausea to help you get back on track is between 2 and 4 grams of fresh root per day. If you feel nauseous and are looking for quick relief, chewing on a small (1/4 oz.) piece of ginger can provide some relief as well.
As with all medicines, natural or synthetic, there are some side effects that you should be aware of. Thankfully, ginger side effects are infrequent and mild. However, heartburn and diarrhea along with general tummy upset has been reported. Additionally, there is some concern over women using ginger during pregnancy, even though it is commonly used for nausea. While the debate rages on, there are some that suggest that sex hormones of the developing baby can be affected by ginger. Although ginger is still regarded as likely safe. People who have bleeding disorders should avoid ginger as it may increase the risk of bleeding in these individuals. Additionally, those who have diabetes should use caution because ginger can potentially lower blood sugar. People with heart conditions should not use ginger for nausea because it can exacerbate conditions of this very important organ.
If you are considering supplements and natural healing options, it’s best to consult with your health care provider before proceeding to ensure that you are healthy enough for its use and that you don’t have any health conditions or take any medications that might be compromised by its use.
0 0 0 0
ginger for nausea, ginger health benefits, ginger root benefits, ginger side effects
Related Links
Recent Articles
Ankylosing Spondylitis Diagnosis and Treatment Options
Liver Fibrosis Symptoms and Alcoholism
Root Canal Alternative Treatments: Pros and Cons
Lower Blood Pressure Fast Naturally – What Products To Use?
Online Menstrual Cycle Calculator – Which One Is The Most Accurate?
Our Facebook Page
Our Google Plus Community
Health Topics
Heart Health
Digestive Health
Immune System
Ear, Nose and Throat
Bronchi and Lungs
Neurology
Mental Health
Blood Disorders
Cancer Types
Vision Problems
Dental Health
Speech Pathology
Skin Care
Rheumatic Diseases
Rectal Pain
Urinary System
Kidney Diseases
Glands and Hormones
Womens Health
Foot Problems
Orthopedic Surgery
Plastic Surgery
Stem Cells
Substance Abuse
Weight Loss
Healthy Diets
Dietary Supplements
Alternative Therapies
Herbal Remedies
Disclaimer
The information provided herein is intended for a general knowledge only and is not a substitute for medical advice or a treatment for specific medical conditions. You assume full responsibility for how you choose to use this information. Always consult with your doctor or other professional healthcare provider for a medical advice.
Popular Articles
Top 10 Cloudy Urine Causes
Rooster Comb Injections vs. Knee Replacement
5 Reasons Why You May Be Coughing Up Yellow Mucus
Blood on Toilet Paper after Bowel Movement – What Is Causing It?
Top 10 Foods that Increase Blood Circulation
10 Best Orthopedic Surgeons in US
Torn Labrum Surgery – 10 Things You Need to Know
7 Things to Know about Rotator Cuff Surgery Recovery
Top 10 Best High Protein Low Carb Foods
Top 10 Natural Blood Thinners for Thick Blood
About
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
© 2019 Health Articles 101