#Sunglasses - The Health Benefits #Fashion #DesignerLabel #FrizeMedia
Sunglasses
The Health Benefits
Did you realize sunglasses protect you from more than cataracts?
There are several significant benefits to wearing sunglasses every time you go out into sunlight.
DRIVING GLARE
Sunglasses with 100% UV tinting cut down on glare from reflected sunlight.
This reduces squinting (and the wrinkles it causes), and can prevent certain migraines and headaches brought on by bright light.
But the real benefit comes when you're driving: glare from a road can temporarily blind drivers.
UV tinted sunglasses allow you to avoid this potential hazard.
And you don't have to choose dark lenses: pale amber or other light colours work just as well to prevent glare, as long as they are 100% UV tinted.
BLOW DRYING YOUR EYES
Wind and air conditioning can dry out your eyes, causing discomfort, redness, itchiness and soreness.
In cars, air conditioning often feels best when it’s blowing near your face – and that means into your eyes.
Wearing sunglasses – even when it’s not sunny – cuts down on the effects of air blowing directly into your eyes.
CATARACTS
Don’t forget cataracts – one of those ailments you don’t really think about until it’s too late. Long term excessive exposure to UV rays can cause cataracts.
PHOTOKERATITIS
Photokeratitis is broadly sunburn on the eyes.
Anytime you spend several hours under intense UV ray exposure, this will cause you to develop painful, teary eyes.
When care is taken to further prevent exposure to UV rays, photokeratitis will eventually subside.
Take precaution and prevent photokeratitis from developing on your eyes by wearing sunglasses with protection from UV rays.
The Power Of Beauty
Best Skin Care Products
Common Hair Loss Causes
Teeth Whitening Products
Organic Skincare
Browse All Our Informative Topics
InternetBusinessIdeas-Viralmarketing Home Page
Share
Tweet
Follow @Charlesfrize
New! Comments
Have your say about what you just read! Leave a comment in the box below.
New! Comments
Have your say about what you just read! Leave a comment in the box below.
[?]Subscribe To This Site
Home
Site Updates
FrizeMedia Ghana SEO
Browse Our Topics
Entrepreneurship
Food And Drink
Marketing Strategies
Public Relations
Small Business Advice
Brand Equity
Property - Homes For Sale
Cancer Types And Causes
C F Frize About Me Page
Cars And Automotive
Blogging
Advertise With FrizeMedia
FrizeMedia And Its Rich And Engaging Content
Influencer Marketing
Social Media Marketing
Job Interviews And Career
Health
Home Improvements
Leadership
Boating
Spirituality And Destiny
Internet Marketing
Web Design Tips
Performing Arts
Home And Family
Finance
Style And Fashion
Personal Development
Alternative Energy
Computer Technology
Camping Glamping Outdoor Recreation
World Of Watches
Sales
Google Adsense
Internet Business Ideas
Traffic For Website
Homebased Business
Marketing Strategies
Affiliate marketing
Email Direct Marketing Tool - Targeted Email Marketing
Offline Marketing - Offline Promotion #FrizeMedia #DigitalMarketing
Self Help - Why Is It Important To Improve Your Self?
Disclaimer
Privacy statement
Contact Us
Tweets by Charlesfrize
"C. Friedo Frize" copyright © 2009 - 2019 InternetBusinessIdeas-ViralMarketing.com FrizeDynamics
SBI!