Why You Shouldn’t Take Medication with Grapefruit Juice: Side Effects Could Be Fatal | Frugivore Magazine
Frugivore
Skip to content
Frugivore
Nutrition
Food
Recipes
Health
News
Inspiration
Fitness
Videos
Yoga
Celebrity Fit
Green
About
Search for:
Post navigation
“You’re such a picky eater” … Finding respect for your diet during the holidays
Girl on Trail: Reflections on completing my first half-marathon
Commentary
Why You Shouldn’t Take Medication with Grapefruit Juice: Side Effects Could Be Fatal
by Sherrell Dorsey — Dec 4, 2012
Your morning grapefruit juice is a surefire way to start a healthy day, but if you’re taking medication every day you may want to put down your glass and opt for a different juice of choice.
Doctors are warning patients on medication that grapefruit juice, and other citrus-based juices, can interact with your prescription resulting in series side effects including sudden death. Don’t risk it.
According to a study published in the Canadian Medical Association Journal, there are more than 85 drugs on the market that cause some kind of reaction when taken with grapefruit juice.
Citrus fruit-based products, which include a compound called furanocoumarin, interfere with the enzymes that break down medications in your digestive system, causing the medication to stay in your body longer. The increased potency of the medication in your system can lead to serious side effects. People above the ages of 45 purchase the most grapefruit juice and take the most prescription drugs and are said to be at an increased risk for mixing the toxic cocktail without being aware.
Common drugs that should not be taken with grapefruit juice include (but are not limited to):
Cohlesteral drugs: lovastatin (Mevacor), atorvastatin (Lipitor), simvastatin (Zocor), simvastatin/ezetimibe (Vytorin)
Antihistamines: fexofenadine (Allegra)
Psychiatric Medications: buspirone (BuSpar), triazolam (Halcion), carbamazepine (Tegretol), diazepam (Valium), midazolam (Versed), sertraline (Zoloft)
Immune Suppressants: cyclosporine (Neoral), tacrolimus (Prograf)
The Food and Drug Administration provides the following tips for consumers to protect themselves from grapefruit/medication interaction:
Ask your pharmacist or other health care professional if you can have fresh grapefruit or grapefruit juice while using your medication. If you can’t, you may want to ask if you can have other juices with the medicine.
Read the Medication Guide or patient information sheet that comes with your prescription medicine to find out if it could interact with grapefruit juice. Some may advise not to take the drug with grapefruit juice. If it’s OK to have grapefruit juice, there will be no mention of it in the guide or information sheet.
Read the Drug Facts label on your non-prescription medicine, which will let you know if you shouldn’t have grapefruit or other fruit juices with it.
If you must avoid grapefruit juice with your medicine, check the label of bottles of fruit juice or drinks flavored with fruit juice to make sure they don’t contain grapefruit juice.
Seville oranges (often used to make orange marmalade) and tangelos (a cross between tangerines and grapefruit) affect the same enzyme as grapefruit juice, so avoid these fruits as well if your medicine interacts with grapefruit juice.
Do you know if any of the prescription drugs you are taking can negatively interact with grapefruit juice?
Share this:
Facebook
Twitter
Google
Pinterest
Tumblr
Email
Related
Related Posts
Obamacare is a Reality, Deal with it America … & Ted Cruz
Having child increases parents’ lifespan, study says
Pink Slime Ain’t Nothing Compared to This: Investigation Finds Shit in Mechanically Tenderized Beef
TAGS
health
around the web
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Most Popular
Conan Star, Jason Momoa, Dishes About His Workout/Diet
Thick vs. Fat: How Can You Tell The Difference?
Smell Cravings: What Do They Signify?
10 Black Celebs Who Don’t Eat Meat
Increase Your Sex Drive with Living Foods
Daily Newsletter
Post navigation
“You’re such a picky eater” … Finding respect for your diet during the holidays
Girl on Trail: Reflections on completing my first half-marathon
Scroll
Features
3 Ways Being Honest Helps Your Health
Good Kid, Mad City: A Reflection on the Murder of Mike Brown
Chipotle’s Viral Ad Aims to Rebrand Fast-Food: Manipulative or Business-as-Usaual?
Boris Kodjoe Says You’re Not “Keeping It Sexy” If You Gain Weight During A Marriage
So Selfish
Michelle Obama Urges Food Companies to Promote Healthier Foods to Kids
Miss America Nina Davuluri Lost 70 Pounds to Capture Crown
American Tennis Star Sloane Stephens Opens Up on Tennis, Beef with Serena, & Fashion
Vera Wang Upgrades Philadelphia Eagles Cheerleaders
3 Sure-Fire Ways to See Your Abs
About Us
©2017 Frugivore Magazine
Privacy Policy
Masthead
Contact
Advertising
Design by 319 Heads
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.