What are Crystals and how can you use them in healing? – Holistic Care By Elizabeth
Skip to content
Holistic Care By Elizabeth
Menu
Holistic Care by Elizabeth
About
Holistic Healing
Reiki
Crystal Healing
Essential Oils
Services Offered
Handmade Crystal Jewelry
Blog
Contact
What are Crystals and how can you use them in healing?
What are Crystals and how can you use them in healing?
September 4, 2017 September 8, 2017 holisticcarebyelizabeth
Crystals are also called semi-precious gemstones. They have individually unique structures determining its energetic properties or its Vibrational signature. The use of crystals to heal is a form of Vibrational energy therapy known as Crystal Healing.
Crystal healing is the use of crystals placed on the body to change the energy system ( or balance and stabilize your chakras) to promote better health.
Crystals can be used for emotional, mental, physical and spiritual issues. Just like there are different types of medicines to help with different ailments; crystals also are unique due to their vibrational frequencies and help aid with specefic health issues. Feel free to contact me with questions. I’m going to blog about a few different crystals over the week.
When choosing a crystal the color can be of some use in relating to what chakra it’s most beneficial with. Also a crystal you are drawn too probably means it’s a good one to use. Before use make sure to clean and charge your crystal. There are different methods including a reiki specialist. After choosing your crystal place over the general are of concern and problem and leave there for 15 minutes or so and then remove. Application of the crystal can be done on a regular basis until problem is helped. More serious issues will take longer.
** this in no way should be used in place of medical attention. Crystals are a great way to aid with medical treatment and can bring positive results. **
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
Like this:
Like Loading...
Posted in Reiki, Uncategorized
Post navigation
Previous postSHIVA LINGUM what are the healing properties of this stone?
Next postHelp Heal Abuse and Trauma With Crystals
Leave a Reply	Cancel reply
Search
Search for:
Text Widget
This is a text widget, which allows you to add text or HTML to your sidebar. You can use them to display text, links, images, HTML, or a combination of these. Edit them in the Widget section of the Customizer.
Powered by WordPress.com.
%d bloggers like this: