Can you do a colonoscopy during pregnancy?
Articles
Diseases
FAQ
Medicine
Diagnostics
Can you do a colonoscopy during pregnancy?
Usually colonoscopy pregnant women are needed very rarely. This study is conducted only when necessary, especially in women and in position during feeding of the child. But sometimes it is necessary to perform a colonoscopy and in these patients.
Often the basis for carrying out colonoscopy becomes the suspicion of colon cancer. There is a perception that this disease is characteristic only for males, but it is not. According to statistics, among cancers that occur in women, about 40% is colorectal cancer. On this basis, the colonoscopy becomes a forced measure and a fine half.
Colonoscopy pregnant women
You need to understand that to conduct such research must be a good reason. Pregnancy is not an absolute contraindication.
The indication for colonoscopy could be, for example, the presence of the expectant mother in the history of ulcerative colitis or Crohn’s disease. In this case study it is necessary to hold that a specialist could differentiate between a malfunction of the intestine from the exacerbation of chronic diseases.
In various lesions of the large intestine, the doctor may prescribe such diagnostic techniques as x-ray with contrast (barium enema), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), diagnostic laparoscopy. In this case, it is necessary to understand that none of these methods are not allowed to prescribe for pregnant women. The contrast, in fact, has let and small, but the radioactive effect. At its introduction into the intestine it is located as close to the fruit, not to mention the fact that the x-ray exposure is harmful for the baby itself. MRI also is contraindicated in pregnant women because of the strong magnetic fields. Laparoscopy when everything else is a kind of surgery, which is also harmful in case of pregnancy.
READ Gas after laparoscopy from the abdominal cavity: how and when?
However, from the above it follows that it is better to assign a colonoscopy than any other research method. Any procedure should be prescribed only if its benefits will greatly exceed the possible risks to the body.
Colonoscopy in pregnant women is performed only on strict conditions!
In the case of colonoscopy in pregnant women need to do it under local anesthesia, eliminating systemic effects on the organism of the expectant mother and the fetus.
I must say that it is allowed to do a colonoscopy to pregnant patients, especially if they have chronic intestinal diseases in anamnesis. The patient always needs to remember that. In itself, the study does not assume significant risk for the mother and the developing fetus. A threat could be the anesthesia, but already it was told above that in the case of pregnant women used a local form of anesthetic, which is less harmful.
A vital necessity forced to go to extreme measures. For further health advice it is important to be examined in the future, there were unfortunate consequences.
Training in colonoscopy
If colonoscopy was appointed, it is important to properly prepare. When this procedure is given in the hospital, no preparatory operations do not worry. Need to rely on all those manipulations will be conducted by doctors.
Preparing for your colonoscopy starts before the procedure with proper diet. From the diet of a pregnant woman most likely will already be excluded citrus, strong coffee and tea, as well as some other products that may interfere with the study. It should also refrain from taking products that cause fermentation (beans, nuts, raisins, sodas, white bread, carrots, beets, etc.).
READ Rectosigmoscopy: indications, preparation, conduct
The next stage of preparation of the body – cleansing the bowel. It can be carried as an enema, and using laxatives. Both options carry both advantages and possible contraindications. Enema on the however, pregnancy is usually not assigned because of the risk of challenge of preterm birth. Laxatives are also dangerous because they stimulate the activity of the intestine, which can cause miscarriage. The choice of a particular method of cleansing should not do on their own.
After the procedure almost immediately, you can return to normal activities and usual diet. If you suddenly experience any discomfort, they should not stay long.
Can you do a colonoscopy during pregnancy – the issue is quite controversial and debatable. It is best to do it when no other diagnostic methods and the benefits outweigh the potential risks for both mom and baby.
Related posts:
Colonoscopy bowel: if it hurts or not without anesthesia?
Ultrasound of the bowel or colonoscopy — which is better?
How to check the colon without colonoscopy: an alternative methodology
What kind of doctor gives direction and makes a colonoscopy?
Where can you do a colonoscopy?
CT of the bowel or colonoscopy: which is better?
Which is better – an MRI of the bowel or colonoscopy?
Can you do a colonoscopy during menses?
When to do colonoscopy bowel?
Colonoscopy in children: when and how?
Medicine
Diagnostics
Share with friends:
Add a comment
Нажмите, чтобы отменить ответ.
You need Log in, to post a comment.
Menu
Diets
Diagnostics
Dentistry
Dermatology
Gynecology
Cardiology
Oncology
Traumatology
Urology
Реклама
© 2019 All rights reserved
MAXCACHE: 0.47MB/0.00075 sec