Autism Not Linked to MMR Vaccine: Study : Health & Medicine : Nature World News Autism Not Linked to MMR Vaccine: Study : Health & Medicine : Nature World News
naturewn.com Facebook twitter
Home
Animals
Biology
Environment
Health & Medicine
Tech
Travel
Space
Sections
X
News
Animals
Biology
Environment
Health & Medicine
Tech
Travel
Space
Trending Topics Environmental Regulations stress men women female brain
Autism Not Linked to MMR Vaccine: Study
By Jenna Iacurci
Apr 21, 2015 02:57 PM EDT
Close
(Photo : JenkoAtaman / Fotolia)
In recent years, parents have been cautious of getting their child vaccinated for fear that they might develop autism. But parents can rest easy as a new study shows that there is no link between autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and the measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine.
Though, it should be noted that this study is far from the first to debunk the alleged link between the MMR vaccine and ASD. Nonetheless, parents and others continue to wrongly associate the vaccine with ASD, and blame the vaccine for their children's condition. This belief, combined with knowing that younger siblings of children with ASD are already at higher genetic risk for ASD compared with the general population, might prompt these parents to avoid vaccinating their younger children.
To better get through to parents, a team of scientists studied approximately 95,000 children with older siblings, both with and without ASD, to determine whether the MMR vaccine played a role in the occurrence of ASD. Overall, 994 children had ASD diagnosed during a follow-up.
Among those who had an older sibling with ASD, 6.9 percent were diagnosed with ASD, whereas 0.9 percent were diagnosed with ASD among those without ASD-affected siblings. However, data analysis showed that receiving the MMR vaccine was not associated with an increased risk of ASD at any age, regardless of whether older siblings had ASD.
"Consistent with studies in other populations, we observed no association between MMR vaccination and increased ASD risk among privately insured children. We also found no evidence that receipt of either 1 or 2 doses of MMR vaccination was associated with an increased risk of ASD among children who had older siblings with ASD," the authors wrote in the journal JAMA.
"As the prevalence of diagnosed ASD increases, so does the number of children who have siblings diagnosed with ASD, a group of children who are particularly important as they were undervaccinated in our observations as well as in previous reports," they added. (Scroll to read on...)
(Photo : Pixabay)
The MMR vaccination rate (l dose or more) for the children with unaffected siblings (siblings without ASD) was 84 percent at age 2, while it jumped to 92 percent at age 5. In contrast, the MMR vaccination rates for children with older siblings with ASD were lower - 73 percent at age 2 years and 86 percent at age 5 years.
"Some parents of children with ASD may have chosen to delay immunization in subsequent children until they were certain any risk had passed," Bryan H. King, M.D., from the University of Washington, who was not involved in the study, said in a news release.
"Taken together, some dozen studies have now shown that the age of onset of ASD does not differ between vaccinated and unvaccinated children, the severity or course of ASD does not differ between vaccinated and unvaccinated children, and now the risk of ASD recurrence in families does not differ between vaccinated and unvaccinated children," he concluded.
ASD is defined as a developmental disability that is caused by differences in how the brain functions, causing someone to communicate, interact, behave and learn in different ways, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Recent estimates show that in the United States, about one in 68 children have been identified with autism.
The CDC itself even agrees with this study's conclusion in that there is no link between vaccines in autism. In fact, in 2011, an Institute of Medicine (IOM) report looked at eight vaccines given to children and adults and determined that these vaccines are very safe.
So parents, maybe it's time to start looking at the facts.
For more great nature science stories and general news, please visit our sister site, Headlines and Global News (HNGN).
TagsAutism, vaccine, vaccines, vaccination, Autism Spectrum Disorder, Children, risk, MMR Vaccine, MMR
© 2018 NatureWorldNews.com All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.
Related Articles
Unique 'Tags' in Male Sperm Could Cause Autism in Children
BPA Exposure Linked to Autism
Could Broccoli Treat Autism?!
New Cancer Vaccine Tested 100 Percent Effective In Mice
First Biomarker Evidence Linking Autism To Pesticide DDT Revealed
Join the Conversation
Hungry moose more tolerant of wolves' presence
Wolves lead, dogs follow -- And both cooperate with humans
Scientists crack genome of superfood seaweed, ito-mozuku
Climate change could devastate painted turtles
UM study suggests climate change limits forest recovery after wildfires
Desert plants provided by homeowners offer habitat for desert bird species
Study reviews the potential impacts of future heat waves on humans and wildlife
Could internet activity provide accurate in plant and animal conservation?
What do gardens bring to urban ecosystems?
space
Explosion on Jupiter-sized star 10 times more powerful than ever seen on our sun
Mars rover Curiosity makes first gravity-measuring traverse on the Red Planet
Astronomers find star material could be building block of life
Deepest image of the Universe ever taken from space
Milky Way's neighbors pick up the pace
science
Global Warming Blamed for Increasing Incidence of Type-2 Diabetes
Shocking: Scientists Successfully Cultivated Beating Human Heart Cells from Spinach Leaves
Christ’s Tomb Now Open to Public After $4M Restoration
Cannibalism Actually Happened in Spain 10,000 Years Ago
Cheerios' Bring the Bees Back Campaign May Actually Do More Harm Than Good
tech
Ocean circulation likely to blame for severity of 2018 red tide
Smartphone test spots poisoned water risk to millions of lives
The smallest skeletons in the marine world observed in 3D by synchrotron techniques
Toward automated animal identification in wildlife research
MERMAIDs reveal secrets from below the ocean floor
Mail Facebook twitter google
arrow
Email Newsletter
You have already subscribed. Thank you.
EDITOR'S Choices
Biology
Bionics: Electric view in murky waters
Environment
More than 90% of glacier volume in the Alps could be lost by 2100
Biology
Scientists explore causes of biodiversity in perching birds
Environment
Air temperatures in the Arctic are driving system change
Most Popular
1 In vivo super-resolution photoacoustic computed tomography by localization of single dyed droplets
2 Ocean circulation likely to blame for severity of 2018 red tide
3 Coelacanth reveals new insights into skull evolution
4 Explosion on Jupiter-sized star 10 times more powerful than ever seen on our sun
5 What Earth's gravity reveals about climate change
Home Animals Biology Environment Health & Medicine Tech Travel Space
About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms&Conditions
© Copyright 2019 NATURE WORLD NEWS All rights reserved.