Hemorrhoids
Search The Eclectic Physician:
Enter Keyword(s)
Exact Match
| Home | Alternative Therapies | Supplement Information | Herb Monographs | Q&A Archive | Materia Medicia |
The Eclectic Physician
Natural Health Care
by Beth Burch N.D.
Hemorrhoids-
Hemorrhoids, also known as piles, are varicose veins of the anorectal area. They are caused by weakness of the vein walls and/or excessive pressure on the veins from constipation, diarrhea, straining during lifting, prolonged standing or sitting and pregnancy. The chief symptoms are pain, itching, burning, swelling and bleeding. They can be located externally or internally . A low fiber diet is the most important associated factor. Conventional treatment includes anesthetic and astringent topical medications and surgical removal.
Natural treatment includes high fiber diet and lots of liquids (see constipation). Supplementation with Vitamin C and citrus bioflavonoids with help to strengthen vein walls. A supplement of glycosaminoglycans has shown excellent results with hemorrhoids. Warm sitz baths can give temporary relief. Some alternative physicians offer a non-surgical removal of hemorrhoids by using a rubber band around the hemorrhoid to cut off the blood supply. Note- Most hemorrhoids in pregnant women resolve after delivery and should not have surgical or non-surgical removal done during pregnancy.
Herbal treatment-
Bilberry(internal)-Shown in a number of studies to strengthen vein walls
Standardized extract (25% anthocyanidin content)- 80-160 mg three times a day.
Witch Hazel (external)-shown to help strengthen vein walls. Astringent to help relieve itching and pain. Apply topically as witch hazel water or tincture.
Other herbs-Gotu kola, Butcher's Broom, Bistort, Horsechestnut
* The information presented in this web site is intended to inform and educate. It is not intended replace a qualified medical practitioner to diagnose or treat medical conditions.
[ Herb Information | Supplements Information ]
[ Treatments | Q&A Archive | Site Directory | Home ]
Web Site Design By Dan Burch
Some of Dan's other sites:
Plans and Instructions to Build a Rustic Log Frame Gazebo
Photography by R.Dennis Wianko of Ross Mountain
Outdoor Gear Mountain Outdoor Store
1997 - 2008 All Copyrights Reserved
Logo Graphic Design by Print-tech India
www.printtechindia.com