Collagen Type II for Arthritis Pain Relief - Applied Health | Anti-Aging Begins Inside
Call Us: 800-300-0331|customerservice@appliedhealth.com
FacebookRssTwitterYoutubeInstagramPinterestGoogle+Free Coupon Code for VIP Insiders
RetroAging Pioneers
Family Operated Since 1997
Home
Blog
Topics
Diet and Nutrition
Exercise and Fitness
Weight Loss Logic
Guilt-Free Recipes
Lifestyle
Healthy Notes
A Wandering Mind
About-Us
Product Categories
Joint Health
CellRenew Collagen Type II and Knee Pain
CellRenew Ingredients
CellRenew Monograph
CellRenew Technical Outline
Hydrolyzed Collagen Clinical Trial
Is Collagen Type II A Cure For Arthritis And Heart Disease
Hyaluronic Acid and ABC News
Hyaluronic Acid Adds Bounce to Your Step
Is Hyaluronic Acid the Fountain of Youth?
Detox and Cleanse
Daily Detox Toxin Binder
PowerZyme Digestive Enzymes
PowerZyme Ingredients
PowerZyme Monograph
The Value of Digestive Enzymes
Stress & Energy
Vital Mind
Vital Mind Technical Outline
The History of Vital Mind Daily
B Complex w/ Methyl-B12
Weight Management
Fat First Calorie Trap
CarbSense Carb Cutter
Daily Detox Toxin Binder
Smart Weigh Kickstart
Healthy Digestion
Daily Detox Toxin Binder
PowerZyme Digestive Enzymes
PowerZyme Ingredients
PowerZyme Monograph
The Value of Digestive Enzymes
Immunity Support
Shop Now
Collagen Type II for Arthritis Pain Relief
Does Collagen Type II relieve osteoarthritis? Research says, yes.
Was that snap, crackle, and pop your knee or mine? What do you turn to for relief – TigerBalm, Aspirin, glucosamine/chondroitin . . . chocolate and a tranquillizer?
If you are like most Americans, you may be using two of the most popular forms of arthritis supplements – glucosamine and chondroitin.
Approximately, $810 million was spent on these nutrients in 2005. Glucosamine and chondroitin can provide relief, but researchers are finding another nutrient may have more superior benefits in restoring joint health.
Collagen type II (CTII) is an effective source for alleviating joint stiffness and increasing mobility. Several studies have found CTII reduces joint pain in rheumatoid arthritis, but a new study published in the International Journal of Medical Sciences found that it is also an effective treatment for osteoarthritis.
Researchers recruited 52 subjects with osteoarthritis in the knees to take CTII or a glucosamine/chondroitin combination for 90 days.
Volunteers taking CTII had a 20% decrease in pain during exercise, while glucosamine/chondroitin only relieved pain by 6%. Overall, CTII reduced joint pain by 40%. The glucosamine/chondroitin combination only alleviated joint pain by 15.4%. Quality of life also improved in the CTII group, as daily activities were easier to perform.
How does collagen type II alleviate joint pain? CTII is the primary form of collagen naturally found in joint cartilage. The body needs CTII to rebuild connective tissue. Supplementing with a superior form of collagen can help reduce inflammation and the breakdown of collagen in the body. For the best absorption, choose a hydrolyzed collagen type II to restore joint health.
Collagen Related Posts
How to Stop Lower Back and Leg Pain from Sciatica
Is Hyaluronic Acid the Fountain of Youth
Hyaluronic Acid Adds Bounce to Your Step
Collagen Type II for Arthritis Pain Relief
References:
Ausar S, Beltramo D, Castagna L, Quintana S, et al. Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis by oral administration of bovine tracheal type II collagen. Rheumat Intern. 2001; 20(4):138-144.
Bagchi D, Misner B, Bagchi M, Kothari SC, et al. Effects of orally administered undenatured type II collagen against arthritic inflammatory diseases: a mechanistic exploration. Int J Clin Pharmacol Res. 2002; 22(3-4):101-110.
Crowley DC, Lau FC, Sharma P, et al. Safety and efficacy of undenatured type II collagen in the treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee: a clinical trial. International J of Med Sciences. 2009, 6:312-321.
Garcia G, Komagata Y, Slavin A, Maron R, Weiner H. Suppression of collagen-induced arthritis by oral or nasal administration of type II collagen. J of Autoimmunity. 1999; 13(3): 315-324.
Trentham DE, Dynesius-Trentham RA, Orav EJ, Combitchi D. Effects of oral administration of type II collagen on rheumatoid arthritis. Science. 1993; 261(5129):1727-1730.
[Applied Health Publications are registered in the United States Library of Congress, ISSN: 1525-6359]
Tahlea Jankoski	2015-07-22T08:38:40+00:00
About the Author: Tahlea Jankoski
Tahlea has been a professional writer in the health care industry for over seven years. She has a lifelong enthusiasm for nutrition and fitness and is a reliable resource on how to maintain a healthier lifestyle. Tahlea has a Masters of Arts in Mass Communications with a focus on Health, where she received notable awards and acceptance for her media research from national conferences and a peer-review publication. Through extensive research and writing experience, she is frequently asked for advice on nutritional products, fitness, and healthy foods. Those seeking advice have helped to encourage her passion for creating clear and relevant health-related articles. Tahlea has additional experience as a freelance writer in the entertainment, fashion, and social media industries. She enjoys hiking, mountain biking, traveling, green smoothies, eating healthy food, and exploring new cities. She also loves kite surfing and watching the sunset over the ocean, while walking her Labradoodle, Roxy. . .(that is - if she knew how to kite surf, lived by the ocean, and had a dog). For more of Tahlea's articles, [click on this link] [follow on Facebook, Twitter]
Related Posts
RetroAging
ret-ro-ag-ing (rĕt׳rō-ā׳jǐng)
adj. and v.
A reversal or backward state of aging. RetroAging exceeds Anti-Aging by reversing symptoms of aging, as opposed to merely slowing the aging process.
Latin retrō, backward, behind, reverse.
Recent Articles
4 Stretching Tips for Carpal Tunnel Syndrome
How to Stop Lower Back and Leg Pain from Sciatica
The Chocolate Superfood Diet for Health
5 Tools for Fitness
How and Why do 10000 Steps Each Healthy Day
Categories
Categories Select Category A Wandering Mind Diet and Nutrition Exercise and Fitness Featured Guilt-Free Recipes Pea Protein Powder Healthy Digestion PowerZyme Healthy Immune System Foundation Grapefruit Seed Extract Healthy Joints CellRenew Healthy Notes Lifestyle Telomeres Antiaging Weight Loss Logic
Company Contact
Applied Health Solutions, Inc.
6501 E. Greenway Pkwy.
Suite 103 – 334
Scottsdale, Arizona 85254
Phone: 480-998-0992
Email: CustomerService@appliedhealth.com
Web: https://appliedhealth.com
About Us: Who's Applied Health?
Privacy Policy: Your Privacy
Whitelisting: How to Whitelist
Product Video Reviews:
How to Submit Video
Being Sociable
Recent Tweets
10 Tips to dump that pain in your butt. And no, we're not referring to ditching your spouse. #backpain #sciatica appliedhealth.com/stop-sciatica-…
6 months ago
The #Chocolate Superfood Diet for #Health - Finally, A Healthy excuse to eat more chocolate! appliedhealth.com/chocolate-supe… via @AppliedHealth
1 year ago
Recent Posts
4 Stretching Tips for Carpal Tunnel Syndrome
How to Stop Lower Back and Leg Pain from Sciatica
The Chocolate Superfood Diet for Health
5 Tools for Fitness
How and Why do 10000 Steps Each Healthy Day
Copyright 2018 Applied Health Solutions, Inc. | All Rights Reserved
FacebookRssTwitterYoutubeInstagramPinterestGoogle+Free Coupon Code for VIP Insiders