Grapefruit and Medicine Interaction - VCMBC
Home
About us
Health
Nutrition
Diet
Weight Loss
Beauty
Reviews
Contact
Grapefruit and Medicine Interaction
0 0 0 0
17th March 2016
Many chemical formulations have changed in recent years that affected how prescription drugs interact with grapefruit. The lack of awareness among some doctors regarding this drugs-grapefruit interaction resulted in the increased incidence of life-threatening cases.
More drugs are available now in the market that can cause adverse and serious life-threatening cases when combined with grapefruit. Since 2008, there were 43 drugs identified that can cause severe side effects.
Health care professionals need to be up-to-date with information regarding the drugs and their potential harmful interaction with grapefruit, so that they can prescribe drugs that are safe for patients to use.
Serious Health Threat When Combining Grapefruit With Some Drugs
There were reports of sudden death of patients and serious illnesses like respiratory failure, kidney failure and gastrointestinal bleeding as a result of the intake of even little amounts of grapefruit or its juice which reacted with the prescribed medication. Some drugs intended for treating high cholesterol, high blood pressure, cancer and some antibiotics like erythromycin have been identified as culprits in such cases.
It’s not just grapefruit that the drugs interact with. Citrus fruits that have the active ingredient furanocoumarin, including Seville oranges and limes, have been found to react with the drugs and cause dangerous reactions. It seems that grapefruit interferes with the function of an enzyme in deactivating the potency of the medication by half.
When a person takes the medication orally, it is not metabolized very well. Most of the drug component simply passes through the stomach and does not enter the bloodstream.
But when eating grapefruit, even if just a small amount several hours before taking the medication, the percentage of the metabolized drug increases. In effect, it would seem that the person is taking many doses of the drug at once.
The toxicity can build up quickly with repeated intake of the drug. For example, a person is taking Zocor, a cholesterol-lowering drug, once a day for 3 days. When taken together with 7 ounces of grapefruit juice, there will be a 330 percent increase of the drug flowing in the person’s bloodstream.
List of drugs that adversely react with grapefruit
The following drugs have been reported to interact with grapefruit:
1. Drugs for lowering cholesterol levels – Zocor (simvastatin), Pravachol (pravastatin) and Lipitor (atorvastatin)
2. Drugs for lowering blood pressure – Nifediac and Afeditab (nifedipine)
3. Drugs for organ transplant rejection – Neoral and Sandimmune (cyclosporine)
4. Cardiovascular medications – Nexterone and Cordarone (amiodarone), apixaban and clopidogrel
The researchers identified those who are 45 years old and above as the most likely buyers of grapefruit. They are also the most likely users of the above-mentioned medications. They must be warned against the dangerous grapefruit-drug interaction.
In reality, there are no hard facts regarding the occurrence of the adverse effects being talked about on patients. A future study is warranted to find more information.
When doctors prescribe medications that can adversely interact with grapefruit, they should advise the patients to avoid eating grapefruit. Another option is to prescribe alternative drugs that do not interact with grapefruit or its juice.
Photo credit: By FDA graphic by Michael J. Ermarth (Grapefruit Juice and Medicine May Not Mix) [Public domain]
Categories:	Health
Tags:	grapefruit, medicine
Related Articles
Acid Reflux Disease (GERD) – Dietary Changes: Making Dietary Changes to Relieve Heartburn and Other GERD Symptoms
Weight Lifting Tips For Beginners 5
THE RESISTANT STARCH – OUR BODY NEEDS IT PART 1
Japanese Therapies – Hydrotherapy and Dietary Therapy
Arthritis Pain and Exercise 2
Low Sodium Diet: The Healthy Choice for Serious Athletes?
Understanding the Common Types of Eating Disorders
BE CAREFUL HOW MUCH YOU EAT
Reviews
Kara Keto Burn Review – Why Traditional Diets Fail – A Must Read!!
25th July 2018
KetoSlim Review – The All Natural , All Powerfull! Must Read!
22nd July 2018
Pure Health Weight Control with Pure Health Body Detox – Real Deal?
12th July 2018
Optimum Garcinia Plus – Complete Review (2018 updated) – Scam or not?
1st July 2018
Ultavive Garcinia & Nevlonte Colon Cleanse – Scam or Not?
24th October 2017
Perlelux and Collagenea Review
29th September 2017
Revyve Cream & Serum Skin Treatment Review
26th June 2017
Tru Allure Facial Serum & Nouveau Eye Essence Review
11th May 2017
Auvela Skincare System Review
11th May 2017
Junivive Serum & Junivive Cream Combination – Scam Or Not?
8th May 2017
More Articles
Beauty
The Importance of Vitamin B12 in the Diet
13th July 2017
Design Museum – Dieter Rams – Less and More: Exhibition of Ground-Breaking Designs Created for Braun and Vitsœ
11th July 2017
More Articles
Nutrition
How to Lose Pregnancy Weight Without Strict Dieting
5th October 2018
Fast Diets for Wedding Day Perfection: Fit Into That Wedding Dress or Tux and Look Like a Million Bucks
3rd October 2018
More Articles
Health
Weight Loss with Diet and Exercise: How to Lose Stubborn Weight with Simple Recipes and Routines
25th September 2018
Recommendations for Beginning a Vegetarian Diet: Improving your Health and Nutrition through Dietary Changes
23rd September 2018
More Articles
© 2015 Copyright vcmbc.com All Rights reserved.
Close Window
Loading, Please Wait!
This may take a second or two.
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.Ok