Wedding Smiles - Dental Extractions
Cape Town Cosmetic Dentistry
Dental Extractions
Dental Extractions refer to the removal of teeth or roots
WHEN DO I NEED A DENTAL EXTRACTION?
In dentistry today, many extractions are still performed to remove unwanted teeth or roots. Although we always try to keep our own teeth for as long as possible, sometimes it is better to let go of the unwanted tooth than restoring it, because the outcome becomes too uncertain or compromised.
POSSIBLE CAUSES FOR A DENTAL EXTRACTION
Very mobile teeth (Advanced Periodontitis / Gum Disease)
Too little bone around the teeth to anchor the roots
Fractured or trauma to the teeth
Infection that destroyed most of the healthy tooth structure
Orthodontic reasons (e.g. spacing)
Financial considerations
TYPES OF DENTAL EXTRACTIONS
The traditional ‘wiggle and pull'
The modern ‘surgical approach'
Extracted Tooth
WHERE CAN A DENTAL EXTRACTION TAKE PLACE?
In a surgery
Under sedation
In Hospital under general anesthesia
SURGICAL APPROACH
The tooth is exposed by moving the gum away. Sometimes it has to be splitted in 2 or 3 sections with a drill and each section is then removed with great ease and comfort. Bone loss is minimal and this is the preferred method for a possible Dental Implant case afterwards.
A flat instrument is forced between the gum and the tooth and the circumferential movements wiggle the tooth loose (wiggly - waggle method)
DENTAL SUTURES
Most of the times the use of dental sutures is recommended to close the wound and to speed up the healing process. These are dissolvable or non-dissolvable.
CARE FOR DENTAL EXTRACTIONS
Extraction of a tooth is minor surgery and complications very seldom occur when you follow the correct aftercare procedures. In fact, doing certain things, even on the first day, may help you feel better and heal faster.
Control The Bleeding
This is the first aim after an extraction and it leads to rapid tissue growth and healing. Bite firmly on the gauze placed by your dentist. The pressure helps to form a blood clot in the tooth socket. If you have a lot of bleeding, bite on a regular tea bag until the bleeding stops. The tannic acid in the tea aids in forming a blood clot.
Guaze
Minimize Pain
Take the prescribed medication as directed (painkillers and / or antibiotics to lessen the chance of any possible complications.) Ask your dentist if you may take over-the-counter medication, if needed.
Painkillers
Reduce The Swelling
Put an ice pack (enclose ice-pack with cloth) on your cheek near the extraction site for about 10 minutes and then remove it for 15 minutes. Repeat as needed. You may see some bruising on your face. This is normal and will go away on its own.
Ice Pack
Get Enough Rest
Limit activities for the first 24 hours after an extraction. When lying down, elevate your head slightly.
Get enough rest
DO'S
Eat soft, healthy foods and drink plenty of liquids
Brush gently around the extraction site without using any toothpaste. (Rinsing toothpaste from your mouth will dislodge the blood clot)
Keep the extraction site clean. After 12 hours you may be able to gently rinse your mouth.
Rinse 4 times a day with 1 teaspoon of salt in a warm glass of water.
Eat on the opposite side to prevent food from getting into the socket
Rinse your mouth very gently otherwise the blood clot may dislodge!
Salt & Water
DON'TS
Don't rinse your mouth at all for the first 1-2 hours after the extraction as this may dislodge the blood clot.
Don't drink with a straw, because sucking may dislodge the blood clot
Don't fiddle in the socket with your tongue
Don't drink hot liquids, because it may increase the swelling and sustain from using alcohol. It may slow down the healing process.
Don't smoke. Smoking may break down the blood clot, causing a painful tooth socket
Don't chew. Avoid crunchy or sticky foods, such as popcorn, gum and nuts.
Don't Smoke
HOW LONG WILL THE ANESTHETIC LAST?
Your mouth will feel numb anything from 1 hour to 4 hours
CALL YOUR DENTIST IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING HAPPENS:
Severe pain in the area (2-3 days later) - possible infection
Continuous bleeding (slight oozing of blood on the first day is normal)
Excessive swelling around the extraction site. Itching or rashes occur after you take medication (maybe an allergic reaction)
Home
Cosmetic Dentistry
Teeth Whitening
1 Visit Dentistry
Dental Info
◦ Composite Bonding/Sculpting
◦ Dental Bridges
◦ Dental Crowns
◦ Dentures
◦ Dental Extractions
◦ Dental Fiber Technology
◦ Dental Inlays/Onlays/Overlays
◦ Dental Implants
◦ Dental Post & Core
◦ Dental Veneers
◦ Gum Disease/Periodontitis
◦ Root Canal Therapy
◦ White Composite Fillings
Smile Analysis
Our Packages
◦ Starter Package
◦ Couple Package
Before & After
Our Services
Contact Us
WELCOME TO
WEDDING SMILES!
If you are serious about looking your absolute best on your wedding day and having your greatest SMILE ever, we are here to help!
For the first time ever we are giving away our MOVIESTAR SECRETS to help you transform your smile!
Our Teeth Whitening, Dental Veneers, White Fillings, Dental Implants and Cosmetic Dentis-
try will drive you crazy!
A great SMILE is the secret that ties everything together in giving you fabulous pictures, oozing confidence and a drop dead gorgeous YOU!
Subscribe now to get access to these amazing SECRETS !
Home Cosmetic Dentistry Teeth Whitening Dental Info Composite Bonding/Sculpting Dental Bridges Dental Crowns Dentures Dental Extractions Dental Fiber Technology Dental Inlays/Onlays/Overlays Dental Implants Dental Post & Core Dental Veneers Gum Disease/Periodontitis Root Canal Therapy White Composite Fillings Smile Analysis Our Packages Starter Package Couple Package Before & After Our Services Contact Us
© Copyright WeddingSmiles.co.za
All Rights Reserved