Cholesterol and Exercise to Get Healthy
Home
About Me
Contact Me
Privacy Policy
Search CST!
What's New!
Cholesterol and Exercise to Get Healthy
What do cholesterol and exercise have to do with each other? Lots!
Weight training is one of the best methods of strength training! If you want to start weight training safely and effectively, with the best info, diet, and routines, check out the 5 Day Beginner Weight Training Course!
You need a low level of cholesterol to be healthy, but through poor diet and a sedentary lifestyle many people get high levels of bad cholesterol - very unhealthy.
But before we look at how cholesterol and exercise are connected...
A Quick Overview Of Cholesterol
Cholesterol (C27H46O) is a waxy steroid found in cell membranes. It is necessary for healthy cells in animals, but it's not all good as you probably know.
High-density lipoprotein (HDL) is a lipoprotein that carries 'good' cholesterol around your body. Thus, it is simply referred to many times as just 'HLD cholesterol'.
Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) is a lipoprotein that carries 'bad' cholesterol throughout your body. High levels of it have been correlated with heart disease and other ailments. Thus, it is commonly referred to as 'bad' cholesterol.
HIgh levels of good (HDL) cholesterol and low levels of bad (LDL) cholesterol is the name of the game.
How Do Cholesterol and Exercise Work?
Lucky for you, cholesterol and exercise go together: exercise raises levels of good cholesterol and lowers levels of bad cholesterol.[1] Just what the doctor ordered.
Literally.
Daily exercise is the preferred way to lower your cholesterol.[2] It's simple to do, cheap, and there's almost no risk of collateral damage - as ther might be with some pills.
And if the exercise results in weight loss, there's an even more dramatic fall in LDL (bad) cholesterol levels![3] Less fat means less bad cholesterol mucking up your body.
There's more! Mixing exercise with improvements in your diet will bring even more improvements.[4][5] With all of these, just through some simple lifestyle changes you can radically improve your cholesterol levels.
Also, an interesting fact is that the amount of exercise done has more effect on your cholesterol levels than the intensity of that exercise.[6] You can get more benefit by walking and jogging more than by sprints or more brutal (but short) exercises!
But…
How Much Exercise Do You Need?
Just exercising 3 days a week, 30 minutes per day, has been shown to reduce bad cholesterol levels.[7] This is useful and certainly doable, though you'll get your greatest benefits from daily exercise.[8]
In the beginning, walking is a good place to start if you haven't been active for a while. Set aside a little time, 15 - 20 minutes 3 days a week in the beginning, and go walking at your local park, around the block, or wherever.
Integrate exercise into your life. It's old advice, but taking the stairs and not the elevator, doing activities with your friends, etc. will help you be more active. Every little bit helps.
In 1996, the Surgeon General recommended burning 150 calories a day through exercise to be healthy. That's the equivalent of walking about 1.5 miles a day, and an excellent level to keep your health.[9]
If you're in better shape, or walking isn't your style, find some fun ways to exercise. There's tons of stuff out there, and you can find something you enjoy.
Also, at least one study has shown that weight training can help you lower your levels of bad cholesterol.[10] So, that might be your cup of bitter, iron tea.
A Final Note On Cholesterol And Exercise…
Just to be responsible about this, if you haven't done any exercise in a long while you should talk to your doctor before starting. It might not be convenient, but it could keep you from doing unacceptable damage to your body.
Oh, and be sure to sign up for the e-zine Starting Strong to get monthly strength training, exercise, and diet tips e-mailed to you - and access to the free e-book Train Smart, Eat Smart: Exercise Nutrition Hacks!
• Click here to learn more about the Benefits of Physical Fitness & Exercise!
OR
• Click here to leave 'Cholesterol and Exercise to Get Healthy' & go back to the Complete Strength Training Home-page!
Cholesterol and Exercise to Get Healthy
References:
1. Ornish, Dean, and Art Smith. 2007. The Spectrum: A Scientifically Proven Program to Feel Better, Live Longer, Lose Weight, And Gain Health. New York: Ballantine Books. Pp. 162.
2. McGowan, Mary P., and Jo McGowan Chopra. 2002. 50 Ways To Lower Your Cholesterol. Chicago, Ill: Contemporary Books. Pp. 75.
3. Ibid. Pp. 78.
4. Ornish. Pp. 161.
5. Prevention Health Books. 2008. Cholesterol Cures: Featuring The Breakthrough Menu Plan To Slash Cholesterol. New York: Rodale. Pp. 60.
6. Ornish. Pp. 162.
7. McGowan. Pp. 76.
8. Ibid. Pp. 76.
9. Freeman, Mason W., and Christine E. Junge. 2005. The Harvard Medical School Guide to Lowering Your Cholesterol. New York: McGraw-Hill. Pp. 138.
10. Prevention Health Books. Pp. 60.
New! Comments
Have your say about what you just read! Leave me a comment in the box below.
Home
Store
Coaching
E-Products
Free Stuff!
E-Book & E-Zine
Interactive Pages
What's New!
YOUR Ideas
Questions?
Site Search
Information
Six Pack Abs
Abs & Core
Benefits
Types of Routines
Women
Kettlebells
Grip & Hands
Body Weight Lifts
Plyometrics
Routines
Isometrics
Weight Training
Recovery
Stretching
Body Types
Supplements
Healthy Foods
Weight Loss
Interviews
About this Site
About Me
Contact Me
Buy Me Espresso
Become A Trainer
Advertising
Disclaimer
Sitemap
Get the E-Zine...
E-mail Address
First Name
Then
Don't worry — your e-mail address is totally secure.
I promise to use it only to send you Starting Strong.
Search CST...
Tweet
Follow @Aaron_CST
[?]Subscribe To This Site
"About 2 weeks ago I read all the ab strengthening stuff on your site because I decided I wanted to be strong, instead of having a lot of belly fat. So I started eating healthier, running, exercising, you name it - everything your site said to do to help. Now I am noticing a real difference! Thank you for making this. :D xD"
~ Julia
[This calorie calculator is] the most useful tool on the web that I can find… Also, I compared the calories calculated by your calculator to the calories calculated by the treadmill at my gym, and they're within a couple calories of each other, so yours is as accurate as we're going to get. REALLY AWESOME TOOL. I love it and depend on it. Thank you sooooo much for making this available."
~ Galit Sharon Marcus
Thank you very much, I was too lean before 2 years (55 Kgs), after the gym now I'm 72kgs, all the muscles have developed... when someone hand shakes with me it can be squeezed easily, they're making fun of me!
~ Tamil Arasan
Home
About Me
Contact Me
Privacy Policy
Search CST!
What's New!
Copyright © 2009 - 2014
Aaron McCloud. All Rights Reserved.