Urinary Tract Infections In Men | Natural Cures For Urinary Tract Infections
Home
About
Sitemap
Disclaimer
Over 99% Of UTIs Cured In 12 Hours Here Money Back Guarantee.
Urinary Tract Infections In Men
Published by Jennifer on Aug 19th, 2007 in UTI in men with No Comments
Urinary tract infections are a more common infection for women than they are men. The reason men don’t get them anywhere near as much as women is because their urethra is much longer and therefore it’s a lot further from the rectal area.
Why men get UTIs
The most popular reason a man will get a urinary tract infection is due to an enlarged prostate. An enlarged prostate prevents the bladder from being fully emptied, so the urine left in the bladder has a higher chance of being infected with bacteria.
If you suffer from an enlarged prostate then you can drink cranberry juice or take capsules if you want to prevent yourself from getting a UTI. Cranberry juice contains proanthocyanins that prevent bacteria from adhering to the walls of the urethra so they are washed away easier.
Another cause of a UTI in men is kidney stones. If you’re suffering from kidney stones, and can’t or don’t want surgery there’s an excellent natural cure available.
href="http://jason05.superman35.hop.clickbank.net/?tid=KS">Kidney Stones Breakthrough is a natural cure for your kidney stones with an 80% success rate. If you find it doesn’t work for you you can get a full, no questions asked refund.
Treatment
Because urinary tract infections in men are usually caused by another problem it’s best to seek medical treatment as soon as possible. You will already know the cause so keeping your UTI under control will be a lot easier. If you have an enlarged prostate then your doctor is probably the best person to help you. If you have kidney stones, once you get rid of these then your urinary tract infection should disappear as well.
When you are suffering from UTIs, and the cause is not obvious it can sometimes make the infection and your health worse as the infection just gets attacked with constant anti bacterial drugs. These can upset the body’s natural bacterial balance and cause other bacterial infections like yeast infections.
If you have to take a course of antibiotics, repopulating your digestive tract with friendly bacteria as soon as the course is finished will help you avoid other infections.
Tags:
« Cystitis Home Remedy
Chronic Urinary Tract Infections »
Leave a Reply
You must be logged in to post a comment.
Recent Posts
What Type Of Cipro To Take For UTI
Urinary Tract Infections And Cranberry Juice
Severe UTI And Yeast Infection
Urinary Tract Infection And Frequent Urination
Untreated Urinary Tract Infections
Categories
12 hour UTI cure
Antibiotics
Bladder infections
Chronic urinary tract infections
Cipro
Cranberry Juice
Cystitis
Frequent urinary tract infections
Frequent urination
Natural cures for UTI
Recurrent UTI
Untreated UTIs
Urinary tract infection treatments
UTI and Pregnancy
UTI and Yeast Infection
UTI causes
UTI in men
UTI prevention
UTI symptoms
Archives
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
August 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
September 2007
August 2007
© Natural Cures For Urinary Tract Infections * WordPress * LoseMyMind * Feed