Uncategorized | Khalid Maqbool & Sons
Email us at info@saltlampfactory.com
Category Archives: Uncategorized
Rock Salt
Posted on March 12, 2016 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Himalayan Salt, Uncategorized	Leave a comment
Rock Salt
The Himalayas – the tallest mountains in the world – span 2400 kilometers across Asia at the joining of the Indian and Eurasian tectonic plates. Where these proud peaks now stand, 250 million years ago was a primordial sea. Within that ancient body of water existed a perfect, pristine ecosystem. As the plates of the earth moved and over the ages pushed the Himalayas toward the heavens, the sea evaporated and all of its life-sustaining minerals crystallized under the heat of the sun to form what we now know as Himalayan rock salt. As you can probably gather from the name, Himalayan rock salt comes from the Himalayas, the famous mountain range that stretches across Nepal, Tibet, and Afghanistan.You probably know that Mount Everest is part of the Himalayas, but the fame of Himalayan rock salt isn’t about the majesty of the mountain peaks.The Himalayan rock salt is formed from ancient oceans more than 200 million years ago.Covered by snow and ice, and far from huge population centers, the salt found deep under the Himalayan foot hills have been protected from the human pollution throughout the years.It is now considered the purest rock salt you can find in this world, and it is hand-mined so that its purity is maintained.With its delicate pink, rose-like color, rock salt is visually distinctive and prized for its purported nutritional profile as it contains a high number of essential minerals.
Himalayan salt is also often called Himalayan rock salt. It has been compressed and formed under immense pressure for millions of years, giving them the perfect highly crystalline structure which is high in stored energy.
ROCK SALT BENEFITS:
Ease Stress, nervousness and anxiety
Reduce joint and arthritis inflammation and pain
Experience a better nights sleep and perhaps help with insomnia
Assist in helping your muscles to recover from physical exhaustion and fatigue
Strengthen your immune system
Promote relaxation, calmness and just to clear your head
Rock Salt consists of exactly the same natural elements that make up our bodies. Interestingly enough, our blood consists of the same salty ingredients as the primordial sea. Sole Water is the perfect combination of pure water and these rock salt crystals. It is this same combination that comprises the amniotic fluid we find in the womb, where new life begins.
Rock salt also used in salt therapies
Salt therapy is a drug free treatment that reproduces the natural micro climate of a salt cave by dispersing a rock salt aerosol in high concentrations in a halo chamber whose surfaces are covered with layers of rock salt. The rock salt aerosol in the room plays an important role in the relief of health problems and is a highly effective therapy for treating people with respiratory problems and skin conditions without any known side effects.
Within the salt room a microniser is used to pump a dry aerosol Himalayan rock salt aerosol into the air. As the Himalayan rock salt is inhaled, it travels through the sinuses and respiratory tract absorbing moisture, cleansing, clearing mucus, killing bacteria and reducing inflammation.Rock salt has long been known for its anti-inflammatory and anti-bacterial properties as well as helping to loosen mucus build up and phlegm, help with asthma treatment and bronchial conditions. Studies have shown that people with chronic upper respiratory conditions, seasonal allergies, sinusitis, bronchitis and skin disorders can derive significant benefits from salt therapy.
How Your Skin Benefits From Rock Salt Skin Scrubs
A buildup of dead skin cells causes a rough, dull, aged appearance. Exfoliating the top layers of dehydrated cells promotes a youthful glowing skin, as well as many other benefits. Rubbing your skin with a quality rock salt scrub allows the texture of the rock salt scrub to exfoliate and refine the skin, leaving it clean and refreshed, and rubbing away any dead skin cells that cause your skin to look dull. The rock salt grains cleanse pores unlike any soap or cleanser can, allowing your skin to breathe easier. The main benefits of using a good rock salt skin scrub include:
Exfoliating cleans the skin better than soaps or cleansers.
Removing dull, dead skin cells to reveal younger looking skin.
Thoroughly cleaning skin pores, allowing your skin to breathe easier.
Stimulating blood circulation and removing daily toxins from your skin.
Helping to regenerate new skin, which keeps your skin looking younger.
Strengthening and firming skin tissue.
Himalayan Salt Brick
Posted on March 11, 2016 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Himalayan Salt, Salt Plates, Uncategorized	Leave a comment
If you hang out in kitchen stores and food shops, you’ve probably seen Himalayan salt bricks in the form of squares, rectangles, bowls and cups. Himalayan salt brick cooking is a new way to cook, but the salt is as old as the hills. The stone is cut from boulders carved from the Salt Range of Pakistan. Although the stone has been marketed as originating in the Himalayas, the Salt Range is about 200 miles away. Despite this mislabeling, Himalayan salt is considered among the purest in the world, free from pollutants, rich in calcium, iron and some 80 trace minerals.These minerals are what give the slabs their distinctive color and appearance. They can be streaked, translucent, opaque or a combination of all three. They can be whitish, pink, deep red, amber yellow and even silvery blue. The fissures and color variations make each one distinct.
Himalayan salt is the most useful and fascinating salt in the world! We inspect and hand-select each Himalayan salt brick for color and quality. At our Salt Factory, located in Khewra, our production team cuts and grinds the salt into the useful shapes we sell online and in our stores. Each and every Himalayan product we sell has been inspected for defects and is guaranteed for quality.
Himalayan salt brick has a very stable crystal structure, which allows it to hold a temperature very well. You can chill it to use as a serving platter for sushi, or heat it over a grill or stove top to cook your veggies. Cooking on salt gives it a greatly enhanced flavor over that of a frying pan. The mineral content in the salt gives it a more nuanced flavor than table salt, and the amount of saltiness it imparts varies with the type of food (moist foods absorb more salt, fatty foods repel it, etc.). Himalayan salt is also long-lasting and naturally antibiotic, needing little more than wiping with a damp sponge after most uses.
How do I use them?
+ Use the large, thick salt bricks only for heating; if they are too thin, their cooking life will be greatly reduced due to increased risk of cracks.
+ Individual-serve-sized salt bricks are excellent for freezing and for room temperature uses such as curing.
+ Heat your completely-dry salt brick slowly on your gas stove on lowest heat for 15 minutes. Turn up heat to low-medium for a further 15 minutes. Increase heat to medium for 10 minutes. Sprinkle a few drops of water on your salt. If they sizzle, you are ready to go. If not, turn the heat up some more. It can take all the way to high heat, as long as you do this slowly.
+ For an electric stove, place a trivet between the brick and element – they should never touch. Heat in the same way as for gas stove.
+ Although you can heat your brick in the oven, any trapped moisture in the oven may cause the brick to crack or, at worst, to explode. Salt is hydroscopic, meaning it attracts water; residual water on or in your brick, or in the oven, won’t be able to escape through evaporation, like it can on a stove top or BBQ, causing the potential cracks or ruptures. Avoid the oven.
+ If your food is becoming too salty, you most likely need to increase the temperature of the salt before cooking on it. This will not only improve your food, but also preserve your salt product for longer.
How do I clean them?
Moisture in the food will pick up salt faster, while fat will repel the salt. If your food is too salty, apply a thin layer of oil to the brick. Heat slowly to reduce cracks and crevices. Please remember that salt is a natural substance and can break or change colour depending on the foods you use with them.
To clean your salt brick moisten a sponge or scouring pad and wipe clean – DO NOT USE SOAP! Himalayan salt brick has natural antimicrobial properties with no need for detergents. Keep the salt brick as dry a possible – the less water the better. Dry with a clean cloth and set on drying rack.
Please note that as natural products, no two are alike, colors vary and the sizes are approximate. For example the thickness of “2 inch” salt brick varies from 1.5″ to 2.25.
The 8 x 6 x 2+/- Himalayan salt bricks weight about 6-8 pounds. – These are the perfect size, put two together for greater cooking surface, after using then stack for easier storage. We are finding the size to be excellent, for using, serving, storing, and handling.
The 8 x 12 x 2+/- Himalayan salt bricks weigh about 14 to 16 pounds. These have a large working area and are a preferred size by many. This size salt brick is sold only in the shops. Instead, for online purchases we offered two 8 x 6 x 2 bricks. This is actually very versatile. Two Himalayan salt bricks can be set side by side for cooking.
The 6 x 6 x 1+/- and the 8 x 4 x 1+/-salt bricks are lighter and are great for the grill, just get several and put them together. They heat up quicker than the thick ones. Also, great as “starters” for people who want to explore cooking with salt bricks and just have some fun with them.
Eventually, with use, these salt bricks will thin, and eventually crack and separate due to expansion and contraction. But the good news is IT IS SALT and is totally consumable! So, never throw away the pieces … just grate them up and use as you would any salt! A great and long-lasting supply of amazing Himalayan salt!!!
Himalayan Salt bricks are relatively heavy and require special packaging and handling to prevent breakage. For this reason Himalayan salt bricks purchased online are somewhat more expensive then when purchased in our shops and carried out.
Important: Himalayan salt bricks take on a life of their own when you start using them (and sometimes even before then). While it might be nice for salt to offer all the stability of stainless steel, this is simply not the case. When heated, it will change color dramatically, and may develop fissures. Don’t get upset by the behavior of your salt brick. Salt is a complicated, wily, unpredictable substance. That is what gives it much of its charm.
for details please write us an email at
info@khalidmaqbool.com
Himalayan Crystal Salt
Posted on March 9, 2016 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Himalayan Salt, Uncategorized	Leave a comment
Within nature, the elements of harmony and balance abound. It’s our option to be within them, or without them. We believe that by taking simple steps to resonate with the way your body, mind, and spirit were designed to work, you reap huge benefits. Whether you are interested in our Himalayan Crystal Salt or any of the other fine products we carefully select for KMS brand, Khalid Maqbool & Sons makes it easy to make choices that help you live a life in tune with nature’s balance. With KMS, your body, mind, and spirit soar! We want your world to harmonize on every level, to Harmonize Completely
Where it comes from?
Our Himalayan Crystal Salt comes from the Himalayan Region of the Karakoram mountain range located 400 miles from the Hunza Valley in Pakistan.
Our salt is always stone ground. No metal ever touches the salt during grinding. All the salt is extracted by hand from the salt caves (ancient sea bed deposits). No salt from other sources is mixed with this salt. This is 100% from the Karakoram mountain range salt caves.
These salt deposits are roughly 250 million years old, meaning they were deposited long before the earth became polluted with heavy metals, pesticides and PCBs. While there is really no such thing as “organic” salt, this is probably the most pristine salt you’ll find anywhere on the planet. Eating this salt is a lot like going back in time and consuming minerals from pre-industrial Earth.
WHAT IS HIMALAYAN CRYSTAL SALT?
Himalayan Crystal Salt is more than sodium and chloride. Himalayan Crystal Salt can actually be viewed as food. When we speak of salt, we mean salt in its original form: holistic, wholesome, unaltered, natural salt, as it has crystallized in the Earth over millions of years. When we speak of ‘”table” salt that is sold in the supermarket, we refer to it as sodium chloride with additives, which is what it really is. Himalayan crystal salt contains all the elements of which the human body is comprised. From the periodic table of elements we are familiar with 94 natural elements (stable as well as unstable). Apart from inert gases, all of these elements can be found in crystal salt. Hence, crystal salt contains all natural minerals and trace elements that are found in the human body. We perceive crystal salt as being the totality of all natural elements. This may not be entirely correct according to chemistry, however we will continue to use the term crystal salt in this context. The number of the respective elements contained in the crystal salt is biophysically irrelevant to this study.
What Exactly Are The Benefits?
Some of the benefits that you can expect by consuming this salt in place of regular table salt include:
Aiding in vascular health
Supporting healthy lungs and respiratory function
Promoting a stable pH balance within the cells
Reducing the signs of aging
Promoting healthy sleep patterns
Increasing libido
Prevents muscle cramps
Increases hydration
Strengthen bones
Lowers blood pressure
Improves circulation
Detoxifying the body of heavy metals
Reasons to choose KMS SALT:
Sourced from the Himalayas
Not table salt (sodium chloride)
Sugar, fat and saturated fat free
Contain every element found in the human body
Can be used on food or in the bath
100% natural
Certified Vegan and Vegetarian
Free from gluten, dairy, GMO, soya and lactose
No added sugar, preservatives or sweeteners
FOR DETAILS PLEASE VISIT OUR WEBSITES
www.khalidmaqbool.com
www.kmsexporters.com
Himalayan Pink Salt
Posted on March 3, 2016 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Edible Grade Salt, Himalayan Salt, Uncategorized	Leave a comment
Himalayan pink salt originated in the primal seas that were present in the Himalayas millions of years ago. This was during a time when environmental pollution simply didn’t exist, guaranteeing that the salt produced today is completely pure. After mining, the salt crystals are hand selected, hand-crushed and then finely ground. Lastly the salt is hand-washed before being left to dry naturally in the sun.In a culinary setting, Himalayan Pink salt is used as a replacement for table salt and can be ground to a finer consistency in a salt mill.For centuries, Himalayan pink salt have been used as folk remedies for a variety of health issues. Stimulating circulation, lowering blood pressure and removing toxins such as heavy metals from the body are just a few of the many benefits of Himalayan pink salt.
100% Pure Mineral Salt from a pristine area deep in the Himalayan Mountain Range.
The Salt is stone ground.
Himalayan Pink Salt has a precise mesh with our body’s inner workings because it contains an almost identical set of elements to those found inside the human body, 84 of the possible 92 trace minerals, in the same proportion as naturally exists in our blood.
Himalayan pink salt can be consumed as a mineral water, dissolved in a hot bath for a healthy soak and detox, or it can be put directly on your food or used in cooking.
Our salt’s vivid pink color is a result of the trace elements in the salt, including energy-rich iron. These naturally present minerals are essential for human health
Despite what we have been led to believe, salt is equally as important to the human body as water. As long as you are drinking enough water, salt is absolutely essential for the body to generate hydroelectric energy, maintain good blood chemistry, balance the correct amount of water in our blood and cells, aid digestion and allow our nervous system and muscles to function normally.
HOW TO USE IT?
Himalayan Pink Salt certainly adds taste and flavor to our foods. At the same time, we also know that the high sodium content present in salt can lead to hypertension which, in turn, can slowly damage our cardiovascular system. If you aren’t used to eating enough, there are some easy ways you can increase your intake:
Add it to your foods and avoid processed foods or eating out, since you will consume large amounts of processed table salt. Salt to taste and don’t worry about eating too much.
Drink 1/2 tsp of quality salt in a quart of water daily to help raise your electrolyte and trace mineral levels.
Soak in a relaxing bath with added magnesium and Himalayan Pink Salt
For skin issues: Make a poultice of Himalayan pink salt and water and apply to areas with eczema or psoriasis.
Make a scrub with finely powdered Himalayan pink salt and natural oil (like coconut or olive) to use as an exfoliate in the shower.
HEALTH BENEFITS:
Improve Your Respiratory Conditions
Aside from trapping the allergens and reducing the overall air moisture levels, the Himalayan pink salt can naturally alleviate some of the most common respiratory conditions, such as asthma.
Neutralizing electromagnetic radiation
Negative ions will certainly cancel out positive ions; however, to counteract electromagnetic radiation entirely, you would need to wrap yourself in lead sheeting, not just light a lamp next to the TV.To what extent Himalayan pink salt lamps emit negative ions into the air remains to be seen. It’s not sure if they are powerful enough to neutralize electromagnetic radiation, also called ‘electro-smog’ at all.
Relieve Muscle Soreness
Himalayan pink salt is very rich in magnesium and 80 other minerals that heal muscles and soft tissues, when absorbed through the skin.
Purifying the air
It is absolutely true that the salt lamps are hygroscopic: they do suck water vapor from the air. Salt in the air has long been seen as a health booster, and sea air has been proven to help clear the airways.
Treating Acid Reflux Disease
The Himalayan pink salt can double as a natural and highly efficient antacid that keeps the stomach acid levels within the normal range.
Help you sleep better
Another popular claim is that the Himalayan pink salt lamps help you sleep better.
Lowers Blood Pressure
The reason why the Himalayan pink salt can actually be good for you is that it is absorbed directly into your blood stream in a faster and more efficient manner than conventional salt.In turn, this leads to a lower blood pressure and a healthier and improved blood flow!
for more info please visit our websites
www.khalidmaqbool.com
www.kmsexporters.com
Halite Salt
Posted on January 11, 2016 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Halite Salt	Leave a comment
Halite, sodium chloride, or salt is made up of equal parts of sodium and chlorine. Halite’s chemical formula is NaCI, the Na standing for sodium and the CI for chlorine. This ionic compound has an isometric or cubic structure due to the way the atoms come together. There are a variety of these cubic structures but the one most common in halite are the rock salt or sodium chloride structures. The ionic compounds fuse because the atoms don’t share electrons. Atoms that have only one or very few electrons in their valence shell are very vulnerable to losing them. If another atom comes along with lots of electrons in its valence shell, but not quite enough to be complete, the other atom’s lonely old electron will get snatched away to join the shell with lots of electrons, and make a complete electron shell. When this happens though, a discrepancy in charge is created. The atom that now has the extra electron that it is not supposed to have has a more negative charge, and the atom that got its electron stolen has a more positive charge. This is a perfect example of opposites attract, and in this case the attraction is so strong that the two atoms become fused to each other. This ionic bond is a result of a chemical bond which is where one atom gives up an electron and the other atom gives up another electron at the same time thus forming two ions of opposite charge generating an electrical force that holds the atoms together, this force is the attraction between positively and negatively charged ions.
Khalidmaqbool.com extracts the premium quality Himalayan Halite salt Crystals from the Foothills of Himalaya and crushes and filters the best cubes of Natural Halite Salt crystals from the nature’s gift in Himalaya’s Salt Mines. It is 100% natural. Himalayan Halite Salts forms isometric crystals.
These are mostly colourless or white. There are shades like pink, orange, red purple due to impurities. Himalayan Halite salt can be use for home or local purpose as well as to manage ice.
Himalayan Halite salt crystals are for sole (solay).
Our Halite salt is shipped in bigger pieces exclusively, because it would lose its transparent qualities through grinding, depriving you of its natural fascinating beauty.
Himalayan Halite salt can be used to produce brine or for decorating purposes. Many of your guests will ever have seen salt in such a form: translucent salt crystals directly from a salt mine.
To Prepare The Crystal Sole….
Place Several Himalayan Halite Salt stones in a small glass jar with a lid (not metal).
Cover the salt crystals with pure living spring water. After about 24 hours, check to see if the salt crystals have completely dissolved. If they have, add another crystal, and keep doing this until the salt crystals no longer dissolve, but rather, remain at the bottom of the jar.
At this point, the water has reached it’s 26% saturation level, and you have Sole.
You can always add more water to replenish your supply of sole, just remember that when you do, you need to add more Himalayan Halite Salt crystals.
for more details and product inquiries please visit our websites
www.khalidmaqbool.com
www.kmsexporters.com
Salt Candle Holders
Posted on December 16, 2015 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Uncategorized	Leave a comment
Himalayan Salt Candle Holders are wonderful, multi-functional, works of art. Hand crafted from 100% pure Himalayan Salt crystals, these beautiful, organic lighting features emit earthy, smooth lighting to create a tranquil atmosphere in any room of the home.
Lots of studies and researches shows that Salt Candle Holders is an amazing thing. It’s have unlimited benefits. One of the key benefit of Himalayan Salt Candle Holder is Negative Ions which protect us against the Positive Ions around us.
Heating the salt with a tea light candle releases negative ions into the air, creating an effect similar to an ionizer, purifying the surrounding air
In addition to their natural beauty and warm, soft glow, Himalayan Salt Candle Holders help naturally purify the air by emitting negative ions. Negative ions are scientifically proven to reduce the amount of harmful particles in the air. Along with helping to remove allergens like mild spores, pollen, and other environmental pollutants, as well as harmful electromagnetic frequencies for a healthier indoor environment, the effects of negative ions also naturally dilute odours.
When the candle is lit and becomes heated, negative ions are released into the air — this is said to purify the air, reduce stress and depression, and help relieve symptoms of asthma, sinus irritation, and allergies. Let its soft glow and healing properties transform your home’s interior — and perhaps your outlook on life!
Keeping a salt candle holder in areas where positive ions are polluting your air space will help neutralise the air you breathe. Balancing positive & negative ions also help reduce airborne infections.
Our Himalayan salt candle holders make great additions to the home. Buying the Natural Candle Holder Set allows you to place multiple candle holders throughout a room for a very attractive effect. Many restaurants also like our candle holders, as they use them for centrepieces on their tables. The Natural Shape Salt Candle Holder and Pillar Shape Salt Candle Holder are favourites for this application. The Heart Shape Salt Candle Holder is big for Valentine’s Day and any day among those in love, while the Two Hole Salt Candle Holder is a very unique piece.
When you see the beautiful, simplistic looks of this Natural Shaped Himalayan Salt Candle Holder, you may have to remind yourself that looks aren’t everything because even our beautiful Natural Shaped Himalayan salt candle holder is more than just another pretty face.
Like all of our salt candles, this rock salt candle holder is crafted from the purest of Himalayan salt, a mineral that is valued the world over for its ability to remove harmful ions and impurities from the surrounding air and restore electrical balance.
This Natural Shaped Himalayan Salt Candle Holder is 3-4 inches tall by 3-4 inches wide. Crafted to hold tea lights, try our clean burning natural soy tea lights.
Around the home: A Himalayan Salt Candle Holder in your vicinity will help your well-being and keep the air around you healthy, clean, naturally ionized, and energetic.
A Child’s bedroom: Place a comforting salt Candle Holder by your child’s bedside. It is a completely safe and lovely night light, and will enhance your child’s sound sleep, keeping the atmosphere clean and healthy.
At your workplace: A salt Candle Holder at work can help improve your concentration and refresh you, minimizing the effects of fatigue, stress, artificial lights, artificial air environment, and radiation from office equipment particularly your computer monitor.
for more details please visit our websites
www.khalidmaqbool.com
www.kmsexporters.com
Himalayan Salt Licks
Posted on December 15, 2015 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Uncategorized	Leave a comment
Himalayan salt lick
If there is one thing horses love—and absolutely need—it is a salt lick or simply a salt block. However, many salt licks that horse lovers find on the market are incredibly expensive, heavy, have been baked to lose all minerals and nutrients, or simply can be too easily bitten. Himalayan lick salt is the purest form of salt you can give your horse. Natural and as pure as the day it was mined high up in the Himalayan mountains. Horses and ponies require supplementary salt on a daily basis. Research shows that salt is the one nutrient that horses will self-supplement to balance their diet. Himalayan Salt Licks hung in the stable and field allow access to the purest form of salt, without unnatural flavors that can encourage greediness!
These Himalayan salt lick is mined from the vast and ancient Himalayan mountains, these licks are a 550 million year old source of minerals and trace elements for your horse or pony. The distinctive rose pink color comes from the salt’s high mineral content, including iron, potassium, and magnesium, which are all vital for maintaining health. Mass-produced salt licks are produced using salt with minerals added in during the manufacturing process, but that’s not the case with Himalayan salt, where the minerals are naturally found within the salt. Himalayan rock salt licks are literally “rock hard,” meaning that horses and ponies are unable to bite chunks off the block, a problem than can occur with softer “pressed” salt licks. These licks are also more weather resistant, which means they can be safely left outside in the field for horses to “self-dose.” We’ve found that horses like them more than other salt licks! Available in mini (1.63 lbs), small (2.2 lbs), medium (6.6 lbs) or block (4.4 lbs, 2”x4”x8”). The small and medium licks include a rope and the mini lick is pre-drilled with a hole but does not come with a rope. The 4.4 lb block fits in most standard salt block holders and does not come with a rope.
Khalidmaqbool.com Himalayan Salt Licks for horses and ponies are obviously distinctive by their color, however it’s not just this that sets them apart from other licks. We like to describe them as salt licks with ‘nothing added and nothing taken out’ and we believe they are one of the purest forms of salt (sodium chloride) available.
Khalidmaqbool.com Himalayan Salt Licks have been analysed and have been shown to be predominantly sodium chloride, with other trace elements such as potassium, magnesium (vital for maintaining health) and iron which is responsible for the distinctive rose pink color.
Our experience has shown that farm animals and pets prefer these to other salt licks. Farmers have historically provided salt licks for their cattle, horses, and other herbivores to encourage healthy growth and development. A salt lick is a deposit of mineral salts used by animals to supplement their nutrition, ensuring that they get enough minerals in their diets. A wide assortment of animals, primarily herbivores, use salt lick to get essential nutrients lick calcium, magnesium, sodium and zinc.
The perfect gift for pets and animals! I feed this to my Nigerian Dwarf Goats, and they love it! This natural Himalayan Salt lick lasts 5 x longer than typical “pressed” salt licks you find at feed stores.
Perfectly safe for wildlife, pets and all land animals. There is no risk of animals consuming “too much” salt, as they will lick it to get only the amount they need, and then they will stop licking it until they need more minerals.
If your horse is active with showing, eventing or racing, the chances are he needs lots of extra energy requirements to stay healthy.Giving him free access to Himalayan Salt Licks along with his regular diet will help him to stay active and healthy. He can choose to “lick it as he needs it”, giving him the right intake of natural trace elements and minerals.
Without salt, animals could get sick. Every mammal requires salt. It is actually a necessary nutrient in our diets! Horses and other animals, like humans, lose minerals from their bodies as it is carried out in their sweat…one of the most abundant of these minerals is salt…Horses and other animals often lose lots of salt during very strenuous workouts. So, some owners try to help them replenish the lost salt by providing a salt lick. This helps your horse or animal to regain the lost salt quickly, however there are more reasons. Salt often makes you want to drink, right, so, it’s similar for horses. By having Himalayan Salt Licks, Biotin and Vitamin E enriched mineral blocks available to your animals, they are also encouraged to drink more water to keep them hydrated!
Himalayan Salt Lick is:
Bio-gro certified (no. 5223)
100% natural
Tested by Crop and Food
Rock hard, horses can’t bite it – they lick it
a source of 84 minerals
weather resistant
Rope hung Himalayan Salt Lick.
The high density of pure Himalayan salt licks resist breakage and biting in order to last longer.
When given a choice many horses actually prefer the Himalayan salt licks over the more traditional pressed salt lick.
for more details please visit our websites
www.khalidmaqbool.com
www.kmsexporters.com
Salt Shot Glasses
Posted on December 14, 2015 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Uncategorized	Leave a comment
You like your beer craft brewed, your wine perfectly aerated, why shouldn’t your tequila get a bump up from the salt shaker and lime wedge standard?
Made from Himalayan salt, these festive glasses are highlighted by the thinly veiled, translucent appearance of rose quartz. Perfect for tequila or even mescal, these innovative vessels offer a salty twinge to your taste buds, but with a more nuanced flavor than ordinary table salt. Himalayan Salt is naturally antibacterial so you don’t have to worry about cleaning mid-fiesta, and the strong salt minerals keep the shot glasses strong through many festive toasts.
“I prefer my tequila chased with salt and lime, and these shot glasses—carved from high-quality Himalayan salt—are perfect, no extra salt necessary.”—Khalidmaqbool.com
Our Himalayan salt shot glasses have amazing thermal properties that let them stay hot or cold far longer than glass. Freezing, refrigerating, or heating them before serving opens new doors for drink design.
Popping them in the freezer overnight gives you one incredibly frosty-salty cup for that mint julep you’ve been looking forward to since Monday. The trick to using Himalayan salt goblets well is to mix drinks designed for quick quaffing. Liquid dissolves salt quickly. If you let your shot sit for long, it will soon become unpalatable. But done right, the salt transforms drinks that benefit from a little salt.
Impress your guests with these cool salt shot glasses. Carved from the finest quality, food grade Himalayan pink salt, our Himalayan salt shot glasses are perfect for your Cinco de Mayo party or any gathering where tequila may be served. Simply pour tequila into the shot glasses and serve with lime wedges. The pink salt naturally flavors the tequila, so the longer the tequila sits, the saltier it will be! Each salt shot glass holds 1.2 ounces and measures 3” high and 2” diameter. Himalayan salt shot glasses come in a set of four.
Put Tequila in Your Salt
You’ll be amazed how the rich taste of Himalayan crystal salt enhances the flavor of your favorite tequila like table salt never did!
These beautiful and functional sets will be the perfect conversation starter for your party or decorative accent for your home.
The best way to use it
Tequila and salt usually mean shooters.
Drink it at once for the best taste.
Suck on the lemon or lime wedge.
Repeat it as many times as you wish.
Just quickly rinse it with water and dry with paper towel before putting it away.
These reasons alone certainly justify the purchase of a set of two or four or twenty four Himalayan pink salt shot glasses for your merry making. But try them with sweeter drinks, or with a bit of sweetener on the rim of the cup, and you will really see some flavors fly. Mint Juleps, margarita shots, Spanish coffee… to name a few
You can expect to enjoy many uses with your Himalayan Salt Shot Glasses. However, little by little the salt glass will dissolve over time changing it size, shape and its surface. Once product becomes too small for use as a shot glass, there are still ways to get further use out of the salt. You can grate the salt over entrees to add amazing flavor or add it to your bath to re-mineralize your body, soothe muscle aches and pains and soften your skin.
for more details please visit our websites
www.khalidmaqbool.com
www.kmsexporters.com
Salt Lamps
Posted on December 11, 2015 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Uncategorized	Leave a comment
Himalayan Salt Lamps are created out of natural Himalayan Crystal Salt mined from deep below the surface of the earth, often at depths of a mile or more underground. The 84 minerals and trace elements present in Himalayan Crystal Salt gives it a unique and vibrant pink color, which is why it is sometimes referred to simply as “pink salt.”
A Salt Lamp is a chunk of Pure Himalayan Crystal Salt that has been attached to a sturdy base made of Rosewood, and drilled out to provide a space for a light source to be introduced. Adding a light bulb inside a Himalayan Salt Lamp warms the salt from within and facilitates the release of negative ions from the Himalayan Salt into the atmosphere.
The negative ions then bond with the positive ions (pollutants) in the air and help to neutralize them. Many of the conveniences of modern life, such as our electronic devices and heating and cooling systems, produce an abundance of positive ions which throw the air we breath completely out of balance. That, in turn, can contribute to the development of allergies, asthma, stress, insomnia and other sleep disorders, sinus and migraine headaches, and a host of other health problems for many individuals. By utilizing negative ion-generating Himalayan Salt Lamps in your home, office, or anywhere else you spend time in your daily life, you can often help alleviate these symptoms!
How do Salt Crystal Lamps Work?
The bulb inside of the salt lamp heats the crystal and supports the ionizing effect. Salt itself is hygroscopic and attracts the water from the surroundings. You can often see that the salt lamp is damp or even wet, especially in more humid environments. Due to the gentle heat of the salt lamp, the water quickly evaporates and during the evaporation process the beneficial negative ions get created. They go on to bind with excessive positive ions (bacteria, molds and allergens all carry a positive charge) and neutralize the electronic smog in your home.
What we use…
It is possible to buy machines that create negative ions, but I’ve found that salt lamps are a less expensive and very effective alternative.
I use salt lamps often in our home, and especially in winter months when it isn’t possible to have the windows open or to spend as much time outside. We now have a solid salt lamp or a basket lamp in each room of our home and I love them for their ambient glow and their negative ions.
Choosing & Placing Your Himalayan Pink Salt Lamp
When it comes to buying Himalayan pink salt lamps, coverage is determined by the size of the crystal. Smaller lamps (like this 5.4 lb) are good for the average bedroom, while larger lamps (like this 12 lb) are better for spaces like the living room or den. On average, calculate that 1 lb of HPS crystal will cleanse the air in approximately a 4′ x 4′ area.
If you can’t find a large enough lamp for any given room, remember that you can use multiple lamps spread out around the space for the same effect.
Remember, Himalayan pink salt crystals will begin to melt with prolonged exposure to high humidity. For this reason, use caution and keep a close watch on any HPS lamps positioned near sources of steam such as dishwashers, laundry machines, or showers.
Our hand carved Salt Lamps come in several popular shapes that will transform any space and enhance your visual experience. Visit our websites to view our current range of salt lamps, tea lights and other accessories
www.kmsexporters.com
www.khalidmaqbool.com
Himalayan Salt Inhalers
Posted on December 11, 2015 by Danish Maqbool Posted in Uncategorized	Leave a comment
A new day has dawned for those who want a complimentary therapy for their respiratory problems. The revolutionary Himalayan Salt Inhaler brings the benefits of salt mine therapy right into your home. Himalayan salt is thought by many to have antibacterial, anti fungal and antimicrobial qualities and is used to improve respiratory ailments worldwide. The Himalayan Crystal Salt Inhaler is a convenient, drug-free and non-invasive device designed to let you inhale the Himalayan Crystal Salt vapors that deliver amazing, natural respiratory relief.
The Himalayan Salt Inhaler contains hand-mined, dry, pure salt from the Himalayan Mountains. This incredible salt contains 84 ional minerals and trace elements needed for optimum health. The bottom of the Himalayan Salt Inhaler contains the salt, which is placed between two porcelain filters.
The Himalayan Salt Inhaler is made from very sturdy ceramic and cannot leak or spill. The base is wide enough to sit without tipping and the ceramic surface is easy to clean and hold.
As you inhale the micron-sized salt particles, they penetrate the respiratory system for beneficial results. Get the benefits of nasal irrigation without the messy water! Ready to use, salt included.
How to use your Himalayan salt inhaler pipe:
Take the salt inhaler pipe and place it in your mouth. Breathe in normally through the mouth, and exhale through the nose. Do not add water, the inhaler is for dry therapy only. Do not shake. To clean, wash the outside of the mouthpiece with warm salt water. Recommended for one person, but can be shared by family members.
Benefits of Daily Use
Breathing through Himalayan Salt Inhaler for just 15-20 minutes daily draws air across our 250 million year old mineral-rich granules of Himalayan Crystal Salt, the beneficial effects of which reaches the very microscopic aspect of the respiratory system and can help to resolve breathing problems which may be caused by:
• Allergies
• Pollen & Other Allergies
• Asthma
• Sinus Problem, Rhinitis
• Influenza & Other Infections
• Smoking
• Bronchitis, Chest Infections
• Chronic Cough and Sore Throats
• Breathing Difficulty
• Respiratory Problems Caused by Smoking
Khalidmaqbool.com are the manufacturer of Himalayan Salt Inhaler
For wholesale / trade please visit our websites
www.kmsexporters.com
www.khalidmaqbool.com
Next Page »
Catagories
Bath Salt
Black Salt
Crafted Salt Lamps
Edible Grade Salt
Halite Salt
Himalayan Salt
Khewra Salt Mines
Lick Salt
Massage Stones
Natural Salt Lamps
Salt Inhalers
Salt Plates
Salt T-lights
Uncategorized
USB Salt Lamps
Return To Top
Copyright © 2019 Khalid Maqbool & Sons
1/20 Linkers Colony Saint John Park Cant Lahore Pakistan · Pakistan info@saltlampfactory.com
CyberChimps WordPress Themes
© Khalid Maqbool & Sons
Translate »