baking soda - Next Level Nutrition
Next Level Nutrition
WHERE NUTRITION AND SCIENCE MEET
Skip to content
Home
About Me
Training and Nutritional Medicine Services
Tag Archives: baking soda
« Older posts
Living a Longer Life with Baking Soda
By ironman45 | May 27, 2016 - 6:21 pm | cancer cures, pancreatic cancer
Leave a comment
Research published recently in the Clinical Journal of the American Society of Nephrology found that having balanced bicarbonate levels in your body reduces chances of an early death. The study examined data compiled in the Health, Aging and Body Composition Study for 2,287 participants.
Study author Dr. Kalani Raphael, associate professor and nephrology and hypertension specialist at the University of Utah, and colleagues investigated pH, carbon dioxide and bicarbonate in association with long-term survival. According to the University of Utah, “Critically ill patients with severe acid-base abnormalities have a very low likelihood of surviving their illness.”
Dr. Raphael found that low levels of bicarbonate is linked to an increased risk for premature death by 24 percent. “What we found was that generally healthy older people with low levels of bicarbonate had a higher risk of death,” Raphael said. The study’s findings assists clinicians in better assessing patient’s risk of premature death by analyzing their blood bicarbonate concentrations more closely, something doctors never do. What he is saying is that the secret to health lies with sufficient bicarbonate levels. Older adults who have low levels of bicarbonate in their blood are putting themselves at risk of premature death.
(more…)
Tagged acidity, baking soda, cancer cures, pancrease, sodium bicarbonate
Eye-Opening Evidence: Baking Soda & Coconut Oil Can Kill Cancer
By ironman45 | December 19, 2014 - 3:36 pm | cancer cures, skin cancer
Leave a comment
A woman who was suffering from basal cell carcinoma skin cancer on the crown of her head was cured by her daughter’s insistence on trying baking soda pastes applied directly to the skin cancer.
At first, Kyneret Azizo’s mother resisted, but Azizo, a respected writer and advocate of natural remedies, had read of people curing their skin cancer with simple water and baking soda, bicarbonate of soda, not baking powder.
But after three surgical procedures resulted in the cancer returning worse each time, the mother yielded to Azizo’s urging. She mixed the baking soda with pure cold pressed organic coconut oil into a thick paste instead of water. She knew that coconut oil has skin cellular regenerative powers and figured the oil would be an effective adjunct for the baking soda. It’s applied to the cancerous spot without rubbing it in and left there. (more…)
Tagged baking soda, cancer cures, coconut oil, skin cancer
Lemon and Baking soda Miraculous combination
By ironman45 | March 10, 2014 - 1:57 pm | cancer cures
Leave a comment
Lemon and Baking soda Miraculous combination: 10, 000 times stronger than Chemotherapy EFFECT!
Why did not we know about this?
Because there are organizations which dont have an interest to let us know about the miraculous properties of lemon. Therefore , from now onwards , you can help a friend who needs it, with sharing this article!
Do you know how many people dies while this secret is jealously kept in order not be threatened the interests of big corporations?
Lemon has already been proven to have strong anti – carcinogenic properties. In addition to this there are many other useful properties. Lemon has strong effect on cysts and tumors.
This fruit can cure cancer, It’s tested on all types of cancer, and if you add baking soda would be even better, because it will normalize the pH of the body. (more…)
Tagged baking soda, cancer cure, lemon
Sea salt and baking soda, best all natural remedy for curing radiation exposure and cancer
By ironman45 | February 13, 2014 - 11:17 pm | Nuclear radiation
Leave a comment
If you have been exposed to any form of radiation, either for medical diagnostic purposes (fluoroscopy/mammography/other medical x-ray exams) or in the course of radiotherapy treatment, or if you are otherwise concerned by excessive radiation exposure, overload or poisoning (such as living near a nuclear reactor facility, working with diagnostic radiological equipment/in the nuclear processing industries/uranium mining/uranium or plutonium processing), or if you have been exposed to radioactive particles or higher ionizing radiation doses stemming from other sources such as depleted uranium (DU), testing of atomic weapons, frequent flights in higher altitudes, a nuclear disaster (radiation fallout from the Japan nuclear power plants) etc., here are a number of tips and suggested remedies how to naturally help your body excrete damaging radioactive elements (e.g. strontium and radioactive iodine) or detoxify their noxious byproducts such as free radicals as well as deal with radiation burns. (more…)
Tagged baking soda, cancer, radiation, sea salt
Five year update on the guy who cured his stage IV prostate cancer with baking soda
By ironman45 | October 30, 2013 - 1:36 pm | cancer cures, prostate cancer
Leave a comment
The guy is Vernon Johnston, and his story was first reported as a Natural News citizen journalism article in 2009.
That was around one year after being informed he was cancer-free from stage IV prostate cancer that had metastasized into the bone matter of his pelvic area in June of 2008.
Now here it is, over five years later, and apparently Vernon’s still going strong, according to his website reports, videos and announcements. The last known blog posting from Vernon was in August of 2013. (more…)
Tagged baking soda, cancer cure, prostate cancer
Wonderful World of Bicarbonate and CO2
By ironman45 | June 6, 2013 - 6:20 pm | Anti aging, cold/flu/immunity
Leave a comment
My book Sodium Bicarbonate is not only about sodium bicarbonate (baking soda), but also about magnesium bicarbonate and to a lesser degree potassium bicarbonate and calcium bicarbonate. However, the star of the show in this book is bicarbonate. The second star of the show is carbon dioxide (CO2). Most of the conjugate acid of bicarbonate is in the form of dissolved carbon dioxide. The rapid and direct inter-conversion of dissolved CO2 and bicarbonate ion is catalyzed by the enzyme carbonic anhydrase.
Carbon dioxide is a neutral, nonpolar molecule, and can readily diffuse across membranes. Bicarbonate is a charged species of CO2, and does not cross membranes at a significant rate unless facilitated by trans-membrane channels like the magnesium calcium channel.
Baking soda (sodium bicarbonate) immediately reacts when it mixes with stomach acid. NaHCO(3) + HCl —> NaCl + H(2)0 + CO(2). That is: Sodium bicarbonate + stomach acid yields salt + water + carbon dioxide.
When we talk about bicarbonate we are talking about CO2, because that is what sodium bicarbonate turns to when it reaches the stomach causing an increase in stomach acid production as well as an increase in bicarbonates in the blood. The bicarbonate ion is HCO3-. Bicarbonate is an important buffer found in blood. Carbon dioxide is present in the blood in a number of forms such as bicarbonate, dissolved carbon dioxide and carbonic acid, of which 90% is bicarbonate or HCO3. (more…)
Tagged baking soda, CO2, disease, lactic acid, oxygen, sodium bicarbonate
The Key Drivers of Cancer Growth Are?
By ironman45 | April 1, 2013 - 2:10 pm | cancer
Leave a comment
Scientists have recently confirmed, yet again, that long-term lack of oxygen in cells is the key driver of cancer growth. Who says so now? Dr. Ying Xu, Regents-Georgia Research Alliance Eminent Scholar and professor of bioinformatics and computational biology in the Franklin College of Arts and Sciences.
His study was published in the Journal of Molecular Cell Biology in 2012. “Cancer drugs try to get to the root—at the molecular level—of a particular mutation, but the cancer often bypasses it,” Xu said. “So we think that possibly genetic mutations may not be the main driver of cancer.”[1]
Every doctor learned back in medical school all about Dr. Otto Warburg’s discovery in the 1930s when he discovered the main biochemical cause of cancer, or what differentiates a cancer cell from a normal, healthy cell. So big a discovery was this that Dr. Warburg was awarded the Nobel Prize. (more…)
Tagged baking soda, cancer, oxygen, PH
Divine Cancer Mathematics
By ironman45 | February 10, 2013 - 3:44 pm | cancer cures, vitamin D
Leave a comment
We can plot out important things with cancer statistics. If science tells us that a substance, whether toxic or not, increases or decreases the chance of getting or recovering from cancer they are telling us something significant that we can make use of. “Divine Cancer Mathematics” is simple! Just add up enough substances that reduce your chances of getting cancer into a protocol that treats cancer and we arrive at a beautiful form of natural oncology that will change the world.
One of the beauties of Divine Cancer Mathematics is that it works in both directions. If we add up all of the things that cause cancer and begin to eliminate them one by one we can reduce cancer rates by large amounts. Of course this is always easier said than done because in today’s world, contaminants are everywhere. Also people are unwilling to give up things that they enjoy or are addicted to, even knowing these things are harmful to their health.
The President’s Cancer Panel issued a landmark report suggesting that public health officials have “grossly underestimated” the extent of environmentally-induced cancer among the 1.5 million Americans diagnosed with the disease annually. A significant number of annual cancer deaths in the U.S. are caused by environmental pollutants and occupational exposures; lower-income workers and communities are disproportionately affected by these exposures (American Cancer Society, Facts and Figures, 2006). Oncologists and medical officials tend to make light of the threat from environmental hazards as do all people who live in big cities that are heavily polluted. (more…)
Tagged baking soda, cancer cure, iodine, magnesium, PH, selenium, sodium bicarbonate, vitamin D
Medical Science Proves Sodium Bicarbonate (Baking Soda) Treats Cancer
By ironman45 | February 10, 2013 - 3:07 am | cancer cures
Leave a comment
It is not every day that one’s medical work is confirmed so utterly. On January 3rd of 2013 medical scientists published vindication for Dr. Tullio Simonini and even more so for my own work, which favors oral and transdermal use of bicarbonate instead of using it intravenously. It is not only vastly less expensive to use bicarbonate (baking soda) orally and transdermally in baths, but it is safer and now proven to be effective.
I find it very gratifying to have written and published Sodium Bicarbonate – Rich Man’s Poor Man’s Cancer Treatment. It is the only complete medical review on the subject. I hope it is clear to everyone, after reading the research below from the mainstream of medical science, the importance of becoming familiar with bicarbonate medicine and what it can do for cancer, kidney and diabetic patients as well as for those seeking relief from the worst symptoms of the flu. (more…)
Tagged alkalinity, baking soda, cancer cure
Surviving Sepsis & Fungal Infections
By ironman45 | November 24, 2012 - 9:17 pm | allergies, asthma, candida/yeast
Leave a comment
Credit: Image courtesy of Medical University of Vienna
Science Daily reports, “With infectious diseases, it is often not the pathogen itself, but rather an excessive inflammatory immune response (sepsis) that contributes to the patient’s death, for instance as a result of organ damage. On intensive care units, sepsis is the second-most common cause of death worldwide. In patients with a severely compromised immune system specially, life-threatening candida fungal infections represent a high risk of sepsis.” (more…)
Tagged baking soda, candida, chronic pulmonary aspergillosis, CPA, fungus, lung health, magnesium, TB, tuberculosis
123
Search Site
Categories
A-fib/Arrythmias (21)
acne (21)
allergies (78)
alzheimers (319)
Anemia (33)
Anti aging (296)
anti-biotics (79)
arthritis (71)
artificial sweetners (74)
asthma (63)
Athlete Nutrition (53)
athlete training (23)
Austism/ADD (165)
blood pressure (172)
blood thinners (38)
brain health (233)
cancer (1,264)
breast cancer (187)
cancer cures (423)
Colon cancer (73)
Leukemia (26)
lung cancer (25)
mesothelioma (2)
pancreatic cancer (25)
Pink Ribbon, Susan G. Komen SCAM (23)
prostate cancer (107)
skin cancer (44)
thyroid cancer (15)
candida/yeast (100)
celiac/crohns/UC/IBS (157)
cholesterol (283)
chronic fatigue (92)
cold/flu/immunity (196)
crooked health care (694)
depression (164)
detox (103)
diabetes (353)
Digestion/acid reflux (147)
eye health (42)
Fats: the truth about oils (158)
fibromyalgia (47)
flouride (90)
food (458)
Gall Bladder (13)
gluten (46)
GMO (138)
Government Corruption(9/11; Chemtrails, etc..) (263)
Hair/Skin health (77)
hearing loss (9)
heart disease (483)
Hepatitis (22)
herpes (13)
Kidneys (47)
Liver (86)
lung health (49)
Lupus (22)
Lymes Disease (24)
mens health (90)
migraine/headache (37)
MS (56)
Must read (147)
Nuclear radiation (38)
oral health (37)
organic (21)
osteoporosis (83)
Pain relief (45)
parkinson's (65)
pesticides (50)
pet health (15)
pregnancy/fertility (213)
rheumatoid arthritis (40)
sleep (81)
statins (135)
stress (113)
stroke (106)
sunscreen (43)
thyroid (137)
toxins (114)
Uncategorized (119)
vaccines (448)
vegetarian (8)
vitamin D (166)
water (45)
weight loss (404)
Women's Health (164)
Next Level Nutrition | Powered by Mantra and WordPress.