Morphine Addiction Treatment - The Arbor Behavioral Healthcare
Chat with us, powered by LiveChat
Call Us Today! 844.413.2690
Admissions
Overview (includes forms)
Insurance
Contact Admissions
Events
Insurance
Contact Us
About
Us
About Us
Our Mission
Our Approach
Team
12-Step Program
Testimonials
Locations
News
For Clinical Professionals
Career Opportunities
Treatment
Programs
The Arbor Inpatient Treatment
Gender Specific Programs
Arbor Extended Care
Arbor Sober Living
Arbor Intensive Outpatient Program
Relapse Prevention -Arbor Advocacy
Family Program
Arbor Alumni
The Arbor
Experience
Continuum of Care
Length of Stay
Dual Diagnosis
Young Adult Treatment
Nutrition
Fitness & Mental Wellness
Equine Assisted Therapy
Art Therapy
Alumni Program
Family Program
Support Group for Families of Addicts
Testimonials
Resources /
Knowledge
Addiction Glossary
Substances Subject to Abuse
Addiction Information
Support for Families
Information for Professionals
For
Professionals
Arbor Treatment Programs
Addiction Experts Blog
Morphine Addiction Treatment
Morphine is one of many substances derived wholly or in part from the poppy plant and is therefore classified among the many different types of opiates. While the most widely used opiate is heroin, the use of other opiates such as morphine, codeine, thebaine, fentanyl, and many others, is increasing; therefore there is a growing need for effective morphine addiction treatment and education.
There are many myths about the use and abuse of morphine and these myths complicate the treatment for morphine addiction. Morphine addictions first became a problem after its widespread use during the American Civil War and Franco-Prussian Wars where addiction to morphine became known as “the soldier’s disease” or “The army disease.” Morphine is a highly addictive substance that is used for its painkilling effects. In addition to its analgesic properties, morphine is known to produce euphoria and has great potential for tolerance and physical and psychological addictions.
Since morphine is often used in a clinical setting, many mistakenly believe that it is not a dangerous drug. Even when properly prescribed and monitored, it is highly addictive and is hard for users to just stop ingesting the substance. Morphine is most commonly injected subcutaneously, but it can also be delivered to the addict through Inhalation (smoking), insufflation (snorting), oral, rectal, (S.C), intramuscular (I.M), intravenous (I.V), and intrathecal (I.T). Even if someone begins using morphine or another opiate for a legitimate medical concern such as pain relief after a surgical procedure, morphine usage frequently leads to addiction very quickly. Untreated, as the addict’s life falls apart and becomes structured around obtaining and using morphine, the damaging effects of the drug take its toll on the whole body and eventually result in death.
Withdrawal symptoms associated with detoxing from morphine usually occur within 6 to 12 hours of the last dose. Early withdrawal symptoms are similar to withdrawal symptoms experienced during detox of other opiates and includes watery eyes, insomnia, diarrhea, runny nose, yawning, sweating, severe headache, restlessness, irritability, loss of appetite, body aches, muscle spasms, severe abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, tremors, and intense drug cravings. During the acute withdrawal period blood pressure increases, and heart rate increases, and there are cases of suicide, heart attacks, strokes, seizures and extreme dehydration from diarrhea and vomiting leading to fatalities during the withdrawal phase of morphine and other opiates. For this reason it is recommended that morphine addiction treatment occur in a facility staffed with medical and addiction personnel that are trained to both deal with any potential life threatening consequences of the detox during morphine addiction treatment and to help the addict begin the process of dealing with the psychological and physical aspects of addiction.
For a long time period after the physical addiction to morphine is broken the addict will continue to think about using morphine and other drugs. Many experts estimate that without appropriate treatment and support, morphine addicts experience an eventual relapse rate of 98%. This is yet another reason to encourage the morphine addict to receive professional drug treatment for their morphine addiction.
Call now for a Confidential Assessment
or more information on The Arbor's Programs
844.413.2690
Related Posts
Opioid Addiction Treatment
Oxycodone Addiction Treatment
Opiate Addiction Treatment
Lortab Addiction Treatment
Heroin Addiction
What is an Opioid?
By The Arbor Team|December 6th, 2012|
Share This Story, Choose Your Platform!
FacebookTwitterLinkedinRedditGoogleplusEmail
About the Author: The Arbor Team
Articles written under this user name are written by various staff members and outside writers with an expertise in addiction, mental health, or other topics closely related to the substance abuse treatment field. We strive to provide well-written, high quality content that informs and educates.
Locations in and around Austin, TX. Main address: 1443 County Road 103, Georgetown, TX 78626
Copyright © 2019 The Arbor Behavioral Healthcare. All rights reserved. | Privacy Policy | Digital Marketing by Incredible Marketing
FacebookInstagramLinkedinYoutubeEmail