7 Health Benefits of a Himalayan Salt Lamp | JADa Therapy
Skip to content
JADa Therapy
Getting Healthy Naturally
Main Menu
WELCOME
Blog
Menu Toggle
Book Reviews
Menu Toggle
Alkaline Herbal Medicine:Reverse Disease and Heal Book Review
Fitness
Menu Toggle
Why Is Walking Good For You? My Take On It.
Health
Menu Toggle
8 Tips on Getting Healthy Naturally
Benefits of Guinea Hen Weed: All in One Medicine cabinet
What Are The Health Benefits of Oregano?
The Alkaline Diet – Review 2018: How Can It Improve Your Life?
Benefits of Aloe Vera: You Can Do At Home
Pure Copper Bottle – Review
Menu Toggle
Why Is Drinking Water Out Of A Copper Bottle Good?
Benefits of Drinking Distilled Water
Menu Toggle
How to Heal a Body Naturally with Distilled Water
How to Treat Acne Naturally – by Drinking Water
Healing Your Thyroid Naturally – By Drinking Water
How To Increase Your Brain Power Naturally
The Best Anti-Ageing Tips EVER
How To Heal The Digestive System Naturally
12 Different Benefits of Lavender
Menu Toggle
Organic Lavender Farm, Kent, UK Tour Review 2018
Castle Farm – Lavender Farm – Kent UK
Health Benefits of Fenugreek Seeds
What Does An Enema Do?
The Red Tea Detox – For Your Healthy Weight Loss 2019
Menu Toggle
Healthy Snacks To Eat At Night: A Game Changer for 2019
Can You Really Shrink Fat Cells?
Red Tea vs Green Tea
What is an Alternative to a Plastic Toothbrush?
What Is The Benefits Of Bentonite Clay?
Menu Toggle
How To Effectively Start Using Bentonite Clay
6 Tips How To Use Bentonite Clay
What is a Himalayan Salt Lamp?
Menu Toggle
How Does a Himalayan Salt Lamp Work?
Are Himalayan Salt Lamps Safe?
7 Health Benefits of a Himalayan Salt Lamp
4 Health Benefits of Himalayan Salt
10 Benefits of Using Coffee Scrubs: How to Transform Your Skin
8 Health Benefits of Baobab Fruit
11 Amazing Health Benefits of Baobab Fruit
Hair
Menu Toggle
Rice Water and Hair Growth Fast
How to use Coconut Oil in Hair
How to Use Fenugreek for Healthy hair Growth
Hair Steamers Reviews with Benefits of Hair Steaming
Tea Rinse For Shedding And Hair Growth: JADa Therapy
Benefits Of Henna For Natural Hair: My Experiences
Bentonite Clay For The Hair: Healthy Alternative for Hair Growth
Benefits of Castor Oil for Healthy Hair Growth
Jamaican Black Castor Oil for Your Hair Growth
Motivational
Menu Toggle
The Law of Attraction Explained
What is an affirmation? Plus 38 Affirmations
Motivational Life Quotes
Self-Image: Why is it Important What You Think?
Face Care
Menu Toggle
Bentonite Clay for Acne: A Healthy Alternative Treatment
African Black Soap for Acne
About Jennifer
Menu Toggle
About JADa Therapy
Menu Toggle
Privacy Policy for jadatherapy.com
In 2015, the Federal Trade Commission released their new rules
7 Health Benefits of a Himalayan Salt Lamp
Leave a Comment / Health / By Jennifer David
Hello and welcome to JADa Therapy
Himalayan salt lamps are becoming more and more popular today. But what are the benefits of a Himalayan salt lamp? And why have one.
These attractive looking lamps are much more than decorative night lights. I will show you 7 health benefits that you will gain by including it your environment.
Himalayan salt lamps are very helpful in filtering impurities from the air, among many other things.
What is a Himalayan Salt Lamp?
Himalayan salt lamps are made from pink salt crystals that have been mined from the Himalayan Mountains. This is the only place that you can obtain authentic Himalayan pink salt.
Depending on the mineral content the lamps can range in colour from a light pink shade to pink with a tint of orange.
Once the salt is mined they are hollowed out and fitted with a light bulb to provide light and heat.
You can also get Himalayan salt rock lamps that come in the style of baskets of salt blocks with a light underneath them.
Himalayan salt lamps are used for many reasons such as:
Soothing
Pink glow can stimulate deep relaxation
Give an organic feel to the home
Create and mindful and balance space
Clear impurities in the air
Health benefits
These are to name a few and it can also improve your mind, body and soul.
Now you know what a Himalayan salt lamp is how does it work.
How Does A Himalayan Salt Lamp Work?
Salt is hygroscopic which is a scientific word meaning that salt attracts water molecules from the environment.
Water molecules float around in every room in your home. But water molecules are not the only invisible substance that is floating around your home.
Dust
Pollen
Mould
Bacteria
Viruses
And other allergens that be carried around in these water molecules.
Himalayan salt lamp works by attracting the water molecules in your room. It pulls the pollutants and contaminants attached to these molecules.
It basically detoxifies your room by capturing and holding these particles so that they are not floating around your room and you and your family are not breathing them in.
The bulb will then heat the lamp and the purified water vapour is released back into the air and the salt will retain the contaminants.
Now here’s the really good bit.
The Hygroscopic benefits
Himalayan salt lamps also release negative ions in the surrounding environment. Negative ions are simply oxygen atoms with an extra electron.
These negative ions occur naturally in nature with water, air, and sunlight. This can give you a rejuvenated feeling. A feeling of being outside with nature so to speak.
Are Himalayan Salt Lamps Safe?
Right let’s see why Himalayan salt lamps are safe to use, firstly all naturally occurring minerals contain trace amounts of heavy metals. But heavy metal such as lead are found all around us. They are found in the air, soil and even our food.
It only becomes a serious threat to your health when the heavy metals such as lead are in concentrated high levels.
Himalayan salt lamps do not contain enough of these heavy metals to become a risk to your health.
In saying this, it would be advisable to keep the salt lamp away from pets.
What to Look For In A Himalayan Salt Lamp
There are many different designs and styles of Himalayan salt lamps. Some common designs consist of inserting a light source directly into a salt crystal and or basket of salt crystals a light source underneath.
In choosing the right salt lamp for you is purely aesthetics and the choice comes down finding the right solution for your personal taste and what design would complement your home.
The main thing that you have to make sure of is that you are purchasing an authentic Himalayan salt lamp and not fake imitation.
Most Himalayan salt lamps with emit a soft, warm glow. Avoid lamps that give off too much light.
Himalayan salt lamps have pink salt crystals and vary in the shade of pink and some will have a tint of orange. This is not to say that there are not white Himalayan salt but these are rare and expensive.
So if you find a cheap white Himalayan salt lamp, the chances are that it is not and Himalayan salt lamp.
Himalayan Salt comes from the Himalayas areas and nowhere else.
7 Health Benefits of a Himalayan Salt Lamp
Himalayan Salt Lamp – Buying Guide
Health Benefit 1: Purifies the Air
The ability to remove
Pollen
Dust
Smoke
Mould
Viruses
Toxins
Many other types of air born contaminants.
Himalayan salt is a common mineral that naturally heal and strengthens the body and mind. It will provide your home with a purer atmosphere that will improve your living conditions and overall well-being.
Health Benefit 2: Eases allergy and asthma symptoms
Will provide some relief to people suffering from respiratory ailments by counteracting the negative effects of positive ions in the atmosphere.
Himalayan salt lamps will help to remove the symptom-causing contaminants from the air by purifying the air in the room and clearing their airways.
Health Benefit 3: increases Your Energy Levels and Reduces Stress
It will help to re-energise and revitalise the body.
It works by removing the positive ions that can drain your body of energy, whilst the negative ions will help to rejuvenate your body and mind. Once the negative ions reach the bloodstream, they produce biochemical reactions that increase serotonin, which is a chemical that helps to alleviate depression and relieve stress, this will boost your daytime energy.
The negative ions will also relieve seasonal depression also known as seasonal effective disorder.
Health Benefit 4: Helps with Sleep
As mentioned earlier positive ions can drain your energy levels and this can also affect your sleep. Positively charged particles can reduce the blood supply and oxygen to the brain which can affect your sleep pattern.
Having negative ions in the air can be your solution in reversing sleep deprivation problems.
Health Benefit 5: Reduces Electromagnetic Radiation
In today’s world we are surrounded by electrical devices and tools that help to simplify our lives. These devices and tools leave behind electromagnetic radiation.
Everything from smartphones, microwaves, and televisions to name a few leave behind traces of radiation. Whilst these are invisible we are under constant exposure to them which can lead to fatigue, stress and can also weaken your immune system.
Himalayan salt lamps act as an air ionizer, spreading negative ions that can help counteract and neutralise this radiation. It will help in creating balance in the home.
Health Benefit 6: Improves Skin Diseases
Himalayan salt lamps can improve some skin conditions, like eczema, which can be affected by the pollen count and dust levels in the home.
It will help to eliminate some of the problems that cause the symptoms by purifying the air in the home.
Health Benefit 7: Reduces Static Electricity
Static electricity in the home can become annoying. Such as dry eye irritation which can be the result of excessive exposure to static electricity.
Himalayan salt lamps are energy efficient and a natural way to help neutralise airborne particles. This will also reduce the static electricity in your home.
Conclusion
Having a Himalayan salt lamp in your home could be a perfect solution in creating a more mindful, therapeutic and comfortable space.
It will detoxify your environment by removing the negative contaminants and giving your home a more natural living space.
Thank you for reading
Jennifer
PS: I would really appreciate your sharing and liking this article.
Himalayan Salt Lamp – Buying Guide
You may also be interested in:
Epsom Salt Health Benefits​
Benefits of Guinea Hen Weed​
What are the Health Benefits of Oregano?​
The Alkaline Diet​
Healing Your Thyroid Naturally by drinking water​
What Does An Enema Do?​
Health Benefits of Fenugreek Seeds​
How to Heal a Body Naturally with Distilled Water​
The Best Anti-Ageing Tips Ever​
How to increase Your Brain Power Naturally​
Mini Fridge Review: Buying Guide 2019​
Nutri Ninja Range: Buying Guide 2019​
6 Tips How To Use Bentonite Clay
African Black Soap for Acne
Tea rinse For Shedding and Hair Growth
Please follow and like us:
Post navigation
← Previous Post
Next Post →
Leave a Comment Cancel Reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Type here..
Name*
Email*
Website
Recent Posts
Recent Posts Select CategoryBook ReviewsFace CareFitnessHairHealthMotivational
Search for:
Subscribe Form
Get new posts by email
Archives
April 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
July 2018
Affiliate Disclosure
Recent Comments
Jennifer David on What Are The Health Benefits of Oregano?
Paul Mondo on What Are The Health Benefits of Oregano?
Jennifer David on Are Himalayan Salt Lamps Safe?
Linda Frankson on Are Himalayan Salt Lamps Safe?
Jennifer David on What Does An Enema Do?
Live Up 2 You
Always A Better Way
Healthy Anti Aging Alternatives
Copyright © 2019 JADa Therapy | Powered by Astra
Enjoy this blog? Please spread the word :)
Follow
Follow