Constipation-n-Hemorrhoids
The Food Alternative
Alternatives and Compliments for current
Medical Protocols and Pharmaceuticals.
Grand Junction, Colorado
Copyright 2010 - 2017 The Food Alternative
All rights reserved
Renee’ Calder, CNT, MNT
(970) 201-5723
TheFoodAlternative.com
Applying the Science of Nutrition to the
Art of Healing on the Western Slope of Colorado
Grand Junction, Colorado
Copyright 2010 - 2018 The Food Alternative
All rights reserved
Renee’ Calder, CNT, MNT
(970) 201-5723
TheFoodAlternative.com
Applying the Science of Nutrition to the
Art of Healing on the Western Slope of Colorado
Constipation & Hemorrhiods
Constipation means difficulty in passing stools or the infrequent passage of hard,
dry stools as a result of food moving slowly through the large intestine.
Constipation is often caused by insufficient amounts of fiber and fluids in the
diet. Other factors include inadequate exercise; advanced age; muscle disorders;
structural abnormalities; bowel diseases; neurogenic disorders; a poor diet
especially if it includes a heavy consumption of junk food; side effects from
medications and supplements such as iron, antidepressants, cough syrups,
codeine, painkillers, blood pressure medications, heart medications, and
antihistamines. Some health conditions can attribute to constipation such as high
levels of calcium, low levels of thyroid hormone, spinal injuries, spastic colon, and
Hirschsprung’s disease.
Constipation can give rise to many different ailments, including appendicitis, bad
breath, body odor, coated tongue, depression, diverticulitis, fatigue, gas,
headaches, hemorrhoids (piles), hernia, indigestion, insomnia, mal-absorption
syndrome, obesity, varicose veins, and is involved in the development of serious
diseases such as bowel cancer.
Regular bowel movements are an important mechanism for removing toxins from
the body. Antigens and toxins from bowel bacteria and undigested food particles
may play a role in the development of diabetes mellitus, meningitis, myasthenia
gravis, thyroid disease, candidiasiss, chronic gas and bloating, migraines, fatigue,
and ulcerative colitis.
Alternating constipation and diarrhea may be a sign of irritable bowel syndrome.
Foul-smelling stools and a burning feeling in the anus may be signs of acidosis.
What can be done to relieve constipation naturally?
-Eat foods high in both soluble and insoluble fiber.
-Drink at least ten 8 oz glasses of water a day.
-Consume foods that are high in pectin.
-Reduce the amount of fat in the diet.
-Avoid foods that stimulate secretions by the mucous membranes, such as diary
products, fats, and spicy foods.
-Do not consume soft drinks, meat, white flour, highly processed foods, fried
foods, salt, coffee, alcohol, or sugar.
-Prunes and figs are the best natural laxatives.
-Eat small portions.
-Consume barley juice or wheat grass for chlorophyll.
-Get regular exercise.
-Increase consumption of friendly bacteria.
-Increase potassium intake.
-Go to the toilet at the same time each day, even if the urge does not exist, and
relax.
-Colon cleansing and enemas are beneficial.
-Psyllium seed is helpful for constipation.
-Flaxseed oil or freshly ground flaxseeds help to soften stools.
-Fast periodically.
-Garlic capsules (2 daily) destroys harmful bacteria.
-Buffered vitamin C with bioflavonoid (5000 - 20000 mg daily) has a cleansing and
healing effect.
-Chlorophyll liquid or alfalfa (1 tbsp daily, before meals) eliminates toxins and bad
breath.
-Essential fatty acids restores proper fatty acid balance and aids in proper bowel
movement.
-Multi-enzyme complex to aid digestion.
-Multivitamin and mineral complex with vitamin A and mixed Carotenoids, without
iron, to combat anemia.
-B complex with extra B12 and folic acid to aid digestion of fats, carbohydrates,
and protein.
-Vitamin D3 plus calcium and magnesium for preventing colon cancer, proper
muscular contraction, and muscle tone.
-Vitamin E aids in the healing of the colon.
-Ginger stimulates the digestive system and eases passage of foods through the
intestines.
-Aloe Vera has a healing and cleansing effect on the digestive tract and aids in
forming soft stools.
-Milk thistle aids liver function and enhances bile output which soften stools.
-Laxatives can be used occasionally for relief, but if used regularly they can cause
serious problems including diarrhea, abdominal cramping, bloating, dehydration,
dependence, and ultimately, damage to the colon. Be sure to replace your friendly
bacteria with acidophilus.
-If constipation is more than an occasional problem, the possibility of a cancer or
another obstruction in the lower bowel should not be dismissed unless a
proctoscopic examination or a barium enema has shown that there is no blockage.
Hemorrhoids
Hemorrhoids are swollen veins around the anus and in the rectum that may
protrude from the anus. Also known as piles. Hemorrhoids are very much like
varicose veins; they enlarge and lose their elasticity, resulting in sac-like
protrusions into the anal canal.
They can be caused and aggravated by sitting or standing for prolonged periods,
violent coughing, lifting heavy objects, or lifting light objects improperly, and
straining at bowel movement. Other factors include, obesity, lack of exercise, liver
damage, food allergies, insufficient consumption of dietary fiber, and pregnancy.
Hemorrhoids can occur at any age, but tend to become more common as people
age. Symptoms include itching, burning, pain, inflammation, swelling, irritation,
seepage, and bleeding. Candida albicans, allergies, and parasitic infections can also
cause anal itching.
Different types of hemorrhoids include:
External which develop under the skin at the opening of the anal cavity they
can become a hard lump and cause painful swelling.
Internal which are located inside the rectum and are usually painless if above
the anorectal line, they can bleed bright red blood.
Prolapsed which is an internal hemorrhoid that collapses and protrudes
outside the anus and is usually accompanied by mucous discharge, heavy
bleeding, and excruciating pain. These can become thrombosed (form clots)
within which prevents their receding.
Physicians will typically treat conservatively with a dietary regimen that includes
fiber supplements, self-help treatments, and the use of products that reduce
itching, swelling, and pain. When the above is not sufficient other options include
bipolar electro coagulation, infrared photocoagulation, injection sclerotherapy,
laser coagulation, ligation, and surgical removal.
A high fiber diet is probably the most important consideration in the treatment
and prevention of hemorrhoids. If your not used to eating fiber, add it to your diet
in gradually increasing amounts.
Drink 6 - 8 glasses of water daily.
Avoid fats, animal products, coffee, alcohol, and hot spices.
Take 1 to 2 tablespoons of flaxseed oil daily to soften stools.
Capsicum and garlic or plain warm water enemas.
Garlic or raw potato suppositories for healing and pain relief.
Garlic is also a natural antibiotic and immune system stimulant.
Supplements are helpful:
B complex is vital for digestion which reduces stress on the rectum.
Vitamin C with mixed bioflavonoid to aid healing and normal blood clotting.
Calcium is essential for blood clotting, use with magnesium to balance
calcium.
Vitamin E promotes normal blood clotting and healing.
Coenzyme Q10 increases cellular oxygenation and assists in healing.
Vitamins A and D3 aid in healing of mucous membranes and tissues.
Other Considerations:
Do not strain when moving the bowels. Do not sit on toilet for longer than 10
minutes at a time to prevent blood from pooling in the hemorrhoid veins.
Do not use ibuprofen for hemorrhoid pain, they encourage bleeding, use
acetaminophen instead.
A hot bath for 15 minutes per day, without oils or bubbles, can be helpful.
Sits baths are beneficial.
Sit on an ordinary (not donut-shaped) soft cushion, not on hard surfaces.
Learn proper lifting techniques.
Get regular moderate exercise.
Avoid strong or harsh laxatives.
Avoid using rough toilet paper, moisten it or use wipes.
Avoid sitting or standing for prolonged periods of time.
Herbal remedies:
Aloe Vera applied directly can relieve pain and soothe burning sensation.
Bayberry, goldenseal root, myrrh, and white oak used in a salve form work
like conventional preparations.
Witch hazel has astringent properties that are helpful.
Elderberry poultice and mullein poultice can relieve pain.
If home treatments bring no relief, consult your health care provider, especially
if the problem is recurrent and bleeding persists for more than three days. Even a
slow loss of blood will eventually result in anemia and its associated problems.
Persistent rectal bleeding can lead to infections and even a compromised immune
system.
Disclaimer: Nutrition Therapy is not intended as a diagnosis, a treatment, a prescription, or a cure for any disease either mental or physical,
and is not intended as a substitute for regular medical care. Nutrition therapy does provide nutritional evaluation, balanced diet planning,
nutritional supplement suggestions and lifestyle recommendations for the purpose of enhancing health.
Natural Parasite Treatments (3:42)
Check Your Stool For Your Health
Poop Videos
Home test for CANDIDA (2:57)
See Video below for home candida testing.