Difference Between Methanol and Gasoline | Difference Between
Home
About
Archives
Contact Us
Resources
Difference Between Similar Terms and Objects
Business
Accounting
Economics
Finance
Investment
Management
Marketing
Organizations
Planning & Activities
Product & Services
Structure & Systems
Miscellaneous
Career & Education
Culture
Entertainment
Fashion & Beauty
Geography
History
Legal
Politics
Ideology
Leaders
Political Institutions
Religion
Islam
Sports
Technology
Gadgets
Gaming
SmartPhones
Tablets
Software
internet
Hardware
Protocols & Formats
Communication
Web Applications
Industrial
Household Equipments
Auto
Career and Certifications
Science
Biology
Chemistry
Health
Disease
Diet & Fitness
Drugs
Mathematics & Statistics
Nature
Animals
Birds
Physics
Psychology
Objects
Food
Processed Foods
Vegetables & Fruits
Language
Words
Grammar
Difference Between Methanol and Gasoline
• Categorized under Chemistry,Nature,Science | Difference Between Methanol and Gasoline
Methanol vs Gasoline
Methanol versus gasoline is around 20% more powerful, and creates an alternative to gasoline. Methanol is hard to get, and can easily become contaminated simply from the moisture in the air. Gasoline engines produce 53,176 BTU’s of energy at 6500 rpm, whereas methanol engines produce 67,545 BTU’s of energy at 6500 rpm.
Methanol is produced from natural gas, oil and coal, whereas gasoline is derived from petroleum. Mixtures of carbon monoxide and hydrogen are converted into methanol during a chemical process.
Methanol is used as a fuel in internal combustion engines, whereas gasoline is used for tuning engine performance or reducing harmful exhaust emissions. Gasoline is also used as a solvent for diluting paints.
Methanol is used as a substitute for gasoline, but the substitution is costly. Methanol is also considered as a reducing agent for the ozone precursor emissions, but it is relatively small and not cost effective.
Methanol vehicles give a brisker performance, and are less prone to form Ozone, but when compared to gasoline, methane is too expensive. Although methanol will provide benefits in regards to vehicle performance, methanol’s availability is limited.
Gasoline compared to methanol has certain advantages as a racing fuel, such as fuel consumption, corrosion, availability, contamination, cooling systems and water in the fuel. Gasoline is lightweight, and requires less space for fuel storage when compared methanol. Methanol cars consume more fuel when compared to using gasoline. Engines use much more fuel with methanol than with gasoline, thereby the amount of fuel that gets into the crankcase is diluted with methanol. The separation can be a serious problem, and methanol is a very poor lubricant, which in results in a corroded valve stem, guide or valve seat. Methanol can rust metals and soft materials in fuel systems easily.
Methanol creates formaldehyde, and it is less combustible than gasoline. Methanol is poisonous and should never come in contact with the skin, as well as gasoline that is also considered to be a threat to public health. Methanol is also called a future bio-fuel, whereas gasoline is not environmentally friendly.
Summary:
1. Methanol is a future bio-fuel, whereas gasoline is not environmentally friendly.
2. Gasoline and methanol are both used as car fuels, and methanol is more powerful than gasoline.
3. Methanol is expensive, and used as a substitute fuel, compared to gasoline.
4. Gasoline and methanol are both poisonous, and skin contact should be avoided, especially in the case of methanol.
5. Methanol is less combustible than gasoline, but can corrode the metallic parts in the engine.
About
Latest Posts
Jilani
Latest posts by Jilani (see all)
Difference Between Sunni and Salafi - October 24, 2010
Difference Between Visa and Work Permit - August 1, 2010
Difference Between Acrylic and Glass Bongs - August 1, 2010
Search DifferenceBetween.net :
Custom Search
Help us improve. Rate this post! (4 votes, average: 2.00 out of 5)
Loading...
Email This Post : If you like this article or our site. Please spread the word. Share it with your friends/family.
Difference Between Two and Four Stroke Engines
Difference Between Ethanol and Gasoline
Differences Between LS1 and LT1
Difference Between Small Block and Big Block
Difference Between VTEC and non-VTEC
Difference Between Ethanol and Methanol
Difference Between Gas and Diesel
Cite
Jilani. "Difference Between Methanol and Gasoline." DifferenceBetween.net. October 11, 2011 < http://www.differencebetween.net/science/difference-between-methanol-and-gasoline/ >.
2 Comments
Dandy..
October 16, 2012 • 7:45 pm
Who wrote this??
It is incredibly inaccurate.
I would consider it web-trash.
Methanol has about 1/2 the energy content of gasoline. It is used in race cars since when burning, it can be extinguished with water.
Reply
sam
March 1, 2015 • 9:47 am
please fix this. this is very inaccurate.
Reply
Leave a Response
Cancel Reply
Name ( required )
Email ( required )
Website
Please note: comment moderation is enabled and may delay your comment. There is no need to resubmit your comment.
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail
Written by : Jilani. and updated on October 11, 2011
Articles on DifferenceBetween.net are general information, and are not intended to substitute for professional advice. The information is "AS IS", "WITH ALL FAULTS". User assumes all risk of use, damage, or injury. You agree that we have no liability for any damages.
See more about : difference, gasoline, methanol
Get New Comparisons in your inbox:
More in 'Chemistry'
Difference Between Acetone and Acetate
Difference Between GMO and Organic
Difference Between Acetone vs. Non-Acetone
Difference Between Acetone and Styrofoam
More in 'Nature'
Difference Between Pest and Weed
Difference Between Groundhog and Beaver
Difference Between Beak and Bill
Difference Between Hemp and Pot
More in 'Science'
Difference Between Cervical Cancer vs Ovarian Cancer
Difference Between Pest and Weed
Difference Between Dielectric Constant and Permittivity
Difference Between ASA and AAS
Follow Us
Most Emailed Comparisons
Difference Between Vitamin D and Vitamin D3 - 118 emails
Difference Between Goals and Objectives - 102 emails
Difference Between LCD and LED Televisions - 89 emails
Difference Between Islam and Muslim - 87 emails
Difference Between Objective and Subjective - 66 emails
Difference Between Oxycontin and Oxycodone - 65 emails
Editor's Picks
Difference Between Gen Z and Millennials
Difference Between Mark Zuckerberg and Bill Gates
Difference Between Civil War and Revolution
Difference Between Aperol and Campari
Difference Between Queen and Full
Copyright © 2019 Difference Between • Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy stated here :
Legal
Subscribe • Comments