Thiospot Questions and Answers | Hyperpigmentation, Chloasma and Melasma Treatment
Ask An Expert
Expert Knowledge
Skincare Advice
E-mail Support
Home
Shop
Clinics
Offers
Sign-Up
Press
Contact Us
SkinMed Home » Thiospot » Questions and Answers
Thiospot
Overview
Science
Age, Sun and Liver spots
Q & A
Products
Clinical
Customer Comments & Feedback
Shop
SkinMed Solutions for
Acne, Spots & Oily Skin
Rosacea, Flushing, Blushing & Thread Veins
Pigment & Dark Marks
Anti-Aging Guide
No Needle Wrinkle Filler
Innovative Anti-Ageing Enzyme Treatment
Anti-wrinkle Retinol A Cream
Skin Remodelling
Scars & Skin Damage
Dry, Flaky, Inflamed Skin
Hypersensitive Skin
Supplements
Sun Protection
Thiospot® Questions and Answers
Is Thiospot® similar to Hydroquinone?
No. It has nothing to do with Hydroquinone - it works by reducing the amount of melanin production by an enzymatic process and a non-enzymatic process. Hydroquinone reduces pigmentation in a completely different way. Hydroquinone is banned for sale in cosmetics in the EU and is only available by hospital consultant prescription and even then this is only as a last resort in many consultants cases since hydroquinone metabolites were classified as a possible cancer risk. Arbutin is the glycoside of hydroquinone and once in the skin the glycoside chain is removed, it releases hydroquinone, but inexplicably arbutin containing products are still legal and available for sale in Europe. Lastly, and just as worrying to many, Bearberry is found in a number of well known skin lightening agents and bearberry is a natural source of arbutin.
How long does Thiospot® take to be effective?
This obviously depends on the density of the pigmented area, but results are usually seen from 4 to 8 weeks. This time is taken because firstly excess pigment production in the melanocytes (make the pigment melanin) needs to slow down and then new skin cells, which pick up the available pigment from the melanocytes, need to migrate to the surface as the old darker cells are shed. Pigmentation takes time to appear and therefore will not disappear that quickly, unless using harsh chemicals. Thiospot® is a much gentler but extremely effective way to manage excess pigmentation issues and has been shown to be as effective as 2% hydroquinone.
How long should the Thiospot® Skin Roller/Cream last?
Again, this depends on the area upon which the skin roller is used - but can be over three months if used on small areas as directed. This is also true for the Intensive cream - it must be used sparingly but frequently (two or three times) every day.
Will normal skin be affected?
Thiospot® is, as with all General Topics products, designed to normalise skin. It therefore works more effectively on those cells which produce an excessive amount of melanin - or hyper pigmented cells. Where there is differential melanin production in an area - the aim is to have all these cells producing melanin at the same rate - Thiospot® is used repeatedly on an area of skin which is 'normally pigmented' then it is likely to become slightly less pigmented over time but will return to its normal state after time. The darker problem area will lighten more and can be maintained at this lighter shade.
Is Thiospot safe to use in the sun?
Thiospot is safe to use in the sun. Ensure that the Thiospot is completely absorbed. Once fully absorbed, it is essential to apply a high factor sunscreen, such as Sunwards Extreme SPF50.
Does Thiospot increase the risk of sensitivity?
The skin roller contains salicylic acid and some people can become sensitive to this with continued use. The Cream does not contain salicylic acid, so should therefore not increase the risk of sensitivity.
Is Thiospot® cost-effective?
The answer here is that like all General Topics products, Thiospot® is effective and safe and very cleverly thought out. You are paying for the scientific knowledge and delivery system development, which ensures the right processes take place in the skin, in the right place at the right time. A product that costs $10 and is not effective is far less cost-effective than Thiospot®.
How long has Thiospot® been available?
Thiospot® has been available since 2001 and has been enjoying significant success in mainland Europe. Thiospot® SR and Thiospot® Intensive Cream are new improved formulations, which also contain an SPF 10. These were launched worldwide in March 2005.
Request Information
If you could not find the information you were looking for within our detailed product pages click the following link.
Complete a Free Skin Review
About Us
SkinMed was created to assist in the research development, sale and distribution of dermatological products which are beneficial to skin health. The company draws from the expertise from both the pharmaceutical and the cosmetics world where many decades of experience allow us to bring you options which work.
Our Guarantee
SkinMed are completely dedicated to your total satisfaction. We offer advise through our fully trained staff and help in any way possible to en-sure you receive the best advise we can offer. With the support of great products we guarantee to do all we can to help.
SkinMed Solutions for
Acne, Spots & Oily Skin
Rosacea, Flushing, Blushing & Thread Veins
Pigment & Dark Marks
Anti-Aging Guide
No Needle Wrinkle Filler
Scars & Skin Damage
Hypersensitive Skin
SkinMed Products
Aknicare
Rosacure
Thiospot
Fillast
Terproline
Sensicure
Customer Service
Contact Us
About SkinMed
Shipping and Returns
Loyalty Scheme & Recommend a Friend
Free Skin Review
Games - Play Aknihilation & you could win free products
Site Map
Join Us
Cookies in Use
Customer Services Contact Us
Print Page
Bookmark Page
Back to Top
Copyright © SkinMed 2019. All Rights Reserved.