Is Eating Red Meat a Big Cancer Risk? - EatingWell
ADVERTISEMENT
Digital Editions Newsletters
Keywords
Include Ingredients
✕
+
Exclude Ingredients
✕
-
Search
Cancel
EatingWell Magazine Subscribe Now!
Favorites
Profile
Newsletters
Account Settings
Log Out
Join EatingWell
Sign In
Healthy Recipes Healthy Recipes >
Breakfast Recipes
Drink Recipes
Clean-Eating Recipes
Cooking Methods
Lunch Recipes
Main Dish Recipes
Diabetes-Friendly Recipes
Holiday & Occasion Recipes
Dinner Recipes
Salad Recipes
Low Calorie Recipes
Ingredients
Appetizer Recipes
Side Dish Recipes
Weight Loss Recipes
Vegan Recipes
Dessert Recipes
Soup Recipes
More Special Diets
Vegetarian Recipes
Browse all EatingWell recipes
Weight Loss Weight Loss >
How to Lose Weight
Quick Weight-Loss
Best Foods for Weight-Loss
Weight-Loss Motivation
Popular Diet Program Reviews
Weight Loss Challenge
Special Diets Special Diets >
Clean Eating Diet Center
Dairy-Free Diet Center
Diabetes Diet Center
Gluten-Free Diet Center
Healthy Aging Diet Center
Heart-Healthy Diet Center
High Blood Pressure Diet Center
High-Fiber Diet Center
Low-Carb Diet Center
Cholesterol Diet Center
Low-Sodium Diet Center
Mediterranean Diet Center
Pregnancy Diet Center
Vegan Diet Center
Vegetarian Diet Center
Meal Plans Meal Plans >
Meal Planning 101
Dinner Plans
Clean Eating Meal Plans
Dairy-Free Meal Plans
Meal Plans for Diabetes
Blood Pressure Meal Plans
High-Fiber Meal Plans
Gluten-Free Meal Plans
Anti-Aging Meal Plans
Healthy Kids Meal Plans
Heart-Healthy Meal Plans
Low-Carb Meal Plans
Low Cholesterol Meal Plans
Mediterranean Diet Meal Plans
Pregnancy Meal Plans
Low Sodium Meal Plans
Vegan Meal Plans
Vegetarian Meal Plans
Weight-Loss Meal Plans
Healthy Eating 101 Healthy Eating 101 >
Eat More Vegetables
How to Eat Healthy
Plant Your Plate
Best Healthy Foods
Healthy Cooking How-Tos
Entertaining
Healthy Eating for Kids
Ask the Test Kitchen
Wine, Beer & Spirits Guide
Budget Cooking Guide
Healthy Pets
Green and Sustainable Eating
30-Day Challenges
EatingWell in Real Life
Shop Shop >
EatingWell Frozen Meals
EatingWell Cookbooks & More
Free Digital Cookbooks
Promotions & Events
Subscribe to our magazine
Give a Gift
Videos
About Us
Home
Healthy Eating 101
Is Eating Red Meat a Big Cancer Risk?
By: Karen Ansel, M.S., R.D. | March/April 2016 | Is Red Meat Risky Business
Is red meat really risky when it comes to your risk of cancer? You've been warned in the past to eat less meat, but the worries may be overplayed. After all, it's all relative.
The average American eats about 99 pounds of red and processed meat each year. Given how much beef, pork, deli meat (yes, poultry too), hot dogs, sausage and bacon we eat, it's concerning that the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) concluded that eating these meats may promote cancer. Eating 3 ½ ounces of red meat (or a steak the size of a deck of cards) daily raises colo­rectal cancer risk by 17 percent. Eating about 2 ounces of processed meat (roughly two slices of deli meat) daily raises this risk by 18 percent. It sounds dangerous, especially in light of headlines comparing meat to ­tobacco, but let's look beyond the hype.
For starters, the research looks at cancer risk, but what exactly is risk? Risk is the chance that something will happen. "Driving recklessly doesn't mean you're definitely going to get into an accident, but it increases the risk or probability that it will happen," says Elisa Bandera, M.D., Ph.D., professor of epidemiology at the Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey. "If you're driving carefully you could still get into an accident, but it's less likely."
Must Watch: Is Organic Meat Healthier?
The same is true for meat and cancer. Eating more red and processed meat doesn't guarantee you'll get cancer, since factors like genetics, exercise and the big picture of your overall diet come into play. "If more of your daily calories come from red and processed meat, it's likely that fewer of them come from protective fruits, vegetables and whole grains," says David Katz, M.D., director of Yale University's Prevention Research Center.
In this instance, reviewing 800 studies led the IARC to classify processed meats as a "Group 1 carcinogen," the same status given to cigarettes. So is eating processed meat as harmful as smoking? "No!" says Peter Callas, Ph.D., research associate professor of medical biostatistics at the University of Vermont. "All the IARC said was that they classify both processed meats and smoking as carcinogens. They didn't say anything about the relative harms of each."
Don't Miss: Does a Cancer Prevention Diet Exist?
Being labeled a carcinogen means that it can cause cancer, but it doesn't say that it will. A risk increase less than 50 percent is considered weak, 51 to 200 percent is moderate and over 200 percent is strong. Smoking ups lung cancer risk by 2,500 percent, so the 17 or 18 percent increase in risk from red and processed meat doesn't come close. And the lifetime risk of getting colorectal cancer is about 5 percent. Increasing this risk doesn't add 18 percent to 5 percent (so not 23 percent), but rather adds 18 percent of 5 percent (about 1 percent), upping the risk to 6 percent.
"The takeaway: reduce your red and processed meat consumption," says Bandera. "You can still eat it, just fill most of your plate with vegetables and grains."
What's the risk? Here's a look comparing red meat and other cancer risk factors.
Red Meat: Eat a 3 1/2-ounce steak or burger daily and increase your risk of colon cancer by 17%
52,252 Americans die annually from colorectal cancer.
Salt: Eating more than 1 1/4 teaspoons of salt daily increases your risk of stomach cancer by 51%
11,261 Americans die annually from stomach cancer.
Alcohol: Drinking 2 glasses of alcohol daily increases your risk of breast cancer by 150%
41,325 Americans die annually from breast cancer.
Obesity: Being overweight or obese increases your risk of esophageal cancer by 200%
14,690 Americans die annually from esophageal cancer.
Cigarettes: Smoking cigarettes increases your risk of lung cancer by 2,500%
156,252 Americans die annually from lung cancer.
Eat Less Meat (But Still Enjoy It!)
Meatless Monday: Healthy Vegetarian Recipes You Must Try
Healthy Recipes for Steak & Recipes for Beef
4 Ways to Go Meatless
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
About Us
About Us
Jobs at EatingWell
Advertising
Advertise with Us
Meredith Women's Network
Support
Technical Questions
Contact Us
Feedback
Customer Service
Magazine
Give a Gift
Digital Editions
SubscribeSubscribe
Current Issue
Recipe Index
Affiliate Program
EU Data Subject Requests
©2019 Eating Well, Inc.
EatingWell
120 Graham Way
Suite 100
Shelburne, VT 05482, USA
www.EatingWell.com
Data Policy
Privacy Policy Your California Rights
EU Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
© 2018 EatingWell.com is part of the Allrecipes Food Group. EatingWell may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Use, Privacy Policy (Your California Privacy Rights), and Data Policy.