Giant Mosquitos Spawned by Hurricane Florence | KEEP the FAITH
Select PageHome Monthly Messages	– Pastor Mayer – Pastor Nelson – 2019 – 2018 – 2017 – 2016 – 2015 – 2014 – 2013 – 2012 – 2011 – 2010 – 2009 – 2008 – 2007 – 2006 – 2005 – 2004 – 2003 – 2002 – 2001 – 2000 – 1999 – 1998 Briefings	– Prophetic Intelligence – Nature Knows Best – Prophetically Speaking Events Videos	– KTF News – Interviews – Sermons – Promo Video Store Make a Gift
Timely and Inspiring Prophetic Analysis so you can Prepare.
Home
Monthly Messages
Pastor Mayer
Pastor Nelson
2019
2018
2017
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001
2000
1999
1998
Briefings
Prophetic Intelligence
Nature Knows Best
Prophetically Speaking
Events
Videos
KTF News
Interviews
Sermons
Promo Video
Store
Make a Gift
Post
Similar Posts
Pastor Hal Mayer
Speaker / Director
Giant Mosquitos Spawned by Hurricane Florence
Tuesday October 16th, 2018
Print This Post
CNN: Ouch! The floodwaters that followed Hurricane Florence, which made landfall in North Carolina on September 14, have spawned thousands of mega-mosquitoes across the state, according to entomologists.
These giants have zebra-striped legs and are two to three times as big as the normal bloodsuckers encountered during summer, said Michael H Reiskind, an assistant professor in the Department of Entomology at North Carolina State University. “Definitely noticeably bigger,” he said. “If you see mosquitoes often, then you’re going to say, ‘Wow, that’s a big mosquito.'”
The good news is that this species, called Psorophora ciliata by scientists but commonly known as “gallinippers” are not likely to make anyone sick, Reiskind said. “They can carry dog heartworm, but in general, they don’t actually carry human diseases.”
“That being said, being bitten by a giant mosquito or being bitten hundreds of times by a giant mosquito can be, in and of itself, a public health issue,” he said. Some people also have more severe reactions to bites. “It can be truly disturbing. I have an 8-year-old son who reacts really badly to mosquito bites.”
Reiskind explained that whether mosquito bites are painful or lasting varies between people for such reasons as individual immune system responses and previous experience with a mosquito species. In the case of the gallinippers, though, “big mosquito, big proboscis — that’s the mouth part that bites,” he said. “It’s a painful bite.”
The species is native throughout the eastern United States, all the way up to southern Ontario, according to Reiskind. “In general, they’re pretty rare, I would say, under normal circumstances. But when you get hurricanes, you get such a large boom in the population from the flood that suddenly, everybody notices them.”
Experts are waiting to see whether Hurricane Michael has any effect on the gallinippers. The species breeds more when there’s more standing water, and generally, they prefer “grassy areas that flood, so that could be agricultural fields, wet meadows, marshes,” said Reiskind, who believes that the species has “probably adapted to these periods of time when you have massive flooding on the landscape.”
In most years, the females will produce lots of eggs, but most of those will die. “But they can withstand drying out really well, so when it does flood, the eggs are out there waiting to hatch,” he said.
Scientists are waiting to see what happens if North Carolina get hits by another hurricane, Reiskind said. It could be that all the eggs laid as a result of Hurricane Florence will hatch and the state will have twice the problem it has now, or the eggs may not [hatch] until after winter, which is not uncommon in a lot of insects.
“We really don’t know what will happen,” he said. “This species have not been well-studied in this situation.”
There are close to 4,000 species of mosquitoes in the world and at least 61 species in North Carolina alone, and each is slightly different, so there’s a lot that remains unknown about these bloodsucking pests.
What is known is that last month, Gov. Roy Cooper ordered $4 million to fund mosquito control efforts. Reiskind said that funding is “important” because often, after an initial wave of giant mosquitoes, a second wave occurs of other mosquitoes: “The kind we worry about more for the transmission of human disease,” including West Nile virus. “They often come out after that initial wave, so right now, essentially.
Prophetic Link
Satan works through the elements also to garner his harvest of unprepared souls. He has studied the secrets of the laboratories of nature, and he uses all his power to control the elements as far as God allows. When he was suffered to afflict Job, how quickly flocks and herds, servants, houses, children, were swept away, one trouble succeeding another as in a moment. It is God that shields His creatures and hedges them in from the power of the destroyer. But the Christian world have shown contempt for the law of Jehovah; and the Lord will do just what He has declared that He would—He will withdraw His blessings from the earth and remove His protecting care from those who are rebelling against His law and teaching and forcing others to do the same. Satan has control of all whom God does not especially guard. He will favor and prosper some in order to further his own designs, and he will bring trouble upon others and lead men to believe that it is God who is afflicting them. GC 589.2
Source References
Giant mosquitoes emerge in North Carolina post-Florence
Prophetic Intelligence Briefings are provided to show a link between current events and Bible prophecy only. The article summaries, which are not intended as a commentary in support of or in opposition to the views of the authors, do not necessarily reflect the views of Pastor Mayer or of Keep the Faith other than to point out the prophetic link.
Comments
Post a Comment!
Cancel reply
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Request your free subscriptions now
English
Deutsch
Español
Português
Українська
Latest Message
Request CD | View Transcript
Make a Gift
Or click here to send a check
Prophetically Speaking…
“How much dispersion and solitude there is all around us. The world is completely connected, yet seems increasingly disjointed.” more…
Recent Posts
Prophetically Speaking…
Sri Lanka Attacks: ‘International Network’ Linked to Bombings
Vermont Abortion Bill Goes Further than Virginia and New York’s
KTF News Video – Democrats Block Bill to Protect Abortion Survivors
Prophetically Speaking…
Tags
Australia Catholic Church church and state Donald Trump globalization LGBT Pope Francis Prophetically Speaking Quote of the Day religious freedom religious liberty same-sex marriage United States Vatican
Recent Comments
admin on Has the King of the North Been Pushed Too Far in American Politics?
Kevin Paulson on Has the King of the North Been Pushed Too Far in American Politics?
Kevin Paulson on Has the King of the North Been Pushed Too Far in American Politics?
Ginnie McNeil on President Trump Calls Pope Francis after Notre-Dame Fire
admin on Has the King of the North Been Pushed Too Far in American Politics?
Follow
Home
Subscribe
Store
About KTF
Meet the Team
Terms of Use
RSS Feed
Contact
top
© 2019 Keep the Faith. All Rights Reserved. Webmaster »
Share
Send Email
Your Name
Your Email
Receiver Email
Subject
Add Message :
Send
close