Meat consumption, colon cancer, and your genes – Genetic Lifehacks
Home
Guides
23andMe
Site Map
Where Do I Start?
Newsletter Sign Up
Videos
MTHFR
Check your 23andMe results
Methylation Cycle
What to Eat
Weight Loss & Your Genes
Diet / Gene Interactions
Detoxification Genes
Histamine Intolerance
Lactose Intolerance
Vitamins & Minerals
Disease Risk
Alzheimer’s Disease
Heart Disease
Autoimmune
Auto-inflammatory
Disease Prevention
Exercise
Celiac / Gluten
Hormones
Inborn Errors of Metabolism
Interesting
Circadian
About
Practitioners
Privacy Policy
Hire Me
Search for:
Toggle Navigation
Meat consumption, colon cancer, and your genes
Published by Debbie Moon on January 21, 2018
The link between colon cancer and meat consumption has been trumpeted by vegetarians and refuted by paleo fanatics. My question, as usual, is: “What role does genetics play?”
The World Health Organization includes processed meat on their list of probable carcinogens. This is based on several large epidemiological studies that show processed meat consumption increases colon cancer risk by 18-20%!
Putting the statistics into perspective:
According to the American Cancer Society, the lifetime risk of colon cancer is around 5%, and increasing that risk by around 20% would give a lifetime risk of about 6%.
This statistical risk is based on epidemiologic studies of the population as a whole and doesn’t take into account individual genetic variants that can increase – or decrease – the risk of colong cancer..
Genetics study:
A 2014 study looked at the interaction between genetics and the risk of colon cancer from processed meat. Researchers examine the genes of 9,000 colon cancer patients and 9,000 control subjects without colon cancer.
Researchers discovered the increase in colon cancer was linked to the GA/TA3 gene. This gene codes for a transcription factor involved in inflammation and blood vessel epithelial cells. High processed meat consumption in people with GA/TA3 genetic variants increased colon cancer cases.[ref]
Check your 23andMe results for rs4143094 (v.5 only):
T/T: higher risk of colon cancer with increasing meat consumption
G/T: higher risk of colon cancer with increasing meat consumption
G/G: normal
Check your 23andMe results for rs1269486 (v.4 only):
A/A: higher risk of colon cancer with increasing meat consumption
A/G: higher risk of colon cancer with increasing meat consumption
G/G: normal
The increase in the risk of colon cancer for those with the risk allele did vary by the amount of meat consumed. Carriers of the risk allele who ate the highest percentage of meat had a 39% increased risk for colon cancer; carriers who ate less meat were at a 20 – 26% increase in risk.
People who carry the normal genotype, which is about 60% of Caucasians and 90% of Chinese populations, were not found to have an increased risk of colon cancer with meat consumption.
Statistically, this actually makes sense with the population-wide studies that showed Americans overall to be at an 18% increased risk of cancer with meat consumption. And this is why population-wide recommendations for diet are often misleading — or completely wrong.
Lifehacks:
The lifehacks here are obvious! If you carry the risk alleles – especially if you have a family history of colon cancer – cut down on the processed meats.
Examples of processed meats include:
brats,
lunch meat,
bacon,
pepperoni,
salami,
hotdogs
Instead, opt for some veggies along with meat or protein sources that aren’t fermented, smoked, or processed in other ways.
Finally, just for all the Parks and Recs fans who always think of Ron Swanson when they hear the word ‘meat’:
More to read:
Gut Health and Your Genes – FUT2 Genetic Variants
Increased Inflammation and IL-17A Genetic Variants
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
Categories:	Diet / Gene InteractionDisease Prevention
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Name *
Email *
Website
What's on your mind?
Current ye@r *
Leave this field empty
Search:
Search for:
Newsletter Sign Up:
Sign up for a weekly (ish) email with articles and news. No junk. Not spam. Just info on genetics that you can use.
Email Address
23andMe Kits
Need your genetic data? The 23andMe Ancestry only kit gives you the complete raw data file.
Ancestry DNA kits:
Get your AncestryDNA kit.
Article Categories:
Alzheimer's (9)
Auto-inflammatory (2)
Autoimmune (5)
Cannabis/CBD (2)
Circadian Rhythm (19)
Detox (17)
Diabetes (8)
Diet / Gene Interaction (45)
Disease Prevention (87)
Exercise (2)
Genetics (17)
Gluten / Celiac (2)
Heart Disease (19)
Histamine (7)
Hormones (6)
Inborn Errors of Metabolism (3)
Infertility (1)
Interesting (13)
Lactose (1)
Methylation Cycle (13)
Microbiome (5)
Neurotransmitters (12)
Phase I Detox (6)
Phase II Detox (5)
Sleep (11)
Thyroid (1)
Vitamins & Minerals (16)
Weight Loss (25)
Cheap Lab Tests
Ulta Lab Tests*
Inexpensive place to order lab tests online (US only).
Use promo code "Easter20%" for 20% off all of the tests through 4/27!
*affiliate link
Buy Me a Cup of Coffee?
Please consider supporting my work through Patreon!
Things I like on Amazon:
Recommended books:
Circadian Code
The Gene
Supplements I like:
Lithium Orotate
Methylfolate +B12
We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites
Not medical advice:
Everthing presented on this site is for informational and educational purposes only. Read the research, decide for yourself, talk with your doctor. Also keep in mind that 23andMe and AncestryDNA state that their raw data files are for informational purposes.
Related Posts
Diet / Gene Interaction
Problems with IBS? Personalized solutions based on your genes
We tend to take happy bowels for granted — until something goes awry! For many people, a daily battle seems to wage in their intestines. Pain, discomfort, bloating, diarrhea and/or constipation — known as IBS Read more…
Disease Prevention
The genetics of high triglycerides
Triglycerides are the main type of fat in your blood. Triglyceride is a general term for a type of lipid-containing three fatty acids (tri) bound to a glycerol. Triglycerides are used by the body as Read more…
Disease Prevention
Are you a spicy food wimp?
Some people thrive on spicy foods — eating the ghost pepper salsa or ordering the ‘nuclear’ hot wings. Are these people just tougher? stronger? superior? Or are they the genetic oddities? Personally, I say that there Read more…