Health Benefits of Fish Oil
Toggle navigation
Remedies
Supplements
Health Tips & News
Dietary Supplements
Fish Oil Health Benefits
By Jawairia Zafar, OCT | Comments
What is Fish Oil?
Fish oil is a nutrient rich oil that is derived from fish such as tuna, trout, salmon, mackerel, anchovy, sardine, cod, and herring. Some of the many nutrients in fish oil include Vitamin A and Vitamin D, as well as Omega3 fatty acids Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA).
What are the Benefits of Fish Oil?
Fish Oil contains protective elements that are crucial for maintaining the normal functions of the human body. Researchers have found that the Vitamin A, D, and fatty acids in Fish Oil help with the proper functioning of our central nervous system, respiratory system, and circulatory system. Studies have also found that Fish Oil can help treat poor eyesight, cognitive abnormalities, depression, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, obesity, rheumatoid arthritis, dry and itchy skin, dry and brittle hair, high cholesterol levels, high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease and inflammation. It can also inhibit the production and growth of all forms of cancerous cells and strengthen our immune system.
Uses of Fish Oil
Arthritis and Osteoporosis
The fatty acids that are present in Fish Oil can help reduce the inflammation and pain caused by arthritis. Additionally, the Vitamin D in Fish Oil improves bone mineral density which is important to prevent Osteoporosis. Therefore, a simple remedy for both Arthritis and Osteoporosis is to take 1000mg of Fish Oil once daily with a meal.
Depression
Studies have shown that low EPA levels in the body are related to depression and suicide risk. Fish oil is rich in EPA Essential Fatty Acids which may help treat depression and anxiety. Therefore, simply take 500mg to 1000mg of Fish Oil daily with a meal to treat these two conditions.
Eczema and Other Skin Problems
Fish Oil has been found to be effective at treating many skin problems such as dry skin and eczema. Here are some simple remedies for these skin problems:
Take one 500mg capsule of Fish oil everyday while symptoms last.
Mix a drop of Fish oil into a scent-free moisturizer and rub it onto the affected skin. One drop of oil is sufficient to cover an area equal to the size of a face.
Add 5 drops of Fish oil into warm bath water and soak in it for about 15 minutes at least three times a week.
For dry and itchy skin mix one teaspoon of Fish Oil into a moisturizer and apply it before you go to bed.
Dry Eyes, Poor Eyesight, and Other Vision Problems
The Vitamin A content in Fish Oil has been found to help with dry eyes by keeping the eyes and retina moist. Similarly, the DHA content in the oil has been found to prevent the macular degeneration that results in a gradual loss of eyesight due to age. Therefore, regular use of Fish Oil may help treat these eye conditions. A recommended dosage is one capsule of 500-1000mg daily for at least 3 months.
High Cholesterol
The Omega3 Fatty Acids and Vitamin A in Fish Oil can help lower cholesterol levels and reduce cardiovascular disease risk by controlling the high triglycerides and LDL levels (bad cholesterol) in the bloodstream. It may also increase the HDL levels (the good cholesterol) in the blood which help clear the fatty deposits and plaque in the arteries. In fact, the American Heart Association recommends consumption of 1000mg of Fish Oil every day with one meal.
Schizophrenia
Researchers have found that the Omega3 Fatty Acids in Fish oil can suppress the onset of Schizophrenia in people who are at high risk of the disease or are delusional or suffer from mild hallucinations. A recommended dosage is 1000mg of Fish Oil daily with a meal.
What are the Side Effects of Fish Oil?
Fish Oil is not known to have any severe side effects other than a slight fish aftertaste if it is consumed in moderate doses. The maximum daily intake of Fish Oil is 1600mg for men, and 1100mg for women. An overdose of Fish Oil can cause bloating, indigestion, heartburn, diarrhea and nausea. These side effects can be minimized by taking the Fish Oil with meals. Some people have found that freezing the capsule before eating it reduces the aftertaste, so this may be worth a try if the taste is a problem.
It is recommended to start using Fish Oil in small doses, and then increase the amount gradually. If you are taking additional supplements that contain Vitamin A or D, you should choose Fish Oil that doesn't contain either of these vitamins. This is to prevent an overdose of both Vitamin A and D, which can result in nausea as well as heart and kidney problems.
Where and How to Buy Fish Oil
Fish Oil can be easily found at most herbal and nutritional food stores. When buying Fish oil look for a product that has the following properties:
derived at low temperatures from cold and pristine water fish
molecularly distilled and purified
has a certificate of analysis
rich in Omega3 fatty acids DHA and EPA
Related Content
Depression
Find natural techniques to cope with this common mental disorder.
High Cholesterol
Find out how to lower LDL and increase HDL in your blood.
Last Updated: July 29, 2016
Published By: Home Remedies Web
First Publication: January 1, 2009
Name: Fish Oil Health Benefits
Comments
There are currently no comments.
Post Your Comments
Your Name:
Your Email Address:
Comment:
Want to live your best life?
Join the thousands of other subscribers who get our free weekly natural health and wellness updates!
Sign Up
Latest
The 10 Best Foods to Reduce Cholesterol
Health Benefits of Dandelion
Health Benefits of Forskolin
Natural Pain Killing Remedies
Health Benefits of Valerian
Popular
Apple Cider Vinegar Health Benefits
Weight Loss Home Remedy
Grape Seed Oil Health Benefits
Age Spots Home Remedy
Fenugreek Health Benefits
About Us
Contact Us
Newsletter
Terms
Privacy
Sitemap
WARNING: This free home remedies site is intended to be for educational purposes only. Before making use of any of the natural and home remedies on this site, please consult your doctor or a naturopathic or homeopathic professional.
Copyright © 2019 Home Remedies Web. All rights reserved.