Great Combination of Baking Soda and Honey to Cure Cancer | ORAA.INFO
Home
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
ORAA.INFO
Life Is About To Change
Cancer Info
Great Combination of Baking Soda and Honey to Cure Cancer
By Oraa on Friday, April 12, 2019
Contents
1 Baking Soda and Honey for Cancer Treatment
2 How to Use Baking Soda and Honey for Cancer Remedy?
The combination of Baking Soda and Honey for Cancer, can you believe it? Nowadays, cancer becomes so friendly with people around the world. Some people who suffer cancer cannot explain the cause of being diagnosed. While they have undergone healthy life perhaps with diet and exercise but still have the chance to meet with this disease. However, this is so scary whether for the men and women.
Developing cancer from the early stage until the advanced means prepare our self to die, why? Because most of the cancer survivor will only have five years to live but the other can beat it and be cured. The treatment is also frightening for some survivors, such as surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy, where the chance to life and death sometimes equal. Now, you have to take a look at the conventional Baking Soda and Honey for Cancer that has a great result to kill cancer cells.
Baking Soda and Honey for Cancer Treatment
Perhaps many of cancer survivors feel fear to undergo medical treatment like surgery and chemotherapy. Not only because the lower life chance that is promised from those treatments but also the effect toward the body. Using conventional treatment to cure cancer look so uncommon but it brings new hope to get recovery without losing weight or hair as the impact of chemo. The combination of baking soda and honey will give you great treatments especially to beat cancer cells. Baking Soda and Honey for Cancer are the treatment that you should consider to choose.
Baking soda
In the body, their inflammation that can cause body become acidic, this condition will allow some harmful bacteria and viruses come in. persistent inflammation will cause several serious diseases such as diabetes, heart disease, and cancers. The containing of baking soda includes bicarbonate and alkaline substance can increase the blood pH, increases tumor pH and inhibits the spontaneous of metastasis. Moreover, baking soda can prevent kidney stones and soothes acid reflux.
Honey
Honey has a unique set that is very good for human such as antibacterial, antiviral, anti-inflammation, anti-fungal, antiseptic, digestive and antioxidant. Some practitioners consider honey as one of nature’s best all-around remedies.
READ THIS: Look at these Gum Cancer Pictures! Be Aware Of These Early Signs
Along with inflammation, oxidative stress is a common cause of some chronic diseases, for instance, autoimmune disorders, ageing, cataract, rheumatoid arthritis, cardiovascular and neurodegenerative diseases, and also cancer. Honey as the best sources of powerful antioxidants can against oxidative stress. Moreover, the syrup also has the ability to act upon more than 80 pathogen species to against many diseases.
By combining both of thus, baking soda and honey will target the cancer cells and destroy them. Honey acts as a carrier which can entice the cells of cancer to gobble it up and allowing the baking soda to penetrate into the cells.
How to Use Baking Soda and Honey for Cancer Remedy?
Pay attention to the following steps in using baking soda and honey to beat cancer cells.
Ingredients:
1 tbsp. of baking soda (aluminum-free)
3 tbsp. organic raw honey
Instructions:
Combine baking soda with honey in a small bowl
Spoon into a stainless steel saucepan and cook over low heat for 10 minutes
Stir it frequently, do not let it boil
Meanwhile, soak a sealed sterile glass jar in warm water to prevent it from breaking because of contact with the mixture
Spoon the mixture into the jar and let it cool
When it gets cool, you can tighten the lid and save it for the future use
READ THIS: Cesium Cancer Treatment with A Chemical Element to Drug Cancer in Liverpool
How to use:
Take a tablespoon of the mixture above three times a day, half an hour before meals, for a month
Make sure to only make this medicine at a time to ensure its freshness and effectiveness
Avoid wheat, sugar and dairy products and reduce your intake of meat while undergoing this treatment
You should also keep your mind and body healthy by staying hydrated, eating organic, daily exercise and have enough sleep.
These two combinations bring you to have cured of any cancer soon. Baking Soda and Honey for Cancer are the great remedies for cancer. If you want to use this treatment please still have a discussion with your doctor to prevent something bad in the future. Hopefully, the better life will come to you after reading this article.
Reference:
https://www.healthline.com/health/cancer/baking-soda
0
Previous Post
Related Posts
Cancer Info
Stage 4 Ovarian Cancer Survivors and the Risk Factors Affect
Cancer Info
Cecum Cancer Survival Rate: Understand and Survive Longer
Cancer Info
Look at these Gum Cancer Pictures! Be Aware Of These Early Signs
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Search for:
Great Combination of Baking Soda and Honey to Cure Cancer
Stage 4 Ovarian Cancer Survivors and the Risk Factors Affect
Cecum Cancer Survival Rate: Understand and Survive Longer
Look at these Gum Cancer Pictures! Be Aware Of These Early Signs
When Is Colon Cancer Awareness Month Can Be Commemorated?
Factors Affect Stage 4 Metastasis Breast Cancer Survival Rate
Recognizing on How Fast Does Kidney Cancer Grow
Understand of Prostate Cancer Gleason Score 7
Modified Citrus Pectin Cancer to Cure Prostate Symptom
Stage 4 Lung Cancer Symptoms and Signs Warns You Though!
Categories
Cancer Info
Contents
1 Baking Soda and Honey for Cancer Treatment
2 How to Use Baking Soda and Honey for Cancer Remedy?
ORAA.INFO - Life Is About To Change Theme by Scissor Themes Proudly powered by WordPress