How to Use Himalayan Pink Salt to Improve Your Health and Wellbeing -
Healthy Living
Mental Health
Physical Health
Hope & Encouragement
Caregiving & Selfcare
Natural Healing Hope
Healthy Solutions for Abundant Living
Home
Blog
Healthy Living
Mental Health
Physical Health
Hope & Encouragement
Caregiving & Selfcare
About
Contact
Disclosures
Resource Library
in Healthy Living
How to Use Himalayan Pink Salt to Improve Your Health and Wellbeing
(This post contains affiliate links. You can read my full list of disclosures here.)
1.1Kshares
Facebook39
Twitter
Pinterest1.1K
Reddit
Forget everything you’ve heard about salt being bad for you. That is a misunderstanding.
Salt is one of the most essential elements you need for your health and wellbeing.
What is bad for you is the salt we are accustomed to, which is white table salt. Unfortunately, this is in everything. Another reason to ditch processed foods and eat a natural whole food diet.
White table salt, sodium chloride is refined and processed largely for the purpose of industry. In fact, 97% of salt production goes to industry. It only contains 2 elements (sodium and chloride) but also contains chemical anti-caking agents.
However, there is a salt that is absolutely good for you and that is Himalayan Pink Salt. It not only offers many nutritional benefits but it can be useful for detox, improving skin conditions, and it can be used to make many DIY beauty and self-care products.
Why Himalayan Pink Salt is so Special
It is the most natural, unadulterated, mineral-rich, source of salt.
It comes from a region in the Himalayan Mountains where it was covered by lava and ice for thousands of years and thus protected from being contaminated by pollutants.
It contains 84 trace minerals that our body needs in the combination and ratio that is naturally in our body and our blood.
It creates energy in the body. When viewed under a microscope it clearly shows energy patterns and life force. Not so with refined, processed, white table salt.
The Health Benefits of Himalayan Pink Salt
Improves hydration (many health problems are a result of dehydration)
Balances electrolytes
Balances hormones
Regulates blood pressure
Balances blood sugar
Improves sleep
Improves metabolism
Boosts bone strength
Improves vascular health
Balances pH
Supports the nervous system
Increases circulation
Reduces muscle cramping
Helps alleviate allergies and asthma
It’s a natural antihistamine
Decreases inflammation
Decreases congestion
Detoxifies your body
Supports thyroid function
Improves mental health and brain health
Helps intestines absorb nutrients
Purifies the air we breathe
It’s anti-microbial, anti-bacterial and anti-fungal
Can help reduce anxiety
Supports weight loss
Improves energy
Supports adrenal function
Promotes a healthy libido
Supports kidney and gallbladder health
Improves lung function
Improves skin conditions
Practical Uses for Himalayan Pink Salt to Improve Your Health and Wellbeing
Get rid of all your white table salt and replace it with Himalayan Pink Salt.
Sprinkle it on all of your food. The more complex flavor will quickly become addicting.
Use it in all your recipes instead of white table salt.
Make a sole (pronounced Sol-ey) and put a teaspoon of it in a glass of water and drink it when you wake up every day to balance your electrolytes and give your body all the essential minerals it needs for the day. This can be a natural, healthier alternative to sports drinks. Grab the recipe from my Resource Library.
Get a Himalayan Pink Salt Lamp for your bedroom to start with and eventually add one to every room. It will purify the air you breathe and remove dust, pollen, smoke and other contaminates. It can also neutralize EM (electromagnetic) radiation which is a growing threat to our health and sleep. Also, the soft light can relieve symptoms of Seasonal Affective Disorder.
Use a Himalayan Salt Detoxer for detoxification. You can place your hands or feet on them to let negative ions flow into your body. It can help with reducing inflammation. This can also be used as an air purifier.
Use Himalayan pink salt in your bath for a relaxing, detoxifying respite from a hard day. Grab a recipe for this and other DIY personal care products using Himalayan Pink Salt in my Resource Library.
Use a salt inhaler or neti pot with Himalayan pink salt to reduce allergies, hayfever and asthma symptoms as well as recover from colds, and congestion.
Try visiting a salt room or salt cave for an extra therapeutic treat.
Make sure you grab a copy of my Himalayan Pink Salt Recipes
Includes Recipes for Sole, Gentle Detox Bath, Salt Scrub, Body Spray and Facial Toner.
You May Also Like:
How to Restore Your Health With Healing Foods
How to Start Listening to Your Body to Restore Your Health
15 Stress Management Activities to Help You Unwind
Learn More About Improving Your Health with Himalayan Pink Salt from these sources
Water and Salt: The Essence of Life: The Healing Power of Nature co-authored by Barbara Hendel, a holistic doctor in Germany who suffered from severe health problems growing up which became worse with conventional medication. After finally finding relief and healing through natural means, much of which came from what she says, “salt and the sea”, she pursued holistic medicine and delved into research about Himalayan Pink Salt.
Pink Himalayan Salt Benefits that Make it Superior to Table Salt, by Dr. Axe
Dr. Mercola shares a good lesson here about salt.
What about you? Can you identify any physical and mental health issues that Himalayan pink salt can help you with? Swap out your salt today and start enjoying all of these benefits for your health and wellbeing. Which ideas are you going to try? Do you have any other ideas? Please share in the comments.
Wishing you Joy in your natural health journey,
If you benefited from this post, please pin it to your favorite Pinterest board to reference later. And share with your friends. Sharing is caring!
Grab Your FREE Recipes Here
Subscribe to receive a printable copy of my "Himalayan Pink Salt Recipes" which includes Sole, Gentle Detox Bath, Salt Scrub, Body Spray and Facial Toner. You'll also receive access to my password protected RESOURCE LIBRARY full of tools to help you in your natural health journey.
Success! Now check your email to confirm your subscription. The password to my library is joy -- just type it in all lowercase letters in the password box of my resource library. Your email confirmation also contains this information.
There was an error submitting your subscription. Please try again.
First Name
Email Address
We use this field to detect spam bots. If you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer.
I'd like to receive the free email course.
Yes, Please!
We won't send you spam. Unsubscribe at any time. Powered by ConvertKit
1.1Kshares
Facebook39
Twitter
Pinterest1.1K
Reddit
Related
Filed Under: Healthy Living
« DIY Lavender Eye Pillow (to help with headaches, stress, anxiety and sleep)
How to Be Brave and Overcome Your Fears »
Comments
Jennifer | Feasting On Joy says
04/02/2018 at 9:37 pm
Great post! I LOVE Himalayan Salt. I didn’t realize what I drink every morning is called a “sole.” It is refreshing and so nourishing. Thanks for sharing your knowledge on this!
Reply
Laura says
04/04/2018 at 12:15 am
I’m glad you enjoyed this post and you learned something new. Adding the sole to your morning water is such a great way to get all those essential minerals we need for the day. We drink reverse osmosis water which removes all the bad stuff but also the minerals as well so we need to add them back into our diet this way.
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Recipe Rating
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Health Ads by
Meet the Author
Hi, my name is Laura and I have been on a journey that has led me and my family to pursue holistic health for the mind and body. Some of the lessons learned have been costly. The journey has been challenging yet it has paid off with overall better health and well-being. I've learned so much along the way and I want to share with others who are looking for answers and hope for healing .
Email
Facebook
Google+
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
follow me on pinterest
Join Our Community Here
Join our exclusive private community of fellow "natural health seekers" to lock arms and partner together on our path to better health and wellbeing. You'll also receive access to my password protected RESOURCE LIBRARY full of tools to help you in your natural health journey.
Success! Now check your email to confirm your subscription. The password to my resource library is joy -- just type it in all lowercase letters in the password box of my resource library. Your email confirmation also contains this information.
There was an error submitting your subscription. Please try again.
First Name
Email Address
We use this field to detect spam bots. If you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer.
I'd like to receive the free email course.
Yes, Please!
We won't send you spam. Unsubscribe at any time. Powered by ConvertKit
Popular Posts
Health Ads by
Categories
Categories Select CategoryCaregiving & SelfcareHealthy LivingHope & EncouragementMental HealthPhysical HealthUncategorized
You can find my content on…
Join me on Instagram
Load More...Follow on Instagram
Health Ads by
More about Laura
Laura has been happily married for 30 years. She is a mother to two adult daughters here on earth and to a son in heaven. The newest blessing in her life is a sweet, adorable grandson who makes her smile everyday, even though he lives in New Zealand.
“We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.”
Email
Facebook
Google+
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
Looking for something?
Load More...
© 2019 Natural Healing Hope . Market Theme by Restored 316 . Genesis Framework by Studiopress
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.OkPrivacy policy