Is HER2-Positive Breast Cancer Hereditary? What to Know About the Genes
Newsletter
Content created by Healthline and sponsored by our partners.​ ​ Learn​ ​more
Navigating Breast Cancer
Is HER-2 Positive Breast Cancer Hereditary?
Medically reviewed by Yamini Ranchod, PhD, MS on March 27, 2019 Recently Updated — Written by Christina Chun, MPH
HER2
HER2 testing
Inherited breast cancer
Genetic testing
Lower your risk
Takeaway
Overview
Your genes are passed down to you from your parents. At the moment of conception, you inherit half of your genes from your mother and the other half from your father.
You inherit genes that determine your hair, eye, and skin color, but you can also inherit genes that lead to health problems. In some cases, parents pass down genes for diseases, such as breast cancer.
Although inherited genes can cause breast cancer, they aren’t always the cause. In fact, only 5 to 10 percent of breast cancers are related to inherited genes. Breast cancer can also be caused by gene mutations that are not inherited.
What is HER2?
Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) is a gene that creates HER2 proteins. HER2 proteins are found on the surface of breast cells and promote breast cell growth.
In a healthy breast cell, HER2 is responsible for repairing the cell and growing more cells. If the HER2 gene is mutated, it causes an abnormal increase the amount of HER2 proteins on the surface of the cells.
This causes cells to grow and divide out of control, which may lead to cancer. About 20 percent of breast cancers are HER2-positive, meaning the HER2 gene doesn’t function correctly.
HER2-positive breast cancer is not inherited. Instead, it’s considered a somatic genetic mutation. This type of mutation occurs after conception. Having a close relative with HER2-positive breast cancer does not increase your risk for breast cancer or HER2-positive breast cancer.
Tests for HER2-positive breast cancer
HER2-positive breast cancers are sometimes more aggressive than other types of breast cancer. If you’ve been diagnosed with breast cancer, your doctor may conduct a test to determine if your breast cancer is HER2-positive. If so, this will affect your treatment course.
Two types of tests can determine your HER2 status: the immunohistochemistry assay (IHC) and the in situ hybridization test (ISH). These tests are performed on a sample of the tumor.
HER2 tests are sometimes inaccurate, however. Talk with your doctor about their confidence in your test results. If you’re concerned, or if your results are inconclusive, ask for a second HER2 test. If your cancer is HER2-positive, specific and targeted therapies are available to treat it.
Inherited breast cancer
Some inherited breast cancer cases can be traced to what are called breast cancer gene one (BRCA1) or breast cancer gene two (BRCA2).
Everyone has both BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes. Like the HER2 gene, they’re designed to repair cell damage and help restore normal, healthy breast cells. In some people, however, these genes stop performing properly. This increases the risk for breast cancer.
These abnormal gene mutations can be passed from generation to generation. If you’ve had a mother, grandmother, sister, or aunt with breast cancer or ovarian cancer before age 50, you may be more likely to have the mutated gene.
During their lifetime, women with a mutation in the BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene can have up to a 72 percent risk of being diagnosed with breast cancer. However, having the mutated gene doesn’t guarantee you’ll develop breast cancer.
Many other genes have been found to be related to an increased risk of breast cancer, including TP53, ATM, PALB2, PTEN and CHEK2.
Tests for BRCA and other gene mutations
A genetic test can tell you if you have any mutations in genes that are related to an increased risk of breast cancer. It’s important to know that genetic testing is most helpful when you have a strong family history of either breast or ovarian cancer or a personal history of breast cancer.
If you’d like to be tested, contact your doctor or your hospital’s education office. Ask for a recommendation for a genetic counselor. Make an appointment and discuss the risks of undergoing genetic testing.
Lower your risk for breast cancer
Your genes may affect your risk for breast cancer, but your lifestyle can have an impact as well. Whether or not you have a genetic mutation, it’s important to lower your risk whenever you can.
The following preventive measures may help you avoid a breast cancer diagnosis.
Maintain a healthy weight
Women who are overweight or obese may have a higher risk for developing breast cancer and other cancers.
Eat well
A balanced diet can help you maintain a healthy weight, and it also provides your body with plenty of vitamins, minerals, and nutrients it needs to stay well.
Exercise regularly
Being physically active can help you achieve and maintain a healthy weight. Exercise also reduces your risk for certain diseases, including cancer, heart disease, and depression.
Stop smoking
People who smoke are more likely to develop breast cancer.
Reduce your alcohol consumption
Drinking alcohol, including wine, beer, and spirits, may increase your risk for breast cancer.
Takeaway
HER2-positive breast cancer is not hereditary, but some other types of gene mutations related to breast cancer are inherited. Genetic testing can tell you if you have any of the mutations currently known to increase risk for breast cancer or other cancers.
Medically reviewed by Yamini Ranchod, PhD, MS on March 27, 2019 Recently Updated — Written by Christina Chun, MPH
More in Navigating Breast Cancer
Recurrence Rate for Triple-Negative Breast Cancer
Breast Lump Removal (Lumpectomy)
Preparing Your Post-Mastectomy Wardrobe
Breast Cancer Symptom Basics
What Does It Mean to Have Scattered Fibroglandular Breast Tissue?
View all
READ THIS NEXT
Living with Breast Cancer: Understanding the Physical and Mental Changes
Medically reviewed by Monica Bien PA-C
Breast cancer can take a mental, emotional, and physical toll. Learn more about the changes you may face after receiving a breast cancer diagnosis.
READ MORE
Lobular Breast Cancer: What Are the Prognosis and Survival Rates?
Medically reviewed by Deborah Weatherspoon, PhD, RN, CRNA
Lobular breast cancer, also called invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC), occurs in the breast lobules. These are the areas of the breast that produce milk.
READ MORE
Understanding Metastatic Breast Cancer in the Colon
Medically reviewed by Helen Chen, MPH
Metastasis occurs when cancer cells spread from where they originated. Breast cancer rarely spreads to the colon, but it can happen. Learn more.
READ MORE
Metastatic Breast Cancer: Life Expectancy and Prognosis
Medically reviewed by Christina Chun, MPH
Metastatic, or stage 4, breast cancer means the cancer has spread to other parts of the body. Find out about prognosis and life expectancy at this…
READ MORE
Understanding Metastatic Breast Cancer in the Lungs
Medically reviewed by Yamini Ranchod, PhD, MS
Metastatic breast cancer is cancer that’s spread from the breasts. The lungs are a common site for breast cancer metastases. Learn about the causes…
READ MORE
What Does Breast Cancer Look Like?
Medically reviewed by Christina Chun, MPH
What does breast cancer look like? We’ll show you breast cancer pictures to help you identify any physical traits of the condition. Finding breast…
READ MORE
How Is Stage 4 Breast Cancer Treated?
Medically reviewed by Yamini Ranchod, PhD, MS
There are a number of options for stage 4 breast cancer treatment. Learn about 7 of them here. Get the facts on radiation and hormone therapy, among…
READ MORE
Breast Cancer by the Numbers: Survival Rates by Stage, Age, and Country
Medically reviewed by Monica Bien, PA-C
Recent research predicts that over 12 percent of women in the U.S. will develop breast cancer in their lifetime. Understanding the survival rate can…
READ MORE
Breast Cancer: Treating Arm and Shoulder Pain
Medically reviewed by The Healthline Medical Review Team
Do these exercises to treat arm and shoulder pain related to breast cancer treatment.
READ MORE
CMS Id: 71571 Client Version: 2b2d7909d0829945d526197a820652017194dca8 Build Number: 26582