New Study Shows How Exercise Lowers Cholesterol Risk
Get Fitter and Healther with Coach Rich Dafter's Team Howtobefit
Share to:
New Study Shows How Exercise Lowers Cholesterol Risk
from NewsRx.com
Need another reason to exercise? Scientists have discovered it makes cholesterol less dangerous.
A new study found that even modest exercise changes the size and density of cholesterol-carrying proteins so they do less damage. And the benefits occur even if people's total amount of cholesterol and their weight stay the same.
Staying active has many health benefits, but improving cholesterol is not usually considered one of them. People who exercise often lose weight, and while that can improve their cholesterol levels, exercise by itself was thought to have little or no effect.
Workouts fail to lower LDL, the dangerous form of cholesterol, and only rigorous exercise can nudge up HDL, the good form that protects against heart attacks.
But the study, by Dr. William E. Kraus of Duke University, found a new way that exercise can affect cholesterol — by altering the number and size of the particles that carry cholesterol through the bloodstream.
"People in the exercise field have always wondered why it doesn't affect total cholesterol and LDL," Kraus said. "We always knew low levels of exercise are helpful. This helps solve that paradox."
His work, published in the New England Journal of Medicine, is the latest chapter in an evolving view of cholesterol's effects. A generation ago, doctors worried only about the total amount of cholesterol. Later, the importance of the main subtypes, especially HDL, became apparent. Now experts are turning their attention to the physical structure of cholesterol in the bloodstream.
Cholesterol is an essential fat, or lipid. It circulates through the body by attaching to protein particles. Cholesterol appears more likely to clog the arteries when it is carried by small, dense protein particles than when it is moved by relatively large, fluffy ones.
The latest study finds that people who exercise develop these bigger particles, even if their total amount of cholesterol stays the same.
"Using this analysis shows clearly that exercise has beneficial effects that are not revealed by standard tests," said Dr. Ronald M. Krauss of the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, who studies the protein particles.
The study, conducted at Duke and East Carolina University, involved 111 sedentary, overweight men and women. They were randomly assigned to three exercise groups: the equivalent of walking 12 miles a week, jogging 12 miles a week or jogging 20 miles a week. All were instructed to eat enough to keep their weight constant.
They found that the cholesterol effects of walking and jogging 12 miles were the same, while jogging 20 miles resulted in more pronounced changes.
Measuring protein particle size is sometimes done in large medical centers, but it is not part of standard physicals. Kraus said he expects the tests, which cost two or three times more than standard cholesterol tests, to become more widely used.
Dr. Joann Manson, head of preventive medicine at Harvard's Brigham and Women's Hospital, noted that exercise has already been found to have many other benefits for the heart, including improvements in blood pressure, blood sugar, clotting and inflammation.
Studies show that briskly walking 30 minutes a day can lower the risk of heart disease by 30% - 40%.
This article was prepared by Heart Disease Weekly editors from staff and other reports. To see more of the NewsRx.com, or to subscribe, go to http://www.newsrx.com.
back to top
Welcome
I'm Rich Dafter - full time dad, life-long runner, Team Beachbody Coach and Polar Global Ambassador. By the Grace of God, I have been able to raise my kids working from home by helping people get healthier, fitter and have better quality of life with free coaching.
Sign up for Your Free Team Beachbody Membership
Answers, advice, guidance and support 7 days a week, 363 days a year!
Save Between $50.00 and $115.00 with a Fitness and Nutrition Bundle
Challenge Pack
All-In-One Solutions
Save on Superfood Dense Shakeology on Home Direct
Find out for yourself why more than half a million people drink Shakeology every day
Help Yourself and Others Live Healthier, More Fulfilling Lives
Plus get 25% off on all of your Team Beachbody orders with your Coach membership
Beachbody On Demand Streaming Workouts
Stream every Beachbody workout on any device, anytime
Save on
Nutrition Programs
Save on2B Mindset, 3 Day Refresh and the Ultimate Reset
Save on
Workout Programs
Still love DVD's? Get them while you still can!
Stream Workouts
Lose Weight
Best Deal
Running Store
Polar Store
Free Coaching
Search
Shop
The mission of Team Beachbody is to motivate you and to educate you about health, fitness and nutrition and the benefits of maintaining a healthy lifestyle.
Click here to learn more about Team Beachbody Coach Rich Dafter.
© 2019 Howtobefit.com - About - Contact - Join My Team - Coach Earnings Statement - Site Map - Shop - Home