Mosquito myths: What Public Health can and can’t do to help you enjoy your summer | WDG Public Health
Skip to main content View sitemap
For Healthcare Providers
For Schools
For Child Care Providers
Menu
Your Health
Your Kids
Your Home
Your Community
Clinics & Classes
Stay Well WDG Blog
Healthy-living tips, stories and ideas from Wellington-Dufferin-Guelph Public Health.
You are here
Home / Blog / Mosquito myths: What Public Health can and can’t do to help you enjoy your summer
Mosquito myths: What Public Health can and can’t do to help you enjoy your summer
Infectious and Communicable Diseases
May 31, 2018
Share:
facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Email
Unlike other summer annoyances like poison ivy and bee stings, our public health inspectors pay special attention to mosquitoes because they have the potential to carry a disease called West Nile virus. West Nile virus – and its mosquito carriers – flew onto our radar back in 2002 when we saw the first cases appear in Canada. Protecting against this potentially serious disease is the reason we want to help people avoid becoming a meal for these insatiable summer biters.
The good news is it’s actually only one type of mosquito that carries West Nile virus; the rest will make you just as itchy but won’t pass on the virus. But when a mosquito is buzzing around your head it’s hard to tell what type it is, so it’s best to avoid bites altogether.
When it comes to preventing West Nile virus, we have to work together. There are some things Public Health can do on a large scale to prevent mosquitoes from breeding, and there are some things you can do yourself.
What we can do
Monitor disease movement and trends
We look at mosquito activity on a large geographic scale. By tracking the numbers, species and location of mosquito populations in our communities we can make decisions that will benefit a large number of residents.
Identify the bad guys’ stomping grounds
Based on this surveillance work, we identify sites with standing water that have become homes to the mosquito species that carries West Nile virus. Then we work with the Canadian Centre for Mosquito Management to apply environmentally friendly larvicide, which kills mosquitoes before they get to biting age.
Treat your municipally owned catch basin
If you have a municipally owned catch basin on your property, we can treat it with larvicide. Visit our Mosquitoes & West Nile virus page for more information.
What you can do
Clean out stagnant water
If you’re looking for ways to read a novel on your balcony or play in the yard mosquito-free, your best bet is to remove stagnant or “standing” water where mosquitoes love to lay their eggs. This means dog dishes, bird baths, rain barrels and anything else that could collect water (old flower pots, tires, etc.) should be removed or cleaned regularly.
Treat pools and ponds that can’t be emptied
If you have a fish pond or swimming pool that stays closed for the summer, you can apply a larvicide called AquaBac™200G to help reduce mosquito populations (get it from Home Hardware stores, item #5047-451).
Have your catch basin treated
If you have a catch basin on your property and would like to have it treated at no cost, download the form or call Public Health at 1-800-265-7293 ext. 4753.
Prevent bites
These are our top tips for preventing bites, but you can find a full list of precautions on the Health Canada site.
Wear light coloured clothing, including long sleeves and pants
Use a mosquito repellent approved by Health Canada (Health Canada recommends adults and children over 6 months of age use a mosquito repellent with DEET or Icaridin.)
Repair holes in screen doors and windows
What we don’t do
We don’t test dead birds
We used to collect birds for testing; but do not any longer. The Canadian Wildlife Health Cooperative (CWHC) may still do this; please connect with them to discuss your individual situation. Call the CWHC at 1-866-673-4781 or 519-824-4120 ext. 54662.
We don’t treat the mosquitoes that don’t carry disease
Unfortunately this means you may still have to share your deck or the trail by the river with some winged foes. Follow the precautions listed above to avoid spending your summer scratching.
What to do if you get sick
Most people who get West Nile virus won’t get sick. About 20 to 30 percent of people will develop mild symptoms like fever, body aches, mild rashes, headache and swollen lymph glands.
Less than 1 percent of people who get West Nile virus will develop severe symptoms and health effects that impact the brain and spinal cord. These can include high fever, stiff neck, nausea and/or vomiting, difficulty swallowing, drowsiness, confusion and muscle weakness.
If you’re concerned about symptoms, contact your healthcare provider immediately.
Enjoy the summer!
Mosquitoes breed when there’s warm, wet weather, so expect surges in the population when the weather doesn’t cooperate.
Plan accordingly, and enjoy your summer!
wnv
mosquito
Summer
west nile
View the discussion thread.
Search
Submit
Blog
Mosquito myths: What Public Health can and can’t do to help you enjoy your summer
Recent Blogs
Our teens are talking, are we listening?
April 17, 2019
Why Public Health cares about vaccinating pets
April 12, 2019
Nosodes: Medicine or myth
March 26, 2019
Your top 4 questions about Canada’s new food guide answered
March 19, 2019
Are you prepared for a flood? Top tips from an emergency management coordinator
March 12, 2019
View Past Blogs
Popular Topics
Inspection & Infection Control Complaints
Check Before you Choose
Food Safety Training
Prenatal Programs
Report Your Child's Vaccinations
Local Health Alerts
Related Pages
Mosquitoes & West Nile Virus
Symptoms of West Nile Virus (Canada.ca)
Connect With Us
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Youtube
Instagram
Subscribe to Our Blog
Email Address *
Your Health
Cannabis and Your Health
Vaccination
Travel Health
Sexually Transmitted Infection (STI) Testing
Birth Control
Dental & Oral Health
Tobacco & E-Cigarettes
Beauty & Body Art
Needle Exchange
Tuberculosis (TB)
Opioids and Naloxone
Your Kids
Let's Talk Parenting Supports
Pregnancy
Feeding Your Baby
Skin-to-skin After Birth
Parenting from Newborn to Age 5
Vaccination
Dental & Oral Health
Nutrition Screening for Ages 1-5
Vision Screening
Wee Talk Speech and Language
Your Home
Food Safety at Home
Radon Testing
Well Water Testing
Lead in Water Pipes
Drinking Water and Nitrates
Your Community
Public Health Inspections
Animal Bites & Rabies
Ticks & Lyme Disease
Mosquitoes & West Nile Virus
Beaches
Flood Guide
Inspections for Businesses & Events
Emergency Preparedness
Outdoor Air Quality
Extreme Heat
Extreme Cold
Smoke-Free Housing
Health Equity
Local Data
Breastfeeding for Businesses
Clinics & Classes
Calendar
Breastfeeding Clinics
Vaccination, Travel & Sexual Health Clinics
School Vaccination Clinics
Dental Clinics
Prenatal Series
Online Prenatal Program
Pregnancy to Parenting
Feelings After Birth
Come Understand Parenting (CUP)
Food Safety Training & Certification
Flu Clinics
Wee Talk Speech & Language
Cleaned, Wrapped and Loaded: A Review of Equipment Reprocessing
About
Blog
Contact Us
Board of Health
Careers
Media
News
Connect
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Youtube
Instagram
Copyright © 2018 Wellington-Dufferin-Guelph Public Health. All Rights Reserved.