Yes You Can Get Pregnant While Das Chest – Babyinger
Babyinger
Babyinger
Maternity Leggings and Tights
Pregnancy Summer Dresses
10 Desires That a Pregnant Woman Understands
6 Foods That Pregnant Should Not Eat
7 Questions That All Pregnant Does
Calculate Weeks of Pregnancy
Current Mauritian Beautiful and Pregnant
First Suitcase of Maternity What Is Essential
Head Gneiss and Cradle It Helps
How Do I Calculate the Birth Date
How Much Entertainment Needs a Baby
Insert the Contractions
Learn All About the C Section
Massage and Pregnancy
Maternity Stockings and Pantyhose
Maternity Wear What Jean for a Pregnant Woman
Mood Swings in Pregnancy
The First Few Days After Birth
The Stay at the Maternity
Tips for First Time Pregnant Women
Yes You Can Get Pregnant While Das Chest
December 20, 2017
Pregnancy
It is true that nursing is an effective natural contraceptive method, while baby sucks inhibits ovulation, but it is not to commit itself to the conditions to make it absolutely safe are very precise.
Many women believe that while they are breastfeeding cannot they become pregnant, thus without nuances, but it is not so simple.
In fact, I know several that have become pregnant while they are breastfeeding until it fell them rule after giving birth.
There is a direct relationship between the baby’s sucking and the absence of ovulation. The hormonal changes that occur when the baby sucks make the suspension of ovulation, how much more times a day the baby mama is the contraceptive efficacy.
This contraceptive method is known by the name of MELA and method of lactation amenorrhea and has a 98% effectiveness.
But, what are the requirements that must be met to make the method effective?
The mother still has no rule and is within the first 6 months after delivery.
The baby is exclusively fed with breastfeeding on demand and often both during the day and during the night, without any supplementary feeding.
There are no pauses between takes more than 6 hours.
If the three are met, it is unlikely that you are pregnant, however the figures indicate that you between a 1 and 11% of pregnant women remain during the period of amenorrhoea, i.e. returning to conceive without having the rule.
If some of the three conditions is not fulfilled at 100 percent, it is possible to get pregnant, why you should consider using a supplementary contraceptive method.
Related Posts:
Therefore, You Get Cramps in the Calf When You Are Pregnant
Pregnancy: What Do If Your Chest Tightens?
Shelter: What Can and What Can not
“Oh You’re Pregnant, You’re Not…
Confidence: Pregnancy and Uterine Fibroids: Yes…
Yes to Artificial Insemination for Single Women!
Can You Fail a Pregnancy Test?
Peppermint, Chamomile, Sage & Co: Helpful Types…
Hair Loss While Breast-Feeding – No Need to Worry
Losing Weight While Breastfeeding?
First Pregnancy – How to Get Pregnant?
How to Detect Their Ovulation to Get Pregnant?
← Previous post
Next post →
Categories
Categories Select Category Baby Clothing Baby Strollers Mom & Baby Care Pregnancy Pregnant clothing Toys
Recent Posts
Fashion for Pregnant Women — Looks of Winter to the Moms
Lack of Iron in Pregnancy: How to Prevent and Overcome?
Is 29 WEEKS PREGNANT-IT’S 77 DAYS
The Best Sexual Positions During Pregnancy
Postpartum Belly: after How Many Months It Goes away?
Copyright 2019 Babyinger