Hiv Transmission-Myths and facts about HIV transmission by HIV specialist
+91-8010931122 inquiry@drmongas.com
About Us
Services
HIV Counselling
HIV Test
Emergency Call
Chat with experts
Paid Consultation
Book an appointment
Contact Us
About STD, HIV, AIDS
Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)
Herpes
Chlamydia
How HIV becomes AIDS
HIV Symptoms
HIV Prevention
Condoms
Alcohol & Drugs Abuse
HIV Transmission • Common Myths and Facts about HIV transmission
F.A.Q.s
HIV Risk Factors
Unprotected Sex
Unnatural Sex
Injecting Drugs
Blood Transfusion
Pregnancy
Breastfeeding
Working in Healthcare
Treatment for HIV
Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP)
Living with HIV
Disclosure and HIV
Sharing the News
HIV to TB
Taking Care of Self
HIV Counselling
HIV Doctors
Select Page
HIV Transmission • Common Myths and Facts about HIV transmission
There are a lot of myths which are attached with HIV and its spread from an infected person to you. If you want to get proper awareness related to HIV, you must visit our HIV counselling doctors in India, who are trained experts on the field and they will help you in getting the actual knowledge. HIV can pass on from an infected person to other person through the exchange of any fluid from body which includes, blood, semen, vaginal or anal secretions and breast milk.
Common Myths & Facts about HIV transmission
The five main ways through which HIV infection can happen:
• Unprotected sex
• Mother to child through breastfeeding or child birth. It can happen during pregnancy as well
• Injecting drug usage with shared needles having infected blood
• Blood donations involving infected blood or organ transplants
• Infection from a patient to a healthcare worker
HIV will not happen / Common Myths & Facts about HIV transmission
• From someone who is HIV negative
• Touching HIV positive person
• If you come in contact with HIV positive person’s sweat, tears, urine
• From touching, hugging or shaking hands with HIV positive person
• Mutual masturbation, fingering and hand-jobs
• Using sex toys which are covered with a new condom each time you switch it with another person
• Mosquito bite
• Through air, when an HIV positive person coughs or sneezes or even spits in air.
• New or sterilized needles used for medical reason or tattooing
• Sharing swimming pools or bath tubs, showers or drinking water
• If an HIV positive person shares toilet seats, tables, door handles, cutlery, towels etc. with you.
• Through musical instruments
• With mild kissing, HIV never transfers. However, if you have bleeding gums, sores or cuts inside mouth and exchange of blood happens, HIV can happen.
With the counselling from our HIV counselling doctors in Delhi, you can get the proper awareness regarding the myths related to HIV.
Disclaimer
Terms of use
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Facebook
Twitter
Google
RSS
Copyright reserved (c) 2017 | HIV Testing & Counselling by Dr Monga's Health World, New Delhi.