Morphine (Morph, Miss Emma, Dreamer) | New Jersey Drug Lawyers
Call Us Today! (877) 450-8301|info@yourdomain.com
An Experienced Lawyer Is Ready To Help You 24/7
(877) 450-8301
HOME
ABOUT US
PRACTICE AREAS
DRUG DISTRIBUTION
Distribution of Club Drugs
Distribution of Ecstasy (XTC)
Distribution of Heroin and Drug Trafficking
Distribution, Manufacturing, Drug Trafficking of Methamphetamine
Drug Possession with Intent to Distribute
Intent to Distribute and Distribution of Marijuana
Possession of Cocaine with Intent to Distribute
DRUG POSSESSION
Possession of Cocaine or Crack Cocaine
Possession of Ecstasy
Possession of Heroin
Use and Possession of Club Drugs
Use and Simple Possession of Marijuana
Use and Simple Possession of Methamphetamine
PRESCRIPTION DRUG CHARGES
Prescription Drug Distribution
Prescription Drug Fraud
Prescription Drug Possession
Prescription Drug Theft
Stealing a Prescription Pad
COUNTIES WE SERVE
Bergen County
Mercer
Middlesex
Monmouth
Morris County
Ocean
Passaic
Union
GLOSSARY OF DRUGS
2C-B
5-MeO-DMT (DMT)
Amphetamines
Anabolic Steroids
Barbiturates
Buprenorphine
Cannabis
Clonazepam
Cocaine
Codeine
Crack Cocaine
Dextromethorphan (DXM)
Dimethyltryptamine
Dronabinol (Marinol)
Ecstasy (MDMA)
Ethyl Alcohol
Fentanyl
Flunitrazepam / Roofies
GHB
Hashish
Hydrocodone (Vicodin)
Hydromorphone
Heroin
Ketamine
Lorazepam
LSD
Mephedrone
Mescaline / Peyote
Methadone
Methamphetamine
Methcathinone
Methylphenidate
Morphine
Nitrous Oxide
Opium
Oxycodone
Phencyclidine (PCP)
Poppers
Psilocybin Mushrooms
Salvia Divinorum
Synthetic Cannabis
Tenamfetamine
Zolpidem
BLOG
LOCATIONS
Camden
Cranford
Edison
Hackensack
Hackensack
Holmdel Office
Freehold
Morristown
New Brunswick
Newark
Somerville
Trenton
Toms River
Wayne
CONTACT
Morphine (Morph, Miss Emma, Dreamer)	mcampbell	2017-11-23T18:08:39+00:00
Morphine (Morph, Miss Emma, Dreamer)
New Jersey Morphine Drug Defense Attorneys
Prescription Drug Information About Morphine
Brand names: MS Contin, Avinza, Roxanol
Street names: Morph, Miss Emma, Emma, Dreamer, Emsel
Drug Classification: Pure morphine or products with more than 50mg per 100g are Schedule II drugs in the US, and any product with less than 50mg per 100g or with a non-narcotic medication added is a Schedule III drug.
General Information
Morphine is a natural opiate used for treatment of severe pain. It directly affects the central nervous system and is available in a wide-variety of forms for medical applications in pain treatment, cough suppression, and surgery preparation. Morphine is one of the oldest and most effective treatments for intense pain and suffering, with many considering it the “gold standard” for analgesic medicine (painkillers). Like other opiates, morphine should never be combined with alcohol, as this can lead to a shut down of the central nervous and respiratory systems potentially resulting in death.
Morphine is generally used intravenously (injected into the vein) and saw much more widespread use after the invention of the hypodermic needle. Morphine is much more soluble in water than other opiates used in medicine, lending itself to injection as the most effect method of administration. Morphine is also available in quick and extended-release tablets ranging in dosage from less than 15mg to 200mg for opiod-tolerant patients.
Physical Effects
Morphine is highly effective in relieving pain symptoms and is known to cause a decrease in anxiety and overall euphoria. Common physical effects include drowsiness, itching, mental and physical impairment, decrease in hunger, and (sometimes severe) constipation.
Morphine Overdose
Crushing or grinding tablets before swallowing them can be dangerous or even fatal, since it can cause a toxic amount of morphine to be released in the body all at once.
In sensitive individuals a dose as low as 60mg may be fatal, though for most this number is about 100mg. Common symptoms of morphine overdose include cold or clammy skin, weak pulse, shallow, weak, or slowing breaths, pinpoint pupils, and extreme drowsiness and fainting.
Addiction and Withdrawal Symptoms
Morphine is highly addictive, and dependence and tolerance develop rapidly. Users may need more and more of the drug to get the same effects, with an intense psychological need starting as well because of how morphine interacts with the brain’s reward systems.
Patients should take special care when stopping use of morphine, as discontinuation may cause withdrawal symptoms from morphine detoxification. Withdrawal symptoms commonly include nausea, chills and fevers, runny nose, crying, sweating, intestinal cramping, anxiety, and depression. Those going through withdrawal may also experience aching muscles and bones, muscle twitches or severe cramps, insomnia, and diarrhea. Withdrawal symptoms are often alleviated by a supplement medication, often methadone, though this can cause the patient to be addicted to methadone while failing to break their original addiction to morphine.
Sources:
http://www.soberrecovery.com/articles/85.html – Morphine Abuse and Addiction
http://www.rxlist.com/ms-contin-drug.htm – Morphine Drug Information
http://www.drugs.com/morphine.html – About Morphine
http://morphinefacts.com/ – Morphine Facts
Copyright 2012 - 2017 Avada | All Rights Reserved | Powered by WordPress | Theme Fusion