Carpal Tunnel Syndrome and magnet therapy
Carpal Tunnel Syndrome and magnet therapy
Carpal tunnel syndrome(or CTS as it is known for short) can refer variously to pain, numbness or other symptoms in an area of the hand caused by compression in an area of the wrist known as the carpal tunnel. The precise causes are unknown, but it is believed to be related to compression of the wrist and the trapping of a nerve.
Whilst it is frequently associated with prolonged typing and use of a computer mouse, other researchers have linked it to immobility of the wrist during sleep and some have even suggested that it may have genetic causes or at least that some people might have a genetic pre-disposition to it. The main symptoms are numbness of the thumb and fingers (except the little finger and outer half of the ring finger).
Normally the condition comes and goes, but those who suffer from long-term CTS can end up with permanent damage to the nerves or continuing numbness, as well as other worsening symptoms.
It is widely accepted, even in general medical practice, that the condition can be helped by wearing wrist bands. In conventional medicine this would simply be a pressure wrist band. However, magnetic bracelets and wristbands can also help in much the same way that magnetic bracelets arthritis treatment is well-known.
There are various kinds of magnetic bracelet and wristband available and the magnetic arrangement may also vary. For example one might have only the bio-north or bio-south poles facing the wrist or one might select an arrangement in which the pattern alternates. To a large extent, the choice depends on the current condition of the wrist. If the person is not already suffering from the condition and is seeking only a preventative approach because their lifestyle and work practices render them vulnerable to CTS, then the bio-south pole facing inwards is the most logical choice.
If they are already suffering, but the symptoms are mild, then the alternating approach is the best. Finally, if the condition has developed to the point that there us pain or visible inflammation, then it may be necessary to resort to placing the bio-north pole facing inwards. In all cases, I would recommend silicone magnetic bracelets for women and copper magnetic bracelets for men for any of these conditions. Titanium magnetic bracelets are another possibility. However I would not recommend hematite bracelets because, decorative though they are, it is hard to get the specific polarity right for the wrist with them.
Shopping Basket
Magnetic Therapy Info
THE SPOTLIGHTS ON PRODUCTS
RESOURCES
BUYING MAGNETIC BRACELETS
GENERAL INFO
MAGNETS IN THERAPY
HISTORY
MAGNETS & MAGNETISM
ANIMALS & MAGNETS
SPORT & MAGNETIC POWER
HEALTH & MAGNETS
› Arthritis and Alternative Therapies
› Magnetic Bracelets and Arthritis
› Using magnetic bracelets to treat rheumatic disorders
› Blood circulation and magnetism
› Carpal Tunnel Syndrome and magnet therapy
› Conditions treated by magnetic therapy
› Copper, cramp and crippling pain
› Magnetic bracelets cure wrist pains – especially copper
› Magnetic bracelets – do they work?
› Magnetic effects on the endocrine system
› The effect of magnetism on the nervous system
› Treatment and healing with copper
› Magnetic therapy for post-polio patients
Advanced Search
STRENGTH (Highest strength 5):
All Results12345
SUITABLE MOSTLY FOR:
All ResultsMenUnisexWomen
PRODUCT TYPE:
All ResultsAnkletBangleLinks BraceletPendant
METAL:
All ResultsCopperGrade 2 TitaniumPlated Copper AlloyStainless Steel
Shop by Price
All Results£0 - £15£15 - £30£30 - £60£60+
Recently Viewed
Evo-Flow Energy Bands
Only £19.99 !
Available in White, Red and blue, the energy band represents superb value for money. Will make a great gift.
Click here to see the full range.
White Ceramic Bracelets
£29.99
Ceramic bracelet are most elegant and will stand scratches better than Titanium & Stainless Steel.
Click here to see the full range.
DID YOU KNOW?
You can send the item in
any condition
for the first 30 days after receiving it, or if new and unused,
any time!
LICK HERE FOR DETAILS
SUPER STRONG MAGNETS !
Booster bangles features two mega size magnets that makes all the difference - boosting the magnetic strength, and with the addition of four standard size magnets.
From £11.95 !
LASER ENGRAVED COPPER
From £ 7.99
Wide copper bangles, laser engraved with amazing patterns, with 6 powerful magnets. Shipped with luxury gift pouch.
JET-BLACK MEN'S TITANIUM
ONLY £ 27.00
Men's classic magnetic bracelets with two super strong magnets in each link.
SOMETHING SPECIAL FOR HER
£22.99 - £39.99
Classic range for ladies, offer wide range of prices and styles. Man, you cannot go wrong if you give one of those bracelets for St. Valentine's Day.
Treating Arthritis with Magnetic Bracelets
It appears to us from the feedback we are receiving from our customers that they proud supporters of using the unique benefits of treating arthritis with magnetic bracelets. Many others, mostly people that never used magnetic therapy, remain sceptic.
For this reason, it has become an issue of controversy between those that did not try magnetic therapy and do not believe in it, and those who actually used magnetic therapy.
And so it remains a hot topic in the world of medicine today.
With an estimated 8.5 million people in the UK suffering from different forms of arthritis, the suggestion that the inflammation that arthritis brings can be eased with something as simple as magnetic bracelet, it is no wonder that it is such a debated issue.
According to Arthritis-Relief.co.uk, there has been in recent years, and continues to be large volume of research conducted about using magnets to eliminate arthritic ailments which has demonstrated that magnetic bracelets, can be an effective method of pain management.
In the United States alone it is reported that as many as one in three adults are being affected by different forms of arthritis, with more than 70 million Americans suffering from the disease.
The Arthritis and Glucosamine Resource Centre reported that in a research carried out to whether or not magnetic bracelets are effective in fighting arthritis pain which questioned whether a ‘placebo effect’ of wearing a magnetic bracelet is the cause for arthritis patients endorsing that the bracelets create pain relief, it was concluded that arthritis patients should embrace magnetic bracelets with an open mind.
GENERAL
Go Top
All Products
Latest Products
Advance Search
CUSTOMER SERVICE
Return Policy
Resizing Links Bracelets
Spending Points
Bracelet Care
SITE INFORMATION
Postage
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Site Map
HELP
Contact Us
Read Our Blog
About Magnetic Therapy
© 2019 Magnetic Therapy Bracelets
Magnetic Therapy Bracelets
ALL PRODUCTS
Special OffersBlack RangeTitanium BraceletsStainless Steel BraceletsBio 4 in 1 ElementsEnergy PendantsNew Items
For Him For Her Bangles Anklets
Contact UsRecent Product Reviews
View Cart | Wish List | New Account | Sign In