Vaccines and autism: The link that doesn’t exist – 123456osages
Skip to content
123456osages
Technology
Vaccines and autism: The link that doesn’t exist
After carefully reading this article on autism and vaccinations, it seems though this just another way to cover up the truth about the underlying cause of autism spectrum syndrome (ASD). There are thousands of parents throughout the United States and internationally that would “beg the differ” and argue that vaccinations are linked to this developmental disorder which 1 of 58 individuals are diagnosed with this disability.
If there are parents out there that had their child vaccinated between 18-24 months, suddenly sickness came, such as high-fevers, disorientation, fixated on certain objects, speech slowed down, loss of expressive language, poor hand and eye coordination, and other cognitive deficits, then please respond.
As a parent of a 18-year old son with autism, it was apparent he had a reaction a day after his scheduled 18-month vaccinations. Truth needs to be disclosed, the CDC and the FDA needs to uncover their lies, not watch increase sales but decrease cases of autism.
Cheryl L. Hurley, Eds.S, Author
Mental Health @ Home
Chances are, you’ve heard the idea that vaccines can cause autism. This notion is championed by various organizations and individuals, one of the most prominent being actress Jenny McCarthy, whose son was diagnosed with autism at age 2. She has an autism-related organization called Generation Rescue, and on its website is a guide to vaccine safety. I was a bit surprised by how relatively toned down it was, but I got more along the lines of what I expected with one of the places it directed people to go to for more information, the National Vaccine Information Center. It includes a “cry for vaccine freedom wall” and a “vaccine victim memorial”. They have a MedAlerts database of people’s reported adverse reactions to vaccines, and a search for autism spectrum disorder yields 391 case reports. One thing that struck me as interesting was the seemingly random grab bag of multiple…
View original post 678 more words
Advertisements
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Author: Special Education, Behavioral Modification and Technological Assistance in the Educational System
I am currently working on a doctorate degree in leadership & curriculum, and a minor in special education. My interest is on the topic of autism, such as the underlying causes, behavioral instruction and management, ABA therapy, and classroom instruction and effective teaching methods in today's public school system, and other educational facilities or institutions. Since, we live in the 21st century, the use of technological assistance for students with special needs is utterly important in today's technological age, that helps support their academic goals and social skills. Technological assistance will be explored, studied, and applied in today's classroom instruction and effective teaching tools and methods.	View all posts by Special Education, Behavioral Modification and Technological Assistance in the Educational System
Author Special Education, Behavioral Modification and Technological Assistance in the Educational SystemPosted on December 22, 2018 December 22, 2018
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (Address never made public)
Name
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Post navigation
Previous Previous post: Senseless, Useless, and Unnecessary Testing: Just Plain a Waste of Time
Next Next post: The Autistic Community does not support Applied Behaviour Analysis (ABA) – ABA Controversy Autism Discussion
Technology Assistance in Special Education
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
Technology Analysis and Implementation Phase for Sped. Ed. February 27, 2019
Hybrid Learning Environment Assignment – Sped. Ed. February 19, 2019
Hybrid Learning Environment – Sped. Ed. February 19, 2019
Hybrid Learning Environment in Learners February 19, 2019
“Hybrid Learning Environment Assignments for Special Education” February 14, 2019
Using Technology in Today’s Special Education
Hybrid Learning Envi… on Hybrid Learning Environment in…
“Hybrid Learni… on Hybrid Learning Effectiveness…
Hybrid Learning Effe… on Technology Assistance in Teach…
Special Education, B… on Vaccines and Autism — Professo…
Pat on Vaccines and Autism — Professo…
Teaching Students with Disabilities in the 21st Century
February 2019
January 2019
December 2018
September 2018
August 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
Special Education
Uncategorized
Advertisements
123456osages Powered by WordPress.com.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: