Explaining the Correlation of Autism After Vaccines – VAXOPEDIA
Skip to content
an A to Z guide to Vaccines
Search
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
VAXOPEDIA
Menu
Home
A-Z Index
Blog
Categories
Vaxopedia
History of Vaccines
Immunization News
Immunization Schedules
Vaccine Advocates
Vaccine Education
Vaccine Ingredients
Vaccine Misinformation
Vaccine Preventable Diseases
Vaccine Safety
Vaccine Side Effects
Vaccines
About
Contact
Explaining the Correlation of Autism After Vaccines
Vaccines have nothing to do with autism.
It’s not the MMR vaccine. It’s not thimerosal. It’s not anything else about vaccines.
It has been proven time and again.
“The parental focus on vaccines as a possible cause of autism has been encouraged by the recent growth in popularity of ‘unorthodox biomedical’ theories and therapies in autism…”
Fitzpatrick on MMR: risk, choice, chance
Not surprisingly, that hasn’t stopped some parents from continuing to blame vaccines, mostly because they didn’t notice any symptoms of autism until after their child got their routine vaccines as a toddler.
Recognizing the Early Signs of Autism
In 2007, the American Academy of Pediatrics issued guidelines for universal screening of all children for autism at 18 and 24 months. Since then, many kids are getting diagnosed at an earlier age.
That’s good news, as an earlier diagnosis should mean that more kids will be able to benefit from earlier supports and accommodations.
“…the average age of diagnosis for those born before 2005 was just under four years old; for those born during during or after 2005, it was roughly two-and-a-half years old.”
AAP on Children are Diagnosed with Autism at Younger Ages Since Push for Universal Screening
Looking at the early signs and symptoms of autism, it is easy to see why autism isn’t always recognized that early, even with a screening tool, like the M-CHAT-R:
What if you don’t recognize that your child isn’t really speaking single words because he or she is simply parroting or echoing what you are saying without knowing what the words mean?
What if you don’t recognize that your child isn’t responding to his name being called because he responds to other noises, so sometimes coincidentally turns when you call his name?
What if you don’t recognize that your child isn’t bringing objects to share with you (as an interest), because he or she sometimes will bring them to you to have you help open or use them?
And if your child is eventually diagnosed with autism, will you recognize that those were early signs that were just difficult to detect, or just think that your child didn’t have any developmental differences and then lost those skills?
Explaining the Correlation of Autism After Vaccines
Many people understand the idea that “correlation doesn’t imply causation.”
So just because your child was vaccinated and you soon noticed signs and symptoms of autism, that doesn’t mean that it is really linked to vaccines.
“Temporal binding is a phenomenon that reinforces that assumption of cause and effect once we have linked two events causally in our minds. The effect biases our memory so that we remember the apparent cause and effect occurring closer together in time. In experiments we tend to remember the cause as happening later and the effect happening earlier.”
Steven Novella
Of course, a phrase about correlation and causation isn’t going to be enough of an explanation for most parents, especially if they have already heard a bunch of vaccine scare stories.
Fortunately, there is plenty of evidence to back up that idea, including that:
many studies have shown that there is no link between vaccines and autism
unvaccinated kids develop signs and symptoms of autism at the same time as children who were vaccinated
some studies have shown that even when parents think that their child’s first signs and symptoms of autism didn’t occur until right after a specific vaccine, like the 12 month MMR shot, when experts looked at the child’s home movies, they could detect subtle signs at a much earlier age, well before the child got those vaccines
while regressive autism is real and some kids with autism regress significantly in their development, losing many of the early skills they had picked up, even then, these children often had some subtle, early developmental delays. They don’t usually have a sudden regressive type of autism.
What about package inserts? Don’t they say vaccines cause autism? No, they do not.
And all of the studies that anti-vax folks say support a link between vaccines and autism? They aren’t what you think they are.
Mostly remember that the scientific evidence overwhelming supports the fact that vaccines have absolutely nothing to do with autism!
What to Know About the Correlation of Autism After Vaccines
Vaccines having nothing to do with autism, even though it might sometimes seem to you that your child’s signs and symptoms of autism are correlated with recently getting vaccinated.
More About Explaining the Correlation of Autism After Vaccines
Vaccines and autism: A thorough review of the evidence
AAP – Early Screening of Autism Spectrum Disorder: Recommendations for Practice and Research
AAP – What are the Early Signs of Autism?
CDC – Autism Case Training (ACT)
AAP – Children are Diagnosed with Autism at Younger Ages Since Push for Universal Screening
Why are there so many reports of autism following vaccination? A mathematical assessment
Does Regressive Autism Exist?
131 Research Papers Supporting the Vaccine/Autism Link…or Not. No, They Don’t.
When Does Autism Begin?
Autism Onset and the Vaccine Schedule – Revisited
Study – Onset patterns in autism: correspondence between home video and parent report.
Study – A prospective study of the emergence of early behavioral signs of autism.
Study – Autism during infancy: a retrospective video analysis of sensory-motor and social behaviors at 9-12 months of age.
Study – Assessing the early characteristics of autistic disorder using video analysis.
Study – Early detection of autism spectrum disorders: From retrospective home video studies to prospective ‘high risk’ sibling studies.
Study – What do home videos tell us about early motor and socio-communicative behaviours in children with autistic features during the second year of life—an exploratory study
Study – Movement analysis in infancy may be useful for early diagnosis of autism.
Early Detection of Autism
The Early Course of Autism
Vaccines Don’t Cause Autism, But That’s Not The Point. Stop Being Ableist.
Before I Stopped Believing Vaccines Caused My Son’s Autism
How My Daughter Taught Me that Vaccines Do Not Cause Autism
There is NO Science that shows Vaccines Cause Autism, EXCEPT ….. explained
Workshop report: Regression in autism
Early Signs of Autism
More Evidence that Autism is Genetic
Beyond the Autism/Vaccine Hypothesis: What Parents Need to Know about Autism Research
Vaccines and Autism
Vaccines and autism: Same as it ever was
The latest claims of “proof” that vaccines cause autism: Will the media take the bait?
What causes autism – real science says it is not vaccines
What REALLY Causes Autism?
Before I Stopped Believing Vaccines Caused My Son’s Autism
Study – Vaccines and Autism: A Tale of Shifting Hypotheses
Study – MMR: risk, choice, chance
Share this:
Tweet
Print
More
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Blog
Vincent Iannelli, MD
October 16, 2017 October 16, 2017
Andrew Wakefield
correlation
early signs of autism
regressive autism
Post navigation
Vaccine Schedule for Children with Down Syndrome
How Quickly Can You Debunk Anti-Vaccine Propaganda?
One thought on “Explaining the Correlation of Autism After Vaccines”
Bernadette Schneider says:
January 21, 2018 at 12:07 pm
I appreciate, lead to I found just what I was taking a look for. You have ended my 4 day lengthy hunt! God Bless you man. Have a nice day. Bye
LikeLike
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Categories
Categories Select Category Blog History of Vaccines Immunization News Immunization Schedules Vaccine Advocates Vaccine Education Vaccine Ingredients Vaccine Misinformation Vaccine Preventable Diseases Vaccine Safety Vaccine Side Effects Vaccines Vaxopedia
Follow Vaxopedia via Email
Enter your email address to follow Vaxopedia and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Follow Vaxopedia
Vaxopedia RSS Feed
RSS - Posts
Follow me on Twitter
My Tweets
Recommended Sites
Aetiology
Epidemiological
Harpocrates Speaks
I Speak of Dreams
Just the Vax
Left Brain Right Brain
Logic of Science
Moms Who Vax
NDS for Vaccines
NeuroLogica
Nurses Who Vaccinate
Respectful Insolence
Shot of Prevention
Skeptical OB
Skeptical Raptor
The Poxes Blog
The Thinking Persons Guide to Autism
The Vaccine Blog
The Vaccine Mom
Vaxopedia Tags
advocacy autism benefits Bob Sears conspiracy theories deaths from vaccine-preventable diseases exemptions herd immunity History of Vaccines immunization schedule ingredients measles deaths measles outbreaks natural immunity propaganda quotes risks safety side effects toxins unvaccinated vaccine injury vaccine myths Vaccine Preventable Diseases VAERS
Shot of Prevention
Ethan Lindenberger Wants to Help Stop the Lies About Vaccines
Just The Vax
False Balance in the Media
Left Brain Right Brain
Acceptance
Respectful Insolence
In Singapore, the TCM Practitioners Board shows why quacks shouldn’t self-regulate
Ginger Taylor, MS dubiously invokes “religious freedom” to argue against vaccination
Epidemiological
Epi 101: Indirect Age Adjustment by Hand and in R
Skeptical Raptor
MMR vaccine is safe and effective according to powerful FDA statement
The Poxes Blog
Won’t Someone Think of the Antivaxxers?
I Speak of Dreams
Who is Mark Green Representing in Tennessee, Exactly? Not His Autistic Constituents, That's For Sure
A WordPress.com Website.
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: