A E Skin Illuminating Cream
Would you like to switch to the accessible version of this site?
Go to accessible site Close modal window
Don't need the accessible version of this site?
Hide the accessibility button Close modal window
Accessibility View Close toolbar
Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display
Encino, CA 91436 US
(818) 835-1833
[email protected]
MENU
Home
Director
Staff
Office
Services
Skin Care
Before and After
Videos
Testimonials
Specials
Store
Blog >
A E Skin Illuminating Cream
RSS Feed
A E Skin Illuminating Cream
posted: Jan 24, 2016.
The Illuminating Cream is the newest product in the A E Skin line and is designed by Dr. Alex to include five anti-aging ingredients for those with sensitive skin. It is supplied in a pump tube just like the A E Skin Brightening Cream and is applied to a clean, dry skin surface at night. Moisturizers can be applied immediately afterwards. The A E Skin Illuminating Cream comes in a 30 gram supply, which lasts anywhere from one to three months depending on how much is used. The A E Skin Illuminating Cream should be stopped a few days before and a few days after any type of treatment on the skin such as a facial, chemical peel, or laser treatment. It is safe to continue using the product before and after injectable treatments such as Botox, Dysport, Xeomin, Juvederm, Restylane, Radiesse, and Voluma. The ingredients and benefits are described individually below.
Hydroquinone
Hydroquinone is the strongest topical brightening agent we have. Hydroquinonedirectly inhibits the formation of the pigment melanin, which is what is found in freckles, sun spots, age spots, sun damage, uneven skin tone, and pigmentation seen in melasma and in acne scars. Hydroquinone is found naturally in various foods and drinks such as coffee, bean, and vegetables, so people eat it all the time. The 2% concentration of hydroquinone in the new A E Skin Illuminating Cream is over-the-counter strength and ideal for people who are sensitive to the prescription-strength versions of the product (usually 4%) such as that in the A E Skin Brightening Cream (6%). There has been some controversy over the use of hydroquinone as it has been banned in certain European countries. The reason for this is that the sources of hydroquinone in Europe are often contaminated with mercury, which can irritate and damage the skin. It is therefore important to ensure that the hydroquinone is pure and manufactured in the United States as in the A E Skin Brightening Cream and Illuminating Cream.
Kojic Acid
Kojic acid is another brightening agent that works by a different mechanism than hydroquinone to prevent pigment formation. Kojic acid is not as irritating as other products such as hydroquinone and retin-A so it is an ideal ingredient for those with sensitive skin. Kojic acid also acts as an antioxidant (similar to vitamin C) to prevent formation of free radicals which damage the skin and lead to signs of aging such as fine lines and wrinkles. Additionally, kojic acid has anti-bacterial properties and can be used to supplement other products to kill bacteria associated with acne. Kojic acid is derived from mushrooms and is also a byproduct of the fermentation process used to manufacture the Japanese wine sake.
Arbutin
Arbutin is yet another brightening agent that works to inhibit melanin production. Derived from the bearberry plant, arbutin is released slowly and is therefore less irritating that other brightening agents, again making is suitable for those with sensitive skin. Arbutin is also found naturally in wheat, cranberry, mulberry, blueberry, and pear skin. Arbutin is similar to hydroquinone in terms of its chemical composition, the difference being that arbutin is attached to a sugar. An important benefit of arbutin over other brightening agents is that is does not oxidize, which can make the ingredient ineffective.
Azelaic Acid
Azelaic acid is a product that provides multiple benefits including decreasing pigmentation and inflammation. It also has antibacterial and antioxidant properties which make it effective for those with acne or rosacea as well as for those who want anti-aging effects. Derived from certain species of grain such as rye, wheat, and barley, azelaic acid is safe for all skin types and reduces irritation that many people with rosacea or sensitive skin get. The addition of azelaic acid to the A E Skin Illuminating Cream provides further benefit to reduce discoloration, to decrease irritation, and to fight acne for those suffering from it. Azelaic acid can be used alone at higher concentrations (15-20%) for the treatment of rosacea in products such as Finacea and Azelex. For these reasons azelaic acid is also found in the A E Skin Acne Max Solution.
Retinol
Retinol, like retin-A, is a vitamin A derivative that has multiple effects on the skin. As we age the skin cell turnover rate slows down, which leads to the buildup of dead skin cells on the surface. This is seen as a rough texture and a dull appearance due to the way light is irregularly reflected off the skin. These dead skin cells can also clog pores and lead to acne breakouts. Retinol will stimulate cell turnover like that of youthful and healthy skin, getting rid of these dead skin cells to provide a soft and smooth texture and a bright and radiant appearance. Retinol will also help with acne breakouts because it removes the dead skins cells which clog pores and lead to breakouts. Retinol also stimulates the formation of new, fresh, and healthy collagen in the skin. Collagen is the natural protein in the skin that provides the skin with a tight appearance. As we age, we lose collagen and the skin becomes loose, wrinkled, and saggy. By stimulating collagen retinol will restore the youthful appearance to the skin. These benefits are the reasons why you see retinol in so many anti-aging products available in retail stores and online. Unlike its cousin retin-A (found in the A E Skin Brightening Cream), retinol is a lot less irritating to the skin, making this ingredient perfect for those with sensitive skin.
The A E Skin Illuminating Cream is even more effective when combined with other products such as salicylic acid found in the A E Skin Exfoliating Serum, antioxidants found in the A E Skin Triple Antioxidant Serum, and hyaluronic acid found in the A E Skin Hydrating Serum. With all of these benefits all in one product it is no wonder that the A E Skin Illuminating Cream is so popular. For a limited time we are offering 25% off the A E Skin Illuminating Cream. See the links below for video testimonials on the A E Skin line of products. Contact us for a free consultation with Dr. Alex.
Events
Services
Products
Contact us Today
Our Location
Hours of Operation
Office
Monday:
10:00 am-5:00 pm
Tuesday:
10:00 am-5:00 pm
Wednesday:
10:00 am-5:00 pm
Thursday:
10:00 am-5:00 pm
Friday:
10:00 am-4:00 pm
Saturday:
Closed
Sunday:
Closed
Copyright © 2019 MH Sub I, LLC dba Officite.
Admin Log In
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Health Disclaimer
Cookie Policy
Site Map