Tips and Remedies To Treat Nausea
Conditions
Allergy
Autoimmune Disorder
Blood / Hematology
Cancer
Cardiovascular System
Childhood Illnesses
Ear / Eye
Endocrinal System
Face, Mouth & Throat
Gastrointestinal System
Genetic Disorders
Genitourinary System
Infectious Diseases
Metabolic System
Musculoskeletal System
Nervous System
Psychiatric Disorders
Skin Problems
Women's Health Guide
All Topics
Sports Injuries
Ankle Injuries
Hip Injuries
Knee Injuries
Pelvic, Groin & Buttock Pain
Wrist Injuries
All Topics
Personal Injury
Auto Accident
Work Accident
Gunshot Wound
Disability
Healthcare Payer & Provider
Q & A
Erectile Dysfunction: Does Opioid Cause ED
Do I have Fibromyalgia?
Splitting Headache: Is It a Migraine?
Did I have a stroke?
Libido: Opioid Induced Female Sexual Dysfunction
All Topics
Articles
Travel & Health
Can a Right Diet Help With Fibromyalgia
Dietary Do’s & Don’ts for Migraine Sufferers
Home Remedies for Arthritis
Shirshasana (Headstand) Versus Inversion Therapy Using Inversion Table
Understanding Joint Pain and Tips to Get Relief Using Home Remedies
All Topics
Treatments
Opioids
Antidepressant Analgesics
Interventional Treatment
Local Applications
Antiepileptics Analgesics
Medications
Tests and Procedures
Allergy Meds
Alternative Therapy
Chakra and Aura
Home Remedies
Diet & Nutrition
Fitness and Exercise
Yoga
Tabata
Pilates
Manual Therapy
Chiropractic Treatment
Spa Therapy
Physical Therapy
Massage Therapy
All Topics
News
Navigation Menu
Menu
Global Notification
Global Search
Subscribe
Global Search
Home
Articles
Tips and Remedies To Treat Nausea
Reviewed By: Board Certified Physician
Nausea is a sensation where a person feels like thawing up. Nausea may be experienced by all at some time in their life. There is a feeling of general uneasiness with nausea, which often leads to vomiting.
Tips and Remedies To Treat Nausea
There are various causes of nausea ranging from a migraine headache to something as serious as liver cirrhosis. Nausea is mostly associated with some underlying medical condition. Nausea resolves when the causative condition is treated. There are few tips and remedies that can help get rid of this uneasy experience.
Antiemetic Medications. There are certain medications known as antiemetic, which reduce the feeling of nausea and vomiting, which are caused due to travelling sickness. Anti-emetic medicines though put a stop on nausea and vomiting, but have few side effects, such as dry mouth, fatigue, restlessness, drowsiness and indigestion.
Chamomile. Chamomile is known as a digestive relaxant and is frequently used by traditional medicines to treat nausea, vomiting, indigestion, and traveling sickness. Chamomile is a great home remedy to treat nausea. Chamomile tea can be taken in hot or chilled form and it helps calm the digestive distress and nausea.
Ginger. Ginger is another great remedy for treating nausea. Ginger is widely used to reduce the feeling of nausea and vomiting during pregnancy and chemotherapy. Fresh ginger tea with few drops of lemon gives a refreshing feeling. Ginger can be added to tea or can be eaten on its own or can be mixed to the tea. Ginger is effective in any form for treating nausea.
Acupressure. Acupressure is a very effective remedy to ease nausea. There are various stimulating pressure points present all over the body, which helps alleviate pain, illness and other conditions such as nausea. Acupressure helps stimulate a specific nerve, which in turns sends signals to the brain to release chemicals and hormones, which reduce nausea. Acupressure is an easy to do technique and can be easily performed at home or in the hospital room.
Deep Breathing. Controlled breathing and deep breathing is an affective tip for treating and controlling nausea. Doing breathing exercises in fresh air adds to its benefits.
BRAT Diet. Consuming bland diet help soothes the stomach and the digestive tract. BRAT diet includes banana, rice, applesauce and toast. These foods are easy on the stomach and have no strong odor or taste to trigger or worsen nausea.
Essential Oils. Essential oils are taken by inhalation and effectively reduce nausea. The constituents present in the essential oil work by stimulating the release of hormones and certain chemicals which lessen the symptoms of nausea. Some of the very effective essential oils for treating nausea are. cardamom essential oil, lemon essential oil, grapefruit essential oil, ginger essential oil, peppermint essential oil and sweet orange essential oil. These oils can be blended and inhaled, such as.
Peppermint and lemon essential oil in equal parts
Ginger and lemon essential oil
Cardamom and sweet orange essential oil
Essential oils can be added to the inhaler or on a tissue and inhaled as deeply as possible to ease nausea.
Sodium Bicarbonate. Baking soda, as it is commonly known, sodium bicarbonate is used for the baking purpose. Sodium Bicarbonate is also a great home remedy for treating nausea, as it changes the pH of the acids in the stomach. Add half-a-teaspoon of baking soda to 4 ounces of water. This is only a temporary remedy to reduce nausea and should not be used regularly.
Stay Hydrated. Keeping yourself hydrated is a beneficial tip to treat nausea. It is good to take water in small quantities at frequent intervals, if the nausea is accompanied by vomiting. It helps to cope up with the water loss.
Other than these remedies, some effective tips to reduce or treat nausea are.
Eat a protein-rich diet
Do not eat large meals
Stay upright after a meal
Avoid spicy and fatty food
If, after trying simple remedies at home, nausea doesn’t improve or if it is accompanied by any serious symptom, consult a doctor for proper diagnosis and treatment.
Also Read:
What is Chemo Nausea & Ways to Deal with Chemo Nausea
What Causes Nausea After Chemotherapy?|How Long Does Nausea After Chemotherapy Last?
Medicines & Home Remedies to Take for Nausea
Benefits of Acupressure for Nausea & Its Pressure Points to Treat Nausea
Types Of Chemo Nausea & 7 Ways To Deal With It
Can Microscopic Colitis Cause Nausea?
What Helps Hangover Nausea?
What's App
Facebook
Twitter
Pintrest
Print
Email
Written, Edited or Reviewed By:
Pramod Kerkar, MD,FFARCSI
Pain Assist Inc.
Last Modified On: March 2, 2019
This article does not provide medical advice. See disclaimer
You May Also Like
Are Common Warts Contagious| Symptoms, Treatment & Home Remedies for Common Warts
READ MORE >>
Shirshasana (Headstand) Versus Inversion Therapy Using Inversion Table
READ MORE >>
Can a Right Diet Help With Fibromyalgia
READ MORE >>
Viagra (Sildenafil) Treatment for Opioid Induced Erectile Dysfunction
READ MORE >>
What is Psychotherapy?Indications, Objective, About Psychotherapist And Can They Prescribe Medications
READ MORE >>
ePainAssist Home
View More
Rib Pain Images
Symptom Checker
Find A Physician
Health Topics
Health News
Videos
Slideshows
Recent Post
The Future of Skin Care with Technology
Articles
Why Do You Crave Fatty Foods When You Are Drunk?
Do Antidepressants Make You High?
Causes and Symptoms of Carpal Tunnel Syndrome & its Complications, Care
Can Physiotherapy Help in Curing Tennis Elbow Disorder & How Long is the Recovery Period?
>> More
Most Popular
Disability
Does Sickle Cell Disease Qualify For Disability Benefits?
Allergies
Sun Allergy: Causes, Symptoms, Treatment, Prognosis, Prevention, Recovery
Healthcare Payer & Provider
Medicare for Chiropractic Care: What Does it Cover & What It Doesn’t Cover|Medicare Advantage Plans
Travel & Health
Can You Fly With A Blood Clot & What are the Precautions to be Taken?
Home Remedies
Symptoms of Silent Reflux in Infant & its Natural Remedies
Symptom Checker
Get To Know What Possibly Could Be Causing Your Symptoms!
Men Women
Subscribe to Free ePainAssist Newsletters
I agree to the ePainAssist Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy.
Sign Up for Our Newsletter
We'll help you live each day to the healthiest
Email
Join
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Linked In
Youtube
Instagram
Download Our Mobile Apps
Copyright © 2019 PainAssist Inc (ePainAssist) | All rights reserved.
Contact Us
Disclaimer
About Us
Privacy Policy
Advertising Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Financial Disclosure Policy
Information Policy
Find Physician
Pain Blog
Images and Text Policy
Medical Quiz
Videos
Pain Discussion Board
Post A Question
Chiropractors
Pain Physicians
Orthopedic Surgeons
Neurological Surgeons
Neurologists
Neuromusculoskeletal Medicine Doctors
Physical Medicine and Rehabitation Specialists
Note: Information provided is not a substitute for physician, hospital or any form of medical care. Consult your medical care providers for medical advice, treatments and followup.