Medication and grapefruit juice: A dangerous combination? | health enews
Home
Health Topics
Behavioral Health
Bone & Joint
Brain & Neuro
Cancer Care
Dental Health
Diet & Nutrition
Digestive & Gastrointestinal
Fitness & Wellness
Health Technology
Heart Care
Holiday Recipes
Infographics
Kidney & Urinary
Men’s Health
Parenting
Pediatric Care
Pregnancy
Primary Care
Senior Care
Skin Care
Trauma Care
Vision Care
Women’s Health
Videos
Blog
Subscribe
Home / Diet & Nutrition / Medication and grapefruit juice: A dangerous combination?
Medication and grapefruit juice: A dangerous combination?
By: Nathan Lurz
Despite its general health benefits, grapefruit juice has long been a bit of a bogeyman to those who take certain prescription medications – but the list of drugs the morning drink can negatively affect may be longer than you think.
According to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, many drugs are broken down with the help of the enzyme CYP3A4 in the small intestine. The grapefruit juice can interfere with the enzyme, so instead of being metabolized, more of the drug enters the bloodstream and can stay in the body longer, leading to too much of the drug in your system.
Megan Corrigan, pharmacy manager at Advocate Good Samaritan Hospital in Downers Grove, Ill., says increased or decreased drug levels can lead to unwanted side effects or less effective treatment.
A 2012 study published in the Canadian Medical Association Journal warned that, in some cases, it could even lead to a potentially fatal drug toxicity.
However, the exact effects of this interaction in particular drugs or in certain patients can be difficult to generalize, Corrigan says, as each person and instance is different.
“The interaction will always be present with certain drugs, but some side effects might be intolerable by some, or the drug levels may negatively impact the desired outcome of the drug,” she says. “This shouldn’t be taken lightly either, as serious side effects could occur.”
Other items to potentially avoid when on certain prescription medications include some herbal and over-the-counter substances, alcohol, caffeine, dairy and other calcium-containing products. Patients should also be sure to know whether they are supposed to take their medicine on a full or empty stomach to ensure proper absorption.
The only reliable way to get an idea of whether your medications could react poorly to something is to be open and honest with your doctor and speak to a pharmacist, Corrigan says.
“They are the drug experts and would be happy to check interactions of medications,” she says. “Avoid searching the internet to answer your medical questions, as it is full of incorrect information from non-reputable sources.”
Here are examples of some types of drugs that grapefruit juice can cause problems with, per the FDA:
Some statin drugs to lower cholesterol, such as Zocor (simvastatin) and Lipitor (atorvastatin)
Some drugs that treat high blood pressure, such as Procardia and Adalat CC (both nifedipine)
Some organ-transplant rejection drugs, such as Sandimmune and Neoral (both cyclosporine)
Some anti-anxiety drugs, such as buspirone
Some corticosteroids that treat Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis, such as Entocort EC and Uceris (both budesonide)
Some drugs that treat abnormal heart rhythms, such as Pacerone and Nexterone (both amiodarone)
Some antihistamines, such as Allegra (fexofenadine)
Related Posts
5 things you should know about your sinuses
Knowing the signs of liver cancer could save your life
Is this holding you back from living a healthier life?
How to tell if your headache is serious
Comments
One Comment
Steve Golden March 19, 2019 at 6:50 pm · Reply
What about eating the whole grapefruit?
Name *
Email * (will not be published)
Website
Submit Comment
← Why do some people hate hugs?
8 unusual signs you’re stressed →
About the Author
Nathan Lurz
Nathan Lurz, health enews contributor, is a public affairs coordinator at Advocate Good Samaritan Hospital. He has nearly a decade of professional news experience as a reporter and editor, and a lifetime of experience as an enthusiastic learner. On the side, he enjoys writing even more, tabletop games, reading, running and explaining that his dog is actually the cutest dog, not yours, sorry.
View All Articles (77)
Find a Doctor
Recent Posts
5 things you should know about your sinuses
April 19, 2019
Knowing the signs of liver cancer could save your life
April 19, 2019
This type of benign tumor can be found in at least 1 in 5 women by age 50
April 19, 2019
Is this holding you back from living a healthier life?
April 19, 2019
How to tell if your headache is serious
April 19, 2019
Featured Video
Chicago Cubs welcome young patients to Spring Training
It was a week full of surprises for kids battling cancer, congenital heart defects and other health issues. Learn more about their trip!
Featured Blog
How forgetful are you?
By: Dr. Judy Ronan Woodburn
Is it dementia? Or maybe it's just information overload?
About Us | Contact Us | Health eNews Staff
Privacy Policy | Copyrights © 2019 & All Rights Reserved.