Information about Urinary Tract Infection (UTI)
Tweet Follow @diethealth_club
Search:
Healthy Diet Plans | Articles | Questions Asked | Blog | | Sitemap | Advertise
Network Sites: Home-Remedies-For-You.com | DietHealthClub.com | Pregnancy-Baby-Care.com | MedicalHealthTests.com | Yogawiz.com | PetHealthAndCare.com | HealthyLifeInfo.com
Cranberry juice for urinary tract infection
ADVERTISEMENT
Subscribe to our Newsletter:
Healthy Diet Plans >> Cranberry juice for urinary tract infection
Cranberry juice for urinary tract infection:
If I drink lots of water, cranberry juice and baking soda mixture and urinate often, how long will it take for the urinary tract infection to be gone?
If you have had a urine culture and it shows that you have a urinary tract infection (UTI), you would be taking antibiotics. Along with the medication, if you take steps like drinking lots of water, cranberry juice, or a baking soda mixture, the condition will clear up faster. This is because increasing the amount of liquid intake helps 'flush' out the bacteria. The combination of treatment and natural 'flushing' out of the bacteria should clear up your condition within 2-3 days. Drink large quantities of non-alcoholic fluids such as cranberry juice.
This shortens the period of recovery.
If this does not happen, or if you develop fever, have nausea, vomiting, lower back pain, or blood in the urine, you must visit the doctor. This is because urinary tract infection, if not treated completely or in time, may travel to the kidneys and lead to more serious complications.
To relieve symptoms and to stop urinary tract infection from recurring, the intake of liquids is essential. Urinary tract infection is caused by bacteria entering the urinary tract and then multiplying, casing pain and burning when you urinate.
Cranberry juice does have a positive effect in the case of urinary tract infections since it acidifies the urine. This makes the bacteria which sticks to the wall of the bladder to get flushed. Cranberry juice disagrees with some people, so if this happens with you, substitute it with the baking soda mix and drink lots of water.
Cranberry capsules taken with a large glass of water will also achieve the same results.
Make a baking soda mixture of a half teaspoon of baking soda added to an 8oz. glass of water. Baking soda raises the pH balance of urine and reduces the burning. This is a big help in treating urinary tract infection.
You can reduce the recurrence of urinary tract infections with life style and diet changes. Drink ample fluids daily. You may carry a bottle of water with you if you go out to ensure that you drink water often.
You may try natural remedies for urinary tract infection. Cucumber juice, with some lemon juice added for flavor, is a great diuretic. Drink this three times a day. Another alternative is drinking the juice of radish leaves (one cup every day) for two weeks, for the urinary tract infection to clear up. Avoid foods like tomatoes, cheese, chocolate, spicy foods, caffeine, soda, alcohol (especially beer), nicotine and artificial sweeteners, since these are contra-indicated in such infections.
Hydration is the best treatment, since it helps clear up the infection very fast.
UTI symptoms:
A urinary tract infection (UTI) is a painful condition that can affect women, men and children. It is the result of the lining of the bladder or urethra becoming inflamed. UTI symptoms are common for both men and women of all ages, but slightly different for children. Some of these symptoms include:-
• Pain or burning when urinating
• Urine is cloudy and has a foul odor
• Pain on one side of the back, under the ribs. This is where the kidneys are located
• Fever and chills
• A tendency to urinate often, but only a little urine comes out when the person does urinate
• Nausea and vomiting
• The belly feels heavy and tender.
UTI symptoms for children include:-
• The child not being hungry
• The child being more fussy than usual
• Vomiting
• The urine has a strange smell
• Fever that is not caused by any other illness like the flu.
cranberry juice and uti:
Studies show that cranberry juice can help in curing UTI infections. Cranberry kills the bacteria responsible for UTI’s. Cranberries are acidic in nature because they contain citric acid. This makes the blood more acidic and correspondingly there is an increase in the acidic level of urine. Bacteria need an alkaline environment for growth and so this acidic environment makes it impossible the bacteria in the bladder to stick to the walls of the bladder. The proanthocyanidins in cranberries cause the bacteria cells to condense and this reduces their ability to cause an infection. Cranberry also interrupts communication between bacterial cells, by limiting the secretion of indole. This is a chemical substance that makes communication between the bacterial cells possible. It is recommended that you drink 3-4 glasses of pure cranberry juice daily for about two months to cure the infection.
Baking soda uti:
Baking soda is an effective home remedy or cure for a UTI. Mix a teaspoon of baking soda in one glass of water and drink this solution. This solution helps to provide a great deal of relief from the burning sensation one feels in the urinary tract. Baking soda helps to neutralize the acids found in the urine. However, there are certain risks with ingesting this solution. Baking powder contains high levels of sodium and excessive sodium is not recommended for the young or the elderly as it can cause circulatory problems. This solution is not advised if you are pregnant, have high blood pressure or liver or kidney problems. Baking soda does not help a UTI if these conditions exist and could also cause long term damage. Side effects could include muscle tics, dizziness, disorientation, excessive thirst and even seizures.
Baking Soda for Uti:
Many people resort to drinking or using baking soda when they have a UTI. Baking soda has many uses and one of them is to help cure a urinary tract infection. It helps to lower the PH in the urine and thereby helps to alleviate the symptoms. Take a small coffee cup or a small drinking glass. Add one or two level tablespoons of drinking soda in the glass. Fill the glass with cold water, stir and drink. All the soda may not dissolve completely at one time, so you may have to drink, stir it a little more and then drink again. Do this till the glass is empty. Repeat this every hour or so till you get relief from your symptoms.
Uti Baking Soda:
Mixing baking soda in water is thought to be an effective cure for a UTI. Mix about half a teaspoon of baking powder in 8 ounces of water and it will help to alleviate the symptoms associated with urinary tract infections. However, this cure is only recommended if there are substantial amounts of vitamin C intakes, in order to balance the alkaline levels in the body. A person should only try this home remedy if he/she is sure that his/her body has certain conditions that needs PH balance. Otherwise, there are side effects and long term damage that could result from using baking soda in water to treat a UTI.
Baking Soda and Uti:
Many people resort to baking soda to treat a UTI. However, this simple and effective solution is not without its drawbacks. This will not work for people with hypertension, liver or kidney problems and even for pregnant women. This is due to the sodium content in baking soda. Excess sodium in the body can lead to problems with blood circulation as well and also cause improper functioning of the kidneys.
How long does uti take to clear up?
How long does a UTI take to clear up? Well, if you get help right away, a UTI should clear up within 10 days to 2 weeks. The best way is to start treating yourself as soon as you think you have a UTI. If you feel you have an infection starting, start drinking plenty of water and see a doctor or try out a home remedy as soon as you can.
Drinking Baking Soda for Uti:
Drinking baking soda for a UTI is an inexpensive remedy. Mix half a teaspoon of baking soda in a glass of water and drink this 2-3 times a day. This has been found to be an effective treatment for a UTI, particularly in the early stages of the infection. The baking soda helps to raise the acid-base balance of the acidic urine.
Baking Soda and Urinary Tract Infections:
Baking soda and urinary tract infections are linked as drinking a solution of baking soda and water, is believed to help cure urinary tract infections. Baking soda has many uses and one of these is to reduce the PH balance of water in swimming pools. The soda helps to cure UTI’s for the very same reason – it reduces the PH in the urine.
How long does it take for a uti to clear up?
How long doe sit take for a UTI to clear up? If you are taking medication for the UTI and also drinking cranberry juice, a solution of baking soda with water and plenty of water as well, your infection should clear up within 2-3 days. If this does not happen, contact your doctor immediately as a UTI could lead to other serious problems if not completely cured.
Cranberry Juice Substitute:
Baking soda and water is a cranberry juice substitute for urinary tract infections. Cranberry juice may not agree with everyone, so try the above substitute to treat a UTI. Do keep in mind the adverse effects of this, already mentioned above.
how long does a uti take to clear up?
How long does a UTI take to clear up? It usually clears up (if you are on medication), within a few days.
Urinary Tract Infection or UTI is very common in women, but men, toddlers and children also suffer from it occasionally. The condition and the symptoms of a UTI would vary depending on the severity of the infection.
What is UTI? Before we go on to the causes of UTI and the UTI symptoms experienced by a person, it is important to understand how the urinary tract functions. The urinary tract filters and removes liquid wastes from the body. Since the urinary tract in women is shorter, they are more susceptible to this health problem that men. When bacteria invade and multiply in the urinary tract, it leads to infection, which is known as Urinary Tract Infection.
Even though UTI is generally not very serious, it can be painful and bothersome and may also lead to other dangerous secondary conditions if not treated in time. It is believed that about 50 percent of all women suffer from UTI symptoms at least once in their lifetimes, if not more. Timely detection and appropriate medicines can help alleviate the problem.
Causes: UTI and UTI symptoms are often caused by the bacteria in the bowel that thrive in the vagina or in the rectum. When these enter the urinary tract through the urethra and travel upwards, they can cause bladder infection as well as infection in the urinary tract.
Sexual intercourse is one of the most common causes of UTI, especially for women. During sexual intercourse, the bacteria often get pushed further into the urethra, thus causing an infection. Women who have sex frequently or those who have multiple sexual partners are more susceptible to experiencing UTI symptoms.
People who control their bladders for a long time are also susceptible to UTI. Since the bladder stretches when it holds urine and contracts after a person urinates, waiting for a long time can stretch the bladder a bit too much, thus, weakening the muscle. When the bladder muscle becomes weak, it may not become completely empty when you urinate and some of it might be left behind. This could lead to urinary tract infection.
It is also necessary to pay attention to UTI symptoms during periods such as pregnancy, menopause or if you are suffering from diabetes as these could also lead to UTI.
UTI Symptoms: Some of UTI symptoms are common among men and women, children and adults, as also in babies. These include:
• A burning sensation while passing urine
• The urge to urinate frequently and difficulty in passing urine when you rush to the toilet
• Passing a little urine very frequently
• Drops of urine leaking out
• Blood-tinged or foul smelling urine
• Soreness in the back, abdomen or sides
If the bacteria spread to the kidneys, then you may experience nausea, fever, chills and vomiting.
UTI in pregnant women: Pregnant women are generally more susceptible to UTI. The hormones that rage through the body during pregnancy cause certain changes in the urinary tract that makes women more vulnerable to UTI. Also, when the uterus grows in size, it presses down on the bladder, preventing complete cleansing of the bladder. Thus, pregnancy is a time to watch out for UTI symptoms.
UTI in men: Males also suffer from UTI experience UTI symptoms, though not as much as women. Generally men, who have an enlarged prostate or have kidney stones, are more prone to UTI symptoms. Men who have a tube or catheter in the bladder, or have diabetes or an immune suppressing disease, may be at a higher risk of getting UTI.
UTI in toddlers and children: Several children come down with an unexplained fever, which in some cases, is the only symptom of UTI. Some of the other symptoms to look out for, apart from the standard ones mentioned above, are crying while the child is passing urine or foul-smelling urine.
Diagnosis: Urine sample may be collected and examined under a microscope to determine if the patient has UTI. Some of the other tests include Voiding cystourethrogram or VCUG, which examines the bladder and urethra when the bladder is being filled and while it is emptying; Intravenous pyelogram, which examines the complete urinary tract; nuclear scans, which use radioactive materials; and, Computed tomography or CT scans and MRI to view the 3-D images of the kidneys and the bladder. An ultrasound may also be done to check for UTI.
Treatment: The doctor might prescribe medicines to treat the infection. If you’re wondering how long it takes for a UTI to clear up, then the infection may subside anywhere between 3-10 days.
Home remedies and diet tips:
Baking soda and UTI: The use of baking soda, in water or also for a bath could be an effective home remedy for UTI. In order to use baking soda as a cure for UTI and prevent it from aggravating, you can add a teaspoon full of it in a glass of water and drink it. Drinking baking soda for UTI is effective because the soda is believed to neutralize the acid content in the urine. So, next time, you may want to use baking soda for UTI treatment. Even though baking soda and urinary tract infections go hand in hand, do consult a doctor before you do so.
Blueberries: These berries with their bacteria-blocking properties care also supposed to be good for treating UTI. Drink some blueberry juice or add a handful of berries to your everyday diet.
Cranberry juice and UTI infections: It is also known that cranberry juice would help flush the UTI bacteria out of your body. You may also drink cranberry juice to keep UTI at bay because this juice has mild anti-biotic qualities. If you can’t find cranberry juice, you may ask a health expert or nutritionist about a cranberry juice substitute. However, be sure to consult a doctor before you try this or any home remedy, and do take the medicines that the physician prescribes.
Some of the other home remedies to prevent UTI include drinking 8-10 glasses of water, eating vitamin C-rich fruits, maintaining good hygiene, and washing your genitals before and after sex.
Note: Since UTI is a painful and an embarrassing condition, about the query “how long does UTI take to clear up” is not uncommon. It could last anywhere between two or more days. Do remember to consult a doctor the moment you notice any of the symptoms mentioned, and speak with the doctor about the treatment as well as about how long UTI takes to clear up.
Submitted on January 16, 2014
ADVERTISEMENT
Features Archive
15 Slimming Foods for the Summer | Diet Plan | Cooling Foods | fruits and salads - May, 2010
Bratty Diet - Banana, Rice, Applesauce, Tea, Toast, Yogurt Diet - Mar, 2010
List of 21 Fresh Fruits And Vegetables For Fresh Healthy Nutrition - Nov, 2009
Fruits And Vegetables Nutrition Facts And Health Benefits - Jul, 2009
Cool Summer Food Ideas With Easy Summer Foods - May, 2009
21 Right Foods For Weight Reduction - Mar, 2009
51 Healthy Foods To Eat For Healthy Living - Feb, 2009
Healthy Winter Foods and Nutrition for Healthy Living - Jan, 2009
Top Searches
atkins diet
diet for congestive heart
health facts
peptic ulcer diet
health club
fitness nutrition diet
low calorie diet
zone diet food
diet plan
1200 calorie diet plan
Get Current News
Follow us on
Copyright © 2016 Mac Millan Interactive Communications, LLC
Terms of Use | Sitemap
The material on this web site is provided for educational purposes only, and is not to be used for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information. Use of this site is subject to our terms of service and privacy policy.