Are itchier insect bites more likely to make us sick? - The University of Sydney
Home
News & opinion
News
June
Are itchier insect bites more likely to make us sick?
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students prepare for exams with support of University
The voter paradox
University home
Library
Current students
Staff intranet
Skip to main content
Library
Current students
Staff intranet
Toggle the side menu Search for Courses
Type to search
Search
Search for courses, people, events and everything else ...
Courses
All content
Study
Study
Find a course
Why choose Sydney?
Study options
How to apply
Get ready for uni
International students
Campus life
Campus life
Accommodation
What's on
Health, wellbeing and success
Clubs and societies
Getting to campus
Sports and fitness
Food, shops and bars
Emergencies and personal safety
Maps and locations
Life in Sydney
Student news
About us
About us
Our story
Our rankings
Vision and values
Governance and structure
Faculties and schools
Campuses
Engage with us
Community and visitors
Careers at Sydney
Working with the University
Research
Research
Research areas
Centres and institutes
Research impact
Our researchers
Facilities
Funding
Partnerships
Research degrees
Volunteer for research study
Integrity and ethics
Alumni & giving
Alumni & giving
Alumni benefits
Alumni Awards
Volunteer
Connect
Give now
INSPIRED philanthropic campaign
News & opinion
News & opinion
News
Subscribe
Podcasts
Videos
News archive
Media contacts
Find an expert
Sydney Ideas
Events
Home / News & opinion / News / June / Are itchier insect bites more likely to make us sick?
Home
News & opinion
News
2019: all news
Arts & culture
Business & economics
Campus & community
Government & politics
Health & medicine
Law & society
Science & technology
Subscribe
Podcasts
Videos
News archive
Media contacts
Find an expert
Sydney Ideas
Events
News_
Are itchier insect bites more likely to make us sick?
28 June 2016
If you can stop mosquitoes biting, you can stop disease.
Share
New research suggests the worse our reactions to mosquito bites are, the more likely it is we’ll get sick, says Dr Cameron Webb.
New research suggests we could better understand mosquito-borne disease by looking closely at our itchy bites.
Mosquitoes need blood. Unfortunately, they often get that blood from us; some of us are bitten more commonly than others. But mosquitoes aren’t flying syringes transporting droplets of infected blood from person to person. The mosquitoes need to be infected with a pathogen first before it can be passed on. And, more importantly, the mozzie’s spit must be infected.
Bites and bumps
When a mosquito bites, she (only female mozzies bite) injects saliva to get the blood flowing. It’s a mixture of chemicals that helps the mosquito suck up blood from their unsuspecting victim.
Bites are usually worse on kids. Lolo from Tahiti/Flickr, CC BY
The reaction to mosquito bites can vary greatly. For many, a “mozzie bite” will be a mild annoyance that resolves itself without too much trouble. For others, the reaction can be more serious.
It is particularly troublesome for young children who seem to react the worst. While there are no magic solutions to solve the itch, reactions generally get less severe as we develop a tolerance to bites.
The spit may cause a reaction but it can also contain something more serious. Mosquito-borne pathogens, such as malaria, dengue and chikungunya, infect hundreds of millions of people every year. The emergence of Zika virus and its link to birth defects is yet another reminder of how potent these pathogens can be.
Spit the secret to infection
Not everyone bitten by a mosquito carrying a virus will develop symptoms. New research suggests the worse our reactions to mosquito bites, the more likely it is we’ll get sick.
The scientists allowed the yellow fever mosquito, Aedes aegypti, to bite laboratory mice and then injected the mice with Semliki Forest virus (an African mosquito-borne virus that generally causes mild symptoms in humans) via syringe.
Other mice were only injected with the virus. What they found was that the immune cells that rushed to the bite site as part of an inflammatory response helped the virus replicate and spread. Mice without mosquito bites had substantially lower rates of infection.
The implication is the reaction of the host to a mosquito bite may play a critical role in the virus' ability to infect the host. This isn’t surprising, and previous research has suggested an important role for mosquito saliva in virus transmission. These mosquito-borne viruses have evolved to exploit mosquitoes to get from host to host, why not adapt to the immune response of their hosts to further aid their survival?
Reducing bite reactions and infection risks
The latest research hints at a fascinating potential for mosquito-borne disease prevention.
There’s a pretty easy way to stop mozzies from biting you. Fairfax county/Flickr, CC BY
We already have a wide range of safe and effective mosquito repellents that can help prevent bites. We just need to encourage people to use them correctly. If you can stop mosquitoes biting, you can stop disease.
Perhaps the use of anti-inflammatory creams or other medications may further reduce the chances of illness. It’s difficult to stop all bites and only takes one infected mosquito to slip through the cracks in our repellent coverage to cause infection.
Could using these creams act as a safety net? If you can’t stop all the bites, at least minimising the inflammation may assist in reduce risk of disease!
This article was first published in The Conversation.
How can you prevent mozzie bites?
Kobi Print
Media and PR Adviser (Health Sciences)
Phone
+61 2 9036 7589
Mobile
+61 481 012 729
Email
kobi.print@sydney.edu.au
Address
Pharmacy A15
Related articles
10 April 2019
Turning streets into art galleries
If the people can't go to the art gallery, take the art gallery to the people. That's been the approach of Kat Roma Greer as she's created dynamic street art events in disadvantaged communities the world over.
10 April 2019
How close are we really to 3D printing organs?
3D printing technologies are now so advanced they can create structures on a nanoscale. But how close are we to seeing 3D printed organs in the market? Professor Hala Zreiqat and Dr Peter Newman explain.
09 April 2019
Indigenous skills vital to conservation research outcomes
Sydney conservation biologists have demonstrated Indigenous rangers are an essential part of scientific research outcomes, and urge researchers around the world to give Indigenous peoples a voice.
Leadership for good starts here
Media
News
Find an expert
Media contacts
Student links
Class timetables
Libraries
About us
Our rankings
Faculties and schools
Campus locations
Maps and locations
Connect
Contact us
Find a staff member
Careers at Sydney
Events
Emergencies and personal safety
Member of
University of Sydney Twitter University of Sydney Facebook University of Sydney Instagram University of Sydney Youtube
Follow us_
Disclaimer
Privacy
Accessibility
Website feedback
ABN: 15 211 513 464
CRICOS Number: 00026A
TEQSA: PRV12057