Colon Cancer: Fact or Fiction? » Sidney Kimmel Cancer Center
Give Now
Thomas Jefferson
University
Jefferson University
Hospitals
Jefferson
Physicians
Jefferson
Innovation
Jefferson
Philanthropy
Sidney Kimmel Cancer Center
Menu
Home
Research
Patient Care
Academics
Consortium Partners
About SKCC
News
Home / Cancer Prevention, Colon Cancer, Education, Philadelphia / Colon Cancer: Fact or Fiction?
Colon Cancer: Fact or Fiction?
19
Mar
March 19, 2019
in Cancer Prevention, Colon Cancer, Education, Philadelphia
tagged: Colon Cancer, colonoscopy, colorectal cancer, Marianne Ritchie, Sidney Kimmel Cancer Center
Dr. Marianne Ritchie outside of the State Capitol in Harrisburg, Pa., which was lit up in blue as part of the Blue Lights campaign for Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month.
By Marianne T. Ritchie, MD, Director of Sidney Kimmel Cancer Center Colon Cancer Screening/Outreach, Director of PINK PLUS Women’s Cancer Screenings Program, and Clinical Associate Professor of Gastroenterology and Hepatology.
Can you tell fact from fiction when it comes to colon cancer? Learn the truth behind common myths during Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month.
1. Colon cancer is a man’s disease.
Fiction. Men and women are at equal risk. We should all be screened.
2. Only a family history of colon cancer increases my risk for colon cancer.
Fiction. Not just colon cancer, but a family history of colon polyps may also increase your risk and lead to getting screened earlier than age 50. Talk to your doctor.
3. Obesity can increase the risk for colon cancer.
Fact. Obesity increases the risk for at least 13 different cancers including colon, breast, uterine, and esophagus.
4. Smoking only increases the risk for lung cancer.
Fiction. Smoking also increases the risk for colon cancer and may increase the risk for cancer of the esophagus, cervix, pancreas, stomach, mouth, kidney, and bladder. Women who smoke are at greater risk than men who smoke to develop colon cancer and die from it at an earlier age.
5. Your risk for colon cancer may differ depending on your race/ethnicity.
Fact. For instance, African Americans have a 20 percent higher risk for developing colon cancer and a 40 percent higher risk of dying from colon cancer. There is a growing conversation to begin screening all African Americans at age 45 instead of waiting until age 50.
6. Red meat causes colon cancer.
Not always. High consumption of red meat and/or processed meat may increase your risk. It may be related to cancer-causing substances that form during high-temperature cooking, like grilling. Lean red meats such as pork may be associated with less risk. Overall, it is better to choose fish and poultry. The American Cancer Society reminds us to eat fruits and veggies. High fiber may decrease the risk of colon cancer.
7. If you have no polyps during a colonoscopy, your next colonoscopy can always wait for 10 years.
Fiction. Even if you have no polyps, but you have a close relative with a history of colon polyps or colon cancer, you may have to have a repeat colonoscopy at five years. If you have no polyps and no family history of colon polyps or colon cancer, your next colonoscopy can wait 10 years. However, if you have new symptoms (rectal bleeding, abdominal pain, unexplained weight loss, change in bowel movement pattern) you should see your doctor because you may need a repeat colonoscopy sooner than the five- or 10-year interval you were told after your last colonoscopy.
8. People under age 50 do not have to worry about colon cancer.
Fiction. Recent data suggest that colon cancer is on the rise in young people, including those ranging in ages 20 to 39. If you have symptoms, don’t guess that it’s OK. See your doctor!
9. Breast cancer is the most common cause of cancer death in women.
Fiction. The number one cause of cancer death in men and women is lung cancer. The second leading cause of death in women combined is breast cancer. However, the second leading cause of cancer death in men and women combined is colon cancer. In fact, more people die from colon cancer than from breast cancer.
10. Colon cancer risk can increase your risk for other cancers.
Fact. If a woman has colon cancer before age 40 it can increase her risk of uterine and ovarian cancers. Also, uterine cancer before age 50 and ovarian cancer before age 65 (even more before age 50) markedly increase the risk for colon cancer. Get your gynecological screenings, too!
To learn more about colon cancer, visit our website.
Visit our website here to learn more about colonoscopy or call 1-800-JEFF-NOW (1-800-533-3669) to make an appointment. Specialists are available in Center City Philadelphia, South Philadelphia, Bala Cynwyd, and Cherry Hill, N.J.
For more information about colon cancer genetic testing, visit our website here or call Stephanie Winheld, MS, LCGC, Genetic Counselor, at 215-955-1011 to schedule an appointment for a colon cancer risk assessment with Jefferson’s Clinical Cancer Genetics Service.
Related Posts
27
Mar
Sidney Kimmel Cancer Center Researchers to Present at AACR Annual Meeting 2019
in Announcement, Research
Comments are off for this post.
Scientists will present new findings on topics including treatment outcomes, new drug targets, cancer health disparities, & drug resistance...
13
Mar
Dr. Adam Dicker Named ASCO Fellow
in Announcement, Awards, Brain Cancer, Philadelphia, Prostate Cancer
Comments are off for this post.
Adam P. Dicker, MD, PhD, has been named a Fellow of the American Society of Clinical Oncology (FASCO) in...
28
Jan
Dr. Elda Grabocka Awarded Margaret Q. Landenberger Research Foundation Grant
in Announcement, Awards, Pancreatic Cancer, Philadelphia, Research
Comments are off for this post.
Elda Grabocka, PhD, Assistant Professor in the Departments of Cancer Biology and Surgery at the Sidney Kimmel Cancer Center...
Jefferson Main
Leadership
Jefferson Blogs
University Admissions
Patient Appointments
Explore the rest of Jefferson
Thomas Jefferson University
Jefferson University Hospitals
Jefferson Physicians
Jefferson Philanthropy
Jefferson Innovation
Careers
Give Now
The Web site for Jefferson, its contents and programs, is provided for informational and educational purposes only and is not intended as medical advice nor, is it intended to create any physician-patient relationship. Please remember that this information should not substitute for a visit or a consultation with a healthcare provider. The views or opinions expressed in the resources provided do not necessarily reflect those of Thomas Jefferson University Hospitals, Thomas Jefferson University or their staffs. By using this Web site, you accept these terms of use. Please read our online privacy statement. Please read our our privacy practices.
Copyright © 2019 Thomas Jefferson University Hospitals. All Rights Reserved.