squatting Archives - knee-sleeves
Skip links
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
knee-sleeves
#1 resource for knee sleeves
Blog
Home
Terms and Conditions
Privacy policy
DMCA notice
Anti spam policy
Affiliate agreement
The 5 Best Ways to Improve Your Squat
February 15, 2017 By Philip Leave a Comment
Why Squat?
If you have strength trained in any capacity you have probably been told that squatting is the best exercise out there. Actually, men and women of all ages and with all different types of training goals can benefit from squatting.
Squatting is predominantly a lower body exercise. It also requires the involvement of just about every muscle in your body. When you perform a barbell squat, you will get muscle recruitment from your hands all the way down through your toes. This is one of the many reasons that squatting is such a good strength builder. Aside from being a way to add on some serious strength in the weight room, squatting has countless other benefits for life outside the gym. Developing a strong barbell squat will improve your overall athletic ability. After all, strength is going to be the base for everything that you do athletically. Improvements in core strength [1] and stability [2] will also be seen from consistently (and properly) performing barbell squats.
Once you decide to take that step and get underneath the barbell, your life will forever be changed. You will finally become excited about leg day and your new goal in life will be to squat better. Just like anything in life, it takes time, the longer you do it, the better you will get. However, there are some really easy ways to improve your squat that can be applied to your training right now. If you have been squatting for 15 years or 15 days, try following these training tips and become a better squatter.
There are the 5 best ways to improve your squat
Stay Tight
It’s important to stay relaxed and in control, but before you begin the eccentric phase of the squat, it’s time to tighten up. When I say tighten up, I mean tighten up everything. You don’t want to lower the bar with all your muscles loose, then the second you come out of the hole and begin to stand, you snap all your muscles together and spastically tighten up now. Everything should be tight as soon as you begin you descent. I always run through the following list of ques with my clients on the barbell squat: stay tight; grip, shoulders, core, quads. This will help keep your muscles activated and keep yourself more stable.
Breathe Right
One of the first things that you should learn when barbell squatting is how to breath properly. So, if you haven’t done so, it’s time to start implementing the Valsalva maneuver. The Valsalva maneuver is performed by inhaling at the top of the standing position, before you begin the eccentric phase of the lift. While holding your breath, use that air in your lungs to forcefully press against your chest wall. This will create an extremely stable core. Exhale during the concentric phase once you have passed your “sticking point”. Once you have returned to the standing position, then repeat.
Focus on the Positive
Staying in the right mental state during a heavy squat will benefit you tremendously. When you get under the bar, stand up, then walk back, never think to yourself “this is really heavy”. This negativity will set you up for failure. Don’t think about how heavy the bar is, because if you have any type of respectable squat, the weight will always be heavy. Even your warm-up weight is most likely pretty heavy. So don’t let these negative thoughts enter your mind. You should only think about driving that bar up. Even during the eccentric phase you should be thinking about exploding through the floor and driving the bar up.
Shoes
Your running shoes may look great and be extremely comfortable, but they are for running, not for squatting. For squatting you will want a shoe with a hard, uncomfortable sole. The idea is to have the most solid surface as possible between your feet and the floor. When you get under the bar and begin the eccentric (lowering) phase of the squat, you are preparing yourself to reach full depth and then power up through your feet to return back to the standing position. When you are wearing running shoes and you begin powering up through your feet, the first movement you make is not actually up, it’s down. When you begin to push into your shoes, your feet will actually sink into the soft sole until it can’t sink any farther, then at this point, you will finally begin to drive the bar up. Make sense? With a hard sole shoe your feet have nowhere to sink into. Now the first movement that you make when you press of the floor is straight up. This may seem like a small detail, but wasted movement is wasted energy and this is something that you can’t afford when trying to squat at your best.
Knee Sleeves
Last, but not least, wearing a pair of quality knee sleeves while you’re squatting is a simple way to improve your squat. A good set of knee sleeves will allow your body to move more efficiently. Sleeves will reduce the time it takes to get your knees warm which will let you focus on other things like, breathing and staying tight. They will provide your knee joint with support and stability, but the reason that I always recommend sleeves for when moving heavy weight is recovery. The best way to add weight to your squat is to be consistent.
What good does it do if you have a great squatting session, but your knees are so sore that you can’t squat heavy again for three weeks? A high quality pair of knee sleeves will provide sufficient compression and allow maximum blood flow through the legs. Get blood moving into your muscle and get waste moving out of the muscle. This equates to greater recovery and lets you get back in the gym and hit it hard again!
If you have been training for years and already have an epic barbell squat, I would imagine that you are already doing most, if not all, of the tips in this article. If you aren’t an epic squatter, then adding any of these tips to your squatting routine will surely set you on the right path. Remember that combining all of these tips will not make you a better squatter unless you are consistent. So, get under that barbell and improve your squat!
You have been reading The 5 Best Ways to Improve Your Squat check out some of our other articles.
Filed Under: Blog Tagged With: best squat, squat advice, squat exercise, squat help, squat training, squatting, weight training
Knee Sleeves for Squats – Why Do You Need Them?
November 1, 2016 By Philip Leave a Comment
When we exercise, we want to strengthen our bodies. The trouble occurs when we do not perform the exercises in a safe and skillful manner. When we exercise, we are putting ourselves at risk of getting injured. That is why we seek expert assistance when learning new exercise moves, and why we take the necessary precautions to prevent injury, and protect ourselves from further injury if necessary.
One of the most at risk exercises that there are include squats. When we perform squats, we are placing all of our body’s weight and additional weight on our knees. To perform a squat, correctly:
• Plant your feet flat on the ground, toes slightly outward.
• Your feet should be shoulder width apart.
• It is important to keep the weight on your heels, but keep your feet flat on the ground.
• Bend your knees and slowly lower your hips as if to sit in an invisible chair. Do not rock your knees forward at the ankles or curve or bow your back.
• Press through your heels to stand back up.
This is how to perform a squat but I would highly advise following a more extensive training program (watch here). You should try to prevent distributing your weight to your toes or the balls of your feet, because this can injure your knees. You also need to prevent your knees from wobbling. Keep them straight.
By performing a correctly formed squat, you can help prevent your knees, as well as your back, ankles and feet, from injury. What if you need a little extra protection? Or what if you already have a knee injury that you want to prevent from getting worse?
Knee Sleeves Help Protect Your Knees
An additional protection for your knees when performing squats are the use of knee sleeves. Knee sleeves offer compression to help keep the circulation and give extra support to your knees. These are generally sleeves that you slide up your leg and over your knees. Most of them are made of a neoprene material, but are available in some other materials as well. You will want to consider all of the advantages and disadvantages of knee sleeves before you use one. You also may want to consult your primary care physician to make sure this is the right choice for you.
Using the kasp knee sleeves today at the #gym
A video posted by KASPfitness (@kaspfitness) on Oct 25, 2016 at 2:11pm PDT
Knee sleeves are commonly used in CrossFit workouts because they are versatile and they help you recover from heavy lifting sessions. Studies have shown that knee sleeves significantly reduce pain when used. Further studies explained that people with a good sense of joint positioning reported a perceived benefit from knee sleeves in a fatigued state. Therefore, knee sleeves are not just a gimmick or something that only super-power lifters use. This tool is a great way to help protect the knee by keeping it warm and compressed.
Advantages of Knee Sleeves for Squats
The main reason you will want to utilize knees sleeves in your workout is to protect the knees from future injury or risk of damage. Keep in mind that these are not knee braces, however, and can mainly be used to prevent future harm and not cure previous aliments. They will be able to prevent injury when performing squats.
What knees sleeves provide when performing squats is the ever valuable compression. These help increase blood flow and reduce pain and swelling in the knee joint during and after your work out. Allowing for this blood flow will help you recover more quickly from your work out, which will help you perform better each day.
Knee sleeves also help keep your knees warm doing a workout. If you choose the correct size, they will keep your knees warm to help prevent tendonitis and other issues that can occur in your knee joints. This warmth helps during and after workouts. When your knees get cold during your cool down, it can result in pain. Utilizing the knee sleeves will prevent this from occurring by keeping the joint warm.
In addition to warmth and compression, knee sleeves help the mechanics of a given movement by limiting patella movement, provide lateral stability and can increase your sense of the relative position of the neighboring parts of your body and strengthen the effort of being employed in movement.
All around, by incorporating a knee sleeve into your squat work out will give you great protection from injury, and help increase the quality and strength of your work out over time.
Disadvantages of Knee Sleeves
Although valuable to a work out, some of the good quality knee sleeves can be on the pricier side. Also, you need to wash them after every work out, as they will get an odor to them from all of your sweat creeping in to the nooks and crannies. Further, it is important to understand that simply by wearing a knee sleeve will not automatically improve your technique, nor make you a better lifter. By incorporating a knee sleeve into your exercise outfit will give you the support you need to become a better lifter over time. You still need to work hard and be diligent about your mobility, refining the mechanics of your squats and taking good care of your knee joint and your body overall.
Knee Sleeves Are Different from Knee Wraps
Do not be confused by the difference in knee sleeves and knee wraps. They are very different, and have different purposes. Knee wraps are usually worn by competitive power lifters and bodybuilders. They are made of an elastic type material, like that seen in wrist wraps. They are designed to be wrapped around the knee in a spiral or diagonal method for use in squats. Knee wraps allow you to lift more weight; however they do not help you get any stronger because they are so restrictive. They completely cover the patella and are worn tightly. This can actually lead to injury, not prevent it. They do have benefits, but knee sleeves are excellent for the everyday type of squat exercise.
What Types of Knee Sleeves Are Available?
There are many brands and various varieties of knee sleeves available for purchase. The design and fabric of the knee sleeves give comfort to the knee. Provided here are some suggestions for knee sleeves that you can find available through various retailers online and in store. Do your research and consult your doctor before purchasing. Again, these can be pricey, so it is an investment in your health.
• KASP 7mm Knee Sleeves – These sleeves are made of soft neoprene which helps keep the knee warm and the best knee sleeves for squats. It has a thick 7mm sleeve which is flexible and designed after understanding the complete requirements of weight lifters. The sleeve has tight openings which prevents slippage and gives protection to your joints.
• Crossfit Weightlifting Knee Sleeves – If you are facing tendon inflammation, this is likely your best option. It too is 7mm thick and has soft material which reduces the strain and gives joint compression. These are known as the best fit for rigorous work outs and it promises to take your performance to the next level.
• AceList Compression Knee Sleeves – perfect for cardio style sports including basketball, soccer and hockey.
• Nike Pro Combat Knee sleeve – Sold as a single this knee sleeve is very lightweight to support joints and muscles. Use it for indoor or outdoor sports gives you freedom of movement.
• Yosoo Knee Sleeves – Perfect for running, they are lightweight and don’t feel compressed. Enables you to run long distance but still provides a sung support preventing pain.
These are just a few of the available knee sleeves for squats and other exercises. Speak to your personal trainer or someone at your gym, a fellow weightlifter, or your doctor for a recommendation of their favorite knee sleeve. Further, once you choose the knee sleeve you want, check their sizing chart, as it varies by brand.
Protecting your knees while you are performing squats is of vital importance. A knee injury could follow you for the rest of your life, and even every day knee pain can be avoided by this simple use. And do not forget that to protect your knees, you need more than just knee sleeves. You need to know how to perform the squats correctly. Knee sleeves cannot give you good form. They protect your knees while you use good form. And, as always, speak to your doctor before beginning any exercise regimen.
Filed Under: Blog Tagged With: fitness, keepfit, kneepain, kneesleeves, squats, squatting, training, workout
Copyright © 2019 · Log in · knee-sleeves.com