9 Things You Need to Know About Vaccinations for Tanzania Safaris
Skip to content
REVIEWS
CONTACT US
DESTINATIONS
SAFARI ITINERARIES
DAY TRIPS
ACCOMMODATION
TRAVEL TIPS
ABOUT US
Search for:
9 Things You Need to Know About Vaccinations for Tanzania Safaris
9 Things You Need to Know About Vaccinations for Tanzania Safaris
View Larger Image
Traveling to the East African wilderness on safari is an exhilarating experience, but is it safe?
Well, that depends on whether you do your preparations in advance and follow the guidelines put in place by your hosts. If you play by the rules when visiting East Africa, you have little to fear.
Apart from catching a cold on the airplane while in transit, that is–studies suggest there’s an 80% chance of that happening, which is nobody’s idea of a good time.
However, precautions are important. Read these 9 things about vaccinations for Tanzania that your life may (or may not) depend on.
1. Why Do You Need Vaccinations to Travel?
First, let’s talk about why you shouldn’t neglect vaccinations when traveling, especially in Africa.
Africa is a developing region and thus still has a long way to go when it comes to management of preventable diseases. Vast unpopulated areas, poverty, and lack of infrastructure all contribute to the problem. As a result, some easily-preventable diseases are still rife in Africa.
It’s easy to protect yourself from these bugs with modern vaccines that are easily available all over the world. These serums consist of a small dose of the disease you are hoping to avoid. When absorbed in a small quantity, your body can build up antibodies against this virus without you becoming ill, which teaches your body to fight the virus the next time it encounters it.
Another reason for vaccinating yourself is the risk you could pose to your hosts by unknowingly carrying diseases into their midst. Your immune system may be resistant, but theirs may not. The vaccination requirements for countries differ according to the diseases which pose the greatest risk in that country.
Factors like climate can affect where viruses and bacteria are most common, and in turn, determine the vaccines needed.
Don’t let ”what ifs” put you off the amazing travel adventures you can have in Tanzania.
Most tourist areas pose little threat to travelers, but there is no such thing as ”too safe” when it comes to your health. It is always advisable to get the recommended vaccines when you travel abroad–you never know.
2. Compulsory Vaccinations for Tanzania
Here’s the surprise. There are no compulsory vaccinations for Tanzania apart from the routine vaccinations imposed on you by Western medicine.
These are:
Diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis
Measles-mumps-rubella (MMR)
Hepatitis A
Polio
Typhoid
Chances are you had these immunizations as a child. It could take some searching (or a call to your mum) to unearth your vaccination card and check.
That said, you do require proof of yellow fever vaccination to visit Tanzania if you have recently visited a country with a yellow fever risk. These include many South American and some African Countries. Click here to see the list.
3. Recommended Vaccinations for African Travel
Recommended vaccinations are a precaution against diseases that you could come across during your travels to Tanzania. Some of these are common all over the world.
Remember, you are traveling to Tanzania to escape into the wilderness. If you do become ill during your visit, the nearest hospital is likely to be far away and ill-equipped to deal with serious illnesses.
Some of the major centers will have state-of-the-art medical facilities, but these could be hours away from your safari camp.
In short, don’t take a chance with your health. You’re not in your own neighborhood, and you don’t need to risk getting seriously sick from something you could have prevented.
You can protect yourself with the following vaccinations when you travel to Tanzania:
Cholera
There have been a few isolated incidences of cholera in recent times in Tanzania. It is usually transmitted via contaminated water and foodstuffs.
Cholera is fatal between 25% and 50% of the time. Although there’s only a small chance of contracting it, it’s not worth the risk. Get the shot.
Hepatitis B
Hepatitis B is a sexually transmitted disease which is also transferred by means of contaminated needles and blood. Unless you plan to get up to no good or adorn yourself with a tattoo while in Tanzania, this one is up to you.
However, a word of caution: this disease is often fatal and can become a debilitating lifetime ailment even when treated effectively. It’s your choice.
Rabies
Rabies is prevalent all over the world. There is a slightly higher risk of contracting rabies from a wild animal, but this is minimal. Rabies outbreaks do occur from time to time in Africa.
That said, the rabies vaccine is inexpensive and readily available. It’s well worth having as a matter of course because there’s no good reason to take the risk.
Influenza
You may want to dose yourself up with the latest annual flu-vaccine considering what you’ve just read about airplanes.
If you are planning a gorilla trek as part of your safari in Tanzania, you definitely want to get yourself inoculated against influenza. Gorillas can contract influenza from humans. You don’t want to put these endangered animals at risk.
4. Get in Early
It makes sense to get any necessary vaccinations out of the way as early as possible. Some, like the influenza vaccine, may have mild side effects.
Visit your doctor to discuss what vaccines you should have and how long before your trip to have them. Vaccines for diseases that are uncommon in the USA may have a waiting period, so you need to let your doctor know well in advance.
In addition, CDC Tanzania recommends that you have all your vaccinations 4 to 6 weeks before departure. Plan ahead and get your shots.
5. Other Health Issues
There are no vaccinations available for some African ailments, so you want to be on the lookout and stay safe. Here are two of the big ones.
Zika Virus
The Aedes mosquito carries this fatal disease. Unlike most mosquitoes, this bug bites during the daytime.
So: long sleeves and mosquito repellant are your two new BFFs.
Sleeping Sickness
Biting Tsetse flies can transmit sleeping sickness. This paralyzing disease is incredibly complex. Only specialized medical staff can diagnose and treat it. Remember earlier when we said you might be hours away from a hospital that can offer specialized care?
Fortunately, this disease is largely under control in Africa and cases are becoming increasingly rare. The best way to avoid getting bitten by a tsetse fly is to cover up and use insect repellants on your skin.
Yes, it’s hot, but a little sweat is a no-brainer choice compared to sleeping sickness.
6. Malaria
Anopheles mosquitoes transmit malaria and Tanzania is a high-risk country for contracting this disease. In the early stages, malaria is easily treated with tablets.
The initial symptoms of malaria are flu-like fever and aching joints.
If you experience any of these symptoms, speak up and your hosts will get you the help you need right away. Even small, remote medical centers in Tanzania should have malaria treatment available.
Anti-malarial prophylactics are readily available but require a prescription. Speak to your doctor about preventative medication well before you are due to leave.
The treatment involves taking a tablet daily for several days before and after, as well as during your safari.
If you want to avoid mosquitoes, travel to Tanzania during the dry season when they are less active.
7. Dealing with Mosquitoes
Malaria and hippopotami are the biggest killers in Africa. Fortunately, they are both easy to avoid.
Even if you are taking anti-malarial tablets, you don’t want to get bitten during your safari. Setting aside the nasty stuff that bite could give you, mosquito bites are intensely itchy and unpleasant.
Mosquito repellants are effective at keeping these biting beasts at bay and will ward off tsetse flies as well. Speak to your pharmacist about the best brand to use. It’s a good idea to buy a few sticks of the roll-on variety before you leave, and pack plenty of extras.
Ask your safari operator where you can purchase aerosol mosquito repellant on arrival. You’ll need enough bottles to last your entire trip.
When you arrive at camp you’ll find a mosquito net fitted to your bed. Use it. Not only does the net protect you from bites, but it will save you from getting serenaded at close range by mosquitoes all night.
Try to keep your arms, legs, and feet covered as much as you can. These garments will also protect you from sunburn.
It is important to remember that not all mosquitoes are dangerous. Not all Anopheles and Aedes mosquitoes are hosts for diseases either.
8. Medical Concerns
It’s easy to manage medical ups and downs in your familiar home surroundings. It’s a different story in the wilds of Africa.
Pack a few first-aid essentials in case of minor ailments. These include:
Band-aids
Antibacterial ointment
Insect bite ointment
Painkillers
Fever medication
Antihistamines
Motion-sickness medication
A mild laxative
Cough drops
Anti-diarrhea medication
And while you’re planning ahead, get travel insurance. Travel insurance with a med-evac option could save your life if you are seriously injured or fall ill in a remote area.
9. Common Sense Precautions
The following may seem obvious, but it will surprise you how many people break these basic rules:
Don’t wander off into the bush unattended–wild animals live there
Obey your safari guide’s instructions to the letter, no matter what
Do not feed or approach wild animals
Avoid walking around without an escort during the night
Stick to bottled water for drinking
Avoid swimming in rivers
Don’t disturb plants
Leave only footprints behind
Silence is golden, especially at night
Remember that you are vacationing in an ecologically sensitive environment. Have respect for nature, your fellow safari-goers, and your surroundings.
Disturbing plants and animals can have far-reaching effects that you are unaware of. Always ask your guide for advice on anything you are unsure about.
The Most Important Part of a Tanzanian Safari
While vaccinations for Tanzania are important, don’t forget the most vital health precaution during your travels – your state of mind.
Relax and enjoy it. You aren’t going on safari to worry about your health constantly.
Thousands of tourists visit Tanzania every year without incident. Don’t waste this opportunity to be at one with nature and truly enjoy everything this amazing country has to offer.
You’ve won half the battle if you make your arrangements with a reputable travel company. We will give you sound advice along every step of your journey.
Michael JS2018-09-14T04:15:54+03:00
Share This Content!
FacebookTwitterLinkedInGoogle+TumblrPinterestEmail
Related Posts
Well Spotted: An Introduction to the Africa Big Five
Gallery
Well Spotted: An Introduction to the Africa Big Five
April 14th, 2019
12 Tips for Planning an Africa Family Vacation
Gallery
12 Tips for Planning an Africa Family Vacation
March 26th, 2019
12 Safari Photography Trips for Catching Animals in Action
Gallery
12 Safari Photography Trips for Catching Animals in Action
March 23rd, 2019
7 Things to Consider When Planning an African Safari
Gallery
7 Things to Consider When Planning an African Safari
March 20th, 2019
6 Cultural Traditions of the Tanzanian People
Gallery
6 Cultural Traditions of the Tanzanian People
March 18th, 2019
Romantic African Destinations: Why Safari is The Best For Valentine’s Day
Gallery
Romantic African Destinations: Why Safari is The Best For Valentine’s Day
March 3rd, 2019
Swahili Phrases to Make Your Safari Go Smoothly: Must Read
Gallery
Swahili Phrases to Make Your Safari Go Smoothly: Must Read
March 3rd, 2019
Zanzibar Dishes to Die For: The Best Tanzanian Food to Try on Safari
Gallery
Zanzibar Dishes to Die For: The Best Tanzanian Food to Try on Safari
March 3rd, 2019
Crazy Canoeing Adventures: The Best Places to Go Kayaking in Africa
Gallery
Crazy Canoeing Adventures: The Best Places to Go Kayaking in Africa
February 26th, 2019
USEFUL LINKS
About Us
Customer Reviews
Travel Blog
Accommodation
Terms and Conditions
Contact Us
TALA LICENCE BY
MEMBERSHIP
CONTACT US
+255 768 893 230
+255 753 891 310 (Strictly For Tour Inquiry Only)
info[at]earthlifeexpeditions.com
17 Best Tour Companies in Tanzania
We accept
Latest Articles
Well Spotted: An Introduction to the Africa Big Five
12 Tips for Planning an Africa Family Vacation
12 Safari Photography Trips for Catching Animals in Action
See All Articles
© Copyright 2012 - Earthlife Expeditions Limited, All Rights Reserved. | Web by Crater iT
Planning To Visit Tanzania?
Experience The Amazing Serengeti, Climb The Kilimanjaro or Go To Zanzibar
Our Safari Specialists are here
to help you.
Tell Us Your Wishes, Our Team Will Prepare An Amazing Itinerary For Your Next Trip.
CONTACT US