Lose Weight Long Term: 10 Life Style Changes — Improvement Power
Home Blog Wealth Fitness Lifestyle Romance Personal Development
HomeBlogWealthFitnessLifestyleRomancePersonal Development
Lose Weight Long Term: 10 Life Style Changes
Long Term, Sustainable Improvement will beat any fad.
Let’s talk about the life style changes you need to make to help you lose weight long term. There are a billion fad diets, half-baked nutrition plans, and terrible advice on the internet. The simple truth is that not everyone is serviced by the same type of regiment. But there are some life style changes that can help you lose weight long term. They are simple to implement, long term habits, that will help you raise your baseline.
There are six bonus tips at the end of the article. Check them out if you have time!
1. Plan a consistent sleep schedule.
Try to get between seven and eight hours of sleep every day. If you don't sleep enough, your cortisol levels rise. Cortisol is a stress hormone that is frequently associated with fat gain. Not enough sleep also causes your body to produce a hormone that increases appetite and promotes fat storage.
2. Stay away from soft drinks like coke.
Why? It is very scary that such a large proportion of the US population is used to drinking soda every day. Soda almost acts like a type of drug. It is addictive. After just 16 minutes it can deplete nutrients from your blood, make you hungrier, and also thirsty for more. It is crazy to know that there is around 40 grams of sugar in one can of coke. That is around 8 teaspoons of sugar. When you drink Coke or other soft drinks, your blood sugar levels increase dramatically causing a burst of insulin. The liver then turns the high amount of sugar circulating in your body into fat.
3. Drink between one and a half to two liters of water per day.
Water is not only good for flushing toxins from your body, but it also helps you to lose weight. Recent studies show that water speeds up weight loss. Water contains no calories and it boosts your metabolism.
4. You have to read your food labels.
You Should Know: The FDA does not check for the accuracy of product labeling
This is so important! The food industry has changed a lot. The food corporations exist to make money and they use clever marketing to mislead you. Here are just a few crazy facts that you did not know. If you see low-fat or fat-free products, it does not mean that it is healthier. Most products take out the fat but then add more sugar for better taste, which is far, far worse. Some products say that they are sugar-free. There are all kinds of artificial sweeteners that causes all sorts of controversies. Some may actually cause weight gain. Even juice went from health food to junk food because the food industry started to add sugar. A lot of companies add sugar to their bread. Check the labels for sugar and fructose syrup which is actually a kind of sugar.
5. Choose to eat the healthy foods that make you happy.
Why? Because starting a new diet is easier said than done. The trick is you have to learn how to make healthy food into delicious food that you love. To make this a lasting habit start with small changes and try new ways of thinking about food.
6. Drink more green tea and coffee.
Yes, I said it coffee. I know there's a lot of people that might disagree with me about coffee but unlike soft drinks coffee is actually good for you-if you don't drink too much and don't add any sugar. Coffee gives your metabolism a good boost which helps you to lose more weight. Coffee has a huge number of antioxidants that give a boost to your short-term memory. They also lower the risk of certain cancers and diabetes. Coffee can also enhance exercise performance and curbs depression. It even protects you against gout. Now some people believe that coffee is very bad for you. Those same people drink sugar loaded drinks like Coke or fill their coffee with sugar.
7. Let's look at green tea.
Green tea can help you lose weight. But what you might not know is that it also improves brain function and lowers the risk of cancer, Alzheimer's, and Parkinson's. Green tea also kills certain species of bacteria such as the bacteria that causes bad breath. It even lowers the risk of infection.
8. Try intermittent fasting to lose more weight.
In my opinion this is one of the best diets out there. It lowers insulin and blood sugar levels while at the same time it raises your glucagon levels which helps you to lose weight faster. There are six popular ways to do intermittent fasting and I would suggest the 16/8 method. What does that mean? It means that you fast for 16 hours and the other eight hours you eat.
I know it sounds rough but you can do it if you don't eat anything after dinner. Skipping your breakfast is tough but you can of course drink water or black coffee during the fast. Be careful before you try intermittent fasting if you're a beginner because you might get headaches or heartburn. Or you might start binge eating, drinking too much coffee, or not eating enough at all. Some people find it gives them trouble sleeping.
9. Do not become too invested.
I don't like any kind of diets that restrict me in every kind of way. Sometimes I eat between five and six times per day if I feel like it. I don't pick up any weight if I just eat small portion sizes or if I make the portion sizes even smaller.
In fact, I end up losing weight. I know there are a lot of people that won't agree with me. They say that your insulin levels will rise if you eat too much and that there's no way you can lose weight if you have high insulin levels. But I still manage to lose weight-even when I eat a cheat meal every now and then. Let's be honest: the reason why most people struggle to lose weight is because of what's going on in their head. Their mental blockage is all psychological. For example, I hate counting the exact calories of everything that I eat: So I don't do it.
10. Reward Yourself
Another example is that I love pizza. Occasionally, I will go and have my pizza and I will enjoy it. I won't feel guilty about it.
If you started this lifestyle change and it's very hard for you at the beginning, then reward yourself with a delicious pizza or anything else you like. Just don't overdo it. Once a week is enough.
“When we give ourselves treats, we feel energized, cared for, and contented, which boosts our self-command — and self-command helps us maintain our healthy habits.”
Six quick bonus tips for losing weight:
1. The first one drink a big glass of water first thing when you wake up in the morning.
When you sleep your metabolism slows down. When you drink a glass of water after you wake up, you fire up your metabolism. During the night, your body repairs itself and casts out all kinds of toxins. When you drink water on an empty stomach early in the morning, the water flushes out these toxins.
2. Workout before you have your breakfast.
If you work out before breakfast, your body burns a lot more fat. Some people do not like to exercise without breakfast because they feel very low energy. It is up to you. You have to enjoy the lifestyle to keep you motivated in the long run.
3. Don't put yourself through unnecessary hardships that break you down emotionally.
If you do, you might change back to your old habits.
4. If you want to lose weight quicker, eat only lean protein and green vegetables.
Cut out all carbs for a few days. By cutting out all starchy carbs and other foods except lean protein and green vegetables you will boost your weight loss. But do not do it too long because your body needs nutrients in those other foods.
5. Eat your food slowly.
Studies found that people who are fat chew their food less than people with normal weight. Chew your food at least several times before you swallow to eat more slowly. This is also better for your digestion.
6. Eat smaller portions.
…even if it means eating more times throughout the day. If you create a habit of eating small portions then you will consume less calories which obviously helps you lose weight faster. Think of it in this way: if you want to be 60 kilograms but you still eat the portion sizes of someone that is 80 kilograms, are you going to lose weight?
That is all folks! Implement those simple changes and boost your long term weight loss!
Health and FitnessIsaac Therrien December 12, 2018 weight loss, health, food
Facebook0 Twitter Reddit Tumblr Pinterest0 0 Likes
Previous
How to Cook Healthy Fried Food (Guide)
Health and FitnessIsaac Therrien December 12, 2018 healthy
Next
Healthy Eating Plan: 11 Foods to Include
Health and FitnessIsaac Therrien December 12, 2018 healthy, diet, food
Privacy PolicyAbout Improvement PowerContactTerms of Service