Urinary Tract Infection (UTI) | Primary Care | Mercy Health
Skip to content 3F02D161-6425-4F95-81A2-470A863F496D Created with sketchtool. calendar
❮Back
✕
Bill Pay Blog Contact Donate MyChart
Your Location
Find a Doctor Health Care Services Conditions & Treatments
Locations ❮
Location Map Urgent & Emergency Care
Our Hospitals Specialty Care
Primary Care & Family Medicine Medical Centers & Clinics
Patient Resources ❮
Pay Your Bill Hospital Pre-Registration
MyChart Physician Office Registration
Insurance Information Request Medical Records
Financial Assistance Patient Rights
Why Mercy ❮
Mission Careers
Leadership Our Regions
Quality News & Events
Residency Programs Contact Us
For The Universe of You
Search
Schedule Online
Urinary Tract Infection (UTI)
Home > Health Care Services & Specialties > Primary Care and Family Medicine > Conditions > Urinary Tract Infection (UTI)
What is a urinary tract infection (UTI)?
A urinary tract infection, commonly referred to as an UTI, is a bacterial infection in the urinary tract. Although urinary tract infection can occur in the kidneys, ureters, bladder or urethra, most occur in the bladder or urethra (lower tract).
Approximately 20 percent of women experience a UTI at some point in their lives.
If left untreated, UTIs can cause other serious conditions or complications including sepsis, permanent kidney damage, premature and low birth weight babies or recurrent infections.
Common related conditions
Urinary Incontinence in Women Kidney Stones Hematuria (Blood in Urine)
Causes of urinary tract infections
A urinary tract infection can develop when bacteria enters the urethra and starts to multiply in the bladder.
The most common ways bacteria can enter the urinary tract include:
Sex
Constipation
Uncontrolled diabetes
Not urinating when you have to go (holding it)
Dehydration
Birth control
Feminine products
Kidney stones
Risk factors of urinary tract infections
Women are more likely to develop UTIs than men. Risk factors for women include:
Length of the urethra in a woman — women have shorter urethras than men, so bacteria do not have to go as far to get to the bladder
Being sexually active
Using diaphragms or spermicidal agents for birth control
Going through menopause – after menopause, women are more vulnerable to infection
Risk factors for men and women include:
Blockages in the urinary tract caused by kidney stones or an enlarged prostate
Chronic diseases, such as diabetes, that suppress the immune system
Use of catheters
Abnormalities in the urinary track
Symptoms of urinary tract infections
Symptoms of UTIs depend on if it is located in the upper tract (kidneys or ureters) or lower tract (bladder or urethra).
Lower tract UTI symptoms include:
Rectal pain in men
Pelvic pain in women
Burning during urination
Increased frequency of urination
Bloody or cloudy urine
Upper tract UTI symptoms include:
Pain in the upper back or sides of the body
Fever or chills
Nausea or vomiting
Diagnosis of a urinary tract infection
A urinary tract infection can typically be diagnosed in a urine test during a visit with your doctor. Other tests that may be performed include:
Urine culture to determine the bacteria causing the infection and the most appropriate treatment option.
Imaging tests including CT scan or MRI to take pictures of the urinary tract to determine the cause of your symptoms.
Cystoscopy to see inside the bladder.
Treatment for urinary tract infections
Treatment for a urinary tract infection will depend on the cause of the infection. If the infection is caused by bacteria, you will be given antibiotics. Oral antibiotics are effective for lower urinary tract infections, while IV antibiotics are required for upper urinary tract infections.
If you have recurrent urinary tract infections, you may be put on long-term, low-dose antibiotics or a single antibiotic dose after sexual intercourse if infections are related to sexual activity.
Research is being done on alternative treatments to antibiotics to alleviate the concern around antibiotic resistant bacteria.
If the UTI is caused by a virus, you may be given an antiviral medication and if the UTI is caused by a fungus, you may be given an antifungal medication.
Recovery from urinary tract infections
Most simple UTIs can be cleared up with antibiotics for three days in women and seven to fourteen days in men.
Receive Care by Evisit
If you are signed up for Mercy Health MyChart, you are eligible to receive care through Evisit, which gives you quick, convenient access to primary care providers who can diagnose non-urgent medical conditions without the need for an office visit. Evisits requested with the first available doctors, between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. should expect a response within one hour of submission.
Learn More
Find a primary care doctor nearby
Mercy Health locations that can treat you
Have questions about billing, insurance, or something else? Call (513) 956-3729 or click here.
Your Location
Select
Enter Location
© 2018 Mercy Health. All Rights Reserved.
Explore ❮
Find A Doctor Make an Appointment Locations Pay A Bill MyChart Blog
Resources ❮
Financial Assistance Patient Rights Careers Volunteering News and Events Community Impact
Site Information ❮
Website Information Privacy Practices Corporate Responsibility Financial Narrative for Investors High Quality Care Site Map
© 2018 Mercy Health. All Rights Reserved.
Loading
✕
✕