Medical Xpress | Archive 16/09/2013
Topics
Conditions
Week's top
Latest news
Unread news
Subscribe
Science X Account
Remember me
Sign In
Click here to sign in with or
Forget Password?
Not a member? Sign up
Learn more
Addiction
Alzheimer's disease & dementia
Arthritis & Rheumatism
Attention deficit disorders
Autism spectrum disorders
Cancer
Cardiology
Dentistry
Diabetes
Diseases, Conditions, Syndromes
Genetics
Gerontology & Geriatrics
Health
HIV & AIDS
Immunology
Inflammatory disorders
Medical economics
Medical research
Medications
Neuroscience
Obstetrics & gynaecology
Ophthalmology
Other
Overweight & Obesity
Parkinson's & Movement disorders
Pediatrics
Psychology & Psychiatry
Radiology & Imaging
Sleep apnea
Sports Medicine & Kinesiology
Surgery
Asthma
Breast cancer
Cardiovascular disease
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Colon cancer
Coronary artery disease
Dementia
Depression
Heart attack
Heart disease
High blood pressure
Influenza
Kidney disease
Leukemia
Lung cancer
Malaria
Melanoma
Multiple sclerosis
Myocardial infarction
Ovarian cancer
Post traumatic stress disorder
Rheumatoid arthritis
Schizophrenia
Skin cancer
Stroke
Type 2 diabetes
Full List »
Home
Archive
16/09/2013
Archive: 16/09/2013
One-to-one midwife care just as safe and costs significantly less than current maternity care
Continued care from a named midwife throughout pregnancy, birth, and after the baby is born (caseload midwifery) is just as safe as standard maternity care (shared between different midwives and medical practitioners) for ...
Sep 16, 2013
Lifestyle changes may lengthen telomeres, a measure of cell aging
A small pilot study shows for the first time that changes in diet, exercise, stress management and social support may result in longer telomeres, the parts of chromosomes that affect aging.
Sep 16, 2013
European biobanks centre opens in Austria
A new centre for European biobanks opened its doors in Graz in southern Austria on Monday, aiming at giving medical researchers access to almost 20 million samples of human blood, plasma and urine.
Sep 16, 2013
MicroRNA molecule found to be a potent tumor-suppressor in lung cancer
New research shows that microRNA-486 is a potent tumor-suppressor molecule in lung cancer, and that the it helps regulate the proliferation and migration of lung-cancer cells, and the induction of programmed cell death, or ...
Sep 16, 2013
Arginine therapy shows promise for sickle cell pain
Arginine therapy may be a safe and inexpensive treatment for acute pain episodes in patients with sickle cell disease, according to results of a recent clinical study. The study was the first randomized placebo-controlled ...
Sep 16, 2013
Immune system marker tied to improved bone marrow transplant outcomes
The risk of death following bone marrow transplantation can be reduced about 60 percent using a new technique to identify bone marrow donors who make the most potent cancer-fighting immune cells, according to research from ...
Sep 16, 2013
0
0
New study evaluates the risk of birth defects among women who take antihistamines in pregnancy
Antihistamines are a group of medications that are used to treat various conditions, including allergies and nausea and vomiting. Some antihistamines require a prescription, but most are available over-the-counter (OTC), ...
Sep 16, 2013
Copper bracelets and magnetic wrist straps fail to help rheumatoid arthritis, research says
Copper bracelets and magnet wrist straps have no real effect on pain, swelling, or disease progression in rheumatoid arthritis, according to new findings from a study conducted at the University of York.
Sep 16, 2013
Young breast cancer patients often overestimate benefit of having healthy breast removed
Young women with breast cancer often overestimate the odds that cancer will occur in their other, healthy breast, and decide to have the healthy breast surgically removed, a survey conducted by Dana-Farber Cancer Institute ...
Sep 16, 2013
Internists offer principles for organizing clinical care teams in policy paper
The American College of Physicians (ACP) sets the framework for a team-based model of health care in a new policy paper published today in the peer-reviewed medical journal, Annals of Internal Medicine. ACP offers more than ...
Sep 16, 2013
page 1 from 9
«
»
Phys.org
Phys.org internet news portal provides the latest news on science
Tech Xplore
Tech Xplore covers the latest engineering, electronics and technology advances
ScienceX
Science X Network offers the most comprehensive sci-tech news coverage on the web
Newsletters
Subscribe
Science X Daily and the Weekly Email Newsletter are free features that allow you to receive your favorite sci-tech news updates in your email inbox
Follow us
Top
Home
Search
Mobile version
Help
FAQ
About
Contact
Science X Account
Sponsored Account
Newsletter
Archive
Android app
iOS app
RSS feeds
Push notification
© Medical Xpress 2011 - 2019 powered by Science X Network
Privacy policy Terms of use Medical Disclaimer
Your Privacy
This site uses cookies to assist with navigation, analyse your use of our services, and provide content from third parties. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.
Ok More Information
E-mail newsletter
Subscribe
Follow us
It appears that you are currently using Ad Blocking software. What are the consequences?
×