Fish Oil Benefits – Healthy Living Secrets
Skip to content
Healthy Living Secrets
Nutrition, Fitness & Health Care Tips
Menu
Best Fish Oil
Fish Oil Benefits
Fish Oil Supplements
Omega 3 Fish Oil
Fish Oil Side Effects
Category: Fish Oil Benefits
It’s almost magical how many good things can happen when you regularly take health supplements and embrace a healthy lifestyle! Take, for instance, these glorious fish oil benefits that come from daily intake of the popular supplement.
Fish oil has several benefits and can help to treat various health conditions. From improving the quality of hair to reducing chances of cancer, for enabling brain development during pregnancy and relieving arthritis, the possibility of fish oil benefits are apparently unending.
Every now and then, research into an area of fish oil benefits throws up a surprising new revelation. As a result, there are fans of the supplement who think of it as a magical cure for almost anything!
So if you’re excited and curious to learn more about this, let’s take a look at a few of the health benefits of fish oil, and then see how to choose the ideal brand of omega 3 fish oil for your needs.
Fish Oil Health Benefits – It Keeps You Healthy and Young
Fish oil health benefits are the stuff of legend. The supplement is not only considered to be a nutritional miracle, some also see it as the fountain of youth!
Researchers at Ohio State University have found that benefits of omega-3 supplements do not only address health conditions like heart disorders, arthritis and cancer but they also slow down the body’s aging process.
Aging and Fish Oil
Telomeres are small segments of DNA found in white blood cells that shorten in length as individuals continue to age. Fish oil health benefits include the lengthening of these telomeres so that one can look younger for a longer period.
It has been suggested that the ability of fish oil to fight inflammation also plays a role in the preservation of telomeres. Because of this reaction between fish oil and telemores, the onset of other diseases that seem to kick in with age can also be kept at bay. Such age related health conditions include diabetes, Alzheimer’s disease, heart attacks and arthritis.
The many fish oil health benefits also help to reduce oxidative stress that primarily stems from an excessive count of free radicals in the blood. So even though you may not be able to avoid wrinkles and other signs of aging, you will definitely be able to live a stress-free and long life with omega-3 supplements.
Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) present in omega-3 fatty acids help to preserve good skin and healthy hair as well. This may play a vital role in making one look young.
How Much Fish Oil Brings These Benefits?
If you do not ingest 3.5 ounce servings of fatty fish each week, it is recommended that you match the bodily requirement of the same by taking omega-3 supplements.
The fatty fish that serve as a great source of fish oil include tuna, salmon, sardines, anchovies, mackerel and herring.
However fish is not the only option you can avail of for such benefits. Some oils from different nuts and several seeds also show results similar to fish oil health benefits. These include walnut oil, soybean oil, canola oil, chia seeds, flaxseeds, pecans, walnuts and pine nuts.
Learn more about choosing the best fish oil supplements in this short special report – read it today here.
Fish Oil for Arthritis? Seems Like A Miracle Cure
With all the known risks of traditional treatment for arthritis with COX-2 inhibitors, analgesics and corticosteroids, interest in a healthy, safe and natural alternative remedy has generated a lot of buzz around the use of fish oil for arthritis.
Omega 3 fats, the kind you see in good fish oil, has been shown to reverse heart disease, boost immune function, fight degenerative disease, help increase fertility, improve mental health and promote healthy skin.
A list of benefits from taking fish oil supplements, most related to their anti-inflammatory activity, includes protection from colon cancer, depression, asthma, menstrual cramps, diabetes, multiple sclerosis and also rheumatoid arthritis.
Does Fish Oil Help Arthritis?
No one quite knows for sure what causes rheumatoid arthritis, but in almost all cases the ‘final common pathway’ is linked to inflammation of the synovial lining of joints all over the body. It is an auto-immune condition where the body reacts against its own tissues, causing this inflammation.
Not only does fish oil lower inflammatory reaction and relieve joint pain and swelling in those with arthritis, it also lets them lower the amount of non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and steroids that they needed to take earlier.
There is some speculation about whether or not fish oil actually slows down the progression of rheumatoid arthritis, but there is no actual proof of this effect, and further research is necessary.
On a related note, omega 3 has many protective effects against the development of heart disease and can lower triglyceride levels. This is important because of the known increase in cardiovascular risk that patients with rheumatoid arthritis have.
What Kind of Fish Oil Works Best for Arthritis?
Omega 3 is found predominantly in fatty fish – trout, white tuna, halibut, mackerel and salmon. Other sea foods rich in omega 3 are oysters, sardines and herring. Consuming any of these fatty fish can significantly reduce inflammatory reaction, and provide relief from arthritis.
A way to enjoy the benefits of fish oil without having to eat a lot of fish is to take fish oil capsules. 3 grams a day of fish oil provides 1 gram of the important omega 3 fatty acids DHA and EPA, which is all you need.
Several brands use oil from fish caught in the cleanest and coldest waters, preferably those far from industrialized countries where the highest risk of water contamination exists.
Making fish oil capsules even safer is the practice of molecular distillation, a process that removes any mercury or other heavy metals, dioxins, PCBs and other contaminants.
If you’d like to learn more about the use of fish oil for arthritis and about the brand of good fish oil that I personally take every day, click here now.
Fish Oil for Skin Will Keep You Young & Beautiful
The reason you’re reading this is because you want to stay young and beautiful – and look that way by having glowing, healthy skin. And I’m going to tell you how fish oil for skin health will keep you that way for a long, long time to come.
Inflammation is at the root of many of the skin changes of aging. It is even involved in skin disorders like acne, psoriasis, and eczema, as well as in cell aging.
An adequate omega 3 supply makes you less vulnerable to inflammatory diseases and autoimmune disorders. You are less likely to have asthma, or mental/emotional disorders including depression and Alzheimer’s disease. This list of benefits from taking supplements is essentially related to their anti-inflammatory activity.
In studies researchers have shown that taking fish oil supplements for three months can improve skin firmness in volunteers by as much as 10%. This means you’ll have fewer wrinkles because your skin becomes healthier, thanks to the beneficial anti-inflammatory effects of omega 3 fats.
Fish oil, with its high content of omega 3 fatty acids, not only prevents wrinkles but also guards your skin against the ill effects of harmful ultraviolet rays (UV light) from the sun. UV radiation activates oxygen free radicals in the skin, and these radicals destroy collagen and other connective tissue. The resulting lack of skin structure support results in wrinkling and aging changes.
Fish oil for skin care reduces these aging changes caused by overexposure to sunlight. That’s another way fish oil will keep your skin healthy and glowing with youth.
The one major problem with fish oil for skin health is that some brands are made from farm-bred fresh fish that is contaminated with mercury and heavy metals, in addition to dioxins, DDT and other toxins. Manufacturers are not required by law to test every batch for purity, and so many don’t.
By restricting yourself to using top quality brands that are made from fish from cold, clean waters such as in the coastal areas of New Zealand, and by insisting upon ‘molecular distilling’ to clear out impurities, you can avoid most of the ill effects and dangers of fish oil supplement therapy, while enjoying all the benefits.
Learn more about selecting the best brand of fish oil in this free report – click here.
Fish Oil And Acne
Fish oil and acne are irretrievably linked in folklore, with a strong correlation being established for benefits from taking the health supplement every day.
Fish oil has become a very popular supplement as it provides our bodies with omega-3 fatty acids that are lacking in most diets. As these supplements are rich in omega-3 fatty acids like Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), among many other health benefits fish oil also helps to get rid of acne.
The best sources of fish oil are anchovies, mackerels, salmons, sardines, tunas and herrings. However if you do not like eating fish, you can always opt for a fish oil supplement instead for the necessary nutrients. To be able to witness the equation between fish oil and acne, you must eat fish at least twice a week or ingest its supplement on a daily basis.
Let us try and understand the relationship between fish oil and acne so we can tell how the former impacts the latter. EPA is known to restrict the formation of androgen – a hormone that produces sebum (skin oil) within the hair follicle.
The more androgen your body has, the more sebum it will produce. With excessive sebum, there are more chances of an acne breakout. By reducing the production of keratin and sinking the size of your sebaceous glands, fish oil can keep pores from getting clogged and releasing excessive sebum.
Fish oil is also known to reduce inflammation and redness that is often caused by acne breakouts. Acne also stems from stress but fish oil helps to regulate one’s mood and so the chances of such a breakout are lessened.
Though fish oil and acne react best for those suffering from mild to moderate cases of acne, it is advisable that everyone ingests fish oil or its supplement as it is one of the most important nutrients needed by the body.
Irrespective of what causes your acne breakouts, fish oil has shown fruitful results in preventing the same.
Fish oil and acne will bring you desired results when your chosen supplement has more EPA than DHA. While the latter is very important, the former plays a pivotal role in treating acne.
It is best that you ingest the supplements during meals as that brings out maximum benefits. A lot of people also apply fish oil topically by piercing a hole in the softgel and squeezing out the contents from inside.
However, if you notice any side effects or allergic reactions, you should stop taking fish oil immediately and consult a doctor instead. Also read this special report for more details about selecting the right fish oil supplement – click here now.
Will Omega-3 Fish Oil Aid the Immune System?
Studies have indicated that fish oil can strengthen the immune system particularly when consumed with the appropriate multi-nutrient supplement. Read this fish oil article to find out how fish oil benefits the immune system.
The Functions of the Immune System
The human immune system consists of several organs, including cells, tissues, proteins inside the blood and skin. Its job is to prevent tumors, infections as well as diseases. However, sometimes the immune system fails leading to immunodeficiency problems.
The functioning of the immune system can be improved through the intake of various nutritional supplements. One of these nutritional supplements is fish oil, due to its rich content of omega III fatty acids.
In immunodeficiency ailments, the body is not able to ward off infection or disease. These are severely debilitating or life-threatening illnesses and require nutritional support, pharmaceutical interventions and lifestyle changes, in order for the patient to survive.
Autoimmune ailments are even more prevalent. In these illnesses, the immune system fights healthy tissues, in the same manner that it will fight an invading disease causing organism. Lupus and rheumatoid arthritis are a few of the most prevalent autoimmune ailments. However, chronic inflammation is a common feature in several other ailments.
Fish Oil and Inflammation
Inflammation is the body’s normal response to infection and injury. Infected or injured cells release cytokines and eicosanoids. These molecules are responsible for the swelling and redness. However, in several instances, they are present within the bloodstream, even in the absence of infection.
Here is why omega III fatty acids contained in fish oil is helpful.
Inflammation Has a Negative Effect on Health
When omega-III fatty acids are absorbed into the body, they are converted into anti-inflammatory particles, while omega 6 fatty acids are converted into inflammatory particles. The majority of individuals get excess omega 6 fatty acids from their diet and not sufficient omega 3s. Thus, inflammation negatively affects their arteries, joints and all the cells in their bodies.
In addition, chronic inflammation supports the development of cancerous tumors. It has been established that a good omega 3 supplement can aid restore the balance, prevent heart disease and cancer as well as support the arteries and joints.
Use Only Distilled Fish Oil
As you consider this fish oil article, bear in mind that not all fish oil supplements are safe. Go for molecularly purified fish oil. Otherwise they might contain impurities such as cancer causing dioxins and mercury.
The proportion of omega III fatty acids within a supplement and the type differs from one fish type to another. The product label should contain information about the quantity of each omega III that the supplement supplies.
Author Myntra MillerPosted on July 3, 2018 January 14, 2019 Categories Fish Oil BenefitsTags Fish Oil and Acne, fish oil article, Fish Oil for Arthritis, fish oil for skin, fish oil health benefits
4 Benefits of Fish Oil For Kids
Fish oil for kids helps with overall development and maintenance of good health and fitness through the rapid growing phase of childhood. Nutritionists agree that it is a very simple method to ensure that kids are getting all the nutrients they require to grow up healthy and strong.
Kids who are given fish oil supplements on a regular basis show improved mental and physical abilities. There are several longer term advantages to taking this health supplement as well. So why is omega 3 for children so beneficial? Let’s take a look at some of the diverse benefits of omega 3 supplements.
1. Boosts the Functioning of the Brain
Omega 3 for kids can enhance brain health; also it is particularly beneficial for kids with learning disabilities. That is why fish oil supplements have been called brain sharp capsules.
2. Alleviates ADHD Symptoms
Fish oil for kids has shown promise in reducing symptoms of ADHD. A child who has ADHD shows acute inattentiveness while doing any activity especially studying. Children who have this disorder find it hard to focus while doing any task. Difficulty in focusing can result in learning disability, thereby affecting the child’s ability to make it life.
3. Alleviates Dyslexia
Dyslexia can be described as a brain-based kind of learning difficulty which specifically impairs a child’s capacity to talk, read and write properly. Kids who have this problem are not able to spell word properly within a written text. Happily, this learning difficulty can be treated using fish oil for kids. Studies have discovered that consuming fish oil supplements can enhance the writing and reading skills of kids with dyslexia.
4. Boosts Memory
It has been discovered that kids who have poor memory benefit by consuming omega III supplements. Short term loss of memory decreases a kid’s capacity to remember details about important events. In addition, this can negatively affect the kid’s ability to learn new material. However, studies have revealed that omega III for children can enhance memory function in kids.
The Right Dosage of fish Oil for Children
Fish oil has side effects; therefore healthcare professionals are against giving it to kids in large doses. It is a lot safer and better to give a small dose. Appropriate dosage should be given, depending on the child’s age. For example, kids who are under 3 years of age should be given not more than 0.7 grams. Kids who are between 9 and 14 years of age should be given a dosage of 1.3 grams.
Bear in mind that, even though there are several health benefits of fish oil for kids, it is important that you use it under the guidance of a medical practitioner. Overdose of fish oil can result in stomach problems in kids, so speak with your physician to find out the appropriate dosage.
When it comes to giving kids health supplements, it becomes ever more important to ensure that you choose a quality brand. This short report will guide you on the factors upon which to base your decision. Click here to read it now.
Fish Oil and Weight Loss
If you want to lose weight, something as simple as ingesting fish oil supplements can help you shed a few pounds each month. Most weight loss supplements contain caffeine among other stimulants and it can make you feel nervous or jittery.
On the other hand, if you ingest fish oil for weight loss, your energy levels will never drop and you will lose weight consistently as well. Apart from that, your overall health will also benefit from fish oil supplements. Let’s take a look at how omega-3 fatty acids can help you lose weight.
Fish oil aids muscle building
Taking fish oil supplements not only helps you shed fat but also can help build muscles. According to a study, a few capsules of fish oil can help you build muscle while losing fat consistently. Taking as little as two grams of omega-3 fatty acids each day for six weeks can help you lose more than two lbs of body fat. Without exercising or changing your diet, your body will burn fat and see the development of muscles.
Fish oil decreases your appetite
You can take fish oil for weight loss as it keeps you filled for longer and you won’t be munching on small snacks between two meals. Over time, this restraint will help you lose weight even though you won’t feel starved or deprived. By regulating the release of serotonin, fish oil controls your mood and appetite which is why it has also been noted for its antidepressant properties.
Fish oil supplements your diet
When you take these health supplements regularly, it makes all weight loss programs more effective. In a study, two groups were given the same diet and exercise routine. One group was given fish oil capsules while the other was given a placebo supplement. By the end of the study, the group ingesting fish oil for weight loss actually lost more weight than those ingesting the placebo supplement.
Fish oil reduces fat storage
Another study has revealed that fish oil supplements minimize the chances of food being stored as fat. Since fish oil increases insulin sensitivity in the body, food that you eat is less likely to be stored as fat.
While buying fish oil for weight loss, pick one that is completely free of impurities and contains no toxic substances. Opt for a supplement that is concentrated so that you can ingest sufficient quantities of omega-3 fatty acids per serving. A quality fish oil supplement should contain at least 750mg of DHA and EPA which are the primary sources of omega-3 fatty acids in fish oil capsules.
To learn about other factors that impact your choice of the best brand of fish oil supplements, check out this free special report – click here.
Top 6 Benefits of Taking Spring Valley Fish Oil During Pregnancy
Spring Valley fish oil is one of the popular brands of a powerful health supplement that is of special interest to pregnant women.
Do you know that taking fish oil supplements during pregnancy offers several health benefits? If you answered no, then you will certainly want to go through this article.
Nearly all mothers know about the benefits of taking folic acid during pregnancy, very few know the benefits of taking omega III fish oil supplements. This write-up will talk about the numerous advantages of taking Spring Valley fish oil supplement while pregnant.
1. Research indicates that children, whose mothers had consumed fish oil supplement while pregnant, have excellent comprehension skills. Also, the vocabulary and average phrase length is exceptional when compared to other kids.
2. Fish oil consumption helps lower triglyceride levels which otherwise can result in cardiovascular ailments. Omega 3 essential fatty acids (EFAs) make the platelets of the blood less sticky as well as protect the linings of the artery from clogging.
3. Taking Spring Valley fish oil during pregnancy helps to reduce blood pressure. In addition, the oil helps decrease your risk of developing secondary and primary heart problems. This is also true when you are not pregnant.
4. It has been established that babies who have greater amounts of omega 3 fatty acids within their cord blood have better eye and hand coordination. Also, it has been observed that babies within the womb that have sufficient quantities of omega 3, show better general development; also they show better attention spans as well as better visual keenness than those infants whose mothers had lesser amounts of omega 3.
5. Insufficient consumption of EPA (eicosapentaenoic acid) and DHA (docosahexaenoic acid) by an expectant mother can cause her to lose up to three percent of her brain mass within the final trimester of pregnancy. This is because the DHA and EPA stored within her brain will be transferred to her unborn child. Spring Valley fish oil contains both DHA and EPA.
6. Aside from supporting the health of the child as well as that of the mother, the use of fish oil supplements during pregnancy also decreases the likelihood of premature delivery, pre-eclampsia and pre-term labor.
If you are an expectant mother, make sure you speak with doctor before you start taking any type of supplement. Generally, doctors recommend two hundred and fifty milligrams of omega 3 daily for pregnant ladies, particularly during the last trimester.
Insufficient consumption of omega 3 fatty acids can be dangerous for the mother as well as the baby. The consumption of Spring Valley fish oil offers lasting benefits.
While any brand of fish oil will deliver health benefits when taken regularly, there are some very real dangers with certain methods of formulation of these supplements. To enable you to make informed choices, we have made available a short special report which outlines the deciding factors for choosing a brand of fish oil, and you can read it here.
Author Myntra MillerPosted on June 17, 2018 January 14, 2019 Categories Fish Oil BenefitsTags fish oil and weight loss, fish oil during pregnancy, fish oil for kids
9 Exciting Health Benefits of Fish Oil That Research Has Confirmed
Modern research throws up so many health benefits of fish oil that it has almost become imperative to seriously consider adding these precious health supplements to your diet at the earliest.
No longer are these advantages easy to ignore or overlook. Omega 3 fish oil, either in natural form or as supplements, is becoming almost as essential as vitamins and minerals!
Are you aware that the Greenland Eskimos possess a remarkably low occurrence of arthritis and heart ailments, even though their diet is high in fat?
Fact!
Researchers have discovered that this is because of the quantity of fish they consume. Scientists believe that it is essentially due to the omega-3 fatty acids contained in fish oil.
9 Health Benefits of Fish Oil
1. Healthy heart
Fish oil is a great source of omega-3 that reduces the chances of heart diseases, strokes and arrhythmias. By lowering the level of bad cholesterol and increasing the level of good cholesterol, fish oil stops the accumulation of triglycerides and also reduces existing levels of high triglycerides.
2. Improved immunity
Another fish oil benefit is it improves your immunity, making you more resilient to common diseases like cough, cold and flu. Those suffering from lupus – a disease where the immune system attacks the various tissues and organs in the body – have also been reported to find relief with the help of fish oils.
3. Anti-inflammatory properties
Fish oil is known to lower inflammation in blood and tissues.The regular consumption of fish oil supplements in the form of tablets, liquid, capsules or pills help those who are suffering from chronic painful inflammatory conditions like arthritis.
Apart from that, fish oil supplements have also been recommended for gastrointestinal disorders, short bowel syndrome and sprue.
Fish oil is an excellent source of omega 3 fatty acids which relieves pain as well as inflammation linked with conditions such as cystitis and arthritis. It even prevents prostatitis, a not uncommon disease in elderly men.
4. ANTI-Depression and anxiety
The high omega-3 fatty acid content makes fish oils a cure for sadness, depression, anxiety, fatigue, restlessness, stress, nervous disorders, suicidal tendencies as well as decreased sexual desire. A multi-national study showed that the populace in places that had a fish-rich diet was generally happier than where diets were free of fish.
Several scientific studies have shown that omega 3 fish oil supplements help alleviate psychosis, suppress bipolar behavior disorder, and cure depressive symptoms.
5. Eye disorders
Another of the important health benefits of fish oil is the positive effect on vision and eyesight. As either a formulated supplement or in its raw form, fish oil is widely regarded good for the treatment of eye disorders.
Ophthalmologists usually recommend fish oil supplements to patients with poor vision. This is because omega-3 is known to improve eyesight.
6. Skin and hair care
One of the important health benefits of fish oil is that it helps to maintain healthy skin. Dry skin often benefits from fish oil consumption. Skin conditions like psoriasis, eczema, redness, rashes and lesions can be treated by consuming fish oil or its supplements. Fish oil reduces sebum production, which results in fewer acne breakouts. It even keeps skin nicely moisturized and soft, thereby delaying the appearance of wrinkles.
Fish oil keeps your skin moisturized and free from acne and sunburn. It also helps in the faster growth of hair, making it look shiny and strong. Omega-3 fatty acids in fish oil also have anti bacterial properties. This reduces chances of skin problems like dermatitis and pimples.
7. Cancer and diabetes
Fish oil health benefits even extend to lowering the risk of cancer. Studies indicate that it helps to prevent 3 of the commonest types of cancer – prostate, breast and colon.
Scientists say that omega 3 fatty acids achieve this in 3 ways. They prevent the conversion of normal healthy cells to cancerous masses; they kill cancer cells; and they inhibit unwanted cellular growth.
Patients of diabetes who are prone to heart diseases could also benefit from the regular intake of fish oil supplements.
8. Enhanced Brain Function
There’s some evidence to suggest that nursing and expectant mothers can boost their infants’ brain development by taking fish oil supplements. For adults, too, there is an effect on brain function as omega 3 enhances focus, reasoning, memory and recall. You’ll enjoy better recall and brisk mentation, making you feel smarter and younger!
9. Helps in Treating Childhood Diseases
Fish oil has been suggested as a supplement for children who have disorders such as dyslexia, ADHD, ADD and several other compulsive disorders, with some improvement being noticed with continuous intake.
Whew!
That’s a load of health benefits of fish oil right there.
And the only cost of these serious advantages are a few side effects, including nausea, diarrhea and heartburn. It can also rarely result in bleeding or strokes, especially if there’s an overdose.
To avoid these side effects as well as enjoy the health benefits of fish oil, it is recommended that you take it in the correct dosage and select a great brand.
Of course, finding out the best form of fish oil supplement to take is the difficult part. This short, free report was designed to guide you in making this choice – read it here
Appreciating The Benefits of Fish Oil
There are many benefits of fish oil, which is what makes it one of the most frequently taken health supplements worldwide. From beauty to health, disease prevention to pain relief, enhanced longevity to improved fitness, omega 3 fish oil can have a transformational impact on your life and health.
The key is knowing which brand to choose and to take it regularly to enjoy the highest impact from this highly effective supplement.
Fish oil is not only good for your hair and skin, but it can also combat several diseases. Those who are health conscious might get worried about the term oil but fish oil is one of the healthiest supplements for your diet.
Let’s briefly recap some of these benefits of fish oil.
For a healthy heart
Fish oil is a very good supplement to protect one’s heart. Its omega-3 content reduces the chances of heart diseases as well as levels of LDL cholesterol (bad cholesterol) though it increases levels of HDL cholesterol (good cholesterol). HDL cholesterol can prevent heart strokes which is why fish oil is good for the heart.
For a slimmer body
Research studies have shown that fish oil helps to control hypertension and reduce obesity. With a healthy amount of fish consumption, weight loss diets are a lot more effective than those that leave out fish. This is one of the many benefits of fish oil.
To fight asthma
Those suffering from asthma and other respiratory problems should consume sufficient quantities of fish oil. A study revealed that those children who were put on a high-fish diet were less prone to asthma attacks than those who consumed none. Fish oil enables you to breathe easily and thus can be a solution for asthma patients.
Even curing cancer
Omega-3 fatty acid is known to prevent three of the most common cancers that affect people – colon cancer, breast cancer and prostate cancer. They prevent healthy cells from changing into cancerous masses, restrict unwanted cellular growth and cause apoptosis or death of cancer cells. So healthy amounts of omega-3 fatty acid can save your life!
For shinier hair
Enhancing the luster of your hair is among the many other benefits of fish oil. Omega-3 has properties that aid the growth of hair, prevent hair fall and make hair shinier. Since most fish have high amounts of protein, eating fish regularly helps to maintain healthy hair.
And more beautiful skin
Those who suffer from dry skin can consume fish oil for shinier and more glowing skin. Various skin conditions like psoriasis, eczema, redness, itching, lesions and rashes can be treated with fish oil.
For a happy pregnancy
The many benefits of fish oil also make it a must-have in a pregnant woman’s diet. The DHA in fish oil helps in the development of the baby’s brain and eyes. It also helps to prevent low weight at birth, premature births and miscarriages.
As you’ve seen, there are many advantages to regularly taking your fish oil supplements. The question then arises as to which formulation is the best, and which brand can give you the highest value.
The information in a free report which we have made available for you to read at no cost at all can help you make this important decision. Check it out here – click now.
Author Myntra MillerPosted on June 1, 2018 January 14, 2019 Categories Fish Oil BenefitsTags fish oil benefits, health benefits of fish oil
Why Should You Take Fish Oil for Depression?
Medical research data exists to prove the beneficial role of fish oil for depression. There are many benefits to getting an adequate daily supply of omega 3 fatty acids. Meeting your daily requirements of omega 3 is indeed crucial to optimum physical and mental health.
Omega 3 fats, the kind you see in good fish oil, has been shown to reverse heart disease, boost immune function, fight degenerative disease, help increase fertility, improve mental health and promote healthy skin.
Some studies suggest that fish oil supplements may be as effective as prescription antidepressant medication — but the two in combination are more effective than either taken alone. Further study is needed to confirm these early impressions, though the preliminary results are encouraging.
How Does Fish Oil Help In Depression?
While the exact mechanism by which fish oil and omega 3 helps alleviate clinical depression, it may have something to do with the fact that 60% of the brain is composed of fatty acids, and one-half of it is the exact same forms that are present in fish oil!
DHA, which is one of the two major long-chain Omega 3 fatty acids in fish oil, is important for heart health and specifically essentially in brain development of fetuses and newborn babies, making up 30% of the brain’s cortex and 15-20% of the eye’s retina.
In 1999, a study by Dr.Andrew Stoll from Harvard Medical School reported startling results showing that fish oil had a significant impact on patients with bipolar disorder – an alternating emotional state ranging between mania and depression, causing cyclical mood swings from one extreme to the other.
Of two groups of patients, one treated with fish oil and the other with a placebo, the group getting fish oil showed such a marked improvement that the trial was abandoned mid-way because it was felt unethical to deprive the control group of a treatment that was so effective!
The Role of EPA In Depression
Another clinical trial studied the effect of just one of the long-chain omega 3 fatty acids, one called EPA. Given in doses of 1 gram daily, it was found to have a marked improvement in patients with clinical depression, leading to the recommendation that fish oil for depression was a logical choice.
There is also anecdotal evidence in medical literature of how fish oil for depression had a positive effect on regular administration for those with mental disorders and conditions.
Other data supporting the positive effect of fish oil for depression and mental abnormalities comes from the U.K. based Durham study, where scientists are studying the impact that fish oil can have on behavior, concentration and learning in the classroom.
Fish Oil For Depression – Effective And Safe
All this information supports the conclusion that fish oil is a safe and convenient supplement for everyone to improve health in general. The best commercially available brands use oil from fish caught in the cleanest and coldest waters, far from commercial shipping lines to minimize contamination.
Making fish oil capsules even safer is the practice of molecular distillation, by which any mercury or other heavy metals, dioxins, PCBs and other contaminants are completely removed, leaving only healthy, pure, good fish oil.
If you’d like to learn more about the fish oil supplements that are highly recommended for health conscious people like yourself, then take a look at this free special report that throws the spotlight on to the various factors to consider before selecting a brand of fish oil supplements – click here.
Author Myntra MillerPosted on May 31, 2018 January 14, 2019 Categories Fish Oil BenefitsTags depression, fish oil depression, fish oil for depression
Fish Oil and Heart Disease – The Secret of a Longer Life
The link between fish oil and heart disease has been extensively researched for many years. An adequate daily supply of omega 3 fatty acids in the form of fish oil supplements is crucial to optimum physical and mental health.
Benefits include better immune function, less degenerative disease, increased fertility, improved mental health and healthier skin.
But over and above all else, what fuels the popularity of omega 3 fatty acids is the fact that several studies have proved the positive effects of fish oil for heart health and longer life.
Fish oil lowers triglyceride levels and reduces heart disease risk. One study published in August 2000 in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition on post-menopausal women monitored their fish oil intake and found that those who ate more of the omega 3 rich oil had 25% less risk of developing heart disease than those taking a placebo.
Omega 3’s are absolutely life-saving!
In a Journal of the American Medical Association report, following 20,000 men over 11 years, it was found that there was a 50% reduction in risk of sudden death from a heart attack in those who ate fish one or more times a week. What’s more, when the population ate more fish, this beneficial effect increased further!
That wasn’t the only study in support of the effect of fish oil for heart health. Lancet published a paper that showed fish eaters reduce their post heart-attack risk of sudden death by 29% and a Dutch trial involving over 550 men focused on the benefit of fish oil for preventing stroke.
One study published in August 2000 in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition on post-menopausal women monitored their fish oil intake and found that those who ate more of the omega 3 rich oil had 25% less risk of developing heart disease than those taking a placebo.
Fish Oil Is Good For Your Heart
All this data is conclusive in proving the value of fish oil for heart healthy living. Fish oil is the best source of critical long-chain omega fatty acids like DHA and EPA. 3 grams a day of fish oil provides 1 gram of DHA and EPA, which is all you need.
Pharmaceutical grade fish oil supplements prepared by molecular distillation out of fresh fish caught in cold, clean waters far from marine shipping lanes gives by far the best quality fish oil for supplementation.
If you’d like to learn more about the EPA and DHA rich fish oil supplements that can significantly lower the risk of heart disease and promote healthy living, then you should check out this free report that casts the spotlight on the multiple factors you must consider before choosing an omega 3 fish oil supplement. To read this report, click here.
Fish Oil and Cholesterol – What Effect Does It Have?
There is a long and convoluted history around the issue of fish oil and cholesterol, specifically how fish oil affects blood levels of the substance and what benefits it confers upon those who take it consistently.
While some people may be aware of the relationship between fish oil and cholesterol, others may not have any idea about what impact fish oil has on the cholesterol levels in their body. In this article we will take a closer look at this equation.
Fish oil helps to control bad cholesterol
People who have heart problems and want to prevent strokes or heart attacks often consume fish oil to keep their cholesterol under control. Fish oil lowers bad cholesterol while increasing good cholesterol in your bloodstream. The reaction between fish oil and cholesterol is such that only a slight amount of its supplement can reduce triglyceride levels significantly.
Fish oil helps to keep the arteries healthy
If there is excessive build-up of plaque on the walls of your arteries, they are more likely to crack and lead to fatal problems. Fish oil helps to cleanse the walls and prevents plaque from forming. Not only that, but fish oils also keep the arteries strong, healthy and much more elastic, thus preventing them from cracking.
Fish oil helps to increase good cholesterol
In the battle between good cholesterol and bad cholesterol, fish oil helps the former to win. All the healthy fatty acids in fish oil pump up the count of good cholesterol in the system while curbing the count of bad cholesterol. This eventually helps to keep the heart healthy and safe.
Fish oil helps to slow down the build-up of plaque
Fish oil and cholesterol react in such a way that the build-up of plaque is slowed down significantly. When cholesterol around the arteries hardens and oxidization takes place, the chances of suffering a heart attack also increase. Fish oil keeps the cholesterol from hardening and can thus save you from suffering a stroke or heart attack.
Apart from this association between fish oil and cholesterol, omega-3 fatty acids also offer other health benefits. Since it has the impact it does on cholesterol, fish oil is known to improve the condition and functions of the heart. By increasing the metabolism rate of your body, fish oil also plays a significant role when you wish to lose weight.
It has shown to reduce the risk of certain cancers like breast cancer, prostate cancer and colon cancer. It treats inflammations and thus people suffering from arthritis can also benefit from omega-3 fatty acid supplements. Last but not the least, fish oil has been seen to improve bad moods as it sorts out chemical imbalances in the brain and helps to stabilize emotions.
More about choosing the right type of fish oil can be found in this free special report that will guide you towards picking your ideal brand. Click here to read it.
Can Fish Oil Really Lower Cholesterol?
There’s a buzz about the ability of fish oil to lower cholesterol. Here are the facts.
Fish oil, rich in omega-3 fatty acids, are polyunsaturated fats found in fresh fish, fish oil and other forms of fish supplements. They primarily consist of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) that are known for their several health benefits.
Health Benefits of DHA and EPA
One of the major health benefits of EPA and DHA is that they restrict atherosclerosis that is known to cause different heart diseases. Research studies have shown that consuming omega-3 fatty acids can reduce the risk of heart diseases and improve lipid profiles. It is thus advisable that one consumes fish oil to lower cholesterol and triglyceride levels.
The dosage of fish oil used in these research studies range from 900 mg and 5 grams each day which means that one would have to consume plenty to fish to achieve this quantity. Since that is not as feasible, fish oil supplements are prescribed to people who have a deficiency of the same.
The studies have shown that consuming 900 mg of fish oil on a daily basis can help to reduce four percent triglyceride levels within six months. However this decrease is also dependent on a healthy diet so one must make sure he does not compromise on that front while ingesting fish oil to lower cholesterol.
Are You Taking Omega 3 Fatty Acids Yet?
Omega-3 fatty acids are easily available at most nutritional stores and local pharmacies and you need not necessarily have a prescription to get yourself a bottle of the supplement. As little as one gram of fish oil supplementation each day can help to reduce triglycerides and prevent sudden death from heart attacks.
On average, those who have high levels of triglyceride usually ingest four grams of fish oil to maintain a healthy level of cholesterol in their system. If one has a medical history of heart diseases within the family, it is a good idea that he consumes fish oil to lower cholesterol levels and prevent any unforeseen damage.
If you do not know whether to buy over-the-counter fish oil supplements or prescription omega-3 fatty acids, you must know that the latter contains a definite amount of DHA and EPA, is purified and has absolutely no contaminants. On the other hand, the former does not have to undergo such stringent purification processes even though it offers similar benefits.
Even though it is a good idea to purchase supplements of fish oil to lower cholesterol, it is best to do so after speaking with a healthcare professional as high doses of omega-3 fatty acids makes it difficult for blood to clot and can also cause you to bleed more easily.
Get more information about choosing and finding the best brand of fish oil to lower cholesterol and provide many more health benefits. Check out this short special report – click here now.
Fish Oil for Triglyceride Control – The Real Facts
An adequate daily supply of omega 3 fatty acids confers multiple health benefits upon you. Meeting your daily requirements of omega 3 is indeed crucial to optimum physical and mental health, especially in preventing (even reversing) heart disease.
Omega 3 fats reverse heart disease, boost immune function, fight degenerative disease, help increase fertility, improve mental health and promote healthy skin.
Numerous studies have shown that there are benefits from taking fish oil supplements for triglyceride levels that are above normal. High blood triglyceride increases risk of heart attacks, and their control is an important thrust of primary prevention of heart disease.
How to Lower Triglycerides?
Triglyceride levels can be reduced by cutting down on consumption of fats, alcohol and simple carbohydrates. Omega 3 fatty acides, particularly EPA and DHA, help further in bringing down levels.
Fish oils for triglyceride control act in a roughly dose dependent manner, with more fish oil intake being better. Taking 4.5 grams of EPA and DHA brought down triglyceride levels by upto 39%
A pharmaceutical grade fish oil preparation containing the long-chain omega-3 fatty acids has been used in Europe both for research projects and as a prescription drug. Recently the FDA approved essentially the same product for use in the USA for treatment of moderately elevated triglycerides (150-500 mg/dL).
Fresh fish is the best source of omega fatty acids, yet the most likely to be contaminated with PCBs, DDT and dioxin, along with heavy metals like mercury. Investigators of a study linking fish consumption to breast cancer warned “Fish is not merely a source of omega 3 fatty acids, but also of methyl mercury.”
An option that allows you to enjoy the benefits of fish oil, without the risks, is to take fish oil capsules. Several brands use oil from fish caught in the cleanest and coldest waters like off coastal New Zealand where contamination is rare. This is made safer by molecular distillation which removes any mercury or other heavy metals, dioxins, PCBs and other contaminants from the oil. Learn more about this in a free report here.
The Magic of Fish Oil for Blood Pressure Control
While the underlying cause of primary (essential) hypertension is not known, what has been confirmed over many studies by researchers is that high blood pressure is a significant risk factor for heart disease and stroke.
A review by the American Heart Association concluded that fish and fish oils help prevent cardiovascular disease including fatal and non-fatal heart attacks, strokes, sudden cardiac death, and coronary artery disease (angina).
Fish and fish oils contain long-chain polyunsaturated omega-3 fatty acids, more specifically, eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). The average American diet contains only about 100-200 mg/day of EPA and DHA. The diet also contains about 1.4 grams/day of alpha- linolenic acid mainly from canola and soybean oils.
But until recently there was not enough evidence for the mainstream medical community to recommend taking fish oil for blood pressure reduction.
That has however changed in light of findings reported in a 1993 meta-analysis of 31 placebo-controlled trials that studied fish oil for blood pressure control. In all, the studies were carried out on 1356 subjects, and examined the effect of omega-3 fatty acids in fish oil on blood pressure.
Analysis of the collective data suggested a strong correlation between both eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and a blood pressure response. The blood pressure of hypertensive subjects dropped in direct proportion to their daily intake of fish oil which was rich in omega 3 fatty acids.
It further appeared that this effect of fish oil on blood pressure was more manifest in those with high blood pressure (hypertensives) high blood cholesterol levels and atherosclerotic disease, rather than subjects with normal blood pressure.
Researchers at the University of Western Australia have also published results from a study of 63 men and postmenopausal women who were overweight and being treated for high blood pressure. They showed that weight loss combined with daily fish oil consumption is very effective in lowering blood pressure, triglyceride levels and increasing ‘good’ cholesterol.
The researchers concluded that this association was not a chance occurrence, and that a combination of weight loss and daily fish consumption significantly reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease among obese patients with high blood pressure.
Omega 3 fats, the kind you see in good fish oil, has been shown to reverse heart disease and have many other benefits. They boost immune function, fight degenerative disease, help increase fertility, improve mental health and promote healthy skin.
Fish oil is the best source of critical long-chain omega fatty acids like DHA and EPA, yet the most likely to be contaminated with PCBs, DDT and dioxin, along with heavy metals like mercury.
Taking fish oil capsules avoids these toxins. Top brands use oil from fish caught in the cleanest and coldest waters, preferably those far from commercial shipping lines and industrialized countries where the highest risk of water contamination by wastes exists. Making fish oil capsules even safer is the practice of molecular distillation.
You can learn more about the different factors that determine your choice of the best fish oil supplements in a short special report we’ve made available to our readers for free – click here to access it now.
Why Take Aspirin and Fish Oil Together?
Taking aspirin and fish oil together might be helpful sometimes; however it is also potentially harmful. This is why it important that you first consult with your physician before combining fish oil supplement and aspirin.
Fish oil contains high amounts of omega three fatty acids , a kind of unsaturated fat which the body requires but cannot manufacture by its self. Omega 3 fatty acids are beneficial in protecting against chronic ailments. Apart from alleviating mild pain, aspirin is also prescribed in small doses to people predisposed to stroke or cardiac arrest.
Treating Heart Ailments
Using fish oil with aspirin might improve aspirin’s blood clot prevention effectiveness. Researchers have discovered that omega three fatty acids alone, do not prevent formation of blood clots however when consumed with aspirin, they improve aspirin’s ability to prevent formation of blood clot.
Start enjoying heart health benefits of fish oil – click here
Eicosanoids Production
Taking fish oil supplements and aspirin together might enhance hormone levels. The body utilizes the omega three fatty acids contained in fish oil to manufacture eicosanoids. Eicosanoids are hormones which play an essential role in practically all important functions of the body. A recent scientific investigation revealed that patients who took a blend of aspirin and fish oil enhanced their eicosanoid amounts better than when they took aspirin alone.
Tips for Taking Aspirin and Omega 3 Fish Oil Supplements
Tip #1
Do not take aspirin on an empty stomach because it sometimes upsets the tummy when it is taken without food. If you are a breakfast person, you can take it with breakfast.
Tip #2
Your omega three fish oil supplement should be taken about twelve hours after taking the aspirin. It is okay to take fish oil before or after meals. The twelve hours interval between taking aspirin and fish oil is essential so as to decrease the risk of experiencing side effects.
Tip #3
Arrange to take your fish oil supplement at approximately the same time every day so as to maintain steady quantities in your body. Aspirin should also be taken in a consistent manner.
Tip #4
Go for medical checkup at least every 3 months. This will enable the doctor assess your state of health and find out if it is okay for you to continue taking fish oil together with aspirin.
Order Viva Labs Krill Oil : 100% Pure Cold Pressed Antarctic Krill Oil – Highest Levels of Omega-3s in the Industry
Taking aspirin and fish oil together might predispose you to excessive bleeding and can slow clotting of blood. Also, aspirin can cause side effects such as stomach pain, heartburn, and vomiting.
Before you take any supplements, always consult with your doctor. And be sure to review the free fish oil buyer’s guide here: click now.
Author Myntra MillerPosted on May 7, 2018 January 14, 2019 Categories Fish Oil BenefitsTags aspirin and fish oil, fish oil and cholesterol, fish oil and heart disease, fish oil and heart health, fish oil for blood pressure, fish oil for triglyceride control, fish oil to lower cholesterol
Omega 3 DHA Fish Oil
Hot on Healthy Living
Omega 3 Fish Oil Guide - Your Best, All Natural Solution To Health
Which Is The BEST Fish Oil Supplement & How To Choose The Right One?
9 Exciting Health Benefits of Fish Oil That Research Has Confirmed
Fish Oil Supplements – All You Need To Know
Fish Oil for Triglyceride Control
Beware These Side Effects of Fish Oil
5 Ways EPA DHA Fish Oil Will Save Your Life
How To Find The Best Fish Oil Capsules
7 Great Reasons To Buy The Best Fish Oil Tablets
Fish Oil & Email Newsletter
Click here
Interact
Follow us on Twitter.
Like us on Facebook
Join us on Google+
Subscribe RSS Feeds
Contact us
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Best Fish Oil
Fish Oil Benefits
Fish Oil Supplements
Omega 3 Fish Oil
Fish Oil Side Effects
Healthy Living Secrets Proudly powered by WordPress