Health: Health Benefits Of Ginger | Herbal Sabah
TRENDING:
Phytos Manjakani Plus
Make Your Own Aromatherapy
What Alcohol And Exercise Does To Your Body
Home
Beauty
Diet
Fitness Video
Health
Weight Loss
Select Page
Health: Health Benefits Of Ginger
Posted by Adrian Lee | Jul 19, 2012 | Health | 0 |
Health: 10 Health Benefits Of Ginger
Ginger has long been used in Asia as a cooking spice, adding flavor to dishes and soup. It has also been used as a health tonic for thousands of years.
Today, there are many on-going studies conducted on the health benefits of ginger in universities around the world. From the United States to Europe, many are now discovering the benefits of ginger, whether it is cooked in food, made as ginger tea or as ginger extract used in health supplements.
The Heath Benefits of Ginger are many. Ginger is one of the world’s most potent disease-fighting spices. It has been widely regarded for centuries as a natural remedy for a variety of ailments. Find out why and how ginger can benefit you in this video.
Health: 10 Health Benefits Of Ginger Video
10 Health Benefits of Ginger as a Natural Remedy
Ginger is used as a natural remedy in the treatment of many illness and medical conditions. The advantage of ginger is that it has natural antioxidant properties, it is readily available and prepared.
1. Relieves Nausea
Ginger helps relieves nausea caused by stomach bug, flu, and used to counter nausea and vomiting induced by chemotherapy sessions. It is also effective in preventing morning sickness for pregnant women. It is safe to consume and has no side effects.
2. Arthritis
Ginger relieves the pain caused by arthritis without the side effect of anti-inflammatory drugs.
Relieves arching joints
Anti-oxidant encourages blood flow to the joints
Increases flexibility of muscles and bones
3. Aids Digestion
For many centuries, the Chinese have always understood that ginger is good for the digestion. Used in cooking of dishes, soups or drunk as ginger tea.
Neutralizes excessive stomach acid
Stimulates the release of digestive juices
4. Reduces Respiratory Problems
Effective as a respiratory problems caused by the cold, flu, cough and asthma. It acts as a natural expectorant, helps remove excess mucus from the throat and lungs.
5. Motion Sickness
Ginger is a natural preventive for those who suffer from motion sickness when traveling. It soothes queasy stomach and as a natural remedy it has no side effects.
You can take as ginger tea or ginger extract in capsule form. Taken every 15 minutes for one hour before traveling can help.
6. Fights Ovarian Cancer
Ginger may be powerful weapon in the treatment of ovarian cancer. A study conducted at the University of Michigan Comprehensive Cancer Center found that ginger powder induces cell death in all ovarian cancer cells to which it was applied.
7. Lowers Cholesterol
By interfering in the cholesterol biosynthesis process, may help prevent blockages in the arteries that can lead to heart attacks or strokes. Ginger’s antioxidant properties may also help strengthen the heart muscles.
8. Prevents Migraines
Research has shown that ginger may provide migraine relief due to its ability to stop prostaglandins from causing pain and inflammation in blood vessels.
Ginger helps prevents or reduce the severity of migraine if taken at the onset of the headache.
9. Prevents Blood Clots
Ginger has the same effect of aspirin, which interferes with the formation of blood clots in the arteries. Studies suggests that ginger is more effective than garlic or onions for this purpose.
10. Prevention and Treatment of Cold, and Flu
Used all over the world for centuries in the treatment and relieve of cold and flu. Can be prepared as ginger tea, with added wild honey and lemon juice. Drinking ginger tea helps boost your immune system during the flu season. It can also aid in your recovery should you succumb to the flu.
Recipe For Ginger Tea
Ingredients:
2 whole ginger sliced
4 tablespoon freshly squeezed lemon juice
3-4 tablespoon wild honey
Boiling water
To prepare:
Add sliced ginger, lemon juice and wild honey into a thermos.
Add boiling water, let sit for 20 minutes.
Strain and enjoy.
Reference: http://www.celestialhealing.net/gingerpage.htm
Health Benefits of Ginger Research
[1] Research conducted in shows that ginger extract can control the quantity of free radicals. Thus it could possibly prevent or decrease the damage in the human body caused by free radicals.
[2] In a 2010 study, daily consumption of ginger was shown to help ease muscle pain associated with exercise by 25%, suggesting a new cost-effective treatment to pain associated with recent exercise.
[3] Ginger root supplement has been identified in a study to help reduce colon inflammation markers such as PGE2, thus providing a possible cost-effective preventative measure to colon cancer.
Additional reference:
[1] http://www.aseanbiodiversity.info/Abstract/51006851.pdf
[2] http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2010/05/100519131130.htm
[3] http://www.uofmhealth.org/news/ginger-cancer-1011
Share:
Rate:
PreviousHealthy Diet: How To Read Food Labels
NextFitness Video: Hot Mom Workout
About The Author
Adrian Lee
I am a freelance web designer, writer, blogger, website publisher, internet marketer. Also 20 year veteran in the retain industry. These days, I help local business owners put their business on the internet.
Related Posts
Migraine Relief: Remedies For Migraine Relief
July 17, 2012
Migraine: Migraine Headaches
July 17, 2012
What Alcohol And Exercise Does To Your Body
June 23, 2012
Exercise Your Stress Away
June 23, 2012
Leave a reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
COMMENT
Name *
Email *
Website
ISAGENIX from USA
ATOMY from Korea
ISAGENIX RESULTS IN SABAH
Website Design
Recent Posts
Make Your Own Aromatherapy
Dec 21, 2018 | Aromatherapy
BodyRock HiitMax | Workout 58 – Power Workout
Dec 21, 2018 | Fitness Video
BodyRock HiitMax | Workout 59 – Your Personal Best Workout
Dec 21, 2018 | Fitness Video
13 Minute Yoga
Mar 7, 2017 | Wellness
Health Alert: Gery Cheese Crackers Malaysia
Mar 2, 2017 | Diet
Which One Are You?
Feb 28, 2017 | Wellness
Published by HerbalSabah | Designed by KK Web Design
Terms
Privacy
Contact