Would you like to switch to the accessible version of this site?
Go to accessible site Close modal window
Don't need the accessible version of this site?
Hide the accessibility button Close modal window
Accessibility View Close toolbar
Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display
16535 Huebner Rd #104
(210) 764-1113
Open mobile navigation
Home
About Us
Meet the Optometrist
Meet the Staff
New Patient Center
Virtual Office Tour
New Patient Forms
Eyecare Services
Pink Eye Treatment
Keratoconus
Macular Degeneration
Pediatric Eye Exams
Sports Vision
Glaucoma Treatment
Glaucoma FAQs
Dry Eye Therapy
Dry Eye FAQ
Diabetic Retinopathy
Eye Allergies
Contact Lens Exams
Sports Contact Lenses
Sports Contact Lenses FAQs
One Day Lenses
Hard To Fit Contacts
Contact Lens Exam FAQ
Eye & Vision Exams
Eye Exam FAQ
Eye Glasses
Frame Selection
Lasik Eye Surgery
Ocular Disease Treatment
Cataracts
Cataracts FAQs
Blurry Vision
Insurance & Payments
Contact Us
Order Contacts Online
Reviews
Blog
Community Content
All About Eyes
Contact Lenses
Eyeglasses
Common Eye Conditions
Age-Related
Changes in Appearance
Cognitive and Acquired
Eye Lids
Injury & Irritation
Vision Impairment
Vision Problems
Eye Symptoms
Eye Diseases
What is Vision Therapy
Newsletters
Medical Perspectives
Glasses & Frames
Contacts
Kid's Vision
Tips for Healthy Eyes
Amazing, Interesting Eyes
Conditions That Affect Vision
Home >
Articles >
Newsletters >
Tips for Healthy Eyes >
Nutrition and Your Eyes
Nutrition and Your Eyes
Created in Newsletters, Tips for Healthy Eyes
As you’ve probably heard, carrots are good for your eyes. Technically, they can’t give you superhero-quality eyesight like you may have been told when you were young, but they do contain ingredients that are instrumental in protecting your vision and overall health. Carrots are rich in beta-carotene (which the body converts into vitamin A) and antioxidants known to reduce the risk of some cancers, such as leukemia and lung cancer, and cardiovascular disease. The vitamins and nutrients in carrots also help protect the delicate surface of your eyes.
Nonetheless, carrots are not the only foods known to be beneficial for your eyes. In fact, brightly colored fruits and vegetables in general — including pumpkin, red peppers, watermelon and broccoli — have been found to help protect your vision health.
Here are some of our favorites:
Spinach. A super food, spinach is one of the best leafy green options you can eat to protect your eyesight. Spinach is rich in both lutein and zeaxanthin, antioxidants that filter out light from the eye that can cause damage. Moreover, consuming an adequate amount of lutein has been shown to be an important line of defense against macular degeneration, a disease that leads to vision loss. Given its abilities to help protect eye health, improve blood glucose levels, lower blood pressure and lower the risk of certain cancers, spinach is an excellent ingredient for salads.
Fish. Omega-3 fatty acids are another incredible nutrient that your eyes need to thrive. Fatty fish like salmon, tuna and herring are some of your best options when it comes to getting omega-3 fatty acids. However, if you aren’t a fan of fish, try eating flaxseeds, walnuts and peanut butter, which are also packed full of omega-3 fatty acids.
Sweet Potatoes. There’s something about the color orange in natural foods. … Similarly to carrots, sweet potatoes (and yams) contain beta-carotene, which, again, helps protect the surface of the eye as well as mucous membranes and the skin around your eyes. As an added benefit, sweet potatoes also contain high levels of potassium and fiber.
Eggs. When it comes to your eyesight, the egg yolks are the most beneficial part of the whole egg. Eating eggs is an easy way to ingest lutein, which helps fight macular degeneration. Although it’s best to eat many of the foods listed here in their raw form to help your body get the maximum health benefits, eating slightly cooked egg yolks can still provide eye health benefits.
Beans. Beans are good for your eyesight in a variety of ways. Specifically, they contain zinc, which helps transport vitamin A through the body to your retinas, which benefit from the vitamin. Moreover, zinc helps convert vitamin A into rhodopsin, which allows you to see at night. Other foods that contain high levels of zinc include oysters, beef, seafood, poultry and pumpkin seeds.
It’s best to eat a balanced diet instead of focusing on one single nutrient, because, as with zinc and vitamin A, many of these nutrients work together for your vision health. Moreover, your overall health will thank you too.
All About Eyes
Contact Lenses
Eyeglasses
Common Eye Conditions
Age-Related
Changes in Appearance
Cognitive and Acquired
Eye Lids
Injury & Irritation
Vision Impairment
Vision Problems
Eye Symptoms
Eye Diseases
What is Vision Therapy
Newsletters
Medical Perspectives
Glasses & Frames
Contacts
Kid's Vision
Tips for Healthy Eyes
Amazing, Interesting Eyes
Conditions That Affect Vision
Sign-up using the form or call us at (210) 764-1113 to make your appointment today!
Our Services
Services
We strive to provide complete care for our patients. Learn more about all the services we provide.
Make An Appointment
We will do our best to accommodate your busy schedule. Schedule an appointment today!
New Patient Forms
Our patient forms are available online so they can be completed in the convenience of your own home or office.
Office Hours
Our Regular Schedule
Monday:
9:00 am - 6:00 pm
Tuesday:
9:00 am - 6:00 pm
Wednesday:
9:00 am - 6:00 pm
Thursday:
9:00 am - 6:00 pm
Friday:
9:00 am - 5:00 pm *
Saturday:
9:00 am - 12:30 pm **
Sunday:
Closed
Location
Find us on the map
Testimonial
"
The Vision Place is the best at what they do and make you feel right at home.
"
Jane S. San Antonio, TX
Newsletter Sign Up
Sign up for more articles
Copyright © 2019 MH Sub I, LLC dba iMatrix.
Admin Log In
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Health Disclaimer
Cookie Policy
Site Map