8 REAL REASONS TO LOVE HIMALAYAN SALT LAMPS - Lindsay Rusk Health
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
Lindsay Rusk Health
ABOUT
CONTACT
BOOK NOW
ACUPUNCTURE
PAIN
WELLNESS
HEALTHY RECIPES
8 REAL REASONS TO LOVE HIMALAYAN SALT LAMPS
January 20, 2018 By Lindsay Rusk Leave a Comment
Share
I stinkin’ love Himalayan salt lamps. We have one in nearly every room of our house. Not only are they beautiful, unique and emit a calm gentle glow, they also deliver some pretty impressive, yet subtle health benefits.
What is a Himalayan Salt Lamp?
A salt lamp is essentially a chunk of pure salt from the Himalayas that has been crafted into a lamp. To transform a chunk of salt into a lamp, a small hole is drilled into the bottom of the salt. Then a light is fitted inside the hole, and a base is mounted on the bottom of the salt.
The color of salt lamps can range from light pink to dark orange. They also come in different sizes and different forms. Some salt lamps retain their natural raw stone form, like these ones, while others are crafted into shapes, like these ones.
8 Real Reasons to Love Himalayan Salt Lamps
There are several articles online describing health benefits of salt lamps, many of which have not been proven by science. Most of these proposed benefits are due to the belief that salt lamps emit negative ions. Although negative ions can promote health by improving our mood (source, source), I could not find any evidence that salt lamps release enough negative ions to make much of a difference in our health. Waterfalls, thunderstorms, and regular showers are better sources of negative ions than Himalayan salt lamps.
That said, Himalayan salt lamps are still an awesome addition to any home. Here are 8 real reasons we can all fall in love with Himalayan salt lamps.
1. They Gently Purify the Air
Himalayan salt lamps may not be a great source of negative ions, but they can help purify the air in other ways. Salt is hygroscopic, which means it attracts water. This is the reason blocks of salt sweat and milled salt clumps up.
Most air has water vapor floating around in it. These airborne water molecules carry along with them allergens such as dust, pollen, dander, smoke, bacteria, and viruses. When the salt lamp attracts moisture, it also ends up attracting these allergens, which all collect on the surface of the salt. When the lamp is turned on, heat from the light evaporates the water, leaving the allergens behind. This is the reason Himalayan salt lamps seem to get dustier faster than anything else in the house.
As a general rule, a 4ft x 4ft space can be purified by each pound of your salt lamp. Therefore, a 7lb lamp will purify a 28ft x 28ft space. If the air quality in your home is especially bad, a Himalayan salt lamp might not cut it. You may also want to get some plants that can help clean the air, as well as invest in an air purifier like this one.
2. They May Help With Asthma and Allergies
Because Himalayan salt lamps can gently purify the air, they may help reduce the symptoms of asthma and allergies. Himalayan salt inhalers may also help with these breathing issues.
3. They Make Excellent Night and Evening Lights
Himalayan salt lamps are excellent lights to use after the sun goes down because they radiate a relaxing, soft orange glow. The gentle orange hue from a salt lamp is much less disrupting to our sleep than the blue spectrum light from regular white lights.
4. They are Perfect Lights for Children’s Rooms
Because Himalayan salt lamps emit a low orange glow and do not disrupt sleep, they are a good choice for use in children’s rooms.
We have one in our bedroom that we keep on all night because our 5-month-old sleeps with us. I like being able to see my son as soon as I open my eyes, instead of having to turn on a light first. I find that our Himalayan salt lamp doesn’t disrupt any of our sleep. When our son moves into his own room, he will most likely have a salt lamp in his room too!
5. Help to Reduce Stress and Improve Sleep
As I just explained, late-night light exposure can single-handedly ruin a night of sleep. Sleeping poorly is a huge physical and emotional stressor. Thus, using Himalayan salt lamps in place of bright white lights in the evening can improve our sleep and reduce our stress.
6. They are Beautiful
Himalayan salt lamps are beautiful and can be enjoyed day and night. They are beautiful pieces of natural art during the day, and during the night, their beauty comes to life! Who doesn’t like an orange glow reminiscent of the orange flame of a campfire?
7. Great for Relaxation, Meditation, and Yoga
Himalayan salt lamps can promote relaxation, and are great to use during meditation and yoga. I do yoga at home, and turning on a salt lamp can help get me motivated to stretch. Sometimes I drip an essential oil on the top of the lamp for a combined relaxing effect. These essential oils are my favorite.
8. They are Affordable
Himalayan salt lamps are an affordable, yet elegant addition to any home.
I Want To Hear From You!
Do you have a Himalayan salt lamp? Where in your house do you keep it?
Pin This:
Lindsay Rusk Health is a dedicated resource for people who are interested in health and improving their health. Therefore, this post may contain affiliate links. These links add no extra cost to you. I only recommend products and brands that I personally use for myself or my family. For more information, see my Terms + Disclosure.
Related
Share
Filed Under: Wellness
Reader Interactions
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of new posts by email.
Primary Sidebar
Welcome!
I am Lindsay. I am a registered acupuncturist. I have a practice in Duncan, BC, and I specialize in treating pain. I am also a holistic mama, foodie, and health nut. I have spent many last years researching and learning about health and wellness. I empower and teach smart, busy people how to live pain-free, healthy and naturally!
Subscribe for the Latest and Greatest in Health
* indicates required
Email Address *
First Name
Last Name
Recent Posts
HOW TO EAT HEALTHY ON A BUDGET
THE TRUTH ABOUT SUGAR
15 WAYS TO RELIEVE CONSTIPATION
8 REAL REASONS TO LOVE HIMALAYAN SALT LAMPS
HOW TO NATURALLY BOOST YOUR MOOD
Footer
Email
Facebook
Instagram
ABOUT
CONTACT
TESTIMONIALS
TERMS & DISCLOSURE
Copyright © 2019 · Lindsay Rusk Health