Diet And Exercise Didn’t Lower My Cholesterol, Statins Did | Everyday Health
Search
Log in My Profile
Your Profile
Following Topics
Saved Items
Newsletters
Tools
My Daily Crohn's
My Daily RA
My Daily Diabetes
Settings
Logout
Subscribe Menu
Main Menu
high cholesterol
Guide
Diagnosis
Food & Recipes
Living With
Medications
Nutrition
People
Treatment
View All
Conditions
Atrial Fibrillation
Cold and Flu
Depression
Heart Failure
High Cholesterol
Multiple Sclerosis
Psoriasis
Psoriatic Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Type 2 Diabetes
Ulcerative Colitis
View All
Drugs A-Z
Symptom Checker
Healthy Living
Fitness
Food & Nutrition
Sex & Relationships
Sleep
View All
Health Tools
Calorie Counter
Drugs A-Z
Meal Planner
My Daily Crohn's
My Daily RA
My Daily Diabetes
Recipes
Symptom Checker
Subscribe to Newsletters
clear
More in High Cholesterol
10 Surprising Facts About Cholesterol
7 Smart Smoothies When You Have High Cholesterol
Know the Cholesterol Level That’s Right for You — And Stick to It
10 Surprising Facts About Statins
Explore Everyday Health
Health A-Z
Drugs
Healthy Living
Food
Error
Please try again later.
Save
top
Everyday Health Heart Health High Cholesterol
Diet and Exercise Didn’t Lower My Cholesterol, but Statins Did
Sometimes lifestyle measures aren't enough to lower cholesterol. When that's the case, statin therapy may be the answer.
By Beth W. Orenstein
Medically Reviewed by Farrokh Sohrabi, MD
Last Updated: 9/10/2015
Don't Miss This
4 Snacks That Lower Cholesterol
8 Do-It-Yourself Ways to Boost Good Cholesterol Levels
%title
Sign Up for Our Heart Health Newsletter
Thanks for signing up! You might also like these other newsletters:
Sign up for more FREE Everyday Health newsletters.
Oops! Please enter a valid email address
Sign up
Oops! Please enter a valid email address
Oops! Please select a newsletter
We respect your privacy.
Philip Mandel is an avid exerciser and vegetarian.
Key Takeaways
Statins are a class of drugs that help lower cholesterol, but they do have some side effects.
If lifestyle changes don’t lower your cholesterol, then you may need to take a statin.
Statin guidelines adopted in 2013 increased the drug’s use in U.S. adults.
Philip Mandel couldn’t possibly exercise any more than he already does. “There’s no time in my day,” says the 60-year-old retired engineer turned health coach. “It would take away from sleep.”
So you might be surprised to learn that someone like Mandel is a candidate for cholesterol-lowering drugs.
The Beaverton, Oregon, resident works out in the gym; takes Spin classes three to four times a week; and when the weather cooperates, bikes hundreds of miles a week. In addition, he eats a healthful, mostly vegetarian low-fat diet, and is thin, having shed his extra weight years ago.
But about two years ago, routine tests revealed that Mandel’s cholesterol was too high. Considering his family history (his father died of heart disease), his next step was to take statins — a medication used to lower high cholesterol, or cholesterolemia. Diet and exercise just hadn't been enough.
Trial and Error for a Patient on Statin Therapy
All statins work by slowing the production of cholesterol in the body. But finding the best high cholesterol medicine for you doesn’t always happen with the first prescription, as Mandel's experience illustrates. It’s a process of trial and error, and ongoing monitoring is key.
Mandel’s doctor started him on 10 milligrams (mg) of Pravachol (pravastatin). The problem was that after about 18 months, Mandel still had high cholesterol. The drug simply didn't bring down his cholesterol enough, Mandel says: It was still over 200. (Ideal total cholesterol levels are below 200 mg/dL.)
About six months ago, his doctor switched him to 40 mg of Zocor (simvastatin).
When Mandel first went on Zocor, he had some heart palpitations, which are not listed as a side effect, and decided on his own to stop taking it. “I stopped it for about two weeks,” he says.
Related: 10 Surprising Facts About Statins
But his doctor let him know that wasn’t a smart move. “He told me to take it, and if the heart palpitations returned they would put me on a Holter monitor to find the cause,” Mandel says.
Fortunately, on a new dose, the palpitations he experienced with Zocor have not returned. In fact, Mandel hasn't had any side effects from his statin therapy. Common side effects include muscle weakness, constipation, abdominal pain, nausea, and increased blood sugar levels. “At the moment I’m very happy,” he says.
Exercising Caution With a Family History of Heart Disease
Mandel is very careful about monitoring his heart health because of an extended family history of medical woes. “So many people in my family had health issues — including cancer, cholesterol well into the 300s, glaucoma, stroke, multiple sclerosis, and diabetes — that I’m triple careful,” he says.
The new dose and new statin seem to be the right combination for him. “I had a blood test after a few months, and everything seems to be pretty good,” Mandel says. His cholesterol was down to around 150.
Mandel wants to see whether he can reduce his statin dosage to 20 mg. But if he needs to stay at 40 mg, he'll do so rather than risk his health.
Who Should Take a Statin?
Cholesterol guidelines released in November 2013 by the American Heart Association and the American College of Cardiology recommend that four groups of patients go on statin therapy:
People with diagnosed heart disease
People with an LDL, or bad, cholesterol level of 190 mg/deciliter or higher
People between 40 and 75 who have type 2 diabetes
People between 40 and 75 who are at high risk of cardiovascular disease, including stroke
Experts believe that many more adults will be given statins as a result of these relatively new guidelines. Specifically, 49 percent of U.S. adults between the ages of 40 and 75 should take statins, according to research published in The New England Journal of Medicine that measured the potential impact of the 2013 guidelines.
John Erwin III, MD, a cardiologist at Baylor Scott & White Heart & Vascular Institute in Temple, Texas, said the most recent guidelines should prompt doctors to have conversations with their patients that they might not have had before. “The guidelines don’t supplant the discussion between health care provider and patient coming for advice about statin therapy,” he says. Rather, the cholesterol guidelines leave room for adjustments, and for doctor and patient to determine the best course for each individual.
Dr. Erwin added that the guidelines for putting patients on statin therapy haven’t changed the need to follow a heart-healthy diet and to exercise daily to reduce cholesterol. “That should be first and foremost,” he says. “You need to do everything you can to prevent [a heart attack or other cardiovascular event], rather than have an event occur.”
Just as Mandel does.
People Treatment
The Latest in High Cholesterol
High Cholesterol
All About Treatment for High Cholesterol
Both medication and lifestyle changes can help you improve your cholesterol numbers.
High Cholesterol
What You Need to Know About High Cholesterol
High cholesterol is increasingly common with age and can lead to strokes, heart attacks, and other health problems.
High Cholesterol
Regis Philbin Takes on High Cholesterol
The legendary talk-show host is helping raise awareness about heart health and the importance of staying on drug treatment.
High Cholesterol
Statins Help Healthy People Lower Their 'Bad' Cholesterol
Study found taking them lowered risk of heart disease, death in those with high LDL levels.
High Cholesterol
New Cholesterol Drugs Vastly Overpriced, Study Contends
But drug maker, heart experts question methodology of analysis.
High Cholesterol
New Cholesterol Fighting Meds Target Key Gene
Two trials show promise for non-statin approach to heart health.
High Cholesterol
Many Under 40 May Not Need Regular Cholesterol Checks: Study
But heart experts note that screening sooner can help some patients make lifestyle changes early in the game.
High Cholesterol
Try Dark Meat for Better Heart Health
A nutrient called taurine, found in the dark meat of turkey and chicken, may protect women with high cholesterol against coronary heart disease.
High Cholesterol
Is Your Medication Raising Your Cholesterol?
Taking certain medications may result in some unhealthy side effects. Several drugs, including those for your heart, are thought to actually raise cho...
High Cholesterol
Many Americans Don't Know How to Handle High Cholesterol
Survey found they know it raises heart risks, but are confused, discouraged about how to lower it.
High Cholesterol
New Cholesterol Drugs May Beat Statins, But Price Tag Is High
Repatha, inclisiran lowered cholesterol levels even further, but first costs about $14,000 a year to take.
High Cholesterol
Why I Talked My Husband Out of Taking Statins
High Cholesterol
Study Suggests Newer Cholesterol Drugs Are Safe
Whether taking them results in fewer heart attacks and strokes isn't yet known, researcher says.
High Cholesterol
Many Young Adults With High Cholesterol Not on Statins as Recommended
Guidelines suggest the meds could help ward off heart trouble, but too many people are missing out, study finds.
High Cholesterol
Americans' Cholesterol Levels Keep Falling
Eliminating trans fats from the U.S. diet may be one factor in this healthy trend.
High Cholesterol
High Cholesterol in Children? It's All Too Common
High cholesterol isn't just a health problem for adults: 1 in 5 children and teens has unhealthy cholesterol levels.
High Cholesterol
Hot Peppers May Help Your Heart
Chile peppers like cayenne, jalapeño, and habanero contain capsaicin and could help protect you from heart disease.
High Cholesterol
Can You Overcome Your Genetic Risk of Heart Disease?
High Cholesterol
Statins to Prevent Heart Disease for All?
Expanded guidelines recommend statins for more people ages 40 to 75 who have only one other risk factor for heart attack and stroke.
High Cholesterol
Treating High Cholesterol Is a Family Affair: My Life With FH
One patient with familial hypercholesterolemia took action after too many in her family died of heart attacks in their thirties.
Wellness inspired. Wellness enabled.
About Us
Newsletters
Health News
Our Sponsors
Feedback
Contact Us
Editorial Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility Statement
About Us
Newsletters
Health News
Our Sponsors
Editorial Policy
Feedback
Careers
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility Statement
Contact Us
More From Ziff Davis: Computer Shopper ExtremeTech Geek AskMen IGN Offers.com Speedtest.net TechBargains Toolbox What to Expect MedPage Today PCMag
© 1996-2019 Ziff Davis, LLC. Everyday Health is among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis, LLC and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.