WIFI – Shut Down / Ban « EMR Health Alliance of BC
EMR Health Alliance of BC
Electromagnetic Radiation in Western Canada
Home
EMRHA
About EMRHA
About WRSC
About C4ST
Protest Rally
Meetings / Events
Law Suits
Small Claims Court
BC Smart Meter Lawsuit
Smart Meter Lawsuits
WIFI Lawsuits
Parliamentary Health Committee (HESA)
Timeline
Lower Mainland
Interior Region
Wireless technology said to pose risks
Vancouver Island
Health Effects
Health Effects
Brain Tumors
Brain Tumors ( Celebrities )
EHS , Electro-Hypersensitivity
Research
Cancer Clusters
Health Effects on Bees & Animals
Effects on Plants
Effects on Water
Thermal & Wireless
Autism & Wireless
ADHD & Wireless
Addiction & Digital Detox
Cellphones & Driving
SOLUTIONS
Exposure Studies
RF Measurement Conversion
Small Cells – NodeB 4G/5G
eNode/gNodeB-What are they?
eNodeB – BC Interior / North
eNodeB – Kamloops
eNodeB – Kelowna
eNodeB – Kitimat
eNodeB – Penticton
eNodeB – Quesnel
eNodeB – Terrace
eNodeB – BC Vancouver
eNodeB – Burnaby
eNodeB – Crescent Beach
eNodeB – Delta BC
eNodeB – Kerrisdale
eNodeB – North Vancouver
eNodeB – Richmond BC
eNodeB – Steveston BC
eNodeB – Surrey
eNodeB – Tsawwassen BC
eNodeB – Vancouver BC
eNodeB – Vancouver Commercial
eNodeB – Vancouver South
eNodeB – White Rock
gNodeB – UBC
eNodeB – BC Fraser Valley
eNodeB – Abbotsford
eNodeB – Chilliwack
eNodeB – Fort Langley
eNodeB – Hope BC
eNodeB – Langley BC
eNodeB – Mission BC
eNodeB – Port Coquitlam BC
eNodeB – Port Moody
eNodeB – BC Sunshine Coast
enodeB – Gibsons
eNodeB – Sechelt
eNodeB – BC Vancouver Island
eNodeB – Campbell River
eNodeB – Chemainus
eNodeB – Colwood
eNodeB – Comox
eNodeB – Crofton
eNodeB – Deep Cove – Ardmore – Swartz Bay
eNodeB – Ladysmith
eNodeB – Otter River
eNodeB – Saanich
eNodeB – Victoria
eNodeB – Brentwood Bay
eNodeB – Langford BC
eNodeB – Ontario
eNodeB – Quebec
eNodeB – USA Locations
5G – California
5G – Colorado
5G – Florida
5G – Iowa
5G – Kentucky
5G – Louisiana
5G – Maryland
5G – Michigan
5g – Minnesota
5G – Missouri
5G – New Mexico
5G – New York
5G – North Carolina
5G – Ohio
5G – Rhode Island
5G – Texas
5G – Wisconsin
5G – New Jersey
DIGIT ACT S.88
BILL S. 3157 Streamline Smart Cells
H.R.2 Stop Wireless in Rural America
Bill S.19 “MOBILE NOW” Act
Biggest threats to the wireless economy
US GOV proposal to nationalize 5G
eNodeB – Alberta
eNodeB – Sweden
eNodeB – Asia
eNodeB – RF Measurements
gNodeB – 5G HEALTH EFFECTS
gNodeB – 5G Media Coverage
5G VIDEOS
Scientists warn of potential serious health effects of 5G
BC Government & Telus
5G LAWSUITS
5G Pucks
5G Rollout
Saying NO to 5G
eNodeB – Petition
eNodeB – Letters
eNodeB – What you can do
Small / Macro Cells
INDUSTRY CANADA wants 5G comments
PureFibre Infrastructure?
Fixed Wireless (FWA), FTTP (Fiber-to-the-premises), FTTH, G-Fast
Smart Meters
IDENTIFY
Effects of Smart Meters
Measuring Smart Meters
Identify a Cell Relay
Identify a Mesh Network
Mesh Network – Ontario
Mesh Networks – BC
Mesh Networks – USA
Identify a Smart Meter
Phone Line Connections
3 Antennas in Smart Meter
Identify a Cell Reader
Request to Disable Transmitter
ISSUES
ISSUE – Emissions
ISSUE – Fires
BC HYDRO DOES NOT DENY FIRES
Contact your Fire Chief
Fires – Listed by Brand
Sensus ISA3
Fires – Freedom of Information Requests
Li-SOCl2 Lithium battery
Two pallets of burned up meters
ISSUE – Privacy
ISSUE – Security
Issue – Energy-use Data
ISSUE – Health Effects
ISSUE – Damaged Appliances
ISSUE – Interference
ISSUES – FILE A REPORT
SOLUTIONS
Move Meter away from Home
Solar / Wind – Off The Grid
Smart Meters – CANADA
Smart Meters – BC
BC Letters to the Editor
BC MLA
Dear Premier Christy Clark, “Smart Meters”
FortisBC
Truth about Itron B.C. Hydro Wired Smart Meters
Smart Meters – Praries
Smart Meters – Quebec
Rally
Smart Meters – Ontario
Bills
Letters to the Editor
Ontario Auditor-general slams catch-all ‘global adjustment’ fee
Ontario Petition
Rally
Smart Meters – Maritimes
Smart Meters – Nunavut
First Nations fight Smart Meters
Smart Meters – USA
Smart Meters – Arizona
Smart Meters – Connecticut
Smart Meters – Florida
Smart Meters – Georgia
Smart Meters – Idaho
Smart Meters – Illinois
Smart Meters – Indiana
Smart Meters – Maine
Smart Meters – Maryland
Smart Meters – Michigan
Smart Meters – New York
Smart Meters – Pennsylvania
Smart Meters – Tennessee
Smart Meters – Virginia
Smart Meters – Washington
Smart Meters – Ohio
Smart Meters – Missouri
Smart Meters – Nevada
Smart Meters – California
Smart Meters – Michigan
Smart Meters – Wyoming/Ohio
Smart Meters – Vermont
Smart Meters – Texas
Smart Meters – Oregon
Smart Meters – Hawaii
Smart Meters – Central America
Smart Meters – Asia
Smart Meters – Australia
Smart Meters – Europe
Smart Meters – South America
“Smart” Water Meters
“Smart” Gas Meters
Opt-Out ( FALL 2018 )
PLC
WIFI
WIFI – School Measurements
WI-FI Studies
WIFI – Shut Down / Ban
WIFI – Schools British Columbia
WIFI – Schools Ontario
WIFI – Schools Canada
WIFI – Schools USA
WIFI – Schools Australia
WIFI – Schools Europe/Asia
WIFI in Cars / Trucks
TURNING WIFI OFF
Save the Landlines
Stop 5G/WIFI from Space
Cell Towers
Antennas on Retirement Homes
Cell Towers on University Campus
Cell Towers on Water Towers
Cellular Antennas beside Homes
Cellular Antennas on / beside Church
Cellular Antennas on Apartments
Cellular Antennas on Farms
Cellular Antennas on Fire Stations
Cellular Antennas on Schools
Cellular on Hospitals
Effects of Wireless : Embassy
Antennas in Bad Locations
Antenna Locations
SOURCES of EMR
Microwave Ovens
Wireless Game Systems
Smart Grid / 5G IoT
Smart Meters
Smart Street Lights
Smart Home, Appliances & Zigbee
Smart Phone & Dect
RFID
Powerlines
Telus Optik
Telus MacroCell / MicroCell
Computers, Monitors & Televisions
Dirty Electricity
Stray Voltage
Compact Fluorescent Lights
LED replacement Tubes
The Truth About Compact Fluorescent Lights
Pagers
BlueTooth Systems and Headsets
Medical Devices
Electric Car
Speed Radar / Doppler
Radar
GWEN Relay Node
Wearable Tech
Wind Farm
Microwave Technology
Rectenna
RadNet
RADNET – Geiger Counters
GMC
Radex
Safecast
RADNET – Geiger Maps
RADNET – Measuring
RADNET – Health Effects
RADNET – British Columbia
RADNET – Washington State
RADNET – California
RADNET – Missouri
RADNET – Japan
RADNET – News
RADNET – Fish
Uranium in Canada
Media
Contact the Media
Contact the Politicians
Films
Flyers & Signs
Letters
Media Coverage
Presentations
RF Education
Stickers & Shirts
Books
Podcasts / Blog Radio
Petitions / Survey
Websites
WIFI – Shut Down / Ban
Cyprus Removes Wi-Fi From Kindergartens And Halts Wireless Deployment Into Public Elementary Schools
Teton Village, WY — (SBWIRE) — 03/06/2017 — The Cyprus Minister of Education and Culture issued a Decree on January 31, 2017, marked “urgent” to all Directors of Kindergartens and Primary Schools, with specific measures to eliminate and minimize wireless radiation exposure to children in schools. “We have taken the decision to have the wireless network Wi-Fi disabled in all Public kindergartens in Cyprus,” reads the Decree. Wireless is to be removed from all Cyprus kindergartens, and wireless installations have been halted in elementary schools and limited to administrative offices.
https://ehtrust.org/cyprus-removes-wi-fi-kindergartens-halts-wireless-deployment-public-elementary-schools-2/
Israel Mayor disconnects WIFI in Schools and Kindergartens
The mayor of Haifa (in Israel) ordered to disconnect WiFi in schools and kindergartens – until examining the safety of WiFi thoroughly
Yona Yahav, the mayor of Haifa with children
Haifa municipality disconnects WiFi in kindergartens and schools in the city
18/4/16
The disconnect is until a thorough examination of WiFi safety is done
Haifa’s mayor, Yona Yahav, ordered in coordination with the head of education department, Ilana Truck, to immediately disconnect WiFi in educational system until a thorough examination of the subject. At the same time, Yahav guided to advance the installation of wired safer system.
Yahav: “The education system in Haifa is full of network computers and new, advanced technological systems. However, regarding anything that relates to our children, if there is doubt- there is no doubt. We must take excessive precaution.
As long as the argument on real danger was not refuted, I ordered to disconnect all the devices in kindergartens and in schools. In order not to prevent advanced technology from the children, we will act to activate safe wired system”.
In recent years, the internet media has become part of our daily lives. The use of cell phones, smart phones and computers is gaining momentum among a wide range of ages, where children is an especially sensitive population to environmental effects among them exposure to electromagnetic radiation (non ionizing radiation).
Since the publication of the State Comptroller report in December 2014 on the subject “handling electromagnetic radiation in the education systems by local authorities and private owners”, all relevant bodies were recruited to measure radiation in all schools in the country.
Haifa municipality states, that “the education system has advanced computers system of the highest level. They are under control and stand in annual measurements and until today the results were lower than the demand of the existing standard. ”
In view of this, and as long as it was not proven that WiFi radiation is dangerous, a discussion has started in the municipality to take precaution and receive answers from the governmental ministries.
Haifa municipality is organizing a conference for the next month, on radiation from cell phones and smart phones, in order to give knowledge to the public on wireless emitting technologies and their effects. The conference will deal with creating a policy for educated use of cell phones in the education system in Haifa. Part of the conference will be dedicated to radiation from Wi-Fi. This week, in coordination with the head of the city’s education system, Ilana Truck, Yahav ordered to disconnect immediately the WiFi in kindergartens and schools in Haifa until a thorough examination of the subject is done. These days the education system is preparing to gradually install wired system as an alternative in all education system in the city. These will be installed in the first stage in classrooms where pupils learn for the final exams that force use of computers, so they won’t be harmed from the disconnect. The teachers in elementary schools in the city took on themselves to load every evening the studies material from the internet, so that pupils are not exposed and their studies won’t be harmed. Dr. Mona Nofi-Naama, head of non ionizing radiation issue, in the Cities Association Haifa Bay for environmental protection: “According to the precautionary principle, it is needed to reduce the exposure to non ionizing radiation as much as possible, among the rest also WiFi, by reducing the use of wireless networks and to prefer in every opportunity wired connection rather than wireless. The standards relate to thermal effect only, while here the subject is health effects that do not relate to heating that are in low levels below the standard, but were not defined.
http://www.local.co.il/haifa/134582/Article
http://emrabc.ca/?p=7652
Italian town shuts down Wi-Fi over health fears
Published: 08 Jan 2016 10:51 GMT+01:00
The mayor of Borgofranco d’Ivrea, a town in Piedmont, has ordered Wi-Fi to be turned off in two schools over health fears.”
Mayor Livio Tola told the town’s high school and elementary school to return to using cables to connect to the internet after reading that the electromagnetic waves given off by wireless routers were especially harmful to young children.
“It’s not that we’re against technology, our choice is merely a precautionary measure,” La Stampa reported the mayor as saying.
“We cannot say with certainty if these electromagnetic waves are dangerous for children or not,” he added, acknowledging that there was still a lack of scientific consensus on the issue.
The World Health Organization has recognized the “anxiety and speculation” surrounding electromagnetic field exposure, but is still investigating its possible health affects.
But some studies have suggested that electromagnetic radiation given off by wireless routers can affect the development of cells in young children, enough to convince Tola to shut Wi-Fi off in the two schools in the town of 3,800 inhabitants.
“Who knows? In 20 years’ time some people might thank us for it,” the mayor added.
But the controversial decision prompted a backlash from councillors and some parents, who argue that even if wireless signals prove to be harmful, the measure will do little to protect the town’s children.
They also argue that it prevents wireless devices, such as tablets, being used in classes as educational tools.
http://www.thelocal.it/20160108/italy-town-turns-off-school-wifi-over-health-concerns
Ontario school bans Wi-Fi
Last Updated: October 18, 2010 8:29am
A school in southern Ontario is the first in Canada to ban Wi-Fi over health concerns, despite Health Canada’s assurances it’s perfectly safe.
Parents at St. Vincent Euphrasia elementary school in Meaford, Ont., voted to ban Wi-Fi transmitters, after some students reported feeling ill after they were installed.
“After learning the whole story about how risky WiFi is, parents voted to protect their children’s health and plug the computers back in with hardwires,” said Andrew Couper, a member of the elected school council. “This is something every school council across Canada should be questioning.”
Health Canada, however, insists Wi-Fi is not dangerous and notes there is no evidence to suggest otherwise. Wi-Fi in Canada remains far below government-mandates levels, which stem from thousands of peer-reviewed journals.
“Wi-Fi is the second most prevalent form of wireless technology next to cell phones. It is widely used across Canada in schools, offices, coffee shops, personal dwellings, as well as countless other locations. Health Canada continues to reassure Canadians that the radiofrequency energy emitted from Wi-Fi equipment is extremely low and is not associated with any health problems,” Health Canada said in a statement.
http://www.ottawasun.com/life/healthandfitness/2010/10/18/15729421.html
http://www.torontosun.com/life/healthandfitness/2010/10/18/15729246.html
2008: Lakehead University, Ontario bans Wi-Fi on campus. – news source
Lakehead Says No to WiFi
Lakehead University takes a precautionary approach to the widespread application of WiFi technology
By Eleanor Abaya and Fred Gilbert
Last fall, Lakehead University held a Town Hall Meeting to provide information on its policy on high-frequency wireless local area network technology commonly known as WiFi (short for “wireless fidelity”).
Lakehead’s policy states that there will be no use of WiFi in those areas of the University already served by hard wire connectivity until such time as the potential health effects have been scientifically rebutted or there are adequate protective measures that can be taken.
Eleanor Abaya, Lakehead’s Director of Communications, met with Lakehead University President Fred Gilbert after the meeting to discuss his concerns over the effects of long-term exposure to WiFi electromagnetic fields, and his approach in limiting wireless connectivity based on the precautionary principle.
Eleanor Abaya: What is your main concern about wireless networks?
Fred Gilbert: Potential health effects! There are now so many peer-reviewed studies demonstrating biological effects that it is difficult to imagine that there are no negative health effects.
Abaya: What do you say to critics of your position who say that, according to Health Canada and other sources, there are no health concerns about wireless technologies?
Gilbert: Get your heads out of the sand! Read the literature – a great starting point is the Bio Initiative Report – www.bioinitiative.org. What that report clearly demonstrates is that the standards that are supposed to protect us are set too high in North America.
Abaya: Lakehead prides itself in being a leader in offering advanced communications technology for teaching and learning. Does our current WiFi policy not threaten this leadership position and project the image that we at Lakehead are technologically backward?
Gilbert: Lakehead has demonstrated clearly a commitment to being at the forefront of technological advancement. We were one of the first Canadian universities to put in place VOIP (voice over internet protocol) telephony, and we are still one of the largest Canadian deployments of VOIP. We have developed classroom learning technology with partners Sony, IBM, Precision Camera, and others. We acquired a Cray supercomputer early on and an SGI-based virtual reality laboratory (among others).
Both the Thunder Bay and Orillia campuses are hardwired with fibre optic connectivity. WiFi is a convenience, not a necessity in such an environment. We have permitted the Lakehead University Student Union to provide this convenience in student-controlled space on the Thunder Bay campus – The Outpost – provided the site is posted as a WiFi hotspot and the radiation does not impinge on areas outside The Outpost.
Abaya: What infrastructure is currently in place for connectivity at Lakehead?
Gilbert: Lakehead University data communications network supports all administration, research, and academic needs. The network encompasses over 66 wiring closets, 290 Ethernet switches, and over 7,500 network connections.
The infrastructure is tied together over a multi-gigabyte fibre-optic backbone. Computers, cameras, environmental controls, and over 2,600 IP phones are just some of the devices using TCP/IP as the standard for connecting across this network.
Lakehead also maintains connections to high-speed research networks ORION, CANet4, and other commercial internet providers. Connectivity to the Orillia campus and remote offices exists over leased and dedicated Ethernet infrastructure.
Our overall connectivity infrastructure is as modern and efficient as anywhere in the Ontario university system.
http://magazine.lakeheadu.ca/page.php?p=81
2010: Surrey, BC Roots and Wings Montessori Place removes Wi-Fi – news source
Schools — Wired or Wireless?
November 1, 2010
As a long-time principal of an independent school, I see the health and safety of our children as a non-negotiable responsibility. As technology contributes to ever-changing environmental influences, it’s often a challenge to stay informed to the degree required to protect ourselves, and particularly our vulnerable children. I was therefore very appreciative of the information provided by “Citizens for Safe Technology”.
Although there is far from universal agreement as to the dangers of wireless technology, and there are many with vested interests in its continued use, evidence of its harmful effects is extensive and widespread. The default position must therefore be on the side of safety. One wouldn’t consider using a chemical substance without knowing for absolute certainty that it could cause no harm, even if many people considered it safe and it had many benefits. By the same token, the benefits of wireless technology cannot be responsibly utilized when there is any evidence of harm, let alone the overwhelming information we now have of potential damage.
Changes in complex systems, such as the public school system, can be dangerously slow. I’m grateful that I had the autonomy to make the right decision for our students. On educating myself through the information provided me, I immediately removed all wireless technology from our school and banned the use of cell phones within our building. It was not a major change to hard-wire all computers. In our older classes, every child has a laptop, which connects to the internet through one of several hard-wired internet collections. We have advanced technology without any of the dangers of wireless radiowaves.
I am happy to discuss this decision with anyone who may be interested.
Kristin Cassie, Principal
Roots and Wings Montessori Place
Surrey, BC
http://emrabc.ca/?p=1228
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w2lV5pBWQHY
WIFI Removed . WIFI Banned .
CANADA
2007: Therold, Ontario closes down its citywide Wi-Fi pilot scheme. – news source
2008: Lakehead University, Ontario bans Wi-Fi on campus. – news source
2010 : Meaford, Ontario St. Vincent Euphrasia elementary school – news source
2010: Surrey, BC Roots and Wings Montessori Place removes Wi-Fi – news source
2010: Maple Ridge, BC Parents pull kids out of school due to WIFI effects – news source
WORLD
2008: Voice (UK Teachers Union) calls for a ban on Wi-Fi in schools. – news source
2009: Hérouville Saint-Clair, France: Bans Wi-Fi in public schools. – news source
2009: Irish Doctors Environmental Association: Warns that current safety guidelines are “not appropriate.” – news source
2009: Karnataka State, India: Bans cell phones in all schools and pre-university colleges.- news source
Ballinderry Primary School, Ireland: Removed Wi-Fi to protect the children.
Bavaria, Germany: Recommends no Wi-Fi in schools.
Frankfurt, Germany: Bans Wi-Fi in public schools.
National Library of France: Removed Wi-Fi and installed only cable connections
Paris, France: Removed Wi-Fi from four libraries.
Prebandal Preparatory School, Chichester, England: Removed Wi-Fi from its campus
Progressive Librarians Guild: Recommends no wireless technology in libraries
Sainte-Geneviève University, Paris: Removed Wi-Fi from its library.
Salzburg, Austria: Bans Wi-Fi in public schools.
Sebastopol, California: Broke its contract to install citywide Wi-Fi.
Stowe School, Buckinghamshire, England: Removed Wi-Fi from campus.
UK Department of Education: Children under 16 should not use cell phones except in an emergency.
University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute: Children should never use a cell phone except in an emergency.
Voice (UK Teachers Union): Calls for a ban on Wi-Fi in schools.
Ysgol Pantycelyn School, Carmarthenshirem, Wales: Removed Wi-Fi from campus.
WiFi Radiation Free Schools List
sources : ElectricSense 2012, Safe Schools Maryland 2015 , EmraBC 2017
https://www.google.com/maps/d/viewer?mid=1FBkT5D-xDB9r6PBwEs8jsrjVILw&hl=en_US&ll=48.65187319413241%2C10.660258476562603&z=5
WiFi Free Schools List – Canada
Saanich School District, Vancouver Island, BC
Winlaw Elementary School, Nelson / Kootenay Lake B.C.
Roots and Wings Montessori Surrey, BC
North Cariboo Christian School in Quesnel, B.C.
Pretty River Academy, Collingwood, Ontario
Aurora School, Ontario
Halton Waldorf School, Burlington, Ontario
Wayside Academy, Peterborough, Ontario
St. Vincent Euphrasia Elementary, Meaford, Ontario (2010)
WiFi Free Schools List – United States
Fullerton Joint Union High School District, Fullerton California.
City of Lakes Waldorf School, WiFi taken out. Minneapolis, Minnesota USA
Read the Magazine article about their bold move here.
To sign a petition requesting removing WIFI from U.S. schools click here: http://petitions.moveon.org/sign/get-wifi-out-of-public.fb46?source=c.fb&r_by=10527171
WiFi Free Schools List – United Kingdom
Prebandal Preparatory School, Chichester
Ysgol Pantycelyn School, Carmarthenshirem, Wales
WiFi Free Schools List – Rest Of World
Ballinderry Primary School, Ireland
Blaise-Cendrars High School, Switzerland
Hérouville Saint-Clair, France
Sainte-Geneviève University, Paris
Prebendal School in Chichester removed Wi-Fi networkYsgol Pantycelyn, in Carmarthenshire, switched off Wi-Fi network
​
Stowe School, Buckinghamshire, removed part of Wi-Fi network after teacher became ill.
To start your own free petition click here http://front.moveon.org/
0
No comments yet.
Cancel Reply
Type your comment here
Arclite theme by digitalnature | powered by WordPress
Entries (RSS) and Comments (RSS) TOP
Social media & sharing icons powered by UltimatelySocial