Benefits of The Himalayan Salt Lamps - EMPOWER YOUR LIFESTYLES
Terms and Conditions
Empower Your Life Styles
Affiliate Disclosure
Privacy Policy
General Data Protection Regulation
Wealthy Affiliate Review 2018.
My Continuing Experience At The Wealthy Affiliate
Social Media and the Small Business
Notre Dame Fire
EMPOWER YOUR LIFESTYLES
Benefits of The Himalayan Salt Lamps
February 1, 2019 By Michael Mortimer
Spread the love
Tweet
Benefits of Having A Himalayan Salt Lamp (s)
In Your Home
What is a Himalayan Salt Lamp?
Basically that is what the Himalayan Salt Lamp looks like. There are several other designs. The bigger the lamp size the more benefits. They may be used with a heat source you can drop into it, like a candle often used or you may purchase them with a pre-existing light bulb installed in the center of them. The heat does not influence the benefits, fact is you are NOT recommended to use LED bulbs, or a high intensity light source.
Please let it be known that :
There are no salt mines in the Himalayas. Pink rock salt is usually mined from Pakistan or Poland. “Himalayan” is just a descriptor, because a “Punjabi Foothills salt lamp” doesn’t sound quite so exotic.
Pink Himalayan salt is a type of crystal rock salt harvested at the foot of the Himalayas in the Punjab region of Pakistan. Some people believe that pink Himalayan salt is one of the healthiest salts available because it contains more than 80 different trace minerals. Some people claim that pink salt is good for you and it’s healthier than table salt and sea salt. But that is a separate topic which I hope to discuss at a later time.
Their mission is to bring forth one of our planet’s most potent minerals… a mineral formed over many thousands of years ago when light and energy from the sun dried up the primal ocean.
Reasons Why They Are Healthy:
Salt lamps are said to provide health benefits because they are “natural ionizers,” meaning they change the electrical charge of the circulating air.
Ions are compounds that carry a charge because they have an unbalanced number of protons or electrons.
They are produced naturally in the air when alterations occur in the atmosphere. For example, waterfalls, waves, storms, natural radioactivity and heat all produce air ions. They can also be created artificially by commercially produced air ionizers.
It’s suggested that Himalayan salt lamps may produce ions by attracting water particles that evaporate off as a salt solution when heated by the lamp, forming mostly negative ions.
How Does a Himalayan Salt Lamp Work?
We know the body needs salt for things like hydration, electrolyte balance, proper blood pressure regulation and for the nervous system.
Salt is naturally hygroscopic, which means it attracts water molecules to itself. The theory goes that salt lamps attract water molecules in the air.
Since water in the air can also hold allergens, pollutants and even bacteria, these substances get attracted to the lamp too. The heated salt lamp supposedly dries out the water vapor, leaving the particles attached to the salt. For this reason, many sources recommend wiping down the salt lamp with a cloth a few times a week to clean it. Sometimes known as a negative ion generator.
Natural living proponents and other fans of Himalayan pink salt lamps, (HPS lamps) claim that the negative salt ions get released by heating the lamp through the use of a candle or a lamp that already has the light bulb inserted inside it. By inducing heat inside the lamp it causes a negative ion flow to the atmosphere. These negative ions attract dust so it’s not being breathed in plus several other nasty elements we may be breathing. Thus providing a clean oxygen source. In doing so it has been claimed to boost blood flow, improve sleep, increase levels of serotonin in the brain, and calm allergy or asthma symptoms.
These negative ions are said to also neutralize electromagnetic radiation from household electronics, and even prevent the build-up of static electricity.
Neutralizing electromagnetic radiation:
We are embedded in a vast sea of electromagnetic (EM) radiation emitted by our electronics (smart phone, computer, television, tablet, appliances, etc).
Nobody knows for sure what the long term effects of EM exposure will be. What is known is that constant EM radiation exposure can cause chronic fatigue, increases stress levels, and decreases the body’s immune response, to name a few.
Negative ions will certainly cancel out positive ions; however, to counteract electromagnetic radiation entirely, you would need to wrap yourself in lead sheeting, not just light a lamp next to the TV.
Sources claim that Himalayan salt lamp benefits are due to the creation of negative ions.
Scientifically speaking, the Himalayan salt lamp achieves the following things:
It ionizes the room, by balancing artificial frequencies and unnatural electromagnetic wavelengths that originate from electronic appliances. I have a salt lamp burning next to my computer whenever I am working on it. Since using it, I do not have the headaches I once used to have on a regular basis. One in the living room and one in my bed room.
Himalayan salt lamps produce the light waves of the rainbow spectrum which protect your body.
Significance of colors of the rainbow in modern philosophy
Today, a great deal of research has been done on colors. Colors play an important role in our lives. Different colors symbolize different personalities, and also affect our moods differently. The seven colors of rainbow are also linked to seven chakra colors, seven day of the week, the colors of the Auras and so on. People use crystals, gems and other items in seven colors of the rainbow for attaining spirituality, good health, and wisdom.
We now have seven days of the week, seven liberal arts subjects, seven deadly sins, seven wonders of the world.
I find that to be significant as related to the same colors produced by the Himalayan Salt Lamps.
Health Benefits of Himalayan Salt Lamps:
People using salt lamps report improvement in their physical and mental well-being soon after starting to light them. They are said to help with:
Respiratory problems (including colds)
Allergies
Skin conditions
Mental and stress-related disorders (including insomnia)
Headaches and migraines
Rheumatism
Blood system disorders.
Due to their calming colors (different shades of orange and pink), rock lamps have also been used in color therapy to help treat neurotic disorders and sleeplessness.
Improve the quality of air in their immediate environment.
Achieve a feeling of relaxation and meditation. This could be because it increases 5-HT metabolism.
Improve various health disorders and maintain good health.
The fact that special Himalayan pink salt inhalers exist, and that they seem to have tremendous beneficial effects on asthma, bronchitis, and other respiratory ailments rules in favor of the exotic salt.
HPS lamps are said to filter microscopic mold, mildew, dust, and pet dander particles from indoor air. People swear that adding one or two lamps to their room helped alleviate allergy symptoms tremendously. Even asthma sufferers claim to benefit from, HPS lamps.
Here’s how negative ions improve mood:
Studies demonstrate that negative ions can definitely benefit people suffering from seasonal depression (SAD), and may help other forms of depression too.
It needs to be pointed out that during the clinical trial ‘high density negative ion exposure’ was applied. Interestingly, the ‘low density’ group also experienced a 17% improvement.
Claims that the lamps boost serotonin production are plausible but unproven; the only way to measure serotonin activity in the brain of a living human is by a painful and dangerous spinal tap, so scientific studies rarely look at that neurotransmitter directly.
Pink Himalayan Salt Lamps in your Home:
Where to Place Them:
Don’t expect massive improvements if you tuck away a single rock lamp in the far corner of your house where no-one ever goes. These lamps have a limited range. You will achieve best results if you place them somewhere where you and your family spend a lot of time, or where there are a lot of electronic appliances.
It is suggested to have more than just one pink Himalayan rock salt lamp. You can start with one of course and then add to your collection as you go along. The more the better. You should aim to have at least one in every room you frequently use, such as bedrooms and living rooms
Conclusion:
I personally use three midsize HSL’s in my home. There is so much evidence that negative ions give us a better breathing environment. For instance when ever I go outdoors and if I am lucky, to find a stream or lake, I feel relaxed. When leaving this area I begin to tense up, and my anxiety builds up.
I know there are more negative ions surrounding me in the country. The air that I breathe seems to rejuvenate me and gives me more energy
Just A Thought
For the price of a salt lamp, it sure is worth to check it out. Just have one, have it as closes to you as safely as possibly when you go to sleep, and when you know you are going to be on your computer for long periods of time, have one on your desk.
To your health,
Live Long and Prosper.
Michael
A great place to look for Himalayan Salt Lamps
https://amzn.to/2RMoz2P
Reviews:
If still in doubt I have listed a few reviews of the Himalayan Salt Lamps by people who have purchased and are using them. Pro’s and Cons.
Please highlight and click on search. There are several other reviews also.
Amazon.com: Customer reviews: Himalayan Salt Lamp Hand Carved …
Thank you,
Michael
Please feel free to leave any comments.
categories Health
tags Himalayan Salt Lamp Health Benefits
Post navigation
Previous post Previous Benefits of Yoga
Next post Next EHE009 TENS Handheld Electronic Pulse Massager Unit, Health Canada,
0 thoughts on “Benefits of The Himalayan Salt Lamps”
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
?>
Vous Vitamin
Privacy Policy EMPOWER YOUR LIFESTYLES © 2019 Proudly powered by WordPress Theme: Fell
Scroll to the top