Is there any evidence that autism can be linked to certain vaccinations? – Monkeysee Videos
Menu
Home
About Us
Categories
Auto & Mechanical
Beauty & Fashion
Careers & Education
City Guides
Electronics & Gadgets
Entertainment
Food & Drink
Games & Gaming
Health & Fitness
Hobbies & Crafts
Holidays & Seasonal
Home & Garden
Cooking/Nutrition
Local
Love & Relationships
Music & Dance
Parenting
Other
Personal Finance
Pets
Safety
Science
Sports & Leisure
Travel
June 16, 2009
Children's Health | Health & Fitness
Is there any evidence that autism can be linked to certain vaccinations?
Published: 06-16-2009
Views: 12,017
Description
Expert
Transcript
Description
Autism expert Peggy Halliday discusses if autism can be linked to any vaccinations.
Expert
Peggy Halliday
Peggy Halliday is a board certified associate behavior analyst who has specialized in autism education for the past ten years. She is the Director of Outreach Services at the Virginia Institute of Autism (VIA) in Charlottesville, VA. VIA is a non-profit organization which provides a day school and other resources for families, educators, and other professionals seeking services, training or information about autism and evidence-based interventions. The Institute operates a year-round school for students ages 2-22, a 700-volume library, training workshops, internships for undergraduate and graduate students and teachers, and customized trainings for schools. Peggy supervises a wide range of outreach services, including development and supervision of comprehensive, home-based early intervention programs incorporating naturalistic, incidental, and structured teaching using the principles of applied behavior analysis; training for parents and home instructors; skills assessments, functional behavior assessments and intervention plans, and consultation on Individual Education Plan goals. She has presented trainings and workshops at state and national conferences.
Transcript
Host: Is there any evidence that autism can be linked to certain vaccinations? Peggy Halliday: Research has not shown a link between autism and vaccine.
This is then a huge cause of concern for parents because we are giving our children so many vaccinations these days. The MMR vaccines, the measles, mumps and rubella, was originally thought perhaps to have a link between vaccine and autism because it is given to children at about the same age as some of the symptoms start to show up but a comprehensive study by the Institutes of Medicine in 2004 looked for a relation between vaccines including the MMR and autism and they did not find a relationship. The other cause of concern has been the preservative by Thiomersal which is metabolized as Methyl Mercury and there was a sign of that perhaps, this was the cause of some of the neurological problems including autism, but again there have been no studies that have been found to support this link between Thiomersal and autism. To reassure parents a little more, however in 2003 Thiomersal stopped being put as a preservative in any vaccine except for the Flu shot and it is available as an alternative without Thiomersal.
Videos in this Series
1
Understanding Autism
2
What is autism and how prevalent is it?
3
Do children with autism look different from other children?
4
What are some characteristics of autism?
5
What are some examples of language difficulties with autism?
6
What are some of the behavioral characteristics of autism?
7
What are some examples of social skill deficits seen in autism?
8
Do children with autism play differently?
9
What causes autism?
10
Has autism become more prevalent in recent years?
11
How many children nationwide are affected by autism?
12
Is gender or nationality a factor in developing autism?
13
Is there any evidence that autism can be linked to certain vaccinations?
14
Do individuals with autism live a normal lifespan?
affected
affliction
autism
autistic
behavior
behavioral
child
childhood
children
children's health
condition
cope
coping
deficiencies
deficient
development
education
health
health & fitness
health/medical
illness
living
mental
parenting
parents
problems
signs
social
symptoms
treatment
Search
Summer Favorites
Grilled Shrimp Tostadas with Pinata Apple & Mango Salsa
Perry’s Pig (Augusta, GA) – A Roadfood Hidden Gem
Michael’s Hometown Must-Eats – A Roadfood Roadtrip
Jerk Chicken with Grilled Hasselback Zucchini and Avocado Dipping Sauce
Grilled Rubbed Pork with Avocado-Cilantro Slaw
Newest Videos
Birdies in a Basket
Mashed Potato Topped Green Bean Casserole
Smoked Salmon and Buttery Mashed Potatoes
Mashed Indulgence
Idahoan® Mashed Potato Stuffers
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Contact
© Copyright Fexy Studios, LLC All rights reserved.
About Us
MonkeySee, a Fexy Media Company, captures the skill and knowledge of the world’s top experts and delivers it to inquisitive audiences everywhere. We are the leading creator of expert-driven video content.
Whether you’re surfing the web or watching your local television news, you’ll find our interesting and informative video content where you want it, when you need it.
Watch. Learn. Do.
Latest Tweets
Tweets by @MonkeySee
Like us on Facebook
Facebook page plugin loading...
Food & Drink Videos
Birdies in a Basket
Mashed Potato Topped Green Bean Casserole
Smoked Salmon and Buttery Mashed Potatoes
Mashed Indulgence
Idahoan® Mashed Potato Stuffers