Is WiFi Harmful to Your Health
Toggle navigation
Home
Scans
OverDrive
Internet Speed Test
Vulnerability Scan
Ping Test
Traceroute Test
Products
PC Matic
PC Magnum
Optimize
Driver Alert
Disk MD
PC Pitstop Wear
Become an Affiliate
Business
PC Matic for Business
PC Matic MSP
Support
Customer Service
FAQs
How-To Videos
Forum Help
Running Programs
ActiveX Test
Research
Research Overview
Sample Trends
Battle of the Sexes
CPU Trends
64 Bit Trends
Memory Trends
Storage Trends
Graphics Trends
Windows Trends
Age Trends
Free Software
Libraries
Satisfaction Library
File Extension Library
Process Library
Driver Library
Software Library
About
Contact Us
Testimonials
Press
Events
Is WiFi Harmful to Your Health
June 23, 2014 thewindowsclub
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Do WiFi signals pose a threat to your body and your health?–PC Pitstop
Is WiFi Harmful to Your Health
Anand Khanse for The Windows Club
Radio waves have always been a subject of study as they help in many ways, such as communications and GPS. The same radio waves allow you to work wireless in computer technology. WiFi too is based on radio waves. WiFi is so common today that you are immersed in WiFi waves all day and night. Can your body sustain damages due to WiFi signals, if any? Let’s check if WiFi is really dangerous and what are the health hazards of WiFi signals.
Is WiFi safe for your health or harmful
I need not tell you how WiFi works. You know that WiFi signals start from the router and end up at the reception point of your WiFi enabled device. It’s the same case with Bluetooth, cellphones etc. However, unlike cellphones and Bluetooth, WiFi signals do not accumulate at a certain part of your body. In case of cellphones, it is the ear where you place the phone and it is always either right or left – which is repeated per call. The more you talk, the more exposure at a certain point of your brain. Skull can’t prevent cellphone signals from penetrating into the brain.
The point here is, WiFi are radio waves that may cause problems but since there is no fixed point of body touching the devices all the time, the risk is quite low. Another factor is that there is some distance between your body and device, the risk falls to a lower quotient.
A router is placed either on a table or on wall. You do not have any business going again and again to the router and standing there for long. Likewise, the devices (phones, tablets) etc. are not touching your body at a certain part all along day and night.
You do carry your phones to your bed and probably keep it near your head at night. It sits there all night and hence may create problems (mostly due to cellular signals) but otherwise, the devices such as laptops and tablets etc. keep on changing positions and thus, avoid accumulation of WiFi RF (radio frequency) at any particular part of your body, thereby reducing the health hazards of WiFi signals.
Article Continued Here
223 total views, 2 views today
(Visited 2 times, 1 visits today)
The Windows Club wifi. permalink.
Post navigation
Remount Ejected USB Drive Without Reconnecting
Is AntiVirus Really Free?
2 thoughts on “Is WiFi Harmful to Your Health”
Lily says:
July 11, 2014 at 7:32 am
I don’t care whether the WIFI is harmful to my health, I use it everyday and live with it for a long time, most of us can’t live without it.
we don’t care!
Reply
John Walsh says:
June 30, 2014 at 9:15 am
I remember a guy showing me his remote lock device for his car had better range when he put it to his head ?
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Don't subscribe All Replies to my comments Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also subscribe without commenting.
Authenticate this comment using OpenID.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Search for:
Free Cyber Security Training
FREE NEWSLETTER
Our weekly newsletter is packed with computer tips & tricks. As a bonus, receive monthly emails with exclusive offers.
Email:
Sign Up!
Which is not a standard characteristic of ransomware?
Files and/or systems become locked
Ransom demand is made to unlock files/systems
File extensions are changed
Systems/files can be restored without backups
View Results
Loading ...
PC Pitstop TechTalk All rights reserved.	Theme by Colorlib Powered by WordPress