Nausea – Wellness Naturopathic Blog
Skip to content
Primary Menu
Search
Search for:
Wellness Naturopathic Blog
Natural Medicine For You and Your Family
Nausea
What about Ginger?
January 23, 2013 April 25, 2018 Wellness Naturopathic CentreLeave a comment
Did you know…as one of the oldest spices known in Asia and Europe, ginger has a long history as a seasoning and was once as common as salt and pepper. People would add ginger to everything, including teas and beers leading to modern drinks like ginger ale and ginger beers.
Ginger is one of the world’s favorite spices and has been acclaimed for its medicinal benefits since ancient times. A perennial herb native to southern China, ginger was imported early on to India, Southeast Asia, West Africa, and Europe. Ginger is the underground rhizome of the ginger plant (Zingiber officinale).The flesh of the ginger rhizome can be yellow, white or red in color, depending upon the variety. Aromatic, pungent and spicy, ginger adds a special flavor and zest to stir fries and many fruit and vegetable dishes. Due to its various medicinal benefits, ginger is considered a herbal remedy in many cultures. Over the years, it has been used to reduce inflammation, help with digestion, improve cardiovascular health and even historically to even ward off diseases like the plague.
In the Ayurvedic tradition, ginger is highly regarded as having many diverse healing properties, and is used prominently in treating disorders of the digestive tract. In the Asian medicine tradition, ginger is considered to possess hot or warming attributes. It is also favored as a remedy for digestive conditions ranging from upset stomach to diarrhea to abdominal bloating.
Ginger is still widely used for its potent anti-inflammatory properties. The gingerols found in ginger are powerful anti-inflammatory compounds that inhibit the production of nitric oxide, which helps relieve joint pain that is associated with arthritis. It also provides substantial pain relief from gout, osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis, and also decreases swelling and helps with morning stiffness. In a research study published in 2005, investigators found that ginger may reduce inflammation more effectively than non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as aspirin.
Ginger is an excellent herb to use for strengthening and healing the respiratory system, as well as for fighting off colds and flu. It removes congestion, soothes sore throats, and relieves headaches and body aches. Ginger is loaded with antioxidants, which have immune-boosting properties. By strengthening the immune system, it protects you against all sorts of infections and diseases.
Although scientific research into the health benefits of ginger is really just beginning, over 2500 years of herbal wisdom, plus some recent scientific studies strongly support the use of ginger as an effective digestion aid. Ginger root has a great reputation for controlling nausea of all types. Several studies have found that ginger is more effective than placebo in relieving morning sickness. In a small study of 30 pregnant women with severe vomiting, those who ingested 1 gram of ginger every day for 4 days reported more relief from vomiting than those who received placebo. In a double-blind, comparative test at Brigham Young University, Utah, researchers found ginger root to be more effective in coping with motion sickness than the popular, over-the-counter drug, Dramamine.
Fresh ginger roots can be found in the produce section of most grocery stores. Ginger is also available in other forms including dried root, capsules, tablets, tea, extracts and tinctures. A simple ginger tea can be made by pouring hot water over one teaspoon of freshly grated ginger and allowing it to infuse for 10 minutes before straining. Lemon juice and a little honey can be added to it if desired.
Wellness Naturopathic Centre, North Vancouver, BC
http://www.wellnessnaturopathic.com
The information on this website is for education purposes only. It does not substitute for proper assessment and treatment by a licensed health care provider.
Advertisements
Anti-Inflammatory, Arthritis, Articles, Digestion & Gut Health, Herbs, Immune System, NutritionAnti-Inflammatory, Arthritis, digestion, digestive health, Ginger, health, herbs, immune health, immune system, Joint Pain, Morning Sickness, Nausea
Articles – Select a Category
Articles – Select a Category Select Category Aging (3) Allergies (1) Anti-Inflammatory (2) Arthritis (2) Articles (18) Asthma (1) Back Flower Therapy (1) Cancer Prevention (1) Cardiovascular Health (2) Children’s Health (1) Detox (3) Diabetes (3) Digestion & Gut Health (6) Emotional Health (4) Fatigue (5) Fertility (3) Herbs (3) Hormones (3) Immune System (5) Lungs (1) Mood (2) Multiple Sclerosis (1) Nervous System (2) Nutrition (12) Sleep (2) Stress (4) Thyroid (2) Vitamins & Minerals (6) Weight (5)
Advertisements
Blog at WordPress.com.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy