Post-Op Instructions | Dr. Steven W. Haywood - Dentist Timonium MD | Dr. Steven W. Haywood – Dentist Timonium MD
410-453-9399
Click To Text
Our Front Desk Team
Request Appointment
Call Us Text Us Our Location Contact Us Appointment
Menu
☰
Home
About Us
Meet Dr. Steve Haywood
Our Spa-Like and Anxiety-Free Office
Areas We Serve
Timonium (Office Location)
Baltimore
Towson
Dental Technology
Employment Opportunities
Dental Services
Cosmetic Dentistry
Cosmetic Dentistry
Dental Implants
Porcelain Crowns
Porcelain Veneers
Prepless Veneers
Teeth Whitening
Same Day Smile Makeovers
Ultimate Smile Makeovers
Dental Bonding
Cosmetic Imaging
Gum Lift
Dental Implants
Emergency Dental Care
Dentures
General Dentistry
General Dentistry
Oral Cancer Screening
Periodontal Disease Treatment
Tooth Extractions
Protect Your Smile
Ultimate Dental Fillings
Gum Disease Treatment
Holistic Dentistry
Holistic Dentistry
Mercury Free Dentistry
Orthodontics
Invisalign Clear Braces
Invisalign Teen
Restorative Dentistry
Restorative Dentistry
Dental Crowns
Dental Bridges
Dental Implants
Root Canals
Sedation Dentistry
Smile Gallery
What Our Patients Say
Patient Info
New Patient Info
HIPAA Patient Privacy Practices
Post-Op Instructions
Patient Comforts and Amenities
Links
Blog
Contact Us
Request An Appointment
Dr. Steve and his staff were professional and kind.
Their work is high quality and the experience was pain - free!
Highly recommended!
- Jason M.
Dr.Haywood and his staff are top notch.
He has performed several cosmetic procedures for me
and the results have always been spectacular.
An excellent overall value.
- Brady S.
Without a doubt, Dr. Haywood is the best dentist I have ever been to,
so much so that I live 5 hours (round trip) away, but still come to see him.
The cleanings are thorough.
His work is top notch.
I never have any problems after the fact.
The sanitary conditions are excellent.
The staff is always pleasant and helpful.
- Donna D.
I love the whole experience of visiting your office.
You are all so nice, polite and professional.
You explain everything clearly, you make sure I am as comfortable
as possible, and you make sure I have no questions before I leave.
- Erin K.
They have an experienced and professional staff.
The Invisalign treatment was offered at a
very reasonable price and went smoothly.
I would recommend this practice.
- Lauren J.
Fantastic, friendly staff.
Excellent professional work, Dr. Steve is the best,
wouldn't consider going anywhere else. Top shelf.
- Jason
As always my experience was pleasant and I left feeling confident
I had received the best dental care available.
- Patricia O.
Dr Haywood and his staff have always gone beyond my expectations of
service typically received with other dentists I have been to. I have been
overjoyed by this practice and their services. I am constantly impressed.
Keep up the great work!
- Mary N.
Dr. Haywood, your team made me feel comfortable and at ease the
second I walked in the door. Thank you for taking the time to properly
explain my situation and what the solution would entail.
The pursuing work went flawlessly and I am ecstatic with the results.
Thank you so much for giving me a confident smile.
- Michaella B.
Dr Haywood and his entire staff are very competent
and professional. They always make me feel comfortable.
I have been coming to this practice for several months.
I am having procedures which are very complex.
I have been very pleased with the care I have received.
I look forward to a long relationship with Dr Haywood and his team.
- Deborah H.
Home › Post-Op Instructions
Post-Op Instructions
General Dentistry
Fillings
Following your filling appointment if an anesthetic has been used, your lips, tongue and cheek may be numb for several hours after the appointment. Avoid chewing and hot beverages until the numbness has completely worn off. It is very easy to bite or burn your tongue or lip while you are numb.
It is normal to experience some hot, cold & pressure sensitivity after your appointment. Injection sites may also be sore. Over the counter Ibuprofen (Motrin) or Tylenol (one tablet every 4 hours as needed for pain) work well to alleviate the tenderness. Once the numbness is completely worn off, if you feel that the filled teeth come in contact prior to the rest of the teeth contact our office for an adjustment.
You may chew with your composite (tooth colored) fillings as soon as the anesthetic completely wears off, since they are fully set when you leave the office. If you chose the silver fillings do not eat on that side for the next eight hours since silver fillings take longer to achieve their complete set strength.
[_/su_spoiler]
Crowns and Bridges
Crowns and Bridges are usually completed in two appointments. Following anesthesia the teeth are prepared for a permanent bridge/crown and an impression is taken. This impression is very important. Your dentist may have to take more than one impression. It dictates the precision of your permanent bridge or crown. Then a temporary bridge/ crown are placed on the teeth for protection. The size, shape, and color of the temporary do not resemble the final restoration. A temporary bridge/crown is easily removed; therefore care must be taken not to dislodge it before your permanent bridge/crown is placed.
Do not chew sticky foods such as caramel or chewing gum. When flossing, pull the floss out the side; do not pop it through the contact with the tooth next to it. You will not be able to floss between the teeth of your temporary bridge. If your temporary bridge /crown comes off, you can place some Fixodent (available at any pharmacy) inside it and put it back on, then call our office during normal business hours and we will re-cement it Do not leave your temporary off, even if you have no discomfort. If you feel the bite is not correctly balanced, please call for an appointment for a simple adjustment. Without a temporary bridge to hold your teeth in place, your teeth can move causing your new bridge not to fit. If that occurs, you would have to purchase another bridge.
Your gums may be sore. Warm salt water rinses will speed healing. You may have sensitivity to hot or cold. This is common and normal since the temporary is not an accurate fit of the prepared teeth. If you feel like you are biting first or harder on your temporary or permanent bridge, call us for an adjustment or you will develop a sore tooth.
Be sure to brush and floss your new bridge. With a bridge, you will need special floss threaded or other aids to reach and clean all areas properly.
If you have any questions or concerns, please do not hesitate to call our office. Your comfort is our priority!
[_/su_spoiler]
Root Canal Treatment
Root canal therapy often takes two or more appointments to complete depending on the severity of infection. At the start of treatment your dentist may isolate the tooth with a rubber dam to prevent salivary contamination of the canal system and protect you from the irrigants used during the procedure. A temporary filling or crown is placed to protect the tooth between appointments.
After each appointment when anesthetic has been used, your lips, teeth and tongue may be numb for several hours after the appointment. Avoid any chewing until the numbness has completely worn off.
If the tooth was asymptomatic to start with there are usually no flare –ups between appointments. But if you came in with a severe toothache or a swelling it will take time to heal and expect to have flare-ups between appointments.
Between appointments it is common for a small portion of your temporary filling to wear away or break off. You may even have a bad taste. If the entire filling falls out, or if a temporary crown comes off, call us so that it can be replaced.
It's normal to experience some discomfort for several days after a root canal appointment, especially when chewing. To control discomfort, take pain medication as recommended. To further reduce pain and swelling rinse three times a day with warm salt water.
If antibiotics are prescribed, continue to take them as prescribed, even if all symptoms and signs of infection are gone. Since the tooth is very fragile following treatment avoid eating sticky and hard foods. Avoid chewing on that side until the permanent crown is placed. The permanent crown will protect the tooth from breaking in future.
[_/su_spoiler]
Extractions
After tooth extraction, it’s important for a blood clot to form to stop the bleeding and begin the healing process. That’s why we ask you to bite on a gauze pad for 30-45 minutes after the appointment. You may have to do this several times. If bleeding still persists, biting on a moist tea bag wrapped in gauze may help control the oozing from the surgical site. Tea has an ingredient that promotes blood clotting.
After the blood clot forms, it is important not to disturb or dislodge the clot as it aids healing. Does not rinse vigorously, suck on straws, smoke, drink alcohol or brush teeth next to the extraction site for 72 hours. These activities will dislodge or dissolve the clot and retard the healing process. Limit vigorous exercise for the next 24 hours as this will increase blood pressure and may cause more bleeding from the extraction site.
Failure to comply with the above instructions will result in dislodgement of the clot and severe throbbing pain at the extraction site, since the bone is now exposed to the oral environment. After the tooth is extracted you may feel some pain and experience some swelling. An ice pack or an unopened bag of frozen peas or corn applied to the area will keep swelling to a minimum. Take pain medications as prescribed. The swelling usually subsides after 48 hours.
Use the pain medication as directed. Call the office if the medication doesn’t seem to be working. If antibiotics are prescribed, continue to take them for the indicated length of time, even if signs and symptoms of infection are gone. Drink lots of fluid and eat nutritious soft food on the day of the extraction. You can eat normally as soon as you are comfortable.
It is important to resume your normal dental routine after 24 hours. This should include brushing and flossing your teeth at least once a day. This will speed healing and help keep your mouth fresh and clean. After a few days you will feel fine and can resume your normal activities. If you have heavy bleeding, severe pain, continued swelling for 2-3 days, or a reaction to the medication, call our office immediately.
[_/su_spoiler]
Bone Grafting
In addition to the above instructions, it is important to remember a few additional points if you have received a graft within the socket site after we removed your tooth.
The bone graft is made up of many fine particles. You may find some small granules in your mouth for the first several days. Do not be alarmed by the presence of these small granules. It is completely normal for some granules to become dislodged from the graft site, but there are some things you can do to minimize the amount of granules which become dislodged:
Do not rinse vigorously or spit for the first 3 to 5 days.
Do not apply pressure with your tongue or fingers to the grafted area. The material is movable during the initial phases of healing and it is best to leave the area undisturbed as much as possible.
Do not lift or pull your lip back to look at the sutures. This pulling or stretching can damage the wound, tear sutures and decrease the success of the graft. These sutures may or may not be resorbable. If you have been told that you have received external silk sutures they have to be removed by us. Sometimes your dentist may even place a barrier for the graft which may or may not be resorbable and may have to be removed.
[_/su_spoiler]
Deep Cleaning
If you require more than just a regular cleaning your Dentist /Hygienist may prescribe a deep cleaning (Scaling and Root Planing).It is usually done in sections. One half of the mouth is cleaned in one session & you will have to come back for the other half. First the teeth & the gums are anaesthetized then the teeth are cleaned using a combination of ultrasonic & hand instruments. It is normal to experience cold & hot sensitivity after the appointment. Your teeth may even be sensitive to chewing. Your gums will be sore and may bleed.
Sometimes your Dentist /Hygienist may advise the placement of an antibiotic ( arestin , perio-chip) in the pocket if it greater than 4mm. In that case, patients should postpone brushing for 12 hours and avoid the use of interproximal cleaning devices(flossing) for 10 days. Also patients should avoid eating hard, crunchy or sticky foods for 1 week.
After the completion of treatment it is important to follow good home care which includes regular brushing, flossing, using a mouth rinse (prescription or over the counter). Your Dentist / Hygienist may put you on a 3 -4 month follow up care. Failure to comply with it will return your gum condition back to square one. Regular follow up care will create an environment for the gums and bone to heal and will prevent further destruction. Gum disease is a silent disease and the importance of follow up care cannot be overemphasized.
[_/su_spoiler]
Dentures
Immediate or Transitional Dentures
These dentures are delivered as soon as the remaining non-restorable teeth are removed. They serve as a bandage to the sockets and help in controlling the bleeding. For the next 24 hours do not remove the dentures from your mouth. Apply firm pressure by biting on a gauze pad for 30-45 minutes following the appointment. You may have to repeat this several times. You may apply cold pack externally to control bleeding and swelling. Your immediate dentures will contain the swelling. Take the prescribed pain medication and antibiotics. Do not rinse your mouth vigorously. Restrict your diet to soft and cold foods. It is normal to see your pillow stained with blood. Do not panic. The following morning gently rinse your mouth.
As your sockets heal your dentures will get loose and will need to be adjusted several times. Learning to wear your new dentures (particularly full dentures) is much like learning a new sport. It takes practice and patience. Try not to become discouraged at first. Wear your dentures regularly so your dentist can locate the sore spots when you go in for an adjustment.
You may salivate more when you first get your denture. This is normal and usually stops anywhere from within the first few minutes to a few days. It is important that you practice talking. Talk to yourself, read aloud and sing. You should sound normal within a very short time.
You will also need to practice eating. Do not plan to eat your first meal in public. Cut your food into small bites, eat easy to chew foods and chew slowly. Some people feel more comfortable wearing adhesives under their dentures (particularly full dentures). You can experiment with over the counter adhesives. It is important to make sure you remove the entire adhesive each day when you clean your dentures.
At the end of 3 months your Dentist will reline your denture in house to make them fit tighter. Bone usually takes 365 days to completely heal. At the end of a year your Dentist will send your dentures for a lab reline. It is usually done within a day so be prepared to take a day off.
Transitional dentures are only for the period of gum and bone healing and your Dentist may recommend permanent dentures.
The removable partial or full denture must be removed at least 8 hours each day, preferably at bedtime. Letting the denture stay in the mouth 24 hours a day will cause you to develop sores and fungus under it. It should also be removed and cleaned after meals. When you take it out at bedtime, clean it with a brush and soak it in water, mouthwash or a denture cleaner. Do not let the denture dry out, as this can cause it to warp. When rinsing and brushing your denture over the sink, it is best to place a wash cloth in the basin with some water to cushion the denture should you drop it. The acrylic will break if dropped.
Even if you wear a full denture, it is still important to see your dentist regularly. Your dentures should be checked routinely, along with both the fit and the bite. A poorly fitting denture can cause problems with the underlying tissues and bone loss. You will also be checked for oral cancer and other diseases that can show up in the mouth.
[_/su_spoiler]
Veneers
Veneer preparation involves the removal of a small amount of tooth structure. An impression is taken & sent to the lab to fabricate the custom veneers. During this time your Dentist may place temporary veneers on your teeth, Temporary Veneers are made of either acrylic or composite material. They are very fragile and are attached to the underlying tooth structure with temporary cement and can be easily dislodged.
If a veneer comes off, call us and we will replace it immediately. If you are in a situation that will not allow you to come in, place the temporary back in place with some Fixodent™ (denture adhesive) till you can come in. The size, shape, and color of the temporary does not resemble the final veneer.
Temporary veneers may leak saliva or food onto the tooth. Sensitivity to hot, cold, pressure or sweets is not uncommon. Temporary veneers also stain very easily. Avoid heavy brushing of the temporaries and do not floss between them because you may pull them off.
Your permanent porcelain veneers will be as close to the natural teeth as possible. Your Dentist may even send you for custom shading to closely duplicate your adjoining natural teeth.
Permanent porcelain veneers are bonded to your teeth using the finest materials. As with natural teeth; avoid chewing excessively hard foods on the veneered teeth (hard candy, ice, raw carrots, etc.) because the porcelain material can break under extreme forces.
Proper brushing, flossing, and regular 6-month (minimal) cleanings are essential to the long-term stability and appearance of your veneers. If not your gums may recede reveal the underlying discolored tooth structure requiring replacement of your veneers.
[_/su_spoiler]
Tooth Whitening
Pain and sensitivity following teeth whitening is common. You may be sensitive to cold air & fluids; however the pain will fade away within 24-36 hours.
It is important not to consume any colorants in the first 24- hours following the procedure. Anything that colors such as red wine, dark colas, coffee, tea, red sauces, soya sauces and smoking must be avoided.
Following the whitening procedure an instant lightening is usually seen in most cases. However rebound is not uncommon. On an average during the first month there may be loss of one shade unit, another shade unit during the next 6 months and another shade unit during the subsequent six months. Everyone responds differently, so your rebound effect may be less or greater than the averages stated above. Rebound means that after about two years your teeth may have returned to the color prior to bleaching.
Rebound MUST be managed, this is achieved through any combination of:
Careful diet control avoiding high colorants
Meticulous oral hygiene
Using a whitening toothpaste
Using home bleaching trays
Annual repeat of the in house teeth whitening
[_/su_spoiler] [_/su_accordion]
Endodontics
What should I expect following endodontic treatment?
The root canal system inside your tooth has been thoroughly cleaned, and sealed with an inert material. All the irritants that caused your toothache have been eliminated. A temporary filling has been placed. Please return to your general dentist for the final restoration (crown) as soon as possible.
It is normal to feel some tenderness in the area over the next few days as your body undergoes the natural healing process. You may also feel some tenderness in your jaw and corners of your mouth from keeping it open for an extended period of time. These symptoms are temporary and usually respond very well to over-the-counter pain medications. It is important for you to follow the instructions on how to take these medications. Remember that narcotic medications, if prescribed, may make you drowsy, and caution should be exercised in operating dangerous machinery or driving a car after taking them.You may be prescribed antibiotics.Avoid chewing on that side till the final retoration has been placed.
Your tooth may continue to feel slightly different from your other teeth for some time after your root canal treatment has been completed. However, if you have severe pain or pressure that lasts more than a few days, contact your endodontist.
Guidelines for Post-Treatment Care
Do not eat anything until the numbness in your mouth wears off. This will prevent you from biting your cheek or tongue.
Do not chew or bite on the treated tooth until you have had it restored by your dentist.
Be sure to brush and floss your teeth as you normally would.
If the opening in your tooth was restored with a temporary filling material, it is not unusual for a thin layer to wear off in-between appointments. However, if you think the entire filling has come out, contact your endodontist.
Contact your endodontist right away if you develop any of the following:
a visible swelling inside or outside of your mouth;
an allergic reaction to medication, including rash, hives or itching (nausea is not an allergic reaction);
a return of original symptoms; or
your bite feels uneven.
Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery
Following placement of implants please follow these instructions to make yourself more comfortable, promote healing and help prevent any possible complications.
Dental Implants
Sedation
If you were given sedation for your surgery, the effects of sedation may be with you for several hours. Please do not drive or operate machinery. The drugs used for sedation produce amnesia and help reduce the memory of your surgery.
[__/su_spoiler]
Bleeding
You probably will leave the office with wet gauze covering the surgical site. Apply pressure on it for 30 minutes. Wash hands and remove gauze in 30 minutes. A little bleeding is normal. If bleeding continues, use the provided extra gauze and apply pressure for another 20 minutes. Repeat if necessary, if bleeding is persistent, place a moistened tea bag to the area and apply pressure for 20 minutes. Exercise should be avoided for the first 24 hours following surgery. Exercise can cause increased bleeding. Start back slowly based on how you feel.
[__/su_spoiler]
Diet
A nutritionally balanced soft food diet with plenty of fluids is important during the first 24 hours. Eat soups and soft foods, which are easily chewed and swallowed. During the first 24 hours avoid using straws, rinsing vigorously, smoking and alcohol. Any of these actions could disturb or dislodge the protective blood clot from the surgical site and delay healing.
[__/su_spoiler]
Rinsing
24 hours following surgery gently rinse your mouth with lukewarm salt water 3-4 times a day. Following surgery ice bags may be used to aid in pain control and to help minimize swelling and bruising.
[__/su_spoiler]
Nausea
If nausea occurs take one ounce of a carbonated drink every hour for 5- 6 hours, along with some crackers.
[__/su_spoiler]
Bone fragments
Small bone fragments often separate from the surgical site during healing. If you feel a fragment or spicule in the surgical area it will probably work its way out. If it is sharp or painful, call for an appointment. Generally these fragments are easily removed without discomfort.
[__/su_spoiler]
Medications
Please take the prescribed medications as directed unless an allergic reaction develops. If an allergic reaction develops please call the office as soon as possible.
[__/su_spoiler]
Special Precautions
Implants must be left undisturbed in the bone during healing. Avoid chewing directly on the implant during the initial healing period. Avoid disturbing the implants with your tongue or fingers. If numbness persists beyond 12 hours, please contact our office. If you have had an upper implant placed or sinus graft performed, avoid blowing your nose for 8 days. Do not sneeze with your mouth closed, but try to keep the mouth open as you control the sneeze.
If you had a sinus augmentation or any other type of bone grafts you may have been prescribed an antihistamine to take before and several weeks following surgery. If you have signs of elevated temperature or excessive swelling, please contact your office.
[__/su_spoiler] [__/su_accordion][_/su_spoiler]
Wisdom Teeth
If you were sedated the effects of sedation will be with you for several hours. Please do not drive or operate machinery. Make sure you bring a family member or friend to help you. Before you leave make an appointment in a week for a post operative check.
You will leave the office with a wet gauze on the area. Apply pressure for 30 minutes to control bleeding. Remove the gauze in 30 minutes and replace with a fresh gauze that is provided by our office. A little bleeding is normal. If the bleeding does not stop apply pressure with a moistened tea bag for 30 minutes. There may be some cracks and bruising at the corners of your mouth and you can experience some stiffness and restricted opening that may last for several days.
You may keep an ice bag on the site outside your mouth to control any swelling.
For the first 24 hours
Do not rinse vigorously – it will cause loss of clot
Do not use a straw to drink – it will cause loss of clot
Do not smoke or use alcohol – it will slow healing
Do not exercise or do anything strenuous– it will increase bleeding
Do not touch the surgical site with your tongue or finger
Take the prescribed medications as directed unless you have an allergic reaction. If you are allergic to the medication please call our office.
Restrict your diet to soft, cold and liquid foods
It is normal to see your pillow stained with blood the next morning. After the first 24 hours gently rinse your mouth with lukewarm salt water 3-4 times a day. Give yourself enough time to recover. Eat a nutritionally balanced diet.
If the tooth was positioned too close to the nerve in the bone you may experience some tingling sensation or numbness in your lip which may last for several days or even months. Rarely, it may be permanent.
Sometimes especially with lower wisdom tooth extractions the clot may be lost causing a Dry Socket. Due to loss of the clot the bone is exposed, exposing the nerve ending causing excruciating pain. It is very important to follow the post- operative directions in order to prevent a dry socket. In such as call our office and make an appointment to be seen. Your surgeon will place a medicated dressing in the exposed socket which will help control the pain.
When you return in a week for a post-operative check, your surgeon will check to make sure there is adequate healing.
[_/su_spoiler]
Sinus Lift/Graft
A Sinus Lift procedure is done when there is insufficient space in the posterior maxilla to place implants.
This may be done in conjunction with sinus grafting or by itself, depending on the available bone height. When there is less than 10mm of available bone height a sinus grafting procedure is planned.
The grafted bone is usually irradiated freeze dried bone obtained from tissue banks that may be combined with synthetic bone or your own bone. So you may have a second surgical site if your own bone is harvested.
Please follow the below mentioned post-op instructions to help prevent complications and aid in healing.
Sedation
If you were given sedation for your surgery, the effects of sedation may be with you for several hours. Please do not drive or operate machinery. The drugs used for sedation produce amnesia and help reduce the memory of your surgery.
[__/su_spoiler]
Bleeding
You probably will leave the office with wet gauze covering the surgical site. Apply pressure on it for 30 minutes. Wash hands and remove gauze in 30 minutes. A little bleeding is normal. If bleeding continues, use the provided extra gauze and apply pressure for another 20 minutes. Repeat if necessary, if bleeding is persistent, place a moistened tea bag to the area and apply pressure for 20 minutes . Following surgery ice bags may be used to aid in pain control and to help minimize swelling and bruising.
Exercise should be avoided for the first 24 hours following surgery. Exercise can cause increased bleeding. Start back slowly based on how you feel.
[__/su_spoiler]
Oral Hygiene
Do not rinse or spit on the day of your surgery. This tends to disturb the blood clot, open the wound, can prolong bleeding and slow healing. Saliva can be swallowed, even if slightly blood tinged.
Keeping your mouth clean after surgery is essential to reduce the risk of infection. 24 hours following surgery gently rinse your mouth with lukewarm salt water 3-4 times a day.
Do not brush the teeth in the area of surgery for 48 hours. When brushing, be very gentle.
An antibiotic rinse (such as Chlorhexadine, Periogard, Peridex) may be prescribed. This rinse should be used in the morning and at bedtime after routine mouth care. Do not eat, drink or rinse your mouth after using the medicated rinse. Using this rinse more than two times a day will cause staining of your teeth.
[__/su_spoiler]
Blowing your nose or sneezing
DO NOT BLOW YOUR NOSE OR SNEEZE WITH YOUR MOUTH CLOSED FOR THE NEXT SEVERAL WEEKS.
Anything that increases the pressure in the sinus cavity must be avoided. Do not drink with straws. Scuba diving and flying in pressurized aircraft, blowing up balloons, playing musical instruments that require a blowing action should be avoided. Decongestants such as Drixoral, Dimetapp, or Sudafed will help reduce pressure in the sinuses. You may have a nose bleed. Do not be alarmed. Call our office if there is excessive bleeding.
Smoking
Do not smoke for at least two weeks after surgery. Smoking dramatically increases the risk of bone graft and sinus augmentation failure.
Bone Fragments
Small bone fragments often separate from the surgical site during healing. If you feel a fragment or spicule in the surgical area it will probably work its way out. If it is sharp or painful, call for an appointment. Generally these fragments are easily removed without discomfort.
Medications
Antibiotics, pain medication and decongestants may be prescribed.
Please take the prescribed medications as directed unless an allergic reaction develops. If an allergic reaction develops please call the office as soon as possible.
Wearing your Prosthesis or Nightguards
Partial dentures, flippers, or full dentures should not be used immediately after surgery unless specifically instructed otherwise. Flipper may be used only for cosmetic purposes. When used it should not touch the gums in the area of the surgery. If it does, this can cause ulceration of the wound edges and breakdown of the suture margins. This can lead to loss of the graft. The flipper or denture will be adjusted by your general dentist during the post- operative visit.
Your Comfort is Our Priority. Please do not hesitate to call our office .Our staff will be happy to assist you!
[__/su_spoiler] [__/su_accordion] [_/su_spoiler] [_/su_accordion]
Pediatric Dentistry
Fillings
Following your child’s filling appointment if an anesthetic has been used, the lips, tongue and cheek may be numb for several hours after the appointment. Avoid chewing and hot beverages until the numbness has completely worn off. Children can very easily bite their lips or tongue while being numb.
It is normal to experience some hot, cold & pressure sensitivity after the filling appointment. Injection sites may also be sore. Over the counter Ibuprofen (Motrin) or Tylenol work well to alleviate the tenderness. Once the numbness is completely worn off, if your child feels that the filled teeth come in contact prior to the rest of the teeth contact our office for an adjustment.
Your child may chew with composite (tooth colored) fillings as soon as the anesthetic completely wears off, since they are fully set when you leave the office. If you chose the silver fillings instruct your child not to eat on that side for the next eight hours since silver fillings take longer to achieve their complete set strength.
[_/su_spoiler]
Extractions
After tooth extraction, it’s important for a blood clot to form to stop the bleeding and begin the healing process. Advice your child to bite on the provided gauze pad for 30-45 minutes after the appointment. You may have to do this several times. If bleeding still persists, biting on a moist tea bag wrapped in gauze may help control the oozing from the surgical site. Tea has an ingredient that promotes blood clotting.
After the blood clot forms, it is important not to disturb or dislodge the clot as it aids healing. Make sure your child does not rinse vigorously or suck on straws. Avoid hard and chewy foods and do not brush the teeth next to the extraction site for 72 hours. These activities will dislodge or dissolve the clot and retard the healing process. Limit strenuous activity for the next 24 hours as this will increase blood pressure and may cause more bleeding from the extraction site.
Failure to comply with the above instructions will result in dislodgement of the clot and severe throbbing pain at the extraction site, since the bone is now exposed to the oral environment. After the tooth is extracted your child may feel some pain and experience some swelling. An ice pack or an unopened bag of frozen peas or corn applied to the area will keep swelling to a minimum. Give pain medications as prescribed. The swelling usually subsides after 48 hours.
Use the pain medication as directed. Call the office if the medication does not seem to be working. If antibiotics are prescribed, continue to give them for the indicated length of time, even if signs and symptoms of infection are gone.
It is important to resume normal dental routine after 24 hours. This should include brushing and flossing your child’s teeth at least once a day. This will speed healing and help keep your mouth fresh and clean. After a few days your child will feel fine and can resume normal activities. If your child has heavy bleeding, severe pain, continued swelling for 2-3 days, or a reaction to the medication, call our office immediately.
[_/su_spoiler]
Fluoride Application
Following your child’s cleaning appointment, a topical form of fluoride will be applied onto teeth either in the form of gels or foams. It may be delivered using fluoride trays or may be simply painted onto teeth.
In order to increase the bio-availability of fluoride ions and increase its uptake, advice your child not to eat or drink anything for 30 minutes after application. Also avoid milk and milk products for the rest of the day since calcium in the milk will bind to the fluoride and decrease its bio-availability.
[_/su_spoiler]
Space Maintainer
Your child has been fitted with a space maintainer in order to maintain the space following extraction of the baby tooth, to allow the permanent tooth to take its place.
The space maintainer has been cemented in place with permanent cement. Your child can resume normal function after an hour following cementation.
In a few years when the permanent tooth is trying to make its way through and you see the white cusp of the tooth through the gum tissue, contact the office for an appointment to remove the space maintainer.
If the spacer maintainer for some reason becomes loose before the permanent tooth makes its way through, contact the office for recementation of the spacer maintainer.
[_/su_spoiler]
Pulp therapy / Pulpotomy
Your child’s tooth required pulp therapy since the decay had progressed to involve the nerve or pulp tissue inside the tooth.
Due to the use of a local anesthetic your child’s lips, tongue and cheek will be numb for several hours. Advice your child not to eat on the affected side till the numbness is gone, which may be a couple of hours. Your child may have some pain and tenderness on the treated tooth. Give the prescribed pain relievers and antibiotics as directed by your dentist.
Observe the tooth for any gum boil or swelling. If a swelling develops contact our office immediately.
[_/su_spoiler] [_/su_accordion]
Periodontics
Following Scaling and Root planing
It is usually done in sections. One half of the mouth is cleaned in one session & you will have to come back for the other half. First the teeth & the gums are anaesthetized then the teeth are cleaned using a combination of ultrasonic & hand instruments. It is normal to experience cold & hot sensitivity after the appointment. Your teeth may even be sensitive to chewing. Your gums will be sore and may bleed.
Sometimes your Periodontist may advise the placement of an antibiotic (arestin, perio-chip) in the pocket if it greater than 4mm. In that case, patients should postpone brushing for 12 hours and avoid the use of interproximal cleaning devices (flossing) for 10 days. Also patients should avoid eating hard, crunchy or sticky foods for 1 week.
After the completion of treatment it is important to follow good home care which includes regular brushing, flossing, using a mouth rinse (prescription or over the counter).Your Periodontist may put you on a 3 -4 month follow up care. Failure to comply with it will return your gum condition back to square one. Regular follow up care will create an environment for the gums and bone to heal and will prevent further destruction. Gum disease is a silent disease and the importance of follow up care cannot be overemphasized.
Following Gum Surgery
Your periodontist will numb the surgical site prior to surgery. So you will be numb at least for 2-3 hours following surgery. Avoiding eating anything till the numbness goes away. Do not rinse your mouth the day of surgery. After 24 hours gently rinse your mouth with warm salt water or prescribed antibacterial rinse. Following surgery, the treated area could become tender, sore or swollen. Your teeth may be more sensitive to hot or cold. This will diminish considerably during the first few weeks after surgery. Your periodontist may prescribe a medication to relieve post-surgical discomfort. Antibiotics or antibacterial rinses also may be prescribed. If you take your medicine as directed and follow your periodontist’s instructions, you probably will experience only minor discomfort. Your periodontist might have placed a periodontal dressing or pack (oral Bandage) on the surgical site. This aids in healing and protects the tooth roots from temperature changes. Most patients resume their normal routines the day after surgery. Restrict your diet to soft foods for few weeks and avoiding chewing on the side of surgery. Usually patients return for post-surgical treatment in a week or two. At this time, it may be necessary to remove any stitches (if non-restorable stitches are used) or periodontal dressing and cleanse the surgical area. Additional follow-up appointments will be required to evaluate your healing response and review proper oral hygiene procedures.
New Patient Online Offer
Free Second Opinion
($125 Value)
Contact us today for details
Contact Us
Name:
Email:
Phone:
Tell Us Your Story, How May We Help?
Please leave this field empty.
Search
Address
Dr. Steven W. Haywood
Dr. Steven W. Haywood is proud to offer outstanding dental services for patients in the Baltimore area, including dental implants and sedation dentistry! Call now to meet with him if you are in the Timonium, Pikesville, or Towson! https://www.flossem.com/
108 W Timonium Rd Ste 200
Timonium, MD 21093
Call: 410-453-9399410-453-9399 ulyana.flossem@gmail.com
Reviews
Please leave us your review
Follow Us
Gallery
Testimonials
TMJ Treatment - Crowns
"I teach at a bible college and met Dr. Haywood at the church we both attend. My teeth never had decay yet I broke off virtually everyone of them with my grinding habit. I've done it for years and my teeth were all but gone! After setting my bite in the right position, Dr. Haywood was able to create a new set of teeth for me to try out and, when they were comfortable to me, I was able to get my new crowns made. The work took about 9 months and I have never felt better or smiled more. Thanks Dr. Steve."
—Pastor Lutz
Full Upper Implant
"I came in to see Dr. Haywood knowing I would have all of my teeth pulled. They were terrible and it was not worth fixing them. I was interested in what implants would do for me. It was time for a change! Even I find it hard to believe that these are not my real teeth. They look great and I feel and look younger and I can eat anything I want to with no trouble. Great work!"
—Ed
Instant orthodontics with veneers
"My teeth were very crooked and I wanted a better smile. I had seen Dr. Haywood in a magazine and decided to see what could be done. I chose veneers and some minor cosmetic gum surgery because I really did not want braces in my 20s! The results speak for themselves. I would recommend Dr. Haywood to anyone who wants a excellence and a fantastic smile."
—Greg
Full mouth esthetic makeover
"I traveled to doctor Haywood from my hometown because I did not feel that my work could be handled by a “regular dentist”. I came in with every tooth in my mouth broken, patched, and filled. It was a I know a few people that have gotten work from Dr. Haywood and when I met him I knew he was “the Guy”! I have been thrilled with my new smile. I get compliments everywhere I travel and I am loving it. Thanks Doc."
—John
I believe my smile to be one of my jewels. When it comes to caring for my smile, I trust Dr. Haywood and his team who work towards bringing out the best one.
Chelsey Rodgers Miss Washington DC, 2008
Hallie Day believes that there is just one chance to create first impression. For her dental care she has relied on Dr. Haywood and regards that this has made a difference for her.
See More...
Glimpse of Our Practice
Twitter> Follow Us Facebook> Become A FriendYouTube> View and Share Videos
Contact Us
We encourage you to contact us via phone or email. Please use the contact form to the right to contact us via email. For directions to the office, please click the map below. If you have any questions or comments, please feel free to get in touch. We’re always happy to hear from you!
Address
Dr. Steven W. Haywood
108 W Timonium Rd Ste 200
Timonium, MD 21093
Phone: 410-453-9399
Timonium dentist Dr. Steve Haywood provide exceptional cosmetic dentistry, dental implants, sedation dentistry, general dentistry and so much more to patients in the Baltimore, MD area, including from the surrounding communities of Timonium, Towson, Phoenix, Bel Air, Fallston, Pikesville, Owings Mills, and Jarrettsville, Maryland.
Home
Meet Dr. Steve Haywood
Cosmetic Dentistry
Cosmetic Imaging
Dental Bonding
Dental Crowns
Dental Implants
Dental Veneers
Dentures
Emergency Dental Care
General Dentistry
Gum Disease Treatment
Holistic Dentistry
Invisalign Clear Braces
Invisalign Teen
Mercury Free Dentistry
Oral Cancer Screening
Orthodontics
Prepless Veneers
Restorative Dentistry
Root Canals
Sedation Dentistry
Teeth Whitening
Tooth Extractions
Ultimate Smile Makeovers
Smile Gallery
What Our Patients Say
Blog
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
↑
© 2019 Flossem Dental | Designed by: DentalCMO
NagiosCheckValue - Do not remove please