Epidemiology of AIDS
Slideshare uses cookies to improve functionality and performance, and to provide you with relevant advertising. If you continue browsing the site, you agree to the use of cookies on this website. See our User Agreement and Privacy Policy.
Slideshare uses cookies to improve functionality and performance, and to provide you with relevant advertising. If you continue browsing the site, you agree to the use of cookies on this website. See our Privacy Policy and User Agreement for details.
SlideShare Explore Search You
Upload
Login
Signup
Submit Search
Home
Explore
Presentation Courses
PowerPoint Courses
by LinkedIn Learning
Successfully reported this slideshow.
We use your LinkedIn profile and activity data to personalize ads and to show you more relevant ads. You can change your ad preferences anytime.
Epidemiology of AIDS
Upcoming SlideShare
Loading in …5
×
1
1 of 104
Like this presentation? Why not share!
Share
Email
Hiv 101 2011 latest edition by serp1059 9971 views
National AIDS Control Program - IV by Bharat Paul 9176 views
Hiv aids epidemiology & trends by Professor S A Tabish 1893 views
HIV epidemiology and pathogenesis by prakashtu 7459 views
Share SlideShare
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Embed
Size (px)
Start on
Show related SlideShares at end
WordPress Shortcode
Link
Epidemiology of AIDS
2,235 views
Share
Like
...
Anusha Divvi
, Assistant Professor at Vishnu Dental College
Follow
Published on Aug 20, 2016
Epidemiology of AIDS
...
Published in: Education
6 Comments
16 Likes
Statistics
Notes
Full Name
Comment goes here.
12 hours ago Delete Reply Block
Are you sure you want to Yes No
Your message goes here
Post
Eddie Greene
STOP GETTING RIPPED OFF! LEARN THE SHOCKING TRUTH ABOUT CANDIDA, YEAST INFECTION, DRUGS AND CREAMS... To get the FACTS on exactly how to eliminate your yeast infection from the root 100% naturally and Permanently and achieve LASTING freedom from candida related symptoms without spending your hard-earned money on drugs and over the counters... ■■■ http://scamcb.com/index7/pdf
2 months ago Reply
Are you sure you want to Yes No
Your message goes here
Alfreda Richard
STOP GETTING RIPPED OFF! LEARN THE SHOCKING TRUTH ABOUT CANDIDA, YEAST INFECTION, DRUGS AND CREAMS... To get the FACTS on exactly how to eliminate your yeast infection from the root 100% naturally and Permanently and achieve LASTING freedom from candida related symptoms without spending your hard-earned money on drugs and over the counters... ◆◆◆ http://scamcb.com/index7/pdf
2 months ago Reply
Are you sure you want to Yes No
Your message goes here
Pearl Mathews
Yeast Infection No More! Cure yeast infection, end your candida related symptoms and regain your natural inner balance ... Guaranteed! -- Discover how Linda Allen has taught thousands of people to achieve yeast infection freedom faster than they ever thought possible... Even if you've never succeeded at curing your candida before... Right here you've found the candida freedom success system you've been looking for! ♣♣♣ https://tinyurl.com/y4uu6uch
2 months ago Reply
Are you sure you want to Yes No
Your message goes here
LuandaMichael
CURED FROM HERPES VIRUS ...indeed DR HASSAN IS a God sent to cure HERPES DR HASSAN is the only Dr who could ever get Herpes cured with his healing medicine, i have tried almost everything but i couldn't find any solution on my disease, despite all these happening to me, i always spend a lot to buy drugs from hospital and taking some several medications but no relieve, until one day i was just browsing on the internet when i come across a great post of 'Morrison' who truly said that he was been diagnose with Herpes and was healed the nest week through the help of this great powerful healing doctor, so i quickly contacted him, and he ask me some few questions and he said a thing i will never forget that any one who contacted him is always getting his or her healing ,so i was amazed all the time i heard that from him,so he sent me the herbal medicine ,and after taking his medicine for the period of time he told me to, i noticed a very hug difference in my health,so i went to the hospital to give the final test to the disease and the doctor said i am HERPES NEGATIVE ,i am very amazed and happy about the healing DR HASSAN gave to me from the help of his ancient herbs But if you feel like contacting DR HASSAN at once you can email him now for your own healing too at :(drhassanherbscure@gmail.com). whatsApp /CALL +2349032582239
7 months ago Reply
Are you sure you want to Yes No
Your message goes here
Shivam Kamthan , Doctor at Subharti University
HI THERE PLEASE MAIL ME UR PRESENTATION IT IS VERY WELL PREPARED AT kamthandrshivam@gmail.com thanks a lot
8 months ago Reply
Are you sure you want to Yes No
Your message goes here
Show More
PhilisGesare
1 month ago
Amena Soofia
3 months ago
DavidSergio4
5 months ago
sameena abdul , Student at nimra institute of medical sciences
5 months ago
rashmi agarwalla , Student at gauhati medical college
7 months ago
Show More
No Downloads
Views
Total views
2,235
On SlideShare
0
From Embeds
0
Number of Embeds
5
Actions
Shares
0
Downloads
0
Comments
6
Likes
16
Embeds 0
No embeds
No notes for slide
According to UNAIDS
Epidemiology of AIDS
1. EPIDEMIOLOGY OF AIDS Acquired Immune DeficiencyAcquired Immune Deficiency SyndromeSyndrome By Dr. Anusha Divvi Post graduate student Department of Public Health Dentistry
2. CONTENTS • History • Problem statement • AIDS in world • AIDS in India • Epidemiological features • Clinical manifestations
3. • Diagnosis of AIDS • Control of AIDS • Summary • Conclusion • References
4. What is HIV? • H  Human • I  Immunodeficiency • V  Virus • It affects only humans and lives only in humans • Immunodeficiency refers to lack(deficiency) or breakdown of immune system
5. What is AIDS? • AIDS Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome • To acquire -- to develop over a period of time • Immune system gets deficient • Syndrome - group of signs and symptoms that collectively indicate a disease
6. Where it came from?? • In 1999 - SIV (Simian Immunodeficiency virus) - chimpanzee - almost identical to HIV • Chimpanzees were the source of HIV-1 - virus - from chimps to humans • More research - how SIV could have developed in the chimps
7. • Chimps had hunted and eaten 2 smaller species of monkeys and became infected with 2 different strains of SIV. Greater spot- nosed monkey Red-capped mangabeys Chimp hunting
8. HOW DID VIRUS CROSS FROM CHIMPS TO HUMANS? • Simple and plausible theory - “Hunter Theory” or “Bush Meat Theory” • Blood of chimps getting into cuts or wounds on the human hunter
9. DID HIV START IN AFRICA? • Researchers concluded that the first transmission of SIV to HIV in humans took place around 1920 in Kinshasa in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Central Africa.
10. How the virus came out of Kinshasa??? SEX TRADE MIGRANTS
11. TIME - TRAVEL • First reported case (1981) • 1982 CDC coined “acquired immunodeficiency syndrome” (AIDS) • First isolation of LAV (1983) – Luc Montagnier and colleagues - African patient – lymphadenopathy – LAV
12. • First isolation of HTLV (1984) – Robert Gallo and colleagues • First cases of HIV - India - 1986 - sex workers - Chennai • May 1986 - HIV • National AIDS committee - 1986 • First AIDS case - 1987 in Mumbai. • March 19, 1987 - Zidovudine - Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
13. • 1st December - World AIDS Day - 1988 • Red ribbon - International symbol of AIDS awareness – 1991 • NACO and NACP - 1992 • Triple-drug therapy - 1996 - world AIDS conference in Vancouver • David Ho - 1997 - a new treatment strategy “Hit early, hit hard”
14. PROBLEM STATEMENT • Global statistics (2015) – 36.7 million [34.0 million–39.8 million] people globally were living with HIV – 2.1 million [1.8 million–2.4 million] people became newly infected with HIV – 1.1 million people died from AIDS-related illnesses – (http://www.unaids.org)
15. • 17 million people were accessing antiretroviral therapy • 78 million people have become infected with HIV since the start of the epidemic • 35 million people have died from AIDS- related illnesses since the start of the epidemic
16. Indian statistics 2015 Estimated No. of people with HIV 21,16,581 Adults 19,78,125 Children (<15) 1,38,456 Male 12,60,094 Female 8,56,487 Estimated AIDS prevalence Total 0.26 Male 0.30 Female 0.22
17. Estimated No. of annual new HIV infections Total 86,309 Adults 75,948 Children (<15) 10,361 Estimated No. of AIDS related deaths Total 67,612 Adults 60,086 Children (<15) 7,526
18. Estimated ART need Adults 12,70,678 Children (<15) 74,220 Estimated No. of mothers needing PPTCT Mothers needing PPTCT 35,255
19. OVERVIEW OF HIV IN INDIA Prevalence of HIV in different states • Manipur – 1.15% • Mizoram – 0.80% • Nagaland – 0.78% • Andhra Pradesh – 0.66% • Karnataka – 0.53% • Tamilnadu – 0.28%
20. HIV EPIDEMICS Who and UNAIDS defined 3 types of HIV epidemics • Low level HIV epidemics • Concentrated HIV epidemics • Generalized HIV epidemics
21. • Low level – prevalence has not consistently exceeded 5% in any defined sub-population • Concentrated – prevalence is consistently over 5% in at least one defined sub-population but is below 1% in pregnant women • Generalized – prevalence consistently over 1% in pregnant women
22. EPIDEMIOLOGICAL FEATURES 1. AGENT • Group: Lentivirus • Subgroup: Retrovirus • CD4+ T lymphocytes • Macrophages and monocytes • Slow infection with prolonged incubation period.
23. Structure of the virus • 120nm in diameter • Envelope gp160; gp120 & gp41 • Icosahedral symmetry • Nucelocapsid • Outer matrix protein (p17) • Major capsid protein (p24) • Nuclear protein (p7) • RNA with reverse transcriptase
24. RETRO VIRAL GENES • gag (group-specific antigen): makes the cone shape viral capsid • pol (polymerase): codes for viral enzymes reverse transcriptase, integrase, and viral protease • env (envelope): makes surface protein gp120 and trans membrane gp41, enabling HIV to fuse to CD4 cells.
25. RETRO VIRAL GENES • Tat The Trans activator gene influences the function of genes some distance away. • Rav The differential regulator of expression of
26. RETRO VIRAL GENES • vif • The virus infectivity factor gene required for infectivity • nef • The negative regulator factor retards HIV replication • vpr virus protein R - undetermined function
27. GENES IN HIV 1 AND HIV 2 • vpu • Virus protein U gene is required for efficient viral replication • Found only in HIV-1 • vpx • The virus protein X gene has an undetermined function. • It is found only in HIV-2
28. HIV REPLICATION – Attachment – Penetration – Uncoating – Reverse Transcription – Integration – Replication – Assembly – Release
29. Reservoir of infection • Cases and carriers. • Once infected, the virus remains in life-long • Risk of developing AIDS increases with time • Symptomless carrier can infect other people for years
30. SOURCE OF INFECTION High concentration • Blood • Semen/Vaginal fluids (as high as blood) • Pus from sores • CSF Low concentration • Sweat • Tears • Urine • Saliva • Breast milk
31. 2. HOST FACTORS • Age: 20-49 years • High risk groups: Male homosexuals, bisexuals, intravenous drug abusers, transfusion recipients of blood and blood products, hemophiliacs
32. IMMUNOLOGY • HIV selectively infects T-helper cells • Healthy individual - twice as many helper cells as suppressor cells • It is reversed in AIDS • striking feature - total lymphocyte count - below 500 cu.mm. • More prone for opportunistic infection, neoplasm
33. MODE OF TRANSMISSION • Sexual transmission • Blood contact • Maternal – foetal transmission
34. • Unprotected sex with multiple partners • Sharing needles • Pregnancy • Breast feeding • Blood transfusion • Wound contacts • Occupational exposure
35. INCUBATION PERIOD • Current data suggest that the incubation period is uncertain • From a few months to 10 years or more • Virus can lie silent in the body for many years • Among the people infected with HIV- possibly 10-30 % - develop AIDS
36. • Another 25-30 % - AIDS-related complex. • 75 per cent of those infected with HIV will develop AIDS by the end of ten years
37. CLINICAL MANIFESTATIONS 1. Initial infection with the virus and development of antibodies 2. Asymptomatic carrier state 3. AIDS – related complex 4. AIDS
38. INITIAL INFECTION • Most HIV - infected people have no symptoms for the first five years • Look healthy and feel well • Can transmit the virus to others. • Once infected, people are infected for life • HIV antibodies – 2 to 12 weeks – blood stream
39. • Window period • Period before the antibodies are produced • Although the person is infectious he will test negative on standard antibody blood test
40. ASYMPTOMATIC CARRIER STATE • Infected people have antibodies • No overt signs of disease • Persistent generalized lymphadenopathy
41. AIDS RELATED COMPLEX • Unexplained diarrhoea • Fatigue • Malaise • Loss of more than 10% body weight • Fever • Night sweats and generalized lymphadenopathy • No opportunistic infections or cancers
42. AIDS • End stage of HIV infection • Tuberculosis and Kaposi sarcoma – seen early • When T helper cells dropped to 100: – Candida oesophagitis, Cryptococcus meningitis and penicillosis – Parasitic infections such as Pneumocystis carini pneumonia or Toxoplasma gondii encephalitis • AIDS encephalopathy dementia
43. ORAL MANIFESTATIONS OF AIDS Hairy leukoplakia Kaposi sarcoma Herpes simplex
44. QUESTIONS • Target cells of HIV _________ • World’s AIDS day __________ • 3rd clinical stage of HIV infection ______ • The genetic material of HIV _________ • GP 41 is ___________
45. THANKYOU
46. EPIDEMIOLOGY OF AIDS Acquired Immune DeficiencyAcquired Immune Deficiency SyndromeSyndrome By Dr. Anusha Divvi Post graduate student Department of Public Health Dentistry
47. • Diagnosis of AIDS • Control of AIDS • Summary • Conclusion • References
48. DIAGNOSIS A. Clinical diagnosis B. Laboratory diagnosis
49. CLINICAL 1. WHO case definition for AIDS surveillance • At least 2 major signs in combination with at least 1 of the minor signs • Not due to a condition unrelated to HIV infection
50. • Major signs – Weight loss > 10% of body weight – Chronic diarrhoea – Prolonged fever • Minor signs • Persistent cough • Oropharyngeal candidiasis • Generalized lymphadenopathy
51. • History of herpes zoster • Generalized pruritic dermatitis • Chronic progressive herpes simplex infection HSV 1
52. CHILDREN • At least 2 major signs and 2 minor signs are present
53. Expanded WHO case definition for AIDS surveillance • For the purposes of AIDS surveillance • If a test for HIV antibody gives a positive result, and one or more of the following conditions are present :
54. • > 10% body weight loss with diarrhoea or fever or both • Cryptococcal meningitis • Pulmonary or extra-pulmonary tuberculosis • Kaposi sarcoma • Neurological impairment • Candidiasis of oesphagus • Invasive cervical cancer
55. CLINICAL STAGING • WHO has developed a clinical staging system, based on clinical criteria • Clinical stage is important as a criterion for starting antiretroviral therapy
56. • Clinical stage 1 – Asymptomatic – Persistent generalized lymphadenopathy
57. • CLINICAL STAGE 2 • Moderate unexplained weight loss • Recurrent respiratory tract infections • Herpes zoster • Angular cheilitis • Recurrent oral ulcerations • Papular pruritic eruptions • Seborrhoeic dermatitis • Fungal nail infections
58. • Clinical stage 3 • Unexplained severe weight loss • Unexplained chronic diarrhoea for longer than one month • Unexplained persistent fever • Persistent oral candidiasis • Oral hairy leukoplakia • Pulmonary tuberculosis • Severe bacterial infections
59. Clinical stage 4 • HIV wasting syndrome • Severe bacterial pneumonia • Chronic herpes simplex infection • Extra pulmonary tuberculosis • Kaposi sarcoma • HIV encephalopathy • Invasive cervical carcinoma
60. Laboratory diagnosis of AIDS • Immunological tests • Specific tests – Antigen detection – Virus isolation – Polymerase chain reaction – Antibody detection
61. Immunological tests • Lymphocyte count falls below 2000/cu mm • T helper cell count will be less than 200/cu mm • T4 : T8 cell ratio is reversed • Thrombocytopenia • Raised IgG levels
62. SPECIFIC TESTS • Antigen detection • Antibody detection • Virus isolation
63. • P24 detection – ELISA • Virus isolation – cultivation of patients lymphocytes on uninfected lymphocytes • Polymerase chain reaction: – Gold standard for diagnosis – Amplification of DNA segments for the detection of pathogenic virus • Antibody detection – ELISA – screening – Western blot - confirmatory
64. • To ensure accuracy two different tests • First a sensitive test is used to detect the HIV- antibodies • second confirmatory test - any false positive results.
65. • The screening test is normally the ELISA •
66. • The confirmatory test is Western Blot - detecting specific antibody to viral core protein (p24) and envelop glycoprotein (gp41)
67. CONTROL OF HIV/AIDS • There are four basic approaches to the control of AIDS : 1. Prevention 2. Antiretroviral treatment 3. Specific prophylaxis 4. Primary health care
68. PREVENTION : a)Education b) Prevention of blood-borne HIV transmission
69. II. ANTIRETROVIRAL TREATMENT:  Advent of potent antiretroviral therapy - 1996 - revolution in the care of patients.  Treatments are not for cure  Meant for reduction of morbidity and mortality
70. DRUGS USED FOR ART • Nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors –Lamivudine –Stavudine –Zidovudine • Fusion inhibitors –Enfuvirtide
71. • Nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors • Tenofovir • Non nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors • Efavirenz • Etravirine • Nevirapine
72. • Protease inhibitors • Saquinavir • Ritonavir • Indinavir • Integrase strand transfer inhibitors • Raltegravir
73. HAART(Highly active antiretroviral therapy) • Synergistic combinations of NRTIs and Protease inhibitors • Popular HAART combinations • NRTIs(2)+PI(1) • NRTI(1)+NNRTI(1)+PI(1) • NRTI(1)+NNRTI(1)+PI(2)
74. III. SPECIFIC PROPHYLAXIS: • Prophylaxis against M. tuberculosis is 300 mg Isoniazid daily for 9 months to 1 year • Kaposi's sarcoma might be treated with interferon or chemotherapy •Antifungal drugs for candidiasis
75. IV. PRIMARY HEALTH CARE Focus on five strategic directions: 1. Increasing knowledge of HIV serostatus 2. Accelerating HIV prevention 3. Accelerating the scale-up of HIV treatment and care 4. Health systems strengthening
76. National AIDS control program • It was launched in India in the year 1987. • To implement and closely monitor the various components of the programme • Aim - to prevent further transmission of HIV to decrease morbidity and mortality
77. • The Govt. of India initiated programmes of prevention and raising awareness under: »NACP-I (1992-99) »NACP-II (1999-2006) »NACP- III( 2006-2011)
78. • India has now developed the fourth National Programme Implementation Plan (NACP-IV, 2012-2017). • To halt and reverse - over the next 5 years by integrating programmes for prevention, care, support and treatment.
79. The services are : 1. Prevention services 2. Care support and treatment services
80. Preventive services • Needle syringe exchange program • Prevention and control of sexually transmitted diseases • Blood safety • HIV counselling and testing services • Prevention of parent to child transmission • Condom promotion
81. Care support and treatment services • Laboratory services for CD4 testing and other investigations • Free antiretroviral therapy • Early infant diagnosis for HIV exposed infants and children below 18 months • HIV- TB coordination • Treatment of opportunistic infections
82. Guidelines on HIV and infant feeding • Till 2009, WHO advised HIV – positive mothers to avoid breast feeding if they were able to afford and store formula milk safely • On 30th November 2009, WHO released new recommendations on infant feeding by HIV positive mothers
83. • HIV positive mothers or their infants take antiretroviral drugs throughout the period of breast feeding and until the infant is 12 months old • Child can benefit from breast feeding with very little risk of becoming infected with HIV
84. Nutrition requirements for people living with HIV/AIDS • Energy requirements – increase by 10% - asymptomatic HIV infected adults and children • 20 -30 % - symptomatic HIV and AIDS • HIV infected 6-59 month old children – Vitamin A supplements – 1 lakh IU – every 4-6 months
85. HIV SURVEILLANCE : • To detect the spread of the disease • To make appropriate strategy for prevention and control • Types of surveillance : • HIV sero surveillance • HIV sentinel surveillance • AIDS case surveillance • STD surveillance
86. Counselling and HIV testing services 1. Integrated counselling and testing centres(ICTC) 2.Prevention of parents to child transmission of HIV ( PPTCT) 3. HIV/ tuberculosis collaborative activities.
87. I. Integrated counselling and testing centres(ICTC): A) Fixed facility ICTCs: i.Standalone ICTC( SA-ICTC) ii.Facility integrated counselling and testing centres( F-ICTC) B) Mobile ICTC:
88. 2. Prevention of parents to child transmission of HIV ( PPTCT)  Started in 2002 Now 15000 ICTCs offer PPTCT services to pregnant women Single dose of Nevirapine to multi-drug ARV prophylaxis from 2012
89. • Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. • From May 2013 national wide implementation has done
90. 3. HIV/ tuberculosis collaborative activities The risk of TB infection in HIV positive persons increases manifolds. NACO - with RNTCP - promoting cross referrals for early diagnosis and treatment of tuberculosis
91. NATIONAL AIDS TELEPHONE HELPLINE : • A toll free national AIDS telephone helpline has been set up to provide access to information and counselling, on HIV/AIDS related issues. • This is a computerized 4 digit number 1097, with a voice response system linked with a telephone helpline
92. HIV VACCINE • Developing a safe, effective and affordable vaccine to prevent HIV infection is the best hope for controlling HIV epidemic • In 2015 NIAID and collaborators launched HVTN 100, an early stage clinical trial in South Africa • Designed to determine whether the regimen is safe, tolerable and effective
93. • Further information about HIV vaccine will be announced in November 2016
94. CONCLUSION • AIDS has rapidly established itself throughout the world. • Still a major health problem and lot needs to be done to ensure the sustainability of these programs • Evolve mechanisms to ensure that HIV care is provided along with general health care.
95. REFERENCES 1. Park.K. A textbook of Preventive and Social Medicine.23rd edition. Jabalpur. M/s Banarsidas Bhanot Publishers:2014 2. Current Medical Diagnosis and Treatment edited by Lawrence M. Tierncy, Jr Siephen J. McPhee and Maxine A. Papadakis, 43rdEd.2004
96. 3. WHO 2004: Scaling up antiretroviral therapy in resource-limited settings: treatment guidelines for a public health approach; 27-47 4. WHO. 2008. Operations Manual for Delivery of HIV Prevention, Care and Treatment at Primary Health Centres in High-Prevalence 5. WHO Technical Consultation on Nutrient Requirements for People Living with HIV/AIDS (2003 : Geneva, Switzerland)
97. 6. Nutrient requirements for people living with HIV/AIDS: report of a technical consultation, World Health Organization, Geneva, 13-15 May 2003. 7. Coors M et al. Acute phase response and energy balance in stable human immunodeficiency virus- infected patients: a doubly labelled water study. Journal of Laboratory and Clinical Medicine, 2001, 138:94-100.
98. 8.Govt. of India (2011), Strategy and Implementation Plan. National AIDS Control Programme Phase IV (2012-2017), NACO. Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, New Delhi. 9. http://www.unaids.org 10. http://www.naco.gov.in 11. http://www.who.int
Recommended
Teaching Future-Ready Students
Online Course - LinkedIn Learning
Educational Technology for Student Success
Online Course - LinkedIn Learning
Teaching Online: Synchronous Classes
Online Course - LinkedIn Learning
Hiv 101 2011 latest edition
serp1059
National AIDS Control Program - IV
Bharat Paul
Hiv aids epidemiology & trends
Professor S A Tabish
HIV epidemiology and pathogenesis
prakashtu
Seminar 14
Anusha Divvi
Seminar 10 BIOSTATISTICS
Anusha Divvi
Seminar 5.
Anusha Divvi
English
Español
Português
Français
Deutsch
About
Dev & API
Blog
Terms
Privacy
Copyright
Support
LinkedIn Corporation © 2019
×
Share Clipboard
×
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Link
Public clipboards featuring this slide
×
No public clipboards found for this slide
Select another clipboard
×
Looks like you’ve clipped this slide to already.
Create a clipboard
You just clipped your first slide!
Clipping is a handy way to collect important slides you want to go back to later. Now customize the name of a clipboard to store your clips.
Name*
Description
Visibility
Others can see my Clipboard
Cancel
Save