West Nile Virus | Mosquito Squad of Maryland's Blog
Mosquito Squad of Maryland's Blog
Providing mosquito free, tick free and healthy outdoor living.
About
Contact Us!
Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery
301-444-5566
Visit our Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery website
email us
Search Our Blog
Site Categories
Site Categories Select Category All Natural Mosquito Control Asian Tiger Mosquito Canine Lyme Disease Chikungunya Chikungunya in Maryland Community Outreach and Special Events Diseases Eastern Equine Encephalitis Healthy Family Lyme Disease Malaria Malaria No More Campaign Support Mosquito control Mosquito Facts Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery Customer Reviews and Testimonials Mosquitoes and Mosquito-borne Illness Nuisance Insect Control Organic Mosquito Control Outdoor Events Outdoor Living Special Event Mosquito & Tick Control for Outdoor Events Stink Bug Protection Tick Control and Prevention Tick Tubes Montgomery Ticks and Lyme Disease Ticks and Tick-borne Illness Traditional Mosquito Control Program Uncategorized West Nile Virus
Archive for ‘West Nile Virus’
|
July 31, 2015
Outdoor Living in the Montgomery County area is a Dream
With a wet beginning to the summer it looked like a wash out was inevitable. While it’s hard to complain about rain when so many parts of the country and the world are suffering immense droughts, it was getting to be quite depressing.
Alas, Summer is Here
Luckily, it can’t rain all the time and the weather has given us some breaks. Between the tropical heat and humidity that has become part of the Montgomery County summer climate and the complete down pours, there are some really lovely days that are important to get out and enjoy. The fleeting clear warm days accompanied by cool nights feel like autumn is coming and I even needed a light jacket one day last week. I’d hate to hear of anyone losing the opportunity to be outside enjoying those perfect days due to mosquitoes and ticks.
Time to Get Outside
When a perfect day with low humidity and warm temperatures presents itself, now is the time to get outside. Go play ball in the yard with the kids. Invite your friends over for a barbecue. Take the dog for a nice long walk. Whatever you love doing, go do it outside, take full advantage of the weather as much as you can. With these gorgeous days being tucked in between rainy wet days and hot humid days it is vital that you have your yard treated for mosquitoes and ticks now, before these days arrive. If you wait until the weather is nice to call us, you’ll have already lost some outdoor time.
The Best Outdoor Living Is Pest Free
Outdoor living is best done with a bit of preparation. Being chased in by mosquitoes or having your dog come in covered in ticks is not something you want to worry about when your trying to make the most out of the beautiful weather. To really live outdoors without annoyance or dangerous bug bites, you need a mosquito control and tick control plan. Make your adventures outdoors spontaneous and without ridiculously smelly sprays, by eliminating the mosquitoes and ticks in your yard with Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery. With our traditional barrier spray eliminating 85-90% of the mosquitoes in your yard you can head outside any time day or night without having to spray yourself, light candles or torches or cover yourself from head to toe. When outdoor living can become this easy, you’re sure to take advantage of every moment of this beautiful Maryland summer.
Dangers of Not Controlling Mosquitoes and Ticks at your Home
Mosquitoes are multiplying rapidly thanks to the wet weather that has just recently let up. They carry and transmit diseases that can really make you sick. West Nile Virus has already been discovered in mosquito pools all around the North East this summer and there has even been a human case of West Nile Virus in Delaware.
With the number of deer loitering in our backyards from Darnestown and North Potomac to Derwood and North Bethesda, deer ticks are at an all time high — making Lyme Disease more widespread than ever. With West Nile Virus hitting so close to home and the increase in Lyme Disease, spread by ticks being heavily reported – protecting yourself, your family and your pets is crucial to living a carefree outdoor life.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery
Preventing your exposure to mosquitoes is your best weapons against West Nile Virus. At Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery we can eliminate 85-90% of mosquitoes and ticks in your yard with our traditional barrier. Contact Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery to learn more about protecting yourself and your family from the risks of tick-borne illnesses such as Lyme Disease in your backyard! Sign up today • (301) 444-5566 • email: westmontco@mosquitosquad.com
Advertisements
Posted in Mosquito control, West Nile Virus | Leave a Comment »
Tags: Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery MD, Raising awareness of mosquito borne illness in Rockville MD, Rockville MD mosquito control to reduce the risk of mosquito-borne illness
September 13, 2014
First West Nile Virus case recently reported in Maryland
According to an article published in The Washington Post, “Maryland’s health department reported the state’s first confirmed case of West Nile virus of 2014. The state’s survey period for West Nile virus lasts from July 1 to Oct. 31. Last year, the first three cases of the year were reported by mid-August. By the end of the year, 16 people had been infected. In 2012, Maryland hit a nine-year high of 47 cases.”
Here at Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, our goal is to keep residents protected from the dangers associated with mosquitoes and ticks. Though news of the recent report is concerning, we are keeping a positive outlook and are hopeful this will be the only confirmed case of the season. According to the state department of health, most people infected with the virus do not become sick. Those who do grow ill exhibit symptoms including fever, achiness, rash and swollen glands within two days to two weeks of being bitten by an infected mosquito. Less than 1 percent of people who are infected suffer more serious consequences.
A wheelbarrow of standing water, forgotten behind your garden shed serves as the perfect breeding ground for thousands of mosquito eggs.
The Labor Day week heatwave accompanied by the massive rainfalls are causing mosquitoes to be more active now than they have been all summer! It is a known fact that Asian tiger mosquitoes peak late August through September and we are seeing this come to fruition in our area and continuing with the trend. Keep in mind, even as temperatures start to grow a bit cooler as we welcome the arrival of fall in the coming weeks, it is important that residents stay vigilant with their mosquito control practices. As the health department continues to monitor and test for the virus here in Montgomery County region, and all across the state, here is a quick checklist for keeping mosquitoes away for the remainder of the season:
Enjoy being outdoors knowing you and your family are protected!
Common sense practices to reduce mosquito populations include keeping your lawn mowed and free of debris, this includes brush piles. Keep your landscape from becoming overgrown. Make sure all screened areas in and around your home are not damaged or torn to reduce the risk of mosquitoes becoming uninvited house guests. Clogged gutters are a refuge for mosquitoes as well as down spouts. Make certain these areas are kept free of debris. Other things to avoid are pooled water in sandboxes and swing sets or other outdoor kids play structures. Also avoid keeping tires outside.
In addition to removing the potential for mosquitoes to breed, it is also highly recommended to have your property treated by a licensed mosquito control professional to provide an invisible veil of protection from mosquitoes and the illnesses they carry. Since mosquito activity is still in full force, now is the time to be vigilant in mosquito control practices in your own backyard.
Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery offers an intensive mosquito control program that controls and prevents mosquitoes. Our highly effective barrier sprays are sprayed on a regular schedule throughout the mosquito season to ensure no gaps in your mosquito and tick control. We offer an organic mosquito control spray as well!
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
Our goal is to keep you, your family and your pets completely protected from mosquitoes and the many diseases they carry for the entire season. Contact Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery for a free estimate today • (301) 444-5566 • email:westmontco@mosquitosquad.com
Posted in Diseases, Mosquito control, Mosquitoes and Mosquito-borne Illness, West Nile Virus | Leave a Comment »
Tags: First West Nile Virus case recently reported in Maryland, Kensinton MD mosquito control, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito control, Mosquito Control to reduce the risk of West Nile Virus Rockville MD, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery MD, Raising awareness of mosquito borne illness in Rockville MD, Rockville MD effective mosquito control, Rockville MD mosquito control service, Rockville MD mosquito control to reduce the risk of mosquito-borne illness, Rockville MD organic mosquito control and prevention, The 5T's of mosquito control and prevention, the Washington Post., West Montgomery MD mosquito control and prevention
June 26, 2014
Chikungunya Is Spreading Like Wildfire!
Chikungunya isn’t a new Caribbean dish discovered this summer by vacationers to the Islands. It IS being brought back to the US though. Twenty-four states have so far reported 88 cases of this mosquito-borne disease. The first case of Chikungunya in the Caribbean was reported in December 2013. The CDC currently reports there are more than 183,000 cases in the Western Hemisphere. It is spreading like a proverbial wildfire.
The disease had previously remained in Africa, the Pacific Islands and Asia until December when the Caribbean nation of St. Martin’s reported the first case. Chikungunya comes from a language in Tanzania meaning “bent over”. Symptoms of the disease include fever, headaches and joint pain. Symptoms occur within 3-7 days of an infected mosquito bite. After a week, the symptoms usually disappear; however, some victims are not so lucky. The arthritic-like joint pain of the disease can linger for some for months or years. Medication can be prescribed for the pain but there is no treatment for the illness. Fortunately, the disease is rarely fatal.
Although, no local transmissions from humans to mosquitoes have occurred in the US, CDC scientists believe it is only a matter of time before isolated outbreaks will occur here. So far, all of the US victims of Chikungunya acquired the disease during visits to the Caribbean.
The two species of mosquitoes that transmit this disease have been in the US for a number of years. With our increasingly warmer climate, both species can now be found as far north as Rhode Island. These mosquitoes are aggressive daytime feeders. They do not primarily look for a blood meal at dusk and dawn like other mosquito species.
Since this is summer traveling season, many US vacationers will plan to enjoy the sun and surf of the Caribbean. You can’t know whether a returning neighbor or family member from a Caribbean vacation will be the next Chikungunya case in the US. The best way anyone has of preventing mosquito-borne illnesses to themselves and loved ones is to prevent being bitten by a mosquito. Since you likely spend most of your time outdoors in your yard, there is an effective way to reduce the number of bites you and your family may receive this summer.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery MD provides an effective and proven barrier spray that eliminates 85-90% of the mosquitoes in your yard throughout the season. We will also help you mosquito-proof your yard by pointing out places mosquitoes like to breed and hide, like rain gutters clogged with organic debris, flowerpots with standing water, etc. Prior to treating your yard, we will confirm that we are on our way. We will also leave you a notice that your yard was treated. For continued protection all summer long, we recommend you treat your yard every 3 weeks during mosquito season. With 4th of July around the corner, this would be an excellent time for you to experience the effectiveness of our barrier spray and judge for yourself.
Contact Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery to learn more or sign up today • (301) 444-5566 • email:westmontco@mosquitosquad.com
Posted in Chikungunya, Chikungunya in Maryland, Eastern Equine Encephalitis, Mosquito control, Mosquitoes and Mosquito-borne Illness, Outdoor Events, Outdoor Living, West Nile Virus | Leave a Comment »
Tags: biting mosquitoes, Chikungunya, Chikungunya in Maryland, Community outreach on mosquito and tick safety in Rockville MD, healthy outdoor living, Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention, Kentland mosquito control & prevention, Kentland mosquito service, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, Raising awareness of mosquito borne illness in Rockville MD, Rockville MD mosquito control service, The Centers for Disease Control & Prevention (CDC)
|
Tags
asian tiger mosquitoes biting mosquitoes Community outreach on mosquito and tick safety in Rockville MD healthy outdoor living Heightening awarness of Lyme Disease in West Montgomery MD How to prevent Lyme Disease carrying ticks in your MD backyard this season Kensington Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention Kensington MD tick control and prevention Kensinton MD mosquito control Kentland mosquito control & prevention Kentland mosquito service Kentlands mosquito control in MD Kentlands Tick control and protections Lyme disease Malaria No More maryland Md MD tick control & prevention montgomery county Montgomery County MD mosquito control mosquito Mosquito control Mosquito Control to reduce the risk of West Nile Virus Rockville MD mosquito repellent Mosquito Squad Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery discusses the misconception of the Polar Vortex's impact on mosquitoes Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery MD North Bethesda MD tick control program Nuisance Insect Control Protecting against the risk of Lyme Disease in Maryland Raising awareness of mosquito borne illness in Rockville MD Raising awareness of tick borne illness in Rockville MD rockville Rockville MD effective mosquito control Rockville MD mosquito control service Rockville MD mosquito control to reduce the risk of mosquito-borne illness Rockville MD organic mosquito control and prevention Rockville MD tick control The 5T's of mosquito control and prevention The truth about Lyme Disease in MD tick control montgomery county tick treatment West Montgomery MD mosquito control and prevention
Calendar
April 2019
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Aug
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30
Archives
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
August 2011
August 2010
July 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
Blogroll
WordPress.com
WordPress.org
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy