Reversal of Alzheimer's Disease - Thriving Mind Retreats
Skip to content
Preventing and reversing Dementia and Alzheimer, Optimizing Brain Health
Thriving Mind Retreats
Menu
Vermont Summer 2019
Southern California Fall 2019
Costa Rica February 2020
News and Blog
One Day/Weekend Retreats
The Retreat Leaders
FAQ
Contact
Reversal of Alzheimer’s Disease
Every 3 seconds, someone in the world develops Alzheimer’s disease. Although deaths from other major diseases have been decreasing, Alzheimer’s and other forms of dementia are a growing epidemic. Anyone who has seen a loved one decline from dementia knows that it’s a heartbreaking illness with devastating effects on families and communities. In addition to the emotional and physical toll of caring for loved ones with dementia, there’s the financial toll. Care for those with dementia often bankrupts families.
Many people don’t pursue medical care when they have early signs of memory loss because they’ve been told that nothing can be done. But newer research shows that dementia can be treated with an individualized, multi-factorial approach and that’s where Functional Medicine comes in.
Functional Medicine is an individualized, systems-based approach to treating complex, chronic illnesses. It recognizes that the expression of health and illness in each individual is unique, and that’s why personalized treatment plans are necessary for improved outcomes.
At Thriving Mind Retreats we base our work on the research of Dr. Dale Bredesen and his ReCODE Protocol™, which leverages the tools of functional medicine to prevent and reverse cognitive decline. The Bredesen Protocol has helped numerous people reverse mild cognitive impairment and offers hope that Alzheimer’s is a preventable and treatable disease.
Our retreat is designed for anyone wanting to invest in their brain health and longevity. It’s especially relevant for those with a family history of dementia, as well as those with early to moderate symptoms.
Our time together is an intensive version and can get you jump-started on reversing cognitive decline. Some people may see modest improvements by the end of the week. The majority of people will see improvements in function in 6-12 months.
For more information, we suggest reading Dr. Bredesen’s book, “The End of Alzheimer’s” or you can review his initial research paper here. Since it’s initial release, there have been thousands more patients who have had benefits from his work.
To order the book, click here
Recent Posts
Trauma and Dementia
October 31, 2018 October 31, 2018 by Leslie Conner
Over the past 30 years, increased evidence has linked moderate and severe traumatic brain injury to a greater risk of developing Alzheimer’s dementia or another type of dementia years after the original head injury. US male veterans with PTSD were also shown to have an increased risk of developing Alzheimer’s or another type of Dementia. … Continue reading Trauma and Dementia
What’s Sugar Got to Do With Dementia?
October 10, 2018 October 28, 2018 by Leslie Conner
A recent study on blood sugar levels and brain deterioration indicated that normal blood sugars that were on the high end were more likely to have less brain volume in key areas of the hippocampus (memory) and amygdala (emotion and cognition). Shrinkage in both of these areas is also linked to developing Alzheimer’s disease or … Continue reading What’s Sugar Got to Do With Dementia?
Do statins cause Alzheimer’s disease?
September 22, 2018 September 22, 2018 by Dianne
Yes and no. There is evidence that suggests statins cause cognitive impairment in some patients. However, statins have also been shown to decrease the risk of dementia and even improve cognitive impairment in other cases, though this positive effect hasn’t been as well supported by research. Our brains need cholesterol to function. Cholesterol builds healthy myelin, a fatty covering … Continue reading Do statins cause Alzheimer’s disease?
Fats on the Brain
September 18, 2018 September 18, 2018 by Jessica
The brain loves fat. In fact, the brain is made of 60% fat. The mitochondria, the engines powering the brain’s neurons, also favorably use fat for fuel. So eating healthy fats is a cornerstone in the plan to revive a thriving mind. Fat can be a controversial subject in nutrition, especially when it comes to … Continue reading Fats on the Brain
More Posts
Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Karuna by Automattic.