Can Cancer Be Inherited? | Health & Fitness Information | Wellness, Nutrition & Health Tips | Lybrate Blog
BLOG
Responsive Menu
Are you a doctor? Join Today · Login
Can Cancer Be Inherited?
Cancer, Doctor Online, Doctor's Desk, Health News, Health Tips, Healthcare, Living Healthy, Lybrate, Women's Health
Can Cancer Be Inherited?
Doctors Desk
June 21, 2017
No Comments
By Dr. Sajjan Rajpurohit, Oncology
While it is commonly known that Cancer is not a hereditary disease in the true sense, doctors often mention that having a parent with a history of cancer can put you at increased risks of developing the disease yourself.
Defined as an abnormal and uncontrolled division of cells in the body, cancer, in all its forms, is the result of genetic mutation. An abnormality in the genetic data that determines cell division and cell growth is what can end up causing the uncontrolled cell growth that is known as cancer. While the gene mutations that cause cancer may or may not be hereditary, they often take a while to accumulate to the point of causing cancer.
Hereditary Cancer and Sporadic Cancer
Hereditary cancer is caused by a predisposition to gene mutations that are passed on by the parents to the child while sporadic cancer is caused by gene mutations that are a result of environmental factors, lifestyle choices, etc. While there are plenty of cases of sporadic cancer being diagnosed in young people, people with hereditary cancer are the ones who develop the disease at a younger age. Hereditary cancer in parents can also influence gene mutations related to a specific type of cancer. This is why doctors often recommend cancer screenings and preventative measures for people with a parental history of hereditary cancer.
There are several genes that are known to cause cancer and people at risk can be specifically screened for them in order to be able to take preventative measures. These genes are:
BRCA1 and BRCA2: Abbreviations for the Breast Cancer 1 and Breast Cancer 2 genes, BRCA1 and BRCA2 are genes that put people at risk of breast cancer, ovarian cancer, prostate cancer and pancreatic cancer.
MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, PMS2, or EPCAM: These are genes that put people at risk of Lynch syndrome.
PTEN: This gene put people at risk of developing diseases that are classified under PTEN hamartoma tumor syndrome.
TP53: This gene is associated with the development of Li-Fraumeni syndrome.
STK11: This gene is associated with the development of Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, which put people at an increased risk of developing non-cancerous growths.
CDH1: This gene influences the development of Hereditary diffuse gastric cancer syndrome which put people at an increased risk of stomach cancer and breast cancer.
While carrying these genes are known to affect your predisposition towards developing cancer, it should be noted that 90% of cancer cases are sporadic and a result of numerous factors including lifestyle choices. Like many a disease, cancer can be prevented by maintaining a healthy lifestyle that involves regular physical activity and a doctor recommended diet.
Ask A Doctor Cancers Cancers Treatment Consult A Doctor Doctor Tips Health Health Tips HealthCare healthnews healthy living lybrate Online Doctors women's health
← Peritoneal Cancer: Symptoms, Causes and Treatments
Learn to say No: How it is beneficial →
Categories
Asthma
Ayurveda
Cancer
Children's Health
Dentist
Diabetes
Doctor Online
Doctor's Desk
Hair Loss
Health Facts
Health News
Health Tips
Healthcare
Healthy Pregnancy
Heart Health
Living Healthy
Lybrate
Men's Health
Mental Health
Prevalent Diseases
Sexual Health
Skin Care
Uncategorized
Virtual Practice
Weight Gain
Weight Loss
Women's Health
Search Doctors
Find Best Doctors
Ask Your Question
If you would like to know more about any of the health issues, do get in touch with doctors on Lybrate directly, by asking a question.
Ask a Question to Doctors
Twitter Tweets
Delhi Mumbai Chennai Bangalore
Dentist in Delhi Dentist in Mumbai Dentist in Chennai Dentist in Bangalore
General Physicians in Delhi General Physicians in Mumbai General Physicians in Chennai General Physicians in Bangalore
Cardiologist in Delhi Cardiologist in Mumbai Cardiologist in Chennai Cardiologist in Bangalore
Gynaecologist in Delhi Gynaecologist in Mumbai Gynaecologist in Chennai Gynaecologist in Bangalore
Psychiatrist in Delhi Psychiatrist in Mumbai Psychiatrist in Chennai Psychiatrist in Bangalore
Dermatologist in Delhi Dermatologist in Mumbai Dermatologist in Chennai Dermatologist in Bangalore
Neurologist in Delhi Neurologist in Mumbai Neurologist in Chennai Neurologist in Bangalore
Urologist in Delhi Urologist in Mumbai Urologist in Chennai Urologist in Bangalore
Ophthalmologist in Delhi Ophthalmologist in Mumbai Ophthalmologist in Chennai Ophthalmologist in Bangalore
Sexologist in Delhi Sexologist in Mumbai Sexologist in Chennai Sexologist in Bangalore
Copyright ©2014 Lybrate. All rights reserved. Our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use