5 Reasons to Avoid ‘Crunches & Sit-Ups’ | Strong By Design
Call Us 727-351-3065
Connect With Us
Home
About
Success Stories
5 Minutes Glutes
Help Center
Contact
Order
Select Page
5 Reasons to Avoid ‘Crunches & Sit-Ups’
By Brian Klepacki, FMS, CSCS
It doesn’t matter if you’re looking to increase core strength or to lean up and ‘get abs’, the crunch is an ineffective exercise that actually provides no function to the body. The crunch is not a natural movement, yet it somehow became popular for decades and it’s still used in nearly every gym across the world.
Your body is designed to work as a unit. Individual muscles aren’t meant to be worked in isolation. When you work one area without working surrounding muscles, it causes an imbalance. Strong muscles in one area can overpower weak muscles, offering a false sense of security and risking serious injury.
Your core isn’t just a ‘six-pack’. Your core is a complex series of muscles, extending far beyond your abs, including everything besides your arms and legs. It is incorporated in almost every movement of the human body.
Many of the core muscles are hidden beneath the exterior musculature people typically train. The deeper muscles include the transverse abdominals, multifidus, diaphragm, pelvic floor, and many other deeper muscles. These are the muscles that allow the entire body to work in all directions and all planes of motion.
The Fact Of The Matter Is
You Should NEVER Do Crunches Or Sit-ups.
And here’s why:
1) Crunches causes lower back stress.
A 1995 study found sit-ups placed over 3,000N of force on the lower spine, which could cause herniated discs. Imagine willingly applying that force on any other part of your body through exercise? You wouldn’t.
If you fall for the crunch myth, you will end up in pain, either in your back, neck or elsewhere.
2) Your spine has a shelf life. Crunches age your spine.
You only have so many flexions in your spine before it starts to deteriorate. You can’t repair it. You can’t change it. That’s how it is. The more you flex your spine, the more you age your spine. That’s fact. So why would you actively try to flex your spine at its most vulnerable point causing it to age faster and further?
3) Crunches don’t aid good posture; they reinforce bad posture.
Think about it: what is a crunch?
You’re just replicating the bent over movement you make when you’re sat at a desk or slumped in a seat.
4) Because you’re doing crunches, you’re not PROPERLY working your core.
You’re becoming weaker, less powerful, and more susceptible to problems.
You see, crunches aren’t functional. They don’t replicate ANY natural movement our bodies were designed for. Our bodies thrive on exercises in alignment with their function.
Crunching isn’t a natural movement. It actively opposes the purpose of the spine and works against it. We are meant to be upright and be able to bend, twist, reach and extend.
5) Crunches DON’T work.
Yes, you feel the burn. But it’s a fake burn – it feels good, but does it actually deliver results? No.
Crunches miss your core muscles. The narrow range of exercise does nothing to strengthen your deep abdominal muscles, your transversus abdominis, or your obliques. Crunches ONLY work your rectus abdominis close to your skin.
So the abs you DO end up with tell a lie. They don’t represent strength. They don’t represent inner power. Your core is no stronger for these “cosmetic” abs. In fact, they put your midsection out of balance and increase the risk of injury.
So if you’re looking to sculpt a ripped, chiseled core with an impressive six-pack and abs that pop right out, or if you want to build a bulletproof midsection that protects and supports your whole body and guarantee good posture so you can breathe, move and workout better, you need to ditch the crunch and sit-up.
For more information on the safest, most effective way to sculpt chiseled abs and develop an iron core in just 60 days without screwing up your spine, please take a few minutes and look at my core training program, Crunchless Core.
It will equip you with everything you need to get the job done. It can be found right here:
https://www.crunchless6pack.com
Share:
PreviousThe #1 Exercise to Develop a Rounder, Stronger Butt
Next3 Core Exercises to RUN BETTER
About The Author
Brian Klepacki, FMS, CSCS
Brian Klepacki has over 16 years of experience and education in the fitness and nutrition world. He is a Certified Strength & Conditioning Specialist and holds a Master’s Degree in Exercise Science from Florida Atlantic University.
Related Posts
3 Great GLUTE Exercises if You Have BAD KNEES!
March 7, 2019
3 Back Protecting, CORE Strengthening Planks
March 28, 2019
MUST DO Mini Band Exercises for Great Legs
February 14, 2019
Which Way for Whey?
July 23, 2018
Leave a reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
COMMENT
Name *
Email *
Website
Strong By Design Podcast
ITunes
Stitcher
Overcast
Podbean
Strong By Design Videos
Most Popular Articles
This Week
All Time
TOP 7 Dumbbell Exercises for Guys Over 50
3 Great GLUTE Exercises if You Have BAD KNEES!
3 Back Protecting, CORE Strengthening Planks
TOP Suspension Strap Arm Exercises
Unlock Your Pelvis
Glute Development and Your Inner Thighs
Unlock Your Pelvis
5 Reasons to Avoid ‘Crunches & Sit-Ups’
The #1 Exercise to Develop a Rounder, Stronger Butt
Bodyweight VS Resistance: Which Is Best?
Get Free Access…
to the 5-Minute Glute Workout and our email tips newsletter. Just enter your best email address below!
Inside Strong By Design
Home
About
Success Stories
5 Minutes Glutes
Help Center
Contact
Order
Article Topics
Functional Fitness
Uncategorized
Videos
Copyright © 2018 & Beyond. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Exchange & Returns