Terry L. Tipton, D.C. blog
Terry L. Tipton, D.C. blog
Search
Main menu
Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content
Home
About
Hours and Location
What our patients say
Post navigation
← Older posts
Resolution of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus in a 67 Year Old Female Patient Following Subluxation-Based Chiropractic Care: A Case Study
Posted on May 18, 2015 by tiptonchiro
Reply
Dan Yachter DC & Michael Jarry DC
Annals of Vertebral Subluxation Research ~ May 11, 2015 ~ Pages 119-124
Abstract
Objective: To present a case study of conservative chiropractic care of a female that presented with multiple health issues and following chiropractic care experienced improvement or resolution of several of these issues, most notably her type 2 diabetes.
Clinical Features: A 67 year old female presented with several complaints which included type 2 diabetes mellitus that had been diagnosed by a medical physician when she was 40 years of age. The patient was also found to have several vertebral subluxations throughout her spine, along with postural alterations. She had sought care from several providers with no resolution in any of her complaints.
Interventions and Outcomes: The patient received specific chiropractic adjustments according to Diversified technique in the regions of the cervical, thoracic, and lumbar spine and also pelvis. Physical rehabilitation exercises were given to address the patient’s postural alterations found on her initial exam. After receiving chiropractic care the patient obtained several positive results. After four visits, the patient returned to her medical doctor and was able to stop taking insulin for her diabetes. Her blood sugar levels remained within normal limits throughout the rest of her care.
Conclusion: The use of conservative chiropractic care was shown in this case to be an effective alternative management for a patient with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Further research is required to understand the efficacy of chiropractic in management of this condition.
Key Words: Chiropractic, diabetes, type 2 diabetes, diabetes mellitus, adjustment, spinal manipulation, vertebral subluxation
Advertisements
Posted in Uncategorized	| Tagged blood glucose levels, conservative chiropractic treatment, diabetes, diabetes mellitius, Farmington Hills chiropractor, type 2 diabetes	| Leave a reply
2015 Masters Tournament Winner, Jordan Spieth, Credits Chiropractic Care for Good Health and Peak Performance
Posted on May 18, 2015 by tiptonchiro
Reply
On April 12, 2015, Jordan Spieth became the second youngest golfer to ever win the Masters Tournament. Spieth did it by tying the Masters record with 18 under par. After his win, Spieth thanked several people including his chiropractor.
The Foundation for Chiropractic Progress issued a release on May 4, 2015, with the headline above and and stated, “Following a record-breaking win at the 2015 Masters Tournament, 21-year-old Jordan Spieth recognized those who significantly contributed to his victory, including his doctor of chiropractic Troy Van Biezen, Dallas, Texas. Since the age of 14, Spieth has relied upon chiropractic care to prevent injuries as well as optimize overall health and athletic performance.”
The Star Tribune reported in an article on April 13, 2015, that Spieth made a home video when he was just 14-years-old, stating that he would one day win the Masters. His boyhood proclamation would have to wait until he was 21 to become a reality.
In thanking his chiropractor, Spieth commented, “Dr. Van Biezen is an important member of my team and, thanks to his care, my all-time dream of winning the Masters Tournament has now become a reality.” Dr. Van Biezen currently travels full-time with Spieth and several other professional golfers, providing chiropractic care as regularly as once or twice per day.
Dr. Van Biezen noted that 4 out of 5 golfers will experience some form of back pain from the repeated motion of the sport. Van Biezen commented on Spieth’s determination to win the Masters, “Since a very young age, Jordan has aspired to win the Masters and has since applied great discipline to achieve this goal. Many athletes, and especially golfers, understand the significance to spinal and pelvic motion to functional performance.”
“Jordan finds that an individualized chiropractic care plan including prevention and recovery-focused techniques is essential for maintaining good health and a competitive edge,” stated Dr. Van Biezen. “Regular chiropractic care helps to alleviate back pain and greatly improve an athlete’s game.” Dr. Van Biezen, goes on to say “Back pain is the most common complaint among golfers, but isn’t the only pain experienced. Neck, shoulder, elbow and hip pain are also common complaints among golfers of all ages. Regular chiropractic care offers an effective non-pharmacologic solution for golfers seeking to rid themselves of pain and properly prepare for a successful and enjoyable game.”
Posted in Health	| Tagged Athletes and Chiropractic, conservative chiropractic treatment, Farmington Hills chiropractor, Migraine Headaches and Chiropractic adjustment, natural flu prevention, spinal health, Sports and Chiropractic, vertebral subluxation	| Leave a reply
Merck’s Former Doctor Predicts Gardasil To Become The Greatest Medical Scandal Of All Time
Posted on March 27, 2015 by tiptonchiro
Reply
January 25, 2015 by Arjun Walia
“It is simply no longer possible to believe much of the clinical research that is published, or to rely on the judgment of trusted physicians or authoritative medical guidelines. I take no pleasure in this conclusion, which I reached slowly and reluctantly over my two decades as an editor of The New England Journal of Medicine” – (source) Marica Angell. She is a physician and author, along with being the first woman to serve as editor-in-chief of The New England Journal of Medicine – regarded as one of the most prestigious peer-reviewed medical journals in the world.
Since the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Merck & Co.’s Gardasil vaccine in 2006, it has been surrounded by tremendous amounts of information, controversy and misinformation. This controversy has garnered much attention as people become more aware of the importance of paying attention to what goes into their bodies. It’s imperative that one examines a large body of evidence before believing what is seen on TV or stated on a radio advertisement, and people are slowly starting to wake up to this fact.
“It is a vaccine that’s been highly marketed, the benefits are over-hyped, and the dangers are underestimated.” – (Taken from the ONE MORE GIRL DOCUMENTARY) – Dr. Chris Shaw, Professor at the University of British Columbia, in the department of Neuroscience, Ophthalmology, and Visual Sciences.
Gardasil, also known as the Human papilloma virus (HPV) vaccine, is given as a series of three shots over 6 months to protect against HPV infection and its associated health problems. Two vaccines (Cervarix and Gardasil) are said to protect against cervical cancers in women. Gardasil is also said to protect against genital warts and cancers of the anus, vagina and vulva. Both vaccines are available for females, while only Gardasil is available for males.
The Centers For Disease Control (CDC) claims that the HPV vaccine offers the best protection to girls and boys who receive all three vaccine doses and have time to develop an immune response before being sexually active. This is why it is recommended for children who have reached the age of 11 or 12.
There is a long list of educated people speaking out about this vaccine. This time around, it’s Dr. Bernard Dalbergue, a former pharmaceutical industry physician with Gardasil manufacturer Merck who has started to raise his voice against the HPV vaccine, along with the pharmaceutical industry as a whole. He joins a long list of experts from within the industry who have slammed the rampant manipulation and control of clinical research done by the pharmaceutical industry.
This quote is taken from an interview that happened in April of 2014, from an issue of the French magazine Principes de Santé (Health Principles):
“The full extent of the Gardasil scandal needs to be assessed: everyone knew when this vaccine was released on the American market that it would prove to be worthless. Diane Harper, a major opinion leader in the United States, was one of the first to blow the whistle, pointing out the fraud and scam of it all.I predict that Gardasil will become the greatest medical scandal of all time because at some point in time, the evidence will add up to prove that this vaccine, technical and scientific feat that it may be, has absolutely no effect on cervical cancer and that all the very many adverse effects which destroy lives and even kill, serve no other purpose than to generate profit for the manufacturers. Gardasil is useless and costs a fortune! In addition, decision-makers at all levels are aware of it! Cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome, paralysis of the lower limbs, vaccine-induced MS and vaccine-induced encephalitis can be found, whatever the vaccine.” (source) – Dr. Bernard Dalbergue
Dr. Dalbergue has also recently released a book titled “Omerta dans les labos pharmaceutiques: Confessions d’un medicine,” which goes into more detail about corruption in the medical/pharmaceutical industry. He also recently made an appearance on a popular radio show in France, you can watch here. Althought it’s in French, it’s nice to put a face to the name so that you can see he is real.
Scandal, misinformation, and data manipulation have become part and parcel of clinical research and pharmaceutical drug development. It is important that we realize this as fact and not hearsay; apart from whistle-blowers, there are numerous documents that illustrate this reality. One of the best examples (out of many) comes from Lucija Tomljenovic, PhD, from the Neural Dynamics Research Group in the Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences at the University of British Columbia. In 2011 she obtained documents which reveal that vaccine manufacturers, pharmaceutical companies, and health authorities have known about the multiple dangers associated with vaccines but have chosen to withhold them from the public. The documents were obtained from the UK Department of Health (DH) and the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunization (JCVI), who advise the Secretaries of State for Health in the UK about diseases preventable through immunizations. You can read those documents here.
Here’s what she had to say about Gardasil:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=nabINgrwu9Q
Another doctor making noise regarding the HPV vaccine is Dr. Diane Harper. Dr. Harper helped design and carry out the Phase II and Phase III safety and effectiveness studies to get Gardasil approved, and authored many of the published papers about it. She has been a paid speaker and consultant to Merck. It’s very unusual for a researcher to publicly criticize a medicine or vaccine she helped get approved, it is a credit to her character for doing so. It also says a lot that she agreed to participate in the ONE MORE GIRL documentary, which implies (I believe) there is a chance she resonates with the other information that’s stated in the documentary that she has not said publicly.
ONE MORE GIRL is an answer to Merck & Co’s One Less Girl marketing campaign for the HPV vaccine Gardasil. The parents who encouraged their daughters to get the HPV vaccine did so on the advice of their doctors, their government, and their belief in pharmaceutical industry. They were not “anti-vaccine,” they played by the rules, and now they are paying the price. It’s a documentary that has several experts from the industry, various doctors, and university researchers speaking out about the vaccine.
“They created a huge amount of fear in mothers, and appealed to mothers’ sense of duty to get them to get their daughters vaccinated” – Dr Diane Harper (source)
The above quote was taken from the film, and here is an excerpt of her raising some important things to consider regarding the vaccine.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=sSdCxgF0blc
Some Research
If we are talking about recent research regarding the HPV vaccine, a new review was just published in the journal Autoimmunity Reviews titled, “On the relationship between human papilloma virus vaccine and autoimmune disease.”
The authors of this study came to the same conclusion as Dr. Harper, a doctor that was directly involved with the clinical trials for the approval of the vaccine (mentioned earlier in the article). They concluded that:
“The decision to vaccinate with HPV vaccine is a personal decision, not one that must be made for public health. HPV is not a lethal disease in 95% of the infections; and the other 5% are detectable and treatable in the precancerous stage.” (If you are interested you can access the paper here)
They also listed several conditions in which HPV vaccination is most likely the culprit, having been linked to a variety of autoimmune diseases which include: Multiple sclerosis, Guillain-Barre syndrome, primary ovarian failure, and more.
The 2008 FDA Closing Statement on Gardasil reports that 73.3% of the ‘healthy’ girls who participated in the clinical trials developed ‘New Medical Conditions. The list below highlights some of the ‘New Medical Conditions’ reported in the 2008 FDA Closing Statement on Gardasil. (source)
Blood & Lymphatic System Disorders 2.9% = 1 in 34
Gastrointestinal Disorders 13.4% = 1 in 7
General & Administration Site Conditions 3.8% = 1 in 33
Immune System Disorders 2.4% =1 in 50
Infections & Infestations 52.9% = 1 in 2
Injury, Poisoning, & Procedural Complications 8.0% =1 in 12
Investigations 11.8% =1 in 9
Musculoskeletal & Connective Tissue Disorders 6.8% =1 in 14
Nervous System Disorders 9.4% = 1 in 10
Pregnancy, Puerperium & Perinatal Conditions 2.0% = 1 in 50
Psychiatric Disorders 4.4% =1 in 22
Renal Disorders 2.7% =1 in 37
Reproductive & Brest Disorders 24.8 % = 1 in 14
Respiratory, Thoracic & Mediastinal Disorders 5.5% = 1 in 18
Skin & Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders 7.4% = 1 in 13
Surgical Procedures = Appendectomy 10.2% = 1 in 10
A year ago the vaccine was taken off the recommended vaccine schedule in Japan due to it’s adverse effects. What’s even more concerning is the fact that today’s vaccine has twice the amount of aluminum in it.
Posted in Health	| Tagged Farmington Hills chiropractor, Gardasil, HPV, Merck, vaccines	| Leave a reply
Why parents are choosing not to vaccinate their kids
Posted on March 27, 2015 by tiptonchiro
1
Arjun Walia
collective-evolution.com
Sun, 15 Feb 2015 17:53 UTC
More and more parents around the globe are choosing to opt out of vaccinating themselves and their children. As a result of this trend that’s been gaining more and more momentum, a harsh response has come from the “pro-vaccine” community -criticizing parents for their decision to not vaccinate. At the end of the day it’s not really about “pro-vaccination” or “anti-vaccination,” it’s not one “against” the other or about pointing fingers and judgement, it’s simply about looking at all of the information from a neutral standpoint. It’s about asking questions and communicating so people can make the best possible decisions for themselves and their children. Parents love their kids and the vaccine “controversy” has made it difficult for many parents to know what to do.
Parents who are choosing not to vaccinate their children are not just doing it based on belief, they are doing it based on science and information, some of which will be presented in this article. This science and information is nowhere near emphasized to the point where the science and information on the other side of the coin is (“pro vaccine”). Parents who choose not to vaccinate themselves or their children are clearly intelligent, and they should not be made to look like fools. On the other hand, parents who are choosing to vaccinate their children are also intelligent. Those who choose to vaccinate should not be made out to be the ones who have made the “right” decision when there is evidence on both sides of the coin that clearly shows parents who are not vaccinating their children could also be making the “right” decision.
I’d also like to state that there are multiple vaccines, some may be safe, some may not be. There are also criticisms of all the studies mentioned, as well as bias. That being said, all of the studies in this article, with the exception of one or two, have been published in credible peer-reviewed scientific journals. That should not take away from the important work of many independent scientists from all over the world.
This article will present a few of the many reasons as to why parents are choosing to not vaccine their children. I am choosing to do this article and not one on why parents are choosing to vaccinate their children because it’s already very well known as to why they choose to vaccinate their children. I am also doing it to show you why parents who do not vaccinate are not crazy at all, and in fact quite intelligent and up to date on important information.
The Vaccine/Autism Controversy
Bringing up the idea that vaccines, in some way, are linked at all to autism can be greeted with a harsh reaction. Some people won’t even entertain the idea, or look at information that suggests there could be a link. Truth is, there are plenty of studies that stress the idea that there could be a link, and that there is a link. At the same time, there are plenty of studies that stress there is no link, and that vaccines are not in any way linked to autism. I am referring to peer reviewed publications all the way to important independent research that’s not sponsored by the vaccine manufacturers themselves.
STUDIES SHOWING VACCINES ARE NOT LINKED TO AUTISM
Starting off with some of the most recent data available, a study published in the Journal Vaccine determined that:
There was no relationship between vaccination and autism
There was no relationship between vaccination and ASD (autism spectrum disorder)
There was no relationship between the MMR vaccination and autism/ASD
There was no relationship between autism/ASD and thimerosal
There was no relationship between austism/ASD and mercury (Hg)
The study concluded that vaccinations are not associated with the development of autism or autism spectrum disorder. It was a meta-analysis done by researchers at the University of Sydney, in Australia. It examined ten studies involving more than one million children affirming that vaccines don’t cause autism. (1)
In March of 2013, the Journal of Pediatrics published a study titled Increasing exposure to Antibody-Stimulating Proteins and Polysaccharides (antigens) in Vaccines is Not Associated with Risk of Autism. The study found that vaccines, during the first couple of years of life are not related to the risk of developing an ASD diagnosis. They analyzed data from a case-control study conducted in 3 managed care organizations (MCOs) of 256 children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and 752 control children matched on birth year, sex and MCO. (2)
Another study published in the Journal of Pediatrics titled Thimerosal exposure in infants and developmental disorders: a retrospective cohort study in the United Kingdom does not support a causal association concluded that, with the possible exception of tics, there was no evidence that thimerosal exposure via the DTP/DT vaccines causes any neurodevelopment disorders. (3)
A report published in the Canadian Journal of Neurological Sciences emphasized how there is an “overwhelming” majority showing no causal association between the Measles-Mumps-Rubella (MMR) and autism. It also determined that there was no convincing evidence that thimerosal has any role in autism.(4)
A study published straight from the CDC and National Immunization program determined that “the evidence is now convincing that the measles-mumps-rubella vaccines do not cause autism or any type of autism spectrum disorder.” (5)
The list literally goes on and on here, study after study in peer-reviewed scientific journals claim no link between vaccines/vaccine ingredients and autism.
STUDIES SHOWING VACCINES COULD BE LINKED TO AUTISM
As I did in the previous section, I will try to start of with a couple of more recent studies. If vaccines aren’t linked to autism, why are scientists/researchers emphasizing that they could be, and showing that there is a possible link? (Keep in mind the Bradford -Hill Criteria, which is explained in some of the studies) These studies are contradictory to the ones above, yet conducted by people of the same qualifications and published in peer-reviewed scientific journals. Let’s take a look.
A study published in the Journal of Toxicology by scientists from the University of British Colombia, Louisiana, and MIT outlines how Aluminum up until the 1820s -when the industrial extraction of AI made it possible to bring it into our food, manufacturing, medicines, and more -it was almost completely absent from the biosphere. The paper outlines how aluminum is harmful to the Central Nervous System (CNS), “acting in a number of deleterious ways and across multiple levels to induce biosemiotic entropy.” (6)
Biosemiotic entropy is basically the corruption of biological messages from genetics, epigenetics, proteins, cells, tissues and organs. The paper points out how CNS problems are correlated with diseases like autism spectrum disorder, and makes a strong argument that Aluminum adjuvants in the form of pediatric vaccines could be contributing to increased rates of autism spectrum disorders. (8)
One of the author’s of this paper, Dr. Chris Shaw, a neurologist at the University of British Columbia explains the danger of aluminum in vaccines. When aluminum comes from a vaccine, it stays in the body, and studies have shown that the adjuvants do not stay localized but rather travel to the brain where they can be detected up to a year after the injection.
A study published in the Journal Current Medical Chemistry in 2011 stated that:
“Aluminum is an experimentally demonstrated neurotoxin and the most commonly used vaccine adjuvant. Despite almost 90 years of widespread use of aluminum adjuvants, medical science’s understanding about their mechanisms of action is still remarkably poor. There is also a concerning scarcity of data on toxicology and pharmacokinetics of these compounds. In spite of this, the notion that aluminum in vaccines is safe appears to be widely accepted. Experimental research, however, clearly shows that aluminum adjuvants have a potential to induce serious immunological disorders in humans. In particular, aluminum in adjuvant form carries a risk for autoimmunity, long-term brain inflammation and associated neurological complications and may thus have profound and widespread adverse health consequences.” (7)
The paper points out how aluminum could be a culprit in the development of a wide body of neurodegenerative disease, one of them being autism.
Here is a statement I took from the paper, for the specific citations you can look at the actual paper. “The issue of vaccine safety thus becomes even more pertinent given that, to the best of our knowledge, no adequate clinical studies have been conducted to establish the safety of concomitant administration of two experimentally-established neurotoxins, aluminum and mercury, the latter in the form of ethyl mercury (thimerosal) in infants and children. Since these molecules negatively affect many of the same biochemical processes and enzymes implicated in the etiology of autism, the potential for a synergistic toxic action is plausible [31, 47]. Additionally, for the purpose of evaluating safety and efficacy, vaccine clinical trials often use an aluminium-containing placebo, either containing the same or greater amount of aluminum as the test vaccine [48-51]. Without exception, these trials report a comparable rate of adverse reactions between the placebo and the vaccine group (for example, 63.7% vs 65.3% of systemic events and 1.7% vs 1.8% of serious adverse events respectively [51]).”
The paper also points to the fact that brain inflammatory responses have long been recognized as a factor in etiology of many neurodegenerative diseases like autism and provides a host of citations for that as well.
They (Dr, Shaw and Dr. Tomljenovic) also published a paper in 2011 that was approved for publication in the Journal of Inorganic Biochemistry that stated:
“We show that Al-adjuvanted vaccines may be a significant etiological factor in the rising prevalence of ASD. According to the FDA, vaccines represent a special category of drugs as they are generally given to healthy individuals. Further according to the FDA, “this places significant emphasis on their vaccine safety.” While the FDA does set an upper limit for Aluminum in vaccines at no more that 850/mcg/dose, it is important to note that this amount was selected empirically from data showing that Aluminum in such amounts enhanced the antigenicity of the vaccine, rather than from existing safety. Given that the scientific evidence appears to indicate that vaccine safety is not as firmly established as often believed, it would seem ill advised to exclude pediatric vaccinations as a possible cause of adverse long-term neurodevelopment outcomes, including those associated with autism.” (8)
Shaw and Seneff also recently published a paper in the Journal Immunome Research outlining a lot of evidence pointing to the dangers regarding aluminum in vaccines. (9)
A paper published in the peer reviewed International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health titled “Thimerosal Exposure and the Role of Sulfation Chemistry and Thiol Availability in Autism” concluded:
“With the rate of children diagnosed with an ASD in the US now exceeding 1 in 50 children and the rate of children with neurodevelopment/behavioural disorders in the US now exceeding 1 in 6 children, and the preceding evidence showing that there is vulnerability to ™ that would not be known without extensive testing, the preponderance of the evidence indicates that ™ should be removed from all vaccines” (10)
A paper published in the Journal Entropy Identifies “several signs and symptoms that are significantly more prevalent in vaccine reports after 2000, including cellulitis, seizure, depression, fatigue, pain and death, which are also significantly associated with aluminum-containing vaccines. We propose that children with the autism diagnosis are especially vulnerable to toxic metals such as aluminum and mercury due to insufficient serum sulfate and glutathione. A strong correlation between autism and the MMR (Measles, Mumps, Rubella) vaccine is also observed, which may be partially explained via an increased sensitivity to acetaminophen administered to control fever.” (source)
A paper published in the Journal of Toxicology titled B-Lymphocytes from a population of Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder and Their Unaffected Siblings Exhibit Hypersensitivity to Thimerosal clearly demonstrates that certain individuals with a mild mitochondrial defect may be highly susceptible to mitochondrial specific toxins like thimerosal. What does this mean? It means that people with a slight DNA difference are at risk for developing neurodegenerative diseases via vaccination. They determined that ASD patients have a heightened sensitivity to thimerosal which would restrict cell proliferation that is typically found after vaccination. (11)
A study published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition determined that an increased vulnerability to oxidative stress and decreased capacity for methylation may contribute to the development and clinical manifestation of autism. It’s well known that viral infections cause increased oxidative stress. (12) Research suggests that metals, including those found in many vaccines are directly involved in increasing oxidative stress.
Oxidative stress, brain inflammation and microgliosis have been heavily documented in association with toxic exposures including various heavy metals. (14)
A study published in the Journal of Biomedical Sciencesdetermined that the autoimmunity to the central nervous system may play a causal role in autism. Researchers discovered that because many autistic children harbour elevated levels of measles antibodies, they should conduct a serological study of measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) and myelin basic protein (MBP) autoantibodies. They used serum samples of 125 autistic children and 92 controlled children. Their analysis showed a significant increase in the level of MMR antibodies in autistic children. The study concludes that the autistic children had an inappropriate or abnormal antibody response to MMR. The study determined that autism could be a result from an atypical measles infection that produces neurological symptoms in some children. The source of this virus could be a variant of MV, or “it could be the MMR vaccine.” (13)
A study published in the International Journal of Toxicology outlines the biological plausibility of mercury’s role in neurodevelopmental disorders. It suggests that early mercury exposure could indeed increase the risk of autism. (14)
“To sum up, there has been a great deal of information from different studies that seems to indicate that repetitive mercury exposure during pregnancy, through thimerosal, dental amalgam, and fish consumption, and after birth, through thimerosal-containing vaccinations and pollution, in genetically susceptible individuals is one potential factor in autism.” (source)
A study conducted by the Department of Paediatrics at the University of Arkansas determined that thimerosal-induced cytotoxicity was associated with the depletion of intracellular glutathione (GSH) in both cell lines. The study outlines how many vaccines have been neurotoxic, especially to the developing brain. Depletion of GSH is commonly associated with autism. Although thimerosal has been removed from most children’s vaccines, it is still present in flu vaccines given to pregnant women, the elderly and to children in developing countries. (15)
“The assertion that vaccine-autism concerns rest merely on spurious claims made by uneducated parents is in stark contrast with a large body of scientific literature. As mentioned previously, extensive research data has underscored the tight connection between development of the immune system and that of the CNS, and thus the plausibility that disruption of critical events in immune development may play a role in neurobehavioral disorders including those of the autism spectrum. Indeed, early-life immune challenges in critical windows of developmental vulnerability have been shown to produce long-lasting, highly abnormal cognitive and behavioral responses, including increased fear and anxiety, impaired social interactions, deficits in object recognition memory and sensorimotor gating deficits. These symptoms are highly characteristic of autism. It is thus indeed naive to assume that a manipulation of the immune system through an increasing number of vaccinations during sensitive periods of early development will not result in adverse neurological outcomes. Consistent with this, Shoenfeld and Cohen (world’s leading experts in autoimmune diseases) noted that, ”vaccines have a predilection to affect the nervous system”. Also, please refer to a number of publications we and others have authored on this subject (link between immune challenges and adverse neurological outcomes. For specific publications on the links between vaccinations and autism, refer to the following citations .” -Lucija Tomljenovic, who has a PhD in biochemistry and is a senior postdoctoral fellow in UBC’s Faculty of Medicine. (source)
For more studies you can refer to these to start off your research.
Gallagher, C.M. and Goodman, M.S. (2010) Hepatitis B vaccination of male neonates and autism diagnosis, NHIS 1997-2002. J Toxicol Environ Health A 73, 1665-77.
Gallagher, C.M. and Goodman, M.S. (2008) Hepatitis B triple series vaccine and developmental disability in US children aged 1-9 years. Tox Env Chem. 90, 997-1008.
Ratajczak, H.V. (2011) Theoretical aspects of autism: causes – a review. J Immunotoxicol 8, 68-79.
The list literally goes on and on, study after study in peer-reviewed scientific journals claim a possible link between vaccines/vaccine ingredients and autism.
So, for the “pro-vaccine” community to say there is no link, and can’t be a link, and that vaccines could not be one out of several possible causes contributing to the development of autism seems a little bit ridiculous, don’t you think?
Concluding Statement About The Vaccine/Autism Controversy
As you can see above, there are many peer-reviewed studies published in scientific journals by experts at various institutions claiming no link. On the other hand, we have the same type of research, also in abundance that claims there could be a link, and that it is probable – and through science they’ve shown how.
What are parents who do their research supposed to think when they come across this information? Why is the “pro vac side” so adamant on saying that there are no scientific peer-reviewed published studies that posit a potential link to autism – when there are many.
So, this is one reason why parents are choosing not to vaccinate their children. To say there is absolutely no way a vaccine can be a contributing factor in causing autism is completely false and dangerous.
Scientific/Industry Fraud
When a parent points to the idea that scientific and industry fraud contributed to their decision to not vaccine their child, they can instantly be deemed “conspiracy theorists” or greeted with some sort of rude response that makes them out to be “fools.” This couldn’t be further from the truth, and those types of responses often come from those who have failed to do any investigation for themselves.
When a parent points to the idea that scientific and industry fraud contributed to their decision to not vaccine their child, they can instantly be deemed “conspiracy theorists” or greeted with some sort of rude response that makes them out to be “fools.” This couldn’t be further from the truth, and those types of responses often come from those who have failed to do any investigation for themselves.
“Condemnation without investigation is the height of ignorance.”
Here is why parents are actually pointing to scientific/industry fraud when it comes to making their decision, and to be honest, with this type of information out in the public domain, who can really blame them?
It’s hard to know where to start when there are so many examples:
– Lucija Tomljenovic, who has a PhD in biochemistry and is a senior postdoctoral fellow in UBC’s Faculty of Medicine, is also a medical investigator. A few years ago she uncovered documents that reveal vaccine manufacturers, pharmaceutical companies and health authorities have known about multiple dangers associated with vaccines but chose to withhold them from the public. This is scientific fraud, and suggests that this practice continues to this day. The documents were obtained from the UK Department of Health (DH) and the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunization (JCVI), who advise the Secretaries of State for Health in the UK about diseases preventable through immunizations. The JCVI made continuous efforts to withhold critical data on severe adverse reactions and contraindications to vaccinations to both parents and health practitioners in order to reach overall vaccination rates.
“The transcripts of the JCBI meetings also show that some of the Committee members had extensive ties to pharmaceutical companies and that the JCVI frequently co-operated with vaccine manufactures on the strategies aimed at boosting vaccine uptake. Some of the meetings at which such controversial items were discussed were not intended to be publicly available, as the transcripts were only released later, through the Freedom of Information Act (FOI). These particular meetings are denoted in the transcripts as “commercial in confidence,” and reveal a clear and disturbing lack of transparency, as some of the information was removed from the text (i.e., the names of the participants) prior to transcript release under the FOI section at the JCVI website.” (16)
A congressional record from May 1, 2003 shows that there could be, and that many scientists themselves believe that there is a high risk of autism as a result of Thimerosal-containing vaccines. Again, this is a congressional report and parents who choose not to ignore it should not be bashed by others, don’t you think? The report even shows information from the CDC’s own Vaccine Safety Datalink (VSD) that postulates the vaccine-autism connection. (17)
Insider “whistle-blowers” with verified credentials have also played a role with parents who are concerned about vaccinating their children. This type of thing has been going on for quite a while. Take Robert F. Kennedy Jr for example. He repeatedly stated that there is a “cover up” of data that clearly shows a definitive link between vaccines and autism. He also alluded to the fact that he has met with some of these people, that they know what they are doing, and that they are terrified of the public ever finding out. Think about that for a second, we have the former presidents nephew, who has been in elitist circles and obviously in and around people who’ve held powerful positions making these comments. Of course these are concerning comments, and to not completely dismiss them as false isn’t a “bad” thing. One of the biggest concerns for parents was the fact that he, in June 2005, authored an article in Rolling Stone and Salon.com alleging a government conspiracy to cover up connections between vaccines and autism. Both of the articles were retracted.(18)(19) There are many speeches he made, and compelling statements that are available in the form of articles and YouTube videos if you are interested in seeing more.
Although a “whistle-blower” is not science, it does add to the science that is already there by giving it an “extra leg” so to speak. stuff like this seems to be cropping up every year giving parents more reasons not to vaccinate their children, just as it is cropping up every year giving parents more reasons to vaccinate their children.
We also have statements (hundreds) from scientists and doctors like this one (quote below) which also seem to be contributing to a lack of trust for vaccine manufacturers and the studies they sponsor. Much of the published scientific studies that say there is no need to worry about vaccines, and that there is no autism link are actually sponsored by the vaccine manufactures themselves:
Although a “whistle-blower” is not science, it does add to the science that is already there by giving it an “extra leg” so to speak. stuff like this seems to be cropping up every year giving parents more reasons not to vaccinate their children, just as it is cropping up every year giving parents more reasons to vaccinate their children.
We also have statements (hundreds) from scientists and doctors like this one (quote below) which also seem to be contributing to a lack of trust for vaccine manufacturers and the studies they sponsor. Much of the published scientific studies that say there is no need to worry about vaccines, and that there is no autism link are actually sponsored by the vaccine manufactures themselves:
“It is simply no longer possible to believe much of the clinical research that is published, or to rely on the judgement of trusted physicians or authoritative medical guidelines. I take no pleasure in this conclusion, which I reached slowly and reluctantly over my two decades as an editor of the New England Journal of Medicine” (considered to be one of the most prestigious peer-reviewed medical journals in the world). – Dr Marcia Angell, Physician, Author, Former Editor in Chief of the NEJM (20)
A more recent example (and perhaps one of the biggest) would be long time CDC scientist, Dr. William Thompson. In fact, he has authored and co-authored dozens of studies, many of which are commonly pointed out by the “pro-vaccine” movement. A couple of them are actually cited above that show there is no link between vaccines and autism. Just a few months ago this is what he had to say:
“The CDC has put the research 10 years behind, because the CDC has not been transparent. We’ve missed 10 years of research because the CDC is so paralyzed right now by anything related to autism. Really what we need is for congress to come in and say, give us the data.” (22)
He pointed to a specific study that he co-authored, a 2004 CDC study commonly cited and used by the scientific community, among others, that determined:
“The evidence is now convincing that the measles-mumps-rubella vaccine does not cause autism or any particular subtypes of autism spectrum disorder.” (21)
He also alluded to another study published in the Journal of Pediatrics that concluded:
“The evidence is now convincing that the measles-mumps-rubella vaccine does not cause autism or any particular subtypes of autism spectrum disorder.” (23)
This is what he had to say about that study:
“It’s the lowest point in my career that I went along with that paper and uh, I went along with this, we didn’t report significant findings. I’m completely ashamed of what I did, I have great shame now that I was complicit and went along with this, I have been a part of the problem.” (22)
This story was becoming so big across alternative news networks, like CE, that mainstream media outlets like CNN picked up on it as quick as they could and tried to spin the story. At least they admitted that yes, Dr. Thompson did actually blow the whistle:
“I regret that my co-authors and I omitted statistically significant information in our 2004 article,” Thompson said in a statement sent to CNN by his lawyer. “I have had many discussions with Dr. Brian Hooker over the last 10 months regarding studies the CDC has carried out regarding vaccines and neurodevelopmental outcomes, including autism spectrum disorders. I share his belief that CDC decision-making and analyses should be transparent.”(24)(25)
That being said, he also said in an official statement from his lawyers on August 27th 2014.
“I want to be absolutely clear that I believe vaccines have saved and continue to save countless lives. I would never suggest that any parent avoid vaccinating children of any race. Vaccines prevent serious diseases, and the risks associated with their administration are vastly outweighed by their individual and societal benefits.”(25)
This brings me to my next point. With regards to the data omitted above, Dr. Thompson made the call to scientist Dr. Brian Hooker (22)(24)(25), who published the real findings which found that there was a 340 percent increased chance of autism in African American boys receiving the MMR vaccine on time. The study was published in the peer-reviewed journal Translational Neurodegeneration and was retracted a couple of days later.(26) This is why I am linking it here and not with the studies above (first point).
That being said, Dr. Hooker has published a number of peer-reviewed studies that have appeared in reputable scientific journals. The journal Translational Neurodegeneration being one, where his study provided epidemiological evidence supporting an association between increasing organic-Hg exposure from Thimerosal-containing childhood vaccines and the risk of an ASD diagnosis. (27) Furthermore, an abstract obtained by Hooker shows “increased risk of developmental neurologic impairment after high exposure to thimerosal-containing vaccine in the first month life.” (28)
Concluding Comments About Scientific/Industry Fraud
As you can see, parents who cite scientific/industry fraud as one of the reasons for not vaccinating their child holds a great deal of validity. Most vaccine supporters are completely unaware of this information, which is understandable, it’s not really “out there” so to speak, it’s something you have to look for. These are just a few of many examples, as I am trying to make this article as short as possible (not easy).
The National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act
During the mid-1970’s, there was an increased focus on personal health and more people became concerned about vaccine safety. Several lawsuits were filed against vaccine manufacturers and healthcare providers by people who believed they had been injured by vaccines, and the evidence presented in court was good enough to win.
As a result, this act was developed to protect any pharmaceutical company, doctor or medical association from any “fault.” It’s not about pointing fingers, many people really do believe that every vaccine is fine to inject into somebody. Instead of suing the vaccine manufacturer directly, they have to go through a long process where parents have to ask the government to admit that the vaccine was responsible for their child’s injury, and ask for compensation for the child’s care.
Pharmaceutical companies are exempt from participating in these proceedings, and tax payers are the ones who pay for all the vaccine related damages, which there have been many. Below is a great video explaining the process in detail.
This is clearly another contributing factor as to why parent’s are not vaccinating their children, Many grey areas and shady practices that are involved with the legal process when it comes to vaccine induced injury. The children who have been injured by vaccines alone is another cause for concern, which brings me to my next point.
The Ineffectiveness Of Some Vaccines And Vaccine Injury
Again, there are dozens upon dozens of vaccines that are out there, some might be completely safe, harmless and necessary, and some might not be.
If we take a look at Gardasil, for example:
“It is a vaccine that’s been highly marketed, the benefits are over-hyped, and the dangers are underestimated.” – Dr. Chris Shaw, Professor at the University of British Columbia, in the department of Neuroscience, Ophthalmology, and Visual Sciences.
There have been several documented cases of injury as a result of the Gardasil vaccine. A recent article in the Toronto Star recently brought this issue up as well, you can view that here.
Another doctor making noise regarding the HPV vaccine is Dr. Diane Harper. Dr. Harper helped design and carry out the Phase II and Phase III safety and effectiveness studies to get Gardasil approved, and authored many of the published papers about it. She has been a paid speaker and consultant to Merck. It’s very unusual for a researcher to publicly criticize a medicine or vaccine she helped get approved.
“They created a huge amount of fear in mothers, and appealed to mothers’ sense of duty to get them to get their daughters vaccinated.” – Dr Diane Harper (source)
If we are talking about recent research regarding the HPV vaccine, a new review was just published in the journal Autoimmunity Reviews titled, On the relationship between human papilloma virus vaccine and autoimmune disease.
The authors of this study came to the same conclusion as Dr. Harper. They concluded that:
“The decision to vaccinate with HPV vaccine is a personal decision, not one that must be made for public health. HPV is not a lethal disease in 95% of the infections; and the other 5% are detectable and treatable in the precancerous stage.” (If you are interested you can access the paper here)
They also listed several conditions in which HPV vaccination is most likely the culprit, having been linked to a variety of autoimmune diseases which include: Multiple sclerosis, Guillain-Barre syndrome, primary ovarian failure, and more. Gardasil has also been linked to a number of deaths.
You can access more information regarding that vaccine, and what I am referring to in a recent article I wrote:Merks former doctor predicts Gardasil to become one of the greatest medical scandals of all time
Are you going to tell a parent who cites this information as part of the reason they choose not to get this vaccine that they don’t know what they are talking about?
If we look at another example of the literature that’s out there regarding the flu vaccine, just to pick one, a report published in the British Medical Journal shows how “Marketing influenza vaccines thus involves marketing influenza as a threat of great proportions.”The paper outlines this theme throughout. It also outlines how recorded deaths from influenza declined sharply over the middle of the 20th century, and that this occurred before the great expansion of mass vaccination campaigns at the start of the 21st century. (28)
Are vaccine manufactures marketing vaccines in a completely wrong way?
Another marketing strategy used to push the flu vaccine is the claim by vaccine manufactures that “flu” and “influenza” are the same. The paper outlines how even the ideal influenza vaccine can only deal with a small part of the “flu” because most “flu’s” appear to have nothing to do with influenza.
“Every year, hundreds of thousands of respiratory specimens are tested across the US. Of those tested, on average 16% are found to be influenza positive. All influenza is “flu,” but only one in six “flu’s” might be influenza. It’s no wonder so many people feel that “flu shots” don’t work: for most flu’s, they can’t.” (28)
A study published in the Journal of Pediatrics, found that 85 percent of newborn infants experienced abnormal elevations of CRP when given multiple vaccines and up to 70 percent in those given a single vaccine. CRP is a protein found in the blood, a rise in this protein is a response to inflammation. Overall, 16 percent of infants were reported to experience vaccine-associated cardiorespiratory events within 48 hours of immunization. (29)
A great example is the fact that poorly tested vaccines have been administered to young children, which explains that there have been large numbers of major Adverse Reactions from seasonal influenza vaccines. As a result they were suspended for use in children under five years of age in Australia. (30)
In a series of Rapid Responses addressing this issue, published in British Medical Journal, titled “Adverse events following influenza vaccination in Australia-should we be surprised?” Collignon (Director of Infectious Diseases & Microbiology at Australian National University) concluded:
“There is poor evidence on how well influenza vaccines prevent any influenza complications in children and other age groups. There is good evidence that influenza vaccines study reports cherry pick results and achieve spurious notoriety. Exposing human beings to uncertain effects is a risky business” [25].
The list goes on and on and I could cite hundreds of studies both “for” and “against.”
Instances like children in Europe developing Narcolepsy after the H1N1 pandemrix vaccine does not help either. There are so many examples, and no doubt these examples contribute largely in the decisions parents are making.
Vaccine Ingredients
This topic was touched upon in the studies presented in the first point. There are numerous studies suggesting that current vaccine ingredients are not a cause for concern. At the same time, there are many that point out they should be a cause for concern.
Common vaccine ingredients include:
Aluminum gels or salts of aluminum which are added as adjuvants to help the vaccine stimulate a better response. Adjuvants help promote an earlier, more potent response, and more persistent immune response to the vaccine.
Antibiotics which are added to some vaccines to prevent the growth of germs (bacteria) during production and storage of the vaccine. No vaccine produced in the United States contains penicillin.
Egg protein is found in influenza and yellow fever vaccines, which are prepared using chicken eggs. Ordinarily, persons who are able to eat eggs or egg products safely can receive these vaccines.
Formaldehyde is used to inactivate bacterial products for toxoid vaccines, (these are vaccines that use an inactive bacterial toxin to produce immunity.) It is also used to kill unwanted viruses and bacteria that might contaminate the vaccine during production. Most formaldehyde is removed from the vaccine before it is packaged.
Monosodium glutamate (MSG) and 2-phenoxy-ethanol which are used as stabilizers in a few vaccines to help the vaccine remain unchanged when the vaccine is exposed to heat, light, acidity, or humidity.
Thimerosal is a mercury-containing preservative that is added to vials of vaccine that contain more than one dose to prevent contamination and growth of potentially harmful bacteria
With regards to aluminum, studies (6)(7)(8)(9) are a good place to start if you want to examine the dangers of aluminum as an adjuvant in vaccines.
A fairly recent Meta-Analysis published in the Journal Bio Med Research International found that:
“The studies upon which the CDC relies and over which it exerted some level of control report that there is no increased risk of autism from exposure to organic Hg in vaccines, and some of these studies even reported that exposure to Thimerosal appeared to decrease the risk of autism. These six studies are in sharp contrast to research conducted by independent researchers over the past 75+ years that have consistently found Thimerosal to be harmful. As mentioned in the Introduction section, many studies conducted by independent investigators have found Thimerosal to be associated with neurodevelopmental disorders. Considering that there are many studies conducted by independent researchers which show a relationship between Thimerosal and neurodevelopmental disorders, the results of the six studies examined in this review, particularly those showing the protective effects of Thimerosal, should bring into question the validity of the methodology used in the studies.” (30)
Dr. Theresa Deisher, a PhD in Molecular and Cellular Physiology from Stanford University, the first person to discover adult cardiac derived stem cells, determined that residual human fetal DNA fragments in vaccines may be one of the causes of autism in children through vaccination. (31)
Again, significant association between exposure to thimerosal and neurodevelopmental disorders in children including autism, speech disorders, mental retardation, thinking abnormalities and personality disorders has been reported in a number of studies. Many have been cited in this article, here are a couple more:
Geier, D.A. and Geier, M.R. (2006) A meta-analysis epidemiological assessment of neurodevelopmental disorders following vaccines administered from 1994 through 2000 in the United States. Neuro Endocrinol Lett 27, 401-13. [127]
Young, H.A., Geier, D.A. and Geier, M.R. (2008) Thimerosal exposure in infants and neurodevelopmental disorders: an assessment of computerized medical records in the Vaccine Safety Datalink. J Neurol Sci 271, 110-8.
There is clearly enough information out there regarding the ingredients in vaccines, throughout this article, that makes a parent look pretty sane for choosing not to vaccinate their baby. At the same time there is a lot of medical research out there that shows the parents who choose to vaccinate their babies are pretty sane as well.(32)
Related CE Article
MIT Scientist Shows What Can Happen To Children Who Receive Aluminum Containing Vaccines
Vaccine Safety Evidence Is Not Rock Solid. One Size Does Not Fit All.
Forcing a parent to vaccinate their child is not a sound scientific one. All drugs are associated with some risks and adverse reactions. The “greater good” argument is concerning because causes of permanent neurodevelopmental disabilities and even deaths following vaccination in children (with genetic and other susceptibilities) have been established (firmly) in scientific literature (7)(8).
One important point parents often point to is the fact that clinical trials that could address vaccine safety concerns have not been conducted. There are no studies that have been published in these peer reviewed medical journals examining the health outcomes of vaccinated populations versus unvaccinated populations. The lack of these controlled trials appears to be because vaccines have been assumed to be safe since their inception, which clearly contradicts a lot of scientific data.(32)
Even strong supporters of vaccinations within the scientific community have questioned the scientific legitimacy of “one size fits all” vaccination practices.
For example, Poland (Editor in Chief of the journal Vaccine and co-author of The age-old struggle against the anti-vaccinationists (33)) and fellow researchers ask whether “with the advances coming from the new biology of the 21st Century,” it is time to consider “how might new genetic and molecular biology information inform vaccinology practices of the future?” They concluded that “one-size fits all” approach for all vaccines and all persons should be abandoned.
This assumption is also as a result of vaccine trials commonly excluding vulnerable individuals who might be more susceptible to injury via vaccine. As a result, adverse reactions that occur as a result of vaccinations might be very underestimated.
I also wanted to point out that data also demonstrates that over-stimulating the host’s immune system by repeated immunization with immune antigens and/or adjuvants inevitably leads to autoimmunity even in genetically non-susceptible animals, which is important to consider. (34)(35)
Here is a related video explaining why vaccines should not be considered completely safe.
Again, can you really blame parents with all of this information out there?
Concluding Comments
The “pro-vaccination” side seems to be all that is offered in the media, at the doctor’s office, and in schools, and most government vaccine sponsored studies. The reason I wrote this article was to give a small amount of information to help shed light on why parent’s are choosing not to vaccinate their children, simply because this side is so rarely discussed. The number of documents and peer-reviewed scientific literature alluding to adverse events after vaccination and the dangers associated with vaccinations; how they are not nearly as emphasized as they should be. It appears that the risks associated with them are far greater than what they are telling us, and an unnecessary amount of pressure is placed on parents to vaccinate their children.
Too many people are uninformed, and might make a comment such as “what about the polio vaccine” and completely ignore all of the relevant information in this article. They might not know things like in 1977 Dr. Jonas Salk (inventor of the Salk polio vaccine) testified with other scientists that 87% of the polio cases which occurred in the US since 1970 were the by-product of the polio vaccine.The Sabin oral polio vaccine (OPV) is the only known cause of polio in the US today. I am not sourcing this little tidbit here to encourage others to go out and look for themselves. That is the whole point of this article.
After reading this, it’s hard to imagine how a parent could ever be made to look like a “fool” for choosing not to vaccinate their child. It’s also not even a fraction of the amount of information out there that goes into history, more science, fraud, and more. I cannot do your research for you, I hope I’ve inspired you to do some of your own.
Next time you come across a parent who has chosen not to vaccinate their baby, try not to judge, instead try and understand where they are coming from.
Sources
http://www.mdpi.com/1099-4300/14/11/2227
(1) http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0264410X14006367
(2) http://www.jpeds.com/article/S0022-3476%2813%2900144-3/abstract
(3) http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15342825
(4) http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17168158
(5)http://informahealthcare.com/doi/abs/10.1586/14760584.3.1.19
(6)http://people.csail.mit.edu/seneff/Shaw_et_al_JOT_2014.pdf
(7)http://www.meerwetenoverfreek.nl/images/stories/Tomljenovic_Shaw-CMC-published.pdf
(8)http://autismoava.org/archivos/1-s2.0-S0162013411002212-main.pdf
(9) http://people.csail.mit.edu/seneff/Shaw_et_al_Immunome_Res_2013.pdf
(10)http://www.mdpi.com/1660-4601/10/8/3771
(11)http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3697751/
(12)http://ajcn.nutrition.org/content/80/6/1611.full
(13)http://vaccinechoicecanada.com/wp-content/documents/VRAN-Abnormal%20Measles-Mumps-Rubella-Antibodies-CNS-Autoimmunity-Children-Autism-Singh-Lin-Newell-Nelson.pdf
(14)http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12933322
(15)http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0161813X04001147
(16) http://nsnbc.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/BSEM-2011.pdf
(17) http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CREC-2003-05-21/pdf/CREC-2003-05-21-pt1-PgE1011-3.pdf
(18) http://www.cbsnews.com/news/rolling-stone-retracts-autism-article-but-lots-of-junk-journalism-remains/
(19) http://www.salon.com/2011/01/16/dangerous_immunity/
(20) http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2964337/
(22) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LhpckzxVEoc#t=381
(23) http://informahealthcare.com/doi/abs/10.1586/14760584.3.1.19
(25) http://www.morganverkamp.com/august-27-2014-press-release-statement-of-william-w-thompson-ph-d-regarding-the-2004-article-examining-the-possibility-of-a-relationship-between-mmr-vaccine-and-autism/
(26)http://web.archive.org/web/20140826171415/http://www.translationalneurodegeneration.com/content/pdf/2047-9158-3-16.pdf
(27) http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24354891
(28) http://www.bmj.com/content/346/bmj.f3037
(29) http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17643770
(30) http://www.bmj.com/rapid-response/2011/11/02/adverse-events-following-influenza-vaccination-australia-should-we-be-surp
(31) http://s3.amazonaws.com/soundchoice/soundchoice/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/DNA_Contaminants_in_Vaccines_Can_Integrate_Into_Childrens_Genes.pdf
(32) Tomljenovic, L. and Shaw, C.A. (2011) One-size fits all? Vaccine. 2012; 30(12):2040.9
http://www.vaxchoicevt.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/04/Lucija-Tomljenovic-PhD-letter.pdf
(33) http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMp1010594
(34)http://www.jimmunol.org/cgi/content/meeting_abstract/184/1_MeetingAbstracts/93.39
(35) http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20353969
Posted in Health	| Tagged Autism, Farmington Hills chiropractor, flu vaccines, Inflammation, MMR, MMR/Autism	| 1 Reply
Deadly High Blood Pressure Caused By These Over-the-Counter Meds
Posted on March 27, 2015 by tiptonchiro
Reply
Posted by: Christian Goodman
We tend to think that over-the-counter medications (you don’t need a prescription to obtain) are pretty safe to take.
But if you have high blood pressure, you must look out for this one type of over-the-counter medication. If not, it can skyrocket your blood pressure with serious consequences.
Flu season is in full blast, and when it hits, millions of people flock to their local pharmacy to buy over-the-counter flu meds.
For most people, these flu meds are safe to use for a short period. But for those who suffer high blood pressure, many of those flu remedies can cause a BP spike. And a spike in blood pressure can land you in the emergency room with a heart attack or stroke.
As if that weren’t enough, when you have the flu, your body is loaded with inflammation to fight the viruses and/or bacteria. The inflammation, furthermore, increases the risk of stroke and heart attack and raises blood pressure. So you must be doubly careful when you have the flu.
There are many other over-the-counter medications that raise blood pressure. Pain killers and energy drinks are just two more examples. Read the warning labels carefully and consult your doctor before taking any pills or stimulating drinks.
The best prevention is to get your blood pressure under control before the flu hits you, or before you consider any type of over-the-counter meds.
However, you must use a natural method to lower your blood pressure as traditional drugs come with so many side effects that will hurt you in the long haul.
Posted in Health	| Tagged Farmington Hills chiropractor, Flu Meds, Over-the -counter medication	| Leave a reply
Resolution of Chronic Dysphagia in a 73 Year Old Female Receiving Chiropractic Care
Posted on March 25, 2015 by tiptonchiro
Reply
A Case Report
Chanelle Rhodes, BSc Chiro, M. Bentley, G. Link, P. Fong B Pharm, B Chiro
Annals of Vertebral Subluxation Research ~ March 19, 2015 ~ Pages 23-25
Abstract
Objective: To describe the care of a 73 year old female with a 20 year history of dysphagia which resolved while she was receiving chiropractic care.
Clinical Features: A 73 year old female was pain free at the time of presentation but she reported a 20 year history of chronic difficulty in swallowing with a feeling of choking on food. Multiple levels of vertebral subluxations were observed, otherwise her physical examination was unremarkable.
Interventions and Outcomes: The patient was initially scheduled for three chiropractic visits per week for a period of four weeks. The patient noted that after her first adjustment visit her chronic dysphagia resolved. A full progress evaluation was performed after 12 visits to determine further clinical changes. Her dysphagia remained in remission and she was now able to eat a normal diet without a feeling of choking on her food.
Conclusion: This is the first case study to report complete resolution of chronic dysphagia in an older patient that is temporally associated with the provision of chiropractic care.
Key Words: Dysphagia, swallowing disorder, chiropractic, vertebral subluxation, adjustment, spinal manipulation
Posted in Health	| Tagged adjustment, Dysphagia, spinal manipulation, swallowing disorder	| Leave a reply
Natural Cure for High Blood Pressure Discovered
Posted on March 25, 2015 by tiptonchiro
Reply
Posted by: Christian Goodman
The traditional medical system has no solution for high blood pressure other than dangerous drugs, sometimes carrying lethal side effects.
But researchers from the University of Houston’s College of Pharmacy recently discovered a simple, natural cure for high blood pressure. It’s more effective than drugs and it comes with no side effects.
You already have the cure in your kitchen, and you’re consuming it on a daily basis. You may just need to boost it up a little and watch your blood pressure numbers drop.
The kidneys play a key role in managing blood pressure. Depending on orders from the brain, they excrete more sodium to lower blood pressure or excrete less sodium when blood pressure needs to be raised. But for some reason, the kidneys do not always manage to do their job.
One of the most common classes of blood pressure drug, diuretics (also called a water pill), is supposed to help the kidneys get rid of excess water and sodium. But they come with serious side effects.
However, what the researchers discovered was that when oxidized stress (free radicals that cause inflammation) is present in the kidneys, dopamine receptors that are supposed to monitor sodium excretion didn’t work the right way.
By loading your body with antioxidants, which fight free radicals, the oxidized stress lessens, and your kidneys can do their job again.
The good news is that this is easy to do using delicious fruits and vegetables, without the side effects of the water pill.
Blueberries have more varieties of antioxidants than any other fruit. But antioxidants can be found in all fruits and vegetables. The general rule is the more color, the better. You can also take them as supplements.
It’s equally important to avoid oxidization in the first place by eating healthy foods and avoid everything processed. Food cooked at very high temperatures (grilled) and of course fried foods also contribute to oxidization.
The real underlying cause, however, lies in the phrase, “oxidized stress.” Because any stress can be the underlying cause of high blood pressure. It can be physical (oxidization, diseases), mental (long lasting difficult tasks at work), emotional (loss of a loved one), or sensory (traffic, loud TV).
And the stress accumulates. Imagine having the flu (physical stress) and at the same time there is loud construction going on next door (sensory stress). In that case, your stress level and blood pressure will rise more than just having one of those factors alone.
When your body is under oxidized or any other stress for a long time, your brain gets into the habit of triggering high blood pressure. It becomes chronic; habitual. So even if the stress factors leave, your blood pressure stays high.
The way to deal with this is to break “the habit of high blood pressure.” You do this by giving yourself “a Focused Break.” It only takes a few minutes, but you’ll immediately experience a drop in blood pressure.
Posted in Health	| Tagged Antioxcidants, Blueberries, diet, Farmington Hills chiropractor	| Leave a reply
Post navigation
← Older posts
Search
Recent Posts
Resolution of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus in a 67 Year Old Female Patient Following Subluxation-Based Chiropractic Care: A Case Study
2015 Masters Tournament Winner, Jordan Spieth, Credits Chiropractic Care for Good Health and Peak Performance
Merck’s Former Doctor Predicts Gardasil To Become The Greatest Medical Scandal Of All Time
Why parents are choosing not to vaccinate their kids
Deadly High Blood Pressure Caused By These Over-the-Counter Meds
Archives
May 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
December 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
Categories
Health
Uncategorized
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com
Advertisements
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Terry L. Tipton, D.C. blog
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy