Eating Meat May Raise Colon Cancer Risk
MedicineNet
SYMPTOM CHECKER
Disease & Conditions
Conditions A-Z
Procedures A-Z
Allergies
Alzheimer's
Arthritis
Asthma
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Cholesterol
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Eyesight
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Lung Conditions
Menopause
Men's Health
Mental Health
Migraine
Neurology
Oral Health
Pregnancy
Senior Health
Sexual Health
Skin Problems
Sleep
Thyroid
Travel Health
Women's Health
Gastroenterology
Hemorrhoids
Diabetes
Diabetes (Type 1 and Type 2)
Teen Health
Bullying
Dermatology
Jock Itch
Drugs & Supplements
Medications
Supplements and Vitamins
ADHD
Vyvanse vs. Strattera
Sleep Disorder
Benzodiazepines
Depression
Zoloft
Health & Living
Diet & Weight Management
Exercise & Fitness
Nutrition, Food & Recipes
Prevention & Wellness
Digestive Problems
Low Fiber Diet
Fitness, Exercise, Sports
Aerobic Exercise
Digestive Problems
Probiotics
Media
All
Slideshows
Adult Skin Conditions
Common Eye Problems and Infections
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
All
Quizzes
Diet and Nutrition Quiz
Heart Disease Quiz
Kidney Disease Quiz
All
Images
Genital Warts
Scabies
Alopecia Areata
MedTerms Dictionary
Slideshows
Quizzes
Images
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Advertising Policy
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
home/cancer center/ cancer a-z list/ eating meat may raise colon cancer risk article
Eating Meat May Raise Colon Cancer Risk
Study Suggests Eating Less Red Meat and Processed Meat May Cut Chances of Getting Colon Cancer
By Denise Mann
WebMD Health News
Latest Cancer News
Genomics Improve Treatment of Pancreatic Cancer
Jury Awards $29.4 Million in Talcum Powder Case
Scientists Spot Clues to Predicting Breast Cancer
AI Takes Aim at Lung Cancer Screening
1st Immunotherapy Drug for Breast Cancer Approved
Want More News? Sign Up for MedicineNet Newsletters!
Reviewed by Laura J. Martin, MD
May 23, 2011 -- Red meat and processed meat may increase the risk of developing colon cancer, according to a new report from the American Institute for Cancer Research (AICR) and the World Cancer Research Fund.
The report, which builds on the two groups' 2007 Continuous Update Project, points to solid evidence that eating less red meat and avoiding processed meat altogether can slash colon cancer risk.
When this advice is combined with other diet and lifestyle changes -- such as consuming less alcohol, boosting fiber intake, exercising, and maintaining a healthy body weight -- it could prevent 45% of all colon cancer cases, or more than 64,000 cases of colon cancer each year, the report states.
Colorectal cancer is the third most common type of cancer diagnosed in the U.S., excluding skin cancers, according to the American Cancer Society.
"The good news is that we have some control over our colon cancer risk," says Elisa Bandera, MD, PhD, an associate professor of epidemiology, Cancer Institute of New Jersey, New Brunswick. Bandera was a member of the expert panel that analyzed all of the available literature on colon cancer risk, diet, exercise, and weight.
Eating less than 18 ounces per week of red meat, such as beef, lamb, or pork, shows very little increase in colon cancer risk, the report states.
People who eat 3.5 ounces or red meat every day (24.5 ounces per week) will have a 17% increased risk of colon cancer compared to someone who eats no red meat, according to the report. People who eat 7 ounces per day (49 ounces per week) will have a 34% increased risk.
People who eat 3.5 ounces of processed meat a day will have a 36% increased risk of developing colon cancer compared with people who avoid all processed meat, according to the report. The more processed meat eaten, the higher your risk for developing colorectal cancer.
Why Meat May Raise Colon Cancer Risk
Exactly how red and/or processed meat increases risk for colon cancer isn't clear, but there are several theories. Some research suggests that chemicals called heterocyclicamines,which are produced when meat is cooked at high temperature, may play a role. Processed meats are made by smoking, curing, salting, and or adding preservatives such as nitrates. The body converts nitrates into nitrosamines, which are known to increase risk of cancer.
"It appears that red meat -- and maybe processed meat even more -- has some relationship with colon cancer risk," says panel member Steven H Zeisel, MD, PhD, theKenan Distinguished Professor of nutrition and pediatrics at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.
"A betting person would say there is risk associated with the consumption of red meat and processed meat," he says. "Moderating the amount of red meat you take in is reasonable based on this data. And trying to cut back and substitute other types of meat or vegetables would be a good idea for someone who wants to reduce risk of colon cancer."
Diet and Lifestyle Changes
Drinking alcohol may increase colon cancer risk, according to the report. The report also states that excess belly fat may raise colorectal cancer risk, but staying lean, eating more fiber, and engaging in regular physical activity can help lower this risk.
"If you limit consumption of red meat, you have more room on your plate for good things like whole grains and vegetables," Bandera says. Some simple substitutes can help. "Choosing brown rice instead of white rice is a good way of increasing fiber."
Alice Bender, MS, RD, of the AICR, says the new report is especially important to people with a family history of colorectal cancer.
"If you have family history, it's more important than ever to follow these guidelines because they offer potentially some extra protection," she says.
National Cattlemen's Beef Association Weighs In
"Americans should continue to build healthier diets with beef, knowing the scientific evidence to support the role of nutrient-rich, lean beef in a healthy, balanced diet is strong," says Shalene McNeill, PhD, RD, executive director of Human Nutrition Research at the National Cattlemen's Beef Association.
"Nothing in this update should change the way Americans consume beef," she says. " In fact, Americans are consuming beef well within WCRF's [World Cancer Research Fund] 500 gram (18 ounces) per week recommendation. As a scientist, registered dietitian, and a mother, I will continue to recommend lean beef to Americans trying to build a healthier plate because of the unique package of nutrients and enjoyment it brings to a healthy diet."
CONTINUE SCROLLING FOR NEXT NEWS ARTICLE
SOURCES: Elisa Bandera, MD, PhD, associate professor, epidemiology, Cancer Institute of New Jersey, New Brunswick.Steven H Zeisel, MD, PhD, Kenan Distinguished Professor ofnutrition and pediatrics, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.Alice Bender, MS, RD, American Institute for Cancer Research, Washington, D.C.World Cancer Research Fund/American Institute for Cancer Research: "Continuous Update Project Report," May 23, 2011.Shalene McNeill, PhD, RD, executive director of Human Nutrition Research, National Cattlemen's Beef Association. ©2011 WebMD, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Health Solutions From Our Sponsors
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Related Article
Colon Cancer: Symptoms, Signs, Screening, Stages
Colorectal cancer (colon cancer) is the cause of many cancer deaths. Learn about the warning signs, symptoms, screening process, stages, and treatment related to colorectal cancer.
Read more: Colon Cancer: Symptoms, Signs, Screening, Stages
Featured Slideshows
Type 2 DiabetesCan you reverse type 2 diabetes?
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)What's the difference between RA and arthritis?
Deep Vein ThrombosisHow to know if you have a blood clot in your leg
Recognize These Skin Conditions?
What Bit Me?
What is Crohn's Disease?
Strep Throat vs. Sore Throat
Warning Signs of Type 2 Diabetes
19 Eye Conditions You Need to Know
Why Do I Pee So Often?
What Can Turmeric Do for You?
Low-T: A Normal Part of Aging?
Is It an STD?
Who's at Risk for Hepatitis C?
Breast Cancer: What Happens Next
Schizophrenia and Mental Health
Early Signs of Thyroid Problems
17 Worst Belly Fat Foods
How to Get Rid of Hemorrhoids
Living With AFib
See a Baby Develop in the Womb
What is Deep Vein Thrombosis?
Put an End to Nail Fungus
Ringworm Means I’ve Got Worms?
How Do You Get Scabies?
13 Baking Soda Uses for Your Body
Coping With IBS
Telltale Signs of Child ADHD
The Stigma of Psoriasis
Cancer Symptoms Not to Ignore
What Feet Say About Your Health
Most Expensive Medical Conditions
Early Signs of Heart Disease
Clues You Could Have MS
How to Lower Your Cholesterol
Which Fruits Have the Most Sugar?
14 Healthy Foods on a Budget
ADHD in Adults
What Poop Type and Color Mean
MedicineNet
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
Health Categories
Medical Slideshows
Diseases & Conditions
Symptoms & Signs
Procedures & Tests
Medications
Healthy Living
Vitamins & Supplements
Image Collection
Quizzes
MedTerms Dictionary
Pet Health
Popular Health Centers
Allergies
Arthritis
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Men's Health
Mental Health
Neurology
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin
Thyroid
Women's Health
More...
MedicineNet
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Site Map
WebMD Corporate
WebMD
WebMDRx
Medscape
Medscape Reference
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth