The Facts You Need To Know About AIDS And HIV - Health Cautions
​Lose Weight
Live Longer
Look Younger
Feel Better
Sex Health
Search
Health Cautions
​Lose Weight
Live Longer
Look Younger
Feel Better
Sex Health
Home Sex Health The Facts You Need To Know About AIDS And HIV
Sex Health
The Facts You Need To Know About AIDS And HIV
By
Mary
-
January 6, 2019
0
34
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Pinterest
WhatsApp
HIV and AIDS are just some of the most common terms that we often hear nowadays. Well, these are actually conditions that one can acquire through sexual contact. In this article, we are going to learn more about the difference between AIDS and HIV. So if you want to gain a lot more knowledge about these two conditions, feel free to give this article a read.
What is HIV?
Table of Contents
1 What is HIV?
2 Types of HIV
3 Difference Between AIDS and HIV
4 How do you Acquire HIV?
5 AIDS and HIV: Can it be prevented?
6 How to Get Tested for HIV?
Human Immunodeficiency Virus or HIV is a condition that predominantly spread due to unprotected sexual intercourse. The virus actually attacks the immune system and makes the patient suffer from vulnerable infections.
Moreover, HIV has a vastly high death rate in various developing countries all over the world. Even though the human immunodeficiency virus rate keep on rising, with the proper treatment, sufferers will be able to live much longer and healthier lives.
Moreover, HIV is a virus, which infects living cells. This may lead to the deficiency or failure of the immune system. Additionally, HIV attacks and destroys the important cells in the immune system. This includes CD4 cells and/or helper T cells. After attacking these cells, the cells become virus factories, which will produce some other viruses that attacks the other CD4 cells in the body. This particular cycle will then lead to some major losses of CD4 cells, whihc makes the immunity weak and make the body more vulnerable. This may lead to the development of some other infections, such as AIDS.
Types of HIV
Here are the two types of HIV and their differences:
HIV-1 HIV-2
Common and found worldwide Found mostly in West Africa
Has high ability to damage the body Has low ability to damage the body
High capacity to establish an infection Low capacity to establish an infection
Higher immune system’s activation level Higher immune system’s activation level
There’s higher number of CD4 during progression A higher number of CD4 during progression
More infectious on the earlier stages More infectious on the later stages
Most likely to lead to AIDS Less likely to lead to AIDS
The origin is the Common Chimpanzee The origin is the Sooty Mangabey
All of us are vulnerable to HIV whatever age, race, sexuality, we may be.
Difference Between AIDS and HIV
The difference of AIDS and HIV is that the HIV is the virus that you first contract that makes you vulnerable in the contraction of infections and diseases. On the other hand, AIDS or Acquired Autoimmune Deficiency Syndrome is the name that people use in referring to the condition where the immune system has been harshly damaged already by the HIV. Furthermore, a person who has AIDS may already have acquired a lot of potentially dangerous infections.
How do you Acquire HIV?
Dissimilar to the popular belief, HIV can’t be spread through mosquitoes, saliva, urine, or sweat. Furthermore, the virus is actually severely fragile and is not capable of surviving outside the body for longer periods. Sharing toothbrushes, kissing someone, or sharing a drink with someone who has HIV will not transmit the virus to you.
Nevertheless, it may be transmitted via unprotected sex, transmission from a mother to a baby or sharing needles.
AIDS and HIV: Can it be prevented?
There are some things that may be done i9n order to prevent the contraction of HIV. The major precaution is to wear a condom each time you have sex. Another is getting a regular test for sexually transmitted infections. The earlier you catch the infection, the easier it is to get treated (hopefully). If you are using needles, make certain that you use the sterile ones. Because the infected needles will just expose the risks of catching HIV.
There is also this one drug known as PrEP that may be taken in order to prevent HIV. This is a great idea to use if you know that you are at a high risk of HIV. This is, either you are with somebody who has HIV or in a relationship, the use of recreational drugs or having sex with no condoms.
This particular drug may be prescribed by online clinics or GPs. If you feel that you may be exposed to HIV and must take PrEP, do not hesitate to go to a doctor to discuss all your concern. Moreover, bear in mind, PrEP is a drug that needs to be taken as exactly as ordered to get the full protection. Skipping even just a few doses may open you up to some risk of the infection.
How to Get Tested for HIV?
If you are worrisome about you getting HIV, make sure that you get tested as soon as possible. You may get tested by your GP or in a sexual health clinic. The test will involve giving samples of the blood or saliva that will be evaluated for the virus. Tests may also be done secretly online where all the tests will be sent home. You will then provide samples and can get all the results online.
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Pinterest
WhatsApp
Previous articleWhat Are The Most Staggering Health Benefits Of Carob Tree?
Next articleThe Most Surprising Health Benefits Of Rose Apple
Mary
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
What Are The Sexual Side Effects Of Antidepressants?
The Most Common Myths About HPV You Must Stop Believing
How To Achieve Better Orgasms With Masturbation?
LEAVE A REPLY Cancel reply
Please enter your comment!
Please enter your name here
You have entered an incorrect email address!
Please enter your email address here
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Currently you have JavaScript disabled. In order to post comments, please make sure JavaScript and Cookies are enabled, and reload the page. Click here for instructions on how to enable JavaScript in your browser.
Categories
Feel Better
Live Longer
Look Younger
Sex Health
Uncategorized
​Lose Weight
10 Best Home Remedies for Dry Cough
Mary - September 26, 2017
0
A dry cough is a problem that pardons no one. However, this exceptionally common and typically non-serious illness is tenacious in nature. Hence it...
The Most Surprising Health Benefits Of Bulgur Wheat
Mary - September 10, 2018
0
Have you heard of the bulgur wheat before? Well sometimes, people call it the cracked wheat. This is thought to a much better source...
The Most Staggering Treatments For Lupus
Mary - June 18, 2018
0
There are lots of autoimmune disorders that affect people in today’s age and time. these conditions may cause some abnormal effects on the overall...
The Most Significant Health Benefits Of Golden Berries
Mary - November 8, 2018
0
The golden berries are kind of berries, which are originally from South Africa. These berries actually possess a lot of essential nutrients, which are...
The Most Beneficial Treatments For Agoraphobia
Mary - July 30, 2018
0
There are lots and lots of phobias or fears in the whole world. And these phobias are affecting millions and millions of people worldwide....
Health Benefits Of Juicing Wheatgrass
Samantha Hamilton - July 12, 2017
0
Wheatgrass is actually a variety belonging to barley, oats, plus rye. It is also a grass that is recognized to have the capacity indoors...
EDITOR PICKS
POPULAR POSTS
What Are The Interesting Health Benefits Of Champagne? ﻿
August 1, 2018
The Most Surprising Health Benefits Of Broccoli Rabe
September 18, 2018
The Most Astonishing Health Benefits Of Tamarind
September 28, 2018
POPULAR CATEGORY
Live Longer604
Feel Better262
​Lose Weight87
Look Younger71
Sex Health51
ABOUT US
FOLLOW US
©
'); var formated_str = arr_splits[i].replace(/\surl\(\'(?!data\:)/gi, function regex_function(str) { return ' url(\'' + dir_path + '/' + str.replace(/url\(\'/gi, '').replace(/^\s+|\s+$/gm,''); }); splited_css += ""; } var td_theme_css = jQuery('link#td-theme-css'); if (td_theme_css.length) { td_theme_css.after(splited_css); } } }); } })();
Edit with Live CSS