"I like warm pee – it"s comforting": Meet the woman who drinks and bathes in her urine | Tiskin Celebrity Blog
Tiskin Celebrity Blog
Secrets of Celebrities
Your Ad Here
Strictly Come Dancing 2012: Victoria Pendleton booted off as viewers find her emotional outbursts "beyond annoying"
Gordon Ramsay bonds with Brooklyn Beckham at the boxing match while his famous parents are hard at work
Alice Eve flaunts her sensational curves in two different bikinis as she raises temperatures in Miami
Lunch AND dinner? Thom Evans treats Kelly Brook to two birthday meals… but doesn"t help her move in to her new house!
Rochelle and Marvin Humes pictured for first time since announcing pregnancy
Colin Baker becomes the fourth camper to leave the jungle in I"m A Celebrity… Get Me Out Of Here
Alesha Dixon shines in fluorescent peach dress at the BAFTA Children"s Awards
Rowan Pelling"s sex advice column: My boyfriend can"t get over my fling…even though we were on a break
You"re not as clever as you think you are so here"s….why horoscopes are all just a fad?
Cut-price cashmere: We test Gap, Uniqlo, Mango, Marks & Spencer, Tesco, John Lewis, La Redoute and Primark
"I like warm pee – it"s comforting": Meet the woman who drinks and bathes in her urine
Your Ad Here
'I like warm pee – it's comforting': Meet the woman who drinks and bathes in her urine
|
UPDATED:
22:54 GMT, 16 March 2012
Carrie is a 53-year-old cancer victim who according to her friend has 'done some strange stuff over the years'. But this may be the strangest of all.
The middle-aged brunette from Colorado Springs has taken to drinking her own urine, a four-year-old, five-glass-a-day habit that she calls 'comforting'.
On TLC's finale of the shocking series, My Strange Addiction, Carrie explains that drinking the warm pee for the first time didn't make her throw up so she decided: 'You know what, I can do this.'
Mystical elixir: Carrie is a 53-year-old woman who drinks her own pee as well as brushing her teeth with it
Diagnosed with stage three malignant melanoma eight years ago, the mother of four daughters began drinking her urine in the hope that it may help with her recovery.
But it seems that the alternative medicine fan has taken quite a shining to the beverage. Of the taste, Carrie enthused about the variety of flavours that change depending on her diet.
'My urine does smell depending on what I eat,' she says. 'Today it tastes a lot different than it did four years ago. Sometimes it's salty….sometimes it tastes like plum champagne.'
Slugging down a glass of the bright yellow liquid she pauses for a minute and then remarks: 'Hmm maybe a little lemony.'
Yum! Carrie has had to stop eating some of her favourite foods like asparagus on account of the way they ruin the taste of her warm beverage
Pooh! Carrie says her pee smells and tastes different depending on what she's eating, sometimes salty, sometimes like 'plum champagne'
The
quirky pee-drinker describes how on sampling her daily urine she can
taste the different foods going through her body and as such has had to give
up foods that she once loved.
'I love love love asparagus but I won't eat it
anymore. It makes the urine taste…ugh not good,' she laughs.
But
Carrie not only drinks her own liquid waste, she uses it to rinse out
her eyes, brush her teeth and she even ages it and applies it as an
ointment all over her body.
During the episode she reveals her secret habit to her friend Denise.
'I drink almost all the urine that comes out of my body,' she confesses as her companion stays calm.
First you pour, then you rub: Carrie leaves some urine to age and then applies it over her body like an ointment
When
Carrie invites her to watch to prove she's telling the truth, Denise
gently refuses saying: 'You can tell me anything you want about it but i
don't think I want to watch you drink it.
'I've survived many things with you over the years…I mean you've done some strange stuff.'
One of her daughters told TLC: 'Urine is your body's waste. It's what you body
has decided to filter through and get rid of so it doesn't seem healthy
to me.'
Dental routine: The 53-year-old brushes her teeth using the urine and also washes her eyes out with it using a small shotglass
A friend indeed: Carrie's chum Denise listens attentively to her companion's secret and gently refuses her offer to watch her drinking the pee
Urine is not, as she believes, a product of
unwanted waste that is expelled by the body, but a by-product of blood filtration that is known to have been consumed by
Egyptian, Chinese and Indian civilisations for medicinal purposes.
However, in a report by The Independent in 2006, medical experts refuted claims that any proof existed of its healing nature.
Dr Michael Stroud, an expert in
nutrition at Southampton University, went so far as to say that people
who believed that urine could cure disease were 'daft as brushes'.
Helen Andrews, of the British
Dietetic Association, told the British paper: 'There are no health
benefits to drinking your own urine, and in fact I think it could be
quite detrimental.
'Each time you put it back it will
come out again even more concentrated and that is not good for health as
it could damage the gut.'
Related posts:
Lilly McElroy: Meet the woman who literally throws herself at men (in the name of art)
Star Wars actress Carrie Fisher reveals her bizarre friendship with Elizabeth Taylor – the woman who stole her father from her mother
Meet the woman who is sleeping with her sperm donor
I know my mum s always right : Meet the woman behind Amy Childs success… her mother Julie
Meet the richest woman in Britain: How did "totty from the Potteries" beat the Queen
Your Ad Here
© 2019 Tiskin Celebrity Blog