Carrots for Good Eyesight - Healthcare Natural
Write For Us Contact Shop Login Register
Toggle navigation
Research Breakthroughs
Doctor’s advice
Granny Therapy
Health facts
Healthy Food Recipes
Yoga
HCN Home » Healthcare » Health care, Health Facts » Carrots for Good Eyesight
Carrots for Good Eyesight
Tweet
Posted on December 9, 2014 by Dr.Nalini Sreekanth
“If you had weak eyes, they needed exercise to get strong. Glasses were like crutches. They prevented people with feeble eyes from seeing the world on their own.” ― Jeannette Walls,
Does a carrot a day keep the optometrist away? The biggest hunt is on! Everyone would love to have a clear vision with their naked eye. When compared to glasses and lenses, vegetables can make your dream come true. If you experience poor eye sight, Carrots are the top rated cure factor to gain proper eye-sight and vision. Well there are so many sayings that insists how worth carrots are for better eyesight. But that is true in fact; Fresh carrots are really good for both your eyes and health.
Carrots for clear vision:
Enough said about carrots!!! Just find out why carrots are good for eyes! Have you heard that carrots and other orange coloured fruits and vegetables promote eye health and protect vision? Yes that’s true, carrots are good for your vision with a type of vitamin A called Beta carotene that gives these foods their orange hue and helps the retina and other parts of the eye to function smoothly. But note that they cannot increase your visual acuity.
Facts of carrot
• Carrots are not only orange in colour; they also come in purple, white, red and yellow.
• There is as much calcium in 9 carrots as there is in a glass of milk.
• Carrots are about 87% water.
• Three carrots can give you enough energy to walk 3 miles.
Carrots are also good for your overall health, because they are a good source of potassium and fibre while being low in calories and almost fat-free. Adding chopped carrots to the top of a salad or including carrot side dishes are part of a healthy meal.
If you are tired of eating raw carrots, you can tune into making variety of dishes and drinks. Moreover, a cup of carrot juice is better for a day.
Naturally sugary, delicious and crunchy, carrots are healthy additions that you can make to the vegetable list in your diet. Carrot juice is also widely available as a health drink and the nutrients in carrots can improve the health of your eyes. So there it is, carrots make a big impact in providing healthy eyesight.
More from my site
GM Diet Plan – Effective and Easy weight loss diet plan
Eliminate Sugar Addiction the Natural Way
Amazing Benefits of Carrot Juice!!
Kelp is an Anti-Cancer Diet – Research proves it!
Warning Signs and Symptoms of Vitamin B12 Deficiency
Key Nutrients for Healthy Eyes
Get Healthcare Articles Directly in Your Inbox
Leave This Blank: Leave This Blank Too: Do Not Change This:
Your email:
Tags: benefits of eating carrot daily, benefits of eating carrot during pregnancy, benefits of eating carrot for skin, benefits of eating carrot juice, benefits of eating carrot leaves, benefits of eating carrot on empty stomach, Carrots for clear vision, health benefits of carrots for men
About The Author
I have been practicing alternative medicine for the past 7 years in and out of India.Coming from a traditional family from Kerala, Gods own country.My fore fathers where into traditional Ayurveda practice over 7 generations.read more
Authors
Dr.S.Raneesh
Dr.Sunil Roy
Dr.Vaigunth Jana
Dr.K.Sudarkkodi
Dr.T.M.Senthiarasi
Dr.Rejitha
Search in Healthcare
Get Healthcare Articles Directly in Your Inbox
Leave This Blank: Leave This Blank Too: Do Not Change This:
Your email:
Recent Posts
Bank Stem Cells in Baby Teeth for your Child’s Future
Typically, children begin losing their teeth between the ages of …
Outsourcing Manufacturing: The Sports and Wellness Nutritional Beverage Business
No one can dispute the fact that the nutrition supplement …
7 Traits that make a Professional Dentist Stand Out
With many qualified dentists out there, finding the right professional …
Wisdom Teeth Symptoms and Extraction!
Wisdom teeth are the last teeth that come in human …
Can Dental Implants Last Forever?
Of course! With good oral hygiene and regular dental visits, …
Categories
Accupuncture
Alternative Therapies
Anxiety
Beauty
Beauty
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Dental Health
Diabetes
Fruits
Health care
Heathcare Tips
Herbal
Homeopathy
Infertility
joint pains
Kids Dentistry
Massage Therapy
Men Health
Natural cure
Nutritional Supplement Manufacturer
Pediatric Dental
Physiotherapy
Psoriasis
Reflexology
Research Breakthroughs
Senior Living
Sexual Health
snore
stem cell preservation
swine flu
Teeth
varicose veins
Vegetables
Weight Loss
Women Health
Yogic Home Exercises
LinkedIN 0
Top Treatments
Acupressure
Acupuncture
Ayurveda
Herbal
Massage
Nutrition
Aromatherapy
Associaltions
Bowen Technique
Chiropratic
Colleges
Colour Therapy
Homeopathy
Hypnosis
Kinesiology
Meditation
Siddha
Yoga
Quick Links
HCN Practitioners
Add Services
Healthcare
Shop
Contact Us
Manage
Login
Register
Write for us
© Copyright 2015 Healthcare natural. All Rights Reserved.