Baking Soda: Helped to Cure Cancer - Healthy Life Idea
Now Trending:
Japanese Morning Banana ...
DO YOU HAVE MEMORY PROBL...
This recipe is going cra...
Here’s How To Eliminat...
Healthy Life Idea
Menu
Home
Gallery
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Baking Soda: Helped to Cure Cancer
admin | September 3, 2015 | General, Healthy Tips | No Comments
“Cancer is a fungus, called candida albicans, and it can be treated using sodium bicarbonate”. So says Tulio Simoncini
Simoncini is a former Italian oncologist in Rome who developed a theory that all cancer is caused exclusively by a fungus called candida albicans. His alternative cancer treatment is simple: To alkalize the body and tumour by the use of a cheap, common compound, sodium bicarbonate, tackling the candida, shrinking the tumour and stopping metastases. Thus it is also a natural cancer cure.
Candida, beneficial bacteria, acid bodies and cancer
The background to Simoncini´s work involves the following theoretical elements:
Firstly, acid bodies are known to be linked to ill health and cancer.
Secondly, sodium bicarbonate can alkalize your body. It has been used in many preparations as an antacid; an indigestion aid. You can buy a small pot of it in high street chemists for a little over one pound.
Thirdly, the beneficial bacteria in your intestine are now known to direct up to 85 per cent of your immune response, to release anti-cancer vitamins (like biotin, B-12, folic acid, vitamin K) from your foods and even to produce a compound (sodium butyrate) which causes cancer cells to self-destruct. Beneficial bacteria work imperfectly if the acidity of the gut increases.
However, fourthly, at night when you sleep, beneficial bacteria digest vast quantities of microbes, fungus and yeasts that you consumed during the day with your food. In fact their favorite food is the yeast or fungus, Candida albicans. So, they are your first line of defense.
So how might candida cause cancer?
Candida albicans is known to be able to escape the intestine and travel around the body in the blood stream. Oregano oil and cinnamon can kill the yeast in the blood stream. About 25 per cent of type-2 Diabetics were shown to improve when given cinnamon. This is because the fungus sits on the outer membranes of cells, preventing crucial receptor sites from working properly – in the case of diabetes, those receptor sites are for insulin. However, candida also produces a sugar-like waste product. People with higher blood sugar levels develop more cancer, and survive less.
But there is a second potential problem. Yeasts like candida are anaerobes – this means they generate their energy in the absence of oxygen. Once in the blood stream they can colonize certain local areas of the body and greatly reduce the oxygen levels in that area. The result is that the local cells do not die, but switch their own energy production from an oxygen-based system to one that doesn´t use oxygen. This is the system employed by cancer cells, which also do not use oxygen to generate their energy from food molecules. In fact, Otto Warburg won a Nobel Prize in 1931 for telling the world this property of cancer cells and that oxygen was their enemy!
Is it, then, any surprise then that women who had taken antibiotics more than 25 times during their lifetime had twice the risk of breast cancer, according to research covered in CANCERactives research service Cancer Watch? Their friendly bacteria were reduced allowing candida more chance to survive in the gut and move to the blood stream. Their immune systems were weak, indicated by the illnesses that required the antibiotics. And so on.
Dr Simoncini was a respected Italian Oncologist until he developed his theory … His theory is that all cancer is caused by the fungus, candida albicans. His cure is to alkalize the body to produce conditions in which the candida could not thrive. His main weapon is the inexpensive, sodium bicarbonate. He was struck off, in Italy.
Please SHARE this with your friends.
Source: healthycures.org
Share this:
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Related
Tags:alkalize, baking soda, cancer, candida albicans, cure, metastases, natural, sodium bicarbonate, tumour
Related Posts
This Woman Marries A Disabled Man…But At Her Wedding She Experiences The Surprise Of Her Life! That Is So Moving And Beautiful
No Comments | Feb 2, 2016
BORN 3.5 MONTHS EARLY, BABY HAD SLIM CHANCE OF SURVIVAL. BUT WHAT HAPPENED OVER THE NEXT YEAR IS A MIRACLE! (VIDEO)
No Comments | Apr 11, 2016
THIS ANCIENT REMEDY “CURES ALL DISEASES” HIV, AIDS, DIABETES, CANCER, STROKE, STDS, ARTHRITIS & MORE …
No Comments | Aug 24, 2016
DR. OZ GOT DEATH THREATS FOR SHARING THIS DRINK WITH THE WORLD – IT WILL HELP YOU LOSE WEIGHT OVERNIGHT!
No Comments | Mar 29, 2017
About The Author
admin
Add a Comment
Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment:*
Name:*
Email Address:*
Website:
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Categories
General
Healthy Recipes
Healthy Tips
Natural Remedies
Weight Loss
Tags
alkaline apple cider vinegar baking soda banana blood body cancer cholesterol cinnamon coconut coffee diabetes drink face fat feet food garlic ginger hair health honey joints juice kidney lemon liver mask natural pain parsley plant recipe remedy skin sleep spice symptoms tea tumor turmeric water weight loss woman women
Copyright © 2019 Healthy Life Idea.
Theme by MyThemeShop.
Blog
Contact Us
Gallery
Home
Terms and Conditions