Narcotics kill pain, but side effects can be addictive.
[?]Subscribe To This Site
Home
About Bev
Expert Advice
Substances
Alcohol
Drugs
Weed
Other Addictions
Gambling
Food
Internet
Video Games
Shopping
Shoplifting
Issues
Young Addicts
Relationships
Codependency
Sex
More
Resources
Downloads
Untwisted Blog
Contact Me
Let's Do This!
Narcotics Kill Pain – And Other Side Effects
Narcotics kill pain, but addiction depends on many factors. Many use drugs, out of curiosity, fascination, or because they’re seeking a high. No one factor leads to addiction.
Drugs like heroin, morphine and medication and synthetic opiates like Demerol and Fentanyl are highly addictive. These opiates, work by mimicking the pain-relieving chemicals produced in the body. They bind chemically to opiate receptors, activating pain-relieving systems in the brain and spinal cord, but there can be many undesirable side effects.
No opiate will get you addicted if you use it only once. It is also not possible to maliciously make someone dependent on narcotics by placing it in a drink.
Some drugs are more addictive than others and create criminal behavior as well as other social problems. Narcotics kill pain and that was the original purpose, however, heroin is a very addictive drug.
Drugs like heroin, morphine and medication and synthetic opiates like Demerol and Fentanyl are highly addictive. These opiates, work by mimicking the pain-relieving chemicals produced in the body. They bind chemically to opiate receptors, activating pain-relieving systems in the brain and spinal cord, but there can be many undesirable side effects.
No opiate will get you addicted if you use it only once. It is also not possible to maliciously make someone dependent on narcotics by placing it in a drink.
Some drugs are more addictive than others and create criminal behavior as well as other social problems. Narcotics kill pain and that was the original purpose, however, heroin is a very addictive drug. Cocaine and most amphetamines are less addictive in comparison. Ecstasy (XTC), hashish, and pot are even less addictive However, all drugs have long and short term effects on the body.
Although a drug can be legal and it can also be addictive. Prescription painkillers and sleep medications are good examples of addictive medication. Narcotics kill pain and prescription meds present a particular problem, because when a person is prescribed a drug by a doctor, you can naturally assume that it’s safe.
Your medical professional should be monitoring that, and if you have any questions about the addictive nature of the drug, ask.
Caution: When someone stops using their medication, they may keep it in their medicine cabinet – just in case they need it in the future. If their teenager has been experimenting with drugs, they can believe that their parents’ medications are harmless, and take it. I know of incidents where kids brings a few of their parents’ pills to a party. They put them all in a bowl and pick the color of their choice and get high. They have no clue what they are taking and parents usually are unaware of what’s going on. This can be a very dangerous game. Keep a watchful eye on all prescription medication
Effects of opioides drug cravings, restlessness, muscle and bone pain, insomnia, diarrhea and vomiting, cold flashes, goose bumps, kicking movements and other symptoms.
Withdrawal symptoms peak between 48-72 hrs and subside after about a week. Sudden withdrawal is occasionally fatal. Although heroin withdrawal is considered less dangerous than withdrawing from alcohol or barbiturates, for the addict, it feels a lot worse.
An addiction to narcotics usually needs professional treatment.
Side effects have to be monitored and psychological issues have to be addressed. It’s not enough to simply treat the physical side of drug addiction.
In the case of cocaine, speed or ecstasy there is a possibility of a panic attack, causing chest or upper body pain. On rare occasion, there can be damage to the veins around the heart. If you have recently quit drugs and have a rapid heartbeat, tingling in your fingers and/or lips and anxiety, this will probably disappear, but if it’s prolonged, speak to a doctor.
Have a question about this subject?
Book a consultation if you need help for yourself or others
Although narcotics will kill pain, however I hope this article gives you the basics about their addictive effects on the body For more on drugs
From Narcotics kill Pain to Stop being addicted
This site provides information only. It is not intended to replace face-to face therapy with medical or psychological professionals. Please click and read Terms of Use. The use of this site constitutes the understanding and acceptance of Terms of Use. ©Untwist-your-thinking.com 2007-2013. All Rights Reserved.
SBI!
Tweet
Like Us
Click 'LIKE' and get access to 100s of Free Self-Help Books and more
FREE SELF-HELP NEWSLETTER OPT-IN
Enter your E-mail Address
Enter your First Name (optional)
Then
Don't worry — your e-mail address is totally secure.
I promise to use it only to send you Powerful Living.
Top Ten Hypnosis Downloads
Stop Negative Thinking Now
Stop Negative Thinking Now!
Public Speaking Confidence
Banish your fear of public speaking in minutes.
Exercise Motivation Booster
Boost your motivation to exercise.
Ease Anxiety
Melt away anxiety & fear using hypnotherapy.
Quick Confidence Booster
Quickly build your self confidence before stressful events
Think Thin
Adopt the thought strategies of slim people.
Overcoming Shyness
Overcome Shyness and Social Anxiety.
Super Slim Me
Program your mind with your weight loss goals
Self Esteem Booster
Boost your self esteem today - feel better in minutes
Improving Concentration and Focus
Create powerful focus and concentration.