After Wisdom Tooth Removal Bowling Green KY | Home Care
Skip to main content
Home
Patient Information
Introduction
Why Choose Our Practice
Scheduling
First Visit
Patient Registration
Insurance
Privacy Policy
Online Videos
Financial Policy
Emergency Visits
Online Bill Payment
Procedures
Dental Implants
Replacing Missing Teeth
Overview of Implant Placement
Missing All Upper or Lower Teeth
Bone Grafting for Implants
Implant Supported Overdenture
Teeth in a Day
After Implant Placement
Cost of Dental Implants
Bone Grafting
Jaw Bone Health
Jaw Bone Loss and Deterioration
About Bone Grafting
Ridge Augmentation
Sinus Lift
Socket Preservation
Wisdom Teeth
Impacted Wisdom Teeth
Wisdom Teeth Removal
After Extraction of Wisdom Teeth
Jaw Surgery
Facial Trauma
Tooth Extractions
Pre-Prosthetic Surgery
Oral Pathology
Exposure of Impacted Teeth
3D Imaging
Anesthesia
Meet Us
Meet Dr. Sutton
Meet Dr. Clark
Meet Dr. Williams
Meet Dr. Cohron
Meet the Staff
Office Tour
Surgical Instructions
Before Anesthesia
After Dental Implant Surgery
After Wisdom Tooth Removal
After Impacted Tooth Exposure
After Extractions
Referring Doctors
Referral Form
Study Club
Contact Us
Bowling Green Office
Glasgow Office
Franklin Office
Russellville Office
Bowling Green Office
Bowling Green Office Phone Number 270-783-0064
Franklin Office
Franklin Office Phone Number 270-586-5445
Glasgow Office
Glasgow Office Phone Number 270-629-3040
Russellville Office
Russellville Office Phone Number 1-888-357-0064
After Wisdom Tooth Removal
Home Instructions After Wisdom Teeth Extraction
The removal of impacted wisdom teeth is a serious surgical procedure. Post-operative care is very important. Unnecessary pain and complications such as infection and swelling can be minimized if these instructions are followed carefully.
Please make sure someone stays with you for at least the first 4 hours after you arrive home. If you suddenly stand from a lying position, you may become dizzy or nauseated. You will need someone to watch you carefully during the transition period after surgery.
CAUTION: If you suddenly sit up or stand from a lying position you may become dizzy. If you are lying down following surgery, make sure you sit up for one minute before standing.
Immediately Following Surgery
The gauze pad placed over the surgical area should be kept in place for a half hour. After this time, the gauze pad should be removed and discarded.
Do not rinse vigorously until the day following surgery. Rinsing may disturb the clot and should NOT be done in the presence of bleeding.
Take the prescribed pain medications as soon as you arrive home.
Restrict your activities the day of surgery and resume normal activity when you feel comfortable.
Place ice packs to the sides of your face where surgery was performed. Refer to the section on swelling for a more thorough explanation.
Bleeding
A certain amount of bleeding is to be expected following surgery. Slight bleeding, oozing, or redness in the saliva is not uncommon. Excessive bleeding may be controlled by placing a gauze pad over the area and biting firmly for thirty minutes. Repeat if necessary. If bleeding continues, bite on a moistened black tea bag for thirty minutes. The tannic acid in the black tea helps to form a clot by contracting bleeding vessels. To minimize further bleeding, do not become excited, sit upright, and avoid exercise. If bleeding does not subside, call our office for further instructions.
Swelling
The swelling that is normally expected is usually proportional to the surgery involved. Swelling around the mouth, cheeks, eyes, and sides of the face is not uncommon. This is the body’s normal reaction to surgery and eventual repair. The swelling will not become apparent until the day following surgery and will not reach its maximum until 2-3 days post-operatively. However, the swelling may be minimized by the immediate use of ice packs. Apply an ice bag, or perhaps a bag for frozen peas or towel filled with ice, on the cheek in the area of surgery. Apply the ice continuously 30 minutes on then 30 minutes off until you retire for the night. After 36 hours, ice has no beneficial effect. If swelling or jaw stiffness has persisted for several days, there is no cause for alarm. This is a normal reaction to surgery. Thirty-six hours following surgery, the application of moist heat to the sides of the face is beneficial in reducing the size of the swelling.
Pain
You will be given a prescription for pain medication. You should begin taking it it as prescribed as soon as you arrive home. If your pain in not severe you may take one or two tablets of Tylenol or Extra Strength Tylenol every 3-4 hours. Ibuprofen, Advil or over the counter Motrin may be taken instead. You should not exceed 3200 mg daily as an adult. Consult our practice for individuals under 18. Do not take the two medications at the same time
Diet
After general anesthetic or IV sedation only liquids should initially be consumed. Drink from a glass and do not use straws. The sucking motion can cause more bleeding by dislodging the blood clot. You may eat anything soft by chewing away from the surgical sites. A high calorie, high protein intake is very important. Our staff can provide suggested diet instructions. Nourishment should be taken regularly. You should prevent dehydration by taking fluids regularly. Your food intake will be limited for the first few days. You should compensate for this by increasing your fluid intake. At least 5-6 glasses of liquid should be taken daily. Try not to miss any meals. You will feel better, have more strength, less discomfort and heal faster if you continue to eat.
Keep the mouth clean
No rinsing of any kind should be performed until the day following surgery. The day after surgery you should begin rinsing at least 5-6 times a day, especially after eating, with a teaspoon of salt mixed into one cup of warm water. You may gently brush and rinse your teeth the day after surgery.
Discoloration
In some cases, discoloration of the skin follows swelling. The development of black, blue, green, or yellow discoloration is due to blood spreading beneath the tissues. This is a normal post-operative occurrence, which may occur 2-3 days post-operatively. Moist heat applied to the area may speed up the removal of the discoloration.
Antibiotics
If you have been placed on antibiotics, take the tablets or liquid as directed. Antibiotics will be given to help prevent infection. Discontinue antibiotic use in the event of a rash or any other unfavorable reaction and contact our office immediately. Call the office if you have any questions.
Nausea and Vomiting
A small percentage of patients will experience nausea following surgery due to the swallowing of blood, the medication prescribed, or the anesthetic itself. Taking the medication on an empty stomach should be avoided to reduce nausea.
In the event of nausea and/or vomiting following surgery, do not take anything by mouth for at least an hour, including the prescribed medicine. You should then sip on coke, tea, or ginger ale. You should sip slowly over a fifteen-minute period. When the nausea subsides you can begin taking solid foods and the prescribed medicine.
Please call the office if nausea persists for more than 12 to 18 hours.
Other Complications
If numbness of the lip, chin, or tongue occurs there is no cause for alarm. As reviewed in your consultation, this is usually temporary in nature. You should be aware that if your lip or tongue is numb, you could bite it and not feel the sensation. Call Drs. Sutton, Clark, Williams or Cohron if you have any questions.
Slight elevation of temperature immediately following surgery is not uncommon. Fever of up to 101 degrees may be normal. If the temperature persists, notify the office. Tylenol or ibuprofen should be taken to reduce the fever. Make sure you are well hydrated.
You should be careful going from the lying down position to standing. You could get light headed from low blood sugar or medications. Before standing up, you should sit for one minute before getting up.
Occasionally, patients may feel hard projections in the mouth with their tongue. They are not roots; they are the bony walls which supported the tooth. These projections usually smooth out spontaneously. If not, they can be removed by Drs. Sutton, Clark, Williams or Cohron.
If the corners of your mouth are stretched, they may dry out and crack. Your lips should be kept moist with an ointment such as vaseline.
Sore throats and pain when swallowing are not uncommon. The muscles get swollen. The normal act of swallowing can then become painful. This will subside in 2-3 days.
Stiffness (Trismus) of the jaw muscles may cause difficulty in opening your mouth for a few days following surgery. This is a normal post-operative event which will resolve in time.
Finally
Sutures are placed in the area of surgery to minimize post-operative bleeding and to help healing. Sometimes they become dislodged. This is no cause for alarm. Just remove the suture from your mouth and discard it. The sutures will be removed approximately one week after surgery. The removal of sutures requires no anesthesia or needles. It takes only a minute or so, and there is usually no discomfort associated with this procedure.
The pain and swelling should subside more and more each day following surgery. If your post-operative pain or swelling worsens or unusual symptoms occur, call our office for instructions.
There will be a void where the tooth was removed. The void will fill in with new tissue gradually over the next month. In the meantime, the area should be kept clean, especially after meals, with salt water rinses or a toothbrush.
Your case is unique, no two mouths are alike. Discuss any problems with the trained experts best able to effectively help you: Drs. Sutton, Clark, Williams or Cohron or your family dentist.
Brushing your teeth is okay – just be gentle at the surgical sites.
A dry socket is when the blood clot gets dislodged prematurely from the tooth socket. Symptoms of pain at the surgical site and even pain near the ear may occur 2-3 days following surgery. Call the office if this occurs.
If you are involved in regular exercise, be aware that your normal nourishment intake is reduced. Exercise may weaken you. If you get light headed, stop exercising.
Surgical Instructions
Before Anesthesia
After Dental Implant Surgery
After Wisdom Tooth Removal
After Impacted Tooth Exposure
After Extractions
Learn more about After Impacted Tooth Exposure
After Impacted Tooth Exposure
Learn more about After Implant Placement
After Implant Placement
Learn more about Contact Us
Contact Us
Southern Kentucky Oral Surgery Associates Facebook PageSouthern Kentucky Oral Surgery Associates Instagram PageSouthern Kentucky Oral Surgery Associates Yelp PageSouthern Kentucky Oral Surgery Associates Twitter Page
1938 Lyda Avenue
Bowling Green, KY 42104
Tel: Bowling Green Office Phone Number 270-783-0064 Fax: 270-783-4229
324 S. Main Street
Franklin, KY 42134
Tel: Franklin Office Phone Number 270-586-5445
1214 North Race Street Suite A
Glasgow, KY 42141
Tel: Glasgow Office Phone Number 270-629-3040 Fax: 270-629-3042
102 Armory Drive
Russellville, KY 42276
Tel: Russellville Office Phone Number 1-888-357-0064
Home
Patient Information
Online Bill Payment
Procedures
Meet Us
Surgical Instructions
Referring Doctors
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Sitemap
Oral Surgery Website Design by PBHS © 2019 • Non-Discrimination Notice
Scroll to the top of the page
Click to open and close visual accessibility options. The options include increasing font-size and color contrast.