Articles — Gwen Le Tutour | Videographer
Gwen Le Tutour | Videographer
Gwen Le Tutour My Films
About Us
Contact Blog
Back
Our Cookbook About Us
Gwen Le TutourMy Films About Us Our Cookbook About Us ContactBlog
Gwen Le Tutour | Videographer
VIDEOGRAPHER - FILMMAKER
Scroll
Spinach, tomatoes, broccoli, carrots…
Maybe that doesn’t sound like it will satisfy after a long run, but what if instead we talk about bean and rice burritos, sweet potato quesadillas, pad thai, and baked falafel… Now we are talking! All of these meals made by following a whole-food plant-based approach can help you reach peak performance by replenishing glycogen and reducing muscle soreness quickly and more efficiently after your workouts!
Perhaps you are wondering
about getting enough protein as an endurance runner, because let’s face it, a runner’s nutritional needs are very different than the average person's! Or maybe you have been turned off in the past about eating plant-based because you worry about all the extra time it may take in the kitchen, prepping, planning and combining proteins. Worry less, recover quicker and run more with plants!
The big concern
is always around protein, are we getting enough as runners? However to reach our peak performance as endurance athletes, perhaps we are asking the wrong question. What if the limiting factor as runners was not about how much protein we get, but is actually about whether or not we are getting enough nutrients?
A report published in the British Journal of Nutrition says that adults require no more than 0.8 or 0.9 grams of protein per healthy kilogram of body weight per day. Another recent study states, people are more likely to suffer from protein excess than protein deficiency. The adverse effects associated with long-term high protein diets may include disorders of bone and calcium balance, disorders of kidney function, increased cancer risk, and worsening of coronary artery disease.
FOOD
comes as a packaged deal, and since we need protein, let’s get it from a package that also provides great benefits rather than adverse effects. Water is essential for us, that doesn’t make Coke a good choice because it has water in it!
It’s all about the Nutrients
The research suggests that a more realistic threat to performance in the world of endurance is actually having too few micronutrients resulting from restricting calorie intake while consuming too much protein! Insufficient calorie intake among runners is rampant, and when you do not get enough quality calories, you also do not get enough micronutrients (or protein), so yes, this would limit performance as an athlete. Our easy solution to this: eat more plants!
WHY?
FOOD should not make you gain weight, Food should make you gain energy! More and more runners are discovering that the key to their potential is better and more simple than they ever could have imagined. By following a whole-foods, plant-based diet, they do not need to restrict calories to keep race weight and also do not need to worry about protein! Eat enough calories from plants, and you will reach your ideal protein needs while maximizing micronutrient intake!
It is important to note that when speaking about eating enough calories from plants, we mean by eating whole-foods and not processed and pre-packaged foods. The key to unlock your peak performance could be obtained by eating foods high in micronutrients, rice, beans, lentils, sweet potatoes, whole-grains and more!
What to expect as a runner when you adopt a whole-foods, plant-based diet?
RECOVERY
Recovery: Your recovery rate will improve.
Plants come packed with micronutrients, antioxidant, vitamins, minerals, etc… All you need to keep the machinery running well miles after miles.
Macronutrient wise, the carbohydrates from whole-plant foods will insure that your glycogen storage is replenished more quickly, which is key for a speedy recovery. Glycogen is the gold for athletes, and you cannot afford to fall short, especially as you start a race! Start with a full tank! (Our favorite glycogen replenishing foods are: baked sweet potatoes, fruit smoothies and bean, rice and veggie burritos)
Another huge recovery gain you can expect is reduced inflammation; flavonoids present in plant foods like berries and oranges will help reduce inflammation and accelerate your recovery from a hard training run. (Our favorite anti-inflammatory/ recovery meal is a fruit smoothie with berries, orange, banana, coconut water and fresh ginger and turmeric root.)
PERFORMANCE
Your performance will improve.
With your glycogen storage topped up, you can perform at a higher intensity for a longer period of time. Whether you are running a 5k or a 100 miler, you will need to use glycogen to produce energy efficiently and perform at your peak. You will go through it more quickly in a 5k of course, but even at low intensities like during an ultra, you still need some. Since our glycogen storage is so important to produce energy, we must make sure we replenish it after every run. Plant-foods are an optimal choice to top-up glycogen storage (as glycogen can be replenished more efficiently with carbohydrates rather than fat).
Plant foods also have the amazing ability to improve oxygen transport throughout the body. This is done by consuming nitrate rich foods like beetroots and arugula. The more efficient we get at using oxygen, the better our performance!!
Here are 10 foods you should eat everyday to reach your full potential as a runner:
Eat real foods. If it comes from the earth in its whole form, eat enough of it until you get satiated.
Beans or lentils (burritos, indian dal, chili)
Potatoes, sweet potatoes, yams (oil-free fries, mexican baked potatoes)
Fruit, especially berries! (smoothies, fruit salad)
Oats, rice, quinoa (oatmeal, paella)
Greens (salads, smoothies)
Cruciferous veggies (salad, stir fry, mexican bowls)
Nuts like walnuts, almonds (in smoothie or salad)
Seeds like flaxseeds, chia, pumpkin seeds (in a smoothie or chia pudding)
Spices like ginger and turmeric (in smoothie or soup)
Cold brew Hibiscus tea to stay hydrated (Hibiscus tea is the highest antioxidant content drink!)
Download Guide for free! →
FREE Peak Performance for Vegan Endurance Athletes NUTRITION GUIDE E-Book!
Name *
Name
First Name
Last Name
Email Address *
Sign Up with your Email to Get our Free Nutrition Guide You'll also get occasional info about vegan nutrition, fitness sales + coupons, and more freebies... win-win! {just confirm the email you will receive in a minute} (this is the only way we can provide this to you for free, your information is safe and spam free!)
Thank you!
Your Almost There!
Right Click here, and select Download Linked File to Download your Free Guide now!
Thank you for taking the time to get healthy!
Jumpstart your running performance today
by downloading our FREE Runner’s Nutrition E-Book “Peak Performance Nutrition Guide for Endurance Athletes” HERE where you will find running specific recipes and cookbooks, meal ideas and plenty of inspiration to hit the trails!
how to use positive thinking to get results
image illustrates the power that lies in our own hands.. in our minds.. in our self.
yes, we use this to achieve our running goals, fitness goals, happiness goals, abundance, everything!!!
Lets start this conversation with a forward by one of our Spiritual and Manifesting Coaches Hope, she has helped us understand the power of our minds, and how we shape our reality and how we can cultivate a future that we WANT.
FORWARD BY HOPE
 Are your thoughts working for you or against you? Evidence based studies have shown how powerful our minds are, and theories of quantum physics directly connects the power of our mind to our perspective of reality. So with this new science emerging how can we use this wisdom in being happier, healthier and achieve greater success?
When your mental field is flooded with negative thinking, worry, doubt, insecurities or views that are limiting, then the law of attraction can’t help but to meet you with what you are putting out. All of the negative self talk and old conditioned thinking IS LIMITING YOU from experiencing the best that life has to offer. So how do you change this?
There are many great tools and practices out there that can help you TRANSFORM YOUR LIFE.
Positive Affirmations are one of the simplest ones that even the busiest of people can add to their schedules. You can listen to a guided audio while working out, driving your car, laying in bed, you can even play it in the background as you go about cooking or cleaning the house. This process has been proven to reprogram the brain to build new neural pathways of thinking, whether consciously or unconsciously. This means that even if you are not fully engaged in listening, that part of your intelligent system is hearing and assimilating these affirmations. They can be basic, or complex, written or even spoken out loud, all of this is your choice in what works best to help you redirect the mind to more positive thinking. Look at it like training, and like all good training it is the repetition that will bring you the greatest results. So i challenge you to find a good book or even check out an awesome video on YouTube that fits your affirmation needs and train the next 3 months, listening and reprogramming as often as you can, to have your own experience of what it is like to transform your reality through thinking.
For more topics on this and other holistic, energetic and quantum insights follow my Instagram, Or of course if you are interested in stepping more into personally learning my coaching is available. HopeandHealing144@gmail.com 
— HopeandHealing144@gmail.com
To see more from Hope and her daily bits of inspiration, we suggest you follow her Instagram account, link here.
OUR STORY
all started when...
When I realized that so many of my dreams had come into reality..... That is when I really started to see the connection of positive thinking. How could so many of my dreams actually happened without me even trying????? It was when I started to think about these things and the connections between my dreams, thoughts and reality that someone came into my life and told me about THE POWER OF POSITIVE THINKING.
It was about one year ago exactly, I was living in Key West, and I was training to get ready to run my first 50 mile ultra-marathon. I was riding the stationary bike and running daily to get to where I wanted to be, however there was so much more going on within the power of my thoughts... at the time I did not fully understand what was going on, but I was loving the results.
Gwen and I have used various different ways to get to where we are today and we highly encourage you seek guidance through books, coaches, websites, youtube, etc to understand how you can use your mind to reach your goals.
Ways we Shape our Reality:
Positive Affirmations
Visualization
Positive Thinking Audio
Nature Appreciation
Meditation
In May, 2016 I was in Bali and I started working with our first Coach to understand the power of our minds. We have grown so much since then, and we have shattered our projection of what we thought was possible.
Now that we know how to use these tools, we are helping others to understand it also, so they can also be the best they can be.
Stay tuned for more on this topic, we will be sharing more from our coaches and sources that help us get to where we want to be!
Our suggested playlist:
click the image below to play
CLICK HERE TO ACCESS THIS PLAYLIST
Is portion control the solution to our problems?
calorie counting?
Do we need to cut back on one of the most pleasurable human experiences, eating, to be healthy? In this article we will explore the ideas out there, dig into the science and give you a fresh perspective or should we say a fresh portion to this topic!
Being overweight not only lowers your self esteem, excess body fat comes with a plethora of health issues; diabetes, cholesterol, heart disease, and many others. It is totally normal to seek solutions to obtain and keep a healthy weight, and the search for healthy options can be very challenging for several reasons.
We live in a country (USA) where unhealthy foods are available everywhere, are quick and are often times the cheapest and the most convenient options we know about. On top of this, information about nutrition is very confusing, especially when “science” serves marketing. You will find hundreds of contradictory results depending on the studies you look at. Why and how is this possible?
How can a scientific study show health benefits in a disease-promoting food? To understand why the public is so confused and misguided by these studies, we must understand how studies are designed.
Michael Greger explains:
“Imagine working for the now defunct Twinkie division of Hostess and wanting to take the tobacco industry tact of not just downplaying the risk of your product, but actually promoting it as healthy. How would we do that?
Our first problem is that each Twinkie has 2.5 grams of saturated fat, which raises cholesterol, the #1 risk factor of our #1 killer, heart disease. How are we going to get around that?
What if we designed a study in which we took a bunch of people eating our arch-rival, Little Debbie cloud cakes. Now they only have one gram of saturated fat each, so what if we took a group eating five cloud cakes a day — five grams of saturated fat — and then cut that saturated fat intake in half by switching them to eating one Twinkie a day. What would happen to their cholesterol levels? Their cholesterol would go down due to their decreased saturated fat consumption. So even though they went from eating five cakes down to one, technically, they went from zero Twinkies a day to one Twinkie a day, and their cholesterol went down (we wouldn’t mention the five to one thing).
We publish it and crank out a press release, “New research shows that eating a Twinkie a day can be good for heart health by improving cholesterol levels.” The media takes our press release and runs with it: “Consumers can eat a Twinkie every day if they choose, and feel confident that science supports Twinkies’ healthy benefits, which now include cholesterol-lowering effects!” Twinkies, we just proved with science, have cholesterol-lowering effects. Too outlandish a scenario? Amazingly, that’s exactly what the beef industry did (those above quotes are actual quotes–just replace the word beef for Twinkie).”
So, with that understanding of how studies are designed and work, lets get back to our topic of the day! Portion control!
Does portion control work to lose weight? Studies will show that it does!!!!(In the short term). Take 50 overweight people, put them on a 1500 calorie per day diet (which reduces calorie intake by over 30%), and you will see that they all lose weight, and they may even improve their cholesterol level. However this study may be misleading us to believe a desired outcome, we need to look into the situation a little closer to see the truth.
Healthy weight will come with a healthy “diet”, a “diet” that is not about restriction, but is one that can be sustained for the rest of our lives. We tend to seek the magic pill, the magic 3 week program that will allow us to continue our unhealthy habits while losing weight quickly. This does not exist, and it is not the solution. The only way to reach and sustain health is to find a diet that will prevent disease, that will keep the weight off, that will allow you to have energy to move all while having a better quality of life.
We will all die one day, this is true, but let’s make the quality of our time here the best possible.
The truth about portion control is this; when we focus on calorie counting (portion control) while failing to consider the nutrient density of our food choices, we are going in the wrong direction totally. Valuing and choosing foods by their calorie content (and portion control) is extremely misleading and even dangerous!
Health and life-long weight management is not achieved with a “diet” of calorie restriction. It has never been and will never be. Health and weight loss is achieved with a nutrient dense diet; consuming as much of these nutrient rich foods as you desire. This is the mind set we need to have when we look at food if we want to achieve ultimate health.
We can’t just isolate one nutrient in food and say, I need protein so I am going to eat meat. Or I need Omega 3 so I am going to eat salmon. Rather, we need to look at the full nutrient content of the foods we put in our bodies. Eating meat or salmon to take care of a “protein requirement” without considering its saturated fat and cholesterol content is absurd. How many people die from protein deficiency every year? On average, zero in the US. How many people die form heart disease (#1 risk factor being cholesterol) every year? More than 600,000 die from heart disease, the leading cause of death in the US. Knowing that, should we be worried about protein or cholesterol? Clearly high cholesterol is extremely dangerous and deadly while protein deficiency is non-existent (in western cultures), so of course we should be more concerned about cholesterol; but sadly it is not what we hear about in health articles.
This is just to reinforce the idea that when we look at foods, we cannot only talk about calories, while ignoring the nutrient content and the long term effects on health.
Plant Based Meals are becoming much more popular as the public discovers the amazing benefits of eating this way! No need to limit quantities when we are eating the correct foods. The Documentary "Forks Over Knives" is an amazing resource and fun place to start to learn about this all! Its available on Netflix!
There is not one diet that will prevent heart disease, a different one that will prevent cancer, and a different one that will prevent alzheimer. There is ONE diet humans are designed to eat, that will keep you healthy and will prevent ALL chronic disease. This diet is a nutrient dense, whole food-plant-based diet, naturally low in fat.
Dr. Greger presents it very well here:
“if you have not yet subscribed to NutritionFacts.org YouTube channel, you really should to see new videos on real nutritional science every day”
(Of course within the true human diet there are variations that will work better for better individuals, and to work with special disorders, but we are all designed to eat and thrive on whole plant foods).
Eating a diet that only addresses decreasing your risk of a certain disease, is indeed an improvement in itself, but why stop there? Sure you can go from eating unhealthy foods 7 days of the week, to only 6 days of the week. Congrats! You may have reduced your chances of having that particular disease by a fraction. But what if the focus is shifted from reducing the risk, to preventing the risk? What if everyday we focus on eating “disease-preventing and reversing” foods? It just so turns out that these are the same foods that nature intended us to eat, whole plant foods, and we can eat them in abundance without portion control or calorie counting.
This is what our culture should be focusing on if we want to achieve true health.
click the video to the right to find out the facts!
A2006study, conductedbythePhysicians Committee for Responsible Medicine(with the George Washington University and the University of Toronto), looked at the health benefits of a low-fat, unrefined, vegan diet (excluding all animal products) in people with type 2 diabetes. Portions of vegetables, grains, fruits, and legumes wereunlimited. The vegan diet group was compared with a group following a portion-controlled, higher-fat diet based on American Diabetes Association (ADA) guidelines. The results of this 22-week study were astounding:
43 percent of the vegan group and 26 percent of the ADA group reduced their diabetesmedications. Among those whose medications remained constant, the vegan group lowered hemoglobin A1C, an index of long-term blood glucose control, by 1.2 points, three times the change in the ADA group.
The vegan group lost an average of about 13 pounds, compared with about 9 pounds in the ADA group.
Among those participants who didn’t change their lipid-lowering medications, the vegan group also had more substantial decreases in their total and LDL cholesterol levels compared to the ADA group.
- The group following the ADA diet (which was based on portion controlling) were not as satisfied or satiated as the vegan group (which was based on unlimited amounts of whole-plant-foods)
Thisstudy illustrates that a plant-based diet can dramatically improve the health of people with diabetes. It also shows that people found this way of eating highly acceptable and easy to follow. The ADA now includes a vegan diet option.
(You can read more by going to the link https://www.drmcdougall.com/health/education/health-science/featured-articles/articles/high-protein-diets/)
Thetake away of this article is: don’t isolate one issue of the problem or one nutrient (protein, omega-3, weight).
Instead, look at the big picture and ask yourself:
Do I want to improve the quality of life for the rest of my life? or,
Do I want to deprive myself and portion control for the rest of my life?
Do I feel happier when I have to restrict calorie intake/portions or when I can eat as much as I want of healing foods?
The solution is not in the quantity, but in the quality of the food. Eat the right food in abundance, and you will feel energetic, happy and healthy.
When you eat enough of the right foods, your body is nourished, your cravings disappear, your imbalances balance out. You will find that you do not want to over-eat, you do not want to eat things that are oily or make you feel heavy and slow.
Be patient, these changes take time as your body heals after all those years of eating damaging foods or restriction. With time your body will heal if you give it healing foods. Our bodies natural state is health and vibrancy and all we have to do is give it the right foods, think positive and get out of the way and it will heal itself.
There is no shortcuts to true health, walk the walk everyday. You can do it. Take care of yourself because you are worth it!
Sources:
http://nutritionfacts.org/2014/08/14/how-the-meat-industry-designed-a-highly-misleading-study/
Barnard ND, Cohen, J, Jenkins DJ, et al. A low-fat, vegan diet improves glycemic control and cardiovascular risk factors in a randomized clinical trial in individuals with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care. 2006;29:1777-1783.
https://www.drmcdougall.com/health/education/health-science/featured-articles/articles/high-protein-diets/
http://nutritionfacts.org/video/microbiome-the-inside-story/
http://nutritionfacts.org/2014/09/09/the-healthiest-diet-for-weight-control/
http://nutritionfacts.org/2015/12/24/which-works-better-adding-beans-or-portion-control/
http://nutritionfacts.org/video/caloric-restriction-vs-plant-based-diets/
https://www.drmcdougall.com/misc/2005nl/050100pupushing.htm
Subscribe
Sign up with your email address to receive Healthy Fit Recipes, Articles and more!
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Sign Up
We respect your privacy.
Thank you!
Why we believe everyone should go Oil-Free!
The Dangers of Oil and the Benefits of an Oil-Free Lifestyle
September 23, by Katie Adams of 2 Healthy Fit Vegans
whats so bad about oil?
Right now, perhaps more than ever in the history of healthy minded individuals, there is some major confusion regarding oil and fat and its role in a healthy diet and lifestyle.
Currently some of the myths and misinformation around the health benefits of consuming oil are taking over mainstream media, and the reason is plain and simple.
Oil sells big time for 2 main reasons:
People “buy” into this belief because they like hearing good things about their bad habits. If health advocates tell us that oil is healthy and that we should keep consuming it then HORAY, there is not much we have to change to get healthy; we can keep the bacon, olive oil salad dressings and the coconut oil in our cakes and smoothies.
The oil companies and doctors selling oil supplements make big bucks off this belief that oil is healthy; so they have every incentive to tell us to consume it!
The truth about oil is that it is not a health food, it is by nature a processed food. Oils (even Olive oil) are all highly processed foods that come from whole foods. Olive oil is from whole olives, pressed and stripped of their fiber, water, protein and carbohydrates; leaving pure fat calories.
In fact, it takes 1,375 olives to make one liter of olive oil.
Our bodies thrive on whole foods, and any processed foods especially high calorie, low nutrient ones should be eliminated from our diet if we want to thrive and avoid disease and premature death.
What Do The Plant-Based Doctors Think?
DR. Esselstyn leading doctor of healing with whole foods states “NO OIL! Not even olive oil, which goes against a lot of other advice out there about so-called good fats. The reality is that oils are extremely low in terms of nutritive value. They contain no fiber, no minerals and are 100% fat calories. And above all they contain saturated fat which immediately injures the endothelial lining of the arteries when eaten. It doesn’t matter whether it’s olive oil, corn oil, or any other kind of oil. This is so important I have detailed oil in Chapter 10 (of Prevent And Reverse Heart Disease).”
HEALTHY FATS?
"WE MUST BE CONCERNED ABOUT CONSUMING ENOUGH HEALTHY FATS!"
This healthy fats craze is big right now, but let me ask you where healthy fats come from? Whole foods right? Coconut oil comes from a coconut, olive oil comes from an olive; so isn't it logical to think that all the health benefits of the so called “healthy fat” will also be present in the whole food itself?
Doctors like the author of the best selling book “Grain Brain”- Dr. Perlmutter have us all worried about healthy fats and omega-3’s, so much so that he has convinced millions of Americans to consume oil supplements that he has created! This guy along with hundred others, are profiting of this argument, they are in fact, selling you their products. Not too far off from what Coca-Cola would be doing if they were arguing the above statement.
This argument is equivalent to say Coca-Cola telling us that coke is healthy because it contains water, and water is essential for humans to thrive; therefore we must drink more Coca-Cola to thrive. Maybe at first you are going to think that this analogy is too far out there, but let me ask you to take a moment to think about it.
Click the image/video above to view-
Dr. Perlmutter, of "Grain Brain" adding to the confusion regarding the topic of oil.
Oils are not for ultimate health
Oils are not our best option if we are concerned about getting healthy fats. Healthy fats do exist, but they are the ones that come naturally packaged in whole foods; in avocados, nuts, seeds, coconuts, olives, greens, beans, fruits and veggies. Yes, fruits and veggies have fats in them, and they are healthy in their whole foods package.
Our bodies need a ratio of 4:1 Omega 6 to 3 fatty acids. The issue is that the western diet is very deficient in omega 3s and very rich in omega 6’s, so we are told to seek out foods rich in omega 3s. When we eat whole plant foods, their ratios are generally very close to what we need, but when we consume oils and other processed foods, the ratios are all over the place.
For example, olive oil, which is claimed to be a “brain-healthy oil” has a ratio of 14:1 omega 6 to omega 3; this is far from what we need.
We understand that this stuff is confusing, these ratios and number, but it really doesn't have to be.
It doesn't help when we have popular doctors in the media like Dr. Perlmutter telling us all in one video that a diet too high in omega 6s causes disease, so we must consume less omega 6 and then in the next sentence he tells us to consume lots of olive oil and coconut oil because they are both “healthy fats”.
No wonder America is confused about oil and fat.
Olive oil has a ratio of 14:1 omega 6 to 3, and coconut oil has zero omega 3, but is packed with omega 6, how can this help us to lessen our omega 6?
Watch the video again now that you understand a little more about this, and you will see the contradictions in what he is saying.
Omega 6 to 3 Fatty Acid comparison chart of different oils.
Notice coconut oil has 0 omega 3's and olive oil has very low omega-3s and high omega 6's
Like mentioned above, this should not be complicated. When we eat a whole foods, plant based diet, the food is naturally rich in omega 3, and without adding oils this way of eating rests at about a 4:1 ratio of omega 6 to 3 fatty acids. Eat whole plant foods like beans, rice, potatoes, greens, vegetables and fruit and a bit of nuts and seeds and you will have an outstanding ratio without having to buy expensive supplements like these doctors advocate for.
GOING OIL-FREE DOES NOT MEAN THAT YOU ARE ON A FAT-FREE DIET.
There is plenty of fat in the plants, vegetables, fruits, starches, beans and whole grains that we consume, and that is enough; in fact it is how nature intended.
There are also high-fat plant foods, such as nuts, seeds, and avocados, however it is not necessary to add too much of these foods to your daily routine, because even though they are plant-based, they are still high in fat, and also high in calories.
HOW TO INCORPORATE HEALTHY FATS INTO AN OIL-FREE LIFESTYLE
Healthy fats (from whole plant foods -monounsaturated fatty acids and omega-3’s) are essential for health, just like carbohydrates and protein. Yes we need them for healthy cognitive function, just as much as we need carbohydrate and protein, but the source and quantity of fat is most important.
Make sure to get your healthy fats from a variety whole plant foods like:
• Leafy greens: kale, spinach, collard greens
• Seeds: hemp seeds, chia seeds, flax seeds (1-2 tablespoons per day)
• Nuts: walnuts, almonds, cashews ( added to salad a few times per week is plenty)
• Soy Products: tofu, tempeh, edamame
• Avocado
• Olives
• Fruits: fruit has fat, enough
• Vegetables: vegetables have fat
Checkout our OIL-FREE, Healthy Fit Cook Book for a complete guide on plant based nutrition, over 90 Oil-Free Plant Based Recipes, sample shopping list, how to cook oil free and more!
FACTS ABOUT OIL
Oil is Liquid Fat
Oil has 9 calories per gram, 1 tablespoon has 120 calories
Oil is a Processed food
Many oils are highly saturated
Coconut oil is over 90% saturated fat
Olive Oil is 14% Saturated Fat
Oil decreases blood flow to and through arteries.
Oils are empty calories
Saturated Fats:
Raise LDL (bad) cholesterol levels which is the leading cause of the number one killer in America, Heart Disease.
Stiffens artery walls, making them less responsive to nitric oxide which dilates the vessels and increases blood flow to the organs.
LETS COMPARE OIL TO SUGAR
white SUGAR:
50 Calories per Tablespoon
0g Fiber
0g Protein
0g Fat
12g Carbohydrate
0g Omega-3's
Olive Oil
120 Calories per Tablespoon
0g Fiber
0g Protein
14g Fat - 1.9g Saturated Fat
0g Carbohydrate
Traces of Omega-3's
as you can see, a standard ice cream has 130 calories for an entire 1/2 cup serving, which equals 32.5 calories per 2 tablespoons, compared to oils 120 calories per 2 tablespoons!
Calorie wise, oil has nearly 3X the calories of sugar, and is the leading factor of weight gain!
2 Tablespoons oil has more calories than Ice Cream!
While we do not advocate that you eat white sugar and ice cream in place for oil, we do advocate that you eat “sugars” (carbohydrates) in their whole food form such as fruits and vegetables. Replacing oil with foods that are nutrient dense in their whole-foods form is key!
Nutrient Density is Very important
When it comes to health, Nutrient Density matters. Dr. Joel Fuhrman gives a great way to understand this concept, and the importance of calorie sources in our diet.
“Health (H) equals Nutrients (N) divided by Calories (C)”
Click to watch Dr. Joel Fuhrman, author of EAT TO LIVE (one of the books that got us into nutrition), speak about nutrient density.
(H = N/C ) By this thought, the more nutrients in the food while being the lowest in calorie possible, the more healthful.
LETS LOOK AT NUMBERS OF VARIOUS FOODS:
Vegetables 60-120 calories per pound
(exception of avocado at 750 calories per pound)
Fruits 400- 400 calories per pound
Beans, lentils and whole grains have 310-780 calories per pound
Processed Sugars have 1,200 calories per pound
Nuts and seeds have 2,400-3,200 calories per pound
Oil has 4,000 calories per pound
Nutrient Dense Foods that promote health are the ones that are low in calories, high in nutrients, high in fiber and water so your body is satisfied, tummy full and happy. Oil is very low in nutrients and to fill the stomach would take a large number of calories.
what about coconut oil
"But isn't COCONUT OIL Healthy and NUTRIENT RICH?"
In regard to coconut oil, Jeff Novick, MS, RD, states that:
“in spite of having no nutritional value, it is regarded by many as a health food.” One hundred calories of coconut oil has 11.6 grams of fat and 10 grams of saturated fat, over 90% of the total fat in this oil. Those are the only nutrients in coconut oil. Sugar has more nutrients. Coconut oil supplies no carbohydrates, essential fats, vitamins, minerals or proteins. So, it is contributing nothing to the diet except fat, and quite a lot of it. Overall, coconut oil does have some antimicrobial properties, but besides that, it can only offer you fat.
He makes a very easily understood outline regarding coconut oil here:
Coconut oil has virtually NO nutritional value. It has not protein, carbohydrates, vitamins, minerals, or fiber.
Like all oils, coconut oil is pure fat. Of the fat in coconut oil, over 90% is saturated fat.
All oils, including coconut oil, are the most calorie dense food on the planet.
While there may be a rare example of some healthy and fit native population that managed to be healthy in spite of their consumption of coconut, this does not make coconut oil into a health food, or a food that Americans should consume with complete abandon as part of their already unhealthy American lifestyles. The coconuts may have been the only risk factor in the otherwise healthy lifestyle of these native populations. However, recent studies have shown the harmful effects of even one high fat meal when the fat comes from coconut oil.
While it is true that coconut oil may have some antimicrobial properties, this is not why we consume food, especially one that has so many other negative aspects to it.”
perhaps the hype around coconut oil is purely marketing, as the nutrition facts show,
this oil is not a healthy choice either
"but surely fish oil must be healthy, it has heart healthy omega-3's"
By consuming fish oil or fish oil supplements, you are self inducing heavy medal poisoning like mercury and increasing the levels of eicosapentaenoic acid “EPA”, an omega-3 fatty acid popularized for its health benefits.
Learn more about the dangers of fish consumption, check out our article on the topic by clicking here!
Dr. McDougall writes that consumption of fish oil can have adverse effects on health, leading to increased levels of “bad” cholesterol (LDL) in patients with already high cholesterol, leading to worsening diabetes in some.
"But I heard that the Eskimos who consumed enormous amounts of fish oil and saturated fat lived a very healthy, disease free life, so fish oil and fat must be healthy!"
It turns out that the science and truth behind these statements are very far from true.
View the video "Omega-3's and the Eskimo Fish Tale" to discover the truth behind this myth of the Eskimo's diet being so healthy, which has paved the way for many "health advocates" to brag about the healthfulness of fish oil and saturated fats. But this is simply not good science.
Good science and reliable nutrition information is very hard to come by these days because the most companies funding the research seem to have a stake in the outcome of the studies, cherry-picking results to suit their agenda and so on.
In addition to this, Dr. Greger, Dr. Esselstyn, Dr. McDougall, and many more all agree that fish oil is not essential at all and that it is very difficult to become deficient in these omega-3 fatty acids if you are consuming a whole foods plant based diet rich in greens with a few tablespoons of flax seed meal per week (or chia seed, pumpkin, etc).
GOOD SCIENCE AND RELIABLE NUTRITION FACTS
For the most un-biased answers we turn to Dr. Greger from NutritionFacts.org
Dr. Greger has dedicated so much of his life to ensure that his non-profit reads and analyzes every singe nutritional paper and study published every year; and they do not stop there. He then goes on and formulates his findings into easy to understand articles and videos made available and free to the public. He is not paid by any industry and he is not making any money off selling anything. 100% of the profits from his books and videos go back into the non-profit, to pay for researchers to read the hundreds of thousands of papers published every year, so we do not have to!
BENEFITS OF EATING AN OIL FREE DIET:
Weight loss
Keep the weight off with ease
Clear up acne
Increased Energy
Increased Mental Clarity
Decrease Inflammation in the body
Improve omega 6 to 3 ratio
Lower Blood Sugar
Lower Blood Pressure
Published September 23, 2016
© Copyright 2016, all rights reserved to Katie and Gwen of 2HealthyFitVegans / 2HealthyFitNutrition.com
Sources:
John McDougall:
- Website:
https://www.drmcdougall.com/health/education/health-science/featured-articles/articles/vegetable-fat-as-medicine/
- "The Starch Solution" - book
Engine 2 Diet:
Website:
http://engine2diet.com/the-daily-beet/no-oil/
Novick’s Nutrition:
Marketing Junk Food: Don't Go Cuckoo Over Coconut Oil
Joel Fuhrman:
- Website:
https://www.drfuhrman.com/
- "EAT TO LIVE" - book
Dr. Michael Greger:
-Website:
http://nutritionfacts.org/
- "How Not To Die" - book
Dr. Esselstyn:
- Website:
http://www.dresselstyn.com/site/
- "Prevent and Reverse Heart Disease" - book
Forks Over Knives:
-Website:
http://www.forksoverknives.com/
Subscribe to our Newsletters
Sign up with your email address to receive Healthy Fit Recipes, Articles and more!
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Sign Up
We respect your privacy.
Thank you!
4 TIPS to get more serious about running
What does "getting more serious about running" mean? Does it mean you have to run races? Does it mean you have to win races??? Does it mean running is your main hobby? It is a hard question and I think we could define this in many different ways. But let’s talk about performance. In my opinion, in the end it comes down to performance. Whether you are trying to finish your first 5k, half marathon, marathon, or even improve your times, most of us are looking into improving our performance, getting more comfortable, getting faster.
In this article, I give 4 tips to take your performance to the next level.
Tip 1. Learn how to run easy.
This is a hard one in my opinion, because many of us get caught (including myself!) in this perception of train hard, race hard. This theory has proven many times to not be very effective or sustainable. Improving takes time. A lot of time. Quick improvements are satisfying for sure, but can we sustain them?
I have always been thinking that if I give my best everyday, I will become better. In a way this is true, but what “best” means? I found out after a long time investigating that “best”, in running at least, does not mean going as hard as you can everyday. In “best” there is a notion of “smart”. Train “smart”, race “hard”. To train smart, one of the first thing that we should know (and that took me years to understand), is how to run easy. Easy runs make most of our training. Probably over 80% in most training plans. How do you run easy? Here are a few ways:
- conversational pace, you should be able to talk with your friend without struggling or being out of breath
- calculate your easy pace using your most recent race time. For this one, first you need to race, and I think the calculation is an indication and not always true for everyone.
- Using a Heart Rate Monitor. I think this is the most effective and accurate pacing tool for easy runs. An easy formula is (180 - your age) and you have your easy run heart rate. For example, for me it’s 180 - 27 = 153. On my easy runs, I make sure I always keep my heart rate under 153. On my watch I am looking only at my heart rate and the time. The pace doesn’t matter on easy runs. If running at the heart rate you got from that formula does not allow you to talk easily, then make it even slower until you are comfortable talking.
Running easy makes most of your training. Even if it doesn’t look or feel like it, a big part of your improvements are in that part of training. Why? Because it makes most of your milage. It allows you to run more. You would not be able to sustain hard effort for a long time everyday, so you would end up running less, or getting injured. Either way, that is time away from training so it is not in favor of your performance.
So whatever your level is, we all have a different easy pace. It doesn’t matter is your easy pace is a 12 minutes per mile. If you want to improve you have to mimic the pro runners. They do most of their training easy. Yes, their easy may be under 7 minutes per mile, but their heart rate will still be low, so what matters is how your own effort is. Running easy is key for consistency and long term improvements.
Tip 2. Invest in a running watch with GPS
And even better, a watch paired with a heart rate monitor for your easy runs. There are many options today, and basically the watch will cost you the same than a pair of shoes. Running is still one of the cheapest activity you can do. That’s actually how I got into running. Volunteering with Sea Shepherd full time for a few years, I couldn’t afford any other sports than running. Once you have shoes and a pair of shorts, going on a run is free, just get out there and do it. If you can afford it, a GPS watch with heart rate monitor will really help your training. Once you do have a GPS watch, you will be even more motivated because you actually see your improvements much better. You can join online communities like on Strava that keeps you on track. This brings us to the next point: Strava.
Tip 3. Get on Strava!!!
There is an expression that says: “if it’s not on Strava, it didn’t happen” haha
Strava is a great way to join a community. For Katie and I, since we are always going to new places with Sea Shepherd, it is harder to join the local community and it also is more restrictive because you have to run in a group a certain days, at a certain hour, and that’s not always easy on a busy schedule. If you can, join the local running groups is definitely the best. But we are also lucky to have access to another community where it is easy to interact with no matter where you are in the world! So get closer from your local running community and get on Strava! Remember, if it’s not on Strava, it didn’t happen!!! haha ;)
Hope, ID. With Lil'
tip 4. Hire a coach
At any level, we can all use advice from a coach! Training is all about getting close from that line. That line that you don’t want to cross. The closer you get from that line, the more you will improve. But if you do cross that line, you will get over-trained, injured or at best decrease your performance. Having a coach with experience and knowledge will be a big help. There are plenty of options today, from local running community with a coach to guide you, to online coaching. The coach will help you mistakes that you would have to do on your own to dial your training plan. Don’t stay on your own, seek from advice when you need.
We hope you find these advices usefull. have fun out there, be safe and enjoy! In the end, it is all about finding happiness in life!
- Gwen, RRCA running coach and trail lover
GOING GLUTEN FREE TO BE HEALTHY AND LOSE WEIGHT
The trend of going gluten-free is growing. Of course, gluten has been the problem for all these years and we are so happy that we finally found the solution. Look at Novak Djokovic, who became the number 1 tennis player in the world after turning gluten-free! You can reach your top health too by going gluten free! And lucky for us, we can find any food in the gluten-free version today.
Here is the reality. Obesity is on the rise, so is the consumption of sugary drinks, processed food, meat and dairy... Who buys vegetables to cook with or to eat? We just don’t have time. We need to make more money, and we don’t have time to exercise either. This society is tough, if you want to succeed, you have to make sacrifices. Bye bye cooking, bye bye exercise, I have more important things to do like getting a bigger TV and a new car. But now it’s ok because I am going to turn gluten-free, and get my health back!
The truth is, empty calories, low nutrient processed foods are the real problem, not gluten. And you can find these same empty calories, low nutrient foods in gluten-free foods just as easily. In fact, there is no studies showing that removing gluten from your diet helps to lose weight. A 2011 article in the Journal of the American Dietetic Association states, “At this time there is no scientific evidence supporting the alleged benefit that a gluten-free diet will promote weight loss.” If you find a valid one, please share it.
Then why have some people had incredible results on gluten-free diets? Celiac disease, wheat allergies, wheat sensitivity. If you don’t have one of these problems, chances are that going gluten-free will be harmful for you and actually cause weight gain. The reason is that most of the gluten-free products contain more calories and fewer nutrients than the original foods.
If you want to lose weight and reach top health, here is the best you can do: add more fresh vegetables, grains (corn, buckwheat, quinoa, rice, millet) and fresh fruits into your diet. You want to eat more high nutrient foods and avoid empty calorie foods. Getting calories without enough nutrients will not satisfied your body, you will crave more food, and you will end up overeating. Your body will need more calories to seek the nutrients it needs, weight loss is not possible in this condition. Restricting calories will make you lose weight. But is it a sustainable, long term solution? You will fail in the long run on any diet that restricts calories and that doesn’t provide you with sufficient nutrients. You will lose weight at the beginning, then you will “break down”, suffer from craving, and go back to the same diet (or worse) that put you in this bad shape to begin with...
The solution is to learn how to eat for nutrients. This change is for the rest of your life. There is no “2 weeks”, “3 month” diet that will get you to your top health. Gluten-Free diets are very popular right now, but that does not mean that they are the right thing to do for ultimate health and weight loss. The best health solution for humans will not come as a fad diet, and surely has not just now been discovered. Humans have been thriving for thousands of years while eating wheat and gluten, so clearly it is something else that we have started to do within the last hundred years or so that is the real culprit to our health issues. Good health comes perfectly packaged naturally in whole, plant based foods, the same foods that all other creatures consume, un-processed, real foods.
Good health is a lifestyle that you will follow for the rest of your life.
Subscribe now!
Sign up to receive Healthy Fit Recipes, news, updates and the latest in vegan nutrition and adventure!
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Sign Up
We respect your privacy.
Thank you!
EGGS: NATURE'S MOST NUTRITIOUS CREATION?
I am sure you have heard everything about eggs:
“Eggs are good for you, they are packed with protein, just what you need to be strong” and you have probably also heard; “eggs are high in cholesterol, and you should avoid them”.
Who can you trust with all this contradicting information? What are the scientific studies saying about all of this? And please, let’s put the studies funded by the egg industry aside!
Findings from the Physicians’ Health Study published in 2008 found a 23% increase in risk of death (from any cause) in those who ate more than one egg/day, and many additional studies reported similar results. These risks were magnified in diabetics, whose risk started to climb at a smaller quantity, about 5 eggs per week. (1-3)
A more recent study linked higher egg consumption to increased atherosclerotic plaque area, and suggested that eggs could be harmful in smaller quantities than originally thought. Subjects eating more than 3 eggs per week had significantly more plaque area in their carotid arteries than those eating less than 2 eggs per week. (4)
Other studies linked similar amounts of eggs to prostate cancer risk. An 81 percent increase in the risk of lethal prostate cancer was found for men eating 2.5 or more eggs per week compared to those eating less than half an egg per week. (5,6) Now, a new analysis of data from forty-four studies focused on gastrointestinal cancers (esophagus, stomach, colon, and rectal cancers), and found that eggs are strongly linked to these cancers as well. These are extremely strong correlations, with 81 percent increase in risk of fatal cancer, its hard to ignore these statistics!
But why are eggs linked to cancer? Aren’t eggs nutritious and healthy?
Indeed, eggs are rich in protein, saturated fats and cholesterol. But a little too rich for human consumption. The components of eggs are absorbed through the intestines. This rich food actually provides too much cholesterol, fat and protein to be consider healthy or even safe by USDA standards.
Many studies show that excess saturated fat, trans fat and animal protein in the diet is quite disease promoting.
For example, animal proteins, and particularly those from egg whites, are high in sulfur-containing amino acids. Sulfur-containing amino acids are the strongest acids of all, because they break down into powerful sulfuric acid. Excess dietary acid is the primary cause of bone loss leading to osteoporosis and kidney stone formation. (7)
A recent study conducted with a large population of nearly 6,000 vegetarians and 5,000 non-vegetarians over a period of 13 years, showed that those eating eggs more than 6 times a week had a 2.47 times greater risk of dying of heart disease than those eating less than one egg a week. (8)
Another study focusing on young adult men, found that 2 eggs a day translated into a 30% increased probability to suffer from a coronary heart disease over their lifetime. (9)
Eggs are not safe. Eggs are not healthy. Eggs are not athletes food.
You do not need them..even in small amounts.
NOT EVEN EGG WHITES.
You can find all the nutrients you need in a plant based diet, and it is proven to be safer!!!
References
(1) Djousse L, Gaziano JM: Egg consumption in relation to cardiovascular disease and mortality: the Physicians' Health Study. Am J Clin Nutr 2008, 87:964-969.
(2) Qureshi AI, Suri FK, Ahmed S, et al: Regular egg consumption does not increase the risk of stroke and cardiovascular diseases. Med Sci Monit 2007, 13:CR1-8.
(3) Hu FB, Stampfer MJ, Rimm EB, et al: A prospective study of egg consumption and risk of cardiovascular disease in men and women. JAMA 1999, 281:1387-1394.
(4) Spence JD, Jenkins DJ, Davignon J: Egg yolk consumption and carotid plaque. Atherosclerosis 2012, 224:469-473.
Snowdon DA, Phillips RL, Choi W: Diet, obesity, and risk of fatal prostate cancer. Am J Epidemiol 1984, 120:244-250.
(6) Richman EL, Kenfield SA, Stampfer MJ, et al: Egg, red meat, and poultry intake and risk of lethal prostate cancer in the prostate-specific antigen-era: incidence and survival. Cancer Prev Res (Phila) 2011, 4:2110-2121.
(7) Remer T. Influence of diet on acid-base balance. Semin Dial. 2000 Jul-Aug; 13(4): 221-6.
(8) Appleby PN, Thorogood M, Mann JI, Key TJ. The Oxford Vegetarian Study: an overview. Am J Clin Nutr. 1999 Sep;70(3 Suppl):525S-531S.
(9) Stamler J, Greenland P, Van Horn L, Grundy SM. Dietary cholesterol, serum cholesterol, and risks of cardiovascular and noncardiovascular diseases. Am J Clin Nutr. 1998 Mar;67(3):488-92.
Subscribe now!
Sign up to receive Healthy Fit Recipes, news, updates and the latest in vegan nutrition and adventure!
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Sign Up
We respect your privacy.
Thank you!
Should you drink milk to be healthy and strong?
LET’S START this HONESTLY, DAIRY IS NUTRITIONALLY ONE OF THE WORST FOOD YOU CAN THINK OF eating.
This misconception that milk builds strong bones, or even makes you lose weight is ridiculous (1). However I want to recognize the very impressive job the dairy industry has done spreading these lies. They have managed to convince millions of people around the world, that they need dairy product to be healthy. Talk about effective propaganda!
I once too believed these lies, until I began to dig a little and do the research. Most people blindly believe that dairy is good for us, even though, many studies have proven a multitude of negative effects dairy has on humans! In fact, the western diet which is full of dairy products has been killing more people than anything else!!!
BUT YOU NEED CALCIUM!
That is right, we need calcium! Well, in this case, you better stop including dairy in your diet because dairy is extremely acid-forming. Which means, to maintain a proper pH within the body, your body must use alkaline minerals to neutralize the acidity to keep the pH balance. What is your biggest alkaline mineral source? The calcium stored in your bones. To maintain the proper pH in the body, your body uses calcium from the bones to neutralize the acidity (formed by the dairy) and then excretes the calcium through the urine. This is why one of the first causes of osteoporosis is an acid-forming diet. (2) If milk strengthens bones, then why is it that nations who drink the most milk (US and Sweden) also have the highest rates of osteoporosis?
Developing a disease due to calcium deficiency is nearly impossible on a diet of plant foods, because Nature packed her food very efficiently!
Adding dairy in your diet is just adding more calories from fat and animal protein while adding cholesterol, sodium, microbes, hormones and chemical contamination.
MILK HAS A PURPOSE: TO TURN A 60 POUND CALF INTO A 600 POUND COW IN LESS THAN 8 MONTHS.
Dairy increases growth hormones. When people consume milk, the most powerful growth hormone called insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) increases in our body (3,4).The problem is that IGF-1 promotes cancer growth and accelerated aging. IGF-1 has been found as the most powerful promoter of breast, prostate, lung and colon cancer (5).
Dairy contains dangerous estrogen. The consumption of estrogen from animal foods has been found again as a promoter of breast, uterus and prostate cancer.
For those who would like to argue about the "estrogen" also found in plants (particularly soy), which is called phytoestrogen (plant-estrogen), lets make this clear and simple. This type of estrogen is completely different from the estrogen found in animal foods; phytoestrogen has zero negative effects on humans according to the studies and does not function the same way in our bodies (6,7).
Over and over again, when different populations with different diets are compared in studies, rates of hip fractures or osteoporosis are much higher in populations consuming a western diet than those diets without access to animal derived foods. (8,9)
DAIRY, HEALTHY OR NOT?
Whenever you hear good things about dairy, about how it helps you build strong bones, how it helps you recover from a workout, and so on, it is coming directly or indirectly from the dairy industry's propaganda. They spend over $200 million each year on spreading false information. They are just selling their products and that is business. But is lying to people about their health to make profit really worth it? Apparently it is for them... But we do not have to believe their lies! There is another way to be healthy without dairy, in fact the only way to be healthy is without dairy!
THERE ARE PLENTY OF HEALTHIER ALTERNATIVES TO DAIRY YOU CAN SUBSTITUTE INTO YOUR DIET:
All of the plant based milks (almond milk, rice milk, oat milk, soy milk, coconut milk...)
Vegan cheese (Tofutti, Daiya, GoVeggie, cashew, almond, and many other)
Vegan yogurt (soy, almond, coconut...)
Ice cream (soy, almond, coconut, banana...)
Plant based margarine (earth balance, nutiva buttery spread)
Vegan sour cream, cream cheese etc.
All of these options are available in any supermarket today, and they taste so good!
Don’t let your health down! Get educated and change your diet!
Subscribe now!
Sign up to receive Healthy Fit Recipes, news, updates and the latest in vegan nutrition and adventure!
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Sign Up
We respect your privacy.
Thank you!
References
(1) Barr SI. Increased dairy product or calcium intake: is body weight or composition affected in humans? J Nutr. 2003 Jan;133(1):245S-248S.
(2) http://www.nationaldairycouncil.org/NationalDairyCouncil/Health/Digest/dcd74-5Page1.htm
(3) Cadogan J, Eastell R, Jones N, Barker ME. Milk intake and bone mineral acquisition in adolescent girls: randomised, controlled intervention trial. BMJ. 1997 Nov 15;315(7118):1255-60.
(4) Heaney RP, McCarron DA, Dawson-Hughes B, Oparil S, Berga SL, Stern JS, Barr SI, Rosen CJ. Dietary changes favorably affect bone remodeling in older adults. J Am Diet Assoc. 1999 Oct;99(10):1228-33.
(5) Moschos SJ, Mantzoros CS. The role of the IGF system in cancer: from basic to clinical studies and clinical applications. Oncology. 2002;63(4):317-32.
(6) Hamilton-Reeves JM, Vazquez G, Duval SJ, Phipps WR, Kurzer MS, Messina MJ (Aug 2010). "Clinical studies show no effects of soy protein or isoflavones on reproductive hormones in men: results of a meta-analysis". Fertility and Sterility 94 (3): 997–1007.
(7) Ingram D, Sanders K, Kolybaba M, Lopez D (Oct 1997). "Case-control study of phyto-oestrogens and breast cancer". Lancet 350 (9083): 990–4.
(8) Abelow B. Cross-cultural association between dietary animal protein and hip fracture: a hypothesis. Calcific Tissue Int 50:14-8, 1992.
(9) Frassetto LA . Worldwide incidence of hip fracture in elderly women: relation to consumption of animal and vegetable foods. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2000 Oct;55(10):M585-92.
HOW TO REDUCE INFLAMMATION
Feel good, perform better!
Whenever we exercise, or train for a race or competition, our muscles tear and repair constantly, which creates and increases inflammation in the body.
Inflammation is a critical defense mechanism for our body. It’s one of our body’s way to heal and become stronger; however it can also be brought on by other factors other than exercise, and those sources of inflammation are not beneficial to the body what so ever. Inflammation slows recovery and causes a plethora of ill side effects.
Recovering after training is all about your body getting stronger. That is improvement. Being able to recover quickly is key to adapting more efficiently to the workout stimuli, and hence, being able to train more, and reach new goals. if you have too much inflammation in your body, you cannot recovery properly, period. Recovering properly after training or any form of exercise has more benefits than just reaching fitness goals.
When your body recovers properly, swelling and inflammation goes down, tissues repair, fat cells release toxins, and your body is able to shed excess weight that you have been holding onto. Lots of people wonder why they struggle to shed that last thin layer of fat, and no matter how much they train, restrict calories, or fast, they just can't lose that fat! Well, inflammation and poor recovery are most likely the culprit behind this mystery!
You can reduce inflammation by reducing some inflammation promoting factors.
Superfood smoothie bowl
The Food we eat makes a big difference in determining the amount of inflammation our body goes through. You can choose foods that promote inflammation, or foods that reduce it.
Some foods are harder to digest and bring you very few nutrients. These low nutrients foods, are the highly processed and refined foods along with animal-based foods, animal protein and dairy, take a lot of work to digest and break down. On top of that, they are also very acid-forming which is hard on the joints and bones and actually creates inflammation within the body.
As an athlete, in periods of heavy training, it can be difficult enough to sufficiently replenish your body with the nutrients you have expended. The least you can do is load your diet with nutrient-dense foods that reduce inflammation while avoiding foods that cause it.
Raw almonds and fresh almond mylk
HERE ARE SOME TIPS TO REDUCE INFLAMMATION IN A HEALTHY WAY:
HYDRATION
Any serious athlete knows it, staying hydrated is key to perform at your best. However hydration is very important for all of us, not only the athletes! One easy way to know if you are hydrated enough is the color of your urine. Clear (colorless) is hydrated; darker means dehydrated. Some of the symptoms of dehydration are headache, muscle cramps, lack of sweating... So especially if you train in the heat, don’t forget to hydrate often and add some electrolytes in periods of heavy training or when training in hot weather.
Drink lots of water!
FOODS THAT INFLAME
Try to avoid or limit these foods as much as possible:
Animal products inflame and clog arteries
refined carbohydrates, such as white bread and pastries
French fries and other fried foods
soda and other sugar-sweetened beverages
Animal based foods (burgers, steaks) and processed meat (hot dogs, sausage), eggs
Dairy, cheese, milk
Foods that fight inflammation
Include plenty of these anti-inflammatory foods in your diet:
tomatoes
fruits such as strawberries, blueberries, cherries, pineapples and oranges
green leafy vegetables, such as spinach, kale, lettuce and collards
nuts like almonds and walnuts
Chia seeds, flaxseeds
Ginger and Tumeric (Fresh is best)
Basically, a healthy fit lifestyle will naturally reduce inflammation. A healthy lifestyle should also be the same as an athlete’s lifestyle.
There is no secret in an elite athlete’s performance, a healthy lifestyle promotes high performance. Period.
Subscribe now
Sign up with your email address to receive new articles and recipes!
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Sign Up
We respect your privacy.
Thank you! We'll be in touch!
BANANA: AVOID OR ENJOY?
"The problem with bananas is that they are too rich in sugar."
medium banana: 105 cal / 20g of carb
medium pear: 102 cal / 17g of carb
medium apple: 95 cal / 19g of carb
1 cup of pineapple: 82 cal / 16g of carb
1 cup of blueberries: 84 cal / 15g of carb
1 cup of milk: 148 cal / 12g of carb
Bananas, like other fruits, contain two types of sugars: glucose and fructose. Because glucose is the most easily digestible sugar, it is released into the bloodstream rapidly for a quick burst of energy. Fructose is absorbed somewhat more slowly and provides a more lasting fuel release. Neither of these natural sugars cause the adrenaline surge associated with the consumption of sucrose (table sugar), and the fiber in the banana further moderates the uptake of the banana’s sugars to make them an ideal fuel source.
Do you really think fruits are bad for you??? Come on!
"Bananas have a high glycemic index (GI), causing your blood sugar and insulin to spike quickly after you eat one."
Really? GI values less than 55 are considered low. GI of banana: 51. They actually cause your blood sugar to rise gradually, not quickly.
And what about carrots for example? Glycemic index: 92. Oh my god, everybody stop eating carrots, they are so bad for you!!!!! instead, let’s load up on M&Ms with peanuts, it’s only 33 GI...
Guys, if someone refers to the GI to tell you if a food is good or bad for you, just walk away!!!
Resent research conducted at Appalachian State University’s Human Performance Lab in the Kannapolis-based North Carolina Research Campus (NCRC) has been focused on the consumption of bananas (1). What they found is not a surprise: bananas are the perfect sports food!
Bananas have been a favorite source of energy for endurance athletes for a long time. Even though many people, (without proof) blame bananas for weight gain! Their reasons for placing the blame on bananas I can’t understand because I have been looking for the actual studies to show this association with no success...
In a study from the Appalachian State University, they compared the effect on performance of consuming bananas versus sports drinks. They found that not only was the performance the same when bananas or sports drinks were consumed, but there were also several advantages of consuming bananas.
Sports drinks are nothing but flavored sugar water. Besides giving you simple processed carbohydrates, they are totally empty of fiber, and low, if not empty, in micro-nutrients, antioxidant and all other good things...
Brendan Brazier is a former professional Ironman triathlete, two time Canadian 50km Ultra Marathon champion, and bestselling author on performance nutrition says:
“When acidic-forming food is consumed, starting with digestion and continuing until elimination, it produces toxins that the body must deal with. Denatured foods are toxin producers and as a result have the greatest negative impact on pH balance within the body. Highly refined and processed, denatured foods are void of any usable nutrients, yet retain their caloric value - the worst combination. Toxins in the body lead to premature aging through cell degeneration. Aside from food, most prescription drugs, artificial sweeteners and synthetic vitamin and mineral supplements are extremely acid-forming.”
The carbs in ripe bananas are already in their simplest form and can be digested with a minimum output of energy and fuel. Bananas are famous for their high levels of potassium, a mineral involved in proper muscle contraction. One of the main causes of fatigue, muscle cramping and dehydration for athletes is potassium deficiency.
Bananas are packed with fiber, minerals, vitamins and antioxidants and are unprocessed, natural, whole foods! They are the perfect food before, during, and after exercise. Self-contained, clean to eat, sweet, tasty, easy to eat, satiating, available year-around and cheap... What else can you ask for?
If a group of scientists with an unlimited budget could come up with the perfect nutritional supplement for athletes and healthy people, it would probably be a replica of a banana!!!
(1)
David C. Nieman, Nicholas D. Gillitt, Dru A. Henson, Wei Sha, R. Andrew Shanely, Amy M. Knab, Lynn Cialdella-Kam, Fuxia Jin. Bananas as an Energy Source during Exercise: A Metabolomics Approach. PLoS ONE, 2012; 7 (5): e37479 DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0037479
Subscribe now
Sign up with your email address to receive new articles and recipes!
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Sign Up
We respect your privacy.
Thank you! We'll be in touch!
HOW CAN YOU PREVENT OVERTRAINING?
As an athlete, there is no other way than working hard to improve performance.
When you push hard during a workout, your body becomes temporarily weak, but with proper recovery following a hard workout your body will become stronger.
How your body becomes stronger as a result of the physical stress you put on it, is an incredible process! Your body is designed to adapt perfectly and transform your various systems, (cardiovascular or muscular) in such a way to make them more efficient due to this stress applied on those systems. As a result of this adaptation, your performance increases so that next time it is under similar stress, it knows how to handle it.
If your recovery is not proper or sufficient, adaptation cannot occur, and your performance does not improve, in fact it can even decrease.
Overtraining can best be defined as the state where the athlete has been repeatedly stressed by training to the point where rest is no longer adequate to allow for recovery.
This is different from the variation of performance on a daily basis that athletes often have due to many different parameters. Overtraining is specifically marked by cumulative exhaustion that persists even after recovery periods.
The most common symptom is fatigue that limits workouts and persist after rest. Other symptoms of overtraining include; changes in ones mood, quality of sleep, depression, loss of enthusiasm, increased incidence of injuries, and persistent muscular soreness.
Clinical studies have shown an increases in cortisol levels, (the body’s “stress” hormone) in athletes who are in a state of overtraining.
There are two major recovery factors you need to focus on to prevent overtraining.
The first major factor is SLEEP.
Nothing can replace sleep, no supplements, no therapy, nor magic. Every athlete is equal, the more you train, the more sleep you need.
If you want to recover properly you must insure that you are always in an environment where you can get high quality sleep.
Here are a few rules to follow:
1- Get into a bedtime routine every night (same bed time, reading, dim light...)
2- Get comfortable (clean room, dark and quiet...)
3- Don’t watch TV before bed (I would even say don’t watch TV at any time!!!)
4- Don’t drink caffeine before bed
5- Don’t take a 2 hour nap after lunch!
6- 8 hours of sleep is a good start, but if you still wake up tired then you need more!
Sleep is key for recovery, it should be a high priority!
Kokanee didn't workout a lot, but he knew how to sleep deeply!
Gwen with the energy gels he made for a tennis tournament: dates, banana and raw cacao powder.
The second major recovery factor is GLYCOGEN LEVEL.
When you workout, at any intensity, your body uses glycogen to produce energy. We have a very limited capacity to store glycogen, and that is the reason why we should always make sure to replenish our glycogen stores.
How can you do that? C-A-R-B-S! Please, if you haven't yet read our article on the importance of carbs in your diet, check it out HERE.
I am continually shocked by how many times I see athletes coming to practice already tired before they start training. Once I consider their diet, I can easily see the reason for their lethargy is caused by their body being in a state of "low glycogen levels".
Post-workout banana-pineapple-papaya smoothie
Along with consuming enough carbs during the day, it is key to consume a post-workout snack or smoothie (made of fruits) within 30 minutes of the end of the workout. This time frame is vital to get the replenishment process going. Later, 1-2 hours after the end of the workout, you can consume a more complete meal which will bring you some protein to repair your body.
Also, if you are working out for over 2 hours, refueling during the workout is important. Don’t wait till you "hit the wall" to refuel. My favorite workout snack is bananas. They are easy to transport and easy to consume! If I go for a long run or ride, I will use dates because they are packed with calories and are even easier to carry!
Overtraining pushes you out of your training routine and goals, brings injuries and can also affect your personal and professional life! You don’t want to end up in this state, this is serious.
However, pushing yourself is necessity if you want to boost your performance. There is a fine line between maximum performance and overtraining, and the more you know yourself, the more you can approach the line without crossing it.
Remember, it is better to be 10% under-trained than 1% over-trained!
You have to set a routine of good habits: warm up, cool down, stretching, rest, nutrition, sleep,...
Dig deep and take care of yourself!
Subscribe now
Sign up with your email address to receive new articles and recipes!
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Sign Up
We respect your privacy.
Thank you! We'll be in touch!
Do I have to be vegan to be healthy?
The majority of people today, in the developed countries, are following a western diet, which consists of a lot of processed foods, and lots of meat and dairy...
In our society, time dedicated to cooking is becoming rare. That is one of the reason we rely so much on processed foods, ready to eat, take away foods. Food for many people is not their main concern. Most people today focus on saving money to buy a house, a new car, a new TV...
By not giving food the importance it should have, our society has to deal with increasing cases of serious diseases like: cancer, diabetes, obesity, heart disease as a consequence.
Our medical system spends most of its energy trying to fight symptoms, while ignoring the causes. Educating people on basic nutrition doesn’t seem to be a main concern. It is true that if people were healthy, the drug companies and the medical system would see their huge profits go away. They depend on people being sick and uneducated about health and nutrition.
Is it OK to eat meat, dairy, eggs, fish?
Can you be healthy if you do include these foods in your diet?
Most people do include these foods because our society promotes the western diet, and therefore most people are under the impression that it must be healthy.
For ethical reasons consuming these foods is not acceptable, no doubt about it.
If you care for the environment, these foods shouldn’t be part of your diet either, and this is pretty obvious once you take a moment to look at the evidence, studies and statistics (1).
Now, let’s say the factors thus far do not concern you, so what about your health?
Today, the situation is very different than it was 100 years ago when it comes to what we eat. Today, most people eat meat and dairy everyday, and at every meal. Diary and eggs for breakfast, and meat, dairy and cheese for lunch and dinner has become normal and accepted in our society. And many of us eat like this Everyday.
Well, we all know from scientific evidence, that an acid-forming diet promotes disease.
Meat, Dairy, Eggs and Cheese, are highly acid-forming. As a result of having these foods at every meal, you are following a very acid-forming diet, promoting disease and fatigue, which greatly affects your mood and performances. (2)
What do people think of Vegetables?
Vegetables are alkaline-forming foods, which means they improve the immune system and overall health; where high-fat and high-protein foods (such as meat/dairy/eggs/cheese) are highly acid-forming.
People today treat vegetables as sides, cooked in oil, or covered with dairy sauce or cheese - Turning a perfectly healthy component of their meal into a high-fat side dish.
Vegetables are naturally high in fiber, water, vitamins and minerals and low in fat and total calories making them a key component of a healthy diet.
You might ask;
"What if I always portion my plate half way with veggies and only fill the second half with meat, dairy and cheese? Surely this is extremely healthy...
The truth is that the volume ratio doesn’t matter. You must use the total calories of your food to accurately calculate a healthful ratio of your diet.This is because not all calories are equal, in fact they are far from it. Two spoons of oil is already over 200 calories, all of which are from fat! This same amount of calories from veggies would be a much bigger volume of food; look at steamed broccoli, it takes 5.8 cups to reach 200 calories.
So the question is; do you have to completely remove all acid-forming food from your diet to be healthy? No. But researchers continually agree that a healthful balanced diet should contain no more than 20% of acid-forming food. This doesn’t mean 20% of the total volume, it means no more than 20% of the total calories should come from acid-forming foods.
Acid-forming foods are not the only foods hindering our health in a significant way.
Many separate studies show the same conclusions about high-fat diets and their detrimental effects on our health (3). This is because High-Fat foods are also Acid-forming foods, such as: meat/dairy/eggs/cheese.
These high-fat, high acid-forming foods, should be consumed in extreme moderation or not at all if your aim is to achieve ultimate health and fitness.
Don’t forget to consider everything. The oil you use, the cheese you had on your salad, the dairy sauces you love. All of these small components matter, they all add up very quickly and tip the scale because they are more densely packed with calories, fat calories acid-forming calories! This is why it is important to consider the benefits of a plant-based diet if your striving for ultimate health and fitness.
So in conclusion, yes you can eat very little meat and be healthy, as well as you can be an unhealthy vegan if you eat oreos and potato chips all day.
However, if you eat meat, cheese or dairy at every meal, you simply cannot be healthy.
We all have the potential to reach ultimate health that will allow us to thrive in our jobs, fitness, relationships and in all aspects of our life.
Being healthy, positive, and energetic is the secret to happiness. It is your choice to get started on this amazing journey.
Resources:
(1)
http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/ghgemissions/global.html
http://epa.gov/climatechange/ghgemissions/gases/ch4.html
http://www.epa.gov/region9/animalwaste/problem.html
http://www.cowspiracy.com/facts/
(2)
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25983586
(3)
http://www.bmj.com/content/351/bmj.h3978/rr
http://nutritionstudies.org/fat-plant-based-diets/
Subscribe now!
Sign up to receive Healthy Fit Recipes, news, updates and the latest in vegan nutrition and adventure!
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Sign Up
We respect your privacy.
Thank you!
EAT YOUR CARBS, DON'T BE THAT GUY!
Everybody has heard about carbs, but not many actually understand their role in human energy production.
Most nutritionists and health professionals agree that 70 to 80% of calories in a healthy diet need to come from carbohydrate. Consuming less than that would result in over-consumption of protein and/or fat (but more likely fat).
Insufficient carbohydrate in your diet can lead to many health issues like eating disorders, food cravings, lethargy, weakness, and all of the conditions associated with the over-consumption of fats such as diabetes, heart disease, cancer...etc. Over-consumption of protein can lead to osteoporosis, kidney disease, arthritis, immune dysfunction, cancer and more.
Although, fat and protein are essential to a healthy diet, too much of either one will result in deteriorated health.
Before our body can utilize all food as fuel, it must first be converted into simple sugars. So obviously, carbohydrates are by far the easiest to convert to useful sugars.
Now, all carbs are not to be mixed in the same basket! “Good carbs” are the ones coming from whole foods such as fruits, vegetables, whole grains and starches. These carbs are packed with nutrients and fiber. “Bad carbs”, or the ones to be avoided are the ones you can find in processed foods and snack foods. They have no nutritional value and are what we call “empty calories”.
Glycogen is the way we store carbohydrates.
We store glycogen in our muscles (80%) and in the liver (14%). We also have some in the blood stream in the form of glucose (6%). Our capacity to store glycogen is very limited, 300-400g in the muscles, and 70-100g in the liver.
Glycogen is like gold since it has an essential role in energy production. Most of the glycogen stored in the body will be used for the brain. Because our capacity to store glycogen is so limited, it is crucial to have a high glycogen level during exercises lasting more than 2 hours.
Whatever the intensity, our body always needs glycogen to produce energy. At low intensity though, fat will be the main source of energy. Higher intensities require mostly glycogen to produce enough energy to keep going.
Once we enter a phase where our glycogen level is low or depleted, we are facing a catabolic situation. Catabolic situation means that our body is forced to increase the amount of protein and amino acids for energy production. Basically, the muscle eats itself to feed itself. This catabolic situation from low glycogen levels is the number one cause of over-training and decreased performances for athletes. This situation also results in the creation of a by-product called ketones, which are toxins that our body must deal with.
Carbohydrates don’t make you fat! You need carbohydrates to be healthy and to perform better, in fact you need mostly carbohydrates. But of course, if you over eat on any calorie source even carbs, your body will convert the excess calories to fat stores for later use. In the same light, if you under-eat on carbs, and over-eating on fat and protein your body will also sore extra calories as fat.
How many carbs an individual requires depends on their level of activity.
A recreational athlete training 1 hour per day doesn’t need as much as professional athletes of course. The thing that changes between these two activity levels is not the ratio of carbs they eat, but is how many total calories they need. The recreational athlete may need 2500 total calories per day with 2000 of their calories from carbs, while the professional may need 6000 calories total with 4800 of those calories coming from carbs. Both activity levels are consuming about 80% of their total calories from carbs, this ratio does not change!
Yes the pro athlete will require more carbs, but they they will also require more protein and more fat, more total calories but again, the ratio of these foods to each other does not change!
As a guide line, 70-80% of calories from carbs, 10-20% from fat and 10% from protein is a good start. If the main source of your food is from whole food, then you can eat as much as you need to be satiated without gaining weight. Being satiated is the best feeling ever, don’t live a life of restriction, it is unnecessary deprivation, and it will just make you frustrated and will result in failure.
There is no deprivation in success. Live the dream, it is right in front of you!
Subscribe now
Sign up with your email address to receive new articles and recipes!
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Sign Up
We respect your privacy.
Thank you! We'll be in touch!
WANNA LOSE THAT BELLY FAT??? THIS IS HOW!
You want to lose weight. You want to get rid of that belly fat. Who doesn’t? Why is that belly fat just not going away?
Well, here is some precious info that will help you on your mission.
I'm going to tell you why STRESS is important when it comes to losing fat, because let me tell you something… Stress causes the body to store fat! So how can we reduce stress, or live a “stress-free” lifestyle you might ask??? First, let’s try to define what stress is. Hans Selye, a stress physiologist defined stress as “… the nonspecific response of the body to any demand made upon it.” Realistically, a total “stress-free” lifestyle is basically impossible; however each individual has an optimal stress level where more stress above this level can become harmful.
FACTORS CAUSING STRESS ON OUR BODIES ARE:
sleep deprivation
a challenge to our control of a situation
food / drink intake
caffeine
intense or prolonged aerobic exercise
calorie restriction
noise
TV
etc…
Our body responds to stress by releasing hormones that are associated with feelings such as anxiety, or an increase of focus. We all have had this experience when we are driving late at night, we feel very tired and our attention is getting very low, when suddenly something happens, creating a stressful situation that triggers the release of hormones that will sharpen our focus. Scenarios like this showcase the survival tools our bodies have to allow us manage different situations.
So in normal people lingo:
Stress releases hormones what are good in small quantities (needed to survive in fight or flight situations) but when these hormones accumulate they release cortisol which then causes fat storage (especially in the belly).
On top of that, studies have demonstrated that cortisol is associated with increased appetite, cravings for sugar and fatty foods, and weight gain.
Stress is affecting millions of peoples weight loss, and they do not even know it!!
“I have been doing lots of high intensity core workouts to get that 6 pack, and i do not understand why it is not paying off… I have good results on most of my body, but that damn belly fat is still here…”
THIS IS WHY!
When the stress is prolonged and seen as “hopeless”, we become more distressed and feels defeated. This activates the hypothalamus in the brain. What follows is a cascade of hormonal pathways resulting in the final release of cortisol from the adrenal cortex (of the kidney).
Energy regulation and mobilization are two critical functions of cortisol. Cortisol regulates energy by activating the substrates required (carbohydrate, fat or protein) by the body to meet the physiological demands that is placed upon it. Cortisol moves fat (in the form of triglycerides) from one location to another, delivering it to hungry tissues such as working muscle.
However cortisol’s journey through the body comes with one big disadvantage, cortisol moves fat from storage depots and relocates it to fat cell deposits deep in the abdomen (see REFERENCES).
So what can you do?
Well, you need to reduce your level of stress, not to none, but to your optimal positive stress level. Some stressors that are not doing any good to you and that YOU can decide to suppress are junk foods, basically all animal products, process foods, TV, lack of sleep, calorie restriction, negative environment, etc…
Of course, some stress is caused by things you do not have control over. Don’t focus on these stressors, focus on the one you have control over.
Here are 8 things you have to do today
if you want a chance to lose that belly fat:
1 - Turn your stupid TV OFF, it is just brain washing you with manipulative ads, misleading information.
2 - Change your diet to a healthy plant-based diet with lot of fruits and veggies.
3 - Stop buying process foods, you do not need them! If these foods are at home, you are constantly fighting against the temptation of eating them, and this will just add stress to your life.
4 - Go to bed early, no excuse.
5 - Create a calm environment around you. (home, work, etc - lifestyle change may be necessary)
6 - Distance yourself completely from people bringing negativity into your life.
7 - Don’t restrict your calories, you need food, you just have to choose the right type (non-processed, plant-based is what you need).
8 - Workout everyday, mixing high intensity and low intensity aerobic workouts (that you enjoy!)
IN CONCLUSION
The truth is, there is not ONE food, ONE core workout that will get you those 6 pack abs. Don’t be fooled by the propaganda of business that just wants your money, these businesses selling you crash diets, pills, replacement meals, etc, don’t care about your success.
You have to walk the walk, there is no short cuts. What you need is a lifestyle change, one that includes the 8 aspects above. One that is long-term. One that will allow your body to thrive, not just survive!
You can do it, just commit and find a way to make it happen!
Subscribe now!
Sign up to receive Healthy Fit Recipes, news, updates and the latest in vegan nutrition and adventure!
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Sign Up
We respect your privacy.
Thank you!
REFERENCES:
Epel, E.S., B. McEwen, T. Seeman, et al. Stress and body shape: stress-induced cortisol secretion is consistently greater among women with central fat.
Psychosomatic Medicine 62:623-632, 2000
Henry, J.P. Biological basis of the stress response. NIPS 8: 69-73, 1993.
Vicennati, V., L. Ceroni, L. Gagliardi, et al. Response of the hypothalamic- pituitary-adrenocortical axis to high-protein/fat and high carbohydrate meals in women with different obesity phenotypes. The Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism 87(8) 3984-3988, 2002.
Wallerius, S., R. Rosmond, T. Ljung, et al. Rise in morning saliva cortisol is associated with abdominal obesity in men: a preliminary report. Journal of Endocrinology Investigation 26: 616-619, 2003.
Epel, E.S., B. McEwen, T. Seeman, et al. Stress and body shape: stress-induced cortisol secretion is consistently greater among women with central fat.
Psychosomatic Medicine 62:623-632, 2000.
Epel, E., R. Lapidus, B. McEwen, et al. Stress may add bite to appetite in women: a laboratory study of stress-induced cortisol and eating behavior.Psychoneuroendocrinology 26: 37-49, 2001.
Rosmond, R., M.F. Dallman, & P. Bjorntorp. Stress-related cortisol secretion in men: relationships with abdominal obesity and endocrine, metabolic, and hemodynamic abnormalities. Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism
83: 1853-1859, 1998.
protein? need more?
WHERE DO YOU GET YOUR PROTEIN FROM?
ARE YOU GETTING ENOUGH PROTEIN?
LOOKING A LITTLE SKINNY? ARE YOU VEGAN? OH THAT’S WHY… YOU NEED TO EAT PROTEIN BRO!
WHAT PROTEIN ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT?
Meat? Do you know that the “70%” lean ground beef has 82% of its calories from fat? (1)
Eggs? Do you know that eggs contain more than 62% of their calories from fat? (2)
Cheese? Do you know that cheddar cheese contains 72% of its calories from fat; cream cheese 88% fat? (3;4)
That sounds more like a high fat diet to me… bro!
This is not breaking news and all health professionals know, but I’m gonna remind you again just in case: high fat and high protein diets are high acid-forming diets and are the main reason for health diseases like heart disease, diabetes, obesity, high cholesterol, cancer… (5;6;7)
Heart disease is the number one killer in the US. (8) I think we should focus on that instead of discussing wether or not eating too many bananas causes high potassium in your diet OR if you would be protein deficient going on a plant-based diet (please let me know if you hear of or know of any cases of protein deficiency in the US, I want to know).
WHAT IS PROTEIN?
Amino acids, the building blocks of proteins, are used for building new tissue, including muscle, as well as repairing damaged tissues. Proteins, however, provide only a small source of fuel for the exercising muscles (being used as fuel typically only when carbohydrates and fat resources are low).
Do you know that a baby, that is building new tissues, cells, muscles, a LOT more than an adult, gets only 7% of its calories from protein in the mothers milk? (15) How can a baby getting only 7% of calories from protein grow that fast? Maybe it’s just because we don’t need 30% of our calories to come from protein to just maintain our body size! Don’t you think?
Many researchers have found that excessive intake of protein increases calcium excretion in urine. Since high protein foods are highly acidic, the kidneys draw calcium from the bones to maintain a proper pH balance in the body,(calcium is an alkalizing mineral) and then excrete this calcium in the urine. (9;10;11)
An overconsumption of protein leads to a higher risk of kidney stone formation from calcium in the renal circulatory system. It has been found that high animal protein intake, in healthy individuals, increases the probability of forming kidney stones by 250%. (12;13)
The reason a “high protein” diet has been shown in many studies to be linked to heart disease, (the number one killer in the US), is that these “high protein” foods from animal products come all packed with cholesterol. (14)
So are you more concern about protein deficiency, with not a single case in the US, or heart disease, the number one killer in the US, attributing to more than 611,000 deaths each year in the US alone? This is the question.
I do not want you to take my words as evidence, do your own research. I linked some of the studies that will get you started on the subject. It is a very important subject, as it involves your health and the health of your family members and friends.
Spread the truth, not the marketing BS.
STAY FIT, AND ACTIVE!
Subscribe now!
Sign up to receive Healthy Fit Recipes, news, updates and the latest in vegan nutrition and adventure!
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Sign Up
We respect your privacy.
Thank you!
http://nutritiondata.self.com/facts/beef-products/8004/2
http://nutritiondata.self.com/facts/dairy-and-egg-products/111/2
http://nutritiondata.self.com/facts/dairy-and-egg-products/8/2
http://nutritiondata.self.com/facts/dairy-and-egg-products/8/2
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12148098
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2826524
http://nutritionstudies.org/masai-and-inuit-high-protein-diets-a-closer-look/
http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/fastats/leading-causes-of-death.htm
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9497187
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12936953
http://jn.nutrition.org/content/120/1/134.extract
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/22569495_The_Effect_of_High_Animal_Protein_Intake_on_the_Risk_of_Calcium_Stone-Formation_in_the_Urinary_Tract
http://www.hindawi.com/journals/isrn/2013/126929/
http://www.pcrm.org/health/health-topics/cholesterol-and-heart-disease
http://www.parentingscience.com/calories-in-breast-milk.html
Fish is health food: is there something fishy in that statement?
Fish ARE NOT health food. It isn’t good for you, nor for our planet.
Sustainable fishing? haha
Only 10% of all large fish are left in the sea. 3/4 of the world’s fisheries are over exploited or depleted. 40% of all fish caught are by catch and are discarded. There is nothing sustainable in fishing, any kind of fishing. Don’t justify your un-responsible choices with sustainable fishing (if you even do), only you believe that marketing BS.
So after many reports made (1), it is pretty clear fishing isn’t good for our planet.
Now let’s say you do not care about our planet and what our children will be left with.
Here are some points to ponder:
Sulfur and Fish
The sulfur content of fish is particularly high, for example salmon has 12 times more methionine than do sweet potatoes.
Methionine is an amino acid that appears to aid in cancer tumor growth and may contribute to longevity-related oxidation in the body.
Omega 3 fats
Most of the recommendation we read from “Health Organizations” say we need to eat fish because of the omega-3 fats. Are you really willing to get your omega-3 from a source that also contains high levels of sulfur and mercury. This same organizations also warn you of this dangerous substances, but are not willing to make the clear link with fish (political ties).
The rate of heart disease among fish-eating populations, such as the Japanese, is very low, and this has been attributed to the so-called “good fats” they receive from eating fish. Researchers overlook the marked differences between overall Western and Japanese diets. The primary ingredient in the Japanese diet is rice and this is the reason they enjoy better health, are trimmer, and more active. The small amount of fish eaten daily is incidental.
If you need good fat like omega-3,
plants have all you need.
Plants are actually the only one to make omega-3, fish don’t, neither cows nor people.
Your brain needs omega-3 and that’s why you need fish? An elephant has a brain 3 to 4 times the size of our brain (even more for some people). I think it is safe to say, you can eat plants to provide enough omega-3 to your body…. (2)
Fish contain high levels of mercury (3; 4) and cholesterol (5).
I’m sure everyone is aware of cholesterol causing heart disease by clogging the arteries. And I’m also sure everyone knows heart disease is the number one killer is the US.
But you still think that fish is good because it has omega-3, mercury and cholesterol? Well, I hope you have a good health care…
NOT CONVINCED YET?
1- Fish cause a rise in blood cholesterol levels similar to the rise caused by beef and pork. (6)
2- Their highly-acidic animal proteins accelerate calcium loss (7), contributing to osteoporosis and kidney stones. The addition of 5 ounces of skipjack tuna (34 grams of animal protein) a day increases the loss of calcium from the bones, into the urine, by 23%. (8)
3- No dietary fiber or digestible carbohydrates are present in fish—thus having a negative impact on bowel function and physical endurance, like winning a foot race.
4- Although omega-3 fats “thin” the blood, preventing thrombus formation (heart attacks); this same anticoagulant activity can increase the risk of bleeding complications from other sources, like a hemorrhagic stroke or an auto accident. (9)
5- These good fats have anti inflammatory properties, which can be beneficial — reducing arthritis pain, for example, as well as deleterious—causing immune suppression, increasing the risk of cancer and infection. Omega-3 fish fats have been demonstrated to induce 10-fold more metastases in number and 1000-fold in volume in an animal model of colon cancer metastasis than does a low-fat diet. (11)
6- Fatty fish, commonly recommended salmon for example, is half fat and loaded with calories, adding to one’s risk for developing obesity and type-2 diabetes.
7- Omega-3 fats inhibit the action of insulin, thereby increasing blood sugar levels and aggravating diabetes. (12)
8- Fish-eating prolongs gestation, increasing birth weight, and the possibility of birth injury and increased mortality. (13)
The truth is: human nutritional needs are found in starches, vegetables, and fruits. That’s all you need right here.
It’s not rocket science. You can disagree, but you are still wrong! ;)
(1) http://www.un.org/events/tenstories/06/story.asp?storyid=800
- http://www.fao.org/newsroom/common/ecg/1000505/en/stocks.pdf
- http://oceana.org/reports/wasted-catch-unsolved-problems-us-fisherieshttp://www.theguardian.com/environment/2014/mar/20/americas-nine-most-wasteful-fisheries-named
(2) Langdon JH. Has an aquatic diet been necessary for hominin brain evolution and functional development? Br J Nutr. 2006 Jul;96(1):7-17.
(3) Johansson C, Castoldi AF, Onishchenko N, Manzo L, Vahter M, Ceccatelli S. Neurobehavioural and molecular changes induced by methylmercury exposure during development. Neurotox Res. 2007 Apr;11(3-4):241-60)
(4) The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA): http://www.cfsan.fda.gov/~dms/admehg3.html.
(5) Davidson MH, Hunninghake D, Maki KC, Kwiterovich PO Jr, Kafonek S. Comparison of the effects of lean red meat vs lean white meat on serum lipid levels among free-living persons with hypercholesterolemia: a long-term, randomized clinical trial. Arch Intern Med. 1999 Jun 28;159(12):1331-8.
- Harris WS, Dujovne CA, Zucker M, Johnson B. Effects of a low saturated fat, low cholesterol fish oil supplement in hypertriglyceridemic patients. A placebo-controlled trial. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Sep 15;109(6):465-70.
- Wilt TJ, Lofgren RP, Nichol KL, Schorer AE, Crespin L, Downes D, Eckfeldt J. Fish oil supplementation does not lower plasma cholesterol in men with hypercholesterolemia. Results of a randomized, placebo-controlled crossover study. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Dec 1;111(11):900-5.
(6) Huston MC. The role of mercury and cadmium heavy metals in vascular disease, hypertension, coronary heart disease, and myocardial infarction. Altern Ther Health Med. 2007 Mar-Apr;13(2):S128-33.
(7) Welch AA, Bingham SA, Reeve J, Khaw KT. More acidic dietary acid-base load is associated with reduced calcaneal broadband ultrasound attenuation in women but not in men: results from the EPIC-Norfolk cohort study. Am J Clin Nutr. 2007 Apr;85(4):1134-41.
(8) Robertson W. The effect of high animal protein intake on the risk of calcium stone-formation in the urinary tract. Clin Sci (Lond). 1979 Sep;57(3):285-8.
(9) Dyerberg J, Bang HO. Haemostatic function and platelet polyunsaturated fatty acids in Eskimos. Lancet. 1979 Sep 1;2(8140):433-5.
(10) Meydani SN, Lichtenstein AH, Cornwall S, Meydani M, Goldin BR, Rasmussen H, Dinarello CA, Schaefer EJ. Immunologic effects of national cholesterol education panel step-2 diets with and without fish-derived N-3 fatty acid enrichment. J Clin Invest. 1993 Jul;92(1):105-13.
- Stripp C, Overvad K, Christensen J, Thomsen BL, Olsen A, Moller S, Tjonneland A. Fish intake is positively associated with breast cancer incidence rate. J Nutr. 2003 Nov;133(11):3664-9. Cancer Res. 1998 Aug 1;58(15):3312-9
(11) Klieveri L, Fehres O, Griffini P, Van Noorden CJ, Frederiks WM. Promotion of colon cancer metastases in rat liver by fish oil diet is not due to reduced stroma formation. Clin Exp Metastasis. 2000;18(5):371-7.
(12) Hendra TJ, Britton ME, Roper DR, et al. Effects of fish oil supplements in NIDDM subjects. Controlled study. Diabetes Care. 1990 Aug;13(8):821-9.
(13) Olsen SF, Osterdal ML, Salvig JD, Weber T, Tabor A, Secher NJ.. Duration of pregnancy in relation to fish oil supplementation and habitual fish intake: a randomised clinical trial with fish oil. Eur J Clin Nutr. 2007 Feb 7;
- Olsen SF, Hansen HS, Sorensen TI, Jensen B, Secher NJ, Sommer S, Knudsen LB. Intake of marine fat, rich in (n-3)-polyunsaturated fatty acids, may increase birthweight by prolonging gestation. Lancet. 1986 Aug 16;2(8503):367-9.
- http://nutritionfacts.org/topics/fish/
Visit Dr McDougall website for lot of nutrition articles!
www.drmcdougall.com
YOU EAT FISH FOR HEALTH, BECAUSE YOU HEARD THAT IT IS GOOD FOR YOU AND YOU CAN’T BE HEALTHY WITHOUT IT.
Maybe its time to check the facts.
Omega-3's can come without the toxins...
Unlock your running potential with Plants!
How to use Positive Thinking to get RESULTS
Portion Control
Why Oil Free?
Running Tips to get more serious about running
Going Gluten-Free to lose weigh and reach top health?
Eggs: Nature's most nutritious creation?
Should you drink milk to be healthy and strong?
How to reduce inflammation
Banana: avoid or enjoy?
HOW CAN YOU PREVENT OVERTRAINING?
Do I have to be Vegan to be HEALTHY?
EAT YOUR CARBS, DON'T BE THAT GUY!
Wanna lose that belly fat?
Protein?
Fish is health food? Sounds fishy doesn't it?
Gwen le Tutour
122 Wood View Road,
Sandpoint, ID, 83864,
United States
208-509-7882 gwen@plant-positive.org
Hours
More Plants = More Positive