Vaccines are Linked to Autism | Vaccination Decisions
Vaccination Decisions
with Judy Wilyman PhD
Menu
Home
Australian of the Year Nomination 2019
Do you know what’s in a vaccine?
Vaccines are Linked to Autism
Websites Providing the Risks of Vaccination
Invitation to Doctors
About
Welcome
Donate
Attacks on my PhD Research by Former Director’s of Government Vaccination Policy
The University of Wollongong’s (UOW) Policies and Procedures
Dr. John Cunningham’s False and Misleading Information on Vaccination
AHPRA responds to the Conduct of Dr. John Cunningham
Immunisation Policy
Peter McIntyre, Former Government Director (20 Years) of Australia’s Vaccination Research Program
The Lack of Evidence for Mandatory Vaccination Policies
Conflicts of Interest in Government Vaccination Policies
The Development of Immunisation Policy in Australia Since 1950
Vaccines were not Responsible for the Decline in Risk from Infectious Diseases
Science that has not been Funded
Coercive Measures in the Australian Government’s Vaccination Policies
Publications
Newsletters 2019
Newsletters 2018
Newsletters 2017
Newsletters 2016
Newsletters 2015
Newsletters 2014
Newsletters 2012 and 2013
Fact sheets for Parents
Human Rights
Richard Di Natale’s (Greens Leader) False Vaccination Information in the Australian Parliament
The Australian Government’s ‘No Jab No Play’ Social Services Policy
Letters to Government and UOW Academics
Lobby Groups
Media Reporting of Vaccines
Misinformation by Skeptic/SAVN Lobby Group Supporters
Mamamia blog
Strategies used by Australian Skeptics Lobby Groups
Articles on Australian Skeptic’s and SAVN Lobby Groups
Blog
Contact
You are here: Home / Vaccines are Linked to Autism
Vaccines are Linked to Autism
The Plausible Causal Link between vaccines and Autism
Public health authorities globally have not rejected the link between vaccines and autism but the Australian public is not being informed of this information. I have presented below the many articles in medical journals that are demonstrating a causal link between vaccines and autism. The Australian government has incorrectly stated that there is no link between the MMR vaccine and autism (HCCC Committee Report, submission 52 p.5). Yet many scientists including the Institute of Medicine (2001) state there is a plausible link between vaccines and autism. However, in 2004 the IOM used selective studies to state that it favoured the rejection of a causal link. Here is a video in which Dr. Stephanie Seneff describes the potential mechanism by which vaccines could be causing autism in children and here is a Criminal Prosecutor describing the evidence for the link between vaccines and autism.
Here are the scientific studies that show the vaccine – autism link can no longer be ignored
The information below shows how the decision to claim that the theory that vaccines caused autism had been discredited was based only on a few selected studies. When the complete body of literature is assessed there is a strong plausible link for vaccines as a cause of autism and the US vaccine compensation scheme awarded two autistic children millions of dollars in compensation two years ago. This information is provided in the Australian National Review in an article titled ‘Controversial MMR vaccine-autism link gains momentum’ (21 June 2015). Please keep in mind as you read this that many countries such as Australia, that are now legislating to enforce mandatory vaccination to receive government welfare benefits, do not have a vaccine injury compensation scheme. The article also refers to the fraudulent science that is now present in many medical and scientific journals. This is confirmed by the US Centers for Disease Control and Protection (CDC) whistleblower Dr. William Thompson in the movie “Vaxxed” that was released in 2016. The public is also entitled to know that all clinical trials for vaccines are funded by the pharmaceutical companies with researchers and scientists that are also employed by the pharmaceutical companies. These studies do not use true inert placebos to assess the safety of vaccines. They are using the aluminium adjuvants that are known to be a cause of autoimmune diseases to assess the safety of vaccines or they use another similar vaccine that is already in use in the population to compare adverse events. These placebos are not inert and they cannot be used to assess the safety of a vaccine/drug in the population. Long-term safety studies of vaccines in the population to determine the type and frequency of adverse events have never been done. The increase in chronic illness in heavily vaccinated communities is a strong safety signal that this correlation needs to be investigated.
Here is a 10 minute video of a medical practitioner, who has been a member of the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) for 20 years, and he is informing the public of the cover up of the plausible causal link between vaccines and autism. Here is a list of 127 scientific studies that support a causal link between vaccines and autism. I will also provide further medical studies demonstrating this plausible causal link. Here is a link to a scientist from Stanford University describing a plausible link between vaccines and autism and a US District Attorney that provides compelling evidence for this causal link. This link is also described on the Package Insert for the Tripedia Vaccine for DTaP (2005 p.11). Below I have explained how selective industry funded studies are being used to obscure the science that indicates vaccines are a casual factor in the development of autism and chronic illness in the population. In 2016 the movie “Vaxxed: from cover up to catastrophe“, describing the fraudulent science being used by the CDC to cover up the vaccine-autism link, was released in the US and is now available in many countries.
Currently government scientists are using selective studies to make the claim that vaccines do not cause autism. However, it is noted that the majority of these studies have been funded by industry and the parameters and design of these studies have been chosen by industry funded researchers. The outcomes of these epidemiological studies are dependent upon the design of the study. Here is a short referenced article that summarises the information governments are using to de-bunk the claim by the Institute of Medicine (2001) that vaccines are a plausible cause of autism.
It is now recognised that many of the studies that are used by governments to debunk the claim that vaccines cause autism are poorly designed. There is also evidence of fraud in the studies carried out by Paul Thorsen the author of a series of studies in Denmark that were claimed to debunk the theory that vaccines cause autism. In 2011 Thorsen was charged with 13 counts of fraud and 9 counts of money laundering to steal $1 million of grant money that the CDC provided for government research into autism. This was admitted in the US congress by the CDC in response to Congressman Posey’s questions about the use of thimerosal in vaccines. In this 6 min video the CDC admits that they have never examined the health outcomes of vaccinated and unvaccinated children in large scale studies. There is also a call for an independent investigation into the Denmark studies, that included Thorsen as an author, for data manipulation and scientific misconduct. In addition, many of the studies used to claim that thimerosal in vaccines is safe are flawed (“Methodological Issues and Evidence of Malfeasance in Research Purporting to Show Thimerosal (Mercury Compound) in Vaccines is Safe” Hooker et al, 2014).
The studies that would provide the best evidence (empirical evidence) for debunking a link between vaccines and autism are: Long-term controlled clinical trials of the combined immunisation schedule comparing vaccinated and unvaccinated children. These large-scale studies have never been done in animals or children. Here is Peter McIntyre, director of Australia’s Vaccination Surveillance and Research Unit (NCIRS) for 12 years, informing the public that he has not implemented a long-term study of the health outcomes for Australian vaccination programs – in animals or humans. This amounts to an unmonitored experiment on the population. One small scale study was done in 2010 on the health effects after infant Hepatitis B vaccine and it concluded there was a 3 times greater risk of developing autism after a hepatitis B vaccine given at birth.
There are no controlled clinical trials that have investigated the long-term health effects (5 – 10 years) of combining 12 + vaccines in infants or adults [5]. It is unethical to recommend this schedule of vaccines in humans until these trials have been carried out. These studies are essential for proving or disproving a causal link between vaccines and autism. Here is the case of a nursing student in the US who was expelled for questioning directives to lie to patients about vaccines.
Vaccines are a Plausible Cause of Autism
Small studies of the combined schedule of vaccines that have been done in animals have indicated a link between vaccines and neurological damage, chronic illness, autism and cancer [6, 7, 8]. The chronic illness that has increased in children with the increased use of vaccines includes autoimmune diseases (including arthritis and diabetes), life-threatening food allergies, autism, asthma, learning and behavioural difficulties and cancer [9].
In 2011, a review into the cause of autism was carried out by Helen Ratajczak. This review is titled ‘Theoretical aspects of autism: Causes – A review’ and it was published in the Journal of Immunotoxicology. This paper examines many published, peer-reviewed articles demonstrating that vaccines are a plausible cause of autism. Ratajczak states that ‘Documented causes of autism include genetic mutations and/or deletions, viral infections, and encephalitis (brain damage) following vaccination. Therefore, autism is the result of genetic defects and/or inflammation of the brain’. This suggests that epigenetics (the influence of toxins in vaccines on the expression of genes) could play a role the development of autism after vaccination or the inflammation of the brain due to the vaccine ingredients.
The current medical opinion is that vaccines are scientifically linked to encephalopathy (brain damage) and this has been known since the 1980’s-90’s (IOM 2001 in FDA Thimerosal in Vaccines). When thimerosal was being phased out of vaccines in 2000, manufacturers were introducing human DNA into vaccines. Human feotal DNA was introduced into the second version of the MMR vaccine (MMR II) and into 22 other vaccines including the chicken pox vaccine introduced in 1995 (Ratajczak 2011).
There is plenty of scientific evidence suggesting vaccines are a plausible causal of autism and this is confirmed by the United States Government and Dr. Geberding, Director of Vaccines at Merck & Co, Inc, who say that autistic conditions can result from encephalopathy following vaccination. Here is a list of many published peer-reviewed scientific articles that support the link between vaccines and autism.
Here is a link to further scientific evidence from Dr. Brian Hooker PhD, linking vaccines as a plausible cause of autism. This includes the video titled ‘Vaccines cause more autism than the CDC will admit.’ (18 mins). The suggestion that the link between autism and vaccines is debunked is false not only because the correct studies have not been done but because the surveillance for adverse reactions is inadequate for determining cause and effect after vaccination. Hooker’s paper demonstrating the flaws in the studies is titled ‘ Methodological Issues and Evidence of Malfeasance in Research Purporting to Show Thimerosal in Vaccines Is Safe’. This paper was published in the Biomed Research International Journal in 2014.
It is also known that some of the studies being used to make the claim that ‘vaccines do not cause autism’ are fraudulent. In 2003 the Hon. Dan Burton gave evidence in the US Congressional Hearing into the ‘Mercury in Medicine Report’ and it is recorded that “studies conducted or funded by the CDC that purportedly dispute any correlation between autism and vaccine injury have been of poor design, under-powered, and fatally flawed”. Here is a link to the testimonials that have been given in the US Congressional Hearing on autism in November 2012.
Here is an article by Dr. Mark Allan Sircus, Ac., OMD, DM, (P) that indicates all of the science is not being used in determining the causes of Autism. It describes the environmental and genetic links and the effects of vaccines on human development. Autism is now 1 in 88 in the USA and approximately 1 in 100 in Australia and the UK. As the number of vaccines in the schedule has increased so has the rate of autism.
New research continues to identify additional concerns about mercury, aluminium adjuvant, antibiotics and other preservatives in vaccines and the combination of 7 + vaccines that are given to infants before the development of the blood brain barrier and the excretory systems. These systems are necessary to protect the brain and remove toxins from the body.
Here is the story of Dr. Andrew Wakefield and the way the authorities acted when he suggested that further research was required to determine if the MMR vaccine was implicated in the cause of autism Dr. Wakefield Film ‘Hear the Silence’ Resurfaces After 10 Years [/pane]
Connect
Receive Newsletter
Name:
Email:
Leave this field empty if you're human:
Recent Posts
Richard Di Natale’s (Greens Leader) False Comments on Vaccination made in the Australian Parliament
Introducing a ‘No Jab No Play’ Policy into Western Australia
Australian Journalist, Cathy O’Leary, Promoting HPV Vaccine (Cervical Cancer) with Lies
The Corruption in the West Australian Media Reporting of Vaccination
Response to the WA Government’s Proposal to Introduce No Jab No Play Legislation in 2019
Copyright © 2019 Judy Wilyman