The Vitamin C Supplement Guide: Does Vitamin C Prevent Colds? - Muay Thai PROS
Home
Shop
Training
The Ultimate Guide to Muay Thai Training for Beginners
Techniques
Ultimate Elbow Guides
Ultimate Guide to the Forward Knee
How to Throw A Jab
How to Throw a Cross
How to Throw a Knee
Sparring
The Importance of Technical Sparring for Muay Thai Development
A Guide To Hard Sparring In Muay Thai – Everything You Should Know
12 Sparring Tips That Will Make You Better
5 Basic Muay Thai Sparring Tips
The 10 Types of People You Find Sparring in Thailand
Muay Thai Sparring Drill – Trusting Your Guard
Fighting
Fighting in Thailand: The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly
The Importance of Managing Your Expectations Before a Fight
The Important Role of the Promoter When You Fight in Thailand
Finding Your Ideal Fighting Style in Muay Thai
Muay Thai Fighting – 5 Reasons Why You Shouldn’t Fight
How To Come Back Stronger After a Loss – 4 Steps to Success
Short vs Tall – 3 Basic Advantages that Taller Fighters Have
Why Competing in the Ring Feels so Different than Sparring
Strength and Conditioning
Conditioning 101: Energy Systems
Strength Training 101
Strength Training for Muay Thai Guide
Advanced
Muay Thai Strategy
Short vs Tall: How to Counter Reach Advantage
How to Fight a Southpaw
Muay Thai for MMA
Cutting Weight
Strength Training for Muay Thai
Elbow Cuts
How to Hold Muay Thai Pads
Style Comparisons
Muay Thai vs MMA
Kickboxing vs Muay Thai
Boxing vs Muay Thai
Muay Thai FIT
Nutrition
How to Lose Weight with Muay Thai
Lose Weight and Transform your Body
Beginner’s Guide to Intermittent Fasting
How to Get Ripped
How to Count Calories
How to Calculate Your Calories for Weight Loss
Calculate Macronutrients for Weight Loss
Strength Training
Strength Training 101
Strength Training for Muay Thai
Fitness (Strength & Conditioning)
How to Use a Heart Rate Monitor
Muay Thai Conditioning 101: Energy Systems
Intro to the Aerobic Energy System
How to Increase Your Aerobic Fitness (Training Guide)
How Training Like a Traditional Thai Boxer Matches Modern Training Methods
The Importance of Anaerobic Capacity (and how training aerobically dramatically improves it )
Supplement Guides
The Supplement Guide
Protein Powder
Creatine
BCAA’s
Glutamine
Beta Alanine
Caffeine
Fish Oil
Multi Vitamins
Glucosamine
Vitamin C
Vitamin B12
Magnesium
Arginine
CoQ10
Probiotics
Melatonin
Guides
Thailand Guides
Travel Guides
Ultimate Travel Guide to Koh Phi Phi
Ultimate Travel Guide to Pai
The Ultimate Koh Lanta Travel Guide
Fighting
Living
Training
Eating Healthy
15 Healthy Thai Food Dishes
The 10 Healthiest Paleo Thai Street Food Dishes
20 Healthy Restaurant Thai Food Dishes that are Paleo
Equipment Guides
The Essential Muay Thai Training Equipment Guide
How to Choose Gear
Boxing Gloves vs. Muay Thai Gloves
Buyer’s Gloves Guide (How to Choose Gloves)
How to Choose Shin Guards – Everything You Need to Know
How to Choose a Heavy Bag – Everything You Need to Know
How to Choose the Best Boxing Gloves
How to Choose the Best Muay Thai Gloves:
Best Muay Thai Equipment
The Ultimate Guide to the Best Boxing Shoes (2017 Edition)
Ultimate Guide to the Best Muay Thai Shin Guards (2017 Edition)
The Ultimate Guide to the Best Muay Thai Headgear
The Ultimate Guide to the Best Boxing Headgear
The Ultimate Guide to the Best Muay Thai Heavy Bags
Ultimate Guide to the Best Hand Wraps (for Boxing, Muay Thai, MMA)
Ultimate Guide to the Best Jump (Skipping) Ropes (2017 Edition)
The Ultimate Guide the Best Best Heavy Bag Stands (and how to choose one)
The Best Groin Protectors & Cups for Muay Thai, MMA, and BJJ
Ultimate Guide to the Best Gym Backpacks & Duffle Bags (For Muay Thai, Boxing and MMA)
Best Muay Thai Kick Pads
Best Jump Ropes
Best Belly Pads
Best Freestanding Heavy Bags
Best Elbow Pads
Boxing Glove Reviews
Grant Boxing Gloves Review
Hayabusa Boxing Gloves Review
Twins Muay Thai Gloves (BGVL3) Review
Top King Muay Thai Gloves Review
Fairtex Muay Thai Gloves Tight Fit (BGV1) Review
Raja Muay Thai Gloves Review
Windy Boxing Gloves Review
Yokkao Boxing Gloves Review
Boon Boxing Gloves Review
Venum Boxing Gloves Review
Ringside Boxing Gloves Review
Cleto Reyes Boxing Gloves Review
Rival Boxing Gloves Review
Fighter Guides
Rankings
Top 10 Muay Thai Fighters of All Time
10 Muay Thai Fighters that Everyone Should Know
Top 10 Muay Thai Fighters in Thailand Today
Top 10 Pound-for-Pound Muay Thai Rankings (Non-Thai)
Muay Thai Fighter of the Year: From Past to Present
Fighter Profile
Buakaw Banchamek
Damien Alamos
Muay Thai Fighter of the Year: From Past to Present
Videos
Select Page
The Vitamin C Supplement Guide: Does Vitamin C Prevent Colds?
Posted by Ben | Feb 19, 2014 | Diet, Muay Thai Fit, Nutrition, Supplements | 2
Shares
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
reddit
What is Vitamin C
Also known as Ascorbic Acid, Vitamin C is one of the 24 essential vitamins required by the human body. Humans do NOT produce Vitamin C and therefore it must be acquired through food. Fruits often contain high concentrations of Vitamin C, with papaya, strawberries, and oranges containing about 50-60 mg per 100 grams. Vitamin C can also be obtained from animal sources, usually found in high concentrations in the liver (20-30 mg’s).
The Vitamin C Claim: Supplementing with Vitamin C will prevent the common cold; taking mega doses of Vitamin C once you have a cold will reduce the length or cure the cold.
The Research
One of the most researched vitamins on the market. Despite Vitamin C’s urban popularity as a cold-fighting solution, no studies have so far shown Vitamin C prevents colds in the general population.
Large doses of Vitamin C does not prevent the common cold: studies show contrary to popular belief, does NOT prevent colds in average populations([1. The effect on winter illness of large doses of vitamin C])
Vitamin C may reduce the DURATION of a cold between 7 to 14 percent([1. The effect on winter illness of large doses of vitamin C])([2. Hemilä H, Chalker E. Vitamin C for preventing and treating the common cold. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. (2013)])
Vitamin C may reduce the chances of catching the common cold by 50 percent among athelete populations([3. Douglas RM, et al. Vitamin C for preventing and treating the common cold. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. (2007)])
General Conclusion
Vitamin C does not live up to the hype and won’t fight or cure the cold in the general populations. At most it will reduce the duration of a cold by a small bit.
Despite the urban myth surrounding Vitamin C, the ample amount of research done on it has yet to show Vitamin C prevents colds or cures colds in the general population. The one group that Vitamin C can reduce colds are athletes. Vitamin C can reduce the chances of catching a cold by half. If you are on Vitamin C and you catch a cold, studies show a 7 to 14 percent reduction in the length of the cold.
SEE ALSO: No BS Guide to the Best Supplements for Fighters (Muay Thai, MMA, Boxing)
The general population likely gets plenty of Vitamin C from diet and fruit (Orange Juice, Oranges and other fruit, Vitamin C additives in processed food) which probably explains why supplementing with Vitamin C provides no real benefits.
SHOULD YOU SUPPLEMENT WITH VITAMIN C?
>>NO
The claims about Vitamin C are hype and not at all true based on the loads of research. Vitamin C won’t provide any benefits unless you are a hard training athlete. As a general cold preventative it will do nothing for the average person.
SHOULD YOU SUPPLEMENT WITH VITAMIN C FOR MUAY THAI?
>>YES
if you train as a fighter (training 4-5 times a week, 1 to 2 sessions a day, with long road work, and maybe strength training). Studies do show Vitamin C can half the risk of catching a cold. Considering Vitamin C is cheap, has no side effects, and is readily available, I say it’s well worth supplementing with Vitamin C if you train like an athlete.
If you do have a flu, taking Vitamin C may reduce the duration by 10-14 percent. In real terms, this may knock one day off your flu duration.
>>NO
if you are not an athlete. If you train casually a couple times a week, Vitamin C likely won’t reduce your chances of catching a cold.
861
Shares
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
reddit
Share:
PreviousThe Glutamine Supplement Guide: Filtering the Facts from the Fiction
NextThe Caffeine Supplement Guide: Lose Weight and Lift More?
About The Author
Ben
Ben has been living, training, and fighting in Thailand for the past 5 years. He has competed in MMA, BJJ, Muay Thai, and Western Boxing matches.Since 2011, Ben has been fighting Muay Thai & Western Boxing in Thailand.Ben follows the latest fitness and nutrition research and is especially interested in how it can apply to combat sports to improve a fighter's performance in the ring.You can read Ben's full bio page here.
Related Posts
Strength Training 101
February 16, 2014
The Multivitamin Guide: Do Multivitamins Actually Do Anything?
February 19, 2014
No BS Guide to the Best Supplements for Fighters (Muay Thai, MMA, Boxing)
February 1, 2017
The Fish Oil Supplement Guide: Does Fish Oil Really Offer Health Benefits?
January 1, 2017
2 Comments
Andy on February 22, 2015 at 8:43 am
Hi Ben+,
First off, thank you for this review, as well as the ones you made for the other supplements. What I want to ask you is your own judgement on Vitamin C claims regarding muscle-repair and recovery, as oppose to it simply being a cold-preventive nutrient. Thanks.
Reply
Ben on February 23, 2015 at 6:57 am
I strongly feel you don’t need it UNLESS you do not get any Vitamin C in from your diet. Taking Vitamin C supplements IF you consume oranges, limes, lemons, or other fruits that are high in Vitamin C are unnecessary. There have been a ton of studies for many years about the effectiveness of Vitamin C (it’s one of the most popular supplements in the world afterall) and all the research resoundingly points to Vitamin C doing very little to nothing for the average person. The exceptions being if you are deficient in it (most people are not) or if you are an athlete with hard training.
I used to take a lot of vitamins (C, D, B12, E) everyday. I still was getting sick. Now I simply take a bunch of green veggies with a lime and some fruit and juice it all once a day and drink that. I stopped getting sick down here in Thailand. If at all you can, I encourage you to buy a juicer and add a cup or two of fresh vegetable juice (kale, carrots, lettuce, ginger, beetruit, some fruit for taste, a lemon or lime, etc) — you’ll pretty much get all the vtamins and enzymes you need per day and likely more. This is what I recommend any day over popping some pills.
Reply
Leave a reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
COMMENT
Name *
Email *
Website
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Facebook
Search for:
About
Muay Thai PROS was founded by brothers Stephen and Ben who moved to Thailand in 2011 to pursue their passion for Muay Thai. Find everything from fighting, training, techniques, strategy, and fight breakdowns, on the #1 Muay Thai website online.
Our Store
YouTube Channel Trailer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gVWoKYyDgoI
Recent Videos
Video Breakdown: 4 Offensive Skills High Level Muay Thai Fighters Possess
Why Yodsanklai Fairtex is Known as “The Boxing Computer”
How Tawanchay Beat Knockout Artist Kulabdam Three Times in a Row – Muay Thai Breakdowns
The Other Side of Victory – A Muay Thai Hurt Compilation
Rare Clinching Throw – Superman Push from the Muay Thai Clinch
About Us
Copyright 2015 Muay Thai Pros Inc. All rights reserved. To find out more information please view our Privacy Policy, Copyright, or feel free to Contact Us HERE.
Disclosure
In some of our articles there are affiliate links to Amazon.com. If you purchase products from Amazon through our links we do earn a small commission which helps keep the site running. All of our product recommendations are base on our personal opinion and are not affiliated with any particular brand or product.
Our Instagram
Home
Questions & Answers
Muay Thai Resources
About
Contact
Privacy Policy
Pin It on Pinterest
Shares