Confidential HIV Test: AIDS Myths Busted | AIDS STD
Confidential HIV Test: AIDS Myths Busted
By: Tim Leach
If you've ever been in the situation where you've needed to take a confidential HIV test you're likely to be concerned with how you may have caught the virus and where your strain originated from. Scientists have been trying to work out where the virus originated from since it was discovered in the 1980s, but even now that the exact origin of AIDS and HIV is clear, there are still some ridiculous rumours and conspiracy theories about where AIDS came from. Here we bust the worst of them:
Someone Had Sex with a Monkey
So you need a confidential HIV test because someone somewhere in the 1930s once bedded a chimp? Sounds ludicrous, right? And that's exactly what it is. Although scientists do know that HIV evolved from the chimp virus, SIV, this wasn't confirmed until 2006. One of the rumours was that HIV had jumped from human to chimp via intercourse, but we now know that not to be the case. Instead it is more likely that a chimp carrying the SIV was hunted and killed by a human and that the chimps infected blood somehow got into the human's bloodstream. This could be through a cut on the hand or even through eating undercooked chimp meat.
AIDS is the Result of a Secret Governmental Biological Warfare Program
What if your confidential HIV test was the result of a secret governmental biological warfare program from the Cold War gone terribly wrong? This theory sounds even more far-fetched than the first one and that involved sex with primates! First of all the Cold War ended in the 1950s and to be honest there simply wasn't the technology around at this time to create highly sophisticated retroviruses. This was a time before even computers and fax machines had been invented.
A Secret Plot to Exterminate Gays
This conspiracy theory isn't just ridiculous it's also downright homophobic. For a start if AIDS and HIV were the result of a plot to exterminate all gays, or even God's revenge on gays as some conspiracy websites claim, then how do you explain the fact that lesbians are the lowest risk group for the virus? There's also the important fact that the virus began in rural Africa which isn't exactly a hotbed of gay pleasure. If God or the secret scientists were really planning a plot to exterminate all gays wouldn't they have unleashed the virus somewhere a little gayer?
The Oral Polio Vaccine
You could possibly need a confidential HIV test because of an oral polio vaccine that was given in the Congo, Rwanda and Burundi in the 1950s. But to be honest it's pretty unlikely. This polio vaccine is rumoured to have be grown in the kidney cells of chimps infected with the SIV virus. However, this theory was disproved in 2001 when the Wister Institute came across a phial of polio vaccine that had been used during this program. The sample was analysed and no trace of the virus was detected finally putting rest to this ridiculous rumour.
loading...
Author: Tim Leach
Artice Source: http://www.articlesphere.com
Article Tags: confidential hiv test
Favorite Article
Email Article to Friend
Republish Article
Related Articles in AIDS STD
People interested in the above article are also interested in the related articles listed below:
Useful Immune System Facts for a Better Understanding of HIV
By reading more about immune system facts, there'll be a better understanding of how the immune system works. It can also open our eyes to one of the most dreaded diseases in the world which can destroy it, HIV. The immune system is our body's warrior against harmful substances. It is more efficient than the strongest armies in the world and it is one of the life-giving systems in our body. When it malfunctions, it can lead to imminent death. For this reason, HIV (Human Immunodeficiency Virus) - the onset of AIDS (Acquired Immuno-Deficiency Syndrome) has become one of the most serious issues that increased the mortality rate of the world's population today.
3 Things that are Much More Scary than a Confidential HIV Test
A confidential HIV test might seem like one of the scariest things you can imagine. But smile, grit your teeth and go right ahead as there are many things in life that are much more scary. We look at just 3 of the things that are much scarier than a confidential HIV test.
Confidential HIV Test - Sometimes Ignorance Really Isn't Bliss!
We've all heard the saying 'Ignorance is bliss', but when it comes to our health, nothing could be further from the truth. If we don't know that there is a problem, then we can't fix it, and if we don't fix it, most times it will simply get worse and cause us even greater pain and suffering. When it comes to Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs), it is not just ourselves who suffer as a result of ignorance or lack of action, but those that we come into intimate contact with too, and that is why taking a confidential HIV test is vitally important if there is even the smallest chance that you might have been exposed to any risk.
loading...
Related Articles
in AIDS STD
Useful Immune System Facts for a Better Understanding of HIV
3 Things that are Much More Scary than a Confidential HIV Test
More in AIDS STD
Useful Immune System Facts for a Better Understanding of HIV
3 Things that are Much More Scary than a Confidential HIV Test
Confidential HIV Test - Sometimes Ignorance Really Isn't Bliss!
HIV And AIDS In The Movies
The Facts About HIV and the Confidential HIV Test
The Benefits of a Confidential HIV Test
I Need a Confidential HIV Test: Did My Partner Cheat?
Excellent, Larry. Thank you for taking the new article directory technology and making it work to the max. I encourage everyone to keep contributing and contributing regularly. I can attest to the fact that this site is already a strong directory in a field of many. Kudos to Larry!
Matthew C. Keegan
The Article Writer
I find it a delight to use both as an author and a publisher. It is full of nice little surprises that make the whole process of writing, reading and publishing articles a complete delight. This is one that comes out tops and beats the rest hands down.
Eric Garner
Managing Director
ManageTrainLearn
I did a Google search and came across your site. It was exactly what I was looking for and was elated to find such a broad range of articles. As I am launching a free magazine in a small town in Florida, I wanted to be as resourceful as possible while still being able to provide some content that is interesting and well written. Your site has all the variables in the mix. Excellent Site hitting all the notes in the scale sort of speak.
Mo Montana
Florida, USA
Article Topics
Alternative Medicine
Arts & Entertainment
Automotives
Beauty
Business
Communications
Computer & Technology
Disease & Conditions
Finance
Food & Beverage
Health & Fitness
Home & Family
Home Based Business
Insurance
Internet & E-Business
Legal
News & Society
Pets & Animals
Product Reviews
Real Estate
Recreation & Sports
Reference & Education
Self Improvement
Shopping
Travel & Leisure
Women Health & Fitness
Women Interests & Issues
Work At Home
Writing & Speaking
Article Directory Home Disease And Conditions AIDS STD
ArticleSphere.com: About Us | Contact Us | Copyright & Trademark | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer
Authors: Author Terms of Service | Submission Guidelines | Author Login
Publishers: Publisher Terms of Service | Syndicate Category Articles | Subscribe Category Articles
Copyright © 2005 - by Larry Lim, Singapore - Article Search Engine Directory at ArticleSphere.com™
All Rights Reserved Worldwide. All Trademarks and Servicemarks are the property of the respective owners.